The Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary
(part 4 of 4: S-Z and supplements), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary (part 4 of 4: S-Z and supplements)

Author: Various

Editor: Thomas Davidson

Release Date: January 28, 2012 [EBook #38700]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S 20TH CENT. DICTIONARY (S-Z) ***




Produced by Colin Bell, Keith Edkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net





Transcriber's note: A few typographical errors have been corrected: they
are listed at the end of the text.

       *       *       *       *       *


In this version [=e] signifies "e macron"; [)e] "e breve"; [.e] "e with dot
above"; and so forth.

CHAMBERS'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY DICTIONARY
OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE

PRONOUNCING, EXPLANATORY, ETYMOLOGICAL, WITH COMPOUND PHRASES,
TECHNICAL TERMS IN USE IN THE ARTS AND SCIENCES,
COLLOQUIALISMS, FULL APPENDICES, AND
COPIOUSLY ILLUSTRATED

EDITED BY
REV. THOMAS DAVIDSON
ASSISTANT-EDITOR OF 'CHAMBERS'S ENCYCLOPÆDIA'
EDITOR OF 'CHAMBERS'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY'

LONDON: 47 Paternoster Row
W. & R. CHAMBERS, LIMITED
EDINBURGH: 339 High Street
1908

EXPLANATIONS TO THE STUDENT.

THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE WORDS.--Every word is given in its _alphabetical_
order, except in cases where, to save space, derivatives are given after
and under the words from which they are derived. Each uncompounded verb has
its participles, when irregular, placed after it. Exceptional plurals are
also given. When a word stands after another, with no meaning given, its
meanings can be at once formed from those of the latter, by adding the
signification of the affix: thus the meanings of _Darkness_ are obtained by
prefixing the meaning of _ness_, _state of being_, to those of _Dark_.

Many words from French and other tongues, current in English usage, but not
yet fairly Anglicised, are inserted in the list of Foreign Phrases, &c., at
the end, rather than in the body of the Dictionary.

THE PRONUNCIATION.--The Pronunciation is given immediately after each word,
by the word being spelled anew. In this new spelling, every consonant used
has its ordinary unvarying sound, _no consonant being employed that has
more than one sound_. The same sounds are always represented by the same
letters, no matter how varied their actual spelling in the language. No
consonant used has any mark attached to it, with the one exception of _th_,
which is printed in common letters when sounded as in _thick_, but in
italics when sounded as in _th_en. _Unmarked vowels_ have always their
short sounds, as in _lad_, _led_, _lid_, _lot_, _but_, _book_. The _marked
vowels_ are shown in the following line, which is printed at the top of
each page:--

f[=a]te, fär; m[=e], h[.e]r; m[=i]ne; m[=o]te; m[=u]te; m[=oo]n; _th_en.

The vowel _u_ when marked thus, _ü_, has the sound heard in Scotch _bluid_,
_gude_, the French _du_, almost that of the German _ü_ in _Müller_. Where
more than one pronunciation of a word is given, that which is placed first
is more accepted.

THE SPELLING.--When more than one form of a word is given, that which is
placed first is the spelling in current English use. Unfortunately our
modern spelling does not represent the English we actually speak, but
rather the language of the 16th century, up to which period, generally
speaking, English spelling was mainly phonetic, like the present German.
The fundamental principle of all rational spelling is no doubt the
representation of every sound by an invariable symbol, but in modern
English the usage of pronunciation has drifted far from the conventional
forms established by a traditional orthography, with the result that the
present spelling of our written speech is to a large extent a mere exercise
of memory, full of confusing anomalies and imperfections, and involving an
enormous and unnecessary strain on the faculties of learners. Spelling
reform is indeed an imperative necessity, but it must proceed with a wise
moderation, for, in the words of Mr Sweet, 'nothing can be done without
unanimity, and until the majority of the community are convinced of the
superiority of some one system unanimity is impossible.' The true path of
progress should follow such wisely moderate counsels as those of Dr J. A.
H. Murray:--the dropping of the final or inflexional silent _e_; the
restoration of the historical _-t_ after breath consonants; uniformity in
the employment of double consonants, as in _traveler_, &c.; the discarding
of _ue_ in words like _demagogue_ and _catalogue_; the uniform levelling of
the agent _-our_ into _-or_; the making of _ea = [)e]_ short into _e_ and
the long _ie_ into _ee_; the restoration of _some_, _come_, _tongue_, to
their old English forms, _sum_, _cum_, _tung_; a more extended use of _z_
in the body of words, as _chozen_, _praize_, _raize_; and the correction of
the worst individual monstrosities, as _foreign_, _scent_, _scythe_,
_ache_, _debt_, _people_, _parliament_, _court_, _would_, _sceptic_,
_phthisis_, _queue_, _schedule_, _twopence-halfpenny_, _yeoman_, _sieve_,
_gauge_, _barque_, _buoy_, _yacht_, &c.

Already in America a moderate degree of spelling reform may be said to be
established in good usage, by the adoption of _-or_ for _-our_, as _color_,
_labor_, &c.; of _-er_ for _-re_, as _center_, _meter_, &c.; _-ize_ for
_-ise_, as _civilize_, &c.; the use of a uniform single consonant after an
unaccented vowel, as _traveler_ for _traveller_; the adoption of _e_ for
_oe_ or _æ_ in _hemorrhage_, _diarrhea_, &c.

THE MEANINGS.--The current and most important meaning of a word is usually
given first. But in cases like _Clerk_, _Livery_, _Marshal_, where the
force of the word can be made much clearer by tracing its history, the
original meaning is also given, and the successive variations of its usage
defined.

THE ETYMOLOGY.--The Etymology of each word is given after the meanings,
within brackets. Where further information regarding a word is given
elsewhere, it is so indicated by a reference. It must be noted under the
etymology that whenever a word is printed thus, BAN, BASE, the student is
referred to it; also that here the sign--is always to be read as meaning
'derived from.' Examples are generally given of words that are cognate or
correspond to the English words; but it must be remembered that they are
inserted merely for illustration. Such words are usually separated from the
rest by a semicolon. For instance, when an English word is traced to its
Anglo-Saxon form, and then a German word is given, no one should suppose
that our English word is derived from the German. German and Anglo-Saxon
are alike branches from a common Teutonic stem, and have seldom borrowed
from each other. Under each word the force of the prefix is usually given,
though not the affix. For fuller explanation in such cases the student is
referred to the list of Prefixes and Suffixes in the Appendix.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS DICTIONARY.

  _aor._                    aorist.
  _abbrev._                 abbreviation.
  _abl._                    ablative.
  _acc._                    according.
  _accus._                  accusative.
  _adj._                    adjective.
  _adv._                    adverb.
  _agri._                   agriculture.
  _alg._                    algebra.
  _anat._                   anatomy.
  _app._                    apparently.
  _arch._                   archaic.
  _archit._                 architecture.
  _arith._                  arithmetic.
  _astrol._                 astrology.
  _astron._                 astronomy.
  _attrib._                 attributive.
  _augm._                   augmentative.
  _B._                      Bible.
  _biol._                   biology.
  _book-k._                 book-keeping.
  _bot._                    botany.
  _c._ (_circa_)            about.
  _c._, _cent._             century.
  _carp._                   carpentry.
  _cf._                     compare.
  _chem._                   chemistry.
  _cog._                    cognate.
  _coll._, _colloq._        colloquially.
  _comp._                   comparative.
  _conch._                  conchology.
  _conj._                   conjunction.
  _conn._                   connected.
  _contr._                  contracted.
  _cook._                   cookery.
  _corr._                   corruption.
  _crystal._                crystallography.
  _dat._                    dative.
  _demons._                 demonstrative.
  _der._                    derivation.
  _dial._                   dialect, dialectal.
  _Dict._                   Dictionary.
  _dim._                    diminutive.
  _dub._                    doubtful.
  _eccles._                 ecclesiastical history.
  _e.g._                    for example.
  _elect._                  electricity.
  _entom._                  entomology.
  _esp._                    especially.
  _ety._                    etymology.
  _fem._                    feminine.
  _fig._                    figuratively.
  _fol._                    followed; following.
  _fort._                   fortification.
  _freq._                   frequentative.
  _fut._                    future.
  _gen._                    genitive.
  _gener._                  generally.
  _geog._                   geography.
  _geol._                   geology.
  _geom._                   geometry.
  _ger._                    gerundive.
  _gram._                   grammar.
  _gun._                    gunnery.
  _her._                    heraldry.
  _hist._                   history.
  _hort._                   horticulture.
  _hum._                    humorous.
  _i.e._                    that is.
  _imit._                   imitative.
  _imper._                  imperative.
  _impers._                 impersonal.
  _indic._                  indicative.
  _infin._                  infinitive.
  _inten._                  intensive.
  _interj._                 interjection.
  _interrog._               interrogative.
  _jew._                    jewellery.
  _lit._                    literally.
  _mach._                   machinery.
  _masc._                   masculine.
  _math._                   mathematics.
  _mech._                   mechanics.
  _med._                    medicine.
  _metaph._                 metaphysics.
  _mil._                    military.
  _Milt._                   Milton.
  _min._                    mineralogy.
  _mod._                    modern.
  _Mt._                     Mount.
  _mus._                    music.
  _myth._                   mythology.
  _n._, _ns._               noun, nouns.
  _nat. hist._              natural history.
  _naut._                   nautical.
  _neg._                    negative.
  _neut._                   neuter.
  _n.pl._                   noun plural.
  _n.sing._                 noun singular.
  _N.T._                    New Testament.
  _obs._                    obsolete.
  _opp._                    opposed.
  _opt._                    optics.
  _orig._                   originally.
  _ornith._                 ornithology.
  _O.S._                    old style.
  _O.T._                    Old Testament.
  _p._, _part._             participle.
  _p.adj._                  participial adjective.
  _paint._                  painting.
  _paleog._                 paleography.
  _paleon._                 paleontology.
  _palm._                   palmistry.
  _pa.p._                   past participle.
  _pass._                   passive.
  _pa.t._                   past tense.
  _path._                   pathology.
  _perf._                   perfect.
  _perh._                   perhaps.
  _pers._                   person.
  _pfx._                    prefix.
  _phil._, _philos._        philosophy.
  _philol._                 philology.
  _phon._                   phonetics.
  _phot._                   photography.
  _phrenol._                phrenology.
  _phys._                   physics.
  _physiol._                physiology.
  _pl._                     plural.
  _poet._                   poetical.
  _pol. econ._              political economy.
  _poss._                   possessive.
  _Pr.Bk._                  Book of Common
                            Prayer.
  _pr.p._                   present participle.
  _prep._                   preposition.
  _pres._                   present.
  _print._                  printing.
  _priv._                   privative.
  _prob._                   probably.
  _Prof._                   Professor.
  _pron._                   pronoun;
                            pronounced;
                            pronunciation.
  _prop._                   properly.
  _pros._                   prosody.
  _prov._                   provincial.
  _q.v._                    which see.
  _R.C._                    Roman Catholic.
  _recip._                  reciprocal.
  _redup._                  reduplication.
  _refl._                   reflexive.
  _rel._                    related; relative.
  _rhet._                   rhetoric.
  _sculp._                  sculpture.
  _Shak._                   Shakespeare.
  _sig._                    signifying.
  _sing._                   singular.
  _spec._                   specifically.
  _Spens_.                  Spenser.
  _subj._                   subjunctive.
  _suff._                   suffix.
  _superl._                 superlative.
  _surg._                   surgery.
  _term._                   termination.
  _teleg._                  telegraphy.
  _Tenn._                   Tennyson.
  _Test._                   Testament.
  _theat._                  theatre; theatricals.
  _theol._                  theology.
  _trig._                   trigonometry.
  _ult._                    ultimately.
  _v.i._                    verb intransitive.
  _voc._                    vocative.
  _v.t._                    verb transitive.
  _vul._                    vulgar.
  _zool._                   zoology.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Amer.       American.
  Ar.         Arabic.
  A.S.        Anglo-Saxon.
  Austr.      Australian.
  Bav.        Bavarian.
  Beng.       Bengali.
  Bohem.      Bohemian.
  Braz.       Brazilian.
  Bret.       Breton.
  Carib.      Caribbean.
  Celt.       Celtic.
  Chal.       Chaldean.
  Chin.       Chinese.
  Corn.       Cornish.
  Dan.        Danish.
  Dut.        Dutch.
  Egypt.      Egyptian.
  Eng.        English.
  Finn.       Finnish.
  Flem.       Flemish.
  Fr.         French.
  Fris.       Frisian.
  Gael.       Gaelic.
  Ger.        German.
  Goth.       Gothic.
  Gr.         Greek.
  Heb.        Hebrew.
  Hind.       Hindustani.
  Hung.       Hungarian.
  Ice.        Icelandic.
  Ind.        Indian.
  Ion.        Ionic.
  Ir.         Irish.
  It.         Italian.
  Jap.        Japanese.
  Jav.        Javanese.
  L.          Latin.
  Lith.       Lithuanian.
  L. L.       Low or Late Latin.
  M. E.       Middle English.
  Mex.        Mexican.
  Norm.       Norman.
  Norw.       Norwegian.
  O. Fr.      Old French.
  Pers.       Persian.
  Peruv.      Peruvian.
  Pol.        Polish.
  Port.       Portuguese.
  Prov.       Provençal.
  Rom.        Romance.
  Russ.       Russian
  Sans.       Sanskrit.
  Scand.      Scandinavian.
  Scot.       Scottish.
  Singh.      Singhalese.
  Slav.       Slavonic.
  Sp.         Spanish.
  Sw.         Swedish.
  Teut.       Teutonic.
  Turk.       Turkish.
  U.S.        United States.
  W.          Welsh.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAMBERS'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
DICTIONARY.

       *       *       *       *       *

S the nineteenth letter in our alphabet, its sound that of the hard open
sibilant: as a medieval Roman numeral--7--also 70; [=S]--70,000.--COLLAR OF
SS, a collar composed of a series of the letter _s_ in gold, either linked
together or set in close order.

SAB, sab, _n._ (_Scot._) a form of _sob_.

SABADILLA, sab-a-dil'a, _n._ a Mexican plant, whose seeds yield an
officinal alkaloid, _veratrine_, employed chiefly in acute febrile diseases
in strong healthy persons.--Also CEBADILL'A, CEVADILL'A.

SABAISM, s[=a]'b[=a]-izm. Same as SABIANISM.--Also S[=A]'BÆISM,
S[=A]'BEISM, S[=A]'BÆANISM.

SA'BAL, s[=a]'bal, _n._ a genus of fan-palms.

SABALO, sab'a-l[=o], _n._ the tarpon. [Sp.]

SABAOTH, sa-b[=a]'oth, _n.pl._ armies, used only in the B. phrase, 'the
Lord of Sabaoth': erroneously for Sabbath. [Heb. _tseb[=a][=o]th_, pl. of
_ts[=a]b[=a]_, an army--_ts[=a]b[=a]_, to go forth.]

SABBATH, sab'ath, _n._ among the Jews, the seventh day of the week, set
apart for the rest from work: among Christians, the first day of the week,
in memory of the resurrection of Christ, called also _Sunday_ and the
_Lord's Day:_ among the ancient Jews, the seventh year, when the land was
left fallow: a time of rest.--_adj_. pertaining to the Sabbath.--_n._
SABBAT[=A]'RIAN, a very strict observer of the Sabbath: one who observes
the seventh day of the week as the Sabbath.--_adj_. pertaining to the
Sabbath or to Sabbatarians.--_ns._ SABBAT[=A]'RIANISM; SABB'ATH-BREAK'ER,
one who profanes the Sabbath; SABB'ATH-BREAK'ING, profanation of the
Sabbath.--_adjs._ SABB'ATHLESS (_Bacon_), without Sabbath or interval of
rest: without intermission of labour; SABBAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or
resembling, the Sabbath: enjoying or bringing rest.--_n._ SABBAT'ICAL-YEAR,
every seventh year, in which the Israelites allowed their fields and
vineyards to lie fallow.--_adj._ SABB'ATINE, pertaining to the
Sabbath.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ SABB'ATISE, to keep the Sabbath: to convert
into a Sabbath.--_n._ SABB'ATISM, rest, as on the Sabbath: intermission of
labour.--SABBATH-DAY'S JOURNEY, the distance of 2000 cubits, or about five
furlongs, which a Jew was permitted to walk on the Sabbath, fixed by the
space between the extreme end of the camp and the ark (Josh. iii. 4);
SABBATH SCHOOL (see SUNDAY SCHOOL).--WITCHES' SABBATH, a midnight meeting
of Satan with witches, devils, and sorcerers for unhallowed orgies and the
travestying of divine rites. [L. _Sabbatum_, gener. in pl. _Sabbata_--Gr.
_Sabbaton_--Heb. _Shabb[=a]th_, rest.]

SABBATIA, sa-b[=a]'ti-a, _n._ a genus of small North American herbaceous
plants of the gentian family. [From _Sabbati_, an 18th-cent. Italian
botanist.]

SABBATON, sab'a-ton, _n._ a strong, armed covering for the foot, worn in
the 16th century. [_Sabot._]

SABEAN, s[=a]-b[=e]'an, _n._ an Arabian, native of Yemen.--_adj._
pertaining to _Saba_ in Arabia.

SABELINE, sab'e-lin, _adj._ pertaining to the sable.--_n._ the skin of the
sable.

SABELLA, s[=a]-bel'ä, _n._ a genus of tubiculous annelids or
sea-worms.--_ns._ SABELL[=A]'RIA; SABELLAR[=I]'IDÆ.

SABELLIAN, s[=a]-bel'i-an, _n._ a follower of _Sabellius_, a 3d-century
heretic, banished from Rome by Callistus.--_adj._ pertaining to Sabellius
or his heresy.--_n._ SABELL'IANISM, the heresy about the distinction of
Persons in God held by Sabellius and his school--the Trinity resolved into
a mere threefold manifestation of God to man, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit
not distinct subsistences, but merely one and the same person in different
aspects.

SABER=_Sabre_ (q.v.).

SABIAN, s[=a]'bi-an, _n._ a worshipper of the host of heaven--sun, moon,
and stars--also TS[=A]'BIAN.--_ns._ S[=A]'BIANISM, S[=A]'BAISM, the worship
of the host of heaven, an ancient religion in Persia and Chaldea: the
doctrines of the Sabians or Mandæans (see MANDÆAN). [Heb. _ts[=a]b[=a]_, a
host.]

SABINE, s[=a]'b[=i]n, _n._ one of an ancient people of central Italy,
ultimately subjected by Rome, 241 B.C.

SABLE, s[=a]'bl, _n._ a Siberian species of Marten, with lustrous
dark-brown or blackish fur: its fur: a fine paint-brush made of sable: the
colour black: (_pl._) black clothes, mourning clothes.--_adj._ of the
colour of the sable's fur: blackish, dark-brown: made of the fur of the
sable.--_v.t._ to sadden.--_adjs._ S[=A]'BLE-STOLED; S[=A]'BLE-VEST'ED. [O.
Fr. _sable_--Russ. _sabol[)i]._]

SABLIÈRE, sab-li-[=a]r', _n._ a sand-pit. [Fr.]

[Illustration]

SABOT, sä-b[=o]', _n._ a wooden shoe, worn by the French peasantry: a piece
of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the
rifling.--_n._ SABOTIER', a wearer of wooden shoes: a Waldensian. [Fr.
_sabot_--Low L. _sabbatum_, a shoe.]

SABRE, s[=a]'b[.e]r, _n._ a heavy one-edged sword, slightly curved towards
the point, used by cavalry.--_v.t._ to wound or kill with a sabre.--_ns._
S[=A]'BRE-BILL, a South American bird: a curlew; S[=A]'BRE-FISH, the
hair-tail or silver eel.--_adj._ S[=A]'BRE-TOOTHED, having extremely long
upper canine teeth.--_n._ S[=A]'BRE-WING, a humming-bird. [Fr.
_sabre_--Ger. _säbel_, prob. from the Hung. _szablya_.]

SABRE-TACHE, s[=a]'b[.e]r-tash, _n._ an ornamental leather case worn by
cavalry officers at the left side, suspended from the sword-belt.--Also
S[=A]'BRE-TASH. [Fr. _sabre-tache_--Ger. _säbeltasche_, _säbel_, a sabre,
Ger. _tasche_, a pocket.]

SABRINA-WORK, sa-br[=i]'na-wurk, _n._ a variety of appliqué
embroidery-work.

SABULOUS, sab'[=u]-lus, _adj._ sandy, gritty.--_n._ SABULOS'ITY, sandiness,
grittiness. [L. _sabulum_, sand.]

SABURRA, s[=a]-bur'ä, _n._ a foulness of the stomach.--_adj._
SABURR'AL.--_n._ SABURR[=A]'TION, sand-baking: the application of a hot
sand-bath.

SAC, sak, _n._ (_bot._, _zool._) a sack or bag for a liquid.--_adjs._
SAC'C[=A]TE, -D, pouched: pouch-like; SAC'CULAR, like a sac, sacciform;
SAC'CULATE, -D, formed in a series of sac-like expansions: encysted.--_ns._
SACCUL[=A]'TION, the formation of a sac: a series of sacs; SAC'CULE,
SAC'CULUS, a small sac:--_pl._ SAC'CULI. [Fr.,--L. _saccus_, a bag.]

SAC, sak, _n._ (_law_) the privilege of a lord of manor of holding courts.
[A.S. _sacu_, strife.]

SACCADE, sa-k[=a]d', _n._ a violent twitch of a horse by one pull: a firm
pressure of the bow on the violin-strings so that two are sounded at once.
[Fr.]

SACCATA, sa-k[=a]'tä, _n._ the molluscs as a branch of the animal kingdom.

SACCHARILLA, sak-a-ril'a, _n._ a kind of muslin.

SACCHARINE, sak'a-rin, _adj._ pertaining to, or having the qualities of,
sugar.--_n._ SAC'CHAR[=A]TE, a salt of a saccharic acid.--_adjs._
SACCHAR'IC, pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar and allied substances;
SACCHARIF'EROUS, producing sugar, as from starch.--_v.t._ SAC'CHARIFY, to
convert into sugar.--_ns._ SACCHARIM'ETER, SACCHAROM'ETER, an instrument
for measuring the quantity of saccharine matter in a liquid;
SACCHARIM'ETRY, SACCHAROM'ETRY; SAC'CHARIN, a white crystalline solid
slightly soluble in cold water, odourless, but intensely sweet;
SACCHARIN'ITY.--_v.t._ SAC'CHARISE, to convert into sugar:--_pr.p._
sac'char[=i]sing; _pa.p._ sac'char[=i]sed.--_adjs._ SAC'CHAROID, -AL,
having a texture resembling sugar, esp. loaf-sugar.--_n._ SAC'CHAROSE, the
ordinary pure sugar of commerce.--_adj._ SAC'CHAROUS.--_n._ SAC'CHARUM, a
genus of grasses, including the sugar-cane. [Fr. _saccharin_--L.
_saccharum_, sugar.]

SACCHARITE, sak'a-r[=i]t, _n._ a fine granular variety of feldspar.

SACCHAROCOLLOID, sak-a-r[=o]-kol'oid, _n._ one of a large group of the
carbohydrates.

SACCHAROMYCES, sak-a-r[=o]-m[=i]'s[=e]z, _n._ a genus of the yeast fungi.
[Low L. _saccharum_, sugar, Gr. _myk[=e]s_, a mushroom.]

SACCIFORM, sak'si-form, _adj._ having the form of a sac: baggy.--_adj._
SACCIF'EROUS.

SACCOBRANCHIA, sak-[=o]-brang'ki-a, _n.pl._ a division of tunicates with
saccate gills.--_adj._ and _n._ SACCOBRANCH'I[=A]TE. [Gr. _sakkos_, a sack,
_brangchia_, gills.]

SACCOLABIUM, sak-[=o]-l[=a]'bi-um, _n._ a genus of orchids. [L. _saccus_, a
sack, _labium_, a lip.]

SACCOMYOID, sak-[=o]-m[=i]'oid, _adj._ having cheek-pouches. [Gr. _sakkos_,
sack, _mys_, a mouse.]

SACCOPHARYNGIDÆ, sak-o-f[=a]-rin'ji-d[=e], _n._ a family of lyomerous
fishes, including the bottle-fish, noted for swallowing fishes larger than
themselves.

SACCOS, sak'os, _n._ a tight sleeveless vestment worn by Oriental
patriarchs and metropolitans during divine service, corresponding to the
Western dalmatic. [Gr. _sakkos_, a sack.]

SACELLUM, s[=a]-sel'um, _n._ a little sanctuary, a small uncovered place
consecrated to a divinity: a canopied altar-tomb:--_pl._ SACELL'A. [L.,
dim. of _sacrum_, neut. of _sacer_, consecrated.]

SACERDOTAL, sas-[.e]r-d[=o]'tal, _adj._ priestly.--_v.t._
SACERD[=O]'TALISE, to render sacerdotal.--_ns._ SACERD[=O]'TALISM, the
spirit of the priesthood: devotion to priestly interests, priestcraft: the
belief that the presbyter is a priest in the sense of offering a sacrifice
in the eucharist; SACERD[=O]'TALIST, a supporter of sacerdotalism.--_adv._
SACERD[=O]'TALLY. [L. _sacerdos_, a priest--_sacer_, sacred, _d[)a]re_, to
give.]

SACHEM, s[=a]'chem, _n._ a chief of a North American Indian tribe, a
sagamore: one of the Tammany leaders.--_ns._ S[=A]'CHEMDOM, S[=A]'CHEMSHIP.

SACHET, sa-sh[=a], _n._ a bag of perfume. [Fr.]

SACK, sak, _n._ a large bag of coarse cloth for holding grain, flour, &c.:
the contents of a sack: (also SACQUE) a woman's gown, loose at the back, a
short coat rounded at the bottom: a measure of varying capacity.--_v.t._ to
put into a sack: (_slang_) to dismiss.--_ns._ SACK'-BEAR'ER, any bombycid
moth of the family _Psychidæ_; SACK'CLOTH, cloth for sacks: coarse cloth
formerly worn in mourning or penance.--_adj._ SACK'CLOTHED.--_ns._
SACKED'-FR[=I]'AR, a monk who wore a coarse upper garment called a
_saccus_; SACK'ER, a machine for filling sacks; SACK'-FIL'TER, a
bag-filter; SACK'FUL, as much as a sack will hold; SACK'-HOIST, a
continuous hoist for raising sacks in warehouses; SACK'ING, coarse cloth or
canvas for sacks, bed-bottoms, &c.; SACK'-PACK'ER, in milling, a machine
for automatically filling a flour-sack; SACK'-RACE, a race in which the
legs of competitors are encased in sacks.--GET THE SACK, to be dismissed or
rejected; GIVE THE SACK, to dismiss. [A.S. _sacc_--L. _saccus_--Gr.
_sakkos_--Heb. _saq_, a coarse cloth or garment, prob. Egyptian.]

SACK, sak, _v.t._ to plunder: to ravage.--_n._ the plunder or devastation
of a town: pillage.--_ns._ SACK'AGE; SACK'ING, the storming and pillaging
of a town.--_adj._ bent on pillaging.--SACK AND FORK (_Scot._), the power
of drowning and hanging. [Fr. _sac_, a sack, plunder (_saccager_, to
sack)--L. _saccus_, a sack.]

SACK, sak, _n._ the old name of a dry Spanish wine of the sherry genus, the
favourite drink of Falstaff.--_n._ SACK'-POSS'ET, posset made with
sack.--BURNT SACK, mulled sack. [Fr. _sec_ (Sp. _seco_)--L. _siccus_, dry.]

SACKBUT, sak'but, _n._ a kind of trumpet, the predecessor of the trombone:
(_B._) a kind of stringed instrument resembling the guitar. [Fr.
_saquebute_--Sp. _sacabuche_--_sacar_, to draw out, _buche_, the maw or
stomach, prob. Old High Ger. _b[=u]h_ (Ger. _bauch_), the belly.]

SACK-DOODLE, sak-d[=oo]d'l, _v.i._ to play on the bagpipe.

SACKLESS, sak'les, _adj._ (_Scot._) guiltless: innocent: guileless. [A.S.
_sacleás_, without strife, _sacu_, strife, _-leás_, -less.]

SACODES, s[=a]-k[=o]'d[=e]z, _n._ a genus of beetles of the family
_Cyphonidæ_. [Gr. _sakos_, a shield, _eidos_, form.]

SACQUE, sak. See SACK (1).

SACRA, s[=a]'kra, _n._ a sacral artery:--_pl._ S[=A]'CRÆ (-KR[=E]).

SACRAL, s[=a]'kral, _adj._ See SACRUM.

SACRAMENT, sak'ra-ment, _n._ an holy ordinance instituted by Christ as an
outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace (_Baptism_ and
the _Lord's Supper_--amongst Roman Catholics, also _Confirmation_,
_Penance_, _Holy Orders_, _Matrimony_, and _Extreme Unction_): the Lord's
Supper specially: an oath of obedience taken by Roman soldiers on
enlistment: any solemn obligation: materials used in a sacrament.--_v.t._
to bind by an oath.--_adj._ SACRAMEN'TAL, belonging to or constituting a
sacrament.--_ns._ SACRAMEN'TALISM, the attachment of excessive importance
to the sacraments: the doctrine that there is in the sacraments themselves
a special direct spiritual efficacy to confer grace; SACRAMEN'TALIST, one
who holds this view.--_adv._ SACRAMEN'TALLY.--_ns._ SACRAMENT[=A]'RIAN, one
who holds a high or extreme view of the efficacy of the sacraments:
(_obs._) one who rejects the doctrine of the real presence in the sacrament
of the Lord's Supper; SACRAMENT[=A]'RIANISM, the holding of extreme views
with regard to the efficacy of sacraments.--_adj._ SACRAMEN'TARY,
pertaining to the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, or to the
sacramentarians.--_n._ a book containing all the prayers and ceremonies
used at the celebration of the R.C. sacraments: a sacramentarian. [L.
_sacramentum_, a sacred thing--_sacr[=a]re_, to consecrate--_sacer_,
sacred.]

SACRARIUM, s[=a]-kr[=a]'ri-um, _n._ the part of a church where the altar
is, the sanctuary: in ancient Rome, any sacred place, the place where the
Penates were stored.--_n._ SAC'RARY (_obs._), a holy place.--_v.t._
S[=A]'CRATE (_obs._), to consecrate.

SACRARIUM, s[=a]-kr[=a]'ri-um, _n._ the complex sacrum of any bird.

SACRE. Same as SAKER.

SACRED, s[=a]'kred, _adj._ set apart or dedicated, esp. to God: made holy:
proceeding from God: religious: entitled to respect or veneration:
inviolable: devoted to destruction: opposed to _secular_, as sacred music
or history: not liable to punishment.--_adv._ S[=A]'CREDLY.--_n._
S[=A]'CREDNESS.--SACRED APE, the hanuman of India; SACRED BEETLE, an
Egyptian scarab; SACRED CAT, the house cat of Egypt, sacred to Pasht;
SACRED FISH, one of the fresh-water fishes of the Nile; SACRED HEART
(R.C.), the physical heart of Christ, adored with special devotion since
the 18th century. [O. Fr. _sacrer_--L. _sacr[=a]re_--L. _sacer_, sacred.]

SACRIFICATI, sak-ri-fi-k[=a]'t[=i], _n.pl._ in the early church, those who
sacrificed to idols in persecution, but returned as penitents afterwards.

SACRIFICE, sak'ri-f[=i]s, _v.t._ to offer up, esp. on the altar of a
divinity: to destroy or give up for something else: to devote or destroy
with loss or suffering: to kill.--_v.i._ to make offerings to God.--_n._
the fundamental institution of all natural religions, primarily a
sacramental meal at which the communicants are a deity and his worshippers,
and the elements the flesh and blood of a sacred victim: the act of
sacrificing or offering to a deity, esp. a victim on an altar: that which
is sacrificed or offered: destruction or loss of anything to gain some
object: that which is given up, destroyed, or lost for some end: mere loss
of profit.--_n._ SACRIF'ICANT, one who offers a sacrifice.--_adj._
SACRIF'IC[=A]TORY, offering sacrifice.--_n._ SAC'RIFICER, a priest.--_adj._
SACRIFI'CIAL, relating to, or consisting in, sacrifice: performing
sacrifice.--_adv._ SACRIFI'CIALLY.--SACRIFICE HIT, in base-ball, a hit to
enable another player to score or to gain a base.--EUCHARISTIC SACRIFICE,
the supposed constant renewal of the sacrifice of Christ in the mass. [O.
Fr.,--L. _sacrificium_--_sacer_, sacred, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SACRILEGE, sak'ri-lej, _n._ profanation of a sacred place or thing: the
breaking into a place of worship and stealing therefrom.--_n._ SAC'RILEGER
(_obs._).--_adj._ SACRIL[=E]'GIOUS, polluted with sacrilege: profane:
violating sacred things.--_adv._ SACRIL[=E]'GIOUSLY.--_ns._
SACRIL[=E]'GIOUSNESS; SAC'RIL[=E]GIST, one guilty of sacrilege. [Fr.
_sacrilège_--L. _sacrilegium_--_sacer_, sacred, _leg[)e]re_, to gather.]

SACRIST, s[=a]'krist, _n._ a sacristan: a person in a cathedral who copies
out music for the choir and takes care of the books.--_ns._ S[=A]'CRING,
consecration; S[=A]'CRING-BELL, in R.C. churches, a small bell rung to call
attention to the more solemn parts of the service of the mass; SAC'RISTAN,
an officer in a church who has charge of the sacred vessels and other
movables: a sexton; SAC'RISTY, an apartment in a church where the sacred
utensils, vestments, &c. are kept: vestry. [Low L. _sacristia_, a vestry,
_sacristanus_, _sacrista_, a sacristan--L. _sacer_.]

SACROSANCT, sak'r[=o]-sangkt, _adj._ very sacred or inviolable.--_n._
SACROSANC'TITY. [L. _sacrosanctus_--_sacer_, sacred, _sanctus_, pa.p. of
_sanc[=i]re_, to hallow.]

SACRUM, s[=a]'krum, _n._ a triangular bone situated at the lower part of
the vertebral column (of which it is a natural continuation), and wedged
between the two innominate bones, so as to form the keystone to the pelvic
arch.--_adj._ S[=A]'CRAL.--_n._ S[=A]CRAL'GIA, pain in the region of the
sacrum.--_adjs._ S[=A]CROCOS'TAL, connected with the sacrum and having the
character of a rib (also _n._); S[=A]CROIL'IAC, pertaining to the sacrum
and ilium; S[=A]CROLUM'BAR, pertaining to sacral and lumbar vertebræ;
S[=A]CROP[=U]'BIC, pertaining to the sacrum and to the pubes;
S[=A]CROREC'TAL, pertaining to the sacrum and the rectum; S[=A]CROSCIAT'IC,
pertaining to the sacrum and the hip; S[=A]CROVER'TEBRAL, pertaining to the
sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it.
[L. _sacrum_ (_os_, bone), sacred.]

SAD, sad (comp. SAD'DER, superl. SAD'DEST), _adj._ sorrowful: serious: cast
down: calamitous: weary: sombre: stiff: doughy: dejected: troublesome:
sober, dark-coloured: (_obs._) ponderous, heavy.--_v.t._ to grieve.--_v.t._
SAD'DEN, to make sad: to render heavy: to grow hard.--_v.i._ to grow
sad.--_adjs._ SAD'-EYED (_Shak._), having an expression of sadness in the
eyes; SAD'-FACED (_Shak._), having an expression of sadness in the face;
SAD'-HEART'ED (_Shak._), having the heart full of sadness.--_adv._
SAD'LY.--_n._ SAD'NESS. [A.S. _sæd_, sated, weary; cf. Dut. _zat_, Ger.
_satt_; L. _sat_, _satis_.]

SADDENING, sad'n-ing, _n._ a method of applying mordants in dyeing and
printing cloths, so as to give duller shades to the colours employed.

SADDLE, sad'l, _n._ a seat or pad, generally of leather, for a horse's
back: anything like a saddle, as a saddle of mutton, veal, or venison--a
butcher's cut, including a part of the backbone with the ribs on one side:
a part of the harness used for drawing a vehicle: the seat on a bicycle:
(_naut._) a block of wood fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the
end of another spar.--_v.t._ to put a saddle on, to load: to
encumber.--_n._ SADD'LE-BACK, a hill or its summit when shaped like a
saddle: a raccoon oyster: the great black-backed gull: the harp-seal: a
variety of domestic geese: the larva of the bombycid moth: (_archit._) a
coping thicker in the middle than at the edges.--_adj._ SADD'LE-BACKED,
having a low back and an elevated head and neck.--_ns._ SADD'LE-BAG, one of
two bags united by straps for carrying on horseback; SADD'LE-BAR, a bar for
sustaining glass in a stained-glass window; SADD'LE-BLANK'ET, a small
blanket folded under a saddle; SADD'LE-BOW, the arched front of a saddle
from which the weapon often hung; SADD'LE-CLOTH, the housing or cloth
placed under a saddle.--_n.pl._ SADD'LE-FEATH'ERS, the long slender
feathers which droop from the saddle or rump of the domestic cock.--_ns._
SADD'LE-GIRTH, a band passing round the body of a horse to hold the saddle
in its place; SADD'LE-HORSE, a horse suitable for riding; SADD'LE-JOINT, a
joint made in plates of sheet-iron so that the margins interlock: (_anat._)
a joint admitting movement in every direction except axial rotation;
SADD'LE-LAP, the skirt of a saddle; SADD'LE-PLATE, the bent plate which
forms the arch of the furnace in locomotive steam-boilers; SADD'LE-QUERN,
an ancient quern for grinding grain; SADD'LER, a maker of saddles: the
harp-seal; SADD'LE-ROCK, a variety of the oyster; SADD'LE-ROOF, a roof
having two gables; SADD'LER-COR'PORAL, a non-commissioned officer in the
household cavalry, with the charge of the saddles; SADD'LER-SER'GEANT, a
sergeant in the cavalry who has charge of the saddlers: (_U.S._) a
non-commissioned staff-officer of a cavalry regiment; SADD'LERY, occupation
of a saddler: materials for saddles: articles sold by a saddler.--_adjs._
SADD'LE-SHAPED, shaped like a saddle: (_bot._) bent down at the sides:
(_geol._) bent down at each side of a ridge; SADD'LE-SICK, galled with much
riding.--_ns._ SADD'LE-TREE, the frame of a saddle.--PUT THE SADDLE ON THE
RIGHT HORSE, to impute blame where it is deserved. [A.S. _sadol_, _sadel_;
cf. Dut. _zadel_, Ger. _sattel_.]

SADDUCEE, sad'[=u]-s[=e], _n._ one of a Jewish sceptical school or party of
aristocratic traditionists in New Testament times.--adj. SADD[=U]C[=E]'AN,
of or relating to the Sadducees.--_ns._ SADD[=U]CEE'ISM, SADD'[=U]CISM,
scepticism. [Gr. _Saddoukaios_--Heb. _Tsed[=u]q[=i]m_, from their supposed
founder _Zadok_, or from the race of the _Zadokites_, a family of priests
at Jerusalem since the time of Solomon.]

SADINA, sa-d[=e]'na, _n._ a clupeoid fish resembling a sardine. [Sp.
_sardina_.]

SAD-IRON, sad'-[=i]'urn, _n._ a smoothing-iron: a box-iron.

SADR, sad'r, _n._ the lote-bush.

SAD-TREE, sad'-tr[=e], _n._ the night jasmine.

SAE, s[=a], _adv._ the Scotch form of _so_.

SAFE, s[=a]f, _adj._ unharmed: free from danger or injury: secure: securing
from danger or injury: no longer dangerous: clear: trusty: sound:
certain.--_n._ a chest or closet for money, &c., safe against fire,
thieves, &c., generally of iron: a chest or cupboard for meats: (_coll._) a
safety-bicycle.--_v.t._ to safeguard.--_v.t._ SAFE'-CONDUCT'
(_Spens._).--_ns._ SAFE'-CON'DUCT, a writing, passport, or guard granted to
a person to enable him to travel with safety; SAFE'-DEPOS'IT, a safe
storage for valuables; SAFE'GUARD, he who, or that which, guards or renders
safe: protection: a guard, passport, or warrant to protect a traveller: a
rail-guard at railway switches: (_zool._) a monitor lizard.--_v.t._ to
protect.--_n._ SAFE'-KEEP'ING, preservation from injury or from
escape.--_adv._ SAFE'LY, in a safe manner.--_ns._ SAFE'NESS; SAFE'-PLEDGE,
a surety for one's appearance at a day assigned; SAFE'TY, freedom from
danger or loss: close custody: a safeguard: SAFE'TY-ARCH (_archit._), an
arch built in the body of a wall to relieve the pressure, as over a door or
window; SAFE'TY-BELT, a belt made of some buoyant material, or capable of
being inflated, for helping a person to float; SAFE'TY-B[=I]'CYCLE, a
low-wheeled bicycle; SAFE'TY-BUOY, a buoy for helping a person to float: a
life-preserver; SAFE'TY-CAGE (_mining_), a cage by which a fall would be
prevented in case of the breakage of the rope by means of safety-catches;
SAFE'TY-CHAIN, a check-chain of a car-truck: a safety-link; SAFE'TY-FUSE, a
waterproof woven tube enclosing an inflammable substance which burns at a
regular rate; SAFE'TY-HOIST, a hoisting-gear so arranged as to prevent its
load being thrown precipitately down in case of accident; SAFE'TY-LAMP, a
lamp surrounded by wire-gauze, used for safety in mines on account of the
inflammable gases; SAFE'TY-LOCK, a lock that cannot be picked by ordinary
means: in firearms, a lock with some device for preventing accidental
discharge; SAFE'TY-MATCH, a match which can be ignited only on a surface
specially prepared for the purpose; SAFE'TY-P[=A]'PER, a paper so prepared
as to resist alteration by chemical or mechanical means; SAFE'TY-PIN, a pin
in the form of a clasp with a guard covering its point; SAFE'TY-PLUG, a
plug of soft metal in an opening in a steam-boiler, so as to melt when the
temperature rises to its fusing-point, and allow of an escape of steam;
SAFE'TY-REIN, a rein for preventing a horse from running away;
SAFE'TY-STOP, a contrivance for preventing accidents in machinery;
SAFE'TY-TUBE, a tube used in chemical operations to prevent the bursting of
vessels by gas, and for other purposes; SAFE'TY-VALVE, a valve in the top
of a steam-boiler, which lets out the steam when the pressure is too great
for safety. [O. Fr. _sauf_--L. _salvus_; prob. allied to _solus_.]

SAFFIAN, saf'i-an, _n._ a name applied to skins tanned with sumac and dyed
in bright colours. [Russ.]

SAFFLOWER, saf'flow-[.e]r, _n._ an annual herbaceous composite plant,
cultivated all over India for its red dye--_Carthamine_. [O. Fr. _saflor_,
through It. from Ar. _usf[=u]r_--_safr[=a]_, yellow.]

SAFFO, saf'[=o], _n._ (_obs._) a bailiff: a catchpole. [It.]

SAFFRON, saf'run, _n._ a bulbous plant of the crocus kind with deep-yellow
flowers: a colouring substance prepared from its flowers.--_adj._ having
the colour of saffron: deep yellow.--_adj._ SAFF'RONY.--_n._ SAF'RANINE, a
coal-tar producing yellowish colour used in dyeing. [O. Fr. _safran_ (It.
_zafferano_)--Ar. _za`far[=a]n_--_safr[=a]_, yellow.]

SAG, sag, _v.i._ to bend, sink, or hang down: to yield or give way as from
weight or pressure: to hang heavy: to make leeway.--_n._ a droop.--_adj._
loaded. [M. E. _saggen_, from Scand.; Sw. _sacka_, to sink down; cf. Ger.
_sacken_, to sink.]

SAGA, sä'ga, _n._ a tale, historical or fabulous, in the old prose
literature of Iceland.--_n._ SÄ'GAMAN, a narrator of sagas. [Ice. _saga_,
pl. _sögur_--_segja_, say.]

SAGACIOUS, sa-g[=a]'shus, _adj._ keen or quick in perception or thought:
acute: discerning and judicious: wise.--_adv._ SAG[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._
SAG[=A]'CIOUSNESS, SAGAC'ITY, acuteness of perception or thought: acute
practical judgment: shrewdness. [L. _sagax_, _sagacis_--_sag[=i]re_, to
perceive quickly.]

SAGAMORE, sag'a-m[=o]r, _n._ a chief among some tribes of American
Indians--prob. conn. with _sachem_.

SAGAPENUM, sag-a-p[=e]'num, _n._ a fetid gum-resin, the concrete juice of a
Persian species of _Ferula_, formerly used in hysteria, &c. [Gr.
_sagap[=e]non_.]

SAGATHY, sag'a-thi, _n._ (_obs._) a woollen stuff. [Fr. _sagatis_--L.
_saga_, a mantle.]

SAGE, s[=a]j, _n._ any plant of genus _Salvia_, of the mint family, esp.
Common or Garden Sage, used for flavouring meats.--_ns._ SAGE'-APP'LE, a
gall formed on a species of sage; SAGE'-BREAD, bread baked from dough mixed
with a strong infusion of sage in milk; SAGE'-BRUSH, a collective name of
various shrubby species of Artemisia in the western United States;
SAGE'-COCK, -GROUSE, a large North American grouse; SAGE'-GREEN, a gray
slightly mixed with pure green; SAGE'-RABB'IT, a small hare or rabbit
abounding in North America; SAGE'-ROSE, a plant of the genus Cistus: an
evergreen shrub of tropical America; SAGE'-SPARR'OW, a fringilline bird
characteristic of the sage-brush of North America; SAGE'-THRESH'ER, the
mountain mocking-bird of west North America; SAGE'-WILL'OW, a dwarf
American willow.--_adj._ S[=A]'GY, full of, or seasoned with,
sage.--APPLE-BEARING SAGE, a native of southern Europe, with large reddish
or purple bracts, and bearing on its branches large gall-nuts; MEADOW SAGE,
or _Meadow clary_, a common ornament of meadows in the south of England,
with bluish-purple flowers; OIL OF SAGE, an essential oil, yielded by the
sage, once much used in liniments against rheumatism. [O. Fr. _sauge_ (It.
_salvia_)--L. _salvia_--_salvus_, safe.]

SAGE, s[=a]j, _adj._ discriminating, discerning, wise: well judged.--_n._ a
wise man: a man of gravity and wisdom.--_adv._ SAGE'LY.--_n._
SAGE'NESS.--SEVEN SAGES, or WISE MEN (see SEVEN). [Fr. _sage_ (It.
_saggio_, _savio_), from a L. _sapius_ (seen in _ne-sapius_),
wise--_sap[)e]re_, to be wise.]

SAGENE, s[=a]'j[=e]n, _n._ a fishing-net. [L.,--Gr. _sag[=e]n[=e]_.]

SAGENE, s[=a]'j[=e]n, _n._ a Russian unit of long measure, of seven English
feet.

SAGENITE, s[=a]j'en-[=i]t, _n._ acicular crystals of rutile occurring in
reticulated forms embedded in quartz.--_adj._ SAGENIT'IC. [Gr.
_sag[=e]n[=e]_, a drag-net.]

SAGERETIA, saj-e-r[=e]'ti-a, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants belonging
to the buckthorn order. [Named from Aug. _Sageret_, 1763-1852.]

SAGESSE, sazh-es', _n._ wisdom. [Fr.]

SAGGAR, SAGGER, sag'ar, -[.e]r, _n._ a box of hard pottery in which
porcelain is enclosed for baking--also _v.t._--_ns._ SAGG'ARD;
SAGG'AR-HOUSE, a house in which unbaked vessels are put into saggars.
[_Safeguard_.]

SAGINA, sa-j[=i]'na, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants of the pink
family.--_v.t._ SAG'INATE, to pamper: to fatten.--_n._ SAGIN[=A]'TION. [L.
_sagin[=a]re_, to fatten.]

SAGITTA, saj'it-a, _n._ a northern constellation--the Arrow: a genus of
small pelagic worms.--_adj._ SAG'ITTAL, arrow-shaped: (_anat._) straight,
pertaining to the sagittal suture.--_adv._ SAG'ITTALLY.--_ns._
SAGITT[=A]'RIA, a genus of aquatic plants, some species with sagittate
leaves and white flowers; SAGITT[=A]'RIUS, the Archer, one of the signs of
the zodiac; SAG'ITTARY, a centaur: a public building in Venice.--_adj._ of
or like an arrow.--_adjs._ SAG'ITT[=A]TE, -D, Shaped like an arrow-head, as
a leaf; SAGITTILING'UAL, having a long slender tongue, as a woodpecker. [L.
_sagitta_, an arrow.]

SAGO, s[=a]'go, _n._ a nutritive farinaceous substance produced from the
pith of several East Indian palms.--_n._ S[=A]'GO-PALM. [Malay _s[=a]gu_.]

SAGRA, s[=a]'gra, _n._ a genus of phytophagous beetles of brilliant
colours.

SAGUARO, sa-gwar'[=o], _n._ the giant cactus.

SAGUIN, sag'win, _n._ a South American monkey.--Also SAG'OIN, SAG'OUIN.

SAGUINUS, sag-[=u]-[=i]'nus, _n._ a genus of South American marmosets.

SAGUM, s[=a]'gum, _n._ a military cloak worn by ancient Roman soldiers.
[L., prob. of Celt. origin.]

SAHIB, sä'ib, _n._ a term of respect given in India to persons of rank and
to Europeans. [Hind. _s[=a]hib_--Ar. _s[=a]hib_.]

SAHLITE, sä'l[=i]t, _n._ a variety of augite, from the silver-mines of
_Sahla_ in Sweden.

SAI, sä'i, _n._ a South American monkey. [Braz.]

SAIBLING, s[=a]b'ling, _n._ the char.

SAIC, sä'ik, _n._ a Turkish or Grecian vessel common in the Levant. [Fr.
_saïque_--Turk. _sh[=a][=i]qa_.]

SAID, sed, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _say_: the before-mentioned, as the said
witness.

SAIGA, s[=i]'gä, _n._ a west Asian antelope. [Russ.]

SAIKLESS. Same as SACKLESS.

SAIL, s[=a]l, _n._ a sheet of canvas, &c., spread to catch the wind, by
which a ship is driven forward: a ship or ships: a trip in a vessel: a
fleet: arm of a windmill: speed: a journey.--_v.i._ to be moved by sails:
to go by water: to begin a voyage: to glide or float smoothly
along.--_v.t._ to navigate: to pass in a ship: to fly through.--_adj._
SAIL'ABLE, navigable.--_n._ SAIL'-BOAT, a boat propelled by a
sail.--_adjs._ SAIL'-BORNE; SAIL'-BROAD (_Milt._), broad or spreading like
a sail.--_n._ SAIL'-CLOTH, a strong cloth for sails.--_adj._ SAILED, having
sails set.--_ns._ SAIL'ER, a sailor: a boat or ship with respect to its
mode of sailing, or its speed; SAIL'-FISH, the basking shark: the
quill-back; SAIL'-FLUKE, the whiff; SAIL'-HOOP, a mast-hoop; SAIL'ING, act
of sailing: motion of a vessel on water: act of directing a ship's course:
the term applied to the different ways in which the path of a ship at sea,
and the variations of its geographical position, are represented on paper,
as _great circle sailing_, _Mercator's sailing_, _middle latitude sailing_,
_oblique sailing_, _parallel sailing_, _plane sailing_; SAIL'ING-ICE, an
ice-pack through which a sailing-vessel can force her way.--_n.pl._
SAIL'ING-INSTRUC'TIONS, written directions by the officer of a convoy to
the masters of ships under his care.--_n._ SAIL'ING-MAS'TER, a former name
for the navigating officer of a war-ship.--_adj._ SAIL'LESS, destitute of
sails.--_ns._ SAIL'-LIZ'ARD, a large lizard having a crested tail;
SAIL'-LOFT, a loft where sails are cut out and made; SAIL'-M[=A]K'ER, a
maker of sails: in the United States navy, an officer who takes charge of
the sails; SAIL'OR, one who sails in or navigates a ship: a seaman;
SAIL'OR-FISH, a sword-fish; SAIL'OR-MAN, a seaman; SAIL'OR-PLANT, the
strawberry geranium; SAIL'OR'S-CHOICE, the pin-fish: the pig-fish;
SAIL'OR'S-PURSE, an egg-pouch of rays and sharks; SAIL'-ROOM, a room in a
vessel where sails are stowed.--_adj._ SAIL'Y, like a sail.--_n._
SAIL'-YARD, the yard on which sails are extended.--_n.pl._ STAY'-SAILS,
triangular sails, suspended on the ropes which stay the masts upon the
foresides--from the jib-boom, bowsprit, and deck in the case of the
foremast, and from the deck in the case of the mainmast.--SAIL CLOSE TO THE
WIND, to run great risk; SAILORS' HOME, an institution where sailors may
lodge, or aged and infirm sailors be permanently cared for.--AFTER SAIL,
the sails carried on the mainmast and mizzen-mast; FORE-AND-AFT SAILS,
those set parallel to the keel of a ship, as opp. to SQUARE SAILS, those
set across the ship; FULL SAIL, with all sails set; MAKE SAIL, to spread
more canvas, in sailing; SET SAIL, to spread the sails, to begin a voyage;
SHORTEN SAIL, to reduce its extent; STRIKE SAIL, to lower the sail or
sails: (_Shak._) to abate one's pretensions of pomp or superiority; TAKE
THE WIND OUT OF ONE'S SAILS, to deprive one of an advantage; UNDER SAIL,
having the sails spread. [A.S. _segel_, cf. Dut. _zeil_, Ger. _segel_.]

SAIMIRI, s[=i]'mi-ri, _n._ a squirrel monkey.

SAIN, s[=a]'in (_Shak._), _pa.p._ of _say_.

SAIN, s[=a]n, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to bless so as to protect from evil. [A.S.
_segnian_--L. _sign[=a]re_--_signum_, mark.]

SAINFOIN, s[=a]n'foin, _n._ a leguminous fodder-plant.--Also SAINT'FOIN.
[Fr., _sain_, wholesome, _foin_, hay--L. _sanum foenum_.]

SAINT, s[=a]nt, _n._ a sanctified or holy person: one eminent for piety:
one of the blessed dead: one canonised by the R.C. Church: an image of a
saint: an angel: (_pl._) Israelites as a people: Christians
generally.--_v.t._ to salute as a saint.--_adj._ SAINT'ED, made a saint:
holy: sacred: gone to heaven: canonised.--_n._ SAINT'HOOD.--_adj._
SAINT'ISH, somewhat saintly, or affectedly so.--_n._ SAINT'ISM, the
character or quality of a saint: sanctimoniousness.--_adjs._ SAINT'-LIKE,
SAINT'LY, like or becoming a saint.--_adv._ SAINT'LILY.--_n._
SAINT'LINESS.--_adj._ SAINT'-SEEM'ING, appearing like a saint.--_n._
SAINT'SHIP, the character of a saint.--SAINT'S DAY, a day set apart for the
commemoration of a particular saint; ST AGNES'S FLOWER, the snowflake; ST
ANDREW'S CROSS, a North American shrub; ST ANDREW'S DAY, 30th November; ST
ANTHONY'S FIRE, erysipelas; ST ANTHONY'S NUT, the pig-nut or hawk-nut; ST
AUDREY'S NECKLACE, a string of holy stones; ST BARBARA'S CRESS, the yellow
rocket; ST BARNABY'S THISTLE, the English star-thistle; ST BENNET'S HERB,
the herb bennet; ST BERNARD, a kind of dog; ST BLASE'S DISEASE, quinsy; ST
CASSIAN BEDS, a division of the Triassic series; ST CRISPIN'S DAY, 25th
October; ST DAVID'S DAY, 1st March; ST DOMINGO DUCK, a West Indian duck; ST
DOMINGO GREBE, the smallest grebe in America; ST ELMO'S FIRE (see ELMO'S
FIRE); ST GEORGE'S DAY, 23d April; ST GEORGE'S ENSIGN, the distinguishing
flag of the British navy, a red cross on a white field; ST HUBERT'S
DISEASE, hydrophobia; ST JOHN'S BREAD, the carob bean: ergot of rye; ST
JOHN'S DAY, 27th December; ST JOHN'S HAWK, a blackish variety of the
rough-legged buzzard; ST JULIEN, an esteemed red Bordeaux wine from the
Médoc region; ST LEGER, the name of a race run at Doncaster, so called
since 1778 from Col. _St Leger_; ST LUKE'S SUMMER, a period of pleasant
weather about the middle of October; ST MARTIN'S EVIL, drunkenness; ST
MARTIN'S SUMMER, a season of mild, damp weather in late autumn; ST
NICHOLAS'S DAY, 6th December; ST PATRICK'S DAY, 17th March; ST PETER'S
FINGER, a belemnite; ST PETER'S FISH, the dory; ST PETER'S WORT, a name of
several plants; ST PIERRE GROUP, a thick mass of shales in the upper
Missouri region; ST SWITHIN'S DAY, 15th July; ST VALENTINE'S DAY, 14th
February; ST VITUS'S DANCE, chorea.--ALL-SAINTS' DAY, a feast observed by
the Latin Church on 1st November, in the Greek Church on the first Sunday
after Pentecost; COMMUNION OF THE SAINTS, the spiritual fellowship of all
true believers, the blessed dead as well as the faithful living, mystically
united in each other in Christ; INTERCESSION, PERSEVERANCE, OF SAINTS (see
INTERCESSION, PERSEVERANCE); LATTER-DAY SAINTS, the Mormons' name for
themselves; PATRON SAINT, a saint who is regarded as a protector, as St
George of England, St Andrew of Scotland, St Patrick of Ireland, St David
of Wales, St Denis of France, St James of Spain, St Nicholas of Russia, St
Stephen of Hungary, St Mark of Venice, &c. [Fr.,--L. _sanctus_, holy.]

SAINT-SIMONISM, s[=a]nt-s[=i]'mon-izm, _n._ the socialistic system founded
by the Comte de _Saint-Simon_ (1760-1825).--_ns._ SAINT-SIM[=O]'NIAN (also
_adj._); SAINT-SIM[=O]'NIANISM; SAINT-S[=I]'MONIST.

SAIR, s[=a]r, _adj._ (_Scot._) sore.--_adv._ SAIR'LY.

SAIR, s[=a]r, _v.t._ to serve: to fit: to satisfy: to give alms.--_n._
SAIR'ING, as much as serves the turn: enough.

SAITH, seth, _v.t._ and _v.i._ 3d pers. sing. pres. indic. of _say_.

SAITH, s[=a]th, _n._ (_Scot._) the coalfish. [Gael. _savidhean._]

SAIVA, s[=i]'va, _n._ a votary of _Siva_.--_n._ SAI'VISM.

SAJOU, sa-j[=oo]', _n._ a South American monkey.

SAKE, sak'e, _n._ a Japanese fermented liquor made from rice: a generic
name for all spirituous liquors.

SAKE, s[=a]k, _n._ cause: account: regard, as 'for my sake': contention:
fault: purpose.--FOR OLD SAKE'S SAKE, for the sake of old times, for auld
langsyne. [A.S. _sacu_, strife, a lawsuit; Dut. _zaak_, Ger. _sache;_ A.S.
_sacan_, to strive, Goth. _sakan._ _Seek_ is a doublet.]

SAKER, s[=a]'k[.e]r, _n._ a species of falcon: a species of cannon.
[Fr.,--Low L. _falco sacer_, sacred falcon.]

SAKI, sak'i, _n._ a genus of long-tailed South American monkeys.

SAKIEH, sak'i-e, _n._ a Persian wheel used in Egypt for raising
water.--Also SAK'IA, [Ar. _saqieh._]

SAL, sal, _n._ a large gregarious timber tree of north India, with hard,
dark-brown, coarse-grained, durable wood. [Hind. _s[=a]l._]

SAL, sal, _n._ salt, used in chemistry and pharmacy with various
adjectives, as SAL'-ALEM'BROTH, a solution of equal parts of corrosive
sublimate and ammonium chloride--also _Salt of wisdom;_ SAL'-AMM[=O]'NIAC,
chloride of ammonium, with a sharp, saline taste; SAL'-SEIGNETTE', Rochelle
salt; SAL'-VOLAT'ILE, a solution of carbonate of ammonia in alcohol--a
common remedy for faintness. [L.]

SALAAM, SALAM, sa-läm', _n._ a word of salutation in the East, chiefly
among Mohammedans: homage.--_v.i._ to perform the salaam. [Ar. _sal[=a]m,_
peace; Heb. _shal[=a]m,_ to be safe.]

SALABLE, SALABLENESS, SALABLY. Same as SALEABLE, &c. See SALE.

SALACIOUS, sal-[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ lustful: lecherous.--_adv._
SAL[=A]'CIOUSLY, lustfully: lecherously.--_ns._ SAL[=A]'CIOUSNESS,
SALAC'ITY, lust, lecherousness. [L. _salax_--_sal[=i]re,_ to leap.]

SALAD, sal'ad, _n._ a preparation of raw herbs (lettuce, endive, chicory,
celery, mustard and cress, water-cress, onions, radishes, tomatoes,
chervil, &c.) cut up and seasoned with salt, vinegar, &c.: a dish of some
kind of meat, chopped, seasoned, and mixed with a salad.--_ns._
SALAD-BUR'NET, the common burnet, used as a salad; SAL'ADING, herbs for
salads: the making of salads; SAL'AD-OIL, olive-oil, used in dressing
salads; SAL'AD-PLATE, a small plate for salad; SAL'AD-ROCK'ET, the garden
rocket; SAL'AD-SPOON, a large and long-handled spoon for stirring and
mixing salads, made of wood or other material not affected by
vinegar.--SALAD DAYS, days of youthful inexperience. [Fr. _salade_--Old It.
_salata_--_salare,_ to salt--L. _sal,_ salt.]

SALAGRAMMA, sä-lä-grä'mä, _n._ a stone sacred to Vishnu.

SALAL-BERRY, sal'al-ber'i, _n._ a berry-like plant of California, about the
size of a common grape.

SALAM. See SALAAM.

SALAMANDER, sal'a-man-d[.e]r, _n._ a genus of tailed Amphibians, nearly
related to the newts, harmless, but long dreaded as poisonous, once
supposed able to live in fire: (_her._) a four-legged creature with a long
tail surrounded by flames: a poker used red-hot for kindling fires: a hot
metal plate for browning meat, &c.--_adjs._ SALAMAN'DRIFORM; SALAMAN'DRINE,
like a salamander: enduring fire; SALAMAN'DROID--also _n._ [Fr.
_salamandre_--L.,--Gr. _salamandra;_ of Eastern origin.]

SALAMBA, sa-lam'ba, _n._ a contrivance for fishing used at Manila and
elsewhere in the East.

SALAMIS, sal'a-mis, _n._ a genus of lepidopterous insects.

SALANGANE, sal'ang-g[=a]n, _n._ a Chinese swift which constructs edible
nests.

SALARY, sal'a-ri, _n._ a recompense for services: wages.--_v.t._ to pay a
salary.--_adj._ SAL'ARIED, receiving a salary. [O. Fr. _salarie_ (Fr.
_salaire_, It. _salario_)--L. _salarium_, salt-money, _sal_, salt]

SALDA, sal'da, _n._ a genus of true bugs.

SALE, s[=a]l, _n._ act of selling: the exchange of anything for money:
power or opportunity of selling: demand: public showing of goods to sell:
auction.--_adj._ SALE'ABLE, that may be sold: in good demand.--_n._
SALE'ABLENESS.--_adv._ SALE'ABLY.--_ns._ SALE'ROOM, an auction-room;
SALES'MAN, a man who sells goods:--_fem._ SALES'WOMAN.--_adj._
SALE'-TONGUED, mercenary.--_n.pl._ SALE'WARES, merchandise.--_n._
SALE'WORK, work or things made for sale, or merely for sale: work
carelessly done.--FORCED SALE, a sale compelled by a creditor; TERMS OF
SALE, the conditions imposed on a purchaser. [Scand., Ice. _sala_.]

SALE, s[=a]l, _n._ (_Spens._) a kind of basket-like net, made of sallows or
willows. [A.S. _sealh_, willow.]

SALEBROUS, sal'[=e]-brus, _adj._ rough, rugged.--_n._ SALEBROS'ITY.
[Fr.,--L. _salebrosus_, rough.]

SALEP, sal'ep, _n._ the dried tubers of _Orchis mascula_: the food prepared
from it.--Also SAL'OP. [Ar.]

SALERATUS, sal-e-r[=a]'tus, _n._ sodium bicarbonate, used in
baking-powders.--Also SALÆR[=A]'TUS. [L. _sal aeratus_, aerated salt.]

SALEWE, sal-[=u]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to salute. [_Salute_.]

SALIAN, s[=a]'li-an, _adj._ pertaining to a tribe of Franks on the lower
Rhine.--_n._ one of this tribe.--_adj._ SAL'IC, denoting a law among the
Salian Franks limiting the succession of certain lands to males--extended
in the 14th century to the succession to the crown of France. [Fr.
_salique_--Low L. _Lex salica_.]

SALIAN, s[=a]'li-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Salii_ or priests of Mars in
ancient Rome.--SALIAN HYMNS, songs sung by these, with dances, &c.

SALIANT, s[=a]l'i-ant, _adj._ Same as SALIENT.

SALIAUNCE, sal-i-äns', _n._ (_Spens._). See SALIENCE.

SALICETUM, sal-i-s[=e]'tum, _n._ a thicket of willows:--_pl._
SALIC[=E]'TUMS, SALIC[=E]'TA.

SALICIN, -E, sal'i-sin, _n._ a bitter crystalline glucoside, obtained from
the bark of willows and poplars.--_n._ SAL'ICYL[=A]TE, a salt of salicylic
acid.--_adjs._ SAL'ICYL[=A]TED, combined with salicylic acid; SALICY'LIC,
obtained from the willow.--SALICYLATE OF SODIUM, a product occurring in
small white crystals, used very largely in acute rheumatism. [L. _salix_,
_salicis_, a willow.]

SALICORNIA, sal-i-kor'ni-a, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants--the
_glass-wort_, _marsh-samphire_. [Fr.,--L. _sal_, salt, _cornu_, a horn.]

SALIENT, s[=a]'li-ent, _adj._ leaping or springing: (_fort._) projecting
outwards, as an angle: prominent: striking: (_geom._) denoting any angle
less than two right angles: (_her._) of a beast of prey nearly
rampant.--_n._ S[=A]'LIENCE, the quality or condition of being salient:
projection: (_Spens._) a leaping, assaulting, onslaught.--_adv._
S[=A]'LIENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _saliens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _sal[=i]re_, to
leap.]

SALIÈRE, sa-ly[=a]r', _n._ a saltcellar. [Fr.]

SALIFEROUS, s[=a]-lif'[.e]r-us, _adj._ bearing salt.--SALIFEROUS SYSTEM,
the Triassic, from its rich deposits. [L. _sal_, _salis_, salt, _ferre_, to
bear.]

SALIFY, sal'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to combine with an acid in order to make a
salt:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sal'ified.--_adj._ SALIF[=I]'ABLE.--_n._
SALIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of salifying.

SALINE, s[=a]'l[=i]n, or s[=a]-l[=i]n', _adj._ consisting of, or
containing, salt: partaking of the qualities of salt.--_n._ an effervescent
powder used as a gentle aperient: a salt-spring.--_ns._ SAL[=I]'NA,
salt-works; SALIN[=A]'TION, the act of washing in salt liquor; SAL'INE,
SAL'IN, a salt, reddish substance obtained from the ashes of potato-leaves;
SALINE'NESS.--_adjs._ SALINIF'EROUS; SALIN'IFORM.--_ns._ SALIN'ITY;
SALINOM'ETER,  SALIM'ETER, a hydrometer for measuring the amount of salt in
any given solution.--_adj._ SAL[=I]'NO-TERRENE', composed of salt and
earth.--_v.t._ SAL'ITE, to season with salt.--_n._ SAL'ITRAL, a place where
saltpetre occurs. [Fr.,--L. _salinus_--_sal_, salt.]

SALIQUE, sal'ik, or sa-l[=e]k'. Same as SALIC (see SALIAN).

SALIVA, sa-l[=i]'va, _n._ the spittle, one of the digestive fluids, mainly
the product of the salivary glands.--_adjs._ SAL[=I]'VAL, SAL'IVANT,
producing salivation.--_n._ SAL[=I]'VA-PUMP, a device for carrying off the
accumulating saliva.--_adj._ SA'LIVARY, pertaining to, secreting, or
containing saliva.--_n._ that which produces salivation.--_v.t._
SAL'IV[=A]TE, to produce an unusual amount of saliva.--_n._ SALIV[=A]'TION,
an unusual flow of saliva.--_adj._ SAL'IVOUS, like spittle. [Fr.,--L.,
allied to Gr. _sialon_, saliva.]

SALIX, s[=a]'liks, _n._ a genus of apetalous trees and shrubs, the willows.
[L.]

SALLEE-MAN, sal'[=e]-man, _n._ a Moorish pirate.--Also SALL'EE-R[=O]'VER.
[_Sallee_, on the coast of Morocco.]

SALLET, sal'et, _n._ a light kind of helmet of the 15th century, with
projection behind, used by foot-soldiers. [O. Fr. _salade_, through It.
_celata_, a helmet, from L. _cælata_, figured--_cæl[=a]re_, to engrave.]

SALLIE, sal'i, _n._ (_Scot._) a hired mourner at a funeral.

SALLOW, sal'[=o], _n._ a tree or low shrub of the willow kind--(_Scot._)
SAUCH.--_adj._ SALL'OWY, abounding in sallows. [A.S. _sealh_; Ger. _sahl_.]

SALLOW, sal'[=o], _adj._ of a pale, yellowish colour.--_v.t._ to tinge with
a sallow colour.--_adj._ SALL'OWISH, somewhat sallow.--_ns._
SALL'OW-KITT'EN, a kind of puss-moth; SALL'OW-MOTH, a British moth of a
pale-yellow colour; SALL'OWNESS.--_adj._ SALL'OWY. [A.S. _salo_, _salu_;
cf. Dut. _zaluw_, and Old High Ger. _salo_.]

SALLY, sal'i, _n._ a leaping or bursting out: a sudden rushing forth of
troops to attack besiegers: excursion: outburst of fancy, wit, &c.: levity:
a projection.--_v.i._ to rush out suddenly: to mount:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
sall'ied.--_n._ SALL'Y-PORT, a passage by which a garrison may make a
sally: a large port for the escape of a crew when a fire-ship is set on
fire. [Fr. _saillie_--_saillir_ (It. _salire_)--L. _salire_, to leap.]

SALLY, sal'i, _n._ a kind of stone-fly: a wren.--_n._ SALL'YPICK'ER, one of
several different warblers.

SALLY-LUNN, sal'i-lun, _n._ a sweet spongy tea-cake. [From the name of a
girl who sold them in the streets of Bath about the close of the 18th
century.]

SALLY-WOOD, sal'i-w[=oo]d, _n._ willow-wood.

SALMAGUNDI, sal-ma-gun'di, _n._ a dish of minced meat with eggs, anchovies,
vinegar, pepper, &c.: a medley, miscellany.--Also SALMAGUN'DY. [Fr.
_salmigondis_--It. _salami_, pl. of _salame_, salt meat--L. _sal_, salt,
_conditi_, pl. of _condito_, seasoned--L. _cond[=i]re_, _-[=i]tum_, to
pickle.]

SALMI, SALMIS, sal'mi, _n._ a ragout of roasted woodcocks, &c., stewed with
wine, morsels of bread, &c. [Fr. _salmis_--It. _salame_, salt meat.]

SALMIAC, sal'mi-ak, _n._ sal-ammoniac.

SALMON, sam'un, _n._ a large fish, brownish above, with silvery sides, the
delicate flesh reddish-orange in colour--ascending rivers to spawn: the
upper bricks in a kiln which receive the least heat.--_ns._ SAL'M[=O], the
leading genus of _Salmonidæ_; SALM'ON-COL'OUR, an orange-pink; SALM'ONET, a
young salmon; SALM'ON-FISH'ERY, a place where salmon-fishing is carried on;
SALM'ON-FLY, any kind of artificial fly for taking salmon; SALM'ON-FRY,
salmon under two years old; SALM'ONING, the salmon industry, as canning;
SALM'ON-KILL'ER, a sort of stickleback; SALM'ON-LEAP, -LADD'ER, a series of
steps to permit a salmon to pass up-stream.--_adj._ SALM'ONOID.--_ns._
SALM'ON-PEAL, -PEEL, a grilse under 2 lb.; SALM'ON-SPEAR, an instrument
used in spearing salmon; SALM'ON-SPRING, a smolt or young salmon of the
first year; SALM'ON-TACK'LE, the rod, line, and fly with which salmon are
taken; SALM'ON-TROUT, a trout like the salmon, but smaller and thicker in
proportion; SALM'ON-WEIR, a weir specially designed to take salmon.--BLACK
SALMON, the great lake trout; BURNETT SALMON, a fish with reddish flesh
like a salmon; CALVERED SALMON, pickled salmon; CORNISH SALMON, the
pollack; KELP SALMON, a serranoid fish; KIPPERED SALMON, salmon salted and
smoke-dried; QUODDY SALMON, the pollack; SEA SALMON, the pollack; WHITE
SALMON, a carangoid Californian fish. [O. Fr. _saulmon_--L. _salmo_, from
_sal[=i]re_, to leap.]

SALNATRON, sal-n[=a]'tron, _n._ crude sodium carbonate.

SALOMONIC. Same as SOLOMONIC.

SALON, sa-long', _n._ a drawing-room: a fashionable reception, esp. a
periodic gathering of notable persons, in the house of some social queen:
the great annual exhibition of works by living artists at the Palais des
Champs Elysées in Paris. [Fr.]

SALOON, sa-l[=oo]n', _n._ a spacious and elegant hall or apartment for the
reception of company, for works of art, &c.: a main cabin: a drawing-room
car on a railroad: a liquor-shop.--_ns._ SALOON'IST, SALOON'-KEEP'ER, one
who retails liquor. [Fr. _salon_--_salle_; Old High Ger. _sal_, a dwelling,
Ger. _saal_.]

SALOOP, sa-l[=oo]p', _n._ a drink composed of sassafras tea, with sugar and
milk. [_Salep_.]

SALOP. Same as SALEP.

SALOPIAN, sal-[=o]'pi-an, _adj._ pertaining to Shropshire (L. _Salopia_),
as the ware, a name given to Roman pottery found in Shropshire.

SALPA, sal'pa, _n._ a remarkable genus of free-swimming Tunicates.--_adjs._
SAL'PIAN; SAL'PIFORM.

SALPICON, sal'pi-kon, _n._ stuffing, chopped meat. [Fr.]

SALPIGLOSSIS, sal-pi-glos'is, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants, native
to Chili, with showy flowers resembling petunias, [Gr. _salpingx_, a
trumpet, _gl[=o]ssa_, tongue.]

SALPINCTES, sal-pingk'tes, _n._ the rock-wrens. [Gr. _salpingkt[=e]s_, a
trumpeter.]

SALPINGITIS, sal-pin-j[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of a Fallopian
tube.--_adjs._ SALPINGIT'IC, SALPIN'GIAN, pertaining to a Fallopian or to a
Eustachian tube.--_n._ SAL'PINX, a Eustachian tube or syrinx. [Gr.
_salpingx_, a trumpet.]

SALPORNIS, sal-por'nis, _n._ a genus of creepers inhabiting Asia and
Africa. [Gr. _salpingx_, a trumpet, _ornis_, a bird.]

SALSAGINOUS, sal-saj'i-nus, _adj._ saltish: growing in brackish places.

SALSAMENTARIOUS, sal-sa-men-t[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ (_obs._) salted.

SALSE, sals, _n._ a mud volcano: a conical hillock of mud. [Fr.,--L.
_salsus_, _sal[=i]re_, to salt.]

SALSIFY, sal'si-fi, _n._ a biennial plant growing in meadows throughout
Europe, whose long and tapering root has a flavour resembling
asparagus--also SAL'SAFY--often called _Oyster-plant_.--BLACK SALSIFY, the
related scorzonera. [Fr.,--It. _sassefrica_, goat's-beard--L. _saxum_, a
rock, _fric[=a]re_, to rub.]

SALSILLA, sal-sil'a, _n._ one of several species of _Bomarea_, with edible
tubers. [Sp., dim. of _salsa_, sauce.]

SALSOLA, sal's[=o]-la, _n._ a genus of plants, including the _salt-wort_
and _prickly glass-wort_.--_adj._ SALSOL[=A]'CEOUS. [L.
_salsus_--_sal[=i]re_, to salt.]

SALT, sawlt, _n._ chloride of sodium, or common salt, a well-known
substance used for seasoning, found either in the earth or obtained by
evaporation from sea-water: anything like salt: seasoning: piquancy:
abatement, modification, allowance: an experienced sailor: that which
preserves from corruption: an antiseptic: (_chem._) a body composed of an
acid and a base united in definite proportions, or of bromine, chlorine,
fluorine, or iodine, with a metal or metalloid: (_obs._) lust.--_v.t._ to
sprinkle or season with salt: to fill with salt between the timbers for
preservation.--_adj._ containing salt: tasting of salt: overflowed with, or
growing in, salt-water: pungent: lecherous: (_coll._) costly,
expensive--_ns._ SALT'-BLOCK, a salt-evaporating apparatus; SALT'-BOTT'OM,
a flat piece of ground covered with saline efflorescences: SALT'-BUSH, an
Australian plant of the goose-foot family; SALT'-CAKE, the crude sodium
sulphate occurring as a by-product in the manufacture of hydrochloric acid;
SALT'-CAT, a mixture given as a digestive to pigeons; SALT'ER, one who
salts, or who makes, sells, or deals in salt, as in _Drysalter_: a trout
leaving salt-water to ascend a stream; SAL'TERN, salt-works; SALT'-FOOT, a
large saltcellar marking the boundary between the superior and inferior
guests; SALT'-GAUGE, an instrument for testing the strength of brine;
SALT'-GLAZE, a glaze produced upon ceramic ware by putting common salt in
the kilns after they have been fired.--_adj._ SALT'-GREEN (_Shak._),
sea-green.--_ns._ SALT'-GROUP, a series of rocks containing salt, as the
Onondaga salt-group; SALT'-HOLD'ER, a saltcellar; SALT'-HORSE, salted beef;
SALT'IE, the salt-water fluke or dab; SALT'ING, the act of sprinkling with
salt: the celebration of the Eton 'Montem.'--_adj._ SALT'ISH, somewhat
salt.--_adv._ SALT'ISHLY, so as to be moderately salt.--_ns._ SALT'ISHNESS,
a moderate degree of saltness; SALT'-JUNK, hard salt beef for use at
sea.--_adj._ SALT'LESS, without salt: tasteless.--_n._ SALT'-LICK, a place
to which animals resort for salt.--_adv._ SALT'LY.--_ns._ SALT'-MARSH, land
liable to be overflowed by the sea or the waters of estuaries; SALT'-MARSH
CAT'ERPILLAR, the hairy larva of an arctiid moth; SALT'-MARSH HEN, a
clapper-rail; SALT'-MARSH TERR'APIN, the diamond-backed turtle; SALT'-MINE,
a mine where rock-salt is obtained; SALT'NESS, impregnation with salt;
SALT'-PAN, a pan, basin, or pit where salt is obtained or made; SALT'-PIT,
a pit where salt is obtained; SALT'-RHEUM, a cutaneous eruption; SALTS,
Epsom salt or other salt used as a medicine.--_adj._ SALT'-SLIV'ERED,
slivered and salted, as fish for bait.--_ns._ SALT'-SPOON, a small spoon
for serving salt at table; SALT'-SPRING, a brine-spring; SALT'-WA'TER,
water impregnated with salt, sea-water; SALT'-WORKS, a place where salt is
made; SALT'-WORT, a genus of plants of many species, mostly natives of
salt-marshes and sea-shores, one only being found in Britain, the Prickly
S., which was formerly burned for the soda it yielded.--_adj._ SALT'Y (same
as SALTISH).--SALT A MINE, to deposit ore in it cunningly so as to deceive
persons who inspect it regarding its value; SALT OF LEMON, or SORREL, acid
potassium oxalate, a solvent for ink-stains; SALT OF SODA, sodium
carbonate; SALT OF TARTAR, a commercial name for purified potassium
carbonate; SALT OF VITRIOL, sulphate of zinc; SALT OF WORMWOOD, carbonate
of potash.--ABOVE THE SALT, at the upper half of the table, among the
guests of distinction; ATTIC SALT, wit; BELOW THE SALT, at the lower half
of the table; BE NOT WORTH ONE'S SALT, not to deserve even the salt that
gives relish to one's food; BRONZING SALT, used in burning gun-barrels;
EPSOM SALTS, magnesium sulphate, a cathartic; ESSENTIAL SALTS, those
produced from the juices of plants by crystallisation; GLAUBER'S SALT, or
HORSE SALTS, a well-known cathartic, used in woollen dyeing; LAY SALT ON
THE TAIL OF, to catch; NEUTRAL SALT, a salt in which the acid and the base
neutralise each other; ROCHELLE SALT, sodium potassium tartrate, a
laxative; SPIRITS OF SALT, the old name for muriatic or hydrochloric acid;
TAKE WITH A GRAIN OF SALT, to believe with some reserve. [A.S. _sealt_; cf.
Ger. _salz_, also L. _sal_, Gr. _hals_.]

SALTANT, sal'tant, _adj._ leaping: dancing: (_her._) salient.--_v.i._
SAL'T[=A]TE, to dance.--_n._ SALT[=A]'TION, a leaping or jumping: beating
or palpitation: (_biol._) an abrupt variation.--_n.pl._ SALTAT[=O]'RIA, a
division of orthopterous insects including grass-hoppers, locusts, and
crickets.--_adjs._ SALTAT[=O]'RIAL, SALTAT[=O]'RIOUS; SAL'TATORY, leaping:
dancing: having the power of, or used in, leaping or dancing. [L.
_saltans_, pr.p. of _salt[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, inten. of _sal[=i]re_, to
leap.]

SALTARELLO, sal-ta-rel'[=o], _n._ a lively Italian dance in triple time,
diversified with skips, for a single couple--also the music for such: an
old form of round dance. [It.,--L. _salt[=a]re_, to dance.]

SALTCELLAR, sawlt'sel-ar, _n._ a small table vessel for holding salt. [For
_salt-sellar_, the last part being O. Fr. _saliere_--L. _salarium_--_sal_,
salt.]

SALTIERRA, sal-tyer'a, _n._ a saline deposit in the inland lakes of Mexico.
[Sp.,--L. _sal_, salt, _terra_, land.]

SALTIGRADE, sal'ti-gr[=a]d, _adj._ formed for leaping, as certain
insects.--_n._ one of a certain tribe of spiders which leap to seize their
prey. [L. _saltus_, a leap, _gradi_, to go.]

SALTIMBANCO, sal-tim-bangk'[=o], _n._ (_obs._) a mountebank: a quack. [It.]

SALTIRE, SALTIER, sal't[=e]r, _n._ (_her._) an ordinary in the form of a St
Andrew's Cross.--_adj._ SAL'TIERWISE. [O. Fr. _saultoir_, _sautoir_--Low L.
_saltatorium_, a stirrup--L. _salt[=a]re_, to leap.]

SALTPETRE, sawlt-p[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ the commercial name for nitre.--_adj._
SALTP[=E]'TROUS. [O. Fr. _salpestre_--Low L. _salpetra_--L. _sal_, salt,
_petra_, a rock.]

SALTUS, sal'tus, _n._ a break of continuity in time: a leap from premises
to conclusion. [L., a leap.]

SALUBRIOUS, sa-l[=u]'bri-us, _adj._ healthful: wholesome.--_adv._
SAL[=U]'BRIOUSLY.--_ns._ SAL[=U]'BRIOUSNESS, SAL[=U]'BRITY, [L.
_salubris_--_salus_, _salutis_, health.]

SALUE, sal-[=u]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to salute.

SALUTARY, sal'[=u]-tar-i, _adj._ belonging to health: promoting health or
safety: wholesome: beneficial.--_n._ SAL[=U]DADOR' (_obs._), a quack who
cures by incantations.--_adv._ SAL'[=U]TARILY, in a salutary manner:
favourably to health.--_n._ SAL'[=U]TARINESS.--_adj._ SAL[=U]TIF'EROUS,
health-bearing.--_adv._ SAL[=U]TIF'EROUSLY. [L. _salutaris_--_salus_,
health.]

SALUTE, sal-[=u]t', _v.t._ to address with kind wishes: to greet with a
kiss, a bow, &c.: to honour formally by a discharge of cannon, striking
colours, &c.--_n._ act of saluting: the position of the hand, sword, &c. in
saluting: greeting: a kiss: a complimentary discharge of cannon, dipping
colours, presenting arms, &c., in honour of any one.--_ns._
SAL[=U]T[=A]'TION, act of saluting: that which is said in saluting, any
customary or ceremonious form of address at meeting or at parting, or of
ceremonial on religious or state occasions, including both forms of speech
and gestures: (_obs._) quickening, excitement: the ANGELIC SALUTATION (see
AVE); SAL[=U]TAT[=O]'RIAN, in American colleges, the member of a graduating
class who pronounces the salutatory oration.--_adv._
SAL[=U]'TATORILY.--_adj._ SAL[=U]'TATORY, pertaining to salutation.--_n._ a
sacristy in the early church in which the clergy received the greetings of
the people: an oration in Latin delivered by the student who ranks
second.--_n._ SAL[=U]'TER. [L. _salut[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_salus_,
_salutis_.]

SALVAGE, sal'v[=a]j, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as SAVAGE.

SALVAGE, sal'v[=a]j, _n._ compensation made by the owner of a ship or cargo
in respect of services rendered by persons, other than the ship's company,
in preserving the ship or cargo from shipwreck, fire, or capture: the goods
and materials so saved.--_n._ SALVABIL'ITY, the possibility or condition of
being saved.--_adj._ SAL'VABLE.--_n._ SAL'VABLENESS.--_adv._ SAL'VABLY.
[Fr.,--L. _salv[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to save.]

SALVATION, sal-v[=a]'shun, _n._ act of saving: means of preservation from
any serious evil: (_theol._) the saving of man from the power and penalty
of sin, the conferring of eternal happiness: (_B._) deliverance from
enemies.--_v.t._ to heal, to cure: to remedy: to redeem: to gloss
over.--_ns._ SALV[=A]'TIONISM; SALV[=A]'TIONIST.--SALVATION ARMY, an
organisation for the revival of evangelical religion amongst the masses,
founded by William Booth about 1865, reorganised on the model of a military
force in 1878; SALVATION SALLY, a girl belonging to the Salvation Army.

SALVATORY, sal'va-t[=o]-ri, _n._ (_obs._) a repository: a safe.

SALVE, säv, _n._ (_B._) an ointment: anything to cure sores.--_v.t._ to
heal, help.--_ns._ SALV'ER, a quacksalver, a pretender; SALV'ING, healing,
restoration. [A.S. _sealf_; Ger. _salbe_, Dut. _zalf_.]

SALVE, sal'v[=e], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to salute.--SALVE REGINA (_R.C._), an
antiphonal hymn to the Blessed Virgin said after Lauds and Compline, from
Trinity to Advent--from its opening words. [L. _salve_, God save you, hail!
imper. of _salv[=e]re_, to be well.]

SALVELINUS, sal-ve-l[=i]'nus, _n._ a genus of _Salmonidæ_, the chars.
[Prob. Latinised from Ger. _salbling_, a small salmon.]

SALVER, sal'v[.e]r, _n._ a plate on which anything is presented.--_adj._
SAL'VER-SHAPED, in the form of a salver or tray. [Sp. _salva_, a salver,
_salvar_, to save--Low L. _salv[=a]re_, to save.]

SALVIA, sal'vi-a, _n._ a large genus of gamopetalous Labiate plants,
including the sage.

SALVINIA, sal-vin'i-a, _n._ a genus of heterosporous ferns--formerly called
_Rhizocarpeæ_ or _Pepperworts_.

SALVO, sal'v[=o], _n._ an exception: a reservation. [L., in phrase, _salvo
jure_, one's right being safe.]

SALVO, sal'v[=o], _n._ a military or naval salute with guns: a simultaneous
discharge of artillery: the combined cheers of a multitude:--_pl._ SALVOS
(sal'v[=o]z). [It. _salva_, a salute--L. _salve_, hail!]

SAL-VOLATILE, sal'-vo-lat'i-le. See SAL.

SALVOR, sal'vor, _n._ one who saves a cargo from wreck, fire, &c. [See
SALVAGE.]

SAM, sam, _adv._ (_Spens._) together.--_v.t._ to collect, to curdle milk.
[A.S. _samnian_--_samen_, together.]

SAMARA, s[=a]-mar'a, or sam'-, _n._ a dry indehiscent, usually one-sided
fruit, with a wing, as in the ash, elm, and maple--the last a double
samara.--_adjs._ SAM'ARIFORM; SAM'AROID. [L.]

SAMARE, sa-mär', _n._ an old form of women's long-skirted jacket.

SAMARITAN, sa-mar'i-tan, _adj._ pertaining to _Samaria_ in Palestine.--_n._
an inhabitant of Samaria, esp. one of the despised mixed population planted
therein after the deportation of the Israelites: the language of Samaria,
an archaic Hebrew, or rather Hebrew Aramaic, dialect: a charitable
person--from Luke, x. 30-37.--_n._ SAMAR'ITANISM, charity,
benevolence.--SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH, a recension of the Hebrew Pentateuch,
in use amongst the Samaritans, and accepted by them as alone canonical.

SAMAVEDA, sä-ma-v[=a]'da, _n._ the name of one of the four Vedas. [Sans.]

SAMBO, sam'b[=o], _n._ a negro: properly the child of a mulatto and a
negro. [Sp. _zambo_--L. _scambus_, bow-legged.]

SAMBUCUS, sam-b[=u]'kus, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous trees and shrubs of
the honeysuckle family--the elders. [L.]

SAMBUKE, sam'b[=u]k, _n._ an ancient musical instrument, probably a
harp.--Also SAMB[=U]'CA. [Gr. _sambyk[=e]_--Heb. _sabeka_.]

SAMBUR, sam'bur, _n._ the Indian elk.--Also SAM'BOO. [Hind. _sambre_.]

SAME, s[=a]m, _adv._ (_Spens._). Same as SAM.

SAME, s[=a]m, _adj._ identical: of the like kind or degree: similar:
mentioned before.--_adj._ SAME'LY, unvaried.--_n._ SAME'NESS, the being the
same: tedious monotony.--ALL THE SAME, for all that; AT THE SAME TIME,
still, nevertheless. [A.S. _same_; Goth. _samana_; L. _similis_, like, Gr.
_homos_.]

SAMIA, s[=a]'mi-a, _n._ a genus of bombycid moths, belonging to North
America.

SAMIAN, s[=a]'mi-an, _adj._ pertaining to, or from, the island of _Samos_,
in the Greek Archipelago.--_n._ (also S[=A]'MIOT, S[=A]'MIOTE) a native of
Samos.--SAMIAN EARTH, an argillaceous astringent earth; SAMIAN STONE, a
goldsmiths' polishing-stone; SAMIAN WARE, an ancient kind of pottery,
brick-red or black, with lustrous glaze.

SAMIEL, s[=a]'mi-el, _n._ the simoom. [Turk. _samyeli_--Ar. _samm_, poison,
Turk. _yel_, wind.]

SAMISEN, sam'i-sen, _n._ a Japanese guitar.

SAMITE, sam'it, _n._ a kind of heavy silk stuff. [O. Fr. _samit_--Low L.
_examitum_--Gr. _hexamiton_, _hex_, six, _mitos_, thread.]

SAMLET, sam'let, _n._ a parr: a salmon of the first year. [Prob.
_salmon-et_.]

SAMMY, sam'i, _v.t._ to moisten skins with water.--_n._ a machine for doing
this.

SAMNITE, sam'n[=i]t, _adj._ and _n._ pertaining to an ancient Sabine people
of central Italy, crushed by the Romans after a long struggle: a Roman
gladiator armed with shield, sleeve on right arm, helmet, shoulder-piece,
and greave.

SAMOAN, sa-m[=o]'an, _adj._ and _n._ pertaining to _Samoa_ in the
Pacific.--SAMOAN DOVE, the tooth-billed pigeon.

SAMOLUS, sam'[=o]-lus, _n._ a genus of herbaceous plants of the primrose
family. [L.]

SAMOSATENIAN, sam-[=o]-sa-t[=e]'ni-an, _n._ a follower of Paul of
_Samosata_, bishop of Antioch, the Socinus of the 3d century.

SAMOTHRACIAN, sam-[=o]-thr[=a]'si-an, _adj._ belonging to the island of
_Samothrace_ in the Ægean Sea.

SAMOVAR, sam'[=o]-vär, _n._ a tea-urn used in Russia, commonly of copper,
the water in it heated by charcoal in a tube extending from top to bottom.
[Russ. _samovar[)u]_, prob. Tartar.]

SAMOYED, sa-m[=o]'yed, _n._ one of a Ural-Altaic race between the Obi and
the Yenisei.--_adj._ SAMOYED'IC.

SAMP, samp, _n._ Indian corn coarsely ground: a kind of hominy, also
porridge made from it.

[Illustration]

SAMPAN, sam'pan, _n._ a small boat used in China and Japan.--Also SAN'PAN.
[Chin. _san_, _sam_, three, _pan_, a board.]

SAMPHIRE, sam'f[=i]r, or sam'f[.e]r, _n._ an herb found chiefly on rocky
cliffs near the sea, used in pickles and salads. [Corr. from Fr. _Saint
Pierre_, Saint Peter.]

SAMPI, sam'p[=i], _n._ a character, [sampi] representing a sibilant in
early Greek use, later obsolete except as a numeral sign for 900.

SAMPLE, sam'pl, _n._ a specimen: a part to show the quality of the whole:
an example.--_v.t._ to make up samples of: to place side by side with: to
match: to test by examination.--_ns._ SAM'PLER, one who makes up samples
(in compounds, as _wool-sampler_); SAM'PLE-ROOM, a room where samples are
shown: (_slang_) a grog-shop; SAM'PLE-SCALE, an accurately balanced
lever-scale for weighing ten-thousandths of a pound. [Short for _esample_,
from O. Fr. _essample_--L. _exemplum_, example.]

SAMPLER, sam'pl[.e]r, _n._ a pattern of work: a piece of ornamental
embroidery, worsted-work, &c., containing names, figures, texts, &c.--_n._
SAM'PLARY (_obs._), a pattern, an example. [Formed from L. _exemplar_.]

SAMPSUCHINE, samp-s[=oo]'ch[=e]n, _n._ (_obs._) sweet marjoram.

SAMSHOO, SAMSHU, sam'sh[=oo], _n._ an ardent spirit distilled by the
Chinese from rice: any kind of spirits. [Chin. _san_, _sam_, three, _shao_,
to fire.]

SAMSON-POST, sam'son-p[=o]st, _n._ a strong upright stanchion or post for
various uses on board ship.

SAMURAI, sam'[=oo]-r[=i], _n. sing._ (also _pl._) a member of the military
class in the old feudal system of Japan, including both daimios, or
territorial nobles, and their military retainers: a military retainer, a
two-sworded man. [Jap.]

SAMYDA, sam'i-da, _n._ a genus of shrubs, native to the West Indies. [Gr.
_s[=e]myda_, the birch.]

SANABLE, san'a-bl, _adj._ able to be made sane or sound: curable.--_ns._
SANABIL'ITY, SAN'ABLENESS, capability of being cured; SAN[=A]'TION
(_obs._), a healing or curing.--_adj._ SAN'ATIVE, tending, or able, to
heal: healing.--_ns._ SAN'ATIVENESS; SANAT[=O]'RIUM (see SANITARY).--_adj._
SAN'ATORY, healing: conducive to health. [L. _sanabilis_--_san[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to heal.]

SANBENITO, san-be-n[=e]'t[=o], _n._ a garment grotesquely decorated with
flames, devils, &c., worn by the victims of the Inquisition--at an
_auto-de-fe_--for public recantation or execution. [Sp., from its
resemblance in shape to the garment of the order of _St Benedict_--Sp. _San
Benito_.]

SANCHO, sang'k[=o], _n._ a musical instrument like the guitar, used by
negroes.

SANCHO-PEDRO, sang'k[=o]-p[=e]'dr[=o], _n._ a game of cards--the nine of
trumps called _Sancho_, the five _Pedro_.

SANCTIFY, sangk'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make sacred or holy: to set apart to
sacred use: to free from sin or evil: to consecrate: to invest with a
sacred character: to make efficient as the means of holiness: to secure
from violation:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sanc'tif[=i]ed.--_n._ SANCTANIM'ITY,
holiness of mind.--_v.t._ SANCTIF'IC[=A]TE.--_n._ SANCTIFIC[=A]'TION, act
of sanctifying: state of being sanctified: that work or process of God's
free grace whereby the new principle of spiritual life implanted in
regeneration is developed until the whole man is renewed in the image of
God: consecration.--_adj._ SANC'TIFIED, made holy: sanctimonious.--_adv._
SANCTIF[=I]'EDLY, sanctimoniously.--_n._ SANC'TIFIER, one who sanctifies:
the Holy Spirit.--_adv._ SANC'TIFYINGLY.--_adj._ SANCTIM[=O]'NIOUS, having
sanctity: holy, devout: affecting holiness.--_adv._
SANCTIM[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_ns._ SANCTIM[=O]'NIOUSNESS, SANC'TIMONY, affected
devoutness, show of sanctity; SANC'TITUDE, holiness, goodness, saintliness:
affected holiness; SANC'TITY, quality of being sacred or holy: purity:
godliness: inviolability: a saint, any holy object.--_v.t._ SANC'TUARISE
(_Shak._), to shelter by sacred privileges, as in a sanctuary.--_ns._
SANC'T[=U]ARY, a sacred place: a place for the worship of God: the most
sacred part of the Temple of Jerusalem: the Temple itself: the part of a
church round the altar: an inviolable asylum, refuge, a consecrated place
which gives protection to a criminal taking refuge there: the privilege of
taking refuge in such a consecrated place; SANC'TUM, a sacred place: a
private room; SANC'TUS, the ascription, 'Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of
Hosts,' from Isa. vi.: a musical setting of the same.--SANCTUM SANCTORUM,
the Holy of Holies: any specially reserved retreat or room.--ODOUR OF
SANCTITY, the aroma of goodness. [Fr.,--L. _sanctific[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_sanctus_, sacred, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SANCTION, sangk'shun, _n._ act of ratifying, or giving authority to:
confirmation: support: a decree, a law.--_v.t._ to give validity to: to
authorise: to countenance.--_adjs._ SANC'TIONABLE; SANC'TIONARY. [Fr.,--L.
_sanct[=i]re_.]

SAND, sand, _n._ fine particles of crushed or worn rocks, used in founding:
force of character: (_pl._) lands covered with sand: a sandy beach: moments
of time, from the use of sand in the hour-glass.--_v.t._ to sprinkle with
sand.--_ns._ SAND'-BAG (_fort._), a canvas bag filled with sand or earth,
forming a ready means of giving cover against an enemy's fire, or of
tamping the charge in a mine: an engraver's leather cushion, &c.;
SAND'-BAG'GER, a robber who uses a sand-bag to stun his victims;
SAND'-BALL, a ball of soap mixed with fine sand for the toilet; SAND'-BAND,
a guard-ring to keep sand from working into the axle-box; SAND'-BANK, a
bank of sand formed by tides and currents; SAND'-BATH, a vessel of hot sand
for heating vessels without direct exposure to the fire: a bath in which
the body is covered with warm sea-sand: saburration; SAND'-BEAR, the Indian
badger; SAND'-BED, the bed into which the iron from the blast-furnace is
run; SAND'-BIRD, a sandpiper: a shore bird; SAND'-BLAST, sand driven by a
blast of air or steam for cutting and engraving figures on glass or
metal.--_adj._ SAND'-BLIND, afflicted with partial blindness, in which
particles of sand seem to float before the eyes.--_ns._ SAND'-BLIND'NESS;
SAND'-BLOW'ER, a sand bellows; SAND'-BOX, a box with a perforated top for
sprinkling sand on writing, a contrivance formerly used by way of
blotting-paper: a box with sand to prevent the wheels of a rail from
slipping; SAND'-BRAKE, a device for stopping trains automatically;
SAND'-BUG, a burrowing crustacean: a digger-wasp; SAND'-BUR, a weed found
in the plains of the western United States; SAND'-CANAL', the stone canal
of an echinoderm; SAND'-CHERR'Y, the dwarf cherry; SAND'-COCK, the
redshank; SAND'-CRAB, the lady-crab; SAND'-CRACK, a crack in a horse's
hoof: a crack in a moulded brick before burning; SAND'-CRICK'ET, a name
applied to certain large crickets in the western United States; SAND'-DAB,
a kind of plaice; SAND'-DART, a British noctuid moth; SAND'-DART'ER,
-DIV'ER, a small etheostomine fish of the Ohio valley; SAND'-DOLL'AR, a
flat sea-urchin; SAND'-DRIFT, a mound of drifted sand; SAND'-DUNE, a ridge
of loose sand drifted by the wind.--_adj._ SAND'ED (_Shak._), marked with
yellow spots: sprinkled with sand: short-sighted.--_ns._ SAND'-EEL, a small
eel-like fish, which buries itself in the sand when the tide retires;
SAND'ERLING, a genus of birds of the snipe family, characterised by the
absence of a hind-toe, common on the coast, eating marine worms, small
crustaceans, and bivalve molluscs; SAND'-FENCE, a barrier in a stream of
stakes and iron wire; SAND'-FISH, a fish of the genus Trichodon;
SAND'-FLAG, sandstone which splits up into flagstones; SAND'-FLEA, the
chigoe or jigger; SAND'-FLOOD, a moving mass of desert sand;
SAND'-FLOUN'DER, a common North American flounder; SAND'-FLY, a small New
England biting midge; SAND'-GLASS, a glass instrument for measuring time by
the running out of sand; SAND'-GRASS, grass that grows by the sea-shore;
SAND'-GROUSE, a small order of birds, quite distinct from the true grouse,
having two genera, _Pterocles_ and _Syrrhaptes_, with beautiful plumage,
heavy body, long and pointed wings, very short legs and toes; SAND'-HEAT,
the heat of warm sand in chemical operations; SAND'-HILL, a hill of sand;
SAND'-HILL CRANE, the brown crane of North America; SAND'-HILL'ER, one of
the poor whites living in the sandy hills of Georgia; SAND'-HOP'PER, a
small crustacean in the order _Amphipoda_, often seen on the sandy
sea-shore, like swarms of dancing flies, leaping up by bending the body
together, and throwing it out with a sudden jerk: a sand-flea;
SAND'-HORN'ET, a sand-wasp; SAND'INESS, sandy quality, esp. as regards
colour; SAND'ING, the process of testing the surface of gilding, after it
has been fired, with fine sand and water: the process of burying oysters in
sand.--_adj._ SAND'ISH (_obs._).--_ns._ SAND'-JET (see SAND'-BLAST);
SAND'-LARK, a wading-bird that runs along the sand: a sandpiper;
SAND'-LIZ'ARD, a common lizard; SAND'-LOB, the common British lug or lob
worm; SAND'-MAR'TIN, the smallest of British swallows, which builds its
nest in sandy river-banks and gravel-pits; SAND'-M[=A]'SON, a common
British tube-worm; SAND'-MOLE, a South African rodent; SAND'-MOUSE, the
dunlin: a sandpiper; SAND'-NATT'ER, a sand-snake; SAND'-P[=A]'PER, paper
covered with a kind of sand for smoothing and polishing; SAND'-PEEP, the
American stint: the peetweet; SAND'-PERCH, the grass-bass; SAND'PIPER, a
wading-bird of the snipe family, which frequents sandy river-banks,
distinguished by its clear piping note.--_n.pl._ SAND'-PIPES, perpendicular
cylindrical hollows, tapering to a point, occurring in chalk deposits, and
so called from being usually filled with sand, gravel, or clay.--_ns._
SAND'-PIT, a place from which sand is extracted; SAND'-PLOV'ER, a
ring-necked plover; SAND'-PRIDE, a very small species of lamprey found in
the rivers of Britain; SAND'-PUMP, a long cylinder with valved piston for
use in drilling rocks--a SAND'-SLUDG'ER: a sand-ejector, modified from the
jet-pump, used in caissons for sinking the foundations of bridges;
SAND'-RAT, a geomyoid rodent, esp. the camass rat; SAND'-REED, a shore
grass; SAND'-REEL, a windlass used in working a sand-pump; SAND'-RIDGE, a
sand-bank; SAND'-ROLL, a metal roll cast in sand; SAND'-RUN'NER, a
sandpiper; SAND'-SAU'CER, a round mass of agglutinated egg-capsules of a
naticoid gasteropod, found on beaches; SAND'-SCOOP, a dredge for scooping
up sand; SAND'-SCREEN, a sand-sifter; SAND'-SCREW, an amphipod which
burrows in the sand; SAND'-SHARK, a small voracious shark; SAND'-SHOT,
small cast-iron balls cast in sand; SAND'-SHRIMP, a shrimp; SAND'-SKINK, a
European skink found in sandy places; SAND'-SKIP'PER, a beach flea;
SAND'-SNAKE, a short-tailed boa-like serpent; SAND'-SNIPE, the sandpiper;
SAND'-SPOUT, a moving pillar of sand; SAND'STAR, a starfish: a brittle
star; SAND'-STONE, a rock formed of compacted and more or less indurated
sand (OLD RED SANDSTONE, a name given to a series of strata--along with the
parallel but nowhere coexisting _Devonian_--intermediate in age between the
Silurian and Carboniferous systems); SAND'-STORM, a storm of wind carrying
along clouds of sand; SAND'-SUCK'ER, the rough dab; SAND'-THROW'ER, a tool
for throwing sand on newly sized or painted surfaces; SAND'-TRAP, a device
for separating sand from running water; SAND'-V[=I]'PER, a hog-nosed snake;
SAND'-WASHER, an apparatus for separating sand from earthy substances;
SAND'-WASP, a digger-wasp.--_v.t._ SAND'-WELD, to weld iron with
sand.--_ns._ SAND'-WORM, a worm that lives in the sand; SAND'-WORT, any
plant of the genus _Arenaria_.--_adj._ SAND'Y, consisting of, or covered
with, sand: loose: of the colour of sand.--_n._ a nick-name for a Scotsman
(from _Alexander_).--_ns._ SAND'Y-CAR'PET, a geometrid moth;
SAND'Y-LAV'EROCK (_Scot._), a sand-lark. [A.S. _sand_; Dut. _zand_, Ger.
_sand_, Ice. _sand-r_.]

SANDAL, san'dal, _n._ a kind of shoe consisting of a sole bound to the foot
by straps: a loose slipper: a half-boot of white kid: a strap for fastening
a slipper: an india-rubber shoe.--_adj._ SAN'DALLED, wearing sandals:
fastened with such. [Fr.,--L. _sandalium_--Gr. _sandalon_, prob. from
Pers.]

SANDAL, san'dal, _n._ a long narrow boat used on the Barbary coast. [Ar.]

SANDALWOOD, san'dal-w[=oo]d, _n._ a compact and fine-grained tropical wood,
remarkable for its fragrance. [Fr. _sandal_--Low L. _santalum_--Late Gr.
_santalon_.]

SANDARAC, san'da-rak, _n._ a friable, dry, almost transparent, tasteless,
yellowish-white resin, imported from Mogador, Morocco: red sulphuret of
arsenic--also SAN'DARACH.--_n._ SAN'DARAC-TREE, a native of the mountains
of Morocco. [Fr. _sandaraque_--L. _sandaraca_--Gr. _sandarak[=e]_--Sans.
_sind[=u]ra_, realgar.]

SANDEMANIAN, san-de-m[=a]'ni-an, _n._ a follower of Robert _Sandeman_
(1718-71), a Glassite (q.v.).

SANDIVER, san'di-v[.e]r, _n._ the saline scum which forms on glass during
its first fusion: glass-gall: product of glass-furnaces.--Also SAN'DEVER.
[O. Fr. _suin de verre_, _suint de verre_--_suin_, grease, _de_, of,
_verre_, glass--L. _vitrum_.]

SANDIX, san'diks, _n._ red lead.--Also SAN'DYX. [L.,--Gr. _sandix_,
vermilion.]

SANDWICH, sand'wich, _n._ two slices of bread with ham, &c., between, said
to be named from the fourth Earl of _Sandwich_ (1718-92), who had such
brought to him at the gaming-table that he might play on without
stopping.--_v.t._ to lay or place between two layers, to fit tight between
two objects.--_n._ SAND'WICH-MAN, a man who perambulates the streets
between two advertising boards.

SANE, s[=a]n, _adj._ sound in mind or body: healthy: not disordered in
intellect.--_adv._ SANE'LY.--_n._ SANE'-NESS. [L. _sanus_; akin to Gr.
_saos_, _s[=o]s_, sound.]

SANG, sang, _pa.t._ of _sing_.--_n._ a Scotch form of _song_.

SANG, sang, _n._ blood, in heraldic use.--_adj._ SANG'LANT, bloody or
dropping blood.--_n._ SANG-DE-BOEUF, a deep-red colour peculiar to Chinese
porcelain.

SANG, sang, _n._ a Chinese wind-instrument.

SANGAR, sang'gar, _n._ a stone breastwork: a low wall of loose stones, used
as cover for soldiers. [Hindi sangar, war, entrenchment; from the
Sanskrit.]

SANGAREE, sang-ga-r[=e]', _n._ a West Indian beverage, of wine, sugar or
syrup, water, and nutmeg, drunk cold.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to make or drink
such. [Sp. _Sangría_.]

SANG-FROID, sang-frwo', _n._ coolness, indifference, calmness. [Fr.,
_sang_, blood, _froid_, cold.]

SANGLIER, sang'li-[.e]r, _n._ (_her._) a wild boar used as a bearing. [Fr.,
orig. _porc sanglier_--Low L. _singularis_ (_porcus_), the wild boar.]

SANGRAAL, san-gr[=a]l', _n._ in medieval legends, the holy cup supposed to
have been used at the Last Supper.--Also SANG'REAL. [Cf. _Grail_.]

SANGRADO, san-grä'do, _n._ one who lets blood--from the leech in _Gil
Blas_.

SANGUINE, sang'gwin, _adj._ abounding with blood, bloody: bloodthirsty:
ruddy, red: ardent, hopeful, confident: characterised by a fullness of
habit.--_n._ the colour of red.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to stain with blood.--_n._
SANG'SUE, a leech--also SANG'UISUGE.--_adjs._ SANGUIC'OLOUS, living in the
blood, as a parasite; SANGUIF'EROUS, receiving and conveying blood,
circulatory.--_ns._ SANGUIFIC[=A]'TION; SAN'GUIFIER.--_adj._ SANGUIF'LUOUS,
flowing with blood.--_v.i._ SAN'GUIFY, to make blood.--_v.t._ to convert
into blood.--_n._ SANGUIN[=A]'RIA, a genus of the poppy family, one
species, the Blood-root or Puccoon of North America, much used by the
Indians for staining.--_adv._ SAN'GUINARILY.--_n._ SAN'GUINARINESS.--_adj._
SAN'GUINARY, bloody: attended with much blood-shed: bloodthirsty.--_n._ the
yarrow: the blood-root.--_adj._ SAN'GUINELESS, destitute of blood.--_adv._
SAN'GUINELY, hopefully, confidently.--_n._ SAN'GUINENESS, sanguine
character, ardour: ruddiness: plethora.--_adj._ SANGUIN'EOUS, sanguine:
resembling or constituting blood.--_ns._ SANGUIN'ITY, sanguineness;
SANGUIN'OLENCE, SANGUIN'OLENCY.--_adj._ SANGUIN'OLENT, tinged with blood:
sanguine.--_ns._ SANGUISORB[=A]'CEÆ, SANGUISOR'BEÆ, a sub-order of
_Rosaceæ_, containing about 150 species; SANGUIS[=U]'GA, a genus of
leeches.--_adjs._ SANGUIS[=U]'GENT, SANGUIS[=U]'GOUS, blood-sucking;
SANGUIV'OLENT, bloodthirsty; SANGUIV'OROUS, feeding on blood, as a
vampire--also SANGUINIV'OROUS. [Fr.,--L. _sanguineus_--_sanguis_,
_sanguinis_, blood.]

SANHEDRIM, SANHEDRIN, san'h[=e]-drim, -drin, _n._ the supreme
ecclesiastical and judicial tribunal of the Jews down to 425 A.D.: any
similar assembly, a parliament. [Heb. _sanhedrin_--Gr. _synedrion_--_syn_,
together, _hedra_, a seat.]

SANHITÂ, san'hi-ta, _n._ the name of that portion of the Vedas which
contains the Mantras or hymns.

SANICLE, san'ik'l, _n._ a plant of the genus _Sanicula_, the common
wood-sanicle long supposed to have healing power. [Fr.,--L. _san[=a]re_, to
heal.]

SANIDINE, san'i-din, _n._ a clear glassy variety of orthoclase. [Gr.
_sanis_, _sanidos_, a board.]

SANIES, s[=a]'ni-[=e]z, _n._ a thin discharge from wounds or sores.--_adj._
S[=A]'NIOUS. [L.]

SANIFY, san'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to make healthy. [L. _sanus_, sound,
_fac[)e]re_ to make.]

SANITARY, san'i-tar-i, _adj._ pertaining to, tending, or designed to
promote health.--_n._ SANIT[=A]'RIAN, a promoter of sanitary
reforms.--_adv._ SAN'ITARILY.--_ns._ SAN'ITARY-WARE, coarse-glazed
earthenware for sewer-pipes; SANIT[=A]'TION, the science of sanitary
conditions and of preserving health, synonymous with Hygiene--usually
restricted, however, to the methods and apparatus for making and
maintaining houses healthy; SANIT[=O]'RIUM (incorrectly, SANIT[=A]'RIUM), a
health station, particularly for troops.--SANITARY SCIENCE, such science as
conduces to the preservation of health.

SANITY, san'i-ti, _n._ state of being sane: soundness of mind or body. [L.
_sanitas_--_sanus_, sane.]

SANJAK, san'jak, _n._ an administrative subdivision of a Turkish vilayet or
eyalet.--Also SAN'JAK[=A]TE. [Turk.]

SANK, sangk, _pa.t._ of sink.

SANKHYA, san'kyä, _n._ one of the six great systems of orthodox Hindu
philosophy.

SANNUP, san'up, _n._ the husband of a squaw: a brave.--Also SANN'OP. [Amer.
Ind.]

SANS, sanz, _prep._ (_Shak._) without, wanting.--_n._ SANS'-APPEL', a
person from whose decision there is no appeal.--SANS NOMBRE (_her._),
repeated often, and covering the field; SANS SOUCI, without care: free and
easy. [O. Fr. _sans_, _senz_--L. _sine_, without.]

SANSA, san'sa, _n._ a musical instrument of percussion, a tambourine.

SANSCULOTTE, sanz-k[=oo]-lot', _n._ a name given in scorn, at the beginning
of the French Revolution, by the court party to the democratic party in
Paris.--_n._ SANSCULOT'TERIE.--_adj._ SANSCULOT'TIC.--_ns._ SANSCULOT'TISM;
SANSCULOT'TIST. [Fr. _sansculotte_, _sans_, without--L. _sine_, without,
_culotte_, breeches, _cul_, breech--L. _culus_, the breech.]

SANSEVIERIA, san-sev-i-[=e]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of monocotyledonous plants
of the order _Hæmodoraceæ_, native to southern Africa and the East Indies,
yielding _bowstring-hemp_. [Named after the Neapolitan Prince of
_Sanseviero_ (1710-71).]

SANSKRIT, sans'krit, _n._ the ancient literary language of India, the
easternmost branch of the great Indo-Germanic (Indo-European, Aryan) stock
of languages.--_n._ SANS'KRITIST, one skilled in Sanskrit. [Sans.
_samskrita_, perfected, polished, from Sans. _sam_, together, _krita_,
done, perfected, from _kri_, cog. with L. _cre[=a]re_, to create.]

SANTA CLAUS, san'ta klawz, _n._ a famous nursery hero, a fat rosy old
fellow who brings presents to good children on Christmas Eve.

SANTALACEÆ, san-ta-l[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n._ an order of apetalous plants, the
sandalwood family.--_adjs._ SANTAL[=A]'CEOUS; SANTAL'IC, pertaining to
sandalwood.--_ns._ SAN'TALIN, the colouring matter of red sandalwood;
SAN'TALUM, the type genus of the sandalwood family.

SANTIR, san't[.e]r, _n._ a variety of dulcimer used in the East.--Also
SAN'TUR.

SANTOLINA, san-t[=o]-l[=i]'na, _n._ a genus of composite plants, of the
Mediterranean region, of tribe _Anthemideæ_, including the common
lavender-cotton.

SANTON, san'ton, _n._ an Eastern dervish or saint. [Sp. _santon_--_santo_,
holy--L. _sanctus_, holy.]

SANTONINE, son'to-nin, _n._ a colourless crystalline poisonous compound
contained in _Santonica_. [Gr. _santonicon_, a wormwood found in the
country of the _Santones_ in Gaul.]

SAP, sap, _n._ the vital juice of plants: (_bot._) the part of the wood
next to the bark: the blood: a simpleton: a plodding student.--_v.i._ to
play the part of a ninny: to be studious.--_ns._ SAP'-BEE'TLE a beetle
which feeds on sap; SAP'-COL'OUR, a vegetable juice inspissated by slow
evaporation, for the use of painters.--_adj._ SAP'FUL, full of sap.--_ns._
SAP'-GREEN, a green colouring matter from the juice of buckthorn berries;
SAP'HEAD, a silly fellow.--_adj._ SAP'LESS, wanting sap: not juicy.--_ns._
SAP'LING, a young tree, so called from being full of sap: a young greyhound
during the year of his birth until the end of the coursing season which
commences in that year; SAP'LING-CUP, an open tankard for drinking new ale;
SAP'PINESS.--_adj._ SAP'PY, abounding with sap: juicy: silly.--_ns._
SAP'-TUBE, a vessel that conveys sap; SAP'-WOOD, the outer part of the
trunk of a tree, next the bark, in which the sap flows most freely:
albumen.--CRUDE SAP, the ascending sap. [A.S. _sæp_; Low Ger. _sapp_,
juice, Ger. _saft_.]

SAP, sap, _v.t._ to destroy by digging underneath: to undermine: to impair
the constitution.--_v.i._ to proceed by undermining:--_pr.p._ sap'ping;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sapped.--_n._ a narrow ditch or trench by which
approach is made from the foremost parallel towards the glacis or
covert-way of a besieged place.--_n._ SAP'PER, one who saps. [O. Fr.
_sappe_--Low L. _sapa_, a pick, prob. from Gr. _skapan[=e]_, a hoe.]

SAPAJOU, sap'a-zh[=oo], _n._ a name sometimes applied to all that division
of American monkeys which have a prehensile tail, and sometimes limited to
those of them which are of a slender form, as the genera _Ateles_ or
spider-monkey, _Cebus_, &c.--Also SAJOU'.

SAPERDA, s[=a]-p[.e]r'da, _n._ a genus of long-horned beetles, mostly
wood-borers. [Gr. _saperd[=e]s_, a fish.]

SAPHENOUS, sa-f[=e]'nus, _adj._ prominent, as a vein of the leg.--_n._
SAPH[=E]'NA, a prominent vein or nerve. [Gr. _saph[=e]n[=e]s_, plain.]

SAPID, sap'id, _adj._ well-tasted: savoury: that affects the taste.--_n._
SAPID'ITY, savouriness.--_adj._ SAP'IDLESS, insipid.--_n._ SAP'IDNESS.
[Fr.,--_L. sapidus_--_sap[)e]re_, to taste.]

SAPIENCE, s[=a]'pi-ens, _n._ discernment: wisdom: knowledge:
reason.--_adjs._ S[=A]'PIENT, wise: discerning: sagacious, sometimes used
ironically; S[=A]PIEN'TIAL.--_adv._ S[=A]'PIENTLY. [L. _sapiens_,
_sapientis_, pr.p. of _sap[)e]re_, to be wise.]

SAPINDUS, s[=a]-pin'dus, _n._ a genus of polypetalous trees, as
_Soapberry_. [L. _sapo Indicus_, Indian soap.]

SAPIUM, s[=a]'pi-um, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants belonging to the
_Euphorbiaceæ_, including the Jamaica milkwood or gum-tree, &c.

SAPI-UTAN, sap'i-[=oo]'tan, _n._ the wild ox of Celebes.--Also
SAP'I-OU'TAN. [Malay, _sapi_, cow, _[=u]t[=a]n_, woods.]

SAPO, s[=a]'p[=o], _n._ the toad-fish. [Sp., a toad.]

SAPODILLA, sap-[=o]-dil'a, _n._ a name given in the West Indies to the
fruit of several species of Achras, the seeds aperient and diuretic, the
pulp subacid and sweet. [Sp. _sapotilla_--_sapota_, the sapota-tree.]

SAPONACEOUS, sap-o-n[=a]'shus, _adj._ soapy: soap-like.--_n._
SAP[=O]N[=A]'RIA, a genus of polypetalous plants, including the
soapwort.--_adj._ SAPON'IF[=I]ABLE.--_n._ SAPONIFIC[=A]'TION, the act or
operation of converting into soap.--_v.t._ SAPON'IFY, to convert into
soap:--_pr.p._ sapon'ifying; _pa.p._ sapon'ified.--_n._ SAP'ONIN, a
vegetable principle, the solution of which froths when shaken, obtained
from soapwort, &c. [L. _sapo_, _saponis_, soap.]

SAPORIFIC, sap-o-rif'ik, _adj._ giving a taste.--_ns._ S[=A]'POR;
SAPOROS'ITY.--_adj._ SAP'[=O]ROUS. [L. _sapor_, _saporis_, taste,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SAPOTACEÆ, sap-o-t[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n._ a natural order of trees and
shrubs, often abounding in milky juice, including the gutta-percha
tree--one species yields the star-apple, another the Mammee-Sapota or
American marmalade. [_Sapodilla._]

SAPPAN-WOOD, sa-pan'-w[=oo]d, _n._ the wood of Cæsalpinia sappan, used in
dyeing.

SAPPER, sap'[.e]r, _n._ a soldier employed in the building of
fortifications, &c.

SAPPHIC, saf'ik, _adj._ pertaining to _Sappho_, a passionate Greek lyric
poetess of Lesbos (_c._ 600 B.C.): denoting a kind of verse said to have
been invented by Sappho.--_ns._ SAPPH'IC-STAN'ZA, a metre of Horace, the
stanzas of four verses each, three alike, made up of four trochees, with a
dactyl in the third place; SAPPH'ISM, unnatural passion between women;
SAPPH'[=O], a humming-bird.

SAPPHIRE, saf'[=i]r, or saf'ir, _n._ a highly transparent and brilliant
precious stone, a variety of Corundum, generally of a beautiful blue
colour--the finest found in Ceylon: (_her._) a blue tincture.--_adj._ deep
pure blue.--_n._ SAPPH'IRE-WING, a humming-bird.--_adj._ SAPPH'IRINE, made
of, or like, sapphire.--GREEN SAPPHIRE, the Oriental emerald; RED SAPPHIRE,
the Oriental ruby; VIOLET SAPPHIRE, the Oriental amethyst. [Fr.,--L.
_sapphirus_--Gr. _sappheiros_--Heb. _sapp[=i]r_, sapphire.]

SAPPING, sap'ing, _n._ the act of excavating trenches.

SAPPLES, sap'lz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) soapsuds.

SAPREMIA, sap-r[=e]'mi-a, _n._ a condition of blood-poisoning.--_adjs._
SAPR[=E]'MIC, SAPRÆ'MIC. [Gr. _sapros_, rotten, _haima_, blood.]

SAPROGENOUS, sap-roj'e-nus, _adj._ engendered in putridity.--Also
SAPROGEN'IC. [Gr. _sapros_, rotten, _-gen[=e]s_, producing.]

SAPROHARPAGES, sap-r[=o]-här'pa-j[=e]z, _n._ a group of vultures. [Gr.
_sapros_, rotten, _harpax_, a vulture.]

SAPROLEGNIA, sap-r[=o]-leg'ni-a, _n._ a genus of fungi, causing a
destructive salmon-disease. [Gr. _sapros_, rotten, _legnon_, an edge.]

SAP-ROLLER, sap'-r[=o]l'[.e]r, _n._ a gabion employed by sappers in the
trenches.

SAPROMYZA, sap-r[=o]-m[=i]'za, _n._ a large group of reddish-yellow flies.
[Gr. _sapros_, rotten, _myzein_, to suck.]

SAPROPHAGOUS, sap-rof'a-gus, _adj._ feeding on decaying matter.--_n._
SAPROPH'AGAN, one of the saprophagous beetles. [Gr. _sapros_, rotten,
_phagein_, to eat.]

SAPROPHYTE, sap'r[=o]-f[=i]t, _n._ a plant that feeds upon decaying
vegetable matter.--_adjs._ SAPROPHYT'IC, SAPROPH'ILOUS.--_adv._
SAPROPHYT'ICALLY.--_n._ SAP'ROPHYTISM. [Gr. _sapros_, rotten, _phyton_, a
plant.]

SAPROSTOMOUS, sap-ros't[=o]-mus, _adj._ having a foul breath. [Gr.
_sapros_, rotten, _stoma_, mouth.]

SAP-ROT, sap'-rot, _n._ dry-rot in timber.

SAPSAGO, sap's[=a]-g[=o], _n._ a greenish Swiss cheese. [Ger.
_schabzieger._]

SAP-SHIELD, sap'-sh[=e]ld, _n._ a steel plate for shelter to the sapper.

SAP-SUCKER, sap'-suk'[.e]r, _n._ the name in the United States of all the
small spotted woodpeckers.--_adj._ SAP'-SUCK'ING.

SAPUCAIA, sap-[=oo]-k[=i]'a, _n._ a Brazilian tree, whose urn-shaped fruit
contains a number of finely-flavoured oval seeds or nuts.

SAPYGA, s[=a]-p[=i]'ga, _n._ a genus of digger-wasps.

SARABAND, sar'a-band, _n._ a slow Spanish dance, or the music to which it
is danced; a short piece of music, of deliberate character, and with a
peculiar rhythm, in ¾-time, the accent being placed on the second crotchet
of each measure. [Sp. _zarabanda;_ from Pers. _sarband_, a fillet for the
hair.]

SARACEN, sar'a-sen, _n._ a name variously employed by medieval writers to
designate the Mohammedans of Syria and Palestine, the Arabs generally, or
the Arab-Berber races of northern Africa, who conquered Spain and Sicily
and invaded France.--_adjs._ SARACEN'IC, -AL.--_n._ SAR'ACENISM.--SARACENIC
ARCHITECTURE, a general name for Mohammedan architecture. [O. Fr.
_sarracin_, _sarrazin_--Low L. _Saracenus_--Late Gr. _Sarak[=e]nos_--Ar.
_sharkeyn_, eastern people, as opposed to _maghribe_, 'western
people'--i.e. the people of Morocco.]

SARAFAN, sar'a-fan, _n._ a gala-dress. [Russ.]

SARANGOUSTY, sar-an-g[=oo]s'ti, _n._ a material used as a preservative of
walls, &c., from damp.

SARBACAND, sar'ba-känd, _n._ a blow-gun.--Also SAR'BACANE.

SARCASM, sär'kazm, _n._ a bitter sneer: a satirical remark in scorn or
contempt: irony: a gibe.--_adjs._ SARCAS'TIC, -AL, containing sarcasm:
bitterly satirical.--_adv._ SARCAS'TICALLY. [Fr.,--L. _sarcasmus_--Gr.
_sarkasmos_--_sarkazein_, to tear flesh like dogs, to speak
bitterly--_sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh.]

SARCEL, sär'sel, _n._ the pinion of a hawk's wing.--_adjs._ SAR'CELLED
(_her._), cut through the middle--also SAR'CELÉ, SAR'CELLÉE;
DEM'I-SAR'CELED, -SAR'CELLED, partly cut through. [O. Fr. _cercel_--L.
_circellus_, dim. of _circulus_, a circle.]

SARCELLE, sar-sel', _n._ a long-tailed duck, a teal.

SARCENCHYME, sar-seng'k[=i]m, _n._ one of the soft tissues of
sponges.--_adj._ SARCENCHYM'ATOUS. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh, _enchyma_, an
infusion.]

SARCENET. See SARSENET.

SARCINA, sar-s[=i]'na, _n._ a genus of schizomycetous fungi, in which the
cocci divide in three planes forming cubical clumps:--_pl._ SARC[=I]'NÆ
(-n[=e]).--_adjs._ SARC[=I]'NÆFORM, SARCIN'IC.--_n._ SARCIN'[=U]LA. [L.
_sarcina_, a package.]

SARCINE, sär'sin, _n._ a nitrogenous substance obtained from the muscular
tissue of the horse, ox, hare, &c.--same as _Hypoxanthine_. [Gr. _sarx_,
_sarkos_, flesh.]

SARCIOPHORUS, sär-si-of'[=o]-rus, _n._ a genus of spur-winged plovers,
including the crested wattled lapwings, &c. [Gr. _sarkion_, a piece of
flesh, _sarx_, flesh, _pherein_, to bear.]

SARCITIS, sar-s[=i]'tis, _n._ myositis. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh.]

SARCOBASIS, sär-kob'a-sis, _n._ a fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent
cells. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh, _basis_, a base.]

SARCOBATUS, sär-kob'a-tus, _n._ an anomalous genus of North American shrubs
of the goose-foot family--the only species the _greasewood_ of the western
United States. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh, _batis_, samphire.]

SARCOBLAST, sär'k[=o]-blast, _n._ the germ of sarcode.--_adj._
SARCOBLAS'TIC. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh, _blastos_, a germ.]

SARCOCARP, sär'k[=o]-karp, _n._ (_bot._) the fleshy part of a drupaceous
pericarp or a stone-fruit. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _karpos_, fruit.]

SARCOCELE, sär'k[=o]-s[=e]l, _n._ a fleshy tumour of the testicle. [Gr.
_sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _k[=e]l[=e]_, tumour.]

SARCOCEPHALUS, sär-k[=o]-sef'-a-lus, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants of
the natural order _Rubiaceæ_, native to the tropics of Asia and
Africa--including the _country-fig_, _Guinea peach_, _African cinchona_,
&c. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _kephal[=e]_, the head.]

SARCOCOL, sär'k[=o]-kol, _n._ a semi-transparent resin or gum imported from
Arabia.--_n._ SARC[=O]COL'LA, a genus of apetalous shrubs of the order
_Penæaceæ_, native to South Africa. [Gr., a Persian gum.]

SARCOCYSTIS, sär-k[=o]-sis'tis, _n._ a genus of parasitic sporozoa or
_Gregarinida_, common but apparently harmless in butcher-meat.--_n._
SARCOCYSTID'IA, the division of sporozoa including the foregoing.--_adj._
SARCOCYSTID'IAN. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _kystis_, the bladder.]

SARCODE, sär'k[=o]d, _n._ another term for _protoplasm_.--_n._
SARC[=O]'DES, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants of the order
_Monotropeæ_; including the Californian _snow-plant_.--_adjs._ SARCOD'IC,
SAR'CODOUS; SAR'COID, resembling flesh. [Gr. _sarkod[=e]s_, from _sarx_,
flesh, _eidos_, resemblance.]

SARCOLEMMA, sär-k[=o]-lem'a, _n._ a membrane which invests striped muscular
tissue.--_adj._ SARCOLEMM'IC. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _lemma_, a
skin.]

SARCOLEMUR, sär'k[=o]-l[=e]-mur, _n._ a genus of extinct Eocene mammals
found in North America. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, and _lemur_.]

SARCOLOBE, sär'k[=o]-l[=o]b, _n._ a thick fleshy cotyledon, as of the bean.
[Gr. _sarx_, flesh, _lobos_, a lobe.]

SARCOLOGY, sär-kol'o-ji, _n._ the division of anatomy which treats of the
soft parts of the body.--_adjs._ SARCOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ SARCOL'OGIST. [Gr.
_sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _logos_, discourse.]

SARCOMA, sär-k[=o]'ma, _n._ a tumour or group of tumours, often malignant:
any fleshy excrescence: (_bot._) a fleshy disc:--_pl._ SARC[=O]'MATA.--_n._
SARCOMAT[=O]'SIS, sarcomatous degeneration.--_adj._ SARCOM'ATOUS. [Gr.
_sark[=o]ma_--_sarx_, flesh.]

SARCOPHAGA, sär-kof'a-ga, _n._ a genus of dipterous insects, the
flesh-flies: a former division of marsupials.--_adjs._ SARCOPH'AGAL,
flesh-devouring; SARCOPH'AGOUS, feeding on flesh.--_n._ SARCOPH'AGY.

SARCOPHAGUS, sär-kof'a-gus, _n._ a kind of limestone used by the Greeks for
coffins, and so called because it was thought to consume the flesh of
corpses: any stone receptacle for a corpse: an 18th-century form of
wine-cooler:--_pl._ SARCOPH'AG[=I], SARCOPH'AGUSES. [L.,--Gr.
_sarkophagos_--_sarx_, flesh, _phagein_, eat.]

SARCOPHILUS, sär-kof'i-lus, _n._ a genus of carnivorous marsupials
containing the Tasmanian devil.--_n._ SAR'COPHILE, any animal of this
genus.--_adj._ SARCOPH'ILOUS, fond of flesh. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh,
_philein_, to love.]

SARCOPHYTE, sär-kof'i-t[=e], _n._ a monotypic genus of parasitic and
apetalous plants native to South Africa. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh,
_phyton_, a plant.]

SARCOPSYLLA, sär-kop-sil'a, _n._ a genus of American insects, including the
jigger or chigoe. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _psylla_, a flea.]

SARCOPTES, sär-kop't[=e]z, _n._ the itch-mites.--_adj._ SARCOP'TIC. [Gr.
_sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _koptein_, to cut.]

SARCOSEPTUM, sär-k[=o]-sep'tum, _n._ a soft septum. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_,
flesh, and _septum_.]

SARCOSIS, sär-k[=o]'sis, _n._ flesh formation: a fleshy tumour. [Gr.
_sark[=o]sis_.]

SARCOSTEMMA, sär-k[=o]-stem'a, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants of the
order _Asclepiadeæ_, native to Africa, Asia, and Australia--including the
_flesh crown-flower_. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh, _stemma_, wreath.]

SARCOSTIGMA, sär-k[=o]-stig'ma, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants of the
order _Olacineæ_--including the _odal-oil plant_. [Gr. _sarx_, flesh,
_stigma_, a point.]

SARCOSTYLE, sär'k[=o]-st[=i]l, _n._ the mass of sarcode in the sarcotheca
of a coelenterate. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _stylos_, a pillar.]

SARCOTHECA, sär-k[=o]-th[=e]'ka, _n._ the cup of a thread-cell: a cnida or
nematophore. [Gr. _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh, _th[=e]k[=e]_, a sheath.]

SARCOTIC, sär-kot'ik, _adj._ causing flesh to grow.--_adj._ SAR'COUS,
fleshy. [Gr. _sark[=o]tikos_--_sarkousthai_, to produce flesh--_sarx_,
flesh.]

SARD, särd, _n._ a variety of quartz, differing from cornelian only in its
very deep-red colour, blood-red by transmitted light.--_n._ SAR'DACH[=A]TE,
a kind of agate containing layers of sard. [Gr. _sardios_ (_lithos_), the
Sardian (stone)--_Sardeis_, Sardis, in Lydia.]

SARDA, sär'da, _n._ a genus of scombroid fishes, the bonitos. [Gr.
_sard[=e]_, a fish.]

SARDEL, SARDELLE, sär'del, _n._ a slender herring-like fish. [O. Fr.
_sardelle_--L. _sarda_.]

SARDINE, sär-d[=e]n', _n._ a small fish of the herring family, abundant
about the island of _Sardinia_, potted with olive-oil for export, the
pilchard: a petty character. [Fr., (It. _sardina_)--L. _sarda_,
_sardina_--Gr. _sard[=e]n[=e]_.]

SARDINE, sär'din, _n._ the same as SARD.--Also SAR'DIUS. [O. Fr.
_sardine_.]

SARDONIC, sär-don'ik, _adj._ forced, heartless, or bitter, said of a forced
unmirthful laugh--(_obs._) SARD[=O]'NIAN.--_adv._ SARDON'ICALLY. [Fr.
_sardonique_--L. _sardonius_, _sardonicus_--Gr. _sardanios_, referred to
_sardonion_, a plant of Sardinia (Gr. _Sard[=o]_), which was said to screw
up the face of the eater, but more prob. from Gr. _sairein_, to grin.]

SARDONYX, sär'd[=o]-niks, _n._ a variety of onyx consisting of layers of
light-coloured chalcedony alternating with reddish layers of cornelian or
sard: (_her._) a tincture of sanguine colour when the blazoning is done by
precious stones. [Gr. _sardonyx_--_Sardios_, Sardian, _onyx_, a nail.]

SARGASSO, sär-gas'o, _n._ a genus of seaweeds, of which two species are
found floating in immense quantities in some parts of the Atlantic,
Pacific, and Indian Oceans--gulf-weed.--_n._ SARGASS'UM. [Sp.]

SARGUS, sär'gus, _n._ a genus of sparoid fishes of the sub-family SARGI'NA.
[Gr. _sargos_, a mullet.]

SARI, sär'i, _n._ a Hindu woman's chief garment, consisting of a long piece
of silk or cotton cloth wrapped round the middle: any long scarf. [Hind.]

SARIGUE, sa-r[=e]g', _n._ a South American opossum. [Fr.,--Braz.]

SARK, särk, _n._ a shirt or chemise: the body garment. [A.S. _syrce_; Ice.
_serkr_.]

SARKING, sär'king, _n._ (_Scot._) thin boards for lining, the boarding on
which slates are laid.

SARKINITE, sär'ki-n[=i]t, _n._ a hydrous arseniate of manganese. [Gr.
_sarkinos_, fleshy, _sarx_, _sarkos_, flesh.]

SARLAK, sär'lak, _n._ the yak.--Also SAR'LAC, SAR'LYK.

SARMATIAN, sär-m[=a]'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the race who spoke the
same language as the Scythians, and who are believed to have been of Median
descent and so Iranian in stock, though some authorities think they
belonged to the Ural-Altaic family: Polish, the term _Sarmatia_ being
sometimes rhetorically applied to Poland.

SARMATIER, sär-ma-ti-[=a]', _n._ a dark-coloured polecat of eastern Europe.

SARMENT, sär'ment, _n._ (_bot._) a prostrate filiform stem or runner, as of
a strawberry.--_adjs._ SARMEN'TOSE, SARMEN'TOUS, having sarmenta or
runners.--_n._ SARMEN'TUM, a runner. [L. _sarmentum_, a twig--_sarp[)e]re_,
to prune.]

SARN, särn, _n._ a pavement. [W. _sarn_.]

SAROH, sar'[=o], _n._ an Indian musical instrument with three metal
strings.

SARONG, sa-rong', _n._ a garment covering the lower half of the body.
[Malay.]

SAROS, s[=a]'ros, _n._ a Babylonian numeral=3600: an astronomical cycle of
6585 days and 8 hours.

SAROTHRUM, sa-r[=o]'thrum, _n._ a brush of stiff hairs on the leg of a
bee:--_pl._ SAR[=O]'THRA. [Gr. _sar[=o]tron_, a broom.]

SARPLAR, sär'plär, _n._ (_obs._) packing-cloth: a large bale of wool
containing 2240 pounds.--Also SAR'PLER, SAR'PLIER. [O. Fr.
_serpilliere_--Low L. _serapellinus_--L. _xerampelinæ_ (_vestes_), of the
colour of dead vine-leaves, dark-red (clothes)--Gr. _x[=e]rampelinos_,
_x[=e]ros_, dry, _ampelinos_--_ampelos_, a vine.]

SARRACENIA, sär-a-s[=e]'ni-a, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants--the
_side-saddle flower_, _pitcher-plant_. [Named from Dr _Sarrazin_, who first
sent them to Europe from Quebec.]

SARRASIN, sär'a-sin, _n._ a portcullis.--Also SAR'ASIN.

SARRAZIN, sär'a-zin, _n._ buckwheat--_Saracen_ wheat.

SARRUSOPHONE, sa-rus'[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ a musical instrument of the oboe
class. [From the inventor, a French bandmaster named _Sarrus_.]

SARSAPARILLA, sär-sa-pa-ril'a, _n._ the dried root of several species of
_Smilax_, native to tropical America, yielding a medicinal decoction.--Also
SAR'SA. [Sp.,--_zarza_, bramble (prob. Basque, _sartzia_), _parilla_, a
dim. of _parra_, a vine.]

SARSEN, sär'sen, _n._ a local name for the old inhabitants who worked the
tin-mines in Cornwall and Devonshire--(the piles of old mining refuse are
called _attal-Sarsen_ and _Jews' leavings_).--Also SARS'DEN-STONE,
SAR'ACEN'S-STONE, a name given to the Greywethers of Cornwall.

SARSENET, särs'net, _n._ a thin tissue of fine silk, plain or twilled, used
for ladies' dresses and for linings, said to have been introduced from the
East in the 13th century.--Also SAR'CENET, SARS'NET. [O. Fr.
_sarcenet_--Low L. _Saracenatus_, and _Saracenicus_ (_pannus_), Saracen
(cloth)--_Saracenus_, _Saracen_.]

SARSIA, sär'si-a, _n._ a genus of jelly-fishes. [Named from Professor
_Sars_ of Christiania.]

SARTAGE, sär't[=a]j, _n._ the clearing of woodland for agricultural
purposes.--_n._ SART, a strip of such.

SARTORIUS, sär-t[=o]'ri-us, _n._ the muscle of the thigh by which the one
leg is thrown across the other.--_n._ SAR'TOR, a tailor.--_adj._
SART[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a tailor or tailoring. [L. _sartor_, a
tailor.]

SASH, sash, _n._ a band, ribbon, or scarf, worn as a badge or ornament, or
a badge of distinction worn by officers--also _v.t._--_n._ SASH'ERY, sashes
collectively. [Pers. _shast_, a turban.]

SASH, sash, _n._ a case or frame for panes of glass.--_v.t._ to furnish
with sashes.--_ns._ SASH'-DOOR, a door having panes of glass; SASH'-FRAME,
the frame in which the sash of a window is suspended; SASH'-WINDOW, a
glazed window in which the glass is set in a sash.--FRENCH SASH, a casement
swinging on hinges. [Fr. _châsse_--L. _capsa_, a case.]

SASIA, s[=a]'si-a, _n._ a genus of Indian pigmy woodpeckers.

SASIN, sas'in, _n._ the common Indian antelope.

SASINE, s[=a]'sin, _n._ (_Scots law_) the act of giving legal possession of
feudal property, infeftment: a form of seizin. [Fr. _saisine_--_saisir_,
occupy.]

SASS, sas, _n._ (_coll._) impudence: vegetables used in making
sauces.--_v.i._ to be insolent in replies.

SASSABY, sas'a-bi, _n._ the bastard hartebeest of South Africa.

SASSAFRAS, sas'a-fras, _n._ a tree of the laurel family, common in North
America; also the bark of its root, a powerful stimulant.--SASSAFRAS OIL, a
volatile aromatic oil distilled from the sassafras. [Fr. _sassafras_--Sp.
_sasafras_--L. _saxifraga_--_saxum_, a stone, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

SASSANID, sas'a-nid, _n._ one of the Sassanidæ, the dynasty which ruled
Persia from 218 A.D. to 639.--_adj._ SASS[=A]'NIAN.

SASSARARA. Same as SISERARY.

SASSE, sas, _n._ a sluice on a navigable river. [Dut.]

SASSENACH, sas'e-nah, _n._ a Saxon: an Englishman: a Lowlander. [Gael.
_Sasunnach_.]

SASSOLIN, sas'[=o]-lin, _n._ native boracic acid--first found near _Sasso_
in Florence.--Also SASS'OLITE.

SASSOROL, sas'[=o]-rol, _n._ the rock-pigeon.--Also SASSOROL'LA.

SAT, sat, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sit_.

SATAN, s[=a]'tan, _n._ the enemy of men: the devil: the chief of the fallen
angels.--_adjs._ S[=A]TAN'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or like, Satan:
devilish.--_adv._ S[=A]TAN'ICALLY, diabolically: with malice or wickedness
suiting the devil.--_ns._ S[=A]TAN'ICALNESS, the quality of being
fiendishly malicious or wicked; S[=A]'TANISM, the devilish disposition;
S[=A]TANOPH'ANY, an appearance or incarnation of Satan;
S[=A]TANOPH[=O]'BIA, fear of the devil; S[=A]TH'ANAS, Satan; S[=A]TAN'ITY.
[O. Fr. _Sathan_, _Sathanas_--Low L. _Satan_, _Satanas_--Heb.
_s[=a]t[=a]n_, enemy--_s[=a]tan_, to be adverse.]

SATARA, sat'a-ra, _n._ a ribbed, hot-pressed, and lustred woollen cloth.

SATCHEL, sach'el, _n._ a small sack or bag, esp. for papers, books, &c.
[Older form _sachel_--O. Fr. _sachel_--L. _saccellus_, dim. of _saccus_.]

SATE, s[=a]t, _v.t._ to satisfy or give enough: to glut.--_adj._ SATE'LESS,
insatiable. [L. _sati[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_satis_, enough.]

SATE, sat. Same as SAT, _pa.t._ of _sit_.

SATEEN, sa-t[=e]n', _n._ a glossy worsted, cotton, or even woollen
fabric.--Also SATTEEN'.

SATELLITE, sat'el-l[=i]t, _n._ an obsequious follower: one of the small
members of the solar system, attendant on the larger planets, by which
their motions are controlled.--_ns._ SAT'ELLITE-SPHINX, a large hawk-moth;
SAT'ELLITE-VEIN, a vein accompanying an artery; SATELLI'TIUM, an escort.
[Fr.,--L. _satelles_, _satellitis_, an attendant.]

SATIATE, s[=a]'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to satisfy or give enough: to gratify
fully: to glut.--_adj._ glutted.--_n._ S[=A]TIABIL'ITY.--_adj._
S[=A]'TIABLE, that may be satiated.--_ns._ S[=A]TI[=A]'TION;
S[=A]T[=I]'ETY, state of being satiated: surfeit. [L. _sati[=a]ra_,
_-[=a]tum_--_satis_, enough.]

SATIN, sat'in, _n._ a closely woven silk with a lustrous and unbroken
surface, sometimes figured.--_adj._ made of satin: resembling
satin.--_v.t._ to make smooth and glossy like satin.--_ns._ SAT'IN-BIRD,
the satin bower-bird; SAT'IN-CAR'PET, a particular kind of moth;
SAT'IN-DAM'ASK, a satin with an elaborate flower or arabesque pattern,
sometimes raised in velvet pile; SAT'IN-DE-LAINE', a thin glossy woollen
fabric, a variety of cassimere; SAT'INET, a thin species of satin: a cloth
with a cotton warp and woollen weft; SAT'INET-LOOM, a loom used for heavy
goods, as twills, satinets, &c.; SAT'IN-FIN'ISH, a finish resembling satin:
a lustrous finish produced on silver by the scratch-brush, by the process
called _Satining_; SAT'INING-MACHINE', a machine for giving a smooth
surface to paper; SAT'IN-LEAF, the common alum-root; SAT'IN-LISSE, a cotton
dress-fabric with satiny surface, usually printed with delicate patterns;
SAT'IN-P[=A]'PER, a fine, glossy writing-paper; SAT'IN-SHEET'ING, twilled
cotton fabric with a satin surface; SAT'IN-SPAR, a variety of calcite with
a pearly lustre when polished; SAT'IN-SPARR'OW, an Australian fly-catcher;
SAT'IN-STITCH, an embroidery stitch, flat or raised, repeated in parallel
lines, giving a satiny appearance and making both sides alike;
SAT'IN-STONE, a fibrous gypsum used by lapidaries; SAT'INWOOD, a beautiful
ornamental wood from East and West Indies, having a smooth, satiny
texture.--_adj._ SAT'INY, like, or composed of, satin. [Fr. _satin_ (It.
_setino_)--Low. L. _setinus_, adj.--L. _seta_, hair.]

SATINÉ, sat-i-n[=a]', _n._ a reddish hard wood of French Guiana.

SATIRE, sat'[=i]r, or sat'ir, _n._ a literary composition, orig. in verse,
essentially a criticism of man and his works, whom it holds up either to
ridicule or scorn--its chief instruments, irony, sarcasm, invective, wit
and humour: an invective poem: severity of remark, denunciation:
ridicule.--_adjs._ SATIR'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or conveying, satire:
sarcastic: abusive.--_adv._ SATIR'ICALLY.--_n._ SATIR'ICALNESS, the state
or quality of being satirical.--_v.t._ SAT'IR[=I]SE, to make the object of
satire: to censure severely.--_n._ SAT'IRIST, a writer of satire. [Fr.,--L.
_satira_, _satura_ (_lanx_, a dish), a full dish, a medley.]

SATISFY, sat'is-f[=i], _v.t._ to give enough to: to supply fully: to please
fully: to discharge: to free from doubt: to convince.--_v.i._ to give
content: to supply fully: to make payment:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
sat'isfied.--_n._ SATISFAC'TION, state of being satisfied: gratification:
comfort: that which satisfies: amends: atonement: payment, quittance:
conviction: repairing a wrong, as by a duel.--_adj._ SATISFAC'TIVE
(_obs._).--_adv._ SATISFAC'TORILY.--_n._ SATISFAC'TORINESS.--_adjs._
SATISFAC'TORY, satisfying: giving contentment: making amends or payment:
atoning: convincing; SATISF[=I]'ABLE, capable of being satisfied.--_n._
SAT'ISF[=I]ER.--_adj._ SAT'ISFYING, satisfactory.--_adv._
SAT'ISFYINGLY.--SATISFACTION THEORY (of the Atonement), the ordinary theory
of Catholic orthodoxy that Christ made satisfaction to Divine justice for
the guilt of human sin by suffering as the human representative, and that
thus Divine forgiveness was made possible. [Fr. _satisfaire_--L.
_satisfac[)e]re_, _satis_, enough, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SATIVE, s[=a]'tiv, _adj._ sown as in a garden. [L. _sativus_--_ser[)e]re_,
to sow.]

SATRAP, s[=a]'trap, or sat'rap, _n._ a Persian viceroy or ruler of one of
the greater provinces:--_fem._ S[=A]'TRAPESS.--_adjs._ SAT'RAPAL, relating
to a satrap or to a satrapy; S[=A]'TRAP-CROWNED, crested, like the
golden-crested wren of North America.--_n._ SAT'RAPY, the government of a
satrap. [Gr. _satrap[=e]s_, from Old Pers. _khshatrap[=a]_ or Zend
_sh[=o]ithra-paiti_--ruler of a region--_sh[=o]ithra_, a region, _paiti_, a
chief.]

SATURATE, sat'[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to fill: to unite with till no more can
be received: to fill to excess: to soak: (_opt._) to render pure, or of a
colour free from white light.--_adjs._ SAT'[=U]RABLE, that may be
saturated; SAT'[=U]RANT, saturating; SAT'[=U]RATE, saturated: (_entom._)
very intense, as 'saturate green.'--_ns._ SAT'[=U]R[=A]TER;
SAT[=U]R[=A]'TION, act of saturating: state of being saturated: the state
of a body when quite filled with another. [L. _satur[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_satur_, full, akin to _satis_, enough.]

SATURDAY, sat'ur-d[=a], _n._ the seventh or last day of the week, dedicated
by the Romans to Saturn: the Jewish Sabbath. [A.S. _Sæter-dæg_,
_Sætern-dæg_, day of Saturn--L. _Saturnus_.]

SATUREIA, sat-[=u]-r[=e]'i-a, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants of the
order _Labiatæ_--savory.

SATURN, sat'urn, or s[=a]'-, _n._ the ancient Roman god of agriculture: one
of the planets: (_her._) a tincture, in colour black.--_n.pl._
SATURN[=A]'LIA, the annual festival in honour of Saturn, a time of
unrestrained license and enjoyment.--_adjs._ SATURN[=A]'LIAN, pertaining to
the Saturnalia: riotously merry: dissolute; SATUR'NIAN, pertaining to
Saturn, whose fabulous reign was called 'the golden age:' happy: pure:
simple: denoting the verse in which the oldest Latin poems were written;
SAT'URNINE, grave: gloomy: phlegmatic--those born under the planet Saturn
being so disposed: pertaining to lead.--_n._ SAT'URNIST (_obs._), a gloomy
person.--SATURN'S RING, a ring round and near the planet; SATURN'S TREE, an
arborescent deposit of lead from a solution of lead acetate.
[_Saturnus_--_ser[)e]re_, _satum_, to sow.]

SATURNIA, s[=a]-tur'ni-a, _n._ a genus of bombycid moths.

SATURNIA, s[=a]-tur'ni-a, _n._ lead poisoning, plumbism.

SATURNITE, sat'ur-n[=i]t, _n._ a mineral substance containing lead.

SATYR, sat'[.e]r, or s[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ a silvan deity, represented as part
man and part goat, and extremely wanton: a very lecherous person: a species
of butterfly.--_ns._ SAT'YRAL (_her._), a monster with a human head and the
limbs of different animals; SATYR[=I]'ASIS, morbid lasciviousness in men,
corresponding to nymphomania in women--also SATYROM[=A]'NIA.--_adjs._
SATYR'IC, -AL, pertaining to satyrs.--_ns._ SATYR[=I]'NÆ, the argus
butterflies; SATYR'IUM, a genus of small flowered orchids; SAT'YRUS, the
genus of orangs--simia. [L. _satyrus_--Gr. _satyros_.]

SAUBA-ANT, saw'ba-ant, _n._ a South American leaf-carrying ant.

SAUCE, saws, _n._ a liquid seasoning for food, consisting of salt, &c.:
fruit stewed with sugar: a relish: impudence.--_v.t._ to put sauce in to
relish: to make poignant: to gratify the palate: to treat with bitter or
pert language: to make suffer.--_ns._ SAUCE'-ALONE', a cruciferous plant
with a strong garlic smell, Jack-by-the-hedge; SAUCE'-BOAT, a vessel with a
spout for holding sauce; SAUCE'-BOX, an impudent person; SAUCE'-CRAY'ON, a
soft, black pastel used for backgrounds; SAUCE'PAN, a pan in which sauce or
any small thing is boiled; SAUCE'PAN-FISH, the king-crab.--POOR MAN'S
SAUCE, hunger; SERVE ONE WITH THE SAME SAUCE, to requite one injury with
another, to make to suffer. [Fr. _sauce_--L. _salsa_, neut. pl. of
_salsus_, pa.p. of _sal[=i]re_, _salsum_, to salt--_sal_, salt.]

SAUCER, saw's[.e]r, _n._ the shallow platter for a tea or coffee cup:
anything resembling a saucer, as a socket of iron for the pivot of a
capstan: (_orig._) a small vessel to hold sauce.--_adj._ SAU'CER-EYED,
having large round eyes. [O. Fr. _saussiere_--Low L. _salsarium_--L.
_salsa_, sauce.]

SAUCH, SAUGH, sawh, _n._ (_Scot._) the willow. [_Sallow_.]

SAUCISSE, s[=o]-s[=e]s', _n._ a bag filled with powder for use in
mines.--Also SAUCISSON'. [Fr.]

SAUCY, saw'si, _adj._ (_comp._ SAU'CIER, _superl._ SAU'CIEST) sharp:
pungent: insolent: overbearing: wanton: impudent, pert.--_adv._
SAU'CILY.--_n._ SAU'CINESS. [_Sauce_.]

SAUER-KRAUT, sour'-krout, _n._ a German dish consisting of cabbage sliced
fine and suffered to ferment in a cask with salt, juniper-berries,
cumin-seed, caraway-seeds, &c. [Ger.]

SAUFGARD, sawf'gärd, _n._ (_Spens._). _Safeguard_.

SAUGER, saw'g[.e]r, _n._ the smaller American pike-fish.

SAUL, a Scotch form of _soul_.

SAULGE, sawlj, _adj._ (_Spens._) sage.

SAULIE, saw'li, _n._ (_Scot._) a hired mourner.--Also SALL'IE.

SAULT, sawlt, _n._ (_obs._) a leap: an assault.

SAULT, s[=o], _n._ a rapid in some Canadian rivers. [Fr.]

SAUNT, a Scotch form of _saint_.

SAUNTER, sawn't[.e]r, _v.i._ to wander about idly: to loiter: to lounge: to
stroll: to dawdle.--_n._ a sauntering: a place for sauntering: a leisurely
ramble.--_ns._ SAUN'TERER; SAUN'TERING.--_adv._ SAUN'TERINGLY. [M. E.
_saunteren_--Anglo-Fr. _sauntrer_, to adventure out. Cf. _Adventure_.
Sometimes erroneously explained as from Fr. _sainte terre_, holy land, from
pilgrimages.]

SAURIAN, saw'ri-an, _n._ a reptile or animal covered with scales, as the
lizard.--_adj._ pertaining to, or of the nature of, a saurian.--_n.pl._
SAU'RIA, a division of reptiles formerly including lizards, crocodiles,
dinosaurians, pterodactyls, &c.: a scaly reptile with legs, a lacertilian:
one of the sauropsida.--_n._ SAURAN'ODON, a genus of toothless reptiles,
whose fossil remains are found in the Rocky Mountains.--_adj._
SAURAN'ODONT.--_ns._ SAURICH'NITE, the fossil track of a saurian;
SAUR'[=O]DON, a genus of fossil fishes of the Cretaceous age.--_adj._
SAUR'OID, resembling the lizard: reptilian.--_n._ SAUROM'ALUS, a genus of
plump lizards, including the alderman-lizard.--_n.pl._ SAUROP'ODA, an order
of lizards containing gigantic dinosaurs.--_adj._ SAUROP'ODOUS.--_n.pl._
SAUROP'SIDA, the monocondyla, including birds and reptiles.--_adj._
SAUROP'SIDAN.--_n.pl._ SAUROPTERYG'IA, an order of fossil saurians, usually
called _Plesiosauria_.--_adj._ SAUROPTERYG'IAN. [Gr. _saura_, _sauros_, the
lizard.]

SAURLESS, sawr'les, _adj._ (_Scot._) savourless: tasteless.

SAUROGNATHÆ, saw-rog'n[=a]-th[=e], _n.pl._ a family of birds containing the
woodpeckers and their allies.--_n._ SAUROG'N[=A]THISM, the peculiar
arrangement of the bones of their palates.--_adj._ SAUROG'N[=A]THOUS. [Gr.
_sauros_, a lizard, gnathos, the jaw.]

SAUROPHAGOUS, saw-rof'a-gus, _adj._ feeding on reptiles. [Gr. _sauros_, a
lizard, _phagein_, to eat.]

SAUROTHERINÆ, saw-r[=o]-th[=e]-r[=i]'n[=e], _n.pl._ the ground-cuckoos, a
sub-family of _Cuculidæ_, the typical genus SAUROTH[=E]'RA. [Gr. _sauros_,
a lizard, _th[=e]r_, a beast.]

SAURURÆ, saw-r[=oo]'r[=e], _n.pl._ a sub-class or order of Aves, of
Jurassic age, based upon the genus _Archæopteryx_--also called
SAUROR'NITHES.--_adj._ SAURU'ROUS, lizard-tailed, as the foregoing birds.

SAURURUS, saw-r[=oo]'rus, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants of the order
_Piperaceæ_.--_n.pl._ SAURU'R[=E]Æ, a family of these. [Gr. _sauros_, a
lizard, _oura_, a tail.]

SAURUS, saw'rus, _n._ the genus of lizard-fishes.

SAURY, saw'ri, _n._ the skipper, a species of the family _Scomberesocidæ_,
with elongated body and head, the jaws produced into a sharp beak.

SAUSAGE, saw's[=a]j, _n._ a gut stuffed with chopped meat salted and
seasoned.--_n._ SAU'SAGE-POI'SONING, poisoning by spoiled sausages. [Fr.
_saucisse_--Low L. _salcitia_--L. _salsus_, salted.]

SAUSSUREA, saw-s[=u]'r[=e]-a, _n._ a genus of composite plants of the order
_Cynaroideæ_. [Named after the Swiss botanists, H. B. de _Saussure_
(1740-99), and his son, Nic. Théodore de _Saussure_ (1767-1845).]

SAUSSURITE, saw-s[=u]'r[=i]t, _n._ a fine-grained compact mineral, of
grayish colour.--_adj._ SAUSSURIT'IC.

SAUT, sawt, a Scotch form of _salt_.

SAUTER, s[=o]-t[=a]', _v.t._ to fry lightly and quickly. [Fr.]

SAUTEREAU, s[=o]-te-r[=o]', _n._ the jack or hopper of a pianoforte, &c.
[Fr.]

SAUTERELLE, s[=o]-te-rel', _n._ an instrument for tracing angles. [Fr.]

SAUTERNE, s[=o]-t[.e]rn', _n._ an esteemed white wine produced at Sauterne,
in the Gironde, France.

SAUTOIRE, SAUTOIR, s[=o]-twor', _n._ (_her._) a ribbon worn diagonally.
[_Saltier_.]

SAUVAGESIA, saw-v[=a]-j[=e]'si-a, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants of
the violet family. [Named from the French botanist P. A. Boissier de la
Croix de _Sauvages_ (1710-95).]

SAUVEGARDE, s[=o]v'gärd, _n._ a monitor-lizard: a safeguard. [Fr.]

SAVAGE, sav'[=a]j, _adj._ wild: uncivilised: fierce: cruel: brutal:
(_her._) nude: naked.--_n._ a human being in a wild state: a brutal,
fierce, or cruel person: a barbarian.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to make savage, to
play the savage.--_n._ SAV'AGEDOM, a savage state: savages
collectively.--_adv._ SAV'AGELY.--_ns._ SAV'AGENESS; SAV'AGERY, fierceness:
ferocity: wild growth of plants; SAV'AGISM. [O. Fr. _salvage_--L.
_silvaticus_, pertaining to the woods--_silva_, a wood.]

SAVANNA, SAVANNAH, sa-van'a, _n._ a tract of level land, covered with low
vegetation: a treeless plain.--_ns._ SAVANN'A-FLOW'ER, a genus of the
milk-weed family, West Indies; SAVANN'A-SPARR'OW, the sparrow common
through North America; SAVANN'A-WATT'LE, a name of certain West Indian
trees, also called _Fiddlewood_. [Sp. _savana_, _sabana_, a sheet, a
meadow--Low L. _sabanum_--Gr. _sabanon_, a linen cloth.]

SAVANT, sav-ang', _n._ a learned man. [Fr., pr.p. of _savoir_, to know.]

SAVE, s[=a]v, _v.t._ to bring safe out of evil: to rescue: to reserve: to
spare: to deliver from the power of sin and from its consequences: to
husband: to hoard: to be in time for: to obviate, to prevent something
worse.--_v.i._ to be economical.--_prep._ except.--_adjs._ SAV'ABLE,
SAVE'ABLE.--_ns._ SAV'ABLENESS; SAVE'-ALL, a contrivance intended to save
anything from being wasted.--_v.t._ SAVE'GUARD (_Spens._), to
protect.--_ns._ S[=A]'VER, one who saves; SAVE'-REV'ERENCE, or
_Sir-reverence_, an apologetic phrase in conversation to cover anything
offensive.--_adj._ S[=A]'VING, disposed to save or be economical: incurring
no loss: preserving from wrong: frugal: implying a condition, as a saving
clause: exceptional: (_theol._) securing salvation.--_prep._
excepting.--_n._ that which is saved: (_pl._) earnings.--_adv._
S[=A]'VINGLY, so as to secure salvation.--_ns._ S[=A]'VINGNESS;
S[=A]'VINGS-BANK, a bank for the receipt of small deposits by poor persons,
and their accumulation at compound interest.--SAVE APPEARANCES, to keep up
an appearance of wealth, comfort, or propriety. [Fr. _sauver_--L.
_salv[=a]re_--_salvus_, safe.]

SAVELOY, sav'e-loi, _n._ a kind of sausage made of meat chopped and
seasoned, orig. of brains. [Fr. _cervelat_, _cervelas_, a saveloy--It.
_cervelata_--_cervello_, brain--L. _cerebellum_, dim. of _cerebrum_, the
brain.]

SAVIGNY, sa-v[=e]'nyi, _n._ a red wine of Burgundy.

SAVIN, SAVINE, sav'in, _n._ a low much-branched and widely-spreading shrub
(_Juniperus Sabina_), with very small imbricated evergreen leaves, its
fresh tops yielding an irritant volatile oil, anthelmintic and
abortifacient: the American red cedar. [O. Fr. _sabine_--L. _sabina_
(_herba_), Sabine herb.]

SAVIOUR, s[=a]'vyur, _n._ one who saves from evil: a deliverer, a title
applied to Jesus Christ, who saves men from the power and penalty of sin.

SAVOIR-FAIRE, sav-wor-f[=a]r', _n._ the faculty of knowing just what to do
and how to do it: tact. [Fr.]

SAVOIR-VIVRE, sav-wor-v[=e]'vr, _n._ good breeding: knowledge of polite
usages. [Fr.]

SAVONETTE, sav-[=o]-net', _n._ a kind of toilet soap: a West Indian tree
whose bark serves as soap.

SAVORY, s[=a]'vor-i, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order _Labiatæ_,
nearly allied to thyme. The Common Savory gives an aromatic pungent flavour
to viands. [_Savour._]

SAVOUR, SAVOR, s[=a]'vur, _n._ taste: odour: scent: (_B._) reputation:
characteristic property: pleasure.--_v.i._ to have a particular taste or
smell: to be like: to smack.--_v.t._ to smell: to relish: to
season.--_adv._ S[=A]'VOURILY.--_n._ S[=A]'VOURINESS.--_adjs._
S[=A]'VOURLESS, wanting savour; S[=A]'VOURLY, well seasoned: of good taste;
S[=A]'VOURY, having savour or relish: pleasant: with gusto: morally
pleasant. [Fr. _saveur_--L. _sapor_--_sap[)e]re_, to taste.]

SAVOY, sa-voi', _n._ a cultivated winter variety of cabbage, forming a
large close head like the true cabbage, but having wrinkled
leaves--originally from _Savoy_.--_ns._ SAVOY'ARD, a native of Savoy, since
1860 part of France; SAVOY'-MED'LAR, a tree related to the June-berry or
shad-bush.

SAVVY, SAVVEY, sav'i, _v.t._ to know: to understand.--_v.i._ to possess
knowledge.--_n._ general ability. [Sp. _sabe_--_saber_, to know--L.
_sap[)e]re_, to be wise.]

SAW, saw, _pa.t._ of _see_.

SAW, saw, _n._ an instrument for cutting, formed of a blade, band, or disc
of thin steel, with a toothed edge.--_v.t._ to cut with a saw.--_v.i._ to
use a saw: to be cut with a saw:--_pa.t._ sawed; _pa.p._ sawed or
sawn.--_ns._ SAW'-BACK, the larva of an American bombycid moth; SAW'-BONES,
a slang name for a surgeon; SAW'DUST, dust or small pieces of wood, &c.,
made in sawing; SAW'ER; SAW'-FILE, a three-cornered file used for
sharpening the teeth of saws; SAW'-FISH, a genus of cartilaginous fishes
distinguished by the prolongation of the snout into a formidable weapon
bordered on each side by sharp teeth; SAW'-FLY, the common name of a number
of hymenopterous insects, injurious to plants; SAW'-FRAME, the frame in
which a saw is set; SAW'-GRASS, a marsh plant of the southern states of the
American Union, with long slender leaves; SAW'-HORN, any insect with
serrate antennæ; SAW'MILL, a mill for sawing timber; SAW'PIT, a pit where
wood is sawed; SAW'-SET, an instrument for turning the teeth of saws
alternately right and left; SAW'-SHARP'ENER, the greater titmouse;
SAW'-T[=A]'BLE, the platform of a sawing-machine; SAW'-TEM'PERING, the
process by which the requisite hardness and elasticity are given to a
saw.--_adj._ SAW'-TOOTHED, having teeth like those of a saw: (_bot._)
having tooth-like notches, as a leaf.--_ns._ SAW'-WHET, the Acadian owl;
SAW'-WHET'TER, the marsh titmouse; SAW'YER, one who saws timber: a stranded
tree in a river in America: any wood-boring larva: the bowfin fish. [A.S.
_saga_; Ger. _säge_.]

SAW, saw, _n._ a saying: a proverb: a degree: a joke. [A.S.
_sagu_--_secgan_, to say.]

SAW, saw, _n._ (_Scot._) salve.

SAWDER, saw'd[.e]r, _n._ flattery, blarney.

SAWNEY, SAWNY, saw'ni, _n._ a Scotchman. [For _Sandy_ from _Alexander_.]

SAX, saks, _n._ a knife, a dagger: a slate-cutter's hammer. [A.S. _seax_, a
knife.]

SAX, a Scotch form of _six_.

SAXATILE, sak'sa-til, _adj._ rock inhabiting. [L. _saxatilis_--_saxum_, a
rock.]

SAXE, saks, _n._ (_phot._) a German albuminised paper.

SAXHORN, saks'horn, _n._ a brass wind-instrument having a long winding tube
with bell opening, invented by Antoine or Adolphe _Sax_, of Paris, about
1840.

SAXICAVA, sak-sik'a-va, _n._ a genus of bivalve molluscs.--_adj._
SAXIC'AVOUS. [L. _saxum_, a rock, _cavus_, hollow.]

SAXICOLA, sak-sik'[=o]-la, _n._ the stone-chats: the wheat-ear.--_adjs._
SAXIC'[=O]LINE, SAXIC'[=O]LOUS, living among rocks. [L. _saxum_, a rock,
_col[)e]re_, inhabit.]

SAXIFRAGE, sak'si-fr[=a]j, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Saxifrageæ_ or _Saxifragaceæ_, its species chiefly mountain and rock
plants.--_adjs._ SAXIFRAG[=A]'CEOUS, SAXIF'R[=A]GAL, SAXIF'R[=A]GANT,
SAXIF'R[=A]GOUS.--_n._ SAXIF'R[=A]GINE, a gunpowder in which barium nitrate
takes the place of sulphur.--_adj._ SAXIG'ENOUS, growing on rocks.--BURNET
SAXIFRAGE, the _Pimpinella Saxifraga_, whose leaves are eaten as a salad;
GOLDEN SAXIFRAGE, a low half-succulent herb with yellow flowers. [Fr.,--L.
_saxum_, a stone, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

SAXON, saks'un, _n._ one of the people of North Germany who conquered
England in the 5th and 6th centuries: the language of the Saxons: one of
the English race: a native or inhabitant of Saxony in its later German
sense: a Lowlander of Scotland: modern English.--_adj._ pertaining to the
Saxons, their language, country, or architecture.--_n._ SAX'ONDOM, the
Anglo-Saxon world.--_adj._ SAXON'IC.--_v.t._ SAX'ONISE, to impregnate with
Saxon ideas.--_ns._ SAX'ONISM, a Saxon idiom; SAX'ONIST, a Saxon
scholar.--SAXON ARCHITECTURE, a style of building in England before the
Norman Conquest, marked by the peculiar 'long and short' work of the
quoins, the projecting fillets running up the face of the walls and
interlacing like woodwork, and the baluster-like shafts between the
openings of the upper windows resembling the turned woodwork of the period;
SAXON BLUE, a deep liquid blue used in dyeing; SAXON GREEN, a green colour;
SAXON SHORE (_Litus Saxonicum_), in Roman times, the coast districts of
Britain from Brighton northwards to the Wash, peculiarly exposed to the
attacks of the Saxons from across the North Sea, and therefore placed under
the authority of a special officer, the 'Count of the Saxon Shore.' [A.S.
_Seaxe_--_seax_, Old High Ger. _sahs_, a knife, a short sword.]

SAXONY, sak'sni, _n._ a woollen material: flannel.

SAXOPHONE, sak's[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ a brass wind-instrument, with about
twenty finger-keys, like the clarinet. [_Sax_, the inventor--Gr.
_ph[=o]n[=e]_, the voice.]

SAY, s[=a], _v.t._ to utter in words: to speak: to declare: to state: to
answer: to rehearse: to recite: to take for granted.--_v.i._ to speak: to
relate: to state:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ said (sed).--_n._ something said: a
remark: a speech: a saw.--_ns._ SAY'ER, one who says: a speaker: one who
assays; SAY'ING, something said: an expression: a maxim; SAY'-SO, an
authoritative declaration: a rumour, a mere report.--SAY TO, to think
of.--IT IS SAID, or THEY SAY, it is commonly reputed; IT SAYS, equivalent
to 'it is said;' THAT IS TO SAY, in other words. [A.S. _secgan_ (sægde,
gesægd); Ice. _segja_, Ger. _sagen_.]

SAY, s[=a], _n._ (_Spens._) assay, proof, temper (of a sword): (_Shak._)
taste, relish: a sample: trial by sample.--_v.t._ to assay, to try.--_n._
SAY'MASTER, one who makes proof. [A contr. of _assay_.]

SAY, s[=a], _n._ a thin kind of silk: a kind of woollen stuff.--_adj._
(_Shak._) silken. [O. Fr. _saie_--Low L. _seta_, silk--L. _seta_, a
bristle.]

SAY, s[=a], _n._ (_Scot._) a strainer for milk.

SAYETTE, s[=a]-et', _n._ a kind of serge: a woollen yarn. [Fr. _sayette_,
dim. of _saye_, serge.]

SAYNAY, s[=a]'n[=a], _n._ a lamprey.

SAYON, s[=a]'on, _n._ a medieval peasant's sleeveless jacket. [O.
Fr.,--_saye_, serge.]

SAYORNIS, s[=a]-or'nis, _n._ the pewit fly-catchers. [Thomas _Say_, an
American ornithologist.]

SBIRRO, sbir'r[=o], _n._ an Italian police-officer:--_pl._ SBIRRI
(sbir'r[=e]). [It.]

'SBLOOD, sblud, _interj._ an imprecation. [_God's blood_.]

SCAB, skab, _n._ a crust formed over a sore: a disease of sheep resembling
the mange: a disease of potatoes, or a fungous disease of apples, &c.: a
mean fellow: a workman who refuses to join a trades-union or to take part
in a strike, or who takes the place of a man out on strike.--_v.i._ to heal
over, to cicatrise: to form a new surface by encrustation.--_n._ (_print._)
a scale-board.--_adj._ SCAB'BED, affected or covered with scabs: diseased
with the scab: vile, worthless.--_ns._ SCAB'BEDNESS; SCAB'BINESS.--_adj._
SCAB'BY, scabbed: injured by the attachment of barnacles to the carapace of
a shell: (_print._) of matter that is blotched or uneven.--_n._ SCAB'-MITE,
the itch-mite. [A.S _scæb_ (Dan. _scab_, Ger. _schabe_)--L.
_scabies_--_scab[)e]re_, to scratch.]

SCABBARD, skab'ard, _n._ the case in which the blade of a sword is kept: a
sheath.--_v.t._ to provide with a sheath.--_n._ SCABB'ARD-FISH, a fish of
the family _Lepidopodidæ_. [M. E. _scauberk_, prob. an assumed O. Fr.
_escauberc_--Old High Ger. _scala_, a scale, _bergan_, to protect.]

SCABBLE, skab'l, _v.t._ to hew a stone to a level surface without making it
smooth.--Also SCAPP'LE. [Prob. A.S. _scafan_, to shave.]

SCABELLUM, sk[=a]-bel'um, _n._ an ancient musical appliance, consisting of
plates of metal, &c., fastened to the feet to be struck together. [L., also
_scabillum_, dim. of _scamnum_, a bench.]

SCABERULOUS, sk[=a]-ber'[=u]-lus, _adj._ (_bot._) slightly roughened.
[_Scabrous_.]

SCABIES, sk[=a]'bi-[=e]z, _n._ the itch. [L.,--_scab[)e]re_, to scratch.]

SCABIOSA, sk[=a]-bi-[=o]'sa, _n._ a genus of herbaceous plants of the
teasel family, as the _Devil's-bit scabious_, the _Sweet scabious_,
&c.--the former long thought efficacious in scaly eruptions.

SCABIOUS, sk[=a]'bi-us, _adj._ scabby: scurfy: itchy.--_n._ SCABRED'ITY,
roughness: ruggedness.--_adj._ SC[=A]'BRID, rough.--_n._ SCABRIT'IES, a
morbid roughness of the inner surface of the eyelid.--_adj._ SC[=A]'BROUS,
rough to the touch, like a file: rugged: covered with little points: harsh:
unmusical.--_n._ SC[=A]'BROUSNESS. [L. _scabiosus_--_scabies_, the itch.]

SCAD, skad, _n._ a carangoid fish, also called _Horse-mackerel_: (_Scot._)
the ray. [Prob. _shad_.]

SCAD, a Scotch form of _scald_.

SCADDLE, skad'l, _adj._ (_prov._) mischievous, hurtful.--_n._ hurt.--Also
SCATH'EL, SKADD'LE. [_Scathe_.]

SCÆAN, s[=e]'an, _adj._ western, from the _Scæan_ gate in Troy. [Gr.
_skaios_, left.]

SCAFF, skaf, _n._ (_Scot._) food of any kind.

SCAFFOLD, skaf'old, _n._ a temporary platform for exhibiting or for
supporting something, and esp. for the execution of a criminal: a
framework.--_v.t._ to furnish with a scaffold: to sustain.--_ns._
SCAFF'OLDAGE (_Shak._), a scaffold, a stage, the gallery of a theatre;
SCAFF'OLDER, a spectator in the gallery: one of the 'gods;' SCAFF'OLDING, a
scaffold of wood for supporting workmen while building: materials for
scaffolds: (_fig._) a frame, framework: disposing of the bodies of the dead
on a scaffold or raised platform, as by the Sioux Indians, &c. [O. Fr.
_escafaut_ (Fr. _échafaud_, It. _catafalco_); from a Romance word, found in
Sp. _catar_, to view--L. _capt[=a]re_, to try to seize, _falco_ (It.
_palco_), a scaffold--Ger. _balke_, a beam. Doublet _catafalque_.]

SCAFF-RAFF, skaf'-raf, _n._ (_Scot._) refuse: riff-raff.

SCAGLIA, skal'ya, _n._ an Italian calcareous rock, corresponding to the
chalk of England.

SCAGLIOLA, skal-y[=o]'la, _n._ a composition made to imitate the more
costly kinds of marble and other ornamental stones.--Also SCAL'IOLA. [It.
_scagliuola_, dim. of _scaglia_, a scale, a chip of marble or stone.]

SCAITH, sk[=a]th, _n._ (_Scot._) damage.--_adj._ SCAITH'LESS. [_Scathe_.]

SCALA, sk[=a]'la, _n._ (_surg._) an instrument for reducing dislocation: a
term applied to any one of the three canals of the cochlea:--_pl._
SC[=A]'LÆ.--_adj._ SC[=A]'LABLE, that may be scaled or climbed.--_ns._
SC[=A]LADE', an assault, as an escalade--also SCALÄ'DO; SC[=A]'LAR
(_math._), in the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude but
not direction.--_adj._ of the nature of a scalar.--_n.pl._ SCAL[=A]'RIA,
the ladder-shells or wentle-traps.--_adjs._ SC[=A]LAR'IFORM, shaped like a
ladder; SC[=A]'LARY, formed with steps. [L., a ladder.]

SCALAWAG, SCALLAWAG, skal'a-wag, _n._ an undersized animal of little value:
a scamp: a native Southern Republican, as opposed to a carpet-bagger,
during the period of reconstruction after the American Civil War. [From
_Scalloway_ in the Shetland Islands, in allusion to its small cattle.]

SCALD, skawld, _v.t._ to burn with hot liquid: to cook slightly, as fruit,
in hot water or steam: to cleanse thoroughly by rinsing with very hot
water.--_n._ a burn caused by hot liquid.--_ns._ SCALD'ER, one who scalds
vessels: a pot for scalding; SCALD'-FISH, a marine flat fish; SCALD'ING,
things scalded; SCALD'-RAG, a nickname for a dyer.--SCALDING HOT, so hot as
to scald. [O. Fr. _escalder_ (Fr. _échauder_)--Low L. _excald[=a]re_, to
bathe in warm water--_ex_, from, _calidus_, warm, hot.]

SCALD, SKALD, skald, _n._ one of the ancient Scandinavian poets.--_adj._
SCALD'IC, relating to, or composed by, the Scalds. [Ice. _skáld_.]

SCALD, skawld, _n._ scurf on the head.--_adj._ scurfy, paltry, poor.--_ns._
SCALD'BERRY, the blackberry; SCALD'-CROW, the hooded crow; SCALD'-HEAD, a
fungous parasitic disease of the scalp, favus. [_Scall._]

SCALDINO, skal-d[=e]'n[=o], _n._ an Italian earthenware brazier:--_pl._
SCALDI'NI. [It.]

SCALE, sk[=a]l, _n._ a ladder: series of steps: a graduated measure:
(_mus._) a series of all the tones ascending or descending from the keynote
to its octave, called the gamut: the order of a numeral system: gradation:
proportion: series.--_v.t._ to mount, as by a ladder: to ascend: to draw in
true proportion: to measure logs: to decrease proportionally, as every
part.--_v.i._ to lead up by steps: (_Scot._) to disperse, to spill, to
spread as manure.--_ns._ SCALE'-BOARD (_print._), a thin slip of wood for
extending a page to its true length, making types register, securing
uniformity of margin, &c.; SCALE'-PIPETTE', a tubular pipette with a
graduated scale for taking up definite quantities of liquid;
SCAL'ING-LADD'ER, a ladder used for the escalade of an enemy's fortress: a
fireman's ladder: (_her._) a bearing representing a ladder, with two hooks
and two ferrules. [L. _scala_, a ladder--_scand[)e]re_, to mount.]

SCALE, sk[=a]l, _n._ one of the small, thin plates on a fish or reptile: a
thin layer: a husk: the covering of the leaf-buds of deciduous trees: a
piece of cuticle that is squamous or horny: a flake: an encrustation on the
side of a vessel in which water is heated.--_v.t._ to clear of scales: to
peel off in thin layers.--_v.i._ to come off in thin layers.--_ns._
SCALE'-ARM'OUR, armour consisting of scales of metal overlapping each
other: plate-mail; SCALE'-BACK, a marine worm covered with scales.--_adjs._
SCALE'-BEAR'ING, having scales, as the sea-mice; SCALED, having scales:
covered with scales.--_ns._ SCALE'-DOVE, an American dove having the
plumage marked as with scales; SCALE'-FISH, a dry cured fish, as the
haddock; SCALE'-FOOT, the scabbard-fish; SCALE'-IN'SECT, any insect of the
homopterous family _Coccidæ_.--_adj._ SCALE'LESS, without scales, as the
scaleless amphibians.--_n._ SCALE'-MOSS, certain plants which resemble
moss.--_adj._ SCALE'-PATT'ERN, having a pattern resembling scales.--_ns._
SCALE'-QUAIL, an American quail having scale-like markings of the plumage;
SC[=A]'LER, one who makes a business of scaling fish: an instrument used by
dentists in removing tartar.--_adjs._ SCALE'-TAILED, having scales on the
under side of the tail; SCALE'-WINGED, having the wings covered with minute
scales, as a butterfly.--_ns._ SCALE'-WORK, scales lapping over each other;
SCALE'-WORM, a scale-back: SCAL'INESS, the state of being scaly: roughness;
SCAL'ING, the process of removing scales from a fish, or encrustations from
the interior of a boiler; SCAL'ING-FUR'NACE, a furnace in which plates of
iron are heated for the purpose of scaling them, as in tinning.--_adj._
SCAL'Y, covered with scales: like scales: shabby: (_bot._) formed of
scales. [A.S. _sceale_, _scale_, the scale of a fish; Ger. _schale_,
shell.]

SCALE, sk[=a]l, _n._ the dish of a balance: a balance, as to turn the
scale--chiefly in _pl._: (_pl._) Libra, one of the signs of the
zodiac.--_v.t._ to weigh, as in scales: to estimate.--_ns._ SCALE'-BEAM,
the beam or lever of a balance; SCALE'-MICROM'ETER, in a telescope, a
graduated scale for measuring distances; SC[=A]L'ING, the process of
adjusting sights to a ship's guns.--BEAM AND SCALES, a balance; GUNTER'S
SCALE, a scale for solving mechanically problems in navigation and
surveying. [A.S. _scále_, a balance; Dut. _schaal_, Ger. _schale_; allied
to preceding word.]

SCALENE, sk[=a]-l[=e]n', _adj._ (_geom._) having three unequal sides;
(_anat._) obliquely situated and unequal-sided.--_n._ a scalene triangle:
one of several triangular muscles.--_ns._ SC[=A]LENOH[=E]'DRON, a pyramidal
form under the rhombohedral system, enclosed by twelve faces, each a
scalene triangle; SC[=A]L[=E]'NUM, a scalene triangle; SC[=A]L[=E]'NUS, a
scalene muscle. [Fr.,--L. _scalenus_--Gr. _skal[=e]nos_, uneven.]

SCALIOLA=_Scagliola_ (q.v.).

SCALL, skawl, _n._ (_B._) a scab: scabbiness: in mining, loose
ground.--_adj._ mean.--_adjs._ SCALLED, SCALD, scabby: mean. [Ice.
_skalli_, bald head.]

SCALLION, skal'yun, _n._ the shallot: the leek: the onion. [L. _Ascalonia_
(_cæpia_), Ascalon (onion).]

SCALLOP, skol'up, _n._ a bivalve having a sub-circular shell with sinuous
radiating ridges: one of a series of curves in the edge of anything: a
shallow dish in which oysters, &c., are cooked, baked, and browned.--_v.t._
to cut the edge or border into scallops or curves: to cook in a scallop
with crumbs of bread, &c.--_p.adj._ SCALL'OPED, having the edge or border
cut into scallops or curves.--_ns._ SCALL'OP MOTH, a name applied to
several geometrid moths; SCALL'OP-SHELL, a scallop, or the shell of one,
the badge of a pilgrim. [O. Fr. _escalope_--Old Dut. _schelpe_, a shell;
cf. Ger. _schelfe_, a husk.]

SCALMA, skal'ma, _n._ a disease of horses. [Old High Ger. _scalmo_,
pestilence; cf. _Schelm_.]

SCALOPS, sk[=a]'lops, _n._ a genus of American shrew-moles. [Gr. _skalops_,
a mole--_skallein_, to dig.]

SCALP, skalp, _n._ the outer covering of the skull or brain-case, including
the skin, the expanded tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle, with
intermediate cellular tissue and blood-vessels: the skin on which the hair
grows: the skin of the top of the head, together with the hair, torn off as
a token of victory by the North American Indians: the skin of the head of a
noxious wild animal: (_her._) the skin of the head of a stag with the horns
attached: a bed of oysters or mussels (Scot. _Scaup_).--_v.t._ to cut the
scalp from: to flay: to lay bare: to deprive of grass: to sell at less than
recognised rates: to destroy the political influence of.--_ns._ SCAL'PER,
one who scalps; a machine for removing the ends of grain, as wheat or rye,
or for separating the different grades of broken wheat, semolina, &c.: one
who buys and sells railroad tickets, &c., at less than the official rates,
a ticket-broker: an instrument used by surgeons for scraping carious bones
(also SCAL'PING-[=I]'RON); SCAL'PING-KNIFE, a knife, formerly a sharp
stone, used by the Indians of North America for scalping their enemies;
SCAL'PING-TUFT, a scalp-lock.--_adj._ SCALP'LESS, having no scalp,
bald.--_n._ SCALP'-LOCK, a long tuft of hair left by the North American
Indians as a challenge. [Old Dut. _schelpe_, a shell; cf. Ger. _schelfe_, a
husk; a doublet of _scallop_.]

SCALPEL, skalp'el, _n._ a small surgical knife for dissecting and
operating.--_n._ SCALPEL'LUM, one of the four filamentous organs in the
proboscis of hemipterous insects:--_pl._ SCALPEL'LA.--_adj._ SCAL'PRIFORM,
chisel-shaped, specifically said of the incisor teeth of rodents. [L.
_scalpellum_, dim. of _scalprum_, a knife--_scalp[)e]re_, to cut.]

SCAMBLE, skam'bl, _v.i._ (_obs._) to scramble: to sprawl.--_v.t._ to
mangle: to squander.--_ns._ SCAM'BLER, a meal-time visitor; SCAM'BLING, a
hasty meal.--_n.pl._ SCAM'BLING-DAYS, days in which meat is scarce.--_adv._
SCAM'BLINGLY, strugglingly. [Ety. dub.; prob. related to _shamble_.]

SCAMEL, SCAMMEL, skam'el, _n._ a bar-tailed godwit.

SCAMILLUS, sk[=a]-mil'us, _n._ a second plinth under a column:--_pl._
SCAMILL'I ([=i]). [L.]

SCAMMONY, skam'o-ni, _n._ a cathartic gum-resin obtained from a species of
convolvulus in Asia Minor.--_adj._ SCAMM[=O]'NIATE, made with scammony.
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _skamm[=o]nia_; prob. Persian.]

SCAMP, skamp, _n._ a vagabond: a mean fellow.--_v.i._ SCAM'PER, to run with
speed and trepidation.--_n._ a rapid run.--_adj._ SCAM'PISH, rascally. [O.
Fr. _escamper_, to flee--It. _scampare_, to escape--L. _ex_, out, campus, a
battlefield.]

SCAMP, skamp, _v.t._ to do work in a dishonest manner without
thoroughness--also SKIMP.--_n._ SCAM'PER. [Prob. Ice. _skamta_, to dole
out, to stint.]

SCAN, skan, _v.t._ to count the feet in a verse: to examine carefully: to
scrutinise.--_v.i._ to agree with the rules of metre:--_pr.p._ scan'ning;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ scanned.--_ns._ SCAN'NING; SCAN'SION, act of counting
the measures in a verse. [Fr. _scander_, to scan--L. _scand[)e]re_,
_scansum_, to climb.]

SCAND, skand, _pa.t._ of _v.i._ (_Spens._) climbed.

SCANDAL, skan'dal, _n._ something said which is false and injurious to
reputation: disgrace: opprobrious censure.--_v.t._ to defame, to
aspire.--_ns._ SCAN'DAL-BEAR'ER, a propagator of malicious gossip;
SCANDALIS[=A]'TION, defamation.--_v.t._ SCAN'DALISE, to give scandal or
offence to: to shock: to reproach: to disgrace: to libel.--_n._
SCAN'DAL-MONG'ER, one who deals in defamatory reports.--_adj._ SCAN'DALOUS,
giving scandal or offence: calling forth condemnation: openly vile:
defamatory.--_adv._ SCAN'DALOUSLY.--_ns._ SCAN'DALOUSNESS;
SCAN'DALUM-MAGN[=A]'TUM, speaking slanderously of high personages, abbrev.
_Scan. Mag._ [Fr. _scandale_--L. _scandalum_--Gr. _skandalon_, a
stumbling-block.]

SCANDALISE, skan'da-l[=i]z, _v.t._ to trice up the tack of the spanker in a
square-rigged vessel, or the mainsail in a fore-and-aft rigged one.
[_Scantle_.]

SCANDENT, skan'dent, _adj._ climbing, as a tendril.

SCANDINAVIAN, skan-di-n[=a]'vi-an, _adj._ of _Scandinavia_, the peninsula
divided into Norway and Sweden, but, in a historical sense, applying also
to Denmark and Iceland.--_n._ a native of Scandinavia. [L. _Scandinavia_,
_Scandia_.]

SCANDIUM, skan'di-um, _n._ an element discovered in 1879 in the
Scandinavian mineral euxenite.

SCANDIX, skan'diks, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous plants, including
shepherd's purse, Venus's comb, &c. [L.,--Gr., chervil.]

SCANSION. See SCAN.

SCANSORES, skan-s[=o]'r[=e]z, _n.pl._ an old order of birds generally
characterised by having two toes before opposed by two behind, by which
they are enabled to climb.--_adj._ SCANS[=O]'RIAL, habitually climbing, as
a bird: formed for climbing.--_n._ SCANS[=O]'RIUS, a muscle passing from
the ilium to the femur in some vertebrata. [Low L., pl. of _scansor_,
_scansoris_, a climber--L. _scand[)e]re_, _scansum_, to climb.]

SCANT, skant, _adj._ not full or plentiful; scarcely sufficient:
deficient.--_n._ scarcity: lack.--_adv._ scarcely: scantily.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to limit: to stint: to begrudge.--_adv._ SCAN'TILY.--_ns._
SCAN'TINESS; SCAN'-TITY (_obs._).--_adv._ SCANT'LY, not fully or
sufficiently, scarcely: narrowly: penuriously: scantily.--_ns._ SCANT'NESS,
the condition or quality of being scant: smallness: insufficiency;
SCANT'-OF-GRACE, a good-for-nothing fellow: a scapegrace.--_adj._ SCANT'Y,
scant, not copious or full: hardly sufficient: wanting extent: narrow:
small. [Ice. _skamt_, short, narrow, neut. of _skammr_, short.]

SCANTLE, skan'tl, _v.t._ to divide into pieces: to partition.--_ns._
SCANT'LET, a small pattern; SCANT'LING, a little piece: a piece or quantity
cut for a particular purpose: a certain proportion.--SCANTLING NUMBER, a
number computed from the known dimensions of a ship. [O. Fr.
_eschantillon_, a small cantle, _escanteler_, to break into
cantles--_es_--L. _ex_, out, _cantel_, _chantel_, a cantle.]

SCANTLE, skan'tl, _v.i._ to fail: to be deficient.--_n._ a gauge by which
slates are measured. [Prob. _scant_.]

SCAPANUS, skap'a-nus, _n._ a genus of North American shrew-moles. [Gr.
_skapan[=e]_, a mattock.]

SCAPE, sk[=a]p, _n._ an escape: a freak or fault.--_v.t._ to escape from:
to miss: to shun.--_ns._ SCAPE'GALLOWS, one who deserves hanging: a
villain; SCAPE'GRACE, a graceless hare-brained fellow. [A contr. of
_escape_.]

SCAPE, sk[=a]p, _n._ (_bot._) a long, naked, radical peduncle: (_entom._)
the basal joint of antennæ: (_ornith._) the stem of a feather: (_archit._)
the shaft of a column.--_adjs._ SCAPE'LESS (_bot._), wanting a scape;
SCAP'IFORM, scape-like; SCAPIG'EROUS, scape-bearing. [L., _scapus_, Gr.
_skapos_, a shaft; cf. _sk[=e]ptron_, a staff.]

SCAPE, sk[=a]p, _n._ the cry of the snipe when flushed: the snipe itself.
[Prob. imit.]

SCAPEGOAT, sk[=a]p'g[=o]t, _n._ a goat on which, once a year, the Jewish
high-priest laid symbolically the sins of the people, and which was then
allowed to escape into the wilderness (Levit. xvi.): one who is made to
bear the misdeeds of another. [_Escape_ and _goat_.]

SCAPEMENT, sk[=a]p'ment, _n._ the same as ESCAPEMENT.--_n._ SCAPE'-WHEEL,
the wheel which drives the pendulum of a clock. [_Escapement_.]

SCAPHA, sk[=a]'fa, _n._ the scaphoid fossa of the helix of the ear. [L., a
skiff.]

SCAPHANDER, sk[=a]-fan'd[.e]r, _n._ a diver's water-tight suit; a genus of
gasteropods. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, a boat, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a man.]

SCAPHARCA, sk[=a]-far'ka, _n._ a genus of bivalve molluscs. [L. _scapha_, a
skiff.]

SCAPHIDIUM, sk[=a]-fid'i-um, _n._ a genus of clavicorn beetles. [Gr.
_skaphidion_, dim. of _skaph[=e]_, a skiff.]

SCAPHIOPOD, skaf'i-[=o]-pod, _adj._ spade-footed.--_n._ a spade-footed
toad. [Gr. _skaphion_, a spade, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

SCAPHIRHYNCHUS, skaf-i-ring'kus, _n._ a genus of tyrant-flycatchers: the
shovel-heads or shovel-nosed sturgeons. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, a skiff,
_rhyngchos_, snout.]

SCAPHISM, skaf'izm, _n._ a Persian punishment by which the victim was
fastened in a hollow tree, and smeared over with honey to attract wasps,
&c. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, anything hollowed out.]

SCAPHITES, sk[=a]-f[=i]'tez, _n._ a genus of fossil cephalopods of the
ammonite family. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, a boat.]

SCAPHIUM, sk[=a]'fi-um, _n._ the keel of papilionaceous flowers: a genus of
coleopterous insects. [L.,--Gr. _skaphion_, a basin.]

SCAPHOCEPHALIC, skaf-[=o]-se-fal'ik, _adj._ boat-shaped, a term applied to
a certain kind of deformed skull. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, a boat, _kephal[=e]_, a
head.]

SCAPHOID, skaf'oid, _adj._ boat-like in form, noting two bones, one in the
wrist and the other in the foot. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, a boat, _eidos_, form.]

SCAPHOPOD, skaf'[=o]-pod, _adj._ having the foot fitted for burrowing, as a
mollusc. [Gr. _skaph[=e]_, a boat, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

SCAPINADE, skap-i-n[=a]d', _n._ a process of trickery--from the name of the
tricky valet in Molière's comedy, _Les Fourberies de Scapin_.

SCAP-NET, skap'-net, _n._ a net for catching minnows, &c. [Same as
_scoop-net_.]

SCAPOLITE, skap'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a silicate of alumina and lime, occurring
in long rod-like crystals. [Gr. _skapos_, a rod, _lithos_, a stone.]

SCAPPLE, skap'l, _v.t._ to work without finishing, as stone before leaving
the quarry. [_Scabble_.]

SCAPULA, skap'[=u]-la, _n._ the shoulder-blade.--_adj._ SCAP'[=U]LAR,
pertaining to the shoulder.--_n._ a bandage for the shoulder-blade:
(_ornith._) the shoulder feathers: a long strip of cloth worn by some
orders: two little pieces of cloth tied together by strings passing over
the shoulders, worn by lay persons in token of devotion: a short cloak with
a hood, a monastic working dress.--_adj._ SCAP'[=U]LARY, in form like a
scapular.--_n._ a scapular.--_adj._ SCAP'[=U]LATED, having the scapular
feathers notable in size or colour, as the scapulated crow.--_n._
SCAP'[=U]LIMANCY. divination by means of shoulder-blades.--_adj._
SCAPULIMAN'TIC. [L. _scapulæ_, the shoulder-blades, prob. cog. with
_scapus_, a shaft.]

SCAPUS, sk[=a]'pus, _n._ (_archit._) the shaft of a column: (_ornith._) the
scape of a feather: a genus of Coelenterates:--_pl._ SC[=A]'PI ([=i]). [L.,
a shaft.]

SCAR, skär, _n._ the mark left by a wound or sore: any mark or blemish: a
cicatrice: (_fig._) any mark resulting from injury, material or moral:
(_bot._) a mark on a stem after the fall of a leaf: in shells, an
impression left by the insertion of a muscle: in founding, an imperfect
place in a casting: a disfigurement.--_v.t._ to mark with a scar.--_v.i._
to become scarred:--_pr.p._ scar'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
scarred.--_adjs._ SCAR'LESS, without scars: unwounded; SCARRED. [O. Fr.
_escare_--L. _eschara_--Gr. _eschara_, a scar produced by burning.]

SCAR, skär, _n._ a precipitous bank or rock: a bare rocky place on the side
of a hill.--_n._ SCAR'-LIME'STONE, a mass of calcareous rock crowded with
marine fossils. [Scand., Ice. _sker_--_skera_, to cut.]

SCARAB, skar'ab, _n._ an insect with wing-sheaths, a beetle: a gem, usually
emerald, cut in the form of a beetle--also SCARABÆ'US, SCAR'ABEE.--_n._
SCAR'ABOID, an imitation scarab.--_adj._ like a scarab. [L. _scarabæus_;
Gr. _karabos_.]

SCARAMOUCH, skar'a-mowch, _n._ a buffoon: a bragging, cowardly fellow.
[Fr.,--It. _Scaramuccia_, a famous Italian zany of the 17th century.]

SCARBROITE, skär'br[=o]-[=i]t, _n._ a hydrous silicate of aluminium--from
_Scarborough_.

SCARCE, sk[=a]rs, _adj._ not plentiful: not equal to the demand: rare: not
common: parsimonious: deficient: short: scanty.--_adj._ SCARCE'-BEARD'ED
(_Shak._), having a scanty beard.--_adv._ SCARCE'LY, SCARCE (_B._), hardly,
barely.--_ns._ SCARCE'MENT (_archit._), a plain set-off or projection in a
wall; SCARCE'NESS; SCARC'ITY, state of being scarce: deficiency: rareness:
niggardliness: want: famine.--MAKE ONE'S SELF SCARCE, to decamp. [O. Fr.
_escars_ (Fr. _échars_), niggardly--Low L. _scarpsus_=_ex-carpsus_, for L.
_excerptus_, pa.p. of _excerp[=e]re_--_ex_, out of, _carp[=e]re_, to pick.]

SCARD, skärd, _n._ a shard or fragment.

SCARDAFELLA, skär-da-fel'a, _n._ an American genus containing the
ground-doves.

SCARE, sk[=a]r, _v.t._ to drive away by frightening: to strike with sudden
terror: to startle, to affright.--_n._ an imaginary alarm: a sudden
panic.--_adj._ lean, scanty.--_ns._ SCARE'-BABE, a bugbear; SCARE'-BUG;
SCARE'CROW, anything set up to scare away crows or other birds: a vain
cause of terror: a person meanly clad: the black tern; SCARE'-FIRE, a
fire-alarm: a conflagration. [M. E. _skerren_--_skerre_, frightened--Ice.
_skjarr_, timid.]

SCARF, skärf, _n._ a light decorative piece of dress worn loosely on the
shoulders or as a band about the neck: a light handkerchief for the neck: a
cravat:--_pl._ SCARFS, SCARVES (_obs._).--_v.t._ to cover, as if with a
scarf.--_adj._ SCARFED, decorated with pendants.--_ns._ SCARF'-PIN, an
ornamental pin worn in a scarf; SCARF'-RING, an ornamental ring through
which the ends or a scarf are drawn. [A.S. _scearfe_, a piece; Dut.
_scherf_, a shred.]

SCARF, skärf, _v.t._ to join two pieces of timber endwise, so that they may
appear to be used as one: to flay the skin from a whale.--_n._ in
carpentry, a joint whose ends are united so as to form a continuous
piece.--_ns._ SCAR'FING; SCARF'ING-MACHINE', a machine for shaving the ends
of leather belting to a feather edge; SCARF'-JOINT, a joint made by
overlapping two pieces of timber that will fit each other; SCARF'-LOOM, a
figure loom for weaving fabrics. [Scand., Sw. _skarf_, Norw. _skarv_, a
joint; cf. Ger. _scherben_, to cut small; conn. with _shear_, v.]

SCARF, skärf, _n._ the cormorant--(_Scot._) SCART, SKART. [Ice. _skarfr_.]

SCARFSKIN, skärf'skin, _n._ the surface skin. [_Scurf_.]

SCARIDÆ, skar'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of fishes including the
parrot-fish.--Also SC[=A]'RUS. [Gr. _skaros_.]

SCARIFY, skar'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to scratch or slightly cut the skin, to make
small cuts with a lancet, so as to draw blood: to loosen and stir together
the soil: to harrow the feelings:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
scar'if[=i]ed.--_ns._ SCARIFIC[=A]'TION, act of scarifying;
SCARIFIC[=A]'TOR, an instrument with several lancets for scarifying or
making slight incisions in the operation of cupping; SCAR'IFIER, one who
scarifies: an instrument used for scarifying the soil, esp. a grubber with
prongs. [Fr. _scarifier_--L. _scarific[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--Gr.
_skariphasthai_--skariphos, an etching tool.]

SCARIOUS, sk[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ (_bot._) thin, dry, membranaceous: (_zool._)
scaly, scurfy.

SCARITID, skär'i-tid, _adj._ pertaining to carabid beetles of _Scarites_ or
related genera.

SCARLATINA, skär-la-t[=e]'na, _n._ a dangerous and highly-contagious fever,
so named from the scarlet rash or eruption which accompanies it--also
SCAR'LET-F[=E]VER.--_adjs._ SCARLATI'NAL, SCARLATI'NOUS.

SCARLET, skär'let, _n._ a bright-red colour: scarlet cloth.--_adj._ of the
colour called scarlet: dressed in scarlet.--_v.t._ to redden.--_ns._
SCAR'LET-AD'MIRAL, the red-admiral, a butterfly; SCAR'LET-BEAN, the
scarlet-runner; SCAR'LET-F[=E]'VER, a contagious febrile disease (see
SCARLATINA); SCAR'LET-HAT, a cardinal's hat; SCAR'LET-LIGHT'NING, the
scarlet lychnis: the red valerian; SCAR'LET-RUN'NER, a bean with scarlet
flowers which runs up any support; SCAR'LET-SNAKE, a bright-red harmless
snake of the southern states of the American Union; SCAR'LET-T[=I]'GER, a
British moth; SCAR'LET-WOM'AN, the woman referred to in Rev. xvii. 4,
5--Pagan Rome, Papal Rome, or a personification of the World in its
anti-Christian sense. [O. Fr. _escarlate_ (Fr. _écarlate_), through Low L.
_scarlatum_--Pers. _saqal[=a]t_, scarlet cloth.]

SCARMAGE, skär'm[=a]j, _n._ (_Spens._) same as Skirmish.--Also SCAR'MOGE.

SCARN-BEE, skärn'-b[=e], _n._ (prov.) a dung-beetle. [Sharn.]

SCARP, skärp, _n._ (_her._) a diminutive of the bend sinister, half its
width: (_obs._) a shoulder-belt. [O. Fr. _escarpe_, escharpe: cf. _Scarf_
(1).]

SCARP, skärp, _n._ (_fort._) any steep slope (same as Escarp).--_v.t._ to
cut down a slope so as to render it impassable.--_adj._ SCARPED. [O. Fr.
_escarpe_--It. _scarpa_--Old High Ger. _scharf_; cf. _Sharp_.]

SCARPINES, skär'pinz, _n.pl._ an instrument of torture resembling the boot.
[Fr. _escarpins_, shoes.]

SCARRED, skärd, _adj._ marked by scars.--_n._ SCAR'RING, a scar: a
mark.--_adj._ SCAR'RY, bearing or pertaining to scars: having scars.

SCART, skärt, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to scratch: to scrape.--_n._ a slight wound:
a dash or stroke: a niggard: a poor-looking creature.--_adj._ SCART'-FREE.

SCARUS, sk[=a]'rus, _n._ a genus of fishes including the parrot-wrasses.
[_Scaridæ_.]

SCARY, sk[=a]r'i, _adj._ causing fright: timid: fluttered.

SCAT, SCATT, skat, _n._ a tax in the Shetland Islands.--_ns._ SCAT'HOLD,
open ground for pasture; SCAT'LAND, land which paid duty for rights of
pasture and peat. [A.S. _sceat_, a coin; Dut. _schat_, Ger. _schatz_.]

SCAT, skat, _interj._ be off!--_v.t._ to scare away.

SCAT, skat, _n._ (_prov._) a brisk shower of rain.--_adj._ SCAT'TY,
showery. [Prob. conn. with _scud_.]

SCATCH, skach, _n._ a bit for bridles. [Fr. _escache_.]

SCATCHES, skach'ez, _n.pl._ stilts used for walking in dirty places. [O.
Fr. _eschace_--Old Flem. _schætse_, a high shoe; Dut. _schaats_, pl.
_schaatsen_, skates.]

SCATE. Same as _Skate_, a fish.

SCATH, SCATHE, sk[=a]th, _n._ damage, injury: waste.--_v.t._ to
injure.--_adj._ SCATHE'FUL, destructive.--_n._ SCATHE'FULNESS,
disadvantage: destructiveness.--_adj._ SC[=A]'THING, damaging; blasting:
scorching.--_adv._ SC[=A]'THINGLY.--_adjs._ SC[=A]TH'LESS, without injury;
SC[=A]'THY (_Scot._), mischievous: dangerous. [A.S. _sceathu_; Ger.
_schade_, injury.]

SCATOLOGY, sk[=a]-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the knowledge of fossil excrement or
coprolites: knowledge of the usages of primitive peoples about excrements,
human and other.--_adj._ SCATOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ SCAT'OMANCY, SCATOS'COPY,
divination of disease by inspection of excrement; SCATOPH'AGA, the
dung-flies.--_n.pl._ SCATOPHAG'IDÆ, a family of acanthopterygian
fishes.--_adj._ SCATOPH'AGOUS, feeding on excrement. [Gr. _sk[=o]r_,
skatos, dung, logia--legein, to speak; manteia, divination; skopein, to
view; phagein, to eat.]

SCATTER, skat'[.e]r, _v.t._ to disperse in all directions: to throw loosely
about: to strew: to sprinkle: to dispel: to put to flight: to drop: to
throw shot too loosely.--_v.i._ to be dispersed or dissipated.--_n._
SCATT'ERBRAIN, a thoughtless, giddy person.--_adjs._ SCATT'ER-BRAINED,
giddy; SCATT'ERED, widely separated: wandering: distracted:
irregular.--_ns._ SCATT'ERER, one who or that which scatters;
SCATT'ER-GOOD, a spendthrift; SCATT'ER-GUN, a shot-gun; SCATT'ERING,
something scattered: dispersion: that which has been scattered: the
irregular reflection of light from a surface not perfectly smooth.--_adj._
dispersing: rare, sporadic: diversified.--_adv._ SCATT'ERINGLY, in a
dispersed manner: here and there.--_ns._ SCATT'ERLING (_Spens._), one who
has no fixed abode: a vagabond; SCATT'ERMOUCH, any Latin or Levantine, in
Pacific slang.--_adj._ SCATT'ERY, dispersed: sparse: few and far between.
[A.S. _scateran_, scaterian; cf. _Shatter_.]

SCATURIENT, sk[=a]-t[=u]'ri-ent, _adj._ gushing like water from a fountain.
[L. _scatur[=i]re_, to gush out.]

SCAUD, skäd, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to scald: to scold.

SCAUP, skawp, _n._ a sea-duck of genus Aythya, of northern regions, related
to the pochard. [Ice. _skálp_--in _skálp-hæna_.]

SCAUPER, skaw'p[.e]r, _n._ a tool with semicircular face, used by
engravers. [Prob. scalper.]

SCAUR, skär, a Scotch form of scare.

SCAUR, skawr, _n._ a precipitous bank or rock.--Also SCAR. [_Scar_.]

SCAURY, skä'ri, _n._ a young gull in Shetland. [Scand., Sw. _skiura_.]

SCAVAGE, skav'[=a]j, _n._ a duty or toll anciently exacted by mayors, &c.,
on goods exposed for sale.

SCAVENGER, skav'en-j[.e]r, _n._ one who cleans the streets: an animal which
feeds on carrion: a child employed to pick up loose cotton from the floor
in a cotton-mill.--_ns._ SCAV'AGERY, street-cleansing; SCAV'AGING.--_v.t._
SCAV'ENGE, to cleanse.--_ns._ SCAV'ENGER-BEE'TLE, a beetle which acts as a
scavenger; SCAV'ENGER-CRAB, any crab which feeds on decaying animal matter;
SCAV'ENGERING; SCAV'ENGERISM; SCAV'ENGERY.--SCAVENGER'S DAUGHTER, an
instrument of torture by pressure with an iron hoop, invented by Sir W.
Skevington, Lieutenant of the Tower under Henry VIII. [Orig. _scavager_, an
inspector of goods for sale, and also of the streets; from _scavage_, duty
on goods for sale--A.S. _sceawian_, to inspect; cf. _Show_.]

SCAVERNICK, skav'[.e]r-nik, _n._ (_Cornish_) a hare.

SCAVILONES, skav'i-l[=o]nz, _n.pl._ men's drawers worn in the sixteenth
century under the hose.

SCAZON, sk[=a]'zon, _n._ in ancient prosody, a metre, the rhythm of which
is imperfect toward the close of the line or period. [Gr. _skaz[=o]n_,
limping.]

SCELERATE, sel'e-r[=a]t, _adj._ (_obs._) wicked, villainous.--_n._ a
villain--also SCEL'ERAT.--_adjs._ SCEL'EROUS, SCELES'TIC. [O. Fr.--L.
_sceleratus_--_scelus_, crime.]

SCELIDES, sel'i-d[=e]z, _n.pl._ the posterior limbs of a mammal.--_n._
SCEL'IDOSAUR, a dinosaur of the genus Scelidosaurus.--_adjs._
SCELIDOSAU'RIAN; SCELIDOSAU'ROID.--_n.pl._ SCELIDOSAU'RIDÆ, a family of
mailed dinosaurs.--_ns._ SCELIDOSAU'RUS, the typical genus of
Scelidosauridæ; SCELIO (s[=e]'li-[=o]), a genus of hymenopterous insects
parasitic in the eggs of grasshoppers and locusts; SCELOP'ORUS (_U.S._),
the common brown fence-lizard. [Gr. _skelis_, _skelidos_, a leg.]

SCELP, skelp, _n._ long strips of iron used in forming a gun-barrel.--Also
SKELP.

SCENA, s[=e]'na, _n._ the stage of an ancient theatre (_pl._ SCENÆ,
s[=e]'n[=e]): an elaborate dramatic solo (It., pron. sh[=a]'nä; pl.
SCE'NE).--_n._ SCENARIO (she-nä'ri-[=o]), a skeleton libretto of a dramatic
work. [L.]

SCEND, send, _n._ the upward angular displacement of a vessel--opposed to
_Pitch_, the correlative downward movement.--_v.i._ to heave upward. [A
corr. of _send_, influenced by _ascend_.]

SCENE, s[=e]n, _n._ a picture of the place of an action: a large painted
view: place of action, occurrence, or exhibition: the part of a play acted
without change of place: (_orig._) the stage of a theatre on which the
actors perform: a series of landscape events connected and exhibited: a
number of objects presented to the view at once: spectacle: view: any
unseemly or ill-timed display of strong feeling between persons.--_v.t._ to
exhibit: to display.--_ns._ SCENE'-DOCK, the space in a theatre adjoining
the stage, where scenery is stored when not in use; SCENE'-MAN, one who
manages the scenery in a theatre; SCENE'-PAINT'ER, one whose employment it
is to paint scenery for theatres; SC[=E]'NERY, the painted representation
on a stage: the appearance of anything presented to the eye: general aspect
of a landscape; SCENE'-SHIFT'ER (same as SCENE-MAN).--_adjs._ SC[=E]'NIC,
-AL, pertaining to scenery: dramatic: theatrical.--_adv._
SC[=E]'NICALLY.--_adjs._ SC[=E]NOGRAPH'IC, -AL, drawn in
perspective.--_adv._ SC[=E]NOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ SC[=E]NOG'RAPHY, the art
of perspective: representation in perspective.--BEHIND THE SCENES, at the
back of the visible stage; MAKE A SCENE, to make a noisy or otherwise
unwelcome exhibition of feeling. [L. _scena_--Gr. _sk[=e]n[=e]_, a covered
place, a stage.]

SCENT, sent, _v.t._ to discern by the sense of smell: to perfume: to have
some suspicion of.--_v.i._ to become odoriferous: to smell.--_n._ a
perfume: odour: sense of smell: chase followed by the scent: course of
pursuit: scraps of paper strewed on the ground by the pursued in the boys'
game of hare and hounds.--_ns._ SCENT'-BAG, the pouch of an animal which
secretes an odoriferous substance; SCENT'-BOTT'LE, a small bottle for
holding perfume; SCENT'-BOX.--_adjs._ SCENT'ED, perfumed; SCENT'FUL, highly
odoriferous: quick of scent: having a good nose, as a dog.--_n._
SCENT'-GLAND, a glandular organ which secretes such substances as musk or
castoreum.--_adv._ SCENT'INGLY, allusively: not directly.--_adj._
SCENT'LESS, having no scent or smell: destructive of scent.--_ns._
SCENT'-OR'GAN, a scent-gland; SCENT'-VASE, a vessel with a pierced cover
designed to contain perfumes. [Fr. _sentir_--L. _sent[=i]re_, to feel.]

SCEPTIC, -AL, SKEPTIC, -AL, skep'tik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the
philosophical school in ancient Greece of Pyrrho and his successors:
doubting: hesitating to admit the certainty of doctrines or principles:
(_theol._) doubting or denying the truth of revelation.--_ns._ SCEP'SIS,
SKEP'SIS, philosophic doubt; SCEP'TIC, one who is sceptical: (_theol._) one
who doubts or denies the existence of God or the truths of
revelation.--_adv._ SCEP'TICALLY.--_n._ SCEP'TICALNESS.--_v.i._
SCEP'TICISE, to act the sceptic.--_n._ SCEP'TICISM, that condition in which
the mind is before it has arrived at conclusive opinions: doubt: the
doctrine that no facts can be certainly known: agnosticism: (_theol._)
doubt of the existence of God or the truth of revelation. [L.
_scepticus_--Gr. _skeptikos_, thoughtful, _skeptesthai_, to consider.]

SCEPTRE, sep't[.e]r, _n._ the staff or baton borne by kings as an emblem of
authority: royal power.--_v.t._ to invest with royal power.--_adjs._
SCEP'TRAL, regal; SCEP'TRED, bearing a sceptre: regal.--_n._ SCEP'TREDOM,
reign.--_adjs._ SCEP'TRELESS, powerless, as a sceptreless king; SCEP'TRY,
bearing a sceptre, royal. [L. _sceptrum_--Gr. _sk[=e]ptron_--_sk[=e]ptein_,
to lean.]

SCERNE, s[.e]rn, _v.t._ (_obs._) to discern. [_Discern_.]

SCEUOPHYLACIUM, sk[=u]-[=o]-fi-l[=a]'shi-um, _n._ (_Gr. Church_) the
repository of the sacred vessels.--_n._ SCEUOPH'YLAX, a sacristan, church
treasurer. [Gr. _skeuos_, a vessel, _phylax_, a watcher.]

SCHÆFFERIA, shef-f[=e]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants, the
yellow-wood. [Named from _Schaeffer_, an 18th-cent. German botanist.]

SCHALENBLENDE, shä'len-blend, _n._ a variety of native zinc-sulphide.
[Ger., _schale_, shell, _blende_, blende.]

SCHAPPE, shap'pe, _n._ a fabric woven from spun silk.

SCHEDIASM, sk[=e]'di-azm, _n._ cursory writing on a loose sheet. [Gr.
_schediasma_--_schedon_, near.]

SCHEDULE, shed'[=u]l, _n._ a piece of paper containing some writing: a
list, inventory, or table.--_v.t._ to place in a schedule or list. [O. Fr.
_schedule_ (Fr. _cédule_)--L. _schedula_, dim. of _scheda_, a strip of
papyrus--L. _scind[)e]re_, to cleave; or from Gr. _sched[=e]_, a leaf.]

SCHEELITE, sh[=e]'l[=i]t, _n._ native calcium tungstate. [From the Swedish
chemist, K. W. _Scheele_ (1742-86).]

SCHEIK. Same as SHEIK.

SCHELLY, shel'i, _n._ a white fish.

SCHELM, skelm, _n._ (_Scot._) a rascal.--Also SCHEL'LUM, SHELM, SKEL'LUM.
[O. Fr. _schelme_--Old High Ger. _scalmo_, plague; cf. Ger. _schelm_, a
rogue.]

SCHELTOPUSIK, shel'to-p[=u]-sik, _n._ a Russian lizard.

SCHEMA, sk[=e]'ma, _n._ the image of the thing with which the imagination
aids the understanding in its procedure: scheme, plan, outline generally: a
diagrammatic outline or synopsis of anything: (_Gr. Church_) the monastic
habit.--_adj._ SCHEMAT'IC.--_v.t._ SCH[=E]'MATISE, to arrange in
outline.--_v.i._ to make a plan in outline.--_ns._ SCH[=E]'MATISM, form or
outline of a thing: (_astrol._) the combination of the heavenly bodies;
SCH[=E]'MATIST, a projector.

SCHEME, sk[=e]m, _n._ plan: something contrived to be done: purpose: plot:
a combination of things by design: a specific organisation for some end: an
illustrative diagram: a system: a statement in tabular form: a
representation of the aspect of the heavenly bodies at a given
time.--_v.t._ to plan: to contrive.--_v.i._ to form a plan.--_n._
SCHEME'-ARCH, an arch less than a semicircle.--_adj._ SCHEME'FUL.--_n._
SCH[=E]'MER.--_adj._ SCH[=E]'MING, given to forming schemes:
intriguing.--_adv._ SCH[=E]'MINGLY, by scheming.--_n._ SCH[=E]'MIST, a
schemer: an astrologer.--_adj._ SCH[=E]'MY, cunning: intriguing. [L.
_schema_--Gr. _sch[=e]ma_, form--_echein_, _sch[=e]sein_, to hold.]

SCHEPEN, sk[=a]'pen, _n._ a Dutch magistrate. [Dut.]

SCHEROMA, ske-r[=o]'ma, _n._ inflammation of the eye without discharge.
[Gr. _x[=e]ros_, dry.]

SCHERZO, sker'ts[=o], _n._ (_mus._) a passage or movement of a lively
character, forming part of a musical composition of some length, as a
symphony, quartette, or sonata.--_adj._ SCHERZAN'DO, playful. [It.
_scherzo_, a jest, _scherzare_, to play--Teut.; Mid. High Ger. _scherz_
(Ger. _scherz_, Dut. _scherts_), jest.]

SCHESIS, sk[=e]'sis, _n._ habitude.--_adj._ SCHET'IC, constitutional:
habitual. [Gr.,--_echein_, to have.]

SCHIAVONE, ski-a-v[=o]'ne, _n._ a backed, hilted broadsword of the 17th
century. [It., the Doge's bodyguard, the _Schiavoni_ or Slavs being armed
with it.]

SCHIEDAM, sk[=e]-dam', _n._ Hollands gin, named from the town near
Rotterdam where it is chiefly made.

SCHILLER, shil'[.e]r, _n._ the peculiar bronze-like lustre observed in
certain minerals, as hypersthene, &c., due to internal reflection.--_ns._
SCHILLERIS[=A]'TION, the process by which microscopic crystals have been
developed in other minerals so as to give a submetallic sheen by internal
reflection; SCHILL'ERITE, or SCHILL'ER-SPAR rock, enstatite schillerised.
[Ger.]

SCHINDYLESIS, skin-di-l[=e]'sis, _n._ an articulation formed by the fitting
of one bone into a groove in another, as in the sphenoid bone and
vomer.--_adj._ SCHINDYLET'IC. [Gr.,--_schindylein_; to cleave, _schizein_,
to cleave.]

SCHINUS, sk[=i]'nus, _n._ a genus of South American trees, of order
_Anacardiaceæ_, the leaves yielding abundantly a fragrant, resinous, or
turpentine-like fluid. [Gr. _schinos_, the mastic-tree.]

SCHIPPERKE, ship'p[.e]r-ke, _n._ a breed of dogs of the same group as the
Eskimo and Pomeranian dog, but with almost no tail, favourites of the
Belgian bargees. [Flem., 'little skipper.']

S-CHISEL, es-chiz'el, _n._ a cutting tool in well-boring.

SCHISIOPHONE, skiz'i-[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ an induction balance for detecting
flaws in iron rails. [Gr. _schisis_, a cleaving, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

SCHISM, sizm, _n._ a separation in a church, from diversity of opinion or
discipline, breach of unity without justifiable cause, also the tendency
towards such.--_ns._ SCHIS'MA (_mus._), the difference between a pure and
an equally tempered fifth; SCHISMAT'IC, one who separates from a church on
account of difference of opinion.--_adjs._ SCHISMAT'IC, -AL, tending to, or
of the nature of, schism.--_adv._ SCHISMAT'ICALLY.--_n._
SCHISMAT'ICALNESS.--_v.i._ SCHIS'MATISE, to practise schism: to make a
breach in the communion of the church:--_pr.p._ schis'mat[=i]sing; _pa.p._
schis'mat[=i]sed.--GREAT, or GREEK, SCHISM, the separation of the Greek
Church from the Latin, finally completed in 1054; WESTERN SCHISM, the
division in the Western Church on the appointment by the Romans of Urban
VI. to the papal chair in 1378, while the French cardinals elected Clement
VII.--healed on the election of Martin V. by the Council of Constance in
1417. [L. _schisma_--Gr. _schizein_, to split.]

SCHIST, shist, _n._ a term properly applied to crystalline rocks with a
foliated structure, as mica-schist, hornblende-schist, &c.--indurated
clay-rocks with a fissile structure are sometimes erroneously described as
schists.--_adjs._ SCHIST[=A]'CEOUS, slate-gray; SCHIST'IC, SCHIST'OUS,
SCHIST'OSE, like schist: slaty.--_n._ SCHISTOS'ITY, quality of being
schistose. [Fr. _schiste_--Gr. _schistos_--_schizein_, to split.]

SCHIZÆA, sk[=i]-z[=e]'a, _n._ a genus of ferns, with sporangia ovate,
sessile, and arranged in spikes or panicles. [Gr. _schizein_, to split.]

SCHIZOCARP, skiz'[=o]-kärp, _n._ a dry fruit which splits at maturity into
several closed one-seeded portions.--_adj._ SCHIZOCAR'POUS. [Gr.
_schizein_, to cleave, _karpos_, fruit.]

SCHIZOCEPHALY, skiz-[=o]-sef'a-li, _n._ the practice of preserving the
heads of warriors among Maoris, &c. [Gr. _schizein_, to cleave,
_kephal[=e]_, the head.]

SCHIZOCOELE, skiz'[=o]-s[=e]l, _n._ a term applied to the perivisceral
cavity of the _Invertebrata_, when formed by a splitting of the
mesoblast.--_adj._ SCHIZOCOE'LOUS. [Gr, _schizein_, to cleave, _koilia_, a
hollow.]

SCHIZODON, skiz'[=o]-don, _n._ a genus of South American octodont rodents.
[Gr. _schizein_, to cleave, _odous_, odontos, a tooth.]

SCHIZOGENESIS, skiz-[=o]-jen'e-sis _n._ reproduction by fission.--_adjs._
SCHIZOGEN'IC, SCHIZOGENET'IC.--_n._ SCHIZOG'ONY. [Gr. _schizein_, to
cleave, _genesis_, production.]

SCHIZOGNATHOUS, sk[=i]-zog'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ having the maxillo-palatine
bones separate from each other and from the vomer, as in the gulls,
plovers, &c.--_n.pl._ SCHIZOG'N[=A]THÆ, a subdivision of the carinate
birds.--_n._ SCHIZOG'N[=A]THISM. [Gr. _schizein_, to cleave, _gnathos_, the
jaw.]

SCHIZOMYCETES, skiz-[=o]-m[=i]-s[=e]'t[=e]z, _n._ a botanical term for
Bacteria, in reference to their commonest mode of reproduction--by
transverse division. [Gr. _schizein_, to cleave, _myk[=e]s_ (pl.
_myk[=e]tes_), a mushroom.]

SCHIZONEMERTEA, skiz-[=o]-n[=e]-mer't[=e]-a, _n.pl._ the sea-worms which
have the head fissured.--_adjs._ SCHIZONEMER'TEAN, SCHIZONEMER'TINE.

SCHIZONEURA, skiz-[=o]-n[=u]'ra, _n._ a genus of plant lice. [Gr.
_schizein_, to cleave, _neuron_, a nerve.]

SCIZOPHORA, sk[=i]-zof'[=o]-ra, _n.pl._ a division of dipterous insects.
[Gr. _schizein_, cleave, _pherein_, bear.]

SCHIZOPODA, sk[=i]-zop'[=o]-da, _n.pl._ a group of crustaceans, having the
feet cleft or double, including the opossum-shrimps and their
allies.--_adj._ and _n._ SCHIZ'OPOD. [Gr. _schizein_, to cleave, _pous_,
_podos_, the foot.]

SCHIZORHINAL, skiz-[=o]-r[=i]'nal, _adj._ having the nasal bones separate:
having the anterior nostrils prolonged in the form of a slit. [Gr.
_schizein_, to cleave, _rhis_, _rhinos_, the nose.]

SCHIZOTHECAL, skiz-[=o]-th[=e]'kal, _adj._ having the tarsal envelope
divided, as by scutella--opp. to _Holothecal_. [Gr. _schizein_, to cleave,
_th[=e]k[=e]_, a case.]

SCHIZOTROCHOUS, sk[=i]-zot'r[=o]-kus, _adj._ with a divided disc, as a
rotifer.--_n.pl._ SCHIZOT'ROCHA. [Gr. _schizein_, to cleave, _trochos_, a
wheel.]

SCHLÄGER, shl[=a]'g[.e]r, _n._ the modern duelling-sword of German
university students. [Ger.,--_schlagen_, to beat.]

SCHEGALIA, shle-g[=a]'li-a, _n._ a genus of birds of Paradise. [Named from
the Dutch ornithologist Hermann _Schlegel_ (1805-84).]

SCHLICH, shlik, _n._ the finer portions of crushed ore, separated by water.
[Ger.]

SCHMELZE, schmel'tse, _n._ glass used in decorative work. [Ger. _schmelz_,
enamel.]

SCHNAPPS, SCHNAPS, shnaps, _n._ Holland gin, Hollands. [Ger. _schnapps_, a
dram.]

SCHNEIDERIAN, shn[=i]-d[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the mucous membrane
of the nose--first described by the German anatomist C. V. _Schneider_
(1614-80).

SCHOENUS, sk[=e]'nus, _n._ a genus of monocotyledonous plants of the sedge
family. [Gr. _schoinos_, a rush.]

SCHOLAR, skol'ar, _n._ a pupil: a disciple: a student: one who has received
a learned education: a man of learning: a savant: in the English
universities, an undergraduate partly supported from the revenues of a
college.--_ns._ SCHOL'ARCH, the head of a school of philosophy;
SCHOL'ARISM, the affectation of scholarship.--_adjs._ SCHOL'AR-LIKE,
SCHOL'ARLY, like or becoming a scholar.--_n._ SCHOL'ARSHIP, the character
of a scholar: learning: maintenance for a scholar, a benefaction, the
annual proceeds of a bequest permanently invested for this purpose.--_adj._
SCHOLAS'TIC, pertaining to a scholar or to schools: scholar-like:
pertaining to the schoolmen: excessively subtle: pedantic.--_n._ one who
adheres to the method or subtleties of the schools of the middle
ages.--_adv._ SCHOLAS'TICALLY, in a scholastic manner: according to the
methods of the schools of philosophy.--_n._ SCHOLAS'TICISM, the aims,
methods, and products of thought which constituted the main endeavour of
the intellectual life of the middle ages: the method or subtleties of the
schools of philosophy: the collected body of doctrines of the schoolmen.
[Low L. _scholaris_--L. _schola_.]

SCHOLIAST, sk[=o]'li-ast, _n._ one of a class of ancient grammarians,
mostly anonymous, who wrote short notes on the margins of the MSS. of
ancient Greek and Roman classics, a writer of scholia: an annotator: a
commentator.--_adj._ SCHOLIAS'TIC, pertaining to a scholiast or to
scholia.--_ns._ SCH[=O]'LION, SCH[=O]'LIUM, one of the marginal notes of
the old critics on the ancient classics: (_math._) an explanation tion
added to a problem:--_pl._ SCH[=O]'LIA, SCH[=O]'LIUMS. [Gr.
_scholiast[=e]s_--_scholion_, a scholium.]

SCHOOL, sk[=oo]l, _n._ a place for instruction: an institution of learning,
esp. for children: the pupils of a school: exercises for instruction: the
disciples of a particular teacher, or those who hold a common doctrine: a
large number of fish migrating together, a shoal: a system of training: any
means of knowledge, esp. (_mus._) a treatise teaching some particular
branch of the art: a large hall in English universities, where the
examinations for degrees, &c., are held--hence, one of these examinations
(gen. _pl._) also the group of studies taken by a man competing for honours
in these: a single department of a university: (_pl._) the body of masters
and students in a college.--_v.t._ to educate in a school: to instruct: to
admonish, to discipline.--_adj._ SCHOOL'ABLE, of school age.--_ns._
SCHOOL'-BOARD, a board of managers, elected by the ratepayers, whose duty
it is to see that adequate means of education are provided for the children
of a town or district; SCHOOL'-BOY, a boy attending a school: one learning
the rudiments of a subject; SCHOOL'-CLERK, one versed in the learning of
schools; SCHOOL'-CRAFT, learning; SCHOOL'-DAME, a schoolmistress.--_n.pl._
SCHOOL'-DAYS, the time of life during which one goes to school.--_ns._
SCHOOL'-DIVINE'; SCHOOL'-DIVIN'ITY, scholastic or seminary theology;
SCHOOL'-DOC'TOR, a schoolman; SCHOOL'ERY (_Spens._), something taught,
precepts; SCHOOL'-FELL'OW, one taught at the same school: an associate at
school; SCHOOL'GIRL a girl attending school.--_n.pl._ SCHOOL'-HOURS, time
spent at school in acquiring instruction.--_ns._ SCHOOL'-HOUSE, a house of
discipline and instruction: a house used as a school: a schoolmaster's
house; SCHOOL'ING, instruction in school: tuition: the price paid for
instruction: reproof, reprimand; SCHOOL'-INSPEC'TOR, an official appointed
to examine schools; SCHOOL'-MA'AM, a schoolmistress; SCHOOL'-MAID, a
school-girl; SCHOOL'MAN, one of the philosophers and theologians of the
second half of the middle ages; SCHOOL'MASTER, the master or teacher of a
school, a pedagogue:--_fem._ SCHOOL'MISTRESS, a woman who teaches or who
merely governs a school; SCHOOL'-MATE, one who attends the same school;
SCHOOL'-NAME, an abstract term, an abstraction; SCHOOL'-PENCE, a small sum
paid for school-teaching; SCHOOL'-POINT, a point for scholastic
disputation; SCHOOL'-ROOM, a room for teaching in: school accommodation;
SCHOOL'-SHIP, a vessel used for teaching practical navigation.--_adj._
SCHOOL'-TAUGHT, taught at school or in the schools.--_ns._
SCHOOL'-TEACH'ER, one who teaches in a school; SCHOOL'-TEACH'ING;
SCHOOL'-TIME, the time at which a school opens; SCHOOL'-WHALE, one of a
school of whales; BOARD'-SCHOOL, a school under the control of a
school-board.--GRAMMAR SCHOOL, HIGH SCHOOL, a school of secondary
instruction, standing between the primary school and the university;
NATIONAL SCHOOLS, those schools in Ireland which are under the
commissioners of national education; OXFORD SCHOOL, a name given to that
party which adopted the principles contained in the _Tracts for the Times_
(cf. _Tractarianism_); PAROCHIAL SCHOOLS, in Scotland, schools in every
parish for general education; PRIMARY SCHOOL, a school for elementary
instruction; PUBLIC SCHOOL, an elementary or primary school: a school under
the control of a school-board: an endowed classical school for providing a
liberal education for such as can pay high for it--Eton, Harrow, Rugby,
Winchester, Westminster, Shrewsbury, Charterhouse, St Paul's, and Merchant
Taylors', &c.; RAGGED SCHOOL, a free school for destitute children's
education and often maintenance, supported by voluntary efforts; SUNDAY
SCHOOL, a school held on Sunday for religious instruction; TÜBINGEN SCHOOL,
a rationalistic school of theologians founded by F. C. Baur (1792-1860),
which explained the origin of the Catholic Church as due to the gradual
fusion of an antagonistic Judaistic and Gentile party, the various stages
of fusion being capable of being traced in the extant documents.--THE
SCHOOLMASTER IS ABROAD, a phrase of Brougham's implying that education and
intelligence are now widely spread. [L. _schola_--Gr. _schol[=e]_, leisure,
a school.]

[Illustration]

SCHOONER, sk[=oo]n'[.e]r, _n._ a sharp-built, swift-sailing vessel,
generally two-masted, rigged either with fore-and-aft sails on both masts,
or with square top and topgallant sails on the foremast: an old form of
covered emigrant-wagon: a large drinking-glass.--_n._ SCHOON'ER-SMACK, a
sharp-bowed schooner. [Coined in New England from the prov. Eng. _scoon_
(Scot. _scon_), to make a flat stone skip along the surface of water; A.S.
_scúnian_.]

SCHORL, shorl, _n._ black tourmaline--also SHORL.--_adjs._
SCHORL[=A]'CEOUS, SCHOR'LOUS, SCHOR'LY. [Ger. _schörl_, prob. from Sw.
_skör_, brittle.]

SCHOTTISCHE, sho-t[=e]sh', _n._ a dance resembling a polka, danced by a
couple: music adapted for the dance.--Also SCHOTTISH'. [Ger., 'Scottish.']

SCHOUT, skout, _n._ a municipal officer in the North American Dutch
colonies. [Dut.]

SCHRANKIA, shrang'ki-a, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants, whose six
species are all American--including the _sensitive-briar_. [Named from the
German naturalist F. von Paula _Schrank_ (1747-1835).]

SCHUCHIN, skuch'in, _n._ an obsolete form of _escutcheon_.

SCHWEINITZIA, shw[=i]-nit'zi-a, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants of the
Indian-pipe family, including the sweet pine-sap or Carolina beech-drops.
[The Amer. botanist L. D. von _Schweinitz_ (1780-1834).]

SCHWENKFELDER, shwengk'fel-d[.e]r, _n._ a member of a religious sect,
founded by Caspar von _Schwenkfeld_ (1490-1561), still found in
Pennsylvania.--Also SCHWENK'FELDIAN.

SCIADIACEÆ, s[=i]-ad-i-[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n._ a family of fresh-water algæ,
its typical genus _Sciadium_.

SCIAGRAPHY, s[=i]-ag'ra-fi, _n._ the art of casting and delineating shadows
as they fall in nature: (_archit._) the vertical section of a building to
show its interior structure: the art of dialling.--_ns._ SC[=I]'AGRAPH;
SC[=I]AG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ SC[=I]AGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._
SC[=I]AGRAPH'ICALLY. [Gr. _skiagraphia_--_skia_, a shadow, _graphein_, to
write.]

SCIAMACHY, s[=i]-am'a-ki, _n._ Same as SCIOMACHY.

SCIAMETRY, s[=i]-am'e-tri, _n._ the doctrine of eclipses. [Gr. _skia_,
shadow, _metrein_, to measure.]

SCIARA, s[=i]'a-ra, _n._ a genus of gnats or midges. [Gr. _skiaros_,
shady--_skia_, a shadow.]

SCIATH, s[=i]'ath, _n._ an oblong shield of wicker-work formerly used in
Ireland. [Ir. _sciath_.]

SCIATHERIC, -AL, s[=i]-a-ther'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to a sundial. [Gr.
_skiath[=e]ron_--_skia_, shadow, _theran_, catch.]

SCIATICA, s[=i]-at'i-ka, _n._ a neuralgic affection of the great sciatic
nerve.--_adjs._ SCIAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or affecting, the hip,
ischiac.--_adv._ SCIAT'ICALLY. [Low L. _sciatica_--Gr. _ischion_.]

SCIENCE, s[=i]'ens, _n._ knowledge systematised: truth ascertained: pursuit
of knowledge or truth for its own sake: knowledge arranged under general
truths and principles: that which refers to abstract principles, as
distinguished from 'art:' pre-eminent skill: trade: a department of
knowledge.--_n._ SCIB'ILE, something capable of being known.--_adjs._
SC[=I]'ENCED, versed, learned; SC[=I]'ENT, knowing; SCIEN'TIAL (_Milt._),
producing science: skilful; SCIENTIF'IC, -AL (_obs._), producing or
containing science: according to, or versed in, science: used in science:
systematic: accurate.--_adv._ SCIENTIF'ICALLY.--_ns._ SC[=I]'ENTISM, the
view of scientists; SC[=I]'ENTIST, one who studies science, esp. natural
science.--_adjs._ SCIENTIS'TIC.--_adv._ SC[=I]'ENTLY, knowingly.--_n._
SCIENT'OLISM, false science, superficial knowledge.--SCIENTIFIC FRONTIER, a
term used by Lord Beaconsfield in 1878 in speaking of the rectification of
the boundaries between India and Afghanistan, meaning a frontier capable of
being occupied and defended according to the requirements of the science of
strategy, in opposition to 'a hap-hazard frontier.'--ABSOLUTE SCIENCE,
knowledge of things in themselves; APPLIED SCIENCE, when its laws are
exemplified in dealing with concrete phenomena; DISMAL SCIENCE, political
economy; GAY SCIENCE, a medieval name for belles-lettres and poetry
generally, esp. amatory poetry; INDUCTIVE SCIENCE (see INDUCT); LIBERAL
SCIENCE, a science cultivated from love of knowledge, without view to
profit; MENTAL SCIENCE, mental philosophy, psychology; MORAL SCIENCE,
ethics, the science of right and wrong, moral responsibility; OCCULT
SCIENCE, a name applied to the physical sciences of the middle ages, also
to magic, sorcery, witchcraft, &c.; SANITARY SCIENCE (see SANITARY); THE
EXACT SCIENCES, the mathematical sciences; THE SCIENCE, the art of boxing;
THE SEVEN LIBERAL SCIENCES, grammar, logic, rhetoric, arithmetic, music,
geometry, and astronomy--these were the seven TERRESTRIAL SCIENCES, as
opposed to the seven CELESTIAL SCIENCES, civil law, Christian law,
practical theology, devotional theology, dogmatic theology, mystic
theology, and polemical theology. [Fr.,--L. _scientia_--_sciens_, _-entis_,
pr.p. of _sc[=i]re_, to know.]

SCIL, an abbreviation of _scilicet_.

SCILICET, sil'i-set, _adv._ to wit, namely, videlicet.

SCILLA, sil'a, _n._ a genus of liliaceous plants, as the squill. [L.,--Gr.
_skilla_, a sea-onion.]

SCILLOCEPHALUS, sil-[=o]-sef'a-lus, _n._ a person with a conical
cranium.--_adjs._ SCILLOCEPH'ALOUS. [Gr. _skilla_, a squill, _kephal[=e]_,
a head.]

SCIMITAR, sim'i-tar, _n._ a short, single-edged curved sword, broadest at
the point end, used by the Turks and Persians.--_n._ SCIM'ITAR-POD, a
strong, shrubby climber of the tropics. [O. Fr. _cimeterre_--Old It.
_cimitara_--Turk.,--Pers. _shimsh[=i]r_ (perh. 'lion's claw,' _sham_, a
claw, _sh[=i]r_, _sher_, a lion); or perh. through Sp. _cimitarra_, from
Basque _cimeterra_, something 'with a fine edge.']

SCINCOID, sing'koid, _n._ one of a family of saurian reptiles, the typical
genus of which is the SCIN'CUS or skink.--_adjs._ like a skink. [L.
_scincus_--Gr. _skingkos_, a kind of lizard, _eidos_, form.]

SCINDAPSUS, sin-dap'sus, _n._ a genus of climbing plants.

SCINTILLA, sin-til'a, _n._ a spark: a glimmer: the least particle: a trace:
a genus of bivalve molluscs: a genus of lepidopterous insects.--_adjs._
SCIN'TILLANT; SCIN'TILLANTE (_mus._), brilliant.--_v.i._ SCIN'TILLATE, to
throw out sparks: to sparkle.--_n._ SCINTILL[=A]'TION, act of throwing out
sparks: shining with a twinkling light.--_adj._ SCINTILLES'CENT,
scintillating feebly.--_n._ SCINTILLOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring
the intensity of scintillation of the stars. [L., a spark.]

SCIOGRAPHY, s[=i]-og'ra-fi, _n._ Same as SCIAGRAPHY.

SCIOLISM, s[=i]'[=o]-lizm, _n._ superficial knowledge.--_n._ SC[=I]'OLIST,
one who knows anything superficially: a pretender to science.--_adjs._
SC[=I]OLIS'TIC, pertaining to, or partaking of, sciolism: pertaining to, or
resembling, a sciolist; SC[=I]'OLOUS. [L. _sciolus_, dim. of _scius_,
knowing--_sc[=i]re_, to know.]

SCIOLTO, shi-ol't[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) free, unrestrained. [It.]

SCIOMACHY, s[=i]-om'a-ki, _n._ a battle or fighting with shadows: imaginary
or futile combat.--Also SCIAM'ACHY. [Gr. _skiamachia_,
_skiomachia_--_skia_, shadow, _mach[=e]_, battle.]

SCIOMANCY, s[=i]'[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by means of the shades of the
dead.

SCION, s[=i]'on, _n._ a cutting or twig for grafting: a young member of a
family: a descendant. [O. Fr. _sion_, _cion_--L. _section-em_, a
cutting--_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SCIOPTIC, s[=i]-op'tik, _adj._ noting a certain optical arrangement for
forming images in a darkened room, consisting of a globe with a lens fitted
to a camera, and made to turn like the eye--also SCIOP'TRIC.--_ns._
SCIOP'TICON; SCIOP'TICS. [Gr. _skia_, shadow, _optikos_, pertaining to
sight.]

SCIOTHEISM, s[=i]'[=o]-th[=e]-izm, _n._ ancestor-worship.

SCIOTHERIC. Same as SCIATHERIC (q.v.).

SCIOUS, sc[=i]'us, _adj._ (_obs._) knowing.

SCIRE FACIAS, s[=i]'re f[=a]'shi-as, _n._ (_law_) a writ to enforce the
execution of judgments, or to quash them.

SCIRPUS, sir'pus, _n._ a genus of monocotyledonous plants, including the
bulrushes. [L., a rush.]

SCIRRHUS, skir'us, or sir'us, _n._ (_med._) a hardened gland forming a
tumour: a hardening, esp. that preceding cancer.--_adjs._ SCIRR'HOID,
resembling scirrhus; SCIRR'HOUS, hardened, proceeding from scirrhus.
[L.,--Gr. _skirros_, _skiros_, a tumour.]

SCIRTOPOD, sir't[=o]-pod, _adj._ having limbs fitted for leaping.--_n.pl._
SCIRTOP'ODA, an order of saltatorial rotifers. [Gr. _skirtan_, leap,
_pous_, foot.]

SCISCITATION, sis-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ (_obs._) the act of inquiry: demand.
[L.,--_sciscit[=a]ri_, to inquire--_scisc[)e]re_, to seek to
know--_sc[=i]re_, to know.]

SCISSEL, sis'el, _n._ the clippings of various metals: scrap--also
SCISS'IL. [O. Fr. _cisaille_--_ciseler_--_cisel_, a chisel (q.v.). The
spelling has been adapted in the interests of a fancied connection with L.
_scind[)e]re_, _scissum_, to divide.]

SCISSORS, siz'orz, _n.pl._ a cutting instrument consisting of two blades
fastened at the middle: shears.--_v.i._ SCISE, s[=i]z (_obs._), to cut: to
penetrate.--_adjs._ SCISS'IBLE, SCISS'ILE, capable of being cut.--_ns._
SCIS'SION, the act of cutting: division: splitting; SCISSIPAR'ITY,
reproduction by fission.--_v.t._ SCISS'OR, to cut with scissors.--_ns._
SCISS'OR-BILL, a skimmer; SCISS'OR-TAIL, an American bird, the
scissor-tailed fly-catcher; SCISS'OR-TOOTH, the sectorial tooth of a
carnivore which cuts against its fellow; SCISS[=U]'RA (_anat._), a fissure,
a cleft; SCIS'SURE, a cleft: a fissure: a rupture: a division;
SCISSUREL'LA, a genus of gasteropods with a shell deeply cut. [Formerly
written _cisors_--O. Fr. _cisoires_, conn. with Fr. _ciseaux_, scissors,
from Late L. _cisorium_, a cutting instrument--L. _cæd[)e]re_, _cæsum_, to
cut.]

SCIURIDÆ, s[=i]-[=u]'ri-d[=e], _n._ a family of rodent mammals containing
the squirrels and their allies.--_adjs._ SC[=I]'[=U]RINE,
SC[=I]'[=U]ROID.--_ns._ SCI[=U]ROP'TERUS, one of two genera of flying
squirrels; SCI[=U]'RUS, a genus of _Sciuridæ_, the arboreal squirrels. [Gr.
_skiouros_.]

SCLATE, skl[=a]t, _n._ an obs. or prov. form of _slate_.

SCLAVE, SCLAVONIAN, &c. See SLAV, SLAVONIC.

SCLERA, skl[=e]'ra, _n._ the sclerotic coat of the eye-ball.--_n._
SCL[=E]'RAGOGY, severe discipline.--_adj._ SCL[=E]'RAL.--_ns._
SCL[=E]RAN'THUS, a genus of apetalous plants, including the knawel or
German knot-grass; SCLERE, in sponges, a skeletal element;
SCL[=E]RENCH'YMA, the hard parts of corals or plants.--_adj._
SCLERENCHYM'ATOUS.--_ns._ SCL[=E]'RIA, a genus of monocotyledonous plants,
of the sedge family; SCLER[=I]'ASIS, sclerodermia; SCL[=E]'RITE, any hard
part of the integument of arthropods.--_adj._ SCLERIT'IC.--_n._
SCL[=E]'ROBASE, a dense corneous mass, as in red coral.--_adj._
SCLEROB[=A]'SIC.--_ns._ SCL[=E]ROBR[=A]'CHIA, an order of brachiopods;
SCL[=E]'RODERM, hardened integument or exo-skeleton, esp. of a coral: a
madrepore.--_n.pl._ SCLERODER'MATA, the scaly reptiles: the
madrepores.--_n._ SCL[=E]RODER'MIA, a chronic non-inflammatory affection of
the skin, which becomes thick and rigid.--_adjs._ SCLERODER'MIC,
SCLERODER'MOUS, SCLERODERMIT'IC.--_ns._ SCLERODER'MITE; SCL[=E]'ROGEN, the
thickening matter of woody cells, as in walnut-shells, &c.--_adjs._
SCLEROG'ENOUS, producing sclerous tissue: mail-cheeked, as a fish;
SCL[=E]'ROID, hard, scleritic.--_ns._ SCL[=E]R[=O]'MA, sclerosis;
SCL[=E]ROM[=E]'NINX, the dura mater; SCL[=E]ROM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the hardness of a mineral.--_adjs._ SCL[=E]R[=O]'SAL,
SCL[=E]'ROSED.--_ns._ SCL[=E]R[=O]'SIS, a hardening: (_bot._) the
induration of a tissue; SCL[=E]ROS'TOMA, a genus of nematode worms;
SCL[=E]R[=O]'TAL, a bone of the eye-ball.--_adj._ relating to such.--_adj._
SCL[=E]ROT'IC, hard, firm, applied esp. to the outer membrane of the
eye-ball: pertaining to sclerosis: relating to ergot.--_n._ the outermost
membrane of the eye-ball.--_ns._ SCL[=E]ROT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
sclerotic; SCL[=E]R[=O]'TIUM, a hard, multicellular tuber-like body formed
towards the end of the vegetative season by the close union of the ordinary
mycelial filaments of Fungi.--_adjs._ SCL[=E]'ROUS, hard or indurated:
ossified or bony; SCL[=E]RUR'INE, having stiff, hard tail-feathers, as a
bird of the genus _Sclerurus_. [Gr. _skl[=e]ros_, hard.]

SCOAT, sk[=o]t, _v.t._ to prop, to block, to scotch, as a wheel.--Also
SCOTE. [O. Fr. _ascouter_--_ascot_, a branch--Teut., Old High Ger. _scuz_,
a shoot; Ger. _schuss_.]

SCOBBY, skob'i, _n._ the chaffinch.--Also SC[=O]'BY.

SCOBS, skobz, _n._ sawdust: shavings: dross of metals.--_adj._ SCOB'IFORM,
resembling sawdust or raspings.--_n._ SCOB[=I]'NA, the pedicle of the
spikelets of grasses. [L. _scobis_--_scab[)e]re_, to scrape.]

SCOFF, skof, _v.t._ to mock: to treat with scorn.--_v.i._ to show contempt
or scorn: to deride, taunt, gibe.--_n._ an expression of scorn or contempt:
an object of scoffing.--_n._ SCOFF'ER.--_adv._ SCOFF'INGLY, in a scoffing
manner: with mockery or contempt. [Old Fris. _schof_; Ice. _skaup_, cf. Old
Dut. _schoppen_, to scoff.]

SCOGANISM, sk[=o]'gan-izm, _n._ a scurrilous jesting. [From _Scogan_, the
name of a famous jester.]

SCOGIE, sk[=o]'ji, _n._ (_Scot._) a kitchen drudge.

SCOLD, sk[=o]ld, _v.i._ to rail in a loud and violent manner: to find
fault.--_v.t._ to chide rudely: to rebuke in words.--_n._ a rude, clamorous
woman: a termagant.--_ns._ SCOLD'ER; SCOLD'ING, railing: a rating;
SCOLD'ING-STOOL, a cucking-stool. [Old Dut. _scheldan_; Ger. _schelten_, to
brawl, to scold.]

SCOLECIDA, sk[=o]-les'i-da, _n._ a class of worms consisting of the
wheel-animalcules, turbellarians, trematode worms, &c.--_adj._
SCOLEC'IFORM.--_ns._ SCOLEC[=I]'NA, a group of annelids typified by the
earth-worm--also SCOLE[=I]'NA; SCOL'EC[=I]TE, a hydrous silicate of
aluminium and calcium.--_adjs._ SCOL[=E]'COID, like a scolex;
SCOL[=E]COPH'AGOUS, worm-eating, as a bird.--_n._ SCOLECOPH'AGUS, a genus
of birds including the maggot-eaters or rusty grackles.--_n.pl._
SCOLECOPHID'IA, a division of angiostomous serpents.--_adj._
SCOLECOPHID'IAN, worm-like, as a snake.--_n._ SC[=O]'LEX, the embryo of an
entozoic worm. [Gr. _sk[=o]l[=e]x_, a worm.]

SCOLIA, sk[=o]-li-a, _n._ a genus of fossorial hymenopterous insects. [Gr.
_sk[=o]los_, a prickle.]

SCOLIODON, sk[=o]-l[=i]'[=o]-don, _n._ the genus containing the
oblique-toothed sharks. [Gr. _skolios_, oblique, _odous_, _odontis_, a
tooth.]

SCOLISOIS, skol-i-[=o]'sis, _n._ lateral curvature of the spinal
column.--_adj._ SCOLIOT'IC. [Gr.,--_skolios_, oblique.]

SCOLITE, sk[=o]'l[=i]t, _n._ a fossil worm or its trace. [Gr. _skolios_,
oblique.]

SCOLLOP. Same as SCALLOP.

SCOLOPACEOUS, skol-[=o]-p[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ resembling a snipe.--_n.pl._
SCOLOPAC'IDÆ, a family of wading-birds containing snipes, &c.--_adjs._
SCOL'OPACINE, SCOL'OPACOID.--_n._ SCOL'OPAX. [L. _scolopax_, a snipe.]

SCOLOPENDRA, skol-[=o]-pen'dra, _n._ a genus of _Myriapoda_, having a long,
slender, depressed body, protected by coriaceous plates, and having at
least twenty-one pairs of legs: (_Spens._) an imaginary fish or
sea-monster.--_adj._ SCOLOPEN'DRIFORM, SCOLOPEN'DRINE.--_n._
SCOLOPEN'DRIUM, a genus of asplenioid ferns, generally called
_Hart's-tongue_. [L.,--Gr. _skolopendra_, a milliped.]

SCOLYTUS, skol'i-tus, _n._ typical genus of SCOLYT'IDÆ, a family of bark
beetles.--_adj._ SCOL'YTOID. [Gr. _skolyptein_, to strip.]

SCOMBER, skom'b[.e]r, _n._ a genus of acanthopterygian fishes typical of
the family _Scombridæ_, to which belong mackerel, tunnies, bonitos,
&c.--_ns._ SCOMBER'ESOX, the mackerel pikes, saury pikes, or sauries;
SCOMBEROM'ORUS, the Spanish mackerel and related species.--_adjs._
SCOM'BRIFORM, SCOM'BRID, -AL, SCOM'BROID. [L.,--Gr. _skombros_, a
mackerel.]

SCOMFISH, skom'fish, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to suffocate by bad air: to nauseate:
to discomfit.--_v.i._ to be suffocated. [A corr. of obs.
_scomfit_=_discomfit_.]

SCOMM, skom, _n._ (_obs._) a flout: a buffoon. [L. _scomma_--Gr.
_sk[=o]mma_, a jest.]

SCONCE, skons, _n._ a bulwark: a small fort: a protective headpiece, hence
the head, the skull, brains, wits: a covered stall: a fine: a seat in an
old-fashioned open chimney-place, a chimney-seat: a fragment of an
icefloe.--_v.t._ to fortify: to tax, to fine lightly, at Oxford and
Cambridge, for some irregularity. [O. Fr. _esconcer_, to conceal--L.
_abscond[)e]re_, _absconsum_.]

SCONCE, skons, _n._ the part of a candlestick for the candle: a hanging
candlestick with a mirror to reflect the light: a lantern. [O. Fr.
_esconse_--Low L. _absconsa_, a dark-lantern--_abscond[)e]re_, to hide.]

SCONCHEON. Same as SQUINCH.

SCONE, sk[=o]n, _n._ (_Scot._) a soft cake fired on a griddle. [Perh. Gael.
_sgonn_, a shapeless mass.]

SCOON, sk[=oo]n, _v.t._ to skim along like a vessel: (_Scot._) to skip flat
stones on the surface of water. [_Scun_.]

SCOOP, sk[=oo]p, _v.t._ to lift up, as water, with something hollow: to
empty with a ladle: to make hollow: to dig out: to dredge for grain: to get
before a rival newspaper in publishing some important piece of news.--_n._
anything hollow for scooping: a large hollow shovel or ladle: a banker's
shovel: a coal-scuttle: a haul of money made in speculation: a place
hollowed out: a sweeping stroke: (_Scot._) the peak of a cap: the act of
beating another newspaper in publishing some news.--_ns._ SCOOP'ER, an
engraver's tool; SCOOP'ING, the action of the right whale in feeding;
SCOOP'-NET, a hand-net; SCOOP'-WHEEL, a wheel having buckets attached to
its circumference, used for raising water. [Prob. Scand., Sw. _skopa_, a
scoop; or Old Dut. _schoepe_, a shovel, Ger. _schüppe_, a shovel.]

SCOOT, sk[=oo]t, _v.i._ to make off with celerity.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to
squirt.--_n._ a sudden flow of water: a squirt. [A variant of _shoot_.]

SCOPA, sk[=o]'pa, _n._ (_entom._) a mass of stiff hairs like a brush.--_n._
SCOP[=A]'RIA, a genus of pyralid moths: a genus of gamopetalous plants--the
West Indian _sweet bromweed_.--_adjs._ SCOP[=A]'RIOUS, scopiform;
SC[=O]'PATE, covered with stiff hairs; SC[=O]PIF'EROUS, brushy;
SC[=O]'PIFORM, broom-shaped.--_ns._ SCOP'ULA (_entom._), a small brush-like
organ; SCOPUL[=A]'RIA, in a sponge, the besom-shaped spicule.--_adjs._
SCOP'[=U]LATE, broom-shaped; SCOP'[=U]LIFORM, scopiform; SCOP'[=U]LIPED,
SC[=O]'PIPED, having brushy feet, as solitary bees. [L. _scopa_, twigs.]

SCOPE, sk[=o]p, _n._ that which one sees, space as far as one can see: room
or opportunity for free outlook: space for action: the end before the mind:
intention: length of cable at which a vessel rides at liberty: a
target.--_adjs._ SCOPE'FUL, with a wide prospect; SCOPE'LESS, purposeless,
useless. [It. _scopo_--Gr. _skopos_--_skopein_, to view.]

SCOPE, sk[=o]p, _n._ (_obs._) a bundle, as of twigs. [L. _scopa_, twigs.]

SCOPELIDÆ, sk[=o]-pel'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of deep-water teleostean
fishes, the typical genus SCOP'ELUS. [Gr. _skopelos_, a rock.]

SCOPIDÆ, skop'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ an African family of wading-birds, as the
shadow-birds, the typical genus SC[=O]'PUS.

SCOPIOUS, sk[=o]'pi-us, _adj._ (_obs._) spacious.

SCOPPERIL, skop'e-ril, _n._ a top: teetotum: the bone-foundation of a
button. [Ice. _skoppa_, to spin.]

SCOPS, skops, _n._ the screech-owl. [Gr. _sk[=o]ps_.]

SCOPTIC, skop'tik, _adj._ mocking: jesting. [_Scomm_.]

SCOPULOUS, skop'[=u]-lus, _adj._ full of rocks. [L. _scopulus_--Gr.
_skopelos_, a high rock.]

SCORBUTIC, -AL, skor-b[=u]'tik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to, resembling, or
diseased with scurvy. [Low L. _scorbutus_, scurvy, prob. from Old Low Ger.
_schorbock_, scurvy, Old Dut. _scheurbuyck_, scurvy. Prob. orig. meaning
'rupture of the belly,' for Old Dut. _scheuren_, to tear, _buyck_ (mod.
Dut. _buik_), the belly.]

SCORCH, skorch, _v.t._ to burn slightly: to roast highly: to affect
painfully with heat: to singe: to attack with virulence.--_v.i._ to be
burned on the surface: to be dried up: (_slang_) to ride a bicycle
furiously on a public highway.--_ns._ SCORCHED'-CAR'PET, -WING, British
geometrid moths; SCORCH'ER, anything that scorches, a very caustic rebuke,
criticism, &c.: one who rides a bicycle furiously on a road;
SCORCH'ING.--_p.adj._ burning superficially: bitterly sarcastic,
scathing.--_adv._ SCORCH'INGLY.--_n._ SCORCH'INGNESS. [O. Fr. _escorcher_,
from Low L. _excorticare_--L. _ex_, off, _cortex_, _corticis_, bark; or
prob. Scand., Norw. _skrekka_, to shrink.]

SCORDATO, sk[=o]r-dä't[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) put out of tune.--_n._
SCORDAT[=U]'RA, in stringed musical instruments, an intentional departure
from the normal tuning. [It.]

SCORE, sk[=o]r, _n._ a mark or notch for keeping count: a line drawn: the
number twenty, once represented by a larger notch: a reckoning: a debt: the
register of the various points of play in a game: account: reason: the
original draught of a musical composition with all the parts, or its
transcript.--_v.t._ to mark with notches or lines: to furrow: to set down:
to charge: to engrave: to braid: to note: to enter: to make points, &c., in
certain games.--_v.i._ to keep, or to run up, a score: to succeed in making
points, &c., in a game.--_ns._ SC[=O]R'ER, one who keeps the marks in a
game; SC[=O]R'ING, the act of one who, or that which, scores: a deep groove
made by glacial action: the act of repeatedly bringing a racer and his
rider to the starting-point, so as to get a fair start.--GO OFF AT SCORE,
to make a spirited start; PAY OFF OLD SCORES, to repay old grudges; RUN UP
A SCORE, to run up a debt. [A.S. _scor_--_sceran_ (pa.p. _scoren_), to
shear.]

SCORIA, sk[=o]'ri-a, _n._ dross or slag left from metal or ores after being
under fire: a genus of geometrid moths:--_pl._ SC[=O]'RIÆ, volcanic
ashes.--_adjs._ SC[=O]'RIAC, SCORI[=A]'CEOUS.--_ns._ SCORIFIC[=A]'TION, the
act or operation of reducing a body to scoria: a method of assaying by
fusing the ore with metallic lead and borax in a scorifier; SCOR'IF[=I]ER,
a flat dish used in such a form of assaying.--_adj._ SC[=O]'RIFORM, like
scoria.--_v.t._ SC[=O]'RIFY, to reduce to slag.--_adj._ SC[=O]'RIOUS.
[L.,--Gr. _sk[=o]ria_.]

SCORN, skorn, _n._ disdain caused by a mean opinion of anything: extreme
contempt: object of contempt.--_v.t._ to hold in extreme contempt: to
disdain: to make a mock of.--_v.i._ to scoff: to jeer.--_n._ SCOR'NER, one
who scorns: (_B._) one who scoffs at religion: a scoffer.--_adj._
SCORN'FUL, full of scorn: contemptuous: disdainful.--_adv._
SCORN'FULLY.--_ns._ SCORN'FULNESS; SCOR'NING.--LAUGH TO SCORN (_B._), to
deride; THINK SCORN, to disdain or despise. [O. Fr. _escarn_, mockery--Old
High Ger. _skern_, mockery.]

SCORODITE, skor'[=o]-d[=i]t, _n._ a hydrous arseniate of iron.--Also
SKOR'ODITE. [Gr. _skorodon_, _skordon_, garlic.]

SCORPÆNA, skor-p[=e]'na, _n._ a genus of fishes, the typical genus of
SCORPÆ'NIDÆ, a family including the rose-fish, the Californian rock-fish,
and their allies. [L.,--Gr. _skorpaina_, a fish.]

SCORPER, skor'p[.e]r, _n._ a gouging-chisel [For _scauper_.]

SCORPION, skor'pi-un, _n._ a name applicable to any member of the family
_Scorpionidæ_, included along with spiders, mites, &c. in the heterogeneous
class _Arachnida_--they have an elongated body, claws like the lobster, and
a poisonous sting in the tail: one of the signs of the zodiac: (_B._) a
whip with points like a scorpion's tail: an old military engine: any person
of virulent hatred or animosity.--_n._ SCOR'PIO, a scorpion: (_astron._) a
constellation and the eighth sign of the zodiac.--_adj._ SCOR'PIOID, curled
like the tail of a scorpion.--_n._ SCOR'PION-BUG, a large predacious
water-beetle.--_n.pl._ SCORPI[=O]'NES, true scorpions, a sub-order of
_Arachnida_.--_ns._ SCOR'PION-FISH, a sea-scorpion; SCOR'PION-FLY, an
insect having its abdomen curled like a scorpion; SCOR'PION-GRASS, the
forget-me-not: the mouse-ear; SCORPION'IDA, an order of _Arachnida_,
containing the Scorpiones or true scorpions; SCOR'PION-LOB'STER, a
long-tailed crustacean; SCOR'PION-PLANT, a Javan orchid with large creamy
flower supposed to resemble a spider; SCOR'PION-SHELL, a gasteropod
distinguished by long, channelled spines; SCOR'PION-SP[=I]'DER, a
whip-scorpion; SCOR'PION-WORT, a leguminous plant native of southern
Europe; SCORPI[=U]'RUS, a genus of leguminous plants named scorpion's tail.
[Fr.,--L. _scorpio_--Gr. _skorpios_.]

SCORSE. Same as SCOURSE (2).

SCORTATORY, skor'ta-t[=o]-ri, _adj._ pertaining to lewdness. [L.
_scortator_, a fornicator--_scortum_, a whore.]

SCORZA, skor'za, _n._ a variety of epidote. [It.]

SCORZONERA, skor-z[=o]-n[=e]'ra, _n._ a genus of Old World herbs of the
Aster family--_Viper's Grass_. [It., _scorza_, bark, _nera_, black, fem. of
_nero_--L. _niger_, black.]

SCOT, skot, _n._ a payment, esp. a customary tax--also SHOT.--_adj._
SCOT'-FREE, free from scot or payment: untaxed: unhurt, safe.--SCOT AND
LOT, an old legal phrase embracing all parochial assessments for the poor,
the church, lighting, cleansing, and watching. [A.S. _scot_,
_sceot_--_scéotan_, to shoot.]

SCOT, skot, _n._ a native of _Scotland_: one of the Scoti or Scots, a
Celtic race who migrated from Ireland--the original _Scotia_--before the
end of the 5th century.--_n._ SC[=O]'TIA, Scotland.--SCOTS GREYS, a famous
regiment of dragoons, established in 1683; SCOTS GUARDS, the Scottish force
which served the kings of France from 1418 down to the battle of Minden
(1759), nominally retained, however, down to 1830: a well-known regiment of
Guards in the British army, formerly Scots Fusiliers.--POUND SCOTS, 1s. 8d.
[A.S. _Scottas_, the Scots. Further ety. quite uncertain, whether Gael.
_sguit_, a wanderer, Gr. _Skyth[=e]s_, a Scythian, &c.]

SCOTCH, skoch, _adj._ pertaining to _Scotland_, its people, language,
customs, products, &c.--also SCOT'TISH, SCOTS.--_n._ the dialect of English
spoken in Lowland Scotland: (_coll._) Scotch whisky.--_ns._ SCOTCH'-HOP, a
child's game: hop-scotch; SCOTCH'MAN, SCOTS'MAN, a native of
Scotland.--SCOTCH AMULET, a British geometrid moth; SCOTCH AND ENGLISH, the
boys' game of prisoner's base; SCOTCH BARLEY, pot or hulled barley; SCOTCH
BLUEBELL, the harebell; SCOTCH BONNETS, the fairy-ring mushroom; SCOTCH
BROTH, broth made with pot-barley and plenty of various vegetables chopped
small; SCOTCH CAP, the wild black raspberry; SCOTCH CATCH, or SNAP, the
peculiarity in Scotch music of the first of two tones played to the same
beat being the shorter; SCOTCH CURLIES, a variety of kale; SCOTCH FIR, or
PINE, the only species of pine indigenous to Britain, valuable for its
timber, turpentine, tar, &c.; SCOTCH KALE, a variety of kale; SCOTCH MIST,
a mist like fine rain; SCOTCH PEBBLES, varieties of agate and jasper;
SCOTCH THISTLE, the national emblem of Scotland.

SCOTCH, skoch, _v.t._ to cut or wound slightly: to notch.--_n._ a notch,
scratch.--_n._ SCOTCH'ING, a method of dressing stone with a
pick.--SCOTCHED-COLLOPS, or (erroneously) SCOTCH-COLLOPS, beef-steaks fried
with onions. [Related to _scutch_, _scratch_.]

SCOTCH, skoch, _n._ a strut or drag for a wheel.--_v.t._ to prop or block
with such.--_n._ SCOTE, a prop.--_v.t._ to stop or block.

SCOTER, sk[=o]'t[.e]r, _n._ a genus of northern sea-ducks, with bill
gibbous at the base. [Prob. Ice. _skoti_--_skjóta_, to shoot.]

SCOTIA, sk[=o]'ti-a, _n._ a concave moulding, as the base of a pillar. [Gr.
_skotia_,--_skotos_, darkness.]

SCOTICE, skot'i-s[=e], _adv._ in the Scotch language or manner.--_n._
SCOT'ICISM=_Scotticism_.

SCOTISM, sk[=o]'tizm, _n._ the metaphysical system of Johannes Duns
_Scotus_, a native of Dunstane in Northumberland, Dun or Down in the north
of Ireland, or Dunse in Berwickshire (1265 or 1274-1308), the great
assailant of the method of Aquinas in seeking in speculation instead of in
practice the foundation of Christian theology--his theological descendants
were the Franciscans, in opposition to the Dominicans, who followed
Aquinas.--_n._ SC[=O]'TIST, a follower of Duns Scotus.--_adj._ SCOTIS'TIC.

SCOTOGRAPH, skot'[=o]-graf, _n._ an instrument for writing in the dark, or
for the use of the blind.--_ns._ SCOT[=O]'MA, a defect in the vision
(_obs._ SCOT'OMY); SCOT'OPHIS, a genus of carinated serpents of North
America; SCOTOR'NIS, a genus of African birds with very long tails;
SCOT'OSCOPE, a night-glass. [Gr. _skotos_, darkness, _graphein_, to write.]

SCOTTICISM, skot'i-sizm, _n._ a Scotch idiom.--_v.t._ SCOTT'ICISE.--_n._
SCOTTIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ SCOTT'IFY (_coll._), to give Scotch character
to.

SCOUNDREL, skown'drel, _n._ a low worthless fellow: a rascal: a man without
principle.--_ns._ SCOUN'DRELDOM, scoundrels collectively; SCOUN'DRELISM,
baseness, rascality.--_adv._ SCOUN'DRELLY. [For _scunner-el_, one who
scunners, or who causes scunnering--A.S. _scunian_, to shun.]

SCOUP, skowp, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to run: to scamper. [Related to _skip_.]

SCOUR, skowr, _v.t._ to clean by rubbing with something rough: to cleanse
from grease or dirt: to remove by rubbing: to cleanse by a current: to
search thoroughly by scrubbing: to cleanse by brushing: to purge
drastically.--_n._ the action of a strong current in a narrow channel:
violent purging.--_ns._ SCOUR'AGE, refuse water after scouring; SCOUR'ER,
drastic cathartic; SCOUR'ING, in angling, the freshening of angle-worms for
bait by putting them in clean sand; SCOUR'ING-BALL, a ball composed of
soap, &c., for removing stains of grease.--_n.pl._ SCOUR'ING-DROPS, a
mixture of oil of turpentine and oil of lemon used for removing
stains.--_ns._ SCOUR'ING-RUSH, one of the horse-tails; SCOUR'ING-STOCK, in
woollen manufacture, an apparatus in which cloths are treated to remove the
oil and to cleanse them in the process of manufacture. [O. Fr.
_escurer_--L. _excur[=a]re_, to take great care of.]

SCOUR, skowr, _v.i._ to run with swiftness: to scurry along.--_v.t._ to run
quickly over.--_n._ SCOUR'ER, a footpad. [O. Fr. _escourre_--L.
_excurr[)e]re_, to run forth.]

SCOURGE, skurj, _n._ a whip made of leather thongs: an instrument of
punishment: a punishment: means of punishment.--_v.t._ to whip severely: to
punish in order to correct.--_n._ SCOUR'GER, a flagellant. [O. Fr.
_escorgie_ (Fr. _écourgée_)--L. (_scutia_) _excoriata_, (a whip) made of
leather--_corium_, leather.]

SCOURSE, sk[=o]rs, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to run: to hurry. [O. Fr.
_escourser_--L. _excurr[)e]re_, _excursum_, to run out.]

SCOURSE, sk[=o]rs, _v.t._ to barter, exchange.--_v.i._ to make an
exchange.--_n._ (_Spens._) discourse.--Also SCORSE, SCOSS. [Prob.
_discourse_.]

SCOUT, skowt, _n._ one sent out to bring in tidings, observe the enemy,
&c.: a spy: a sneak: in cricket, a fielder: the act of watching: a bird of
the auk family: a college servant at Oxford, the same as _gyp_ in Cambridge
and _skip_ in Dublin.--_v.t._ to watch closely.--_n._ SCOUT'-MAS'TER, an
officer who has the direction of army scouts. [O. Fr. _escoute_--escouter
(It. _ascoltare_)--L. _auscult[=a]re_, to listen--auris, the ear.]

SCOUT, skowt, _v.t._ to sneer at: to reject with disdain.--_adv._
SCOUT'INGLY, sneeringly. [Scand.,--Ice. _skúta_, _skúti_, a
taunt--_skjóta_, to shoot.]

SCOUT, skowt, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to pour forth a liquid forcibly, esp.
excrement.--_n._ the guillemot.

SCOUTER, skowt'[.e]r, _n._ a workman who uses jump-drills, wedges, &c. to
scale off large flakes of stone.

SCOUTH, skowth, _n._ (_Scot._) room: scope, plenty.

SCOUTHER, skow'th[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to scorch: to fire hastily, as on
a gridiron.

SCOVAN, sk[=o]'van, _n._ a Cornish name for a vein of tin.

SCOVE, sk[=o]v, _v.t._ to cover with clay so as to prevent the escape of
heat in burning.

SCOVED, sk[=o]vd, _adj._ (_prov._) smeared or blotched.--Also SC[=O]'VY.

SCOVEL, skuv'l, _n._ (_prov._) a mop for sweeping ovens.

SCOW, skow, _n._ a flat-bottomed boat: a ferry-boat. [Dut. _schouw_.]

SCOWL, skowl, _v.i._ to wrinkle the brows in displeasure: to look sour or
angry: to look gloomy.--_n._ the wrinkling of the brows when
displeased.--_p.adj._ SCOW'LING.--_adv._ SCOW'LINGLY. [Scand., Dan.
_skule_, to scowl; Low Ger. _schulen_, to look slyly.]

SCOWL, skowl, _n._ (_prov._) old workings of iron ore.

SCOWTHER, SCOUTHER, skow'th[.e]r, _n._ (_prov._) a flying shower.

SCRAB, skrab, _n._ a crab-apple.

SCRABBLE, skrab'l, _v.i._ to scrape or make unmeaning marks, to scrawl: to
scramble or crawl along with difficulty.--_v.t._ to gather hastily.--_n._ a
scramble.--_v.t._ SCRAB, to scratch, to scrape.--SCRABBED EGGS, a dish of
hard-boiled eggs chopped up and seasoned. [A form of _scrapple_, freq. of
_scrape_.]

SCRAFFLE, skraf'l, _v.i._ to scramble: to wrangle: to be industrious: to
shuffle. [A form of _scrabble_ or _scramble_.]

SCRAG, skrag, _n._ anything thin or lean and rough: the bony part of the
neck.--_v.t._ to put to death by hanging.--_adjs._ SCRAG'GED, SCRAG'GY,
lean and rough: uneven, rugged.--_ns._ SCRAG'GEDNESS, SCRAG'GINESS.--_adv._
SCRAG'GILY.--_adjs._ SCRAG'GLY, rough-looking; SCRAG'-NECKED, having a
long, thin neck.--_n._ SCRAG'-WHALE, a finner whale, having the back
scragged. [Scand., Sw. prov. _shraka_, a tall tree or man, _shrokk_,
anything shrivelled--Norw. _skrekka_, to shrink.]

SCRAICH, SCRAIGH, skr[=a]h, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to scream hoarsely: to
screech, to shriek.--_n._ SCRAICH. [Gael. _sgreach_.]

SCRAMB, skramb, _v.t._ (_prov._) to scrape together with the hands. [A
variant of _scramp_.]

SCRAMBLE, skram'bl, _v.i._ to struggle to seize something before others: to
catch at or strive for rudely: to wriggle along on all-fours.--_v.t._ to
throw down to be scrambled for: to advance or push.--_n._ act of
scrambling: a struggle for office.--_n._ SCRAM'BLER.--_adj._ SCRAM'BLING,
confused and irregular.--_adv._ SCRAM'BLINGLY, in a scrambling manner:
irregularly: unceremoniously. [Prov. Eng. _scramb_, to rake together with
the hands, or _scramp_, to snatch at; nearly allied to _scrabble_ and
_scrape_.]

SCRAMP, skramp, _v.t._ to catch at, snatch. [_Scramble_.]

SCRAN, skran, _n._ broken victuals: refuse--also SKRAN.--_n._ SCRAN'NING,
the act of begging for food.--BAD SCRAN TO YOU! bad fare to you! an Irish
imprecation. [Prob. Ice. _skran_, rubbish.]

SCRANCH, skransh, _v.t._ to grind with the teeth: to crunch.--Also
SCRAUNCH, SCRUNCH. [Prob. Dut. _schransen_, to eat heartily.]

SCRANKY, skrank'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) scraggy: lank.

SCRANNEL, skran'l, _adj._ (_Milt._) producing a weak, screeching noise:
thin: squeaking.

SCRANNY, skran'i, _adj._ (_prov._) lean and thin.

SCRAP, skrap, _n._ a small piece: a remnant: a picture suited for
preservation in a scrap-book: wrought-iron clippings: an unconnected
extract.--_v.t._ to consign to the scrap-heap.--_ns._ SCRAP'-BOOK, a blank
book for scraps or extracts, prints, &c.; SCRAP'-HEAP, a place where old
iron is collected; SCRAP'-[=I]'RON, old iron accumulated for reworking;
SCRAP'-MET'AL, scraps or fragments of any kind of metal, which are only of
use for remelting.--_adv._ SCRAP'PILY, in fragments, desultorily.--_n._
SCRAP'PINESS, fragmentariness, disconnectedness.--_adj._ SCRAP'PY.--GO TO
THE SCRAP-HEAP, to go to ruin. [Scand., Ice. _skrap_, scraps--_skrapa_, to
scrape.]

SCRAP, skrap, _n._ (_slang_) a fight, scrimmage.

SCRAP, skrap, _n._ a snare for birds.

SCRAPE, skr[=a]p, _v.t._ to make a harsh or grating noise on: to rub with
something sharp: to remove by drawing a sharp edge over: to collect by
laborious effort: to save penuriously: to erase.--_v.i._ to grub in the
ground: to rub lightly: to draw back the foot in making obeisance: to play
on a stringed instrument.--_n._ a perplexing situation: difficulty: a
shave.--_adj._ SCRAPE'-GOOD, miserly, stingy.--_ns._ SCRAPE'-PENN'Y, a
miser; SCRAP'ER, an instrument used for scraping, esp. the soles of shoes
outside the door of a house: a hoe: a tool used by engravers and others: a
fiddler; SCRAP'ING, that which is scraped off, as the scrapings of the
street: shavings, hoardings; SCRAP'ING-PLANE, a plane used by workers in
metal and wood.--SCRAPE ACQUAINTANCE WITH, to get on terms of acquaintance.
[Scand., Ice. _skrapa_, to scrape; Dut. _schrapen_; A.S. _scearpian_.]

SCRAPPLE, skrap'l, _v.i._ to grub about.--_n._ a mixture of meat-scraps,
herbs, &c. stewed, pressed in cakes, sliced and fried. [Dim. of _scrap_.]

SCRAT, skrat, _n._ a devil.--Also OLD SCRATCH, the devil. [Cf. Ger.
_schratt_, Ice. _skratti_, a goblin.]

SCRATCH, skrach, _v.t._ to mark the surface with something pointed, as the
nails: to tear or to dig with the claws: to write hurriedly: to
erase.--_v.i._ to use the claws in tearing or digging: to delete a name on
a voting-paper.--_n._ a mark or tear made by scratching: a slight wound:
the line in a prize-ring up to which boxers are led--hence test, trial, as
in 'to come up to the scratch:' (_pl._) a disease in horses: the time of
starting of a player: in billiards, a chance stroke which is successful: a
kind of wig, a scratch-wig: a scrawl.--_adj._ taken at random, as a
'scratch crew:' without handicap, or allowance of time or distance.--_ns._
SCRATCH'-BACK, a kind of toy, which, when drawn over a person's back, makes
a sound as if his coat was torn; SCRATCH'-BRUSH, a name given to various
forms of brushes; SCRATCH'-COAT, the first coat of plaster; SCRATCH'ER, a
bird which scratches for food.--_adv._ SCRATCH'INGLY.--_n.pl._
SCRATCH'INGS, refuse matter strained out of fat when melted.--_ns._
SCRATCH'-WEED, the goose-grass; SCRATCH'-WIG, a wig that covers only part
of the head; SCRATCH'-WORK, a kind of wall decoration.--_adj._ SCRATCH'Y,
ragged: scratching: of little depth.--SCRATCH OUT, to erase. [Explained by
Skeat as due to the confusion of M. E. _skratten_, to scratch, with M. E.
_cracchen_, to scratch: _skratten_ standing for _skarten_, an extended form
from Ice. _sker-a_, to shear; _cracchen_, again, stands for _kratsen_--Sw.
_kratsa_, to scrape.]

SCRATTLE, skrat'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to scuttle.

SCRAW, skraw, _n._ a turf, a sod. [Gael. _scrath_.]

SCRAWL, skrawl, _n._ (_U.S._) brushwood.

SCRAWL, skrawl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to scrape, mark, or write irregularly or
hastily.--_n._ irregular or hasty writing: bad writing: a broken branch of
a tree: the young of the dog-crab.--_n._ SCRAWL'ER.--_adj._ SCRAWL'Y,
ill-formed. [A contr. of _scrabble_.]

SCRAWM, skrawm, _v.t._ (_prov._) to tear, to scratch. [Prob. Dut.
_schrammen_, _schram_, a rent.]

SCRAWNY, skraw'ni, _adj._ wasted: raw-boned.--_n._ SCRAW'NINESS.
[_Scranny_.]

SCRAY, skr[=a], _n._ the sea-swallow. [W. _ysgräell_.]

SCREAK, skr[=e]k, _v.t._ to scream: to creak.--_n._ a screech.

SCREAM, skr[=e]m, _v.i._ to cry out with a shrill cry, as in fear or pain:
to shriek.--_n._ a shrill, sudden cry, as in fear or pain: a shriek.--_n._
SCREAM'ER, one who screams: a genus of South American birds about the size
of the turkey, with loud, harsh cry: (_U.S. slang_) a bouncer.--SCREAMING
FARCE, one highly ludicrous. [Scand., Ice. _skræma_, Sw. _skrämma_, to
fear; cf. _Screech_, _Shriek_.]

SCREE, skr[=e], _n._ débris at the base of a cliff.--Also SCREES. [Ice.
_skritha_, a landslip--_skrítha_, creep.]

SCREE, skr[=e], _n._ (_Scot._) a coarse sieve.

SCREECH, skr[=e]ch, _v.i._ to utter a harsh, shrill, and sudden cry.--_n._
a harsh, shrill, and sudden cry.--_ns._ SCREECH'ER, the swift;
SCREECH'-HAWK, the night-jar; SCREECH'-MAR'TIN, the swift; SCREECH'-OWL, a
kind of screeching owl: the missel-thrush: the barn-owl; SCREECH'-THRUSH,
the missel-thrush.--_adj._ SCREECH'Y, shrill and harsh, like a screech:
loud-mouthed. [M. E. _scriken_--Scand., Ice. _shrækja_, to shriek; cf.
Gael. _sgreach_, to shriek.]

SCREED, skr[=e]d, _n._ a piece torn off: a shred: a long tirade: (_Scot._)
a strip of mortar: a rent, a tear.--_v.t._ to repeat glibly. [A.S.
_screáde_, a shred.]

SCREEN, skr[=e]n, _n._ that which shelters from danger or observation, that
which protects from heat, cold, or the sun: (_Scot._) a large scarf: an
enclosure or partition of wood, stone, or metal work, common in churches,
shutting off chapels from the nave, separating the nave from the choir,
&c.: a coarse riddle for sifting coal, &c.--_v.t._ to shelter or conceal:
to pass through a coarse riddle.--_n._ SCREEN'ING-MACHINE', an apparatus
for sifting coal.--_n.pl._ SCREEN'INGS, the refuse matter after sifting.
[O. Fr. _escren_ (Fr. _écran_), from Old High Ger. _scranna_, a court; Ger.
_schranne_, a bench.]

SCREEVER, skr[=e]v'[.e]r, _n._ one who writes begging letters.--_v.t._
SCREEVE, to write such.--_n._ SCREEV'ING, the writing of begging letters:
drawing with coloured chalks on the pavement for coppers.

SCREW, skr[=oo], _n._ a cylinder with a spiral groove or ridge on either
its outer or inner surface, used as a fastening and as a mechanical power:
a screw-propeller: a turn or twist to one side: a penny packet of tobacco
put up in a paper twisted at both ends: a stingy fellow, an extortioner, a
skinflint: a broken-winded horse: pressure: (_U.S. slang_) a professor who
requires students to work hard: salary, [Illustration] wages.--_v.t._ to
apply a screw to: to press with a screw: to twist: to oppress by extortion:
to force: to squeeze.--_ns._ SCREW'-BOLT, a bolt threaded at one end for a
nut; SCREW'-CUT'TER, a hand-tool for cutting screws; SCREW'-DRIV'ER, an
instrument for driving or turning screw-nails.--_adj._ SCREWED (_slang_),
tipsy, tight.--_ns._ SCREW'-EL'EVATOR, a dentist's instrument: a surgeon's
instrument for forcing open the jaws; SCREW'ER.--_adj._ SCREW'ING,
exacting: close.--_ns._ SCREW'-JACK (same as JACKSCREW); SCREW'-KEY, a
lever for turning the nut of a screw; SCREW'-MACHINE', a machine for making
screws; SCREW'-NAIL, a nail made in the form of a screw; SCREW'-PILE, a
pile forced into the ground, and held there by a peculiar kind of screw at
the lower extremity; SCREW'-PINE, a plant of the tropical genus _Pandanus_,
or of the screw-pine family--from the screw-like arrangement of the
clustered leaves; SCREW'-PLATE, a plate of steel in which are a
[Illustration] graduated series of holes, with internal screws used in
forming external screws; SCREW'-POD, the screw-bean SCREW'-PRESS, a press
in which the force is applied by means of a screw; SCREW'-PROPEL'LER, a
screw or spiral-bladed wheel at the stern of steam-vessels for propelling
them: a steamer so propelled; SCREW'-RUDD'ER, an application of the screw
for the purpose of steering; SCREW'-STAIR, a spiral staircase: a hanging
stair; SCREW'-STEAM'ER, a steamer propelled by a screw; SCREW'STONE, a
wheelstone: a fossil screw; SCREW'-THREAD, the spiral ridge on the cylinder
of a male screw, or on the inner surface of a female screw; SCREW'-VALVE, a
stop-cock opened and shut by means of a screw instead of a spigot;
SCREW'-VEN'TILATOR, a ventilating [Illustration] apparatus; SCREW'-WORM,
the larva of a blow-fly; SCREW'-WRENCH, a tool for grasping the flat sides
of the heads of large screws.--_adj._ SCREW'Y, exacting: close:
worthless.--A SCREW LOOSE, something defective. [Earlier _scrue_. O. Fr.
_escrou_, prob. L. _scrobem_, accus. of _scrobs_, a hole; or Low Ger.
_schruve_, Dut. _schroef_, Ice. _skrufa_, Ger. _schraube_.]

SCRIBBET, skrib'et, _n._ a painter's pencil.

SCRIBBLE, skrib'l, _v.t._ to scratch or write carelessly: to fill with
worthless writing.--_v.i._ to write carelessly: to scrawl.--_n._ careless
writing: a scrawl.--_ns._ SCRIBB'LER, a petty author; SCRIBB'LING, the act
of writing hastily or carelessly.--_adv._ SCRIBB'LINGLY.--_n.pl._
SCRIBB'LINGS. [A freq. of _scribe_.]

SCRIBBLE, skrib'l, _v.t._ to card roughly, as wool.--_ns._ SCRIBB'LER, a
machine for doing this, or a person who tends such; SCRIBB'LING, the first
carding of wool or cotton; SCRIBB'LING-MACHINE', a coarse form of
carding-machine. [Scand., Sw. _skrubbla_, to card.]

SCRIBBLE-SCRABBLE, skrib'l-skrab'l, _n._ an ungainly fellow. [Reduplicated
from _scrabble_.]

SCRIBE, skr[=i]b, _n._ a writer: a public or official writer: a clerk,
amanuensis, secretary: (_B._) an expounder and teacher of the Mosaic and
traditional law: a pointed instrument to mark lines on wood, &c.--_v.t._ to
write: to record: to mark.--_adjs._ SCR[=I]'BABLE, capable of being written
upon; SCRIB[=A]'CIOUS, given to writing.--_n._ SCRIB[=A]'CIOUSNESS.--_adj._
SCR[=I]'BAL, pertaining to a scribe.--_ns._ SCR[=I]'BING;
SCR[=I]'BING-COM'PASS, an instrument used in saddlery and cooper-work;
SCR[=I]'BISM. [Fr.,--L. _scriba_--_scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

SCRIEVE, skr[=e]v, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to glide swiftly along. [Scand., Ice.
_skrefa_--_skref_, a stride.]

SCRIGGLE, skrig'l, _v.i._ to writhe: to wriggle.--_n._ a wriggling. [Prob.
Ice. _shrika_, to slip; Ger. _schrecken_, Dut. _schrikken_, to terrify.]

SCRIKE, skr[=i]k, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to shriek.

SCRIM, skrim, _n._ cloth used for linings.

SCRIME, skr[=i]m, _v.i._ to fence.--_n._ SCR[=I]'MER (_Shak._), a fencer.
[Fr. _escrimer_, to fence; cf. _Skirmish_.]

SCRIMMAGE, skrim'[=a]j, _n._ a skirmish: a general fight: a tussle. [Prob.
a corr. of _skirmish_.]

SCRIMP, skrimp, _v.t._ to make too small or short: to limit or shorten: to
straiten.--_adj._ short, scanty.--_adj._ SCRIMP'ED, pinched.--_adv._
SCRIMP'LY, hardly: scarcely.--_n._ SCRIMP'NESS.--_adj._ SCRIMP'Y, scanty.
[A.S. _scrimpan_; allied to _scrimman_, to shrink, and _scrincan_, to
shrivel up.]

SCRIMSHAW, skrim'shaw, _v.t._ to engrave fanciful designs on shells,
whales' teeth, &c.--_n._ any shell or the like fancifully engraved.

SCRINE, skr[=i]n, _n._ (_Spens._) a cabinet for papers, a shrine. [O. Fr.
_escrin_--L. _scrinium_, a shrine.]

SCRINGE, skrinj, _v.i._ to cringe. [A form of _shrink_.]

SCRIP, skrip, _n._ that which is written: a piece of paper containing
writing: a certificate of stock or shares in any joint-stock company
subscribed or allotted.--_ns._ SCRIP'-COM'PANY, a company having shares
which pass by delivery; SCRIP'-HOLD'ER, one whose title to stock is a
written certificate. [A variant of _script_--L. _scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_,
to write.]

SCRIP, skrip, _n._ a small bag: a satchel: a pilgrim's pouch: (_her._) a
bearing representing a pouch.--_n._ SCRIP'PAGE (_Shak._), contents of a
scrip. [Ice. _skreppa_, a bag; Ger. _scherbe_, a shred.]

SCRIPT, skript, _n._ (_print._) type like written letters: a writing:
(_law_) an original document: handwriting.--_n._ SCRIP'TION, a handwriting.
[O. Fr. _escript_--L. _scriptum_--_scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

SCRIPTORIUM, skrip-t[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a writing-room, esp. that in a
monastery.--_adj._ SCRIP'TORY, written.

SCRIPTURE, skrip't[=u]r, _n._ sacred writing: the Bible: a writing: a deed:
any sacred writing.--_adj._ SCRIP'TURAL, contained in Scripture: according
to Scripture: biblical: written.--_ns._ SCRIP'TURALISM, literal adherence
to the Scriptures; SCRIP'TURALIST, a literalist in his obedience to the
letter of Scripture, a student of Scripture.--_adv._ SCRIP'TURALLY.--_ns._
SCRIP'TURALNESS; SCRIP'TURE-READ'ER, an evangelist who reads the Bible in
cottages, barracks, &c.; SCRIP'TURIST, one versed in Scripture.--THE
SCRIPTURES, the Bible. [L. _scriptura_--_scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

SCRITCH, skrich, _n._ a screech or shrill cry: a thrush. [A variant of
_screech_.]

SCRIVANO, skriv-ä'n[=o], _n._ a writer: a clerk. [It.]

SCRIVE, skr[=i]v, _v.t._ to describe: to draw a line with a pointed tool.
[_Scribe_.]

SCRIVENER, skriv'en-[.e]r, _n._ a scribe: a copyist: one who draws up
contracts, &c.: one who receives the money of others to lay it out at
interest.--_n._ SCRIV'ENERSHIP. [O. Fr. _escrivain_ (Fr. _écrivain_)--Low
L. _scribanus_--L. _scriba_, a scribe.]

SCROBE, skr[=o]b, _n._ a groove in the rostrum of weevils or curculios, or
on the outer side of the mandible.--_adjs._ SCROBIC'ULATE, -D, having
numerous shallow depressions.--_n._ SCROBIC'ULUS (_anat._), a pit or
depression. [L. _scrobis_, a ditch.]

SCROD, skrod, _v.t._ to shred.--_n._ a young codfish.--_n._ SCROD'GILL, an
instrument for taking fish. [_Shred_.]

SCRODDLE, skrod'l, _v.t._ to variegate, as pottery in different
colours.--SCRODDLED WARE, mottled pottery.

SCROFULA, skrof'[=u]-la, _n._ a disease with chronic swellings of the
glands in various parts of the body, esp. the neck, tending to suppurate:
the king's evil.--_adjs._ SCROFULIT'IC, SCROF'ULOUS, pertaining to,
resembling, or affected with scrofula.--_adv._ SCROF'ULOUSLY.--_n._
SCROF'ULOUSNESS. [L. _scrofulæ_--_scrofula_, a little pig, dim. of
_scrofa_, a sow.]

SCROG, skrog, _n._ (_Scot._) a stunted bush: a thicket: brushwood: (_her._)
a branch.--_adjs._ SCROG'GIE, SCROG'GY, covered with underwood. [_Scrag_.]

SCROLL, skr[=o]l, _n._ a roll of paper or parchment: a writing in the form
of a roll: a rough draft of anything: a schedule: a flourish added to a
person's signature as a substitute for a seal: in hydraulics, a spiral
water-way placed round a turbine to regulate the flow of water: (_anat._) a
turbinate bone: (_archit._) a spiral ornament, the volute of the Ionic and
Corinthian capitals.--_v.t._ to draft: to write in rough outline.--_adj._
SCROLLED, formed into a scroll: ornamented with scrolls.--_ns._
SCROLL'-HEAD, an ornamental piece at the bow of a vessel; SCROLL'-WHEEL, a
cog-wheel in the form of a scroll; SCROLL'-WORK, ornamental work of
scroll-like character. [O. Fr. _escroue_, acc. to Skeat from Old Dut.
_schroode_, a shred.]

SCROOP, skr[=oo]p, _v.i._ to emit a harsh sound: to creak.--_n._ any crisp
sound like that made when a bundle of yarn is tightly twisted. [Imit.]

SCROPHULARIA, skrof-[=u]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ the _figwort_ genus of herbs,
type of the _Scrophulariaceæ_ or _Scrophularineæ_, a natural order
containing almost 2000 known species, chiefly herbaceous and half-shrubby
plants--_Digitalis_ or _Fox-glove_, _Calceolaria_, _Mimulus_, _Antirrhinum_
or _Snap-dragon_, _Veronica_ or _Speedwell_, and _Euphrasia_ or
_Eye-bright_, &c.

SCROTUM, skr[=o]'tum, _n._ the bag which contains the testicles.--_adjs._
SCR[=O]'TAL, relating to the scrotum; SCR[=O]'TIFORM, formed like a double
bag.--_ns._ SCROT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the scrotum; SCR[=O]'TOCELE, a
scrotal hernia. [L.]

SCROUGE, skrowj, _v.t.._ to squeeze: to crowd--also SCROOGE, SCRUDGE.--_n._
SCROU'GER, a whopper: something large. [Variant forms of _shrug_.]

SCROW, skrow, _n._ a roll: a scroll: a writing: clippings from hides.
[_Scroll_.]

SCROYLE, skroil, _n._ (_Shak._) a scabby fellow: a mean fellow. [O. Fr.
_escrouelles_, scrofula--L. _scrofulæ_.]

SCRUB, skrub, _v.t.._ to rub hard, esp. with something rough.--_v.i._ to be
laborious and penurious:--_pr.p._ scrub'bing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
scrubbed.--_n._ one who works hard and lives meanly: anything small or
mean: a worn-out brush: low underwood: a bush: a stunted shrub: a worthless
horse.--_p.adj._ SCRUBBED (_Shak._)=_Scrubby_.--_ns._ SCRUB'BER, in
Australia, an animal which breaks away from the herd: a machine for washing
leather after the tanpit; SCRUB'BING; SCRUB'BING-BOARD, a wash-board;
SCRUB'BING-BRUSH, a brush with short, stiff bristles; SCRUB'-BIRD, an
Australian bird.--_adj._ SCRUB'BY, laborious and penurious: mean: small:
stunted in growth: covered with scrub.--_ns._ SCRUB'-GRASS, the
scouring-rush; SCRUB'-OAK, a name of three low American oaks;
SCRUB'-RID'ER, one who rides in search of cattle that stray from the herd
into the scrub; SCRUB'-ROB'IN, a bird inhabiting the Australian scrub;
SCRUB'STONE, a species of calciferous sandstone; SCRUB'-TUR'KEY, a
mound-bird; SCRUB'-WOOD, a small tree. [A.S. _scrob_, a shrub.]

SCRUFF, skruf, _n._ the nape of the neck.--Also SKRUFF. [A variant of
_scuff_, _scuft_.]

SCRUFFY, skruf'i, _adj._ Same as SCURFY.

SCRUMPTIOUS, skrump'shus, _adj._ (_slang_) nice: fastidious: delightful.

SCRUNCH, skrunsh, _v.t.._ to crunch: to crush.--_n._ a harsh, crunching
sound. [A variant of _crunch_.]

SCRUNT, skrunt, _n._ (_Scot._) a niggardly person.

SCRUPLE, skr[=oo]'pl, _n._ a small weight--in apothecaries' weight, 20 troy
grains, 1/3 drachm, 1/24 ounce, and 1/288 of a troy pound: a very small
quantity: reluctance to decide or act, as from motives of conscience:
difficulty.--_v.i._ to hesitate in deciding or acting.--_n._
SCRU'PLER.--_adj._ SCRU'PULOUS, having scruples, doubts, or objections:
conscientious: cautious: exact: captious.--_adv._ SCRU'PULOUSLY.--_ns._
SCRU'PULOUSNESS, SCRUPULOS'ITY, state of being scrupulous: doubt: niceness:
precision. [Fr. _scrupule_--L. _scrupulus_, dim. of _scrupus_, a sharp
stone, anxiety.]

SCRUTINY, skr[=oo]'ti-ni, _n._ careful or minute inquiry: critical
examination: an examination of the votes given at an election for the
purpose of correcting the poll: in the early Church, the examination in
Lent of the Catechumens: (_R.C._) one of the methods of electing a pope,
the others being _acclamation_ and _accession_.--_adj._ SCRU'TABLE.--_ns._
SCRUT[=A]'TION, scrutiny; SCRUT[=A]'TOR, a close examiner.--_v.t.._
SCRU'TINATE, to examine: to investigate.--_n._ SCRUTINEER', one who makes a
scrutiny, or minute search or inquiry.--_v.t.._ SCRU'TINISE, to search
minutely or closely: to examine carefully or critically: to
investigate.--_n._ SCRU'TINISER.--_adj._ SCRU'TINOUS.--_adv._
SCRU'TINOUSLY.--SCRUTIN-DE-LISTE, a method of voting for the French Chamber
of Deputies, in which the voter casts his ballot for the whole number of
deputies allotted to his department, choosing the candidates in any
combination he pleases--opp. to SCRUTIN D'ARRONDISSEMENT, in which method
the voter votes only for his local candidate or candidates, the
arrondissement being the basis of representation. [O. Fr. _scrutine_--L.
_scrutinium_--_scrut[=a]ri_, to search even to the rags--_scruta_, rags,
trash.]

SCRUTO, skr[=oo]'t[=o], _n._ a movable trap in theatres.

SCRUTOIRE=_Escritoire_ (q.v.).

SCRUZE, skr[=oo]z, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to squeeze. [_Scrouge_.]

SCRY, skr[=i], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to descry:--_pa.t._ scryde. [Formed by
aphæresis from _descry_.]

SCRY, skr[=i], _v.t._ (_Scot._) to proclaim.--_n._ a cry: a flock of
wild-fowl.

SCUD, skud, _v.i._ to run quickly: (_naut._) to run before the wind in a
gale: (_Scot._) to throw flat stones so as to skip along the water.--_v.t._
to skelp: (_Scot._) to slap:--_pr.p._ scud'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
scud'ded.--_n._ act of moving quickly: loose, vapoury clouds driven swiftly
along: a swift runner: a beach flea: a form of garden hoe: a slap, a sharp
stroke.--_n._ SCUD'DER, one who, or that which, scuds. [Scand., Dan.
_skyde_, to shoot; cf. A.S. _scé[=o]tan_, to shoot.]

SCUDDICK, skud'ik, _n._ (_slang_) anything of small value: a
shilling.--Also SCUTT'OCK.

SCUDDLE, skud'l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to drudge.--_v.t._ to cleanse: to
wash.--_n._ SCUD'LER, a scullion.

SCUDO, sk[=oo]'d[=o], _n._ an Italian silver coin of different values,
usually worth about 4s.: the space within the outer rim of the bezel of a
ring:--_pl._ SCU'DI. [It.,--L. _scutum_, a shield.]

SCUFF, skuf, _n._ (_prov._) a form of _scruff_ or _scuft_.

SCUFF, skuf, _v.i._ to shuffle along the ground.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to graze
slightly. [Sw. _skuffa_, to shove.]

SCUFF, skuf, _n._ a scurf: a scale.

SCUFFLE, skuf'l, _v.i._ to struggle closely: to fight confusedly.--_n._ a
struggle in which the combatants grapple closely: any confused
contest.--_n._ SCUFF'LER, one who, or that which, scuffles. [A freq. of Sw.
_skuffa_, to shove, _skuff_, a blow.]

SCUFFY, skuf'i, _adj._ having lost the original freshness: shabby, out of
elbows, seedy.

SCUFT, skuft, _n._ (_prov._) the nape of the neck.--Also SCUFF, SCRUFF.
[Ice. _skopt_, _skoft_, the hair.]

SCULDUDDERY, skul-dud'e-ri, _n._ (_Scot._) grossness, obscenity,
bawdry.--_adj._ bawdy.

SCULK. Same as SKULK.

SCULL, skul, _n._ a short, light, spoon-bladed oar: a small boat: a
cock-boat.--_v.t._ to propel a boat with a pair of sculls or light oars by
one man--in fresh water: to drive a boat onward with one oar, worked like a
screw over the stern.--_ns._ SCULL'ER, one who sculls: a small boat rowed
by two sculls pulled by one man; SCULL'ING. [Scand.; Ice. _scál_, a hollow,
Sw. _skålig_, concave.]

SCULL, skul, _n._ (_Milt._) a shoal of fish. [_Shoal_.]

SCULLERY, skul'[.e]r-i, _n._ the place for dishes and other kitchen
utensils. [Skeat explains as _sculler-y_, _sculler_ being a remarkable
variant of _swiller_, due to Scand. influence. Others refer to O. Fr.
_escuelier_--Low L. _scutellarius_--L. _scutella_, a tray.]

SCULLION, skul'yun, _n._ a servant in the scullery: a servant for
drudgery-work: a mean fellow.--_adj._ SCULL'IONLY (_Milt._), like a
scullion: low, base. [Not allied to _scullery_. O. Fr. _escouillon_, a
dish-clout--L. _scopa_, a broom.]

SCULP, skulp, _v.t._ to carve: to engrave: to flay.--SCULP'SIT, he engraved
or carved it--often abbreviated to SC.

SCULPIN, skul'pin, _n._ (_slang_) a mischief-making fellow: a name given to
the Dragonet, and also in the United States to various marine species of
Cottus or Bull-head.--Also SKUL'PIN.

SCULPTURE, skulp't[=u]r, _n._ the act of carving figures in wood, stone,
&c.: carved-work: an engraving.--_v.t._ to carve: to form, as a piece of
sculpture.--_n._ SCULP'TOR, one who carves figures:--_fem._
SCULP'TRESS.--_adj._ SCULP'T[=U]RAL, belonging to sculpture.--_adv._
SCULP'T[=U]RALLY.--_adjs._ SCULP'T[=U]RED, carved, engraved: (_bot._,
_zool._) having elevated marks on the surface; SCULPT[=U]RESQUE',
chiselled: clean cut: statue-like. [Fr.,--L. _sculptura_--_sculp[)e]re_,
_sculptum_, to carve.]

SCULSH, skulsh, _n._ rubbish: lollypops.

SCUM, skum, _n._ foam or froth: the extraneous matter rising to the surface
of liquids, esp. when boiled or fermented: refuse: offscourings,
dregs.--_v.t._ to take the scum from: to skim:--_pr.p._ scum'ming; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ scummed.--_n._ SCUM'MER, an implement used in
skimming.--_n.pl._ SCUM'MINGS, skimmings.--_adj._ SCUM'MY, covered with
scum. [Scand., Dan. _skum_, froth; Ger. _schaum_, foam.]

SCUMBER, skum'b[.e]r, _v.i._ to defecate, a hunting term applied to
foxes.--_n._ fox-dung.--Also SCOM'BER. [Prob. O. Fr. _escumbrier_, to
disencumber.]

SCUMBLE, skum'bl, _v.t._ to apply opaque or semi-opaque colours very thinly
over other colours, to modify the effect.--_n._ SCUM'BLING, a mode of
obtaining a softened effect in painting by overlaying too bright colours
with a very thin coating of a neutral tint. [Freq. of _scum_.]

SCUN, skun, _v.i._ to skim, as a stone thrown aslant on the water.--_v.t._
to cause to skip.--Also SCON, SCOON. [Scand., prob. _skunna_; Dan.
_skynde_, to hasten.]

SCUNNER, skun'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to become nauseated: to feel
loathing.--_n._ a loathing, any fantastic prejudice. [A.S. _scunian_, to
shun.]

SCUP, skup, _n._ (_Amer._) a swing.--_v.i._ to swing. [Dut. _schop_, a
swing; Ger. _schupf_, a push.]

SCUP, skup, _n._ a sparoid fish, the porgy.

SCUPPER, skup'[.e]r, _n._ a hole in the side of a ship to carry off water
from the deck (often _pl._).--_ns._ SCUPP'ER-HOLE, a scupper;
SCUPP'ER-HOSE, a pipe of leather, &c., attached to the mouth of a scupper
on the outside, to let the water run out and keep water from entering;
SCUPP'ER-PLUG, a plug to stop a scupper. [O. Fr. _escopir_, to spit out--L.
_exspu[)e]re_--_ex-_, out, _spu[)e]re_, to spit; or prob. from Dut.
_schoppen_, to scoop away.]

SCUPPERNONG, skup'[.e]r-nong, _n._ a cultivated variety of the muscadine,
bullace, or southern fox-grape of the United States. [Amer. Ind.]

SCUPPET, skup'et, _n._ a shovel.--Also SCOPP'ET.

SCUR, skur, _v.t._ to graze, to jerk: to scour over.--_v.i._ to flit
hurriedly.--Also SKIRR. [A variant of scour.]

SCUR, skur, _n._ (_Scot._) a stunted horn.

SCURF, skurf, _n._ the crust or flaky matter formed on the skin: anything
adhering to the surface: scum: a gray bull trout.--_n._
SCURF'INESS.--_adj._ SCURF'Y, having scurf: like scurf. [A.S.
_scurf_--_sceorfan_, to scrape; cf. Ger. _schorf_.]

SCURRILOUS, skur'ril-us, _adj._ using scurrility or language befitting a
vulgar buffoon: indecent: vile: vulgar: opprobrious: grossly
abusive.--_adjs._ SCUR'RIL, SCUR'RILE, buffoon-like: jesting: foul-mouthed:
low.--_n._ SCURRIL'ITY, buffoonery: low or obscene jesting: indecency of
language: vulgar abuse.--_adv._ SCUR'RILOUSLY.--_n._ SCUR'RILOUSNESS. [L.
_scurrilis_--_scurra_, a buffoon.]

SCURRIT, skur'it, _n._ (_prov._) the lesser tern.

SCURRY, skur'i, _v.i._ to hurry along: to scamper.--_n._ a flurry--also
SKURR'Y.--_n._ HURR'Y-SCURR'Y, heedless haste. [An extended form of
_scour_.]

SCURVY, skur'vi, _adj._ scurfy: affected with scurvy: scorbutic: shabby:
vile, vulgar, contemptible.--_n._ a disease marked by livid spots on the
skin and general debility, due to an improper dietary, and particularly an
insufficient supply of fresh vegetable food.--_adv._ SCUR'VILY, in a scurvy
manner: meanly, basely.--_ns._ SCUR'VINESS, state of being scurvy:
meanness; SCUR'VY-GRASS, a genus of cruciferous plants, efficacious in
curing scurvy. [_Scurf_.]

SCUSE, sk[=u]s, _n._ and _v._=_Excuse_.

SCUT, skut, _adj._ having a short tail like a hare's.

SCUTAGE, sk[=u]'t[=a]j, _n._ a tax, instead of personal service, which a
vassal or tenant owed to his lord, sometimes levied by the crown in feudal
times.--Also ES'CUAGE. [O. Fr. _escuage_--L. _scutum_, shield.]

SCUTATE, sk[=u]t'[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) shaped like a round shield:
(_zool._) having the surface protected by large scales. [L.
_scut[=a]tus_--_scutum_, shield.]

SCUTCH, skuch, _v.t._ to beat: to separate from the core, as flax.--_n._ a
coarse tow that separates from flax in scutching.--_ns._ SCUTCH'ER, one who
dresses hedges: an implement used in scutching, esp. a beater in a
flax-scutching machine, &c.; SCUTCH'ING-SWORD, a beating instrument in
scutching flax by hand. [Prob. O. Fr. _escousser_, to shake off--Low L.
_excuss[=a]re_--L. _excut[)e]re_, to shake off.]

SCUTCHEON, SCUTCHIN, skuch'un, -in, _n._ (_Spens._) escutcheon, shield,
device on a shield. [_Escutcheon_.]

SCUTE, sk[=u]t, _n._ a shield: (_zool._) a large scale, a plate, as the
dermal scutes of a ganoid fish, a turtle, &c. [O. Fr. _escut_--L. _scutum_,
a shield.]

SCUTELLA, sk[=u]-tel'a, _n._ a genus of flat sea-urchins.--_adj._
SC[=U]'TELLAR.--_n._ SCUTELL[=A]'RIA, a genus of gamopetalous plants, known
as skullcaps.--_adjs._ SC[=U]'TELLATE, -D, noting the foot of a bird when
it is provided with the plates called scutella.--_ns._ SCUTELL[=A]'TION;
SCUTELL'ERA, a group-name for the true bugs (_Scutelleridæ_).--_adjs._
SCUTELL'IFORM, scutellate; SCUTELLIG'EROUS, provided with a scutellum;
SCUTELLIPLAN'TAR, having the back of the tarsus scutellate.--_n._
SCUTELL'UM (_bot._, _entom._), a little shield:--_pl._ SCUTELL'A.--_n.pl._
SCUTIBRANCHI[=A]'TA, an order of gasteropod mollusca.--_n._ SC[=U]'TIFER, a
shield-bearer.--_adjs._ SCUTIF'EROUS, bearing a shield: (_zool._)
scutigerous; SC[=U]'TIFORM, having the form of a shield.--_n._ SCUTIG'ERA,
a common North American species of centipede.--_adjs._ SCUTIG'EROUS,
provided with a scute or scuta; SC[=U]'TIPED, having the shanks scaly, of
birds. [L., dim. of _scutra_, a platter.]

SCUTTER, skut'[.e]r, _v.i._ to run hastily: to scurry.--_n._ a hasty run.
[A variant of _Scuttle_ (3).]

SCUTTLE, skut'l, _n._ a shallow basket: a vessel for holding coal. [A.S.
_scutel_--L. _scutella_, a salver, dim. of _scutra_, a dish.]

SCUTTLE, skut'l, _n._ the openings or hatchways of a ship: a hole through
the hatches or in the side or bottom of a ship.--_v.t._ to cut holes
through any part of a ship: to sink a ship by cutting holes in it.--_ns._
SCUTT'LE-BUTT, -CASK, a cask with a hole cut in it for the cup or dipper,
for holding drinking-water in a ship; SCUTT'LE-FISH, a cuttle-fish. [O. Fr.
_escoutille_, a hatchway (Sp. _escotilla_), from Dut. _schoot_, the lap;
Ger. _schoss_, bosom, a lap.]

SCUTTLE, skut'l, _v.i._ to scud or run with haste: to hurry.--_n._ a quick
run: a mincing gait.--Also SCUDD'LE, SKUTT'LE. [_Scud_.]

SCUTTLER, skut'l[.e]r, _n._ the striped lizard.

SCUTTOCK. Same as SCUDDICK.

SCUTULUM, sk[=u]'t[=u]-lum, _n._ one of the shield-shaped crusts of favus.
[L., dim. of _scutum_, a shield.]

SCUTUM, sk[=u]'tum, _n._ a shield belonging to the heavy-armed Roman
legionaries: a penthouse: (_anat._) the knee-pan: (_zool._) a large scale.
[L.]

SCYE, s[=i], _n._ the armhole of a garment. [Prob. _sey_--O. Fr. _sier_, to
cut--L. _sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SCYLLA, sil'a, _n._ a six-headed monster who sat over a dangerous rock on
the Italian side of the Straits of Messina, over against the whirlpool of
CHARYB'DIS on the Sicilian side.--_n._ SCYLLÆA (sil-[=e]'a), a genus of
nudibranchiate gasteropods.--_n.pl._ SCYLLAR'IDÆ (-d[=e]), a family of
long-tailed, ten-footed marine crustaceans.

SCYLLIDÆ, sil'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of selachians, the typical genus
_Scyllium_, including the dog-fish. [Gr. _skylion_, a dog-fish.]

SCYMNIDÆ, sim'ni-d[=e], _n.pl._ the sleeper-sharks.--_n._ SCYM'NUS, a genus
of lady-birds: a genus of sharks. [Gr. _skymnos_, a whelp.]

SCYPHIDIUM, sif-id'i-um, _n._ a genus of ciliate infusorians. [Gr.
_skyphos_, a cup.]

SCYPHOMEDUSÆ, sif-o-med'[=u]-s[=e], _n.pl._ a prime division of hydrozoans
or a sub-class of Hydrozoa.

SCYPHUS, s[=i]f'us, _n._ in Greek antiquities, a large drinking-cup:
(_bot._) a cup-shaped appendage to a flower.--_adj._ SCYPH'IFORM.

SCYTALE, sit'a-l[=e], _n._ in Greek antiquities, a strip of parchment used
for secret messages: the name of a coral snake.--_n._ SCYTAL[=I]'NA, a
remarkable genus of eel-like fishes. [Gr. _skytal[=e]_, a staff.]

SCYTHE, s[=i]th, _n._ a kind of sickle: an instrument with a large curved
blade for mowing grass, &c.--_v.t._ to cut with a scythe, to mow.--_adj._
SCYTHED, armed with scythes.--_ns._ SCYTHE'MAN, one who uses a scythe;
SCYTHE'-STONE, a whet for scythes. [A.S. _síthe_; Ice. _sigdhr_. Low Ger.
_seged_.]

SCYTHIAN, sith'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to an ancient nomadic race in the
northern parts of Asia.--_n._ one belonging to this race.--_adj._ SCYTH'IC.

SCYTHROPS, s[=i]'throps, _n._ a genus of Australian horn-billed cuckoos.
[Gr. _skythros_, angry, _[=o]ps_, face.]

SCYTODEPSIC, sk[=i]-t[=o]-dep'sik, _adj._ pertaining to tanning. [Gr.
_skytos_, skin, _depsein_, to soften.]

SCYTODERMATOUS, sk[=i]-t[=o]-der'ma-tus, _adj._ having a tough, leathery
integument. [Gr. _skytos_, hide, _derma_, skin.]

SCYTODES, sk[=i]-t[=o]'dez, _n._ a genus of spiders.--_adj._ SCYT[=O]'DOID.
[Gr. _skytos_, skin, _eidos_, form.]

SCYTONEMA, s[=i]-t[=o]-n[=e]'ma, _n._ a genus of fresh-water algæ.--_adj._
SCYTONEM'ATOID. [Gr. _skytos_, skin, _n[=e]ma_, a thread.]

SCYTOSIPHON, s[=i]-t[=o]-s[=i]f'n, _n._ a genus of marine algæ. [Gr.
_skytos_, skin, _siph[=o]n_, a tube.]

SDAIN, SDEIGN, sd[=a]n, _n._ and _v.t._ (_Spens._) same as DISDAIN.--_adj._
SDEIGN'FUL=_Disdainful_.

'SDEATH, sdeth, _interj._ an exclamation of impatience--for _God's death_.

SEA, s[=e], _n._ the great mass of salt water covering the greater part of
the earth's surface: any great expanse of water less than an ocean: the
ocean: the swell of the sea in a tempest: a wave: any widely extended mass
or quantity, a flood: any rough or agitated place or element.--_ns._
SEA'-[=A]'CORN, a barnacle; SEA'-ADD'ER, the fifteen-spined stickle-back;
SEA'-AN'CHOR, a floating anchor used at sea in a gale; SEA'-ANEM'ONE, a
kind of polyp, like an anemone, found on rocks on the seacoast; SEA'-APE,
the sea-otter; SEA'-[=A]'PRON, a kind of kelp; SEA'-ARR'OW, a flying squid:
an arrow-worm; SEA'-ASPAR'AGUS, a soft-shelled crab; SEA'-BANK, the
seashore; an embankment to keep out the sea; SEA'-BAR, the sea-swallow or
tern; SEA'-BARR'OW, the egg-case of a ray or skate; SEA'-BASS, a name
applied to some perch-like marine fishes, many common food-fishes in
America--black sea-bass, bluefish, &c.; SEA'-BAT, a genus of Teleostean
fishes allied to the Pilot-fish, and included among the _Carangidæ_ or
horse-mackerels--the name refers to the very long dorsal, anal, and ventral
fins; SEA'-BEACH, the seashore; SEA'-BEAN, the seed of a leguminous
climbing plant: a small univalve shell: the lid of the aperture of any
shell of the family _Turbinidæ_, commonly worn as amulets; SEA'-BEAR, the
polar bear: the North Pacific fur-seal; SEA'-BEAST (_Milt._), a monster of
the sea.--_adjs._ SEA'-BEAT, -EN, lashed by the waves.--_n._ SEA'-BEAV'ER,
the sea-otter.--_n.pl._ SEA'-BELLS, a species of bindweed.--_ns._
SEA'-BELT, the sweet fucus plant; SEA'-BIRD, any marine bird;
SEA'-BIS'CUIT, ship-biscuit; SEA'-BLUBB'ER, a jelly-fish; SEA'-BOARD, the
border or shore of the sea; SEA'-BOAT, a vessel considered with reference
to her behaviour in bad weather.--_adjs._ SEA'-BORN, produced by the sea;
SEA'-BORNE, carried on the sea.--_ns._ SEA'-BOTT'LE, a seaweed; SEA'-BOY
(_Shak._), a boy employed on shipboard: a sailor-boy; SEA'-BRANT, the brent
goose; SEA'-BREACH, the breaking of an embankment by the sea; SEA'-BREAM,
one of several sparoid fishes: a fish related to the mackerel; SEA'-BREEZE,
a breeze of wind blowing from the sea toward the land, esp. that from about
10 a.m. till sunset; SEA'-BUCKTHORN, or SALLOW-THORN, a genus of large
shrubs or trees with gray silky foliage and entire leaves; SEA'-BUM'BLEBEE,
the little auk; SEA'-BUN, a heart-urchin; SEA'-BUR'DOCK, clotbur;
SEA'-CABB'AGE, sea-kale; SEA'-CALF, the common seal, so called from the
supposed resemblance of its voice to that of a calf; SEA'-CAN[=A]'RY, the
white whale; SEA'-CAP (_Shak._), a cap worn on shipboard: a basket-shaped
sponge; SEA'-CAP'TAIN, the captain of a ship, as distinguished from a
captain in the army; SEA'-CARD, the card of the mariners' compass: a map of
the ocean; SEA'-CARN[=A]'TION, a sea-pink; SEA'-CAT, a name of various
animals, as the wolf-fish, the chimæra, any sea-cat-fish;
SEA'-CAT'ERPILLAR, a scale-back; SEA'-CAT'-FISH, a marine siluroid fish;
SEA'-CAT'GUT, a common seaweed--sea-lace; SEA'-CAUL'IFLOWER, a polyp;
SEA'-CEN'TIPED, one of several large marine annelids; SEA'-CHANGE
(_Shak._), a change effected by the sea; SEA'-CHART, a chart or map of the
sea, its islands, coasts, &c.; SEA'-CHEST'NUT, a sea-urchin;
SEA'-CHICK'WEED, a seaside species of sandwort; SEA'-CLAM, the surf clam
used for food: a clamp for deep-sea sounding-lines; SEA'-COAL, coal brought
by sea, as distinguished from charcoal; SEA'COAST, the coast or shore of
the sea: the land adjacent to the sea; SEA'-COB, a sea-gull; SEA'-COCK, a
gurnard: the sea-plover: a valve communicating with the sea through a
vessel's hull: a sea-rover or viking; SEA'-COL'ANDER, a large olive
seaweed; SEA'-COLE'WORT, sea-kale; SEA'-COM'PASS, the mariners' compass;
SEA'-COOK, a cook on shipboard; SEA'-COOT, a black sea-duck;
SEA'-COR'MORANT, a sea-crow; SEA'-CORN, the string of egg-capsules of the
whelk or similar gasteropod--also SEA'-RUFF'LE, SEA'-HON'EYCOMB,
SEA'-NECK'LACE, &c.; SEA'-COW, the walrus: the rhytina: the dugong or
manatee: the hippopotamus; SEA'-CRAB, a marine crab; SEA'-CRAFT, skill in
navigation; SEA'-CRAW'FISH, a prawn or shrimp; SEA'-CROW, a name of various
birds, as the common skua, the chough, the coot, &c.; SEA'-C[=U]'CUMBER,
trepang or bêche-de-mer; SEA'-DACE, a sea-perch: the common English bass;
SEA'-DAFF'ODIL, a plant producing showy, fragrant flowers; SEA'-DAI'SY, the
lady's cushion; SEA'-DEV'IL, a name of various fishes, as the ox-ray, the
angel-fish, &c.; SEA'-DOG, the harbour-seal: the dog-fish: an old sailor: a
pirate: (_her._) a bearing representing a beast nearly like a talbot;
SEA'-DOTT'EREL, the turnstone; SEA'-DOVE, the little auk; SEA'-DRAG'ON, a
flying sea-horse; SEA'-DRAKE, a sea-crow; SEA'-DUCK a duck often found on
salt waters, having the hind-toe lobate: the eider-duck; SEA'-EA'GLE, the
white-tailed eagle: the bald eagle: the osprey: the eagle-ray; SEA'-EAR, a
mollusc, an ormer or abalone; SEA'-EEL, a conger-eel; SEA'-EGG, a
sea-urchin: a sea-hedgehog: a whore's egg; SEA'-EL'EPHANT, the largest of
the seal family, the male about 20 feet long, an inhabitant of the southern
seas; SEA'-FAN, an alcyonarian polyp with a beautiful much-branched
fan-like skeleton; SEA'F[=A]RER, a traveller by sea, a sailor.--_adj._
SEA'F[=A]RING, faring or going to sea: belonging to a seaman.--_ns._
SEA'-FEATH'ER, a polyp, a sea-pen; SEA'-FENN'EL, samphire; SEA'-FIGHT, a
battle between ships at sea; SEA'-FIR, a sertularian polyp; SEA'-FIRE,
phosphorescence at sea; SEA'-FISH, any salt-water or marine fish;
SEA'-FOAM, the froth of the sea: meerschaum; SEA'-FOG, a fog, occurring
near the coast.--_n.pl._ SEA'-FOLK, seafaring people.--_ns._ SEA'-FOWL, a
sea-bird; SEA'-FOX, or _Fox-shark_, the thresher, the commonest of the
larger sharks occasionally seen off British coasts, over 12 feet long,
following shoals of herrings, pilchards, &c.; SEA'FRONT, the side of the
land, or of a building, which looks toward the sea; SEA'-FROTH, the foam of
the sea, seaweeds; SEA'-GAGE, -GAUGE, the depth a vessel sinks in the
water: an instrument for determining the depth of the sea.--_n.pl._
SEA'-GATES, a pair of gates in a tidal basin as a safeguard against a heavy
sea.--_ns._ SEA'-GHER'KIN, a sea-cucumber; SEA'-GILL'IFLOWER, the common
thrift; SEA'-GIN'GER, millipore coral.--_adj._ SEA'-GIRT, girt or
surrounded by the sea.--_ns._ SEA'-GOD, one of the divinities ruling over
or inhabiting the sea:--_fem._ SEA'-GOD'DESS.--_adj._ SEA'-G[=O]'ING,
sailing on the deep sea, as opposed to coasting or river vessels.--_ns._
SEA'-GOOSE, a dolphin: a phalarope; SEA'-GOWN (_Shak._), a short-sleeved
garment worn at sea; SEA'-GRAPE, a genus of shrubby plants of the natural
order _Gnetaceæ_, closely allied to the Conifers, and sometimes called
Joint-firs: a glasswort: the clustered egg-cases of sepia and some other
cuttle-fish; SEA'-GRASS, the thrift: grasswrack: a variety of cirrus
cloud.--_adj._ SEA'-GREEN, green like the sea.--_ns._ SEA'-GROVE, a grove
in the bottom of the sea; SEA'-GULL (same as GULL); SEA'-HAAR (_Scot._), a
chilling, piercing mist arising from the sea; SEA'-HALL, a hall in the
bottom of the sea; SEA'-HARE, a name given to the genus _Aplysia_ of
nudibranch gasteropods; SEA'-HAWK, a rapacious, gull-like bird: a skua;
SEA-HEDGE'HOG, a sea-urchin: a globe-fish: a sea-egg: a porcupine-fish;
SEA'-HEN (_Scot._), the common guillemot: the great skua: the piper
gurnard; SEA'-HOG, a porpoise; SEA'-HOLL'Y, the eryngo; SEA'-HOLM, a small
uninhabited island: sea-holly; SEA'HORSE, the walrus: the hippopotamus or
river-horse: the hippocampus; SEA'-HOUND, the dog-fish; SEA'-ISLAND
COTT'ON, a fine long-stapled variety grown on the islands off the coast of
South Carolina and Georgia; SEA'-JELL'Y, a sea-blubber; SEA'KALE, a
perennial plant with large, roundish, sinuated sea-green leaves, found on
British seashores, the blanched sprouts forming a favourite esculent;
SEA'-KID'NEY, a polyp of the genus Renilla, so called from its shape;
SEA'-KING, a name sometimes given to the leaders of the early Scandinavian
piratical expeditions; SEA'-KITT'IE, a kittiwake; SEA'-LACE, a species of
algæ--sea-catgut; SEA'-LAM'PREY, a marine lamprey; SEA'-LARK, a sandpiper,
as the dunlin: a ring-plover, as the ring-dotterel: the sea-titling;
SEA'-LAV'ENDER, a salt-marsh plant: marsh rosemary; SEA'-LAW'YER, a
captious sailor, an idle litigious 'long-shorer, more given to question
orders than to obey them: the mangrove snapper: a tiger-shark; SEA'-LEECH,
a marine suctorial annelid.--_n.pl._ SEA'-LEGS, ability to walk on a ship's
deck when it is pitching or rolling.--_ns._ SEA'-LEM'ON, a doridoid;
SEA'-LEN'TIL, the gulf-weed; SEA'-LEOP'ARD, a seal of the southern seas,
with spotted fur; SEA'-LETT'ER, -BRIEF, a document of description that used
to be given to a ship at the port where she was fitted out; SEA'-LEV'EL,
the level or surface of the sea, generally the mean level between high and
low water.--_adj._ SEA'-LIKE, like or resembling the sea.--_ns._
SEA'-LIL'Y, a lily-star: a living crinoid; SEA'-LINE, the line where sky
and sea seem to meet: lines used for fishing in deep water; SEA'-LIN'TIE
(_Scot._), the sea-titling: a sea-lark: the rock-lintie; SEA'-L[=I]'ON, a
species of otary--from its barking-roar and the mane of the male: (_her._)
a monster consisting of the upper part of a lion combined with the tail of
a fish; SEA'-LIQ'UOR, brine; SEA'-LIZ'ARD, a nudibranchiate gasteropod: a
fossil reptile; SEA'-LOACH, a gadoid fish, a Motella; SEA'-LONG'WORM, a
nemertean worm; SEA'-LOUSE, a parasitic isopod crustacean: the horse-shoe
crab; SEA'-LUCE, the hake; SEA'-LUNGS, a comb-jelly; SEA'-MAG'PIE, a
sea-pie: the oyster-catcher; SEA'MAID (_Shak._), a mermaid: a sea-nymph;
SEA'-MALL a sea-gull; SEA'MAN, a man below the rank of officer, employed in
the navigation of a ship at sea: a sailor: a merman.--_adjs._ SEA'MAN-LIKE,
showing good seamanship; SEA'MANLY, characteristic of a seaman.--_ns._
SEA'MANSHIP, the art of navigating ships at sea; SEA'-MAN'TIS, a squill;
SEA'-MARGE, the marge or shore of the sea; SEA'MARK, any mark or object on
land serving as a guide to those at sea: a beacon; SEA'-MAT, a very common
genus of polyzoa; in the wrack of the seashore--also _Hornwrack_;
SEA'-MEL'ON, a pedate holothurian; SEA'-MEW, the common gull, any
gull--also SEA'-MAW (_Scot._); SEA'-MILE, a geographical mile, 6080 feet in
length; SEA'-MINK, a kind of American whiting; SEA'-MONK, the monk-seal;
SEA'-MON'STER, any huge marine animal; SEA'-MOSS, a kind of compound
polyzoan: Irish moss, or carrageen; SEA'-MOUSE, a genus of Chætopod worms,
covered with iridescent silky hairs; SEA'-MUD, a rich saline deposit from
salt-marshes; SEA'-MUSS'EL, a marine bivalve; SEA'-NEED'LE, the garfish;
SEA'-NETT'LE, any of the stinging species of acalephæ; SEA'-NURSE, a shark;
SEA'-NYMPH, a goddess of the sea, esp. one of the Oceanids; SEA'-ON'ION,
the officinal squill; SEA'-OOZE, sea-mud; SEA'-OR'ANGE, a large, globose,
orange-coloured holothurian; SEA'-ORB, a globe-fish; SEA'-OTT'ER, a marine
otter; SEA'-OWL, the lump-fish or lump-sucker; SEA'-OX, the walrus;
SEA'-OX'EYE, a fleshy seashore plant; SEA'-PAD, a star-fish; SEA'-PAN'THER,
a South African fish, brown with black spots; SEA'-PARR'OT, a puffin: an
auk; SEA'-PARS'NIP, an umbelliferous plant; SEA'-PAR'TRIDGE, the English
conner, a labroid fish; SEA'-PASS, a passport, or document carried by
neutral merchant-vessels to secure them against molestation; SEA'-PEA, the
beach-pea; SEA'-PEACH, a sea-squirt or ascidian; SEA'-PEAR, a sea-squirt;
SEA'-PEN, one of the radiate zoophytes somewhat resembling a quill;
SEA'-PERCH, a sea-dace: a bass: the red-fish or rose-fish; SEA'-PERT, the
opah; SEA'-PHEAS'ANT, the pintail or sprigtail duck; SEA'-PIE, a sailor's
dish made of salt-meat, vegetables, and dumplings baked: the oyster-catcher
or sea-magpie: (_her._) a bearing representing such a bird; SEA'-PIECE, a
picture representing a scene at sea; SEA'-PIG, a porpoise: the dugong;
SEA'-PI'GEON, the black guillemot; SEA'-PIKE, an edible American fish found
on the Florida and Texas coasts, allied to the perches: the garfish or
belone: the hake; SEA'-PIN'CUSHION, the mermaid's purse: a star-fish;
SEA'-PINK, a sea-carnation; SEA'-PLANT, an alga; SEA'-POACH'ER, the armed
bull-head; SEA'-POR'CUPINE, any fish of the genus _Diodon_, whose body is
covered with spines; SEA'-PORK, an American compound ascidian; SEA'PORT, a
port or harbour on the seashore: a town near such a harbour; SEA'-PUDD'ING,
a sea-cucumber; SEA'-PUMP'KIN, a sea-melon; SEA'-PURSE, a sea-barrow: a
skate-barrow; SEA'-QUAIL, the turnstone; SEA'-RAT, the chimera: a pirate;
SEA'-R[=A]'VEN, the cormorant: the North American bull-head; SEA'-REED, the
mat grass; SEA'-REEVE, an officer in maritime towns; SEA'-RISK, hazard of
injury by sea; SEA'-ROB'BER, a pirate; SEA'-ROB'IN, a common American name
for fishes of the genus _Prionotus_, which represents in America the
European gurnards: the red-breasted merganser; SEA'-ROCK'ET, a cruciferous
plant of genus _Cakile_; SEA'-ROD, a kind of sea-pen, a polyp; SEA'-ROLL, a
holothurian; SEA'-ROOM, room or space at sea for a ship to be navigated
without running ashore; SEA'-ROSE, a sea-anemone; SEA'-ROSE'MARY,
sea-lavender; SEA'-R[=O]'VER, a pirate: a vessel employed in cruising for
plunder; SEA'-R[=O]'VING, piracy; SEA'-RUFF, a sea-bream; SEA'-SALT, common
salt obtained from sea-water by evaporation; SEA'SCAPE, a sea-piece;
SEA'-SCOR'PION, a scorpion-fish: a cottoid-fish; SEA'-SER'PENT, an enormous
marine animal of serpent-like form, frequently seen and described by
credulous sailors, imaginative landsmen, and common liars: a name applied
to various marine venomous serpents; SEA'-SERV'ICE, service on board ship;
SEA'-SHARK, the man-eater shark; SEA'-SHELL, a marine shell; SEA'SHORE, the
land adjacent to the sea: (_law_) the ground between high-water mark and
low-water mark; SEA'-SHRUB, a sea-fan.--_adj._ SEA'SICK, affected with
sickness through the rolling of a vessel at sea.--_ns._ SEA'SICKNESS;
SEA'SIDE, the land beside the sea; SEA'-SKIM'MER, the skimmer bird;
SEA'-SL[=A]T'ER, the rock-slater; SEA'-SLEEVE, a cuttle-fish; SEA'-SLUG, a
nudibranch, as a doridoid: a marine gasteropod with the shell absent or
rudimentary; SEA'-SNAIL, a fish of the genus _Liparis_, the sucker, the
periwinkle; SEA'-SNAKE, a sea-serpent; SEA'-SNIPE, a sandpiper: the
snipe-fish; SEA'-SOL'DIER, a marine; SEA'-SP[=I]'DER, a spider-crab;
SEA'-SPLEEN'WORT, a fern--_Asplenium marinum_; SEA'-SQUID, a cuttle-fish;
SEA'-SQUIRT, any tunicate or ascidian--also SEA'-PERCH, SEA'-PEAR,
SEA'-PORK; SEA'-STICK, a herring cured at sea at once; SEA'-STOCK, fresh
provisions for use at sea; SEA'-STRAW'BERRY, a kind of polyp;
SEA'-SUN'FLOWER, a sea-anemone; SEA'-SUR'GEON, one of a family of
spiny-rayed Teleostean fishes living in tropical seas, esp. near
coral-reefs--the name refers esp. to the members of the genus _Acanthurus_,
characterised by a lancet-like spine ensheathed on each side of the tail;
SEA'-SWALL'OW, a tern: the stormy petrel; SEA'-SWINE, a porpoise: the
sea-hog: the ballan-wrasse; SEA'-TANG, sea-tangle; SEA'-TAN'GLE, one of
several species of seaweeds, esp. of genus _Laminaria_; SEA'-TENCH, the
black sea-bream; SEA'-TERM, a word used by sailors or peculiar to ships or
sailing; SEA'-THONG, a cord-like seaweed; SEA'-TIT'LING, the shore-pipit or
sea-lark; SEA'-TOAD, the sea-frog: the sculpin: the great spider-crab;
SEA'-TOR'TOISE, a sea-turtle.--_adj._ SEA'-TOST (_Shak._), tossed upon or
by the sea.--_ns._ SEA'-TROUT, a popular name for various species of the
genus _Salmo_, but esp. for the common _Salmo trutta_; SEA'-TRUM'PET, a
medieval musical instrument similar to the monochord: (_bot._) a large
seaweed; SEA'-TURN, a gale from the sea; SEA'-TUR'TLE, the sea-pigeon: a
tortoise; SEA'-UMBRELL'A, a pennatulaceous polyp; SEA'-[=U]'NICORN, the
narwhal; SEA'-UR'CHIN, one of a class of Echinoderms, some with the body
symmetrical and nearly globular (_Echinus_), others heart-shaped
(_Spatangus_), others shield-shaped and flattened (_Clypeaster_)--in all
cases the body walled in by continuous plates of lime; SEA'-VAM'PIRE, a
devil-fish or manta; SEA'VIEW, a picture of a scene at sea; SEA'-WALL, a
wall to keep out the sea.--_adj._ SEA'-WALLED, surrounded by the sea.--_n._
SEA'-WANE, wampum.--_adj._ SEA'WARD, towards the sea.--_adv._ towards or in
the direction of the sea.--_adjs._ SEA'WARD-BOUND, outward-bound, as a
vessel leaving harbour; SEA'WARD-GAZ'ING, gazing or looking towards the
sea.--_n._ SEA'-WARE, that which is thrown up by the sea on the shore, as
seaweed, &c.--_n.pl._ SEA'-WASH'BALLS, the egg-cases of the common
whelk.--_ns._ SEA'-WA'TER, water from the sea; SEA'-WAY, progress made by a
vessel through the waves; SEA'WEED, a general and popular name applied to a
vast collection of lower plant-forms growing on the seacoast from
high-water mark (or a little above that limit) to a depth of from 50 to 100
fathoms (rarely deeper), and all belonging to the sub-class of the
_Thallophyta_, to which the name _Algæ_ has been given; SEA'-WHIP, any
alcyonarian like black coral; SEA'-WHIP'CORD, a common form of seaweed,
sea-thong; SEA'-WHIS'TLE, the seaweed whose bladders are used by children
as whistles; SEA'-WIFE, a kind of wrasse; SEA'-WILL'OW, a polyp with
slender branches like the osier; SEA'-WING, a wing-shell: a sail;
SEA'-WITH'-WIND, a species of bindweed; SEA'-WOLD, an imaginary tract like
a wold under the sea; SEA'-WOLF, the wolf-fish: the sea-elephant: a viking,
a pirate; SEA'-WOOD'COCK, the bar-tailed godwit; SEA'-WOOD'LOUSE, a
sea-slater: a chiton; SEA'-WORM, a marine annelid; SEA'-WORM'WOOD, a saline
plant found on European shores.--_adj._ SEA'WORTHY, fit for sea, able to
endure stormy weather.--_ns._ SEA'WORTHINESS; SEA'-WRACK, coarse seaweeds
of any kind.--AT FULL SEA, at full tide; AT SEA, away from land: on the
ocean: astray; GO TO SEA, to become a sailor; HALF-SEAS OVER, half-drunk;
HEAVY SEA, a sea in which the waves run high; HIGH SEAS, the open ocean; IN
A SEA-WAY, in the position of a vessel when a heavy sea is running; MAIN
SEA, the ocean; MOLTEN SEA, the great brazen laver of 1 Kings, vii. 23-26;
SHIP A SEA, to have a large wave washing in; SHORT SEA, a sea in which the
waves are choppy, irregular, and interrupted; THE FOUR SEAS, those bounding
Great Britain. [A.S. _s['æ]_; Dut. _zee_, Ger. _see_, Ice. _sær_, Dan.
_sö_.]

SEAH, s[=e]'a, _n._ a Jewish dry-measure containing nearly fourteen pints.
[Heb.]

SEAL, s[=e]l, _n._ an engraved stamp for impressing the wax which closes a
letter, &c.: the wax or other substance so impressed: that which makes fast
or secure: that which authenticates or ratifies: assurance: the water left
standing in the trap of a drain or sewer, preventing the upward flow of
gas: the sigil or signature of a plant, &c., in medieval medicine: the sign
of the cross, baptism, confirmation, the ineffaceable character supposed to
be left on the soul by some sacraments.--_v.t._ to fasten with a seal: to
set a seal to: to mark with a stamp: to make fast: to confirm: to keep
secure: to close the chinks of: to secure against an escape of air or gas
by means of a dip-pipe: to accept: to sign with the cross, to baptise or
confirm.--_adj._ SEALED, certified by a seal: inaccessible.--_ns._
SEAL'-ENGRAV'ING, the art of engraving seals; SEAL'ER, one who seals: an
inspector of stamps; SEAL'ING, confirmation by a seal; SEAL'ING-DAY
(_Shak._), a day for sealing anything; SEAL'ING-WAX, wax for sealing
letters, &c.--also SEAL'-WAX; SEAL'-PIPE, a dip-pipe; SEAL'-PRESS, a stamp
bearing dies for embossing any device upon paper or lead; SEAL'-RING
(_Shak._), a signet-ring; SEAL'-WORT, Solomon's seal.--SEAL OF THE
FISHERMAN, the papal privy seal impressed on wax, representing St Peter
fishing.--GREAT SEAL, the state seal of the United Kingdom; LEADEN SEAL, a
disc of lead pierced with two holes through which are passed the ends of a
twisted wire; PRIVY SEAL, the seal appended to grants, and in Scotland
authenticating royal grants of personal rights; SET ONE'S SEAL TO, to give
one's authority or assent to; UNDER SEAL, authenticated. [O. Fr. _seel_--L.
_sigillum_, dim. of _signum_, a mark.]

SEAL, s[=e]l, _n._ the name commonly applied to all the _Pinnipedia_ except
the morse or walrus--carnivorous mammals adapted to a marine existence; the
two great families are _Phocidæ_ (without external ears) and _Otariidæ_
(having distinct though small external ears): (_her._) a bearing
representing a creature something like a walrus.--_v.t._ to hunt
seals.--_ns._ SEAL'-BIRD, the slender-billed shear-water; SEAL'ER, a man or
a ship engaged in the seal-fishery; SEAL'ERY, a seal-fishing station:
seal-fishery; SEAL'-FLOW'ER, the bleeding heart; SEAL'ING, SEAL'-FISH'ING,
the act of catching seals; SEAL'-ROCK'ERY, a place where many seals breed;
SEAL'SKIN, the prepared fur of the fur-seal used for women's jackets, a
garment made of this.--SEALSKIN CLOTH, a cloth made of mohair with a nap,
and dyed to resemble the fur of the seal. [A.S. _seolh_; Ice. _selr_, Sw.
_själ_.]

SEAM, s[=e]m, _n._ (_Shak._) grease, hog's lard.--_v.t._ to grease. [O. Fr.
_sain_--L. _sagina_, grease.]

SEAM, s[=e]m, _n._ that which is sewed: a piece of plain sewing: the line
formed by the sewing together of two pieces: a line of union: a vein or
stratum of metal, ore, coal, &c.: a suture: (_geol._) a thin layer between
thicker strata.--_v.t._ to unite by a seam: to sew: to make a seam
in.--_ns._ SEAM'ER, one who seams; SEAM'ING-LACE, a galloon, braiding, gold
lace, &c. to sew upon seams in upholstery; SEAM'ING-MACHINE', a power-tool
for bending sheet-metal as required: a machine used to join fabrics
lengthwise preparatory to printing, &c.--_adj._ SEAM'LESS, without a seam:
woven throughout.--_ns._ SEAM'-PRESS'ER, an implement used to press down
the newly-ploughed furrow: a goose or iron used by tailors to flatten the
seams of cloth; SEAM'-RENT, a rent along a seam; SEAM'-ROLL'ER, in
leather-working, a rubber for flattening down the edges of seams;
SEAM'-RUBB'ER; SEAM'-SET, a grooved punch used by tinmen; SEAM'STER, one
who sews:--_fem._ SEAM'STRESS; SEAM'STRESSY (_Sterne_), sewing.--_adj._
SEAM'Y, having a seam or seams.--_n._ SEAM'Y-SIDE, the worst side or view
of anything.--WHITE SEAM (_Scot._), underclothing in the process of making.
[A.S. _séam_--_síwian_, to sew; Dut. _zoom_, Ger. _saum_.]

SEAM, s[=e]m, _n._ a load for a pack-horse, eight bushels of grain. [A.S.
_séam_, a burden--L. _sagma_--Gr. _sagma_, a pack-saddle.]

SEAMED, s[=e]md, _adj._ in falconry, not in good condition. [Prob. related
to _Seam_ (1).]

SEAN, s[=e]n, _n._ a drag-net: a seine. [_Seine_.]

SÉANCE, s[=a]'ängs, _n._ a sitting, as of some public body: a sitting for
consideration or inquiry, esp. a meeting of spiritualists for the
consultation of spirits. [Fr.,--L. _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEANNACHIE, sen'a-h[=e], _n._ a bard among the Scottish Highlanders who
recited the traditions of a clan.--Also SEANN'ACHY, SENN'ACHIE. [Gael.
_seanachaidh_.]

SEAR, s[=e]r, _n._ the catch in a gun-lock by which it is held at cock or
half-cock: a part of a gun-lock.--_n._ SEAR'-SPRING, a spring in a
gun-lock. [O. Fr. _serre_--L. _sera_, a bar.]

SEAR, s[=e]r, _v.t._ to dry up: to burn to dryness on the surface: to
scorch: to cauterise: to render callous or insensible.--_adj._ dry,
withered.--_adj._ SEARED, dried up: burned: hardened.--_ns._ SEARED'NESS,
hardness, insensibility; SEAR'NESS, dryness; SEAR'WOOD, wood dry enough to
burn. [A.S. _seár_, dry, _seárian_, to dry up; Low Ger. _soor_, Dut.
_zoor_.]

SEARCE, sers, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to sift through a sieve.--_n._ a sieve.

SEARCH, s[.e]rch, _v.t._ to look round to find: to seek; to examine: to
inspect: to explore: to put to the test: to probe.--_v.i._ to seek for: to
make inquiry.--_n._ the act of seeking or looking for: examination:
inquiry: investigation: pursuit.--_adj._ SEARCH'ABLE, capable of being
searched.--_ns._ SEARCH'ABLENESS, the state or quality of being searchable;
SEARCH'ER, a seeker: an inquirer or examiner: a custom-house officer: an
officer who formerly apprehended idlers on the street during church hours
in Scotland: a sieve or strainer.--_adj._ SEARCH'ING, looking over closely:
penetrating: trying: severe.--_adv._ SEARCH'INGLY.--_n._ SEARCH'INGNESS,
the quality of being searching, penetrating, or severe.--_adj._
SEARCH'LESS, unsearchable.--_ns._ SEARCH'-LIGHT, an electric arc-light used
on board ship and in military operations; SEARCH'-WARR'ANT, a legal warrant
authorising a search for stolen goods, &c.--RIGHT OF SEARCH, the right
claimed by one nation to authorise the commanders of their cruisers to
search private merchant-vessels for articles contraband of war. [O. Fr.
_cercher_ (Fr. _chercher_)--L. _circ[=a]re_, to go about--_circus_, a
circle.]

SEASE, s[=e]z, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to seize.

SEASON, s[=e]'zn, _n._ one of the four periods of the year: the usual or
proper time for anything: any particular time: any period of time, esp. of
some continuance, but not long: seasoning, relish.--_v.t._ to mature: to
prepare for use: to accustom or fit for use by any process: to fit for the
taste: to give relish to: to mingle: to moderate, temper, or qualify by
admixture: to inure, imbue, tinge, or taint: to preserve from
decay.--_v.i._ to become seasoned or matured: to grow fit for use: to
become inured.--_adj._ SEA'SONABLE, happening in due season: occurring in
good, suitable, or proper time: timely, opportune.--_n._
SEA'SONABLENESS.--_adv._ SEA'SONABLY.--_adj._ SEA'SONAL.--_adv._
SEA'SONALLY.--_n._ SEA'SONER, one who, or that which, seasons: a sailor,
&c., who hires for the season: a loafer, a beach-comber.--SEASON TICKET
(see TICKET).--CLOSE SEASON, close time; IN SEASON, ripe, fit and ready for
use: allowed to be killed, fit to be eaten, edible; IN SEASON AND OUT OF
SEASON, at all times; OUT OF SEASON, inopportune; THE FOUR SEASONS, the
ember or fast days of the Church on days set apart in each of the four
seasons. [O. Fr. _seson_ (Fr. _saison_)--L. _satio_, _-onis_, seedtime.]

SEASONING, s[=e]'zn-ing, _n._ that which is added to food to give it
greater relish: anything added to increase enjoyment: in diamond-cutting,
the charging of the laps or wheels with diamond dust and oil.--_n._
SEA'SONING-TUB, a trough in which dough is set to rise.--_adj._
SEA'SONLESS, without relish: insipid.

SEAT, s[=e]t, _n._ that on which one sits: a chair, bench, &c.: the place
or room where one sits, as in church, at a theatre, &c.: site: a place
where anything is settled or established: post of authority: station:
abode: a mansion: that part of the body or of a garment on which one sits:
posture or situation on horseback: a right to sit: membership:
sitting-room: a sitting: a sitting of eggs.--_v.t._ to place on a seat: to
cause to sit down: to place in any situation, site, &c.: to establish: to
fix: to assign a seat to: to furnish with seats: to fit accurately: to
repair by making a seat new.--_v.i._ to lie down.--_ns._ SEAT'-BACK, a
loose ornamental covering for the back of a sofa or chair; SEAT'-EARTH, in
coal-mining, the bed of clay by which many coal-seams are
underlain.--_p.adj._ SEAT'ED, fixed, confirmed, located.--_ns._
SEAT'-FAS'TENER, in a wagon, the screw-clamp for securing the seat to the
body; SEAT'ING, the act of furnishing with seats: haircloth: in
shipbuilding, that part of the floor which rests on the keel; SEAT'-LOCK,
the lock of a reversible seat in railroad cars; SEAT'-RAIL, a cross-piece
between the legs, below the seat, of a chair, &c.; SEAT'-WORM, a
pin-worm.--SEAT OF THE SOUL, the sensorium.--TAKE A SEAT, to sit down.
[A.S. _s['æ]t_, an ambush--_sittan_, to seat; or more prob. Ice. _sæti_, a
seat--_sat_, pa.t. of _sitja_, to sit.]

SEAVE, s[=e]v, _n._ a wick made of rush.--_adj._ SEAV'Y, overgrown with
rushes.

SEAX, s[=e]'aks, _n._ a curved, one-edged sword, used by Germanic and
Celtic peoples: (_her._) a bearing representing a weapon like the seax.
[A.S. _seax_.]

SEBACEOUS, s[=e]-b[=a]'shus, _adj._ pertaining to or secreting fat or fatty
matter: (_bot._) like tallow or wax, as the secretions of certain
plants.--_adj._ S[=E]BAC'IC, pertaining to or obtained from fat.--_n._
S[=E]'B[=A]TE, a salt formed by the combination of sebacic acid with a
base.--_adj._ S[=E]BIF'EROUS, sebaceous.--_n._ S[=E]BORRH[=E]'A, a disease
of the sebaceous glands with excessive secretion--also
S[=E]BORRHOE'A.--_adj._ S[=E]BORRH[=E]'IC.--_n._ S[=E]'BUM, the secretion
of the sebaceous glands. [Low L. _sebaceus_--_sebum_, tallow.]

SE-BAPTIST, s[=e]-bap'tist, _n._ one who baptises himself.

SEBASTOMANIA, s[=e]-bas-t[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ religious insanity. [Gr.
_sebastos_, reverenced, _mania_, madness.]

SEBAT, s[=e]-bat', _n._ the fifth month of the Jewish civil year, and the
eleventh of the ecclesiastical year, falling in part of January and
February.

SEBESTEN, s[=e]-bes'ten, _n._ a tree with plum-like fruit.--Also SEBES'TAN.
[Fr.,--Ar.]

SEBILLA, s[=e]-bil'a, _n._ in stone-cutting, a wooden bowl for holding the
water used in sawing, &c. [Fr.]

SEBUNDY, s[=e]-bun'di, _n._ a native soldier or local militiaman in
India.--Also SEBUN'DEE. [Hind.]

SEC, sek, _adj._ dry, of wines. [Fr.]

SEC., sek, _n._ an abbreviation of _secretary_, _secant_, _second_; also of
_secundum_, according to.

SECABILITY, sek-a-bil'i-ti, _n._ capability of being divided. [L.
_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SECALE, s[=e]-k[=a]'l[=e], _n._ a genus of grasses including rye.

SECAMONE, sek-a-m[=o]'n[=e], _n._ a genus of shrubby climbers.

SECANT, s[=e]'kant, _adj._ cutting: dividing.--_n._ a line that cuts
another: a straight line from the centre of a circle to one extremity of an
arc, produced till it meets the tangent to the other extremity.--_n._
S[=E]'CANCY. [L. _secans_, _secantis_, pr.p. _of sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SECCO, sek'k[=o], _n._ (_mus._) unaccompanied: plain. [It.]

SECEDE, s[=e]-s[=e]d', _v.i._ to go away: to separate one's self: to
withdraw from fellowship or association.--_ns._ SEC[=E]'DER, one who
secedes: one of a body of Presbyterians who seceded from the Church of
Scotland about 1733; SECES'SION, the act of seceding: withdrawal:
departure; SECES'SIONISM, the doctrine of secession; SECES'SIONIST, one who
maintains the principle of secession.--WAR OF SECESSION, in United States
history, the civil war (1860-65) which resulted from the attempted
withdrawal of eleven Southern States from the United States. [L.
_seced[)e]re_, _secessum_--_se-_, away, _ced[)e]re_, to go.]

SECERN, s[=e]-sern', _v.i._ and _v.t._ to separate: to distinguish: to
secrete.--_adj._ SECER'NENT.--_n._ SECERN'MENT. [L. _secern[)e]re_,
_secretum_, to separate.]

SECESH, s[=e]-sesh', _n._ and _adj._ (_U.S. slang_) secessionist.--_n._
SECESH'ER.

SECESSIVE, s[=e]-ses'iv, _adj._ set apart: isolated.

SECHIUM, s[=e]'ki-um, _n._ a genus of gourds. [Prob. Gr. _s[=e]kos_, an
enclosure.]

SECKEL, sek'el, _n._ a variety of pear.

SECLUDE, s[=e]-kl[=oo]d', _v.i._ to shut apart: to keep apart.--_adj._
S[=E]CLUD'ED, retired: withdrawn from observation.--_adv._
S[=E]CLUD'EDLY.--_ns._ S[=E]CLU'SION, the act of secluding: a shutting out:
the state of being secluded or apart: separation: retirement: privacy:
solitude; S[=E]CLU'SIONIST.--_adj._ S[=E]CLU'SIVE. [L. _seclud[)e]re_,
_seclusum_--_se-_, apart, _claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

SECOHM, sek'[=o]m, _n._ the practical unit of electrical
self-induction--now more commonly _Henry_.--_n._ SEC'OHMM[=E]TER, an
instrument for measuring the coefficient, of electrical self-induction.
[_Sec_ (_ond_) and _ohm_, the unit of resistance.]

SECOND, sek'und, _adj._ immediately following the first: the ordinal of
two: next in position: inferior: other: another: favourable.--_n._ one who,
or that which, follows or is second: one who attends another in a duel or a
prize-fight: a supporter: the 60th part of a minute of time, or of a
degree.--_v.t._ to follow: to act as second: to assist: to encourage: to
support the mover of a question or resolution: (_mus._) to sing second to:
to put into temporary retirement in the army, as an officer when holding
civil office (usually s[=e]cond').--_n._ SEC'OND-AD'VENTIST, one who lives
in expectation of a second coming of Christ to establish a personal kingdom
on earth, a premillenarian.--_adv._ SEC'ONDARILY, in a secondary manner or
degree: (_B._) secondly.--_n._ SEC'ONDARINESS.--_adj._ SEC'ONDARY,
following or coming after the first: second in position: inferior:
subordinate: deputed.--_n._ a subordinate: a delegate or deputy.--_adjs._
SEC'OND-BEST, next to the best: best except one--(COME OFF SECOND-BEST, to
get the worst of a contest); SEC'OND-CLASS, inferior to the first, as a
second-class carriage.--_ns._ SEC'ONDER, one who seconds or supports;
SEC'OND-FLOUR, flour of a coarser quality, seconds.--_adj._ SEC'OND-HAND,
received as it were from the hand of a second person: not new: that has
been used by another.--_n._ a hand for marking seconds on a clock or
watch.--_adv._ SEC'ONDLY, in the second place.--_ns._ SEC'OND-MARK, the
character " as the mark in mathematics for a second of arc, in architecture
for inches, and as a sign for a second of time; SECON'DO, the lower part in
a duet.--_adj._ SEC'OND-RATE, being second in power, size, rank, quality,
or value.--_ns._ SEC'OND-SIGHT (see SIGHT); SEC'ONDS-PEN'DULUM, a pendulum
which makes one oscillation per second of mean time.--SECONDARY EDUCATION,
that which is higher than primary or elementary; SECONDARY FORMATION,
ROCKS, STRATA, the Mesozoic strata; SECONDARY PLANET, a moon or satellite;
SECONDARY SCHOOL, a school for higher education; SECOND CHILDHOOD, a
condition of mental weakness often accompanying old age; SECOND COMING, the
second coming of Christ, or Second Advent; SECOND COUSIN, the child of a
cousin; SECOND ESTATE, the House of Lords; SECOND GUARD, an additional
guard to a sword; SECOND STORY, in America, the second range of rooms from
the first level, called in England the first floor; SECOND THOUGHTS,
reconsideration. [Fr.,--L. _secundus_--_sequi_, _secutus_, to follow.]

SECRET, s[=e]'kret, _adj._ concealed from notice: removed from sight:
unrevealed: hidden: secluded: retired: private: keeping secrets:
reserved.--_n._ that which is concealed: anything unrevealed or unknown:
privacy: the key or principle by which something is made clear: a form of
steel skull-cap: one of the prayers in the Mass, immediately following the
'Orate, fratres,' said inaudibly by the celebrant: (_pl._) any prayers said
secretly and not aloud: the parts of the body which are concealed.--_ns._
S[=E]'CRECY, the state of being secret: separation: concealment:
retirement: privacy: fidelity to a secret: the keeping of secrets;
S[=E]'CRETAGE, a process in dressing furs.--_adj._ S[=E]'CRET-FALSE
(_Shak._), secretly false, while apparently sincere.--_adv._ S[=E]'CRETLY,
in a secret manner: privately: unknown to others: inwardly.--_n._
S[=E]'CRETNESS, the state of being secret.--SECRET SERVICE, a department of
government service.--OPEN SECRET, a secret which all may inquire into.
[Fr.,--L. _secretus_--_secern[)e]re_, _secretum_--_se-_, apart,
_cern[)e]re_, to separate.]

SECRETARY, sek'r[=e]-t[=a]-ri, _n._ one employed to write for another: a
public officer entrusted with the affairs of a department of government, or
of a company, &c.: a piece of furniture for writing, with drawers,
pigeon-holes, &c. (also SECRETAIRE').--_adj._ SECRET[=A]'RIAL, pertaining
to a secretary or his duties.--_ns._ SECRET[=A]'RIATE, the official
position of secretary; SEC'RETARY-BIRD a raptorial serpent-eating bird
resembling the crane, found in South Africa and the East--from the tufts of
feathers at the back of its head like pens stuck behind the ear;
SEC'RETARYSHIP.

SECRETE, s[=e]-kr[=e]t', _v.t._ to make secret: to hide: to conceal: to
produce from the circulating fluids, as the blood in animals, the sap in
vegetables.--_adj._ separate, distinct.--_n.pl._ S[=E]CR[=E]'TA, the
products of secretion.--_n._ S[=E]CR[=E]'TION, the act of secreting or
separating from a circulating fluid: that which is so secreted.--_adj._
S[=E]CR[=E]'TIONAL.--_n._ S[=E]'CRETIST, a dealer in secrets.--_adjs._
S[=E]CRETI'TIOUS, produced by secretion; S[=E]CR[=E]'TIVE, tending to, or
causing, secretion: given to secrecy or to keeping secrets.--_adv._
S[=E]CR[=E]'TIVELY.--_ns._ S[=E]CR[=E]'TIVENESS, a phrenological organ
supposed to indicate a turn for secrecy and concealment; S[=E]CR[=E]'TOR, a
secreting organ.--_adj._ S[=E]CR[=E]'TORY, performing the office of
secretion.--SECRETING GLANDS, true glands; SECRETING ORGANS, certain
specialised organs of plants. [L. _secern[)e]re_, _secretum_.]

SECT, sekt, _n._ a body of men who unite in holding some particular views,
esp. in religion and philosophy: those who dissent from an established
church: a denomination: a school of philosophy: a party: faction: apparel:
a part cut off.--_adj._ SECT[=A]'RIAN, pertaining to, or peculiar to, a
sect: bigotedly devoted to the interests of a sect, narrow, exclusive (also
SECT[=A]'RIAL).--_n._ one of a sect: one strongly imbued with the
characteristics of a sect.--_v.t._ SECT[=A]'RIANISE.--_ns._
SECT[=A]'RIANISM, quality or character of a sectarian: excessive devotion
to a sect; SEC'TARIST; SEC'TARY, one of a sect: a dissenter; SECT[=A]'TOR
(_obs._), an adherent of a school or party; SEC'TIST; SECT'-MAS'TER, the
leader of a sect.--SECTARIAL MARKS, emblems marked on the foreheads of the
different sects in India. [Fr. _secte_--L. _secta_, a school of
philosophy--_sec[=a]re_, _sectum_, to cut off.]

SECTANT, sek'tant, _n._ a portion of space cut off from the rest by three
planes, but extending to infinity.

SECTION, sek'shun, _n._ act of cutting: a division: a portion: a distinct
part of a book: the plan of any object cut through, as it were, to show its
interior: the line formed by the intersection of two surfaces: the surface
formed when a solid is cut by a plane: one of the squares, each containing
640 acres, into which the public lands of the United States are divided:
(_zool._) a group: the sign §, as a mark of reference.--_v.t._ to divide
into sections, as a ship; to reduce to the degree of thinness required for
study with the microscope.--_adjs._ SEC'TILE, SEC'TIVE, capable of being
cut.--_n._ SECTIL'ITY.--_adj._ SEC'TIONAL, pertaining to a section or
distinct part: local.--_n._ SEC'TIONALISM, the spirit of a class,
commercial or political.--_adv._ SEC'TIONALLY.--_ns._ SEC'TION-BEAM, in
warping, a roller which receives the yarn from the spools;
SEC'TION-CUT'TER, an instrument used for making sections for microscopic
work.--_v.t._ SEC'TIONISE, to render sectional in scope or spirit.--_ns._
SEC'TION-LIN'ER, a draftsman's instrument for ruling parallel lines;
SEC'TION-PLANE, a cut surface; SEC'TIOPLANOG'RAPHY, a method of laying down
the sections of engineering work in railways; SEC'TIUNCLE, a petty sect.

SECTOR, sek'tur, _n._ that which cuts: that which is cut off: a portion of
the circle between two radii and the intercepted arc: a mathematical
instrument for finding a fourth proportional: an astronomical instrument:
(_mech._) a toothed gear, the face of which is the arc of a
circle.--_adjs._ SEC'TORAL; SECT[=O]'RIAL, adapted or intended for
cutting.--_n._ a scissor-tooth. [L. _sector_--_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SECULAR, sek'[=u]-lar, _adj._ pertaining to an age or generation: coming or
observed only once in a century: permanent: lay or civil, as opposed to
clerical: (_geol._) gradually becoming appreciable in the course of ages:
pertaining to the present world, or to things not spiritual: not bound by
monastic rules.--_n._ a layman: an ecclesiastic, as a parish priest, not
bound by monastic rules.--_n._ SECULARISA'TION, the state of being
secularised.--_v.t._ SEC'ULARISE, to make secular: to convert from
spiritual to common use.--_ns._ SEC'ULARISM; SEC'ULARIST, one who,
discarding religious belief and worship, applies himself exclusively to the
things of this life: one who holds that education should be apart from
religion; SECULAR'ITY, state of being secular or worldly:
worldliness.--_adv._ SEC'ULARLY.--_n._ SEC'ULARNESS. [L.
_secularis_--_seculum_, an age, a generation.]

SECUND, s[=e]'kund, _n._ (_bot._, _zool._) unilateral.

SECUNDARIUS, sek-un-d[=a]'ri-us, _n._ a lay-vicar.

SECUNDATE, s[=e]-kun'd[=a]t, _v.t._ to make prosperous.--_n._
SECUND[=A]'TION.

SECUNDINE, sek'un-din, _n._ the afterbirth: (_bot._) inner coat of an
ovule, within the primine.

SECUNDOGENITURE, s[=e]-kun'do-jen'i-t[=u]r, _n._ the right of inheritance
pertaining to a second son.

SEOUNDUM, s[=e]-kun'dum, _prep._ according to.--SECUNDUM ARTEM,
artificially: skilfully: professionally; SECUNDUM NATURAM, naturally;
SECUNDUM QUID, in some respects only; SECUNDUM VERITATEM, universally
valid.

SECURE, s[=e]-k[=u]r', _adj._ without care or anxiety, careless (_B._):
free from fear or danger: safe: confident: incautious: in safe keeping: of
such strength as to ensure safety.--_v.t._ to make safe: to guard from
danger: to seize and confine: to get hold of: to make one's self master of:
(_obs._) to plight or pledge: to render certain: to guarantee: to
fasten.--_adj._ SEC[=U]R'ABLE, that may be secured.--_n._ SECUR'ANCE,
assurance, confirmation.--_adv._ SEC[=U]RE'LY.--_ns._ SEC[=U]RE'MENT;
SEC[=U]RE'NESS; SEC[=U]R'ER, one who, or that which, secures or protects;
SEC[=U]R'ITAN, one who dwells in fancied security; SEC[=U]R'ITY, state of
being secure: freedom from fear: carelessness: protection: certainty: a
pledge: (_pl._) bonds or certificates in evidence of debt or
property.--SECURE ARMS, to guard the firearms from becoming wet. [L.
_securus_--_se-_ (for _sine_), without, _cura_, care.]

SECURICULA, sek-[=u]'-rik'[=u]-la, _n._ a little ax, a votive offering in
this form.

SECURIFER, s[=e]-k[=u]'ri-f[.e]r, _n._ a sawfly.--_adjs._ SEC[=U]RIF'EROUS;
SEC[=U]'RIFORM, axe-shaped.

SECURIGERA, sek-[=u]-rij'e-ra, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants--the
_hatchet-vetch_, _axe-fitch_.

SECURIPALPI, s[=e]-k[=u]r-i-pal'p[=i], _n._ a group of beetles.

SECURITE, sek'[=u]r-[=i]t, _n._ a modern high explosive in the form of a
yellowish powder.

SED, sed, _n._ a line fastening a fish-hook: a snood.

[Illustration]

SEDAN, s[=e]-dan', _n._ a covered chair for one, carried on two poles,
generally by two bearers: a hand-barrow for fish. [Invented at _Sedan_, in
France.]

SEDATE, s[=e]-d[=a]t', _adj._ quiet: serene: serious.--_adv._
SED[=A]TE'LY.--_n._ SED[=A]TE'NESS, composure: tranquillity.--_adj._
SED'ATIVE, tending to make sedate: moderating: allaying irritation or
pain.--_n._ a medicine that allays irritation or pain. [L. _sed[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to seat, akin to _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SE DEFENDENDO, s[=e] d[=e]-fen-den'd[=o], _n._ the plea of a person charged
with slaying another, that it was in his own defence.

SEDENTARIA, sed-en-t[=a]'ri-a, _n.pl._ the tubicolous worms: the sedentary
spiders.

SEDENTARY, sed'en-t[=a]-ri, _adj._ sitting much: passed chiefly in sitting:
requiring much sitting: inactive: (_zool._) not migratory: not errant:
lying in wait, as a spider: not free-swimming: motionless, as a
protozoan.--_adj._ S[=E]'DENT, at rest.--_adv._ SED'ENTARILY.--_n._
SED'ENTARINESS. [L. _sedentarius_--_sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEDERUNT, s[=e]-d[=e]'runt, _n._ in Scotland, the sitting of a court.--ACTS
OF SEDERUNT, ordinances of the Scottish Court of Session. [L., 'they
sat'--_sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEDES IMPEDITA, s[=e]'dez im-p[=e]-d[=i]'ta, a term for a papal or
episcopal see when there is a partial cessation by the incumbent of his
episcopal duties.--SEDES VACANS (s[=e]-dez v[=a]'kanz), a term of canon law
to designate a papal or episcopal see when vacant.

SEDGE, sej, _n._ a kind of flag or coarse grass growing in swamps and
rivers.--_adj._ SEDGED, composed of sedge or flags.--_ns._ SEDGE'-HEN, a
marsh-hen; SEDGE'-WAR'BLER, a reed-warbler, the sedge-wren.--_adj._ SEDG'Y,
overgrown with sedge. [Older form _seg_--A.S. _secg_; cf. Low Ger.
_segge_.]

SEDGE, sej, _n._ a flock of herons, bitterns, or cranes. [A variant of
_siege_.]

SEDIGITATED, s[=e]-dij'i-t[=a]-ted, _adj._ having six fingers on one hand.

[Illustration]

SEDILIUM, s[=e]-dil'i-um, _n._ one of a row of seats in a Roman
amphitheatre: a seat in the chancel of a church near the altar for the
officiating clergyman--sometimes S[=E]D[=I]'LE:--_pl._ S[=E]DIL'IA. [L.]

SEDIMENT, sed'i-ment, _n._ what settles at the bottom of a liquid:
dregs.--_adj._ SEDIMEN'TARY, pertaining to, consisting of, or formed by
sediment.--_n._ SEDIMENT[=A]'TION. [L. _sedimentum_--_sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEDITION, s[=e]-dish'un, _n._ insurrection: any offence against the State
next to treason.--_n._ S[=E]DI'TIONARY, an inciter to sedition.--_adj._
SEDI'TIOUS, pertaining to, or exciting, sedition: turbulent.--_adv._
S[=E]DI'TIOUSLY.--_n._ SEDI'TIOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _seditio_--_se-_, away,
_[=i]re_, _[=i]tum_, to go.]

SEDUCE, s[=e]-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to draw aside from rectitude: to entice: to
corrupt: to cause a woman to surrender her chastity through persuasion,
entreaty, under promise of marriage, &c.--_ns._ S[=E]D[=U]CE'MENT, act of
seducing or drawing aside: allurement; S[=E]D[=U]'CER.--_adj._
S[=E]D[=U]'CIBLE.--_adv._ S[=E]D[=U]'CINGLY.--_n._ S[=E]DUC'TION, act of
seducing or enticing from virtue, any enticement to evil: the act of
fraudulently depriving an unmarried woman of her chastity.--_adj._
S[=E]DUC'TIVE, tending to seduce or draw aside: assiduous.--_adv._
S[=E]DUC'TIVELY.--_ns._ S[=E]DUC'TIVENESS; S[=E]DUC'TOR, one who leads
astray. [L. _seduc[)e]re_--_se-_, aside, _duc[)e]re_, _ductum_, to lead.]

SEDULOUS, sed'[=u]-lus, _adj._ diligent: constant.--_ns._ S[=E]D[=U]'LITY,
SED'ULOUSNESS.--_adv._ SED'ULOUSLY. [L. _sedulus_--_sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEDUM, s[=e]'dum, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants, as stone-crop. [L.,
a house-leek.]

SEE, s[=e], _n._ the seat or jurisdiction of a bishop or archbishop: a
throne.--HOLY SEE, the papal court. [O. Fr. _se_, _siet_--L.
_sedes_--_sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEE, s[=e], _v.t._ to perceive by the eye: to observe: to discover: to
remark: to bring about as a result: to wait upon, escort: to receive: to
consult for any particular purpose: to suffer, experience: to meet and
accept by staking a similar sum: to visit: to discern: to
understand.--_v.i._ to look or inquire: to be attentive: to apprehend: to
consider:--_pa.t_. saw; _pa.p._ seen.--_interj._ look! behold!--_adj._
SEE'ABLE, capable of being seen.--_n._ S[=E]'ER, one who sees or who
foresees, a prophet.--SEE ABOUT A THING, to consider it; SEE ONE THROUGH,
to aid in accomplishing or doing, esp. something difficult or dangerous;
SEE OUT, to see to the end: to outdo; SEE THROUGH ONE, to understand one
thoroughly; SEE TO, to look after: (_B._) to behold; SEE TO IT, look well
to it.--HAVE SOON ONE'S BEST DAYS, to be now on the decline; LET ME SEE, a
phrase employed to express consideration. [A.S. _séon_; Ger. _sehen_, Dut.
_zien_.]

SEE-BRIGHT, s[=e]'-br[=i]t, _n._ the common clary.

SEE-CATCHIE, s[=e]'-kach'i, _n._ the male fur-seal.

SEE-CAWK, s[=e]'-kawk, _n._ the common American skunk.

SEED, s[=e]d, _n._ the thing sown: the male fecundating fluid, semen,
sperm, milt, spat, the substance produced by plants and animals from which
new plants and animals are generated: first principle: original:
descendants: children: race: red-seed: a small bubble formed in imperfectly
fused glass.--_v.i._ to produce seed: to grow to maturity.--_v.t._ to sow:
to plant: to graft.--_ns._ SEED'-BAG, a bag for seeds; SEED'-BED, a piece
of ground for receiving seed; SEED'-BIRD, the water-wagtail; SEED'-BUD, the
bud or germ of the seed; SEED'-CAKE, a sweet cake containing aromatic
seeds; SEED'-COAT, the exterior coat of a seed; SEED'-COD, a basket for
holding seed; SEED'-COR'AL, coral in small and irregular pieces;
SEED'-CORN, corn to be used for sowing; SEED'-CRUSH'ER, an instrument for
crushing seeds to express the oil; SEED'-DOWN, the down on cotton, &c.;
SEED'-DRILL, a machine for sowing seed in rows; SEED'-EAT'ER, a granivorous
bird.--_adj._ SEED'ED, bearing seed, full-grown: sown: (_her._) having the
stamens indicated.--_ns._ SEED'-EMBROI'DERY, embroidery in which seeds form
parts of the design; SEED'ER, a seed-drill: an apparatus for removing seeds
from fruit: a seed-fish; SEED'-FIELD, a field in which seed is raised;
SEED'-FINCH, a South American finch; SEED'-FISH, roe or spawn; SEED'-FOWL,
a bird that feeds on grain.--_adj._ SEED'FUL, rich in promise.--_ns._
SEED'-GALL, a small gall; SEED'-GRAIN, corn for seed.--_adv._
SEED'ILY.--_ns._ SEED'INESS, the state of being seedy: shabbiness:
exhaustion; SEED'ING; SEED'ING-MACHINE', an agricultural machine for
sowing; SEED'ING-PLOUGH, a plough fitted with a hopper from which seed is
automatically deposited; SEED'-LAC (see LAC, 2); SEED'-LEAF, a cotyledon;
SEED'-LEAP, a seed-basket.--_adj._ SEED'LESS, having no seeds.--_ns._
SEED'LING a plant reared from the seed--also _adj._; SEED'-LOBE, a
cotyledon or seed-leaf; SEED'NESS (_Shak._), seedtime; SEED'-OIL, oil
expressed from seeds.--_ns.pl._ SEED'-OY'STERS, very young oysters;
SEED'-PEARLS, very small or imperfect pearls strung together on horse-hair
and attached to mother-of-pearl, &c., for ornament--used also in the
composition of electuaries, &c.--_ns._ SEED'-PLANT'ER, a seeder for
planting seed on hills; SEED'-PLOT, a piece of nursery-ground, a hot-bed;
SEED'-SHEET, the sheet containing the seed of the sower; SEEDS'MAN, one who
deals in seeds: a sower:--_pl._ SEEDS'MEN; SEED'-SOW'ER, a broadcast
seeding-machine; SEED'-STALK, the funiculus; SEED'-TICK, a young tick;
SEED'TIME, the time or season for sowing seed; SEED'-VESS'EL, the pericarp
which contains the seeds; SEED'-WEEV'IL, a small weevil which infests
seeds; SEED'-WOOL, cotton-wool from which the seeds have not been
removed.--_adj._ SEED'Y, abounding with seed: run to seed: having the
flavour of seeds: worn out: out of sorts, looking or feeling unwell:
shabby.--_n._ SEED'Y-TOE, a diseased condition of a horse's foot. [A.S.
_s['æ]d_--_sáwan_, to sow; Ice. _sádh_, Ger. _saat_.]

SEEING, s[=e]'ing, _n._ sight: vision.--_conj._ since: because: taking into
account.--_n._ SEE'ING-STONE (_obs._), a looking-glass, a divining crystal.

SEEK, s[=e]k, _v.t._ to go in search of: to look for: to try to find or
gain: to ask for: to solicit: to pursue: to consult.--_v.i._ to make search
or inquiry: to try: to use solicitation: (_B._) to resort to:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ sought.--_ns._ SEEK'ER, an inquirer: one of a sect in the time of
Cromwell: (_anat._) tracer; SEEK'-NO-FAR'THER, a reddish winter apple;
SEEK'-SORR'OW (_obs._), a self-tormentor.--SOUGHT AFTER, in demand,
desired; To seek, to be sought: at a loss, without knowledge or resources,
helpless. [A.S. _sécan_; cf. Dut. _zoeken_, Ger. _suchen_.]

SEEL, s[=e]l, _v.t._ to close the eyes of by sewing the eyelids together,
as a hawk: to blind, hoodwink. [O. Fr. _siller_, _ciller_--_cil_--L.
_cilium_, eyelash.]

SEEL, s[=e]l, _n._ (_prov._) good fortune, happiness: opportunity,
season.--_n._ SEEL'INESS.--_adj._ SEEL'Y (_Spens._), silly, innocent:
fortunate, happy, good: simple: trifling.--_n._ good fortune: bliss:
(_Scot._) opportunity. [A.S. _s['æ]l_, time--_s['æ]l_, propitious.]

SEEL, s[=e]l, _v.i._ to lean to one side, to pitch or roll.--_n._ a roll of
a ship. [Prob. related to _sail_.]

SEELDE, s[=e]ld, _adv._ (_Spens._) seldom.

SEEM, s[=e]m, _v.i._ to appear: to have a show: to look: to pretend, to
assume an air: to appear to one's self.--_v.t._ (_B._) to befit: to
become.--_n._ SEEM'ER.--_adj._ SEEM'ING, apparent: specious:
ostensible.--_n._ appearance: semblance: a false appearance: way of
thinking.--_adv._ SEEM'INGLY.--_n._ SEEM'INGNESS.--_adj._ SEEM'LESS
(_Spens._), unseemly: indecorous.--_n._ SEEM'LINESS.--_adj._ SEEM'LY
(_comp._ SEEM'LIER, superl. SEEM'LIEST), becoming: suitable: decent:
handsome.--_adv._ in a decent or suitable manner.--_n._ SEEM'LYHED
(_Spens._), decent comely appearance.--IT SEEMS, it appears: it seems to
me. [A.S. _séman_, to satisfy, to suit; or prob. direct from Scand., Ice.
_sæma_, to honour, conform to.]

SEEN, s[=e]n, _pa.p._ of _see_.

SEEN, s[=e]n, _adj._ skilled, experienced: manifest.

SEEP, s[=e]p, _v.i._ to ooze gently: to trickle: to drain off.--_n._
SEEP'AGE.--_adj._ SEEP'Y. [_Sipe._]

SEER, s[=e]r, _n._ one who foresees events: a prophet: a soothsayer.--_n._
SEER'SHIP.

SEER-FISH, s[=e]r'-fish, _n._ a longish scombroid fish, valuable for
food.--Also SEIR'-FISH.

SEERSUCKER, s[=e]r-suk'[.e]r, _n._ a thin East Indian linen fabric.

SEESAW, s[=e]'saw, _n._ motion to and fro, as in the act of sawing: a play
among children, in which two seated at opposite ends of a board supported
in the centre move alternately up and down.--_adj._ moving up and down, or
to and fro: reciprocal.--_v.i._ to move backwards and forwards. [Prob. a
redup. of _saw_.]

SEETHE, s[=e]th, _v.t._ to boil: to cook in hot liquid: to soak.--_v.i._ to
be boiling: to be hot:--_pa.t._ seethed or sod; _pa.p._ seethed or
sodd'en.--_n._ SEETH'ER. [A.S. _seóthan_; Ice. _sjótha_, Ger. _sieden_.]

SEETULPUTTY, s[=e]'tul-put-i, _n._ a Bengalese grass mat for sleeping on.
[Hind.]

SEG, seg, _n._ a castrated bull.

SEG, seg, _n._ sedge: the yellow flower-de-luce.--_n._ SEG'GAN (_Scot._).

SEGGAR, seg'ar, _n._ a case of clay in which fine pottery is enclosed while
baking in the kiln. [_Saggar_.]

SEGGROM, seg'rom, _n._ the ragwort.

SEGHOL, se-g[=o]l', _n._ a vowel-point in Hebrew with sound of _e_ in
_pen_, placed under a consonant, thus [seghol].--_n._ SEGH'[=O]L[=A]TE, a
dissyllabic noun form with tone-long vowel in the first and a short seghol
in the second syllable.

SEGMENT, seg'ment, _n._ a part cut off: a portion: (_geom_.) the part of a
circle cut off by a straight line: the part of a sphere cut off by a plane:
a section: one of the parts into which a body naturally divides itself:
(_her._) a bearing representing one part only of a rounded object.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ to divide or become divided.--_adj._ SEGMEN'TAL, being a
segment: in embryology, noting the rudimental venal organs.--_adv._
SEGMEN'TALLY.--_adjs._ SEG'MENTARY, SEG'MENTATE.--_n._ SEGMENT[=A]'TION,
the act of cutting into segments.--_adj._ SEGMEN'TED.--_ns._ SEG'MENT-GEAR,
a gear extending over an arc only of a circle, providing a reciprocating
motion; SEG'MENT-RACK, a rack having a cogged surface; SEG'MENT-SAW, a
circular saw used for cutting veneers; SEG'MENT-SHELL, a modern form of
projectile for artillery. [L. _segmentum_--_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SEGNITUDE, seg'ni-t[=u]d, _n._ sluggishness, inactivity, [L. _segnitia_,
slowness, _segnis_, slow.]

SEGNO, s[=a]'ny[=o], _n._ (_mus._) a sign to mark the beginning or end of
repetitions--abbreviated [segno]. [It.,--L. _signum_, a mark.]

SEGO, s[=e]'g[=o], _n._ a showy plant of the United States.

SEGREANT, seg'r[=e]-ant, _adj._ an epithet of the griffin: (_her._)
equivalent to rampant and salient.

SEGREGATE, seg'r[=e]-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to separate from others.--_adj._
separate from others of the same kind: (_geol._) separate from a mass and
collected together along lines of fraction.--_n._ SEGREG[=A]'TION. [L.
_segreg[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_se-_, apart, _grex_, _gregis_, a flock.]

SEGUIDILLA, seg-i-d[=e]l'yä, _n._ a lively Spanish dance for two: music for
such a dance.

SEICHE, s[=a]sh, _n._ a remarkable fluctuation of the level observed on the
Lake of Geneva and other Swiss lakes, probably due to local variations in
the barometric pressure. [Fr.]

SEIDLITZ, s[=e]d'litz, _adj._ saline water of or from _Seidlitz_ in
northern Bohemia, also a saline aperient powder.

SEIGNIOR, SEIGNEUR, s[=e]'nyor, _n._ a title of honour and address in
Europe to elders or superiors: the lord of a manor.--_ns._ SEIGN'IORAGE,
SEIGN'ORAGE, a royalty: a share of profit: a percentage on minted bullion;
SEIGNIORAL'TY, the authority or the territory of a seignior or
lord.--_adjs._ SEIGNIORIAL (s[=e]-ny[=o]'ri-al), SEIGNEU'RIAL,
SIGN[=O]'RIAL, manorial.--_v.t._ SEIGN'IORISE, to lord it over.--_ns._
SEIGN'IORY, SEIGN'ORY, the power or authority of a seignior or lord: a
domain, a lordship without a manor, or that of manor whose lands were held
by free tenants: the elders forming the municipal council in a medieval
Italian republic.--GRAND SEIGNIOR, the Sultan of Turkey. [Fr.
_seigneur_--L. _senior_--_senex_, old. In Late. L. _senior_ is sometimes
equivalent to _dominus_, lord.]

SEIL, s[=i]l, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to strain.--_n._ a strainer. [_Sile._]

SEINE, s[=a]n, or s[=e]n, _n._ a large net for catching fish.--_v.t._ to
catch with such.--_ns._ SEINE'-BOAT; SEINE'-EN'GINE, a steam-engine used in
hauling seines; SEINE'-GANG, a body of men engaged in seining, with their
boats and other gear; SEIN'ER, one who seines: a vessel engaged in
purse-seining for mackerel; SEIN'ING, the art of using the seine. [Fr.,--L.
_sagena_--Gr. _sag[=e]n[=e]_, a fishing-net.]

SEIROSPORE, s[=i]'r[=o]-sp[=o]r, _n._ one of the non-sexual spores arranged
in a chain in certain florideous algæ.--_adj._ SEIROSPOR'IC.

SEISED, s[=e]zd, _adj._ (_Spens._) taken possession of.--_n._ SEIS'IN
(_Spens._), possession.

SEISMOGRAPH, s[=i]s'm[=o]-graf, _n._ an instrument for registering the
shocks and concussions of earthquakes, a seismometer.--_adjs._ SEIS'MAL;
SEIS'MIC, belonging to an earthquake.--_ns._ SEIS'MOGRAM, the record made
by a seismometer; SEISMOG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ SEISMOGRAPH'IC, -AL, connected
with the seismograph.--_n._ SEISMOG'RAPHY, the study of earthquake
phenomena.--_adjs._ SEISMOLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._ SEISMOL'OGIST, a student of
earthquake phenomena; SEIS'MOLOGUE, a catalogue of earthquake observations;
SEISMOL'OGY, the science of earthquakes and volcanoes; SEISMOM'ETER, an
instrument for measuring shakings, tremors, and tiltings of the
earth.--_adjs._ SEISMOM'ETRIC, -AL.--_ns._ SEISMOM'ETRY, the measuring the
phenomena of earthquakes; SEIS'MOSCOPE, a name of the simpler form of
seismometer.--_adj._ SEISMOSCOP'IC. [Gr. _seismos_, an earthquake,
_graphein_, to write.]

SEISON, s[=i]'son, _n._ a genus of parasitic leech-like rotifers.

SEISURA, s[=i]-s[=u]'ra, _n._ a genus of Australian fly-catchers.

SEITY, s[=e]'i-ti, _n._ something peculiar to one's self.

SEIURUS, s[=i]-[=u]'rus, _n._ the genus of birds including the American
wagtails.

SEIZE, s[=e]z,--_v.t._ to take possession of forcibly: to take hold of: to
grasp: to apprehend by legal authority: to come upon suddenly: to lash or
make fast.--_v.i._ to lay hold of with the claws: in metallurgy, to
cohere.--_adj._ SEIZ'ABLE.--_ns._ SEIZ'ER; SEIZ'ING, the act of taking
hold: (_naut._) the operation of lashing with several turns of a cord. [O.
Fr. _saisir_ (Prov. _sazir_, to take possession of)--Old High Ger.
_sazzan_, to set, Ger. _setzen_, Eng. _set_.]

SEIZIN, SEISIN, s[=e]'zin, _n._ the taking possession of an estate as of
freehold: the thing possessed--the same as _Sasine_ (q.v.).--_n._ SEIZ'OR,
one who takes legal possession.

SEIZURE, s[=e]'zh[=u]r, _n._ act of seizing: capture: grasp: the thing
seized: a sudden attack.

SEJANT, SEJEANT, s[=e]'jant, _adj._ (_her._) sitting. [Fr. _séant_, pr.p.
of _seoir_--L. _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SEJOIN, s[=e]-join', _v.t._ (_obs._) to separate.--_n._ SEJUNC'TION,
separation.

SEJUGOUS, s[=e]'j[=oo]-gus, _adj._ (_bot._) having six pairs of leaflets.
[L. _sejugis_--_sex_, six, _jugum_, a yoke.]

SEKOS, s[=e]'kos, _n._ in Greek antiquities, any sacred enclosure, a
sanctuary, cella of the temple.

SEL, sel, _n._ (_Scot._) self.

SELACHE, sel'a-k[=e], _n._ a genus of sharks.--_adjs._ SEL[=A]'CHIAN,
SEL'ACHIOID. [Gr. _selachos_, a sea-fish.]

SELAGINELLA, s[=e]-laj-i-nel'a, _n._ a genus of heterosporous cryptogams,
allied to club-moss.

SELAH, s[=e]'lä, _n._ in the Psalms, a transliterated Hebrew word
(connected by Gesenius with _s[=a]l[=a]h_, rest), supposed to be a
direction in the musical rendering of a passage, probably meaning 'pause.'

SELANDRIA, s[=e]-lan'dri-a, _n._ a genus of saw-flies.

SELASPHORUS, s[=e]-las'f[=o]-rus, _n._ the genus of lightning hummers.

SELCOUTH, sel'k[=oo]th, _adj._ (_Spens._) rarely known, uncommon.--_adv._
SEL'COUTHLY. [A.S. _selcúth_ for _seldcúth_--_seld_, seldom, _cúth_--known,
_cunnan_, to know.]

SELD, seld, _adj._ (_Spens._) rare, uncommon.--_adv._ seldom,
rarely.--_adjs._ SELD'SEEN, rarely seen; SELD'-SHOWN (_Shak._), rarely
shown. [_Seldom_.]

SELDOM, sel'dum, _adv._ rarely: not often.--_n._ SEL'DOMNESS.--_adv._
SEL'DOM-TIMES. [A.S. _seldum_, _seldan_--_seld_ (adj.), rare; Ger.
_selten_.]

SELECT, s[=e]-lekt', _v.t._ to pick out from a number by preference: to
choose: to cull.--_adj._ picked out: nicely chosen: choice:
exclusive.--_adj._ SELEC'TED.--_adv._ SELEC'TEDLY.--_ns._ SELEC'TEDNESS;
SELEC'TION, act of selecting: things selected: a book containing select
pieces.--_adj._ SELEC'TIVE.--_adv._ SELEC'TIVELY, by selection.--_ns._
SELECT'MAN, in New England towns, one of a board of officers chosen
annually to manage various local concerns; SELECT'NESS; SELECT'OR.--SELECT
MEETING, in the Society of Friends, a meeting of ministers and
elders.--NATURAL SELECTION, the preservation of some forms of animal and
vegetable life and the destruction of others by the ordinary operation of
natural causes. [L. _selig[)e]re_, _selectum_--_se-_, aside, _leg[)e]re_,
to choose.]

SELENE, s[=e]-l[=e]'n[=e], _n._ (_Gr. myth._) the goddess of the moon, the
Latin _Luna_--also _Phoebe_: a genus of carangoid fishes, the
moon-fishes.--_n._ SEL[=E]'NISCOPE, an instrument for observing the
moon.--_adj._ SEL[=E]NOCEN'TRIC, having relation to the centre of the
moon.--_ns._ SEL[=E]'NOGRAPH, a delineation of the moon; SEL[=E]NOG'RAPHER,
a student of selenography.--_adjs._ SEL[=E]NOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_ns._
SEL[=E]NOG'RAPHIST, a selenographer; SEL[=E]NOG'RAPHY, description of the
moon.--_adj._ SEL[=E]NOLOG'ICAL, pertaining to the physiography of the
moon.--_ns._ SEL[=E]NOL'OGIST, a selenographer; SEL[=E]NOL'OGY,
selenography.--_adj._ SEL[=E]N[=O]TROP'IC, turning to the moon.--_ns._
SEL[=E]NOT'ROPISM, SEL[=E]NOT'ROPY. [Gr. _sel[=e]n[=e]_.]

SELENITE, sel'en-[=i]t, _n._ a transparent and beautiful variety of gypsum:
a salt of selenium: a supposed inhabitant of the moon.--_adjs._ SELENIT'IC;
SELENITIF'EROUS. [Gr. _sel[=e]nit[=e]s_ (_lithos_, stone),
moon-like--_sel[=e]n[=e]_, the moon.]

SELENITES, sel-[=e]-n[=i]'tez, _n.pl._ a genus of coleopterous insects.

SELENIUM, s[=e]-l[=e]'ni-um, _n._ an element discovered by Berzelius in the
refuse of a sulphuric-acid factory in 1817.--_n._ SEL'[=E]NATE, a compound
of selenic acid with a base.--_adjs._ SELEN'IC, SEL[=E]'NIOUS.--_n._
SEL'ENIDE, a compound of selenium with one other element or radical--also
SEL[=E]'NIURET.--_adjs._ SELENIF'EROUS; SEL[=E]'NIURETTED, containing
selenium. [Gr. _s[=e]l[=e]ne_, the moon.]

SELENODONT, s[=e]-l[=e]'n[=o]-dont, _adj._ having crescentic ridges on the
crown, as molar teeth.

SELEUCIDÆ, se-l[=u]'si-d[=e], _n.pl._ the descendants of _Seleucus_ I.,
surnamed Nicator, who governed Syria from 312 B.C. to 65 B.C.

SELEUCIDES, se-l[=u]'si-d[=e]z, _n._ a genus containing the twelve-wired
bird of Paradise.

SELF, self, _n._ one's own person: one's personal interest: one's own
personal interest, selfishness: a flower having its colour uniform as
opposed to variegated:--_pl._ SELVES (selvz).--_adj._ very: particular:
one's own: simple, plain, unmixed with any other.--_ns._
SELF'-ABAN'DONMENT, disregard of self; SELF'-ABASE'MENT, abasement through
consciousness of unworthiness.--_adj._ SELF'-ABSORBED', absorbed in one's
own thoughts.--_ns._ SELF'-ABUSE', the abuse of one's own person or powers:
self-pollution; SELF'-ACCUS[=A]'TION, the act of accusing one's
self.--_adjs._ SELF'-ACCUS'ATORY; SELF'-ACT'ING, acting of, or by, itself,
specially denoting a machine or mechanism which does of itself something
that is ordinarily done by manual labour.--_n._ SELF'-ACTIV'ITY, an
inherent power of acting.--_adj._ SELF'-ADJUST'ING, requiring no external
adjustment.--_n._ SELF'-ADMIS'SION (_Shak._), admission of one's
self.--_n.pl._ SELF'-AFFAIRS' (_Shak._), one's own affairs.--_adjs._
SELF'-AFFECT'ED (_Shak._), affected well towards one's self;
SELF'-AFFRIGHT'ED (_Shak._), frightened at one's self.--_n._
SELF'-APPLAUSE', applause of one's self.--_adjs._ SELF'-APPOINT'ED,
nominated by one's self; SELF'-APPROV'ING, implying approval of one's own
conduct; SELF'-ASSERT'ING, given to asserting one's opinion: putting one's
self forward.--_n._ SELF'-ASSER'TION.--_adj._ SELF'-ASSUMED', assumed by
one's own act.--_n._ SELF'-ASSUMP'TION, conceit.--_adj._ SELF'-BEGOT'TEN,
generated or originated by one's own powers.--_n._ SELF'-BIND'ER, the
automatic binding apparatus attached to some reaping-machines.--_adj._
SELF'-BLIND'ED, led astray by one's self.--_n._ SELF'-BLOOD' (_obs._),
direct progeny: suicide.--_adj._ SELF'-BORN', born or produced by one's
self.--_n._ SELF'-BOUN'TY (_Shak._), native goodness.--_adj._
SELF'-CEN'TRED, centred in self.--_n._ SELF'-CHAR'ITY (_Shak._), love of
one's self.--_adjs._ SELF'-CL[=O]'SING, shutting automatically;
SELF'-COLLECT'ED, self-possessed: self-contained; SELF'-COL'OURED, of the
natural colour: dyed in the wool: coloured with a single tint: (_hort._)
uniform in colour.--_ns._ SELF'-COMMAND', self-control;
SELF'-COMPL[=A]'CENCY, satisfaction with one's self, or with one's own
performances.--_adj._ SELF'-COMPL[=A]'CENT, pleased with one's self:
self-satisfied.--_n._ SELF'-CONCEIT', an over-high opinion of one's self,
one's own abilities, &c.: vanity.--_adj._ SELF'-CONCEIT'ED, having a high
opinion of one's self, of one's own merits, abilities, &c.: vain.--_ns._
SELF'-CONCEIT'EDNESS; SELF'-CONDEMN[=A]'TION, condemnation by one's own
conscience: a self-condemning.--_adjs._  SELF'-CONDEMNED';
SELF'-CONDEMN'ING.--_n._ SELF'-CON'FIDENCE, confidence in, or reliance on,
one's own powers: self-reliance.--_adj._ SELF'-CON'FIDENT, confident of
one's own powers: in the habit of relying on one's own powers.--_adv._
SELF'-CON'FIDENTLY.--_adj._ SELF'-CONF[=I]'DING, relying on one's own
powers.--_n._ SELF'-CONGRATUL[=A]'TION, the act of felicitating one's
self.--_adjs._ SELF'-CON'JUGATE, conjugate to itself; SELF'-CON'SCIOUS,
conscious of one's acts or states as originating in one's self: conscious
of being observed by others.--_n._ SELF'-CON'SCIOUSNESS, the act or state
of being self-conscious: consciousness of being observed by others.--_adj._
SELF'-CONSID'ERING, considering in one's own mind, deliberating.--_n._
SELF'-CONSIST'ENCY, consistency with one's self, or principles.--_adjs._
SELF'-CONSIST'ENT; SELF'-CON'STITUTED, constituted by one's self;
SELF'-CONS[=U]'MING, consuming one's self, or itself: SELF'-CONTAINED',
wrapped up in one's self, reserved: of a house, not approached by an
entrance common to others: complete in itself.--_ns._ SELF'-CONTEMPT',
contempt for one's self; SELF'-CONTENT', self-complacency;
SELF'-CONTRADIC'TION, the act or fact of contradicting one's self: a
statement of which the terms are mutually contradictory.--_adj._
SELF'-CONTRADICT'ORY.--_n._ SELF'-CONTROL', control or restraint exercised
over one's self: self-command.--_adj._ SELF'-CONVICT'ED, convicted by one's
own inner consciousness, or avowal.--_n._ SELF'-CONVIC'TION.--_adjs._
SELF'-CORRESPOND'ING, corresponding to itself; SELF'-COV'ERED, clothed in
one's native semblance.--_ns._ SELF'-CRE[=A]'TION, the act of coming into
existence by the vitality of one's own nature; SELF'-CRIT'ICISM, criticism
of one's self; SELF'-CULT'URE, culture or education of one's self without
the aid of teachers; SELF'-D[=A]N'GER (_Shak._), danger from one's self;
SELF'-DECEIT', deception respecting one's self; SELF'-DECEIV'ER, one who
deceives himself; SELF'-DECEP'TION, the act of deceiving one's own self;
SELF'-DEFENCE', the act of defending one's own person, property, &c. (ART
OF SELF-DEFENCE, boxing, pugilism); SELF'-DEL[=A]'TION, accusation of one's
self; SELF'-DEL[=U]'SION, delusion respecting one's self; SELF'-DEN[=I]'AL,
the denial of one's self: the non-gratifying of one's own appetites or
desires.--_adj._ SELF'-DENY'ING.--_adv._ SELF'-DENY'INGLY.--_n._
SELF'-DEPEND'ENCE, reliance on one's self.--_adj._ SELF'-DEPEND'ENT.--_n._
SELF'-DEPRECI[=A]'TION, depreciation of one's self.--_adj._
SELF'-DEPR[=E]'CI[=A]TIVE.--_ns._ SELF'-DESPAIR', a despairing view of
one's prospects, &c.; SELF'-DESTRUC'TION, the destruction of one's self:
suicide.--_adj._ SELF'-DESTRUC'TIVE.--_n._ SELF'-DETERMIN[=A]'TION,
determination by one's self without extraneus impulse.--_adjs._
SELF'-DETER'MINED; SELF'-DETER'MINING.--_n._ SELF'-DEVEL'OPMENT,
spontaneous development.--_adj._ SELF'-DEV[=O]'TED.--_n._
SELF'-DEV[=O]'TION, self-sacrifice.--_adj._ SELF'-DEVOUR'ING, devouring
one's self.--_ns._ SELF'-DISPAR'AGEMENT, disparagement of one's self;
SELF'-DISPRAISE', censure of one's self; SELF'-DISTRUST', want of
confidence in one's own powers.--_adjs._ SELF'-ED'UCATED, educated by one's
own efforts alone; SELF'-ELECT'IVE, having the right to elect one's
self.--_n._ SELF-END' (_obs._), an end for one's self alone.--_adj._
SELF'-ENDEARED', self-loving.--_ns._ SELF'-ENJOY'MENT, internal
satisfaction; SELF'-ESTEEM', the esteem or good opinion of one's self;
SELF'-ESTIM[=A]'TION; SELF'-EV'IDENCE.--_adj._ SELF'-EV'IDENT, evident of
itself or without proof: that commands assent.--_adv._
SELF'-EV'IDENTLY.--_ns._ SELF'-EVOL[=U]'TION, development by inherent
power; SELF'-EXALT[=A]'TION, the exaltation of self; SELF'-EXAM'INANT, one
who examines himself; SELF'-EXAMIN[=A]'TION, a scrutiny into one's own
state, conduct, &c., esp. with regard to one's religious feelings and
duties; SELF'-EXAM'PLE, one's own example.--_adj._ SELF'-EX'ECUTING,
needing no legislation to enforce it.--_n._ SELF'-EXIST'ENCE.--_adjs._
SELF'-EXIST'ENT, existing of or by himself or itself, independent of any
other cause; SELF'-EXPLAN'ATORY, obvious, bearing its meaning in its own
face.--_n._ SELF'-EXPLIC[=A]'TION, the power of explaining one's
self.--_adjs._ SELF-FACED', undressed or unhewn; SELF-FED', fed by one's
self.--_n._ SELF'-FEED'ER, a self-feeding apparatus.--_adj._
SELF'-FEED'ING, feeding automatically.--_ns._ SELF'-FERTILIS[=A]'TION;
SELF'-FERTIL'ITY, ability to fertilise itself.--_adjs._ SELF'-FIG'URED,
figured or described by one's self; SELF'-FLATT'ERING, judging one's self
too favourably.--_n._ SELF'-FLATT'ERY, indulgence in reflections too
favourable to one's self.--_adjs._ SELF'-FOC'USING, focusing without
artificial adjustment; SELF'-FORGET'FUL, devoted to others, and forgetful
of one's own interests.--_adv._ SELF'-FORGET'FULLY.--_adjs._
SELF'-GATH'ERED, wrapped up in one's self; SELF-GLAZED', covered with glass
of a single tint; SELF'-GL[=O]'RIOUS, springing from vainglory or vanity:
boastful; SELF'-GOV'ERNING.--_ns._ SELF'-GOV'ERNMENT, self-control:
government by the joint action of the mass of the people: democracy;
SELF'-GRATUL[=A]'TION, congratulation of one's self.--_adj._
SELF'-HARM'ING, injuring one's self.--_n._ SELF-HEAL', prunella: the burnet
saxifrage.--_adj._ SELF'-HEAL'ING, having the power of healing
itself.--_ns._ SELF-HELP', working for one's self; SELF'HOOD, existence as
a separate person: conscious personality.--_adj._ SELF'-[=I]'DOLISED,
regarded with extreme complacency by one's self.--_n._ SELF'-IMPORT'ANCE, a
high estimate of one's own importance: egotism: pomposity.--_adjs._
SELF'-IMPORT'ANT; SELF'-IMPOSED', taken voluntarily on one's self;
SELF'-IM'POTENT (_bot._), unable to fertilise itself.--_n._
SELF'-INDUL'GENCE, undue gratification of one's appetites or
desires.--_adj._ SELF'-INDUL'GENT.--_n._ SELF'-INFEC'TION, infection of the
entire organism from a local lesion.--_adj._ SELF'-INFLICT'ED, inflicted by
one's self.--_n._ SELF'-IN'TEREST, private interest: regard to one's
self.--_adj._ SELF'-IN'TERESTED.--_n._ SELF'-INVOL[=U]'TION, mental
abstraction.--_adjs._ SELF'-INVOLVED', wrapped up in one's self; SELF'ISH,
chiefly or wholly regarding one's own self: void of regard to others
(SELFISH THEORY OF MORALS, the theory that man acts from the consideration
of what will give him the most pleasure).--_adv._ SELF'ISHLY.--_ns._
SELF'ISHNESS; SELF'ISM; SELF'IST; SELF'-JUSTIFIC[=A]'TION, justification of
one's self.--_adjs._ SELF'-KIN'DLED, kindled of itself; SELF'-KNOW'ING,
knowing of one's own self: possessed of self-consciousness.--_n._
SELF'-KNOWL'EDGE, the knowledge of one's own character, abilities, worth,
&c.--_adjs._ SELF-LEFT', left to one's self; SELF'LESS, having no regard to
self, unselfish.--_ns._ SELF'LESSNESS, freedom from selfishness;
SELF-LIFE', a life only for one's own gratification.--_adjs._ SELF'-LIKE,
exactly similar; SELF'-LIM'ITED (_path._), tending to spontaneous recovery
after a certain course.--_n._ SELF-LOVE', the love of one's self: tendency
to seek one's own welfare or advantage: desire of happiness.--_adjs._
SELF'-LOV'ING, full of self-love; SELF'-LUM'INOUS, possessing the property
of emitting light; SELF-MADE', made by one's self; denoting a man who has
risen to a high position from poverty or obscurity by his own
exertions.--_ns._ SELF'-MAS'TERY, self-command: self-control; SELF'-MET'TLE
(_Shak._), mettle or spirit which is natural to one, and not artificially
inspired; SELF'-M[=O]'TION, spontaneous motion.--_adj._ SELF-MOVED', moved
spontaneously from within.--_ns._ SELF'-MUR'DER, the killing of one's self:
suicide; SELF'-MUR'DERER; SELF'-NEGLECT'ING (_Shak._), the neglecting of
one's self; SELF'NESS, egotism: personality; SELF'-OFFENCE', one's own
offence; SELF'-OPIN'ION, the tendency to form one's own opinion
irrespective of that of others.--_adjs._ SELF'-OPIN'IONATED, obstinately
adhering to one's own opinion; SELF'-ORIG'INATING, springing from one's
self.--_ns._ SELF'-PARTIAL'ITY, overestimate of one's own worth;
SELF'-PERCEP'TION, the faculty of immediate perception of the soul by
itself.--_adjs._ SELF'-PERPLEXED', perplexed by one's own thoughts;
SELF'-P[=I]'OUS, hypocritical.--_n._ SELF'-PIT'Y, pity for one's
self.--_adjs._ SELF-PLEACHED' (_Tenn._), interwoven by natural growth;
SELF'-PLEAS'ING, gratifying one's own wishes; SELF-POISED', kept well
balanced by self-respect.--_n._ SELF'-POLL[=U]'TION, self-abuse,
masturbation.--_adj._ SELF'-POSSESSED', calm or collected in mind or
manner: undisturbed.--_ns._ SELF'-POSSES'SION, the possession of one's self
or faculties in danger: calmness; SELF-PRAISE', the praise of one's self;
SELF'-PRESERV[=A]'TION, the preservation of one's self from injury,
&c.--_adjs._ SELF'-PRESER'VATIVE, SELF-PRESER'VING.--_ns._ SELF-PRIDE',
self-esteem; SELF'-PROF'IT, self-interest.--_adj._ SELF'-PROP'AGATING,
propagating one's self or itself.--_ns._ SELF'-PROTEC'TION, self-defence;
SELF'-REALIS[=A]'TION, the attainment of such development as one's mental
and moral nature is capable of.--_adjs._ SELF'-RECIP'ROCAL, self-conjugate;
SELF'-RECORD'ING, making, as an instrument, a record of its own
state.--_n._ SELF'-REGARD', regard for one's own self.--_adjs._
SELF'-REGARD'ING; SELF'-REG'ISTERING, registering itself: denoting an
instrument or machine having a contrivance for recording its own
operations; SELF'-REG'ULATED, regulated by one's self or itself;
SELF'-REG'ULATING, regulating itself; SELF'-REG'ULATIVE.--_n._
SELF'-REL[=I]'ANCE, reliance on one's own abilities.--_adj._
SELF'-REL[=I]'ANT.--_n._ SELF'-RENUNCI[=A]'TION, self-abnegation.--_adj._
SELF'-REPEL'LING, repelling by its own inherent power.--_ns._
SELF'-REPRES'SION, the keeping of one's self in the background;
SELF'-REPROACH', the act of reproaching or condemning one's self.--_adj._
SELF'-REPROACH'ING, reproaching one's self.--_adv._
SELF'-REPROACH'INGLY.--_n._ SELF'-REPROOF', the reproof of one's own
conscience.--_adjs._ SELF'-REPROV'ING, reproving one's self, from conscious
guilt; SELF'-REPUG'NANT, self-contradictory: inconsistent.--_n._
SELF'-RESPECT', respect for one's self or one's character.--_adjs._
SELF'-RESPECT'FUL; SELF'-RESPECT'ING; SELF'-RESTRAINED', restrained by
one's own will.--_ns._ SELF'-RESTRAINT', a restraint over one's appetites
or desires: self-control; SELF'-REV'ERENCE, great self-respect.--_adjs._
SELF'-REV'ERENT; SELF'-RIGHT'EOUS, righteous in one's own estimation:
pharisaical.--_n._ SELF'-RIGHT'EOUSNESS, reliance on one's supposed
righteousness: sense of one's own merit or goodness, esp. if
overestimated.--_adjs._ SELF'-RIGHT'ING, that rights itself when capsized;
SELF'-ROLLED', coiled on itself.--_n._ SELF'-SAC'RIFICE, the act of
yielding up one's life, interests, &c. for others.--_adjs._
SELF'-SAC'RIFICING, yielding, or disposed to yield, up one's life,
interests, &c.; SELF'-SAME, the very same.--_ns._ SELF'-SAME'NESS, sameness
as regards self or identity; SELF'-SATISFAC'TION, satisfaction with one's
self.--_adjs._ SELF'-SAT'ISFIED, satisfied with the abilities,
performances, &c. of one's self; SELF'-SAT'ISFYING, giving satisfaction to
one's self.--_ns._ SELF-SCORN', a mood in which one entertains scorn for a
former mood of self; SELF'-SEEK'ER, one who looks only to his own
interests.--_adj._ SELF'-SEEK'ING, seeking unduly one's own interest or
happiness.--_n._ the act of doing so.--_adj._ SELF'-SHIN'ING,
self-luminous.--_n._ SELF'-SLAUGH'TER (_Shak._), the slaughter of one's
self: suicide.--_adjs._ SELF'-SLAUGH'TERED, killed by one's self;
SELF'-STER'ILE (_bot._), unable to fertilise itself; SELF-STYLED', called
by one's self: pretended; SELF'-SUBDUED' (_Shak._), subdued by one's own
power; SELF'-SUBSTAN'TIAL (_Shak._), composed of one's own substance.--_n._
SELF'-SUFFI'CIENCY.--_adjs._ SELF'-SUFFI'CIENT, confident in one's own
sufficiency: haughty: overbearing; SELF'-SUFFIC'ING.--_ns._
SELF'-SUGGES'TION, determination by causes inherent in the organism;
SELF'-SUPPORT', the maintenance of one's self.--_adjs._ SELF'-SUPPORT'ED;
SELF'-SUPPORT'ING.--_n._ SELF'-SURREN'DER, the yielding up of one's self to
another.--_adj._ SELF'-SUSTAINED', sustained by one's own power.--_ns._
SELF'-SUS'TENANCE, self-support; SELF-SUSTENT[=A]'TION.--_adjs._
SELF'-TAUGHT, taught by one's self; SELF'-THINK'ING, forming one's own
opinions: of independent judgment; SELF'-TOR'TURABLE (_Shak._), capable of
being tortured by one's self.--_ns._ SELF'-TOR'TURE; SELF-TRUST',
self-reliance; SELF-VIEW', regard for one's own interest;
SELF'-V[=I]'OLENCE, violence inflicted upon one's self; SELF-WILL',
obstinacy.--_adj._ SELF-WILLED', governed by one's own will.--_ns._
SELF'-WILLED'NESS; SELF'-WOR'SHIP, the idolising of one's self;
SELF'-WOR'SHIPPER; SELF-WRONG' (_Shak._), wrong done by a person to
himself.--BE BESIDE ONE'S SELF (see BESIDE); BE ONE'S SELF, to be in full
possession of one's powers; BY ONE'S SELF, or ITSELF, apart, alone: without
aid of another person or thing. [A.S. _self_, _seolf_, _sylf_; Dut. _zelf_,
Ger. _selbe_, Goth. _silba_.]

SELICTAR, s[=e]-lik'tär, _n._ the sword-bearer of a Turkish chief. [Turk.
_silihd[=a]r_--Pers. _silahd[=a]r_--Ar. _sil[=a]h_, arms, pl. of _silh_, a
weapon.]

SELINUM, s[=e]-l[=i]'num, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous
plants--_milk-parsley_. [Gr. _selinon_, parsley.]

SELION, sel'yon, _n._ a ridge of land rising between two furrows. [O. Fr.
_seillon_, Fr. _sillon_, a furrow.]

SELJUK, sel-j[=oo]k', _n._ a member of a Turkish family which, under Togrul
Beg, grandson of a chief named _Seljuk_, overthrew the Abbaside califs of
Bagdad about 1050, and gave way before the Osmanli or Ottoman
princes.--_adj._ SELJU'KIAN.

SELL, sel, _n._ a seat, a throne: (_Spens._) a saddle: a saddler.--_adj._
SELL'IFORM, saddle-shaped. [O. Fr. _selle_--L. _sella_, for _sedula_, dim.
of _sedes_, a seat.]

SELL, sel, _v.t._ to deliver in exchange for something paid as equivalent:
to betray for money: to impose upon, cheat.--_v.i._ to have commerce: to be
sold, to be in demand for sale:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ s[=o]ld.--_n._ a
deception.--_adj._ SELL'ABLE, that can be sold.--_n._ SELL'ER, a furnisher:
a vender: a small vessel for holding salt.--SELL ONE'S LIFE DEARLY, to do
great injury to the enemy before one is killed; SELL ONE UP, to sell a
debtor's goods; SELL OUT, to dispose entirely of: to sell one's commission.
[A.S. _sellan_, to hand over; cf. Ice. _selja_, Goth. _saljan_.]

SELLANDERS, sel'an-d[.e]rs, _n._ an eruption in the tarsus of the horse.
[Fr. _solandre_.]

SELTZER, selt'z[.e]r, _n._ an effervescing alkaline mineral water brought
from Nieder-Selters in Prussia.--_n._ SELT'ZOGENE, a gazogene (q.v.).

SELVAGE, sel'v[=a]j, _n._ that part of cloth which forms an edge of itself
without hemming: a border: in mining, that part of a lode adjacent to the
walls on either side: the edge-plate of a lock--also SEL'VEDGE.--_adjs._
SEL'VAGED, SEL'VEDGED.--_n._ SELVAG[=EE]', an untwisted skein of rope-yarn
marled together. [Old Dut. _selfegge_, self, _self_, _egge_, edge.]

SELVES, selvz, _pl._ of _self_.

SEMANTRON, s[=e]-man'tron, _n._ in the Greek Church, a long bar of wood
struck with a mallet to summon worshippers. [Gr.,--_s[=e]mainein_, to give
a signal.]

SEMAPHORE, sem'a-f[=o]r, _n._ a contrivance for conveying signals,
consisting of a mast with arms turned on pivots by means of cords or
levers.--_adjs._ SEMAPHOR'IC, -AL, telegraphic--_adv._ SEMAPHOR'ICALLY.
[Gr. _s[=e]ma_, a sign, _pherein_, to bear.]

SEMASIOLOGY, s[=e]-m[=a]-si-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the development
of the meanings of words. [Gr. _s[=e]masia_--_s[=e]mainein_, to signify,
_legein_, to speak.]

SEMASPHERE, sem'a-sf[=e]r, _n._ an aerostatic signalling apparatus. [Gr.
_s[=e]ma_, a sign, _sphaira_, a ball.]

SEMATIC, s[=e]-mat'ik, _adj._ significant: indicative, as of danger:
ominous.--_n._ SEMATOL'OGY, the science of verbal signs in the operations
of thinking and reasoning. [Gr. _s[=e]ma_, a sign.]

SEMATROPE, sem'a-tr[=o]p, _n._ an adaptation of the heliotrope for
transmitting military signals. [Gr. _s[=e]ma_, a sign, _trepein_, to turn.]

SEMBLABLE, sem'bla-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) resembling, similar, like.--_n._
likeness, resemblance.--_adv._ SEM'BLABLY (_Shak._) in like manner.--_n._
SEM'BLANCE, likeness: appearance: figure.--_adj._ SEM'BLANT, resembling,
like.--_n._ (_Spens._) resemblance, figure.--_adj._ SEM'BLATIVE (_Shak._),
resembling, fit, suitable.--_v.i._ SEM'BLE (_obs._), to appear: to
dissemble: to practise the art of imitation.--_adj._ like.
[Fr.,--_sembler_, to seem, to resemble--L. _similis_, like.]

SEMÉ, se-m[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) strewn or scattered over with small
bearings, powdered. [Fr., sown, _semer_--L. _semin[=a]re_, to sow.]

SEMEIOLOGY, SEMIOLOGY, s[=e]-m[=i]-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the sum of knowledge of
the signs and symptoms of morbid conditions, symptomatology: the science of
gesture or sign-language.--_n._ SEMEIOG'RAPHY, the description of the signs
or symptoms of disease.--_adjs._ SEMEIOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to
semeiology; SEMEIOT'IC, relating to signs, symptomatic.--_n._ SEMEIOT'ICS,
the science of signs: semeiology or symptomatology. [Gr. _s[=e]meion_, a
mark, _legein_, to say.]

SEMEION, s[=e]-m[=i]'on, _n._ in ancient prosody, the unit of time: one of
the two divisions of a foot: a mark in paleography indicating metrical or
other divisions:--_pl._ SEMEI'A. [Gr. _s[=e]meion_, a mark.]

SEMELE, sem'e-l[=e], _n._ a genus of bivalves. [Gr. _Semel[=e]_, the mother
of Bacchus.]

SEMEN, s[=e]'men, _n._ the impregnating fluid of male animals, usually
whitish, viscid, containing innumerable spermatozoa. [L.]

SEMENCINE, s[=e]'men-sin, _n._ santonica.

SEMESE, se-m[=e]s', _adj._ half-eaten. [L. _semesus_, half-eaten, _semi-_,
half, _esus_--_ed[)e]re_, to eat.]

SEMESTER, s[=e]-mes't[.e]r, _n._ one of the half-year courses in German
universities.--_adj._  SEMES'TRAL. [L. _semestris_--_sex_, six, _mensis_, a
month.]

SEMI-, sem'i, a prefix of Latin origin, meaning 'half,' and also less
accurately 'partly,' 'incompletely.'--_n._ and _adj._ SEMIAC'ID, half-acid,
sub-acid.--_n._ SEM'IANGLE, the half of a given angle.--_adj._
SEMI-AN'NUAL, half-yearly.--_adv._ SEM'I-AN'NUALLY, once every six
months.--_adj._ SEMIAN'NULAR, semicircular.--_ns._ SEM'I-AN'THRACITE, coal
intermediate between anthracite and semi-bituminous coal; SEM'I-APE, a
lemur.--_adjs._ SEM'I-AQUAT'IC (_zool._, _bot._), entering the water, but
not necessarily existing by it; SEM'I-[=A]'RIAN, relating to the
Christology of the so-called Semi-Arians (Eusebius of Cæsarea, &c.) who
held a middle ground between the Arian _hetero-ousia_ and the orthodox
_homo-ousia_ or co-equality of the Son with the Father, asserting the
_homoi-ousia_, or similarity of essence.--_n._ SEM'I-[=A]'RIANISM.--_adjs._
SEM'I-ARTIC'ULATE, loose-jointed; SEM'I-ATTACHED', partially bound by
affection or interest; SEMIBARB[=A]'RIAN, half-barbarian or savage:
partially civilised.--_n._ [Illustration] SEMIBAR'BARISM.--_adj._
SEM'I-BIT[=U]'MINOUS, partly bituminous, as coal.--_ns._ SEM'IBR[=E]VE, a
musical note, half the length of a breve = 2 minims or 4 crotchets;
SEM'IBULL, a bull issued by a pope between the time of his election and
that of his coronation.--_adjs._ SEM'ICALC[=A]'REOUS, partly chalky;
SEM'I-CAL'CINED, half-calcined; SEMICARTILAG'INOUS, gristly;
SEMICENTENN'IAL, occurring at the completion of fifty years.--_n._ a
celebration at the end of fifty years.--_adj._ SEMICH[=O]'RIC.--_ns._
SEMICH[=O]'RUS, a small number of selected singers; SEM'ICIRCLE, half a
circle: the figure bounded by the diameter of a circle and half the
circumference.--_adjs._ SEM'ICIRCLED; SEMICIR'CULAR.--_adv._
SEMICIR'CULARLY.--_ns._ SEMICIRCUM'FERENCE, half of the circumference of a
circle; SEM'ICIRQUE, a semicircular hollow; SEMICL[=O]'SURE, half-closure;
SEM'ICOLON, the point (;) marking a division greater than the comma;
SEMIC[=O]'LON-BUTT'ERFLY, a butterfly with a silver mark on the under side;
SEM'I-COL'UMN, a half-column.--_adjs._ SEM'I-COLUM'NAR, flat on one side
and rounded on the other; SEM'I-COMPLETE' (_entom._), incomplete;
SEM'I-CON'FLUENT (_path._), half-confluent; SEM'I-CON'JUGATE, conjugate and
halved; SEM'I-CON'SCIOUS, half or imperfectly conscious; SEM'I-CONVER'GENT,
convergent as a series, while the series of moduli is not convergent.--_n._
SEM'ICOPE, an outer garment worn by some of the monastic clergy in the
Middle Ages.--_adjs._ SEM'ICOR'NEOUS, partly horny; SEMICOR'ONATE.--_n._
SEM'ICOR'ONET (_entom._), a line of spines half surrounding a
part.--_adjs._ SEM'I-COSTIF'EROUS, half-bearing a rib; SEMICRIT'ICAL,
related to a differential equation and its criticoids.--_n._ SEM'ICROME
(_mus._), a sixteenth note.--_adjs._ SEM'ICRUST[=A]'CEOUS, half-hard;
SEMICRYS'TALLINE, imperfectly crystallised.--_n._ SEMIC[=U]'BIUM, a
half-bath.--_adjs._ SEMICYLIN'DRICAL, resembling a cylinder divided
longitudinally; SEMIDEF'INITE, half-definite: SEM'I-DEPEND'ENT,
half-dependent; SEM'IDES'ERT, half-desert; SEM'IDETACHED', partly
separated: noting one of two houses joined by a party-wall, but detached
from other buildings.--_ns._ SEM'I-DIAM'ETER, half the diameter of a
circle: a radius; SEM'I-DIAP[=A]'SON, a diminished octave;
SEM'I-DIAPHAN[=E]'ITY, half-transparency.--_adj._ SEMI'-DIAPH'ANOUS,
half-transparent.--_n._ SEMIDIUR'NA, a group of lepidopterous insects
including the hawk-moth.--_adj._ SEMIDIUR'NAL, accomplished in half a day:
(_entom._) flying in twilight.--_n._ SEM'I-DOME', half a dome, esp. as
formed by a vertical section.--_adj._ SEM'IDOUB'LE, having the outermost
stamens converted into petals.--_n._ a festival on which half the antiphon
is repeated before and the whole antiphon after the psalm.--_n._
SEM'I-EF'FIGY, a representation of a figure seen at half-length
only.--_adj._ SEM'I-ELLIP'TICAL, having the form of an ellipse which is cut
transversely.--_ns._ SEM'I-F[=A]'BLE, a mixture of truth and fable;
SEM'I-FAIENCE', pottery having a transparent glaze instead of the opaque
enamel of true faience; SEM'I-FIG'URE, a partial human figure in ornamental
design.--_v.t._ SEM'I-FLEX, to half-bend.--_n._ SEM'I-FLEX'ION.--_adj._
SEM'I-FLOS'CULAR.--_n._ SEM'I-FLOS'CULE, a floret with a strap-shaped
corolla.--_adjs._ SEM'I-FLOS'CUL[=O]SE, SEM'I-FLOS'CULOUS, having the
corolla split, flattened out, and turned to one side, as in the ligular
flowers of composites; SEMIFLU'ID, half or imperfectly fluid; SEM'I-FORMED,
half-formed.--_n._ SEM'I-FR[=A]'TER, a secular benefactor of a religious
house, having a share in its intercessory prayers and masses.--_adjs._
SEM'I-FUSED', half-melted; SEMIGL[=O]'B[=O]SE, SEMIGLOB'ULAR, having the
shape of half a sphere.--_adv._ SEMIGLOB'ULARLY.--_ns._ SEM'I-GOD, a
demi-god; SEM'I-INDEPEND'ENCE.--_adjs._ SEM'I-INDEPEND'ENT, not fully
independent; SEM'I-IN'FINITE, limited at one end and extending to infinity;
SEM'I-LIG'NEOUS, partially woody: (_bot._) having a stem woody at the base
and herbaceous at the top; SEMI-LIQ'UID, half-liquid.--_n._
SEMI-LIQUID'ITY.--_adjs._ SEM'I-LOG'ICAL, half-logical, partly logical;
SEM'I-L[=U]'CENT, half-transparent; SEMI-L[=U]'NAR, half-moon shaped, as
the semi-lunar bone of the wrist; SEM'I-L[=U]'NATE, having the form of a
half-moon; SEM'I-MALIG'NANT, not very malignant, said of tumours;
SEM'I-MAT[=U]RE', half-ripe.--_n._ SEMIMEMBRAN[=O]'SUS, a long muscle of
the back of the thigh.--_adjs._ SEMIMEM'BRANOUS (_anat._), partly
membranous; SEM'I-MEN'STRUAL, half-monthly, esp. of an inequality of the
tide.--_n._ SEM'I-MET'AL, in old chemistry, a metal that is not malleable,
as zinc.--_adjs._ SEM'I-METAL'LIC; SEM'I-MONTH'LY, occurring twice a
month.--_n._ SEMI-M[=U]TE', one who, having lost the faculty of hearing,
has also lost the faculty of speech--also _adj._--_adj._ SEM'I-N[=U]DE',
half-naked.--_n._ SEM'INYMPH, the pupa of an insect which undergoes only
semi-metamorphosis.--_adjs._ SEM'I-OBSCURE', noting the wings of insects
when deeply tinged with brownish-gray, but semi-transparent;
SEM'I-OFFIC'IAL, partly official.--_adv._ SEM'I-OFFIC'IALLY.--_n._
SEM'I-[=O]'PAL, a variety of opal not possessing opalescence.--_adj._
SEM'I-OPAQUE', partly opaque.--_n._ SEM'I-OP'TERA, a genus of birds--the
standard-wings.--_adj._ SEM'I-ORBIC'ULAR, having the shape of half a
sphere.--_n._ SEM'I-OR'DINATE, half a chord bisected by the transverse
diameter of a conic.--_adjs._ SEM'I-OSS'EOUS, partly bony; SEMI[=O]'VAL,
having the form of an oval; SEMIOVIP'AROUS, imperfectly viviparous;
SEMIPAL'MATE, half-webbed, as the toes of a bird.--_ns._ SEMIPALM[=A]'TION;
SEMIPARAB'OLA, one branch of a parabola being terminated at the principal
vortex of the curve; SEM'IPED, in prose, a half-foot.--_adjs._ SEM'IPEDAL;
SEM'I-PEL[=A]'GIAN, relating to the theology of the Semi-Pelagians (John
Cassianus, &c.), who tried to find a middle course between the Augustinian
doctrine of predestination and the Pelagian doctrine of the free-will of
man.--_n._ SEM'I-PEL[=A]'GIANISM.--_adjs._ SEM'I-PELL[=U]'CID, imperfectly
transparent; SEM'IPEN'NIFORM, half-penniform; SEM'I-PER'FECT, nearly
perfect; SEM'I-PIS'CINE, half-fish; SEM'I-PLANT'IGRADE, incompletely
plantigrade: partly digitigrade; SEM'I-PLAS'TIC, imperfectly
plastic.--_ns._ SEMIPLOT[=I]'NA, a group or sub-family of cyprinoid fishes;
SEM'IPLUME, a feather of partly downy structure; [Illustration]
SEMIQUAD'RATE, an aspect of two planets when distant from each other 45
degrees; SEM'IQU[=A]VER, a musical note, half the length of a quaver:
something of short duration.--_adjs._ SEM'I-RECON'DITE, half-hidden;
SEM'I-R[=E]'FLEX, involuntarily performed, but not entirely independent of
the will; SEM'I-REG'ULAR, pertaining to a quadrilateral having four equal
sides, but only pairs of equal angles; SEM'I-RETRAC'TILE, retractile to
some extent.--_n._ SEM'I-RING, a bronchial half-ring.--_adjs._
SEM'I-SAG'ITTATE (_entom._), shaped like the barbed end of a fish-hook;
SEM'I-SAV'AGE, semi-barbarian; SEM'I-SAX'ON, early Middle English (c.
1150-1250); SEM'I-SEP'TATE, half-partitioned.--_ns._ SEM'I-SEX'TILE, the
position of planets when they are distant from each other the twelfth part
of a circle, or 30°; SEM'I-SMILE, a faint smile.--_adjs._ SEM'I-SOLID,
partially solid; SEMISPHER'ICAL, having the figure of a half-sphere.--_ns._
SEM'I-SPIN[=A]'LIS, a deep muscular layer of the back; SEM'I-SQUARE, an
aspect of two planets when 45 degrees from each other; SEM'I-STEEL, puddled
steel.--_adjs._ SEM'I-SUPERNAT'URAL, half-divine and half-human;
SEM'I-S[=U]'PINATED, placed between supination and pronation.--_ns._
SEM'I-TAN'GENT, the tangent of half an arc; SEM'I-TENDIN[=O]'SUS, a
fusiform muscle on the back of the thigh.--_adjs._ SEMITEN'DINOUS,
tendinous for half its length; SEMIT[=E]R[=E]'TE, half-round; SEMITER'TIAN,
partly tertian and partly quotidian.--_n._ SEM'ITONE, half a tone: one of
the lesser intervals of the musical scale, as from B to C.--_adj._
SEMITON'IC.--_n._ SEM'I-TRANSP[=A]'RENCY.--_adjs._ SEM'I-TRANSP[=A]RENT,
half or imperfectly transparent; SEM'I-TROP'ICAL, subtropical;
SEM'I-T[=U]'BULAR, like the half of a tube divided longitudinally;
SEM'I-TYCHON'IC, approximating to Tycho Brahe's astronomical system;
SEM'I-UN'CIAL, intermediate between uncial and minuscule.--_n._ a method of
writing Latin and Greek in use in the sixth and seventh centuries.--_adjs._
SEMIVIT'REOUS, partially vitreous; SEMIVIT'RIFIED, half-vitrified;
SEM'IVIVE (_obs._) half-alive; SEM'I-V[=O]'CAL, pertaining to a semivowel:
imperfectly sounding.--_n._ SEMIVOW'EL, a half-vowel, a letter possessing
the character of both a vowel and a consonant, usually only _w_ and _y_,
but sometimes including also the liquids _l_ and _r_ and the nasals _m_ and
_n_.--_adj._ SEM'I-WEEK'LY, issued twice a week.--SEMICYLINDRICAL LEAF, a
leaf elongated, flat on one side, round on the other.

SEMINAL, sem'in-al, _adj._ pertaining to seed: radical: rudimentary.--_n._
(_obs._) a seed.--_n._ SEMINAL'ITY, the germinating principle.--_v.t._
SEM'IN[=A]TE, to sow: to propagate: to disseminate.--_n._ SEMIN[=A]'TION,
act of sowing: natural dispersion of seed: propagation.--_adjs._
SEMINIF'EROUS, seed-bearing: producing seed; SEMINIF'IC, producing
seed.--_ns._ SEMINIFIC[=A]'TION; SEM'INIST, one who holds that the
admixture of the male and female seed originates the new individual. [L.
_semen_, _seminis_, seed--_ser[)e]re_, to sow.]

SEMINARY, sem'in-ar-i, _n._ the original place whence anything is derived,
a nursery: a place of education, esp. in branches of knowledge to be
afterwards applied in practice, as theology, &c.: a group of advanced
students working in some specific subject of study under a teacher--also
and more commonly SEMINÄR' (the German name): a seminary priest.--_n._
SEM'INARIST, a student at a seminary: a R.C. priest educated in a foreign
seminary.

SEMINOLE; sem'i-n[=o]l, _n._ one of a tribe of American Indians, originally
a vagrant branch of the Creeks, now mostly confined to the Indian
Territory.

SEMIOGRAPHY, SEMIOLOGY, SEMIOTICS. See SEMEIOGRAPHY, SEMEIOLOGY,
SEMEIOTICS.

SEMIOTELLUS, s[=e]-mi-[=o]-tel'us, _n._ a widely distributed genus of
hymenopterous parasites.

SEMIS, s[=e]'mis, _n._ a bronze coin of the ancient Roman republic, half
the value of an as.

SEMISPATA, sem-i-sp[=a]'ta, _n._ a Frankish dagger. [L. _semi-_, half,
_spatha_, a sword.]

SEMITA, sem'i-ta, _n._ a fasciole of the spatangoid sea-urchins.--_adj._
SEM'ITAL. [L., a path.]

SEMITAUR, sem'i-tawr, _n._ a fabulous animal, half-bull, half-man. [L.
_semi-_, half, _taurus_, a bull.]

SEMITIC, sem-it'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the _Semites_, or supposed
descendants of Shem, or their language, customs, &c.--also
SHEMIT'IC.--_ns._ SEM'ITE; SEMITIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ SEM'ITISE, to render
Semitic in language or religion.--_ns._ SEM'ITISM, a Semitic idiom;
SEM'ITIST, a Hebrew scholar.--SEMITIC LANGUAGES, Assyrian, Aramean, Hebrew,
Phoenician, together with Arabic and Ethiopic. [Applied by J. G. Eichhorn
in 1817 to the closely allied peoples represented in Gen. x. as descended
from _Shem_.]

SEMMIT, sem'it, _n._ (_Scot._) an undershirt. [_Samite_.]

SEMNOPITHECINÆ, sem-n[=o]-pith-[=e]-s[=i]'n[=e], _n._ a sub-family of
catarrhine monkeys.--_adjs._ SEMNOPITH'ECINE, SEMNOPITH'ECOID.--_n._
SEMNOPITH[=E]'CUS, the typical genus of the foregoing sub-family, the
sacred monkeys of Asia. [Gr. _semnos_, honoured, _pith[=e]kos_, an ape.]

SEMOLINA, sem-[=o]-l[=e]'na, _n._ the particles of fine, hard wheat which
do not pass into flour in milling: an article of food consisting of
granules of the floury part of wheat.--Also SEM'[=O]LA, SEM[=O]LI'N[=O].
[It. _semola_--L. _simila_, the finest wheat flour.]

SEMOSTOMÆ, s[=e]-mos't[=o]-m[=e], _n.pl._ a sub-order of _Discomedusæ_,
containing jelly-fishes.--_adj._ S[=E]MOS'TOMOUS, having long oral
processes. [Gr. _s[=e]ma_, a mark, _stoma_, mouth.]

SEMOTED, s[=e]-m[=o]'ted, _adj._ (_obs._) separated: remote.

SEMOTILUS, s[=e]-mot'i-lus, _n._ an American genus of leuciscine fishes,
including the chub and dace. [Gr. _s[=e]ma_, a mark, _ptilon_, a feather.]

SEMPER IDEM, sem'p[.e]r [=i]'dem, always the same. [L.]

SEMPERVIRENT, sem-p[.e]r-v[=i]'rent, _adj._ evergreen. [L. _semper_,
always, _virens_--_vir[=e]re_, to be green.]

SEMPER VIVUM, sem'p[.e]r v[=i]'vum, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants,
including the house-leek. [L.]

SEMPITERNAL, sem-pi-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ everlasting: endless--also
SEMP'ITERN.--_v.t._ SEMPITER'NISE, to perpetuate.--_n._
SEMPITER'NITY.--_adj._ SEMPITER'NOUS.--_n._ SEMPITER'NUM, a durable twilled
woollen material. [L. _sempiternus_--_semper_, ever, _æternus_, eternal.]

SEMPLE, sem'pl, _adj._ a Scotch form of simple, esp. meaning of low birth,
the opposite of _Gentle_.

SEMPLICE, sem'pl[=e]-che, _adj._ (_mus._) simple, without embellishments.
[It.]

SEMPRE, sem'pre, _adv._ (_mus._) in the same style throughout. [It.,--L.
_semper_, always.]

SEMPSTER, sem'st[.e]r, SEMPSTRESS, sem'stres, _n._ a woman who sews.
[_Seamstress_.]

SEMUNCIA, s[=e]-mun'shi-a, _n._ a Roman coin of four drachmas weight, the
twenty-fourth part of the Roman pound.--_adj._ SEMUN'CIAL.

SEN., s[=e]n, an abbreviation of _Senior_.

SEN, sen, _n._ a Japanese copper coin the hundredth part of a yen or
dollar.

SEÑAL, se-nyal', _n._ (_Amer._) a landmark. [Sp.]

SENARY, sen'ar-i, _adj._ containing six: of or belonging to six.--_n._
SEN[=A]'RIUS, in Latin prosody, a verse of six feet. [L.
_senarius_--_seni_, six each--_sex_, six.]

SENATE, sen'[=a]t, _n._ a legislative or deliberative body, esp. the upper
house of a national legislature, as of France, the United States, &c.: a
body of venerable or distinguished persons: the governing body of the
University of Cambridge.--_ns._ SEN'ATE-HOUSE, a house in which a senate
meets; SEN'ATOR, a member of a senate: in Scotland, the lords of session
are called SENATORS OF THE COLLEGE OF JUSTICE.--_adj._ SENAT[=O]'RIAL,
pertaining to, or becoming, a senate or a senator.--_adv._
SENAT[=O]'RIALLY, with senatorial dignity.--_ns._ SEN'ATORSHIP;
SEN[=A]'TUS, a governing body in certain universities.--SEN[=A]TUS
ACADEMICUS, the governing body of a Scotch university, consisting of the
principal and professors; SEN[=A]TUS CONSULT, a decree of the senate of
ancient Rome. [L. _senatus_--_senex_, _senis_, an old man.]

SENCE, sens, _n._ an obsolete form of sense.

SENCH, sensh, _v.t._ to cause to sink.

SENCION, sen'shi-on, N. (_obs._) groundsel. [L. _senecio_.]

SEND, send, _v.t._ to cause to go: to cause to be conveyed: to despatch: to
forward: to compel: to throw: to hurl: to authorise: to grant: to drive: to
dismiss: to commission: to diffuse: to bestow.--_v.i._ to despatch a
message or messenger: (_naut._) to pitch into the trough of the
sea:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sent.--_n._ (_Scot._) a messenger, esp. one sent
for the bride: a present: the impulse of a wave on a ship.--_ns._ SEN'DER,
one who sends: (_teleg._) the instrument by which a message is transmitted;
SEN'DING, despatching: pitching bodily into the trough of the sea;
SEND'-OFF, a start as on a journey.--SEND FOR, to require by message to
come or be brought; SEND FORTH, or OUT, to give, put, or bring forth; SEND
TO COVENTRY, to cut: to exclude from society. [A.S. _sendan_; Ice. _senda_,
Goth. _sandjan_, Ger. _senden_.]

SENDAL, sen'dal, _n._ a thin silk or linen. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _cendalum_--L.
_sindon_--Gr. _sind[=o]n_.]

SENECA-OIL, sen'[=e]-kä-oil, _n._ crude petroleum.--SENECA'S MICROSCOPE, a
glass globe filled with water.

SENECIO, s[=e]-n[=e]'si-o, _n._ a genus of composite plants--ragwort,
&c.--_adj._ SEN[=E]'CIOID.

SENEGA, sen'[=e]-ga, _n._ the seneca snakeroot, the dried root of _Polygala
Senega_, good for snake-bites.

SENEGAL, sen'[=e]-gal, _n._ a small African blood-finch, the fire-bird.

SENESCENCE, s[=e]-nes'ens, _n._ the state of growing old or decaying: decay
by time.--_n._ SENEC'TITUDE.--_adj._ SENES'CENT, growing old: decaying with
the lapse of time. [L. _senescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _senesc[)e]re_, to
grow old--_senex_, old.]

SENESCHAL, sen'e-shal, _n._ a steward: a major-domo.--_n._ SEN'ESCHALSHIP.
[O. Fr., (Fr. _sénéchal_)--_sin-s_, old, _skalks_, a servant.]

SENEX, s[=e]'neks, _n._ a South American hawk: a Brazilian swift.

SENG-GUNG, seng'-gung, _n._ the teledu or Javan badger.

SENGREEN, sen'gr[=e]n, _n._ the house-leek: (_her._) a figure resembling
it. [A.S. _singrene_; Ger. _singrün_.]

SENHOR, se-ny[=o]r', _n._ the Portuguese form corresponding to the Spanish
_señor_ and Italian _signor_.

SENILE, s[=e]'nil, _adj._ pertaining to old age or attendant on it:
aged.--_n._ SENIL'ITY, old age: the imbecility of old age. [L.
_senilis_--_senex_, _senis_, old.]

SENIOR, s[=e]n'yor, _adj._ elder: older in office.--_n._ one older than
another, the elder of two persons in one family bearing the same name: one
older in office: an aged person: one of the older fellows of a college, a
student in the fourth year of the curriculum.--_v.i._ S[=E]'NIORISE, to
lord it over.--_n._ S[=E]NIOR'ITY, priority of birth, or of service: a body
of seniors--also S[=E]'NIORY (_Shak._). [L., comp. of _senex_.]

SENNA, sen'a, _n._ the purgative dried leaflets of several species of
cassia. [Fr.,--Ar. _sena_.]

SENNET, sen'et, _n._ (_Shak._) a particular set of notes on the trumpet or
cornet.

SENNIGHT, sen'n[=i]t, _n._ a week. [_Seven night_.]

SENNIT, sen'it, _n._ a sort of flat, braided cordage.--Also SINN'ET.

SENOCULAR, s[=e]-nok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having six eyes.

SENONIAN, s[=e]-n[=o]'ni-an, _n._ (_geol._) a division of the upper
Cretaceous in France and Belgium.

SEÑOR, se-ny[=o]r', _n._ a gentleman: in address, sir: as a title,
Mr:--_fem._ SEÑORA (se-ny[=o]'ra), a lady: in address, madam: as a title,
Mrs.--_n._ SEÑORITA (sen-y[=o]-r[=e]'ta), a young lady: in address, miss:
as a title, Miss. [Sp.]

SENS, sens, _adv._ (_Spens._) since.

SENSATION, sen-s[=a]'shun, _n._ perception by the senses: the change in
consciousness which results from the transmission of nervous impulses to
the brain, feeling excited by external objects, by the state of the body,
or by immaterial objects: a state of excited feeling.--_adjs._ SEN'S[=A]TE,
-D, perceived by the senses; SENS[=A]'TIONAL, pertaining to sensation:
having sensation: intended as a literary work to excite violent emotions:
adhering to a philosophical sensationalism.--_ns._ SENS[=A]'TIONALISM, the
doctrine that our ideas originate solely in sensation, and that there are
no innate ideas: sensualism: sensational writing; SENS[=A]'TIONALIST, a
believer in sensationalism: a sensational writer.--_adj._
SENS[=A]TIONALIST'IC.--_adv._ SENS[=A]'TIONALLY.--_adjs._ SEN'SATIVE;
SENSAT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to sensation.--SENSATION NOVELS, novels that
deal in violent effects, strained emotion, and usually improbable
situations.

SENSE, sens, _n._ a faculty by which objects are perceived: perception:
discernment: understanding: power or soundness of judgment: reason:
opinion: conviction: import: immediate consciousness.--_ns._ SENSE'-BOD'Y,
a sense-organ in acalephs supposed to have a visual or an auditory
function; SENSE'-CAP'SULE, a receptive chamber for sensory perception,
connected with the ear, eye, and nose; SENSE'-CEN'TRE, a centre of
sensation.--_adj._ SENSED, chosen as to sense or meaning.--_ns._
SENSE'-EL'EMENT, an external sensation, as an element of perception;
SENSE'-FIL'AMENT, a filament having the function of an organ of
sense.--_adjs._ SENSE'FUL (_Spens._), full of sense or meaning, reasonable,
judicious, perceptive; SENSE'LESS, without sense: incapable of feeling:
wanting sympathy: foolish: unreasonable.--_adv._ SENSE'LESSLY.--_ns._
SENSE'LESSNESS; SENSE'-OR'GAN, any organ of sense, as the eye, ear, or
nose; SENSE'-PERCEP'TION, perception by means of the senses; SENSE'-RHYTHM,
Hebrew parallelism; SENSE'-SKEL'ETON, the framework of a sense-organ;
SENSIBIL'ITY, state or quality of being sensible: actual feeling: capacity
of feeling: susceptibility: acuteness of feeling: delicacy: mental
receptivity.--_adj._ SEN'SIBLE, capable of being perceived by the senses or
by the mind: capable of being affected: easily affected: delicate:
intelligent, marked by sense, judicious: cognisant: aware: appreciable:
sensitive: amenable to.--_n._ SEN'SIBLENESS.--_adv._ SEN'SIBLY.--_adjs_
SENSIF[=A]'CIENT, producing sensation; SENSIF'EROUS, SENSIF'IC,
SENSIFIC[=A]'TORY; SENSIG'ENOUS, giving rise to sensation; SEN'SILE,
capable of affecting the senses.--_ns_ SEN'SION, the becoming aware of
being affected from without in sensation; SEN'SISM, sensualism in
philosophy; SEN'SIST, a sensationalist.--_n._ SENSITIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
SEN'SITISE, to render sensitive, to render capable of being acted on by
actinic rays of light.--_n._ SEN'SITISER.--_adj._ SEN'SITIVE, having sense
or feeling: susceptible to sensations: easily affected: pertaining to, or
depending on, sensation.--_adv._ SEN'SITIVELY.--_ns_ SEN'SITIVENESS,
SEN'SITIVITY, the state of being sensitive: keen sensibility: the state of
being delicately adjusted, as a balance: (_chem._) the state of being
readily affected by the action of appropriate agents; SENSITOM'ETER, an
apparatus for testing the degrees of sensitiveness of photographic
films.--_adjs_ SENS[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to the sensorium, sensory;
SENSORIDIGEST'IVE, partaking of digestive functions and those of touch, as
the tongue of a vertebrate animal.--_ns_ SENS[=O]'RIUM, SEN'SORY, the organ
which receives the impressions made on the senses: the nervous centre to
which impressions must be conveyed before they are received: the whole
sensory apparatus of the body, the nervous system, &c.--_adj._ SEN'SUAL,
pertaining to, affecting, or derived from the senses, as distinct from the
mind: not intellectual or spiritual: given to the pleasures of sense:
voluptuous: lewd: carnal: worldly.--_n._ SENSUALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
SEN'SUALISE, to make sensual: to debase by carnal gratification.--_ns_
SEN'SUALISM, sensual indulgence: the doctrine that all our knowledge is
derived originally from sensation: the regarding of the gratification of
the senses as the highest end; SEN'SUALIST, one given to sensualism or
sensual indulgence: a debauchee: a believer in the doctrine of
sensualism.--_adj._ SENSUALIST'IC, sensual: teaching the doctrines of
sensualism.--_n._ SENSUAL'ITY, indulgence in sensual pleasures:
lewdness.--_adv._ SEN'SUALLY, in a sensual manner.--_ns_ SEN'SUALNESS;
SEN'SUISM; SEN'SUIST.--_adj._ SEN'SUOUS, pertaining to sense: connected
with sensible objects: easily affected by the medium of the senses.--_adv._
SEN'SUOUSLY.--_n._ SEN'SUOUSNESS.--SENSITIVE FLAMES, flames easily affected
by sounds; SENSITIVE PLANT, one of certain species of Mimosa--from the
peculiar phenomena of irritability which their leaves exhibit when touched
or shaken; SENSUOUS COGNITION, cognition through the senses.--A SENSITIVE
PERSON, one sensitive to mesmeric influence; THE SENSES, or FIVE SENSES,
sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch. [Fr.,--L. _sensus_--_sent[=i]re_,
to feel.]

SENT, sent, _n._ (_Spens._) scent, perception.

SENT, sent, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _send_.

SENTENCE, sen'tens, _n._ opinion: a judgment pronounced on a criminal by a
court or judge: a maxim: (_gram._) a number of words containing a complete
thought: sense: meaning: matter.--_v.t._ to pronounce judgment on: to
condemn.--_n._ SEN'TENCER, one who sentences.--_adj._ SENTEN'TIAL,
pertaining to a sentence: comprising sentences.--_adv._
SENTEN'TIALLY.--_adj._ SENTEN'TIOUS, abounding with sentences or maxims:
short and pithy in expression: bombastic, or affected in speech.--_adv._
SENTEN'TIOUSLY.--_n._ SENTEN'TIOUSNESS, brevity with strength.--MASTER OF
THE SENTENCES, the great 12th-century schoolman, Peter Lombard (died 1160),
from his work _Sententiarum Libri IV._, an arranged collection of sentences
from Augustine, &c. [Fr.,--L. _sententia_--_sent[=i]re_, to feel.]

SENTIENT, sen'shi-ent, _adj._ discerning by the senses: having the faculty
of perception and sensation: (_phys._) noting those parts which on
stimulation give rise to sensation.--_n._ the mind as capable of
feeling.--_ns_ SEN'TIENCE, SEN'TIENCY.--_adv._ SEN'TIENTLY, in a sentient
or perceptive manner.

SENTIMENT, sen'ti-ment, _n._ a thought occasioned by feeling: opinion:
judgment: sensibility: feeling: a thought expressed in words: a maxim: a
toast: emotion: an exhibition of feeling, as in literature or art: (_pl.,
phren._) the second division of the moral faculties.--_adj._ SENTIMEN'TAL,
having or abounding in sentiments or reflections: having an excess of
sentiment or feeling: affectedly tender.--_v.t._ SENTIMEN'TALISE, to talk
sentiment.--_ns_ SENTIMEN'TALISM, SENTIMENTAL'ITY, quality of being
sentimental: affectation of fine feeling; SENTIMEN'TALIST, one who affects
sentiment or fine feeling: one guided by mere sentiment: one who regards
sentiment as more important than reason.--_adv._ SENTIMEN'TALLY.
[Fr.,--Late L.,--L. _sent[=i]re_, to feel.]

SENTINE, sen't[=e]n, _n._ (_obs._) a sink. [L. _sentina_.]

SENTINEL, sen'ti-nel, _n._ a soldier or soldier-marine at a point with the
duty of watching for the approach of an enemy, or guarding the gun-park,
camp, magazine, or other locality: a sentry.--_adj._ acting as a
sentinel.--_v.t._ to watch over, as a sentinel.--_adj._ SEN'TINELLED,
furnished with a sentinel.--SENTINEL CRAB, a crab of the Indian Ocean with
long eye-stalks. [Fr. _sentinelle_--It. _sentinella_, a watch, prob. the L.
_sentinator_, one who pumps bilge-water out of a ship--_sentina_, the hold
of a ship. Others explain Fr. _sentinelle_ as a dim. of _sentier_, a
path--Low L. _semitarius_--L. _semita_, a footpath.]

SENTISECTION, sen-ti-sek'shun, _n._ painful vivisection--opp. to
_Callisection_.

SENTRY, sen'tri, _n._ a sentinel: a soldier on guard to observe the
approach of danger: a watch-tower.--_ns_ SEN'TRY-BOX, a box to shelter a
sentry; SEN'TRY-GO, any active military duty. [Prob. a corr. of
_sentinel_--Low L. _semitarius_--L. _semita_, a path.]

SENVY, sen'vi, _n._ (_obs._) mustard-seed. [O. Fr. _seneve_--L.
_sinapi_--Gr. _sinapi_, mustard.]

SENZA, sen'tsa, _prep._ (_mus._) without. [It.]

SEP, sep, an abbreviation for _sepal_.

[Illustration]

SEPAL, sep'al, or s[=e]'pal, _n._ a leaf or division of the calyx of a
flower.--_adjs._ SEP'ALINE, SEP'ALOID, SEP'ALOUS.--_n._ SEPAL'ODY, change
of petals into sepals. [Fr. _sépale_--L. _separ_, separate.]

SEPARATE, sep'a-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to divide: to part: to withdraw: to set
apart for a certain purpose: to sever.--_v.i._ to part: to withdraw from
each other: to become disunited.--_adj._ separated: divided: apart from
another: distinct.--_n._ SEPARABIL'ITY.--_adj._ SEP'ARABLE, that may be
separated or disjointed.--_n._ SEP'ARABLENESS.--_advs._ SEP'ARABLY;
SEP'ARATELY.--_ns_ SEP'ARATENESS; SEP'ARATING-DISC, an emery-wheel for
cutting a space between teeth; SEPAR[=A]'TION, act of separating or
disjoining: state of being separate: disunion: chemical analysis: divorce
without a formal dissolution of the marriage-tie; SEPAR[=A]'TIONIST;
SEP'ARATISM, act of separating or withdrawing, esp. from an established
church; SEP'ARATIST, one who separates or withdraws, esp. from an
established church, a dissenter: a name applied by the Unionists to those
Liberals in favour of granting Home Rule to Ireland.--_adj._
SEP'AR[=A]TIVE, tending to separate.--_ns._ SEP'AR[=A]TOR, one who, or that
which, separates: a divider; SEP'AR[=A]TORY, a chemical vessel for
separating liquids of different specific gravities; SEP'AR[=A]TRIX, the
line separating light from shade on any partly illuminated surface;
SEPAR[=A]'TUM, a separate copy of a paper which has been published in the
proceedings of a scientific society.--SEPARATE ESTATE, property of a
married woman over which her husband has no right of control; SEPARATE
MAINTENANCE, a provision made by a husband for the sustenance of his wife
where they decide to live apart. [L. _separ[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_se-_,
aside, _par[=a]re_, to put.]

SEPAWN=_Supawn_ (q.v.).

SEPHARDIM, se-fär'd[=e]m, _n.pl._ the Spanish-Portuguese Jews, descended
from those expelled from Spain in 1492--as distinguished from _Ashkenazim_,
or German-Polish Jews.--_adj._ SEPHAR'DIC.

SEPHEN, sef'en, _n._ a sting-ray of the Indian Ocean, valued for shagreen.

SEPHIROTH, sef'i-roth, _n._ in the cabbala, the first ten numerals
identified with Scripture names of God.

SEPIA, s[=e]'pi-a, _n._ a fine, brown pigment used as a water-colour--from
the ink-bag of a few species of cuttle-fish: Indian or China ink: a genus
of cuttle-fishes.--_n.pl._ S[=E]PI[=A]'CEA, a group of cephalopods, same as
S[=E]PIIDÆ.--_n._ S[=E]PIAD[=A]'RIUM, a genus of cuttles.--_adjs._
S[=E]PI[=A]'RIAN, S[=E]'PI[=A]RY, S[=E]PID[=A]'CEOUS, S[=E]'PIOID;
S[=E]'PIC, done in sepia, as a drawing.--_ns._ S[=E]'PIOST, SEPIOSTAIRE',
S[=E]'PIUM, cuttle-bone. [L.,--Gr. _s[=e]pia_, the cuttle-fish.]

SEPIMENT, sep'i-ment, _n._ a hedge, a fence. [L. _sæpimentum_, a hedge.]

SEPOSE, s[=e]-p[=o]z', _v.t._ (_obs._) to set apart.--_v.i._ to go
apart.--_n._ S[=E]POSI'TION.

SEPOY, s[=e]'poi, _n._ a native soldier, whether Hindu or Mohammedan, in
the British army in India. [Hind. _sip[=a]h[=i]_, a soldier--Pers.
_sip[=a]h[=i]_, a horseman.]

SEPPUKU, sep-puk'[=oo], _n._ the hara-kiri. [Jap.]

SEPS, seps, _n._ a genus of scincoid lizards. [Gr.]

SEPSIS, sep'sis, _n._ putridity, rot: a genus of dipterous insects. [Gr.
_s[=e]psis_, putrefaction.]

SEPT, sept, _n._ in Ireland, a subdivision of a tribe: an enclosure, a
railing.--_adj._ SEP'TAL, belonging to a sept: partitional. [Probably a
corr. of _sect_.]

SEPT.=_Septuagint_; _September_.

SEPTAN, sep'tan, _adj._ recurring every seventh day.

SEPTANGLE, sep'tang-gl, _n._ a figure with seven angles and seven
sides.--_adj._ SEPTANG'[=U]LAR, having seven angles. [L. _septem_, seven,
_angulus_, angle.]

SEPTARIA, sep-t[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of shipworms--_Teredo_.

SEPTARIUM, sep-t[=a]'ri-um, _n._ an ovate flattened nodule of argillaceous
limestone or ironstone--turtle-stone:--_pl._ SEPT[=A]'RIA.--_adj._
SEPT[=A]'RIAN.

SEPTATE, -D, sep't[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ divided into compartments.

SEPTEMBER, sep-tem'b[.e]r, _n._ the ninth month of the year.--_adj._
SEPTEM'BRAL.--_n._ SEPTEM'BRIST, one of the perpetrators of the atrocious
massacres in the prisons of Paris, Sept. 2-7, 1792.--SEPTEMBER THORN, a
British geometrid moth. [L. _septem_, seven.]

SEPTEMPARTITE, sep-tem-pär't[=i]t, _adj._ divided into seven parts.

SEPTEMVIR, sep-tem'vir, _n._ one of a board of seven men associated for
certain duties.--_n._ SEPTEM'VIRATE, the office of septemvir.

SEPTENARIUS, sep-te-n[=a]'ri-us, _n._ in Latin prosody, a verse consisting
of seven feet.

SEPTENARY, sep'te-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ consisting of seven: lasting seven
years: occurring once in seven years.--_n.pl._ SEP'TENARIES, the number
seven, the heptad. [L. _septenarius_--_septem_, seven.]

SEPTENATE, sep'te-n[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having seven parts.

SEPTENNIAL, sep-ten'i-al, _adj._ lasting seven years: happening every seven
years.--_n._ SEPTENN'ATE, a period of seven years.--_adv._
SEPTENN'IALLY.--_n._ SEPTENN'IUM.--SEPTENNIAL ACT, a statute of 1716 fixing
the existence of a parliament at seven years. [L. _septennis_--_septem_,
seven, _annus_, a year.]

SEPTENTRION, sep-ten'tri-on, _n._ (_Shak._) the north.--_adjs._
SEPTEN'TRION, -AL, northern.--_adv._ SEPTEN'TRIONALLY.--_n.pl._
SEPTENTRI[=O]'NES, the constellation of the Great Bear, or the seven stars
near the north pole-star, called Charles's Wain.

SEPTET, SEPTETTE, sep-tet', _n._ a work for seven voices or instruments: a
company of seven musicians.

SEPT-FOIL, sept'-foil, _n._ a plant, the roots of which are used in
medicine, tanning, &c.: a figure of seven equal segments of a circle used
in the R.C. Church as a symbol of her seven sacraments, the seven gifts of
the Holy Spirit, &c. [Fr. _sept_--L. _septem_, seven, _foil_--L. _folium_,
a leaf.]

SEPTICEMIA, sep-ti-s[=e]'mi-a, _n._ sepsis, blood-poisoning--also
SEPTICÆ'MIA.--_n._ SEP'TIC, a substance that promotes the putrefaction of
bodies.--_adjs._ SEP'TIC, -AL, promoting putrefaction.--_adv._
SEP'TICALLY.--_adj._ SEPTIC[=E]'MIC.--_n._ SEPTIC'ITY, tendency to promote
putrefaction.--_adj._ SEPTIF'EROUS, conveying putrid poison. [Formed from
Gr. _s[=e]ptikos_, putrefying, _haima_, blood.]

SEPTICIDAL, sep-ti-s[=i]'dal, _adj._ dividing the partitions, as when fruit
splits asunder--also SEP'TICIDE.--_adv._ SEP'TICIDALLY. [L. _sæptum_, a
fence, _cæd[)e]re_, to cut.]

SEPTIFARIOUS, sep-ti-f[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ turned seven different ways.

SEPTIFEROUS, sep-tif'e-rus, _adj._ having a septum or septa, septate.

SEPTIFLUOUS, sep-tif'l[=oo]-us, _adj._ flowing in seven streams.

SEPTIFOLIOUS, sep-ti-f[=o]'li-us, _adj._ seven-leaved.

SEPTIFORM, sep'ti-form, _adj._ sevenfold, having seven parts: like a
septum, septal.

SEPTIFRAGAL, sep-tif'r[=a]-gal, _adj._ (_bot._) breaking away from the
partitions, said of the valves of a pod. [L. _septum_, a partition,
_frang[)e]re_, _fractum_, to break.]

SEPTILATERAL, sep-ti-lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ having seven sides. [L. _septem_,
seven, _latus_, _lateris_, a side.]

SEPTILLION, sep-til'yun, _n._ the product of a million raised to the
seventh power, or a unit with forty-two ciphers affixed: in the United
States, France, &c., the eighth power of a thousand.

SEPTIMANARIAN, sep-ti-m[=a]-n[=a]'ri-an, _n._ a monk on duty for a week.
[L. _septimanus_--_septem_, seven.]

SEPTIME, sep't[=e]m, _n._ the seventh position assumed by a fencer after
drawing his weapon from the scabbard. [L. _septimus_, seventh--_septem_,
seven.]

SEPTIMOLE, sep'ti-m[=o]l, _n._ a group of seven notes to be played in the
time of four or six: sign [septimole].--Also SEP'T[=O]LE.

SEPTINSULAR, sept-in's[=u]-lar, _adj._ consisting of seven islands. [L.
_septem_, seven, _insula_, island.]

SEPTISYLLABLE, sep'ti-sil-a-bl, _n._ a word of seven syllables.

SEPTOMAXILLARY, sep-t[=o]-mak'si-l[=a]-ri, _adj._ combining characters of a
nasal septum and a maxillary bone.--_n._ a bone in some birds uniting the
maxillopalatines of opposite sides.

SEPTONASAL, sep-t[=o]-n[=a]'zal, _adj._ forming a nasal septum.--_n._ a
bone of this kind.

SEPTUAGENARIAN, sep-t[=u]-aj-e-n[=a]'ri-an, _n._ a person seventy years
old.--_adj._ SEPT[=U]AG'ENARY, consisting of seventy.--_n._ one seventy
years old. [L. _septuagenarius_--_septuageni_, seventy each--_septem_,
seven.]

SEPTUAGESIMA, sep-t[=u]-a-jes'i-ma, _n._ the third Sunday before Lent--the
seventieth day before Easter (the common but dubious explanation).--_adj._
SEPTUAGES'IMAL, consisting of seventy: counted by seventies. [L.
_septuagesimus_--_septem_, seven. The name, like _Quinquagesima_ and
_Sexagesima_, was most probably adopted on a false analogy with
_Quadragesima_, the Latin name of Lent.]

SEPTUAGINT, sep't[=u]-a-jint, _n._ the version in Hellenistic Greek of the
Old Testament, said to have been made by 72 translators at Alexandria by
command of Ptolemy Philadelphus (284-247 B.C.)--usually expressed by
LXX.--_adj._ SEPTUAGIN'TAL. [L. _septuaginta_--_septem_, seven.]

SEPTUARY, sep't[=u]-[=a]-ri, _n._ (_obs._) something composed of seven.

[Illustration]

SEPTUM, sep'tum, _n._ (_bot._, _anat._) a partition separating two
cavities: one of the radial plates of a coral:--_pl._ SEP'TA.--_adj._
SEP'TULATE, having imperfect or spurious septa.--_n._ SEP'TULUM, a little
septum or small partition. [L.,--_sæp[=i]re_, _sep[=i]re_, to enclose.]

SEPTUPLE, sep't[=u]-pl, _adj._ sevenfold.--_v.t._ to make sevenfold: to
multiply by seven.--_n._ SEP'T[=U]PLET, a septimole. [Low L.
_septuplus_--_septem_, seven; on the analogy of quadruple.]

SEPULCHRE, sep'ul-k[.e]r, _n._ a place of burial: tomb: a burial vault: a
recess in some early churches in which the reserved sacrament, &c., were
laid from Good Friday till Easter.--_v.t._ (_Milt._) to place in a
sepulchre: to bury or entomb.--_adj._ SEPUL'CHRAL, pertaining to a
sepulchre, or to monuments erected for the dead: (_fig._) deep, hollow in
tone.--_n._ SEP'ULTURE, act of burying the dead: interment: burial.--_v.t._
to entomb. [Fr.,--L. _sepulchrum_--_sepel[=i]re_, _sepultum_, to bury.]

SEPURTURE, sep'ur-t[=u]r, _adj._ (_her._) raised above the back and opened,
of a bird's wings.

SEQUACIOUS, s[=e]-kw[=a]'shus, _adj._ inclined to follow a leader:
attendant: manageable: pliant: observing logical sequence or
consistence.--_ns._ SEQU[=A]'CIOUSNESS, SEQUAC'ITY, disposition to follow.
[L. _sequax_, _sequacis_--_sequi_, to follow.]

SEQUEL, s[=e]'kwel, _n._ that which follows, the succeeding part: result,
consequence: (_obs._) descendants: (_Scots law_) thirlage. [Fr.,--L.
_sequela_--_sequi_; Gr. _hepesthai_, to follow.]

SEQUELA, s[=e]-kw[=e]'la, _n._ that which follows: an inference, a
corollary:--_pl._ S[=E]'QUELÆ.

SEQUENCE, s[=e]'kwens, _n._ state of being sequent or following: order of
succession: a series of things following in a certain order, as a set of
three or more cards in order of value: that which follows: consequence:
(_mus._) a regular succession of similar chords: in liturgics, a hymn in
rhythmical prose, sung after the gradual and before the gospel.--_adjs._
S[=E]'QUENT, following, succeeding; S[=E]QUEN'TIAL.--_n._
S[=E]QUENTIAL'ITY.--_adv._ S[=E]QUEN'TIALLY. [Fr.,--L. _sequens_, pr.p. of
_sequi_, to follow.]

SEQUESTER, s[=e]-kwes't[.e]r, _v.t._ to separate: to withdraw from society:
to seclude: to set apart: (_law_) to place anything contested into the
hands of a third person till the dispute is settled: to hold the property
of another till the profits pay the demands: to take possession of the
estate of a bankrupt in order to distribute it among the creditors: to
confiscate.--_v.i._ to renounce any interest in the estate of a
husband.--_n._ (_Shak._) the act of sequestering: an umpire.--_adjs._
S[=E]QUES'TERED, retired, secluded; SEQUES'TRABLE.--_v.t._ S[=E]QUES'TRATE
(_law_), to sequester.--_ns._ S[=E]QUESTR[=A]'TION, the Scotch legal term
for bankruptcy: the act of sequestering, esp. the seizure of any one's
property for the use of the state during dispute, or for the benefit of
creditors: state of being separated: seclusion from society;
S[=E]QUESTR[=A]'TOR, one who sequesters another's property: one to whom
property is committed during dispute. [O. Fr. _sequestrer_--Low L.
_sequestr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--L. _sequester_, a depositary--_sequi_, to
follow.]

SEQUESTRUM, s[=e]-kwes'trum, _n._ a necrosed section of bone.--_n._
SEQUESTROT'OMY, the operation of removing such.

SEQUIN, s[=e]'kwin, _n._ a gold Venetian coin of the 13th century=9s. 4d.
[Fr.,--It. _zecchino_--_zecca_, the mint; of Ar. origin.]

SEQUOIA, s[=e]-kwoi'a, _n._ a small genus of gigantic evergreen coniferous
trees belonging to California--Wellingtonia. [A Latinised form of the name
of the Cherokee chief _Sequoiah_.]

SERA, s[=e]'ra, _n._ a lock of any kind:--_pl._ S[=E]'RÆ. [L.]

SÉRAC, s[=a]-rak', _n._ a name for the cuboidal masses into which the névé
breaks when passing down a steep incline. [Swiss Fr.]

SERAGLIO, se-ral'y[=o], _n._ the ancient residence of the Sultan at
Constantinople, enclosing within its walls a variety of mosques, gardens,
and large edifices, the chief of which is the Harem: a place where women
are kept, a place of licentious pleasure: an enclosure. [It.
_serraglio_--Low L. _ser[=a]re_, to lock up, from L. _sera_, a door-bar.
The word was confused with Pers. _serai_, a palace.]

SERAI, se-rä'i, _n._ a khan, a caravansary: a seraglio for women. [Pers.
_serai_, a palace.]

SERALBUMIN, s[=e]r-al-b[=u]'min, _n._ albumin of the blood.

SERANG, se-rang', _n._ the skipper of a small East Indian vessel, the
boatswain of a lascar crew. [Pers. _sarhang_, a commander.]

SERAPE, se-rä'pe, _n._ a Mexican shawl worn by men, often gay-coloured.

SERAPEUM, SERAPEIUM, ser-a-p[=e]'um, _n._ a temple of _Serapis_, esp. that
near Memphis.

SERAPH, ser'af, _n._ an angel of the highest rank in the traditional
angelology of the church, due to Dionysius the Areopagite, who places the
seraphim at the head of the nine choirs of angels, the first rank being
formed by the seraphim, cherubim, and _throni_:--_pl._ SERAPHS (ser'afs),
SERAPHIM (ser'af-im), celestial beings on either side of the throne of
Jehovah, seen in prophetic vision by Isaiah, and by him alone (vi. 2-6): a
geometrid moth.--_adjs._ SERAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or becoming, a
seraph: angelic: pure: sublime: refined.--_adv._ SERAPH'ICALLY. [Heb.
_Ser[=a]ph[=i]m_--_s[=a]raph_, to burn.]

SERAPHINE, ser'a-f[=e]n, _n._ a coarse-toned musical reed-instrument,
played with a key-board--the precursor of the harmonium.

SERAPIAS, se-r[=a]'pi-as, _n._ a genus of orchids.

SERAPIS, ser-[=a]'pis, _n._ Apis honoured by the Romans under the
attributes of Osiris: a genus of gasteropods: a genus of hymenopterous
insects.

SERASKIER, ser-as'k[=e]r, _n._ a Turkish general, esp. the
commander-in-chief or the minister of war.--_n._ SERAS'KIERATE, the office
of a seraskier. [Turk.,--Pers. _sar_, _ser_, head, Ar. _`asker_, army.]

SERB, serb, _adj._ Servian.--_n._ a Servian.

SERBONIAN, ser-b[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ relating to a dangerous bog in Egypt,
hence to any difficult situation.

SERDAB, ser'dab, _n._ a secret chamber within the masonry of an ancient
Egyptian tomb in which images of the deceased were stored. [Ar.
_serd[=a]b_.]

SERE. Same as SEAR.

SERE, s[=e]r, _adj._ (_obs._) separate, several, many.

SERE, s[=e]r, _n._ (_obs._) a claw.

SEREIN, se-rang', _n._ a fine rain which falls from a cloudless sky. [Fr.]

SERENA, s[=e]-r[=e]'na, _n._ the damp, unwholesome air of evening.

SERENADE, ser-e-n[=a]d', _n._ evening music in the open air, esp. given by
a lover to his mistress under her window at night: a piece of music
suitable for such an occasion.--_v.t._ to entertain with a serenade.--_ns._
SEREN[=A]'DER, one who serenades; SERENÄ'TA, an instrumental work for
performance in the open air; SER'EN[=A]TE (_Milt._), a serenade. [Fr.,--It.
_serenata_, _sereno_, serene--L. _serenus_.]

SERENE, s[=e]-r[=e]n', _adj._ calm: unclouded: unruffled: an adjunct to the
titles of certain German princes--a translation of _Durchlaucht_.--_v.t._
to tranquillise.--_n._ the chilly damp of evening: blight.--_adv._
SER[=E]NE'LY, calmly, coolly.--_ns._ SER[=E]NE'NESS; SEREN'ITUDE;
SEREN'ITY, state or quality of being serene, calmness, peace.--_v.t._
SERENISE', to make bright: to glorify. [L. _serenus_, clear.]

SERENOA, s[=e]-r[=e]'n[=o]-a, _n._ a genus of dwarf palms in Florida.

SERF, s[.e]rf, _n._ a slave attached to the soil and sold with it: a
labourer rendering forced service in Russia: a menial.--_ns._ SERF'AGE,
SERF'DOM, condition of a serf. [Fr.,--L. _servus_, a slave.]

SERGE, s[.e]rj, _n._ a strong twilled fabric, once of silk, now usually of
worsted.--_n._ SERGETTE', a thin serge. [Fr.,--L. _serica_, silk--_Seres_,
the Chinese.]

SERGEANT, SERJEANT, sär'jent, _n._ a non-commissioned officer of the army
and marines next above a corporal, overlooking the soldiers in barracks,
and assisting the officers in all ways in the field: a bailiff: a
constable: a servant in monastic offices: a police-officer of superior
rank.--_ns._ SER'GEANCY, SER'GEANTCY, SER'GEANTSHIP, office of a sergeant;
SER'GEANT-AT-ARMS, an officer of a legislative body for keeping order, &c.;
SER'GEANT-FISH, the cobra, so called from the lateral stripes;
SER'GEANT-M[=A]'JOR, the highest non-commissioned officer, employed to
assist the adjutant: the cow-pilot, a fish; SER'GEANTRY, SER'GEANTY, a kind
of feudal tenure on condition of service due to the king only;
SER'JEANT-AT-ARMS, an officer who attends upon the Lord Chancellor with the
mace, and who executes various writs of process in the course of a Chancery
suit: a similar officer who attends on each House of Parliament, and
arrests any person ordered by the House to be arrested; SER'JEANT-AT-LAW,
formerly in England the highest degree of barrister, once with exclusive
audience in the Court of Common Pleas, their proper dress a violet-coloured
robe with a scarlet hood, and a black coif, represented in modern times by
a patch of silk at the top of the wig.--GRAND SERGEANTY, a tenure of lands
by special honorary service to the king; PETIT SERGEANTY, a tenure of lands
by a rent or tender. [Fr. _sergent_--L. _serviens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_serv[=i]re_, to serve.]

SERIAL, s[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ pertaining to, or consisting of, a series:
appearing periodically.--_n._ a tale or other composition appearing in
successive parts, as in a periodical: a publication issued in successive
numbers, a periodical.--_n._ S[=E]RIAL'ITY.--_advs._ S[=E]'RIALLY,
S[=E]'RIATELY, in a series or regular order.--_adj._ S[=E]'RI[=A]TE,
arranged in a series.--_adv._ S[=E]'RI[=A]TIM, one after another.--_n._
S[=E]RI[=A]'TION.

SERIAN, s[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ Chinese--also SER'IC.--_ns._ SER'ICA, a genus
of melolonthine beetles; SERIC[=A]'RIA, a genus of bombycid moths,
containing the mulberry silkworm.--_adjs._ SER'ICATE, -D, silky, covered
with silky down; SERICEOUS (s[=e]rish'i-us), pertaining to, or consisting
of, silk: (_bot._) covered with soft silky hairs, as a leaf.--_n.pl._
SERIC'IDES, a section of melolonthine beetles.--_ns._ SER'ICIN, the
gelatinous substance of silk; SER'ICITE, a variety of potash mica.--_adj._
SERICIT'IC.--_ns._ SERICOCAR'PUS, a genus of composite plants of the United
States; SERICOS'T[=O]MA, the typical genus of caddis-flies;
SERICT[=E]'RIUM, a spinning gland; SER'ICULTURE, the breeding of
silkworms--also SER'ICICULTURE; SERICUL'TURIST. [Gr. _S[=e]res_, the Seres,
an Asiatic people who supplied the Greeks and Romans with their silk.]

SERICON, ser'i-kon, _n._ in the jargon of alchemy, a red tincture--opp. to
_Bufo_, a black.

SERIEMA, ser-i-[=e]'ma, _n._ a long-legged, crested Brazilian bird.--Also
CARIA'MA.

SERIES, s[=e]'ri-[=e]z, _n.sing._ and _pl._ a succession of things
connected by some likeness: sequence: order: (_math._) a progression of
numbers or quantities according to a certain law.--ARITHMETICAL SERIES, a
series whose terms progress by the addition or subtraction of a constant
difference; GEOMETRICAL SERIES, a series whose successive terms progress by
a constant multiplier or divisor--the _common ratio_; RECIPROCAL SERIES, a
series each of whose terms is the reciprocal of the corresponding term of
another series. [L.,--_ser[)e]re, sertum_, to join.]

SERIF, ser'if, _n._ the short cross-line at the ends of unconnected Roman
types, as in H, l, d, y, &c.--Also CER'IPH and SER'IPH.

SERIFORM, s[=e]'ri-form, _adj._ noting a section of the Altaic family of
languages, comprising Chinese, &c.

SERILOPHUS, s[=e]-ril'[=o]-fus, _n._ an Indian genus of broadbills. [Gr.
_s[=e]rikos_, silky, _lophos_, a crest.]

SERIN, ser'in, _n._ a small fringilline bird like the canary.--_n._
SERINETTE', a bird-organ. [Fr.,--L. _citrinus_, _citrine_, yellow.]

SERINGA, se-ring'gä, _n._ a name of several Brazilian trees yielding
india-rubber. [Port.]

SERINGHI, ser-ing-g[=e]', _n._ a musical instrument of the viol class used
in India.

SERINUS, s[=e]-r[=i]'nus, _n._ a genus of birds of the fringilline family,
including canaries. [Fr. _serin_.]

SERIOLA, s[=e]-r[=i]'[=o]-la, _n._ a genus of carangoid fishes, the amber
fishes.

SERIOUS, s[=e]'ri-us, _adj._ solemn: in earnest: important: attended with
danger: weighty: professedly religious.--_adjs._ S[=E]'RIO-COM'IC, -AL,
partly serious and partly comical.--_adv._ S[=E]'RIOUSLY, gravely, deeply:
without levity.--_n._ S[=E]'RIOUSNESS. [Fr. _serieux_--L. _serius_, akin to
_severus_, severe.]

SERIPH. See SERIF.

SERJEANT. See SERGEANT.

SERMOCINATION, ser-mos-i-n[=a]'shun, _n._ (_obs._) speech-making: (_rhet._)
a form of prosopopoeia in which one answers a question he has himself
asked.

SERMON, s[.e]r'mon, _n._ a discourse on a text of Scripture delivered
during divine service: any serious address, any serious counsel,
admonition, or reproof.--_v.t._ to tutor, to lecture.--_ns._ SERMOL'OGUS, a
volume containing sermons by the Church fathers; SERMONEER', a sermoniser;
SER'MONER, a preacher; SER'MONET, a little sermon.--_adjs._ SERMON'IC, -AL,
having the character of a sermon.--_n._ SER'MONING, the act of preaching: a
homily.--_v.i._ SER'MONISE, to compose or preach sermons: to lecture: to
lay down the law.--_v.t._ to preach a sermon to.--_ns._ SERMON[=I]'SER, one
who preaches or writes sermons; SERM[=O]'NIUM, a historical play, formerly
acted by the inferior orders of the Roman Catholic clergy; SERMUN'CLE, a
little sermon. [L. _sermo_, _sermonis_--_ser[)e]re_, to join.]

SEROON, se-r[=oo]n', _n._ a crate or hamper in which Spanish and Levantine
figs, raisins, &c. are usually packed.--_n._ SER'ON, a bale of about 200
lb. of Paraguay tea wrapped in hide. [Sp. _seron_.]

SEROPURULENT, s[=e]-r[=o]-p[=u]'r[=oo]-lent, _adj._ composed of serum mixed
with pus.--_adj._ SEROSANGUIN'OLENT, pertaining to bloody serum.

SEROTINE, ser'[=o]-tin, _n._ a small reddish vespertilionine bat. [L.
_serotinus_--_sero_, late.]

SEROTINOUS, s[=e]-rot'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) appearing late the season. [L.
_serotinus_--sero, late.]

SEROUS, s[=e]'rus, _adj._ resembling serum, thin, watery: secreting
serum.--_n._ SEROS'ITY. [_Serum_.]

SERPENT, s[.e]r'pent, _n._ any member of the genus _Ophidia_, more
popularly known as snakes--any reptile without feet which moves by means of
its ribs and scales: a snake: a person treacherous or malicious: one of the
constellations in the northern hemisphere: (_mus._) a bass musical
wind-instrument, entirely obsolete except in a few Continental churches, a
tapered leather-covered wooden tube 8 feet long, twisted about like a
serpent.--_v.i._ to wind along: to meander.--_v.t._ to girdle, as with the
coils of a serpent.--_ns._ SERPENT[=A]'RIA, the Virginia snakeroot;
SERPENT[=A]'RIUS, the secretary-birds: the constellation _Ophiuchus_;
SER'PENT-CHARM'ER, one who charms or has power over serpents;
SER'PENT-CHARM'ING, the art of charming or governing serpents;
SER'PENT-C[=U]'CUMBER, a long-fruited variety of the musk-melon;
SER'PENT-D[=E]'ITY, the god of the Ophites, Abraxas; SER'PENT-EAT'ER, the
secretary-bird: a wild goat in India and Cashmere; SER'PENTEAU, an iron
circle with spikes to which squibs are attached, used in a breach.--_n.pl._
SERPENT'ES, the second order of the third class of limbless
reptiles.--_ns._ SER'PENT-FISH, the snake-fish; SER'PENT-GRASS, the alpine
bistort.--_adjs._ SERPENT'IFORM, ophidian in structure: snake-like;
SER'PENTINE, resembling a serpent: winding, tortuous: spiral:
crooked.--_n._ a kind of firework: a 16th-cent. form of cannon: a mineral
composed of silica and manganese, generally occurring massive, colour some
shade of green, also red and brownish-yellow.--_v.i._ to wind or wriggle
like a serpent.--_adv._ SER'PENTINELY.--_adjs._ SERPENTIN'IC,
SER'PENTINOUS.--_adv._ SERPENT[=I]'NINGLY, with a serpentine
motion.--_v.t._ SER'PENTINISE, to convert into serpentine.--_v.i._
SER'PENTISE, to wind: meander.--_adj._ SER'PENT-LIKE, like a
serpent.--_ns._ SER'PENT-LIZ'ARD, a lizard of the genus _Seps_;
SER'PENT-MOSS, a greenhouse plant from the West Indies; SER'PENTRY,
serpentine motion: a place infested by serpents: serpents collectively;
SER'PENT-STAR, a brittle star; SER'PENT-STONE, snake-stone, adder-stone;
SER'PENT'S-TONGUE, the adder's-tongue fern; SER'PENT-TUR'TLE, an
enaliosaur; SER'PENT-WITHE, a twining plant of tropical America;
SER'PENT-WOOD, an East Indian shrub; SER'PENT-WOR'SHIP, one of the most
ancient and widespread forms of primitive religion, and still existing
amongst many savage peoples; SEA'-SER'PENT (see SEA).--SERPENTINE VERSE, a
verse which begins and ends with the same word.--THE OLD SERPENT, Satan.
[L. _serpens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _serp[)e]re_, to creep; akin to Gr.
_herpein_.]

SERPET, ser'pet, _n._ (_obs._) a basket.

SERPETTE, s[.e]r-pet', _n._ a hooked pruning-knife. [Fr.]

SERPIGO, s[.e]r-p[=i]'go, _n._ (_Shak._) a skin eruption, herpes.--_adj._
SERPIG'INOUS (-pij'-). [L. _serp[)e]re_, to creep.]

SERPLATH, ser'plath, _n._ (_Scot._) 80 stone weight.

SERPOLET, ser'p[=o]-let, _n._ the wild thyme. [Fr.]

SERPULA, ser'p[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of sedentary Chætopod worms, living in
twisted calcareous tubes fastened to shells and rocks in the sea, or even
to other animals, such as crabs.--_adj._ SERP[=U]'LIAN.--_n._ SER'PULITE, a
fossil of the family _Serpulidæ_.--_adjs._ SERPULIT'IC, SER'PULOID. [L.
_serp[)e]re_, to creep.]

SERR, ser, _v.t._ (_obs._) to crowd or press together.

SERRA, ser'a, _n._ a saw, or saw-like part [L.]

SERRADILLA, ser-a-dil'a, _n._ a Port. bird's-foot clover.

SERRANUS, ser-r[=a]'nus, _n._ the genus containing sea-perches or
sea-bass.--_n.pl._ SERRAN'IDÆ, the family of fishes containing among its
genera Sea-bass, Rockfish, &c. [L. _serra_, a saw.]

SERRASALMO, ser-a-sal'mo, _n._ a genus of characinoid fishes, with
compressed belly fringed with projecting scales. [L. _serra_, a saw,
_salmo_, a salmon.]

SERRATE, -D, ser'r[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ notched or cut like a saw: (_bot._)
having small sharp teeth along the margin.--_n._ SERR[=A]'TION, state of
being serrated.--_adj._ SERRATIROS'TRAL, saw-billed, as a bird.--_ns._
SER'R[=A]TURE, a notching like that between the teeth of a saw;
SERR[=A]'TUS, one of several muscles of the thorax.--_adj._ SER'RICORN,
having separate antennæ.--_n.pl._ SERRIF'ERA, a group of insects, including
the sawflies and horntails.--_adjs._ SERRIF'EROUS, having a serra or
serrate organ; SER'RIFORM, toothed like a saw; SER'RIPED, having the feet
serrate; SERRIROS'TRATE, having the bill serrated with tooth-like
processes.--_n._ SER'RO-M[=O]'TOR, a steam reversing-gear, in marine
engines.--_adj._ SER'ROUS, like the teeth of a saw: rough.--_n._ SER'RULA,
one of the serrated appendages of the throat of the mudfish:--_pl._
SER'RULÆ.--_adjs._ SER'RULATE, -D, finely serrate.--_ns._ SERRUL[=A]'TION,
the state of being serrulate; SERRURERIE', ornamental wrought-metal work.
[L. _serratus_--_serra_, a saw.]

SERRIED, ser'rid, _adj._ crowded: pressed together.--_v.t._ SER'RY, to
crowd. [Fr. _serrer_, to crowd--L. _sera_, a door-bar.]

SERTULARIA, ser-t[=u]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a common genus of Hydroids in which
the branched horny investment of the plant-like colony forms a sessile cup
around each polyp.--_adj._ SERTUL[=A]'RIAN. [L. _ser[)e]re_, _sertum_, to
plait.]

SERUM, s[=e]'rum, _n._ the watery part of curdled milk, whey: the thin
fluid which separates from the blood when it coagulates. [L.]

SERVAL, s[.e]r'val, _n._ a South African animal of the cat tribe, yellowish
with black spots, valued for its fur--the _Bush-cat_, _Tiger-cat_. [Ger.]

SERVANT, s[.e]r'vant, _n._ one who is in the service of another: a
labourer: a domestic: one dedicated to God: (_B._) a slave: one of low
condition or spirit: a professed lover: a word of mere civility, as in
'your humble' or 'obedient servant' in letters, petitions, &c.--_v.t._ to
subject.--_ns._ SER'VANT-GIRL, SER'VANT-MAID, a female domestic servant;
SER'VANT-MAN, a male servant; SER'VANTRY, servants collectively;
SER'VANTSHIP, position or relation of a servant.--SERVANT OUT OF LIVERY, a
servant of a higher grade, as a major-domo or butler; SERVANTS' CALL, a
whistle to call attendants; SERVANTS' HALL, the room in a house where the
servants eat together. [Fr., pr.p. of _servir_, to serve--L. _serv[=i]re_,
to serve.]

SERVATORY, s[.e]r'va-tor-i, _n. (obs.)_ that which preserves.

SERVE, s[.e]rv, _v.t._ to be a servant to, to work for and obey: to attend
or wait upon: to work for: to obey: to be subservient or subordinate to: to
wait upon at table, &c.: to do duty for: to treat, behave towards: to
render worship to: to aid by good offices: to minister to a priest at mass:
to comply with: to requite: to handle, manipulate: to furnish: (_naut._) to
bind with small cord: (_law_) to deliver or present formally: to furnish:
to cover, of stallions, &c.: to deliver the ball in tennis.--_v.i._ to be
employed as a servant, to discharge any regular duty: to be in subjection:
to suffice, to avail, to be suitable or favourable.--_n._ in tennis, the
act of the first player in striking the ball, or the style in which this is
done.--_ns._ SER'VAGE (_obs._), servitude: the service of a lover; SER'VER,
one who serves: an attendant on the priest at the celebration of the
Eucharist: the player who strikes the tennis-ball first: a salver, any
utensil for distributing or helping at table.--SERVE AN OFFICE, to
discharge the duties of an office; SERVE A PROCESS or WRIT, to formally
communicate a process or writ to the person to whom it is addressed; SERVE
AN ATTACHMENT, to levy such a writ on the person or goods by seizure; SERVE
AN EXECUTION, to levy an execution on the person or goods by seizure; SERVE
A SENTENCE, to undergo the punishment prescribed by a judicial sentence;
SERVE ONE A TRICK, to play a trick on one; SERVE ONE OUT, to take revenge
on some one; SERVE ONE RIGHT, to treat one as he deserves; SERVE ONE'S
TIME, to complete one's apprenticeship; SERVE OUT, to deal or distribute;
SERVE THE PURPOSE OF, to answer adequately an end for which something else
is designed; SERVE THE TURN, to suffice for one's immediate purpose or
need; SERVE TIME, to undergo a period of imprisonment, &c.; SERVE UP, to
bring to table. [Fr. _servir_--L. _serv[=i]re_, to serve.]

SERVIAN, ser'vi-an, _n._ a native of _Servia_: the language of Servia,
belonging to the southern division of the Slav tongues, its nearest
congeners Bulgarian, Slovenian, and Russian.

SERVICE, s[.e]r'vis, _n._ condition or occupation of a servant: a working
for another: duty required in any office: military or naval duty: any
liturgical form or office, public religious worship, religious ceremonial:
a musical composition for devotional purposes: labour, assistance, or
kindness to another: benefit: profession of respect: order of dishes at
table, or a set of them: official function, use, employment: that which is
furnished: a tree of rarely more than 30 feet high, with leaves and flowers
like the Rowan-tree, but the former downy beneath--also _Sorb_.--_ns._
SERVICEABIL'ITY, SER'VICEABLENESS.--_adj._ SER'VICEABLE, able or willing to
serve: advantageous: useful: capable of rendering long service,
durable.--_adv._ SER'VICEABLY.--_ns._ SER'VICE-BERR'Y, a berry of the
service-tree: (_Scot._) the fruit of the white beam: a North American
shrub, the shadbush; SER'VICE-BOOK, a book of forms of religious service: a
prayer-book; SER'VICE-BOX, a form of expansion joint, used in street-mains
of steam-heating systems; SER'VICE-CLEAN'ER, a portable air-compressing
pump and receiver for service-pipes; SER'VICE-LINE, one of two lines drawn
across the court twenty-one feet from the net, in lawn-tennis;
SER'VICE-MAG'AZINE, a magazine for storing ammunition for immediate use;
SER'VICE-PIPE, a smaller pipe from a main-pipe to a dwelling;
SER'VICE-TREE, a tree of the pear family, with close-grained wood and an
edible fruit; SER'VING-MALL'ET, a piece of wood having a groove on one side
to fit the convexity of a rope; DIN'NER-SER'VICE, a full set of dishes for
dinner; T[=A]'BLE-SER'VICE, a set of utensils for the table;
WILD'-SER'VICE, a small species of service-tree, cultivated in England for
its fruit and wood.--SERVICE OF AN HEIR (_Scots law_), a proceeding before
a jury to determine the heir of a person deceased.--ACTIVE SERVICE, service
of a soldier, &c., in the field, against an enemy; AT YOUR SERVICE, a
phrase of civility; HAVE SEEN SERVICE, to have been in active military
service: to have been put to hard use; PLAIN SERVICE, in Anglican usage, an
office which is simply read. [Fr.,--L. _servitium_.]

SERVIENT, ser'vi-ent, _adj._ subordinate.

SERVIETTE, ser-vi-et', _n._ a table-napkin. [Fr.]

SERVILE, s[.e]r'v[=i]l, _adj._ pertaining to a slave or servant: slavish:
meanly submissive: cringing: obedient: (_gram._) secondary or
subordinate.--_n._ a slave, a menial.--_adv._ SER'VILELY.--_ns._
SER'VILISM, the spirit of a servile class; SERVIL'ITY (_obs._
SER'VILENESS), state or quality of being servile: slavery: obsequiousness;
SER'VING-MAID, a female domestic servant; SER'VING-MAN, a male servant: a
professed lover.--_adj._ SER'VIOUS, obsequious.--_ns._ SER'V[=I]TE, one of
a mendicant order of monks and nuns founded in Italy in the 13th century;
SERVIT'IUM (_law_), service; SER'VITOR, one who serves: a servant: a
follower or adherent: a male servant, a menial: soldier: formerly in
Oxford, an undergraduate partly supported by the college, his duty to wait
on the fellows and gentlemen commoners at table; SER'VITORSHIP, the office
or condition of a servitor; SER'VIT[=U]DE, state of being a slave: slavery:
state of slavish dependence: menial service: compulsory servitude: (_law_)
a burden affecting land or other heritable subjects, by which the
proprietor is either restrained from the full use of his property or is
obliged to suffer another to do certain acts upon it: service rendered in
the army or navy: (_obs._) servants collectively; SER'VIT[=U]RE (_Milt._),
servants collectively.--_v.i._ SER'VULATE.

SESAME, ses'a-m[=e], _n._ an annual herbaceous plant of Southern Asia,
whose seed yields the valuable _gingili-oil_.--_adjs._ SES'AMOID, -AL,
denoting certain small bones found in the substance of the tendons at the
articulations of the great toes, and in other parts of the body.--_n._
SES'AMUM, the genus to which sesame belongs.--OPEN SESAME, the charm by
which the door of the robbers' cave flew open in the tale of 'Ali Baba and
the Forty Thieves' in the _Arabian Nights_. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.]

SESBAN, ses'ban, _n._ a shrub of the bean family, with yellow flowers,
native to Egypt.--Also _Jyntee_. [Fr.,--Ar. _seiseb[=a]n_.]

SESELI, ses'el-i, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous plants, usually perennial,
with erect branching stems--including the mountain _meadow-saxifrage_.
[Gr.]

SESHA, s[=a]'sha, _n._ the king of the serpents in Hindu mythology, having
a thousand heads, the buttresses of the world.

SESIA, s[=e]'shi-a, _n._ a genus of clear-winged moths. [Gr. _s[=e]s_,
_seos_, a moth.]

SESQUIALTERAL, ses-kwi-al'te-ral, _adj._ one and a half more--also
SESQUIAL'TERATE, SESQUIAL'TEROUS.--_n._ SESQUIAL'TERA (_mus._), the
interval of a perfect fifth, having the ratio of 2 to 3: a rhythm in which
three minims are made equal to a preceding two. [L. _sesquialter_.]

SESQUIDUPLE, ses-kwi-d[=u]'pl, _adj._ of two and a half times.--_adj._
SESQUID[=U]'PLICATE, being in the ratio of 2½ to 1, or 5 to 2.

SESQUIPEDALIAN, ses-kwi-p[=e]-d[=a]'li-an, _adj._ containing a foot and a
half: often humorously said of a very long word--also SES'QUIPEDAL.--_ns._
SESQUIPED[=A]'LIANISM, SESQUIPEDAL'ITY. [L. _sesquipedalis_--_sesqui_,
one-half more, _pes_, _ped-is_, a foot.]

SESQUIPLICATE, ses-kwip'li-k[=a]t, _adj._ noting the ratio of a cube to a
square.

SESQUITERTIA, ses-kwi-ter'shi-a, _n._ (_mus_.) a perfect fourth, an
interval having the ratio of 1 to 1-1/3, or 3 to 4.--_adjs._
SESQUITER'TIAL, SESQUITER'TIAN, -AL.

SESQUITONE, ses'kwi-t[=o]n, _n._ (_mus_.) a minor third, an interval equal
to a tone and a half.

SESS, ses, _n._ Same as CESS.

SESSA, ses'a, _interj._ (_Shak._) prob. a cry to urge to swiftness in
running.

[Illustration]

SESSILE, ses'il, _adj._ (_bot._) growing directly from the stem, without a
foot-stalk, as some leaves. [L. _sessilis_, low--_sed[=e]re_, _sessum_, to
sit.]

SESSION, sesh'un, _n._ the sitting of a court or public body: the time it
sits: the period of time between the meeting and prorogation of Parliament:
the act of sitting, esp. the enthronement of Christ at the right hand of
God the Father: (_Scot._) the lowest Presbyterian church court, the
kirk-session.--_adj._ SES'SIONAL, pertaining or belonging to a session or
sessions.--_n._ SES'SION-CLERK, the official who officially records the
transactions of a kirk-session.--COURT OF SESSION, the supreme civil court
of Scotland. [Fr.,--L. _sessio_, _sessionis_--_sed[=e]re_, _sessum_, to
sit.]

SESSPOOL. Same as CESSPOOL.

SESTERTIUS, ses-t[.e]r'shi-us, _n._ a Roman silver coin, a quarter
denarius, worth 2½ asses: a brass coin under the Empire, worth 4
asses--also SES'TERCE:--_pl._ SESTER'TII.--_n._ SESTER'TIUM, a money of
account equal to 1000 sestertii. [L., 'two-and-a-half'--_semis_, half,
_tertius_, third.]

SESTET, SESTETTE, ses'tet, _n._ the last six lines of a sonnet forming two
stanzas of three lines each: (_mus_.) same as SEXTET. [It.
_sestetto_--_sesto_--L. _sextus_, sixth.]

SESTINA, ses-t[=e]'na, _n._ an old French form of verse, originally
consisting of six stanzas of six unrhymed lines, with a final triplet, the
same terminal words being used in each stanza, but arranged differently.
Modern sestinas are written on two or three rhymes.--Also SES'TINE.
[It.,--L. _sextus_, sixth.]

SESTOLE, ses't[=o]l, _n._ (_mus_.) same as _Sextuplet_ (q.v.).--Also
SES'TOLET.

SET, set, _v.t._ to make to sit: to place: to fix: to put in a condition
for use, to make ready, to arrange, prepare, furnish, draw up: to render
motionless: to determine beforehand: to obstruct: to plant, place so as to
promote growth: to place a brooding fowl on a nest containing eggs: to fix
in metal: to put and fix in its proper place, as a broken limb, &c.: to
assign, as a price: to sharpen: to spread, as sails: to pitch, as a tune:
to adapt music to: to frame, mount, or adorn with something fixed: to stud:
to point, as a dog: to accompany part or the whole of the way: (_Scot._) to
let to a tenant: to compose, put into type: (_prov._) to become, as a
dress, &c.--_v.i._ to sink below the horizon: to decline: to become fixed:
to congeal: to begin the growth of fruit: to have a certain direction in
motion: to acquire a set or bend: to point out game: to apply (one's
self):--_pr.p._ set'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ set.--_n._ SET'-BACK, a check
to progress: an overflow.--_adj._ SET-BY' (_Scot._), proud,
reserved.--_ns._ SET'-DOWN, a rebuke, snubbing; SET'-OFF, a claim set up
against another: a counterbalance: an ornament; SET'-OUT, preparations: a
display of dishes, dress, &c.: a company, clique; SET'-TO, a conflict in
boxing, argument, &c.; SET'-UP, bearing of a person.--_adj._ hilarious,
tipsy.--SET ABOUT, to begin; SET ABROACH, to tap and leave running: to give
publicity to; SET AGAINST, to oppose; SET AGOING, to make begin to move;
SET APART, to separate from the rest, to reserve: (_B._) to promote; SET
ASIDE, to put away, to omit or reject; SET AT EASE, to quiet, content; SET
AT NAUGHT (see NAUGHT); SET AT WORK, to put to a task; SET BEFORE, to put
in front of one; SET BY, to put aside: (_B._) to value or esteem; SET BY
THE COMPASS, to note the bearing by the compass; SET DOWN, to lay on the
ground: to put down in writing: to fix in one's mind: to attribute, charge:
to lay down authoritatively: to give a severe rebuke to; SET EYES ON, to
see, fix one's eyes on; SET FORTH, to exhibit, display: to praise,
recommend: to publish: (_B._) to set off to advantage: to set out on a
journey; SET FORWARD (_B._), to further, promote; SET FREE, to release, put
at liberty; SET IN, to put in the way: to begin; SET IN ORDER, to adjust or
arrange; SET LITTLE, MUCH, &c., BY, to regard, esteem little, much, &c.;
SET OFF, to adorn: to place against as an equivalent; SET ON (_B._), to
attack; SET ON, or upon, to instigate: to employ: to fix upon: (_B._) to
attack; SET ONE'S FACE, to turn one's self resolutely towards; SET ONE'S
HAND TO, to sign; SET ONE'S SELF, to bend one's energies toward anything;
SET ONE'S SELF AGAINST, to discountenance, oppose; SET ONE'S TEETH, to set
one's teeth together, as in a strong resolution; SET ON FIRE, to apply
fire; SET ON FOOT, to set agoing, to start; SET OUT, to mark off, to
assign: (_Bacon_) to publish, to adorn: to equip, to furnish: to recommend:
to prove: to start; SET OVER, to appoint as ruler over; SET SAIL (see
SAIL); SET THE FASHION, to lead or establish the fashion; SET THE TEETH ON
EDGE (see EDGE); SET TO, to affix: to apply one's self; SET UP, to erect,
to exalt: to begin: to enable to begin: to place in view: (_print._) to put
in type: to begin a new course: to make pretensions. [A.S. _settan_; cog.
with Ger. _setzen_, Ice. _setja_, Goth. _satjan_; _settan_ is the weak
causative of _sittan_, to sit.]

SET, set, _adj._ fixed: firm: determined: regular: established: having
reached the full growth: (_B._) seated.--_n._ a number of things similar or
suited to each other, set or used together: a group of games played
together: the full number of eggs set under a hen: the couples that take
part in a square dance, also the movements in a country-dance or quadrille:
a number of persons associated: direction, drift, tendency: act of setting:
a young plant ready for setting out, a cutting, slip: the appearance of
young oysters in a district in any season: a mine or set of mines on lease,
a distance set off for excavation, a system of pumps in a mine (also SETT):
a tool for dressing forged iron: any permanent change of shape or bias of
mind: fit, way in which a dress hangs: the pattern of a tartan, &c.:
bearing, carriage, build.--_n._ SET'-SQUARE, a triangular piece of wood
having one of its angles a right angle, used in mechanical drawing.--SET
FAIR, a barometric indication of steady, fair weather; SET PIECE, a piece
of theatrical scenery with a supporting framework, as distinguished from a
side-scene or drop-scene; SET SPEECH, a speech carefully premeditated.

SETA, s[=e]'tä, _n._ a bristle, stiff hair, a prickle.--_adj._
S[=E]T[=A]'CEOUS, consisting of bristles: bristle-shaped.--_n._
SET[=A]'RIA, a genus of grasses with flat leaves and tail-like bristly
spikes.--_adjs._ S[=E]TIF'EROUS; S[=E]'TIFORM, having the form of a
bristle; S[=E]TIG'EROUS (tij'), bearing bristles; S[=E]TIP'AROUS, producing
bristles; S[=E]TOSE', S[=E]'TOUS, bristly. [L. _seta_, a bristle.]

SETON, s[=e]'tn, _n._ (_surg._) an artificially produced _sinus_ or
channel, through which some substance, as a skein of cotton or silk, or a
long flat piece of india-rubber or gutta-percha, is passed so as to excite
suppuration, and to keep the artificially formed openings patent: also the
inserted material. [Fr. _séton_ (It. _setone_)--Low L. _seto_--L. _seta_, a
bristle.]

SETTEE, se-t[=e]', _n._ a long seat with a back, esp. a sofa for two.
[Prob. a variant of _settle_ (3).]

SETTEE, se-t[=e]', _n._ a single-decked Mediterranean vessel with long prow
and lateen sails. [Prob. It. _saettia_.]

SETTER, set'[.e]r, _n._ one who sets, as music to words: a dog which
crouches when it scents the game: one who finds out the victims for
thieves.--SETTER FORTH, one who proclaims or promotes anything; SETTER OFF,
one who decorates; SETTER ON, an instigator; SETTER OUT, one who expounds;
SETTER UP, one who establishes.

SETTER, set'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_prov._) to cut an ox's dewlap, and treat with a
seton.--_ns._ SETT'ERING, the foregoing process; SETT'ER-WORT, the fetid
hellebore.

SETTIMA, set'ti-ma, _n._ (_mus._) the interval of a seventh--(_obs._)
SET'TIMO. [It.,--L. _septem_.]

SETTING, set'ing, _n._ act of setting: direction of a current of wind: the
hardening of plaster: that which holds, as the mounting of a jewel: the
mounting of a play, &c., for the stage: act of adapting to music.

SETTLE, set'l, _v.t._ to set or place in a fixed state: to fix: to
establish in a situation or business: to render quiet, clear, &c.: to
decide: to free from uncertainty: to quiet: to compose: to fix by gift or
legal act: to adjust: to liquidate or pay: to colonise.--_v.i._ to become
fixed or stationary: to fix one's residence or habits of life (often with
_down_): to grow calm or clear: to sink by its own weight: to sink to the
bottom: to cease from agitation.--_adj._ SETT'LED, fixed, firmly seated or
decided: quiet, sober.--_ns._ SETT'LEDNESS; SETT'LEMENT, act of settling:
state of being settled: payment: arrangement: a colony newly settled: a
subsidence or sinking of a wall, &c.: a sum newly settled on a woman at her
marriage; SETT'LER, one who settles: a colonist; SETT'LING, the act of
making a settlement: the act of subsiding: the adjustment of differences:
sediment: dregs; SETT'LING-DAY, a date fixed by the Stock Exchange for the
completion of transactions--in consols, once a month; in all other stocks,
twice a month, each settlement occupying three days (_contango-day_,
_name-day_, and _pay-day_). [A.S. _setlan_, to fix--_setl_, a seat.]

SETTLE, set'l, _v.t._ to decide, conclude: to fix, appoint: regulate: to
pay, balance: to restore to good order.--_v.i._ to adjust differences or
accounts: to meet one's pecuniary obligations fully. [A.S. _sahtlian_, to
reconcile, _saht_, reconciliation--_sacan_, to contend. Confused in both
form and meaning with the preceding.]

SETTLE, set'l, _n._ a long high-backed bench for sitting on: (_B._) also, a
platform lower than another part.--_n._ SETT'LE-BED, a bed which is folded
or shut up so as to form a seat by day. [A.S. _setl_--_sittan_, to sit;
Ger. _sessel_.]

SETULE, set'[=u]l, _n._ a setula or little bristle.--_adjs._
SET'[=U]LIFORM, SET'[=U]LOSE.

SETWALL, set'wawl, _n._ the common European valerian. [O. Fr.
_citoual_--Low L. _zedoaria_--Pers. _zadwar_.]

SETWORK, set'wurk, _n._ in plastering, two-coat work on lath: boat-building
in which the strakes are placed edge to edge and secured by inside battens.

SEVEN, sev'n, _adj._ and _n._ six and one.--_adj._ SEV'EN-FOLD, folded
seven times: multiplied seven times.--_n._ SEV'EN-NIGHT, seven days and
nights: a week, the time from one day of the week to the same again--also
contr. SENNIGHT (sen'n[=i]t).--_adj._ SEV'ENTH, last of seven, next after
the sixth.--_n._ one of seven equal parts.--_adv._ SEV'ENTHLY.--SEVEN
CARDINAL, CHIEF, or PRINCIPAL VIRTUES (see CARDINAL); SEVEN CHAMPIONS OF
CHRISTENDOM, St George for England, St Andrew for Scotland, St Patrick for
Ireland, St David for Wales, St Denis for France, St James for Spain, St
Anthony for Italy; SEVEN DEADLY SINS, pride, covetousness, lust, anger,
gluttony, envy, and sloth; SEVEN DOLOURS OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY (see
DOLOUR); SEVEN FREE ARTS (see ARTS); SEVEN GIFTS OF THE HOLY GHOST, wisdom,
understanding, counsel, ghostly strength or fortitude, knowledge,
godliness, and the fear of the Lord; SEVEN SAGES, or wise men, Solon of
Athens, Thales of Miletus, Pittacus of Mitylene, Bias of Priene in Caria,
Chilon of Sparta, Cleobulus tyrant of Lindus in Rhodes, and Periander
tyrant of Corinth; SEVEN SLEEPERS, seven Christian youths at Ephesus who
took refuge in a cave about 250 A.D. in the persecution of Decius, were
walled up by their pursuers, fell into a deep sleep, and only awoke in 447
under Theodosius II.; SEVEN STARS, the Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars,
Jupiter, and Saturn: the constellation Ursa Major: the Pleiades; SEVEN WISE
MASTERS, the most common title given to a famous medieval collection of
stories grouped round a central story of the birth, education, and trials
of a young prince. Accused like Joseph, he is sentenced to death, but each
one of the seven viziers gains a day, out of the fated seven during which
the prince may not open his mouth, by two tales against women. At the end
of the seventh day the prince is free to speak, and quickly clears his
character; SEVEN WONDERS OF THE WORLD, the Pyramids of Egypt, the Hanging
(i.e. terraced) Gardens of Babylon, the Temple of Diana at Ephesus, the
Statue of Jupiter at Athens by Phidias, the Mausoleum, erected by Artemisia
at Halicarnassus, the Colossus at Rhodes, and the Pharos of Alexandria;
SEVEN YEARS' WAR (1756-63), the third and severest struggle for the
possession of Silesia between Frederick the Great and the Empress Maria
Theresa, together with the allies on both sides; it gave Silesia to
Frederick, and to England the mastery of North America and India. [A.S.
_seofon_; Dut. _zeven_, Ger. _sieben_, Goth. _sibun_, Gr. _hepta_, L.
_septem_.]

SEVENTEEN, sev'n-t[=e]n, _adj._ and _n._ seven and ten.--_adj._ and _n._
SEV'ENTEENTH, the seventh after the tenth. [A.S. _seofontíene_--_seofon_,
_tíen_, ten.]

SEVENTY, sev'n-ti, _adj._ and _n._ seven times ten.--_adj._ SEV'ENTIETH,
last of seventy: the ordinal of 70.--_n._ a seventieth part.--THE SEVENTY,
the Jewish sanhedrim: the disciples sent out in Luke x.: the authors of the
Septuagint--often LXX. [A.S. _seofontig_--_seofon_, seven; Dut. _zeventig_,
Ger. _siebenzig_.]

SEVER, sev'[.e]r, _v.t._ to separate with violence: to cut apart: to
divide: (_B._) to keep distinct.--_v.i._ to make a separation, to act
independently: to be rent asunder.--_adj._ SEV'ERABLE.--_n._ SEV'ERANCE,
act of severing: separation. [Fr. _sevrer_, to wean--L. _separ[=a]re_, to
separate.]

SEVERAL, sev'[.e]r-al, _adj._ distinct: particular: different: various:
consisting of a number: sundry.--_n._ a woman's loose outer garment,
capable of being worn as a shawl, or in other forms.--_adv._
SEV'ERALLY.--_n._ SEV'ERALTY, sole tenancy of property. [O. Fr.,--L.
_separ[=a]re_, to separate.]

SEVERE, s[=e]-v[=e]r', _adj._ serious: grave: austere: strict: not mild:
strictly adhering to rule: free from florid ornamentation, simple: sharp:
distressing: inclement: searching: difficult to be endured.--_adv._
S[=E]V[=E]RE'LY.--_ns._ S[=E]V[=E]RE'NESS; S[=E]VER'ITY, quality of being
severe: gravity: harshness: exactness: inclemency. [Fr. _sévère_--L.
_severus_.]

SÈVRES, s[=a]'vr, _n._ Sèvres porcelain.

SEW, s[=o], _v.t._ to join or fasten together with a needle and
thread.--_v.i._ to practise sewing.--_ns._ SEW'ER; SEW'ING;
SEW'ING-COTT'ON, cotton thread for sewing; SEW'ING-MACHINE', a machine for
sewing and stitching upon cloth, leather, &c., operated by any power.--SEW
UP ONE'S STOCKING, to put one to silence.--BE SEWED, or SEWED UP, to be
stranded, of a ship: (_coll._) to be brought to a stand-still, to be
ruined: to be tipsy. [A.S. _síwian_, _séowian_; Old High Ger. _siwan_,
Goth. _siujan_.]

SEW, s[=u], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to follow, to solicit. [_Sue_.]

SEWEL, s[=u]'el, _n._ a scarecrow.--Also SHEW'EL. [Prob. related to _shy_.]

SEWER, s[=u]'[.e]r, _n._ an officer who set down and removed the dishes at
a feast. [O. Fr. _asseour_--_asseoir_, to set down--L. _ad_, to,
_sed[=e]re_, to sit. Skeat makes it from M. E. _sewen_, to set meat, _sew_,
pottage--A.S. _seaw_, juice.]

SEWER, s[=u]'[.e]r, _n._ an underground passage for draining off water and
filth.--_ns._ SEW'AGE, refuse carried off by sewers; SEW'ERAGE, the whole
sewers of a city: drainage by sewers; SEW'ER-GAS, the contaminated air of
sewers.--OPEN SEWER, a sewer of which the channel is exposed to the air.
[O. Fr. _seuwiere_, a canal--L. _ex_, out, _aqua_, water.]

SEX, seks, _n._ the distinction between male and female: the
characteristics by which an animal or plant is male or female, gender: the
female sex, women generally, usually with the definite article.--_adj._
SEX'LESS, having no sex.--_n._ SEX'LESSNESS.--_adj._ SEX'[=U]AL, pertaining
to sex: distinguished or founded on the sex: relating to the distinct
organs of the sexes.--_v.t._ SEX'[=U]ALISE, to distinguish as sexed.--_ns._
SEX'[=U]ALIST, one who classifies plants according to the differences of
the sexes; SEX[=U]AL'ITY, state or quality of being sexual.--_adv._
SEX'[=U]ALLY.--SEXUAL AFFINITY, the instinctive attraction of one sex for
another; SEXUAL ORGANS, the organs of generation; SEXUAL SELECTION, that
province of natural selection in which sex comes into play. [Fr. _sexe_--L.
_sexus_--_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SEXAGENARIAN, sek-sa-je-n[=a]'ri-an, _n._ a person sixty years old.--_adj._
SEXAG'ENARY, designating the number sixty.--_n._ a sexagenarian: something
containing sixty.--_ns._ SEX'AGENE, an arc or angle of 60°; SEXAGES'IMA,
the second Sunday before Lent (see SEPTUAGESIMA).--_adj._ SEXAGES'IMAL,
pertaining to the number sixty: proceeding by sixties.--_adv._
SEXAGES'IMALLY. [L. _sexagenarius_--_sexaginta_, sixty.]

SEXANGLE, sek'sang-gl, _n._ a figure with six angles, a hexagon.--_adjs._
SEX'ANGLED, SEXANG'ULAR.--_adv._ SEXANG'ULARLY.

SEXCENTENARY, sek-sen'te-n[=a]-ri, _n._ that which consists of 600: a 600th
anniversary.--Also _adj._

SEXDIGITATE, seks-dij'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ having six fingers or toes.--_n._
SEXDIG'ITIST.

SEXENNIAL, seks-en'yal, _adj._ lasting six years: happening once in six
years--also SEXTENN'IAL.--_adv._ SEXENN'IALLY. [L. _sex_, six, _annus_, a
year.]

SEXFID, seks'fid, _adj._ (_bot._) six-cleft.

SEXFOIL, seks'foil, _n._ a plant or flower with six leaves.

SEXISYLLABIC, sek-si-si-lab'ik, _adj._ having six syllables.--_n._
SEX'ISYLLABLE, a word of six syllables.

SEXIVALENT, sek-siv'a-lent, _adj._ (_chem._) having an equivalent of six.
[L. _sex_, six, _valens_--_val[=e]re_, to have strength.]

SEXLOCULAR, seks-lok'[=u]-lär, _adj._ six-celled.

SEXPARTITE, seks'pär-t[=i]t, _adj._ divided into six parts. [L. _sex_, six,
_partitus_, divided.]

SEXT, SEXTE, sekst, _n._ (_eccles._) the office of the sixth hour,
originally said at midday: (_mus._) the interval of a sixth.--_adj._
SEX'TAN, recurring every sixth day. [L. _sextus_, sixth--_sex_, six.]

SEXTAIN, seks't[=a]n, _n._ a stanza of six lines.

SEXTANS, seks'tanz, _n._ an ancient Roman bronze coin, worth one-sixth of
the as.--_adjs._ SEX'TANTAL; SEX'TIC, of the sixth degree. [L.,--_sex_,
six.]

[Illustration]

SEXTANT, seks'tant, _n._ (_math._) the sixth part of a circle: an optical
instrument having an arc=the sixth part of a circle, and used for measuring
angular distances.

SEXTET, SEXTETTE, seks-tet', _n._ (_mus._) a work for six voices or
instruments: a musical company of six.

SEXTILE, seks'til, _n._ the position of two planets when at the distance of
the sixth part of a circle (60°), marked thus *. [L.,--_sex_, six.]

SEXTILLION, seks-til'yun, _n._ a million raised to the sixth power,
expressed by a unit with 36 ciphers attached: 1000 raised to the seventh
power.

SEXTO, seks'to, _n._ a size of book made by folding a sheet of paper into
six leaves.--_n._ SEX'TO-DEC'IMO, a size of book made by folding a sheet of
paper into sixteen leaves: a book of this size.

SEXTON, seks'tun, _n._ an officer who has charge of a church, attends the
clergyman, digs graves, &c.: a burying-beetle.--_ns._ SEX'TON-BEE'TLE, a
coleopterous insect of the genus _Necrophorus_; SEX'TONSHIP, the office of
a sexton. [A corr. of _sacristan_.]

SEXTUPLE, seks't[=u]-pl,--_adj._ sixfold: (_mus._) having six beats to the
measure.--_v.t._ to multiply by six.--_n._ SEX'T[=U]PLET (_mus._), a note
divided into six parts instead of four.

'SFOOT, sf[=oo]t, _interj._ (_Shak._) a minced imprecation. [Abbrev. from
_God's foot_. Cf. _'sblood_.]

SFORZANDO, sfor-tsän'd[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) forced, with sudden emphasis.
Abbrev. _sf._ and _sfz._, or marked [horizontal sforzando], [vertical
sforzando].--Also SFORZATO (sfor-tsä't[=o]). [It., pr.p. of _sforzare_, to
force--L. _ex_, out, Low L. _fortia_, force.]

SGRAFFITO, sgraf-f[=e]'t[=o], _n._ (same as _Graffito_, q.v.): a kind of
decorative work in pottery and superimposed metals, in which clays, &c., of
different colours are laid one upon another, and the pattern is produced by
cutting away the outer layers:--_pl._ SGRAFFI'TI.

SHABBY, shab'i,--_adj._ threadbare or worn, as clothes: having a look of
poverty: mean in look or conduct: low: paltry.--_adv._ SHABB'ILY.--_n._
SHABB'INESS.--_adj._ SHABB'Y-GENTEEL', keeping up or affecting an
appearance of gentility, though really shabby. [An adj. formed from _shab_,
an old by-form of _scab_--thus a doublet of _scabby_.]

SHABRACK, shab'rak, _n._ a trooper's housing or saddle-cloth. [Fr.,--Ger.
_shabracke_--Pol. _czaprak_.]

SHACK, shak, _v.i._ to tramp or wander about.--_n._ a tramp, a vagabond.

SHACK, shak, _v.i._ to shed or fall out, as ripe grain from the ear: to
feed on stubble: (_U.S._) to hibernate, to go into winter quarters.--_n._
grain, &c., fallen on the ground: liberty of winter pasturage: a
hastily-built cabin, a rickety house.--_ns._ SHACK'-BAIT, such bait as may
be picked up at sea; SHACK'LE, stubble. [_Shake_.]

SHACKLE, shak'l, _n._ a curved bar, as of iron: a link or staple: a link
securing two ankle-rings or two wrist-rings together, and so (_pl._)
fetters, manacles: a hinderance.--_v.t._ to fetter: to tie the limbs of: to
confine.--_ns._ SHACK'LE-BOLT, a bolt having a shackle on the end: (_her._)
a bearing representing a fetlock for hobbling a horse; SHACK'LE-JOINT, a
peculiar kind of articulation seen in the exoskeleton of some fishes. [A.S.
_sceacul_, _scacul_, a shackle--_sceacan_, to shake; cog. with Old Dut.
_schakel_, a link of a chain, Ice. _skökull_, the pole of a cart.]

SHAD, shad, _n._ a fish of the herring kind, but having the upper jaw
deeply notched, and ascending rivers to spawn.--_adj._ SHAD'-BELL'IED,
flat-bellied--opp. to _Pot-bellied_: sloping away gradually in front, cut
away.--_ns._ SHAD'-BIRD, the common American snipe: the sandpiper;
SHAD'-BUSH, the June-berry or service-berry; SHAD'-FLY, a May-fly;
SHAD'-FROG, a large and very agile American frog; SHAD'-WAIT'ER, the
pilot-fish or round-fish. [A.S. _sceadda_.]

SHADDOCK, shad'ok, _n._ a tree of the same genus as the orange, having
larger leaves, flowers, and fruit. [Named from Captain _Shaddock_, who
introduced it to the West Indies from China about 1810.]

SHADE, sh[=a]d, _n._ partial darkness: interception of light: obscurity: a
shady place: protection: shelter: a screen: degree of colour: a very minute
change: (_paint._) the dark part of a picture: the soul separated from the
body: a ghost: (_obs._, _poet._) a bodily shadow: (_pl._) the departed
spirits, or their unseen abode, Hades.--_v.t._ to screen from light or
heat: to shelter: to mark with gradations of colour: to darken: (_Spens._)
to foreshadow, represent.--_adjs._ SH[=A]'DED, marked with gradations of
colour: sheltered; SHADE'FUL, shady; SHADE'LESS, without shade.--_n._
SH[=A]'DER.--_adv._ SH[=A]'DILY.--_ns._ SH[=A]'DINESS; SH[=A]'DING, the act
of making a shade: the effect of light and shade, as in a picture;
SH[=A]'DING-PEN, a pen with a broad flat nib.--_adj._ SH[=A]'DY, having, or
in, shade: sheltered from light or heat: (_coll._) not fit to bear the
light, of dubious honesty or morality. [A.S. _sceadu_--_scead_, shade.]

SHADINE, sha-d[=e]n', _n._ the menhaden, or American sardine.

SHADOOF, sha-d[=oo]f', _n._ a contrivance for raising water by means of a
long rod pivoted near one end, the shorter arm weighted to act as the
counterpoise of a lever, the longer carrying a bucket which is lowered into
the water--much used on the Nile for irrigation purposes.--Also SHADUF'.
[Ar. _sh[=a]d[=u]f_.]

SHADOW, shad'[=o], _n._ shade caused by an object: darkness: shelter:
security: favour: the dark part of a picture: an inseparable companion: a
mystical representation: faint appearance: a ghost, spirit: something only
in appearance.--v.t to shade: to cloud or darken: to shade, as a painting:
to represent faintly: to hide, conceal: (_coll._) to attend like a shadow,
watch continuously and carefully.--_ns._ SHAD'OW-FIG'URE, a silhouette;
SHAD'OWINESS, the state of being shadowy or unsubstantial; SHAD'OWING,
shading: gradation of light and colour.--_adj._ SHAD'OWLESS.--_n._
SHAD'OW-STITCH, in lace-making, a very delicate kind of ladder-stitch used
in fine open-work.--_adj._ SHAD'OWY, full of shadow: dark: obscure:
typical: unsubstantial: (_rare_) indulging in fancies.--SHADOW OF DEATH,
approach of death: terrible disaster. [A.S. _sceadu_; cog. with Old High
Ger. _scato_, and perh. Gr. _skotos_, darkness, _skia_, shadow.]

SHAFIITE, shaf'i-[=i]t, _n._ a member of one of the four principal sects of
the Sunnites, or orthodox Muslims. [Ar. _Sh[=a]fi'[=i]_, the name of the
founder.]

SHAFT, shaft, _n._ anything long and straight, as the stem of an arrow,
&c.: a long arrow, anything like an arrow in form or effect: the part of a
column between the base and capital: the stem of a feather: the pole or
thill of a carriage: the handle of a tool of any kind.--_adj._ SHAFT'ED,
having a shaft or handle.--_ns._ SHAFT'-HORSE, the horse that is harnessed
between the shafts of a carriage; SHAFT'ING (_mach._), the system of shafts
connecting machinery with the prime mover.--MAKE A SHAFT OR A BOLT OF IT
(_Shak._), to take the risk and make the best of it--the shaft and the bolt
being the arrows of the long-bow and the cross-bow respectively. [A.S.
_sceaft_; prob. orig. pa.p. of _scafan_, to shave.]

SHAFT, shaft, _n._ a well-like excavation sunk into a mine for pumping,
hoisting, &c.: the tunnel of a blast-furnace. [Prob. in this sense from
Ger. _schacht_, a shaft; cog. with foregoing.]

SHAG, shag, _n._ woolly hair: cloth with a rough nap: a kind of tobacco cut
into shreds.--_adj._ rough, hairy.--_v.t._ to roughen, make shaggy.--_v.i._
(_Spens._) to hang in shaggy clusters.--_adjs._ SHAG'-EARED (_Shak._),
having shaggy or rough ears; SHAG'GED, shaggy, rough.--_n._
SHAG'GEDNESS.--_adv._ SHAG'GILY.--_n._ SHAG'GINESS.--_adjs._ SHAG'GY,
covered with rough hair or wool: rough: rugged; SHAG'-HAIRED, having long,
rough hair. [A.S. _sceacga_, a head of hair; Ice. _skegg_, beard, _skagi_,
cape (in Shetland, _skaw_).]

SHAGREEN, sha-gr[=e]n', _n._ the skin of various sharks, rays, &c., covered
with small nodules, used for covering small caskets, boxes, cigar and
spectacle cases, &c.: a granular leather prepared by unhairing and scraping
the skin of horses, asses, &c.--formerly CHAGRIN'.--_adj._ (also
SHAGREENED') made of, or covered with, shagreen. [Fr. _chagrin_--Turk.
_s[=a]ghr[=i]_, the back of a horse.]

SHAH, shä, _n._ the monarch of Persia. [Pers.]

SHAHEEN, sha-h[=e]n', _n._ a peregrine falcon. [Pers. _sh[=a]h[=i]n_.]

SHAHI, shä'i, _n._ a Persian copper coin. [Pers. _sh[=a]h[=i]_, royal.]

SHAIRL, sh[=a]rl, _n._ a fine cloth woven from the hair of a Tibetan
variety of the Cashmere goat.

SHAIRN, sh[=a]rn, _n._ (_Scot._) cow-dung.

SHAITAN, sh[=i]'tan, _n._ the devil, any evil spirit or devilish person.
[Ar.]

SHAKAL, shak'al, _n._ the same as JACKAL.

SHAKE, sh[=a]k, _v.t._ to move with quick, short motions: to agitate: to
make to tremble: to threaten to overthrow: to cause to waver: to give a
tremulous note to.--_v.i._ to be agitated: to tremble: to shiver: to lose
firmness:--_pa.t._ shook, (_B._) sh[=a]ked; _pa.p._ sh[=a]k'en,--_n._ a
rapid tremulous motion: a trembling or shivering: a concussion: a rent in
timber, rock, &c.: (_mus._) a rapid repetition of two notes: (_slang_) a
brief instant.--_n._ SHAKE'DOWN, a temporary bed, named from the original
shaking down of straw for this purpose.--_adj._ SH[=A]K'EN, weakened,
disordered.--_ns._ SH[=A]K'ER, one of a small communistic religious sect
founded in Manchester about the middle of the 18th century, so nicknamed
from a peculiar dance forming part of their religious service; SHAKE'-RAG
(_obs._), a ragged fellow; SH[=A]K'ERISM.--_adv._ SH[=A]K'ILY.--_n._
SH[=A]K'INESS.--_adj._ SH[=A]K'Y, in a shaky condition: feeble: (_coll._)
wavering, undecided: of questionable ability, solvency, or integrity:
unsteady: full of cracks or clefts.--SHAKE DOWN, or TOGETHER, to make more
compact by shaking; SHAKE HANDS, to salute by grasping the hand: (_with_)
to bid farewell to; SHAKE OFF THE DUST FROM ONE'S FEET, to renounce all
intercourse with; SHAKE THE HEAD, to move the head from side to side in
token of reluctance, disapproval, &c.; SHAKE TOGETHER (_coll._), to get
friendly with; SHAKE UP, to restore to shape by shaking: (_Shak._) to
upbraid.--GREAT SHAKES (_coll._), a thing of great account, something of
value (usually 'No great shakes'). [A.S. _sceacan_, _scacan_.]

SHAKESPEARIAN, sh[=a]k-sp[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to, or in the style
of, _Shakespeare_, or his works--also SHAKESP[=E]'RIAN, SHAKSPEAR'EAN,
SHAKSP[=E]'RIAN.--_n._ a student of Shakespeare (1564-1616).--_n.pl._
SHAKESPEARI[=A]'NA, details or learning connected with Shakespeare and his
writings.--_n._ SHAKESPEA'RIANISM, anything peculiar to Shakespeare.

SHAKO, shak'[=o], _n._ a military cap of cylindrical shape, worn mostly by
infantry, and generally plumed. [Hung. _csako_.]

SHALE, sh[=a]l, _n._ clay or argillaceous material, splitting readily into
thin laminæ.--_adj._ SH[=A]'LY. [Ger. _schale_, a scale.]

SHALE, sh[=a]l, _n._ a shell or husk. [A.S. _sceale_.]

SHALL, shal, _v.t._ (_obs._) to be under obligation: now only auxiliary,
used in the future tense of the verb, whether a _predictive_ or a
_promissive_ future (in the first person implying mere futurity; in the
second and third implying authority or control on the part of the speaker,
and expressing promise, command, or determination, or a certainty about the
future. In the _promissive_ future 'will' is used for the first person, and
'shall' for the second and third). [A.S. _sceal_, to be obliged; Ger.
_soll_, Goth. _skal_, Ice. _skal_, to be in duty bound.]

SHALLI, shal'i, _n._ a soft cotton stuff made in India, mostly red.

SHALLOON, sha-l[=oo]n', _n._ a light kind of woollen stuff for
coat-linings, &c., said to have been first made at _Châlons-sur-Marne_ in
France.

SHALLOP, shal'op, _n._ a light boat or vessel, with or without a mast. [O.
Fr. _chaluppe_; Ger. _schaluppe_; prob. of East Ind. origin.]

SHALLOT, sha-lot', _n._ a species of onion with a flavour like that of
garlic.--Also SHALOT'. [O. Fr. _eschalote_, formed from _eschalone_,
_escalone_, whence Eng. _scallion_ (q.v.).]

SHALLOW, shal'[=o], _n._ a sandbank: a place over which the water is not
deep: a shoal.--_adj._ not deep: not profound: not wise: trifling.--_v.t._
to make shallow.--_v.i._ to grow shallow.--_adjs._ SHALL'OW-BRAINED,
-P[=A]'TED, weak in intellect; SHALL'OW-HEART'ED, not capable of deep
feelings.--_adv._ SHALL'OWLY (_Shak._), simply, foolishly.--_n._
SHALL'OWNESS. [Scand., Ice. _skjálgr_, wry; cf. Ger. _scheel_.]

SHALM. Same as _Shawm_ (q.v.).

SHALT, shalt, 2d pers. sing. of _shall_.

SHAM, sham, _n._ a pretence: that which deceives expectation:
imposture.--_adj._ pretended: false.--_v.t._ to pretend: to feign: to
impose upon.--_v.i._ to make false pretences:--_pr.p._ sham'ming; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ shammed.--_ns._ SHAM'-FIGHT, a fight in imitation of a real
one; SHAM'MER, one who shams.--SHAM ABRAHAM (see ABRAHAM-MAN). [_Shame_.]

SHAMANISM, sham'an-izm, _n._ a name applied loosely to the religion of the
Turanian races of Siberia and north-eastern Asia, based essentially on
magic and sorcery.--_n._ SHAM'AN, a wizard priest.--_adj._ SHAMAN'IC.--_n._
SHAM'ANIST.--_adj._ SHAMANIS'TIC. [Perh. Hind. _shaman_, idolater.]

SHAMBLE, sham'bl, _v.i._ to walk with an awkward, unsteady gait.--_n._ a
shambling gait.--_adj._ SHAM'BLING. [Skeat refers to Dut. _schampelen_--O.
Fr. _s'escamper_, to decamp.]

SHAMBLES, sham'blz, _n.pl._ stalls on which butchers exposed their meat for
sale, hence a flesh-market: a slaughter-house. [A.S. _scamel_ (Ger.
_schämel_), a stool--Low L. _scamellum_, for L. _scabellum_, dim. of
_scamnum_, a bench.]

SHAME, sh[=a]m, _n._ the feeling caused by the exposure of that which ought
to be concealed, or by a consciousness of guilt: the cause of shame, a
person or thing to be ashamed of: disgrace, dishonour: (_B._) the parts of
the body which modesty requires to be concealed.--_v.t._ to make ashamed:
to cause to blush: to cover with reproach: to drive or compel by
shame.--_adj._ SHAME'FACED (properly SHAME'FAST, A.S. _sceam-fæst_), very
modest or bashful.--_adv._ SHAME'FACEDLY.--_ns._ SHAME'FACEDNESS,
SHAME'FASTNESS, modesty.--_adj._ SHAME'FUL, disgraceful.--_adv._
SHAME'FULLY.--_n._ SHAME'FULNESS.--_adj._ SHAME'LESS, immodest: done
without shame: audacious.--_adv._ SHAME'LESSLY.--_n._
SHAME'LESSNESS.--_adj._ SHAME'-PROOF (_Shak._), insensible to shame.--_ns._
SH[=A]'MER, one who, or that which, makes ashamed; SHAME'-REEL, the first
dance after the celebration of marriage, the bride being the best man's
partner, the best maid the bridegroom's.--FOR SHAME, an interjectional
phrase, signifying 'you should be ashamed!'--PUT TO SHAME, to cause to feel
shame. [A.S. _sceamu_, _scamu_, modesty; Ice. _skömm_, a wound, Ger.
_scham_.]

SHAMMATHA, sha-mä'tha, _n._ the severest form of excommunication among the
ancient Jews. [Heb.]

SHAMMY, sham'i, same as CHAMOIS.--_v.t._ SHAM'OY, to prepare leather by
working oil into the skin.--_n._ SHAM'OYING.

SHAMPOO, sham-p[=oo]', _v.t._ to squeeze and rub the body, in connection
with the hot bath: to wash thoroughly with soap and water.--_ns._ SHAMPOO';
SHAMPOO'ER. [Hind. _ch[=a]mpn[=a]_, squeeze.]

SHAMROCK, sham'rok, _n._ the national emblem of Ireland, a leaf with three
leaflets, or plant having such leaves, sometimes supposed to be the
Wood-sorrel, but the name is more frequently applied to some species of
Clover, or to some common plant of some of the nearly allied genera, as the
Bird's Foot Trefoil or the Black Medick. The Lesser Yellow Trefoil is the
plant usually sold in Dublin on St Patrick's Day. [Ir. _seamrog_, Gael.
_seamrag_, trefoil, dim. of _seamar_, trefoil.]

SHAN, shan, _adj._ pertaining to the _Shans_, a number of tribes of common
origin, who live on the borders of Burma, Siam, and China.

SHAND, shand, _n._ (_obs._) shame: (_Scot._) base coin.--_adj._ worthless.
[A.S. _sceand_, scand.]

SHANDRYDAN, shan'dri-dan, _n._ a light two-wheeled cart: any rickety
conveyance.--Also SHAN'DRY. [Ir.]

SHANDYGAFF, shan'di-gaf, _n._ a mixture of bitter ale or beer with
ginger-beer. [Ety. dub.]

SHANGHAI, shang-h[=i]', _n._ a long-legged hen with feathered shanks, said
to have been introduced from _Shanghai_ in China: (_U.S._) a tall
dandy.--_v.t._ (_naut._ ) to hocus a sailor and ship him while insensible:
(_U.S._) to get a person by some artifice into a jurisdiction where he can
lawfully be arrested.

SHANGIE, shang'i, _n._ (_Scot._) a shackle.

SHANGTI, shang't[=e]', _n._ a Christian name in China for God. [Chin.
_shang_, high, _ti_, ruler.]

SHANK, shangk, _n._ the leg below the knee to the foot: the long part of
any instrument, as of an anchor between the arms and ring: the part of a
tool connecting the handle with the acting part: the part of a shoe
connecting the sole with the heel.--_v.i._ to be affected with disease of
the footstalk: to take to one's legs (with it).--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to
despatch unceremoniously.--_adj._ SHANKED, having a shank: affected with
disease of the shank or footstalk.--_ns._ SHANK'-[=I]'RON, a shaping-tool
for shoe-shanks: an iron plate inserted as a stiffening between the leather
parts of a shank; SHANK'-PAINT'ER, a painter or small rope for fastening
the shank of an anchor, when catted, to a ship's side. [A.S. _sceanca_,
leg--_sceacan_, to shake; Dut. _schonk_, Low Ger. _schake_.]

SHANKER, shangk'[.e]r, _n._ the same as CHANCRE.

SHANNY, shan'i, _n._ the smooth blenny.

SHA'N'T, shant (_coll._), a contraction of _shall not_.

SHANTY, shant'i, _n._ a mean dwelling or hut, a temporary house: a
grog-shop. [Perh. from Ir. _sean_, old, _tig_, a house; others derive
through Fr. _chantier_, a timber-yard, from L. _cantherius_, a rafter.]

SHANTY, shant'i, _n._ a song with boisterous drawling chorus, sung by
sailors while heaving at the capstan, or the like--also CHANT'Y,
CHANT'IE.--_n._ SHANT'YMAN, the leader of such a chorus. [Prob. from Fr.
_chanter_, to sing.]

SHAPE, sh[=a]p, _v.t._ to form: to fashion: to adapt to a purpose: to
regulate: to direct: to conceive.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to take shape, to
become fit:--_pa.p._ sh[=a]ped, (_B._) sh[=a]p'en.--_n._ form or figure:
external appearance: that which has form or figure: an appearance:
particular nature: expression, as in words: a pattern: (_cook._) a dish of
rice, jelly, or the like cast in a mould and turned out when it has grown
firm.--_adjs._ SH[=A]'PABLE, SHAPE'ABLE; SHAPED, having a varied ornamental
form; SHAPE'LESS, having no shape or regular form: (_Shak._) effecting
nothing.--_ns._ SHAPE'LESSNESS; SHAPE'LINESS.--_adj._ SHAPE'LY, having
shape or regular form: symmetrical.--_ns._ SH[=A]'PER, a metal planing
machine, the tool with reciprocating motion; SH[=A]'PING, representation,
imagination.--TAKE SHAPE, to assume a definite form or plan. [A.S.
_sceapan_, _scapan_, to form, make; Ice. _skapa_, Ger. _schaffen_.]

SHARD, shärd, _n._ dung. [Ety. dub.]

SHARD, shärd, _n._ (_Spens._) a boundary, division: (_obs._) the leaves of
the artichoke whitened. [Perh. from Ice. _skardh_ (Ger. _scharte_, a
notch), and ult. conn. with A.S. _sceran_, to divide.]

SHARD, shärd, _n._ a fragment, as of an earthen vessel: the wing-case of a
beetle.--_adjs._ SHARD'-BORNE (_Shak._), borne on shards, as beetles;
SHAR'DED (_Shak._), provided with elytra or wing-cases. [A.S. _sceard_, a
fragment--_sceran_, to divide.]

SHARE, sh[=a]r, _n._ a part cut off: a portion: dividend: one of a number
of equal portions of anything: a fixed and indivisible section of the
capital of a company.--_v.t._ to divide into parts: to partake with
others.--_v.i._ to have a part: to receive a dividend.--_ns._
SHARE'-BROK'ER, a broker or dealer in shares of railways, &c.;
SHARE'HOLDER, one who holds or owns a share in a joint fund or property;
SHARE'-LIST, a list of the prices of shares of railways, banks, &c.;
SH[=A]R'ER.--SHARE AND SHARE ALIKE, in equal shares.--DEFERRED SHARES (see
DEFER); GO SHARES, to divide equally; ORDINARY SHARES, shares forming the
common stock of a company. [A.S. _scearu_--_sceran_, to shear.]

SHARE, sh[=a]r, _n._ the iron blade of a plough which cuts the
ground.--_v.t._ to cut, cleave.--_n._ SHARE'-BEAM, the part of the plough
to which the share is fixed. [A.S. _scear_--_sceran_, to shear.]

SHARK, shärk, _n._ a common name for most of the Elasmobranch fishes
included in the sub-order _Selachoidei_--voracious fishes, mostly
carnivorous, with large sharp teeth on the jaws--most numerous in the
tropics. [Perh. L. _carcharus_--Gr. _karcharos_, jagged.]

SHARK, shärk, _n._ a sharper, a cheat or swindler: an extortionate
rogue.--_v.i._ to live like a swindler.--_v.t._ to pick up (with _up_ or
_out_).--_ns._ SHARK'ER; SHARK'ING. [Prob. from preceding word.]

SHARN, shärn, _n._ (_Scot._) dung of cattle. [A.S. _scearn_; cf. Ice.
_skarn_.]

[Illustration]

SHARP, shärp, _adj._ having a thin cutting edge or fine point: peaked or
ridged: affecting the senses as if pointed or cutting: severe: keen, keenly
contested: alive to one's interests, barely honest: of keen or quick
perception: vigilant, attentive: pungent, biting, sarcastic: eager: fierce:
impetuous: shrill: (_phon._) denoting a consonant pronounced with breath
and not voice, surd--as the sharp mutes, _p_, _t_, _k_.--_n._ an acute or
shrill sound: (_mus._) a note raised a semitone in the scale, also the
character directing this: a long and slender sewing-needle--opp. to a
_blunt_ and a _between_: a small sword or duelling sword: a sharper, cheat:
(_pl._) the hard parts of wheat, middlings: an oysterman's boat--also
SHARP'IE, SHARP'Y.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to sharpen.--_v.i._ to play the
sharper, cheat.--_adj._ SHARP'-CUT, cut sharply or definitely:
well-defined: clear.--_v.t._ SHARP'EN, to make sharp or keen, pungent or
painful, active or acute.--_v.i._ to grow sharp.--_ns._ SHAR'PENER, one who
sharpens; SHARP'ER, a trickster: a swindler: a cheat.--_adjs._ SHARP'-EYED,
sharp-sighted; SHARP'-GROUND, ground to a sharp edge; SHARP'-LOOK'ING
(_Shak._), hungry-looking.--_adv._ SHARP'LY, quickly: to the moment:
(_mus._) above the true pitch.--_n._ SHARP'NESS.--_adjs._ SHARP'-NOSED,
having a pointed nose: keen of scent, as a dog; SHARP'-SET,
ravenous.--_ns._ SHARP'-SHOOT'ER, an old term applied in the army to
riflemen when skirmishing or specially employed as marksmen;
SHARP'-SHOOT'ING.--_adjs._ SHARP'-SIGHT'ED, having acute sight: shrewd;
SHARP'-VIS'AGED, having a thin face; SHARP'-WIT'TED, having an acute
wit.--LOOK SHARP, to show eagerness, to act quickly. [A.S. _scearp_; Ice.
_skarpr_, Gr. _scharf_.]

SHASTER, shas't[.e]r, _n._ a text-book, an authoritative religious and
legal book among the Hindus.--Also SHAS'TRA. [Sans. _ç[=a]stra_--_ç[=a]s_,
to teach.]

SHATTER, shat'[.e]r, _v.t._ to break or dash to pieces: to crack: to
disorder: to render unsound.--_v.i._ to break into fragments.--_n._ a
fragment: impaired state.--_adjs._ SHATT'ER-BRAINED, -P[=A]'TED, disordered
in intellect; SHATT'ERY, brittle. [_Scatter_.]

SHAUCHLE, shawh'l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to walk with shuffling, loose
gait.--_v.t._ to distort, deform. [Perh. conn. with Ice. _skjálgr_, wry,
squinting.]

SHAVE, sh[=a]v, _v.t._ to cut off the hair with a razor: to pare closely:
to make smooth by paring: to cut in thin slices: to skim along the surface:
to strip, swindle.--_v.i._ to remove hair by a razor:--_pa.p._ sh[=a]ved or
sh[=a]'ven.--_n._ the act of shaving: a paring: a narrow miss or escape: a
piece of financial knavery.--_ns._ SHAVE'-GRASS, the scouring-rush;
SHAVE'LING, a monk or friar, from his shaven crown; SH[=A]'VER, one who
shaves: a barber: a sharp or extortionate dealer: (_coll._) a chap,
youngster; SH[=A]'VING, the act of shaving: that which is shaved or pared
off; SH[=A]'VING-B[=A]'SIN, -BOWL, -BRUSH, a basin, bowl, brush, used by
persons shaving.--CLOSE, or NEAR, SHAVE, a very narrow escape. [A.S.
_sceafan_, _scafan_; Dut. _schaven_, Ger. _schaben_, L. _scab[)e]re_, to
scrape, Gr. _skaptein_, to dig.]

SHAVIE, sh[=a]'vi, _n._ (_Scot._) a trick or prank.--Also SK[=A]'VIE.
[Perh. Dan. _skæv_, crooked; cf. Ger. _schief_, oblique.]

SHAW, shaw, _n._ a thicket, a small wood: (_Scot._) a stem with the leaves,
as of a potato. [A.S. _scaga_; Ice. _skógr_, Dan. _skov_.]

SHAWL, shawl, _n._ a wrap made of wool, cotton, silk, or hair, used
particularly by women as a loose covering for the shoulders: a kind of
mantle.--_v.t._ to wrap in a shawl.--_ns._ SHAWL'-DANCE, a graceful
Oriental dance in which the dancer waves a scarf; SHAWL'-MAT[=E]'RIAL, a
textile of silk and wool, soft and flexible, usually with Oriental designs,
employed for dresses and parts of dresses for women; SHAWL'-PATT'ERN, a
coloured pattern, supposed to resemble an Eastern shawl, and applied to
material of plainer design; SHAWL'-PIN, a pin used for fastening a shawl;
SHAWL'-STRAP, a pair of leather straps, fitted to a handle, used for
carrying shawls, rugs, &c.; SHAWL'-WAIST'COAT, a vest or waistcoat with a
large staring pattern like that of a shawl. [Pers. _sh[=a]l_.]

SHAWM, SHALM, _shawm_, _n._ a musical instrument of the oboe class, having
a double reed enclosed in a globular mouthpiece. [O. Fr. _chalemie_--L.
_calamus_, a reed-pipe.]

SHAY, _n._ See CHAY.

SHAYAK, sha'yak, _n._ a coarse Tripoli woollen cloth.

SHAYA-ROOT, sh[=a]'ä-r[=oo]t, _n._ the root of the so-called Indian madder,
yielding a red dye.--Also CHÉ-ROOT, CHOY-ROOT. [Tamil _chaya_.]

SHE, sh[=e], _pron. fem._ the female understood or previously mentioned:
sometimes used as a noun for a woman or other female. [Orig. the fem. of
the def. art. in A.S.--viz. _seó_, which in the 12th century began to
replace _heó_, the old fem. pron.]

SHEA, sh[=e]'ä, _n._ the tree yielding the Galam butter or
shea-butter.--Also SH[=E]'A-TREE and _Karite_.

SHEADING, sh[=e]'ding, _n._ one of the six divisions or districts of the
Isle of Man. [_Shed_.]

SHEAF, sh[=e]f, _n._ a quantity of things, esp. the stalks of grain, put
together and bound: a bundle of arrows, usually 24 in number: any bundle or
collection:--_pl._ SHEAVES (sh[=e]vz).--_v.t._ to bind in sheaves.--_v.i._
to make sheaves.--_adj._ SHEAF'Y. [A.S. _sceáf_--A.S. _scúfan_, to shove;
Ger. _schaub_, Dut. _schoof_.]

SHEAL, sh[=e]l, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to shell, as peas.--_n._ SHEAL'ING, the
shell, pod, or husk, as of peas. [_Shell_.]

SHEAL, SHIEL, sh[=e]l, _n._ (_Scot._) a hut used by shepherds, sportsmen,
&c.: a shelter for sheep.--_ns._ SHEAL'ING, SHEEL'ING, SHIEL'ING. [Either
Ice. _skáli_, a hut, or Ice. _skjól_, a shelter; both cog. with sky,
_shade_.]

SHEAR, sh[=e]r, _v.t._ to cut or clip: to clip with shears or any other
instrument: (_Scot._) to reap with a sickle.--_v.i._ to separate, cut,
penetrate: in mining, to make a vertical cut in the coal:--_pa.t._ sheared,
(_obs._) shore; _pa.p._ sheared or shorn.--_n._ a shearing or clipping: a
strain where compression is answered by elongation at right angles: curve,
deviation.--_ns._ SHEAR'-BILL, the scissor-bill, cut-water, or black
skimmer; SHEAR'ER; SHEAR'-HOG, a sheep after the first shearing; SHEAR'ING,
the act or operation of cutting with shears: what is cut off with shears:
(_Scot._) the time of reaping: the process of preparing shear-steel:
(_geol._) the process by which shear-structure (q.v.) has been produced;
SHEAR'LING, a sheep only once sheared; SHEAR'MAN, one whose occupation is
to shear cloth; SHEARS (_pl._ and _sing._), an instrument for shearing or
cutting, consisting of two blades that meet each other: a hoisting
apparatus (see SHEERS): anything resembling shears, as even a pair of wings
(_Spens._); SHEAR'-STEEL, steel suitable for the manufacture of shears and
other edge-tools; SHEAR'-STRUC'TURE (_geol._), a structure often seen in
volcanic rocks, due to the reciprocal compression and elongation of various
parts under great crust movements; SHEAR'-WA'TER, a genus of oceanic birds
allied to the petrels, and varying from 8½ to 14 inches in length. [A.S.
_sceran_; Ice. _skera_, to clip, Ger. _scheren_, to shave.]

SHEAT-FISH, sh[=e]t'-fish, _n._ a fish of the family _Siluridæ_, the great
catfish of central Europe.

SHEATH, sh[=e]th, _n._ a case for a sword or other long instrument: a
scabbard: any thin defensive covering: a membrane covering a stem or
branch: the wing-case of an insect.--_v.t._ SHEATHE (_th_), to put into a
sheath: to cover with a sheath or case: to enclose in a lining.--_adj._
SHEATHED (_th_), provided with, or enclosed in, a sheath: (_bot._, _zool._,
and _anat._) having a sheath, vaginate.--_ns._ SHEATH'ING (_th_), that
which sheathes, esp. the covering of a ship's bottom; SHEATH'-KNIFE, a
knife carried in a sheath from the waist.--_adjs._ SHEATH'LESS;
SHEATH'-WINGED, having the wings encased in elytra: coleopterous; SHEATH'Y,
sheath-like.--SHEATHE THE SWORD, to put an end to war. [A.S. _scéth_,
_sc['æ]th_; Ger. _scheide_, Ice. _skeithir_.]

SHEAVE, sh[=e]v, _n._ the wheel of a pulley over which the rope runs: a
sliding scutcheon for covering a keyhole.--_n._ SHEAVE'-HOLE. [_Shive_.]

SHEAVED, sh[=e]vd, _adj._ (_Shak._) made of straw.

SHEBANG, sh[=e]-bang', _n._ (_Amer._) a place, a store, a saloon, a
gaming-house: a brothel.

SHEBEEN, she-b[=e]n', _n._ a place where intoxicating drinks are privately
and unlawfully sold.--_ns._ SHEB[=EE]'NER, one who keeps a shebeen;
SHEB[=EE]'NING. [Ir.]

SHECHINAH, sh[=e]-k[=i]'na, _n._ Same as SHEKINAH.

SHECKLATON, shek'la-ton, _n._ Same as CHECKLATON.

SHED, shed, _v.t._ to part, separate: to scatter, cast off: to throw out:
to pour: to spill.--_v.i._ to let fall, cast:--_pr.p._ shed'ding; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ shed.--_n._ a division, parting, as of the hair, and in
watershed.--_ns._ SHED'DER; SHED'DING. [A.S. _sceádan_, to separate; Ger.
_scheiden_.]

SHED, shed, _n._ a slight erection, usually of wood, for shade or shelter:
an outhouse: a large temporary open structure for reception of goods.
[_Shade_.]

SHEELING. See under SHEAL.

SHEEN, sh[=e]n, _n._ brightness or splendour.--_adj._ (_obs._) bright,
shining.--_v.i._ (_arch._) to shine, glitter.--_adj._ SHEEN'Y, shining,
beautiful. [A.S. _scéne_, _scýne_, fair; Dut. _schoon_, Ger. _schön_,
beautiful; prob. from the root of A.S. _sceáwian_, to look at.]

SHEENY, sh[=e]n'i, _n._ (_slang_) a sharp fellow, a cheat, a Jewish
dealer.--_adj._ cheating.

[Illustration]

SHEEP, sh[=e]p, _n.sing._ and _pl._ the well-known ruminant mammal covered
with wool: leather made from sheep-skin: a silly and timid fellow.--_ns._
SHEEP'-B[=I]T'ER (_Shak._), one who practises petty thefts;
SHEEP'-B[=I]T'ING, robbing those under one's care, like an ill-trained
shepherd-dog; SHEEP'-COTE, an enclosure for sheep; SHEEP'-DOG, a dog
trained to watch sheep: (_slang_) a chaperon.--_adj._ SHEEP'-FACED,
sheepish, bashful.--_ns._ SHEEP'-FARM'ER, SHEEP'-FOLD, a fold or enclosure
for sheep: a flock of sheep; SHEEP'-HEAD, SHEEP'S'-HEAD, a fool, a stupid
and timid person: an American fish of the family _Sparidæ_, allied to the
perches, so called from the shape and colour of the head; SHEEP'-HOOK, a
shepherd's crook.--_adj._ SHEEP'ISH, like a sheep: bashful: foolishly
diffident.--_adv._ SHEEP'ISHLY.--_ns._ SHEEP'ISHNESS; SHEEP'-LOUSE, a
parasitic dipterous insect; SHEEP'-MAR'KET, a place where sheep are sold;
SHEEP'-MAS'TER, a master or owner of sheep; SHEEP'-PEN, an enclosure for
sheep; SHEEP'-PEST, the sheep-tick; SHEEP'-POX, a contagious eruptive
disease of sheep, variola ovina; SHEEP'-RUN, a tract of grazing country for
sheep; SHEEP'S'-EYE, a modest, diffident look: a loving, wishful glance;
SHEEP'S'-FOOT, a printer's tool with a claw at one end for prizing up
forms; SHEEP'-SHANK (_Scot._), the shank of a sheep--hence something
slender and weak: a nautical knot for temporarily shortening a rope;
SHEEP'-SHEARER, one who shears sheep; SHEEP'-SHEARING; SHEEP'-SHEARS, a
kind of shears used for shearing sheep; SHEEP'-SIL'VER, money formerly paid
by tenants for release from the service of washing the lord's sheep;
SHEEP'-SKIN, the skin of a sheep: leather prepared from the skin of a
sheep: a deed engrossed on sheep-skin parchment; SHEEP'-STEAL'ER;
SHEEP'-STEAL'ING; SHEEP'S'-WOOL, a valuable Florida sponge; SHEEP'-TICK, an
insect which attacks the sheep, sucking its blood and raising a tumour;
SHEEP'WALK, the place where the sheep pasture; SHEEP'-WASH, a lotion for
vermin on the sheep, or to preserve its wool--also SHEEP'-DIP;
SHEEP'-WHIS'TLING, tending sheep.--BLACK SHEEP, the disreputable member of
a family or group. [A.S. _sceáp_; Ger. _schaf_.]

SHEER, sh[=e]r, _adj._ pure: unmingled: simple: without a break,
perpendicular.--_adv._ clear: quite: at once. [Ice. _skærr_, bright; Ice.
_skírr_, A.S. _scír_.]

SHEER, sh[=e]r, _v.i._ to deviate from the line of the proper course, as a
ship: to turn aside.--_n._ the deviation from the straight line, or the
longitudinal curve or bend of a ship's deck or sides.--_ns._ SHEER'-HULK,
an old dismasted ship with a pair of sheers mounted on it for masting
ships; SHEER'-LEG, one of the spars.--_n.pl._ SHEERS, an apparatus for
hoisting heavy weights, having usually two legs or spars spread apart at
their lower ends, and bearing at their tops, where they are joined,
hoisting-tackle. [Perh. Dut. _scheren_, to cut, withdraw.]

SHEET, sh[=e]t, _n._ a large, thin piece of anything: a large, broad piece
of cloth in a bed: a large, broad piece of paper: a sail: the rope fastened
to the leeward corner of a sail to extend it to the wind.--_v.t._ to cover
with, or as with, a sheet: to furnish with sheets: to form into
sheets.--_ns._ SHEET'-COPP'ER, -[=I]'RON, -LEAD, -MET'AL, copper, iron,
lead, metal in thin sheets.--_adj._ SHEET'ED, with a white band or
belt.--_ns._ SHEET'-GLASS, a kind of crown-glass made at first in the form
of a cylinder, cut longitudinally, and opened out into a sheet; SHEET'ING,
cloth used for bed-sheets: the process of forming into sheets;
SHEET'-LIGHT'NING, lightning appearing in sheets or having a broad
appearance; SHEET'-WORK, press-work.--A SHEET (or THREE SHEETS) IN THE
WIND, fuddled, tipsy; IN SHEETS (_print._), not folded, or folded but not
bound. [A.S. _scéte_, _scýte_, a sheet--_sceótan_ (pa.t. _sceát_), to
shoot, project.]

SHEET-ANCHOR, sh[=e]t'-angk'ur, _n._ the largest anchor of a ship, shot or
thrown out in extreme danger: chief support: last refuge. [_Shoot_ and
_anchor_.]

SHEIK, SHEIKH, sh[=e]k, _n._ a man of eminence, a lord, a chief: a title of
learned or devout me _n._ [Ar. _sheikh_--_sh[=a]kha_, to be old.]

SHEILING, sh[=e]l'ing, _n._ Same as SHEALING.

SHEKEL, shek'l, _n._ a Jewish weight (about half-an-ounce avoirdupois) and
coin (about 2s. 6d. sterling): (_pl._) money (_slang_). [Heb. from
_sh[=a]qal_, to weigh.]

SHEKINAH, SHECHINAH, sh[=e]-k[=i]'na, _n._ the Divine presence which rested
like a cloud or visible light over the mercy-seat. [Heb.,--_sh[=a]khan_, to
dwell.]

SHELDRAKE, shel'dr[=a]k, _n._ a genus of birds of the Duck family
_Anatidæ_, having the hind-toe free:--_fem._ SHEL'DUCK. [A.S. _scyld_, a
shield, and _drake_.]

SHELF, shelf, _n._ a board fixed on a wall, &c., for laying things on: a
flat layer of rock: a ledge: a shoal: a sandbank:--_pl._ SHELVES
(shelvz).--_adj._ SHELF'Y.--PUT, LAY, ON THE SHELF, to put aside from duty
or service. [A.S. _scylfe_, a plank, Ice. _skjálf_, a bench.]

SHELL, shel, _n._ a term applied to the hard outer covering or skeleton of
many animals, to the internal skeleton of some invertebrates, and to the
outer covering-of the eggs of various animals: any framework: the outer
ear: a testaceous mollusc: any frail structure: a frail boat: a rough kind
of coffin: an instrument of music: a bomb: a hollow projectile containing a
bursting charge of gunpowder or other explosive ignited at the required
instant by means of either time or percussion fuses: the thin coating of
copper on an electrotype: an intermediate class in some schools.--_v.t._ to
break off the shell: to remove the shell from: to take out of the shell: to
throw shells or bombs upon, to bombard.--_v.i._ to fall off like a shell:
to cast the shell.--_ns._ SHELLAC (she-lak', shel'ak), SHELL'-LAC, lac
prepared in thin plates for making varnish, &c.--_v.t._ to coat with
shellac.--_ns._ SHELL'-BACK, an old sailor, a barnacle; SHELL'-BARK, either
of two North American hickories.--_adj._ SHELLED, having a shell,
testaceous.--_ns._ SHELL'ER, one who shells or husks; SHELL'FISH, a popular
term for many aquatic animals not fishes, esp. oysters, clams and all
molluscs, and crustaceans such as crabs and lobsters; SHELL'-GUN, a cannon
used for throwing shells, esp. horizontally: SHELL'-HEAP, a prehistoric
accumulation of shells, &c., pointing back to a race that lived on
shellfish; SHELL'-ICE, ice no longer supported by the water beneath;
SHELL'-JACK'ET, an undress military jacket; SHELL'-LIME, lime procured from
the shells of shellfish by burning; SHELL'-LIME'STONE, a limestone largely
consisting of shells; SHELL'-MARL, a white earthy deposit, resulting from
the accumulation of fragments of shells; SHELL'-MOUND, a shell-heap;
SHELL'-OR'NAMENT, decoration in which any shell-form is prominent.--_adj._
SHELL'PROOF, proof against, or able to resist, shells or bombs.--_ns._
SHELL'-ROOM, a magazine on board ship where shells are stored; SHELL'-SAND,
sand consisting in great part of fragments of shells, and often containing
a small proportion of organic matter, a very useful manure for clay soils,
heavy loams, and newly-reclaimed bogs; SHELL'WORK, work composed of or
adorned with shells.--_adj._ SHELL'Y, consisting of a shell:
testaceous.--SHELL OUT, (_slang_), to hand over, as money. [A.S. _scell_,
_scyl_; Dut. _schel_, Ice. _skel_.]

SHELTA, shel'ta, _n._ a secret jargon of great antiquity spoken by Irish
tinkers, beggars, and pipers.--Also _Shelr[=u]_, _Cainnt cheard_, _Gam
cant_, _Bog-latin_. [_Shelr[=u]_, a perversion of the Irish _béulra_,
language.]

SHELTER, shel't[.e]r, _n._ that which shields or protects: a refuge: a
retreat, a harbour: protection.--_v.t._ to cover or shield: to defend: to
conceal.--_v.i._ to take shelter.--_n._ SHEL'TERER.--_adjs._ SHEL'TERLESS;
SHEL'TERY, affording shelter. [Orig. _sheltron_--A.S. _scyld-truma_,
shield-troop--_scyld_, shield, _truma_, troop--_trum_, firm.]

SHELTY, SHELTIE, shel'ti, _n._ a Shetland pony. [Perh. a dim. of _Shetland
pony_.]

SHELVE, shelv, _v.t._ to furnish with shelves: to place on a shelf; to put
aside.--_n._ SHEL'VING, the furnishing with shelves: the act of placing on
a shelf: shelves or materials for shelves.

SHELVE, shelv, _v.i._ to slope, incline.--_n._ a ledge.--_n._ SHEL'VING, a
shelving place: (_rare_) a bank.--_adj._ SHEL'VY, sloping, shallow. [Prob.
ult. from Ice. _skelgja-sk_, to come askew--_skjálgr_, wry.]

SHEMITIC. Same as SEMITIC.

SHEND, shend, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to disgrace, to reproach, to blame, also to
overpower, to surpass:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shent. [A.S. _scendan_, to
disgrace--A.S. _scand_, _sceand_ (Ger. _schande_), shame.]

SHE-OAK, sh[=e]'-[=o]k, _n._ one of several shrubs of the Australian genus
_Casuarina_.

SHEOL, sh[=e]'[=o]l, _n._ the place of departed spirits. [Heb. _she'[=o]l_,
a hollow place--_sh[=a]'al_, to dig out.]

SHEPHERD, shep'[.e]rd, _n._ one who herds sheep: a swain: a pastor:--_fem._
SHEP'HERDESS.--_v.t._ to tend as a shepherd: to watch over, protect the
interests of, or one's own interests in.--_ns._ SHEP'HERDISM, pastoral
life; SHEP'HERDLING, a little shepherd; SHEP'HERD'S-CROOK, a long staff,
its upper end curved into a hook; SHEP'HERD'S-DOG, a dog specially trained
to help in tending sheep, the collie or Scotch sheep-dog, &c.;
SHEP'HERD'S-FLUTE, a flageolet or the like; SHEP'HERD'S-NEE'DLE, an annual
plant, called also Venus's comb; SHEP'HERD'S-PLAID, -TAR'TAN, a woollen
cloth made with black and white checks: this form of pattern itself;
SHEP'HERD'S-POUCH, -PURSE, an annual cruciferous plant, with compressed,
somewhat heart-shaped seed-vessel; SHEP'HERD'S-ROD, -STAFF, a small kind of
teasel.--SHEPHERD KINGS (see HYKSOS).--THE GOOD SHEPHERD, a title of Jesus
Christ (John, x. 11); THE SHEPHERDS, a sect of fanatical shepherds in
France about 1251 A.D., eager to deliver the imprisoned Louis IX. [A.S.
_sceáp-hyrde_. _Sheep_ and _herd_.]

SHEPPY, SHEPPEY, shep'i, _n._ (_prov_.) a sheep-cote.

SHERBET, sh[.e]r'bet, _n._ a drink of water and fruit juices, sweetened and
flavoured. [Through Turk. from Ar. _sharbat_, a drink--_shariba_, he
drinks.]

SHERD, sh[.e]rd, _n._ See SHARD.

SHERIF, SHEREEF, she-r[=e]f', _n._ a descendant of Mohammed through his
daughter Fatima: a prince or ruler: the chief magistrate of Mecca. [Ar.
_shar[=i]f_, noble, lofty.]

SHERIFF, sher'if, _n._ the governor of a shire: (_English law_) the chief
officer of the crown in every county or shire, his duties being chiefly
ministerial rather than judicial: (_Scots law_) the chief magistrate and
judge of the county: in the United States the office of sheriff is mainly
ministerial, his principal duties to maintain peace and order, attend
courts, guard prisoners, serve processes, and execute judgments.--_ns._
SHER'IFFALTY, SHER'IFFDOM, SHER'IFFSHIP, the office or jurisdiction of a
sheriff; SHER'IFF-CLERK, in Scotland the registrar of the sheriff's court,
who has charge of the records of the court; SHER'IFF-DEP'UTE (_Scot._), the
sheriff proper, so called since the abolition of the heritable
jurisdictions in 1748 to distinguish him from the earlier heritable
SHER'IFF-PRIN'CIPAL, whose title is now merged in that of the
Lord-lieutenant; SHER'IFF-OFF'ICER, in Scotland, an officer connected with
the sheriff's court, who is charged with arrests, the serving of processes,
&c.; SHER'IFF-SUB'STITUTE, the acting sheriff in a Scotch county or city,
like the sheriff-depute appointed by the crown, but unlike the
sheriff-depute forced to reside within his judicial district, and forbidden
to take other employment; UN'DER-SHER'IFF, the deputy of an English sheriff
who performs the execution of writs. [A.S. _scir-geréfa_--_scir_ (Eng.
_shire_), _geréfa_, a governor; cog. with Ger. _graf_, a count.]

SHERRIS, sher'is, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as SHERRY.

SHERRY, sher'i, _n._ a name derived from _Xeres_ or _Jerez_ de la Frontera,
near Cadiz, and applied to the better kind of white wines grown in the
neighbourhood of Xeres.--SHERRY COBBLER, a cobbler made with
sherry.--NATURAL SHERRY, a sherry having from two to four per cent. of
spirit added to make it keep.

SHET, shet, _adj._ (_U.S._) freed from.

SHETLANDER, shet'land-[.e]r, _n._ a native or inhabitant of
_Shetland_.--SHETLAND LACE, an open-work ornamental trimming made with
woollen yarn for shawls, &c.; SHETLAND PONY, a small sturdy and shaggy
horse, usually nine to ten hands high, a shelty; SHETLAND WOOL, a thin but
strong undyed worsted, spun from the wool of the sheep in the Shetland
Islands, much used for knitting fine shawls, &c.

SHEUCH, SHEUGH, sh[=oo]h, or shyuh, _n._ (_Scot._) a ditch.

SHEVA, she-vä', _n._ a Hebrew point (:) written below its consonant, and
indicating properly the absence of a vowel (_simple sheva_). It is either
unsounded, as at the close of a syllable (_silent sheva_), or given a short
breathing or neutral sound, as at the beginning of a syllable (_vocal
sheva_). Sometimes it is compounded with the short vowels, forming
_compound shevas_.

SHEW, sh[=o]. Same as SHOW.

SHEWBREAD, sh[=o]'bred. Same as SHOWBREAD.

SHIAH, sh[=e]'ä, _n._ a member of that Mohammedan sect which maintains that
Ali, first cousin of Mohammed and husband of his daughter Fatima, was the
first legitimate successor of the Prophet, rejecting the three califs of
their opponents the Sunnis, as usurpers.--_n._ SHIISM (sh[=e]'izm). [Ar.
_sh[=i]'a_, sect.]

SHIBBOLETH, shib'b[=o]-leth, _n._ (_B._) a test-word used by the Gileadites
under Jephthah to detect the fleeing Ephraimites, who could not pronounce
the _sh_ (Judges, xii. 4-6): the criterion or watchword of a party. [Heb.,
an ear of corn, or a stream.]

[Illustration]

SHIELD, sh[=e]ld, _n._ a broad plate worn for defence on the left arm:
anything that protects: defence: a person who protects: the shield-shaped
escutcheon used for displaying arms.--_v.t._ to defend: (_Shak._) to
forfend, avert.--_v.i._ to be a shelter.--_ns._ SHIEL'DER; SHIELD'-FERN, a
fern, so called from its shape.--_adj._ SHIELD'LESS, defenceless.--_adv._
SHIELD'LESSLY.--_n._ SHIELD'LESSNESS.--_adj._ SHIELD'-SHAPED, scutate.
[A.S. _scyld_; Ger. _schild_, Ice. _skiöldr_, protection.]

SHIELING. See under SHEAL.

SHIFT, shift, _v.t._ to change in form or character: to put out of the way:
to dress in fresh clothes.--_v.i._ to change about: to remove: to change
one's clothes: to resort to expedients for some purpose: in violin-playing,
to move the left hand from its original position next to the nut.--_n._ a
change: in violin-playing, any position of the left hand except that
nearest the nut: a squad or relay of men: a contrivance: an artifice: last
resource: a chemise or woman's undermost garment (orig. signifying a change
of body-linen).--_adj._ SHIFT'ABLE, capable of being shifted.--_ns._
SHIFT'ER, one who shifts: a trickster; SHIFT'INESS, the character of being
shifty.--_adj._ SHIFT'ING, unstable: shifty.--_adv._ SHIFT'INGLY.--_adj._
SHIFT'LESS, destitute of shifts or expedients: unsuccessful, for want of
proper means.--_adv._ SHIFT'LESSLY.--_n._ SHIFT'LESSNESS.--_adj._ SHIFT'Y,
full of, or ready with, shifts, contrivances, or expedients.--SHIFT ABOUT,
to vacillate: to turn quite round to the opposite point; SHIFT FOR ONE'S
SELF, to provide for one's self; SHIFT OF CROPS, rotation of crops; SHIFT
OFF, to defer: to put away.--MAKE SHIFT, to find ways and means of doing
something, contrive. [A.S. _sciftan_, to divide, Ice. _skipta_.]

SHIITE, sh[=e]'[=i]t, _n._ the same as SHIAH (q.v.).--_adj._ SHIIT'IC.

SHIKAR, shi-kär', _n._ in India, hunting, sport.--_ns._ SHIKAR'EE,
SHIKAR'I, a hunter. [Hind.]

SHIKO, shik'[=o], _n._ a posture of prostration in Burma.

SHILLALAH, shi-l[=a]'la, _n._ an oak sapling, the oak or blackthorn cudgel
of the conventional Irishman.--Also SHILLE'LAH, SHILL[=A]'LY. [Prob.
_Shillelagh_, an oak-wood in County Wicklow.]

SHILLING, shil'ing, _n._ an English silver coin=12 pence.--TAKE THE
SHILLING, to enlist as a soldier by accepting the recruiting-officer's
shilling--discontinued since 1879. [A.S. _scilling_; Ger. _schilling_.]

SHILLY-SHALLY, shil'i-shal'i, _adv._ in silly hesitation.--_n._ foolish
trifling: irresolution.--_v.i._ to hesitate.--_n._ SHILL'Y-SHALL'IER, an
irresolute person. [A reduplication of '_Shall I?_']

SHILPIT, shil'pit, _adj._ (_Scot._) weak, washy: feeble-looking. [Ety.
dub.]

SHILY, same as SHYLY. See SHY.

SHIM, shim, _n._ (_mach._) a thin slip used to fill up space caused by
wear.--_v.t._ to wedge up. [Ety. dub.]

SHIMMER, shim'[.e]r, _v.i._ to gleam tremulously, to glisten.--_ns._
SHIMM'ER, SHIMM'ERING, a tremulous gleam. [A.S. _scimrian_--_scíman_, to
shine; Ger. _schimmern_.]

SHIN, shin, _n._ the large bone of the leg or the forepart of it: a bird's
shank.--_v.i._ to climb a tree (with _up_): to tramp, trudge.--_v.t._ to
climb a tree by swarming up it: to kick on the shins.--_ns._ SHIN'-BONE,
the tibia; SHIN'-PIECE, a piece of armour defending the forepart of the
leg; SHIN'-PLAS'TER (_U.S._), a patch of brown-paper steeped in vinegar,
&c., laid on a sore: a small paper note or promise to pay. [A.S. _scina_,
the shin (esp. in the compound _scin-bán_, shin-bone); Dut. _scheen_, Ger.
_schiene_.]

SHIN, shin, _n._ a god, or the gods: the term used by Protestant
missionaries in Japan and China for the Supreme Being.

SHINDY, shin'di, _n._ the game of shinty, shinny, bandy-ball, or hockey:
(_slang_) a row, disturbance.--KICK UP A SHINDY, to make a disturbance.

SHINE, sh[=i]n, _v.i._ to beam with steady radiance: to glitter: to be
bright or beautiful: to be eminent.--_v.t._ to cause to shine:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ shone (shon), (_B._) sh[=i]ned.--_adj._ (_Spens._) bright.--_n._
brightness: splendour: fair weather: (_slang_) disturbance, row, a
trick.--_n._ SH[=I]'NER, that which shines: (_slang_) a coin, esp. a
sovereign: a small American fresh-water fish.--_adj._ SH[=I]'NING.--_adv._
SH[=I]'NINGLY.--_n._ SH[=I]'NINGNESS.--_adj._ SH[=I]'NY, clear, unclouded:
glossy.--CAUSE, or MAKE, THE FACE TO SHINE (_B._), to be propitious; TAKE
THE SHINE OUT OF (_slang_), to outshine, eclipse. [A.S. _scínan_; Ger.
_scheinen_.]

SHINGLE, shing'gl, _n._ wood sawed or split thin, used instead of slates or
tiles, for roofing houses: (_U.S._) a small sign-board or plate.--_v.t._ to
cover with shingles: to crop the hair very close.--_adjs._ SHING'LED,
SHING'LE-ROOFED, having the roof covered with shingles.--_ns._ SHING'LER;
SHING'LING. [Low L. _scindula_, a wooden tile--L. _scind[)e]re_, to split.]

SHINGLE, shing'gl, _n._ the coarse gravel on the shores of rivers or of the
sea.--_adj._ SHING'LY. [Orig. _single_--Norw. _singel_, _singling_,
shingle--_singla_, freq. of _singa_, to ring.]

SHINGLES, shing'glz, _n._ popular name for the disease _Herpes zoster_. [A
corr. of L. _cingulum_, a belt or girdle--_cing[)e]re_, to gird.]

SHINNY, shin'i, _n._ the game of bandy-ball or hockey. [Prob. Gael,
_sinteag_, a bound.]

SHINTI-YAN, shin'ti-yan, _n._ the loose drawers worn by Moslem women.--Also
SHIN'TIGAN.

SHINTO, shin't[=o], _n._ the system of nature and hero worship forming the
indigenous religion of Japan.--_ns._ SHIN'T[=O]ISM; SHIN'T[=O]IST.
[Jap.,=Chin. _shin tao_--_shin_, god, _tao_, way, doctrine.]

SHINTY, shin'ti, _n._ Same as SHINNY.

SHIP, ship, _n._ a vessel having three masts, with tops and yards to each:
generally, any large sea-going vessel.--_v.t._ to put on board a ship: to
engage for service on board a ship: to transport by ship: to fix in its
place.--_v.i._ to engage for service on shipboard:--_pr.p._ ship'ping;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shipped.--_ns._ SHIP'-BIS'CUIT, hard biscuit for use on
shipboard; SHIP'BOARD, the deck or side of a ship; SHIP'-BOY, a boy that
serves on board a ship; SHIP'-BREAK'ER, one who breaks up vessels no longer
fit for sea; SHIP'-BROK'ER, a broker who effects sales, insurance, &c. of
ships; SHIP'BUILDER, one whose occupation is to construct ships;
SHIP'BUILDING; SHIP'-CANAL', a canal large enough to admit the passage of
sea-going vessels; SHIP'-CAP'TAIN, one who commands a ship;
SHIP'-CAR'PENTER, a carpenter who works at shipbuilding; SHIP'-CHAND'LER, a
dealer in cordage, canvas, and other ship furniture or stores;
SHIP'-CHAND'LERY, the business wares of a ship-chandler; SHIP'-F[=E]'VER,
typhus fever, as common on board crowded ships; SHIP'FUL, as much or as
many as a ship will hold; SHIP'-HOLD'ER, a ship-owner; SHIP'-LETT'ER, a
letter sent by a vessel which does not carry mails; SHIP'-LOAD, the load or
cargo of a ship; SHIP'MAN, a sailor:--_pl._ SHIP'MEN; SHIP'MASTER, the
captain of a ship; SHIP'MATE, a companion in the same ship; SHIP'MENT, act
of putting on board ship: embarkation: that which is shipped; SHIP'-MON'EY,
a tyrannical tax imposed by the king on seaports, revived without
authorisation of parliament by Charles I. in 1634-37; SHIP'-OF-THE-LINE,
before steam navigation, a man-of-war large enough to take a place in a
line of battle; SHIP'-OWN'ER, the owner of a ship or ships.--_adj._ SHIPPED
(_Shak._), furnished with a ship or ships.--_ns._ SHIP'PER; SHIP'PING,
ships collectively: tonnage: (_Shak._) a voyage; SHIP'PING-[=A]G'ENT, the
agent of a vessel or line of vessels to whom goods are consigned for
shipment.--_n.pl._ SHIP'PING-ART'ICLES, articles of agreement, between the
captain and his crew.--_ns._ SHIP'PING-BILL, invoice of goods embarked;
SHIP'PING-MAS'TER, the official who witnesses signature by the sailors of
the articles of agreement; SHIP'PING-OFF'ICE, the office of a
shipping-agent, or of a shipping-master; SHIP'-POUND, a unit of weight in
the Baltic ports; SHIP'-RAIL'WAY, a railway by means of which vessels can
be carried overland from one body of water to another.--_adjs._
SHIP'-RIGGED (_naut._), rigged like a ship, having three masts with square
sails and spreading yards; SHIP'SHAPE, in a seaman-like manner: trim, neat,
proper.--_ns._ SHIP'S'-HUS'BAND, the owner's agent in the management of a
ship; SHIP'-TIRE (_Shak._), a sort of head-dress, whether from its
streamers or its general likeness to a ship; SHIP'-WAY, the supports
forming a sliding-way for the building, repairing, and launching of
vessels; SHIP'-WORM, a genus (_Teredo_) of worm-like molluscs which
perforate and live in timber, lining the cavity or tube with a calcareous
encrustation; SHIP'WRECK, the wreck or destruction of a ship:
destruction.--_v.t._ to destroy on the sea: to make to suffer wreck.--_ns._
SHIP'WRIGHT, a wright or carpenter who constructs ships; SHIP'YARD, a yard
where ships are built or repaired.--SHIP A SEA, to have a wave come aboard;
SHIP'S PAPERS, documents required for the manifestation of the property of
a ship and cargo; SHIP THE OARS (see OAR).--ABOUT SHIP! an exclamation to
pull in the sheet preparatory to changing a ship's course during a tack;
MAKE SHIPWRECK OF, to ruin, destroy; ON SHIPBOARD, upon or within a ship;
TAKE SHIP, or SHIPPING, to embark. [A.S. _scip_--_scippan_, to
make--_scapan_, to shape; Goth. _skip_, Ice. _skip_, Ger. _schiff_.]

SHIPPEN, ship'n, _n._ (_prov._) a stable.--Also SHIP'PON.

SHIPPO, ship-p[=o]', _n._ Japanese enamel, cloisonné.

SHIPTON, ship'ton, _n._ usually 'Mother Shipton,' a famous prophetess of
popular English tradition, born near Knaresborough in 1488.

SHIRAZ, sh[=e]-räz', _n._ a Persian wine. [_Shiraz_.]

SHIRE, sh[=i]r, shir (in county-names), _n._ a county, one of the larger
divisions of England for political purposes--originally a division of the
kingdom under a sheriff, the deputy of the ealdorman: a term also surviving
as applied to certain smaller districts in England, as Richmondshire and
Hallamshire.--_ns._ SHIRE'MAN, a sheriff; SHIRE'-MOOT, SHIRE'-MOTE,
formerly in England a court of the county held periodically by the sheriff
together with the bishop or the ealdorman. [A.S. _scir_, _scire_, a county,
_sciran_, a secondary form of _sceran_, to cut off.]

SHIRK, sh[.e]rk, _v.t._ to avoid, get off or slink away from.--_n._
SHIR'KER.--_adj._ SHIR'KY. [A form of _shark_.]

SHIRL, sh[.e]rl, _v.i._ (_prov._) to slide.

SHIRR, SHIR, sh[.e]r, _n._ a puckering made in a fabric by parallel
gathering-threads.--_v.t._ to produce such.--_adj._ SHIRRED, having lines
or cords inserted between the threads, as in certain elastic
fabrics.--_ns._ SHIRR'ING, decorative-shirred needlework; SHIRR'ING-STRING,
a cord used to gather the threads together in shirred-work. [Ety. dub.]

SHIRT, sh[.e]rt, _n._ a short garment worn next the body by men: an
interior lining in a blast-furnace.--_v.t._ to cover as with a
shirt.--_ns._ SHIRT'-FRILL, a fine cambric frill worn in the early years of
the 19th century on the breast of the shirt; SHIRT'-FRONT, that part of the
shirt which is open and covers the breast, generally of finer material,
starched stiffly; SHIRT'ING, cloth for shirts: shirts collectively.--_adj._
SHIRT'LESS, without a shirt.--_ns._ SHIRT'-SLEEVE, the sleeve of a shirt;
SHIRT'-WAIST, a woman's overgarment or blouse, coming to the waist and
belted there.--BLOODY SHIRT, a blood-stained shirt, as the symbol of
murder; BOILED SHIRT, a white shirt clean washed; IN ONE'S SHIRT-SLEEVES,
without the coat. [Scand.; Ice. _skyrta_--_skortr_, shortness.]

SHIST, &c. See SCHIST, &c.

SHITEPOKE, sh[=i]t'p[=o]k, _n._ the North American small green heron.

SHITTAH, shit'a, _n._ a tree whose durable wood--SHITTIM WOOD--was used in
the construction of the Jewish Tabernacle and its furniture--prob. the
_Acacia seyal_. [Heb. _shittah_, pl. _shitt[=i]m_.]

SHIVAREE, shiv'a-r[=e], _v.t._ (_U.S._) to give a mock serenade to.--Also
_n._ [A corr. of _charivari_.]

SHIVE, sh[=i]v, _n._ (_Shak._) a slice, as of bread: a small bung for
closing a wide-mouthed bottle. [Scand., Ice. _skífa_, a slice; Dut.
_schijf_, Ger. _scheibe_.]

SHIVER, shiv'[.e]r, _n._ a splinter, or small piece into which a thing
breaks by sudden violence.--_v.t._ to shatter.--_v.i._ to fall into
shivers.--_n._ SHIV'ER-SPAR, a slaty calcite or calcium carbonate.--_adj._
SHIV'ERY, brittle.--SHIVER MY TIMBERS, a nautical imprecation. [Skeat
explains _shiver_ as a dim. of the foregoing _shive_, a thin slice, the
same as prov. Eng. _sheave_, a thin disc of wood, wheel of a pulley--Ice.
_skífa_, a slice; Dut. _schijf_, Ger. _scheibe_.]

SHIVER, shiv'[.e]r, _v.i._ to shake or tremble: to shudder.--_v.t._ to
cause to shake in the wind, as sails.--_n._ SHIV'ERING.--_adv._
SHIV'ERINGLY, with shivering or trembling.--_adj._ SHIV'ERY, inclined to
shiver.--THE SHIVERS (_coll._), the ague, chills. [M. E. _chiveren_, a
softened form of _kiveren_, supposed by Skeat to be a Scand. form of
_quiver_, and a freq. of Ice. _kippa_, to pull, the spelling with sh being
due to confusion with _shiver_ (_n._).]

SHIZOKU, sh[=e]-z[=o]'k[=oo], _n._ the two-sworded men of Japan, the gentry
proper.

SHOAL, sh[=o]l, _n._ a great multitude of fishes swimming together.--_v.i._
to crowd.--_adv._ SHOAL'WISE, in shoals. [A.S. _scólu_, company--L.
_schola_, school.]

SHOAL, sh[=o]l, _n._ a shallow: a place where the water of a river, sea, or
lake is not deep: a sandbank.--_adj._ shallow.--_v.i._ to grow shallow: to
come upon shallows.--_ns._ SHOAL'ER, a coasting vessel; SHOAL'INESS;
SHOAL'ING, filling up with shoals; SHOAL'-MARK, a mark set up to indicate
shoal-water; SHOAL'NESS, shallowness.--_adj._ SHOAL'Y, full of shoals or
shallows: not deep. [Scand.; Ice. _skálgr_, oblique; cf. _Shallow_.]

SHOCK, shok, _n._ a violent shake: a sudden dashing of one thing against
another: violent onset: an offence: a condition of prostration of voluntary
and involuntary functions caused by trauma, a surgical operation, or
excessive sudden emotional disturbance: (_coll._) a sudden attack of
paralysis, a stroke: an electrical stimulant to sensory nerves, &c.: any
very strong emotion.--_v.t._ to shake by violence: to offend: to disgust:
to dismay.--_v.i._ to collide with violence.--_n._ SHOCK'ER (_coll._), a
very sensational tale.--_adj._ SHOCK'ING, offensive, repulsive.--_adv._
SHOCK'INGLY.--_n._ SHOCK'INGNESS. [Prof. Skeat explains M. E. _schokken_,
to shock, as from O. Fr. _choc_, a shock, _choquer_, to give a shock--Old
High Ger. _scoc_, a shock, shaking movement. Cf. A.S. _scóc_, pa.t. of
_sceacan_, to shake.]

SHOCK, shok, _n._ a heap or pile of sheaves of corn.--_v.t._ to make up
into shocks or stooks.--_n._ SHOCK'ER. [M. E. _schokke_--Old Dut.
_schocke_.]

SHOCK, shok, _n._ a dog with long, shaggy hair: a mass of shaggy
hair.--_n._ SHOCK'-DOG, a rough-haired dog, a poodle.--_adjs._ SHOCK'-HEAD,
-ED, having a thick and bushy head of hair. [A variant of _shag_.]

SHOD, shod, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _shoe_.

SHODDY, shod'i, _n._ (_orig._) the waste arising from the manufacture of
wool: now applied to the wool of old woven fabrics reduced to the state in
which it was before being spun and woven, and thus fit for remanufacture:
the inferior cloth made from this substance: worthless goods: (_coll._)
pretence, sham, vulgar and baseless assumption.--_adj._ made of shoddy:
inferior, trashy: pretentious, sham, counterfeit: ambitious by reason of
newly-acquired wealth.--_n._ SHODD'YISM. [_Shed_, to part--A.S. _sceádan_,
to part.]

SHOE, sh[=oo], _n._ a covering for the foot, not coming above the ankle: a
rim of iron nailed to the hoof of an animal to keep it from injury:
anything in form or use like a shoe:--_pl._ SHOES (sh[=oo]z).--_v.t._ to
furnish with shoes: to cover at the bottom:--_pr.p._ shoe'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ shod.--_ns._ SHOE'-BILL, the whalehead (_Balæniceps_); SHOE'BLACK,
one who blacks and cleans shoes or boots; SHOE'-BLACK'ING, blacking for
boots and shoes; SHOE'-BOY, a boy who cleans shoes; SHOE'-BRUSH, a brush
for cleaning boots or shoes; SHOE'-BUCK'LE, a buckle for fastening the shoe
on the foot, by means of a latchet passing over the instep; SHOE'-HAMM'ER,
a broad-faced hammer for pounding leather and for driving pegs, &c.;
SHOE'HORN, a curved piece of horn or metal used in putting on a shoe;
SHOE'ING-HORN, a shoehorn: (_obs._) anything by which a transaction is
facilitated; SHOE'-LACE, a shoe-string; SHOE'-LATCH'ET, a thong for holding
a shoe, sandal, &c. on the foot; SHOE'-LEATH'ER, leather for shoes: shoes
or shoeing generally.--_adj._ SHOE'LESS, destitute of shoes.--_ns._
SHOE'MAKER, one whose trade or occupation is to make shoes or boots;
SHOE'MAKING; SHOE'-PEG, a small peg of wood or metal for fastening
different parts of a shoe together; SHO'ER, one who furnishes shoes, a
horse-shoer; SHOE'-STRETCH'ER, a last having a movable piece for distending
the leather of the shoe in any part; SHOE'-STRING, a string used to draw
the sides of the shoe or boot together; SHOE'-TIE, a cord or string for
lacing a shoe: (_Shak._) a traveller; SHOE'-WORK'ER, one employed in a
shoe-factory.--ANOTHER PAIR OF SHOES (_coll._), quite a different matter;
BE IN ONE'S SHOES, or BOOTS, to be in one's place; DIE IN ONE'S SHOES, to
die by violence, esp. by hanging; PUT THE SHOE ON THE RIGHT FOOT, to lay
the blame where it rightly belongs. [A.S. _sceó_; Goth. _skohs_, Ger.
_schuh_.]

SHOG, shog, _v.i._ to shake, jog, move on, be gone.--_v.t._ to shake.--_n._
a jog, shock. [Celt., W. _ysgogi_, to wag, _ysgog_, a jolt.]

SHOGUN, sh[=o]'g[=oo]n, _n._ the title of the commander-in-chief of the
Japanese army during the continuance of the feudal system in Japan.--_adj._
SH[=O]'GUNAL.--_n._ SH[=O]'GUNATE. [Jap.,--_sho_, to hold, _gun_, army.]

SHONE, shon, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _shine_.

SHOO, sh[=oo], _interj._ off! away! to scare away fowls, &c.--_v.i._ to cry
'Shoo!'--_v.t._ to drive away by calling 'Shoo!' [Cf. Fr. _chou_, Gr.
_sou_.]

SHOOK, shook, _pa.t._ of _shake_.

SHOOL, sh[=oo]l, _v.i._ to saunter about, to beg.

SHOOLDARRY, sh[=oo]l-där'i, _n._ a small tent with steep sloping roof and
low sides. [Hind.]

SHOON, sh[=oo]n, an old _pl._ of _shoe_.

SHOOT, sh[=oo]t, _v.t._ to dart: to let fly with force: to discharge from a
bow or gun: to strike with a shot: to thrust forward: to pass rapidly
through: to lay out, place in position: to hunt over, to kill game in or
on: to send forth new parts, as a plant.--_v.i._ to perform the act of
shooting: to variegate, to colour in spots or threads: to be driven along:
to fly, as an arrow: to jut out: to germinate: to advance or grow rapidly:
to hunt birds, &c., with a gun:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shot.--_n._ act of
shooting: a match at shooting, shooting-party: a young branch: (_Shak._) a
sprouting horn: a passage-way in a mine for letting one down: a sloping
trough used for discharging articles or goods from a height: a river-fall,
rapid.--_adj._ SHOOT'ABLE, that may be shot, or shot over.--_ns._ SHOOT'ER,
one who, or that which, shoots; SHOOT'ING, act of discharging firearms or
an arrow: sensation of a quick pain: act or practice of killing game: right
to kill game with firearms on a certain area: the district so limited;
SHOOT'ING-BOX, a small house in the country for use in the shooting season;
SHOOT'ING-GALL'ERY, a long room used for practice in the use of firearms;
SHOOT'ING-[=I]'RON (_slang_), a revolver; SHOOT'ING-JACK'ET, a short kind
of coat for shooting in; SHOOT'ING-RANGE, a place for practising shooting
at targets at measured distances; SHOOT'ING-STAR, a meteor or falling star;
SHOOT'ING-STICK, a printer's tool of wood or metal, to be struck with a
mallet, for driving quoins.--SHOOT AHEAD, to get to the front among a set
of competitors; SHOOT OVER, to go out shooting: to hunt upon.--I'LL BE SHOT
(_slang_), a mild imprecation. [A.S. _sceótan_; Dut. _schieten_, Ger.
_schiessen_, to dart.]

SHOP, shop, _n._ a building in which goods are sold by retail: a place
where mechanics work, or where any kind of industry is pursued: one's own
business or profession, also talk about such.--_v.i._ to visit shops for
the purpose of buying.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to imprison:--_pr.p._ shop'ping;
_pa.p._ shopped.--_ns._ SHOP'-BELL, a small automatic bell hung to give
notice of the opening of a shop-door; SHOP'-BOARD, a bench on which work,
esp. that of tailors, is done; SHOP'-BOY, -GIRL, a boy or girl employed in
a shop; SHOP'-KEEPER, one who keeps a shop for the sale of goods by retail;
SHOP'KEEPING, the business of keeping a shop; SHOP'-LIFT'ER;
SHOP'-LIFT'ING, lifting or stealing anything from a shop; SHOP'MAN, one who
serves in a shop: a shopkeeper; SHOPOC'RACY, shopkeepers collectively;
SHOP'PING, the act of visiting shops to see and buy goods.--_adj._ SHOP'PY,
commercial: abounding in shops: given to talking shop: concerning one's own
pursuit.--_ns._ SHOP'-WALK'ER, one who walks about in a shop and sees the
customers attended to; SHOP'WOMAN, a woman employed in a shop.--_adj._
SHOP'-WORN, somewhat tarnished by being exposed in a shop.--FANCY SHOP, a
shop where fancy goods are sold.--SHUT UP SHOP (_coll._), to abandon any
enterprise; THE OTHER SHOP (_slang_), a rival institution or establishment;
THE WHOLE SHOP (_slang_), entirely; TALK SHOP (_coll._), to converse
unseasonably about one's own profession. [A.S. _sceoppa_, a treasury
(influenced by O. Fr. _eschoppe_, a stall.)]

SHORE, sh[=o]r, _pa.t._ of _shear_.

SHORE, sh[=o]r, _n._ the coast or land adjacent to the sea, to a river, or
lake.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to set on shore.--_ns._ SHOR'AGE, duty on goods
when brought on shore from a ship; SHORE'-ANCH'OR, the anchor lying towards
the shore; SHORE'-CLIFF, a cliff at the water's edge; SHORE'-LAND, land
bordering on a shore.--_adj._ SHORE'LESS, having no coast: indefinite or
unlimited.--_n._ SHORES'MAN, a fisherman along shore: a sole or part owner
of a vessel: a longshoreman.--_adv._ SHORE'WARD, towards the shore.--_n._
SHORE'-WH[=A]L'ING, the pursuit of the whale near the shore. [A.S.
_score_--_sceran_, to shear.]

SHORE, sh[=o]r, _n._ a prop or support for the side of a building, or to
keep a vessel in dock steady on the slips.--_v.t._ to prop (often with
_up_).--_ns._ SH[=O]R'ER; SH[=O]R'ING, the act of supporting with props: a
set of props. [Skeat refers to Ice. _skortha_, a prop, esp. under a
boat--_skor-inn_, pa.p. of _skera_, to shear.]

SHORE, sh[=o]r, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to warn, threaten: to offer. [Perh. a form
of _score_, or another form of _sure_, equivalent to _assure_.]

SHORL, SHORLACEOUS. See SCHORL.

SHORN, shorn, _pa.p._ of shear.--_n._ SH[=O]R'LING, SH[=O]RE'LING, a
newly-shorn sheep.

SHORT, short, _adj._ (_comp._ SHORT'ER, _superl._ SHORT'EST) not long in
time or space: not tall: near at hand, early in date: scanty, lacking,
insufficient: in error, deficient in wisdom, grasp, memory, &c.: narrow:
abrupt, curt, sharp, uncivil: brittle, crumbling away readily: not
prolonged in utterance, unaccented: (_coll._) undiluted with water, neat:
falling below a certain standard (with _of_): of stocks, &c., not having in
possession when selling, not able to meet one's engagements, pertaining to
short stocks or to those who have sold short.--_adv._ not long.--_n._ a
summary account: a short time or syllable: whatever is deficient in number,
quantity, &c.: a short sale, one who has made such: (_pl._) small clothes,
knee-breeches: the bran and coarse part of meal, in mixture.--_ns._
SHORT'AGE, deficiency; SHORT'-ALLOW'ANCE, less than the regular allowance;
SHORT'-AND, the character '&,' the ampersand.--_adj._ SHORT'-ARMED, having
short arms, not reaching far.--_ns._ SHORT'-BILL, one having less than ten
days to run; SHORT'-CAKE, a rich tea-cake made short and crisp with butter
or lard and baked--also SHORT'-BREAD (_Scot._): (_U.S._) a light cake,
prepared in layers with fruit between, served with cream; SHORT'-CIR'CUIT
(_electr._), a path of comparatively low resistance between two points of a
circuit.--_n.pl._ SHORT'-CLOTHES, small clothes, the dress of young
children after the first long clothes.--_v.t._ SHORT'-COAT, to dress in
short-coats.--_n.pl._ SHORT'-COATS, the shortened skirts of a child when
the first long clothes are left off.--_n._ SHORT'COMING, act of coming or
falling short of produce or result: neglect of, or failure in,
duty.--_n.pl._ SHORT'-COMM'ONS (see COMMON).--_n._ SHORT'-CROSS, the short
cross-bar of a printer's chase.--_adjs._ SHORT'-CUT, cut short instead of
in long shreds--of tobacco, &c.--also _n._; SHORT'-D[=A]T'ED, having short
or little time to run from its date, as a bill.--_n._ SHORT'-DIVI'SION, a
method of division with a divisor not larger than 12--opp. to
_Long-division_.--_v.t._ SHORT'EN, to make short: to deprive: to make
friable.--_v.i._ to become short or shorter: to contract.--_n._
SHORT'-GOWN, a loose jacket with a skirt, worn by women, a
bed-gown.--_adj._ SHORT'-GRASSED (_Shak._), provided or covered with short
grass.--_n._ SHORT'HAND, an art by which writing is made shorter and
easier, so as to keep pace with speaking.--_adj._ SHORT'-HAND'ED, not
having the proper number of servants, work-people, &c.--_ns._ SHORT'HANDER,
a stenographer; SHORT'-HORN, one of a breed of cattle having very short
horns--_Durham_ and _Teeswater_.--_adj._ SHORT'-HORNED.--_n._ SHORT'-HOSE,
the stockings of the Highland dress, reaching to the knee, as opposed to
the long hose formerly worn by Englishmen.--_adjs._ SHORT'-JOINT'ED, short
between the joints: having a short pastern; SHORT'-LEGGED (_Shak._), having
short legs; SHORT'-LIVED, living or lasting only for a short time.--_adv._
SHORT'LY, in a short time: in a brief manner: quickly: soon.--_ns._
SHORT'-M[=E]'TRE (see METRE); SHORT'NESS; SHORT'-PULL, a light impression
on a hand-press; SHORT'-RIB, one of the lower ribs, not reaching to the
breast-bone, a false or floating rib.--_adj._ SHORT'-SIGHT'ED, having sight
extending but a short distance: unable to see far: of weak intellect:
heedless.--_adv._ SHORT'-SIGHT'EDLY.--_n._ SHORT'-SIGHT'EDNESS.--_adjs._
SHORT'-SP[=O]'KEN, sharp and curt in speech; SHORT'-ST[=A]'PLE, having the
fibre short.--_n._ SHORT'-STOP, the player at base-ball between the second
and third base.--_adjs._ SHORT'-TEM'PERED, easily put into a rage;
SHORT'-WIND'ED, affected with shortness of wind or breath; SHORT'-WIT'TED,
having little wit, judgment, or intellect.--AT SHORT SIGHT, meaning that a
bill is payable soon after being presented; BE TAKEN SHORT (_coll_.), to be
suddenly seized with a desire to evacuate fæces; COME, CUT, FALL, SHORT
(see COME, CUT, FALL); IN SHORT, in a few words; MAKE SHORT WORK OF, to
settle some difficulty or opposition promptly; TAKE UP SHORT, to check or
to answer curtly; THE LONG AND SHORT, the whole. [A.S. _sceort_; Old High
Ger. _scurz_; the Dut. and Sw. _kort_, Ger. _kurz_, are borrowed from L.
_curtus_.]

SHOT, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _shoot_.

SHOT, shot, _adj._ (_Spens._) advanced in years.--_n._ a young pig. [Perh.
pa.p. of _shoot_.]

SHOT, shot, _n._ act of shooting: a marksman: a missile: flight of a
missile, or the distance passed by it: small globules of lead: (_gun_.)
solid projectiles generally: a small pellet, of which there are a number in
one charge: range of shot, reach: one cast or set of fishing-nets: the act
of shooting, one who shoots, a marksman: a plot of land, a square furlong:
a stroke in billiards, &c.--_v.t._ to load with shot:--_pr.p._ shot'ting;
_pa.p._ shot'ted.--_ns._ SHOT'-BELT, a belt with a pouch for carrying shot;
SHOT'-CART'RIDGE, a cartridge containing small shot; SHOT'-GAUGE, an
instrument for measuring the size of round-shot; SHOT'-GUN, a smooth-bore
gun for small shot, a fowling-piece; SHOT'-HOLE, a hole made by a shot or
bullet: a blasting-hole ready for a blast; SHOT'-OF-A-C[=A]'BLE, a length
of rope as it comes from the rope-walk; SHOT'-POUCH, a pouch for small
shot.--_adjs._ SHOT'-PROOF, proof against shot; SHOT'TED, loaded with ball
and powder: having a shot or weight attached.--_ns._ SHOT'-TOW'ER, a place
where small shot is made by dropping molten lead through a colander in
rapid motion from a considerable height into water; SHOT'-WIN'DOW, a
projecting window in the staircases of old Scotch wooden houses.--A BAD
SHOT, a wrong guess; A SHOT IN THE LOCKER, a last reserve of money, food,
&c.

SHOT, shot, _adj._ having a changeable colour, chatoyant, as silk, alpaca,
&c.

SHOT, shot, _n._ a reckoning, a share of a tavern-bill, &c.--_adj._
SHOT'-FREE (_Shak._), exempted from paying one's share of the reckoning or
of expense. [_Scot._]

SHOTTEN, shot'n, _p.adj._ (_Shak._) having ejected the spawn: shooting out
into angles: dislocated, as a bone. [From _shoot_.]

SHOUGH, shok, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as _Shock_, a dog.

SHOULD, shood, _pa.t._ of _shall_. [A.S. _sceolde_, _pa.t._ of _sceal_; cf.
_Shall_.]

[Illustration]

SHOULDER, sh[=o]l'd[.e]r, _n._ the part of the trunk between the neck and
the free portion of the arm or fore-limb, the region about the scapula: the
upper joint of the foreleg of an animal cut for market: anything resembling
the shoulder, a rising part, a prominence: that which sustains, support,
the whole might or effort: the whole angle of a bastion between the face
and flank.--_v.t._ to push with the shoulder or violently: to take upon the
shoulder: to fashion with a shoulder or abutment.--_v.i._ to force one's
way forward.--_ns._ SHOUL'DER-BELT, a belt that passes across the shoulder;
SHOUL'DER-BLADE, the broad, flat, blade-like bone (_scapula_) of the
shoulder; SHOUL'DER-BLOCK, a pulley-block left nearly square at the upper
end and cut away towards the sheave; SHOUL'DER-BONE, the humerus,
shoulder-blade; SHOUL'DER-CLAP'PER (_Shak._), one who claps another on the
shoulder or uses great familiarity, a bailiff.--_adj._ SHOUL'DERED, having
shoulders of a specified kind.--_ns._ SHOUL'DER-KNOT, a knot worn as an
ornament on the shoulder, now confined to servants in livery;
SHOUL'DER-PIECE, a strap passing over the shoulder and joining the front
and back part of a garment; SHOUL'DER-SLIP, a sprain of the
shoulder.--_adjs._ SHOUL'DER-SLIPPED, SHOUL'DER-SHOT'TEN (_Shak._), having
the shoulder-joint dislocated.--_n._ SHOUL'DER-STRAP, a strap worn on or
over the shoulder: (_U.S._) a narrow strap of cloth edged with gold-lace
worn on the shoulder to indicate military and naval
rank.--SHOULDER-OF-MUTTON SAIL, a kind of triangular sail of peculiar form,
used mostly in boats, very handy and safe, particularly as a mizzen;
SHOULDER TO SHOULDER, with hearty and united action or effort.--GIVE, SHOW,
or TURN THE COLD SHOULDER (see COLD); PUT, or SET, ONE'S SHOULDER TO THE
WHEEL, to give personal help heartily; WITH ONE SHOULDER, with one consent.
[A.S. _sculder_, _sculdor_; Ger. _schulter_, Dut. _schouder_.]

SHOUT, showt, _n._ a loud and sudden outcry expressing strong emotion, or
to attract attention.--_v.i._ to utter a shout: (_slang_) to order drink
for others by way of treat.--_v.t._ to utter with a shout.--_n._
SHOUT'ER.--_adv._ SHOUT'INGLY. [Ety. unknown.]

SHOUT, showt, _n._ (_prov_.) a light flat-bottomed boat used in
duck-shooting.

SHOVE, shuv, _v.t._ to drive along by continuous pressure: to push before
one.--_v.i._ to push forward: to push off.--_n._ act of shoving: a strong
push, a forward movement of packed river-ice.--SHOVE OFF, to push off a
boat with oar or boat-hook. [A.S. _scofian_; Dut. _schuiven_, Ger.
_schieben_.]

SHOVEL, shuv'l, _n._ an instrument consisting of a broad blade or scoop
with a handle, used for lifting loose substances.--_v.t._ to lift up and
throw with a shovel: to gather in large quantities.--_v.i._ to use a
shovel:--_pr.p._ shov'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shov'elled.--_ns._
SHOV'EL-BOARD, SHOVE'-GROAT, SHUFF'LE-BOARD, a game in which a piece of
money or metal is driven with the hand toward a mark on a board: the board
used in the game; SHOV'ELFUL, as much as a shovel will hold:--_pl._
SHOV'ELFULS; SHOV'EL-HAT, a hat with a broad brim, turned up at the sides,
and projecting in front--affected by Anglican clergy; SHOV'EL-HEAD, the
bonnet-headed shark: the shovel-headed sturgeon; SHOV'ELLER, one who
shovels: a genus of ducks, with mandibles very broad at the end;
SHOV'EL-NOSE, a sturgeon with broad, depressed, shovel-shaped snout. [A.S.
_scofl_, from _scúfan_, to shove; Ger. _schaufel_.]

SHOW, sh[=o], _v.t._ to present to view: to enable to perceive or know: to
inform: to teach: to guide: to prove: to explain: to bestow.--_v.i._ to
appear, come into sight: to look:--_pa.p._ sh[=o]wn or sh[=o]wed.--_n._ act
of showing: display: a sight or spectacle: parade: appearance:
plausibility, pretence: a sign, indication.--_ns._ SHOW'-BILL, a bill for
showing or advertising the price, merits, &c. of goods; SHOW'-BOX, a
showman's box out of which he takes his materials; SHOW'BREAD, among the
Jews, the twelve loaves of bread shown or presented before Jehovah in the
sanctuary; SHOW'-CARD, a placard with an announcement: a card of patterns;
SHOW'-CASE, a case with glass sides in which articles are exhibited in a
museum, &c.; SHOW'-END, that end of a piece of cloth which is on the
outside of the roll for exhibition to customers; SHOW'ER; SHOW'ING,
appearance: a setting forth, representation; SHOW'MAN, one who exhibits
shows; SHOW'-PLACE, a place for exhibition: a gymnasium: (_Shak._) a place
where shows are exhibited; SHOW'-ROOM, a room where a show is exhibited: a
room in a warehouse, &c., where goods are displayed to the best advantage,
a room in a commercial hotel where travellers' samples are exhibited.--SHOW
A LEG (_vul_.), to get out of bed; SHOW FIGHT, to show a readiness to
resist; SHOW FORTH, to give out, proclaim; SHOW OFF, to display
ostentatiously; SHOW OF HANDS, a raising of hands at a meeting to show
approval of any proposal; SHOW ONE'S HAND (see HAND); SHOW ONE THE DOOR, to
dismiss a person from one's house or presence; SHOW UP, to expose to blame
or ridicule. [A.S. _scéawian_; Dut. _schouwen_, Ger. _schauen_, to behold.]

SHOWER, show'[.e]r, _n._ a fall of rain or hail, of short duration: a
copious and rapid fall: a liberal supply of anything.--_v.t._ to wet with
rain: to bestow liberally.--_v.i._ to rain in showers.--_ns._ SHOW'ER-BATH,
a bath in which water is showered upon one from above: the apparatus for
giving a bath by showering water on the person; SHOW'ERINESS, the state of
being showery.--_adjs._ SHOW'ERLESS, without showers; SHOW'ERY, abounding
with showers. [A.S. _scúr_; Ice. _skúr_, Ger. _schauer_.]

SHOWY, sh[=o]'i, _adj._ making a show: cutting a dash: ostentatious:
gay.--_adv._ SHOW'ILY.--_n._ SHOW'INESS.

SHRAB, shrab, _n._ sherbet, liquor generally, spirits. [Hind. _shar[=a]b_,
wine.]

SHRANK, shrangk, _pa.t._ of _shrink_.

[Illustration]

SHRAPNEL, shrap'nel, _n._ a shell filled with musket-balls--from General
_Shrapnel_ (died 1842).

SHRED, shred, _n._ a long, narrow piece cut or torn off: a strip, fragment,
particle.--_v.t._ to cut or tear into shreds.--_n._ SHRED'DING, the act of
cutting into shreds: a shred.--_adjs._ SHRED'DY, consisting of shreds,
ragged; SHRED'LESS.--_n._ SHRED'-PIE, mince-pie. [A.S. _screáde_; Ger.
_schrot_, Scot. _screed_.]

SHREW, shr[=oo], _n._ a brawling, troublesome woman: a scold: a family of
insectivorous mammals closely resembling, in general form and appearance,
the true mice and dormice--the head long, muzzle long and pointed.--_adj._
SHREWD, of an acute judgment: biting, keen: sly, malicious, wicked,
cunning, vixenish.--_adv._ SHREWD'LY.--_n._ SHREWD'NESS.--_adj._ SHREW'ISH,
having the qualities of a shrew: peevish and troublesome:
clamorous.--_adv._ SHREW'ISHLY.--_ns._ SHREW'ISHNESS; SHREW'-MOLE, a genus
of insectivorous mammals of the family _Talpidæ_, very closely allied to
the moles.--_adj._ SHREW'-STRUCK, poisoned or blasted by a shrew. [A.S.
_screáwa_, a shrew-mouse, its bite having been supposed venomous; cf. Ger.
_scher-maus_, a mole.]

SHRIEK, shr[=e]k, _v.i._ to utter a shriek: to scream.--_v.t._ to utter
shriekingly.--_n._ the shrill outcry caused by terror or
anguish--(_Spens._) SCHRIECH, SHRIGHT, SHRIKE.--_ns._ SHRIEK'ER;
SHRIEK'-OWL (same as SCREECH-OWL). [_Screech_.]

SHRIEVE, shr[=e]v, _v.t._ (_Spens._) same as SHRIVE.--_n._ SHRIEV'ALTY
(same as SHERIFFALTY).

SHRIFT, shrift, _n._ a confession made to a priest: absolution--esp. of a
dying man. [A.S. _scrift_--_scrífan_, to shrive.]

SHRIKE, shr[=i]k, _n._ a genus of passerine birds which prey on insects and
small birds, impaling its prey on thorns--hence called the _Butcher-bird_.
[Ice. _skríkja_; cf. _Shriek_.]

SHRILL, shril, _adj._ piercing: sharp: uttering an acute sound.--_adjs._
SHRILL'-GORGED (_Shak._), shrill-throated; SHRILL'ING (_Spens._), sounding
shrill.--_n._ SHRILL'NESS.--_adjs._ SHRILL'-TONGUED, SHRILL'-VOICED
(_Shak._), having a shrill voice; SHRILL'Y, somewhat shrill.--_adv._
SHRILL'Y. [Skeat explains M. E. _shril_ (Scotch _skirl_) as from Scand.,
Norw. _skryla_, _skräla_, to cry shrilly; cf. Low Ger. _schrell_.]

SHRIMP, shrimp, _n._ a genus of edible crustaceans, of the order
_Decapoda_, allied to lobsters, crayfish, and prawns: a little wizened or
dwarfish person.--_v.i._ to catch shrimps.--_ns._ SHRIMP'ER, one who
catches shrimps; SHRIMP'ING, the act of catching shrimps; SHRIMP'-NET, a
small-meshed net, on a hoop and pole, for catching shrimps. [Parallel to
_shrink_; cf. Scotch _scrimpit_, pinched.]

SHRINE, shr[=i]n, _n._ a case or reliquary for relics: a sacred place: an
altar: anything hallowed by its associations.--_v.t._ to enshrine.--_adj._
SHR[=I]'NAL. [A.S. _scrín_--L. _scrinium_--_scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

SHRINK, shringk, _v.i._ to contract: to wither: to occupy less space: to
become wrinkled by contraction: to recoil, as from fear, disgust,
&c.--_v.t._ to cause to shrink or contract: to withdraw:--_pa.t._ shrank,
shrunk; _pa.p._ shrunk.--_n._ act of shrinking: contraction: withdrawal or
recoil.--_adj._ SHRINK'ABLE.--_ns._ SHRINK'AGE, a contraction into a less
compass: the extent of the reduction of anything in bulk by shrinking,
evaporation, &c.; SHRINK'ER.--_adv._ SHRINK'INGLY, in a shrinking manner:
by shrinking. [A.S. _scrincan_; akin to Ger. _schränken_, to place
obliquely.]

SHRIVE, shr[=i]v, _v.t._ to hear a confession from and give absolution
to.--_v.i._ to receive confession: to make such:--_pa.t._ shr[=o]ve or
shr[=i]ved; _pa.p._ shriv'en.--_ns._ SHR[=I]'VER, one who shrives: a
confessor; SHR[=I]'VING (_Spens._), shift, confession; SHR[=I]VING-TIME
(_Shak._), time for confession. [A.S. _scrífan_, to write, to prescribe
penance--L. _scrib[)e]re_.]

SHRIVEL, shriv'l, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to contract into wrinkles: to
blight:--_pr.p._ shriv'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shriv'elled. [Perh.
conn. with Old Northumbrian _screpa_, to become dry; cf. Norw. _skrypa_, to
waste.]

SHROFF, shrof, _n._ a banker or money-changer in India.--_v.t._ to inspect
the quality of coins.--_n._ SHROFF'AGE, such examination. [Hind.
_sarr[=a]f_--Ar. _sarr[=a]f_.]

SHROUD, shrowd, _n._ the dress of the dead, a winding-sheet: that which
clothes or covers: any underground hole, a vault, burrow, &c.: (_pl._) a
set of ropes from the mast-heads to a ship's sides, to support the
masts.--_v.t._ to enclose in a shroud: to cover: to hide: to
shelter.--_v.i._ to take shelter.--_adjs._ SHROUD'LESS, without a shroud;
SHROUD'Y, giving shelter. [A.S. _scrúd_; Ice. _skrúdh_, clothing.]

SHROUD, shrowd, _v.t._ (_prov._) to lop the branches from, as a tree.--_n._
a cutting, a bough or branch, the foliage of a tree. [A variant of
_shred_.]

SHROVE-TIDE, shr[=o]v'-t[=i]d, _n._ the name given to the days immediately
preceding Ash-Wednesday, preparatory to Lent--given up to football,
cock-fighting, bull-baiting, &c.--_ns._ SHROVE'-CAKE, a pancake for
SHROVE-TIDE; SHROVE'-TUES'DAY, the day before Ash-Wednesday. [A.S.
_scrífan_, to shrive.]

SHROW, shr[=o], _n._ (_Shak._). Same as SHREW.

SHRUB, shrub, _n._ a woody plant with several stems from the same root: a
bush or dwarf tree.--_v.t._ (_prov._) to win all a man's money at
play.--_adj._ SHRUB'BERIED, abounding in shrubbery.--_ns._ SHRUB'BERY, a
plantation of shrubs; SHRUB'BINESS, the state or quality of being
shrubby.--_adjs._ SHRUB'BY, full of shrubs: like a shrub: consisting of
shrubs; SHRUB'LESS. [A.S. _scrob_; prov. Eng. _shruff_, light rubbish
wood.]

SHRUB, shrub, _n._ a drink prepared from the juice of lemons, currants,
raspberries, with spirits, as rum. [A variant of _shrab_.]

SHRUFF, shruf, _n._ (_prov._) refuse wood. [_Shrub_.]

SHRUG, shrug, _v.t._ to draw up: to contract.--_v.i._ to draw up the
shoulders, expressive of doubt, surprise, indifference, &c.:--_pr.p._
shrug'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shrugged.--_n._ an expressive drawing up of
the shoulders. [Scand., Dan. _skrugge_, to stoop.]

SHRUNK, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of shrink.

SHUCK, shuk, _n._ a husk, shell, or pod.--_v.t._ to remove such, to strip
off.--_ns._ SHUCK'ER, one who shucks; SHUCK'ING, the act of taking off the
shuck: a shucking-bee.--_interj._ SHUCKS (_slang_), expressive of contempt
or disappointment.

SHUDDER, shud'[.e]r, _v.i._ to tremble from fear or horror.--_n._ a
trembling from fear or horror.--_adj._ SHUDD'ERING, trembling,
tremulous.--_adv._ SHUDD'ERINGLY. [Cf. Old Dut. _schudden_; Ger.
_schaudern_, to shudder.]

SHUFFLE, shuf'l, _v.t._ to change the positions of: to confuse: to remove
or introduce by purposed confusion.--_v.i._ to change the order of cards in
a pack: to shift ground: to evade fair questions: to move by shoving the
feet along.--_n._ act of shuffling: an evasion or artifice.--_n._
SHUFF'LER.--_p.adj._ SHUFF'LING, evasive, as an excuse.--_adv._
SHUFF'LINGLY, in a shuffling manner: with an irregular gait: evasively.--TO
SHUFFLE OFF, to thrust aside, put off. [A by-form of _scuffle_, thus conn.
with _shove_ and _shovel_.]

SHUG, shug, _v.i._ (_prov._) to crawl, to shrug.

SHUN, shun, _v.t._ to avoid: to keep clear of: to neglect:--_pr.p._
shun'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shunned.--_adj._ SHUN'LESS (_Shak._), not
able to be shunned: unavoidable.--_ns._ SHUN'NER; SHUN'PIKE, a byroad.
[A.S. _scunian_; Ice. _skunda_, to speed.]

SHUNT, shunt, _v.t._ to turn aside, to turn off upon a side-rail: to shove
off, free one's self from.--_v.i._ to turn aside: to use a switch or shunt
in railways and electrics.--_n._ a short side-rail for allowing the
main-line to be kept free: (_electr._) a conductor joining two points of a
circuit, through which a part of the current is diverted.--_ns._  SHUN'TER;
SHUN'TING. [A.S. _scyndan_, to hasten. Skeat derives from Ice. _skunda_, to
speed.]

SHUT, shut, _v.t._ to close, as a door: to forbid entrance into: to
contract, close, or bring together the parts of: to confine: to catch in
the act of shutting something.--_v.i._ to close itself: to be
closed.--_pr.p._ shut'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ shut.--_p.adj._ made fast,
closed: not resonant, dull: formed by closing the mouth and nose passages
completely, said of consonants, as _t_, _d_, _p_: having the sound cut off
sharply by a succeeding consonant, as the _i_ in _pin_, &c.: freed from
(with _of_).--_ns._ SHUT'DOWN, a discontinuance of work in a factory, &c.;
SHUT'TER, one who, or that which, shuts: a close cover for a window or
aperture: (_phot._) a device for opening and closing a lens.--_v.t._ to
cover with shutters.--_n._ SHUT'TER-DAM, a form of movable dam having large
gates opened and closed by a turbine.--SHUT DOWN, to stop working; SHUT IN,
to enclose, to confine: to settle down, or fall (said, e.g., of evening);
SHUT OFF, to exclude; SHUT OUT, to prevent from entering; SHUT UP, to
close, to confine: (_coll._) to cease speaking, to make one do so, to make
it impossible to answer. [A.S. _scyttan_, to bar--_sceótan_, to shoot.]

SHUTTLE, shut'l, _n._ an instrument used for shooting the thread of the
woof between the threads of the warp in weaving.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to move
to and fro, like a shuttle.--_n._ SHUTT'LECOCK, a rounded cork stuck with
feathers, driven with a battledore: the game itself.--_adv._ SHUTT'LEWISE,
in the manner of a shuttle.--_adj._ SHUTT'LE-WIT'TED, flighty. [From base
of A.S. _sceótan_, shoot; Dan. and Sw. _skyttel_.]

SHWANPAN, shwän'pan, _n._ the Chinese abacus or reckoning board.--Also
SWAN'PAN.

SHY, sh[=i], _adj._ timid: reserved: cautious: suspicious: elusive, hard to
find.--_v.i._ to start aside, as a horse from fear.--_v.t._ to
avoid:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sh[=i]ed.--_n._ a sudden swerving
aside.--_advs._ SHY'LY, SHI'LY.--_ns._ SHY'NESS, SH[=I]'NESS (_obs._);
SHY'STER, a tricky lawyer.--FIGHT SHY OF (see FIGHT); LOOK SHY AT, or on,
to regard with distrust. [A.S. _sceóh_; Ger. _scheu_, Dan. _sky_.]

SHY, sh[=i], _v.t._ to fling, throw, toss.--_v.i._ to jerk.--_n._ a throw,
a fling: a gibe, sneer: a trial.

SI, s[=e], _n._ the syllable used for the seventh tone of the scale, or the
leading tone.

SIALOGOGUE, s[=i]-al'o-gog, _n._ a drug which increases the secretion of
saliva--also SIAL'AGOGUE.--_adjs._ SIALOGOG'IC (-goj'-); S[=I]'ALOID.--_n._
SIALORRH[=E]'A, excessive flow of saliva. [Gr. _sialon_, saliva,
_ag[=o]gos_, leading--_agein_, to lead.]

SIAMANG, s[=e]'a-mang, _n._ the largest of the gibbons, found in Sumatra
and Malacca. [Malay.]

SIAMESE, s[=i]-am-[=e]z', _adj._ pertaining or belonging to _Siam_, a
country of Asia.--_n._ a native of Siam.--SIAMESE TWINS, two famous Siamese
men (1811-74), joined from their birth by a cartilaginous band.

SIB, SIBBE, sib, _adj._ (_Spens._) related by blood, akin.--_n._ a blood
relation: a close ally. [A.S. _sibb_, relationship; Gr. _sippe_.]

SIBERIAN, s[=i]-b[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Siberia_, a country of
Asia.--_n._ a native of Siberia.--_n._ SIB[=E]'RITE, rubellite from
Siberia.

SIBILANCE, sib'i-lans, _n._ a hissing sound--also SIB'ILANCY.--_adj._
SIB'ILANT, making a hissing sound.--_n._ a sibilant letter, as _s_ and
_z_.--_v.t._ SIB'IL[=A]TE, to pronounce with a hissing sound.--_n._
SIBIL[=A]'TION, a hissing sound.--_adjs._ SIB'ILATORY, SIB'ILOUS, hissing,
sibilant. [L. _sibil[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to hiss.]

SIBYL, sib'il, _n._ in ancient mythology, one of certain women possessing
powers of divination and prophecy: a prophetess, an old sorceress.--_adjs._
SIBYL'LIC, SIB'YLLINE, pertaining to, uttered, or written by sibyls:
prophetical.--_n._ SIB'YLLIST, a believer in the so-called sibylline
prophecies.--SIBYLLINE ORACLES, a series of pretended prophecies in Greek
hexameters, written by Alexandrian Jews and Christians, and supposed to
date from the 2d century B.C. down to the 3d century A.D., or, according to
Ewald, even the 6th. [L.,--Gr. _sibylla_, not 'she who reveals the will of
Zeus,' _Dios boul[=e]_. The root is _sib-_, as in L. _per-sibus_, acute,
Gr. _sophos_, wise.]

SIC, sik, _adv._ so, thus--printed within brackets in quoted matter to show
that the original is being correctly reproduced, even though incorrect or
wrong.--SIC PASSIM, so throughout.

SIC, sik, SICCAN, sik'an, _adj._ Scotch forms of _such_.--_adj._ SIC'-LIKE,
for _such-like_, of the same kind.

SICAMBRIAN, si-kam'bri-an, _n._ one of a powerful ancient German tribe.

SICANIAN, si-k[=a]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Sicanians_, an
aboriginal pre-Aryan race in Sicily.

SICCA, sik'a, _adj._ newly coined. [Hind.]

SICCATE, sik'[=a]t, _v.t._ to dry.--_n._ SICC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ SICC'ATIVE,
drying: causing to dry.--_n._ SICCITY (sik'si-ti), dryness. [L.
_sicc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_siccus_, dry.]

SICE, s[=i]s, _n._ the number six at dice.

SICE, SYCE, s[=i]s, _n._ a groom, a mounted attendant.--Also SAICE. [Hind,
_s[=a]is_--Ar. _s[=a]is_.]

SICELIOT, si-sel'i-ot, _adj._ pertaining to the _Siceliots_, the colonies
of immigrant Greeks in Sicily, who gradually became assimilated with the
native _Siculi_--also SIKEL'IOT.--_n._ a Greek settler in Sicily: a
Siculian.

SICH, sich, _adj._ (_Spens._) such.

SICILIAN, si-sil'yan, _adj._ of or pertaining to Sicily, an island south of
Italy.--_n._ a native of Sicily.--_ns._ SICILIÄ'NO, a Sicilian popular
dance in slow movement, also the music for such; SICILIENNE', a ribbed silk
fabric.--SICILIAN VESPERS, the massacre of the French in Sicily on Easter
Monday 1282--at the first stroke of the vesper-bell.

SICK, sik, _adj._ affected with disease: ill: inclined to vomit: disgusted:
infirm: disordered: pining: depressed: indicating sickness: poor in
quality: out of repair.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to grow sick.--_ns._ SICK'-BAY,
-BERTH, a compartment on a troop-ship, &c., for sick and wounded;
SICK'-BED, a bed on which a person lies sick.--_adj._ SICK'-BRAINED,
mentally deranged.--_v.t._ SICK'EN, to make sick: to disgust: to make weary
of anything.--_v.i._ to become sick: to be disgusted: to become disgusting
or tedious: to become weakened.--_n._ SICK'ENER, any cause of
disgust.--_adj._ SICK'ENING, causing sickness or disgust, loathsome.--_n._
a scum which forms on the surface of mercury from grease, sulphides,
arsenides, &c.--_adv._ SICK'ENINGLY.--_adj._ SICK'-FALL'EN (_Shak._),
struck down with sickness.--_ns._ SICK'-FLAG, a yellow flag indicating
disease on board a ship; SICK'-HEAD'ACHE, headache accompanied with
nausea.--_adj._ SICK'ISH, somewhat sick.--_adv._ SICK'ISHLY.--_ns._
SICK'ISHNESS; SICK'-LEAVE, leave of absence from duty owing to
sickness.--_adj._ SICK'LIED (_Shak._), tainted with the hue of sickness or
disease.--_adv._ SICK'LILY, in a sickly manner.--_ns._ SICK'LINESS, the
state of being sickly, or of appearing so; SICK'-LIST, a list containing
the names of the sick.--_adjs._ SICK'-LISTED, entered on the sick-list;
SICK'LY, inclined to sickness: unhealthy: somewhat sick: weak: languid:
producing disease: mawkish: feeble, mentally weak.--_adv._ in a sick
manner: feebly.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to make sickly or sickly-looking.--_ns._
SICK'NESS, state of being sick, disease: disorder of the stomach: an
enfeebled state of anything; SICK'-REPORT', a return regularly made of the
state of the sick; SICK'-ROOM, a room to which a person is confined by
sickness.--_adj._ SICK'-THOUGHT'ED (_Shak._), love-sick. [A.S. _seóc_; Ger.
_siech_, Dut. _ziek_.]

SICK, sik, _v.t._ to set upon, chase: to incite to attack. [A variant of
_seek_.]

SICKER, sik'[.e]r, _adj._ (_Scot._) sure, certain, firm.--_adv._ (_Spens._)
surely, certainly--also SICC'AR.--_n._ SICK'ERNESS (_Spens._), the state of
being sicker or certain. [A.S. _siker_--L. _securus_; Ger. _sicher_.]

SICKLE, sik'l, _n._ a hooked instrument for cutting grain.--_n._
SIC'KLE-BILL, a name applied to various birds with sickle-shaped
bill.--_adj._ SIC'KLED, bearing a sickle.--_ns._ SIC'KLE-FEATH'ER, one of
the sickle-shaped middle feathers of the domestic cock; SIC'KLEMAN, one who
uses a sickle, a reaper.--_adj._ SIC'KLE-SHAPED.--_n._ SIC'KLE-WORT, the
self-heal. [A.S. _sicol_, _sicel_--L. _secula_, a sickle--_sec[=a]re_, to
cut.]

SICSAC, sik'sak, _n._ the Egyptian courser, crocodile-bird, or black-headed
plover.--Also _Ziczac_.

SICULIAN, si-k[=u]'li-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Siculi_, an ancient and
most probably Aryan race of southern Italy who colonised Sicily.--_adjs._
SIC'ULO-AR[=A]'BIAN; SIC'ULO-P[=U]'NIC.

SICYOS, sis'i-os, _n._ a genus of plants of the order _Cucurbitaceæ_, the
gourd family.

SIDA, s[=i]'da, _n._ a large genus of downy herbs of the mallow family.
[Gr.]

SIDDHA, sid'da, _n._ one who has attained to SID'DHI, accomplishment or
perfection.--_n._ SIDDHAR'TA, an epithet of Buddha. [Sans.]

SIDDOW, sid'[=o], _adj._ (_prov._) soft, pulpy.

SIDE, s[=i]d, _n._ the edge or border of anything: the surface of a solid:
a part of a thing as seen by the eye: region, part: the part of an animal
between the hip and shoulder: any party, interest, or opinion opposed to
another: faction: line of descent: at billiards, a certain bias or kind of
spinning motion given to a ball by striking it sidewise: (_slang_) a
pretentious and supercilious manner, swagger.--_adj._ being on or toward
the side: lateral: indirect.--_v.i._ to embrace the opinion or cause of one
party against another.--_v.t._ (_Spens._) to be on the same side with, to
support: to cut into sides: to push aside, to set aside.--_n.pl._
SIDE'ARMS, arms or weapons worn on the side, as a sword or bayonet.--_ns._
SIDE'-BEAM, either of the working-beams of a marine engine, placed below
the crank-shaft, on each side of the cylinder, instead of a central beam
above the crank-shaft; SIDE'BOARD, a piece of furniture on one side of a
dining-room for holding dishes, &c.: (_pl._) side-whiskers, stiff standing
collars (_slang_).--_n.pl._ SIDE'-BONES, enlargements situated above the
quarters of a horse's feet, resulting from the conversion into bone of the
elastic lateral cartilages.--_ns._ SIDE'BOX, a box or seat at the side of a
theatre; SIDE'-CHAP'EL, a chapel in an aisle or at the side of a church;
SIDE'-COMB, a small comb used to keep a lock of hair in place at the side
of a woman's head; SIDE'-COUS'IN, a distant relative; SIDE'-CUT, a cut from
the side, an indirect attack; SIDE'-CUT'TING, an excavation of earth along
the side of a railway or canal to obtain material for an
embankment.--_adj._ SID'ED, having a side: flattened on one or more
sides.--_ns._ SIDE'-DISH, any supplementary dish at a dinner, &c.,
specially flavoured; SIDE'-DRUM, a small double-headed drum in military
bands; SIDE'-GLANCE, a glance to one side; SIDE'-IS'SUE, a subordinate
issue aside from the main business; SIDE'LIGHT, light coming from the side,
any incidental illustration: a window, as opposed to a sky-light, a window
above or at the side of a door: one of the red or green lights carried on
the side of a vessel under way at night; SIDE'-LINE, a line attached to the
side of anything: any additional or extra line of goods sold by a
commercial traveller: (_pl._) the ropes binding the fore and hind feet on
the same side of a horse.--_adj._ SIDE'LING, inclining to a side,
sloping.--_adv._ sidewise, aslant.--_n._ SIDE'LOCK, a separate lock of hair
worn at the side of the head.--_adj._ SIDE'LONG, oblique: not
straight.--_adv._ in the direction of the side: obliquely.--_n._ the slope
of a hill.--_ns._ SIDE'-NOTE, a marginal note on a page, as opposed to a
foot-note; SIDE'-PART'NER (_U.S._), one who shares a duty or employment
with another alongside or alternately; SID'ER, a partisan: one living in
any particular quarter of a city; SIDE'-ROD, a coupling-rod of a
locomotive: either of the rods of a side-beam engine connecting the
cross-head on the piston-rod with the working-beam: either of the rods of a
side-beam engine connecting the working-beams with the cross-head of the
air-pump; SIDE'SADD'LE, a saddle for women sitting, not astride, but with
both feet on one side; SIDE'SADDLE-FLOWER, a name sometimes given to a
plant of the genus _Sarracenia_; SIDE'-SCREW, a screw on the front edge of
a carpenter's bench to hold the work fast: one of the screws fastening the
lockplate of a gun to the stock; SIDE'-SCRIP'TION (_Scots law_), an old
method of authenticating deeds written on several sheets of paper pasted
together, by signing the name across each junction; SIDE'-SEAT, a seat in a
vehicle with the back against its side; SIDE'-SHOW, an exhibition
subordinate to a larger one; SIDE'-SLEEVE (_Shak._), a loose hanging
sleeve; SIDE'-SLIP, an oblique offshoot: a bastard; SIDES'MAN, a deputy
churchwarden: (_Milt._) a partisan.--_adj._ SIDE'-SPLIT'TING, affecting the
sides convulsively, as in boisterous laughter.--_ns._ SIDE'-STROKE, a
stroke given sideways; SIDE'-T[=A]'BLE, a table placed usually against the
wall; SIDE'-VIEW, a view on or from one side; SIDE'-WALK, a foot-walk
beside a street or road.--_advs._ SIDE'WAYS, SIDE'WISE, toward or on one
side.--_adj._ SIDE'-WHEEL, having side or paddle wheels.--_ns._ SIDE'-WIND,
a wind blowing laterally: any indirect influence or means; S[=I]D'ING, a
short line of rails on which wagons are shunted from the main-line.--_v.i._
S[=I]'DLE, to go or move side-foremost.--_v.t._ to cause to move
sideways.--SIDE BY SIDE, placed with sides near each other.--CHOOSE SIDES,
to pick out opposing parties to contend with each other; RIGHT, or WRONG,
SIDE, the side of anything (cloth, leather, &c.) intended to be turned
outward or inward respectively; TAKE A SIDE, to join one party in
opposition to another; TAKE SIDES, to range one's self with one or other of
contending parties; TO ONE SIDE, having a lateral inclination: out of
sight. [A.S. _síde_; Ger. _seite_, Dut. _zijde_.]

SIDE, s[=i]d, _adj._ (_Scot._) wide, large: far. [A.S. _síd_, spacious.]

SIDEREAL, s[=i]-d[=e]'r[=e]-al, _adj._ relating to a star or stars: starry:
(_astron._) measured by the apparent motion of the stars.--_adj._ SID'ERAL
(_Milt._), relating to the stars: baleful, from astrology.--_n._
SIDER[=A]'TION, a sudden deprivation of sense, as a stroke of apoplexy: a
blast of plants.--SIDEREAL DAY, the time between two successive upper
culminations of a fixed star or of the vernal equinox, shorter than a solar
day; SIDEREAL YEAR (see YEAR). [L. _sidus_, _sideris_, a star.]

SIDERITE, sid'[.e]r-[=i]t, _n._ the lodestone: native iron
protocarbonate--also _Chalybite_, _Spathic_ or _Sparry iron_, _Junckerite_.
[L. _sideritis_, the lodestone--Gr. _sid[=e]rit[=e]s_, of
iron--_sid[=e]ros_, iron.]

SIDEROGRAPHY, sid-[.e]r-og'ra-fi, _n._ steel-engraving.--_adjs._
SIDEROGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ SIDEROG'RAPHIST. [Gr. _sid[=e]ros_, iron,
_graphein_, engrave.]

SIDEROLITE, sid'e-r[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a meteorite composed chiefly of iron.
[Gr. _sid[=e]ros_, iron, _lithos_, stone.]

SIDEROMANCY, sid'[.e]r-[=o]-mans-i, _n._ divination by burning straws, &c.,
on a red-hot plate of iron. [Gr. _sid[=e]ros_, iron, _manteia_,
divination.]

SIDEROSCOPE, sid'[.e]r-o-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for detecting minute
degrees of magnetism by means of a combination of magnetic needles. [Gr.
_sid[=e]ros_, iron, _skopein_, to view.]

SIDEROSTAT, sid'e-r[=o]-stat, _n._ a heliostat adapted to sidereal
time.--_adj._ SIDEROSTAT'IC. [L. _sidus_, _sideris_ a star, Gr. _statos_,
standing.]

SIEGE, s[=e]j, _n._ a sitting down with an army round or before a fortified
place in order to take it by force: a continued endeavour to gain
possession: (_Shak._) a seat, throne, station: (_Shak._) excrement: the
floor of a glass-furnace: a workman's bench.--_v.t._ to lay siege
to.--_ns._ SIEGE'-PIECE, a coin, generally of unusual shape and rude
workmanship, issued in a besieged place during stress of siege;
SIEGE'-TRAIN, the materials carried by an army for the purpose of laying
siege to a place.--STATE OF SIEGE, a condition of things in which civil law
is suspended or made subordinate to military law; MINOR STATE OF SIEGE, a
modification of the more severe rule in cases of merely domestic trouble.
[O. Fr. _sege_ (Fr. _siège_), seat--Low L. _assedium_=L. _obsidium_, a
siege--_sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

SIELD, s[=e]ld (_Spens._). Cieled.

SIENESE, si-e-n[=e]z', _adj._ pertaining to _Siena_, or _Sienna_, in
central Italy, or its school of painting in the 13th and 14th centuries.

SIENITE, SIENITIC. Same as SYENITE, &c.

SIENNA, si-en'a, _n._ a fine orange-red pigment used in oil and
water-colour painting. [It. _terra di Siena_, Sienna earth.]

SIERRA, s[=e]-er'ra, _n._ a ridge of mountains: a scombroid fish. [Sp.,
usually derived from L. _serra_, a saw. Some suggest Ar. _sehrah_, a desert
place, whence also _Sahara_.]

SIESTA, si-es'ta, _n._ a short sleep taken about midday or after dinner.
[Sp.,--L. _sexta_ (_hora_), the _sixth_ (hour) after sunrise, the hour of
noon.]

SIEUR, sièr, _n._ a French title of respect, obsolete except in law-courts.
[Fr.,--L. _senior_.]

SIEVE, siv, _n._ a vessel with a bottom of woven hair or wire to separate
the fine part of anything from the coarse: a person who cannot keep a
secret.--_v.t._ to put through a sieve: to sift. [A.S. _sife_; Ger.
_seib_.]

SIFFLE, sif'l, _n._ a sibilant râle.--_v.i._ to whistle, hiss.--_ns._
SIFF'LET, a theatrical whistle; SIFF'LEUR, a whistler. [Fr. _siffler_--L.
_sibil[=a]re_.]

SIFT, sift, _v.t._ to separate with, or as with, a sieve: to examine
closely.--_n._ SIFT'ER, one who, or that which, sifts. [A.S.
_siftan_--_sife_, a sieve.]

SIGH, s[=i], _v.i._ to inhale and respire with a long, deep, and audible
breathing, as in love or grief: to sound like sighing.--_v.t._ to express
by sighs.--_n._ a long, deep, audible respiration.--_n._ SIGH'ER.--_adj._
SIGH'FUL.--_adv._ SIGH'INGLY. [A.S. _sícan_; Sw. _sucka_.]

SIGHT, s[=i]t, _n._ act of seeing: view: faculty of seeing: that which is
seen: a spectacle: an object of especial interest: space within vision:
examination: a small opening for looking through at objects: a metal pin on
the top of a barrel of a gun to guide the eye in taking aim: (_slang_) a
great many or a great deal.--_v.t._ to catch sight of: to present to sight
or put under notice.--_adjs._ SIGHT'ED, having sight of some special
character, as short-sighted: fitted with a sight, as a firearm; SIGHT'LESS,
wanting sight: blind: (_Shak._) invisible: (_Shak._) unsightly,
ugly.--_adv._ SIGHT'LESSLY.--_ns._ SIGHT'LESSNESS; SIGHT'LINESS.--_adjs._
SIGHT'LY, pleasing to the sight or eye: comely; SIGHT'-OUTRUN'NING
(_Shak._), running faster than the eye can follow.--_ns._ SIGHT'-READ'ER,
one who reads at sight, as musical notes, passages in a foreign tongue,
&c.; SIGHT'-READING; SIGHT'-SEE'ING, the act of seeing sights: eagerness to
see novelties or curiosities; SIGHT'-S[=E]'ER, one who is eager to see
novelties or curiosities; SIGHTS'MAN, a local guide; SEC'OND-SIGHT, a gift
of prophetic vision, long supposed in the Scottish Highlands and elsewhere
to belong to particular persons.--AT SIGHT, without previous study or
practice; AT SIGHT, AFTER SIGHT, terms applied to bills or notes payable
on, or after, presentation; LOSE SIGHT OF, to cease to see: to overlook;
OUT OF SIGHT, too far away to be seen: not in sight: (_coll._) beyond
comparison; PUT OUT OF SIGHT, to remove from vision: (_slang_) to consume,
as food. [A.S. _siht_, _ge-siht_--_ge-segen_, pa.p. of _seón_, to see; Ger.
_sicht._]

SIGHT, s[=i]t (_Spens._)=_Sighed._

SIGIL, sij'il, _n._ a seal: a signature: an occult or magical
mark.--_adjs._ SIG'ILLARY, pertaining to a seal; SIG'ILLATE, decorated, as
pottery, with impressed patterns: (_bot._) marked with seal-like
scars.--_ns._ SIGILL[=A]'TION; SIGILLOG'RAPHY, knowledge of seals.--_n.pl._
SIG'LA, abbreviations of names, &c., on seals. [L. _sigillum_, dim. of
_signum_, sign.]

SIGILLARIA, sij-il-[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a family of fossil lycopods, abundant in
Carboniferous strata, with pillar-like trunks, the columnar stems ribbed
and fluted longitudinally, the fluting marked by rows or whorls of scars
left by fallen leaves.--_adjs._ SIGILL[=A]'RIAN, SIG'ILLAROID,
SIGILL[=A]'RIOID. [L. _sigillum_, a seal.]

SIGMA, sig'ma, _n._ the Greek letter corresponding to our _s_--written
[Sigma] (capital), [sigma] (small initial) or [sigmaf] (small
final).--_adjs._ SIG'MATE, SIGMAT'IC.--_ns._ SIGM[=A]'TION, the adding of
_s_ at the end of a word or syllable; SIG'MATISM, repetition of _s_ or the
s-sound: defective pronunciation of this sound.--_adjs._ SIG'MOID, -AL,
formed like _s_.

SIGN, s[=i]n, _n._ mark, token: proof: that by which a thing is known or
represented: a word, gesture, symbol, or mark, intended to signify
something else: a remarkable event: an omen: a miraculous manifestation: a
memorial: something set up as a notice in a public place: (_math._) a mark
showing the relation of quantities or an operation to be performed:
(_med._) a symptom: (_astron._) one of the twelve parts of the zodiac, each
comprising 30 degrees of the ecliptic.--_v.t._ to represent or make known
by a sign: to attach a signature to.--_v.i._ to give one's signature: to
make a particular sign.--_adj._ SIGN'ABLE, capable of being, or requiring
to be, signed.--_ns._ SIGN'BOARD, a board with a sign telling a man's
occupation or articles for sale; SIGN'ER; SIG'NET, the privy-seal: (_B._) a
seal.--_adj._ SIG'NETED, stamped or marked with a signet.--_n._
SIG'NET-RING, a ring with a signet or private seal.--_adj._ SIGN'LESS,
making no sign.--_ns._ SIGN'-MAN'UAL, the royal signature, usually only the
initial of the sovereign's name, with R. for _Rex_ or _Regina_;
SIGN'-PAINT'ER, one who paints signs for shops, &c.; SIGN'POST, a post on
which a sign is hung: a direction-post. [Fr. _signe_--L. _signum._]

SIGNAL, sig'nal, _n._ a sign for giving notice, generally at a distance:
token: the notice given: any initial impulse.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to make
signals to: to convey by signals:--_pr.p._ sig'nalling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
sig'nalled.--_adj._ having a sign: remarkable: notable: eminent.--_ns._
SIG'NAL-BOOK, a book containing a system of signals; SIG'NAL-BOX, -CAB'IN,
&c., a small house in which railway-signals are worked: the alarm-box of a
police or fire-alarm system; SIG'NAL-CODE, a code or system of arbitrary
signals, esp. at sea, by flags or lights; SIG'NAL-FIRE, a fire used for a
signal; SIG'NAL-FLAG, a flag used in signalling, its colour, shape,
markings, and combinations indicating various significations; SIG'NAL-GUN,
a gun fired as a signal.--_v.t._ SIG'NALISE, to make signal or eminent: to
signal.--_ns._ SIG'NAL-LAMP, a lamp by which signals are made by glasses or
slides of different colours, &c.; SIG'NALLING, the means of transmitting
intelligence to a greater or less distance by the agency of sight or
hearing.--_adv._ SIG'NALLY.--_ns._ SIG'NALMAN, one who makes signals and
who interprets those made; SIG'NALMENT, the act of communicating by
signals: description by means of marks; SIG'NAL-POST, a pole on which
movable flags, arms, lights, are displayed as signals; SIG'NAL-SER'VICE,
the department in the army occupied with signalling. [Fr.,--L. _signalis_,
_signum_.]

SIGNATURE, sig'na-t[=u]r, _n._ a sign or mark: the name of a person written
by himself: (_mus._) the flats and sharps after the clef to show the key: a
sheet after being folded, the figure or letter at the foot of the page
indicating such.--_adj._ SIG'N[=A]TE, designate: bearing spots resembling
letters.--_ns._ SIGN[=A]'TION, anything used as a sign, an emblem;
SIG'NATORY, SIG'NATARY, SIG'NITARY, one bound by signature to some
agreement.--_adj._ having signed, bound by signature.--DOCTRINE OF
SIGNATURES, an inveterate belief in early medicine that plants and minerals
bore certain symbolical marks which indicated the diseases for which nature
had intended them as special remedies. [Fr.,--Low L. _signatura_--L.
_sign[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to sign.]

SIGNIEUR, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as SEIGNIOR.

SIGNIFY, sig'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ to make known by a sign or by words: to mean:
to indicate or declare: to have consequence.--_v.i._ to be of
consequence:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sig'nif[=i]ed.--_adj._ SIG'NIFIABLE, that
may be signified or represented by symbols.--_n._ SIGNIF'ICANCE, that which
is signified: meaning: importance: moment--also SIGNIF'ICANCY.--_adj._
SIGNIF'ICANT, signifying: expressive of something: standing as a
sign.--_adv._ SIGNIF'ICANTLY.--_ns._ SIGNIF'ICATE, in logic, one of several
things signified by a common term; SIGNIFIC[=A]'TION, act of signifying:
that which is signified: meaning.--_adj._ SIGNIF'IC[=A]TIVE, signifying:
denoting by a sign: having meaning: expressive.--_adv._
SIGNIF'IC[=A]TIVELY, in a significative manner: so as to betoken by an
external sign.--_ns._ SIGNIF'IC[=A]TIVENESS, the quality of being
significative; SIGNIF'IC[=A]TOR, one who signifies: (_astrol._) a planet
ruling a house.--_adj._ SIGNIF'ICATORY. [L. _signific[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_,
_signum_, a sign, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SIGNOR, s[=e]'nyor, _n._ an Italian word of address equivalent to Mr--also
SIGNIOR.--_ns._ SIGNORA (s[=e]-ny[=o]'ra), feminine of signor; SIGNORINA
(s[=e]-ny[=o]-r[=e]'na), the Italian equivalent of Miss; SIG'NORY,
SIG'NIORY (same as SEIGNIORY). [It. _signore_.]

SIKE, s[=i]k, _n._ (_Scot._) a small stream of water.--Also SYKE. [Ice.
_sík_, _síki_, a ditch.]

SIKH, s[=e]k, _n._ one of a religious sect of northern India, which became
a great military confederacy--founded by Baba Nának (born 1469).--_n._
SIKH'ISM. [Hind. _Sikh_, lit. follower or disciple.]

SIL, sil, _n._ a yellowish pigment of ancient painters.

SILAGE, s[=i]'laj, _n._ the term applied to fodder which has been preserved
by ensilage in a silo.

SILE, s[=i]l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to strain.--_n._ a sieve, a strainer or
colander. [Low Ger. _silen_; Ger. _sielen_, to filter.]

SILENCE, s[=i]'lens, _n._ state of being silent: absence of sound or
speech: muteness: cessation of agitation: calmness: oblivion.--_v.t._ to
cause to be silent: to put to rest: to stop.--_interj._ be silent!--_adj._
S[=I]'LENT, free from noise: not speaking: habitually taciturn: still: not
pronounced: of distilled spirit, without flavour or odour.--_n._
SILEN'TIARY, one who keeps order in an assembly.--_adv._
S[=I]'LENTLY.--_n._ S[=I]'LENTNESS=_Silence_. [L. _sil[=e]re_, to be
silent.]

SILENE, s[=i]-l[=e]'n[=e], _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Caryophyllaceæ_--the _Bladder Campion_, whose young shoots eat like
asparagus--the _Catchfly_, a general name for many British species.

SILENUS, s[=i]-l[=e]'nus, _n._ the foster-father of Bacchus, a little
pot-bellied old man, bald-headed and snub-nosed, generally astride of an
ass, drunk, and attended by a troop of satyrs.

SILESIA, si-l[=e]'shi-a, _n._ a thin brown holland for window-blinds, &c.:
a thin twilled cotton.--_adj._ SIL[=E]'SIAN, pertaining to _Silesia_.

SILEX, s[=i]'leks, _n._ silica, as found in nature, occurring as flint,
quartz, rock-crystal, &c. [L. _silex_, _silicis_, flint.]

[Illustration]

SILHOUETTE, sil-[=oo]-et', _n._ a shadow-outline of the human figure or
profile filled in of a dark colour.--_v.t._ to represent in silhouette: to
bring out a shaded profile or outline view of. [Étienne de _Silhouette_
(1709-67), French minister of finance for four months in 1759, after whom
everything cheap was named, from his excessive economy. According to
Littré, the making of such shadow-portraits was a favourite pastime of his;
hence the name.]

SILICA, sil'i-ka, _n._ silicon dioxide, or silicic anhydride, a white or
colourless substance, the most abundant solid constituent of our globe,
existing both in the crystalline and in the amorphous form, the best
examples of the former being rock-crystal, quartz, chalcedony, flint,
sandstone, and quartzose sand; of the latter, opal.--_n._ SIL'ICATE, a salt
of silicic acid.--_adjs._ SIL'IC[=A]TED, combined or impregnated with
silica; SILIC'IC, pertaining to, or obtained from, silica; SILICIF'EROUS,
producing or containing silica.--_n._ SILICIFIC[=A]'TION, conversion into
silica.--_v.t._ SILIC'IFY, to convert into silica: to render
silicious.--_v.i._ to become silicious or flinty:--_pr.p._ silic'ifying;
_pa.p._ silic'if[=i]ed.--_adjs._ SILIC'IOUS, SILIC'EOUS, pertaining to,
containing, or resembling silica.--_n._ SIL'ICON, or SILIC'IUM, the base of
silica, a non-metallic elementary substance, obtainable in three different
forms, the amorphous, the graphitoid, and the crystalline. [L. _silex_,
_silicis_, flint.]

[Illustration]

SILICLE, sil'i-kl, _n._ (_bot_.) a seed-vessel shorter and containing fewer
seeds than a silique--also SIL'ICULE, SILIC'ULA.--_adj._ SILIC'UL[=O]SE
(_bot_.), having, pertaining to, or resembling silicles: husky.--_ns._
(_bot_.) SILIQUE (si-l[=e]k'), SIL'IQUA, the two-valved elongated
seed-vessel of the _Cruciferæ_.--_adjs._ SIL'IQUIFORM, SIL'IQUOSE,
SIL'IQUOUS (_bot_.), pertaining to, resembling, or bearing siliques. [L.
_silicula_, dim. of _siliqua_, a pod.]

SILK, silk, _n._ the delicate, soft thread produced by the larvæ of certain
bombycid moths which feed on the leaves of the mulberry, &c.: thread or
cloth woven from it: anything resembling silk, the styles of maize, the
silky lustre in the ruby, &c.--_adj._ pertaining to, or consisting of,
silk.--_n._ SILK'-COTT'ON, the silky seed-covering of various species of
_Bombax_.--_adjs._ SILK'EN, made of silk: dressed in silk: resembling silk:
soft: delicate; SILK'-FIG'URED, having the ornamental pattern in
silk.--_ns._ SILK'-GOWN, or THE SILK, the robe of a queen's or king's
counsel, instead of the stuff-gown of the ordinary barrister--hence 'to
take silk'=to be appointed Q.C.; SILK'-GRASS, Adam's needle, or bear-grass;
SILK'INESS; SILK'-MAN (_Shak._), a dealer in silks; SILK'-MER'CER, a mercer
or dealer in silks; SILK'-MILL, a mill for the manufacture of silks;
SILK'-PA'PER, tissue-paper; SILK'-REEL, a machine in which raw silk is
unwound from the cocoons, and wound into a thread; SILK'-THROW'ER,
-THROW'STER, one who manufactures _thrown-silk_ or organzine, silk thread
formed by twisting together two or more threads or singles; SILK'-WEAV'ER,
a weaver of silk stuffs; SILK'WORM, the bombycid moth whose larva produces
silk; SILK'WORM-GUT, a material used by anglers for dressing the hook-end
of the fishing-line, consisting of the drawn-out glands of the silkworm
when these are fully distended.--_adj._ SILK'Y, like silk in texture: soft:
smooth: glossy. [A.S. _seolc_--L. _sericum_--Gr. _s[=e]rikon_, neut. of
adj. _S[=e]rikos_, pertaining to the _S[=e]res_--_S[=e]r_, a native of
China.]

SILL, sil, _n._ the timber or stone at the foot of a door or window: the
lowest piece in a window-frame: (_fort_.) the inner edge of the bottom of
an embrasure: the floor of a mine-passage, also a miner's term for bed or
stratum. [A.S. _syl_; Ice. _sylla_, Ger. _schwelle_.]

SILLADAR, sil'a-där, _n._ a member of a troop of irregular cavalry. [Hind.]

SILLAGO, sil'a-g[=o], _n._ a genus of acanthopterygian fishes.

SILLERY, sil'e-ri, _n._ a celebrated still white wine produced near
Rheims--one of the most esteemed champagnes. [_Sillery_ in Marne.]

SILLIBUB, sil'i-bub, _n._ a dish made of wine or cider mixed with milk into
a curd, flavoured, whipped into a froth, or made solid by gelatine and
water, and boiling.--Also SILL'ABUB.

SILLOGRAPH, sil'[=o]-graf, _n._ a satirist. [From the _Silloi_ of Timon of
Phlius, _c._ 280 B.C.]

SILLOMETER, si-lom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the speed of
a ship without a log-line. [Fr. _siller_, to make way, Gr. _metron_, a
measure.]

SILLON, sil'on, _n._ (_fort_.) a. work raised in the middle of a very wide
ditch, an envelope. [Fr.]

SILLSALLAT, sil'sal-at, _n._ a salad of pickled herring, with morsels of
meat, eggs, onion, and beet. [Sw.]

SILLY, sil'i, _adj._ simple: harmless: foolish: witless: imprudent: absurd:
stupid.--_n._ a silly person.--_adv._ SILL'ILY.--_ns._ SILL'INESS;
SILL'Y-HOW, a caul. [Orig. 'blessed,' and so 'innocent,' 'simple,' A.S.
_s['æ]lig_, _gesælig_, timely--_s['æ]l_, time; Ger. _selig_, blest, happy,
Goth. _sels_, good.]

SILO, s[=i]'l[=o], _n._ a pit for packing and storing green crops for
fodder in the state known as ensilage.--_v.t._ to preserve in a silo.
[Sp.,--L. _sirus_--Gr. _siros_, a pit.]

SILPHA, sil'fa, _n._ a genus of clavicorn beetles, the carrion-beetles.
[Gr. _silph[=e]_, a beetle.]

SILPHIUM, sil'fi-um, _n._ a genus of American composites with resinous
juice--_prairie-dock_, _cup-plant_, _rosin-weed_: an umbelliferous plant
whose juice the ancient Greeks used--the Latin _laserpitium_.

SILPHOLOGY, sil-fol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of larval forms. [Gr.
_silph[=e]_, a beetle, _logia_--_legein_, to say.]

SILT, silt, _n._ that which is left by straining: sediment: the sand, &c.,
left by water.--_v.t._ to fill with sediment (with _up_).--_v.i._ to
percolate through pores: to become filled up.--_adj._ SILT'Y, full of, or
resembling, silt. [Prov. Eng. _sile_, allied to Low Ger. _sielen_, Sw.
_sila_, to let water off, to strain.]

SILURIAN, si-l[=u]'ri-an, _adj._ belonging to Siluria, the country of the
_Silures_, the ancient inhabitants of the south-eastern part of South
Wales: applied by Murchison in 1835 to a series of rocks well developed in
the country of the Silures, a subdivision of the Palæozoic, containing
hardly any vertebrates and land plants.--_adjs._ SIL[=U]'RIDAN,
SIL[=U]'RINE, SIL[=U]'ROID.--_ns._ SIL[=U]'RIST, a Silurian, a name applied
to the poet Henry Vaughan (1621-95); SIL[=U]'RUS, SIL[=U]RE', the typical
genus of _Siluridæ_, a family of physostomous fishes--the cat-fishes, &c.

SILVAN, sil'van, _adj._ pertaining to woods, woody: inhabiting
woods.--_ns._ SIL'VA, SYL'VA, the forest-trees collectively of any region.
[Fr.,--L. _silva_.]

SILVER, sil'v[.e]r, _n._ a soft white metal, capable of a high polish:
money made of silver: anything having the appearance of silver.--_adj._
made of silver: resembling silver: white: bright: precious: gentle: having
a soft and clear tone: of high rank, but still second to the
highest.--_v.t._ to cover with silver: to make like silver: to make smooth
and bright: to make silvery.--_v.i._ to become silvery.--_ns._ SIL'VER-BATH
(_phot_.), a solution of silver-nitrate for sensitising collodion-plates
for printing; SIL'VER-BEAT'ER, one who beats out silver into thin
foil.--_adjs._ SIL'VER-BLACK, black silvered over with white;
SIL'VER-BRIGHT (_Shak._), as bright as silver; SIL'VER-BUS'KINED, having
buskins adorned with silver.--_ns._ SIL'VER-FIR, a coniferous tree of the
genus _Abies_, whose leaves show two silvery lines on the under side;
SIL'VER-FISH, a name given to the atherine, to artificially bred gold-fish,
the sand-smelt, the tarpon: any species of _Lepisma_, a thysanurous
insect--also _Bristletail_, _Walking-fish_, _Silver-moth_, _Shiner_, &c.;
SIL'VER-FOX, a species of fox found in northern regions, having a rich and
valuable fur; SIL'VER-GLANCE, native silver sulphide; SIL'VER-GRAIN, the
medullary rays in timber.--_adjs._ SIL'VER-GRAY, having a gray or
bluish-gray colour; SIL'VER-HAIRED, having white or lustrous gray hair;
SIL'VER-HEAD'ED, having a silver head: with white hair.--_ns._
SIL'VERINESS, the state of being silvery; SIL'VERING, the operation of
covering with silver: the silver so used.--_v.t._ SIL'VERISE, to coat or
cover with silver:--_pr.p._ sil'ver[=i]sing; _pa.p._ sil'ver[=i]sed.--_ns._
SIL'VERITE, one who opposes the demonetisation of silver; SIL'VER-LEAF,
silver beaten into thin leaves; SIL'VERLING (_B._), a small silver
coin.--_adv._ SIL'VERLY (_Shak._), with the appearance of silver.--_adjs._
SIL'VERN, made of silver; SIL'VER-PL[=A]'TED, plated with silver.--_n._
SIL'VER-PRINT'ING, the production of photographic prints by the use of a
sensitising salt of silver.--_adj._ SIL'VER-SHAFT'ED, carrying silver
arrows, as Diana.--_ns._ SIL'VERSMITH, a smith who works in silver;
SIL'VER-STICK, an officer of the royal palace--from his silvered
wand.--_adjs._ SIL'VER-TONGUED, plausible, eloquent; SIL'VER-VOICED
(_Shak._), having a clear, sweet voice like the sound of a silver musical
instrument; SIL'VER-WHITE (_Shak._), white like silver; SIL'VERY, covered
with silver: resembling silver: white: clear, soft, mellow. [A.S. _silfer_,
_seolfor_; Ice. _silfr_, Ger. _silber_.]

SIMAR, SIMARRE, si-mär', _n._ a woman's robe: a scarf. [Fr. _simarre_--O.
Fr. _chamarre_--Sp. _chamarra_, a sheep-skin coat, prob. Basque.]

SIMARUBACEÆ, sim-a-r[=oo]-b[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of
tropical trees and shrubs--bitter, used in dysentery, &c.--including
_quassia_, _bitterwood_, and _ailanto_.--_adj._ SIMARUB[=A]'CEOUS.

SIMBIL, sim'bil, _n._ a shortish-legged African stork.

SIMEONITE, sim'[=e]-on-[=i]t, _n._ a follower of the famous Cambridge
evangelical preacher Charles _Simeon_ (1759-1836), whose influence is
perpetuated by the _Simeon Trust_, established for purchasing advowsons: a
low-churchman--often SIM.

SIMIA, sim'i-a, _n._ an anthropoid ape: a monkey generally: the typical
genus of _Simiidæ_, containing the orang-utans--the _Simiidæ_ includes the
anthropoid apes; _Simiinæ_ is the higher of the two sub-families of
Simiidæ, comprising the gorilla, chimpanzee, and orang.--_adjs._ SIM'IAL,
SIM'IAN, SIM'IOUS, like an ape: anthropoid. [L.]

SIMILAR, sim'i-lar, _adj._ like: resembling: uniform: (_geom._) exactly
corresponding in shape, without regard to size.--_n._ SIMILAR'ITY.--_adv._
SIM'ILARLY.--_n._ SIMIL'ITUDE, the state of being similar or like:
resemblance: comparison: simile: (_B._) a parable.--_adj._
SIMILIT[=U]'DINARY. [Fr.,--L. _similis_, like.]

SIMILE, sim'i-le, _n._ something similar: similitude: (_rhet._) a
comparison to illustrate anything.--_n.pl._ SIMIL'IA, things alike.--_v.t._
SIM'ILISE, to liken, compare.--_v.i._ to use similitudes.--_adv._
SIMIL'LITER, in like manner. [L., neut. of _similis_, like.]

SIMILOR, sim'i-l[=o]r, _n._ a yellow alloy used for cheap jewellery.
[Fr.,--L. _similis_, like, _aurum_, gold.]

SIMITAR. Same as _Scimitar_ (q.v.).

SIMKIN, sim'kin, _n._ the usual Anglo-Indian word for champagne.--Also
SIMP'KIN.

SIMMER, sim'[.e]r, _v.i._ to boil with a gentle, hissing sound: to be on
the point of boiling out, as into anger.--_n._ a gentle heating. [Imit.;
cf. Sw. dial. _summa_, to hum, Ger. _summen_.]

SIMNEL, sim'nel, _n._ a sweet cake of fine flour for Christmas, Easter, or
Mothering Sunday.--Also SIM'LIN. [O. Fr. _simenel_--L. _simila_, fine
flour.]

SIMON-PURE, s[=i]'mon-p[=u]r, _adj._ authentic, genuine. [From _Simon
Pure_, a character in Mrs Centlivre's comedy, _A Bold Stroke for a Wife_,
who is counterfeited by an impostor.]

SIMONY, sim'on-i, _n._ the crime of buying or selling presentation to a
benefice, so named from _Simon_ Magus, who thought to purchase the gift of
the Holy Spirit with money (Acts, viii.).--_n._ SIM[=O]'NIAC, one guilty of
simony.--_adjs._ SIMON[=I]'ACAL, SIM[=O]'NIOUS (_obs._), pertaining to,
guilty of, or involving simony.--_adv._ SIMON[=I]'ACALLY.--_n._
S[=I]'MONIST, one who practises or defends simony.

SIMOOM, si-m[=oo]m', _n._ a hot suffocating wind which blows in northern
Africa and Arabia and the adjacent countries from the interior
deserts.--Also SIMOON'. [Ar. _samûm_--_samm_, to poison.]

SIMORHYNCHUS, sim-[=o]-ring'kus, _n._ a genus of small North Pacific birds,
the snub-nosed auklets. [Gr. _simos_, flat-nosed, _hryngchos_, snout.]

SIMOUS, s[=i]'mus, _adj._ flat or snub nosed: concave.--_n._ SIMOS'ITY.

SIMPAI, sim'p[=i], _n._ the black-crested monkey of Sumatra.

SIMPER, sim'p[.e]r, _v.i._ to smile in a silly, affected manner.--_n._ a
silly or affected smile.--_n._ SIM'PERER, one who simpers.--_adj._
SIMP'ERING.--_adv._ SIM'PERINGLY, in a simpering manner: with a foolish
smile. [Prob. Scand.; Norw. _semper_, smart.]

SIMPLE, sim'pl, _adj._ single: undivided: resisting decomposition:
elementary, undeveloped: plain, single, entire: homogeneous: open:
unaffected: undesigning: true: clear: straightforward: artless: guileless:
unsuspecting: credulous: not cunning: weak in intellect: silly: of mean
birth--opposed to _Gentle_.--_n._ something not mixed or compounded: a
medicinal herb: a simple feast--opposed to a _double_ or
_semidouble_.--_v.i._ to gather simples or medicinal plants.--_adjs._
SIM'PLE-HEART'ED, having a simple heart: guileless; SIM'PLE-MIND'ED, having
a simple mind: unsuspecting: undesigning.--_ns._ SIM'PLE-MIND'EDNESS, the
state or quality of being simple-minded: artlessness; SIM'PLENESS, the
state or quality of being simple: artlessness: simplicity: folly; SIM'PLER,
a gatherer of simples; SIM'PLESS (_Spens._), simplicity; SIM'PLETON, a weak
or foolish person.--_adv._ SIMPLIC'ITER, simply, not relatively.--_ns._
SIMPLIC'ITY, the state or quality of being simple: singleness: want of
complication: openness: clearness: freedom from excessive adornment:
plainness: sincerity: artlessness: credulity, silliness, folly;
SIMPLIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of making simple.--_adj._
SIM'PLIFIC[=A]TIVE.--_n._ SIM'PLIFIC[=A]TOR, one who simplifies.--_v.t._
SIM'PLIFY, to make simple: to render less difficult: to make
plain:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sim'plified.--_ns._ SIM'PLISM, affected
simplicity; SIM'PLIST, one skilled in simples.--_adj._ SIMPLIS'TIC.--_adv._
SIM'PLY, in a simple manner: artlessly: foolishly: weakly: plainly:
considered by itself: alone: merely: solely. [Fr.,--L. _simplex_, the
same--_sim-_ (L. _semel_), root of _plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

SIMSON, SIMPSON, sim'son, _n._ (_prov._) groundsel. [Earlier _sencion_--O.
Fr. _senecion_--L. _senecio_.]

SIMULACRUM, sim-[=u]-l[=a]'krum, _n._ an image, unreal phantom: a formal
sign:--_pl._ SIMUL[=A]'CRA. [L.]

SIMULATE, sim'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to imitate: to counterfeit: to pretend:
to assume the appearance of without the reality.--_adjs._ SIM'ULANT,
simulating: replacing, or having the form or appearance of, esp. in
biology; SIM'ULAR, counterfeit, feigned.--_n._ one who pretends to be what
he is not.--_ns._ SIMUL[=A]'TION, the act of simulating or putting on what
is not true: imitation in form of one word by another: resemblance,
similarity; SIM'UL[=A]TOR, one who simulates.--_adj._ SIM'UL[=A]TORY. [L.
_simul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to make (something) similar to (another
thing)--_similis_, like.]

SIMULTANEOUS, sim-ul-t[=a]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ acting, existing, or happening
at the same time: (_math._) satisfied by the same values of the variables
or unknown quantities--of a set of equations.--_ns._ SIMULTAN[=E]'ITY,
SIMULT[=A]'NEOUSNESS.--_adv._ SIMULT[=A]'NEOUSLY. [Low L. _simultaneus_--L.
_simul_, at the same time.]

SIMURG, si-m[=oo]rg', _n._ a monstrous bird of Persian fable.--Also
SIMORG', SIMURGH'.

SIN, sin, _adv._ (_Spens._) since. [_Since_.]

SIN, sin, _n._ wilful violation of law: neglect of duty: neglect of the
laws of morality and religion, any want of conformity unto, or
transgression of, the law of God: wickedness, iniquity.--_v.i._ to commit
sin: to violate or neglect the laws of morality or religion: to do
wrong:--pr.p sin'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sinned.--_adjs._ SIN'-BORN, born
of sin; SIN'-BRED, produced by sin.--_ns._ SIN'-EAT'ER, one of a class of
men formerly employed in Wales to eat a piece of bread and drink a cup of
ale placed on a bier, and so symbolically take upon themselves the sins of
the deceased--due to the notion of the Levitical _scapegoat_ (Levit. xvi.
21, 22); SIN'-EAT'ING.--_adj._ SIN'FUL, full of, or tainted with, sin:
iniquitous: wicked: depraved: criminal: unholy.--_adv._ SIN'FULLY.--_n._
SIN'FULNESS.--_adj._ SIN'LESS, without sin: innocent: pure:
perfect.--_adv._ SIN'LESSLY.--_ns._ SIN'LESSNESS; SIN'NER, one who sins: an
offender or criminal: (_theol._) an unregenerate person.--_v.i._ (_Pope_)
to act as a sinner (with indefinite _it_).--_n._ SIN'-OFF'ERING, an
offering for, or sacrifice in expiation of, sin.--_adjs._ SIN'-SICK,
morally sick from sin; SIN'-WORN, worn by sin.--LIKE SIN (_slang_), very
much, very hard; MORTAL, or DEADLY, SIN, such as wilfully violates the
divine law and separates the soul from God--seven deadly sins, _pride_,
_covetousness_, _lust_, _anger_, _gluttony_, _envy_, and _sloth_; ORIGINAL
SIN, the innate depravity and corruption of the whole nature due to the sin
of Adam as federal representative of the human race, and transmitted by
ordinary generation to all his posterity; VENIAL SIN, any transgression due
to inadvertence, not alienating the friendship of God. [A.S. _syn_, _sinn_;
Ice. _syn-d_, Ger. _sünde_, L. _sons_.]

SINAITIC, s[=i]-na-it'ik, _adj._ pertaining to, made, or given at Mount
Sinai.--Also SIN[=A]'IC.

SINAPIS, si-n[=a]'pis, _n._ the officinal name of mustard.--_n._ SIN'APISM,
a mustard-plaster. [L.,--Gr. _sinapi_.]

SINCE, sins, _adv._ from the time that: past: ago.--_prep._ after: from the
time of.--_conj._ seeing that: because: considering. [M. E. _sins_,
_sithens_--A.S. _síth-thám_, lit. 'after that,' from _síth_, late (Ger.
_seit_), and _thám_, dat. of _thæt_, that.]

SINCERE, sin-s[=e]r', _adj._ clean: pure: (_B._) unadulterated: being in
reality what it is in appearance: unfeigned: frank: honest: true,
virtuous.--_adv._ SINC[=E]RE'LY.--_ns._ SINC[=E]RE'NESS, SINCER'ITY, state
or quality of being sincere: honesty of mind: freedom from pretence.
[Fr.,--L. _sincerus_, clean, generally derived from _sine_, without,
_cera_, wax; better from _sin-_, single, _-cerus_ for an assumed _scerus_,
bright.]

SINCIPUT, sin'si-put, _n._ the forepart of the head from the forehead to
the vertex.--_adj._ SINCIP'ITAL. [L., _semi-_; half, _caput_, the head.]

SIND, s[=i]nd, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to rinse.--Also Synd.

SINDON, sin'don, _n._ (_Bacon_) a wrapper. [L.,--Gr. _sind[=o]n_, fine
Indian cloth, muslin, a garment, prob. from _India_, or _Sinde_ in India.]

SINE, s[=i]n, _n._ a straight line drawn from one extremity of an arc
perpendicular to the diameter that passes through the other extremity. [L.
_sinus_, a curve.]

SINE, SYNE, s[=i]n, _adv._ (_Scot._) after that: ago.--_conj._ since.

SINE, s[=i]'ne, _prep._ without, as in SINE DIE, without day, of an
adjournment; SINE QUÂ NON, an indispensable condition, &c. [L.]

SINECURE, s[=i]'n[=e]-k[=u]r (or sin'-), _n._ an ecclesiastical benefice
without the cure or care of souls: an office with salary but without
work.--_adj._ pertaining to such an office.--_ns._ S[=I]'NECURISM, the
state of having a sinecure; S[=I]'NECURIST, one who holds a sinecure. [L.
_sine_, without, _cura_, care.]

SINEW, sin'[=u], _n._ that which joins a muscle to a bone, a tendon:
muscle, nerve: that which supplies vigour.--_v.t._ to bind as by sinews: to
strengthen.--_adj._ SIN'EWED, furnished with sinews: (_Shak._) strong,
vigorous.--_n._ SIN'EWINESS, the state or quality of being sinewy.--_adjs._
SIN'EWLESS, having no sinews: without strength or power; SIN'EW-SHRUNK,
applied to a horse which has become gaunt-bellied from being overdriven;
SIN'EWY, SIN'EWOUS, furnished with sinews: consisting of, belonging to, or
resembling sinews: strong: vigorous.--SINEWS OF WAR, money. [A.S. _sinu_;
Ice. _sin_, Ger. _sehne_.]

SINFONIA, sin-f[=o]-n[=e]'a, _n._ symphony. [It.]

SING, sing, _v.i._ to utter melodious sounds in musical succession: to make
a small, shrill sound: to relate in verse: to squeal: to ring: to be
capable of being sung.--_v.t._ to utter musically: to chant: to celebrate:
to attend on: to effect by singing: to celebrate or relate in
verse:--_pa.t._ sang or sung; _pa.p._ sung.--_adj._ SING'ABLE.--_ns._
SING'ABLENESS; SING'ER, one who sings: one whose occupation is to sing;
SING'ING, the act or art of singing; SING'ING-BIRD, a bird that sings, a
songster; SING'ING-BOOK, a song-book; SING'ING-GALL'ERY, a gallery occupied
by singers; SING'ING-HINN'Y, a currant cake baked on a girdle.--_adv._
SING'INGLY.--_ns._ SING'ING-MAN (_Shak._), one employed to sing, as in a
cathedral; SING'ING-MAS'TER, a master who teaches singing; SING'ING-SCHOOL,
a place where singing is taught; SING'ING-VOICE, the voice as used in
singing; SING'ING-WOM'AN, a woman employed to sing.--SING ANOTHER SONG, or
TUNE, to change one's tone or attitude, esp. to a humbler manner; SING OUT,
to call out distinctly, to shout; SING SMALL, to assume a humble tone: to
play a minor part. [A.S. _singan_; Ger. _singen_, Goth. _siggwan_.]

SINGE, sinj, _v.t._ to burn on the surface: to scorch:--_pr.p._ singe'ing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ singed.--_n._ a burning of the surface: a slight
burn.--SINGED CAT, a person who is better than he looks. [A.S. _besengan_,
the causative of _singan_, to sing, from the singing noise produced by
scorching.]

SINGHALESE. Same as CINGALESE.

SINGLE, sing'gl, _adj._ consisting of one only: individual, unique:
separate, private: alone: unmarried: not combined with others: unmixed:
having one only on each side: straightforward: sincere: simple, normal:
pure.--_v.t._ to separate: to choose one from others: to select from a
number.--_adjs._ SING'LE-ACT'ING, acting effectively in one direction
only--of any reciprocating machine or implement; SING'LE-BREAST'ED, with a
single row of buttons or loops only, of a coat, corsage, &c.--_n._
SINGLE-EN'TRY, a system of book-keeping in which each entry appears only
once on one side or other of an account.--_adj._ SING'LE-EYED, having but
one eye: devoted, unselfish.--_ns._ SING'LE-FLOW'ER, a flower containing a
single set of petals, as a wild rose; SING'LE-FOOT, a gait of horses, the
amble.--_adjs._ SING'LE-HAND'ED, by one's self: unassisted: having only one
workman; SING'LE-HEART'ED, having a single or sincere heart: without
duplicity.--_adv._ SING'LE-HEART'EDLY.--_adj._ SING'LE-MIND'ED, having a
single or sincere mind: upright.--_ns._ SING'LE-MIND'EDNESS; SING'LENESS,
state of being single or alone: freedom from deceit: sincerity:
simplicity.--_adj._ SING'LE-SOLED, having a single sole, as a shoe:
poor.--_ns._ SING'LE-STICK, a stick or cudgel for one hand: a fight or game
with singlesticks; SING'LET, an undershirt or waistcoat; SING'LETON, in
whist, a hand containing one card only of some suit; SING'LETREE (the same
as SWINGLETREE); SING'LE-WOM'AN, an unmarried woman: (_obs._) a
whore.--_adv._ SING'LY, one by one: particularly: alone: by one's self:
honestly: sincerely. [O. Fr.,--L. _sin-gulus_, one to each, separate, akin
to _sem-el_, once, Gr. _ham-a_.]

SINGSONG, sing'song, _n._ bad singing: drawling: a convivial meeting where
every one must sing.--_adj._ monotonously rhythmical, drawling.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to make songs: to chant monotonously.

SINGSPIEL, sing'sp[=e]l, _n._ a semi-dramatic representation in which a
series of incidents are set forth in alternate dialogue and song, now a
kind of opera in which the music is subordinated to the words. [Ger.,
_singen_, to sing, _spiel_, play.]

SINGULAR, sing'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ alone: (_gram._) denoting one person or
thing: single: not complex or compound: standing alone, rare, unusual,
uncommon: of more than common value or importance: unique, extraordinary,
strange, odd: (_B._) particular.--_n._ that which is singular: (_logic_)
that which is not general, that which is here and now, that which is
determinate in every respect.--_n._ SINGULARIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
SING'ULARISE, to make singular.--_ns._ SING'ULARIST, one who affects
singularity; SINGULAR'ITY, the state of being singular: peculiarity:
anything curious or remarkable: particular privilege or distinction:
(_math._) an exceptional element or character of a continuum.--_adv._
SING'ULARLY, in a singular manner: peculiarly: strangely: so as to express
one or the singular number. [Fr.,--L. _singularis_.]

SINGULT, sin'gult, _n._ a sigh.--_adjs._ SINGUL'TIENT, SINGUL'TOUS,
affected with hiccup.--_n._ SINGUL'TUS, a hiccup. [L. _singultus_, a sob.]

SINHALESE, sin'ha-l[=e]z, _n._ and _adj._ the same as CINGALESE and
SINGHALESE.

SINIC, sin'ik, _adj._ Chinese.--_adj._ SIN'IAN, a widely spread series of
rocks in China, containing many trilobites and brachiopods.--_ns._
SIN'ICISM, Chinese manners and customs; SIN'ISM, customs of China
generally, esp. its ancient indigenous religion. [L. _Sina_, China, _Sinæ_,
the Chinese, Gr. _Sinai_, the Chinese.]

SINICAL, sin'ik-al, _adj._ pertaining to, employing, or founded upon sines.

SINISTER, sin'is-t[.e]r, _adj._ left: on the left hand: evil: unfair:
dishonest: unlucky: inauspicious, malign.--_adj._ SIN'ISTER-HAND'ED,
left-handed.--_advs._ SIN'ISTERLY; SINIS'TRA (_mus._), with the left hand;
SIN'ISTRAD, towards the left.--_adj._ SIN'ISTRAL, belonging or inclining to
the left: reversed.--_n._ SINISTRAL'ITY.--_adv._ SIN'ISTRALLY.--_n._
SINISTR[=A]'TION, a turning to the left.--_adj._ SIN'ISTROUS, on the left
side: wrong: absurd: perverse.--_adv._ SIN'ISTROUSLY. [L.]

SINISTRORSE, sin'is-trors, _adj._ rising from left to right, as a spiral
line.--Also SINISTRORS'AL. [L. _sinistrorsus_, _sinistroversus_, towards
the left side--sinister, left, _vert[)e]re_, _versum_, to turn.]

SINK, singk, _v.i._ to fall to the bottom: to fall down: to descend lower:
to fall gradually: to fall below the surface: to enter deeply: to be
impressed: to be overwhelmed: to fail in strength.--_v.t._ to cause to
sink: to put under water: to keep out of sight: to suppress: to degrade: to
cause to decline or fall: to plunge into destruction: to make by digging or
delving: to pay absolutely: to lower in value or amount: to
lessen:--_pa.t._ sank, sunk; _pa.p._ sunk, sunk'en.--_n._ a drain to carry
off dirty water: a box or vessel connected with a drain for receiving dirty
water: an abode of degraded persons: a general receptacle: an area in which
a river sinks and disappears: a depression in a stereotype plate: a stage
trap-door for shifting scenery: in mining, an excavation less than a
shaft.--_ns._ SINK'ER, anything which causes a sinking, esp. a weight fixed
to a fishing-line; SINK'-HOLE, a hole for dirty water to run through;
SINK'ING, a subsidence: a depression.--_adj._ causing to sink.--_n._
SINK'ING-FUND, a fund formed by setting aside income every year to
accumulate at interest for the purpose of paying off debt.--_adj._
SINK'ING-RIPE (_Shak._), dead-ripe, about to fall off.--_n._ SINK'ROOM, a
scullery. [A.S. _sincan_; Ger. _sinken_, Dut. _zinken_.]

SINK-A-PACE, singk'-a-p[=a]s, _n._ (_Shak._)=_Cinquepace_.

SINOLOGUE, sin'[=o]-log, _n._ one versed in Chinese.--_adj._ SINOLOG'ICAL
(-loj'-).--_ns._ SINOL'OGIST; SINOL'OGY.

SINOPLE, sin'[=o]-pl, _n._ a ferruginous clay yielding the fine red pigment
SIN[=O]'PIA or SIN[=O]'PIS. [Gr. _sin[=o]pis_, a red earth brought from
_Sinope_.]

SINSYNE, sin-s[=i]n', _adv._ (_Scot._) since, ago.

SINTER, sin't[.e]r, _n._ a name given to rocks precipitated in a
crystalline form from mineral waters. [Ger.]

SINTO, SINTOISM=_Shinto_, _Shintoism_.

SINTOC, sin'tok, _n._ a Malayan tree with aromatic bark.--Also SIN'DOC.

SINUATE, -D, sin'[=u]-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ curved: (_bot._) with a waved
margin.--_v.t._ to bend in and out.--_ns._ SINU[=A]'TION; SINUOS'ITY,
quality of being sinuous: a bend or series of bends and turns.--_adjs._
SIN'UOUS, SIN'U[=O]SE, bending in and out, winding, undulating: morally
crooked.--_adv._ SIN'UOUSLY. [L. _sinuatus_, _pa.p._ of _sinu[=a]re_, to
bend.]

SINUPALLIATE, sin-[=u]-pal'i-[=a]t, _adj._ having a sinuous pallial margin
on the shell along the line of attachment of the mantle.--Also
SINUPALL'IAL. [L. _sinus_, a fold, pallium, a mantle.]

SINUS, s[=i]'nus, _n._ a bending: a fold: an opening: a bay of the sea: a
recess on the shore: (_anat._) a cavity or hollow of bone or other tissue,
one of the air-cavities contained in the interior of certain bones: a
channel for transmitting venous blood: a narrow opening leading to an
abscess, &c.--_n._ S[=I]'NUSOID, the curve of sines in which the abscisses
are proportional to an angle, and the ordinates to its sine.--_adj._
SINUSOI'DAL.--_adv._ SINUSOI'DALLY. [L. _sinus_, a curve.]

SIOUX, s[=oo], _n._ (_pl._ SIOUX, s[=oo] or s[=oo]z) the principal tribe of
the Dakota family of American Indians in South Dakota and Nebraska--also
_adj._--Also SIOUAN (s[=oo]'an).

SIP, sip, _v.t._ to sup or drink in small quantities: to draw into the
mouth: to taste: to drink out of.--_v.i._ to drink in small quantities: to
drink by the lips:--_pr.p._ sip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sipped.--_n._ the
taking of a liquor with the lips: a small draught.--_n._ SIP'PER. [A.S.
_syppan_ (assumed), _sipian_, to soak. Related to _súpan_, to sup, taste.]

SIPE, s[=i]p, _v.i._ (_prov._) to soak through.--Also SEEP. [A.S. _sipian_,
to soak; Dut. _zijpen_, to drop.]

SIPHILIS. Same as SYPHILIS (q.v.).

[Illustration]

SIPHON, s[=i]'fun, _n._ a bent tube for drawing off liquids from one vessel
into another.--_v.t._ to convey by means of a siphon.--_n._
S[=I]'PHONAGE.--_adjs._ S[=I]'PHONAL, S[=I]'PHONATE, S[=I]PHON'IC,
pertaining to, or resembling, a siphon.--_n._ S[=I]'PHON-BOTT'LE, a glass
bottle for containing aerated liquid, fitted with a glass tube reaching
nearly to the bottom and bent like a siphon at the outlet.--_adjs._
SIPHONIF'EROUS; S[=I]'PHONIFORM; SIPHONOST[=O]'MATOUS, having a siphonate
mouth.--_ns._ S[=I]'PHONOSTOME, a siphonostomatous animal, as a fish-louse;
S[=I]'PHUNCLE, the siphon or funnel of tetrabranchiate cephalopods: a
nectary.--_adjs._ S[=I]'PHUNCLED, SIPHUNC'ULAR, SIPHUNC'ULATE, -D.--_ns._
SIPHUNC'ULUS; SIPUNC'ULUS, a genus of worms belonging to the class
_Gephyrea_. [Fr.,--Gr., _siph[=o]n_--_siphlos_, hollow.]

SIPPET, sip'et, _n._ a small sop: (_pl._) morsels of bread served in broth,
&c.--_v.i._ SIPP'LE, to sup in sips.

SIPYLITE, sip'i-l[=i]t, _n._ a niobite of erbium. [From Gr. _Sipylos_, one
of the children of Niobe.]

SIR, s[.e]r, _n._ a word of respect used in addressing a man: a gentleman:
the title of a knight or baronet, used along with the Christian name and
surname, as 'Sir David Pole:' formerly a common title of address for the
clergy as a translation of L. _dominus_, the term used for a bachelor of
arts, originally in contradistinction from the _magister_, or master of
arts--hence SIR JOHN=a priest.--_v.t._ to address as 'sir.' [O. Fr. _sire_,
through O. Fr. _senre_, from L. _senior_, an elder, comp. of _senex_, old.
Cf. the parallel forms _Sire_, _Senior_, _Seignior_, _Signor_.]

SIRCAR, s[.e]r-kär', _n._ a Hindu clerk.--Also SIRKAR', CIRCAR'. [Hind.
_sark[=a]r_, a superintendent--_sar_, head, _k[=a]r_, Sans. _kara_, work.]

SIRDAR, s[.e]r-där', _n._ a chief or military officer. [Hind.
_sard[=a]r_--_sar_, head, _-d[=a]r_, holding.]

SIRE, s[=i]r, _n._ one in the place of a father, as a sovereign: an elder,
a progenitor: the male parent of a beast, esp. of a horse: (_pl._)
ancestors (_poetry_).--_v.t._ to beget, used of animals. [_Sir_.]

SIREDON, s[=i]-r[=e]'don, _n._ a larval salamander:--_pl._ SIR[=E]'DONES.

SIREN, s[=i]'ren, _n._ (_Gr. myth._) one of certain sea-nymphs who sat on
the shores of an island between Circe's isle and Scylla, near the
south-western coast of Italy, and sang with bewitching sweetness songs that
allured the passing sailor to draw near, only to meet with death: a
fascinating woman, any one insidious and deceptive: an instrument which
produces musical sounds by introducing a regularly recurring discontinuity
into an otherwise steady blast of air: an instrument for demonstrating the
laws of beats and combination tones: an eel-like, amphibious animal, with
only one pair of feet, inhabiting swamps in the southern states of North
America.--_adj._ pertaining to, or like, a siren: fascinating.--_n._
SIR[=E]'NIA, an order of aquatic mammals now represented by the dugong
(_Halicore_) and the manatee (_Manatus_).--_adj._ SIR[=E]'NIAN.--_v.i._
S[=I]'RENISE, to play the siren. [L. _siren_--Gr. _seir[=e]n_, prob.
_seira_, a cord.]

SIRGANG, s[.e]r'gang, _n._ the Asiatic green jackdaw.

SIRIH, sir'i, _n._ the betel-leaf. [Malay.]

SIRIUS, sir'i-us, _n._ the Dogstar or Canicula, the brightest star in the
heavens, situated in the constellation of _Canis Major_, or the Great
Dog.--_n._ SIR[=I]'ASIS, sunstroke. [L.,--Gr. _seirios_.]

SIRLOIN, s[.e]r'loin, _n._ the loin or upper part of the loin of beef. [Fr.
_surlonge_--_sur_ (--L. _super_, above) and _longe_ (cf. _Loin_). The first
syllable has been modified by confusion with Eng. _sir_, and an absurd
etymology constructed to suit.]

SIRNAME, s[.e]r'n[=a]m, _n._ a corr. of _surname_.

SIROCCO, si-rok'o, _n._ a name given in Italy to a dust-laden dry wind
coming over sea from Africa; but also applied to any south wind, often
moist and warm, as opposed to the _Tramontana_ or north wind, from the
hills.--Also SIR'OC. [It. _sirocco_ (Sp. _siroco_)--_scharq_, the east.]

SIROP, sir'op, _n._ a form of syrup: a kettle used in making sugar by the
open-kettle process.

SIRRAH, s[.e]r'a, _n._ sir, used in anger or contempt. [An extension of
_sir_.]

SIR-REVERENCE, s[.e]r-rev'e-rens, _n._ a corr. of _save-reverence_.

SIRUP. See SYRUP.

SIRVENTE, sir-vont', _n._ a satirical song of the 12th-13th century
trouvères and troubadours. [Fr.]

SIS, sis, _n._ a girl, a sweetheart.--Also SIS'SY. [From _Cicely_.]

SISAL-GRASS, sis'al-gras, _n._ the prepared fibre of the agave or American
aloe, supplying cordage.--Also SIS'AL-HEMP.

SISCOWET, sis'k[=o]-et, _n._ a Lake Superior variety of the great lake
trout.--Also SIS'KIWIT, SIS'KOWET.

SISERARY, sis'e-r[=a]-ri, _n._ a stroke, blow, originally a legal writ
transferring a cause to a higher court.--WITH A SISERARY, with suddenness
or vehemence. [A corr. of _certiorari_.]

SISKIN, sis'kin, _n._ a genus of perching birds belonging to the family
_Fringillidæ_, the true finches. [Dan. _sisgen_, Sw. _siska_, Ger.
_zeisig_.]

SIST, sist, _v.t._ (_Scots law_) to present at the bar: cause to appear,
summon: to delay, stop.--_n._ the act of staying diligence or execution on
decrees for civil debts. [L. _sist[)e]re_, to make to stand.]

[Illustration]

SISTER, sis't[.e]r, _n._ a female born of the same parents: a female
closely allied to or associated with another.--_adj._ closely related,
akin.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to resemble closely: to be a sister to: to be
allied.--_ns._ SIS'TERHOOD, state of being a sister, the duty of a sister:
a society of females, a community of women living together under a
religious rule, and with a common object for their united life;
SIS'TER-HOOK, in a ship's rigging, one of a pair of hooks fitting closely
together and working on the same axis--also _Clip-hook_ and _Clove-hook_;
SIS'TER-IN-LAW, a husband's or wife's sister, or a brother's wife.--_adjs._
SIS'TERLESS, having no sister; SIS'TER-LIKE, SIS'TERLY, like or becoming a
sister: kind: affectionate. [A.S. _sweostor_; Dut. _zuster_, Ger.
_schwester_.]

SISTINE, sis'tin, _adj._ pertaining to a pope of the name of _Sixtus_, esp.
Sixtus IV. (1471-84) and Sixtus V. (1585-90)--also SIX'TINE.--SISTINE
CHAPEL, the Pope's chapel in the Vatican, built in 1473 by Sixtus IV.,
covered with magnificent frescoes by Michael Angelo and the great
Florentine masters; SISTINE MADONNA, or MADONNA OF SAN SISTO, a famous
painting by Raphael Santi, now at Dresden, representing the Virgin and
Child in glory, St Sixtus on the left, St Barbara on the right, and two
cherubs below.

SISTRUM, sis'trum, _n._ a form of rattle used in ancient Egypt in
connection with the worship of Isis.

SISYPHEAN, sis-i-f[=e]'an, _adj._ relating to Sisyphus: incessantly
recurring. [From _Sisyphus_, a king of Corinth, who was condemned in
Tartarus to roll to the top of a hill a huge stone, which constantly rolled
down again, making his task incessant.]

SIT, sit, _v.i._ to rest on the haunches: to perch, as birds: to rest: to
remain, abide: to brood: to occupy a seat, esp. officially: to be
officially engaged: to blow from a certain direction, as the wind: to be
worn, to fit, to be becoming: to take an attitude of readiness, or for any
special purpose: to hold a deliberative session.--_v.t._ to keep a seat, or
good seat, upon: to seat, place on a seat:--_pr.p._ sit'ting; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ sat.--_n._ a subsidence of the roof of a coal-mine: (_slang_) a
situation.--_adj._ SIT'-FAST, fixed, stationary.--_n._ a callosity of the
skin under the saddle, often leading to ulcer.--_ns._ SIT'TER; SIT'TING,
state of resting on a seat: a seat, a special seat allotted to a
seat-holder, at church, &c.; also the right to hold such: the part of the
year in which judicial business is transacted: the act or time of resting
in a posture for a painter to take a likeness: an official meeting to
transact business: uninterrupted application to anything for a time: the
time during which one continues at anything: a resting on eggs for
hatching, the number hatched at one time; SIT'TING-ROOM, the parlour or
most commonly used room in many houses.--SIT DOWN, to take a seat: to
pause, rest: to begin a siege; SIT LOOSE, or LOOSELY, to be careless or
indifferent; SIT ON, or UPON, to hold an official inquiry regarding:
(_slang_) to repress, check; SIT OUT, to sit, or to sit apart, during: to
await the close of; SIT UNDER, to be in the habit of hearing the preaching
of; SIT UP, to raise the body from a recumbent to a sitting position: to
keep watch during the night (_with_). [A.S. _sittan_; Ger. _sitzen_, L.
_sed[=e]re_.]

SITAR, sit'ar, _n._ an Oriental form of guitar.

SITE, s[=i]t, _n._ the place where anything is set down or fixed:
situation: a place chosen for any particular purpose: posture.--_adj._
S[=I]'TED (_Spens._), placed, situated. [Fr.,--L. _situs_--_situm_, pa.p.
of _sin[)e]re_, to set down.]

SITH, sith, _adv._, _prep._, and _conj._ since--(_obs._) SITH'ENCE,
SITH'ENS. [M. E. _sithen_--A.S. _síth thám_, after that, also written
_siththan_. Cf. _Since_.]

SITHE, s[=i]th, _n._ (_Spens._) time. [A.S. _síth_, time.]

SITHE, s[=i]th, _n._ (_Shak._) a scythe.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to cut with a
scythe.

SITHE, s[=i]th, _n._ (_Spens._) a sigh.

SITOLOGY, s[=i]-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the regulation of
diet.--Also SITIOL'OGY. [Gr. _sitos_, food, _logia_--_legein_, to say.]

SITOPHOBIA, s[=i]-t[=o]-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ morbid aversion to food. [Gr.
_sitos_, food, _phobia_, fear.]

SITTA, sit'a, _n._ the genus of nut-hatches.--_adj._ SIT'TINE. [Gr.
_sitt[=e]_, a woodpecker.]

SITUATE, -D, sit'[=u]-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ set or permanently fixed: placed
with respect to other objects: residing.--_ns._ SITU[=A]'TION, the place
where anything is situated: position: temporary state: condition: any group
of circumstances, a juncture: a critical point in the action of a play or
the development the plot of a novel: office, employment; S[=I]'TUS, site:
the proper place of an organ, &c.: locality in law. [Low L. _situatus_--L.
_situ[)e]re_, to place.]

SITZ-BATH, sitz'-bäth, _n._ a hip-bath: a tub adapted for such. [Ger.
_sitz-bad_.]

SIUM, s[=i]'um, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous plants--the water-parsnips.
[Gr. _sion_.]

SIVA, s[=e]'va, _n._ the third god of the Hindu Trimúrti or triad,
representing the principle of destruction and of reproduction.--_adj._
SIVAIST'IC.--_n._ SI'VAITE. [Sans. _çiva_, happy.]

SIVAN, siv'an, _n._ the third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,
answering to part of May and June. [Heb.]

SIVATHERIUM, siv-a-th[=e]'ri-um, _n._ a very large fossil ruminant found in
India.

SIX, siks, _adj._ and _n._ five and one: a figure denoting six units (6, or
vi.): a playing-card with six spots, the face of a die bearing six spots,
or that die itself: beer sold at six shillings a barrel, small beer:
(_pl._) in hymnology, a quatrain in trochaic measure, the lines of three
feet or six syllables.--_adj._ SIX'FOLD, folded or multiplied six
times.--_ns._ SIX'FOOTER, a person six feet high; SIX'PENCE, a silver
coin=six pence.--_adj._ SIX'PENNY, worth sixpence: cheap, worthless.--_ns._
SIX'-SHOOT'ER, a six-chambered revolver; SIXTE, a parry in which the hand
is on guard opposite the right breast, the point of the sword raised and
moved a little to the right.--_adjs._ and _ns._ SIX'TEEN, six and ten;
SIX'TEENTH, the sixth after the tenth.--_adj._ SIXTH, the last of six: the
ordinal of six.--_n._ the sixth part: (_mus._) an interval of four tones
and a semitone, or six intervals.--_adv._ SIXTH'LY, in the sixth
place.--SIXTH HOUR, noon-tide.--BE AT SIXES AND SEVENS, to be in disorder;
LONG SIXES, candles weighing six to the pound, about 8 inches long; SHORT
SIXES, candles weighing six to the pound, about 4 inches long. [A.S.
_siex_; Ger. _sechs_, Gael. _se_; also L. _sex_, Gr. _hex_, Sans. _shash_.]

SIXTEENMO=_Sexto-decimo_ (q.v.).

SIXTY, siks'ti, _adj._ and _n._ six times ten.--_adj._ and _n._ SIX'TIETH,
the sixth tenth: the ordinal of sixty. [A.S. _sixtig_.]

SIZAR, s[=i]'zar, _n._ the name of an order of students at Cambridge and
Dublin--from the allowance of victuals made to them from the college
buttery.--_n._ S[=I]'ZARSHIP. [_Size_, fixed quantity.]

SIZE, s[=i]z, _n._ extent of volume or surface: magnitude: an allotted
portion: (_pl._) allowances (_Shak._).--_v.t._ to arrange according to
size: at Cambridge, to buy rations at a certain fixed rate: to
measure.--_v.i._ to increase in size.--_adjs._ S[=I]'ZABLE, SIZE'ABLE, of
suitable size: of considerable size or bulk; SIZED, having a particular
size.--_ns._ S[=I]'ZER, one who, or that which, sizes or measures, a kind
of gauge; S[=I]'ZING, act of sorting articles according to size, esp.
crushed or stamped ores in mining: an order for extra food from a college
buttery.--SIZE UP, to measure, consider carefully. [Contr. of _assize_
(q.v.).]

SIZE, s[=i]z, SIZING, s[=i]'zing, _n._ a kind of weak glue, used as
varnish: any gluey substance.--_v.t._ to cover with size.--_adj._ SIZED,
having size in its composition.--_n._ S[=I]'ZINESS.--_adj._ S[=I]'ZY,
size-like: glutinous.

SIZEL=_Scissel_ (q.v.).

SIZZLE, siz'l, _v.i._ to make a sound as if frying.--_n._ a hissing sound;
extreme heat.--_n._ SIZZ'LING, a hissing.

SKAIN=_Skein_ (q.v.).

SKAINSMATE, sk[=a]nz'm[=a]t, _n._ (_Shak._) a companion, a scapegrace.

SKALD, _n._=_Scald_, a poet.

SKAT, skat, _n._ a game played with thirty-two cards as in Piquet, and said
to have been invented in 1817 in Altenburg. Each of three players receives
ten cards, the two others being laid aside (hence the name from O. Fr.
_escart_, laying aside).

SKATE, sk[=a]t, _n._ a kind of sandal or frame of wood on a steel blade for
moving on ice.--_v.i._ to slide on, skates.--_ns._ SK[=A]'TER; SK[=A]'TING;
SK[=A]'TING-RINK. [Dut. _schaats_; cf. also Dan. _sköite_.]

SKATE, sk[=a]t, _n._ the popular name of several species of Ray, esp. those
of the family _Raiidæ_ and genus _Raia_, with greatly extended pectoral
fins. [Ice. _skata_--Low L. _squatus_--L. _squatina_; cf. _Shad_.]

SKATHE. Same as SCATHE.

SKAW, skä, _n._ a promontory.--Also SCAW. [Ice. _skagi_--_skaga_, to jut
out.]

SKEAN, sk[=e]n, _n._ a dagger.--_n._ SKEAN-DHU (sk[=e]n'-d[=oo]), the knife
stuck in the stocking of the Highland dress. [Gael, _sgian_, a knife.]

SKEARY, sk[=e]'ri, a dial. form of _scary_.

SKEDADDLE, sk[=e]-dad'l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to spill, scatter.--_v.i._
(_coll._) to scamper off.--_n._ a scurrying off. [Ety. unknown. Prob. conn.
somehow with _shed_--A.S. _sceádan_, to pour.]

SKEE, sk[=e], _n._ a wooden runner for sliding down a declivity.--_v.i._ to
slide on skees. [Dan. _ski_--Ice. _skídh_.]

SKEEL, sk[=e]l, _n._ (_Scot._) a milking-pail, a washing-tub. [Scand., Ice.
_skjóla_.]

SKEELY, sk[=e]'li, _adj._ (_Scot._) skilful.

SKEESICKS, sk[=e]'ziks, _n._ (_U.S._) a rascal.

SKEETER, sk[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ a mosquito.

SKEG, skeg, _n._ a stump, branch: the after-part of a ship's keel.

SKEG, skeg, _n._ a wild-plum.

SKEIN, sk[=a]n, _n._ a knot or number of knots of thread or yarn. [O. Fr.
_escagne_, from Celt.; cf. Ir. _sgainne_, a skein.]

SKELDER, skel'd[.e]r, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to practise begging: to swindle.

SKELETON, skel'e-tun, _n._ the bones of an animal separated from the flesh
and preserved in their natural position: the framework or outline of
anything: a very lean and emaciated person: a very thin form of light-faced
type.--_adj._ pertaining to a skeleton--also SKEL'ETAL.--_ns._ SKELETOG'ENY
(-toj'-); SKELETOG'RAPHY; SKELETOL'OGY.--_v.t._ SKEL'ETONISE, to reduce to
a skeleton.--_n._ SKEL'ETON-KEY, a key for picking locks, without the inner
bits.--SKELETON IN THE CUPBOARD, CLOSET, HOUSE, &c., some hidden domestic
source of sorrow or shame. [Gr. _skeleton_ (_s[=o]ma_), a dried
(body)--_skeletos_, dried--_skellein_, to dry, to parch.]

SKELLOCH, skel'oh, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to cry out with a shrill voice.--_n._ a
squeal.

SKELLUM, skel'um, _n._ (_Scot._) a ne'er-do-well. [Dut. _schelm_, a rogue.]

SKELLY, skel'i, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to squint. [Cf. Dan. _skele_, Sw. _skela_,
Ger. _schielen_, to squint.]

SKELP, skelp, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to slap.--_v.i._ to move briskly along, to
bound along.--_n._ a slap: a heavy fall of pelting rain: a large
portion.--_adj._ SKELP'ING, very big or full. [Gael. _sgealp_, a slap.]

SKELTER, skel't[.e]r, _v.i._ to hurry or dash along.

SKEP, skep, _n._ a grain-basket, or beehive made of straw or
wicker-work.--_n._ SKEP'FUL, as much as a skep will hold. [A.S.
_scep_--Scand., Ice. _skeppa_.]

SKEPTIC=_Sceptic_; SKEPSIS=_Scepsis_.

SKERRY, sker'i, _n._ a rocky isle. [Ice. _sker_.]

SKETCH, skech, _n._ a first draft of any plan or painting: an outline, a
short and slightly constructed play, essay, &c.: a short dramatic scene for
representation by two persons: an artist's preliminary study of a work to
be elaborated.--_v.t._ to make a rough draft of: to draw the outline: to
give the principal points of.--_v.i._ to practise sketching.--_adj._
SKETCH'ABLE, capable of being sketched effectively.--_ns._ SKETCH'BOOK, a
blank book used for sketching by an artist or writer: a printed volume of
literary sketches; SKETCH'ER, one who sketches.--_adv._ SKETCH'ILY.--_n._
SKETCH'INESS.--_adj._ SKETCH'Y, containing a sketch or outline: incomplete,
slight. [Dut. _schets_, It. _schizzo_--L. _schedium_--_schedius_, made
off-hand--Gr. _schedios_, sudden.]

SKEW, sk[=u], _adj._ oblique: intersecting a road, river, &c. not at right
angles, as a bridge.--_adv._ awry: obliquely.--_v.t._ to turn aside.--_n._
a deviation, a mistake: a squint: (_archit._) the sloping top of a buttress
slanting off against a wall.--_ns._ SKEW'-ARCH, an arch standing obliquely
on its abutments; SKEW'-BACK (_archit._), the course of masonry on the top
of an abutment with a slope for the base of the arch to rest
against.--_adj._ SKEW'-BALD, spotted irregularly, piebald.--_n._
SKEW'-BRIDGE, a bridge having its arch or arches set obliquely on its
abutments, as when a railway crosses a road, &c., at an oblique
angle.--_adjs._ SKEWED, distorted; SKEW-GEE' (_coll._), crooked.--_n._
SKEW'-WHEEL, a bevel-wheel with teeth formed obliquely on the rim. [Old
Dut. _sch[=u]wen_ (Dut. _schuwen_); Ger. _scheuen_, to shun; cf. _Shy_.]

SKEWER, sk[=u]'[.e]r, _n._ a pin of wood or iron for keeping meat in form
while roasting.--_v.t._ to fasten with skewers. [Prov. Eng. _skiver_, prob.
the same as _shiver_, a splinter of wood.]

SKIASCOPY, sk[=i]'a-sk[=o]-pi, _n._ the shadow-test for measuring the
refraction of an eye.--Also SC[=I]'ASCOPY. [Gr. _skia_, a shadow,
_skopein_, to view.]

SKID, skid, _n._ a piece of timber hung against a ship's side to protect it
from injury: a sliding wedge or drag to check the wheel of a wagon on a
steep place: a slab put below a gun to keep it off the ground.--_v.t._ to
check with a skid.--_v.i._ to slide along without revolving.--_n._
SKID'DER, one who uses a skid. [Scand., Ice. _skídh_; A.S. _scíd_, a piece
split off.]

SKIEY, sk[=i]'i, _adj._ Same as SKYEY.

SKIFF, skif, _n._ a small light boat. [A doublet of _ship_.]

SKIFF, skif, _adj._ (_prov._) distorted: awkward.

SKILL, skil, _n._ knowledge of anything: dexterity in practice.--_v.i._ to
understand, to be dexterous in: to make a difference, to signify.--_adj._
SKIL'FUL, having or displaying skill: dexterous.--_adv._ SKIL'FULLY.--_n._
SKIL'FULNESS.--_adjs._ SKILLED, having skill: skilful: expert; SKIL'LESS
(_Shak._), wanting skill, artless. [Scand., as Ice. _skil_, a distinction,
_skilja_, to separate.]

SKILLET, skil'et, _n._ a small metal vessel with a long handle, used for
boiling water, in cooking, &c. [Prob. from O. Fr. _escuellette_, dim of
_escuelle_ (Fr. _écuelle_)--L. _scutella_, dim. of _scutra_, a dish.]

SKILLIGALEE, skil-i-ga-l[=e]', _n._ thin watery soup.--Also SKILLIGOLEE',
SKILL'Y. [Ety. dub.]

SKILLING, skil'ing, _n._ a small coin formerly current in North Germany and
Scandinavia, in value from ¼d. to 1d. [Dan.]

SKILTS, skilts, _n.pl._ short loose trousers.

SKILVINGS, skil'vingz, _n.pl._ (_prov._) the rails of a cart.

SKIM, skim, _v.t._ to clear off scum: to take off by skimming: to brush the
surface of lightly.--_v.i._ to pass over lightly: to glide along near the
surface: to become coated over:--_pr.p._ skim'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
skimmed.--_n._ the act of skimming: what is skimmed off.--_ns._ SKIM'MER, a
utensil for skimming milk: a bird that skims the water; SKIM'-MILK, skimmed
milk: milk from which the cream has been skimmed; SKIM'MING, the act of
taking off that which floats on the surface of a liquid, as cream: that
which is taken off, scum.--_adv._ SKIM'MINGLY, by skimming along the
surface. [_Scum_.]

SKIMBLE-SKAMBLE, skim'bl-skam'bl, _adj._ wandering, wild, rambling,
incoherent.--_adv._ in a confused manner. [A reduplication of _scamble_.]

SKIMMINGTON, skim'ing-ton, _n._ a burlesque procession intended to ridicule
a henpecked husband: a riot generally.--Also SKIM'INGTON, SKIM'MERTON,
SKIM'ITRY. [Ety. unknown.]

SKIMP, skimp, _v.t._ to give scanty measure, to stint: to do a thing
imperfectly.--_v.i._ to be parsimonious.--_adj._ scanty, spare.--_adj._
SKIM'PING, sparing: meagre: done inefficiently.--_adv._
SKIM'PINGLY.--_adj._ SKIM'PY. [A variant of _scamp_.]

SKIN, skin, _n._ the natural outer covering of an animal body: a hide: the
bark or rind of plants, &c.: the inside covering of the ribs of a ship: a
drink of whisky hot.--_v.t._ to cover with skin: to cover the surface of:
to strip the skin from, to peel: to plunder, cheat: to answer an
examination paper, &c., by unfair means.--_v.i._ to become covered with
skin: to sneak off:--_pr.p._ skin'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
skinned.--_adj._ SKIN'-DEEP, as deep as the skin only: superficial.--_ns._
SKIN'FLINT, one who takes the smallest gains: a very niggardly person;
SKIN'FUL, as much as one can hold, esp. of liquor.--_adj._ SKIN'LESS,
having no skin, or a very thin one.--_ns._ SKIN'NER; SKIN'NINESS.--_adjs._
SKIN'NY, consisting of skin or of skin only: wanting flesh; SKIN'-TIGHT,
fitting close to the skin.--_n._ SKIN'-WOOL, wool pulled from the skin of a
dead sheep.--BY, or WITH, THE SKIN OF ONE'S TEETH, very narrowly; CLEAN
SKINS, unbranded cattle; SAVE ONE'S SKIN, to escape without injury. [A.S.
_scinn_; Ice. _skinn_, skin, Ger. _schinden_, to flay.]

SKINK, skingk, _n._ drink.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to serve drink.--_n._
SKINK'ER, one who serves drink, a tapster.--_adj._ SKINK'ING (_Scot._),
thin, watery. [A.S. _scencan_, to pour out drink; Ger. _schenken_.]

SKINK, skingk, _n._ an African lizard. [L. _scincus_--Gr. _skingkos_, the
adda.]

SKINK, skingk, _n._ (_Scot._) a shin-bone of beef, soup made from such.
[Cf. Dut. _schonk_, a bone; cf. _Shank_.]

SKIO, sky[=o], _n._ in Orkney, a fisherman's hut.--Also SKEO. [Norw.
_skjaa_, a shed.]

SKIP, skip, _v.i._ to leap: to bound lightly and joyfully: to pass
over.--_v.t._ to leap over: to omit:--_pr.p._ skip'ping; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ skipped.--_n._ a light leap: a bound: the omission of a part: the
captain of a side at bowls and curling: a college servant.--_ns._
SKIP'JACK, an impudent fellow: the blue-fish, saurel, &c.; SKIP'-KEN'NEL,
one who has to jump the gutters, a lackey; SKIP'PER, one who skips: a
dancer: (_Shak._) a young thoughtless person: a hesperian
butterfly.--_adj._ SKIP'PING, flighty, giddy.--_adv._ SKIP'PINGLY, in a
skipping manner: by skips or leaps.--_n._ SKIP'PING-ROPE, a rope used in
skipping. [Either Celt., according to Skeat, from Ir. _sgiob_, to snatch,
Gael. _sgiab_, to move suddenly, W. _ysgipio_, to snatch away; or Teut.,
conn. with Ice. _skopa_, to run.]

SKIP, skip, _n._ an iron box for raising ore running between guides, or in
inclined shafts fitted with wheels to run on a track, a mine-truck.

SKIPETAR, skip'e-tär, _n._ an Albanian: the Albanian language. [Albanian
_skipetar_, a mountaineer.]

SKIPPER, skip'[.e]r, _n._ the master of a merchant-ship.--SKIPPER'S
DAUGHTERS, white-topped waves. [Dut. _schipper_; Dan. _skipper_.]

SKIPPER, skip'[.e]r, _n._ a barn, a shed in which to shelter for the
night.--_v.i._ to shelter in such a place.--_n._ SKIPP'ER-BIRD, a tramp.
[Prob. W. _ysguber_, a barn.]

SKIPPET, skip'et, _n._ (_Spens._) a small boat. [Dim. of A.S. _scip_,
ship.]

SKIPPET, skip'et, _n._ a round flat box for holding a seal, which used to
be attached to the parchment by ribbons passing through the lid.

SKIRL, skirl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Scot._) to shriek shrilly.--_n._ a shrill
cry.--_n._ SKIR'LING, a shrill sound.

SKIRMISH, sk[.e]r'mish, _n._ an irregular fight between two small parties:
a contest.--_v.i._ to fight slightly or irregularly.--_ns._ SKIR'MISHER, a
soldier belonging to troops dispersed to cover front or flank, and prevent
surprises; SKIR'MISHING. [O. Fr. _escarmouche_--Old High Ger. _skerman_,
_scirman_, to fight.]

SKIRR, sk[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to ramble over, to scour.--_v.i._ to run
in haste. [_Scurry_.]

SKIRRET, skir'et, _n._ an edible water-parsnip: a perennial plant, native
to China and Japan. [_Sugar-root_.]

SKIRT, sk[.e]rt, _n._ the part of a garment below the waist: a woman's
garment like a petticoat: the edge of any part of the dress: border:
margin: extreme part.--_v.t._ to border: to form the edge of.--_v.i._ to be
on the border: to live near the extremity.--_ns._ SKIRT'-DANC'ING, a form
of ballet-dancing in which the flowing skirts are waved about in the hands;
SKIR'TER, a huntsman who dodges his jumps by going round about; SKIR'TING,
strong material made up in lengths for women's skirts: skirting-board;
SKIR'TING-BOARD, the narrow board next the floor round the walls of a
room.--DIVIDED SKIRT, a skirt in the form of loose trousers. [Scand., Ice.
_skyrta_, a shirt. A doublet of _shirt_.]

SKIT, skit, _n._ any sarcastic squib, lampoon, or pamphlet. [Ice. _skúti_,
a taunt.]

SKITE, sk[=i]t, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to glide or slip--also SKYTE.--_n._ a
sudden blow: a trick.--_vs.i._ SKIT, to leap aside: to caper; SKIT'TER, to
skim lightly over: to void thin excrement: to draw a baited hook along the
surface of water. [Scand., Sw. _skutta_, to leap, _skjuta_, to shoot.]

SKITTISH, skit'ish, _adj._ unsteady, light-headed, easily frightened:
hasty, volatile, changeable: wanton.--_adv._ SKITT'ISHLY.--_n._
SKITT'ISHNESS. [_Skite_.]

SKITTLES, skit'lz, _n.pl._ a game of ninepins in which a flattened ball or
thick rounded disc is thrown to knock down the pins--played in a
SKITT'LE-ALL'EY, or -GROUND. In American Bowls, the game is played with ten
pins arranged in the form of a triangle, the missile being rolled along a
carefully constructed wooden floor.--_v.t._ SKITT'LE, to knock down.--n
SKITT'LE-BALL, the ball thrown in playing at skittles. [A variant of
_shittle_ or _shuttle_.]

SKIVER, sk[=i]'v[.e]r, _n._ a kind of leather made of split sheep-skins,
used for bookbinding, &c.--_n._ a machine for skiving leather.--_v.t._
SKIVE, to cut, pare off.--_n._ SK[=I]'VING, the act of skiving: a piece
skived off--of leather, usually on the flesh side. [From root of _shive_,
_shiver_.]

SKIVER, sk[=i]'v[.e]r, _v.t._ (_prov._) to run through, to skewer.

SKIVIE, skiv'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) deranged: askew.

SKLENT, a Scotch form of _slant_.

SKOAL, sk[=o]l, _interj._ hail! a friendly exclamation of salutation before
drinking, &c. [Ice. _skál_; Norw. _skaal_, a bowl, Sw. _skål_.]

SKOLION, sk[=o]'li-on, _n._ a short drinking-song in ancient Greece, taken
up by the guests in turn:--_pl._ SK[=O]'LIA. [Gr.]

SKRIMMAGE. Same as SCRIMMAGE.

SKRYER, skr[=i]'[.e]r, _n._ one who uses the divining-glass.

SKUA, sk[=u]'a, _n._ a bird of the family _Laridæ_, esp. the Great Skua
(_Stercorarius catarrhactes_), a rapacious bird about two feet long, the
plumage predominantly brown, breeding in the Shetlands.--_n._
SK[=U]'A-GULL. [Norw.]

SKUE, sk[=u], an obsolete form of _skew_.

SKUG, SCUG, skug, _n._ (prov.) shelter.--_v.t._ to shelter: to
expiate.--_n._ SKUG'GERY, SCUG'GERY, secrecy.--_adjs._ SKUG'GY, SCUG'GY,
shady. [Ice. _skuggi_, a shade.]

SKUG, skug, _n._ (_prov._) a squirrel.

SKULDUDDERY. See SCULDUDDERY.

SKULK, skulk, _v.i._ to sneak out of the way: to lurk.--_ns._ SKULK,
SKULK'ER, one who skulks.--_adv._ SKULK'INGLY.--_n._ SKULK'ING-PLACE.
[Scand., as in Dan. _skulke_, to sneak; conn. with Ice. _skjöl_, cover,
hiding-place; also with Eng. _scowl_.]

SKULL, skul, _n._ the bony case that encloses the brain: the head, the
sconce, noddle: a crust formed on the ladle, &c., by the partial cooling of
molten metal: in armour, the crown of the head-piece: (_Scot._) a shallow,
bow-handled basket.--_n._ SKULL'CAP, a cap which fits closely to the head:
the sinciput.--_adj._ SKULL'-LESS.--SKULL AND CROSS-BONES, a symbolic
emblem of death and decay. [Ice. _skál_, a shell; conn. with _shell_ and
_scale_, a thin plate.]

SKULPIN=_Sculpin_.

SKUNK, skungk, _n._ a small North American carnivorous quadruped allied to
the otter and weasel, defending itself by emitting an offensive fluid: a
low fellow: (_U.S._) a complete defeat.--_v.t._ to inflict such.--_ns._
SKUNK'-BIRD, -BLACK'BIRD, the male bobolink in full plumage. [Indian
_seganku_.]

SKUPSHTINA, skoopsh'ti-na, _n._ the national assembly of Servia, having one
chamber and 178 deputies, three-fourths elected and one-fourth nominated by
the crown.--GREAT SKUPSHTINA, specially elected for discussing graver
questions.

SKURRY=_Scurry_.

SKY, sk[=i], _n._ the apparent canopy over our heads: the heavens: the
weather: the upper rows of pictures in a gallery.--_v.t._ to raise aloft,
esp. to hang pictures above the line of sight.--_adjs._ SKY'-BLUE, blue
like the sky; SKY'-BORN, of heavenly birth.--_n._ SKY'-COL'OUR, the colour
of the sky.--_adjs._ SKY'-COL'OURED, blue, azure; SKYED, surrounded by sky;
SKY'EY, like the sky: ethereal; SKY'-HIGH, very high; SKY'ISH (_Shak._),
like or approaching the sky, lofty.--_n._ SKY'LARK, a species of lark that
mounts high towards the sky and sings on the wing.--_v.i._ to engage in any
kind of boisterous frolic.--_ns._ SKY'LARKING, running about the rigging of
a ship in sport: frolicking; SKY'-LIGHT, a window in a roof or ceiling
towards the sky for the admission of light; SKY'LINE, the horizon;
SKY'-PAR'LOUR, a lofty attic; SKY'-P[=I]'LOT, a clergyman.--_adj._
SKY'-PLANT'ED, placed in the sky.--_n._ SKY'-ROCK'ET, a rocket that ascends
high towards the sky and burns as it flies.--_v.i._ to move like a
sky-rocket, to rise and disappear as suddenly.--_ns._ SKY'SAIL, the sail
above the royal; SKY'SCAPE, a view of a portion of the sky, or a picture of
the same; SKY'-SCR[=A]P'ER, a sky-sail of a triangular shape: anything
shooting high into the sky.--_adj._ SKY'-TINC'TURED, of the colour of the
sky.--_adv._ SKY'WARD, toward the sky. [Ice. _ský_, a cloud; akin to A.S.
_scúa_, Gr. _skia_, a shadow.]

SKYE, sk[=i], _n._ for Skye terrier. [See _Terrier_.]

SKYR, skir, _n._ curds. [Ice.]

SKYRIN, sk[=i]'rin, _adj._ (_Scot._) shining, showy.

SLAB, slab, _n._ a thin slip of anything, esp. of stone, having plane
surfaces: a piece sawed from a log.--_v.t._ to cut slabs from, as a
log.--_adj._ SLAB'-SID'ED, having long flat sides, tall and lank.--_n._
SLAB'STONE, flagstone. [Scand., Ice. _sleppa_, to slip, Norw. _sleip_, a
slab of wood.]

SLAB, slab, _adj._ thick.--_n._ mud.--_adj._ SLAB'BY, muddy. [Celt., Ir.,
and Gael. _slaib_, mud.]

SLABBER, slab'[.e]r, _v.i._ to slaver: to let the saliva fall from the
mouth: to drivel.--_v.t._ to wet with saliva.--_n._ SLABB'ERER.--_adj._
SLABB'ERY.--_n._ SLABB'INESS.--_adj._ SLABB'Y. [Allied to Low Ger. and Dut.
_slabbern_; imit. Doublet _slaver_.]

SLACK, slak, _adj._ lax or loose: not firmly extended or drawn out: not
holding fast, weak: not eager or diligent, inattentive: not violent or
rapid, slow.--_adv._ in a slack manner: partially: insufficiently.--_n._
that part of a rope, belt, &c. which is slack or loose: a period of
inactivity: a slack-water haul of a net.--_vs.i._ SLACK, SLACK'EN, to
become loose or less tight: to be remiss: to abate: to become slower: to
fail or flag.--_v.t._ to make less tight: to loosen: to relax: to remit: to
abate: to withhold: to use less liberally: to check: (_B._) to
delay.--_v.t._ SLACK'-BAKE, to half-bake.--_adj._--SLACK'-HAND'ED,
remiss.--_n._ SLACK'-JAW (_slang_), impudent talk.--_adv._ SLACK'LY.--_n._
SLACK'NESS.--_adj._--SLACK'-SALT'ED, insufficiently salted.--_n._
SLACK'-WA'TER, ebb-tide: slow-moving water, as that above a dam.--_adj._
pertaining to slack-water.--SLACK AWAY, to ease off freely; SLACK-IN-STAYS,
slow in going about, of a ship; SLACK OFF, to ease off; SLACK UP, to ease
off: to slow. [A.S. _sleac_; Sw. _slak_, Ice. _slakr_.]

SLACK, slak, _n._ coal-dross. [Ger. _schlacke_.]

SLACK, slak, _n._ (_Scot._) a cleft between hills: a common: a boggy place.
[Scand., Ice. _slakki_, a hill-slope.]

SLADE, sl[=a]d, _n._ a little valley or dell; a piece of low, moist ground.
[A.S. _slæd_, a plain; prob. Celt., Ir. _slad_.]

SLADE, sl[=a]d, _n._ a peat-spade.

SLAE, a Scotch form of sloe.

SLAG, slag, _n._ vitrified cinders from smelting-works, &c.: the scoriæ of
a volcano.--_v.i._ to cohere into slag.--_adj._ SLAG'GY, pertaining to, or
like, slag. [Sw. _slagg_; cf. Ger. _schlacke_, dross.]

SLAIN, sl[=a]n, _pa.p._ of slay.

SLAISTER, sl[=a]s't[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a slobbery mess, slovenly
work.--_v.t._ to bedaub.--_v.i._ to slabber: to move about in a dirty,
slovenly manner.--_adj._ SLAIS'TERY. [Prob. Sw. _slaska_, to dabble, slask,
wet.]

SLAKE, sl[=a]k, _v.t._ to quench: to extinguish: to mix with water: to make
slack or inactive.--_v.i._ to go out: to become extinct.--_adj._
SLAKE'LESS, that cannot be slaked: inextinguishable. [A.S. _sleacian_, to
grow slack--_sleccan_, to make slack--_sleac_, slack.]

SLAKE, sl[=a]k, _n._ a channel through a swamp or morass: slime. [Ice.
_slakki_, a hill-slope.]

SLAKE, sl[=a]k, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to besmear.--_n._ a slabbery daub. [Prob.
conn. with Ice. _sleikja_, to lick; Ger. _schlecken_, to lick.]

SLAM, slam, _v.t._ or _v.i._ to shut with violence and noise: to throw down
with violence: to win all the tricks in a card-game:--_pr.p._ slam'ming;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ slammed.--_n._ the act of slamming: the sound so made:
the winning of all the tricks at whist, &c. [Scand., Norw. _slemma_, Ice.
_slamra_.]

SLAM, slam, _n._ an old card-game.

SLAM, slam, _n._ a shambling fellow. [Cf. Dut. _slomp_, Ger. _schlampe_.]

SLAMKIN, slam'kin, _n._ a loose 18th-century women's morning-gown.--Also
SLAM'MERKIN.

SLANDER, slan'd[.e]r, _n._ a false or malicious report: malicious
defamation by words spoken: calumny.--_v.t._ to defame: to
calumniate.--_n._ SLAN'DERER.--_adj._ SLAN'DEROUS, given to, or containing,
slander: calumnious.--_adv._ SLAN'DEROUSLY.--_n._ SLAN'DEROUSNESS, the
state or quality of being slanderous. [O. Fr. _esclandre_--L.
_scandalum_--Gr. _skandalon_.]

SLANG, slang, _n._ a conventional tongue with many dialects, which are, as
a rule, unintelligible to outsiders, such as Gypsy, Canting or Flash,
Back-slang, and Shelta or Tinkers' Talk: any kind of colloquial and
familiar language serving as a kind of class or professional
shibboleth.--_adj._ pertaining to slang.--_v.i._ to use slang, and esp.
abusive language.--_v.t._ to scold.--_adv._ SLANG'ILY.--_n._
SLANG'INESS.--_adj._ SLANG'ULAR, slangy.--_v.i._ SLANG'-WHANG, to talk
slangily or boisterously.--_n._ SLANG'-WHANG'ER, an abusive and wordy
fellow.--_adj._ SLANG'Y. [Explained by Skeat as Scand., Norw. _sleng_, a
slinging, a device, a burthen of a song, _slengja_, to sling. Leland boldly
makes it Romany, and orig. applied to everything relating to shows--in
Hindustani, _Swangi_, also often _Slangi_.]

SLANG, slang, _n._ a narrow strip of land.--Also SLANK'ET. SLANG, slang,
_n._ (_slang_) a counterfeit weight or measure: a travelling show, or a
performance of the same: a hawker's license: a watch-chain: (_pl._)
convicts' leg-irons.

SLANT, slant, _adj._ sloping: oblique: inclined from a direct line--also
SLAN'TING.--_n._ a slope: a gibe: (_slang_) a chance.--_v.i._ to turn in a
sloping direction.--_v.i._ to slope, to incline towards: (_Scot._) to
exaggerate, to lie.--_adj._ SLANTENDIC'[=U]LAR, oblique: indirect.--_advs._
SLAN'TINGLY, in a slanting direction: with a slope or inclination;
SLANT'LY, SLANT'WISE, in a sloping, oblique, or inclined
manner.--SLANT-OF-WIND, a transitory breeze of favourable wind. [Scand.,
Sw. _slinta_, to slide.]

SLAP, slap, _n._ a blow with the hand or anything flat.--_v.t._ to give a
slap to:--_pr.p._ slap'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ slapped.--_adv._ with a
slap: suddenly, violently.--_adj._ (_slang_) first-rate.--_adv._
SLAP'-BANG, violently, all at once.--_adj._ dashing, violent.--_n._ a cheap
eating-house.--_adv._ SLAP'-DASH, in a bold, careless way.--_adj._
off-hand, rash.--_n._ rough-cast harling: carelessly done work.--_v.t._ to
do anything in a hasty, imperfect manner: to rough-cast with mortar.--_n._
SLAP'PER (_slang_), anything big of its kind.--_adjs._ SLAP'PING, very
large; SLAP'-UP, excellent, very grand. [Allied to Low Ger. _slapp_, Ger.
_schlappe_; imit.]

SLAP, slap, _n._ (_Scot._) a gap in a fence: a narrow cleft between
hills.--_v.t._ to break an opening in.

SLAPE, sl[=a]p, _adj._ (_prov._) slippery, crafty. [Ice. _sleipr_, sleppr,
slippery--slípa, to be smooth.]

SLAPJACK=_Flapjack_ (q.v.).

SLASH, slash, _v.t._ to cut by striking with violence and at random: to
make long cuts: to ornament by cutting slits in the cloth in order to show
some fine material underneath.--_v.i._ to strike violently and at random
with an edged instrument: to strike right and left: to move rapidly.--_n._
a long cut: a cut at random: a cut in cloth to show colours underneath: a
stripe on a non-commissioned officer's sleeve: a clearing in a
wood.--_adj._ SLASHED, cut with slashes: gashed.--_ns._ SLASH'ER, anything
which slashes; SLASH'ING, a slash in a garment: the felling of trees as a
military obstacle, also the trees so felled.--_adj._ cutting mercilessly,
unsparing: dashing: very big, slapping. [O. Fr. _eslecher_, to
dismember--Old High Ger. _sl[=i]zan_, to split.]

SLASH, slash, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to work in wet.--_n._ a large quantity of
watery food, as broth, &c.--_adj._ SLASH'Y, dirty, muddy. [Sw. _slaska_,
dabble--_slask_, wet.]

SLAT, slat, _v.t._ to strike, beat.--_v.i._ to flap violently.--_n._ a
sudden sharp blow. [Scand., Ice. _sletta_, to slap, Norw. _sletta_, to
cast.]

SLAT, slat, _n._ a thin piece of stone, a slate: a strip of wood.--_adj._
made of slats.--_adj._ SLAT'TED, covered with slats. [O. Fr. _esclat_--Old
High Ger. _sl[=i]zan_, to slit.]

SLATCH, slach, _n._ the slack of a rope: an interval of fair weather: a
short breeze. [SLACK.]

SLATE, sl[=a]t, _n._ a highly metamorphosed argillaceous rock, fine-grained
and fissile, and of a dull blue, gray, purple, or green colour--used in
thin slabs of small size for ordinary roofs, and in larger slabs for
dairy-fittings, wash-tubs, cisterns, tables, &c., and when polished for
writing-slates and 'black-boards:' a piece of slate for roofing, or for
writing upon: a preliminary list of candidates before a caucus.--_adj._
bluish-gray, slate-coloured.--_v.t._ to cover with slate: to enter on a
slate.--_ns._ SLATE'-AXE, a slater's tool, a sax; SLATE'-CLAY, a fissile
shale.--_adjs._ SL[=A]'TED, covered with slates; SLATE'-GRAY, of a light
slate colour.--_ns._ SLATE'-PEN'CIL, a cut or turned stick of soft slate,
or of compressed moistened slate-powder, for writing on slate; SL[=A]'TER;
SL[=A]'TINESS, the quality of being slaty; SL[=A]'TING, the act of covering
with slates: a covering of slates: materials for slating.--_adj._
SL[=A]'TY, resembling slate: having the nature or properties of slate. [O.
Fr. _esclat_--Old High Ger. _sl[=i]zan_, Ger. _schleissen_, to split.]

SLATE, sl[=a]t, _v.t._ to abuse, criticise severely: (_prov._) to set a dog
at.--_n._ SL[=A]'TING, a severe criticism. [A.S. _slítan_, to slit.]

SLATER, sl[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ a terrestrial oniscid isopod, as the common
_Porcellio scaber_.

SLATHER, slath'[.e]r, _n._ (_slang_) a large quantity.

SLATTERN, slat'[.e]rn, _n._ a woman negligent of her dress: an untidy
woman.--_v.i._ SLATT'ER (_prov._), to be untidy or slovenly.--_n._
SLATT'ERNLINESS.--_adj._ SLATT'ERNLY, like a slattern: negligent of person:
slovenly: dirty: sluttish.--_adv._ negligently: untidily.--_adj._ SLATT'ERY
(_prov._) wet. [From _slatter_, a freq. of _slat_, to strike (q.v.).]

SLAUGHTER, slaw't[.e]r, _n._ a killing: a great destruction of life:
carnage: butchery.--_ns._ SLAUGH'TERER; SLAUGH'TERHOUSE, a place where
beasts are killed for the market; SLAUGH'TERMAN, a man employed in killing
or butchering animals.--_adj._ SLAUGH'TEROUS, given to slaughter:
destructive: murderous.--_adv._ SLAUGH'TEROUSLY. [Prob. Ice. _slátr_,
butchers' meat, whence _slátra_, to slaughter cattle. The A.S. is
_sleaht_--_sleán_, to slay.]

SLAV, SLAVE, släv, _n._ one belonging to any of the Slavonic groups of
Aryans--Bulgarians, Czechs, Poles, Russians, Servians, Wends, &c.--_adj._
SLAV'IC. [_Slovene_ or _Slovane_, from Polish _slovo_, a word, thus meaning
the people who spoke intelligibly, as distinguished from their neighbour,
_Niemets_, the German, lit. the dumb man. Miklosich considers both to be
tribal names.]

SLAVE, sl[=a]v, _n._ a captive in servitude: any one in bondage: a serf:
one who labours like a slave: a drudge: one wholly under the will of
another: one who has lost all power of resistance.--_v.i._ to work like a
slave: to drudge.--_adj._ SLAVE'-BORN, born in slavery.--_ns._
SLAVE'-DR[=I]'VER, one who superintends slaves at their work; SLAVE'-FORK,
a long and heavy branch into the forked end of which a slave's neck is
fixed to prevent his escaping from the slave-trader's gang.--_adj._
SLAVE'-GROWN, grown on land worked by slaves.--_ns._ SLAVE'-HOLD'ER, an
owner of slaves; SLAVE'-HOLD'ING; SLAVE'-HUNT, a hunt after runaway slaves;
SL[=A]'VER, a ship employed in the slave-trade; SL[=A]'VERY, the state of
being a slave: serfdom: the state of being entirely under the will of
another: bondage: drudgery; SLAVE'-SHIP, a ship used for transporting
slaves.--_n.pl._ SLAVE'-STATES, those states of the American Union which
maintained domestic slavery before the Civil War--Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi,
Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, and Tennessee.--_ns._
SLAVE'-TRADE, the trade of buying and selling slaves; SLAVE'-TR[=A]'DER, a
trader in slaves; SL[=A]'VEY (_slang_), a domestic drudge, a
maid-servant.--_adj._ SL[=A]'VISH, of or belonging to slaves: becoming
slaves: servile: mean: base: laborious.--_adv._ SL[=A]'VISHLY.--_ns._
SL[=A]'VISHNESS; SL[=A]VOC'RACY, slave-owners collectively, or their
interests, &c.; SL[=A]'VOCRAT, a member of the slavocracy. [O. Fr.
_esclave_--Mid. High Ger. _slave_ (Ger. _sclave_), from _Slav_, above.]

SLAVER, slav'[.e]r, _n._ spittle or saliva running from the mouth.--_v.i._
to let the saliva run out of the mouth.--_v.t._ to smear with saliva.--_n._
SLAV'ERER.--_adv._ SLAV'ERINGLY, in a slavering manner.--_adj._ SLAV'ERY,
slabbery. [_Slabber_.]

SLAVONIC, sla-von'ik, _adj._ of or belonging to the _Slavs_, or their
language--also SCLAVON'IC, SLAV[=O]'NIAN, SCLAV[=O]'NIAN.--_vs.t._
SLAVON'ICISE, SLAV'ONISE, to render Slavonic in character, language,
&c.--_ns._ SLAV'OPHIL, one devoted to promoting the interests of the
Slavonic peoples; SLAV'OPHILISM, Slavophil feelings and aims;
SLAV'OPH[=O]BIST, one who dreads the growth of Slav influence.

SLAW, slaw, _n._ sliced cabbage eaten as a salad. [Dut. _slaa_.]

SLAY, sl[=a], _v.t._ to strike: to kill: to put to death: to
destroy:--_pa.t._ slew (sl[=oo]); _pa.p._ slain (sl[=a]n).--_n._ SLAY'ER.
[A.S. _sleán_; Ice. _slá_, Goth. _slahan_, Ger. _schlagen_, to strike.]

SLEAVE, sl[=e]v, _n._ the ravelled, knotty part of silk thread: (_Shak._)
floss-silk.--_v.t._ to separate, as threads:--_pr.p._ sleav'ing; _pa.p._
sleaved. [Cf. Dan. _slöife_, a loose knot, Sw. _slejf_, a knot of ribbon,
Ger. _schleife_, a loop.]

SLEAZY, sl[=a]'zi, or sl[=e]'zi, _adj._ thin and flimsy.--_n._ SLEA'ZINESS.
[Prob. Ger. _schleissig_, worn out, readily split--schleissen, to split.]

SLED, sled, SLEDGE, slej, _n._ a carriage with runners made for sliding
upon snow: a sleigh: anything dragged without wheels along the
ground.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to convey, or to travel, in a sled.--_p.adj._
SLED'DED (_Shak._), sledged.--_ns._ SLED'DING, the act of transporting on a
sled; SLEDGE'-CHAIR, a chair mounted on runners for ice. [Ice. _sledhi_;
from a root seen in A.S. _slídan_, to slide.]

SLEDGE, slej, _n._ an instrument for striking: a large heavy hammer used
chiefly by ironsmiths. [A.S. _slecg_--_sleán_, to strike, slay (cf. Ger.
_schlägel_, a beater--schlagen).]

SLEEK, sl[=e]k, _adj._ smooth: glossy: soft, not rough: insinuating,
plausible: dexterous.--_v.t._ to make smooth or glossy: to calm or
soothe.--_v.i._ to glide.--_advs._ SLEEK, SLICK, neatly.--_v.t._ SLEEK'EN,
to make smooth or sleek.--_ns._ SLEEK'ER, SLICK'ER, a tool for dressing the
surface of leather.--_adj._ SLEEK'-HEAD'ED, having a smooth head.--_n._
SLEEK'ING, the act of making smooth.--_adj._ SLEEK'IT (_Scot._), having a
smooth skin: sly, cunning, fair-spoken.--_adv._ SLEEK'LY.--_ns._
SLEEK'NESS; SLEEK'-STONE, a smooth stone used for polishing
anything.--_adj._ SLEEK'Y, smooth: sly, untrustworthy. [Scand., Ice.
_slíkr_, sleek; cf. Dut. _slijk_, Ger. _schlick_, grease.]

SLEEP, sl[=e]p, _v.i._ to take rest by relaxation: to become unconscious:
to slumber: to rest: to be motionless or inactive: to remain unnoticed: to
live thoughtlessly: to be dead: to rest in the grave:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
slept.--_n._ the state of one who, or that which, sleeps: slumber: rest:
the dormancy of some animals during winter: (_bot._) nyctitropism.--_n._
SLEEP'ER, one who sleeps: a horizontal timber supporting a weight, rails,
&c.--_adv._ SLEEP'ILY.--_n._ SLEEP'INESS.--_p.adj._ SLEEP'ING, occupied
with, or for, sleeping: dormant.--_n._ the state of resting in sleep:
(_Shak._) the state of being at rest or in abeyance.--_ns._ SLEEP'ING-CAR,
-CARRIAGE, a railway-carriage in which passengers have berths for sleeping
in; SLEEP'ING-DRAUGHT, a drink given to bring on sleep; SLEEP'ING-PART'NER
(see PARTNER).--_adj._ SLEEP'LESS, without sleep: unable to sleep.--_adv._
SLEEP'LESSLY.--_ns._ SLEEP'LESSNESS; SLEEP'-WALK'ER, one who walks while
asleep: a somnambulist; SLEEP'-WALKING.--_adj._ SLEEP'Y, inclined to sleep:
drowsy: dull: lazy.--_n._ SLEEP'YHEAD, a lazy person.--ON SLEEP (_B._),
asleep. [A.S. _sl['æ]pan_--_sl['æ]p_; Ger. _schlaf_, Goth. _sleps_.]

SLEET, sl[=e]t, _n._ rain mingled with snow or hail.--_v.i._ to hail or
snow with rain mingled.--_n._ SLEET'INESS.--_adj._ SLEET'Y. [Scand., Norw.
_sletta_, sleet.]

SLEEVE, sl[=e]v, _n._ the part of a garment which covers the arm: a tube
into which a rod or other tube is inserted.--_v.t._ to furnish with
sleeves.--_ns._ SLEEVE'-BAND (_Shak._), the wristband; SLEEVE'-BUTT'ON, a
button or stud for the wristband or cuff.--_adjs._ SLEEVED, furnished with
sleeves; SLEEVE'LESS, without sleeves.--_ns._ SLEEVE'-LINK, two buttons,
&c., joined by a link for holding together the two edges of the cuff or
wristband; SLEEVE'-NUT, a double-nut for attaching the joint-ends of rods
or tubes; SLEEVE'-WAIST'COAT, SLEEVED'-WAIST'COAT, a waistcoat with long
sleeves, worn by porters, boots, &c.--HANG ON THE SLEEVE, to be dependent
on some one; HAVE IN ONE'S SLEEVE, to have in readiness for any emergency;
LAUGH IN ONE'S SLEEVE, to laugh behind one's sleeve, to laugh privately or
unperceived; LEG-OF-MUTTON SLEEVE, a woman's sleeve full in the middle,
tight at arm-hole and wrist. [A.S. _sléfe_, _sléf_, a sleeve--_slúpan_, to
slip; cog. with Ger. _schlauf_.]

SLEEZY=_Sleazy_ (q.v.).

SLEIDED, sl[=a]d'ed, _adj._ (_Shak._) unwoven. [_Sley_.]

SLEIGH, sl[=a], _n._ same as SLED.--_ns._ SLEIGH'-BELL, a small bell
attached to a sleigh or its harness; SLEIGH'ING, the act of riding in a
sleigh or sled.

SLEIGHT, sl[=i]t, _n._ cunning: dexterity: an artful trick.--_n._
SLEIGHT'-OF-HAND, legerdemain. [Ice. _slægth_, cunning, _slægr_, sly.]

SLENDER, slen'd[.e]r, _adj._ thin or narrow: feeble: inconsiderable:
simple: meagre, inadequate, poorly furnished.--_adv._ SLEN'DERLY.--_n._
SLEN'DERNESS. [Old Dut. _slinder_, thin, _slinderen_, to drag; cf. Ger.
_schlendern_, to saunter.]

SLEPT, slept, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sleep_.

SLEUTH-HOUND, sl[=oo]th'-hownd, _n._ a dog that tracks game by the scent, a
blood-hound. [_Slot_.]

SLEW, sl[=oo], _pa.t._ of _slay_.

SLEY, sl[=a], _n._ the reed of a weaver's loom. [A.S. _sl['æ]_--_sleán_, to
strike.]

SLICE, sl[=i]s, _v.t._ to slit or divide into thin pieces.--_n._ a thin
broad piece: a broad knife for serving fish.--_n._ SL[=I]'CER, one who, or
that which, slices: a broad, flat knife. [O. Fr. _esclice_--Old High Ger.
_sl[=i]zan_, to split.]

SLICK, slik, _adj._ smooth: smooth-tongued: dexterous in movement or
action.--_adv._ in a smooth manner, deftly. [_Sleek_]

SLICK, slik, _n._ ore finely powdered. [Ger. _schlich_.]

SLICKENSIDES, slik'en-s[=i]dz, _n._ the smooth, polished, or striated, and
generally glazed surfaces of joints and faults in rocks, considered to have
been produced by the friction of the two surfaces during the movement of
the rock.--_adj._ SLICK'ENSIDED. [_Sleek_.]

SLID, slid, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _slide_.

SLIDDEN, slid'n, _pa.p._ of _slide_.

SLIDDER, slid'[.e]r, _v.i._ to slip, slide.--_adj._ SLIDD'ERY, slippery.
[A.S. _sliderian_, to slip, _slidor_, slippery:--_slídan_, to slide.]

[Illustration]

SLIDE, sl[=i]d, _v.i._ to slip or glide: to pass along smoothly: to fall:
to slip away quietly, to disappear: (_slang_) to slope, slip away from the
police, &c.--_v.t._ to thrust along: to slip:--_pa.t._ slid; _pa.p._ slid
or slidd'en.--_n._ a smooth passage: the fall of a mass of earth or rock: a
smooth declivity: anything, as a lid, that slides, a glass that slides in a
frame in front of a magic-lantern, bearing the picture to be thrown on the
screen, that part of a photographic plate-holder which serves to cover and
uncover the negative: (_mus._) a melodic embellishment, two notes sliding
into each other: (_slang_) a biscuit covered with ice-cream.--_adj._
SL[=I]'DABLE, capable of sliding or of being slid.--_ns._ SL[=I]'DER, one
who, or that which, slides: the part of an instrument or machine that
slides; SLIDE'-REST, an apparatus adapted to a turning-lathe for carrying
the cutting-tool; SLIDE'-VALVE, a valve in a steam-engine, made to slide
backward and forward to cover and uncover the openings through which steam
enters the cylinder; SL[=I]'DING, act of one who slides: falling:
backsliding.--_p.adj._ slippery: movable, changing.--_ns._
SL[=I]'DING-KEEL, an oblong frame let down vertically through the bottom of
a vessel in order to deepen the draught and sustain against a side-wind;
SL[=I]'DING-RULE (see RULE); SL[=I]'DING-SCALE, a scale of duties which
slide or vary according to the value or market prices: a sliding-rule;
SL[=I]'DING-SEAT, a kind of seat for racing-boats, moving with the swing of
the rower's body; SL[=I]DOM'ETER, an instrument indicating the strain put
on a railway-carriage by sudden stoppage. [A.S. _slídan_, to slide; Dut.
_slidderen_, to slip.]

SLIGHT, sl[=i]t, _adj._ weak: slender: of little value: trifling: small:
negligent: not decided, superficial, cursory: slighting,
disdainful.--_v.t._ to disregard, as of little value: to neglect: (_obs._)
to demolish, smooth.--_n._ neglect: disregard, an act of
discourtesy.--_advs._ SLIGHT'INGLY; SLIGHT'LY.--_n._ SLIGHT'NESS. [Old Low
Ger. _slicht_, plain; Dut. _slecht_, bad, Ger. _schlecht_, straight.]

SLIGHT, sl[=i]t, _n._ (_Spens._), sleight, device, trick.

SLILY, sl[=i]'li, _adv._ See under SLY.

SLIM, slim, _adj._ (_comp._ SLIM'MER, _superl._ SLIM'MEST) very thin, weak,
slender: slight, trivial, unsubstantial: delicate: crafty.--_adv._
SLIM'LY.--_adj._ SLIM'MISH, somewhat slim.--_n._ SLIM'NESS.--_adj._ SLIM'SY
(_U.S._), frail, flimsy. [Old Low Ger. _slim_, crafty; Dan. _slem_,
worthless, Ger. _schlimm_, bad.]

SLIME, sl[=i]m, _n._ glutinous mud: (_B._) probably bitumen.--_n._
SLIME'-PIT, a pit of slime or viscous mire.--_adv._ SL[=I]M'ILY.--_n._
SL[=I]M'INESS.--_adj._ SL[=I]M'Y, abounding with, or consisting of, slime:
glutinous. [A.S. _slím_; Ger. _schleim_.]

SLINESS, sl[=i]'nes, _n._ Same as SLYNESS.

SLING, sling, _n._ a strap or pocket with a string attached to each end,
for hurling a stone: a throw: a hanging bandage for a wounded limb: a rope
with hooks, used in hoisting and lowering weights: a sweep or swing: a
stroke as from a missile thrown from a sling.--_v.t._ to throw with a
sling: to hang so as to swing: to move or swing by means of a rope: to
cast.--_v.i._ to bound along with swinging steps: (_slang_) to blow the
nose with the fingers:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ slung.--_ns._ SLING'ER;
SLING'STONE, a stone to be thrown from a sling. [A.S. _slingan_, to turn in
a circle; Ger. _schlingen_, to move or twine round.]

SLING, sling, _n._ toddy with grated nutmeg.

SLINK, slingk, _v.i._ to creep or crawl away, as if ashamed: to
sneak:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ slunk. [A.S. _slincan_, to creep; Low Ger.
_sliken_, Ger. _schleichen_.]

SLINK, slingk, _v.t._ to cast prematurely, as a calf.--_v.i._ to
miscarry.--_n._ a calf prematurely born: the flesh of such: a bastard
child.--_adj._ prematurely born: unfit for food: lean, starved:
mean.--_ns._ SLINK'-BUTCH'ER, one who kills and dresses for sale the
carcasses of diseased animals; SLINK'SKIN, the skin of a slink, or leather
made from it.--_adj._ SLINK'Y, lean.

SLIP, slip, _v.i._ to slide or glide along: to move out of place: to
escape: to err: to slink: to enter by oversight.--_v.t._ to cause to slide:
to convey secretly: to omit: to throw off: to let loose: to escape from: to
part from the branch or stem:--_pr.p._ slip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
slipped.--_n._ act of slipping: that on which anything may slip: an error,
a fault, a slight transgression: an escape: a twig: a strip, a narrow piece
of anything: a leash: a smooth inclined plane, sloping down to the water,
on which a ship is built: anything easily slipped on: (_print._) a long
galley-proof before being made up into pages.--_ns._ SLIP'-BOARD, a board
sliding in grooves; SLIP'-DOCK, a dock having a floor that slopes so that
the lower end is submerged; SLIP'-KNOT, a knot which slips along the rope
or line round which it is made; SLIP'PER, a loose shoe easily slipped
on.--_adj._ (_Spens._) slippery.--_adj._ SLIP'PERED, wearing
slippers.--_adv._ SLIP'PERILY, in a slippery manner.--_ns._ SLIP'PERINESS,
SLIP'PINESS.--_adjs._ SLIP'PERY, SLIP'PY, apt to slip away: smooth: not
affording firm footing or confidence: unstable: uncertain; SLIP'SHOD, shod
with slippers, or shoes down at the heel like slippers: careless.--_n._
SLIP'STITCH.--SLIP OFF, to take off noiselessly or hastily; SLIP ON, to put
on loosely or in haste; SLIP ONE'S BREATH, or wind, to die; SLIP THE LEASH,
to disengage one's self from a noose.--GIVE A PERSON THE SLIP, to escape
stealthily from him. [A.S. _slípan_; Sw. _slippa_, Dut. _slippen_, to
glide, Ger. _schliefen_.]

SLIPE, sl[=i]p, _n._ in mining, a skip or sledge without wheels.

SLIPSLOP, slip'slop, _adj._ slipshod, slovenly.--_n._ thin, watery food: a
blunder.--_v.i._ to slip loosely about.--_adj._ SLIP'SLOPPY, slushy,
sloppy.

SLISH, slish, _n._ (_Shak._) a cut. [A corr. of _slash_.]

SLIT, slit, _v.t._ to cut lengthwise: to split: to cut into
strips:--_pr.p._ slit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ slit.--_n._ a long cut: a
narrow opening.--_n._ SLIT'TER, anything which slits, a slitting-shears for
sheet-metal.--_adj._ SLIT'TERED, cut into strips with square ends.--_n._
SLIT'TING-MILL, an establishment in which metal plates are cut into strips
for nail-making: a rotating disc used by gem-cutters for slitting: a
gang-saw used for resawing lumber for blind-slats, fence-pickets, &c. [A.S.
_slítan_; Ger. _schleissen_.]

SLITHER, sli_th_'[.e]r, _v.i._ to slide.--_adj._ slippery.--_n._ a
limestone rubble.--_adjs._ SLITH'ERING, slow, deceitful; SLITH'ERY,
slippery. [A variant of _slidder_.]

SLIVER, sliv'[.e]r, or sl[=i]'v[.e]r, _v.t._ to split, to tear off
lengthwise, to slice.--_n._ a piece cut or rent off, a slice: a continuous
strand of loose untwisted wool or other fibre.--_v.i._ SLIVE, to slide,
skulk. [A.S. _slífan_, to cleave.]

SLOAM, sl[=o]m, _n._ (_prov._) in coal-mining, the under-clay.

SLOAT, sl[=o]t, _n._ Same as SLOT (1) and (2).

SLOBBER, slob'[.e]r, same as SLABBER.--_n._ SLOB, mire, muddy land.--_adj._
SLOBB'ERY, moist, wet.

SLOCKEN, slok'n, _v.t._ to quench, extinguish.--Also SLOK'EN. [Ice.
_slokna_, to go out.]

SLOE, sl[=o], _n._ the blackthorn, producing white flowers before the
leaves, the shoots making excellent walking-sticks: the austere fruit, a
good preserve. [A.S. _slá_; Dut. _slee_, a sloe.]

SLOG, slog, _v.i._ to hit hard.--_n._ SLOG'GER, a hard hitter.

SLOGAN, sl[=o]'gan, _n._ a war-cry among the ancient Highlanders of
Scotland. [Gael., contracted from _sluagh-gairm_, an army-cry.]

SLOID=_Sloyd_ (q.v.).

SLOMBRY, slom'bri, _adj._ (_Spens._) sleepy.--_v.i._ SLOOM (_prov._), to
slumber.--_adj._ SLOOM'Y, lazy, inactive.

[Illustration]

SLOOP, sl[=oo]p, _n._ a light boat: a one-masted cutter-rigged vessel,
differing from a cutter, according to old authorities, in having a fixed
bowsprit and somewhat smaller sails in proportion to the hull.--_n._
SLOOP'-OF-WAR, formerly a vessel, of whatever rig, between a corvette and a
gun-vessel, constituting the command of a commander, carrying from ten to
eighteen guns. [Dut. _sloep_, prob. O. Fr. _chaloupe_, shallop.]

SLOP, slop, _n._ water carelessly spilled: a puddle: mean liquor or liquid
food: (_pl._) dirty water.--_v.t._ to soil by letting a liquid fall
upon:--_pr.p._ slop'ping; _pa.p._ slopped.--_ns._ SLOP'-B[=A]'SIN, -BOWL, a
basin for slops, esp. for the dregs of tea and coffee cups at table;
SLOP'-DASH, weak cold tea, &c.: SLOP'-PAIL, a pail for collecting slops;
SLOP'PINESS.--_adj._ SLOP'PY, wet: muddy. [A.S. _sloppe_, _slyppe_,
cow-droppings--_slúpan_, to slip.]

SLOPE, sl[=o]p, _n._ any incline down which a thing may slip: a direction
downward.--_v.t._ to form with a slope, or obliquely.--_v.i._ to be
inclined, to slant: (_slang_) to decamp, disappear.--_adv._ in a sloping
manner.--_adv._ SLOPE'WISE, obliquely.--_p.adj._ SL[=O]'PING, inclining
from a horizontal or other right line.--_adv._ SL[=O]'PINGLY, in a sloping
manner: with a slope.--_adj._ SL[=O]'PY, sloping, inclined: oblique. [A.S.
_slípan_, pa.t. _sláp_, to slip.]

SLOPS, slops, _n.pl._ any loose lower garment that slips on easily, esp.
trousers: ready-made clothing, &c.--_ns._ SLOP'-SELL'ER, one who sells
cheap ready-made clothes; SLOP'-SHOP, a shop where ready-made clothes are
sold; SLOP'-WORK, the making of cheap cloth, any work superficially done;
SLOP'-WORK'ER, one who does slop-work. [Scand., Ice. _sloppr_, a long
robe--_sleppa_, to slip.]

SLOSH, slosh, _n._ a watery mess.--_v.i._ to flounder in slush: to go about
in an easy way.--_adj._ SLOSH'Y. [A form of _slush_.]

SLOT, slot, _n._ a bar or bolt: a broad, flat, wooden bar which holds
together larger pieces. [Allied to Low Ger. _slot_, Dut. _slot_, a lock.]

SLOT, slot, _n._ a hollow, narrow depression, to receive some corresponding
part in a mechanism: a ditch, the continuous opening between the rails in a
cable tramway along which the shank of the grip moves.--_n._
SLOT'TING-MACHINE', a machine for cutting slots or square grooves in metal.
[SLIT.]

SLOT, slot, _n._ the track of a deer. [Ice. _slóth_, track, path; Scot.
_sleuth_, track by the scent.]

SLOTH, sl[=o]th, or sloth, _n._ laziness, sluggishness: a sluggish arboreal
animal of tropical America, of two genera (_Choloepus_, the two-toed sloth,
and _Bradypus_, the three-toed sloth).--_adj._ SLOTH'FUL, given to sloth:
inactive: lazy.--_adv._ SLOTH'FULLY.--_n._ SLOTH'FULNESS. [A.S.
_sl['æ]wth_--_sláw_, slow.]

SLOTTER, slot'[.e]r, _n._ filth.--_v.t._ to foul.--_adj._ SLOTT'ERY, foul.

SLOUCH, slowch, _n._ a hanging down loosely of the head or other part:
clownish gait: a clown.--_v.i._ to hang down: to have a clownish look or
gait.--_v.t._ to depress.--_n._ SLOUCH'-HAT, a soft broad-brimmed
hat.--_p.adj._ SLOUCH'ING, walking with a downcast, awkward manner: hanging
down.--_adj._ SLOUCH'Y, somewhat slouching. [Scand., Ice. _slókr_, a
slouching fellow; _slakr_, slack.]

SLOUGH, slow, _n._ a hollow filled with mud: a soft bog or marsh.--_adj._
SLOUGH'Y, full of sloughs: miry. [A.S. _slóh_, a hollow place; perh. from
Ir. _sloc_--_slugaim_, to swallow up.]

SLOUGH, sluf, _n._ the cast-off skin of a serpent: the dead part which
separates from a sore.--_v.i._ to come away as a slough (with _off_): to be
in the state of sloughing.--_v.t._ to cast off, as a slough.--_adj._
SLOUGH'Y, like, or containing, slough. [Scand.; Sw. dial. _slug_; cf. Ger.
_slauch_, a skin.]

SLOVAK, sl[=o]-vak', _adj._ pertaining to the _Slovaks_, a branch of the
Slavs in the mountainous districts of N.W. Hungary, their language little
more than a dialect of Czech.--_n._ one of this race, or his
language.--_adjs._ SLOVAK'IAN, SLOVAK'ISH.

SLOVEN, sluv'n, _n._ a man carelessly or dirtily dressed:--_fem._
SLUT.--_n._ SLOV'ENLINESS.--_adj._ SLOV'ENLY, like a sloven: negligent of
neatness or cleanliness: disorderly: done in an untidy manner.--_adv._
negligently.--_n._ SLOV'ENRY (_Shak._), slovenliness. [Old Dut. _slof_,
sloef, Low Ger. _sluf_, slow, indolent.]

SLOVENIAN, sl[=o]-v[=e]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Slovenes_, a
branch of the South Slavonic stock to which the Serbs and Croats belong.

SLOW, sl[=o], _adj._ not swift: late: behind in time: not hasty: not ready:
not progressive.--_v.t._ to delay, retard, slacken the speed of.--_v.i._ to
slacken in speed.--_n._ SLOW'BACK, a lazy lubber.--_p.adj._ SLOW'-GAIT'ED
(_Shak._), accustomed to walk slowly.--_ns._ SLOW'-HOUND, sleuth-hound;
SLOW'ING, a lessening of speed.--_adv._ SLOW'LY.--_ns._ SLOW'-MATCH,
generally rope steeped in a solution of saltpetre and lime-water, used for
firing guns before the introduction of friction tubes, and sometimes for
firing military mines, now superseded by _Bickford's fuse_, a train of
gunpowder enclosed in two coatings of jute thread waterproofed;
SLOW'NESS.--_adj._ SLOW'-SIGHT'ED, slow to discern; SLOW'-WINGED, flying
slowly.--_n._ SLOW'-WORM, a scincoid lizard, same as Blind-worm--by popular
etymology '_slow-_worm,' but, according to Skeat, really '_slay-_worm,'
A.S. _slá-wyrm_. [A.S. _sláw_; Dut. _slee_, Ice. _sljór_.]

SLOYD, SLOID, sloid, _n._ the name given to a certain system of manual
instruction which obtains in the schools of Finland and Sweden, the word
properly denoting work of an artisan kind practised not as a trade or means
of livelihood, but in the intervals of other employment. [Sw. _slöjd_,
dexterity.]

SLUB, slub, _v.t._ to twist after carding to prepare for spinning.

SLUBBER, slub'[.e]r, _v.t._ to stain, to daub, slur over.--_n._
SLUBB'ER-DEGULL'ION, a wretch.--_adv._ SLUBB'ERINGLY. [Dut. _slobberen_, to
lap, Low Ger. _slubbern_.]

SLUDGE, sluj, _n._ soft mud or mire: half-melted snow.--_adj._ SLUDG'Y,
miry: muddy. [A form of _slush_.]

SLUE, SLEW, sl[=u], _v.t._ (_naut._) to turn anything about its axis
without removing it from its place: to turn or twist about.--_v.i._ to turn
round:--_pr.p._ sl[=u]'ing; _pa.p._ sl[=u]ed.--_n._ the turning of a body
upon an axis within its figure.--_adj._ SLUED, tipsy. [Scand., Ice. _snua_,
to turn.]

SLUG, slug, _n._ a heavy, lazy fellow: a name for land-molluscs of order
Pulmonata, with shell rudimentary or absent--they do great damage to garden
crops: any hinderance.--_ns._ SLUG'-A-BED (_Shak._), one who is fond of
lying in bed, a sluggard; SLUG'GARD, one habitually idle or
inactive.--_v.t._ SLUG'GARDISE (_Shak._), to make lazy.--_adj._ SLUG'GISH,
habitually lazy: slothful: having little motion: having little or no
power.--_adv._ SLUG'GISHLY.--_n._ SLUG'GISHNESS. [Scand., Dan. _slug_,
_sluk_, drooping, Norw. _sloka_, to slouch; Low Ger. _slukkern_, to be
loose; allied to slack.]

SLUG, slug, _n._ a cylindrical or oval piece of metal for firing from a
gun: a piece of crude metal. [Prob. from slug above, or _slug_=_slog_, to
hit hard.]

SLUGGA, slug'a, _n._ a deep cavity formed by the action of subterranean
streams common in some limestone districts of Ireland. [Ir. _slugaid_, a
slough.]

SLUGHORN, slug'horn, _n._ a word used to denote a kind of horn, but really
a corruption of slogan.

SLUICE, sl[=oo]s, _n._ a sliding gate in a frame for shutting off or
regulating the flow of water: the stream which flows through it: that
through which anything flows: a source of supply: in mining, a board trough
for separating gold from placer-dirt carried through it by a current of
water: the injection-valve in a steam-engine condenser.--_v.t._ to wet or
drench copiously: to wash in or by a sluice: to flush or clean out with a
strong flow of water.--_adj._ SLUIC'Y, falling in streams, as from a
sluice. [O. Fr. _escluse_ (Fr. _écluse)_--Low L. _exclusa_ (_aqua_), a
sluice (water) shut out, _pa.p._ of L. _ex-clud[)e]re_, to shut out.]

SLUM, slum, _n._ a low street or neighbourhood.--_v.i._ to visit the slums
of a city, esp. from motives of curiosity.--_ns._ SLUM'MER, one who slums;
SLUM'MING, the practice of visiting slums.

SLUMBER, slum'b[.e]r, _v.i._ to sleep lightly: to sleep: to be in a state
of negligence or inactivity.--_n._ light sleep: repose.--_ns._ SLUM'BERER;
SLUM'BERING.--_adv._ SLUM'BERINGLY, in a slumbering manner.--_n._
SLUM'BERLAND, the state of slumber.--_adjs._ SLUM'BERLESS, without slumber:
sleepless; SLUM'BEROUS, SLUM'BROUS, inviting or causing slumber; sleepy;
SLUM'BERY, sleepy: drowsy. [With intrusive _b_ from M. E. _slumeren_--A.S.
_sluma_, slumber; cog. with Ger. _schlummern_.]

SLUMP, slump, _v.i._ to fall or sink suddenly into water or mud: to fail or
fall through helplessly.--_n._ a boggy place: the act of sinking into
slush, &c., also the sound so made: a sudden fall or failure.--_adj._
SLUMP'Y, marshy. [Cf. Dan. _slumpe_, to stumble upon by chance; Ger.
_schlumpen_, to trail.]

SLUMP, slump, _v.t._ to throw into a lump or mass, to lump.--_n._ a gross
amount, a lump.--_n._ SLUMP'-WORK, work in the lump. [Cf. Dan. _slump_, a
lot, Dut. _slomp_, a mass.]

SLUNG, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sling_.--_n._ SLUNG'-SHOT, a weight attached
to a cord, used as a weapon.

SLUNK, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _slink_.--_adj._ SLUNK'EN (_prov._),
shrivelled.

SLUR, slur, _v.t._ to soil; to contaminate: to disgrace: to pass over
lightly: to conceal: (_mus._) to sing or play in a gliding manner.--_v.i._
(_print._) to slip in making the impression, causing the printing to be
blurred:--_pr.p._ slur'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ slurred.--_n._ a stain:
slight reproach or disparagement: (_mus._) a mark showing that notes are to
be sung to the same syllable.--_p.adj._ SLURRED (_mus._), marked with a
slur, performed in a gliding style like notes marked with a slur. [Old Dut.
_slooren_, sleuren, Low Ger. _slüren_, to drag along the ground.]

SLURRY, slur'i, _n._ any one of several semi-fluid mixtures, esp. of
ganister, used to make repairs in converter-linings.

SLUSH, slush, _n._ liquid mud: melting snow: a mixture of grease for
lubrication: the refuse of the cook's galley in a ship.--_v.t._ to apply
slush to, to grease: to wash by throwing water upon: to fill spaces in
masonry with mortar (with up): to coat with a mixture of white-lead and
lime the bright parts of machinery.--_adj._ SLUSH'Y. [Cf. _Slosh_.]

SLUT, slut, _n._ (_fem._ of SLOVEN) a dirty, untidy woman: a wench, a jade:
a bitch.--_adj._ SLUT'TISH, resembling a slut: dirty: careless.--_adv._
SLUT'TISHLY.--_ns._ SLUT'TISHNESS, SLUT'TERY. [Scand., Ice. _slöttr_, a
dull fellow--_slota_, to droop.]

SLY, sl[=i], _adj._ dexterous in doing anything so as to be unobserved:
cunning: wily: secret: done with artful dexterity: illicit.--_n._
SLY'BOOTS, a sly or cunning person or animal.--_advs._ SLY'LY,
SL[=I]'LY.--_ns._ SLY'NESS, SL[=I]'NESS.--ON THE SLY, slyly, secretly.
[Prob. from Ice. _slæg-r_; cf. Ger. _schlau_.]

SLYPE, sl[=i]p, _n._ a. covered passage from the transept of a cathedral to
the chapter-house, &c. [_Slip_.]

SMACK, smak, _n._ taste: flavour: a pleasing taste: a small quantity: a
flavour of something.--_v.i._ to have a taste: to have a quality. [A.S.
_smæc_.]

SMACK, smak, _n._ a generic name for small decked or half-decked coasters
and fishing-vessels, most rigged as cutters, sloops, or yawls. [Dut.
_smak_; Ger. _schmacke_, Ice. _snekja_.]

SMACK, smak, _v.t._ to strike smartly, to slap loudly: to kiss roughly and
noisily.--_v.i._ to make a sharp noise with, as the lips by
separation.--_n._ a sharp sound: a crack: a hearty kiss.--_adv._ sharply,
straight.--_p.adj._ SMACK'ING, making a sharp, brisk sound, a sharp noise,
a smack. [Prob. imit., Dut. _smakken_, to smite, Ger. _schmatzen_, to
smack.]

SMALL, smawl, _adj._ little in quantity or degree: minute: not great:
unimportant: ungenerous, petty: of little worth or ability: short: having
little strength: gentle: little in quality or quantity.--_adv._ in a low
tone; gently.--_ns._ SMALL'-ALE, ale with little malt and unhopped;
SMALL'-AND-EARL'Y (_coll._) an informal evening-party.--_n.pl._
SMALL'-ARMS, muskets, rifles, pistols, &c., including all weapons that can
be actually carried by a man.--_n._ SMALL'-BEER, a kind of weak
beer.--_adj._ inferior generally.--_n.pl._ SMALL'-CLOTHES, knee-breeches,
esp. those of the close-fitting 18th-century form.--_ns._ SMALL'-COAL, coal
not in lumps but small pieces; SMALL'-CRAFT, small vessels
generally.--_n.pl._ SMALL'-DEBTS, a phrase current in Scotland to denote
debts under £12, recoverable in the Sheriff Court.--_n._ SMALL'-HAND,
writing such as is ordinarily used in correspondence.--_n.pl._
SMALL'-HOURS, the hours immediately following midnight.--_adj._ SMALL'ISH,
somewhat small.--_ns._ SMALL'NESS; SMALL'-P[=I]'CA (see PICA); SMALL'POX,
or _Variola_, a contagious, febrile disease, of the class known as
_Exanthemata_, characterised by small pocks or eruptions on the skin;
SMALLS, the 'little-go' or previous examination: small-clothes;
SMALL'-TALK, light or trifling conversation.--_n.pl._ SMALL'-WARES (see
WARE).--IN A SMALL WAY, with little capital or stock: unostentatiously.
[A.S. _smæl_; Ger. _schmal_.]

SMALLAGE, smawl'[=a]j, _n._ celery. [_Small_, Fr. _ache_--L. _apium_,
parsley.]

SMALT, smawlt, _n._ glass melted, tinged blue by cobalt, and pulverised
when cold.--_n._ SMAL'TINE, an arsenide of cobalt, often containing nickel
and iron. [Low L. _smaltum_--Old High Ger. _smalzjan_ (Ger. _schmelzen_),
to melt.]

SMARAGDINE, sma-rag'din, _adj._ of an emerald green.--_n._ SMARAG'DITE, a
peculiar variety of Amphibole, light grass-green in colour, with a
foliated, lamellar or fibrous structure--occurring as a constituent of the
rock called _Eklogite_. [L. _smaragdinus_--smaragdus--Gr. _smaragdos_, the
emerald.]

SMART, smärt, _n._ quick, stinging pain of body or mind: smart-money: a
dandy.--_v.i._ to feel a smart: to be punished.--_adj._ causing a smart:
severe: sharp: vigorous, brisk: acute, witty, pert, vivacious:
well-dressed, fine, fashionable: keen in business: creditable,
up-to-the-mark.--_v.t._ SMART'EN, to make smart, to brighten (with
_up_).--_adv._ SMART'LY.--_ns._ SMART'-MON'EY, money paid by a recruit for
his release before being sworn in: money paid for escape from any
unpleasant situation or engagement: excessive damages: money allowed to
soldiers and sailors for wounds; SMART'NESS; SMART'-TICK'ET, a certificate
granted to one entitled to smart-money; SMART'-WEED, a name given to some
of the Milkworts from their acrid properties, esp. _Polygonum Hydropiper_,
or Waterpepper; SMART'Y, a would-be smart fellow. [A.S. _smeortan_; Dut.
_smarten_, Ger. _schmerzen_.]

SMASH, smash, _v.t._ to break in pieces violently: to crush: to dash
violently.--_v.i._ to act with crushing force: to be broken to pieces: to
be ruined, to fail: to dash violently.--_n._ act of smashing, destruction,
ruin, bankruptcy.--_ns._ SMASH'ER, one who smashes: (_slang_) one who
passes bad money, bad money itself: anything great or extraordinary;
SMASH'ING.--_adj._ crushing: dashing.--_n._ SMASH'-UP, a serious smash.
[Prob. Sw. dial. _smaske_, to smack.]

SMATCH, smach, _n._ (_Shak._) taste or tincture.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to have
a taste. [_Smack_.]

SMATTER, smat'[.e]r, _v.i._ to talk superficially: to have a superficial
knowledge.--_ns._ SMATT'ERER; SMATT'ERING, a superficial knowledge.--_adv._
SMATT'ERINGLY, in a smattering manner. [M. E. _smateren_, to rattle, to
chatter--Sw. _smattra_, to clatter; Ger. _schnattern_.]

SMEAR, sm[=e]r, _v.t._ to overspread with anything sticky or oily, as
grease: to daub.--_n._ SMEAR'INESS.--_adj._ SMEAR'Y, sticky: showing
smears. [A.S. _smeru_, fat, grease; Ger. _schmeer_, grease, Ice. _smjör_,
butter.]

SMECTITE, smek't[=i]t, _n._ a greenish clay. [Gr.
_sm[=e]ktis_--_sm[=e]chein_, to rub.]

SMECTYMNUUS, smek-tim'n[=u]-us, _n._ a name compounded of the initials of
the five Puritan divines--Stephen Marshall, Edmund Calamy, Thomas Young,
Matthew Newcomen, and William Spurstow, joint authors of _An Answer_ (1641)
to Bishop Hall's _Humble Remonstrance to the High Court of Parliament_
(1641) in defence of the liturgy and episcopal government.

SMEDDUM, smed'um, _n._ fine powder: sagacity, spirit, mettle: ore small
enough to go through the sieve. [A.S. _smedema_, fine flour.]

SMEE, sm[=e], _n._ the pochard: widgeon: pintail-duck.--Also SMEATH.

SMEGMA, smeg'ma, _n._ a sebaceous secretion, esp. that under the prepuce:
an unguent.--_adj._ SMEGMAT'IC. [Gr. _sm[=e]gma_.]

SMELL, smel, _v.i._ to affect the nose: to have odour: to use the sense of
smell.--_v.t._ to perceive by the nose:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ smelled or
smelt.--_n._ the quality of bodies which affects the nose: odour: perfume:
the sense which perceives this quality.--_ns._ SMELL'ER; SMELL'-FEAST, a
greedy fellow; SMELL'ING, the sense by which smells are perceived;
SMELL'ING-BOTT'LE, a bottle containing smelling-salts, or the like;
SMELL'ING-SALTS, a preparation of ammonium carbonate with lavender, &c.,
used as a stimulant in faintness, &c.; SMELL'-TRAP, a drain-trap.--_adj._
SMELL'Y, having a bad smell.--SMELL A RAT (see RAT); SMELL OUT, to find out
by prying. [Allied to Low Ger. _smelen_, Dut. _smeulen_, to smoulder.]

SMELT, smelt, _n._ a fish of the salmon or trout family, having a
cucumber-like smell and a delicious flavour. [A.S. _smelt_.]

SMELT, smelt, _v.t._ to melt ore in order to separate the metal.--_ns._
SMEL'TER; SMEL'TERY, a place for smelting; SMEL'TING; SMEL'TING-FUR'NACE,
-HOUSE, -WORKS. [Scand., Sw. _smälta_, to smelt.]

SMERKY, sm[.e]rk'i, _adj._ (_Spens._) neat. [_Smirk_.]

SMEW, sm[=u], _n._ a bird of the family _Anatidæ_, in the same genus as the
goosander and mergansers.

SMICKER, smik'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_obs._) to look amorously.--_n._ SMICK'ERING,
an inclination for a woman.--_adv._ SMICK'LY, amorously.

SMICKET, smik'et, _n._ a smock.

SMIDDY, smid'i, _n._ a smithy.

SMIDGEN, smij'en, _n._ (_U.S._) a small quantity, a trifle.

SMIFT, smift, _n._ a piece of touchwood, &c., formerly used to ignite the
train in blasting.--Also SNUFF.

SMIGHT, sm[=i]t, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to smite.

SMILAX, sm[=i]'laks, _n._ a genus of liliaceous plants, type of the tribe
_Smilaceæ_--the roots of several species yield sarsaparilla.

SMILE, sm[=i]l, _v.i._ to express pleasure by the countenance: to express
slight contempt: to look joyous: to be favourable.--_n._ act of smiling:
the expression of the features in smiling: favour: (_slang_) a drink, a
treat.--_ns._ SM[=I]'LER, one who smiles; SM[=I]'LET (_Shak._), a little
smile.--_adj._ SM[=I]'LING, wearing a smile, joyous.--_adv._ SM[=I]'LINGLY,
in a smiling manner: with a smile or look of pleasure.--_n._
SM[=I]'LINGNESS, the state of being smiling. [Scand., Sw. _smila_, to
smile.]

SMIRCH, smirch, _v.t._ to besmear, dirty: to degrade in fame, dignity,
&c.--_n._ a stain. [A weakened form of _smer-k_, from M. E. _smeren_, to
smear.]

SMIRK, sm[.e]rk, _v.i._ to smile affectedly: to look affectedly soft.--_n._
an affected smile.--_adjs._ SMIRK (_obs._), SMIRK'Y, smart. [A.S.
_smercian_; akin to smile.]

SMIT, smit, obsolete _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _smite_.

SMIT, smit, _v.t._ (_prov._) to infect.--_n._ a stain: infection.--_v.t._
SMIT'TLE, to infect.--_adj._ infectious.--_n._ infection. [A.S. _smittian_,
to spot, _smitta_, a spot, an intens. of _smítan_, to smite.]

SMITCH, smich, _n._ a particle: dust.--_n._ (_dim._) SMITCH'EL.

SMITE, sm[=i]t, _v.t._ to strike with the fist, hand, or weapon: to beat:
to kill: to overthrow in battle: to affect with feeling: (_B._) to blast:
to afflict.--_v.i._ to strike:--_pa.t._ sm[=o]te; _pa.p._ smitt'en.--_n._
SM[=I]'TER.--SMITE OFF, to cut off; SMITE OUT, to knock out; SMITE WITH THE
TONGUE (_B._), to reproach, to revile. [A.S. _smítan_; Dut. _smijten_, Ger.
_schmeissen_.]

SMITH, smith, _n._ one who forges with the hammer: a worker in metals: one
who makes anything.--_ns._ SMITH'ERY, the workshop of a smith: work done by
a smith--also SMITH'ING; SMITH'Y, the workshop of a smith; SMITH'Y-COAL, a
kind of small coal much used by smiths. [A.S. _smith_; Ger. _schmied_.]

SMITHEREENS, smith-[.e]r-[=e]nz', _n.pl._ (_coll._) small fragments.

SMITHSONIAN, smith-s[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to James Macie _Smithson_
(1765--1829), founder of a great institution at Washington for ethnological
and scientific investigations, organised by Congress in 1846.

SMITTEN, smit'n, _pa.p._ of _smite_.

SMOCK, smok, _n._ a woman's shift: a smock-frock.--_v.t._ to clothe in a
smock or smock-frock.--_adj._ SMOCK'-FACED, pale-faced.--_ns._
SMOCK'-FROCK, an outer garment of coarse white linen worn over the other
clothes in the south of England; SMOCK'-RACE, a race for the prize of a
smock. [A.S. _smoc_, perh. from A.S. _smeógan_, to creep into.]

SMOKE, sm[=o]k, _n._ the vapour from a burning body--a common term for the
volatile products of the imperfect combustion of such organic substances as
wood or coal.--_v.i._ to emit smoke: to smoke out instead of upward, owing
to imperfect draught: to draw in and puff out the smoke of tobacco: to
raise smoke by moving rapidly: to burn, to rage: to suffer, as from
punishment.--_v.t._ to apply smoke to: to dry, scent, or medicate by smoke:
to inhale the smoke of: to use in smoking: to try to expel by smoking: to
scent out, discover: to quiz, ridicule: to thrash.--_ns._ SMOKE'-BLACK,
lampblack; SMOKE'-BOARD, a board suspended before the upper part of a
fireplace to prevent the smoke coming out into the room; SMOKE'-BOX, part
of a steam-boiler where the smoke is collected before passing out at the
chimney; SMOKE'-CONS[=U]'MER, an apparatus for burning all the smoke from a
fire.--_adj._ SMOKE'-DRIED.--_v.t._ SMOKE'-DRY, to cure or dry by means of
smoke.--_ns._ SMOKE'-HOUSE, a building where meat or fish is cured by
smoking, or where smoked meats are stored; SMOKE'-JACK, a contrivance for
turning a jack by means of a wheel turned by the current of air ascending a
chimney.--_adj._ SMOKE'LESS, destitute of smoke.--_adv._
SMOKEL'ESSLY.--_ns._ SMOKE'LESSNESS; SM[=O]'KER, one who smokes tobacco: a
smoking-carriage: one who smoke-dries meat: an evening entertainment at
which smoking is permitted; SMOKE'-SAIL, a small sail hoisted between the
galley-funnel and the foremast when a vessel rides head to the wind;
SMOKE'-SHADE, a scale of tints ranging from 0 to 10, for comparison of
different varieties of coal, according to the amount of unburnt carbon in
their smoke; SMOKE'-STACK, an upright pipe through which the
combustion-gases from a steam-boiler pass into the open air.--_adj._
SMOKE'-TIGHT, impervious to smoke.--_ns._ SMOKE'-TREE, an ornamental shrub
of the cashew family, with long light feathery or cloud-like fruit-stalks;
SMOKE'-WASH'ER, an apparatus for removing soot and particles of unburnt
carbon from smoke by making it pass through water; SMOKE'-WOOD, the
virgin's bower (_Clematis Vitalba_), whose porous stems are smoked by
boys.--_adv._ SM[=O]'KILY.--_ns._ SM[=O]'KINESS; SM[=O]'KING, the act of
emitting smoke: the act or habit of drawing into the mouth and emitting the
fumes of tobacco by means of a pipe or cigar--a habit of great sedative
value: a bantering; SM[=O]'KING-CAP, -JACK'ET, a light ornamental cap or
jacket often worn by smokers; SM[=O]'KING-CARR'IAGE, -ROOM, a
railway-carriage, -room, supposed to be set apart for smokers.--_adj._
SM[=O]'KY, giving out smoke: like smoke: filled, or subject to be filled,
with smoke: tarnished or noisome with smoke: (_obs._) suspicious.--ON A
SMOKE (_B._), smoking, or on fire. [A.S. _smocian_, _smoca_; Ger.
_schmauch_.]

SMOLDER=_Smoulder_ (q.v.).

SMOLT, sm[=o]lt, _n._ a name given to young river salmon when they are
bluish along the upper half of the body and silvery along the sides.
[_Smelt_.]

SMOOTH, sm[=oo]th, _adj._ having an even surface: not tough: evenly spread:
glossy: gently flowing: easy: regular: unobstructed: bland: mild,
calm.--_v.t._ to make smooth: to palliate: to soften: to calm: to ease:
(_Shak._) to exonerate.--_v.i._ to repeat flattering words.--_n._ (_B._)
the smooth part.--_adj._ SMOOTH'-BORE, not rifled.--_n._ a gun with
smooth-bored barrel.--_adjs._ SMOOTH'-BROWED, with unwrinkled brow;
SMOOTH'-CHINNED, having a smooth chin: beardless; SMOOTH'-DIT'TIED, sweetly
sung, with a flowing melody.--v.t SMOOTH'EN, to make smooth.--_n._
SMOOTH'ER, one who, or that which, smooths: in glass-cutting, an
abrading-wheel for polishing the aces of the grooves cut by another wheel:
(_obs._) a flatterer.--_adj._ SMOOTH'-FACED, having a smooth air,
mild-looking.--_ns._ SMOOTH'ING-[=I]'RON, an instrument of iron for
smoothing clothes; SMOOTH'ING-PLANE, a small fine plane used for
finishing.--_adv._ SMOOTH'LY.--_n._ SMOOTH'NESS.--_adjs._ SMOOTH'-PACED,
having a regular easy pace; SMOOTH'-SHOD, having shoes without spikes;
SMOOTH'-SP[=O]'KEN, speaking pleasantly: plausible: flattering;
SMOOTH'-TONGUED, having a smooth tongue: flattering. [A.S. _smóthe_,
usually _sméthe_; Ger. _ge-schmeidig_, soft.]

SMORE, sm[=o]r, a Scotch form of _smother_.

SMOTE, sm[=o]t, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _smite_.

SMOTHER, smuth'[.e]r, _v.t._ to suffocate by excluding the air: to
conceal.--_v.i._ to be suffocated or suppressed: to smoulder.--_n._ smoke:
thick floating dust: state of being smothered: confusion.--_ns._
SMOTHER[=A]'TION, suffocation: a sailor's dish of meat buried in potatoes;
SMOTH'ERINESS.--_adv._ SMOTH'ERINGLY.--_adj._ SMOTH'ERY, tending to
smother: stifling. [M. E. _smorther_--A.S. _smorian_, to smother; cf. Ger.
_schmoren_, to stew.]

SMOUCH, smowch, _n._ a smack, a hearty kiss.--_v.t._ to kiss, to buss.

SMOUCH, smowch, _v.t._ to take advantage of, to chouse.

SMOUCHED, smowcht, _adj._ blotted, dirtied, smutched.

SMOULDER, sm[=o]l'd[.e]r, _v.i._ to burn slowly or without vent.--_adjs._
SMOUL'DRING, SMOUL'DRY. [M. E. _smolderen_--_smolder_=_smor-ther_, stifling
smoke; cf. _Smother_.]

SMOUSE, SMOUS, smows, _n._ a peddler, a German Jew.

SMOUT, smowt, _n._ (_slang_) a printer who gets chance jobs in various
offices.--_v.i._ to do occasional work.

SMUDGE, smuj, _n._ a spot, a stain: a choking smoke--_v.t._ to stifle: to
fumigate with smoke.--_n._ SMUD'GER, one who smudges: a plumber.--_adj._
SMUD'GY, stained with smoke. [Scand., Sw. _smuts_, dirt, Dan. _smuds_,
smut; Ger. _schmutz_.]

SMUG, smug, _adj._ neat, prim, spruce: affectedly smart: well satisfied
with one's self.--_n._ a self-satisfied person.--_adj._ SMUG'-FACED, prim
or precise-looking.--_adv._ SMUG'LY.--_n._ SMUG'NESS. [Dan. _smuk_,
handsome; cf. Ger. _schmuck_, fine.]

SMUG, smug, _v.t._ to seize without ceremony, to confiscate: (_slang_) to
hush up.

SMUGGLE, smug'l, _v.t._ to import or export without paying the legal duty:
to convey secretly.--_ns._ SMUGG'LER, one who smuggles: a vessel used in
smuggling; SMUGG'LING, defrauding the government of revenue by the evasion
of custom-duties or excise-taxes. [Low Ger. _smuggeln_, cog. with Ger.
_schmuggeln_; Dut. _smuigen_, to eat secretly.]

SMUGGLE, smug'l, _v.t._ to fondle, cuddle.

SMUR, smur, _n._ (_Scot._) fine misty rain.--_v.i._ to drizzle.--_adj._
SMUR'RY.

SMUT, smut, _n._ a spot of dirt, soot, &c.: foul matter, as soot: _Bunt_,
sometimes also _Dust-brand_, the popular name of certain small fungi which
infest flowering land-plants, esp. the grasses, the name derived from the
appearance of the spores, which are nearly black and very numerous: obscene
language.--_v.t._ to soil with smut: to blacken or tarnish.--_v.i._ to
gather smut: to be turned into smut:--_pr.p._ smut'ting; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ smut'ted.--_n._ SMUT'-BALL, a fungus of genus _Tilletia_: a
puff-ball.--_adj._ SMUT'TIED, made smutty.--_adv._ SMUT'TILY.--_n._
SMUT'TINESS.--_adj._ SMUT'TY, stained with smut: affected with smut or
mildew: obscene, filthy. [Scand., Sw. _smuts_; Ger. _schmutz_, prob. from
root of _smite_.]

SMUTCH, smuch, _v.t._ to blacken, as with soot.--_n._ a dirty mark. [A form
of _smut_.]

SMYRNIOT, -E, sm[.e]r'niot, -[=o]t, _n._ a native or inhabitant, of
_Smyrna_.--_adj._ of or pertaining to Smyrna.

SMYTERIE, SMYTRIE, smit'ri, _n._ (_Scot._) a large number of individuals of
small size.

SNABBLE, snab'l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to plunder: to kill.--_v.i._ to gobble
up.

SNABBY, snab'i, _n._ (_Scot._) the chaffinch.

SNACK, snak, _n._ a share: a slight, hasty meal.--_v.t._ to snatch, to
bite: to share. [A form of _snatch_.]

SNAFFLE, snaf'l, _n._ a bridle which crosses the nose and has a slender
mouth-bit without branches.--_v.t._ to bridle: to clutch by the
bridle.--_ns._ SNAFF'LE-BIT, a kind of slender bit; SNAFF'LING-LAY, the
trade of highwayman. [Dut. _snavel_, the muzzle; cf. _Snap_.]

SNAG, snag, _n._ a sharp protuberance: a short branch: a projecting tooth
or stump: a tree lying in the water so as to impede navigation--hence any
stumbling-block or obstacle.--_v.t._ to catch on a snag: to entangle: to
fill with snags, or to clear from such.--_n._ SNAG'BOAT, a steamboat with
appliances for removing snags.--_adjs._ SNAG'GED, SNAG'GY, full of snags.
[Akin to Gael. and Ir. _snaigh_, to cut.]

SNAG, snag, _v.t._ to lop superfluous branches from a tree.--_n._ SNAG'GER,
the tool for this.

SNAIL, sn[=a]l, _n._ a term for the species of terrestrial _Gasteropoda_
which have well-formed spiral shells--the more typical snails belonging to
the genus _Helix_, of the family _Helicidæ_, having the shell of many
whorls, globose, depressed, or conical.--_ns._ SNAIL'-CLOV'ER,
-TR[=E]'FOIL, a species of medic; SNAIL'-FISH, a fish of genus _Liparis_,
sticking to rocks; SNAIL'-FLOW'ER, a twining bean.--_adjs._ SNAIL'-LIKE
(_Shak._), in the manner of a snail, slowly; SNAIL'-PACED (_Shak._), as
slow-moving as a snail; SNAIL'-SLOW, as slow as a snail.--_n._
SNAIL'-WHEEL, in some striking time-pieces, a rotating piece with a spiral
periphery having notches so arranged as to determine the number of strokes
made on the bell.--SNAIL'S PACE, a very slow pace. [A.S. _snegl_, _snægl_;
Ger. _schnecke_.]

SNAKE, sn[=a]k, _n._ a serpent--SNAKES (_Ophidia_) form one of the classes
of reptiles, in shape limbless and much elongated, embracing tree-snakes,
the water-snakes, and the very venomous sea-snakes (_Hydrophidæ_), the
burrowing-snakes (_Typhlopidæ_) and the majority, which may be called
ground-snakes.--_ns._ SNAKE'-BIRD, a darter: the wryneck; SNAKE'-EEL, a
long Mediterranean eel, its tail without a tail-fin.--_adj._ SNAKE'-LIKE
(_Tenn._), like a snake.--_ns._ SNAKE'-ROOT, the popular name of various
plants of different genera, whose roots are considered good for
snake-bites; SNAKE'S'-HEAD, the guinea-hen flower; SNAKE'-STONE, a small
rounded piece of stone or other hard substance, popularly believed to be
efficacious in curing snake-bites; SNAKE'-WEED, the bistort; SNAKE'WOOD
(same as LETTER-WOOD).--_adjs._ SNAK'ISH, having the qualities of a snake:
cunning, deceitful; SNAK'Y (_Spens._), belonging to, or resembling, a
serpent: (_Milt._) cunning, deceitful: covered with, or having, serpents.
[A.S. _snaca_, prob. from _snícan_, to creep; Ice. _snák-r_.]

SNAP, snap, _v.t._ to break short or at once: to bite, or catch at
suddenly: to crack: to interrupt sharply (often with _up_): to shut with a
sharp sound: to take an instantaneous photograph of, esp. with a hand
camera.--_v.i._ to break short: to try to bite: to utter sharp words (with
at): to flash:--_pr.p._ snap'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ snapped.--_n._ act
of snapping, or the noise made by it: a small catch or lock: a hasty
repast, a snack: a crack, the spring-catch of a bracelet, &c., an earring:
a crisp kind of gingerbread nut or cake: crispness, pithiness, epigrammatic
point or force: vigour, energy: (_slang_) a brief theatrical engagement, an
easy and profitable place or task: a sharper, a cheat: a riveter's tool,
also a glass-moulder's tool: the act of taking a snapshot.--_adj._ sudden,
unpremeditated, without preparation.--_ns._ SNAP'DRAGON, a plant, so called
because the lower lip of the corolla when parted shuts with a snap like a
dragon's jaw: a Christmas pastime in which raisins are snatched out of a
dish in which brandy is burning, in a room otherwise dark--also the raisins
so taken; SNAP'PER; SNAP'PER-UP (_Shak._), one who snaps up;
SNAP'PING-TUR'TLE, a large fresh-water tortoise of the United States--from
its habit of snapping at things.--_adjs._ SNAP'PISH, SNAP'PY, inclined to
snap: eager to bite: sharp in reply.--_adv._ SNAP'PISHLY, in a snappish
manner: peevishly: tartly.--_ns._ SNAP'PISHNESS; SNAP'SHOT, an
instantaneous photograph. [Dut. _snappen_, to snap; Ger. _schnappen_.]

SNAPHANCE, snaf'ans, _n._ a term originally applied to the spring-lock of a
gun or pistol, but afterwards applied to the gun itself, a Dutch firelock
of the 17th century: a snappish retort.--Also SNAPH'AUNCE. [Dut.
_snaphaan_--_snappen_, to snap, _haan_, a cock.]

SNAR, snär, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to snarl.

SNARE, sn[=a]r, _n._ a running noose of string or wire, &c., for catching
an animal: a trap: that by which any one is entrapped: a cord, esp. that
stretched across the lower head of a drum: a surgical instrument for
removing tumours, &c., by an ever-tightening loop.--_v.t._ same as
_Ensnare_ (q.v.).--_v.i._ to use snares.--_n._ SN[=A]R'ER.--_adj._
SN[=A]R'Y. [A.S. _snear_; Dut. _snaar_.]

SNARL, snärl, _v.i._ to growl, as a surly dog: to speak in a surly
manner.--_v.t._ to utter snarlingly.--_n._ a growl, a jealous quarrelsome
utterance.--_n._ SNAR'LER.--_adjs._ SNAR'LING, growling, snappish; SNAR'LY.
[Prob. imit.; Low Ger. _snarren_, Ger. _schnarren_; conn. with Eng.
_snore_.]

SNARL, snärl, _v.t._ to twist, entangle, confuse.--_v.i._ to become
entangled.--_n._ a knot or any kind of complication: a squabble.--_adj._
SNARLED, twisted.--_ns._ SNAR'LING-[=I]'RON, -TOOL, a curved tool for
snarling or fluting hollow metal-ware, &c.

SNASH, shash, _n._ (_Scot._) insolence, abusive language.--_v.i._ to talk
impudently.

[Illustration]

SNATCH, snach, _v.t._ to seize quickly: to take without permission: to
seize and carry away.--_v.i._ to try to seize hastily.--_n._ a hasty
catching or seizing: a short time of exertion: a small piece or fragment: a
catching of the voice: a hasty snack of food: a quibble.--_ns._
SNATCH'-BLOCK, a kind of pulley-block, having an opening in the side to
receive the bight of a rope; SNATCH'ER, one who snatches.--_adv._
SNATCH'INGLY.--_adj._ SNATCH'Y, irregular. [M. E. _snacchen_; cog. with
Dut. _snakken_, Prov. Eng. _sneck_, a bolt; also conn. with _snap_.]

SNATHE, sn[=a]th, _n._ the curved handle of a scythe. [A variant of
_snead_.]

SNEAD, sn[=e]d, _n._ the handle of a scythe, a snathe. [A.S.
_sn['æ]d_--_sníthan_, to cut.]

SNEAK, sn[=e]k, _v.i._ to creep or steal away privately or meanly: to
behave meanly.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to steal.--_n._ a mean, servile fellow: a
mean thief.--_ns._ SNEAK'-CUP (_Shak._), one who balks his glass: a
cowardly, insidious scoundrel; SNEAK'ER.--_adj._ SNEAK'ING, mean,
crouching: secret, underhand, not openly avowed.--_adv._
SNEAK'INGLY.--_ns._ SNEAK'INGNESS, SNEAK'INESS, the quality of being
sneaking: meanness; SNEAKS'BY (_obs._), a sneak.--_adj._ SNEAK'Y, somewhat
sneaking. [A.S. _snícan_, to creep; Dan. _snige_. Cf. _Snake_.]

SNEAP, sn[=e]p, _v.t._ to check, to rebuke: to nip.--_n._ a check, a
reprimand, taunt, sarcasm.--Also SNAPE.

SNEB, a form of _snib_, _snub_.

SNECK, snek, _n._ (_Scot._) the catch of a door or a lid.--_v.t._ to latch
or shut a door.--_n._ SNECK'-DRAW'ER, one who lifts the latch for thievish
ends, a mean thief.--_adjs._ SNECK'-DRAW'ING, SNECK'-DRAWN, crafty,
cunning.--_interj._ SNECK-UP' (_Shak._), go hang! [Prob. _snack_, to
catch.]

SNECK, snek, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to cut [_Snick_.]

SNEE, sn[=e], _n._ a large knife. [Dut. _snee_, _snede_, a slice; Ger.
_schneide_, edge.]

SNEER, sn[=e]r, _v.i._ to show contempt by the expression of the face, as
by turning up the nose: to insinuate contempt.--_v.t._ to utter
sneeringly.--_n._ an indirect expression of contempt.--_n._
SNEER'ER.--_adj._ SNEER'ING.--_adv._ SNEER'INGLY. [Scand., Dan. _snærre_,
to grin like a dog; cf. _Snarl_.]

SNEESHING, sn[=e]sh'ing, _n._ (_Scot._) snuff, or a pinch of snuff.

SNEEZE, sn[=e]z, _v.i._ to make a sudden and involuntary violent
expiration, preceded by one or more inspirations, the fauces being
generally closed so that the current of air is directed through the
nose.--_n._ a sneezing.--_ns._ SNEEZE'WEED, any species of _Helenium_;
SNEEZE'WOOD, the durable wood of a small South African tree whose sawdust
causes sneezing: SNEEZE'WORT, the white hellebore: the _Achillea Ptarmica_;
SNEEZ'ING.--NOT TO BE SNEEZED AT, not to be despised, of very considerable
value or importance. [M. E. _snesen_, _fnesen_--A.S. _fneósan_, to sneeze;
Dut. _fniezen_.]

SNELL, snel, _adj._ (_Scot._) keen, sharp, severe. [A.S. _snel_, _snell_,
active; Ger. _schnell_, swift.]

SNIB, snib, _n._ (_Spens._) a check or reprimand. [_Snub_.]

SNIB, snib, _n._ (_Scot._) the bolt of a door.--_v.t._ to bolt.

SNICK, snik, _v.t._ to cut, snip, nick.--_n._ a small cut: a knot in yarn
when too tightly twisted.--_n._ SNICK'ERSNEE, a knife.--SNICK AND SNEE, a
fight with knives, also a knife. [Ice. _snikka_, to nick, cut.]

SNICKER, snik'[.e]r, _v.i._ to laugh, to giggle in a half-suppressed
way.--_v.t._ to say gigglingly.--_n._ a giggle, a half-smothered laugh.
[Low Ger. _snukken_, to sob, Dut. _snikken_, to gasp; cf. _Neigh_ and Scot.
_nicker_; all imit.]

SNIDE, sn[=i]d, _adj._ (_slang_) sharp, dishonest.--_n._ a sharper, a
cheat.

SNIFF, snif, _v.t._ to draw in with the breath through the nose.--_v.i._ to
snuff or draw in air sharply through the nose: to snuff.--_n._ perception
of smell: a short sharp inhalation, or the sound made by such.--_v.i._
SNIF'FLE, to snuffle.--_n._ SNIF'FLER, a slight breeze.--_adj._ SNIF'FY,
inclined to be disdainful.--_vs.i._ SNIFT, to sniff, snivel; SNIFT'ER, to
sniff.--_n._ a sniff: (_pl._) stoppage of the nasal passages in catarrh:
(_slang_) a dram: (_U.S._) a severe storm.--_n._ SNIFT'ING-VALVE, an
air-valve connecting with a steam-cylinder, as in a condensing engine--also
_Tail-valve_, _Blow-valve_.--_adj._ SNIFT'Y (_slang_), having a tempting
smell. [Scand.; Dan. _snive_, snuff; Ger. _schnieben_.]

SNIG, snig, _v.t._ (_prov._) to cut.

SNIGGER, snig'[.e]r, _v.i._ to laugh in a half-suppressed, broken
manner.--_n._ a half-suppressed laugh. [Imit.]

SNIGGLE, snig'l, _v.i._ to fish for eels by thrusting the bait into their
hiding-places.--_v.t._ to catch by this means: to ensnare.--_n._ SNIG
(_prov._), an eel.

SNIP, snip, _v.t._ to cut off at once with scissors: to cut off the nib of:
to cut off: to make signs with, as the fingers:--_pr.p._ snip'ping; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ snipped.--_n._ a single cut with scissors: a clip or small
shred: a share, snack: a tailor.--_ns._ SNIP'PER, one who snips, a tailor;
SNIP'PER-SNAP'PER, a little trifling fellow; SNIP'PET, a little piece
snipped off.--_adj._ SNIP'PETY, trivial, fragmentary.--_n._ SNIP'PING, a
clipping.--_adj._ SNIP'PY, fragmentary: stingy.--_n.pl._ SNIPS, a pair of
strong hand-shears for sheet-metal.--_n._ SNIP'-SNAP, tart dialogue with
quick replies.--_adj._ (_Shak._) quick, short. [Dut. _snippen_; Ger.
_schnippen_; closely conn. with _snap_.]

SNIPE, sn[=i]p, _n._ the name of a genus (_Gallinago_) and of a family
(_Scolopacidæ_) of birds, order _Grallæ_, having a long straight flexible
bill, frequenting marshy places all over Europe: a fool: a simpleton:
(_U.S._) a half-smoked cigar picked up on the street: a long bill or
account. [Scand., Ice. _snípa_; Dut. _snip_, _snep_, Ger. _schnepfe_.]

SNIPE, sn[=i]p, _v.i._ to pick off stealthily by a long rifle-shot, as from
the surrounding hills into a camp, &c.--_n._ SN[=I]P'ING, the foregoing
practice.

SNIRT, snirt, _n._ a smothered laugh.--_v.i._ SNIRT'LE, to snicker. [A
variant of _snortle_.]

SNITCHER, snich'[.e]r, _n._ (_slang_) an informer: a handcuff.

SNIVEL, sniv'l, _v.i._ to run at the nose: to cry, as a child:--_pr.p._
sniv'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sniv'elled.--_n._ snot: cant, an affected
tearful state.--_n._ SNIV'ELLER, one prone to snivelling: one who cries for
slight causes.--_adjs._ SNIV'ELLING, snotty: weakly tearful; SNIV'ELLY,
snotty, whining. [A.S. _snofel_, mucus from the nose; akin to _sniff_,
_snuff_.]

SNOB, snob, _n._ a vulgar person, esp. one who apes gentility, a
tuft-hunter: a shoemaker: a workman who works for lower wages than his
fellows, a rat, one who will not join a strike: a townsman, as opposed to a
gownsman, in Cambridge slang.--_n._ SNOB'BERY, the quality of being
snobbish.--_adj._ SNOB'BISH.--_adv._ SNOB'BISHLY.--_ns._ SNOB'BISHNESS;
SNOB'BISM.--_adj._ SNOB'BY.--_ns._ SNOB'LING, a little snob; SNOBOC'RACY,
snobs as a powerful class; SNOBOG'RAPHER; SNOBOG'RAPHY, the description of
snobs and snobbery. [Prob. prov. _snap_, a boy, from Ice. _snápr_, a dolt;
Sw. dial. _snopp_, a boy.]

SNOD, snod, _adj._ (_Scot._) neat, trim.--_v.t._ to trim, set in order
(with up). [Conn. with A.S. _sn['æ]dan_, to cut, prune.]

SNOOD, sn[=oo]d, _n._ the fillet which binds a maiden's hair: the
hair-line, gut, &c. by which a fish-hook is fixed to the line.--_adj._
SNOOD'ED, having, or wearing, a snood. [A.S. _snód_; cf. Ice. _snúa_, Sw.
_sno_, to twist.]

SNOOK, sn[=oo]k, _v.i._ to lurk, prowl about: to smell out--(_Scot._)
SNOUK. [Low Ger. _snoken_, to search for; Ice. _snaka_, to snuff about.]

SNOOK, sn[=oo]k, _n._ one of several fishes--the cobia, a robalo, a
garfish, a Cape carangoid fish. [Dut. _snoek_, a pike.]

SNOOKER, sn[=oo]k'[.e]r, _n._ a variety of the game of 'pool.'

SNOOL, sn[=oo]l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to submit tamely to wrong or
oppression.--_n._ one who does so. [Contr. of _snivel_.]

SNOOP, sn[=oo]p, _v.i._ to go about sneakingly. [_Snook_.]

SNOOZE, sn[=oo]z, _v.i._ to doze.--_n._ a nap.--_n._ SNOOZ'ER. [Prob. the
same as snore, influenced by sneeze.]

SNOOZE, sn[=oo]z, _v.i._ to doze: to slumber.--_n._ a quiet nap.--_n._
SNOOZ'ER. [Prob. the same as _snore_, influenced by _sneeze_.]

SNORE, sn[=o]r, _v.i._ to breathe roughly and hoarsely in sleep.--_n._ a
noisy breathing in sleep.--_ns._ SN[=O]R'ER; SN[=O]'RING, an abnormal and
noisy mode of respiration produced by deep inspirations and expirations
through the nose and open mouth, the noise being caused by the vibration of
the soft palate and uvula. [A.S. _snora_, a snore; allied to _snarl_.]

SNORT, snort, _v.i._ to force the air with violence and noise through the
nostrils, as horses: to laugh boisterously.--_v.t._ to express by a snort:
to force out, as by a snort.--_ns._ SNORT'ER; SNORT'ING.--_adv._
SNORT'INGLY. [Scand., Dan. _snorke_, to snort; Dut. _snorken_, Ger.
_schnarchen_.]

SNOT, snot, _n._ mucus of the nose: a mean fellow.--_v.i._ to blow the
nose.--_v.i._ SNOT'TER, to breathe through an obstruction in the nostrils,
to sob, cry.--_n._ the wattles of a turkey-cock: (_Scot._) snot.--_n._
SNOT'TERY, snot, filthiness.--_adv._ SNOT'TILY.--_n._ SNOT'TINESS.--_adjs._
SNOT'TY; SNOT'TY-NOSED. [M. E. _snotte_; cf. Dut. _snot_; allied to
_snout_.]

SNOTTER, snot'[.e]r, _n._ (_naut._) the lower support of the sprit.

SNOUT, snowt, _n._ the projecting nose of a beast, as of a swine: any
similar projecting proboscis, beak, &c.--_v.t._ to furnish with a
snout.--_adjs._ SNOUT'ED; SNOUT'Y. [Scand., Sw. _snut_; Ger. _schnauze_,
Dut. _snuit_.]

SNOW, sn[=o], _n._ the crystalline form into which the excess of vapour in
the atmosphere is condensed when the temperature is below freezing: a
snowfall: a winter: (_her._) white argent.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to fall in
snow, to cover with snow.--_n._ SNOW'BALL, a ball made of snow pressed hard
together: a shrub bearing a round white flower, the guelder-rose: a round
pudding of rice with an apple in the centre, a mass of boiled rice shaped
in a cup: white of egg beaten stiff and placed on the surface of a
custard.--_v.t._ to throw snowballs at.--_v.i._ to throw snowballs.--_ns._
SNOW'-BER'RY, a bushy, deciduous shrub, bearing white berries; SNOW'-BIRD,
a North American bird of the Finch family, the upper parts lead-colour, the
lower parts white.--_adj._ SNOW'-BLIND, affected with
snow-blindness.--_ns._ SNOW'-BLIND'NESS, amblyopia caused by the reflection
of light from snow; SNOW'-BLINK, a peculiar reflection arising from fields
of snow, like ice-blink; SNOW'-BOOT, a boot made to protect the feet while
walking in snow; SNOW'-BOX, a theatrical apparatus for representing a
snowfall; SNOW'-BREAK, a melting of snow; SNOW'-BROTH, snow and water
mixed, any very cold liquid; SNOW'-BUNT'ING, SNOW'-FLICK, a bird of the
Finch family, Bunting sub-family, abounding in the Arctic regions.--_adjs._
SNOW'-CAPPED, -CAPT, covered with snow; SNOW'-COLD, as cold as snow.--_ns._
SNOW'-DRIFT, a bank of snow drifted together by the wind; SNOW'DROP, a
genus of plants of the natural order _Amaryllis_, with bell-shaped flower
arising from a spathe, bulbous root, two leaves and one single-flowered
leafless stem.--_ns.pl._ SNOW'-EYES, -GOGG'LES, an Eskimo contrivance to
prevent snow-blindness.--_n._ SNOW'FALL, a quiet fall of snow: the amount
falling in a given time.--_adj._ SNOW'-FED, begun or increased by melted
snow, as a stream.--_ns._ SNOW'FIELD, a wide range of snow, esp. where
permanent; SNOW'-FINCH, the stone- or mountain-finch; SNOW'FLAKE, a
feathery flake of snow: the snow-bunting: a bulbous-rooted garden flower,
resembling the snowdrop, but larger; SNOW'-FLY, a perlid insect or kind of
stone-fly found leaping on the snow; SNOW'-ICE, ice formed from freezing
slush.--_adv._ SNOW'ILY.--_n._ SNOW'INESS.--_adjs._ SNOW'ISH, resembling
snow; SNOW'LESS; SNOW'-LIKE; SNOW'-LIMBED, with limbs white as snow.--_ns._
SNOW'LINE, the line upon a mountain that marks the limit of [Illustration]
perpetual snow; SNOW'-OWL, the great white owl of northern regions;
SNOW'-PLOUGH, a machine for clearing roads and railways from snow;
SNOW'SHOE, a great flat shoe worn to prevent sinking in the snow.--_v.i._
to walk or travel on such.--_ns._ SNOW'-SLIP, a mass of snow which slips
down a mountain's side; SNOW'STORM, a storm accompanied with falling
snow.--_adj._ SNOW'-WHITE, as white as snow: very white.--_n._ SNOW'-WREATH
(_Scot._), a snowdrift.--_adj._ SNOW'Y, abounding or covered with snow:
white, like snow: pure. [A.S. _snáw_; Ger. _schnee_, L. _nix_, _nivis_.]

SNOW, sn[=o], _n._ a vessel once much in use, differing only from a brig in
having the boom-mainsail traversing on the trysail-mast, instead of hooped
to the mainmast. [Dut. _snaauw_, a boat.]

SNUB, snub, _v.t._ to check, to reprimand: to slight intentionally, to
rebuff by a cutting remark or retort:--_pr.p._ snub'bing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ snubbed.--_n._ an act of snubbing, any deliberate slight.--_adjs._
SNUB, flat and broad, with the end slightly turned up; SNUB'BISH, inclined
to snub or check; SNUB'BY, somewhat snub.--_n._ SNUB'-NOSE, a short or flat
nose.--_adj._ SNUB'-NOSED.--_ns._ SNUB'-, SNUB'BING-POST, a post round
which a rope is wound to check the motion of a horse or boat.--SNUB A
CABLE, to check it suddenly in running out. [Scand., Dan. _snibbe_, to
reprove, Sw. _snubba_.]

SNUDGE, snuj, _v.i._ (_obs._) to be snug and quiet.

SNUDGE, snuj, _v.i._ to save in a miserly way.--_n._ a mean stingy fellow.

SNUFF, snuf, _v.i._ to draw in air violently and noisily through the nose:
to sniff: to smell at anything doubtfully: to take snuff into the
nose.--_v.t._ to draw into the nose: to smell, to examine by
smelling.--_n._ a powdered preparation of tobacco or other substance for
snuffing, a pinch of such: a sniff: resentment, huff.--_ns._ SNUFF'-BOX, a
box for snuff; SNUFF'-DIP'PING, the habit of dipping a wetted stick into
snuff and rubbing it on the gums; SNUFF'ER, one who snuffs; SNUFF'INESS,
state of being snuffy.--_v.i._ SNUF'FLE, to breathe hard through the
nose.--_n._ the sound made by such: a nasal twang: cant.--_n._ SNUF'FLER,
one who snuffles or speaks through his nose when obstructed.--_n.pl._
SNUF'FLES, nasal catarrh and consequent stoppage of the nose.--_ns._
SNUFF'LING; SNUFF'-MILL, a machine for grinding tobacco into snuff;
SNUFF'-MULL, a snuff-box; SNUFF'-SPOON, a spoon for taking snuff from a
snuff-box; SNUFF'-T[=A]K'ER, one who snuffs habitually;
SNUFF'-T[=A]KING.--_adj._ SNUFF'Y, soiled with, or smelling of,
snuff.--TAKE A THING IN SNUFF (_Shak._), to take offence; UP TO SNUFF,
knowing, not likely to be taken in. [Dut. _snuffen_, _snuf_; Ger.
_schnaufen_, to snuff.]

[Illustration]

SNUFF, snuf, _v.t._ to crop or pinch the snuff from, as a burning
candle.--_n._ the charred portion of a candle or lamp-wick: a candle almost
burnt out.--_ns.pl._ SNUFF'-DISHES (_B._), dishes for the snuff of the
lamps of the tabernacle; SNUFF'ERS, an instrument for taking the snuff off
a candle.--SNUFF OUT, to extinguish by snuffing, to end by a sudden stroke.
[M. E. _snuffen_, for _snuppen_--Scand., Sw. dial. _snóppa_, to snip off,
Dan. _snubbe_, to nip off.]

SNUG, snug, _adj._ lying close and warm: comfortable: not exposed to view
or notice: being in good order: compact: fitting close.--_v.i._ to move so
as to lie close.--_v.t._ to make smooth.--_n._ SNUG'GERY, a cosy little
room.--_v.i._ SNUG'GLE, to cuddle, nestle.--_v.t._ SNUG'IFY (_Lamb_), to
make snug.--_adv._ SNUG'LY.--_n._ SNUG'NESS. [Scand., Ice. _snögg-r_,
smooth.]

SNUZZLE, snuz'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to rub the nose against and snuff.

SNY, sn[=i], _n._ a gentle bend in timber, curving upwards. [Prob. Ice.
_snúa_, to turn.]

SO, s[=o], _adv._ in this manner or degree: thus: for like reason: in such
manner or degree: in a high degree: as has been stated: on this account: an
abbrev. for Is it so? be it so.--_conj._ provided that: in case
that.--_interj._ stand as you are! steady! stop! by way of command.--_adj._
SO'-CALLED, generally styled thus--usually implying doubt.--SO AND SO, an
undetermined or imaginary person; SO AS, in such a manner as, with such a
purpose as: if only, on condition that; SO FAR, to that extent, degree, or
point; SO FORTH, denoting more of the same or a like kind; SO MUCH, as much
as is implied or mentioned: such an amount not determined or stated; SO
MUCH AS, to whatever extent; SO ON, so forth; SO SO, only thus, only
tolerably; SO THAT, with the purpose that: with the result that: if only;
SO THEN, thus then it is, therefore; SO TO SAY, or SPEAK, to use that
expression.--OR SO, or thereabouts; QUITE SO, just as you have said,
exactly. [A.S. _swá_; Ice. _svá_, Goth. _swa_, Ger. _so_.]

SOAK, s[=o]k, _v.t._ to steep in a fluid: to wet thoroughly: to drench: to
draw in by the pores.--_v.i._ to be steeped in a liquid: to enter into
pores: to drink to excess, to guzzle.--_n._ process or act of soaking: a
hard drinker, a carouse.--_ns._ SOAK'AGE, act of soaking: the amount soaked
in; SOAK'ER, a habitual drunkard.--_p.adj._ SOAK'ING, that wets thoroughly:
drenching, as rain.--_adv._ SOAK'INGLY.--_adj._ SOAK'Y, steeped, wet. [A.S.
_súcan_, to suck, pa.t. _seác_, pa.p. _socen_.]

SOAP, s[=o]p, _n._ a compound of oils or fats with soda (_hard soaps_) or
potash (_soft soaps_), used in washing: (_slang_) soft words, flattery:
(_U.S. slang_) money used for bribery and other secret political
purposes.--_v.t._ to rub or wash with soap: to flatter.--_ns._ SOAP'-BALL,
soap made into a ball, often with starch, as an emollient; SOAP'BERRY, the
fruit of several species of trees belonging to the genus _Sapindus_,
containing a pulp useful as a substitute for soap in washing;
SOAP'-BOIL'ER, one whose occupation is to make soap; SOAP'-BOIL'ING, the
occupation of making soap; SOAP'-BUB'BLE, a bubble made from soap-suds by
blowing through a pipe; SOAP'INESS; SOAP'-LOCK, a lock of hair brushed
apart from the rest: a rowdy; SOAP'-PAN, a large tank for boiling the
ingredients in soap-making; SOAP'-PLANT, a plant the bulb of which makes a
thick lather when rubbed on clothes, and is used as soap; SOAP'-STONE, a
soft kind of magnesian rock having a soapy feel, also called Steatite;
SOAP'-SUDS (s. and _pl._), soapy water, esp. when worked into a foam;
SOAP'-TEST, a test for determining the degree of hardness of water;
SOAP'-WORKS, a place where soap is made; SOAP'WORT, a genus of plants, some
of the species of which have very beautiful flowers, and the root and
leaves of which contain saponin, and hence are sometimes used in
washing.--_adj._ SOAP'Y, like soap: having the qualities of soap: covered
with soap: flattering, or pertaining to flattery. [A.S. _sápe_; Dut.
_zeep_, Ger. _seife_.]

SOAR, s[=o]r, _v.i._ to mount into the air: to fly aloft: to rise to a
height, also mentally or morally.--_n._ act of soaring: the height reached
in soaring.--_adjs._ SOAR'ANT (_her._), flying aloft; SOAR'ING.--_adv._
SOAR'INGLY, having an upward direction. [O. Fr. _essorer_, to expose to
air--L. _ex_, out of, aura, air.]

SOB, sob, _v.i._ to sigh in a convulsive manner, with tears: to weep with
convulsive catchings of the breath, due to contractions of the diaphragm,
accompanied by a closure of the glottis, preventing the entrance of air
into the lungs.--_v.t._ to utter with sobs:--_pr.p._ sob'bing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ sobbed.--_n._ a short, convulsive sigh, any similar sound.--_n._
SOB'BING.--_adv._ SOB'BINGLY. [Conn. with A.S. _seófian_, to sigh; Ger.
_seufzen_.]

SOBEIT, s[=o]-b[=e]'it, _conj._ if it be so.

SOBER, s[=o]'b[.e]r, _adj._ not wild or passionate: self-possessed: sedate:
grave: calm: regular: simple in colour, sombre: not drunk: temperate, esp.
in the use of liquors: (_Scot._) poor, feeble.--_v.t._ to make sober: to
free from intoxication.--_adj._ S[=O]'BER-BLOOD'ED, cool.--_v.t._
S[=O]'BERISE, to make sober.--_adv._ S[=O]'BERLY.--_adj._
S[=O]'BER-MIND'ED, habitually calm and temperate.--_ns._
S[=O]'BER-MIND'EDNESS, the state of being sober-minded: freedom from
inordinate passion: calmness; S[=O]'BERNESS; S[=O]'BERSIDES, a sedate and
solemn person.--_adj._ S[=O]'BER-SUIT'ED, dressed in a suit of sad-coloured
clothes.--_n._ S[=O]BR[=I]'ETY, state or habit of being sober: calmness:
gravity. [Fr. _sobre_--L. _sobrius_--_se_, apart, not, _ebrius_, drunk.]

SOBOL, s[=o]'bol, _n._ the Russian sable. [Polish.]

SOBOLES, sob'[=o]-l[=e]z, _n._ (_bot._) a shoot or sucker.--_adj._
SOBOLIF'EROUS. [L. _suboles_--_sub_, under, _ol[=e]re_, to grow.]

SOBRANJE, s[=o]-brän'ye, _n._ the national assembly of Bulgaria.--Also
SOBRAN'YE. [Bulg.]

SOBRIQUET, s[=o]-br[=e]-k[=a]', _n._ a contemptuous nickname: an assumed
name.--Also SOUBRIQUET'. [Fr.,--O. Fr. _soubzbriquet_, a chuck under the
chin, _soubz_, _sous_--L. _sub_, under, _briquet_, breast; cf. _Brisket_.]

SOCAGE, SOCCAGE, sok'[=a]j, _n._ the tenure of lands by service fixed and
determinate in quality.--_ns._ SOC'AGER, SOC'MAN, a tenant by socage;
SOC'MANRY, tenure by socage. [A.S. _sóc_, a right of holding a
court--_sóc_, _pa.t._ of _sacan_, to contend.]

SO-CALLED, s[=o]'-kawld, _adj._ See under SO.

SOCIABLE, s[=o]'sha-bl, _adj._ inclined to society: fit for company:
companionable: affording opportunities for intercourse.--_n._ a
four-wheeled open carriage with seats facing: a tricycle for two persons
side by side: a couch with a curved S-shaped back: (_U.S._) an informal
party, a social church meeting.--_ns._ S[=O]CIABIL'ITY, S[=O]'CIABLENESS,
quality of being sociable: good-fellowship.--_adv._ S[=O]'CIABLY.--_adj._
S[=O]'CIAL, pertaining to society or companionship: relating to men united
in a society: inclined for friendly intercourse: consisting in mutual
converse: convivial: associating together, gregarious: growing in
patches.--_v.t._ S[=O]'CIALISE, to reduce to a social state: to render
social.--_ns._ S[=O]'CIALISM, the name given to any one of various schemes
for regenerating society by a more equal distribution of property, and esp.
by substituting the principle of association for that of competition;
S[=O]'CIALIST, an adherent of socialism.--_adj._ SOCIALIST'IC.--_ns._
SOCIAL'ITY, S[=O]'CIALNESS.--_adv._ S[=O]'CIALLY.--_adjs._
S[=O]'CI[=A]TIVE, expressing association; SOCIET[=A]'RIAN, SOC[=I]'ETARY,
of or pertaining to society.--_ns._ SOC[=I]'ETY, fellowship, companionship:
a number of persons associated for a common interest: a community or
partnership: the civilised body of mankind, those who are recognised as the
leaders in fashionable life, the fashionable world generally: persons who
associate: any organised association for purposes literary, scientific,
philanthropic, or ecclesiastical; SOC[=I]'ETY-HOUSE, a printing office
which conforms to the rules of a trade-union; SOC[=I]'ETY-VERSE, poetry
light and entertaining, treating of the topics of society so
called.--SOCIAL SCIENCE, sociology, esp. the branch treating of the
existing institutions of men as members of society, the science which
treats of social relations; SOCIAL War, the war (90-88 b.c.) in which the
Italian tribes known as the allies (_Socii_) fought for admission into
Roman citizenship.--SOCIALISM OF THE CHAIR, a term first applied about 1872
in ridicule to the doctrines of a school of political economists in Germany
whose aim was mainly to better the condition of the working-classes through
remedial state-legislation, by factory-acts, savings-banks, insurances
against sickness and old age, shortening the hours of labour, sanitation,
&c.--also called PROFESSORIAL SOCIALISM, and having much the same ends and
methods as the STATE SOCIALISM of Bismarck.--CHRISTIAN SOCIALISM, a
movement for applying Christian ethics to social reform, led by Maurice,
Kingsley, and others about 1848-52.--THE SOCIETIES, bodies that began to be
organised in 1681 for the maintenance of Presbyterian worship in the face
of persecution--ultimately forming the Reformed Presbyterian Church.
[Fr.,--L. _sociabilis_--_soci[=a]re_, to associate--_socius_, a companion.]

SOCINIAN, s[=o]-sin'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Socinus_, the name of two
celebrated heresiarchs, uncle and nephew, who in the 16th century denied
the doctrine of the Trinity, the deity of Christ, &c.--_n._ a follower of
Lælius and Faustus Socinus, one who refuses to accept the divinity of
Christ, a Unitarian.--_n._ SOCIN'IANISM, the doctrines of SOCINUS.

SOCIOLOGY, s[=o]-shi-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science that treats of man as a
social being, in the origin, organisation, and development of human society
and human culture, esp. on the side of social and political institutions,
including ethics, political economy, &c.--_ns._ SOCIOG'ENY, the science of
the origin of society; SOCIOG'RAPHY, the branch of sociology devoted to
noting and describing the results of observation.--_adjs._ SOCIOLOG'IC,
-AL.--_adv._ SOCIOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ SOCIOL'OGIST, one devoted to the study
of sociology; S[=O]'CIUS, an associate: a fellow of an academy, &c. [A
hybrid from L. _socius_, a companion, and Gr. _logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

SOCK, sok, _n._ a kind of half-stocking: comedy, originally a low-heeled
light shoe, worn by actors of comedy. [A.S. _socc_--L. _soccus_.]

SOCK, sok, _n._ a ploughshare. [O. Fr. _soc_--Celt., Bret. _souc'h_, Gael.
_soc_.]

SOCK, sok, _v.t._ (_prov._ and _slang_) to throw: to strike hard, to give a
drubbing.

SOCKDOLOGER, sok-dol'[=o]-j[.e]r, _n._ (_Amer. slang_) a conclusive
argument: a knock-down blow: anything very big, a whopper: a form of
fish-hook. [A corr. of _doxology_ as the closing act of a service.]

SOCKET, sok'et, _n._ a hollow into which something is inserted, the
receptacle of the eye, &c.: a hollow tool for grasping and lifting tools
dropped in a well-boring: the hollow of a candlestick: a steel apparatus
attached to the saddle to protect thighs and legs.--_v.t._ to provide with
or place in a socket.--_n._ SOCK'ET-BOLT, a bolt for passing through a
thimble placed between the parts connected by the bolt.--_p.adj._
SOCK'ETED, provided with, placed in, or received in a socket. [A dim. of
sock.]

SOCLE, s[=o]'kl, _n._ (_archit._) a plain, square, flat member used instead
of a pedestal to support a column, &c.: a plain face or plinth at the foot
of a wall. [Fr.--It. _zoccolo_--L. _socculus_, dim. of _soccus_, a
high-heeled shoe, as if a support.]

SOCRATIC, -AL, s[=o]-krat'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to _Socrates_, a
celebrated Greek philosopher (469-399 B.C.), to his philosophy, or to his
manner of teaching, which was an art of inducing his interlocutors to
discover their own ignorance and need of knowledge by means of a series of
simple questions.--_adv._ SOCRAT'ICALLY.--_ns._ SOC'RATISM, the philosophy
of SOCRATES; SOC'RATIST, a disciple of SOCRATES.

SOD, sod, _n._ any surface of earth grown with grass, &c.: turf.--_adj._
consisting of sod.--_v.t._ to cover with sod.--_adj._ SOD'DY, covered with
sod: turfy.--THE OLD SOD, one's native soil. [Low Ger. _sode_; Ger. _sode_;
perh. conn. with A.S. _seáth_, a well--seóthan (pa.p. _soden_), to boil.]

SOD, sod, obsolete _pa.t._ of _seethe_.

SODA, s[=o]'da, _n._ oxide of sodium, or its hydrate: the alkali obtained
from the ashes of marine vegetables, or by decomposing sea-salt: (_coll._)
soda-water.--_ns._ S[=O]'DA-ASH, sodium carbonate; S[=O]'DA-CRACK'ER, a
biscuit made of flour and water, with salt, bicarbonate of soda, and cream
of tartar; S[=O]'DA-FOUNT'AIN, a metal or marble case for holding water
charged with carbonic-acid gas.--_adj._ SOD[=A]'IC, pertaining to, or
containing, soda.--_ns._ S[=O]'DA-LIME, a mixture of caustic soda and
quicklime; S[=O]'DALITE, a mineral composed chiefly of soda, along with
silica, alumina, and hydrochloric acid; S[=O]'DA-P[=A]'PER, a paper
saturated with sodium carbonate; S[=O]'DA-SALT, a salt having soda for its
base; S[=O]'DA-WA'TER, water containing soda charged with carbonic acid;
S[=O]'DIUM, a yellowish-white metal, the base of soda. [It. _soda_--L.
_solida_, firm.]

SODALITY, s[=o]-dal'i-ti, _n._ a fellowship or fraternity. [L.
_sodalitas_--sodalis, a comrade.]

SODDEN, sod'n, _pa.p._ of _seethe_, boiled: soaked thoroughly: boggy:
doughy, not well baked: bloated, saturated with drink.--_n._
SOD'DENNESS.--_adj._ SOD'DEN-WIT'TED (_Shak._), heavy, stupid.

SODOMY, sod'om-i, _n._ unnatural sexuality, so called because imputed to
the inhabitants of _Sodom_.--_n._ SOD'OMITE, an inhabitant of SODOM: one
guilty of sodomy.--_adj._ SODOMIT'ICAL.--_adv._ SODOMIT'ICALLY.

SOEVER, s[=o]-ev'[.e]r, _adv._ generally used to extend or render
indefinite the sense of _who_, _what_, _where_, _how_, &c.

SOFA, s[=o]'fa, _n._ a long seat with stuffed bottom, back and
arms--formerly S[=O]'PHA.--_n._ S[=O]'FA-BED, a piece of furniture serving
as a sofa by day, capable of being made into a bed at night. [Fr.,--Ar.
_suffah_--_saffa_, to arrange.]

SOFFIT, sof'it, _n._ a ceiling, now generally restricted to the ornamented
under-sides of staircases, entablatures, archways, &c.; also the larmier or
drip. [Fr.,--It.,--L. _suffixa_, pa.p. of _suffig[)e]re_, to fasten
beneath--_sub_, under, _fig[)e]re_, to fix.]

SOFI, SOFISM. See SUFI, SUFISM.

SOFT, soft, _adj._ easily yielding to pressure: easily cut or acted upon:
malleable: not rough to the touch: smooth: pleasing or soothing to the
senses: easily yielding to any influence: mild: sympathetic: gentle:
effeminate: gentle in motion: easy: free from lime or salt, as water:
bituminous, as opposed to _anthracitic_, of coal: unsized, of paper: wet,
rainy: warm enough to melt ice, thawing: (_phon._) pronounced with a
somewhat sibilant sound, not guttural or explosive: vocal or sonant: not
bony, cartilaginous, not spinous: soft-rayed, soft-shelled: of silk, having
the natural gum cleaned or washed off--opp. to _Hard_.--_n._ a silly
person, a fool.--_adv._ gently: quietly.--_interj._ hold! not so
fast!--_adjs._ SOFT'-BOD'IED, having a soft body; SOFT'-CON'SCIENCED,
having a sensitive conscience.--_v.t._ SOFT'EN, to make soft or softer: to
mitigate: to tone down, make less glaring, make smoother in sound.--_v.i._
to grow soft or softer.--_ns._ SOFT'ENER; SOFT'ENING.--_adjs._ SOFT'-EYED,
having gentle or tender eyes; SOFT'-FINNED, having no fin-spines.--_n.pl._
SOFT'-GOODS, cloth, and cloth articles, as opposed to _hardware_,
&c.--_adjs._ SOFT'-HAND'ED, having soft hands, unused to work, slack in
discipline; SOFT'-HEAD'ED, of weak intellect; SOFT'-HEART'ED, kind-hearted:
gentle: meek.--_n._ SOFT-HEART'EDNESS.--_adj._ SOFT'ISH, rather
soft.--_adv._ SOFT'LY.--_n._ SOFT'NESS.--_v.t._ SOFT'-SAW'DER (_U.S._), to
flatter, blarney.--_n._ flattery.--_v.t._ SOFT'-SOAP, to flatter for some
end.--_n._ flattery.--_adj._ SOFT-SP[=O]'KEN, -VOICED, having a mild or
gentle voice: mild, affable.--_n._ SOFT'Y, a silly person, a weak fool.--A
soft thing, a snug place where the pay is good and the work light. [A.S.
_sófte_, _séfte_; Dut. _zacht_, Ger. _sanft_.]

SOFTA, sof'ta, _n._ a Moslem theological student, attached to a mosque.
[Turk.]

SOGER, s[=o]'j[.e]r, _n._ (_naut._) one who skulks his work.--_v.i._ to
shirk one's work.

SOGGY, sog'i, _adj._ soaked with water.--_n._ SOG, a bog.

SO-HO, s[=o]-h[=o]', _interj._ (_Shak._) a form of call from a distance, a
sportsman's halloo.

SOI-DISANT, swo-d[=e]-zong', _adj._ self-styled, pretended. [Fr.]

SOIL, soil, _n._ the ground: the mould on the surface of the earth which
nourishes plants: country.--_adj._ SOIL'-BOUND, attached to the soil.--_n._
SOIL'-CAP, the covering of soil on the bed-rock.--_adj._ SOILED, having
soil. [O. Fr. _soel_, _suel_, _sueil_--Low L. _solea_, soil, ground, L.
_solea_, sole, allied to L. _solum_, ground, whence Fr. _sol_, soil.]

SOIL, soil, _n._ dirt: dung: foulness: a spot or stain: a marshy place in
which a hunted boar finds refuge.--_v.t._ to make dirty: to stain: to
manure.--_v.i._ to take a soil: to tarnish.--_n._ SOIL'INESS, stain:
foulness.--_adj._ SOIL'LESS, destitute of soil.--_ns._ SOIL'-PIPE, an
upright discharge-pipe which receives the general refuse from
water-closets, &c., in a building; SOIL'URE (_Shak._), stain: pollution.
[O. Fr. _soil_, _souil_ (Fr. _souille_), wallowing-place--L. _suillus_,
piggish--_sus_, a pig, a hog.]

SOIL, soil, _v.t._ to feed at the stall for the purpose of fattening. [O.
Fr. _saouler_--_saol_, _saoul_--L. _satullus_--_satur_, full.]

SOIRÉE, swä-r[=a]', _n._ an evening party: an evening social meeting with
tea, &c. [Fr.,--_soir_, evening (Prov. _sera_)--L. _serus_, late.]

SOJOURN, s[=o]'jurn, _v.t._ to stay for a day: to dwell for a time.--_n._ a
temporary residence.--_ns._ S[=O]'JOURNER; S[=O]'JOURNING, S[=O]'JOURNMENT,
the act of dwelling in a place for a time. [O. Fr. _sojourner_--L. _sub_,
under, _diurn[=a]re_, to stay--Low L. _jornus_--L. _diurnus_, relating to
day--_dies_, a day.]

SOKE, s[=o]k, _n._ the same as _Soc_ (_q.v._).--_ns._ SOKE'MAN=_Socman_;
S[=O]'KEN, a district held by tenure of socage: a miller's right to the
grinding of all the corn within a certain manor.

SOL, sol, _n._ the sun, Phoebus: (_her._) a tincture, the metal or, or
gold, in blazoning by planets. [L.]

SOL, sol, _n._ an old French coin, 1/20th of a livre, equal to 12 deniers,
now superseded by the sou. [O. Fr. _sol_--L. _solidus_, solid.]

SOLA, s[=o]-lä', _interj._ a cry to a person at a distance.

SOLA, s[=o]'lä, _n._ the hat-plant or sponge-wood, also its pith.--Also
S[=O]'LAH. [Hind. _shol[=a]_.]

SOLACE, sol'[=a]s, _n._ consolation, comfort in distress: relief: (_obs._)
pleasure, amusement.--_v.t._ to comfort in distress: to console: to
allay.--_n._ SOL'ACEMENT, the act of solacing: the state of being
solaced.--_adj._ SOL[=A]'CIOUS (_obs._), affording pleasure. [O. Fr.
_solas_--L. _solatium_--_sol[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to comfort in distress.]

SOLANDER, s[=o]-lan'd[.e]r, _n._ a case or box, usually in the form of a
book, opening on the side or front with hinges, for holding prints,
drawings, or pamphlets--named from the inventor, Daniel _Solander_
(1736-81).

SOLAN-GOOSE, s[=o]'lan-g[=oo]s, _n._ the gannet.--Also S[=O]'LAND. [Ice.
_súla_.]

SOLANO, s[=o]-lä'no, _n._ a hot south-east wind which occasionally visits
Spain. [Sp.,--L. _solanus_ (_ventus_), the east wind--_sol_, the sun.]

SOLANUM, s[=o]-l[=a]'num, _n._ a genus of plants of the order _Solanaceæ_
or _Solaneæ_, the nightshade family--almost all the species containing a
poisonous alkaloid, SOL'ANINE.--_adjs._ SOLAN[=A]'CEOUS, belonging to the
_Solanaceæ_; SOL'ANOID, potato-like, said of cancers. [L. _solanum_, the
nightshade.]

SOLAR, s[=o]'lar, _adj._ pertaining to the sun: measured by the progress of
the sun: produced by the sun.--_n._ S[=O]LARIS[=A]'TION, exposure to the
action of the sun's rays: the effect in photography of
over-exposure.--_v.t._ S[=O]'LARISE, to injure by exposing too long to the
sun's light in a camera.--_v.i._ to take injury by too long exposure to the
sun's light in a camera:--_pr.p._ s[=o]'lar[=i]sing; _pa.p._
s[=o]'lar[=i]sed.--_ns._ S[=O]'LARISM, excessive use of solar-myths in the
explanation of mythology; S[=O]'LARIST, one addicted to solarism;
S[=O]L[=A]'RIUM, a sun-dial: a place suited to receive the sun's rays--in a
hospital or sanatorium; S[=O]'LAR-M[=I]'CROSCOPE, an apparatus for
projecting upon a screen by means of sunlight an enlarged view of any
object--essentially the same as the combination of lenses used in the
magic-lantern taken in conjunction with a heliostat; S[=O]'LAR-MYTH, a myth
allegorising the course of the sun, by some mythologists constantly invoked
to explain the problems of mythology; S[=O]'LAR-PRINT, a photographic print
made in a solar camera from a negative; S[=O]'LAR-SYS'TEM, the planets and
comets which circle round the sun--also called _Planetary-system_.--SOLAR
FLOWERS, flowers which open and shut daily at certain hours; SOLAR
SPOTS=_Sun-spots_ (see SUN); SOLAR TIME (see TIME); SOLAR YEAR (see YEAR).
[L. _sol_, the sun, _solaris_, pertaining to the sun.]

SOLASTER, s[=o]-las't[.e]r, _n._ the typical genus of _Solasteridæ_, a
family of star-fishes, having more than five rays. [L. _sol_, the sun,
_aster_, a star.]

SOLATIUM, s[=o]-l[=a]'shi-um, _n._ any compensation, a sum legally awarded,
over and above actual damages, by way of compensation for wounded feelings.
[L.]

SOLD, s[=o]ld, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sell_.

SOLD, sold, _n._ (_Spens._) pay, remuneration. [Fr. _solde_--L. _solidus_,
a piece of money.]

SOLDADO, s[=o]l-dä'd[=o], _n._ a soldier. [Sp.]

SOLDAN, s[=o]l'dan, _n._ (_Milt._). Same as SULTAN.

SOLDANEL, sol'da-nel, _n._ a plant of the genus _Soldanella_, of the order
_Primulaceæ_--the blue moonwort.

SOLDATESQUE, sol-da-tesk', _adj._ soldier-like, [Fr.,--_soldat_, a
soldier.]

SOLDER, sod'[.e]r, or sol'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to unite two metallic surfaces by
a fusible metallic cement: to cement.--_n._ a fusible alloy for uniting
metals.--_ns._ SOL'DERER; SOL'DERING; SOL'DERING-BOLT, -[=I]'RON, a tool
with pointed or wedge-shaped copper bit for use in soldering. [O. Fr.
_soudre_, _souldure_--_souder_, _soulder_, to consolidate--L.
_solid[=a]re_, to make solid.]

SOLDIER, s[=o]l'j[.e]r, _n._ a man engaged in military service: a private,
as distinguished from an officer: a man of much military experience or of
great valour: a soldier-ant, beetle, hermit-crab, &c.: (_slang_) a red
herring.--_v.i._ to serve as a soldier: to bully: to shirk one's work or
duty: (_slang_) to take a mount on another man's horse.--_ns._
SOL'DIER-CRAB, a hermit-crab; SOL'DIERING, the state of being a soldier:
the occupation of a soldier.--_adjs._ SOL'DIER-LIKE, SOL'DIERLY, like a
soldier: martial: brave.--_ns._ SOL'DIER-OF-FOR'TUNE, one ready to serve
anywhere for pay or his own advancement; SOL'DIERSHIP, state or quality of
being a soldier: military qualities: martial skill; SOL'DIERY, soldiers
collectively: the body of military men; FRESH'WATER-SOL'DIER, the
_Stratiotes aloides_, a European aquatic plant with sword-shaped
leaves.--COME THE OLD SOLDIER OVER ONE, to impose on any one.--OLD SOLDIER,
a bottle emptied at a sitting: a cigar-stump. [O. Fr. _soldier_ (Fr.
_soldat_)--L. _solidus_, a piece of money, the pay of a soldier.]

SOLDO, sol'd[=o], _n._ an Italian coin, 1/20th of the lira, a sol or
sou:--_pl._ SOL'DI. [It.]

SOLE, s[=o]l, _n._ the lowest part or under-side of the foot: the foot: the
bottom of a boot or shoe: the bottom of anything.--_v.t._ to furnish with a
sole.--_adj._ SOL[=E]'IFORM, slipper-shaped.--_ns._ SOLE'-LEATH'ER, strong
leather for the soles of boots and shoes; SOLE'-TILE, a form of tile for
the bottoms of sewers, &c.; S[=O]L[=E]'US, a flat muscle of the calf of the
leg beneath the gastrocnemius. [A.S. _sole_--L. _solea_--_solum_, bottom.]

SOLE, s[=o]l, _n._ a genus (_Solea_) of flat-fish, elongate-oval in form,
with flesh firm, white, and excellently flavoured. [Fr. _sole_--L.
_solea_.]

SOLE, s[=o]l, _adj._ alone: only: being or acting without another: single:
(_law_) unmarried.--_advs._ SOLE; SOLE'LY, alone: only: singly.--_n._
SOLE'NESS. [Fr.,--L. _solus_, alone.]

SOLECISM, sol'[=e]-sizm, _n._ a breach of syntax: any absurdity or
impropriety: any incongruity, prodigy.--_v.i._ SOL'[=E]CISE, to commit
solecisms.--_n._ SOL'[=E]CIST, one who commits solecisms.--_adjs._
SOL[=E]CIST'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or involving, a solecism: incorrect:
incongruous.--_adv._ SOL[=E]CIST'ICALLY. [Fr. _solécisme_--L.
_soloecismus_--Gr. _soloikismos_--_soloikos_, speaking incorrectly,
awkward; dubiously said to come from the corruption of the Attic dialect
among the Athenian colonists of _Soloi_ in Cilicia.]

SOLEIN, sol'[=a]n, _adj._ (_Spens._) sad. [_Sullen_.]

SOLEMN, sol'em, _adj._ attended with religions ceremonies, pomp, or
gravity, originally taking place every year, said esp. of religious
ceremonies: impressing with seriousness: awful: devout: having the
appearance of gravity: devotional: attended with an appeal to God, as an
oath: serious: sober, gloomy, black.--_n._ SOLEMNIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
SOL'EMNISE, to perform religiously or solemnly once a year, or
periodically: to celebrate with due rites: to render grave.--_ns._
SOL'EMNISER; SOLEM'NITY, a solemn religious ceremony: a ceremony adapted to
inspire with awe: reverence: seriousness: affected gravity.--_adv._
sol'emnly.--_n._ SOL'EMNNESS. [O. Fr. _solempne_, _solemne_ (Fr.
_solennel_)--L. _sollemnis_, _solennis_--_sollus_, all, every, _annus_, a
year.]

SOLEN, s[=o]'len, _n._ a genus of bivalve molluscs--Razor-shell and
Razor-fish.--_adjs._ SOLAN[=A]'CEAN, SOLAN[=A]'CEOUS.--_n._ SOL'ENITE, a
fossil razor-shell. [Gr. _s[=o]l[=e]n_, a channel.]

SOLENOID, s[=o]-l[=e]'noid, _n._ a helix of copper wound in the form of a
cylinder, longitudinally magnetised with an intensity varying inversely as
the area of the normal section in different parts.--_adj._
SOL[=E]NOI'DAL.--_adv._ SOL[=E]NOI'DALLY. [Gr. _s[=o]l[=e]n_, a pipe,
eidos, form.]

SOLENOSTOMOUS, sol-[=e]-nos't[=o]-mus, _adj._ having a tubular or fistulous
snout.--_n._ SOLENOS'TOMUS, the typical genus of the SOLENOSTOMIDÆ, a
family of solenostomous lophobranchiate fishes. [Gr. _s[=o]l[=e]n_, a pipe,
_stoma_, mouth.]

SOLERT, sol'ert, _adj._ (_obs._) subtle.--_n._ SOLER'TIOUSNESS. [L.
_sollers_, crafty, _sollertia_, skill.]

SOLEUS. See SOLE (1).

SOL-FA, sol'-fa, _v.i._ to sing the notes of the scale in their proper
pitch, using the syllables _do_ (or _ut_), _re_, _mi_, _fa_, _sol_, _la_,
_si_;--_pr.p._ sol-faing (sol'-fa-ing); _pa.p._ sol-faed (sol'-fad).--_ns._
SOL'FAÏSM, singing by syllables, solmisation; SOL'FAÏST, a teacher or
advocate of solmisation; SOLFEG'GIO, an exercise on the notes of the scale,
as represented by _do_, _re_, _mi_, &c. [It.]

SOLFATARA, sol-fä-tä'ra, _n._ a volcanic region no longer violently active,
but emitting from crevices gases, steam, and chemical vapours, chiefly of
sulphurous origin--Fr. _soufrière_, Ger. _schwefelgrube_ or _schwefelsee_.
[It.,--_solfo_, sulphur.]

SOLFERINO, sol-fe-r[=e]'n[=o], _n._ the colour of rosaniline--from the
French victory at _Solferino_ in Italy (1859).

SOLICIT, s[=o]-lis'it, _v.t._ to ask earnestly: to petition: to seek or try
to obtain: to disturb.--_n._ solicitation.--_ns._ SOLIC'ITANT, one who
solicits; SOLICIT[=A]'TION, a soliciting: earnest request: invitation;
SOLIC'ITING (_Shak._), solicitation; SOLIC'ITOR, one who asks earnestly:
one who is legally qualified to act for another in a court of law, esp. a
court of equity: a lawyer who prepares deeds, manages cases, instructs
counsel in the superior courts, and acts as an advocate in the inferior
courts; SOLIC'ITOR-GEN'ERAL, in England, the law-officer of the crown next
in rank to the attorney-general--in Scotland, to the lord-advocate;
SOLIC'ITORSHIP.--_adj._ SOLIC'ITOUS, soliciting or earnestly asking or
desiring: very desirous: anxious: careful.--_adv._ SOLIC'ITOUSLY.--_ns._
SOLIC'ITOUSNESS, SOLIC'ITUDE, state of being solicitous: anxiety or
uneasiness of mind: trouble. [Fr. _solliciter_--L.
_sollicit[=a]re_--_sollicitus_--_sollus_, whole, _citus_,
aroused--_ci[=e]re_, to cite.]

SOLID, sol'id, _adj._ having the parts firmly adhering: hard: compact: full
of matter: not hollow: strong: having length, breadth, and thickness
(opposed to a mere surface): cubic: substantial, reliable, worthy of
credit, satisfactory: weighty: of uniform undivided substance: financially
sound, wealthy: unanimous, smooth, unbroken, unvaried.--_n._ a substance
having the parts firmly adhering together: a firm, compact body--opp. to
_Fluid_.--_ns._ SOLID[=A]'GO, a genus of composite plants, the goldenrods;
SOLIDARE, sol'id[=a]r (_Shak._), a small piece of money; SOLIDAR'ITY, the
being made solid or compact: the being bound: a consolidation or oneness of
interests.--_adj._ SOL'IDARY, marked by solidarity, jointly
responsible.--_v.t._ SOL'IDATE, to make solid or firm.--_adj._
SOLID'IFIABLE.--_n._ SOLIDIFIC[=A]'TION, act of making solid or
hard.--_v.t._ SOLID'IFY, to make solid or compact.--_v.i._ to grow solid:
to harden:--_pa.p._ solid'ified.--_ns._ SOL'IDISM, the doctrine that refers
all diseases to alterations of the solid parts of the body; SOL'IDIST, a
believer in the foregoing; SOLID'ITY, the state of being solid: fullness of
matter: strength or firmness, moral or physical: soundness: (_geom._) the
solid content of a body.--_adv._ SOL'IDLY.--_n._ SOL'IDNESS.--SOLID COLOUR,
a colour covering the whole of an object: a uniform colour; SOLID MATTER
(_print._), matter set without leads between the lines.--BE SOLID FOR
(_U.S._), to be hearty or unanimous in favour of; BE SOLID WITH (_U.S._),
to have a firm footing with. [Fr.,--L. _solidus_, solid.]

SOLIDUM, sol'i-dum, _n._ (_archit._) the die of a pedestal: (_Scots law_) a
complete sum. [L.]

SOLIDUNGULAR, sol-id-ung'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ having hoofs solid, that are not
cloven, denoting a certain tribe of mammalia.--Also SOLIDUNG'ULOUS,
SOLIDUNG'ULATE. [L. _solidus_, solid, _ungula_, a hoof.]

SOLIDUS, sol'i-dus, _n._ a Roman gold coin introduced by Constantine in
place of the _aureus_, known later as the bezant: a sign (/) denoting the
English shilling, representing the old lengthened form of _s_--£ s. d.
(_libræ_, _solidi_, _denarii_), pounds, shillings, pence.

SOLIFIDIAN, sol-i-fid'i-an, _n._ one who holds that faith alone is what is
necessary for justification.--_adj._ holding this view.--_n._
SOLIFID'IANISM. [L. _solus_, only, _fides_, faith.]

SOLILOQUY, s[=o]-lil'[=o]-kwe, _n._ a talking when solitary or to one's
self: a discourse of a person, not addressed to any one.--_v.i._
SOLIL'OQUISE, to speak to one's self or utter a soliloquy. [L.
_soliloquium_--_solus_, alone, _loqui_, to speak.]

SOLIPED, sol'i-ped, _n._ an animal with a single or uncloven hoof on each
foot.--_adjs._ SOL'IPED, SOLIP'EDOUS. [L. _solus_, alone, _pes_, _pedis_, a
foot.]

SOLIPSISM, sol'ip-sizm, _n._ the theory that self-existence is the only
certainty, absolute egoism--the extreme form of subjective idealism.--_n._
SOL'IPSIST, one who believes in this.--_adj._ SOLIPSIS'TIC. [L. _solus_,
alone, _ipse_, self.]

SOLISEQUIOUS, sol-i-s[=e]'kwi-us, _adj._ following the sun, as the
sunflower. [L. _sol_, the sun, _sequi_, to follow.]

SOLITAIRE, sol-i-t[=a]r', _n._ a recluse or one who lives alone: a game
played by one person with a board and balls: a card-game for one--patience:
an ornament worn singly on the neck or wrist: a black silk tie fixed to the
bag of the wig behind, worn in the 18th century.

SOLITARY, sol'i-tar-i, _adj._ being the sole person present: alone or
lonely: single, separate, simple: living alone, not social or gregarious:
without company: remote from society: retired, secluded: gloomy.--_n._ one
who lives alone: a recluse or hermit--(_obs._) SOLIT[=A]'RIAN.--_adv._
SOL'ITARILY.--_n._ SOL'ITARINESS. [Fr. _solitaire_--L.
_solitarius_--_solus_, alone.]

SOLITO, sol'i-t[=o], _adv._ (_mus._) in the usual manner. [It.]

SOLITUDE, sol'i-t[=u]d, _n._ a being alone: a lonely life: want of company:
a lonely place or desert. [Fr.,--L. _solitudo_--_solus_, alone.]

SOLIVAGOUS, s[=o]-liv'a-gus, _adj._ wandering alone.--Also SOLIV'AGANT.
[L., _solus_, alone, _vagus_, wandering.]

SOLIVE, so-l[=e]v', _n._ a joist or beam of secondary importance. [Fr.,--L.
_sublev[=a]re_, to support.]

SOLLAR, sol'ar, _n._ a platform in a mine: an upper gallery or balcony, a
garret, loft.--Also SOLL'ER. [O. Fr. _soler_, solier--L. _solarium_, a
terrace or flat roof--_sol_, the sun.]

SOLLERET, sol'[.e]r-et, _n._ the steel shoe worn in medieval armour. [O.
Fr. _soler_, a slipper, _sole_, a sole.]

SOL-LUNAR, sol'-l[=u]'nar, _adj._ pertaining to, or due to the influence
of, both sun and moon. [L. _sol_, sun, _luna_, moon.]

SOLMISATION, sol-mi-z[=a]'shun, _n._ sol-faïng: a recital of the notes of
the gamut, _do_, _re_, _mi_, &c.

SOLO, s[=o]'l[=o], _n._ a musical piece performed by only one voice or
instrument:--_pl._ S[=O]'L[=O]S.--_adj._ S[=O]'L[=O], unconcerted.--_n._
S[=O]'L[=O]IST. [It.,--L. _solus_, alone.]

SOLOGRAPH, sol'[=o]-graf, _n._ a sun-print. [L. _sol_, the sun, Gr.
_graphein_, to write.]

SOLOMON, sol'o-mon, _n._ a person of unusual wisdom, from SOLOMON, king of
Israel (see 1 Kings, iii. 5-15).--_adj._ SOLOMON'IC.--_n._ SOL'OMON'S-SEAL,
any one of several species of perennial herbs, of the lily family, genus
Polygonatum, with simple stems bearing small greenish flowers: a symbol
formed of two triangles interlaced or superposed, forming a six-pointed
star.

SO-LONG, s[=o]-long', _interj._ good-bye! [Not _salaam_.]

SOLONIAN, s[=o]-l[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Athenian lawgiver
_Solon_ (c. 640-c. 558 B.C.), or to his legislation.--Also SOLON'IC.

SOLPUGA, sol-p[=u]'ga, _n._ the typical genus of _Solpugida_, an order of
arachnids.

SOLSTICE, sol'stis, _n._ that point in the ecliptic at which the sun is
farthest from the equator, and where it is consequently at the
turning-point of its apparent course--the _summer solstice_, where it
touches the tropic of Cancer; the _winter solstice_, where it touches that
of Capricorn: the time when the sun reaches these two points in its orbit,
21st June and about 21st December.--_adj._ SOLSTI'TIAL, pertaining to, or
happening at, a solstice, esp. at the north one. [Fr.,--L.
_solstitium_--_sol_, the sun, _sist[)e]re_, to make to stand--_st[=a]re_,
to stand.]

SOLUBLE, sol'[=u]-bl, _adj._ capable of being solved or dissolved in a
fluid.--_ns._ SOLUBIL'ITY, SOL'UBLENESS, capability of being dissolved in a
fluid. [L. _solubilis_--_solv[)e]re_, to solve.]

SOLUM, s[=o]'lum, _n._ ground, a piece of ground. [L., the ground.]

SOLUS, s[=o]'lus, _adj._ alone, in dramatic directions--feminine form
S[=O]'LA. [L., alone.]

SOLUTION, sol-[=u]'shun, _n._ act of solving or dissolving, esp. a solid by
a fluid: the separating of the parts of any body: the preparation resulting
from dissolving a solid in a liquid: explanation: removal of a doubt:
construction or solving of a problem: the crisis of a disease.--_adj._
SOL[=U]TE', loose, free: merry, cheerful: (_bot._) not adhering.--_v.t._
(_Bacon_) to dissolve.--_adj._ SOL'[=U]TIVE, tending to dissolve:
loosening.--SOLUTION OF CONTINUITY (_surg._), the separation of parts
normally continuous, by fracture, &c. [L. _solutio_--_solv[)e]re_,
_solutum_, to loosen.]

SOLVE, solv, _v.t._ to loosen or separate the parts of: to clear up or
explain: to remove.--_ns._ SOLVABIL'ITY, SOL'VABLENESS, capacity of being
solved.--_adj._ SOL'VABLE, capable of being solved or explained: capable of
being paid.--_n._ SOL'VENCY, state of being solvent, or able to pay all
debts.--_adj._ SOL'VENT, having power to solve or dissolve: able to pay all
debts.--_n._ anything that dissolves another.--_n._ SOL'VER, one who
solves. [O. Fr. _solver_--L. _solv[)e]re_, to loosen, prob. from _se-_,
aside, _lu[)e]re_, to loosen.]

SOMA, s[=o]'ma, _n._ a certain plant, most prob. of the milkweed family,
and its juice used for the preparation of an intoxicating
drink--personified and worshipped, esp. in connection with the god Indra,
the _Jupiter pluvius_ of the Vedic pantheon. [Sans. _soma_ (Zend _haoma_,
juice)--root _su_ (cf. Gr. [Greek: huô]), to press out, distil, extract.]

SOMATIST, s[=o]'ma-tist, _n._ one who admits the existence of corporeal
beings only.--_n._ S[=O]'MA, the trunk of an animal: the body as
distinguished from the _psyche_ or soul and the _pneuma_ or
spirit.--_adjs._ S[=O]MAT'IC, -AL, physical, corporeal: parietal:
pertaining to the body cavity.--_n._ S[=O]'MATISM, materialism.--_adjs._
S[=O]MATOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to somatology, corporeal, physical.--_ns._
S[=O]MATOL'OGY, the doctrine or science of bodies or material substances,
human anatomy and physiology; S[=O]'MATOME, one of the homologous serial
segments of which the body of a vertebrate is theoretically
composed.--_adj._ S[=O]MATOPLEU'RAL, pertaining to the SOMAT'OPLEURE, the
outer one of two divisions of the mesoderm of a four-layered germ.--_n._
S[=O]MATOT'OMY, the dissection of a body.--_adj._ S[=O]MATOTROP'IC, showing
SOMATOT'ROPISM, any stimulative influence exerted upon growing organs by
the substratum on which they grow. [Gr. _s[=o]ma_, the body.]

SOMBRE, som'b[.e]r, _adj._ dull: gloomy: melancholy--also
SOM'BROUS.--_adv._ SOM'BRELY, in a sombre or gloomy manner.--_n._
SOM'BRENESS.--_adv._ SOM'BROUSLY.--_n._ SOM'BROUSNESS. [Fr. _sombre_ (Sp.
_sombra_, a shade)--L. _sub_, under, _umbra_, a shade. So Diez; others
explain, on analogy of O. Fr. _essombre_, a shady place, as from L. _ex_,
out, _umbra_, a shade.]

SOMBRERITE, som-br[=a]'r[=i]t, _n._ a hard impure calcium phosphate--called
also _Rock-guano_, _Osite_, and loosely _Apatite_. [_Sombrero_ in the
Antilles.]

SOMBRERO, som-br[=a]'r[=o], _n._ a broad-brimmed hat, generally of felt,
much worn in Mexico and the south-western United States. [Sp.,--_sombre_, a
shade.]

SOME, sum, _adj._ denoting an indefinite number or quantity: certain, in
distinction from others: moderate or in a certain degree: about.--_adv._
(_prov._) somewhat, in some degree.--_n._ SOME'BODY, some or any body or
person: a person of importance.--_advs._ SOME'DEAL, SOME'DELE (_Spens._),
in some degree, somewhat; SOME'GATE (_Scot._), somewhere, somehow;
SOME'HOW, in some way or other.--_adj._ SOME'-SUCH, somewhat of that
kind.--_n._ SOME'THING, an indefinite thing or event: a portion, an
indefinite quantity.--_adv._ in some degree.--_advs._ SOME'TIME, at a time
not fixed: once: at one time or other; SOME'TIMES, at certain times: now
and then: at one time: (_B._) once, formerly.--_n._ SOME'WHAT, an unfixed
quantity or degree.--_adv._ in some degree.--_advs._ SOME'WHEN, some time
or other; SOME'WHERE, in some place: in one place or another; SOME'WHILE,
sometimes, at times; SOME'WHITHER, to some place. [A.S. _sum_; Goth.
_sums_, Ice. _sumr_.]

SOMERSAULT, sum'[.e]r-sawlt, _n._ a leap in which a person turns with his
heels over his head.--Also SOM'ERSET. [Corr. of Fr. _soubresaut_ (It.
_soprasalto_)--L. _supra_, over, _saltus_, a leap--_sal[=i]re_, to leap.]

SOMITE, s[=o]'m[=i]t, _n._ a segment of the body of an articulated or
vertebrate animal: an arthromere or metamere.--_adjs._ S[=O]'MITAL,
SOMIT'IC.

SOMNAMBULATE, som-nam'b[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to walk in sleep.--_adj._
SOMNAM'B[=U]LANT, sleep-walking.--_n._ SOMNAMB[=U]L[=A]'TION.--_adj._
SOMNAM'B[=U]LIC.--_ns._ SOMNAM'BULISM, act or practice of walking in sleep;
SOMNAM'B[=U]LIST, SOMNAM'B[=U]LATOR, a sleep-walker.--_adj._
SOMNAMB[=U]LIS'TIC, pertaining to a somnambulist or to somnambulism:
affected by somnambulism. [L. _somnus_, sleep, _ambul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_,
to walk.]

SOMNIFEROUS, som-nif'[.e]r-us, _adj._ bringing or causing sleep.--_adjs._
SOM'NIAL, pertaining to dreams; SOM'NI[=A]TIVE, SOM'NI[=A]TORY, relating
to, or producing, dreams.--_n._ SOMNIF[=A]'CIENT, a soporific.--_adjs._
SOMNIF[=A]'CIENT, SOMNIF'IC, causing, or tending to induce, sleep.--_ns._
SOMNIL'OQUENCE, SOMNIL'OQUISM, the act of talking in sleep; SOMNIL'OQUIST,
one who talks in his sleep.--_adj._  SOMNIL'OQUOUS, apt to talk in
sleep.--_ns._ SOMNIL'OQUY, a talking in one's sleep; SOMNIP'ATHY, a
hypnotic sleep; SOMNIV'OLENCY, any soporific. [L. _somnus_, sleep, _ferre_,
to bring, _loqui_, to speak, _velle_, to will.]

SOMNOLENCE, som'n[=o]-lens, _n._ sleepiness: inclination to sleep--also
SOM'NOLENCY.--_adj._ SOM'NOLENT, sleepy or inclined to sleep.--_adv._
SOM'NOLENTLY, in a somnolent or sleepy manner: drowsily.--_adj._
SOMNOLES'CENT, half-asleep.--_ns._ SOM'NOLISM, the state of mesmeric sleep;
SOM'NUS, sleep personified. [L. _somnolentia_--_somnus_, sleep.]

SON, sun, _n._ a male child or descendant: any young male person spoken of
as a child: a term of affection generally: a disciple: a native or
inhabitant: the produce of anything.--_n._ SON'-IN-LAW, the husband of
one's daughter.--_adj._ SON'LESS, without a son.--_ns._ SON'NY, a little
son; SON'SHIP, state or character of a son.--SON OF MAN, Christ as the
promised Messiah, the ideal man; THE SON, Christ, as the second person in
the Trinity. [A.S. _sunu_; Dut. _zoon_, Ger. _sohn_.]

SONANT, s[=o]'nant, _adj._ sounding: pertaining to sound: uttered with
sound, instead of breath alone, as certain alphabetic sounds.--_ns._
S[=O]'NANCE (_Shak._), a call; S[=O]'NANCY, sonant character. [L. _sonans_,
_-antis_, pr.p. of _son[=a]re_, to sound.]

SONATA, s[=o]-nä'ta, _n._ a musical composition usually of three or more
movements or divisions, designed chiefly for a solo instrument.--_n._
SONATINA (s[=o]-nä-t[=e]'na), a short or simplified sonata. [It.,--L.
_son[=a]re_, to sound.]

SONDELI, son'de-li, _n._ the musk-rat, or rat-tailed shrew of India.

SONG, song, _n._ that which is sung: a short poem or ballad, adapted for
singing, or set to music: the melody to which it is adapted: a poem, or
poetry in general: the notes of birds: a mere trifle: (_B._) an object of
derision.--_ns._ SONG'-BIRD, a bird that sings; SONG'BOOK, a collection of
songs: a hymn-book; SONG'CRAFT, the art of making songs, skill in
such.--_adjs._ SONG'FUL, full of song: disposed to sing; SONG'LESS, wanting
the power of song.--_ns._ SONG'MAN (_Shak._), a singer; SONG'-SPARR'OW, the
hedge-sparrow; SONG'STER, a singer, or one skilled in singing, esp. a bird
that sings:--_fem._ SONG'STRESS; SONG'-THRUSH, the mavis or throstle.--SONG
OF SONGS, or OF SOLOMON, Canticles; SONGS OF DEGREES (see DEGREE).--OLD
SONG (see OLD). [A.S. _sang_--_singan_, to sing; Dut. _zang_, Ger.
_gesang_, Goth. _saggws_, Ice. _söngr_.]

SONG, song (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _sing_.

SONIFEROUS, son-if'[.e]r-us, _adj._ giving or conveying sound. [L. _sonus_,
sound, ferre, to bring.]

SONNED, sund (_Spens._). Same as SUNNED.

SONNET, son'et, _n._ a poem in a stanza mostly iambic in movement, properly
decasyllabic or hendecasyllabic in metre, always in fourteen
lines--originally composed of an octave and a sestet--properly expressing
two successive phases of one thought.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to celebrate in
sonnets.--_adj._ SONN'ETARY.--_n._ SONNETEER', a composer of
sonnets.--_v.i._ SONN'ETISE, to compose sonnets.--_v.t._ to celebrate in a
sonnet.--_n._ SONN'ETIST (_Shak._), a sonneteer. [Fr.,--It. _sonetto_, dim.
of _son[=a]re_, a sound, song--L. _sonus_, a sound.]

SONNITE=_Sunnite_ (_q.v._).

SONOMETER, s[=o]-nom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring sounds or
their intervals by means of a sounding-board with strings stretched above
it, movable bridges, and weights for varying the tension. [L. _sonus_, a
sound, Gr. _metron_, a measure.]

SONOROUS, s[=o]-n[=o]'rus, _adj._ sounding when struck: giving a clear,
loud sound: high-sounding.--_n._ S[=O]N[=O]RES'CENCE, the property
possessed by hard rubber of emitting sound under intermittent radiant heat
or light.--_adj._ S[=O]N[=O]RIF'IC, making sound.--_ns._ S[=O]NOR'ITY,
sonorousness; S[=O]N[=O]'R[=O]PHONE, a kind of bombardon.--_adv._
S[=O]N[=O]'ROUSLY.--_n._ S[=O]N[=O]'ROUSNESS, sonorous quality or
character. [L. _sonorus_--_sonor_, _sonus_, a sound--_son[=a]re_, to
sound.]

SONSY, SONCY, son'si, _adj._ (_Scot._) plump, buxom, good-natured.--Also
SON'SIE, SON'CIE.

SONTAG, son'tag, _n._ a woman's knitted cape, tied down round the waist.
[From the famous German singer, Henrietta SONTAG (1806-54).]

SONTY, son'ti, _n._ (_Shak._) sanctity--generally in plural, as in the
oath, 'By God's sonties!'

SOOCHONG=_Souchong_ (q.v.).

SOON, s[=oo]n, _adv._ immediately or in a short time: without delay: early:
readily, willingly.--_adj._ SOON'-BELIEV'ING (_Shak._), believing
readily.--SOON AT (_Shak._), about; SOONER OR LATER, at some time in the
future.--AS SOON AS, immediately after; NO SOONER THAN, as soon as. [A.S.
_sóna_; Goth. _suns_.]

SOOP, s[=oo]p, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to sweep.--_n._ SOOP'ING, sweeping.

SOOT, soot, _n._ the black powder condensed from smoke.--_ns._ SOOT'ERKIN,
a fabulous birth induced by the Dutch women sitting huddled over their
stoves--hence anything fruitless or abortive; SOOT'FLAKE, a smut of soot;
SOOT'INESS.--_adj._ SOOT'Y, consisting of, or like, soot. [A.S. _sót_; Dan.
_sod_.]

SOOTE, s[=oo]t. _adv._ (_Spens._) sweetly.

SOOTH, s[=oo]th, _n._ truth, reality.--_adj._ true: pleasing.--_adv._
indeed.--_adj._ SOOTH'FAST, truthful, honest, faithful.--_adv._
SOOTH'FASTLY.--_n._ SOOTH'FASTNESS.--_advs._ SOOTH'LY, SOOTH'LICH
(_Spens._), truly, indeed.--_v.i._ SOOTH'SAY, to foretell, to
divine.--_ns._ SOOTH'SAYER, one who divines, esp. a pretender to the power;
SOOTH'SAYING, divination, prediction. [A.S. _sóth_, true; Ice. _sannr_,
true.]

SOOTHE, s[=oo]_th_, _v.t._ to please with soft words: to flatter: to
soften, allay.--_ns._ SOOTH'ER, one who, or that which, soothes: (_Shak._)
one who gains by blandishments, a flatterer; SOOTH'ING (_Shak._), flattery
(also _adj._).--_adv._ SOOTH'INGLY. [A.S. _gesóthian_, to confirm as
true--_sóth_, true.]

SOP, sop, _n._ anything dipped or soaked, esp. in soup, to be eaten:
anything given to satisfy or quieten.--_v.t._ to steep in liquor: to take
up by absorption (with up).--_v.i._ to soak in, percolate: to be
soaked:--_pr.p._ sop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sopped.--_n._ SOP-, SOPS-,
IN-WINE (_Spens._), a flower resembling a carnation. [A.S. _sop_ (in
_sópcuppa_, a dish), from _súpan_, to sip; Ice. _soppa_, soup.]

SOPH, sof, _n._ an abbreviation of _sophister_ (q.v.)--also of _sophomore_
(q.v.).

SOPHERIM, s[=o]'fe-rim, _n.pl._ the scribes, the expounders of the Jewish
oral law.--_adj._ S[=O]'PHERIC. [Heb.]

SOPHI, s[=o]'fi, _n._ (_Milt._) a title of the king of Persia. [Pers.
_sufi_, wise, pious.]

SOPHIC, -AL, sof'ik, -al, _adj._ teaching wisdom, pertaining to
wisdom.--_adv._ SOPH'ICALLY.

SOPHISM, sof'izm, _n._ a specious fallacy..--_n._ SOPH'IST, one of a class
of public teachers of rhetoric, philosophy, &c. in Greece in the 5th
century B.C.: a captious or fallacious reasoner--also SOPH'ISTER (_Shak._):
a student at an English university in his second or third year, the
students in these years being called junior and senior sophister
respectively.--_adjs._ SOPHIS'TIC, -AL, pertaining to a sophist or to
sophistry: fallaciously subtle.--_adv._ SOPHIS'TICALLY.--_n._
SOPHIS'TICALNESS, the state or quality of being sophistical.--_v.t._
SOPHIS'TIC[=A]TE, to render sophistical or unsound: to corrupt by
mixture.--_adj._ SOPHIS'TIC[=A]TED, adulterated: impure: not
genuine.--_ns._ SOPHISTIC[=A]'TION, act of sophisticating, adulterating, or
injuring by mixture; SOPHIS'TIC[=A]TOR, one who sophisticates or
adulterates; SOPHIS'TICISM, the philosophy or the methods of the sophists;
SOPH'ISTRESS, a she-sophist; SOPH'ISTRY, specious but fallacious reasoning.
[Fr. _sophisme_--Gr. _sophisma_--_sophizein_, to make wise--_sophos_,
wise.]

SOPHOCLEAN, sof-[=o]-kl[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Sophocles_, Athenian
tragic poet (496-405 B.C.).

SOPHOMORE, sof'[=o]-m[=o]r, _n._ (_U.S._) a second-year student.--_adj._
pertaining to such.--_adjs._ SOPHOMOR'IC, -AL, [Gr. _sophos_, wise,
_m[=o]ros_, foolish.]

SOPHORA, s[=o]-f[=o]'ra, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants, natives of warm
regions of both the Old and New World, with highly ornamental white,
yellow, or violet flowers--_Sophora Japonica_ is the Japanese or Chinese
pagoda-tree. [Ar. _sof[=a]ra_--_asfar_, yellow.]

SOPHROSYNE, s[=o]-fros'i-n[=e], _n._ soundness of mind. [Gr.]

SOPIENT, s[=o]'pi-ent, _n._ a soporific.

SOPITE, s[=o]'p[=i]t, _v.t._ to put to rest: to quash.--_n._ SOPI'TION,
lethargy.

SOPORIFIC, s[=o]-p[=o]-rif'ik, _adj._ making or causing sleep.--_n._
anything that causes sleep.--_adj._ SOPORIF'EROUS, bringing, causing, or
tending to cause sleep: sleepy.--_adv._ SOPORIF'EROUSLY.--_n._
SOPORIF'EROUSNESS.--_adjs._ S[=O]'POR[=O]SE, S[=O]'POROUS, sleepy, causing
sleep. [Fr. _soporifique_--L. _sopor_, sleep, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SOPPY. sop'i, _adj._ sopped or soaked in liquid.

SOPRA, s[=o]'pra, _adv._ (_mus._) above. [It.]

SOPRANO, s[=o]-prä'no, _n._ the highest variety of voice, treble: a singer
with such a voice:--_pl._ SOPRA'NOS, SOPRA'NI.--_n._ SOPRA'NIST, a singer
of soprano. [It., from _sopra_--L. _supra_ or _super_, above.]

SORA, s[=o]'ra, _n._ a North American short-billed rail.--Also S[=O]'REE.

SORAGE, s[=o]r'[=a]j, _n._ the time between a hawk's being taken from the
aerie and her mewing her feathers. [See SORE (2).]

SORASTRUM, s[=o]-ras'trum, _n._ a genus of fresh-water algæ. [Gr.
_s[=o]ros_, a heap; _astron_, a star.]

SORB, sorb, _n._ the mountain-ash or service-tree.--_ns._ SORB'-APPLE, the
fruit of the service-tree; SOR'B[=A]TE, SOR'BIN or SOR'BINE,
SOR'BITE.--_adj._ SOR'BIC, pertaining to, or from, the sorb. [Fr.,--L.
_sorbus_.]

SORB, sorb, _n._ one of a Slavonic race in Saxony and the neighbouring
parts of Prussia.--Also _Wend_, or _Lusatian Wend_.--_adj._ SOR'BIAN,
pertaining to the Sorbs or their language.--_n._ a Sorb, or the Sorbian
tongue.--_adj._ and _n._ SOR'BISH.

SORBEFACIENT, sor-be-f[=a]'shent, _adj._ producing absorption.--_n._ a
medicine which produces absorption.--_n._ SOR'BENT, an absorbent. [L.
_sorb[)e]r_e, to suck in, _faciens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

SORBET, sor'bet, _n._ sherbet: water-ice.

SORBONNE, sor-bon', _n._ the earliest and the most famous of all the
colleges of the medieval university of Paris, founded in 1253 by Robert of
_Sorbon_, in the diocese of Rheims. Exclusively devoted to theology, till
the close of the 15th century it controlled by its teaching and its
dogmatic decisions the intellectual life of Europe.--_adj._
SORBON'ICAL.--_n._ SOR'BONIST, a doctor of the Sorbonne.

SORCERY, sor's[.e]r-i, _n._ divination by the assistance of evil spirits:
enchantment: magic: witchcraft.--_n._ SOR'CERER, one who practises sorcery:
an enchanter: a magician:--_fem._ SOR'CERESS, a witch.--_adj._ SOR'CEROUS,
using sorcery. [O. Fr. _sorcerie_--Low L. _sortiarius_, one who tells
fortunes by lots--L. _sort[=i]ri_, to cast lots--_sors_, _sortis_, a lot.]

SORD, s[=o]rd, _n._ (_Milt._) a form of sward.

SORDAMENTE, sor-da-men'te, _adv._ (_mus._) in a muffled manner, softly.
[It.]

SORDID, sor'did, _adj._ dirty, squalid: of a dull colour: morally foul,
vile: mean: meanly avaricious.--_n._ SOR'DES, filth, foul accretions on the
teeth in low forms of fever.--_adv._ SOR'DIDLY.--_ns._ SOR'DIDNESS, state
of being sordid; SOR'DOR, filth, dregs. [Fr. _sordide_--L.
_sordidus_--_sord[=e]re_, to be dirty.]

SORDINE, sor'din, _n._ a mute, damper, or other device to soften or deaden
the sound of a stringed instrument.--_advs._ SOR'DO, SOR'DA, damped with a
mute.--_n._ SORD[=O]'NO, a musical instrument of the oboe family. [It.
_sordina_--L. _surdus_, deaf.]

SORE, s[=o]r, _n._ a wounded or diseased spot on an animal body: an ulcer
or boil: (_B._) grief, affliction.--_adj._ wounded: tender: susceptible of
pain: easily pained or grieved: bringing sorrow or regret: severe, violent,
intense: wretched.--_adv._ painfully: grievously: severely,
thoroughly.--_n._ SORE'HEAD (_U.S._), a person discontented with the reward
for his political services.--_adj._ SORE'HEADED.--_adv._ SORE'LY, in a sore
manner: grievously.--_n._ SORE'NESS. [A.S. _sár_; Ger. _sehr_, very, Ice.
_sárr_, sore.]

SORE, s[=o]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a hawk of the first year: (_Shak._) a buck of
the fourth year. [O. Fr. _saur_, _sor_, sorrel, reddish.]

SOREDIUM, s[=o]-r[=e]'di-um, _n._ one or more algal cells in a lichen with
enveloping fungus-threads, a brood-bud:--_pl._ SOR[=E]'DIA.--_adjs._
SOR[=E]'DIAL, SOR[=E]'DIATE, SOREDIF'EROUS.

SOREHON, s[=o]r'hon, _n._ an ancient Irish exaction of a lord from a
freeholder or tenant.

SOREX, s[=o]'reks, _n._ the typical genus of the family _Soricidæ_ and
sub-family _Soricinæ_, one of this genus, a shrew.--_adjs._ SORIC'IDENT,
having teeth like the shrew; SOR'ICINE, pertaining to the shrew-mouse;
SOR'ICOID, soricine. [L.,--Gr. _hyrax_, a shrew-mouse.]

SORGHUM, sor'gum, _n._ a genus of grasses, also called _Durra millet_ and
_Indian millet_, or _Sorgho grass_. It is closely allied to sugar-cane and
beard-grass. [Sp. _sorgo_--Low L. _sorgum_, _surgum_, _suricum_, prob. an
East Ind. word.]

SORITES, s[=o]-r[=i]'t[=e]z, _n._ an argument composed of an indeterminate
number of propositions, so arranged that the predicate of the first becomes
the subject of the second, and so on till the conclusion is reached, which
unites the subject of the first with the predicate of the last.
[Gr.,--_s[=o]ros_, a heap.]

SORN, sorn, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to obtrude one's self on another as an
uninvited guest.--_n._ SOR'NER, one who takes food and lodging by force or
threats. [Prob. _sojourn_.]

SORORICIDE, sor-or'i-s[=i]d, _n._ the murder, or the murderer, of a sister.
[L. _soror_, a sister, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

SORORISE, s[=o]'ror-[=i]z, _v.i._ to associate as sisters.--_adj._
SOR[=O]'RAL.--_adv._ SOR[=O]'RIALLY, in a sisterly manner.

SOROSIS, s[=o]-r[=o]'sis, _n._ a compound fleshy fruit, resulting from many
flowers, as the pine-apple. [Gr. _s[=o]ros_, a heap.]

SOROTROCHOUS, s[=o]-rot'r[=o]-kus, _adj._ having the wheel-organ compound,
as a rotifer. [Gr. _s[=o]ros_, a heap, trochos, a wheel.]

SORREL, sor'el, _n._ one of several species of the genus _Rumex_, allied to
the dock, the leaves impregnated with oxalic acid--the Scotch _Sourock_.
The Wood-sorrel belongs to the genus _Oxalis_. [O. Fr. _sorel_ (Fr.
_surelle_)--_sur_, sour; from Old High Ger. _s[=u]r_ (Ger. _sauer_), sour.]

SORREL, sor'el, _adj._ of a reddish-brown colour.--_n._ a reddish-brown
colour. [O. Fr. _sor_ (Fr. _saure_), sorrel, from Low Ger. _soor_, dried,
withered.]

SORROW, sor'[=o], _n._ pain of mind: grief: affliction: lamentation: the
devil (Irish _Sorra_).--_v.i._ to feel sorrow or pain of mind: to
grieve.--_p.adj._ SORR'OWED. (_Shak._), accompanied with sorrow.--_adj._
SORR'OWFUL, full of sorrow: causing, showing, or expressing sorrow: sad:
dejected.--_adv._ SORR'OWFULLY.--_n._ SORR'OWFULNESS.--_adj._ SORR'OWLESS,
free from sorrow. [A.S. _sorg_, _sorh_; Ger. _sorge_, Ice. _sorg_.]

SORRY, sor'i, _adj._ grieved for something past: melancholy: poor:
worthless.--_adj._ SORR'IEST (_Shak._), most sorrowful.--_adv._
SORR'ILY.--_n._ SORR'INESS. [A.S. _sárig_, wounded--sár, pain; Dut.
_zeerig_.]

SORT, sort, _n._ a number of persons or things having like qualities:
class, kind, or species: order or rank: manner.--_v.t._ to separate into
lots or classes: to put together: to select: to procure, adapt: to geld:
(_Scot._) to adjust, put right, dispose, fix: to punish.--_v.i._ to be
joined with others of the same sort: to associate: to suit.--_adj._
SORT'ABLE, capable of being sorted: (_Bacon_) suitable, befitting.--_ns._
SORT'ANCE (_Shak._), suitableness, agreement; SORT'ER, one who separates
and arranges, as letters; SORT'ES, lots used in divination by passages
selected by hazard from the Bible, Homer, Virgil, &c.; SORT'ILEGE, the act
or practice of divination by drawing lots; SORTI'TION, the casting of lots;
SORT'MENT, act of sorting.--IN A SORT (_Shak._), in a manner; IN SORT,
inasmuch as; OUT OF SORTS, out of order, unwell: (_print._) with some sorts
of type in the font exhausted. [O. Fr. _sorte_--L. _sors_, _sortis_, a
lot--_ser[)e]re_, to join.]

SORTIE, sor't[=e], _n._ the issuing of a body of troops from a besieged
place to attack the besiegers. [Fr.,--_sortir_, to go out, to issue--L.
_surg[)e]re_, to rise up.]

SORUS, s[=o]'rus, _n._ a heap:--_pl._ S[=O]'RI.--_adj._ S[=O]'ROSE, bearing
sori. [Gr. _s[=o]ros_, a heap.]

SO-SO, s[=o]'-s[=o], _adj._ neither very good nor very bad: tolerable:
indifferent.

SOSS, sos, _n._ a mess, a puddle: a heavy fall.--_v.t._ to dirty: to throw
carelessly about.--_v.i._ to tumble into a chair, &c.--_adv._
plump.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ SOS'SLE, to dabble. [Prob. Gael. _sos_, a
mixture.]

SOSTENUTO, sos-te-n[=oo]'t[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) sustained, prolonged. [It.]

SOSTRUM, sos'trum, _n._ a reward given for saving one's life, a physician's
fee. [Gr., _s[=o]zein_, to save.]

SOT, sot, _n._ one stupefied by drinking: a habitual drunkard.--_v.i._ to
play the sot, to tipple.--_adj._ SOT'TISH, like a sot: foolish: stupid with
drink.--_adv._ SOT'TISHLY.--_n._ SOT'TISHNESS. [O. Fr. _sot_, perh. of
Celt. origin; Bret. _sod_, stupid.]

SOTADEAN, sot-a-d[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Sotades_, a lascivious
Greek poet at Alexandria about 276 B.C. His _Cinoedi_ were malicious and
indecent satires and travesties of mythology written in Ionic dialect and
in a peculiar metre.--_n._ SOTAD'IC, a sotadean verse.

SOTERIOLOGY, s[=o]-t[=e]-ri-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ (_theol._) the doctrine of
salvation by Jesus Christ.--_adjs._ SOT[=E]'RIAL, pertaining to redemption;
SOT[=E]RIOLOG'ICAL. [Gr. _s[=o]t[=e]rios_, saving--_s[=o]t[=e]r_, saviour,
_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

SOTHIC, s[=o]'thik, _adj._ of or pertaining to the dog-star _Sothis_ or
Sirius.--SOTHIC CYCLE, or period, a period of 1460 years; SOTHIC YEAR, the
ancient Egyptian fixed year, according to the heliacal rising of Sirius.

SOTTO, sot't[=o], _adv._ under, below, as in SOTTO VOCE, in an undertone,
aside. [It.,--L. _subter_, under.]

SOU, s[=oo], _n._ a French copper coin, the five-centime piece=1/20th of a
franc. [Fr. _sou_ (It. _soldo_)--L. _solidus_, a coin.]

SOUARI, sow-ä'ri, _n._ a tree of British Guiana yielding a durable timber
and edible nuts.

SOUBISE, s[=oo]-b[=e]z', _n._ an 18th-cent. men's cravat. [Fr.]

SOUBRETTE, s[=oo]-bret', _n._ a maid-servant in a comedy, conventionally
pert, coquettish, and intriguing. [Fr.]

SOUCHONG, s[=oo]-shong', _n._ a fine sort of black tea. [Fr.,--Chin.
_siao_, small, _chung_, sort.]

SOUFFLE, s[=oo]'fl, _n._ a murmuring sound. [Fr.]

SOUFFLÉ, s[=oo]-fl[=a]', _n._ a light dish, consisting of the whites of
eggs, with chocolate, cheese, vanilla, &c., whisked into a creamy
froth.--_adj._ prepared in this way. [Fr., _souffler_, to blow--L.
_suffl[=a]re_, to blow.]

SOUGH, sow, suf, or, as Scot., s[=oo]h, _v.i._ to sigh, as the
wind.--_v.t._ to whine out cantingly.--_n._ a sighing of the wind: a vague
rumour: a whining tone of voice.--KEEP A CALM SOUGH, to keep quiet. [Prob.
Ice. _súgr_, a rushing sound, or A.S. _swógan_, to rustle.]

SOUGH, suf, _n._ a drain, sewer, mine-adit.--_n._ SOUGH'ING-TILE, a
drain-tile. [Prob. W. _soch_, a drain.]

SOUGHT, sawt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _seek_.

SOUL, s[=o]l, _n._ that part of man which thinks, feels, desires, &c.: the
seat of life and intellect: life: essence: internal power: energy or
grandeur of mind: a human being, a person.--_ns._ SOUL'-BELL, the passing
bell; SOUL'-C[=U]R'ER (_Shak._), a parson.--_adjs._ SOULED, full of soul or
feeling; SOUL'-FEAR'ING (_Shak._), soul-terrifying; SOUL'FUL, expressive of
elevated feeling.--_adv._ SOUL'FULLY.--_n._ SOUL'FULNESS.--_adj._
SOUL'LESS, without nobleness of mind, mean, spiritless.--_ns._
SOUL'LESSNESS; SOUL'-SHOT, -SCOT, a funeral payment.--_adj._ SOUL'-SICK,
morally diseased.--ALL-SOULS' DAY, the 2d November, when the souls of the
faithful departed are commemorated. [M. E. _saule_--A.S. _sáwol_; Ger.
_seele_.]

SOUM, SOWM, sowm, _n._ (_Scot._) the proportion of sheep or cattle suitable
for any pasture: pasture for a certain number of sheep or cattle.--_v.i._
to determine such. [A form of _sum_.]

SOUND, sownd, _adj._ safe, whole, entire: perfect: healthy, strong:
profound: correct: orthodox: weighty.--_adv._ soundly, completely fast, as
in sleep.--_adv._ SOUND'LY.--_n._ SOUND'NESS. [A.S. _gesund_; Ger.
_gesund_, and perh. L. _sanus_, sound.]

SOUND, sownd, _n._ a narrow passage of water: a strait. [A.S. _sund_, a
narrow arm of the sea, from _swimman_, to swim; Ger. _sund_, a strait.]

SOUND, sownd, _n._ the air or swimming bladder of a fish. [A.S. _sund_,
swimming.]

SOUND, sownd, _v.i._ to make a noise: to utter a voice: to spread or be
spread: to appear on narration.--_v.t._ to cause to make a noise: to utter
audibly: to direct by a sound or audible signal: to examine by percussion:
to publish audibly.--_n._ the impression produced on the ear by the
vibrations of air: noise, particular quality of tone: report,
hearing-distance: empty or meaningless noise.--_p.adj._ SOUND'ING, making a
sound or noise: having a magnificent sound.--_ns._ SOUND'ING-BOARD,
SOUND'-BOARD, the thin plate of wood or metal which increases and
propagates the sound of a musical instrument: the horizontal board or
structure over a pulpit, reading-desk, &c., carrying the speaker's voice
towards the audience; SOUND'ING-POST, SOUND'-POST, a support set under the
bridge of a violin, for propagating the sounds to the body of the
instrument.--_adj._ SOUND'LESS, without sound, silent: not capable of being
sounded, unfathomable. [M. E. _sounen_--O. Fr. _soner_--L. _son[=a]re_, to
sound, _sonus_, a sound.]

SOUND, sownd, _v.t._ to measure the depth of, esp. with a line and plummet:
to probe: to try to discover a man's secret thoughts, wishes, &c.: to test:
to introduce an instrument into the bladder to examine it.--_v.i._ to use
the line and lead in ascertaining the depth of water.--_n._ a probe, an
instrument to discover stone in the bladder.--_ns._ SOUND'ING, the
ascertaining the depth of water: (_pl._) any part of the ocean where a
sounding-line will reach the bottom; SOUND'ING-LEAD, the weight at the end
of a sounding-line; SOUND'ING-LINE, a line with a plummet at the end for
soundings; SOUND'ING-ROD, a rod for measuring water in a ship's hold. [O.
Fr. _sonder_, to sound; acc. to Diez, from Low L. _subund[=a]re_--L. _sub_,
under, _unda_, a wave.]

SOUND, sownd, _n._ (_Spens._) swoon.

SOUNDER, sown'd[.e]r, _n._ a herd of swine, a young boar. [A.S. _sunor_, a
herd of swine.]

SOUP, s[=oo]p, _n._ the nutritious liquid obtained by boiling meat or
vegetables in stock--named from the chief ingredient, as pea-, tomato-,
vermicelli-, hare-, oxtail-soup, &c.--_ns._ SOUP'ER, a convert for the sake
of material benefits; SOUP'-KITCH'EN, a place for supplying soup to the
poor gratis or at a nominal price; SOUP'-MAI'GRE, a thin fish or vegetable
soup, originally for fast-days; SOUP'-TICK'ET, a ticket authorising the
holder to receive soup at a soup-kitchen.--_adj._ SOUP'Y. [O. Fr.
_soupe_--Old Dut. _sop_, _zop_, broth, _soppe_, _zoppe_, a sop.]

SOUPÇON, soop-song', _n._ a suspicion--hence a very small quantity, as of
spirits. [Fr.]

SOUPLE, s[=oo]p'l, _adj._ a provincial form of _supple_--denoting raw silk
deprived of its silk-glue.

SOUR, sowr, _adj._ having a pungent, acid taste: turned, as milk: rancid:
crabbed or peevish in temper: bitter: cold and wet, as soil.--_v.t._ to
make sour or acid: to make cross, peevish, or discontented.--_v.i._ to
become sour or acid: to become peevish or crabbed.--_n._ SOUR'-CROUT (see
SAUER-KRAUT).--_adj._ SOUR'-EYED, morose-looking.--_ns._ SOUR'-GOURD, the
cream-of-tartar tree; SOUR'ING, vinegar: the crab-apple: the process in
bleaching fabrics that follows the treatment with bleaching-powder,
consisting in treatment of the fabric with hydrochloric or sulphuric acid,
so as to wash out the lime.--_adj._ SOUR'ISH, somewhat sour.--_adv._
SOUR'LY, in a sour manner: with acidity: with acrimony:
discontentedly.--_ns._ SOUR'NESS, the state of being sour: acidity:
peevishness: discontent; SOUR'-SOP, a tree of tropical America and its
fruit, closely allied to the custard-apple: (_prov._) an ill-natured
person. [A.S. _súr_; Ger. _sauer_, Ice. _súrr_.]

SOURCE, s[=o]rs, _n._ that from which anything rises or originates: origin:
the spring from which a stream flows. [O. Fr. _sorse_ (Fr. _source_), from
_sourdre_ (It. _sorgere_)--L. _surg[)e]re_, to raise up, to rise.]

SOURDELINE, s[=oo]r'de-l[=e]n, _n._ a small bagpipe. [Fr.]

SOURDINE, s[=oo]r-d[=e]n', _n._ a stop on the harmonium. [Fr.,--It.
_sordino_, _sordo_, deaf--L. _surdus_, deaf.]

SOUROCK, s[=oo]'rok, _n._ (_Scot._) the common sorrel.

SOUS. Same as SOU.

SOUSE, sows, _v.t._ to strike with sudden violence, as a bird its
prey.--_v.i._ to rush with speed, as a bird on its prey.--_n._ violent
attack, as of a bird striking its prey.--_adj._ (_Shak._) sudden,
violent.--_adv._ with sudden violence, with swift descent downwards.

SOUSE, sows, _n._ pickle made of salt: anything steeped in pickle: the ear,
feet, &c. of swine pickled.--_v.t._ to steep in pickle: to plunge into
water. [Written also _souce_, a form of _sauce_.]

SOUT, sowt, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as SOOT.

SOUTACHE, s[=oo]-tash', _n._ a narrow braid. [Fr.]

SOUTANE, s[=oo]-t[=a]n', _n._ a cassock. [Fr.,--Low L. _subtana_--L.
_subtus_, beneath.]

SOUTER, s[=oo]'t[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a shoemaker, a cobbler--also SOW'TER,
SOU'TAR.--_adv._ SOU'TERLY. [A.S. _sútere_ (Ice. _sútari_)--L.
_sutor_--_su[)e]re_, to sew.]

SOUTH, sowth, _n._ the direction in which the sun appears at noon to the
people north of the Tropic of Cancer: any land opposite the north: the
Southern States in U.S. history: the side of a church on the right hand of
one facing the altar.--_adj._ lying towards the south.--_adv._ towards the
south.--_v.i._ to veer towards the south: to cross the meridian of a
place.--_n._ SOUTH'-EAST', the direction equally distant from the south and
east.--_adjs._ SOUTH'-EAST', SOUTH'-EAST'ERLY, SOUTH'-EAST'ERN, pertaining
to, in the direction of, or coming from the south-east.--_n._
SOUTH'-EAST'ER, a wind from the south-east.--_advs._ SOUTH'-EAST'WARD, -LY,
toward the south-east.--_n._ SOUTHER (sow_th_'-), a wind from the
south.--_v.i._ to veer toward the south.--_adj._ SOUTHERING (su_th_'-),
turned toward the south, having a southern exposure.--_n._ SOUTHERLINESS
(su_th_'-), the condition of being southerly.--_adjs._ SOUTHERLY
(su_th_'-), SOUTHERN (su_th_'-), pertaining to, situated in, or proceeding
from or towards the south:--_superls._ SOUTHERMOST (su_th_'-), SOUTHERNMOST
(su_th_'-), SOUTH'MOST, most southern, farthest towards the south.--_n._
SOUTHERNER (su_th_'-), an inhabitant of the south, esp. of the Southern
States of America.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ SOUTHERNISE (su_th_'-), to render
southern in qualities or character, or to become such.--_n._ SOUTHERNISM
(su_th_'-), a form of expression peculiar to the south, esp. the Southern
States of America.--_adv._ SOUTHERNLY (su_th_'-), towards the south.--_ns._
SOUTHERNWOOD (su_th_'-), an aromatic plant of southern Europe, closely
allied to wormwood; SOUTHING (sow_th_'-), tendency or motion to the south:
the time at which the moon passes the meridian; SOUTH'LAND, the south (also
_adj._).--_adv._ SOUTH'LY.--_n._ SOUTH'NESS, tendency of a magnetic needle
to point toward the south.--_adj._ SOUTHRON (su_th_'-), southern, esp.
English.--_n._ a native or inhabitant of a southern country or district: an
Englishman.--_advs._ SOUTH'WARD (also su_th_'ard), toward the south (also
_n._ and _adj._); SOUTH'WARDLY (also _adj._); SOUTH'WARDS.--_n._
SOUTH'-WEST', the direction equally distant from the south and
west--_adjs._ SOUTH'-WEST', SOUTH'-WEST'ERLY, SOUTH'-WEST'ERN, pertaining
to, proceeding from, or lying in the direction of the south-west.--_n._
SOUTH'-WEST'ER, a storm or gale from the south-west: a painted canvas hat
with a broad flap behind for the neck (often SOU'WEST'ER).--SOUTH SEA, the
Pacific Ocean. [A.S. _súth_; Ger. _süd_, Ice. _sudhr_.]

SOUTHCOTTIAN, sowth'kot-i-an, _n._ a follower of Joanna _Southcott_
(1750-1814), whose dropsy was taken by many, and perhaps herself, for the
gestation of a second Shiloh or Prince of Peace.

SOUTHDOWN, sowth'down, _adj._ pertaining to the _South Downs_ in Hampshire,
the famous breed of sheep so named, or their mutton.--_n._ this breed of
sheep, a sheep of the same, or its mutton.

SOUTHSAY, SOUTHSAYER, s[=oo]th'-. Same as SOOTHSAY, &c.

SOUVENIR, s[=oo]-ve-n[=e]r', _n._ a remembrancer, a keepsake.--_n._
SOUV'ENANCE (_Spens._), remembrance, memory. [Fr.,--L. _subven[=i]re_, to
come up, to come to mind--_sub_, under, _ven[=i]re_, to come.]

SOVEREIGN, suv'r[=a]n, or sov'e-r[=a]n, _adj._ supreme: possessing supreme
power or dominion: superior to all others: utmost: most
efficacious--(_Milt._) SOV'RAN.--_n._ a supreme ruler: a monarch: a gold
coin=20s.--_v.t._ to rule over as a sovereign.--_adj._ SOV'EREIGNEST
(_Shak._), most effectual.--_adv._ SOV'EREIGNLY, in a sovereign manner: in
the highest degree: supremely.--_n._ SOV'EREIGNTY, supreme power: dominion.
[O. Fr. _sovrain_--Low L. _superanus_--L. _super_, _supra_, above.]

SOW, sow, _n._ a female pig: the metal solidified in parallel grooves or
_pigs_, the iron of these being _pig-iron_: a movable shed for protecting
the men using a battering-ram.--_ns._ SOW'BACK, a low ridge of sand or
gravel; SOW'-BREAD, a genus of plants, allied to the primrose, natives of
the south of Europe, the tubers of which are eaten by swine; SOW'-BUG, an
air-breathing oniscoid isopod, a pill-bug, slater.--_adj._ SOW'-DRUNK
(_prov._), beastly drunk.--_ns._ SOW'-GELD'ER, one who spays sows;
SOW'-THIS'TLE, a genus of plants, the tender tops of which are used in the
north of Europe as greens. [A.S. _sú_, _sugu_; Ger. _sau_, Ice. _sýr_; L.
_sus_, Gr. _hys_.]

SOW, s[=o], _v.t._ to scatter seed that it may grow: to plant by strewing:
to scatter seed over: to spread, disseminate.--_v.i._ to scatter seed for
growth:--_pa.p._ sown and sowed.--_ns._ SOW'ER; SOW'ING; SOW'ING-MACHINE',
a hand or horse-power seed-planting machine: a broadcast sower. [A.S.
_sáwan_; Ger. _säen_, Ice. _sá_, Goth. _saian_.]

SOWAR, s[=o]-är', _n._ a native horse-soldier in the British Indian army, a
mounted attendant. [Hind. _saw[=a]r_, a horseman.]

SOWENS, s[=o]'enz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) a dish made from the farina remaining
among the husks of oats, flummery.--Also SOW'ANS.

SOWL, SOWLE, sowl, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to pull by the ears.

SOWND, sownd, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to wield.

SOWND, sownd, _n._ (_Spens._)=swound, the same as SWOON.

SOWNE, sown, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as SOUND.

SOWSE, sows, _v._ and _n._ (_Spens._). Same as _Souse_, to strike.

SOWTH, sowth, _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_Scot._) to whistle softly, to whistle
over a tune.

SOY, soi, _n._ a thick and piquant sauce made from the seeds of the soy
bean or pea, a native of China, Japan, and the Moluccas.--Also SOO'JA.
[Jap. _si-yan_, Chin. _shi-yu_.]

SOYLE, soil, _n._ (_Spens._) prey.

SOZZLE, soz'l, _v.t._ to make wet or muddy.--_n._ disorder.--_adj._
SOZZ'LY, sloppy.

SPA, spaw, _n._ a place where there is a mineral spring of water. [From
_Spa_ in Belgium.]

SPACE, sp[=a]s, _n._ extension as distinct from material substances: room:
largeness: distance between objects: interval between lines or words in
books: quantity of time: distance between two points of time: opportunity,
leisure: a short time: interval.--_v.t._ to make or arrange intervals
between.--_ns._ SP[=A]'CER, one who, or that which, spaces: an instrument
by which to reverse a telegraphic current, esp. in a marine cable, for
increasing the speed of transmission: a space-bar; SPACE'-WRIT'ER, in
journalism, one paid for his articles according to the space they occupy
when printed; SP[=A]'CING, the act of dividing into spaces, placing at
suitable intervals, as in printing, &c.: the space thus made: spaces
collectively.--_adj._ SP[=A]'CIOUS, having large space: large in extent:
roomy: wide.--_adv._ SP[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ SP[=A]'CIOUSNESS. [Fr.
_espace_--L. _spatium_; Gr. _sp[=a]n_.]

SPACIAL=_Spatial_ (q.v.).

SPADASSIN, spad'a-sin, _n._ a swordsman, a bravo. [Fr.,--It.
_spadaccino_--_spada_, a sword.]

SPADE, sp[=a]d, _n._ a broad blade of iron with a handle, used for digging:
a playing-card of one of the two black suits, shaped like a heart with a
triangular handle.--_v.t._ to dig with a spade.--_ns._ SPADE'-BONE, the
scapula; SPADE'-FOOT, a scaphiopod or spade-footed toad; SPADE'FUL, as much
as a spade will hold; SPADE'-GUIN'EA, a guinea coined 1787-99, so called
from the shield on the reverse side having the shape of the spade in
playing-cards.--CALL A SPADE A SPADE, to call things by their plain names,
without softening: to speak out plainly. [A.S. _spadu_, _spædu_; L.
_spatha_--Gr. _spath[=e]_, any broad blade.]

SPADE, sp[=a]d, _n._ a eunuch: a gelding.--Also SP[=A]'DO. [Gr.
_spad[=o]n_, a eunuch.]

SPADILLE, spa-dil', _n._ the ace of spades in the games of ombre and
quadrille.--Also SPADIL'IO. [Fr.,--Sp. _espadilla_, dim. of _espada_, the
ace of spades.]

SPADIX, sp[=a]'diks, _n._ (_bot._) a fleshy spike of flowers, usually
covered by a leaf called a spathe:--_pl._ SP[=A]D[=I]'CES.--_adjs._
SP[=A]DIC'EOUS, SPAD'ICOSE. [Gr.]

SPADONE, spa-d[=o]'n[=e], _n._ a long heavy sword for both hands.--Also
SPADROON'. [It.]

SPAE, sp[=a], _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_Scot._) to foretell, divine--also
SPAY.--_ns._ SPAE'MAN; SP[=A]'ER; SPAE'WIFE, [Scand., Ice. _spá_; Ger.
_spähen_, to spy.]

SPAGHETTI, spa-get'ti, _n._ an Italian cord-like paste intermediate in size
between macaroni and vermicelli. [It., _pl._ of _spaghetto_, dim. of
_spago_, a cord.]

SPAGIRIC, -AL, spa-jir'ik, -al, _adj._ chemical, according to the chemistry
of Paracelsus and his followers.--_n._ SPAGIR'IST, a follower of
Paracelsus. [Gr. _span_, to tear, _ageirein_, to bring together.]

SPAHI, spä'h[=e], _n._ one of the irregular cavalry of the Turkish armies
before the reorganisation of 1836.--Also SPA'HEE. [_Sepoy_.]

SPAIRGE, sp[=a]rj, _v.t._ (_Scot._) a form of _sparge_, to sprinkle.

SPAKE, sp[=a]k, old _pa.t._ of _speak_.

SPALAX, sp[=a]'laks, _n._ the typical genus of mole-rats. [Gr., _spalax_,
_sphalax_, a mole.]

SPALE, sp[=a]l, _n._ (_Scot._) a splinter of wood--also SPAIL: in
shipbuilding, a temporary brace, cross-band--also SP[=A]'LING.

SPALL, spawl, _n._ (_Spens._) the shoulder.--Also SPALD. [O. Fr.
_espaule_--L. _spatula_, a broad blade.]

SPALL, spawl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to split, splinter, to chip.--_n._ a chip
or splinter thrown off.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ SPALT, to split off
splinters.--_adj._ brittle.

SPALPEEN, spal'p[=e]n, _n._ a rascal, a mischievous fellow. [Ir.
_spailp[=i]n_.]

SPALT, spalt, _n._ a scaly whitish mineral, used as a flux for metals.
[Ger. _spalt-stein_--_spalten_, to split.]

SPAN, span, _n._ the space from the end of the thumb to the end of the
little-finger when the fingers are extended: nine inches: the spread of an
arch between its abutments: a space of time, the full duration of anything:
extent of stretch, as the spread of a man's arms, in measuring trees,
&c.--_v.t._ to measure by spans: to measure: to embrace:--_pr.p._
span'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spanned.--_ns._ SPAN'-COUN'TER,
SPAN'-FAR'THING, a game played by one throwing a coin or counter on the
ground, and another trying to throw his so near it that he can span the
distance between the two.--_adjs._ SPAN'LESS, that cannot be spanned or
measured; SPAN'-LONG, of the length of a span.--_n._ SPAN'NER, one who
spans: an iron tool or lever used to tighten the nuts of screws. [A.S.
_span_--_spannan_; Ger. _spanne_--_spannen_.]

SPAN, span, _n._ a yoke of horses or oxen. [Borrowed from Dut.; from the
same root as above word.]

SPAN, span, _adv._ wholly--in SPAN'-NEW, SPICK'-AND-SPAN.

SPANCEL, span'sel, _n._ a tether for a cow's legs.--_v.t._ to fasten a cow
with such.--_adj._ SPAN'CELED (_her_.), hobbled. [Old Dut. _spansel_.]

[Illustration]

SPANDREL, span'drel, _n._ the irregular triangular space between the curve
of an arch and the enclosing right angle.--Also SPAN'DRIL. [Ety. dub.;
prob. conn. with _span_.]

SPANDY, span'di, _adv._ Same as SPAN (3).

SPANE, SPEAN, sp[=a]n, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to wean. [A.S. _spanan_; Ger.
_spänen_.]

SPANEMIA, spa-n[=e]'mi-a, _n._ poverty of blood--also SPANÆ'MIA.--_adjs._
SPAN[=E]'MIC, SPANÆ'MIC. [Gr. _spanos_, scarce, _haima_, blood.]

SPANG, spang, _n._ a spangle, shining ornament.

SPANG, spang, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to leap.--_v.t._ to set in violent motion,
to hurl.--_n._ a springing up: a sudden blow.

SPANGLE, spang'gl, _n._ a small, thin plate or boss of shining metal:
anything sparkling and brilliant, like a spangle.--_v.t._ to adorn with
spangles.--_v.i._ to glitter.--_adjs._ SPANG'LED, SPANG'LY.--_n._
SPANG'LER. [A.S. _spange_; Ger. _spange_, Ice. _spöng_.]

SPANGOLITE, spang'g[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a rare mineral found in hexagonal
green crystals along with cuprite in Arizona. [Norman _Spang_ of
Pittsburg.]

SPANIARD, span'yard, _n._ a native of _Spain_.

SPANIEL, span'yel, _n._ a kind of dog, usually liver-and-white coloured, or
black-and-white, with large pendent ears.--_adj._ (_Shak._) like a spaniel,
fawning, mean.--_n._ SPAN'IELSHIP, obsequious attention.--BLENHEIM SPANIEL,
red-and-white, established by the Duke of Marlborough; CLUMBER SPANIEL,
handsome lemon-and-white, short in leg, long in body, with a coat like a
setter, and massive head with large, drooping ears; KING CHARLES SPANIEL,
black-and-tan, first brought into notice by Charles II.; SUSSEX SPANIEL,
like the Clumber, golden-liver or brown. [O. Fr. _espagneul_ (Fr.
_épagneul_)--Sp. _Español_, Spanish.]

SPANISH, span'ish, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Spain_.--_n._ the language
of Spain.--_n._ SPAN'IARD, a native or citizen of Spain.--SPANISH BAYONET,
any one of several species of yucca with straight sword-shaped leaves;
SPANISH BROOM, a hardy deciduous Mediterranean shrub with showy yellow
fragrant flowers; SPANISH CHALK, a variety of talc; SPANISH CRESS, a
species of peppergrass; SPANISH FLY, a blister-beetle, a cantharid
possessing a strong blistering principle, cantharidine: a preparation of
cantharides used as a vesicant; SPANISH FOWL, a breed of the domestic
hen--also _White-faced black Spanish_; SPANISH GRASS, esparto; SPANISH
JUICE, extract of liquorice-root; SPANISH MAIN, a name given to the north
coast of South America from the Orinoco to Darien, and to the shores of the
former Central American provinces of Spain contiguous to the Caribbean
Sea--the name is often popularly applied to the Caribbean Sea itself:
SPANISH SHEEP, a merino; SPANISH SOAP, Castile soap.--WALK SPANISH, to be
compelled to walk on tiptoe through being lifted up by the collar and the
seat of the trousers--hence to proceed or act under compulsion.

SPANK, spangk, _v.i._ to move with speed or spirit.--_n._ SPANK'ER, one who
walks with long strides: a fast-going horse: any person or thing
particularly striking, a dashing person.--_adj._ SPANK'ING, spirited, going
freely: striking, beyond expectation, very large. [Cf. Dan. _spanke_, to
strut.]

SPANK, spangk, _v.i._ to strike with the flat of the hand, to slap.--_n._ a
loud slap, esp. on the backside.

SPANKER, spang'k[.e]r, _n._ the after-sail of a ship or barque, so called
from its flapping in the breeze.

SPAN-ROOF, span'-r[=oo]f, _n._ a roof having two equal inclined planes or
sides.

SPAR, spär, _n._ a rafter: a general term for masts, yards, booms, and
gaffs, &c.--_n._ SPAR'-DECK, the upper deck of a vessel. [The A.S.
_spearra_ is assumed from the verb _sparrian_, to fasten with a bar; cf.
Ice. _sparri_, Dut. _spar_.]

SPAR, spär, _n._ a term applied by miners to any bright crystalline
mineral, and adopted by mineralogists in the names of a number of
minerals--_calcareous spar_, _fluor spar_, _Iceland spar_, &c.--_adj._
SPAR'RY, resembling spar, spathic. [A.S. _spær_(_-stán_), gypsum; cf. Ger.
_spar_(_-kalk_).]

SPAR, spär, _v.i._ to box with the hands: to fight with showy action: to
dispute:--_pr.p._ spar'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sparred.--_n._ a
preliminary sparring, boxing-match, or cock-fight.--_ns._ SPAR'RER;
SPAR'RING. [O. Fr. _esparer_ (Fr. _éparer_), to kick out, most prob. Teut.;
Low Ger. _sparre_, a struggling.]

SPARABLE, spar'a-bl, _n._ a small nail used by shoemakers.--Also
SPER'RABLE. [_Sparrow-bill_.]

SPARADRAP, spar'a-drap, _n._ a cerecloth, a plaster. [Fr.]

SPARE, sp[=a]r, _v.t._ to use frugally: to do without: to save from any
use: to withhold from: to forbear from harming, to treat tenderly: to part
with willingly.--_v.i._ to be frugal: to forbear: to be tender: to be
forgiving.--_adj._ sparing: frugal: scanty: lean: superfluous.--_n._ that
which has been saved or stored away: in American bowling, a point made by
overturning all the pins with the first two balls.--_adv._ SPARE'LY, in a
spare manner: sparingly.--_ns._ SPARE'NESS; SP[=A]R'ER, one who spares or
avoids expense; SPARE'RIB, a piece of pork consisting of ribs with the meat
adhering to them.--_adj._ SP[=A]'RING, scarce: scanty: saving: merciful,
forgiving.--_adv._ SP[=A]R'INGLY, frugally: not abundantly: with
abstinence: seldom: cautiously.--_n._ SP[=A]R'INGNESS, the quality of being
sparing: want of liberality: caution. [A.S. _sparian_, to spare--_spær_,
spare; Ger. _spärlich_, frugal.]

SPARGANIUM, spär-g[=a]'ni-um, _n._ a genus of plants of the order
_Typhaceæ_:, the bur-reeds. [Gr.]

SPARGE, spärj, _v.t._ to sprinkle--(_Scot._) SPAIRGE.--_n._ SPAR'GER, a
sprinkler. [L. _sparg[)e]re_, to sprinkle.]

SPARGOSIS, spär-g[=o]'sis, _n._ great distention of the breasts with
milk.--Also SPARGAN[=O]'SIS. [Gr. _sparg[=o]sis_--_spargan_, to swell.]

SPAR-HAWK, spär'-hawk, _n._=_Sparrow-hawk_.

SPARK, spärk, _n._ a small ignited particle shot off from a burning body:
any small shining body or light: a small portion of anything active or
vivid: a gay sprightly person, a lover, a beau.--_v.i._ to emit sparks: to
play the gallant.--_adj._ SPARK'ISH, gay, jaunty, showy. [A.S. _spearca_, a
spark; Dut. _spark_.]

SPARKE, spärk, _n._ (_Spens._) a battle-axe. [Perh. an error for
_sparthe_.]

SPARKLE, spärk'l, _n._ a little spark: lustre, brilliance: the presence of
carbon dioxide, as in a wine, causing effervescence: the emission of
sparks.--_v.i._ to emit sparks: to shine, glitter: to effervesce with
glittering bubbles, or to contain much carbon dioxide, as certain
wines.--_v.t._ to throw out sparklingly.--_n._ SPARK'LER, one who, or that
which, sparkles.--_adj._ SPARK'LESS, not giving out sparks.--_adv._
SPARK'LESSLY.--_n._ SPARK'LET, a small spark.--_adj._ SPARK'LING, giving
out sparks: glittering: brilliant: lively.--_adv._ SPARK'LINGLY, in a
sparkling manner: with vivid and twinkling lustre.--_n._ SPARK'LINGNESS,
the quality of being sparkling: vivid and twinkling lustre. [A freq. of
_spark_.]

SPARLING, spär'ling, _n._ the smelt.--Also SPIR'LING.

SPARRE, spär, _n._ (_Spens._) a bolt, a bar. [_Spar_.]

SPARRER. See under SPAR (3).

SPARROW, spar'[=o], _n._ an Old World genus of birds of fringilline
family.--_ns._ SPARR'OW-BILL, a small shoe-nail, so called from its
shape--also SPAR'ABLE; SPARR'OW-GRASS, asparagus; SPARR'OW-HAWK, a genus of
long-legged, short-winged falcons, like the goshawks, but smaller.--_adj._
SPARR'OW-TAIL (see SWALLOW-TAIL). [A.S. _spearwa_; Goth. _sparwa_, Ice.
_spörr_, Ger. _sper-ling_.]

SPARRY, spär'i, _adj._ consisting of, or like, spar.--_n._
SPARR'Y-[=I]'RON, a carbonite of iron, siderite.

SPARSE, spärs, _adj._ thinly scattered: scanty.--_adv._ SPARSE'LY.--_n._
SPARSE'NESS.--_adj._ SPAR'SILE.--_n._ SPAR'SITY. [L. _sparsum_, pa.p. of
_sparg[)e]re_, to scatter; Gr. _speirein_, to sow.]

SPARTAN, spär'tan, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Sparta_ in Greece: hardy,
rigorously severe: fearless.

SPARTERIE, spär't[.e]r-i, _n._ articles made from esparto--mats, nets,
ropes, &c.

SPARTH, -E, sparth, _n._ a halberd, mace.

SPASM, spazm, _n._ an irregular and violent contraction of muscular
parts--involuntary even when the voluntary muscles are concerned. When
persistent it is _tonic spasm_ or _cramp_, _catalepsy_, _tetanus_; when the
relaxations alternate with the contractions, it is _clonic spasm_, as in
_epilepsy_, _convulsive hysteria_, _chorea_, &c.--_n._ SPASMOD'IC, a
medicine for removing spasms.--_adjs._ SPASMOD'IC, -AL, relating to, or
consisting in, spasms: convulsive.--_adv._ SPASMOD'ICALLY, in a spasmodic
manner: in fits.--_ns._ SPAS'MODIST; SPASMOL'OGY, scientific knowledge of
spasms.--_adj._ SPAS'TIC, relating to spasms, spasmodic.--_adv._
SPAS'TICALLY.--_n._ SPASTIC'ITY, tendency to spasm.--SPASMODIC SCHOOL, a
group of English poets, including P. J. Bailey, Sydney Dobell, and
Alexander Smith, marked by overstrained and unnatural sentiment and
expression. [Fr. _spasme_--L. _spasmus_--Gr. _spasmos_--_spaein_, to draw.]

SPAT, spat, _pa.t._ of _spit_, to throw from the mouth.

SPAT, spat, _n._ the spawn of shellfish.--_v.i._ to shed spawn. [From root
of _spit_.]

SPAT, spat, _n._ a slap: a large drop, as of rain: a petty quarrel.--_v.t._
to slap, to strike lightly.--_v.i._ to engage in a petty quarrel.

SPAT, spat, _n._ a gaiter or legging--usually in _pl._ [_Spatter-dashes_.]

SPATANGUS, sp[=a]-tang'gus, _n._ the typical genus of _Spatangidæ_, a
family of irregular sea-urchins, the heart-urchins.--_n.pl._ SPATANG'IDA,
the spatangoid sea-urchins.--_adj._ SPATANG'OID, like a cordate
urchin.--_n._ one of these.--_ns.pl._ SPATANGOI'DA, SPATANGOI'D[=E]A, the
_Spatangidæ_, an order of petalostichous sea-urchins, generally excluding
the clypeastroids or flat sea-urchins. [Gr. _spatang[=e]s_, a sea-urchin.]

SPATCH-COCK, spach'-kok, _n._ a fowl killed and immediately roasted or
broiled for some sudden occasion. [Prob. a corr. of _despatch_ and _cock_.]

SPATE, SPAIT, sp[=a]t, _n._ a sudden flood, as in a stream after heavy
rain. [Prob. Ir. _speid_.]

SPATHE, sp[=a]th, _n._ (_bot_.) a sheathing bract, which encloses one or
more flowers, as in the narcissus.--_adjs._ SPATH[=A]'CEOUS,
spathe-bearing; SP[=A]THED, having a spathe.--_n._ SPATHIL'LA, a secondary
or diminutive spathe.--_adjs._ SP[=A]'THOSE, SP[=A]'THOUS (_bot_.), having
a spathe or sheath-like bract, bursting longitudinally. [L. _spatha_--Gr.
_spath[=e]_, a broad blade.]

SPATHIC, spath'ik, _adj._ (_min._) foliated, lamellar.--_adj._ SPATH'IFORM,
spathic. [Ger. _spath_, spar.]

SPATHURA, sp[=a]-th[=u]'ra, _n._ a genus of humming-birds with peculiar
tail-feathers expanding into a spatule at the end, and leg-muffs. [Gr.
_spath[=e]_, a blade, _oura_, a tail.]

SPATIAL, sp[=a]'shal, _adj._ relating to space.--_n._
SP[=A]TIAL'ITY.--_adv_. SP[=A]'TIALLY.

SPATILOMANCY, sp[=a]-til'[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by means of animal
excrements. [Gr. _spatil[=e]_, excrement, _manteia_, divination.]

[Illustration]

SPATTER, spat'[.e]r, _v.t._ to throw out or scatter upon: to scatter about:
to sprinkle with dirt or anything moist: to defame.--_n._ the act of
spattering: what is spattered.--_n.pl._ SPATT'ER-DASH'ES, coverings for the
legs, to keep them clean from water and mud, a kind of gaiters.--_n._
SPATT'ER-WORK, a method of producing designs by covering the surface with
the pattern and then spattering colouring matter on the parts exposed. [A
freq. of _spot_.]

SPATULA, spat'[=u]-la, SPATTLE, spat'l, _n._ a little spade: a broad kind
of knife for spreading plasters.--_n._ SPAT'ULAMANCY, a method of
divination by a sheep's shoulder-blade.--_adj._ SPAT'UL[=A]TE, shaped like
a spatula.--_n._ SPAT'ULE, a spatulate formation.--_adjs._ SPAT'ULIFORM,
SPATULIG'EROUS. [L. _spatula_, _spathula_, dim. of _spatha_--Gr.
_spath[=e]_.]

SPAVIN, spav'in, _n._ a disease of horses occurring under two different
forms--_bog-spavin_, in which the hock-joint is distended with
dark-coloured synovia or joint-oil, and _bone-spavin_, in which a bony
enlargement occurs towards the inside of the hock, at the head of the
shank-bone, or between some of the small bones of the hock.--_adj._
SPAV'INED, affected with spavin. [O. Fr. _esparvain_ (Fr. _éparvin_)--Old
High Ger. _sparo_, _sparwe_, a sparrow.]

SPAWL, spawl, _n._ spittle, slaver.--_v.i._ to eject saliva.

SPAWN, spawn, _n._ the eggs of fish or frogs when ejected:
offspring.--_adj._ containing spawn.--_v.t._ to produce, as fishes and
frogs do their eggs: to bring forth.--_v.i._ to deposit eggs, as fishes or
frogs: to issue, as offspring.--_ns._ SPAWN'ER, the female fish from which
the spawn is ejected; SPAWN'ING; SPAWN'ING-BED, -GROUND, a bed made in the
bottom of a stream on which fish deposit their spawn. [O. Fr. _espandre_,
to shed--L. _expand[)e]re_, to spread out.]

SPAY, sp[=a], _v.t._ to make an animal barren by destroying its
ovaries.--Also SP[=A]VE. [L. _spado_--Gr. _spad[=o]n_, a eunuch--Gr.
_spaein_, draw out.]

SPEAK, sp[=e]k, _v.i._ to utter words or articulate sounds: to say: to
talk: to converse: to sound: to give expression by any means, to intimate,
to hint.--_v.t._ to pronounce: to converse in: to address: to declare: to
express by signs:--_pa.t._ spoke or sp[=a]ke; _pa.p._ sp[=o]'ken.--_adj._
SPEAK'ABLE, capable of being spoken: (_Milt._) having the power of
speech.--_ns._ SPEAK'-EAS'Y (_U.S._), an illicit dram-shop, shebeen;
SPEAK'ER, one who speaks or proclaims: the person who presides in a
deliberative or legislative body, as the House of Commons; SPEAK'ERSHIP,
the office of Speaker; SPEAK'ING, the act of expressing ideas in words:
discourse.--_adj._ seeming to speak: natural: used to assist the
voice.--_adv._ SPEAK'INGLY.--_ns._ SPEAK'ING-TRUM'PET, an instrument for
enabling the sound of the voice to be conveyed to a greater distance;
SPEAK'ING-TUBE, a tube communicating from one room to another for speaking
through; SPEAK'ING-VOICE, the kind of voice used in speaking.--SPEAK A
SHIP, to hail and speak to some one on board her; SPEAK FAIR, to address
one in conciliatory terms; SPEAK FOR, to speak on behalf of: to be a proof
of: to bespeak, engage; SPEAKING TERMS, a relationship between two persons
not extending beyond the courtesy of verbal salutation, &c.; SPEAK OF, to
talk about: to mention, or to be worth mentioning; SPEAK ONE'S MIND, to say
frankly what one thinks; SPEAK OUT, to assert boldly or loudly; SPEAK TO,
to reprove: to attest, testify to; SPEAK UP, to speak out; SPEAK WELL FOR,
to witness favourably to.--SO TO SPEAK, as one might put it, as it were.
[A.S. _specan_ (for _sprecan_); Dut. _spreken_, Ger. _sprechen_.]

SPEAL-BONE, sp[=e]l'-b[=o]n, _n._ the shoulder-blade.

SPEAR, sp[=e]r, _n._ a long weapon used in war and hunting, made of a pole
pointed with iron: a lance with barbed prongs used for catching
fish.--_v.t._ to pierce or kill with a spear.--_ns._ SPEAR'-FISH, a kind of
carp-sucker--also _Sail-fish_ and _Skimback_: the bill-fish, a
histiophoroid fish related to the swordfish; SPEAR'-FOOT, the off or right
hind-foot of a horse; SPEAR'-GRASS, a name applied to various grasses, esp.
those known as meadow-grass, the Kentucky blue-grass: either of two New
Zealand plants of the parsley family with long spinous leaflets;
SPEAR'-HEAD, the iron point of a spear; SPEAR'-LIL'Y, a plant of one of the
species of the Australian genus _Doryanthes_ of the _Amaryllideæ_, with
sword-shaped leaves; SPEAR'MAN, a man armed with a spear; SPEAR'MINT, the
common garden-mint; SPEAR'-THIS'TLE, the common thistle; SPEAR'-WOOD, one
of two Australian trees whose wood makes good spear-shafts; SPEAR'-WORT,
the name of several species of Ranunculus with lance-shaped leaves. [A.S.
_spere_; Ger. _speer_, L. _sparus_; cf. _Spar_.]

SPEC, a colloquial abbrev. of _speculation_.

SPECIAL, spesh'al, _adj._ of a species or sort; particular: distinctive:
uncommon: designed for a particular purpose: confined to a particular
subject or application.--_n._ any special or particular person or thing:
any person or thing set apart for a particular duty--a constable, a
railway-tram, &c.: a newspaper extra, a despatch from a special
correspondent.--_n._ SPECIALIS[=A]'TION, the act or process of
specialising: differentiation, as of organs, functions, &c.--_v.t._
SPEC'IALISE, to make specifically distinct, to limit to a particular kind
of action or use.--_v.i._ to act in some particular way, to take a
particular direction, as to devote one's self especially to some particular
branch of study.--_ns._ SPEC'IALISM, devotion to some particular study or
pursuit; SPEC'IALIST, one who devotes himself to a special subject.--_adj._
SPECIALIST'IC.--_n._ SPECIAL'ITY, the particular characteristic of a person
or thing: a special occupation or object of attention.--_adv._
SPEC'IALLY.--_ns._ SPEC'IALTY, something special or distinctive: any
special product, article of sale or of manufacture: any special pursuit,
department of study, &c.: a special contract for the payment of money;
SPECIE (sp[=e]'shi), gold and silver coin, metallic money (abl. of L.
_species_, kind); SP[=E]'CIES, a group of individuals having common marks
or characteristics, specialised from others of the same _genus_ to which it
is subordinate: a group under a higher class, a kind or sort, a distinct
constituent part, an element: an appearance to the senses, an image of an
external object presented to the eye or the mind; SP[=E]'CIES-MONG'ER, one
who busies himself with classifications only, indifferent to wider
biological relations, one who makes distinctions for distinction's sake;
SP[=E]CIF'IC, a remedy which has a special power in a particular disease:
an infallible remedy.--_adjs._ SP[=E]CIF'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or
constituting, a species: that specifies: peculiar to: produced by some
special cause: precise: infallible.--_adv._ SP[=E]CIF'ICALLY.--_ns._
SP[=E]CIF'ICALNESS, SP[=E]CIF'ICNESS, the state or quality of being
specific.--SPECIAL CONSTABLE (see CONSTABLE); SPECIAL LICENSE (see
License); SPECIAL PLEADING (see PLEAD); SPECIAL VERDICT (see
VERDICT).--SPECIFIC DENSITY, the mass of any given substance contained in
unit volume; SPECIFIC GRAVITY, the weight of any given substance as
compared with the weight of an equal bulk or volume of water or other
standard substance at the same temperature and pressure; SPECIFIC HEAT (see
HEAT).

SPECIFY, spes'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to mention particularly: to set down as a
requisite:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spec'if[=i]ed.--_v.t._ SPECIF'ICATE, to
specify.--_n._ SPECIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of specifying: any point or
particular specified: the description of his invention presented by an
applicant for a patent.--LOGICAL SPECIFICATION is the counterpart of
generalisation--implying that beings the most like or homogeneous disagree
or are heterogeneous in some respect. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _specific[=a]re_--L.
_species_, kind, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SPECILLUM, sp[=e]-sil'um, _n._ a surgical probe: a lens, eyeglass.
[L.,--_spec[)e]re_, to look.]

SPECIMEN, spes'i-men, _n._ a portion of anything to show the kind and
quality of the whole: a sample, a typical individual: a preparation in
natural history, &c., exemplifying anything noticeable in a species or
other group. [L. _specimen_--_spec[)e]re_, to see.]

SPECIOUS, sp[=e]'shus, _adj._ that looks well at first sight: showy:
plausible: appearing actual, not merely imaginary.--_ns._ SP[=E]CIOS'ITY,
SP[=E]'CIOUSNESS, plausible appearance.--_adv._ SP[=E]'CIOUSLY. [Fr.,--L.
_speciosus_, showy--_species_, form--_spec[)e]re_, to see.]

SPECK, spek, _n._ a spot: a blemish: a mark betokening decay: a separate
piece or particle, an atom, the least morsel or quantity: a percoid fish of
the United States, a darter.--_v.t._ to spot. [A.S. _specca_; Low Ger.
_spakig_, spotted with wet.]

SPECK, spek, _n._ fat, lard.--_n._ SPECKTIONEER', the chief harpooner in
whale-fishing. [A.S. _spic_, bacon; Ger. _speck_, Dut. _spek_, fat.]

SPECKLE, spek'l, _n._ a little speck or spot in anything different in
substance or colour from the thing itself: (_Scot._) kind, sort.--_v.t._ to
mark with speckles.--_adj._ SPECK'LED, variegated, piebald.--_n._
SPECK'LEDNESS.--_adjs._ SPECK'LESS, spotless, perfectly clean; SPECK'Y,
partially spotted.

SPECTACLE, spek'ta-kl, _n._ a sight: show, a pageant, exhibition: (_pl._) a
pair of lenses mounted in frames to assist the sight, aids to mental
vision: a marking resembling spectacles, as in the cobra.--_adjs._
SPEC'TACLED, wearing spectacles: marked like spectacles, as the bear,
cobra, &c.; SPECTAC'ULAR, marked by display.--_n._ SPECTACULAR'ITY.--_adv._
SPECTAC'ULARLY. [L. _spectaculum_--_spect[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, intens. of
_spec[)e]re_, to look at.]

SPECTANT, spek'tant, _adj._ looking forward.--_v.t._ SPEC'T[=A]TE, to
survey.--_n._ SPEC'T[=A]TION. [L. _spectans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_spect[=a]re_.]

SPECTATOR, spek-t[=a]'tor, _n._ one who looks on:--_fem._ SPECT[=A]'TRESS,
SPECT[=A]'TRIX.--_adj._ SPECTAT[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ SPECT[=A]'TORSHIP, the
office or quality of a spectator: (_Shak._) the act of beholding.

SPECTRE, spek't[.e]r, _n._ a ghost.--_adj._ SPEC'TRAL, relating to, or
like, a spectre.--_n._ SPECTRAL'ITY, the state of being spectral, a
spectral object.--_adv._ SPEC'TRALLY.--_n._ SPEC'TRE-BAT, a South American
leaf-nosed bat or vampire. [L. _spectrum_, a vision--_spec[)e]re_, to see.]

SPECTRUM, spek'trum, _n._ the image of something seen continued after the
eyes are closed: the colours of light separated by a prism, and exhibited
as spread out on a screen:--_pl._ SPEC'TRA.--_n._ SPEC'TROGRAPH, an
apparatus for photographing a spectrum.--_adjs._ SPECTROGRAPH'IC,
-AL.--_n._ SPECTROG'RAPHY, the art of using the spectrograph.--_adj._
SPECTROLOG'ICAL.--_adv._ SPECTROLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ SPECTROL'OGY, the
division of physical science that embraces spectrum analysis: demonology;
SPECTROM'ETER, an instrument like a spectroscope, by means of which the
angular deviation of a ray of light in passing through a prism can be
accurately measured.--_adj._ SPECTROMET'RIC.--_n._ SPEC'TROPH[=O]NE, an
adaptation of the spectroscope, in which, on the principle of the
radiophone, perception of a succession of sounds takes the place of
observation by the eye.--_adj._ SPECTROPHON'IC.--_ns._
SPEC'TRO-POLAR'ISCOPE, a polariscope combined with a spectroscope;
SPEC'TROSCOPE, an instrument for forming and examining spectra of luminous
bodies, so as to determine their composition.--_adjs._ SPECTROSC[=O]P'IC,
-AL.--_adv._ SPECTROSC[=O]P'ICALLY.--_ns._ SPEC'TROSC[=O]PIST, one skilled
in spectroscopy; SPEC'TROSC[=O]PY, the use of the spectroscope and the
study of spectrum analysis. [L.,--_spec[)e]re_, to see.]

SPECULAR, spek'[=u]-lar, _adj._ resembling a speculum: having a smooth
reflecting surface: assisting vision, serving for inspection.--SPECULAR
IRON ORE, a variety of hematite, with a brilliant metallic lustre. [L.]

SPECULARIA, spek-[=u]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of plants of the bellwort
family (_Campanulaceæ_), including the Venus's-looking-glass.

SPECULATE, spek'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to look at or into with the mind: to
consider: to theorise: to traffic for great profit.--_ns._ SPECUL[=A]'TION,
act of speculating: mental view: contemplation: theory: the buying goods,
&c., to sell them at an advance, any more or less risky investment of money
for the sake of unusually large profits; SPEC'UL[=A]TIST, a speculative
philosopher.--_adj._ SPEC'[=U]L[=A]TIVE, given to speculation or theory:
ideal: pertaining to speculation in business, &c.--_adv._
SPEC'UL[=A]TIVELY.--_ns._ SPEC'UL[=A]TIVENESS, the state of being
speculative; SPEC'UL[=A]TOR, one who engages in mental speculations, or who
practises speculation in trade or business of any kind.--_adj._
SPEC'[=U]L[=A]TORY, exercising speculation: adapted for spying or
viewing.--_n._ SPEC'UL[=A]TRIX, a female speculator. [L. _speculatus_,
_pa.p._ of _specul[=a]ri_--_specula_, a lookout--_spec[)e]re_, to look.]

SPECULUM, spek'[=u]-lum, _n._ (_opt._) a reflector usually made of polished
metal: (_surg._) an instrument for bringing into view parts otherwise
hidden: an ocellus or eye-spot, the mirror of a wing: a lookout
place:--_pl._ SPEC'ULA. [L.,--_spec[)e]re_, to look.]

SPED, sped, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _speed_.

SPEECH, sp[=e]ch, _n._ that which is spoken: language: the power of
speaking: manner of speech, oration: any declaration of thoughts: mention:
colloquy: conference.--_ns._ SPEECH'-CRAFT, the science of language: the
gift of speech; SPEECH'-CR[=I]'ER, one who hawked the broadsides containing
the dying speeches of persons executed, once common; SPEECH'-DAY, the
public day at the close of a school year.--_adj._ SPEECH'FUL,
loquacious.--_ns._ SPEECHIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of making harangues;
SPEECH'IF[=I]ER.--_v.i._ SPEECH'IFY, to make speeches, harangue (implying
contempt).--_adj._ SPEECH'LESS, destitute or deprived of the power of
speech.--_adv._ SPEECH'LESSLY.--_ns._ SPEECH'LESSNESS; SPEECH'-M[=A]K'ER,
one accustomed to speak in public; SPEECH'-M[=A]K'ING, a formal speaking
before an assembly; SPEECH'-READ'ING, the art of following spoken words by
observing the speaker's lips, as taught to deaf-mutes. [A.S. _sp['æ]c_,
_spr['æ]c_; Ger. _sprache_.]

SPEED, sp[=e]d, _n._ quickness, velocity: success.--_v.i._ to move quickly,
to hurry: to succeed, to fare.--_v.t._ to despatch quickly: to hasten, as
to a conclusion: to cause to advance, to push forward: to give a certain
speed to, regulate the speed of: to send off, to put forth, to rid of, to
kill: to cause to be relieved (only in passive): to execute: to aid: to
make prosperous:--_pr.p._ speed'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sped.--_n._
SPEED'ER, one who, or that which, promotes speed.--_adj._ SPEED'FUL,
speedy.--_advs._ SPEED'FULLY; SPEED'ILY.--_ns._ SPEED'INESS, speed, haste;
SPEED'-PULL'EY, a pulley having different faces of different diameters
giving various speeds according to the face the belt passes over;
SPEED'WELL (_Veronica_), a genus of plants of the natural order
_Scrophulariaceæ_, with blue, white, or pink flowers, the leaves of some
species used medicinally.--_adj._ SPEED'Y, hasty: quick: nimble. [A.S.
_spéd_; Dut. _spoed_.]

SPEIR, SPEER, sp[=e]r, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Scot._) to ask. [A.S. _spyrian_,
to inquire after, _spor_, a trace.]

SPEISS, sp[=i]s, _n._ the product first obtained (an arsenide of the metal)
when arsenical ores are smelted. [Ger. _speise_.]

SPEKBOOM, spek'b[=o]m, _n._ a large South African shrub of the purslane
family. [Dut.]

SPELÆAN, SPELEAN, sp[=e]-l[=e]'an, _adj._ cave-dwelling. [L. _spelæum_--Gr.
_sp[=e]laion_, a cave.]

SPELD, speld, _n._ a chip, splinter.--Also SPEL'DER.

SPELDING, spel'ding, _n._ (_Scot._) a small fish split and dried in the
sun.--Also SPEL'DRIN, SPEL'DRON.

SPELIN, spe-lin', _n._ an artificial linguistic system devised by G. Bauer
in 1888 for universal use.

SPELK, spelk, _n._ (_prov._) a rod, switch.--_v.t._ to use a spelk in or
upon.

SPELL, spel, _n._ any form of words supposed to possess magical power:
fascination.--_v.t._ to tell or name the letters of: to name, write, or
print the proper letters of.--_v.i._ to form words with the proper letters:
to study:--_pr.p._ spell'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spelled, spelt.--_adjs._
SPELL'ABLE, capable of being spelled; SPELL'-BOUND, SPELL'-STOPPED
(_Shak._), entranced, fascinated.--_ns._ SPELL'ER, one who spells: one
skilled in spelling; SPELL'ING, act of spelling or naming the letters of
words: orthography; SPELL'ING-BEE, a competition in spelling;
SPELL'ING-BOOK, a book for teaching to spell; SPELL'-WORK, that which is
wrought by spells or charms: power of magic.--SPELL BACKWARD, to spell,
repeat, or arrange in reverse order: to understand in a contrary sense: to
turn wrong-side out, misconstrue one's qualities; SPELL BAKER, to do
something difficult, that word being one of the earliest dissyllables in
children's books. [A.S. _spell_, a narrative; Goth. _spill_, Ice. _spjall_,
a tale.]

SPELL, spel, _v.t._ to take another's place at work:--_pr.p._ spell'ing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spelled.--_n._ a turn at work: a short period
indefinitely: an interval of rest: a bad turn. [A.S. _spelian_, to act for
another; cf. Dut. _spelen_, Ger. _spielen_, to play.]

SPELT, spelt, _n._ a kind of wheat, probably only a race of common wheat,
still grown in the mountainous parts of Europe and elsewhere--also called
German wheat. [A.S. _spelt_--Low L. _spelta_.]

SPELTER, spel't[.e]r, _n._ zinc. [Allied to Dut. _spiauter_.]

SPENCE, spens, _n._ (_prov._) a place where provisions are kept: a larder:
a pantry.--Also SPENSE. [O. Fr. _despense_, a buttery--_despendre_--L.
_dispend[)e]re_.]

SPENCER, spens'[.e]r, _n._ a short over-jacket worn by men or women, named
after Earl _Spencer_ (1782-1845).

SPENCER, spens'[.e]r, _n._ (in ships and barques) a fore-and-aft sail abaft
the fore and main masts.

SPENCERIAN, spen-s[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the philosophy of
Herbert _Spencer_ (b. 1820).--_n._ a follower of Spencer.--_n._
SPENC[=E]'RIANISM, the system of evolutionary cosmology propounded by
Herbert Spencer--the so-called synthetic philosophy.

SPEND, spend, _v.t._ to expend or weigh out: to give for any purpose: to
consume: to waste: to pass, as time.--_v.i._ to make expense: to be lost,
wasted, or dissipated: to emit milt, semen, &c.:--_pr.p._ spend'ing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spent.--_adj._ SPEN'DABLE, that may be spent.--_ns._
SPEND'ALL, a spendthrift; SPEN'DER; SPEN'DING; SPENSE=_Spence_
(q.v.).--_adj._ SPENT, exhausted: impotent: of fish, exhausted by spawning.
[A.S. _spendan_--L. _expend[)e]re_ or _dispend[)e]re_, to weigh out.]

SPENDTHRIFT, spend'thrift, _n._ one who spends the savings of thrift: a
prodigal.--_adj._ excessively lavish. [_Spend_ and _thrift_.]

SPENSERIAN, spen-s[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to Edmund _Spenser_
(1552-1599) or his versification, esp. his stanza in _The Faerie Queene_, a
strophe of eight decasyllabic lines and an Alexandrine, having three
rhymes, the 1st and 3d, the 2d, 4th, 5th, and 7th, and the 6th, 8th, and
9th.

SPENT, spent, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of spend.

SPEOS, sp[=e]'os, _n._ a grotto-temple or tomb. [Gr.]

SPER, sp[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to bolt, to shut, as a gate.

SPERABLE, sp[=e]'ra-bl, _adj._ (_Bacon_) that may be hoped.--_adj._
SP[=E]'RATE, hoped for. [L. _sperabilis_--_sper[=a]re_, to hope.]

SPERGULA, sper'g[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of polypetalous annuals belonging to
the _Caryophyllaceæ_, with small white or pink flowers--_spurry_ or
_sandweed_.--_n._ SPERGUL[=A]'RIA, an allied genus, the sand-spurry. [L.
_sparg[)e]re_, to scatter.]

SPERKET, sp[.e]r'ket, _n._ a hooked peg for hanging harness upon.--Also
SPIR'KET.

SPERM, sp[.e]rm, _n._ animal seed: spawn of fishes or frogs:
spermaceti.--_ns._ SPER'MADUCT, a spermatic duct; SPER'MAPHORE (_bot._), a
placenta; SPER'MARY, the male germ-gland; SPERMATH[=E]'CA, a spermatic case
or sheath--also SPERMATOTH[=E]'CA.--_adjs._ SPERMATH[=E]'CAL; SPERMAT'IC,
-AL, pertaining to, or consisting of, sperm or seed, seminal: connected
with the male function, testicular.--_v.i._ SPER'MATISE, to yield or to
discharge semen.--_ns._ SPER'MATISM=_Spermism_; SPER'MATIST=_Spermist_;
SPERM[=A]'TIUM, a minute spore within a spermogonium:--_pl._
SPERM[=A]'TIA.--_adj._ SPERMAT[=O]'AL, pertaining to a spermatoon.--_n._
SPER'MATOBLAST, the germ of a spermatozoon.--_adj._
SPERMATOBLAS'TIC.--_ns._ SPER'MATOCELE, swelling of the testicle;
SPER'MATOCYST, a seminal vesicle; SPERMATOCYS'TIS, inflammation of the
seminal vesicles.--_adj._ SPERMATOCY'TAL.--_ns._ SPER'MATOCYTE, a
mother-cell from which spermatozoids are developed; SPERMATOGEM'MA, a mass
of spermatocytes; SPERMATOGEN'ESIS, the formation of spermatozoa.--_adjs._
SPERMATOGENET'IC, SPERMATOG'ENOUS.--_ns._ SPERMATOG'ENY, the generation of
spermatozoa; SPERMATOG[=O]'NIUM, one of the primitive seminal cells that by
division form the spermatocytes.--_adjs._ SPER'MATOID, sperm-like;
SPERMATOLOG'ICAL, pertaining to spermatology.--_ns._ SPERMATOL'OGIST, one
versed in spermatology; SPERMATOL'OGY, the knowledge of the facts about
semen; SPERMAT[=O]'ON, the nucleus of a spermatozoon; SPERMAT'[=O]PH[=O]RE,
a case which in some Invertebrata encloses the spermatozoa.--_adj._
SPERMATOPH'OROUS.--_ns._ SPERMATORRH[=E]'A, involuntary seminal discharge;
SPERMAT[=O]'VUM, a fecundated ovum; SPERMATOZ[=O]'ID, SPERMATOZ[=O]'ON, one
of the male reproductive cells of animals, the physiological complements of
the egg-cells or ova:--_pl._ SPERMATOZ[=O]'A; SPERM'-CELL, a spermatozoon:
a spermatoblast or a spermatocyte.--_adj._ SPER'MIC=_Spermatic_--_ns._
SPER'MISM, a seminal discharge: the theory that the male sperm holds the
whole germ of the future animal; SPER'MIST, one who holds the theory of
spermism; SPERM'-N[=U]'CLEUS, the nucleus of a spermatozoon; SPER'MODERM,
the whole integument of a seed; SPERMOG[=O]'NIUM, the cavity in which,
spermatia are produced; SPERM'-OIL, oil from the sperm-whale;
SPORMOL'OGY=_Spermatology_; SPERMOPH'[=O]RUM, a seminal vesicle.--_n.pl._
SPERMOPH'YTA, one of the four divisions of the vegetable kingdom including
flowering plants.--_ns._ SPERM'[=U]LE, a sperm-cell; SPERM'-WHALE, the
cachalot, a species of whale from which spermaceti is obtained. [Fr.,--L.
_sperma_--Gr. _sperma_, _spermatos_--_speirein_, to sow.]

SPERMACETI, sper-ma-set'i, or-s[=e]'t[=i], _n._ a waxy matter obtained
mixed with oil from the head of the sperm-whale--purified by draining off
the oil and repeatedly washing with hot water and weak boiling
potash-lye.--_adj._ derived from, or yielding, spermaceti.--_n._
SPERMACET'I-WHALE, the sperm-whale. [L. _sperma_, _c[=e]tus_, a whale--Gr.
_k[=e]tos_.]

SPERMOPHILE, sper'm[=o]-f[=i]l, _n._ a rodent of the genus _Spermophilus_,
a ground-squirrel. [Gr. _sperma_, seed, _philein_, to love.]

SPERRE, sper, _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as SPER. [_Spar_.]

SPERRYLITE, sper'i-l[=i]t, _n._ an arsenide of platinum discovered in 1888
in the province of Ontario, Canada.

SPERSE, sp[.e]rs, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to disperse.

SPET, spet, _v.i._ (_Milt._) a form of _spit_.

SPETCH, spech, _n._ a piece of skin used in making glue. [_Speck_.]

SPEW, SPUE, sp[=u], _v.t._ and _v.i._ to vomit: to eject with
loathing.--_ns._ SPEW'ER; SPEW'INESS, moistness.--_adj._ SPEW'Y, boggy.
[A.S. _spíwan_; Dut. _spuwen_, Ger. _speien_; also L. _spu[)e]re_, Gr.
_ptyein_.]

SPHACELUS, sfas'e-lus, _n._ gangrene.--_adjs._ SPHAC'ELATE, -D,
necrosed.--_ns._ SPHACEL[=A]'TION, SPHACELIS'MUS, necrosis; SPHACEL[=O]'MA,
a genus of fungi containing _anthracnose_. [Gr. _sphakelos_.]

SPHÆRIDIUM, sf[=e]-rid'i-um, _n._ one of the minute spheroidal bodies
attached to the ambulacral plates of sea-urchins:--_pl._ SPHÆRID'IA. [Gr.
_sphairidion_, dim. of _sphaira_, a sphere.]

SPHÆRISTERIUM, sf[=e]-ris-t[=e]'ri-um, _n._ a tennis-court.
[Gr.,--_sphaira_, a ball.]

SPHÆRITE, sf[=e]'r[=i]t, _n._ a hydrous phosphate of aluminium.

SPHAGNUM, sfag'num, _n._ a genus of mosses--peat or bog-moss, belonging to
the order _Sphagnaceæ_.--_ns._ SPHAGNOL'OGIST, one who has studied the
foregoing; SPHAGNOL'OGY, the study of the same.--_adj._ SPHAG'NOUS. [Gr.
_sphagnos_, moss.]

SPHECIUS, sf[=e]'shi-us, _n._ a genus of digger-wasps. [Gr. _sph[=e]x_, a
wasp.]

SPHENDONE, sfen'd[=o]-n[=e], _n._ an ancient Greek form of women's
head-band: an elliptical or semi-elliptical auditorium. [Gr., a sling.]

SPHENE, sf[=e]n, _n._ titanite. [Fr.,--Gr. _sph[=e]n_, wedge.]

SPHENIC, sf[=e]'nik, _adj._ wedge-like. [Gr. _sph[=e]n_, a wedge.]

SPHENISCUS, sf[=e]-nis'kus, _n._ a genus of penguins, of the family
_Spheniscidæ_, the jackass-penguins.

SPHENODON, sf[=e]'n[=o]-don, _n._ a genus of South American fossil sloths;
a genus of extinct New Zealand lizards.--_adj._ SPH[=E]'NODONT. [Gr.
_sph[=e]n_, a wedge, _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

SPHENOID, -AL, sf[=e]'noid, -al, _adj._ wedge-shaped: inserted like a
wedge, denoting a bone at the base of the skull.--_adjs._ SPHENETH'MOID,
pertaining to the sphenoid and the ethmoid bone; SPH[=E]'N[=O]-FRON'TAL,
-M[=A]'LAR, -PAL'ATINE, -PAR[=I]'ETAL, -TEM'PORAL, pertaining to the
sphenoid and frontal, malar, palatine, parietal, and temporal bones
respectively.--_n._ SPH[=E]'NOGRAM, a cuneiform character.--_adjs._
SPH[=E]NOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ SPH[=E]NOG'RAPHY, the art of writing or
deciphering cuneiform inscriptions.--_adjs._ SPH[=E]NOT'IC, pertaining to
the sphenoid bone and the otic capsule; SPH[=E]'NO-TUR'BINAL, sphenoidal
and turbinated or whorled. [Gr. _sph[=e]n_, _sph[=e]nos_, a wedge, _eidos_,
form.]

SPHERE, sf[=e]r, _n._ a ball or globe: an orb or circle: circuit of motion:
province or duty: definite range: rank, position in society: (_geom._) a
surface every point of which is equidistant from one and the same point,
called the centre.--_adjs._ SPH[=E]R'AL; SPHERE'LESS.--_ns._ SPHERE'-MET'AL
(_Milt._), metal like that of which the celestial spheres were anciently
supposed to be made; SPHERE'-M[=U]'SIC, the music of the spheres.--_adjs._
SPHER'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or like, a sphere.--_n._
SPHERICAL'ITY.--_adv._ SPHER'ICALLY.--_ns._ SPHER'ICALNESS, SPHERIC'ITY,
state or quality of being spherical: roundness; SPHER'ICLE, a little
sphere; SPHER'ICS, the geometry and trigonometry of the sphere;
SPH[=E]'ROID, a body or figure nearly spherical, but not quite so--a
species of ellipsoid (_prolate_ spheroid, a slightly lengthened sphere;
_oblate_ spheroid, a slightly flattened sphere).--_adj._ SPH[=E]ROI'DAL,
having the form of a spheroid.--_ns._ SPH[=E]ROIDI'CITY, SPH[=E]ROID'ITY,
the state of being spheroidal; SPH[=E]'ROM[=E]RE, one of the symmetrical
segments of a radiate; SPH[=E]ROM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the
sphericity of portions of spherical surfaces--for example, lenses;
SPH[=E]'ROSID'ERITE, the name given to impure or earthy and frequently
concretionary varieties of carbonate of iron.--_adj._ SPHER'[=U]LAR.--_ns._
SPHER'[=U]LE, a little sphere; SPHER'[=U]LITE, a radiating spherical group
of minute acicular crystals common in silicious volcanic rocks.--_adjs._
SPHER[=U]LIT'IC; SPH[=E]'RY, spherical, round: belonging to the celestial
spheres. [Fr.,--L. _sphæra_--Gr. _sphaira_.]

SPHEX, sfeks, _n._ a genus of hymenopterous insects of the family
_Sphegidæ_, closely allied to the true wasps (_Vespidæ_). [Gr. _sph[=e]x_,
a wasp.]

SPHINCTER, sfingk't[.e]r, _n._ (_anat._) a muscle that contracts or shuts
an orifice or opening which it surrounds--around the anus, &c.--_adjs._
SPHINC'TER[=A]TE, provided with a sphincter, contracted as if by a
sphincter; SPHINCT[=E]'RIAL, SPHINCTER'IC, relating to a sphincter or its
function.--_n._ SPHINCTEROT'OMY, the operation of cutting a sphincter. [Gr.
_sphingkt[=e]r_,--_sphinggein_, to bind tight.]

SPHINX, sfingks, _n._ a monster of Greek mythology, with the head of a
woman and the body of a lioness, that proposed riddles to travellers, and
strangled those who could not solve them: an enigmatic or inscrutable
person: a hawk-moth: the Guinea baboon. [Gr.,--_sphinggein_, to throttle.]

SPHRAGISTICS, sfr[=a]-jis'tiks, _n._ knowledge about seals, their age,
history, &c. [Gr. _sphragistikos_, pertaining to seals--_sphragis_, a
seal.]

SPHRIGOSIS, sfri-g[=o]'sis, _n._ in fruit-trees, excessive growth in wood
and leaves at the expense of fruit. [Gr. _sphrigan_, to be vigorous.]

SPHYGMOGRAPH, sfig'm[=o]-graf, _n._ an instrument for ascertaining and
recording the form, force, and frequency of the pulse-beat, and the changes
it undergoes in certain morbid states.--_adj._ SPHYG'MIC, pertaining to the
pulse.--_n._ SPHYG'MOGRAM, the record made by a sphygmograph.--_adj._
SPHYGMOGRAPH'IC.--_n._ SPHYGMOG'RAPHY, the act of taking
pulse-tracings.--_adj._ SPHYG'MOID, pulse-like.--_ns._ SPHYGMOL'OGY, the
science of the pulse; SPHYGM[=O]M[=A]NOM'ETER, SPHYGMOM'ETER, an instrument
for measuring the tension of blood in an artery; SPHYG'MOPHONE, an
instrument by means of which a pulse-beat makes a sound:
SPHYG'M[=O]SC[=O]PE, an instrument for making arterial pulsations visible;
SPHYG'MUS, the pulse. [Gr. _sphygmos_, the pulse, _graphein_, to write.]

SPHYRNA, sf[.e]r'na, _n._ a genus of hammer-headed sharks.--_adj._
SPHYR'NINE. [Gr. _sphyra_, a hammer.]

SPIAL, sp[=i]'al, _n._ (_obs._) espial: a spy, a scout.

SPICA, sp[=i]'ka, _n._ a spiral bandage with reversed turns: (_ornith._) a
spur.--_adjs._ SP[=I]'CAL, SP[=I]'C[=A]TE, -D, arranged in, or having the
form of, a spike.--_n._ SPIC[=A]'TUM, in ancient masonry, herring-bone
work. [L. _spicatus_, pa.p. of _spic[=a]re_--_spica_, ear.]

SPICE, sp[=i]s, _n._ an aromatic and pungent vegetable substance used as a
condiment and for seasoning food--pepper, cayenne pepper, pimento, nutmeg,
mace, vanilla, ginger, cinnamon, cassia, &c.: a characteristic touch or
taste, smack, flavour: anything that adds piquancy or interest: an aromatic
odour.--_v.t._ to season with spice: to tincture, vary, or
diversify.--_ns._ SPICE'-BOX, an ornamental box for keeping spices:
(_coll._) a hot-tempered person; SPICE'-BUSH, an aromatic American shrub of
the laurel family; SPICE'-CAKE, a cake flavoured with spice of some
kind.--_adjs._ SPICED, impregnated with a spicy odour: over-scrupulous;
SPICE'FUL, aromatic.--_ns._ SP[=I]'CER, one who seasons with spice;
SP[=I]'CERY, spices in general: a repository of spices: spiciness;
SPICE'-TREE, an evergreen tree of the Pacific United States, yielding a
fine hard wood--the _Mountain-laurel_, _California-laurel_, _Olive-_ or
_Bay-tree_, and _Cajeput_; SPICE'-WOOD, the spice-bush. [O. Fr. _espice_
(Fr. _épice_)--Late L. _species_, kinds of goods, spices--L. _species_, a
particular kind, &c.]

SPICIFEROUS, SPICIFORM, SPICOUS, &c. See SPIKE.

SPICK, spik, _n._ a nail, a spike.--_adj._ tidy, fresh.--_adj._
SPICK'-AND-SPAN, new and fresh, brand-new.--SPICK-AND-SPAN NEW, i.e. as new
as a spike just made and a chip just split. [_Spike_, nail.]

SPICKNEL, spik'nel, _n._ the baldmoney.--Also SPIG'NEL. [Prob.
_spike-nail_.]

SPICY, sp[=i]'si, _adj._ producing or abounding with spices: fragrant:
pungent: piquant, pointed, racy: showy.--_adv._ SP[=I]'CILY.--_n._
SP[=I]'CINESS.

SPIDER, sp[=i]'d[.e]r, _n._ an arachnid of the order _Araneida_, the body
divided into two distinct parts--an unsegmented cephalo-thorax, bearing six
pairs of appendages, and a soft unsegmented abdomen, at the end of which
are the spinnerets from each of which numerous 'spinning-spools' ooze forth
the viscid fluid which hardens into the silken thread: a frying-pan with
feet, a trivet.--_ns._ SP[=I]'DER-CATCH'ER, the wall-creeper;
SP[=I]'DER-CRAB, a spider-like crab, or sea-spider with long thin legs;
SP[=I]'DER-D[=I]V'ER, the little grebe, or dabchick; SP[=I]'DERDOM, spiders
collectively.--_adj._ SP[=I]'DERED, cobwebbed.--_n._ SP[=I]'DER-FLY, a
pupiparous fly, as a bird-louse, &c.--_adj._ SP[=I]'DER-LIKE, like a
spider.--_ns._ SP[=I]'DERLING, a young spider; SP[=I]'DER-MON'KEY, an
American platyrrine monkey, with long slender legs and tail;
SP[=I]'DER-STITCH, a stitch in lace or netting in which threads are carried
diagonally and parallel to each other; SP[=I]'DER-WASP, a pompilid wasp
which fills its nest with spiders for its young; SP[=I]'DER-WEB, the snare
spun by the spider; SP[=I]'DER-WHEEL, in embroidery, a circular pattern
with radiating lines; SP[=I]'DER-WORK, lace worked by spider-stitch;
SP[=I]'DER-WORT, any plant of the genus _Tradescantia_, esp. _T.
virginica_, an American perennial with deep-blue or reddish-violet
flowers.--_adj._ SP[=I]'DERY, spider-like. [M. E. _spither_--A.S.
_spinnan_, to spin; cf. Dan. _spinder_, Ger. _spinne_.]

SPIE, sp[=i], _n._ (_Spens._) a keen glance, the eye. [_Spy_.]

SPIEGELEISEN, sp[=e]'gl-[=i]-zen, _n._ a white cast-iron containing from
eight to fifteen per cent. of manganese, largely used in the manufacture of
steel by the Bessemer process. [Ger.,--_spiegel_--L. _speculum_, a mirror,
Ger. _eisen_, iron.]

SPIFFY, spif'i, _adj._ (_slang_) smart, spruce, well-dressed.

SPIFLICATE, spif'li-k[=a]t, _v.t._ (_slang_) to suffocate, kill: to beat
severely, to confound.--_n._ SPIFLIC[=A]'TION.

SPIGELIA, sp[=i]-j[=e]'li-a, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Loganiaceæ_, containing the _Worm-grass_ and _Carolina-pink_, the
root--_Pink-root_--being purgative, narcotic, and poisonous, a powerful
vermifuge.--_adj._ SPIG[=E]'LIAN, denoting the _lobulus spigelii_, one of
the lobes of the liver. [From the Belgian Ad. van der _Spiegel_
(1558-1625).]

SPIGHT, sp[=i]t, v. and _n._ (_Spens._). Same as SPITE.

SPIGOT, spig'ut, _n._ a plug for stopping a small hole in a cask. [Gael.
_spiocaid_, W. _ysbigod_--L. _spica_.]

SPIKE, sp[=i]k, _n._ an ear of corn: (_bot._) an inflorescence in which
sessile flowers, or flowers having very short stalks, are arranged around
an axis: a small pointed rod: a large nail.--_v.t._ to set with spikes: to
stop the vent of with a cast-iron spike driven in hard and then broken off,
as by soldiers obliged to abandon their own guns or unable to remove those
of the enemy which they have captured.--_adjs._ SP[=I]'CATE, SP[=I]'COSE,
SP[=I]'COUS, having spikes or ears, like corn; SPICIF'EROUS, bearing
spikes: having spurs; SP[=I]'CIFORM, having the form of a spike.--_n._
SPICOS'ITY, state of being spicous or eared.--_adjs._ SPIC'[=U]LAR,
resembling a dart: in the shape of, or having, sharp points; SPIC'[=U]LATE,
covered with, or divided into, minute points.--_n._ SPIC'[=U]LE (_bot._), a
little spike--also SPIC'[=U]LA: a minute, slender granule or
point.--_adjs._ SPIC'UL[=I]FORM; SPIC[=U]LIG'ENOUS, SPIC[=U]LIF'EROUS,
producing spicules; SPIC'[=U]L[=O]SE, SPIC'[=U]LOUS, having
spicules.--_ns._ SPIC'[=U]LUM, a spicule; SPIKE'BILL, a merganser, a
sawbill: the marbled godwit.--_p.adj._ SPIKED, furnished, fastened, or
stopped with spikes.--_ns._ SPIKE'-EXTRACT'OR, an apparatus for drawing out
spikes, as from railway-ties; SPIKE'-FISH, a kind of sail-fish;
SPIKE'-GRASS, one of several American grasses with conspicuous spikelets of
flowers; SPIKE'LET, a little spike; SPIKE'-NAIL, a spike; SPIKE'-OIL, the
oil of spike, a species of lavender; SPIKE'-PLANK, a platform before the
mizzen-mast of a vessel, used in Arctic voyages.--_adj._ SP[=I]'KY,
furnished with spikes: having a sharp point. [L. _spica_, an ear of corn.]

SPIKENARD, sp[=i]k'närd, _n._ an aromatic oil or balsam yielded by an
Indian plant, the _Nardus_, closely allied to valerian: the plant itself.
[L. _spica nardi_.]

SPILE, sp[=i]l, _n._ a wooden plug serving as a spigot, a wooden pin or
wedge: a spout driven into a sugar-maple tree, a tapping-gouge: a pile, or
large timber driven into the ground for a foundation.--_v.t._ to pierce and
provide with a spile: to drive piles into.--_n._ SP[=I]'LING,
building-piles: the edge-curve of a plank or of a strake in a vessel's
hull. [Cf. _Spill_ (2).]

SPILL, spil, _v.t._ to allow to run out of a vessel: to shed: to waste:
(_coll._) to throw from a vehicle or the saddle: to empty the belly of a
sail of wind for reefing.--_v.i._ to be shed: to be allowed to fall, be
lost, or wasted:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spilled, spilt.--_n._ a fall, a
throw: a downpour.--_ns._ SPILL'ER; SPILL'ING-LINE, a rope for spilling the
wind out of a square sail to facilitate reefing or furling; SPILL'-STREAM,
a stream formed by overflow water, a bayou; SPILL'WAY, a passage for
overflow-water from a dam. [A.S. _spillan_; Dut. _spillen_, Ice. _spilla_,
to destroy.]

SPILL, spil, _n._ a small peg or pin to stop a hole: a thin strip of wood
or twisted paper for lighting a candle, a pipe, &c.--_n._ SPILL'IKIN, one
of a number of small pieces of wood, ivory, &c. for playing a game with:
the game played--also SPIL'KIN. [A.S. _speld_, a torch; cf. Ger. _spalten_,
to cleave, Dut. _speld_, a splinter.]

SPILOMA, spi-l[=o]'ma, _n._ a birth-mark, a nævus. [Gr.]

SPILOSITE, spil'o-s[=i]t, _n._ a greenish schistose rock spotted with
chlorite, occurring in the Harz--the German _Fleckenschiefer_. [Gr.
_spilos_, a spot.]

SPILOTES, sp[=i]-l[=o]'t[=e]z, _n._ a genus of colubrine serpents.

SPILT, spilt, _p.adj._ (_Spens._) pieced, inlaid.

SPILTH, spilth, _n._ spilling, anything spilt or poured out lavishly,
excess of supply.

SPILUS, sp[=i]'lus, _n._ a nævus or birth-mark. [Gr. _spilos_, a spot.]

SPIN, spin, _v.t._ to draw out and twist into threads: to draw out a thread
as spiders do: to draw out tediously: to cause to whirl rapidly: to fish
with a swivel or spoon-bait: to reject at an examination.--_v.i._ to
practise the art or trade of spinning, to perform the act of spinning: to
issue in a small or thread-like current: to whirl, to go fast:--_pr.p._
spin'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spun.--_n._ a rapid revolving motion, a
spurt at high speed.--_ns._ SPIN'NER, one who spins: (_Shak._) a spider: a
spinneret;

SPIN'NERET, an organ, or one of the organs, with which insects form their
webs.--_adj._ SPINNER'ULAR.--_ns._ SPIN'NERULE, one of the tubules of a
spinneret; SPIN'NERY, a spinning-mill.--_adj._ SPIN'NING, used in
spinning.--_ns._ SPIN'NING-HOUSE, a place of correction where lewd and
incorrigible women were made to spin; SPIN'NING-JENN'Y, a machine by which
a number of threads can be spun at the same time; SPIN'NING-MILL, a factory
where thread is spun; SPIN'NING-WHEEL, a machine for spinning yarn,
consisting of a wheel driven by the hand or by a treadle, which drives one
or two spindles.--SPIN A YARN, to tell a long story; SPIN OUT, to prolong
tediously. [A.S. _spinnan_; Ger. _spinnen_.]

SPINACH, SPINAGE, spin'[=a]j, _n._ an esculent vegetable whose thick
succulent young leaves are boiled and seasoned, or fried with butter,
forming a wholesome dish.--_adj._ SPIN[=A]'CEOUS. [It. _spinace_--Low L.
_spin[=a]ceus_--_spina_, a thorn.]

SPINAL, sp[=i]n'al, _adj._ pertaining to the spine or backbone.--_n._
SP[=I]'NA, a spine, the backbone: one of the quills of a spinet: a barrier
dividing the Roman hippodrome longitudinally.--_adj._ SPIN'[=A]TE, covered
with spines or spine-like processes.--SPINAL COLUMN, the backbone; SPINAL
CORD, MARROW, the main neural axis of every vertebrate.

SPINDLE, spin'dl, _n._ the pin from which the thread is twisted: a pin on
which anything turns: the fusee of a watch: anything very slender.--_v.i._
to grow long and slender.--_adjs._ SPIN'DLE-LEGGED, -SHANKED, having long
slender legs, like spindles.--_ns.pl._ SPIN'DLE-LEGS, -SHANKS, long slim
legs--hence an over-long and slender person.--_adj._ SPIN'DLE-SHAPED,
shaped like a spindle: thickest in the middle and tapering to both
ends.--_ns._ SPIN'DLE-SHELL, a spindle-shaped shell; SPIN'DLE-TREE, a shrub
whose hard-grained wood was formerly used for making musical instruments
and for spindles, and is now for skewers, &c.; SPIN'DLING, a person or
thing too long and slender: a slender shoot.--_adj._ long and
slender.--_adj._ SPIN'DLY, disproportionally long and slender. [A.S.
_spinl_--_spinnan_, to spin; Ger. _spindel_.]

SPINDRIFT, spin'drift, _n._ the spray blown from the crests of waves.--Also
SPOON'DRIFT.

SPINE, sp[=i]n, _n._ a thorn: a thin, pointed spike, esp. in fishes: the
backbone of an animal: any ridge extending lengthways: the heart-wood of
trees.--_adjs._ SPINED, having spines; SPINE'LESS, having no spine, weak;
SPINES'CENT, somewhat spiny; SP[=I]NIF EROUS, bearing spines or thorns;
SP[=I]'NIFORM, shaped like a spine or thorn; SP[=I]NIG'EROUS, bearing
spines, as a hedgehog; SP[=I]'NIGRADE, moving by means of spines, as an
echinoderm.--_n._ SP[=I]'NINESS.--_adjs._ SP[=I]NIREC'TOR, erecting the
spine of the muscles of the back; SP[=I]NISPIR'ULAR, spiny and somewhat
spiral.--_ns._ SP[=I]N[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the spinal cord in the
horse, &c; SPIN'NEY, SPIN'NY, a small thicket with underwood.--_adjs._
SP[=I]'NOSE, SP[=I]'NOUS, full of spines: thorny.--_ns._ SPINOS'ITY,
thorniness; SPIN'[=U]LA, SPIN'[=U]LE, a minute spine.--_adjs._
SPIN'[=U]L[=A]TE, SPIN'[=U]L[=O]SE, SPIN'[=U]LOUS, covered with spinules or
minute spines; SP[=I]'NY, full of spines: thorny: troublesome: perplexed.
[O. Fr. _espine_ (Fr. _épine_)--L. _spina_, a thorn.]

SPINEL, spin'el, or spi-nel', _n._ a mineral composed chiefly of magnesia
and alumina, and crystallising in octahedra--_ruby_, or _magnesia spinel_,
reddish; _pleonaste_, dark green to black; _picotite_, or _chrome spinel_,
black; _gahnite_, or _zinc spinel_, green to brown; _hercynite_, or _iron
spinel_, black. [Low L. _spinellus_, dim. of _spina_, a thorn.]

SPINET, spin'et, _n._ (_mus._) an old-fashioned keyed instrument like the
harpsichord. [O. Fr. _espinette_--It. _spinetta_, dim. of _spina_--L.
_spina_, a thorn.]

SPINIFEX, spin'i-feks, _n._ porcupine-grass, a very coarse, hard, and spiny
grass which grows in tussocks, and in some interior parts of Australia
covers hundreds of square miles together.

SPINK, spingk, _n._ the chaffinch.

SPINK, spingk, _n._ the primrose, the lady's-smock.

SPINNAKER, spin'[=a]-k[.e]r, _n._ a jib-headed sail sometimes carried on
the side opposite the mainsail by racing yachts. [Prob. formed from
_spin_.]

SPINNEY. See under SPINE.

SPINODE, sp[=i]'n[=o]d, _n._ (_geom._) a cusp or stationary point of a
curve.

SPINOZISM, spi-n[=o]z'izm, _n._ the doctrine of Benedict _Spinoza_
(1632-1677), who taught that God is not only the creator, but also the
original matter of the universe, which consists of and is a development of
Himself.--_n._ SPIN[=O]'ZIST, a follower of Spinoza.--_adj._
SPIN[=O]ZIS'TIC.

SPINSTER, spin'st[.e]r, _n._ an unmarried female: an old maid: (_obs._) a
woman of loose character, fit for the spinning-house.--_ns._ SPIN'STERDOM,
the world of old maids collectively; SPIN'STERHOOD, SPIN'STERSHIP, the
state of being a spinster; SPIN'STRESS, one who spins. [Orig. one who
_spins_.]

SPINTEXT, spin'tekst, _n._ a lengthy preacher.

SPIRACLE, spir'a-kl, _n._ a breathing-hole: any minute passage.--_adjs._
SPIRAC'ULAR; SPIRAC'ULATE; SPIRACULIF'EROUS; SPIRAC'ULIFORM.--_n._
SPIRAC'ULUM:--_pl._ SPIRAC'ULA. [L. _spiraculum_, formed as a double dim.
from _spir[=a]re_, to breathe.]

SPIRÆA, sp[=i]-r[=e]'a, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Rosaceæ_, containing many species of herbaceous plants and low deciduous
shrubs--_Dropwort_, _Meadow-sweet_, &c. [L.,--Gr. _speiraia_,
meadow-sweet--_speira_, a coil.]

SPIRAL, sp[=i]'ral, _adj._ pertaining to, or like, a spire: winding like
the thread of a screw.--_n._ a spiral line: a curve which continually
recedes from a centre about which it revolves: a screw.--_n._
SPIRAL'ITY.--_adv._ SP[=I]'RALLY, in a spiral form or direction.--_adj._
SPIR[=A]'TED, spiral, whorled.

SPIRANT, sp[=i]'rant, _n._ a consonant which is fricative or
continuable--opp. to explosive, esp. _v_ and _f_, _th_, _dh_; by others
made to include the sibilants, and the semi-vowels _w_ and _y_.

SPIRANTHY, sp[=i]-ranth'i, _n._ the spiral distortion sometimes occurring
in the parts of a flower.--_adj._ SPIRANTH'IC. [Gr. _speira_, a spire,
_anthos_, a flower.]

SPIRASTER, sp[=i]-ras't[.e]r, _n._ in sponges, a short curved axial
rod-like spicule with thick spines. [Gr. _speira_, spire, _ast[=e]r_,
star.]

SPIRATION, sp[=i]-r[=a]'shun, _n._ a breathing: (_theol._) the procession
of the Holy Ghost.

SPIRE, sp[=i]r, _n._ a winding line like the threads of a screw: a curl: a
wreath: a tapering body, a slender stalk, a shoot or sprout: any one of
various tall grasses, rushes, or sedges--the _Marram_, _Reed canary-grass_,
&c.: the top or summit of anything: a very acute pyramidal roof in common
use over the towers of churches.--_v.i._ to sprout, shoot up.--_v.t._ to
furnish with a spire.--_adjs._ SP[=I]RED, having a spire; SPIR'ULATE,
spiral in form or arrangement; SP[=I]'RY, of a spiral form: wreathed:
tapering like a spire or a pyramid: abounding in spires. [Fr.,--L. _spira_;
Gr. _speira_, anything wound round or upon a thing; akin to _eirein_, to
fasten together in rows.]

SPIRIC, sp[=i]'rik, _adj._ like a tore or anchor-ring.--_n._ a curve, the
plane section of a tore.--_n._ SPIR'ICLE, one of those threads in the hairs
on the surface of certain seeds and achenes which uncoil when wet.

SPIRIFER, spir'i-f[.e]r, _n._ a brachiopod of the Carboniferous
system.--_adjs._ SP[=I]RIF'ERINE; SP[=I]RIF'EROID; SP[=I]RIF'EROUS. [L.
_spira_, a spire, _ferre_, to bear.]

SPIRILLUM, sp[=i]-ril'um, _n._ a genus of bacteria with cylindrical
spirally twisted cells:--_pl._ SPIRILL'A.

SPIRIT, spir'it, _n._ vital force: the soul: a ghost: mental disposition:
enthusiasm, animation, courage, mettle: real meaning: essence, chief
quality: a very lively person: any volatile, inflammable liquid obtained by
distillation, as brandy: (_pl._) intellectual activity: liveliness: persons
with particular qualities of mind: mental excitement: spirituous
liquors.--_v.t._ to inspirit, encourage, cheer: to convey away secretly, to
kidnap.--_ns._ SPIR'IT-BLUE, an aniline blue obtained from coal-tar;
SPIR'IT-DUCK, the buffle-head, from its rapid diving.--_adj._ SPIR'ITED,
full of spirit, life, or fire: animated.--_adv._ SPIR'ITEDLY.--_n._
SPIR'ITEDNESS.--_adj._ SPIR'ITFUL.--_n._ SPIR'ITING, the office of a spirit
or sprite; SPIR'ITISM=_Spiritualism_; SPIR'ITIST=_Spiritualist_;
SPIR'IT-LAMP, a lamp in which alcohol is burned, generally used for
heating.--_adj._ SPIR'ITLESS, without spirit, cheerfulness, or courage:
dejected: dead.--_adv._ SPIR'ITLESSLY.--_ns._ SPIR'ITLESSNESS, the state of
being spiritless: want of animation or energy; SPIR'IT-LEV'EL, in
surveying, a cylindrical glass tube, slightly convex on one side, and so
nearly filled with alcohol that only a small bubble of air remains
inside--from the position of the bubble the amount of variation from
perfect levelness is determined.--_adj._ SPIR'ITOUS, of the nature of
spirit, pure: ardent, spirituous.--_ns._ SPIR'ITOUSNESS; SPIR'IT-RAP'PER,
one to whom spirits convey intelligence by raps or knocks;
SPIR'IT-RAP'PING.--_adjs._ SPIR'IT-STIR'RING, rousing the spirit;
SPIR'IT[=U]AL, consisting of spirit: having the nature of a spirit:
immaterial: relating to the mind: intellectual: pertaining to the soul:
holy: divine: relating to sacred things: not lay or temporal.--_n._
SPIRITUALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ SPIR'IT[=U]ALISE, to make spiritual: to imbue
with spirituality: to refine: to free from sensuality: to give a spiritual
meaning to.--_ns._ SPIR'ITUALISER; SPIR'ITUALISM, a being spiritual: the
philosophical doctrine that nothing is real but soul or spirit: the
doctrine that spirit has a real existence apart from matter: the name
applied to a varied series of abnormal phenomena purporting to be for the
most part caused by spiritual beings acting upon specially sensitive
persons or mediums; SPIR'IT[=U]ALIST, one who has a regard only to
spiritual things: one who holds the doctrine of spiritualism or
spiritism.--_adj._ SPIRIT[=U]ALIST'IC, relating to, or connected with,
spiritualism.--_n._ SPIRIT[=U]AL'ITY, state of being spiritual: essence
distinct from matter.--_adv._ SPIR'IT[=U]ALLY.--_ns._
SPIR'IT[=U]AL-MIND'EDNESS, the state of having holy affections;
SPIR'IT[=U]ALNESS, the state or quality of being spiritual.--_adj._
SPI'RIT[=U]ELLE, showing great grace and delicacy.--_n._ SPIRIT[=U]OS'ITY,
spirituous character: immateriality.--_advs._ SPIRIT-U[=O]'SO,
SPIRIT[=O]'SO (_mus._), with spirit or animation.--_adj._ SPIR'IT[=U]OUS,
possessing the qualities of spirit: containing much alcohol:
volatile.--_ns._ SPIR'IT[=U]OUSNESS, the quality of being spirituous:
stimulating quality: ardour: activity; SPIR'ITUS, a breathing, an aspirate:
any spirituous preparation; SPIR'ITWORLD, the world of disembodied
spirits.--_adj._ SPIR'ITY (_Scot._), full of spirit, spirited.--SPIRIT OF
WINE, alcohol; SPIRITUAL COURT, an ecclesiastical court; SPIRITUS ASPER, a
rough breathing; SPIRITUS LENIS, a soft or smooth breathing.--ANIMAL
SPIRITS, constitutional liveliness of spirits; HOLY SPIRIT (see under
HOLY); THE SPIRIT, the Holy Spirit: the human spirit under the influence of
the Holy Spirit. [L. _spiritus_, a breath--_spir[=a]re_, to breathe.]

SPIRKET, spir'ket, _n._ a space forward and aft between
floor-timbers.--_n._ SPIR'KETTING, quick-work.

SPIROMETER, sp[=i]-rom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
capacity of the lungs, or the quantity of air that one can breathe out
after a forced inspiration.--_n._ SP[=I]'ROGRAPH, an instrument for marking
down the breathing movement.--_adj._ SP[=I]ROMET'RIC.--_ns._
SP[=I]ROM'ETRY; SP[=I]'ROPHORE, an apparatus for inducing artificial
respiration by means of an air-tight case for the body and an air-pump;
SP[=I]ROPH'YTON, a genus of fossil algæ found in the Devonian in New York
state; SP[=I]ROZ[=O]'OID, the filamentous defensive zooid of certain
hydroids, coiled spirally when not in action. [L. _spir[=a]re_, to breathe,
Gr. _metron_, a measure.]

SPIRT, sp[.e]rt. Same as SPURT.

SPIRTLE=_Spurtle_ (q.v.).

SPIRULA, spir'[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of sepioid cuttle-fishes. [L.
_sp[=i]ra_, a spire.]

SPIRULATE, SPIRY. See under SPIRE.

SPISSATED, spis'[=a]-ted, _adj._ inspissated, thickened.--_n._
SPISS'IT[=U]DE, density. [L. _spiss[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, thicken.]

SPIT, spit, _n._ an iron prong on which meat is roasted: a long piece of
land or a narrow shoal running into the sea: a wire or spindle holding a
spool in a shuttle.--_v.t._ to pierce with a spit: to string on a stick and
hang up to dry:--_pr.p._ spit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spit'ted.--_p.adj._
SPIT'TED, put upon a spit, impaled: shot out to a point.--_n._ SPIT'TER,
one who puts meat on a spit: a young deer whose antlers have shot out but
not branched. [A.S. _spitu_; Dut. _spit_, Ger. _spitze_.]

SPIT, spit, _v.t._ to throw out from the mouth: to eject with
violence.--_v.i._ to throw out saliva from the mouth: to fall in scattered
drops, as rain at the beginning of a shower: to make a spitting sound, like
an angry cat:--_pr.p._ spit'ting; _pa.t._ spit, spat; _pa.p._ spit.--_n._
saliva, spume: a light fall of rain or snow.--_ns._ SPIT'-BOX, a spittoon;
SPIT'-CURL (_coll._), a soap-lock; SPIT'FIRE, a hot-tempered person;
SPIT'POISON, a venomous calumniator.--_pa.p._ SPIT'TED (_B._), thrown out
from the mouth.--_ns._ SPIT'TER, one who spits; SPIT'TING, the act of one
who or that which spits: an appearance on the surface of melted silver or
platinum allowed to cool slowly, jets of oxygen forming small cones and
sometimes throwing up drops of molten metal--also called SPROUT'ING;
SPIT'TLE, the moist matter thrown from the mouth: saliva; SPITTOON', a
vessel for the convenience of such smokers as spit. [A.S. _spittan_, also
_sp['æ]tan_; Ice. _spýta_, Ger. _spützen_.]

SPITAL, spit'al, _n._ Same as HOSPITAL.

SPITCH-COCK, spich'-kok, _n._ an eel split and broiled.--_v.t._ to split
and broil, as an eel. [_Spatch-cock_.]

SPITE, sp[=i]t, _n._ grudge: lasting ill-will: hatred.--_v.t._ to vex: to
thwart: to hate.--_adj._ SPITE'FUL, full of spite: desirous to vex or
injure: malignant.--_adv._ SPITE'FULLY.--_n._ SPITE'FULNESS.--IN SPITE OF,
in opposition to all efforts of, in defiance of, in contempt of. [Short for
despite.]

SPITZ, spitz, _n._ a Pomeranian dog. [Ger.]

SPIZA, sp[=i]'za, _n._ a genus of fringilline birds, including the United
States dickcissel or black-throated bunting, &c.--_adj._ SPIZ'INE. [Gr., a
finch.]

SPIZELLA, spi-zel'a, _n._ a genus of small American finches or sparrows,
the chipping-sparrows.--_adj._ SPIZELL'INE.

SPLACHNUM, splak'num, _n._ a genus of bryaceous mosses. [Gr.]

SPLANCHNIC, splangk'nik, _adj._ relating to the viscera, intestinal.--_ns._
SPLANCH'NOCOELE, a visceral cavity; SPLANCHNOG'RAPHY, descriptive
splanchnology; SPLANCHNOL'OGY, the knowledge of the viscera;
SPLANCH'NO-SKEL'ETON, the visceral skeleton; SPLANCHNOT'OMY, the anatomy of
the viscera. [Gr. _splangchnon_ (pl. _splangchna_), bowels.]

SPLASH, splash, _v.t._ to spatter with water or mud.--_v.i._ to dabble in
water, to dash about water or any liquid.--_n._ water or mud thrown on
anything: a spot of dirt, a daub: a complexion powder.--_ns._ SPLASH'BOARD,
a guard to keep those in a vehicle from being splashed with mud; SPLASH'ER,
one who, or that which, splashes.--_adj._ SPLASH'Y, splashing: wet and
muddy: full of dirty water. [_Plash_.]

SPLATTER, splat'[.e]r, _v.i._ to spatter water or the like about.--_n._
SPLATT'ER-DASH, an uproar, commotion.--_adj._ SPLATT'ER-FACED, flat-faced.
[_Spatter_.]

SPLAY, spl[=a], _v.t._ (_archit._) to slope or slant: to dislocate, as the
shoulder-bone.--_adj._ turned outward, as in _splay-foot_, awkward.--_n._
SPLAY'-FOOT, a flat foot turned outward.--_adj._ SPLAY'-FOOTED.--_n._
SPLAY'-MOUTH, a wide mouth, a mouth stretched out in grinning.--_adj._
SPLAY'-MOUTHED. [_Display_.]

SPLEEN, spl[=e]n, _n._ a soft, pulpy, blood-modifying gland near the large
extremity of the stomach, supposed by the ancients to be the seat of anger
and melancholy--hence spite: ill-humour: melancholy.--_adj._ SPLEEN'FUL,
displaying spleen, angry, fretful.--_adv._ SPLEEN'FULLY.--_adj._
SPLEEN'ISH, affected with spleen, fretful, peevish.--_adv._ SPLEEN'ISHLY,
in a spleenish manner.--_ns._ SPLEEN'ISHNESS, the state of being spleenish;
SPLEEN'-STONE, jade or nephrite; SPLEEN'WORT, any fern of the genus
_Asplenium_.--_adj._ SPLEEN'Y (_Shak._), spleenish.--_ns._ SPL[=E]NAL'GIA,
pain in the region of the spleen; SPLEN'CULE, SPLEN'C[=U]LUS, a
supplementary spleen; SPL[=E]NEC'TOMIST, one who excises the spleen;
SPL[=E]NEC'TOMY, excision of the spleen; SPL[=E]NECT[=O]'PIA, displacement
of the spleen; SPL[=E]N'ETIC, a splenetic person.--_adjs._ SPL[=E]NET'IC,
-AL, affected with spleen: peevish: melancholy.--_adv._
SPL[=E]NET'ICALLY.--_adj._ SPLEN'IC, pertaining to the spleen.--_n._
SPL[=E]NIS[=A]'TION, a diseased condition of the lung, in which its tissue
resembles that of the spleen, in softness, &c.--_adj._ SPL[=E]NIT'IC.--_n._
SPL[=E]N[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the spleen.--_adj._ SPLEN'ITIVE, full of
spleen, passionate, irritable.--_ns._ SPLEN'OCELE, a splenic tumour;
SPL[=E]NOG'RAPHY, the description of the spleen.--_adjs._ SPL[=E]'NOID,
like the spleen; SPL[=E]NOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ SPL[=E]NOL'OGY, knowledge about
the spleen; SPL[=E]NOP'ATHY, disease of the spleen; SPL[=E]NOT'OMY,
splenological anatomy.--SPLENIC FEVER (see ANTHRAX). [L. _splen_--Gr.
_spl[=e]n_.]

SPLENDID, splen'did, _adj._ magnificent: famous: illustrious:
heroic.--_adj._ SPLEN'DENT, splendid, bright.--_adv._ SPLEN'DIDLY.--_ns._
SPLEN'DIDNESS; SPLEN'DOUR, the appearance of anything splendid: brilliance:
magnificence. [L. _splendidus_--_splend[=e]re_, to shine.]

SPLENIAL, spl[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ acting like a splint: pertaining to the
splenium or the splenius.--_ns._ SPL[=E]'NIUM, the round pad-like posterior
border of the _corpus callosum_; SPL[=E]'NIUS, a large thick muscle on the
back of the neck. [Gr. _spl[=e]nion_, bandage.]

SPLENT=_Splint_ (q.v.).

SPLEUCHAN, spl[=oo]h'an, _n._ a pouch, a tobacco-pouch.--Also SPLEUGH'AN.
[Gael. _spliuchan_.]

[Illustration]

SPLICE, spl[=i]s, _v.t._ to unite two ends of a rope by interweaving the
strands: to join together two pieces of timber by overlapping.--_n._ act of
splicing: joint made by splicing.--SPLICE THE MAINBRACE (_nautical slang_),
to serve out an allowance of spirits, to fall to drinking. [Old Dut.
_splissen_--_splitsen_, _splijten_; cf. _Split_, and Ger. _splissen_.]

SPLINE, spl[=i]n, _n._ in machines, the slot to receive a feather, the
feather itself: a long flexible strip of wood or rubber used by draftsmen
in laying out railway-curves, &c.--_v.t._ to fit with a spline.

SPLINT, splint, _n._ a small piece of wood split off: a thin piece of
padded wood, &c., for keeping a fractured limb in its proper position: a
bony enlargement on the horse's leg, between the knee and the fetlock,
usually appearing on the inside of one or both forelegs, frequently
situated between the large and small canon bones, depending upon
concussion--also SPLENT.--_v.t._ to confine with splints.--_ns._
SPLINT'AGE, use of splints; SPLINT'-ARM'OUR, armour made of splints or
narrow overlapping plates; SPLINT'-COAL, cannel-coal of slaty structure;
SPLINT'ER, a piece of wood, &c., split off.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to split
into splinters.--_ns._ SPLINT'ER-BAR, the cross-bar of a coach, supporting
the springs; SPLINT'ER-BONE, the fibula.--_adjs._ SPLINT'ER-PROOF, proof
against the splinters of bursting shells; SPLINT'ERY, made of, or like,
splinters: apt to splinter. [Sw. _splint_--_splinta_, to splinter; cf.
_Split_.]

SPLIT, split, _v.t._ to cleave lengthwise: to tear asunder violently: to
divide: to throw into discord.--_v.i._ to divide or part asunder: to be
dashed to pieces: to divulge secrets: to vote for candidates of opposite
parties: to burst with laughter:--_pr.p._ split'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
split.--_n._ a crack or rent lengthwise: a schism: a half-bottle of aerated
water, a half-glass of spirits: (_pl._) the acrobatic feat of going down to
the floor with the legs spread out laterally.--_adj._ SPLIT'-NEW (_Scot._),
brand-new.--_n.pl._ SPLIT'-PEASE, husked pease split for making pea-soup,
&c.--_n._ SPLIT'TER, one who, or that which, splits: one who splits hairs
in argument, &c.: (_U.S._) a wheaten cake split and buttered when
hot.--_adj._ SPLIT'TING, very severe: very rapid.--SPLIT ON A ROCK, to meet
some unforeseen and disastrous difficulty, to go to ruin; SPLIT ONE'S
SIDES, to laugh immoderately; SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE, to divide equally the
sum or matter in dispute, to take the mean. [Scand., Dan. _splitte_, to
split; Dut. _splijten_; Ger. _spleissen_.]

SPLORE, spl[=o]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a frolic, a spree.

SPLOTCH, sploch, _n._ a large spot, a stain.--_adj._ SPLOTCH'Y.

SPLURGE, splurj, _n._ any boisterous display.--_v.i._ to make such a
display.--_adj._ SPLUR'GY, given to such.

SPLUTTER, splut'[.e]r, _v.i._ to eject drops of saliva while speaking: to
scatter ink upon a paper, as a bad pen.--_n._ bustle.--_n._ SPLUTT'ERER,
one who splutters. [For _sprutter_, a freq. of _sprout_, orig. form of
_spout_.]

SPODIUM, sp[=o]'di-um, _n._ a powder obtained from calcination, as
ivory-black, &c.--_n._ SPODE, animal or bone charcoal, of which ornaments
may be made.

SPODOGENOUS, sp[=o]-doj'e-nus, _adj._ caused by waste-products, applied
esp. to an enlargement of the spleen caused by waste red blood-corpuscles.
[Gr. _spodos_, ashes, _gen[=e]s_, producing.]

SPODOMANCY, spod'[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by means of ashes.--_adj._
SPODOMAN'TIC. [Gr. _spodos_, ashes, _manteia_, divination.]

SPODUMENE, spod'[=u]-m[=e]n, _n._ a silicate of aluminium and lithium. [Gr.
_spodoun_, to burn to ashes, _spodos_, ashes.]

SPOFFISH, spof'ish, _adj._ fussy, officious--also SPOFF'Y.--_v.i._
SPOFF'LE, to fuss or bustle.

SPOIL, spoil, _v.t._ to take by force: to plunder.--_v.i._ to practise
robbery.--_n._ prey, plunder: pillage: robbery.--_n._ SPOIL'ER, one who
spoils, a plunderer.--_n.pl._ SP[=O]'LIA OP[=I]'MA, the most valued
spoils--taken by a Roman commander from the enemy's commander in single
combat; hence supreme rewards or honours generally. [O. Fr. _espoille_--L.
_spolium_, spoil.]

SPOIL, spoil, _v.t._ to corrupt: to mar: to make useless.--_v.i._ to decay:
to become useless.--_ns._ SPOIL'ER, a corrupter; SPOIL'-FIVE, a round game
of cards played with the whole pack, each one of the three to ten players
receiving five cards.--_adj._ SPOIL'FUL (_Spens._), wasteful,
rapacious.--_n._ SPOILS'MAN, one who looks for profit out of politics.
[Same as above word.]

SPOKE, sp[=o]k, _pa.t._ of _speak_.

SPOKE, sp[=o]k, _n._ one of the bars from the nave to the rim of a
wheel.--PUT A SPOKE IN ONE'S WHEEL, to thwart a person by some impediment.
[A.S. _spáca_; Dut. _speek_, Ger. _speiche_.]

SPOKEN, sp[=o]k'n, _pa.p._ of _speak_, used as _adj._ in 'civil-spoken,'
&c.

[Illustration]

SPOKESHAVE, sp[=o]k'sh[=a]v, _n._ a carpenter's tool having a plane-bit
between two bandies for curved work, &c.

SPOKESMAN, sp[=o]ks'man, _n._ one who speaks for another, or for others, an
advocate.

SPOLE, sp[=o]l, _n._ the small wheel near the distaff in the
spinning-wheel. [A variant of _spool_.]

SPOLIATE, sp[=o]'li-[=a]t, _v.t._ to spoil, to plunder, to pillage.--_v.i._
to practise robbery.--_ns._ SP[=O]'LIARY, the place in a Roman amphitheatre
where the bodies of slaughtered gladiators were dragged to be stripped;
SPOLI[=A]'TION, act of spoiling: robbery.--_adj._ SP[=O]'LI[=A]TIVE,
serving to take away or diminish.--_n._ SP[=O]'LI[=A]TOR, one who
spoliates.--_adj._ SP[=O]'LI[=A]TORY, tending to spoil: destructive.--_n._
SP[=O]'LIUM, the property of a beneficed ecclesiastic not transmissible by
will. [L. _spoliatus_, _pa.p._ of _spoli[=a]re_--_spolium_, spoil.]

SPONDEE, spon'd[=e], _n._ in classical poetry, a foot of two long
syllables, as _f[=a]t[=o]_.--_adjs._ SPOND[=A]'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or
consisting of, spondees. [Fr.,--L. _spond[=e]us_ (_pes_)--Gr. _spondeios_
(_pous_), (a foot) of two syllables, so called because much used in the
slow solemn hymns sung at a _spond[=e]_ or drink-offering--_spendein_, to
pour out, make a libation.]

SPONDYL, -E, spon'dil, _n._ a joint, joining.--_ns._ SPONDYLAL'GIA, pain in
the spine; SPONDYL[=I]'TIS, arthritis of a vertebra.--_adj._ SPON'DYLOUS,
vertebral. [Gr. _spondylos_, a joint.]

SPONGE, spunj, _n._ a fixed, usually marine, animal with pores in the
body-wall and without tentacles: the fibrous framework of such, remarkable
for its power of sucking up water: any sponge-like substance, as dough
before it is kneaded and formed: any cringing hanger-on or parasite, a
drunken fellow: an instrument for cleaning cannon after a discharge: the
heel of a horse's shoe.--_v.t._ to wipe with a sponge: to wipe out, absorb
up, with a sponge: to wipe out completely: to destroy.--_v.i._ to suck in,
as a sponge: to gain by mean tricks, to live on others by some mean
subterfuge or other.--_ns._ SPONGE'CAKE, a very light sweet cake of flour,
eggs, and sugar; SPONGE'LET, a little sponge.--_adjs._ SPONGE'OUS,
SPON'GI[=O]SE, SPONGIOLIT'IC.--_n._ SPONG'ER, one who uses a sponge: a
person or vessel engaged in fishing for sponges: an apparatus for sponging
cloth by means of a perforated adjustable cylinder: a sponge or
parasite.--_adjs._ SPONGIC'OLOUS, inhabiting sponges; SPONG'IFORM,
resembling a sponge: porous.--_ns._ SPONG'INESS, porous quality;
SPONG'ING-HOUSE, a bailiff's lodging-house for debtors in his custody
before their committal to prison; SPON'GI[=O]LE, the spongy tissue of a
root-tip; SPON'GIOLITE, a fossil sponge spicule.--_adj._ SPONGOID
(spong'goid).--_ns._ SPONGOLOGIST (spong-gol'[=o]-jist), one devoted to the
study of sponges; SPONGOLOGY (spong-gol'[=o]-ji), the knowledge about
sponges.--_adj._ SPONG'Y, like a sponge, absorptive: of open texture,
porous: wet and soft: drunken.--SET A SPONGE, to leaven a small mass of
dough with which to leaven a large quantity; THROW UP THE SPONGE, to
acknowledge defeat by throwing into the air the sponge with which a boxer
is rubbed down between rounds: to give up any contest. [O. Fr.
_esponge_--L. _spongia_--Gr. _sponggia_.]

SPONSAL, spon'sal, _adj._ pertaining to a betrothal, a marriage, or a
spouse.--_n._ SPON'SION, the act of becoming surety for another.--_adj._
SPON'SIONAL. [L.,--_spond[=e]re_, _sponsum_, to promise.]

SPONSIBLE, spon'si-bl, _adj._ (_Scot._) reliable: respectable.

SPONSON, spon'son, _n._ the curve of the timbers and planking towards the
outer part of the wing, before and abaft each of the paddle-boxes of a
steamer.--Also SPON'SING. [Ety. dub.]

SPONSOR, spon'sur, _n._ one who promises solemnly for another: a surety: a
godfather or godmother.--_adj._ SPONS[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ SPON'SORSHIP.
[L.,--_spond[=e]re_, _sponsum_, to promise.]

SPONTANEOUS, spon-t[=a]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ of one's free-will: involuntary:
acting by its own impulse or natural law: produced of itself or without
interference.--_ns._ SPONTAN[=E]'ITY, SPONT[=A]'NEOUSNESS, the state or
quality of being spontaneous.--_adv._ SPONT[=A]'NEOUSLY.--SPONTANEOUS
COMBUSTION, a phenomenon that occasionally manifests itself in mineral and
organic substances; SPONTANEOUS GENERATION, a term applied to the real or
imaginary development of lowly organisms from non-living matter. [L.
_spontaneus_--_sponte_, of one's own accord.]

SPONTOON, spon-t[=oo]n', _n._ a weapon somewhat like a halberd, which used
to be carried by certain officers of foot. [Fr. _sponton_--It.
_spontone_--_spuntare_, to break off the point--_puntone_--_punto_, a
point--L. _pung[)e]re_, _punctum_, to point.]

SPOOK, sp[=oo]k, _n._ a ghost.--_v.i._ to play the spook.--_adjs._
SPOOK'ISH, SPOOK'Y, like a ghost, haunted by ghosts: sensitive to the dread
of ghosts, suggesting the presence of ghosts. [Dut. _spook_; Ger. (obs.)
_spuch_, Sw. _spöke_; not related to _puck_.]

SPOOL, sp[=oo]l, _n._ a hollow cylinder for winding yarn, &c.,
upon.--_v.t._ to wind on spools. [Low Ger. _spole_, Dut. _spoel_; Ger.
_spule_.]

SPOOM, sp[=oo]m, _v.i._ to scud before the wind.--_adj._ SPOOM'ING
(_Keats_), foaming.

SPOON, sp[=oo]n, _n._ an instrument with a shallow bowl and handle for use
in preparing, serving, or in eating food: anything like a spoon or its
bowl, as an oar: in golf, a wooden-headed club of varying length, having
the face more or less spooned, used in approaching the holes from varying
distances.--_v.t._ to use a spoon upon: to lie spoon fashion with.--_v.i._
to fish with a spoon-hook: in croquet, to shove or scoop with the mallet:
to be foolishly fond, to indulge in endearments openly.--_ns._ SPOON'-BAIT,
a revolving metallic lure attached to a fishing-line by a swivel, used in
trolling for fish; SPOON'BILL, a family of birds (_Plataleidæ_) allied to
the _Ibididæ_, and more distantly to the storks, with a bill long, flat,
and broad throughout, and much dilated in a spoon form at the tip;
SPOON'-DRIFT, light spray borne on a gale; SPOON'FUL, as much as fills a
spoon: a small quantity:--_pl._ SPOON'FULS.--_adv._ SPOON'ILY, in a spoony
or silly way.--_n._ SPOON'MEAT, food taken with a spoon, such as is given
to young children.--_adv._ SPOON'WAYS, applied to a way of packing slaves
in ships very closely together.--_adjs._ SPOON'Y, SPOON'EY, silly, weakly
affectionate, foolishly fond.--_n._ a simple fellow: one foolishly fond of
a sweetheart.--APOSTLE SPOON (see APOSTLE); DESSERT-SPOON (see DESSERT);
EUCHARISTIC SPOON, the cochlear or labis; TABLESPOON (see TABLE).--BE
SPOONS ON, to be silly in the manifestation of one's love for a woman.
[A.S. _spón_; Ger. _span_, a chip, Ice. _spánn_, a chip, a spoon.]

SPOOR, sp[=oo]r, _n._ track or trail of an animal, esp. when hunted as
game.--_n._ SPOOR'ER, one who tracks game by the spoor. [Dut. _spoor_, a
track; cf. Ger. _spur_, Ice. _spor_, a track, Scot. _speir_, to ask.]

SPORADIC, -AL, sp[=o]-rad'ik, -al, _adj._ scattered--a term specially
applied to any disease usually epidemic or contagious, when it attacks only
a few persons in a district and does not spread in its ordinary
manner.--_adv._ SPORAD'ICALLY.--_n._ SPORAD'ICALNESS. [Gr.
_sporadikos_--_sporas_, _sporados_, scattered--_speirein_, to sow.]

SPORE, sp[=o]r, _n._ the reproductive body in flowerless plants like the
fern, analogous to the seeds of ordinary flowering plants, but containing
no embryo: a germ, a seed, a source of being generally.--_adjs._
SPORAN'GIAL; SPORANGIF'EROUS; SPORAN'GIFORM; SPORAN'GIOID, like a
sporangium.--_ns._ SPORANG[=I]'OLUM, a small sporangium;
SPORAN'GIOPH[=O]RE, the receptacle which bears the sporangia;
SPORAN'GIOSP[=O]RE, one of the peculiar spores of the _Myxomycetes_;
SPORAN'GIUM (_pl._ SPORAN'GIA), a spore-case, the sac in which the spores
are produced endogenously--also SPORE'-CASE; SP[=O]'RIDESM (_bot._), a
pluricellular body which becomes free like a simple spore, and in which
every cell is capable of germinating; SPORID[=I]'OLUM, a secondary
sporidium; SPORID'IUM, a secondary spore borne on a promycelium: an
ascospore; SPORIFIC[=A]'TION, spore-production; SPORIPAR'ITY, reproduction
by means of spores.--_adj._ SPORIP'AROUS.--_ns._ SP[=O]'ROCARP, a
many-celled form of fruit produced in certain lower cryptogams in
consequence of a sexual act; SP[=O]'ROCYST, the cyst or capsule developed
in the process of sporular encystment.--_adj._ SPOROCYST'IC.--_ns._
SP[=O]'RODERM, the wall or covering of a spore; SPOROGEN'ESIS, reproduction
by means of spores--also SPOROG'ENY.--_adj._ SPOROG'ENOUS.--_n._
SPOROG[=O]'NIUM, the sporocarp, capsule or so-called 'moss-fruit' in
mosses.--_adj._ SP[=O]'ROID, like a spore.--_ns._ SPOROL'OGIST, a botanist
who emphasises the spores in classification; SP[=O]'ROPHORE, the part of
the thallus which bears spores: the placenta in flowering plants: a
sporophyte.--_adjs._ SPOROPHOR'IC, SPOROPH'OROUS.--_ns._ SP[=O]'ROPHYL, the
leaf bearing the spores or spore receptacles; SP[=O]'ROPHYTE, the
spore-bearing stage in the life-cycle of a plant.--_adj._
SPOROPHYT'IC.--_ns._ SP[=O]'ROSAC, one of the gonophores of certain
hydrozoans in which the medusoid structure is not developed: a redia or
spiro-cyst, in Vermes; SPOROST[=E]'GIUM, the so-called fruit of plants in
the _Characeæ_, consisting of the hard brownish spirally-twisted shell or
covering of the spore.--_adjs._ SP[=O]'ROUS; SP[=O]'RULAR.--_ns._
SPORUL[=A]'TION, conversion into spores or sporules--also SPOR[=A]'TION;
SP[=O]'RULE, a small spore.--_adjs._ SPORULIF'EROUS, SPOR'ULOID. [Gr.
_sporos_, a sowing, seed--_speirein_, to sow.]

[Illustration]

SPORRAN, spor'an, _n._ an ornamental pouch worn in front of the kilt by the
Highlanders of Scotland. [Gael, _sporan_.]

SPORT, sp[=o]rt, _v.i._ to play: to frolic: to practise field diversions:
to trifle.--_v.t._ to amuse: to make merry: to represent playfully: to
spend in sport or display.--_n._ that which amuses or makes merry: play:
mirth: jest: contemptuous mirth: anything for playing with: a toy: idle
jingle: field diversion: an animal or plant, or one of its organs, that
varies singularly and spontaneously from the normal type.--_n._ SPORT'ER,
one who sports: a sportsman.--_adj._ SPORT'FUL, full of sport: merry: full
of jesting.--_adv._ SPORT'FULLY.--_n._ SPORT'FULNESS.--_adj._ SPORT'ING,
relating to, or engaging in, sports.--_adv._ SPORT'INGLY.--_adj._
SPORT'IVE, inclined to sport: playful: merry: amorous, wanton.--_adv._
SPORT'IVELY.--_n._ SPORT'IVENESS.--_adj._ SPORT'LESS, without sport or
mirth: sad.--_n._ SPORTS'MAN, one who practises, or one skilled in,
field-sports.--_adj._ SPORTS'MAN-LIKE.--_ns._ SPORTS'MANSHIP, practice or
skill of a sportsman; SPORTS'WOMAN, a she-sportsman.--SPORT ONE'S OAK (see
OAK). [Formed by aphæresis from _disport_.]

SPOSH, sposh, _n._ slush.--_adj._ SPOSH'Y.

SPOT, spot, _n._ a mark made by a drop of wet matter: a blot: a discoloured
place: a small part of a different colour: a small extent of space: any
particular place: one of the marked points on a billiard-table, from which
balls are played (for _Centre-spot_, _Pyramid-spot_, &c., see BILLIARDS):
one of the dark places on the surface of the sun, &c.: something that
soils: a stain on character or reputation.--_v.t._ to mark with drops of
wet: to stain: to discolour: to taint: to tarnish, as reputation: to note
or recognise by some point, to detect: to indicate, name:--_pr.p._
spot'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spot'ted.--_adj._ SPOT'LESS, without a spot:
untainted: pure.--_adv._ SPOT'LESSLY.--_ns._ SPOT'LESSNESS; SPOT'-STROKE, a
stroke in billiards when the player pockets the red ball from the 'spot,'
leaving his own ball in position to repeat the stroke.--_adjs._ SPOT'TED,
SPOT'TY, marked with spots or discoloured places.--_ns._ SPOT'TEDNESS, the
state of being spotted; SPOT'TER, one who spots or detects; SPOT'TINESS,
state of being spotty.--SPOT-BARRED GAME, a game at billiards when the
spot-stroke is forbidden to be played more than twice consecutively. [Cf.
Dut. _spat_, Dan. _spætte_; prob. conn. with _spit_.]

SPOUSE, spowz, _n._ a husband or wife.--_adj._ SPOUS'AL, pertaining to a
spouse, or to marriage: nuptial: matrimonial.--_n._ usually in _pl._
nuptials: marriage.--_adj._ SPOUSE'LESS, destitute of a spouse: unmarried.
[O. Fr. _espouse_ (Fr. _époux_, fem. _épouse_)--L. _sponsus_, pa.p. of
_spond[=e]re_, to promise in marriage.]

SPOUT, spowt, _v.t._ to throw out, as from a pipe: to utter volubly: to
pawn, pledge.--_v.i._ to issue with violence, as from a pipe: to speak
volubly, to speechify.--_n._ the projecting mouth of a vessel from which a
stream issues: a pipe for conducting a liquid: a term applied to the
blowing or breathing of whales and other cetaceans.--_ns._ SPOUT'ER, one
who, or that which, spouts: a speechifier: a South Sea whale, a skilful
whaler; SPOUT'-HOLE, an orifice for discharging a liquid, a whale's
spiracle.--_adj._ SPOUT'LESS, wanting a spout. [Skeat explains that
_spout_, like _speak_, has lost an _r_, thus standing for _sprout_, the _r_
being preserved in _spurt_, with nearly the same sense as _spout_. Sw.
_sputa_ for _spruta_, to squirt; Dut. _spuiten_.]

SPRACK, sprak, _adj._ vigorous, sprightly.--Also SPRAG. [Ice. _sprækr_,
_sparkr_, sprightly.]

SPRACKLE, sprak'l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to clamber up with difficulty.--Also
SPRACH'LE, SPRAUCH'LE. [Ice. _spraukla_, to sprawl.]

SPRAD, sprad (_Spens._). Same as SPREAD.

SPRAG, sprag, _n._ a piece of wood used to lock a wheel: a punch-prop in
mining.--_v.t._ to prop, or to stop, by a sprag.

SPRAG, sprag, _n._ (_prov._) a young salmon.

SPRAICH, spr[=a]h, _n._ (_Scot._) a shriek, cry.--_v.i._ to shriek.

SPRAID, spr[=a]d, _adj._ (_prov._) chapped with cold.--Also SPRAYED.

SPRAIN, spr[=a]n, _v.t._ to overstrain the muscles of a joint.--_n._ a term
employed in surgery to designate a violent stretching of tendinous or
ligamentous parts with or without rupture of some of their fibres. [O. Fr.
_espreindre_ (Fr. _épreindre_), to press--L. _exprim[)e]re_, to press out.]

SPRAINT, spr[=a]nt, _n._ the dung of an otter.

SPRANG, _pa.t._ of _spring_.

SPRANGLE, sprang'gl, _v.i._ to sprawl, struggle.

SPRAT, sprat, _n._ a fish of the family _Clupeidæ_, like the herring, but
much smaller.--_n._ SPRAT'-WEATH'ER, the dark days of November and
December. [Dut. _sprot_; Ger. _sprotte_.]

SPRATTLE, sprat'l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to scramble.

SPRAWL, sprawl, _v.i._ to toss or kick about the limbs: to stretch the body
carelessly when lying: to spread ungracefully.--_n._ a sprawling
posture.--_n._ SPRAWL'ER. [There is an A.S. _spréawlian_, to move
convulsively; but the word is most probably for _sprattle_ or
_sprottle_--Sw. _sprattla_, to sprawl; cf. Dan. _sprælle_, to toss about
the limbs.]

SPRAY, spr[=a], _n._ small particles of water driven by the wind, as from
the top of waves, &c.--_adj._ SPRAY'EY, consisting of spray. [Skeat
suggests that the word is from Dut. _spreiden_, to spread, scatter.]

SPRAY, spr[=a], _n._ a small shoot of a tree.--_adj._ SPRAY'EY, branching.
[Akin to Ice. _sprek_, a twig, Dan. _sprag_; Doublet _sprig_.]

SPREAD, spred, _v.t._ to scatter abroad or in all directions: to stretch:
to extend: to overlay: to shoot out, as branches: to circulate, as news: to
cause to affect numbers, as a disease: to diffuse: to set with provisions,
as a table.--_v.i._ to extend or expand in all directions: to be extended
or stretched: to be propagated or circulated:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
spread.--_n._ extent: compass: expansion of parts: that which is spread
out, a feast: a cover for a bed or a table.--_adj._ having a broad surface:
shallower than the standard.--_adj._ SPREAD'-EA'GLE, like an eagle with the
wings stretched out, bombastic, boastful.--_n._ (_naut._) a person seized
in the rigging, a passenger thus made to pay his entrance forfeit.--_ns._
SPREAD'-EA'GLEISM, a bombastic and frothy patriotism; SPREAD'ER, one who,
or that which, spreads, one who publishes or extends: any machine or
implement for helping to scatter.--_p.adj._ SPREAD'ING.--_adv._
SPREAD'INGLY, increasingly.--SPREAD A FLEET, to keep more open order. [A.S.
_spr['æ]dan_; Dut. _spreiden_, Ger. _spreiten_.]

SPREAGH, spreh, _n._ plunder.--_n._ SPREAGH'ERY, cattle-lifting. [Gael.
_spreidh_, cattle.]

SPRECKLED, sprek'ld, _adj._ speckled.

SPRED, spred, _pa.p._ and _n._ an obsolete form of _spread_.--Also
SPRED'DEN.

SPREE, spr[=e], _n._ a merry frolic: a drunken bout.--_v.i._ to carouse.
[Prob. Ir. _spre_, a spark, _spraic_, vigour.]

SPRENT, sprent, _adj._ sprinkled. [M. E. _sprengen_ (pa.t. _sprente_)--A.S.
_sprengan_, to cause to spring.]

SPRIG, sprig, _n._ a small shoot or twig: a scion, a young person: an
ornament like a spray: one of various small pointed implements, a headless
nail: one of the separate pieces of lace fastened on a ground in appliqué
lace.--_v.t._ to embroider with representations of twigs:--_pr.p._
sprig'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sprigged.--_adj._ SPRIG'GY, full of sprigs
or young branches. [Cf. Ice. _sprek_, a stick.]

SPRIGHT, spr[=i]t, _n._ the same as _Sprite_ (q.v.).--_adj._ SPRIGHT'FUL
(_Shak._), full of spirit: brisk, gay.--_adv._ SPRIGHT'FULLY, in a
sprightful manner, briskly, vigorously.--_n._ SPRIGHT'FULNESS, the quality
of being sprightful, briskness, liveliness.--_adj._ SPRIGHT'LESS, destitute
of spirit or life: dull: sluggish.--_n._ SPRIGHT'LINESS.--_adj._
SPRIGHT'LY, airy: full of life: lively: brisk. [_Spright_=_sprite_.]

SPRING, spring, _v.i._ to bound: to leap: to rush hastily: to move suddenly
by elastic force: to start up suddenly: to break forth: to appear: to
issue: to come into existence: (_B._) to rise, as the sun.--_v.t._ to cause
to spring up: to start: to produce quickly, cause to act suddenly: to leap
over: to explode, as a mine: to open, as a leak: to crack, as a mast: to
bend by force, strain: (_archit._) to start from an abutment, &c.: to set
together with bevel-joints:--_pa.t._ sprang, sprung; _pa.p._ sprung.--_n._
a leap: a flying back with elastic force: elastic power: an elastic body:
any active power: that by which action is produced: cause or origin: a
source: an outflow of water from the earth: (_B._) the dawn: the time when
plants begin to spring up and grow, the vernal season--March, April, May: a
starting of a plank in a vessel: a crack in a mast.--_ns._ SPRING'AL,
SPRING'ALD, an active springy young man, a youth; SPRING'-BACK, an inner
false joint on a bound book, springing upward from the true or outer back
when the book is opened flat; SPRING'-BAL'ANCE, an instrument for
determining the weight of a body by the elasticity of a spiral spring;
SPRING'-BEAM, a beam of considerable span, without central support, the
tie-beam of a truss; in a steamer, a fore-and-aft beam for connecting the
two paddle-beams: an elastic bar at the top of a tilt-hammer, jig-saw, &c.;
SPRING'-BEAU'TY, the _Claytonia Virginica_; SPRING'-BED, a mattress formed
of spiral springs set in a wooden frame; SPRING'-BEE'TLE, an elater;
SPRING'-BOARD, a board fastened on elastic supports, used to spring from in
performing feats of agility; SPRING'BOK, a beautiful South African
antelope, larger than a roebuck [Dut.]; SPRING'-BOX, a box or barrel in
which a spring is coiled: the frame of a sofa, &c., in which the springs
are set; SPRING'-CARR'IAGE, a wheel-carriage mounted on springs;
SPRING'-CART, a light cart mounted upon springs; SPRING'ER, a kind of dog
of the spaniel class, useful for springing game in copses: one who springs:
the bottom stone of an arch; SPRING'-GUN, a gun having wires connected with
its trigger, and so fixed and planted as to be discharged when trespassers
stumble against the wire; SPRING'-HALT, a jerking lameness in which a horse
suddenly twitches up his leg or legs; SPRING'-HAMM'ER, a machine-hammer in
which the blow is delivered or augmented by the force of a spring;
SPRING'-HEAD, a fountain-head, source: a head or end-piece for a
carriage-spring.--_adj._ SPRING'-HEAD'ED (_Spens._), having heads springing
afresh.--_ns._ SPRING'-HEELED JACK, one supposed capable of leaping a great
height or distance in carrying out mischievous or frolicsome tricks;
SPRING'-HOOK, an angler's snap-hook or spear-hook: a latch or door-hook
with a spring-catch for keeping it fast in the staple: in a locomotive, a
hook fixing the driving-wheel spring to the frame; SPRING'-HOUSE, a house
for keeping meat in, or a dairy, built for coolness over a spring or brook;
SPRING'INESS; SPRING'ING, the act of springing, leaping, arising, or
issuing: (_B._) growth, increase: (_archit._) the lowest part of an arch on
both sides; SPRING'-JACK, a device for inserting a loop in a main electric
line-circuit, a plug being forced between two spring contacts;
SPRING'-LATCH, a latch that snaps into the keeper whenever the door is
shut; SPRING'LET, a little spring: a small stream; SPRING'-LIG'AMENT, the
inferior calcaneoscaphoid ligament of the sole of the foot; SPRING'-LOCK, a
lock which fastens by a spring; SPRING'-MAT'TRESS=_Spring-bed_;
SPRING'-NET, a net that closes with a spring; SPRING'-PAD'LOCK, a padlock
that snaps itself shut; SPRING'-POLE, a pole whose elasticity serves as a
spring; SPRING'-SAD'DLE, a bent iron bar of [Spring-saddle] form on the top
of a railway carriage journal-box, surrounding the arch-bar and supporting
the spring; SPRING'-SEARCH'ER, a steel-pronged tool to search for defects
in the bore of a gun; SPRING'-SHACK'LE, a shackle closed by a spring: a
shackle joining one spring of a vehicle with another or with a rigid piece;
SPRING'-STAY (_naut._), a smaller stay, placed above the stays as a
duplicate if needed; SPRING'-STUD, a rod passed through the axis of a
coil-spring to keep it in place; SPRING'-TAIL, one of an order of primitive
wingless insects (_Collembola_), so called popularly from a peculiar
springing fork usually present on the abdomen; SPRING'-TIDE, the periodical
excess of the elevation and depression of the tide, after new and full
moon, when both sun and moon act in the same direction; SPRING'-TIDE,
-TIME, the season of spring; SPRING'-TOOL, any tool bearing a spring, as a
glass-blower's tongs; SPRING'-TRAP, a trap worked by a spring, a
mouse-trap, &c.; SPRING'-VALVE, a valve fitted with a spring: a
safety-valve connected with a spring-balance; SPRING'-WA'TER, water issuing
from a spring; SPRING'-WHEAT, wheat sown in the spring, rather than autumn
or winter; SPRING'-WORT, a plant which draws down lightning--perh. the
caperspurge.--_adj._ SPRING'Y, pertaining to, or like, a spring, elastic,
nimble: abounding with springs.--SPRING A LEAK, to commence leaking; SPRING
A MINE, to cause it to explode--often used figuratively; SPRING A RATTLE,
to cause a rattle to sound; SPRING AT, to leap at; SPRING FORTH, to come
forward with a leap: to shoot up rapidly; SPRING ON, or UPON, to attack
with violence. [A.S. _springan_; Ger. _springen_.]

SPRINGE, sprinj, _n._ a snare with a spring-noose: a gin.--_v.t._ to catch
in a springe. [Prov. Eng. _springle_--_spring_; cf. Ger.
_sprenkel_--_springen_.]

SPRINKLE, spring'kl, _v.t._ to scatter in small drops or particles: to
scatter on: to baptise with a few drops of water: to purify.--_v.i._ to
scatter in drops.--_n._ an aspersorium or utensil for sprinkling.--_ns._
SPRIN'KLE, SPRIN'KLING, a small quantity sprinkled: in book-binding, the
mottling of the edges of trimmed leaves by scattering a few drops of colour
on them; SPRIN'KLER. [Freq. formed from A.S. _sprengan_, the causal of
_springan_, to spring; cf. Ger. _sprenkeln_.]

SPRINT, sprint, _n._ a short-distance race at full speed.--_v.i._ to run at
full speed--also SPRENT.--_ns._ SPRIN'TER, a short-distance runner in
races; SPRIN'TING; SPRINT'-RACE; SPRINT'-RUN'NER. [Cf. _Spurt_.]

[Illustration]

SPRIT, sprit, _n._ (_naut._) a spar set diagonally to extend a fore-and-aft
sail. [A.S. _spreót_, a pole; Dut. and Ger. _spriet_, a bowsprit; conn.
with _sprout_.]

SPRITE, spr[=i]t, _n._ a spirit: a shade: a  ghost: (_obs._) frame of mind,
disposition.--Also SPRIGHT. [A doublet of _spirit_.]

SPRITEFUL, SPRITELY, &c. Same as SPRIGHTFUL, &c.

SPROCKET, sprok'et, _n._ a projection on the periphery of a wheel or
capstan for engaging the chain.

SPROD, sprod, _n._ (_prov._) a second-year salmon.

SPRONG, sprong (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _spring_.

SPROUT, sprowt, _n._ a germ or young shoot: (_pl._) young shoots from old
cabbages.--_v.i._ to shoot: to push out new shoots.--_adj._ SPROUT'ED,
budded.--BRUSSELS SPROUTS (see BRUSSELS). [According to Skeat, not from
A.S. _spreótan_, nor _sprýtan_, but from Old Friesic _spruta_, to sprout,
Low Ger. _spruten_, Dut. _spruiten_, Ger. _spriessen_.]

SPRUCE, spr[=oo]s, _adj._ smart: neat, dapper: over-fastidious,
finical.--_n._ Prussian leather.--_v.t._ to smarten.--_v.i._ to become
spruce or smart.--_n._ SPRUCE'-FIR, or merely SPRUCE, any tree of the genus
_Picea_ of the pine family (_Coniferæ_), or the wood of such a
tree.--_adv._ SPRUCE'LY.--_n._ SPRUCE'NESS.--_v.t._ SPRU'CIFY, to smarten.
[O. Fr. _Pruce_--Late L. _Prussia_, Ger. _Preussen_.]

SPRUCE-BEER, spr[=oo]s'-b[=e]r, _n._ beer flavoured with a decoction of the
young shoots of the spruce-fir. [Ger. _sprossen-bier_, _sprossen_, young
shoots, Englished as _Pruce-beer_, i.e. Prussian beer.]

SPRUE, spr[=oo], _n._ in casting, one of the passages leading to the mould,
also the metal which solidifies in it--_deadhead_.--_n._ SPRUE'-HOLE,
ingate or pouring-hole in a mould.

SPRUG, sprug, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_prov._) to smarten, to dress neatly.

SPRUG, sprug, _n._ (_prov._) a sparrow.

SPRUIT, spr[=oo]'it, _n._ a small head-stream, a stream flowing through a
village, dry in summer. [S. Afr. Dut.]

SPRUNG, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _spring_.--_adj._ (_coll._) tipsy, tight.

SPRUNNY, sprun'i, _adj._ (_prov._) neat.--_n._ a sweetheart.

SPRUNT, sprunt, _v.i._ to spring up: sprout, germinate.--_n._ a steep bit
in a road: a rebellious curl, &c.--_adv._ SPRUNT'LY, gaily,
bravely.--SPRUNT UP, to bristle up.

SPRY, spr[=i], _adj._ vigorous, lively, gay, pert. [Scand.; Sw. prov.
_sprygg_, very active.]

SPUD, spud, _n._ a small narrow spade with a short handle: any short thick
thing, a baby's hand, a potato, &c.--_adj._ SPUD'DY, short and fat. [Prob.
Scand., Dan. _spyd_, a spear.]

SPUE. Same as SPEW.

SPULZIE, SPUILZIE, spül'y[=e], _n._ (_Scot._) spoil.--Also SPUL'YE,
SPUL'YIE. [_Spoil_.]

SPUME, sp[=u]m, _n._ scum or froth thrown up by liquid: foam.--_v.i._ to
throw up scum: to foam.--_adj._ SP[=U]'M[=E]OUS, frothy.--_n._
SP[=U]MES'CENCE, frothiness.--_adjs._ SP[=U]MES'CENT, foaming;
SP[=U]MIF'EROUS, producing foam.--_n._ SP[=U]'MINESS, the quality of being
spumy or frothy.--_adjs._ SP[=U]'MOUS, SP[=U]'MY, consisting of froth:
frothy: foamy. [L. _spuma_--_spu[)e]re_ to spew.]

SPUN, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of spin.--_adj._ SPUN'-OUT, unduly
lengthened.--_n._ SPUN'-YARN, rope-yarn twisted into a cord.

SPUNGE, spunj, v. and _n._ a form of _sponge_.

SPUNK, spungk, _n._ touchwood, tinder, a fungus from which tinder is made,
punk, amadou: (_Scot._) a small fire, a fiery spark, a lucifer-match:
mettle, spirit, pluck.--_v.i._ to take fire, flame up.--_adj._ SPUNK'Y,
spirited: fiery-tempered. [Cf. Ir. _sponc_, tinder, sponge--L. _spongia_, a
sponge--Gr. _sponggia_.]

SPUR, spur, _n._ an instrument on a horseman's heels, with sharp points for
goading the horse: that which goads or instigates: something projecting:
the hard projection on a cock's leg: a small range of mountains extending
laterally from a larger range.--_v.t._ to urge on with spurs: to urge
onward: to impel: to put spurs on.--_v.i._ to press forward: to travel in
great haste:--_pr.p._ spur'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ spurred.--_v.t._
SPUR'-GALL (_Shak._), to gall or wound with a spur.--_ns._ SPUR'-GEAR,
-GEAR'ING, gearing in which spur-wheels are used.--_adj._ SPUR'-HEELED,
having a long straight hind-claw.--_n._ SPUR'-LEATH'ER, the strap by which
the spur is fastened to the foot.--_p.adj._ SPURRED, wearing spurs: having
shoots like spurs: affected with ergot, as rye.--_ns._ SPUR'RER, one who,
or that which, spurs; SPUR'RIER, one who makes spurs; SPUR'-ROY'AL, an
ancient English coin, worth fifteen shillings, so called from having a star
on one side resembling the rowel of a spur; SPUR'-WAY, a bridle-road;
SPUR'-WHANG=_Spur-leather_; SPUR'-WHEEL (_mech._), a wheel with the cogs on
the face of the edge like a spur.--_adj._ SPUR'-WINGED, with a horny spur
on the pinion, as with the plovers, &c. [A.S. _spora_; Ice. _spori_, Ger.
_sporn_.]

SPURGE, spurj, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order _Euphorbiaceæ_,
all the species containing a resinous milky juice mostly very acrid.--_n._
SPURGE'-LAU'REL, a European evergreen shrub, with yellowish-green flowers,
thick leaves, and poisonous berries. [O. Fr. _espurge_ (Fr. _épurge_)--L.
_expurg[=a]re_, to purge--_ex_, off, _purg[=a]re_, to clear.]

SPURIÆ, sp[=u]'ri-[=e], _n.pl._ the bastard quills forming the alula in
birds.

SPURIOUS, sp[=u]r'i-us, _adj._ illegitimate: bastard: not genuine: false:
resembling an organ, but without its function, or having the functions of
an organ while morphologically different.--_adv._ SP[=U]R'IOUSLY.--_n._
SP[=U]R'IOUSNESS. [L. _spurius_, false.]

SPURLING=_Sparling_ (q.v.).

SPURN, spurn, _v.t._ to drive away as with the foot: to kick: to reject
with disdain.--_n._ disdainful rejection.--_n._ SPURN'ER, one who spurns.
[A.S. _speornan_; cog. with _spur_.]

SPURNE, spurn, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to spur.

SPURRY, spur'i, _n._ a plant of the genus _Spergula_. [O. Fr. _sporrie_, of
Teut. origin; cf. Ger. _spörgel_.]

SPURT, spurt, _v.t._ to spout, or send out in a sudden stream, as
water.--_v.i._ to gush out suddenly in a small stream: to flow out forcibly
or at intervals.--_n._ a sudden or violent gush of a liquid from an
opening: a jet: a sudden short effort, a special exertion of one's self for
a short time, in running, rowing, &c. [Formerly _spirt_--Ice. _sprettr_, a
spurt--_spretta_, to start, to sprout.]

SPURTLE, spur'tl, _n._ (_Scot._) a short stick for stirring porridge,
broth, &c.--_n._ SPUR'TLE-BLADE, a sword.

SPUTTER, sput'[.e]r, _v.i._ to spit in small drops, as in rapid speaking:
to throw out moisture in scattered drops: to speak rapidly and
indistinctly, to jabber.--_v.t._ to throw out with haste and noise: to
utter hastily and indistinctly.--_n._ moist matter thrown out in
particles.--_n._ SPUTT'ERER, one who sputters. [The freq. of _spout_
(q.v.).]

SPUTUM, sp[=u]'tum, _n._ spittle, the matter expectorated:--_pl._
SP[=U]'TA. [L.,--_spu[)e]re_, to spit.]

SPY, sp[=i], _n._ one sent into an enemy's country or camp to find out
their strength, &c.: one who keeps a watch on others: one who secretly
conveys information.--_v.t._ to see: to discover, generally at a distance:
to discover by close search: to inspect secretly:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
spied.--_ns._ SPY'AL=_Spial_; SPY'-CRAFT, SPY'ISM, the art or practice of
spying; SPY'GLASS, a small hand-telescope; SPY'-HOLE, a peep-hole;
SPY'-MON'EY, money paid for secret intelligence. [O. Fr. _espier_--Old High
Ger. _speh[=o]n_; L. _spec[)e]re_.]

SPYRE, sp[=i]r, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to shoot forth. [L. _spir[=a]re_, to
sprout.]

SQUAB, skwob, _adj._ fat, clumsy: curt, abrupt: unfledged, newly hatched:
shy, coy.--_n._ a young pigeon, the young of other animals before the hair
or feathers are grown: a short stumpy person: a thickly-stuffed cushion, a
sofa padded throughout, an ottoman.--_v.t._ to stuff thickly and sew
through, the stitches being concealed by buttons, &c.--_v.i._ to fall
heavily.--_adv._ flat: heavily, as a fall.--_adjs._ SQUAB'BISH, thick,
heavy; SQUAB'BY, squat.--_ns._ SQUAB'-CHICK, a fledgling; SQUAB'-PIE, a pie
made of strips of mutton, onions, and slices of apple. [Prob. Scand.; cf.
Sw. dial. _sqvapp_, a word imitative of a splash, _sqvabb_, loose flesh,
_sqvabbig_, flabby.]

SQUABASH, skwa-bash', _v.t._ to crush, smash.

SQUABBLE, skwob'l, _v.i._ to dispute in a noisy manner: to wrangle.--_n._ a
noisy, petty quarrel: a brawl.--_n._ SQUABB'LER. [Scand., Sw. dial.
_skvabbel_, a dispute.]

SQUACCO, skwak'[=o], _n._ a small crested African heron.

SQUAD, skwod, _n._ a small body of men assembled for drill, any small group
or company of men.--_n._ SQUAD'RON, a body of cavalry, consisting of two
troops, or 120 to 200 men: a body of soldiers drawn up in a square: any
regularly ranked body, or a group: section of a fleet, commanded by a
flag-officer.--_p.adj._ SQUAD'RONED, formed into squadrons.--AWKWARD SQUAD,
a body of recruits not yet competent in drill, &c. [O. Fr. _esquadre_--It.
_squadra_, and L. _exquadr[=a]re_, to make square.]

SQUADDY, skwad'i, _adj._ squabby.

SQUAIL, skw[=a]l, _n._ a disc or counter used in the game of squails:
(_pl._) a parlour-game in which small discs are snapped from the edge of
the table to a centre mark called the _process_: the game of
ninepins.--_v.i._ to throw a stick, &c., at any object.--_v.t._ to pelt
with sticks, &c.--_n._ SQUAIL'ER, a throwing-stick. [A variant of _kail_.]

SQUALID, skwol'id, _adj._ filthy, foul.--_n._ SQUALID'ITY, the state of
being squalid: filthiness.--_adv._ SQUAL'IDLY.--_ns._ SQUAL'IDNESS;
SQUAL'OR, state of being squalid: dirtiness: filthiness. [L.
_squalidus_--_squal[=e]re_, to be stiff; akin to Gr. _skellein_, to dry.]

SQUALL, skwawl, _v.i._ to cry out violently.--_n._ a loud cry or scream: a
violent gust of wind.--_n._ SQUALL'ER.--_adj._ SQUALL'Y, abounding or
disturbed with squalls or gusts of wind: gusty, blustering: threatening a
squall.--WHITE SQUALL, a tropical whirlwind, coming on without warning
other than a small white cloud. [Scand., Sw. _sqvala_, to gush out.]

SQUALLY, skwawl'i, _adj._ irregularly woven: having bare patches, of a
field of corn, &c. [Prob. the same as _scally_. Cf. _Scall_.]

SQUALOID, skw[=a]'loid, _adj._ resembling a SQU[=A]'LUS or shark.--_n._
SQU[=A]'LID, one of the _Squalidæ_, a family of sharks.--_adj._
SQU[=A]'LIFORM, having the form of a shark. [L. _squalus_, a shark.]

SQUAMA, skw[=a]'ma, _n._ a scale: the bractea of a deciduous spike, any
scaly bracted leaf:--_pl._ SQU[=A]'MÆ.--_n.pl._ SQU[=A]M[=A]'TA, a division
of reptiles, including lizards and serpents.--_adjs._ SQU[=A]'MATE,
SQU[=A]'MOUS, SQUAM[=A]'CEOUS, SQU[=A]'MOSE, covered with, or consisting
of, scales: scaly.--_ns._ SQU[=A]ME, a scale or squama; SQU[=A]MEL'LA, a
small scale.--_adjs._ SQU[=A]MIF'EROUS, SQU[=A]MIG'EROUS, bearing squamæ or
scales; SQU[=A]'MIFORM, SQU[=A]'MOID, like a scale.--_ns._
SQU[=A]M[=O]'SAL, the squamous portion of the temporal bone; SQUAM'ULA, a
very small scale--also SQUAM'ULE.--_adjs._ SQUAM'ULATE, SQUAM'ULIFORM. [L.
_squamosus_--_squama_, a scale.]

SQUANDER, skwon'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to spend lavishly or wastefully: to waste
money or powers.--_n._ SQUAN'DERER.--_adv._ SQUAN'DERINGLY, in a
squandering manner, by squandering. [Skeat explains as a nasalised form of
Lowland Scotch _squatter_, to splash water about, prov. Eng. _swatter_, to
throw water about. These are frequentatives from Dan. _sqvatte_, to splash,
spurt, squander; Sw. _sqvätta_, to squirt, _Ice_. _skvetta_, to squirt out
water.]

SQUARE, skw[=a]r; _adj._ having four equal sides and angles: forming a
right angle: having a straight front or an outline formed by straight
lines: exact suitable, fitting: true, that does equal justice, fair,
honest: even, leaving no balance, settled, as accounts: directly opposed,
complete, unequivocal: solid, full, satisfying.--_n._ that which is square:
a square figure: a four-sided space enclosed by houses: a square body of
troops: the length of the side of any figure squared: an instrument for
measuring right angles: (_arith_.) the product of a quantity multiplied by
itself: due proportion, order, honesty, equity, fairness.--_v.t._ to form
like a square: to form with four equal sides and angles: (_arith_.) to
multiply by itself: to reduce to any given measure or standard, to adjust,
regulate: (_naut_.) to place at right angles with the mast or keel.--_v.i._
to suit, fit: to accord or agree: to take an attitude of offence and
defence, as a boxer.--_adj._ SQUARE'-BUILT, of a square build or
shape.--_adv._ SQUARE'LY, in a square form or manner.--_ns._
SQUARE'-MEAS'URE, [Illustration] a system of measures applied to surfaces,
of which the unit is the square of the lineal unit; SQUARE'NESS.--_adj._
SQUARE'-PIERCED (_her_.), designating a charge perforated with a square
opening so as to show the field.--_n._ SQU[=A]'RER, one who, or that which,
squares: (_Shak._) a fighting, quarrelsome person.--_adj._ SQUARE'-RIGGED,
having the chief sails square, and extended by yards suspended by the
middle at right angles to the masts--opposed to _Fore-and-aft_.--_ns._
SQUARE'-ROOT, that root which being multiplied into itself produces the
given number or quantity; SQUARE'-SAIL, a four-sided sail extended by yards
suspended by the middle at right angles to the mast.--_adj._
SQUARE'-TOED.--_n._ SQUARE'-TOES, an old-fashioned, punctilious
person.--_adj._ SQU[=A]'RISH.--SQUARE THE CIRCLE, to determine the area of
a circle in square measure.--ON THE SQUARE, honestly. [O. Fr. _esquarre_
(Fr. _équerre_)--L. _ex-quadr[=a]re_, to square--_quadrus_, conn. with
_quatuor_, four.]

SQUARROSE, skwär'[=o]s, _adj._ rough, with projecting or deflexed
scales.--_adj._ SQUARR'ULOSE, diminutively squarrose.

SQUARSON, skwär'sn, _n._ one who is both a beneficed clergyman and a squire
or land-owner in a parish.--_n._ SQUAR'SONAGE, the residence of such.

SQUASH, skwosh, _v.t._ to press into pulp: to crush flat.--_v.i._ to form a
soft mass as from a fall: to make a noise similar to such.--_n._ a sudden
fall or shock of soft bodies: anything soft and easily crushed, anything
soft or unripe, as a peascod.--_ns._ SQUASH'ER; SQUASH'INESS, state of
being squashy.--_adj._ SQUASH'Y, like a squash: muddy. [O. Fr. _esquacher_
(Fr. _écacher_), to crush--L. _ex_, out, _coact[=a]re_, to
restrain--_cog[)e]re_, _coactum_, to drive together.]

SQUASH, skwosh, _n._ a term loosely used, esp. in the United States, for
two or three kinds of gourd, including the pumpkin. [Amer. Ind. _asquash_
(pl. of _asq_), green.]

SQUAT, skwot, _v.i._ to sit down upon the hams or heels: to cower, as an
animal: to settle on new land without title:--_pr.p._ squat'ting; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ squat'ted.--_adj._ short and thick, dumpy, clumsy.--_ns._
SQUATOC'RACY, the squatters of Australia collectively; SQUAT'TER, a settler
on new land without title: one who leases pasture-land from the government;
SQUAT'TINESS.--_v.i._ SQUAT'TLE (_Scot._), to squat down.--_adj._ SQUAT'TY,
very short and thick. [O. Fr. _esquatir_, to crush--L. _ex-_, _coactus_,
pa.p. of _cog[)e]re_, to drive together.]

SQUATTER, skwot'[.e]r, _v.i._ to plunge through water.

SQUAW, skwaw, _n._ an American Indian woman, esp. a wife.--_n._ SQUAW'MAN,
a white man with an Indian wife.

SQUEAK, skw[=e]k, _v.i._ to utter a shrill and usually short cry.--_n._ a
sudden, shrill cry.--_v.i._ SQUAWK, to utter a harsh cry: (_U.S._) to back
out in a mean way.--_n._ a loud squeak.--_n._ SQUEAK'ER, one who squeaks: a
young bird.--_adv._ SQUEAK'INGLY.--A NARROW SQUEAK, a narrow escape.
[Imit.; cf. Sw. _sqväka_, to croak, Ger. _quieken_, to squeak.]

SQUEAL, skw[=e]l, _v.i._ to utter a shrill and prolonged sound: to turn
informer.--_n._ a shrill loud cry.--_n._ SQUEAL'ER, a young pigeon: an
informer. [Scand.; Sw. dial. _sqväla_, to cry out.]

SQUEAMISH, skw[=e]m'ish, _adj._ sickish at stomach: easily disgusted or
offended: fastidious in taste.--_adv._ SQUEAM'ISHLY.--_n._ SQUEAM'ISHNESS.
[Scand.; Ice. _sveimr_, stir; prob. also influenced by qualmish.]

SQUEEGEE, skw[=e]'j[=e], _n._ a wooden implement edged with rubber for
clearing water away from decks, floors, windows, &c.: a photographer's
roller for squeezing the moisture from a print--also SQUIL'GEE.--_v.t._ to
smooth down with a squeegee.

SQUEEZE, skw[=e]z, _v.t._ to crush or press between two bodies: to embrace
closely: to force through a small hole: to cause to pass: to extort,
oppress, harass.--_v.i._ to push between close bodies: to press: to
crowd.--_n._ act of squeezing: pressing between bodies: an impression of an
inscription, &c., made by taking a rubbing.--_n._ SQUEEZABIL'ITY.--_adj._
SQUEEZ'ABLE.--_ns._ SQUEEZ'ER, one who, or that which, squeezes: (_pl._)
playing-cards having the number of spots marked in the right-hand corner of
each; SQUEEZ'ING, the act of exerting pressure.--_adj._ SQUEEZ'Y,
suggesting squeezing, small, contracted. [M. E. _queisen_--A.S. _cwísan_.]

SQUELCH, skwelch, _n._ a heavy blow or a heavy fall.--_v.t._ to crush down.

SQUIB, skwib, _n._ a paper tube filled with combustibles, thrown up into
the air burning and bursting: a petty lampoon.--_v.t._ to aim squibs at: to
lampoon.--_v.i._ to write lampoons: to use squibs: to sound like a squib
exploding. [Scand.; Ice. _svipa_, to flash.]

SQUID, skwid, _n._ a kind of cuttle-fish or calamary: a lure used in
trolling for fish.--_v.i._ to fish with a squid or spoon-bait.

SQUIGGLE, skwig'l, _v.i._ (_U.S._) to squirm, wriggle: (_prov_.) to rinse
out the mouth with a liquid.

SQUILGEE. See SQUEEGEE.

SQUILL, skwil, _n._ a genus of bulbous-rooted plants of order _Liliaceæ_,
with radical leaves, and flowers in terminal racemes or loose corymbs--the
officinal Squill is diuretic and expectorant.--_adj._ SQUILLIT'IC. [Fr.
_squille_--L. _squilla_, _scilla_--Gr. _skilla_.]

SQUINCH, skwinch, _n._ a small stone arch, or series of arches, across an
interior angle of a square tower to support the sides of an octagonal
spire.

SQUINNY, skwin'i, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to look asquint.

SQUINT, skwint, _adj._ looking obliquely: having the vision
distorted.--_v.i._ to look obliquely: to have the vision distorted.--_v.t._
to cause to squint.--_n._ act or habit of squinting: an oblique look:
distortion of vision: a hagioscope, a narrow aperture cut in the wall of a
church (generally about two feet wide) to enable persons standing in the
side-chapels, &c., to see the elevation of the host at the
high-altar.--_n._ SQUINT'-EYE, an eye that squints.--_adj._ SQUINT'-EYED,
looking obliquely: oblique, malignant.--_n._ SQUINT'ING, technically
_Strabismus_, a common deformity which may be defined as a want of
parallelism in the visual axes, when the patient endeavours to direct both
eyes to an object at the same time.--_adv._ SQUINT'INGLY. [Scand.; Sw.
_svinka_, to shrink, a nasalised form of _svika_, to fail.]

SQUIRE, skw[=i]r, _n._ an esquire, a knight's attendant: a beau or gallant:
a country gentleman, an owner of land in England, esp. if of old family:
(_U.S._) one who has been a justice of the peace, &c.--_ns._ SQUIRE'AGE,
SQUIRE'ARCHY, landed gentry collectively.--_adj._ SQUIRE'ARCHAL.--_ns._
SQUIREEN', a gentleman farmer, one almost a squire; SQUIRE'HOOD, the state
or rank of a squire--also SQUIRE'SHIP.--_adjs._ SQUIRE'-LIKE, SQUIRE'LY,
like or becoming a squire.--_ns._ SQUIRE'LING, a squire of small
possessions; SQUIREOC'RACY, government by the landed classes; SQU[=I]R'ESS,
a squire's wife. [_Esquire_.]

SQUIRE, skw[=i]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a square. [_Square_.]

SQUIRM, skwirm, _v.i._ to wriggle or writhe, to climb by wriggling up: to
escape with any awkward evasion or lie. [A variant of _squir_=_whir_.]

SQUIRREL, skwir'el, _n._ a nimble, reddish-brown, rodent little animal with
hairy tail and large eyes, mainly of arboreal habit.--_ns._ SQUIRR'EL-FISH,
a holocentroid tropical fish; SQUIRR'EL-TAIL, any one of several grasses of
the genus _Hordeum_, with long hair-like awns: a cap of squirrel-skins,
with a tail hanging down behind. [O. Fr. _escurel_--Low L. _scurellus_,
dim. of L. _sciurus_--Gr. _skiouros_--_skia_, shade, _oura_, tail.]

SQUIRT, skw[.e]rt, _v.t._ to throw out water in a stream from a narrow
opening.--_n._ a small instrument for squirting: a small, quick
stream.--_n._ SQUIRT'ER. [Skeat says the _r_ appears to be intrusive;
allied to prov. Eng. _squitter_, to squirt, and _squitter_, diarrhoea. From
Sw. dial. _skvittär_, to sprinkle all round, freq. of _skwitta_, to squirt,
Sw. _sqvätta_, to squirt; cf. Dan. _sqvatte_, to splash.]

SQUITCH, skwich, _n._ quitch-grass.

SRADDHA, srä'da, _n._ the offering of rice and flowers to the manes of a
deceased ancestor. [Sans.]

STAB, stab, _v.t._ to wound with a pointed weapon: to wound: to injure
secretly, or by slander: to roughen a brick wall with a pick so as to hold
plaster: to pierce folded sheets, near their back edges, for the passage of
thread or wire.--_v.i._ to give a stab or a mortal wound:--_pr.p._
stab'bing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stabbed.--_n._ a wound with a pointed
weapon: an injury given secretly.--_n._ STAB'BER, one who stabs.--_adv._
STAB'BINGLY. [Gael. _stob_, a stake.]

STABAT MATER, st[=a]'bat m[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ a Latin hymn on the seven
dolours of the Virgin, ascribed to Jacopone da Todi, a 13th-cent. Minorite:
a musical setting of this sequence. [Its opening words.]

STABLE, st[=a]'bl, _adj._ that stands firm: firmly established: durable:
firm in purpose or character: constant, unchangeable.--_ns._ STABIL'ITY,
state of being stable: steadiness; ST[=A]'BLENESS.--_adv._ ST[=A]'BLY.
[Fr.,--L. _stabilis_--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STABLE, st[=a]'bl, _n._ a building for horses and cattle.--_v.t._ to put or
keep in a stable.--_v.i._ to dwell in a stable.--_ns._ ST[=A]'BLE-BOY,
-MAN, a boy, or man, who attends in a stable; ST[=A]'BLER, a stable-keeper;
ST[=A]'BLE-ROOM, room for stabling horses or cattle; ST[=A]'BLING, act of
putting into a stable: accommodation for horses and cattle. [O. Fr.
_estable_ (Fr. _étable_)--L. _stabulum_--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STABLISH, stab'lish, _v.t._ old form of _establish_.--_n._
STAB'LISHMENT=_Establishment_.

STACCATO, stak-kä'to, _adj._ (_mus._) with the notes to be played in an
abrupt, disconnected manner--opp. to _Legato_: marked by abrupt emphasis:
giving a clear distinct sound to each note.--_adj._ STACCATIS'SIMO, as
staccato as possible. [It., from _staccare_, for _distaccare_, to
separate.]

STACHYS, st[=a]'kis, _n._ a genus of _Labiatæ_, containing the
Hedge-nettle, the Woundwort, and according to some botanists the Common
Betony or Wood Betony. [L.,--Gr. _stachys_, an ear of corn.]

STACK, stak, _n._ a large pile of bay, corn, wood, &c.: a number of
chimneys standing together: a pyramid formed by a number of muskets with
fixed bayonets interlocked and the stocks spread widely apart.--_v.t._ to
pile into a stack: to make up cards for cheating.--_ns._ STACK'-STAND, a
frame of wood, iron, or stone, supported on short props, for building a
stack upon; STACK'YARD, a yard for stacks. [Scand.; Ice. _stakkr_, a stack
of hay.]

STACTE, stak'te, _n._ a Jewish spice, liquid myrrh.

STACTOMETER, stak-tom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a tube with a small hole at the bottom
for measuring a liquid in drops.--Also STALAGMOM'ETER. [Gr. _staktos_,
dropping, _metron_, a measure.]

STADDA, stad'a, _n._ a double-bladed hand-saw for cutting the teeth of
combs.

STADDLE, stad'l, _n._ anything that serves for support: a staff or crutch:
a stack-stand: a small tree. [A.S. _stathol_, foundation; Ger. _stadel_.]

STADE=_Stadium_ (q.v.).

STADIA, st[=a]'di-a, _n._ a temporary surveying station: an instrument for
measuring distances.--_n._ STADIOM'ETER, a self-recording theodolite.

STADIUM, st[=a]'di-um, _n._ a Greek measure of length, 600 podes=582
English feet, the Greek foot being .971 of an English foot:--_pl._
ST[=A]'DIA.

STADTHOLDER, stad-h[=o]l'd[.e]r, _n._ a barbarous English form of the Dutch
_Stadhouder_, 'stead-holder,' of which the French _lieu-tenant_ is a
literal translation, _Statthalter_ being the corresponding German.

STAFF, staf, _n._ a stick carried for support or defence: a prop: a long
piece of wood: pole: a flagstaff: the long handle of an instrument: a stick
or ensign of authority: the five lines and spaces on which music is
written: a stanza (the previous meanings have _pl._ STAFFS or STAVES,
st[=a]vz): a body of skilled officers whose duty it is, under orders from
the commanding officers of various grades, to arrange the movements and
supply of the various bodies which go to make up an army: a similar body of
persons in any undertaking, acting under a manager or chief (the last two
meanings have _pl._ STAFFS, stafs).--_ns._ STAFF'-CAPTAIN, the senior grade
in the navigating branch in the British navy; STAFF'-COLL'EGE, a college
where military officers are trained in the higher branches of professional
knowledge, and prepared for holding staff-appointments; STAFF'-CORPS, a
body of intelligent officers and men who performed engineering and siege
duties, made reconnaissances, &c. during the wars of Wellington; (INDIAN) a
body of British officers serving on the permanent Indian establishment,
appointed from it to do duty with native regiments, &c.; STAFF'-D[=U]'TY,
the occupation of an officer who serves on a staff, having been detached
from his regiment; STAFF'-NOT[=A]'TION, musical notation in which a staff
is used, as opposed to the tonic-solfa system; STAFF'-SUR'GEON, a navy
surgeon of senior grade; STAFF'-SYS'TEM, a block-system in use on
single-line railways in which the station-master gives the engine-driver a
staff authorising him to proceed over a given portion. [A.S. _stæf_; Ice.
_stafr_, Ger. _stab_.]

STAG, stag, _n._ the male deer, esp. one of the red deer:--_fem._ _Hind_: a
speculator who applies for shares or stock in new concerns quoted at a
premium, hoping to obtain an allotment and secure a profit without holding
the stock, one who sells new securities quoted at a premium before
allotment.--_v.t._ to follow, to dog, to shadow.--_v.i._ to act as a stag
on the stock-exchange.--_ns._ STAG'-BEE'TLE, a genus of Lamellicorn
beetles, nearly allied to the Scarabees, the males with large projecting
mandibles; STAG'-DANCE, -PART'Y, a dance or party of men only; STAG'HOUND,
a name applied both to the buck-hound and the Scottish deer-hound. [Ice.
_steggr_, a male animal, _stiga_, to mount.]

STAGE, st[=a]j, _n._ an elevated platform, esp. in a theatre: the theatre:
theatrical representations, the theatrical calling: any place of exhibition
or performance: a place of rest on a journey or road: distance between
places: degree of progress.--_v.t._ to represent or place for
representation on the stage.--_ns._ STAGE'-COACH, a coach that runs
regularly with passengers from stage to stage; STAGE'-CRAFT, skill in
putting a play on the stage; STAGE'-DOOR, the actors' entrance to a
theatre; STAGE'-DRIV'ER, one who drives a stage; STAGE'-EFFECT', theatrical
effect; STAGE'-F[=E]'VER, a passion to go on the stage; STAGE'-FRIGHT,
nervousness before an audience, esp. for the first time; STAGE'-MAN'AGER,
one who superintends the production of plays, and has general charge of
everything behind the curtain; STAGE'-PLAY, a play for representation on a
stage; STAGE'-PLAY'ER, a player on the stage; ST[=A]'GER, a stage-horse:
one who has had much experience in anything.--_adj._ STAGE'-STRUCK, sorely
smitten with stage-fever.--_ns._ STAGE'-WAG'ON, a wagon for conveying goods
and passengers at fixed times; STAGE'-WHIS'PER, a loud whisper, as that of
an actor meant to be heard by the audience.--_adjs._ ST[=A]'GEY, ST[=A]'GY,
suggesting the stage, theatrical.--_ns._ ST[=A]'GINESS; ST[=A]'GING, a
structure for workmen in building. [O. Fr. _estage_ (Fr. _étage_), a story
of a house, through a L. form _staticus_, from _st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STAGGER, stag'[.e]r, _v.i._ to reel from side to side: to begin to give
way: to begin to doubt: to hesitate.--_v.t._ to cause to reel: to cause to
doubt or hesitate: to shock.--_adv._ STAGG'ERINGLY.--_n._ STAGG'ERS, a
popular term applied to several diseases of horses.--GRASS, or STOMACH,
STAGGERS, an acute indigestion; MAD, or SLEEPY, STAGGERS, an inflammation
of the brain. [Ice. _stakra_, to push, freq. of _staka_, to push.]

STAGIRITE, STAGYRITE, staj'i-r[=i]t, _adj._ pertaining to _Stageira_ in
Macedonia.--_n._ a native or inhabitant thereof, esp. Aristotle (384-322
B.C.).

STAGNANT, stag'nant, _adj._ stagnating: not flowing: motionless: impure
from being motionless: not brisk: dull.--_n._ STAG'NANCY, the state of
being stagnant.--_adv._ STAG'NANTLY.--_v.i._ STAG'NATE, to cease to flow:
to become dull or motionless.--_n._ STAGN[=A]'TION, act of stagnating:
state of being stagnant or motionless: dullness. [L. _stagnans_, _-antis_,
pr.p. of _stagn[=a]re_.]

STAHLIANISM, stäl'i-an-izm, _n._ the doctrines of Georg Ernst _Stahl_, a
German physician (1660-1734), who held that there exists a mysterious force
residing in, but independent of, matter, not only forming the body, but
directing it in all its functions--also STAHL'ISM.--_adj._ STAHL'IAN.

STAID, st[=a]d, _adj._ steady: sober: grave.--_adv._ STAID'LY.--_n._
STAID'NESS. [For _stayed_--_stay_.]

STAIG, st[=a]g, _n._ (_Scot._) a young horse, a stallion.

STAIN, st[=a]n, _v.t._ to tinge or colour: to give a different colour to:
to impregnate, as a tissue, with some substance whose reaction colours some
parts but not others, thus making form or structure plainly visible: to
dye: to mark with guilt or infamy: to bring reproach on: to sully: to
tarnish.--_v.i._ to take or impart a stain.--_n._ a discoloration: a spot:
taint of guilt: cause of reproach: shame.--_n._ STAIN'ER, one who stains or
blots: a dyer.--_adj._ STAIN'LESS, without or free from stain.--_adv._
STAIN'LESSLY.--_n._ STAIN'LESSNESS.--STAINED GLASS, glass painted with
certain pigments fused into its surface. [Short for _distain_--O. Fr.
_desteindre_--L. _dis-_, away, _ting[)e]re_, to dye.]

STAIR, st[=a]r, _n._ a series of steps for ascending to a higher level: one
of such steps: a flight of steps, only in _pl._: (_Spens._) a
degree.--_ns._ STAIR'-CAR'PET, carpet suitable for stairs; STAIR'CASE, a
flight of stairs with balusters, &c.; STAIR'-ROD, one of a number of
metallic rods for holding a stair-carpet in its place.--_adv._ DOWN'STAIRS,
in the lower part of a house--opp. to _Upstairs_.--BACK-STAIRS, adjectively
for secret, underhand; BELOW STAIRS, in a lower story, in the basement.
[A.S. _st['æ]ager_--_stígan_, to ascend; Ger. _steigen_, to climb, Ice.
_stegi_, a step.]

STAITH, STATHE, st[=a]th, _n._ (_prov._) the extremity of a line of rails
laid on a platform, for discharging coals, &c., into vessels. [A.S.
_stæth_, _steth_, bank.]

STAKE, st[=a]k, _n._ a strong stick pointed at one end: one of the upright
pieces of a fence: a post to which an animal is tied, esp. that to which a
martyr was tied to be burned: martyrdom: a tinsmith's anvil: anything
pledged in a wager: a prize, anything to gain or lose.--_v.t._ to fasten,
or pierce with a stake: to mark the bounds of with stakes (often with off
and out): to wager, to hazard.--_ns._ STAKE'-HOLD'ER, the person with whom
the stakes in a wager are deposited; STAKE'-NET, a form of fishing-net hung
on stakes.--AT STAKE, hazarded, in danger. [A.S. _staca_, a stake.]

STALACTITE, sta-lak't[=i]t, _n._ a deposit of carbonate of lime, hanging
like an icicle from the roof of a cavern, formed by the dripping of
water.--_adjs._ STALAC'TIC, -AL, STALACTIT'IC, -AL, having the form or
properties of a stalactite; STALAC'TIFORM, like a stalactite. [Gr.
_stalaktos_--_stalazein_, to drip.]

STALAGMITE, sta-lag'm[=i]t, _n._ a deposit of carbonate of lime, &c., on
the floor of a cavern, usually cylindrical or conical in form, caused by
the dripping from the roof of water holding some substance in solution; it
is the counterpart to a _Stalactite_, and both are often fused together,
forming a _Stalactitic column_.--_adjs._ STALAGMIT'IC, -AL, having the form
of stalagmites.--_adv._ STALAGMIT'ICALLY. [Gr. _stalagmos_, a
dropping--_stalazein_, to drip.]

STAL'D, st[=a]ld, _pa.p._ (_Spens._) stolen, taken. [_Steal_.]

STALDER, stal'd[.e]r, _n._ (_prov._) a pile of wood: a cask-stand.

STALE, st[=a]l, _adj._ too long kept: tainted: vapid or tasteless from age,
as beer: not new: worn out by age: decayed: no longer fresh, trite: in
athletics, over-trained, hence unfit, as in 'gone stale.'--_n._ anything
become stale: urine of cattle, &c.: (_Shak._) a whore.--_v.t._ to render
insipid, to make common.--_v.i._ to make water, as beasts.--_adv._
STALE'LY.--_n._ STALE'NESS. [Prov. Eng. _stale_, conn. with Old Dut.
_stel_, old. Skeat makes _stale_ that which reminds one of the stable,
tainted, &c.--Sw. _stalla_, to put into a stall, also to stale (as
cattle)--Sw. _stall_, a stable.]

STALE, st[=a]l, _n._ something offered or exhibited as an allurement to
draw others to any place or purpose: (_Spens._) a decoy, a gull: (_Shak._)
a dupe, laughing-stock.--_n._ STALL, a thief's assistant. [A.S. _stalu_,
theft--_stelan_, to steal.]

STALE, st[=a]l, _n._ the handle of anything, a stalk. [A.S. _stæl_, _stel_,
a stalk.]

STALEMATE, st[=a]l'm[=a]t, _n._ in chess-playing, the position of the king
when he cannot move without being placed in check.--_v.t._ to put into a
condition of stalemate: to bring to a standstill.

STALK, stawk, _n._ the stem of a plant: the stem on which a flower or fruit
grows: the stem of a quill: the handle of anything, the stem: a tall
chimney.--_p.adj._ STALKED, having a stalk.--_adjs._ STALK'-EYED,
podophthalmous, as a crustacean; STALK'LESS, having no stalk; STALK'Y, hard
as a stalk: resembling a stalk. [An extension of A.S. _stæl_, _stel_ (cf.
Ice. _stilkr_, Dan. _stilk_); cog. with Ger. _stiel_, which is allied to,
perh. borrowed from, L. _stilus_, a stake.]

STALK, stawk, _v.i._ to walk as on stilts: to walk with long, slow steps:
to walk behind a stalking-horse: to pursue game by approaching behind
covers.--_v.t._ to approach secretly in order to kill, as deer.--_n._ a
stately step: the pursuit of game by stealthy approach.--_ns._ STALK'ER,
one who stalks, as a deer-stalker: a kind of fishing-net: (_pl._) the
Gradatores; STALK'ING, the act of approaching game warily or behind a
cover; STALK'ING-HORSE, a horse behind which a sportsman hides while
stalking game: a mask or pretence. [A.S. _stælcan_, to walk cautiously,
_stealc_, high; Dan. _stalke_, to walk with long steps.]

STALKOES, staw'k[=o]z, _n.pl._ walking gentlemen. [Ir. _stalcaire_, a
bully.]

[Illustration]

STALL, stawl, _n._ a place where a horse or other animal stands and is fed:
a division of a stable for a single animal: a stable: a bench or table on
which articles are exposed for sale: one of the seats in churches reserved
for the clergy and choir, usually lining the choir or chancel on both
sides, also an office entitling one to such a seat, or its stipend: a
reserved seat in a theatre, usually one of those in the front division of
the parquet--_orchestra stalls_.--_v.t._ to put or keep in a stall.--_v.i._
to inhabit.--_n._ STALL'AGE, liberty of erecting stalls in a fair or
market: rent paid for this liberty.--_adj._ STALLED, kept or fed in a
stall, fatted.--_v.t._ STALL'-FEED, to feed and fatten in a stall or
stable.--_ns._ STALL'ING (_Tenn._) stabling; STALL'INGER (_prov._), a
keeper of a stall; STALL'MAN, one who keeps a stall for the sale of any
article; STALL'-READER, one who stands and reads books at a bookstall.
[A.S. _steal_; Ice. _stallr_, Ger. _stall_.]

STALLION, stal'yun, _n._ an uncastrated male horse, esp. one kept for
breeding. [O. Fr. _estalon_ (Fr. _étalon_)--Late L. _equus ad stallum_, a
horse at stall.]

STALWART, stawl'wart, _adj._ stout, strong, sturdy: determined in one's
partisanship.--_n._ a resolute person.--(_arch._) STAL'WORTH.--_adv._
STAL'WARTLY.--_n._ STAL'WARTNESS--(_arch._) STAL'WORTHINESS. [M. E.
_stalworth_--A.S. _stæl-wyrthe_, serviceable. Prob. _stathol_,foundation,
_weorth_, good, worth.]

STAM, stam, _v.t._ (_prov._) to confound.--_n._ confusion.

[Illustration]

STAMEN, st[=a]'men, _n._ one of the male organs of a flower which produce
the pollen:--_pl._ ST[=A]'MENS.--_adj._ ST[=A]'MENED, having stamens.--_n._
STAM'INA (prop. _pl._), the principal strength of anything: the firm part
of a body which supports the whole.--_adjs._ STAM'INAL, STAMIN'[=E]OUS,
consisting of or possessing stamens: pertaining to, or attached to, the
stamen: apetalous, as certain flowers; STAM'INATE, -D, having or producing
stamens; STAMINIF'EROUS, STAMINIG'EROUS, bearing or having stamens.--_ns._
STAM'INODE, STAMIN[=O]'DIUM, an abortive stamen; STAM'INODY, a condition of
flowers in which sepals, pistils, &c. are metamorphosed into stamens. [L.
_stamen_ (pl. _stamina_)--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STAMMEL, stam'el, _n._ a kind of woollen cloth, dull red in colour: red
colour.--_adj._ made of stammel, or like it in colour. [Earlier
_stamin_--O. Fr. _estamine_--Low L. _stamina_--L. _stamineus_, _stamen_, a
thread.]

STAMMEL, stam'el, _n._ (_prov._) a stumbling horse: a bouncing girl.

STAMMER, stam'[.e]r, _v.i._ to halt in one's speech, the result of failure
in co-ordinate action of certain muscles and their appropriate nerves: to
falter in speaking: to stutter.--_v.t._ to utter with hesitation.--_n._
hesitation in speech: defective utterance.--_ns._ STAMM'ERER;
STAMM'ERING.--_adv._ STAMM'ERINGLY. [A.S. _stamor_; Dut. _stameren_.]

STAMNOS, stam'nos, _n._ an ancient Greek short-necked, two-handled
wine-vase. [Gr.]

STAMP, stamp, _v.t._ to strike with the sole of the foot, by thrusting it
down: to impress with some mark or figure: to imprint: to fix deeply: to
coin: to form: to pound, bray, crush, bruise.--_v.i._ to step or plant the
foot firmly down.--_n._ the act of stamping: the mark made by pressing
something on a soft body: an instrument for making impressions on other
bodies: that which is stamped: an official mark put on things chargeable
with duty, as proof that the duty is paid: an instrument for cutting
materials into a certain shape by a downward pressure: cast, form,
character: distinguishing mark, imprint, sign, evidence: a species of heavy
pestle, raised by water or steam power, for crushing and pulverising ores:
(_pl._) stamp-duties: (_slang_) money, esp. paper money.--_ns._ STAMP'-ACT,
an act for regulating stamp-duties; STAMP'-COLLECT'OR, an officer who
collects stamp-duties: one who makes a collection of postage or other
stamps; STAMP'-D[=U]'TY, a tax imposed on the paper on which legal
documents are written; STAMP'ER; STAMP'ING; STAMP'ING-MACHINE', a machine
used for stamping coins, in the stamping of brass-work, or in crushing
metallic ores; STAMP'-, STAMP'ING-MILL, a crushing-mill for ores;
STAMP'-NOTE, a certificate from a custom-house officer for goods to be
loaded as freight of a ship; STAMP'-OFF'ICE, an office where stamp-duties
are received and stamps issued.--STAMP OUT, to extinguish, extirpate. [A.S.
_stempan_; Ger. _stampfen_.]

STAMPEDE, stam-p[=e]d', _n._ a sudden fright seizing a herd of horses or
other cattle, causing them to run: flight, or any sudden confused movement
of a multitude, caused by panic.--_v.i._ to scamper off in panic. [Sp.
_estampido_, a crash--_estampar_, to stamp.]

STANCE, stans, _n._ (_Scot._) a station, site, stand.

STANCH, stänsh, _v.t._ to stop the flowing of, as blood: to quench,
allay.--_v.i._ (_B._) to cease to flow.--_adj._ constant: trusty: zealous:
sound, strong, firm.--_n._ STANCH'ER.--_adj._ STANCH'LESS (_Shak._), that
cannot be stanched or stopped.--_adv._ STANCH'LY.--_n._ STANCH'NESS. [O.
Fr. _estancher_ (Fr. _étancher_)--Low L. _stanc[=a]re_, to stanch--L.
_stagn[=a]re_, to be or make stagnant.]

STANCH, stänsh, _adj._ Same as STAUNCH.

STANCHION, stan'shun, _n._ an upright iron bar of a window or screen:
(_naut._) an upright beam used as a support.--_v.t._ to fasten by means of
or to a stanchion.--A Scotch form is STAN'CHEL. [O. Fr.
_estançon_--_estancer_, to stop, _estance_--Low L. _stantia_--L.
_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STAND, stand, _v.i._ to cease to move: to be stationary: to occupy a
certain position: to stagnate: to be at rest: to be fixed in an upright
position, to be erect, to be on the feet--as opposed to _sit_, _lie_,
_kneel_, &c.: to become or remain erect: to have a position or rank: to be
in a particular state, to be with relation to something else: to maintain
an attitude: to be fixed or firm: to keep one's ground: to remain
unimpaired: to endure, to be consistent: to consist: to depend or be
supported: to offer one's self as a candidate: to have a certain direction:
to hold a course at sea.--_v.t._ to endure: to sustain: to suffer: to abide
by: to be at the expense of, to offer and pay for:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
stood.--_ns._ STAND'ER; STAND'ER-BY (_Shak._), a spectator; STAND'ER-UP,
one who stands up or who takes a side.--_adj._ STAND'ING, established:
settled: permanent: fixed: stagnant: being erect.--_n._ continuance:
existence: place to stand in: position in society: a right or capacity to
sue or maintain an action.--_n._ STAND'ING-GROUND, a place on which to
stand, any basis or principle on which one rests.--_n.pl._
STAND'ING-OR'DERS, the name given to permanent regulations made by either
House of Parliament for the conduct of its proceedings, and enduring from
parliament to parliament unless rescinded.--_ns._ STAND'ING-POOL (_Shak._),
a pool of stagnant water; STAND'ING-RIG'GING, the ropes in a ship that
remain fixed; STAND'ING-ROOM, place in which to stand.--_n.pl._
STAND'ING-STONES, monoliths of unhewn stone, erected singly or in
groups.--_n._ STAND'ISH, a standing dish for pen and ink.--_adj._
STAND'-OFF, holding others off, reserved--also STAND'-OFF'ISH.--_ns._
STAND'-OFF'ISHNESS, a distant, reserved, and haughty manner; STAND'-PIPE, a
vertical pipe at a reservoir, into which the water is pumped up so as to
give it a head: a small pipe inserted into an opening in a water-main: a
pipe permitting expansion, as of hot water: a pipe sufficiently high for
its contents to be forced into a boiler against the steam-pressure;
STAND'-POINT, a station or position from which objects are viewed: a basis
or fundamental principle according to which things are compared and judged;
STAND'STILL, a standing without moving forward: a stop.--_adj._ STAND'-UP,
standing erect: done standing, noting a fair boxing-match.--STAND AGAINST,
to resist; STAND BY, to support; STAND FAST, to be unmoved; STAND FIRE, to
remain steady under the fire of an enemy--also figuratively; STAND FOR, to
be a candidate for: (_naut._) to direct the course towards; STAND FROM, to
direct the course from; STAND IN, to cost; STAND IN WITH, to have a secret
understanding with, as policemen with publicans; STAND LOW (_print._), to
fall short of the standard height; STAND OFF, to keep at a distance: to
direct the course from: (_Shak._) to forbear compliance or intimacy; STAND
OFF AND ON, to sail away from shore and then towards it; STAND ON, to
continue on the same tack or course: (_Shak._) to be satisfied or convinced
of; STAND ONE'S GROUND, to maintain one's position; STAND OUT, to project,
to be prominent: not to comply, to refuse to yield; STAND TO, to agree to,
adhere to, abide by, maintain; STAND TOGETHER, to agree, to be consistent
with; STAND TRIAL, not to give up without trial; STAND UNDER (_Shak._), to
undergo, to sustain; STAND UP, to rise from a sitting posture; STAND UP
FOR, to support or attempt to defend; STAND UPON (_B._), to attack; STAND
UP TO, to meet face to face, to fulfil manfully; STAND UP WITH, to dance
with as a partner; STAND WITH, to be consistent. [A.S. _standan_; Goth.
_standan_, Ger. _stehen_; cf. Gr. _histanai_, to place, L. _st[=a]re_, to
stand.]

STAND, stand, _n._ a place where one stands or remains for any purpose: a
place beyond which one does not go, the highest or ultimate point: an
erection for spectators at races, &c.: the place of a witness in court:
something on which anything rests, a frame for glasses, &c.: a stop,
obstruction, rest, quiescence: a state of cessation from action, motion, or
business: a state of perplexity or hesitation: a difficulty,
resistance.--BE AT A STAND, to stop on account of doubt or difficulty: to
hesitate, to be perplexed; MAKE A STAND, to halt and offer resistance; PUT
TO A STAND, to stop, arrest.

STANDARD, stand'ard, _n._ that which stands or is fixed, as a rule: the
upright post of a truss: that which is established as a rule or model: a
grade of classification in English elementary schools: a staff with a flag:
an ensign of war: one of the two flags of a heavy cavalry regiment:
(_hort._) a standing shrub or tree, not supported by a wall.--_adj._
according to some standard: legal: usual: having a fixed or permanent
value.--_n._ STAND'ARD-BEAR'ER, the soldier or junior officer who carries
the colours: the spokesman or representative of a movement. [O. Fr.
_estandart_--Old High Ger. _standan_, to stand, with suff. _-art._]

STANG, stang, _n._ a wooden bar, a pole.--RIDING THE STANG, a popular
manner of punishing an unpopular man by carrying him astride of a stang.
[A.S. _stæng_, a pole; Dut. _stang_.]

STANG, stang, _v.i._ (_prov._) to throb with pain--also a Scotch form of
_sting_.

STANHOPE, stan'h[=o]p, _n._ a light open one-seated carriage without a top,
formerly with two wheels, now usually with four.

STANIEL, stan'yel, _n._ the kestrel or windhover.--Also STAN'NEL, STAN'YEL.
[A.S. _stángella_.]

STANK, stangk, _pa.t._ of stink.

STANK, stangk, _n._ (_Scot._) a ditch, a pool, a tank. [O. Fr. _estang_, a
pond--L. _stagnum_, a stagnant pool.]

STANNARY, stan'ar-i, _adj._ of or relating to tin mines or works.--_n._ a
tin-mine.--_n._ STANN'ATE, a salt formed with stannic acid and a
base.--_adjs._ STANN'IC, pertaining to, or procured from, tin;
STANNIF'EROUS, producing or containing tin.--_n._ STANN'INE, a mineral of a
grayish-black colour, consisting chiefly of sulphur, tin, copper, and
iron.--_adj._ STANN'OUS, containing tin.--STANNARY COURTS, courts in
Cornwall for the tin-miners. [L. _stannum_, tin.]

STANZA, stan'za, _n._ a series of lines or verses connected with and
adjusted to each other in a fixed order of sequence as regards length and
metrical form: a division of a poem containing every variation of measure
in the poem.--_adj._ STANZ[=A]'IC. [It. _stanza_, a stop--Low L.
_stantia_--L. _st[=a]re_, stand.]

STAPELIA, sta-p[=e]'li-a, _n._ a genus of showy fleshy African plants of
the milkweed family. [From J. B. van _Stapel_.]

STAPES, st[=a]'p[=e]z, _n._ the inmost of the three auditory ossicles,
situated in the tympanum.--_adjs._ STAP[=E]'DIAL, stirrup-shaped:
pertaining to the stapes; STAPEDIF'EROUS, having a stapes.--_n._
STAP[=E]'DIUS, a stapedial muscle. [Low L. _stapes_, a stirrup--Old High
Ger. _stapf_, a step.]

STAPHYLINE, staf'i-lin, _adj._ of the form of a bunch of grapes.--_ns._
STAPH'YLE, the uvula; STAPHYL[=O]'MA, STAPHYL[=O]'SIS, a protrusion of any
of the coats of the eye.--_adjs._ STAPHYLOMAT'IC;
STAPHYL[=O]'MATOUS.--_ns._ STAPH'YLOPLASTY, the operation for replacing the
soft palate; STAPHYLOR'APHY, the operation of uniting a cleft palate;
STAPHYLOT'OMY, the amputation of the uvula. [Gr. _staphyl[=e]_, a bunch of
grapes, the uvula.]

STAPLE, st[=a]'pl, _n._ a settled mart or market: the principal production
or industry of a district or country: the principal element: the thread of
textile fabrics: unmanufactured material.--_adj._ established in commerce:
regularly produced for market.--_n._ ST[=A]'PLER, a dealer. [O. Fr.
_estaple_--Low Ger. _stapel_, a heap.]

STAPLE, st[=a]'pl, _n._ a loop of iron, &c., for holding a bolt, &c.: the
metallic tube to which the reed is fastened in the oboe, &c. [A.S.
_stapel_, a prop--_stapan_, step; cf. Ger. _stapel_.]

STAR, stär, _n._ one of the bright bodies in the heavens, except the sun
and moon: one of the heavenly bodies shining by their own light, and which
keep the same relative position in the heavens: anything star-like or
star-shaped: a representation of a star worn as a badge of rank or honour:
a person of brilliant or attractive qualities: the chief actor or actress
in a dramatic company: (_print._) an asterisk (*).--_v.t._ to set with
stars: to bespangle.--_v.i._ to shine, as a star: to attract attention: to
appear as a star-actor (TO STAR IT, esp. on a provincial tour):--_pr.p._
star'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ starred.--_ns._ STAR'-AP'PLE, the fruit of
the West Indian tree _Chrysophyllum Cainito_; STAR'-BLAST'ING, the noxious
influence of the stars.--_adjs._ STAR'-BLIND, so blind as not to see the
stars: half-blind; STAR'-BROI'DERED (_Tenn._), embroidered with figures in
the shape of stars.--_ns._ STAR'-BUZZ'ARD, an American goshawk;
STAR'-CAT'ALOGUE, a list of stars, with their places, magnitudes,
&c.--_adj._ STAR'-CROSSED, not favoured by the stars.--_ns._ STAR'-DRIFT, a
common proper motion of a number of fixed stars in the same region of the
heavens; STAR'-DUST, cosmic dust, matter in fine particles falling upon the
earth from some outside source, like meteorites; STAR'-FINCH, the redstart;
STAR'FISH (_Asteroidea_), an Echinoderm, nearly allied to the Brittle-stars
(_Ophiuroidea_) and to the Sea-urchins (_Echinoidea_); STAR'-FLOW'ER, one
of various plants with bright star-shaped flowers, the Star-of-Bethlehem:
chickweed; STAR'-FORT, a fort surrounded with projecting angles, like the
points of a star; STAR'-FRUIT, a small water-plant of southern Europe, with
long-pointed radiating carpels; STAR'-G[=A]Z'ER, an astrologer: an
astronomer; STAR'-G[=A]Z'ING, astrology; STAR'-GRASS, a grass-like plant,
with star-shaped, yellow flowers; STAR'-HY'ACINTH, a bulbous-rooted plant,
a species of squill, with pinkish purple flowers, found on the coast in the
south of England; STAR'-JELL'Y, the common species of nostoc.--_adj._
STAR'LESS, having no stars visible: having no light from stars.--_n._
STAR'LIGHT, light or lustre of the stars.--_adjs._ STAR'-LIKE, resembling a
star: radiated like a star: bright, illustrious; STAR'LIT, lighted by the
stars.--_ns._ STAR'-NOSE, a North American mole; STAR'-OF-BETH'LEHEM, a
garden plant of the lily family, with bright white star-like flowers: the
miraculous star of the Nativity (Matt. ii. 2, 9, 10).--_adj._ STAR'-PROOF
(_Milt._), impervious to starlight.--_n._ STAR'-READ (_Spens._), knowledge
of the stars, astrology.--_adj._ STARRED, adorned or studded with
stars.--_ns._ STAR'-REED, a South American plant used in Peru against
dysentery, &c.; STAR'RINESS.--_adj._ STAR'RY, abounding or adorned with
stars: consisting of, or proceeding from, the stars: like, or shining like,
the stars.--_n._ STARS'-AND-STRIPES, the flag of the United States of
America, with thirteen stripes alternately red and white, and a blue field
containing as many stars as there are states.--_adj._ STAR'-SPANG'LED,
spangled or studded with stars.--_n._ STAR'-STONE, a variety of corundum
which, when cut in a particular way, exhibits a reflection of light in the
form of a star.--_adj._ STAR'-STROWN (_Tenn._), strewn or studded with
stars.--_ns._ STAR'-THIS'TLE, a species of centaury, so called from its
star-like flowers; STAR'-WHEEL, a spur-wheel with V-shaped teeth;
STAR'WORT, a genus of plants nearly allied to the Asters, with star-like
flowers. [A.S. _steorra_; Ger. _stern_, L. _stella_ (for _sterula_), Gr.
_ast[=e]r_.]

STARBOARD, stär'b[=o]rd, _n._ the right-hand side of a ship, to one looking
toward the bow.--_adj._ pertaining to, or lying on, the right side of a
ship. [A.S. _steórbord_--_steór_, a rudder, _bord_, a board, the side of a
ship. Cf. _Board_ and _Larboard_.]

STARCH, stärch, _n._ the pure fecula or white farinaceous matter of
vegetables, yielding a translucent jelly used for stiffening clothes in the
laundry: stiffness, formality.--_adj._ stiff, rigid, formal.--_adj._
STARCHED, stiffened with starch: formal.--_adv._ STARCH'EDLY.--_ns._
STARCH'EDNESS; STARCH'ER; STARCH'-HY'ACINTH, a plant allied to the
hyacinth, so called from the smell of the flower.--_adv._ STARCH'ILY, in a
starch or stiff manner: formally.--_ns._ STARCH'INESS, the state or quality
of being starchy: stiffness of manner: formality; STARCH'-SU'GAR,
glucose.--_adj._ STARCH'Y, consisting of, or like, starch: stiff: precise.
[A special use of adj. _stark_; cf. Ger. _stärke_, starch--_stark_,
strong.]

STAR-CHAMBER, stär'-ch[=a]m'b[.e]r, _n._ a tribunal with a civil and
criminal jurisdiction, which met in the old council chamber of the palace
of Westminster, abolished in the reign of Charles I. [Probably named from
the gilt _stars_ on the ceiling, hardly from the Jewish bonds (called
_starrs_, from Heb. _shetar_) kept in the council-room.]

STARE, st[=a]r, _v.i._ to look at with a fixed gaze, as in horror,
astonishment, &c.: to look fixedly.--_v.t._ to influence in some way by
staring.--_n._ a fixed look.--_ns._ ST[=A]R[=EE]', one who is stared at;
ST[=A]'RER, one who stares or gazes; ST[=A]'RING, the act of
staring.--_adv._ ST[=A]'RINGLY, in a staring manner: with a fixed look.
[A.S. _starian_, from a Teut. root seen in Ger. _starr_, rigid; also in
Eng. _stern_.]

STARK, stärk, _adj._ stiff: gross: absolute: entire: naked, an abbreviation
of STARK'-N[=A]'KED, quite naked, which is really a corr. of M. E.
_start-naked_=tail-naked (A.S. _steort_, a tail).--_adv._ absolutely:
completely.--_v.t._ to make stark, as in death.--_v.t._ STARK'EN, to
stiffen, to make obstinate.--_adv._ STARK'LY.--_n._ STARK'NESS, the state
or quality of being stark: stiffness; stoutness. [A.S. _stearc_, hard,
strong; cog. Ice. _sterk-r_, Ger. _stark_.]

STARLING, stärling, _n._ a genus _Sturnus_ and family _Sturnidæ_ of
Passerine birds: (_archit._) a ring of piles supporting the pier of a
bridge. [Dim. from obs. _stare_--A.S. _stær_; Ger. _staar_, L. _sturnus_.]

STAROST, stär'ost, _n._ a Polish noble holding a STAR'OSTY or domain by
grant of life-estate from the crown. [Pol. _starosta_, elder--_stary_,
old.]

STARR. See under STAR-CHAMBER.

START, stärt, _v.i._ to move suddenly aside: to wince: to deviate: to
begin: to proceed: to give way somewhat.--_v.t._ to cause to move suddenly:
to disturb suddenly: to rouse suddenly from concealment: to set in motion:
to call forth: to invent or discover: to move suddenly from its place: to
loosen: to empty: to pour out.--_n._ a sudden movement: a sudden motion of
the body: a sudden rousing to action: an unexpected movement: a sally: a
sudden fit: a quick spring: the first motion from a point or place: the
outset.--_n._ START'ER, one who starts.--_adj._ START'FUL, apt to
start.--_adv._ START'INGLY (_Shak._), by fits or starts.--_ns._
START'ING-POINT, the point from which anything starts, or from which motion
begins; START'ING-POST, the post or barrier from which the competitors in a
race start or begin the race.--_adj._ START'ISH, apt to start,
skittish.--_ns._ START'-UP (_Shak._), an upstart; START'UPPE (_Spens._), a
kind of high shoe or half-boot.--START AFTER, to set out after, to pursue;
START UP, to rise suddenly, to come suddenly into notice.--GET, or HAVE,
THE START, to begin before another, to obtain an advantage over another.
[M. E. _sterten_; closely akin to Dut. and Low Ger. _storten_, to plunge,
Ger. _stürzen_.]

STARTLE, stärt'l, _v.i._ to start or move suddenly: to feel sudden
alarm.--_v.t._ to excite suddenly: to shock: to frighten.--_n._ sudden
alarm or surprise.--_n._ START'LER.--_adj._ START'LING, such as to strike
with astonishment or alarm.--_adv._ START'LINGLY.--_adj._ START'LISH, apt
to start. [Extension of _start_.]

STARVE, stärv, _v.i._ to die of hunger or cold: to suffer extreme hunger or
want: to be in want of anything necessary, to deteriorate for want of
anything essential.--_v.t._ to kill with hunger or cold: to destroy by
want: to deprive of power.--_n._ STARV[=A]'TION, act of starving: state of
being starved.--_adj._ STARVE'LING, hungry: lean: weak.--_n._ a thin, weak,
pining animal or plant. [A.S. _steorfan_, to die; Dut. _sterven_, Ger.
_sterben_, to die.]

STASIDION, sta-sid'i-on, _n._ a stall in a Greek church.

STASIMON, stas'i-mon, _n._ an ode sung by the whole chorus, after the
parode:--_pl._ STAS'IMA. [Gr.]

STASIMORPHY, stas'i-mor-fi, _n._ any deviation from the normal form of a
bodily organ due to arrested development [Gr. _stasis_, standing.]

STASIS, st[=a]'sis, _n._ the arrest of the blood in its circulation: one of
the sections of a cathisma or portion of the psalter. [Gr.]

STATANT, st[=a]'tant, _adj._ (_her._) standing with all the feet on the
ground. [L. _st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STATE, st[=a]t, _n._ position: condition: situation: circumstances at any
time: the whole body of people under one government: the public: the civil
power: estate, one of the orders or classes of men forming the body politic
(as nobles, clergy, commonalty): a body of men united by profession: rank,
quality: pomp: dignity: style of living: stability, continuance: (_pl._)
the bodies constituting the legislature of a country: (_obs._) a seat of
dignity: a stage, condition, as of an etched or engraved plate at one
particular stage of its progress.--_adj._ belonging to the state: public:
royal: ceremonial: pompous: magnificent.--_v.t._ to set forth: to express
the details of: to set down fully and formally: to narrate: to set in
order: to settle.--_adj._ ST[=A]T'ABLE, capable of being stated.--_ns._
STATE'-CRAFT, the art of managing state affairs; STATE'-CRIM'INAL, one who
commits an offence against the state, as treason.--_adj._ ST[=A]T'ED,
settled: established: fixed: regular.--_adv._ ST[=A]T'EDLY.--_ns._
STATE'-HOUSE, the building in which the legislature of a state holds its
sittings; ST[=A]TE'LINESS.--_adj._ ST[=A]TE'LY, showing state or dignity:
majestic: grand.--_adv._ majestically: (_Milt._) loftily.--_ns._
ST[=A]TE'MENT, the act of stating: that which is stated: a narrative or
recital; STATE'-P[=A]'PER, an official paper or document relating to
affairs of state; STATE'-PRIS'ON; STATE'-PRIS'ONER, a prisoner confined for
offence against the state; STATE'-RELIG'ION, the establishment or endowment
by the government of a country of some particular form of religion;
STATE'ROOM, a stately room in a palace or mansion: principal room in the
cabin of a ship; STATES'-GEN'ERAL, the name given to the representative
body of the three orders (nobility, clergy, burghers) of the French
kingdom; STATES'MAN, a man acquainted with the affairs of government: one
skilled in government: one employed in public affairs: a politician: one
who farms his own estate, a small landholder.--_adj._ STATES'MAN-LIKE, like
a statesman.--_adv._ STATES'MANLY, in a manner becoming a statesman.--_n._
STATES'MANSHIP.--STATE SOCIALISM, a scheme of government which would
entrust to the state the carrying on of the great enterprises of private
industry; STATES OF THE CHURCH, the former temporal possessions of the
popes. [O. Fr. _estat_ (Fr. _état_)--L. _status_, from _st[=a]re_,
_st[=a]tum_, to stand.]

STATER, st[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ the standard gold coin of ancient Greece.

STATIC, -AL, stat'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to statics: pertaining to
bodies at rest or in equilibrium: resting: acting by mere weight.--_adv._
STAT'ICALLY.--_n._ STAT'ICS, the science which treats of the action of
force in maintaining rest or preventing change of motion. [Gr. _statik[=e]_
(_epist[=e]m[=e]_, 'science,' being understood)--_hist[=e]mi_.]

STATION, st[=a]'shun, _n._ the place where a person or thing stands: post
assigned: position: office: situation: occupation, business: state: rank:
condition in life: the place where railway trains come to a stand in order
to take up and set down passengers and goods, the buildings erected at such
a place for railway business: a regular stopping-place: a stock farm in
Australia: a district or branch police-office: the place in India where the
group of English officials or the officers of a garrison reside: a recess
in a mine-shaft or passage for a pumping-machine: (_pl._) in R.C. usage,
applied to certain places of reputed sanctity, appointed to be visited as
places of prayer, any one of the fourteen (fifteen, or even eleven) images
or pictures ranged round a church, starting from one side of the high altar
and ending at the other, representing the several stages of the
Passion--the whole series the Way of Calvary.--_v.t._ to assign a station
to: to set: to appoint to a post, place, or office.--_adj._
ST[=A]'TIONAL.--_n._ ST[=A]'TIONARINESS.--_adj._ ST[=A]'TIONARY, pertaining
to a station: standing: fixed: settled: acting from, or in, a fixed
position (as an engine): not progressing or retrogressing: not
improving.--_n._ ST[=A]'TIONER, one who sells paper and other articles used
in writing.--_adj._ ST[=A]'TIONERY, belonging to a stationer.--_n._ the
articles sold by a stationer.--_ns._ ST[=A]'TION-HOUSE, a temporary place
of arrest; ST[=A]'TION-MAS'TER, one who has charge of a station, esp. on a
railway.--STATIONERS' HALL, the hall in London belonging to the Company of
the Stationers, who enjoyed until the passing of the Copyright Act in 1842
an absolute monopoly of printing and publishing; STATIONERY OFFICE, an
office in London for providing books, stationery, &c. to the government
offices at home and abroad, and for making contracts for the printing of
government reports and other public papers. [Fr.,--L. _statio_--_st[=a]re_,
to stand.]

STATIST, st[=a]'tist, _n._ a statesman, a politician.

STATISTICS, sta-tist'iks, _n._ a collection of facts and figures regarding
the condition of a people, class, &c.: the science which treats of the
collection and arrangement of facts bearing on the condition--social,
moral, and material--of a people.--_adjs._ STATIST'IC, -AL, pertaining to,
or containing, statistics.--_adv._ STATIST'ICALLY.--_n._ STATISTIC'IAN, one
skilled in statistics. [Coined (as if from a form _statistik[=e]_) from Gr.
_statizein_, to set up.]

STATIVE, st[=a]'tiv, _adj._ standing still, pertaining to a permanent camp:
indicating a physical state or reflex action, of certain Hebrew verbs.

STATUE, stat'[=u], _n._ a likeness of a human being or animal carved out of
some solid substance: an image--(_obs._) STAT'UA.--_n._ STAT'[=U]ARY, the
art of carving statues: a statue or a collection of statues: one who makes
statues: a dealer in statues.--_adj._ STAT'UED, furnished with
statues.--_n._ STATUETTE', a small statue. [Fr.,--L.
_statua_--_statu[)e]re_, to cause lo stand--_st[=a]re_.]

STATUESQUE, stat-[=u]-esk', _adj._ like a statue.--_adv._ STATUESQUE'LY.
[Fr.]

STATURE, stat'[=u]r, _n._ the height of any animal.--_adj._ STAT'URED,
having a certain specified stature. [L. _statura_.]

STATUS, st[=a]'tus, _n._ state: condition: rank. [L.]

STATUTE, stat'[=u]t, _n._ a law expressly enacted by the legislature (as
distinguished from a customary law or law of use and wont): a written law:
the act of a corporation or its founder, intended as a permanent rule or
law.--_adj._ STAT'[=U]TABLE, made by statute: according to statute.--_adv._
STAT'[=U]TABLY.--_ns._ STAT'UTE-BOOK, a record of statutes or enacted laws;
STAT'UTE-CAP (_Shak._), a kind of cap enjoined to be worn by a statute
passed in 1571 in behalf of the cap-makers; STAT'UTE-ROLL, an enrolled
statute.--_adj._ STAT'[=U]TORY, enacted by statute: depending on statute
for its authority. [L. _statutum_, that which is set up--_statu[)e]re_.]

STAUNCH, stawnsh, _adj._ firm in principle, pursuit, or support: trusty,
hearty, constant, zealous.--_adv._ STAUNCH'LY.--_n._ STAUNCH'NESS.
[_Stanch_.]

STAUROLITE, stawr'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a silicate of alumina with ferrous
oxide, magnesia, and water, crystallising in trimetric forms, common as
twinned cruciform crystals in certain states.--_adj._ STAUROLIT'IC.

STAVE, st[=a]v, _n._ one of the pieces of which a cask is made: a staff or
part of a piece of music: a stanza.--_v.t._ to break a stave or the staves
of: to break: to burst: to drive off, as with a staff: to delay:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ st[=a]ved or st[=o]ve. [By-form of _staff_.]

STAVES, st[=a]vz, plural of _staff_ and of _stave_.

STAVESACRE, st[=a]vz'[=a]-k[.e]r, _n._ a tall larkspur whose seeds yield
delphinin for destroying lice. [O. Fr. _stavesaigre_--Low L.
_staphisagria_--Gr. _staphis_, dried grapes, _agrios_, wild.]

STAW, staw, _v.i._ (_prov._) to stand still, become fixed.--_v.t._
(_Scot._) to surfeit, to scunner at.--_n._ a surfeit.

STAW, staw, a Scotch form of _stole_.

STAY, st[=a], _v.i._ to remain: to abide for any time: to continue in a
state: to wait: to cease acting: to dwell: to trust.--_v.t._ to cause to
stand: to stop: to restrain: to delay: to prevent from falling: to prop: to
support, rest, rely:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stayed, staid.--_n._ continuance
in a place: abode for a time: stand: stop: a fixed state: a standstill:
suspension of a legal proceeding: prop, support: (_pl._) a kind of stiff
inner waistcoat worn by women.--_ns._ STAY'-AT-HOME, one who keeps much at
home--also _adj._; STAY'-BOLT, a bolt or rod binding together opposite
plates; STAY'ER, one who, or that which, stops, holds, or supports: a
person or animal of good lasting or staying qualities for a race, &c.;
STAY'-LACE, a lace for fastening a bodice; STAY'-M[=A]'KER, one whose
occupation is to make stays.--STAY THE STOMACH, to allay the cravings of
hunger for the time. [O. Fr. _estayer, estaye_--Old Dut. _stade_, a stay.]

STAY, st[=a], _n._ a large strong rope running from the head of one mast to
another mast ('fore-and-aft' stay), or to the side of the ship
('back'-stay): the transverse piece in a chain-cable link.--_v.t._ to
support or to incline to one side by means of stays: to put on the other
tack, to cause to go about.--_v.i._ to change tack, to go about, to be in
stays.--_ns._ STAY'SAIL, a sail extended on a stay; STAY'-TACK'LE, a large
hoisting tackle fixed by a pendant to the mainstay of a ship.--MISS STAYS
(see MISS). [A.S. _stæg_; Dut. _stag_, Ger. _stag_.]

STAYED, st[=a]d, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as _Staid_, constant.

STAYNE, st[=a]n, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to dim, deface, or disparage. [A form of
_stain_.]

STAYRE, st[=a]r, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as _Stair_, a step.

STEAD, sted, _n._ the place which another had or might have: a fixed place
of abode: use, help, service, as in 'To stand in good stead.'--_n._
STEADING, the barns, stables, &c. of a farm. [A.S. _stede_, place; Ger.
_stadt, statt_, place, Dut. _stad_, a town.]

STEADFAST, sted'fast, _adj._ firmly fixed or established: firm: constant:
resolute: steady.--_adv._ STEAD'FASTLY.--_n._ STEAD'FASTNESS. [A.S.
_stedefæst, stede_, a place, _fæst_, firm, fast.]

STEADY, sted'i, _adj._ (_comp._ STEAD'IER, _superl._ STEAD'IEST) firm in
standing or in place: fixed: stable: constant: resolute: consistent:
regular: uniform: sober, industrious.--_v.t._ to make steady: to make or
keep firm:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stead'ied.--_n._ a rest or support, as for
the hand, a tool, or a piece of work.--_adv._ STEAD'ILY.--_n._
STEAD'INESS.--_adj._ STEAD'Y-G[=O]'ING, of steady habits or action. [A.S.
_stæ_ðð_ig_--_stæ_ð, stead, bank; Ger. _stätig_, continual.]

STEAK, st[=a]k, _n._ a slice of meat (esp. beef) broiled, or for broiling.
[Prob. Ice. _steik, steikja_, to broil.]

STEAL, st[=e]l, _v.t._ to take by theft or feloniously: to take away
without notice: to gain or win by address, insidiously, or by gradual
means: to snatch: in golf, to hole a long putt by a stealthy stroke--the
opposite of _Gobble._--_v.i._ to practise theft: to take feloniously: to
pass secretly: to slip in or out unperceived:--_pa.t._ st[=o]le; _pa.p._
st[=o]len.--_ns._ STEAL'ER; STEAL'ING, the act of taking another's property
without his knowledge or consent: stolen property.--_adv._
STEAL'INGLY.--STEAL A MARCH ON, to gain an advantage unperceived. [A.S.
_stelan_; Ger. _stehlen_, Dut. _stelen_.]

STEAL, st[=e]l, _n._ (_Spens._) a handle.

STEALTH, stelth, _n._ the act of stealing: a secret manner of bringing
anything to pass.--_adv._ STEALTH'ILY.--_n._ STEALTH'INESS.--_adj._
STEALTH'Y, done by stealth: unperceived: secret.

STEAM, st[=e]m, _n._ the vapour of water--when dry, invisible and
transparent like air, and not to be confused with the semi-liquid cloud
which comes from the chimney of a locomotive; when superheated, changing
the characteristics of a vapour for those belonging to what is known as a
'perfect gas:' the mist formed by condensed vapour: any vaporous
exhalation: energy, force, spirit.--_v.i._ to rise or pass off in steam or
vapour: to move by steam.--_v.t._ to expose to steam.--_ns._ STEAM'BOAT,
STEAM'SHIP, STEAM'-VESS'EL, a boat, ship, or vessel propelled by steam;
STEAM'-BOIL'ER, a boiler for generating steam; STEAM'-CARRIAGE, a carriage
moved by steam on common roads; STEAM'-CHEST, -DOME, a chamber above a
steam-boiler serving as a reservoir for steam; STEAM'-CRANE, a crane worked
by a steam-engine; STEAM'-DIG'GER, a machine for digging the soil by means
of steam-power, the soil being thereby much more thoroughly pulverised than
by ploughing; STEAM'-EN'GINE, an engine or machine which changes heat into
useful work through the medium of steam; STEAM'ER, a vessel moved by steam:
a road-locomotive, &c.: a vessel in which articles are steamed;
STEAM'-GAUGE, an instrument for measuring the pressure of steam in a
boiler; STEAM'-GOV'ERNOR, the governor of a steam-engine; STEAM'-GUN, a gun
projecting a missile by means of steam; STEAM'-HAMM'ER, a hammer consisting
of a steam cylinder and piston placed vertically over an anvil, the hammer
moved by the action of the steam; STEAM'INESS, the quality of being
vaporous or misty; STEAM'-JACK'ET, a hollow casing surrounding any vessel
and into which steam may be admitted; STEAM'-LAUNCH (see LAUNCH);
STEAM'-NAVIG[=A]'TION, the propulsion of vessels by steam; STEAM'-NAV'VY,
an excavator operated by steam in the making of docks, canals, &c.;
STEAM'-PACK'ET, a steam-vessel plying between certain ports; STEAM'-PIPE, a
pipe for conveying steam; STEAM'-PLOUGH, a plough or gang of ploughs worked
by a steam-engine; STEAM'-POW'ER, the force of steam when applied to
machinery; STEAM'-PRESS, a printing-press worked by steam;
STEAM'-PRINT'ING, printing in which the presses are operated by steam;
STEAM'-TRAP, a contrivance for allowing the passage of water while
preventing the passage of steam; STEAM'-TUG, a small steam-vessel used in
towing ships; STEAM'-WHIS'TLE, an apparatus attached to a steam-engine
through which steam is discharged, producing a sound in the manner of a
common whistle.--_adj._ STEAM'Y, consisting of, or like, steam: full of
steam or vapour.--_n._ STEAM'-YACHT, a yacht propelled by steam. [A.S.
_steám_; cog. with Dut. _stoom_.]

STEAN, STEEN, st[=e]n, _n._ a stone or earthenware vessel.--_n._ STEAN'ING,
the stone or brick lining of a well, &c. [A.S. _stæn_, stone.]

STEARE, st[=e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a steer or ox.

STEARINE, st[=e]'a-r[=i]n, _n._ one of the fats occurring in animals and
plants, the chief constituent of the more solid fats, such as mutton
suet.--_n._ ST[=E]'AR[=A]TE, a salt formed by the combination of stearic
acid with a base.--_adj._ ST[=E]AR'IC, pertaining to, or obtained from,
stearine.--_n._ ST[=E]ARRH[=E]'A, an abnormal increase of secretion from
the oil-glands of the skin.--STEARIC ACID, an acid abundant in fats. [Gr.
_stear_, _steatos_, suet--_histanai_, to make to stand, to fix.]

STEATITE, st[=e]'a-t[=i]t, _n._ soapstone, a compact or massive variety of
talc, a hydrous silicate of magnesia, white or yellow, soft and greasy to
the touch--used by tailors for marking cloth, and called _Briançon Chalk_,
_French Chalk_, and _Venice Talc_.--_adj._ ST[=E]ATIT'IC.--_ns._
ST[=E]AT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the fatty tissue; ST[=E]'ATOCELE, a fatty
tumour in the scrotum; ST[=E]AT[=O]'MA, a fatty encysted tumour.--_adj._
ST[=E]ATOM'ATOUS.--_n._ ST[=E]ATOP'YGA, an accumulation of fat on the
buttocks of the Bushmen women.--_adj._ ST[=E]ATOP'YGOUS,
fat-buttocked.--_n._ ST[=E]AT[=O]'SIS, fatty degeneration of an organ, as
the heart. [Gr. _steatit[=e]s_--_stear_, _steatos_, suet.]

STEBOY, ste-boi', _interj._ a cry in setting on a dog.--Also HIST'ABOY.

STEDFAST=_Steadfast_.

STEED, st[=e]d, _n._ a horse or stallion, esp. a spirited horse. [A.S.
_stéda_, from _stód_, a stud; Ger. _stute_, a stud-mare, _ge-stüte_, a
stud.]

STEEDY, st[=e]d'i, _adj._ (_Spens._) steady.

STEEK, st[=e]k, _n._ (_Scot._) a stitch.--_v.t._ to pierce, to stitch: to
close.

STEEL, st[=e]l, _n._ iron combined in varying proportions with carbon for
making edged tools: any instrument or weapon of steel: an instrument of
steel for sharpening knives on: a strip of steel for stiffening a corset: a
piece of steel for striking fire from a flint: extreme hardness: a
chalybeate medicine.--_adj._ made of steel: hard, unfeeling.--_v.t._ to
overlay or edge with steel: to harden: to make obdurate.--_adj._
STEEL'-CLAD, clad with steel-mail.--_ns._ STEEL'-ENGRAVING, the art of
engraving pictures on steel plates from which impressions may be taken, the
impression or print so taken; STEEL'INESS, state of being steely, great
hardness; STEEL'ING, the welding of a steel edge on a cutting instrument;
STEEL'-PEN, a pen-nib made of steel; STEEL'-PLATE, a plate of steel: a
plate of polished steel on which a design is engraved, the print taken from
such.--_adj._ STEEL'-PL[=A]T'ED, plated with steel.--_n.pl._ STEEL'-TOYS,
small articles of steel as buttons, buckles, &c.--_n._ STEEL'-WARE,
articles made of steel collectively.--_adj._ STEEL'Y, made of steel:
steel-like. [A.S. _stýle_; Ger. _stahl_.]

STEELBOW, st[=e]l'b[=o], _n._ (_Scots law_) a term for goods, such as corn,
cattle, straw, and implements of husbandry delivered by the landlord to his
tenant, by means of which the latter is enabled to stock and labour the
farm, and in consideration of which he becomes bound to return articles
equal in quantity and quality at the expiration of the lease.

STEELYARD, st[=e]l'yärd, _n._ the Roman balance, an instrument for
weighing, consisting of a lever with unequal arms, in using which a single
weight or counterpoise is employed, being moved along a graduated beam.
[Orig. the _yard_ in London where _steel_ was sold by German merchants.]

STEEM, st[=e]m (_Spens._). Same as ESTEEM.

STEEN. See STEAN.

STEENBOK, st[=a]n'bok, _n._ one of several small African antelopes. [Dut.,
_steen_, stone, _bok_, buck.]

STEENKIRK, st[=e]n'kerk, _n._ a lace cravat loosely worn, so named from the
defeat of William III. by Luxembourg at _Steenkerke_, August 3, 1692.

STEEP, st[=e]p, _adj._ rising or descending with great inclination:
precipitous: difficult, excessive, exorbitant.--_n._ a precipitous place: a
precipice.--_adj._ STEEP'-DOWN (_Shak._), deep and precipitous.--_v.i._
STEEP'EN, to become steep.--_ns._ STEEP'INESS, STEEP'NESS, the state or
quality of being steep.--_adv._ STEEP'LY.--_adj._ STEEP'Y, steep. [A.S.
_steáp_; Ice. _steypthr_.]

STEEP, st[=e]p, _v.t._ to dip or soak in a liquid: to imbue.--_n._
something steeped or used in steeping: a fertilising liquid for seed:
rennet.--_n._ STEEP'ER, a vessel in which articles are steeped. [Scand.,
Ice. _steypa_, to make to stoop, pour out, causal of _stúpa_, to stoop.]

STEEPLE, st[=e]p'l, _n._ a tower of a church or building, ending in a
point: the high head-dress of the 14th century.--_adj._ STEEP'LED,
furnished with a steeple: adorned with, or as with, steeples or
towers.--_ns._ STEEP'LE-HAT, a high and narrow-crowned hat; STEEP'LE-HOUSE,
an old Quaker name for the building in which believers meet for worship;
STEEP'LEJACK, one who climbs steeples and chimney-stalks to make repairs.
[A.S. _stýpel_, _stepel_--_steáp_, steep.]

STEEPLECHASE, st[=e]p'l-ch[=a]s, _n._ a horserace run across the open
country, over hedges, ditches, walls, and other obstacles.--_n._
STEEP'LECH[=A]SER, one who rides such.

STEER, st[=e]r, _n._ a young ox, esp. a castrated one from two to four
years old.--_n._ STEER'LING, a little or young steer. [A.S. _steór_; Ger.
_stier_.]

STEER, st[=e]r, _v.t._ to direct with the helm: to guide: to
govern.--_v.i._ to direct a ship in its course: to be directed: to
move.--_ns._ STEER'AGE, act or practice of steering: the effect of a rudder
on the ship: an apartment in the fore-part of a ship for passengers paying
a lower rate of fare; STEER'AGE-WAY, sufficient movement of a vessel to
enable it to be controlled by the helm; STEER'ER, STEERS'MAN, a man who
steers a ship; STEER'ING; STEER'ING-WHEEL, the wheel by which the rudder of
a ship is turned. [A.S. _steóran_, _stýran_, to steer; Ger. _steuern_.]

STEER, st[=e]r, _n._ a Scotch form of _stir_.

STEEVE, st[=e]v, _n._ a spar with a block at the end for packing close
certain kinds of cargo: the angle which the bowsprit of a ship makes with
the horizon or the line of her keel.--Also STEEV'ING.

STEEVE, st[=e]v, _adj._ (_Scot._) stiff, firm.--_adv._ STEEVE'LY.

STEEVE, st[=e]v, _v.t._ to stuff, pack close.--_n._ STEEV'ING.

STEGANOGRAPHY, steg-an-og'ra-fi, _n._ the art of writing in cipher or
secret characters.--_n._ STEGANOG'RAPHIST, one who writes in cipher. [Gr.
_steganos_, concealed--_stegein_, to cover, _graphein_, to write.]

STEGANOPUS, ste-gan'[=o]-pus, _n._ a genus of phalaropes with long slender
bill.--_adjs._ STEG'ANOPOD, STEGANOP'ODOUS, having all four toes webbed,
totipalmate.--_n.pl._ STEGANOP'ODES, an order of swimming birds, with all
four toes webbed and a gular pouch--cormorants, frigate-birds, pelicans,
gannets. [Gr. _steganos_, covered, _pous_, _podos_, foot.]

STEGNOSIS, steg-n[=o]'sis, _n._ constriction of the pores and vessels:
constipation.--_adj._ STEGNOT'IC.

STEGOCEPHALOUS, steg-[=o]-sef'a-lus, _adj._ with the head mailed, loricate,
cataphract. [Gr. _stegein_, to cover, _kephal[=e]_, the head.]

STEGOGNATHOUS, ste-gog'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ having a jaw composed of
imbricated plates. [Gr. _stegein_, to cover, _gnathos_, the jaw.]

STEGOPTEROUS, ste-gop'te-rus, _adj._ roof-winged, keeping the wings
deflexed when at rest. [Gr. _stegein_, to cover, _pteron_, a wing.]

STEGOSAURIAN, steg-[=o]-saw'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the STEGOSAU'RIA,
an order or suborder of dinosaurs, represented by the families
_Stegosauridæ_ and _Scelidosauridæ_.--_n._ STEGOSAU'RUS, the typical genus
of _Stegosauridæ_, with enormous bucklers and spines. [Gr. _stegein_, to
cover, _sauros_, a lizard.]

STEINBERGER, st[=i]n-ber'g[.e]r, _n._ an esteemed Rhenish white wine,
produced near Wiesbaden.

STEINBOCK, STEENBOK, st[=e]n'bok, _n._ the name given in German Switzerland
to the ibex of the Alps. [Ger. _stein_, stone, rock, _bock_, _buck_,
he-goat.]

STELE, st[=e]'l[=e], _n._ an upright stone slab or tablet, either
sepulchral or on which laws, decrees, &c. are inscribed--also
ST[=E]'LA.--_adj._ ST[=E]'LENE.--_n._ STELOG'RAPHY, the practice of writing
on steles. [L.,--Gr. _st[=e]l[=e]_--_histanai_, to set, stand.]

STELECHITE, stel'e-k[=i]t, _n._ a fine variety of storax.

STELL, stel, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to place, set.

[Illustration]

STELLAR, stel'ar, STELLARY, stel'ar-i, _adj._ relating to the stars:
starry.--_n._ STELL[=A]'RIA, a genus of tufted plants of the pink
family--the chickweeds or starworts.--_adjs._ STELL'[=A]TE, -D, like a
star: radiated; STELLED (_Milt._), starry: (_Shak._) set or fixed;
STELLIF'EROUS, thickly abounding with stars; STELL'IFORM, star-shaped;
STELL'ULAR, formed like little stars; STELL'ULATE (_bot._), like a little
star. [L. _stellaris_--_stella_, a star.]

STELLION, stel'yun, _n._ an agamoid lizard.

STELTHS, stelths, _n.pl._ (_Spens._) thefts.

STEM, stem, _n._ the ascending axis of a plant, which usually bears leaves
and flowers, and maintains communication between the roots and the leaves:
the little branch supporting the flower or fruit: a race or family: branch
of a family.--_n._ STEM'-LEAF, a leaf growing from the stem.--_adj._
STEM'LESS (_bot._), wanting a stem, or having it so little developed as to
seem to be wanting.--_ns._ STEM'LET, a little or young stem; STEM'MA, a
pedigree or family tree: an ocellus.--_adjs._ STEM'MATOUS; STEMMED. [A.S.
_stæfn_, _stefn_, _stemn_, from _stæf_, a staff; Ger. _stab_.]

STEM, stem, _n._ the prow of a ship: a curved piece of timber at the prow
to which the two sides of a ship are united.--_v.t._ to cut, as with the
stem: to resist or make progress against: to stop, to check:--_pr.p._
stem'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stemmed.--FROM STEM TO STERN, from one end
of a vessel to the other: completely, throughout. [Same word as above.]

STEME, st[=e]m, _v.t._ an obsolete form of _steam_.

STEMPEL, stem'pel, _n._ a timber helping to support a platform.--Also
STEM'PLE.

STEMSON, stem'sun, _n._ an arching piece of compass-timber behind the apron
of a vessel, and supporting its scarfs.

STENCH, stensh, _n._ stink: a strong bad odour or smell.--_adj._ STENCH'Y.
[A.S. _stenc_; Ger. _stank_.]

STENCIL, sten'sil, _n._ a plate of metal, &c., with a pattern cut out,
which is impressed upon a surface by drawing a brush with colour over
it.--_v.t._ to print or paint by means of a stencil:--_pr.p._ sten'cilling;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sten'cilled.--_ns._ STEN'CILLER, one who does
stencil-work; STEN'CILLING, a method of printing letters or designs, the
pattern cut out on a thin plate, and brushed over so as to mark the surface
below. [O. Fr. _estinceller_, _estincelle_--L. _scintilla_, a spark.]

STEND, stend, _v.i._ (_prov._) to rear, leap, walk with long strides.--_n._
a leap.

STENOCHROME, sten'[=o]-kr[=o]m, _n._ a print from a series of
pigment-blocks arranged.--_n._ STEN'OCHROMY, the art of printing in several
colours at one impression. [Gr. _stenos_, narrow, _chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

STENOGRAPHY, sten-og'ra-fi, _n._ art of writing very quickly by means of
abbreviations: shorthand.--_n._ STEN'OGRAPH, a character used in
stenography: a stenographic machine.--_v.i._ to represent by means of
stenography.--_ns._ STENOG'RAPHER, STENOG'RAPHIST.--_adjs._ STENOGRAPH'IC,
-AL. [Gr. _stenos_, narrow, _graphein_, to write.]

STENOPAIC, sten-[=o]-p[=a]'ik, _adj._ having a narrow opening. [Gr.
_stenos_, narrow, _op[=e]_, an opening.]

STENOSIS, sten-[=o]'sis, _n._ constriction of the pores and vessels:
constipation.--_adjs._ STENOSED', contracted morbidly; STENOT'IC,
abnormally contracted. [Gr., _stenos_, narrow.]

STENOTYPY, sten'o-t[=i]p-i, _n._ a system of shorthand representing by
ordinary letters shortened signs of words or phrases.--_n._ STEN'OTYPE,
such a symbolic letter or combination of letters.--_adj._ STENOTYP'IC.

STENT, stent, _v.t._ (_prov._) to stint, restrain.--_n._ extent, limit,
amount of work required. [_Stint_.]

STENTOR, stent'or, _n._ a very loud-voiced herald in the Iliad, hence any
person with a remarkably loud voice: the ursine howler.--_adj._
STENT[=O]'RIAN, very loud or powerful. [Gr.]

STEP, step, _n._ a pace: the distance crossed by the foot in walking or
running: a small space: degree: one remove in ascending or descending a
stair: round of a ladder: footprint: manner of walking: proceeding: action:
the support on which the lower end of a mast, or staff, or a wheel rests:
(_pl._) walk, direction taken in walking: a self-supporting ladder with
flat steps.--_v.i._ to advance or retire by pacing: to walk: to walk slowly
or gravely: to walk a short distance: to move mentally.--_v.t._ to set, as
a foot: to fix, as a mast:--_pr.p._ step'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
stepped.--_ns._ STEP'PER, one who steps; STEP'PING-STONE, a stone for
stepping on to raise the feet above the water or mud; STEP'STONE, a
door-step.--STEP ASIDE, to walk to a little distance, as from company: to
err; STEP IN, or INTO, to enter easily or unexpectedly; STEP OUT, to go out
a little way: to increase the length of the step and so the speed; STEP
SHORT, to shorten the length of one's step. [A.S. _stæpe_--_stapan_, to go;
Dut. _stap_, Ger. _stapfe_.]

STEP-CHILD, step'-ch[=i]ld, _n._ one who stands in the relation of a child
through the marriage of a parent--also STEP'-BAIRN. So STEP'-BROTH'ER;
STEP'-DAUGH'TER; STEP'-FA'THER; STEP'-MOTH'ER, or -DAME; STEP'-SIS'TER;
STEP'-SON.--_n._ STEP'-COUN'TRY, an adopted country. [A.S. _steóp-_, as in
_steóp-módor_; Ger. _stieb-_; orig. an _adj._ sig. _bereft_.]

STEPHANE, stef'a-n[=e], _n._ an ancient Greek head-dress like a coronet.
[Gr.,--_stephein_, to crown.]

STEPHANITE, stef'a-n[=i]t, _n._ a metallic iron-black silver
sulph-antimonite.--Also _Brittle silver ore_ and _Sulph-antimonite of
silver_.

STEPHANOTIS, stef-a-n[=o]'tis, _n._ a genus of shrubby twining plants of
the milkweed family. [Gr. _stephanos_, a crown, _ous_, _[=o]tos,_ the ear.]

STEPPE, step, _n._ one of the vast uncultivated plains in the south-east of
Europe and in Asia. [Russ. _stepe_.]

STERCORAL, ster'ko-ral, _adj._ pertaining to excrement--also STER'CORARY,
STERCOR[=A]'CEOUS.--_ns._ STER'CORANIST, STERCOR[=A]'RIAN, one who held
that the sacramental bread was digested and evacuated like other food;
STERCOR[=A]'RIANISM; STERCOR[=A]'RIUS, a genus of _Laridæ_, the
dung-hunters or skuas.--_v.t._ STER'CORATE, to manure.

STERCULIA, ster-k[=u]'li-a, _n._ the typical genus of _Sterculiaceæ_, a
family of large trees and shrubs, with mucilaginous and demulcent
properties--Gum-tragacanth, &c. [L. _stercus_, dung.]

STERE, st[=e]r, _n._ a cubic unit of metric measure--a cubic mètre,
equivalent to 35.3156 English cubic feet.--_Decastère_=10 steres;
_Decistère_=1/10 stere. [Fr. _stère_--Gr. _stereos_, solid.]

STEREO, ster'[=e]-[=o], _adj._ and _n._ a contr. of _stereotype_.

STEREOBATE, ster'[=e]-[=o]-b[=a]t, _n._ the substructure on which a
building is based.--_adj._ STEREOBAT'IC. [Gr. _stereos_, solid, _batos_,
verbal of _bainein_, to go.]

STEREOCHROMY, ster'[=e]-[=o]-kr[=o]-mi, _n._ a process of painting on stone
or plaster-work, the colours rendered permanent by a solution of fluoric
acid.--_n._ ST[=E]'REOCHROME, a picture of this kind.--_adj._
STEREOCHR[=O]'MIC.--_adv._ STEREOCHR[=O]'MICALLY. [Gr. _stereos_, hard,
_chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

STEREOELECTRIC, ster'[=e]-[=o]-[=e]-lek'trik, _adj._ pertaining to electric
currents produced when two solids are brought together at different
temperatures.

STEREOGRAPH, st[=e]'r[=e]-[=o]-graf, _n._ a double photograph for viewing
in a stereoscope--also ST[=E]'R[=E][=O]GRAM.--_adjs._ STER[=E]OGRAPH'IC,
-AL, pertaining to stereography: made according to stereography: delineated
on a plane.--_adv._ STER[=E]OGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ STER[=E]OG'RAPHY, the art
of showing solids on a plane. [Gr. _stereos_, hard, _graphein_, to write.]

STEREOMETER, st[=e]-re-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
specific gravity of bodies solid and liquid.--_adjs._ STER[=E]OMET'RIC,
-AL.--_adv._ STER[=E]OMET'RICALLY.--_n._ STER[=E]OM'ETRY, the art of
measuring the solid contents of solid bodies. [Gr. _stereos_, hard,
_metron_, measure.]

STEREOPTICON, ster-[=e]-op'ti-kon, _n._ a double magic-lantern, by means of
which the one picture appears to dissolve gradually into the other.

STEREOSCOPE, ster'[=e]-[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument in which each of
two pictures is examined by a separate lens, and the two lenses are
inclined so as to shift the images towards one another, and thus to ensure
or to facilitate the blending of the two images into one, standing out in
relief with solidity.--_adjs._ STER[=E]OSCOP'IC, -AL, pertaining to the
stereoscope.--_adv._ STER[=E]OSCOP'ICALLY.--_ns._ ST[=E]'R[=E]OSCOPIST;
STER[=E]OS'COPY. [Gr. _stereos_, solid, _skopein_, see.]

STEREOTOMY, ster-[=e]-ot'[=o]-mi, _n._ the art of cutting solids into
figures by certain sections.--_adjs._ STER[=E]O TOM'IC, -AL. [Gr.
_stereos_, solid, _temnein_, to cut.]

STEREOTROPE, ster'[=e]-[=o]-tr[=o]p, _n._ an optical contrivance by which
an object is brought into relief and made to appear as if in motion. [Gr.
_stereos_, solid, _trop[=e]_, a turning.]

STEREOTYPE, st[=e]'r[=e]-[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a solid metallic plate for
printing, cast from an impression of movable types, taken on some plastic
substance: art of fabricating solid casts in type-metal from pages of
movable type.--_adj._ pertaining to, or done with, stereotypes.--_v.t._ to
make a stereotype of: to print with stereotypes.--_p.adj._ ST[=E]'REOTYPED,
transferred as letterpress from set-up movable type to a mould, and thence
to a metal plate: fixed; unchangeable, as opinions.--_ns._ ST[=E]'REOTYPER,
ST[=E]'REOTYPIST, one who makes stereotype plates.--_adj._
ST[=E]REOTYP'IC.--_ns._ STER[=E]OTYPOG'RAPHER, a stereotype printer;
ST[=E]REOTYPOG'RAPHY, the art, practice, or business of printing from
stereotype plates; ST[=E]'REOTYPY, the art or employment of making
stereotype plates. [Gr. _stereos_, solid, and _type_.]

STERIGMA, st[=e]-rig'ma, _n._ (_bot._) a stalk or support.--_adj._
STERIGMAT'IC. [Gr. _st[=e]rigma_, a prop.]

STERILE, ster'il, _adj._ unfruitful: barren: (_bot._) producing no pistil,
or no spores: destitute of ideas or sentiment.--_n._ STERILIS[=A]'TION, act
of sterilising.--_v.t._ STER'ILISE, to cause to be fruitless: to destroy
bacteria or other micro-organisms in.--_ns._ STER'ILISER, anything which
sterilises; STERIL'ITY, quality of being sterile: unfruitfulness,
barrenness, in regard to reproduction. [O. Fr.,--L. _sterilis_, barren.]

STERLET, st[.e]r'let, _n._ a small sturgeon.

STERLING, st[.e]r'ling, _adj._ a designation of British money--pure,
genuine, of good quality--also generally, of value or excellence,
authoritative. [Orig. the name of a penny; prob. from the Hanse merchants
or _Easterlings_ ('men from the east'), from North Germany, who had
probably the privilege of coining money in England in the 13th century.]

STERN, st[.e]rn, _adj._ severe of countenance, manner, or feeling: austere:
harsh: unrelenting: steadfast.--_adv._ STERN'LY.--_n._ STERN'NESS. [A.S.
_styrne_.]

STERN, st[.e]rn, _n._ the hind-part of a vessel: the rump or tail of an
animal.--_v.t._ to back a boat, to row backward.--_ns._ STERN'AGE
(_Shak._), the steerage or stern of a ship; STERN'BOARD, backward motion of
a ship: loss of way in tacking; STERN'-CHASE, a chase in which one ship
follows directly in the wake of another; STERN'-CH[=A]S'ER, a cannon in the
stern of a ship.--_adj._ STERNED, having a stern of a specified
kind.--_ns._ STERN'-FAST, a rope or chain for making fast a ship's stern to
a wharf, &c.; STERN'-FRAME, the sternpost, transoms, and fashion-pieces of
a ship's stern.--_adj._ STERN'MOST, farthest astern.--_ns._ STERN'PORT, a
port or opening in the stern of a ship; STERN'POST, the aftermost timber of
a ship which supports the rudder; STERN'SHEETS, the part of a boat between
the stern and the rowers; STERN'SON, the hinder extremity of a ship's
keelson, to which the sternpost is bolted; STERN'WAY, the backward motion
of a vessel; STERN'-WHEEL'ER (_U.S._), a small vessel with one large
paddle-wheel at the stern. [Ice. _stjórn_, a steering.]

STERNUM, st[.e]r'num, _n._ the breast-bone.--_adj._ STER'NAL.--_n._
STERNAL'GIA, pain about the breast-bone, esp. angina pectoris.--_adjs._
STERNAL'GIC; STER'NEBRAL, pertaining to the STER'NEBRA or serial segments
of which the sternum of a vertebrate is composed.--_n._ STER'NITE, the
ventral portion of the somite of an arthropod.--_adjs._ STERNIT'IC;
STERNOCOST'AL, pertaining to, or connected with, the sternum and ribs:
denoting those ribs and muscles attached to the sternum. [Gr. _sternon_,
chest.]

STERNUTATION, st[.e]r-n[=u]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of sneezing.--_adjs._
STERN[=U]'T[=A]TIVE, STERN[=U]'TATORY, that causes sneezing.--_n._ a
substance that causes sneezing. [L. _sternutatio_--_sternut[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, inten. of _sternu[)e]re_, _-utum_, to sneeze.]

STERTOROUS, st[.e]r't[=o]-rus, _adj._ snoring.--_adv._ STER'TOROUSLY.--_n._
STER'TOROUSNESS. [L. _stert[)e]re_, to snore.]

STERVE, st[.e]rv, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to starve, to die.--Also STER'VEN.

STET, stet, _v.t._ to restore--generally on proof-sheets, in imperative,
with a line of dots under the words to be retained. [L., 'let it stand,' 3d
sing. pres. subj. of _st[=a]re_, to stand.]

STETHIÆUM, steth-i-[=e]'um, _n._ the anterior half of a bird--opp. to
_Uræum_.--_n._ STETHID'IUM, in insects, the thorax. [Gr., _st[=e]thos_, the
breast.]

STETHOMETER, steth-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
relative mobility of the different sides of the chest in respiration.--_n._
STETH'OGRAPH, an instrument for marking the respiratory movements of the
thorax.--_adj._ STETHOGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _st[=e]thos_, chest, _metron_,
measure.]

STETHOSCOPE, steth'[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for auscultation,
consisting of a tubular piece of wood to be applied to the patient's
body--in the _binaural_ form with tubes of rubber, &c., to convey the
sounds to the physician's ears.--_adjs._ STETHOSCOP'IC, -AL, pertaining to,
or performed by, the stethoscope.--_adv._ STETHOSCOP'ICALLY.--_ns._
STETH'OSCOPIST; STETH'OSCOPY. [Gr. _st[=e]thos_, the breast, _skopein_, to
see.]

STEVEDORE, st[=e]v'e-d[=o]r, _n._ one who loads and unloads vessels. [A
corr. of Sp. _estivador_, a wool-packer--_estivar_, to stow--L.
_stip[=a]re,_ to press.]

STEVEN, st[=e]'vn, _n._ (_Spens._) a cry, a loud clamour. [A.S. _stefn_,
the voice.]

STEW, st[=u], _v.t._ to simmer or boil slowly with little moisture.--_v.i._
to be boiled slowly and gently: (_slang_) to be in a state of worry or
agitation: to read hard for an examination.--_n._ meat stewed: mental
agitation: worry: (_slang_) one who reads hard: a room for bathing
purposes: (_pl._) a brothel.--_ns._ STEW'-PAN, -POT, a pan, pot, used for
stewing. [O. Fr. _estuve_ (_étuve_), a stove--Old High Ger. _stup[=a]_
(Ger. _stube_), a heated room.]

STEW, st[=u], _n._ an artificial oyster-bed: a vivarium.

STEWARD, st[=u]'ard, _n._ one who manages the domestic concerns of a family
or institution: one who superintends another's affairs, esp. an estate or
farm: the manager of the provision department, &c., at sea: a manager at
races, games, &c.: the treasurer of a congregation, a guild or society,
&c.--_ns._ STEW'ARDESS, a female steward: a female who waits on ladies on
shipboard; STEW'ARDSHIP, STEW'ARDRY, office of a steward: management;
STEW'ARTRY (_Scot._), a stewardship, or the extent of a stewardship--still
applied esp. to the county of Kirkcudbright.--LORD HIGH STEWARD, one of the
great officers of state, and anciently the first officer of the crown in
England. [A.S. _stíg-weard_--_stigo_, a sty, _weard_, a ward.]

STHENIC, sthen'ik, _adj._ attended with increased action of the heart:
strong, robust: inspiring.--_n._ STHEN[=I]'A, strength. [Gr. _sthenos_,
strength.]

STIBBLER, stib'l[.e]r, _n._ one who cuts the handfuls left by the reaper: a
clerical locum tenens.

STIBIUM, stib'i-um, _n._ antimony.--_adj._ STIB'IAL, like antimony.--_n._
STIB'IALISM, poisoning by antimony.--_adj._ STIB'I[=A]TED, impregnated with
antimony.--_n._ STIB'NITE, native antimony trisulphide. [Gr.]

STIBOGRAM, stib'[=o]-gram, _n._ a graphic record of footprints. [Gr.
_stibos_, a track, _gramma_, a letter.]

STICH, stik, _n._ a verse or line of poetry, of whatever measure--used in
composition: a row of trees.--_ns._ STICH[=A]'RION, a Greek vestment like
the Western alb; STICH[=E]'RON, a troparion.--_adj._ STICH'IC, pertaining
to a verse.--_n._ STICH'OMANCY, divination by the assumed meaning of a
verse, text of Scripture, or literary passage taken at random.--_adjs._
STICHOMET'RIC, -AL, pertaining to stichom'etry, stating the number of
lines.--_ns._ STICHOM'ETRY, measurement of manuscript by lines: a list
stating such; STICHOMYTH'IA, dialogue in alternate lines; STICH'OS, a line
of ordinary length in measuring a manuscript: a verse or versicle in the
usage of the Greek Church. [Gr. _stichos_, a row--_steichein_, to ascend.]

STICK, stik, _v.t._ to stab: to thrust in: to fasten by piercing: to fix
in: to set with something pointed: to cause to adhere.--_v.i._ to hold to:
to remain: to stop: to be hindered: to hesitate, to be embarrassed or
puzzled: to adhere closely in affection:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stuck.--_ns._
STICK'ER, one who kills pigs, &c.: one who sticks to anything; STICK'ING,
the act of stabbing; STICK'ING-PLACE, the point at which a thing sticks or
stays; STICK'ING-PLAS'TER, an adhesive plaster for closing wounds;
STICK'-IN-THE-MUD, an old fogy; STICK'IT-MIN'ISTER (_Scot._), a licentiate
who never gets a pastoral charge.--STICK AT, to hesitate: to persist at;
STICK BY, to be firm in supporting, to adhere closely to; STICK OUT, to be
prominent, project; STICK PIGS, to hunt wild hogs on horseback and transfix
them with the spear; STICK TO, to persevere in holding to; STICK UP, to
stand up: to waylay and plunder, as a mail-coach by bushrangers; STICK UP
FOR, to speak or act in defence of.--BE STUCK ON (_U.S._), to be enamoured
of; STUCK UP, conceited. [A.S. _stecan_ (assumed); Ger. _stechen_, Dut.
_steken_; also A.S. _stician_, Ger. _stecken_, to set, stick fast.]

STICK, stik, _n._ a small shoot or branch cut off a tree: a staff or
walking-stick: anything in the form of a stick, a cudgel: a piece of
printers' furniture used to lock up a form in a chase, a printer's
composing-stick: a stiff, stupidly obstinate person.--_v.t._ to furnish or
set with sticks: to arrange in a composing-stick.--_n._ STICK'-IN'SECT, a
walking-stick or phasmid insect. [A.S. _sticca_; Ice. _stika_.]

STICKLE, stik'l, _v.i._ to interpose between combatants: to contend
obstinately: to hesitate.--_n._ a sharp point, a prickle, a spine.--_ns._
STICK'LEBACK, a small river-fish so called from the spines on its back;
STICK'LER, a second or umpire in a duel: an obstinate contender, esp. for
something trifling.--_adj._ STICK'LER-LIKE (_Shak._), in the manner of a
stickler. [A dim. of _stick_ (n.).]

STICKLE, stik'l, _adj._ high, rapid.--_n._ a current below a waterfall.
[A.S. _sticol_, steep.]

STICKY, stik'i, _adj._ that sticks or adheres: adhesive: glutinous.--_n._
STICK'INESS. [_Stick_.]

STIE, st[=i], _v.i._ (_Spens._) to ascend. [A.S. _stígan_.]

STIFF, stif, _adj._ not easily bent: rigid: not liquid: rather hard than
soft: not easily overcome: obstinate: not natural and easy: constrained:
formal: hard to overcome, difficult: firm, of prices, &c.: dead, rigid in
death: (_naut._) keeping upright.--_n._ (_slang_) a corpse: negotiable
paper: forged paper.--_v.t._ STIFF'EN, to make stiff.--_v.i._ to become
stiff: to become less impressible or more obstinate.--_ns._ STIFF'ENER, one
who, or that which, stiffens; STIFF'ENING, something used to make a
substance more stiff.--_adj._ STIFF'-HEART'ED (_B._), obstinate,
stubborn.--_adv._ STIFF'LY.--_n._ STIFF'-NECK, cervical myalgia, true
torticollis.--_adj._ STIFF'-NECKED, obstinate, hard to move.--_ns._
STIFF'-NECK'EDNESS; STIFF'NESS.--DO A BIT OF STIFF, to accept or discount a
bill. [A.S. _stíf_, stiff; Dut. _stijf_, Dan. _stiv_.]

STIFLE, st[=i]'fl, _v.t._ to stop the breath of by foul air or other means:
to suffocate, smother: to extinguish: to suppress the sound of: to destroy:
to suppress, conceal.--_v.i._ to suffocate.--_adj._ ST[=I]'FLING, close,
oppressive. [Scand., Ice. _stífla_, to choke up; Norw. _stivla_.]

STIFLE, st[=i]'fl, _n._ the knee-joint on a horse's hind-leg, a disease of
his knee-pan. [Perh. _stiff_.]

STIGMA, stig'ma, _n._ a brand: a mark of infamy: (_bot._) the top of a
pistil: any special mark: a place on the skin which bleeds
periodically:--_pl._ STIG'MAS or STIG'MATA.--_n._ STIGM[=A]'RIA, the root
of the fossil plant sigillaria, found in the coal-measures.--_n.pl._
STIG'MATA, the marks of the wounds on Christ's body, or marks resembling
them, claimed to have been miraculously impressed on the bodies of certain
persons, as Francis of Assisi in 1224.--_adjs._ STIGMAT'IC, -AL, marked or
branded with a stigma: giving infamy or reproach.--_adv._
STIGMAT'ICALLY.--_adj._ STIGMATIF'EROUS (_bot._), stigma-bearing.--_n._
STIGMATIS[=A]'TION, the operation or effect of producing bleeding spots
upon the body, as by hypnotism.--_v.t._ STIG'MATISE, to brand with a
stigma.--_n._ STIG'MATIST, one impressed with the stigmata.--_adj._
STIG'MATOSE, stigmatic: stigmatised.--_n._ STIGMAT[=O]'SIS, a form of
inflammation of the skin, occurring in spots.--_adj._ STIGMATYP'IC,
pertaining to the making of impressions by means of scorching-hot
plates.--_ns._ STIG'MATYPY, a species of printing with points, that
consists of their arrangement in pictures; STIG'M[=E] (_Gr. paleog._), a
dot used as a punctuation mark, esp. at the top of the line, equivalent to
a period. [L.,--Gr.,--_stizein_, to mark.]

STILBITE, stil'b[=i]t, _n._ a pearly and foliated variety of zeolite. [Gr.
_stilbein_, to shine.]

STILE, st[=i]l, _n._ a step, or set of steps, for climbing over a wall or
fence. [A.S. _stigel_, a step--_stígan_; cf. Ger. _steigen_, to mount.]

STILE, st[=i]l, _n._ the pin of a dial. [_Style_.]

STILETTO, sti-let'[=o], _n._ a dagger with a slender and narrow blade: a
pointed instrument for making eyelet-holes:--_pl._ STILETT'OS.--_v.t._ to
stab with a stiletto:--_pr.p._ stilett'oing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
stilett'oed. [It., dim. of _stilo_, a dagger--L. _stilus_, a stake.]

STILL, stil, _adj._ silent: motionless: calm, subdued: not sparkling or
effervescing: constant.--_v.t._ to quiet: to silence: to appease: to
restrain.--_adv._ always, constantly: nevertheless, for all that: even yet:
after that.--_n._ calm.--_n._ STILL'-BIRTH, the state of being still-born:
anything born without life.--_adj._ STILL'-BORN, dead when born.--_ns._
STILL'ER, one who stills or quiets; STILL'-LIFE, the class of pictures
representing inanimate objects; STILL'NESS; STILL'-ROOM, an apartment where
liquors, preserves, and the like are kept, and where tea, &c., is prepared
for the table: a housekeeper's pantry; STILL'-STAND (_Shak._), absence of
motion.--_adj._ STILL'Y, still: quiet: calm.--_adv._ silently: gently.
[A.S. _stille_, firm; Dut. _stil_, Ger. _still_.]

STILL, stil, _v.t._ to cause to fall by drops: to distil.--_n._ an
apparatus for distillation, consisting essentially of a vessel in which the
liquid to be distilled is placed, the vapour being conducted by means of a
head or neck to the condenser or worm, where it is cooled by water or other
means, and again forms liquid.--_adj._ STILL'IFORM, drop-shaped. [L.
_still[=a]re_, to cause to drop--_stilla_, a drop, or simply a contr. for
_distil_, like _sport_ from _disport_.]

STILLAGE, stil'[=a]j, _n._ a frame on which things are laid.--_n._
STILL'ING, a stand.

STILLICIDE, stil'i-s[=i]d, _n._ an urban servitude among the Romans, where
a proprietor was not allowed to build to the extremity of his estate, but
must leave a space regulated by the charter by which the property was held,
so as not to throw the eavesdrop on the land of his neighbour--same as
_Eavesdrip_.--_n._ STILLICID'IUM, a morbid trickling. [L.]

STILP, stilp, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to go on crutches.--_n.pl._ STILP'ERS,
crutches.

STILT, stilt, _n._ one of a pair of props or poles with steps or supports
at a sufficient distance from the lower end to allow a man standing on the
steps to walk clear of the ground and with longer strides: a widely
distributed genus (_Himantopus_) of wading-birds belonging to the Snipe
family, having long slender bills and very long wings and legs--also
STILT'-BIRD, -PLOV'ER.--_v.t._ to raise on stilts: to elevate by unnatural
means.--_adjs._ STILT'ED, STILT'Y, elevated as if on stilts: pompous.--_n._
STILT'EDNESS.--STILTED ARCH, an arch that does not spring directly from the
impost, but from horizontal courses of masonry resting on it. [Scand., Sw.
_stylta_; Dut. _stelt_, a stilt.]

STILTON, stil'ton, _n._ a rich white cheese--from _Stilton_ in
Huntingdonshire.

STIME, st[=i]m, _n._ (_Scot._) a ray of light, a glimmer.--Also STYME.
[A.S. _scima_, a light.]

STIMULANT, stim'[=u]-lant, _adj._ stimulating: increasing or exciting vital
action.--_n._ anything that stimulates or excites: a stimulating medicine
that increases the activity of the vital functions generally, or of one
system or organ.--_v.t._ STIM'UL[=A]TE, to prick with anything sharp: to
incite: to instigate: (_physiol._) to produce increased action in.--_n._
STIMUL[=A]'TION, act of stimulating, or condition of being
stimulated.--_adj._ STIM'UL[=A]TIVE, tending to stimulate.--_n._ that which
stimulates or excites.--_ns._ STIM'UL[=A]TOR, one who stimulates:--_fem._
STIM'UL[=A]TRESS; STIM'ULISM, the practice of treating diseases by
stimulation; STIM'[=U]LUS, a goad: anything that rouses the mind, or that
excites to action: a stimulant:--_pl._ STIM'UL[=I]. [L. _stimulus_ (for
_stigmulus_)--Gr. _stizein_, to prick.]

STING, sting, _v.t._ to stick anything sharp into, to pain acutely.--_v.i._
to have a sting: to give pain:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stung.--_n._ the
sharp-pointed weapon of some animals: the thrust of a sting into the flesh:
anything that causes acute pain: any stimulus or impulse: the point in the
last verse of an epigram.--_n._ STING'ER, one who, or that which,
stings.--_adv._ STING'INGLY, with stinging.--_adj._ STING'LESS, having no
sting.--_n._ STING'-RAY, a genus of cartilaginous fishes, of the order of
Rays, and family _Trygonidæ_, the long tail bearing dorsally a long
bi-serrated spine capable of giving an ugly wound. [A.S. _stingan_; Ice.
_stinga_.]

STINGO, sting'g[=o], _n._ strong malt liquor.

STINGY, stin'ji, _adj._ niggardly: avaricious.--_adv._ STIN'GILY.--_n._
STIN'GINESS, [Merely _sting-y_.]

STINK, stingk, _v.i._ to give out a strong, offensive smell: to have a bad
reputation:--_pa.t._ stank; _pa.p._ stunk.--_n._ a disagreeable
smell.--_ns._ STINK'ARD, one who stinks: a base fellow: the stinking badger
of Java; STINK'-BALL, -POT, a ball or jar filled with a stinking,
combustible mixture, used in boarding an enemy's vessel; STINK'ER, one who,
or that which, stinks; STINK'ING.--_adv._ STINK'INGLY, in a stinking
manner: with an offensive smell.--_ns._ STINK'STONE, a variety of limestone
remarkable for the fetid urinous odour which it emits when rubbed;
STINK'-TRAP, a contrivance to prevent effluvia from drains; STINK'-WOOD,
the wood of a Cape tree, remarkable for its strong offensive smell,
durable, taking an excellent polish resembling walnut. [A.S. _stincan_.]

STINT, stint, _v.t._ to shorten: to limit: to restrain.--_v.i._ to cease,
stop: to be saving.--_n._ limit: restraint, restriction: proportion
allotted, fixed amount: one of several species of sandpiper, the
dunlin.--_adj._ STINT'ED, limited.--_ns._ STINT'EDNESS; STINT'ER.--_adv._
STINT'INGLY.--_adjs._ STINT'LESS; STINT'Y. [A.S. _styntan_--_stunt_,
stupid.]

STIPA, st[=i]'pa, _n._ a genus of grasses, the feather-grasses. [L.
_stipa_, tow.]

STIPE, st[=i]p, _n._ (_bot._) the base of a frond of a fern: also a stalk,
as of a pistil, of a fungus or mushroom, of the leaf of a fern, or even the
trunk of a tree.--_n._ ST[=I]'PEL, the stipule of a leaflet.--_adj._
ST[=I]'PELLATE, having stipels.--_n._ ST[=I]'PES, a stipe: a stalk or
stem.--_adjs._ ST[=I]'PIFORM, STIP'ITATE, STIPIT'IFORM. [Fr.,--L. _stipes_,
a stem.]

STIPEND, st[=i]'pend, _n._ a salary paid for services, esp. to a clergyman
in Scotland: settled pay.--_adj._ STIPEND'IARY, receiving stipend.--_n._
one who performs services for a salary, esp. a paid magistrate.--_v.t._
STIPEN'DIATE, to provide with a salary. [L. _stipendium_--_stips_,
donation, _pend[)e]re_, weigh.]

STIPPLE, stip'l, _v.t._ to engrave or form by means of dots or small
points, as distinguished from line-engraving:--_pr.p._ stipp'ling; _pa.p._
stipp'led.--_n._ a mode of execution in engraving and miniature-painting,
in which the effect is produced by dots instead of lines: in
colour-decoration, a gradation or combination of tones or tints serving as
a transition between decided colours.--_adj._ STIPP'LED.--_ns._ STIPP'LER,
one who stipples: a coarse brush for stippling; STIPP'LING, stippled work
of any kind. [Dut. _stippelen_, dim. of _stippen_, to dot.]

STIPULATE, stip'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to contract: to settle terms.--_ns._
STIPUL[=A]'TION, act of stipulating: a contract; STIP'UL[=A]TOR. [L.
_stipul[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, prob. from old L. _stipulus_, firm, conn. with
_stip[=a]re_, to press firm.]

STIPULE, stip'[=u]l, _n._ (_bot._) an appendage or lobe at the base of
certain leaves, resembling a small leaf: also, a small appendage at the
base of petioles, usually softer than the latter--also
STIP'[=U]LA.--_adjs._ STIP'ULAR, STIP'[=U]LARY; STIP'[=U]LATE,
STIP'[=U]LED. [L. _stipula_, a stalk, dim. of _stipes_.]

STIR, st[.e]r, _v.t._ to move: to rouse: to instigate.--_v.i._ to move
one's self: to be active: to draw notice:--_pr.p._ stir'ring; _pa.p._ and
_pa.t._ stirred.--_n._ tumult: bustle.--_n._ STIR'ABOUT, one who makes
himself active: oatmeal porridge.--_adj._ busy, active.--_adj._ STIR'LESS,
without stir.--_n._ STIR'RER.--_p.adj._ STIR'RING, putting in motion:
active: accustomed to a busy life: animating, rousing.--STIR UP, to
instigate the passions of: to put into motion or action: to enliven: to
disturb. [A.S. _styrian_; Dut. _storen_, Ger. _stören_, to drive.]

STIR, st[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to steer, to direct.

STIRK, st[.e]rk, _n._ (_Scot._) a yearling ox or cow. [A.S. _stirc_, a
heifer--_steór_, a steer.]

STIRP, st[.e]rp, _n._ (_Bacon_) a family, generation, or race:--_pl._
STIR'PES. [L. _stirps_, _stirpis_.]

STIRRUP, stir'up, _n._ a ring or hoop suspended by a rope or strap from the
saddle, for a horseman's foot while mounting or riding: a rope secured to a
yard, having a thimble in its lower end for reeving a foot-rope.--_ns._
STIRR'UP-CUP, a cup taken by one who is departing on horseback;
STIRR'UP-[=I]'RON, the ring of iron attached to the stirrup-leather to
receive the foot; STIRR'UP-LEATH'ER, -STRAP, the strap of leather that
supports a stirrup. [A.S. _stigeráp_--_stígan_, to mount, ráp, a _rope_.]

STITCH, stich, _n._ a pass of a needle and thread, the part of the thread
left in the fabric, a single loop or link: the kind of work produced by
stitching--buttonhole-_stitch_, cross-_stitch_, &c.: the space between two
double furrows: a fastening, as of thread or wire, through the back of a
book to connect the leaves: an acute pain, a sharp spasmodic pain, esp. in
the intercostal muscles: a bit of clothing, a rag.--_v.t._ to sew so as to
show a regular line of stitches: to sew or unite.--_v.i._ to practise
stitching.--_ns._ STITCH'ER; STITCH'ERY (_Shak._), needle-work; STITCH'ING,
the act of one who stitches: needle-work done in such a way that a
continuous line of stitches appears on the surface; STITCH'WORT, a genus of
slender plants, including the chickweed, so called because once believed to
cure 'stitch' in the side. [A.S. _stice_, a prick; Ger. _sticken_, to
embroider; conn. with _stick_.]

STITHY, stith'i, _n._ an anvil: a smith's shop.--_v.t._ to forge on an
anvil. [Ice. _stethi_; Sw. _städ_, an anvil.]

STIVE, st[=i]v, _v.i._ (_prov._) to stew, to be stifled.--_adj._ ST[=I]'VY,
close, stuffy.

STIVER, st[=i]'v[.e]r, _n._ a Dutch coin, worth one penny sterling: any
small coin. [Dut. _stuiver_.]

STOA, st[=o]'a, _n._ a portico or covered colonnade round a house,
market-place, &c.

STOAT, st[=o]t, _n._ a kind of weasel, called the ermine when in its winter
dress.--Also STOTE. [_Stot_.]

STOB, stob, _n._ a small post for supporting paling: a wedge in
coal-mining. [A variant of _stub_.]

STOCCADE, stok-[=a]d', STOCCADO, stok-[=a]'do, _n._ a thrust in
fencing--(_Shak._) STOCCA'TA. [It. _stoccata_, a thrust--_stocco_, a
rapier--Ger. _stock_, a stick.]

STOCK, stok, _n._ something stuck or thrust in: the stem of a tree or
plant: the trunk which receives a graft: a post, a log: anything fixed
solid and senseless: a stupid person: the crank-shaped handle of a
centre-bit: the wood in which the barrel of a firearm is fixed: the
cross-piece of timber into which the shank of an anchor is inserted: the
part to which others are attached: the original progenitor: family: a fund,
capital, shares of a public debt: store: the cattle, horses, and other
useful animals kept on a farm: the liquor or broth obtained by boiling
meat, the foundation for soup: a stiff band worn as a cravat, often
fastened with a buckle at the back: (_pl._) an instrument in which the legs
of offenders were confined: the frame for a ship while building: the public
funds.--_v.t._ to store: to supply: to fill: to supply with domestic
animals or stock: to refrain from milking cows for 24 hours or more
previous to sale.--_adj._ kept in stock, standing.--_ns._ STOCK'BREED'ER,
one who raises live-stock; STOCK'BROKER, a broker who deals in stocks or
shares; STOCK'BROKING, the business of a stockbroker; STOCK'-DOVE, the wild
pigeon of Europe; STOCK'-EP'ITHET, any ordinary and conventional epithet;
STOCK'-EXCHANGE', the place where stocks are bought and sold: an
association of sharebrokers and dealers; STOCK'-FARM'ER, a farmer who rears
live-stock, as cattle, &c.; STOCK'-FEED'ER, one who feeds or fattens
live-stock; STOCK'HOLDER, one who holds stocks in the public funds, or in a
company; STOCK'-IN-TRADE, the whole goods a shopkeeper keeps on sale: a
person's mental resources; STOCK'-JOB'BER; STOCK'-JOB'BERY, -JOB'BING,
speculating in stocks; STOCK'-LIST, a list of stocks and current prices
regularly issued; STOCK'MAN, a herdsman who has the charge of stock on a
sheep-run in Australia; STOCK'-MAR'KET, a market for the sale of stocks,
the stock-exchange; STOCK'-POT, the pot in which the stock for soup is
kept; STOCK'-RID'ER, a herdsman on an Australian station; STOCK'-SADD'LE, a
saddle with heavy tree and iron horn; STOCK'-ST[=A]'TION, a station where
stock and cattle are reared; STOCK'-WHIP, a whip with short handle and long
lash for use in herding; STOCK'WORK, a deposit in which the ore is
distributed all over it; STOCK'YARD, a large yard with pens, stables, &c.
where cattle are kept for slaughter, market, &c.--TAKE STOCK, to make an
inventory of goods on hand: to make an estimate of; TAKE STOCK IN, to take
a share in, to put confidence in. [A.S. _stocc_, a stick; Ger. _stock_.]

STOCK, stok, _n._ a favourite garden-flower. [Orig. called
_stock-gillyflower_, to distinguish it from the stemless clove-pink, called
the _gillyflower_.]

STOCKADE, stok-[=a]d', _n._ a breastwork formed of stakes fixed in the
ground.--_v.t._ to fortify with such. [Fr. _estocade_--_estoc_--Ger.
_stock_, stick.]

STOCKFISH, stok'fish, n, a commercial name of salted and dried cod and
other fish of the same family, esp. ling, hake, and torsk.

STOCK-GILLYFLOWER, stok'-jil'i-flow-[.e]r, _n._ a genus of herbaceous or
half-shrubby plants of the natural order _Cruciferæ_, having their flowers
in racemes, and generally beautiful and fragrant. [_Stock_, wood, and
_gillyflower_.]

STOCKING, stok'ing, _n._ a close covering for the foot and lower
leg.--_ns._ STOCKINET', an elastic knitted fabric for under-garments;
STOCK'INGER, one who knits stockings; STOCK'ING-FRAME, a knitting-machine.
[From _stock_, the stockings being the _nether-stocks_ when the long hose
came to be cut at the knee.]

STOCKISH, stok'ish, _adj._ (_Shak._) like a stock, stupid.--_n._
STOCK'ISHNESS, stupidity.--_adj._ STOCK'-STILL, still as a stock or post.

STOCK-TACKLE, stok'-tak'l, _n._ tackle used in hoisting an anchor on board
ship to keep its stock clear of the ship's side.

STOCK-TAKING, stok'-t[=a]k'ing, _n._ a periodical inventory made of the
stock or goods in a shop or warehouse.

STOCKY, stok'i, _adj._ short and stout, thick-set: having a strong
stem.--_adv._ STOCK'ILY.

STODGY, stoj'i, _adj._ heavy, lumpy: ill put together:
indigestible.--_v.t._ STODGE, to stuff, cram.--_n._ STODG'INESS.

STOG, stog, _v.t._ (_prov._) to plunge in mire: to probe a pool with a
pole. [Related to _stock_.]

STOIC, st[=o]'ik, _n._ a disciple of the philosopher Zeno (340-260 B.C.),
who opened his school in a colonnade called the _Stoa Poikil[=e]_ ('painted
porch') at Athens--later Roman Stoics were Cato the Younger, Seneca, Marcus
Aurelius: one indifferent to pleasure or pain.--_adjs._ ST[=O]'IC, -AL,
pertaining to the Stoics, or to their opinions; indifferent to pleasure or
pain.--_adv._ ST[=O]'ICALLY.--_ns._ ST[=O]'ICALNESS; ST[=O]'ICISM, the
doctrines of the Stoics, a school of ancient philosophy strongly opposed to
Epicureanism in its views of life and duty: indifference to pleasure or
pain. [L. _Stoicus_--Gr. _St[=o]ïkos_--_stoa_, a porch.]

STOKE, st[=o]k, _v.i._ to stir or tend a fire.--_ns._ STOKE'-HOLE, the
space about the mouth of a furnace: the space allotted to the stokers: a
hole in a reverberatory furnace for introducing a stirring-tool;
ST[=O]K'ER, one who, or that which, feeds a furnace with fuel.
[Dut.,--_stoken_, to light a fire, _stok_, a stick.]

STOLE, st[=o]l, _pa.t._ of _steal_.

STOLE, st[=o]l, _n._ a long robe reaching to the feet: a narrow vestment,
usually black silk, fringed at the ends, sometimes coloured according to
the seasons, worn by bishops and priests in the Latin Church during
mass.--_n._ ST[=O]'LA, the outer garment of the Roman matron: a chorister's
surplice: (_her._) a bearing showing a fringed scarf. [L. _stola_--Gr.
_stol[=e]_, a robe--_stellein_, to array.]

STOLEN, st[=o]l'en, _pa.p._ of _steal_.

STOLID, stol'id, _adj._ dull: heavy: stupid: foolish.--_n._ STOLID'ITY,
STOL'IDNESS, state of being stolid: dullness of intellect.--_adv._
STOL'IDLY. [L. _stolidus_.]

STOLON, st[=o]'lon, _n._ a shoot from the root of a plant: a
sucker.--_adjs._ ST[=O]'LONATE, ST[=O]L[=O]NIF'EROUS. [L. _stolo_, a twig.]

STOMA, st[=o]'ma, _n._ (_bot._) one of the minute openings in the epidermis
of leaves and tender green stems of plants, subserving the purpose of
respiration: (_zool._) one of the breathing-holes in the bodies of certain
of the articulata:--_pl._ ST[=O]'MATA.--_adjs._ STOMAT'IC;
STOMATIF'EROUS.--_n._ STOMAT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the interior of the
mouth.--_adj._ ST[=O]'MATODE, having a stoma.--_ns._ STOMATOL'OGY, the
scientific knowledge of the mouth; ST[=O]'MATOSCOPE, an instrument for
examining the interior of the mouth. [Gr. _stoma_, a mouth.]

STOMACH, stum'ak, _n._ the strong muscular bag into which the food passes
when swallowed, and where it is principally digested: the cavity in any
animal for the digestion of its food: appetite, relish for food,
inclination generally: disposition, spirit, courage, pride, spleen.--_v.t._
to brook or put up with: to turn the stomach of: to resent.--_adj._
STOM'ACHAL.--_ns._ STOM'ACHER, a part of the dress covering the front of
the body, generally forming the lower part of the bodice in front,
sometimes richly ornamented: a large brooch; STOMACH'IC, a medicine for the
stomach.--_adjs._ STOMACH'IC, -AL, pertaining to the stomach: strengthening
or promoting the action of the stomach; STOM'ACHOUS (_Spens._), angry,
stout, obstinate.--_ns._ STOM'ACH-PUMP, a syringe with a flexible tube for
withdrawing fluids from the stomach, or injecting them into it;
STOM'ACH-STAG'GERS, a disease in horses due to a paralytic affection of the
stomach. [O. Fr. _estomac_--L. _stomachus_--Gr. _stomachos_, the throat,
stomach--_stoma_, a mouth.]

STOMATOPOD, st[=o]'ma-to-pod, _n._ one of the STOMATOP'ODA, an order of
marine crustaceans, having most of their seven or eight pair of legs near
the mouth. [Gr. _stoma_, mouth, _pous_, _podos_, foot.]

STOND, stond, _n._ (_Spens._) station: also=_stound_.

STONE, st[=o]n, _n._ a hard mass of earthy or mineral matter, the hard
material of which rock consists: a piece of rock of a certain size or form,
or for a particular purpose, as grind_stone_, mill_stone_, &c.: a precious
stone or gem, a crystal mirror: a tombstone: a concretion formed in the
bladder: a hard shell containing the seed of some fruits: a standard weight
of 14 lb. avoirdupois (other stones occur, as that of 24 lb. for wool, 22
lb. for hay, 16 lb. for cheese, &c.): torpor and insensibility.--_adj._
made of stone, or of stoneware.--_v.t._ to pelt with stones: to free from
stones: to wall with stones.--_n._ STONE'-AGE, the condition of a people
using stone as the material for the cutting-tools and weapons which, in a
higher condition of culture, were made of metals.--_adj._ STONE'-BLIND, as
blind as a stone, perfectly blind.--_ns._ STONE'-BOIL'ING, a primitive
method of making water boil by putting hot stones in it; STONE'-BOW, a
crossbow for shooting stones: a children's catapult; STONE'-BRASH, a soil
made up of finely-broken rock; STONE'-BREAK, the meadow-saxifrage;
STONE'-BREAK'ER, one who, or that which, breaks stones, a stone-crushing
machine; STONE'-BRUISE, a bruise caused by a stone, esp. on the sole of the
foot from walking barefooted; STONE'-CAST, STONE'S'-CAST, STONE'-SHOT,
STONE'S'-THROW, the distance which a stone may be thrown by the hand;
STONE'CHAT, STONE'CHATTER, STONE'CLINK, one of the most common of the
British _Turdidæ_, smaller than the redbreast--the Wheat-ear is the true
stonechat.--_n.pl._ STONE'-CIR'CLES, or Circles of Standing Stones,
popularly but erroneously called _Druidical Circles_ in Britain, and
_Cromlechs_ in France, consist of unhewn stones set up at intervals round
the circumference of a circular area usually of level ground.--_n._
STONE'-COAL, mineral coal, as opposed to charcoal: any hard coal,
anthracite.--_adj._ STONE'-COLD, cold as a stone.--_n._ STONE'-COL'OUR, the
colour of stone, grayish.--_adj._ STONE'-COL'OURED.--_ns._ STONE'-COR'AL,
massive coral, as distinguished from branching or tree coral; STONE'CROP,
the wall-pepper, _Sedum acre_; STONE'-CURLEW, a large species of plover;
STONE'-CUT'TER, one whose occupation is to hew stone; STONE'-CUT'TING, the
business of hewing and carving stones for walls, monuments, &c.--_adjs._
STONED, containing stones; STONE'-DEAD, lifeless; STONE'-DEAF, quite
deaf.--_ns._ STONE'-DRESS'ER, one who prepares stones for building;
STONE'-FAL'CON, a species of hawk or falcon which builds its nest among the
rocks; STONE'-FLY, a genus of insects typical of the order
_Plecoptera_--several species are native to Britain, and furnish good lures
to anglers; STONE'-FRUIT, a fruit whose seeds are enclosed in a hard
kernel; STONE'-HAM'MER, a hammer for breaking stones.--_adjs._ STONE'-HARD
(_Shak._), as hard as a stone; STONE'-HEART'ED (_Shak._), hard-hearted,
cruel, pitiless.--_ns._ STONE'HORSE, a stallion; STONE'-LIL'Y, the popular
name of an _Encrinite_; STONE'-M[=A]'SON, a mason who works with stone;
STONE'-MILL, a machine for breaking stone; STONE'-OIL, rock-oil, petroleum;
STONE'-PINE, a Mediterranean nut-pine; STONE'-PLOV'ER, the stone-curlew;
ST[=O]'NER, one who strikes or kills with stones; STONE'-RAG, -RAW, a
lichen, _Parmelia saxatilis_; STONE'-SNIPE, the greater tell-tale or
long-legged tattler, a common North American bird.--_adj._ STONE'-STILL
(_Shak._), as still as a stone, motionless.--_ns._ STONE'WARE, a coarse
kind of potter's ware baked hard and glazed; STONE'-WORK,
mason-work.--_adv._ ST[=O]'NILY.--_n._ ST[=O]'NINESS, the state of being
stony or abounding with stones: hardness of heart or mind.--_adjs._
ST[=O]'NY, made of, or resembling, stone: abounding with stones: hard:
pitiless: obdurate: (_B._) rocky; ST[=O]'NY-HEART'ED, hard-hearted, cruel,
pitiless.--LEAVE NO STONE UNTURNED, to do everything that can be done in
order to secure the effect desired; MARK WITH A WHITE STONE, to mark as
particularly fortunate. [A.S. _stán_; Ger. _stein_, Dut. _steen_.]

STONIED, ston'id, _adj._ (_Spens._) astonished, alarmed.

STOOD, stood, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _stand_.

STOOK, stook, _n._ (_Scot._) a full shock of corn-sheaves, generally
twelve, as set up in the field.--_v.t._ to set up in stooks, as
sheaves--also STOUK.--_n._ STOOK'ER, one who sets up the corn in stooks.
[Cf. Low Ger. _stuke_, a bundle.]

STOOL, st[=oo]l, _n._ a seat without a back: a low bench for the feet or
for kneeling on: the seat used in evacuating the bowels: the act of
evacuating the bowels, also that which is evacuated: a root of any kind
from which sprouts shoot up: a portable piece of wood to which a pigeon is
fastened as a decoy for wild birds.--_n._ STOOL'-PI'GEON, a decoy-pigeon: a
gambler's decoy.--STOOL OF REPENTANCE, same as _Cutty-stool_ (q.v.).--FALL
BETWEEN TWO STOOLS, to lose both of two things between the choice of which
one was hesitating. [A.S. _stól_, Ger. _stuhl_; cf. Ger. _stellen_, to
place.]

STOOP, st[=oo]p, _v.i._ to bend the body: to lean forward: to submit: to
descend from rank or dignity: to condescend: to swoop down on the wing, as
a bird of prey.--_v.t._ to cause to incline downward.--_n._ the act of
stooping: inclination forward: descent: condescension: a swoop.--_adj._
STOOPED, having a stoop, bent.--_n._ STOOP'ER, one who stoops.--_p.adj._
STOOP'ING.--_adv._ STOOP'INGLY. [A.S. _stúpian_; Old Dut. _stuypen_, Ice.
_stúpa_.]

STOOP, st[=oo]p, _n._ (_Shak._) a vessel of liquor, a flagon: liquor for
drinking: a basin for holy water. [A.S. _stoppa_, a cup--_steáp_, a cup;
Low Ger. _stoop_.]

STOOP, st[=oo]p, _n._ an open platform before the entrance of a house.
[Dut. _stoep_.]

STOOP, st[=oo]p, _n._ a prop, support, a patron.

STOOR, st[=oo]r, _adj._ (_obs._) great, formidable: stiff, harsh,
austere.--Also STOUR. [A.S. _stór_, great.]

STOOR, st[=oo]r, _n._ dust in motion--hence commotion, bustle: a gush of
water.--_v.t._ to stir up, to pour out.--_adj._ STOOR'Y, dusty. [A.S.
_stýrian_, to stir.]

STOP, stop, _v.t._ to stuff or close up: to obstruct: to render impassable:
to hinder from further motion, progress, effect, or change: to restrain,
repress, suppress, suspend: to intercept: to apply musical stops to: to
regulate the sounds of a stringed instrument by shortening the strings with
the fingers: (_naut._) to make fast.--_v.i._ to cease going forward: to
cease from any motion or action, to stay, tarry: to leave off: to be at an
end: to ward off a blow:--_pr.p._ stop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
stopped.--_n._ act of stopping: state of being stopped: hinderance:
obstacle: interruption: (_mus._) one of the vent-holes in a wind
instrument, or the place on the wire of a stringed instrument, by the
stopping or pressing of which certain notes are produced: a mark used in
punctuation: an alphabetic sound involving a complete closure of the
mouth-organs: a wooden batten on a door or window-frame against which it
closes: a stop-thrust in fencing.--_ns._ STOP'-COCK, a short pipe in a
cask, &c., opened and stopped by turning a cock or key; STOP'-GAP, that
which fills a gap or supplies a deficiency, esp. an expedient of emergency;
STOP'-M[=O]'TION, a mechanical arrangement for producing an automatic stop
in machinery, as for shutting off steam, &c.; STOP'PAGE, act of stopping:
state of being stopped: an obstruction; STOP'PER, one who stops: that which
closes a vent or hole, as the cork or glass mouthpiece for a bottle:
(_naut._) a short rope for making something fast.--_v.t._ to close or
secure with a stopper.--_ns._ STOP'PING, that which fills up, material for
filling up cracks, &c., filling material for teeth: STOP'PING-OUT, the
practice in etching of covering certain parts with a composition impervious
to acid, to keep the acid off them while allowing it to remain on the other
parts to mark them more; STOP'-WATCH, a watch whose hands can be stopped to
allow of time that has elapsed being calculated more exactly, used in
timing a race, &c. [M. E. _stoppen_--O. Fr. _estouper_ (Ice. _stoppa_, Ger.
_stopfen_, to stuff); all from L. _stupa_, the coarse part of flax, tow.]

STOPE, st[=o]p, _v.t._ to excavate, to remove the contents of a vein.--_n._
an excavation for this purpose.--_n._ ST[=O]'PING.

STOPPLE, stop'l, _n._ that which stops or closes the mouth of a vessel: a
cork or plug.--_v.t._ to close with a stopple.

STORAX, st[=o]'raks, _n._ a resin resembling benzoin, obtained from the
stem of _Styrax officinalis_, a native of Greece and the Levant, formerly
used as a stimulating expectorant.--LIQUID STORAX, liquidambar. [L.,--Gr.
_styrax_.]

STORE, st[=o]r, _n._ a hoard or quantity gathered: abundance: a storehouse:
any place where goods are sold: (_pl._) supplies of provisions, ammunition,
&c. for an army or a ship.--_v.t._ to gather in quantities: to supply: to
lay up in store: to hoard: to place in a warehouse.--_adj._ ST[=O]'RABLE,
capable of being stored.--_ns._ ST[=O]'RAGE, the placing in a store: the
safe-keeping of goods in a store: the price paid or charged for keeping
goods in a store; STORE'-FARM (_Scot._), a stock-farm, a cattle-farm;
STORE'-FARM'ER; STORE'HOUSE, a house for storing goods of any kind: a
repository: a treasury; STORE'-KEEP'ER, a man who has charge of a store:
one who owns a store: (_U.S._) any unsaleable article; ST[=O]'RER, one who
stores; STORE'ROOM, a room in which things are stored: a room in a store;
STORE'-SHIP, a vessel used for transporting naval stores.--IN STORE
(_Shak._), in hoard for future use, ready for supply; SET STORE BY, to
value greatly. [O. Fr. _estor_, _estoire_--L. _instaur[=a]re_, to provide.]

STOREY, st[=o]'ri, _n._ Same as STORY.

STORGE, stor'j[=e], _n._ natural affection. [Gr.]

STORIATED, STORIED. See under STORY.

STORK, stork, _n._ a long-necked and long-legged wading-bird nearly allied
to the heron, spoonbill, and ibis--the COMMON STORK or WHITE STORK
(_Ciconia alba_) about 3½ feet long, migratory in habit, common in Holland
and northern Germany, often semi-domesticated, nesting on the tops of
houses, &c.--_n._ STORK'S'-BILL, any plant of the genus _Erodium_, esp. the
heron's-bill: a plant of the genus _Pelargonium_. [A.S. _storc_; Ger.
_stork_.]

STORM, storm, _n._ a violent commotion of the atmosphere producing wind,
rain, &c.: a tempest: a fall of snow, a prolonged frost: an outbreak of
anger, or the like: violent agitation of society: commotion: tumult:
calamity: (_mil._) an assault.--_v.i._ to raise a tempest: to blow with
violence: to be in a violent passion.--_v.t._ to attack by open force: to
assault.--_n._ STORM'-[=A]'REA, the area covered by a storm.--_adjs._
STORM'-BEAT, -BEAT'EN, beaten or injured by storms.--_ns._ STORM'-BELT, a
belt of maximum storm frequency; STORM'-BIRD, a petrel.--_adj._
STORM'BOUND, delayed by storms.--_ns._ STORM'-CARD, a sailors' chart
showing from the direction of the wind the ship's position in relation to a
storm-centre, and accordingly the proper course to be shaped;
STORM'-CEN'TRE, the position of lowest pressure in a cyclonic storm;
STORM'-COCK, the fieldfare: the mistle-thrush; STORM'-CONE, a cone of
canvas stretched on a frame 3 feet high as a storm-signal; STORM'-DOOR, an
outer supplementary door to shelter the interior of a building;
STORM'-DRUM, a canvas cylinder extended on a hoop 3 feet high by 3 feet
wide, hoisted in conjunction with the cone as a storm-signal.--_adj._
STORM'FUL, abounding with storms.--_ns._ STORM'FULNESS; STORM'-GLASS, a
tube containing a solution of camphor, the amount of the precipitate
varying with the weather; STORM'-HOUSE, a temporary shelter for men working
on a railway, &c.; STORM'INESS; STORM'ING-PAR'TY, the party of men who
first enter the breach or scale the walls in storming a fortress.--_adj._
STORM'LESS, without storms.--_ns._ STORM'-SAIL, a sail of the strongest
canvas, for stormy weather; STORM'-SIG'NAL, a signal displayed on
seacoasts, &c., to intimate the approach of a storm by the cone and drum,
or by flags and lanterns in the United States; STORM'-STAY, a stay on which
a storm-sail is set.--_adjs._ STORM'-STAYED, hindered from proceeding by
storms; STORM'-TOSSED, tossed about by storms: much agitated by conflicting
passions.--_ns._ STORM'-WIND, a wind that brings a storm, a hurricane;
STORM'-WIN'DOW, a window raised above the roof, slated above and at the
sides.--_adj._ STORM'Y, having many storms: agitated with furious winds:
boisterous: violent: passionate. [A.S. _storm_; Ice. _stormr_; from root of
_stir_.]

STORNELLO, stor-nel'[=o], _n._ an Italian kind of improvised
folk-song:--_pl._ STORNELL'I. [It.]

STORTHING, st[=o]r'ting, _n._ the legislative assembly of Norway. [Norw.
_stor_, great, _thing_, assembly.]

STORY, st[=o]'ri, _n._ history or narrative of incidents in their sequence:
an account, report, statement: an anecdote: the plot of a novel or drama: a
lie, a fib, a fictitious narrative.--_v.t._ to tell or describe
historically, to relate: to adorn with sculptured or painted scenes from
history.--_v.i._ to relate.--_adjs._ STORI[=A]'TED, decorated with
elaborate ornamental designs; ST[=O]'RIED, told or celebrated in a story:
having a history: interesting from the stories belonging to it: adorned
with scenes from history.--_ns._ STORIOL'OGIST, one learned in the
comparative study of folk-tales; STORIOL'OGY, the scientific study of
folk-tales; ST[=O]'RY-BOOK, a book of stories or tales true or fictitious;
ST[=O]'RY-TELL'ER, one who relates tales, a liar; ST[=O]'RY-TELL'ING, act
of relating stories: lying. [A short form of _history_.]

STORY, STOREY, st[=o]'ri, _n._ a division of a house reached by one flight
of stairs: a set of rooms on the same floor.--THE UPPER STORY, the brain.
[O. Fr. _estoree_--_estorer_--L. _instaur[=a]re_, to build.]

STOSH, stosh, _n._ fish-offal, pomace.

STOT, stot, _n._ a young ox, a steer. [Ice. _stútr_, a bull.]

STOT, stot, _v.i._ (_prov._) to stumble.--Also STOT'TER.

STOUND, stownd, _n._ (_Spens._) a stunning influence, a blow, amazement: a
shooting pain: a noise: sorrow, grief, mishap: effort.--_v.t._ to stun,
astound. [A contr. of _astound_.]

STOUND, stownd, _n._ (_Spens._) a moment of time: time, season, hour. [A.S.
_stund_.]

STOUND, stownd (_Spens._). Same as STUNNED.

STOUP, stowp, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as STOOP (2).

STOUR, stowr, _n._ a tumult, battle, assault: a paroxysm. [O. Fr. _estour_,
tumult.]

STOUT, stowt, _adj._ strong: robust: corpulent: resolute: proud: (_B._)
stubborn.--_n._ extra strong porter.--_adj._ STOUT'-HEART'ED, having a
brave heart.--_adv._ STOUT'-HEART'EDLY.--_n._ STOUT'-HEART'EDNESS.--_adv._
STOUT'LY.--_n._ STOUT'NESS (_B._), stubbornness. [O. Fr. _estout_,
bold--Old Dut. _stolt_, stout; Ger. _stolz_, bold.]

STOUTHRIEF, stowth'r[=e]f, _n._ (_Scots law_) theft attended with
violence--also STOUTH'RIE.--_n._ STOUTH'-AND-ROUTH (_Scot._), plenty,
abundance.

STOVE, st[=o]v, _n._ an apparatus with a fire for warming a room, cooking,
&c.: a pottery-kiln: an oven for heating the blast of a blast-furnace: a
drying-room.--_v.t._ to heat or keep warm.--_ns._ STOVE'-PIPE, a metal pipe
for carrying smoke from a stove to a chimney-flue; STOVE'PIPE-HAT, a high
silk hat; STOVE'-PLANT, a plant cultivated in a stove; STOVE'-PLATE, a lid
or plate covering one of the holes in a cooking-stove. [A.S. _stofa_; Ger.
_stube_.]

STOVE, st[=o]v, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _stave_.

STOVER, st[=o]v'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) fodder for cattle. [O. Fr. _estover_,
necessity--_estover_, _estoveir_, to fit.]

STOW, st[=o], _v.t._ to place: to arrange: to fill by packing things in:
(_slang_) to put away out of sight: to be silent about.--_ns._ STOW'AGE,
act of placing in order: state of being laid up: room for articles to be
laid away: money paid for stowing goods; STOW'AWAY, one who hides himself
in an outward-bound vessel in order to get a passage for nothing;
STOW'DOWN, the process of stowing down in a ship's hold; STOW'ER, one who
stows; STOW'ING, in mining, rubbish thrown into the cavities out of which
the ore, coal, &c. have been taken. [M. E. _stowen_, to place--A.S. _stów_,
a place; cf. Dut. _stuwen_, to stow, to push, Ger. _stauen_, to pack.]

STOW, stow, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to cut off, crop.

STOWLINS, st[=o]'linz, _adv._ (_Scot._) stealthily.

STOWN, stown, a Scotch form of _stolen_.

STRABISMUS, str[=a]-bis'mus, _n._ squint.--_adjs._ STRABIS'MAL,
STRABIS'MIC, -AL.--_ns._ STRABISMOM'ETER, STRABOM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring strabismus; STRABOT'OMY, the surgical operation for the cure of
squinting, by the division of the muscle or muscles that distort the
eyeball. [Gr.,--_strabos_, squinting--_strephein_, to twist.]

STRADDLE, strad'l, _v.i._ to stride or part the legs wide: to stand or walk
with the legs far apart: to seem favourable to both sides in any question
that divides opinion into parties, to trim with regard to any
controversy.--_v.t._ to stand or sit astride of.--_n._ act of straddling:
an attempt to fill a non-committal position: a stock-transaction in which
the buyer obtains the privilege of either a _put_ or a _call_: a vertical
mine-timber supporting a set.--_adv._ astride.--_adj._ STRADD'LE-LEGGED,
having the legs wide apart. [A freq. from A.S. _str['æ]d_, _pa.t._ of
_strídan_, stride.]

STRADIVARIUS, strad-i-v[=a]'ri-us, _n._ a violin, esp. one made by the
famous Antonio _Stradivari_ (1649-1737) of Cremona.

STRAE, str[=a], _n._ (_Scot._) straw.--STRAE DEATH, death in one's bed from
natural causes, as opposed to death by accident, by violence, by the rope,
&c.

STRAGGLE, strag'l, _v.i._ to wander from the course: to ramble: to stretch
beyond proper limits: to be dispersed.--_ns._ STRAGG'LER, one who straggles
from the course: a wandering fellow: a vagabond: a migratory animal found
away from its usual range; STRAGG'LE-TOOTH, a misshapen or misplaced
tooth.--_adv._ STRAGG'LINGLY, in a straggling manner.--_n._
STRAGGL'ING-MON'EY, money paid for apprehending deserters and men absent
without leave: money deducted from the wages of such absentees.--_adj._
STRAGG'LY, straggling, spread out. [For _strackle_, freq. of M. E.
_straken_--A.S. _strícan_, to go.]

STRAGULUM, strag'[=u]-lum, _n._ the mantle or pallium in ornithology. [L.,
a cover.]

STRAIGHT, str[=a]t, _adj._ direct: being in a right line: not crooked:
nearest: upright: free from disorder: honourable, fair: unqualified,
out-and-out: consisting of a sequence at poker: (_slang_) undiluted, neat,
as a dram of whisky, &c., direct, authoritative, reliable.--_adv._
immediately: in the shortest time.--_v.t._ to straighten.--_n._
STRAIGHT'-ARCH, an arch in the form of two sides of an isosceles
triangle.--_adjs._ STRAIGHT'AWAY, straight forward; STRAIGHT'-CUT, cut
lengthwise of the leaf, of tobacco.--_n._ STRAIGHT'-EDGE, a narrow board or
piece of metal having one edge perfectly straight for applying to a surface
to ascertain whether it be exactly even.--_v.t._ STRAIGHT'EN, to make
straight.--_ns._ STRAIGHT'ENER, one who, or that which, straightens;
STRAIGHT'-FACE, a sober, unsmiling face.--_adv._ STRAIGHT'FORTH directly:
henceforth.--_adj._ STRAIGHTFOR'WARD, going forward in a straight course:
honest: open: downright.--_adv._ STRAIGHTFOR'WARDLY.--_n._
STRAIGHTFOR'WARDNESS, direction in a straight course: undeviating
rectitude.--_adv._ STRAIGHT'LY, tightly: closely.--_n._ STRAIGHT'NESS,
narrowness: tightness.--_adjs._ STRAIGHT'-OUT, out-and-out; STRAIGHT'-PIGHT
(_Shak._), straight, erect.--_adv._ STRAIGHT'WAY, directly: immediately:
without loss of time. [A.S. _streht_, pa.p. of _streccan_, to stretch.]

STRAIK, str[=a]k, _n._ a Scotch form of _stroke_.

STRAIN, str[=a]n, _v.t._ to stretch tight: to draw with force: to exert to
the utmost: to injure by overtasking: to make tight: to constrain, make
uneasy or unnatural: to press to one's self, to embrace: to pass through a
filter.--_v.i._ to make violent efforts: to filter.--_n._ the act of
straining: a violent effort: an injury inflicted by straining, esp. a
wrenching of the muscles: a note, sound, or song, stretch of imagination,
&c.: any change of form or bulk of a portion of matter either solid or
fluid, the system of forces which sustains the strain being called the
_stress_: mood, disposition.--_ns._ STRAIN'ER, one who, or that which,
strains: an instrument for filtration: a sieve, colander, &c.; STRAIN'ING,
a piece of leather for stretching as a base for the seat of a
saddle.--STRAIN A POINT, to make a special effort: to exceed one's duty;
STRAIN AT, in Matt. xxiii. 24, a misprint for STRAIN OUT. [O. Fr.
_straindre_--L. _string[)e]re_, to stretch tight. Cf. _String_ and
_Strong_.]

STRAIN, str[=a]n, _n._ race, stock, generation: descent: natural tendency,
any admixture or element in one's character.--_n._ STRAIN'ING-BEAM, a
tie-beam uniting the tops of the queen-posts. [M. E. _streen_--A.S.
_gestréon_, gain; confused in M. E. with the related M. E. _strend_--A.S.
_strynd_, lineage.]

STRAINT, str[=a]nt, _n._ (_Spens._) violent tension.

STRAIT, str[=a]t, _adj._ difficult: distressful: (_obs._ strict, rigorous:
narrow, so in _B._).--_n._ a narrow pass in a mountain, or in the ocean
between two portions of land: difficulty, distress.--_v.t._ to stretch,
tighten: to distress.--_v.t._ STRAIT'EN, to make strait or narrow: to
confine: to draw tight: to distress: to put into difficulties.--_adjs._
STRAIGHT'-HEART'ED, stingy; STRAIT'-LACED, rigid or narrow in
opinion.--_adv._ STRAIT'LY, narrowly: (_B._) strictly.--_ns._ STRAIT'NESS,
state of being strait or narrow: strictness: (_B._) distress or difficulty;
STRAIT'-WAIST'COAT, STRAIT'-JACK'ET, a dress made with long sleeves, which
are tied behind, so that the arms are confined. [O. Fr. _estreit_,
_estrait_ (Fr. _étroit_)--L. _strictus_, _pa.p._ of _string[)e]re_, to draw
tight.]

STRAKE, str[=a]k, obsolete _pa.t._ of _strike_.

STRAKE, str[=a]k, _n._ one breadth of plank in a ship, either within or
without board, wrought from the stem to the sternpost: the hoop or tire of
a wheel; (_obs._) a bushel: the place where ore is assorted on a mine
floor.--Also STRAIK. [A variant of _streak_.]

STRAMASH, stra-mash', _n._ (_Scot._) a tumult, disturbance.--_v.t._ to
beat, destroy.

STRAMMEL, stram'el, _n._ straw.--_adj._ STRAMIN'EOUS, strawy, light like
straw.

STRAMONIUM, str[=a]-m[=o]'ni-um, _n._ a common narcotic weed of the
Nightshade family, called also the _Thorn-apple_, _Stink-weed_, and
_Jimson-weed_--_Datura Stramonium_: a drug prepared from its seeds and
leaves, resembling belladonna, good in asthma.--Also STRAM'ONY.

STRAND, strand, _n._ the margin or beach of the sea or of a lake: (_Scot._)
a rivulet, a gutter.--_v.t._ to run aground: to be stopped.--_v.i._ to
drift or be driven ashore.--_p.adj._ STRAND'ED, driven on shore: left
helpless without further resource. [A.S. _strand_; Ger. _strand_, Ice.
_strönd_, border.]

STRAND, strand, _n._ one of the strings or parts that compose a
rope.--_v.t._ to break a strand: to form by uniting strands. [Dut.
_streen_, a skein; Ger. _strähne_.]

STRANGE, str[=a]nj, _adj._ foreign: belonging to another country: not
formerly known, heard, or seen: not domestic: new: causing surprise or
curiosity, marvellous: unusual, odd: estranged, reserved: unacquainted
with, unversed: not lawfully belonging to one.--_adv._ STRANGE'LY.--_ns._
STRANGE'NESS; STR[=A]N'GER, a foreigner: one from homed: one unknown or
unacquainted: a guest or visitor: one not admitted to communion or
fellowship: a popular premonition of the coming of a visitor by a bit of
stalk in a cup of tea, guttering in a candle, &c.--STRANGE WOMAN, a whore.
[O. Fr. _estrange_ (Fr. _étrange_)--L. _extraneus_--_extra_, beyond.]

STRANGLE, strang'gl, _v.t._ to compress the throat so as to prevent
breathing and destroy life: to choke: to hinder from birth or appearance:
to suppress.--_n._ STRANG'LER.--_n.pl._ STRANG'LES, a contagious eruptive
disorder peculiar to young horses.--_n._ STRANG'LE-WEED, the dodder, the
broom-rape.--_v.t._ STRANG'ULATE, to strangle: to compress so as to
suppress or suspend function.--_p.adj._ STRANG'ULATED, having the function
stopped by compression: constricted, much narrowed.--_n._
STRANGUL[=A]'TION, act of strangling: compression of the throat and partial
suffocation: the state of a part abnormally constricted. [O. Fr.
_estrangler_ (Fr. _étrangler_)--L. _strangul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--Gr.
_strangaloein_, to strangle, _strangos_, twisted.]

STRANGURY, strang'g[=u]-ri, _n._ painful retention of, or difficulty in
discharging, urine.--_adj._ STRANG[=U]'RIOUS. [L. _stranguria_--Gr.
_strangx_, a drop, from _stranggein_, to squeeze, _ouron_, urine.]

STRAP, strap, _n._ a narrow strip of cloth or leather: a razor-strop: an
iron plate secured by screw-bolts, for connecting two or more timbers:
(_naut._) a piece of rope formed into a circle, used to retain a block in
its position: (_slang_) credit, esp. for liquor.--_v.t._ to beat or bind
with a strap: to strop, as a razor: (_Scot._) to hang:--_pr.p._ strap'ping;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ strapped.--_n._ STRAP'-GAME, the swindling game better
known as _Prick-the-garter_, _Fast-and-loose_.--_n.pl._ STRAP'-MOUNTS, the
buckles, &c., fitted on leather straps.--_ns._ STRAP'-OIL, a thrashing;
STRAP'PER, one who works with straps, esp. one who harnesses horses:
something big, a tall large person; STRAP'PING, the act of fastening with a
strap: materials for straps: a thrashing.--_adj._ tall, handsome.--_adj._
STRAP'-SHAPED, shaped like a strap, ligulate.--_n._ STRAP'-WORK
(_archit._), ornamentation consisting of crossed and interlaced fillets or
bands. [Orig. _strop_, from A.S. _stropp_--L. _struppus_; cf. Gr.
_strophos_, a twisted band.]

STRAPPADO, strap-[=a]'do, _n._ (_Shak._) a punishment which consisted in
pulling the victim to the top of a beam and letting him fall so as to break
his bones.--_v.t._ (_Milt._) to torture or punish by the strappado. [It.
_strappata_--_strappare_, to pull.]

STRASS, stras, _n._ paste for making false gems. [J. _Strasser_.]

STRATA, str[=a]'ta, _pl._ of _stratum_.

STRATAGEM, strat'a-jem, _n._ an artifice, esp. in war: a plan for deceiving
an enemy or gaining an advantage: any artifice generally.--_adjs._
STRATEGET'IC, -AL, STRATEG'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or done by,
strategy.--_adv._ STRATEGET'ICALLY.--_ns._ STRATEGET'ICS, STRAT'EGY,
generalship, or the art of conducting a campaign and manoeuvring an army:
artifice or finesse generally.--_adv._ STRATEG'ICALLY.--_n._ STRAT'EGIST,
one skilled in strategy. [Fr.,--L. _stratagema_--Gr.
_strat[=e]g[=e]ma_--_strat[=e]gos_, a general--_stratos_, an army, _agein_,
to lead.]

STRATH, strath, _n._ in Scotland, an extensive valley through which a river
runs. [Gael. _srath_, a valley--L. _strata_, a street.]

STRATHSPEY, strath'sp[=a], _n._ a Scotch dance, allied to and danced
alternately with the reel, differing from it in being slower, and abounding
in the jerky motion of dotted notes and semiquavers (when the latter
precede the former it constitutes the _Scotch snap_), while the reel is
almost entirely in smooth, equal, gliding motion: the music for a
strathspey, or its movement. [_Strathspey_, valley of the _Spey_.]

STRATIFY, strat'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to form or lay in strata or
layers:--_pr.p._ strat'ifying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ strat'if[=i]ed.--_adj._
STRATIC'ULATE, arranged in thin layers.--_n._ STRATIFIC[=A]'TION, act of
stratifying: state of being stratified: process of being arranged in
layers.--_adj._ STRAT'IFORM, in the form of strata. [Fr. _stratifier_--L.
_stratum_, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

STRATIOTES, strat'i-[=o]-t[=e]z, _n._ the water-soldier. See under SOLDIER.
[Gr. _strati[=o]tes_, a soldier.]

STRATOCRACY, str[=a]-tok'ra-si, _n._ military despotism. [Gr. _stratos_, an
army, _kratein_, to rule.]

STRATOGRAPHY, str[=a]-tog'ra-fi, _n._ description of an army and whatever
pertains to it.--_adjs._ STRATOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ STRATOGRAPH'ICALLY.
[Gr. _stratos_, an army, _graphein_, to write.]

STRATUM, str[=a]'tum, _n._ a bed of earth or rock formed by natural causes,
and consisting usually of a series of layers: any bed or layer:--_pl._
STR[=A]'TA.--_adj._ STRAT'IFORM, formed like strata.--_ns._ STRATIG'RAPHER,
STRATIG'RAPHIST, a student of stratigraphical geology.--_adjs._
STRATIGRAPH'IC, -AL, concerned with the relative position of the strata
forming the earth's crust.--_adv._ STRATIGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ STRATIG'RAPHY,
the order and position of the stratified groups: the study or description
of these, descriptive geology.--_adj._ STR[=A]'TOSE, arranged in layers,
stratified.--_n.pl._ STRAT'[=U]LA. thin layers in rock-strata. [L.
_stratum_--_stern[)e]re_, _stratum_, to spread out.]

STRATUS, str[=a]'tus, _n._ the fall or night-cloud, the lowest of clouds, a
widely-extended horizontal sheet, of varied thickness.--_ns._
STR[=A]'TO-CIR'RUS, better CIRRO-STRATUS (see CIRRUS);
STR[=A]'TO-C[=U]'MULUS, better CUMULO-STRATUS (see CUMULUS). [L. _stratus_,
a coverlet--_stern[)e]re_, _stratum_, to spread.]

STRAUGHT, strawt, obsolete _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _stretch_.

STRAUNGE, strawnj. _adj._ (_Spens._), same as STRANGE: foreign, borrowed.

STRAVAIG, stra-v[=a]g', _v.i._ (_Scot._) to wander about idly.--_n._
STRAVAIG'ER. [Cf. _Extravagant_.]

STRAW, straw, _n._ the stalk on which corn grows, and from which it is
thrashed: a quantity of these when thrashed: anything worthless, the least
possible thing.--_ns._ STRAW'BERRY, the delicious and fragrant fruit of any
of the species of the genus _Fragaria_, the plant itself; STRAW'BERRY-LEAF,
a symbolic ornament on the coronets of dukes, marquises, and earls--in
_pl._ a dukedom; STRAW'BERRY-MARK, a soft reddish nævus or birth-mark;
STRAW'BERRY-TREE, a species of Arbutus, which produces a fruit resembling
the strawberry; STRAW'-BOARD, a kind of mill-board or thick card-board,
made of straw after it has been boiled with lime or soda to soften it;
STRAW'-COL'OUR, the colour of dry straw, a delicate yellow.--_adj._
STRAW'-COL'OURED, of the colour of dry straw, of a delicate yellowish
colour.--_ns._ STRAW'-CUT'TER, an instrument for chopping straw for fodder;
STRAW'-EMBROI'DERY, embroidery done by sewing straw on net; STRAW'-HOUSE, a
house for holding thrashed straw; STRAW'ING (_slang_), the sale of straws
on the streets in order to cover the giving to the purchaser of things
forbidden to be sold, as indecent books, &c.; STRAW'-PLAIT, a narrow band
of plaited wheat-straw, used in making straw hats, bonnets, &c.;
STRAW'-STEM, the fine stem of a wine-glass pulled out from the material of
the bowl, instead of being attached separately: a wine-glass having such a
stem.--_adj._ STRAW'Y, made of, or like, straw.--MAN OF STRAW (see under
MAN). [A.S. _streaw_; Ger. _stroh_, from the root of _strew_.]

STRAWED (_B._), for strewed, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _strew_.

STRAY, str[=a], _v.i._ to wander: to go from the enclosure, company, or
proper limits: to err: to rove: to deviate from duty or rectitude.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to cause to stray.--_n._ a domestic animal that has strayed or is
lost: a straggler, a waif, a truant: the act of wandering.--_adj._ STRAYED,
wandering, astray.--_ns._ STRAY'ER, one who strays, a wanderer; STRAY'LING,
a little waif or stray. [O. Fr. _estraier_, to wander--_estree_, a
street--L. _strata_, a street.]

STRAYNE, str[=a]n, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to stretch out, to embody or express
in strains. [_Strain_.]

STRAYT, str[=a]t, _n._ (_Spens._) a street.

STREAK, str[=e]k, _n._ a line or long mark different in colour from the
ground, a band of marked colour of some length, a stripe: a slight
characteristic, a trace, a passing mood: (_min._) the appearance presented
by the surface of a mineral when scratched: a strake or line of planking: a
short piece of iron forming one section of a pieced tire on the wheel of an
artillery-carriage.--_v.t._ to form streaks in: to mark with
streaks.--_adj._ STREAKED, streaky, striped: (_U.S._) confused.--_n._
STREAK'INESS.--_adj._ STREAK'Y, marked with streaks, striped: uneven in
quality. [A.S. _strica_, a stroke--_strícan_, to go, Ger. _strich_; cf.
_Strike_. Skeat makes it Scand., Sw. _strek_, Dan. _streg_, a dash.]

STREAK, str[=e]k, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to lay out a corpse for burial.--_v.i._
to stretch out.

STREAK, str[=e]k, _v.i._ (_U.S._) to run swiftly.

STREAM, str[=e]m, _n._ a current of water, air, or light, &c.: anything
flowing out from a source: anything forcible, flowing, and continuous:
drift, tendency.--_v.i._ to flow in a stream: to pour out abundantly: to be
overflown with: to issue in rays: to stretch in a long line.--_v.t._ to
discharge in a stream: to wave.--_ns._ STREAM'ER, an ensign or flag
streaming or flowing in the wind: a luminous beam shooting upward from the
horizon; STREAM'-GOLD, placer-gold, the gold of alluvial districts;
STREAM'-ICE, pieces of drift ice swept down in a current; STREAM'INESS,
streamy quality; STREAM'ING, the working of alluvial deposits for the ores
contained.--_adj._ STREAM'LESS, not watered by streams.--_ns._ STREAM'LET,
STREAM'LING, a little stream; STREAM'-TIN, disintegrated tin-ore found in
alluvial ground.--_adj._ STREAM'Y, abounding in streams: flowing in a
stream. [A.S. _streám_; Ger. _straum_, Ice. _straumr_.]

STREET, str[=e]t, _n._ a road in a town lined with houses, broader than a
lane: those who live in a street: the part of the street for vehicles: the
body of brokers.--_ns._ STREET'AGE, toll for the use of a street;
STREET'CAR, a passenger-car on the streets of a city, drawn by horses,
cable traction, or electricity; STREET'-DOOR, the door of a house which
opens upon a street; STREET'-RAIL'ROAD, a railroad or tramway constructed
on a public street; STREET'-SWEEP'ER, one who, or that which, sweeps the
streets clean; STREET'-WALK'ER, a whore who prowls about the streets;
STREET'-WARD, an officer who formerly took care of the streets;
STREET'-WAY, the roadway. [A.S. _str['æ]t_ (Dut. _straat_, Ger. _strasse_,
It. _strada_)--L. _strata_ (_via_), a paved (way), from _stern[)e]re_,
_stratum_, to strew.]

STREIGHT, str[=a]t, _adj._ (_Spens._) narrow, strict, close.--_adv._
strictly, closely.--_n._ same as STRAIT.--_adv._
STREIGHT'LY=_Straitly_.--_n._ STREIGHT'NESS=_Straitness_.

STRELITZ, strel'its, _n._ one of the ancient Muscovite guards, a kind of
hereditary standing army, abolished by Peter the Great.

STRELITZIA, strel-it'si-a, _n._ a genus of South African plants of the
banana family, with large showy flowers--_Strelitzia Reginæ_, also
_Queen-plant_, _Bird-of-Paradise flower_--with fine orange and purple
flowers. [From Queen Charlotte, wife of George III., of the house of
Mecklenburg-_Strelitz_.]

STRENE, str[=e]n, _n._ (_obs._) race, offspring. [_Strain_.]

STRENGTH, strength, _n._ quality of being strong: power of any kind, active
or passive: force, vigour, violence: solidity or toughness: power to resist
attack: excellence, boldness of conception or treatment: the required
consistency or degree of the essential element in any compound: intensity:
brightness: validity: vigour of style or expression: security: amount of
force: potency of liquors: available force or support: a fortification,
stronghold.--_v.t._ STRENGTH'EN, to make strong or stronger: to confirm: to
encourage: to increase in power or security.--_v.i._ to become
stronger.--_n._ STRENGTH'ENER, one who, or that which, supplies
strength.--_adjs._ STRENGTH'ENING, invigorating; STRENGTH'LESS, without
strength.--ON THE STRENGTH, on the muster-rolls of; ON, or UPON, THE
STRENGTH OF, in reliance upon.--PROOF-STRENGTH (see under PROOF). [A.S.
_strengthu_--_strang_, strong.]

STRENUOUS, stren'[=u]-us, _adj._ active: vigorous: urgent: zealous: bold:
necessitating exertion.--_n._ STRENUOS'ITY, strenuousness: a straining
after effect.--_adv._ STREN'UOUSLY.--_n._ STREN'UOUSNESS. [L. _strenuus_,
akin to Gr. _str[=e]n[=e]s_, strong.]

STREPENT, strep'ent, _adj._ (_rare_) noisy. [L. _strep[)e]re_, to make a
noise.]

STREPERA, strep'e-ra, _n._ an Australian genus of corvine passerine birds,
the crow-shrikes.--_adj._ STREP'ERINE. [L. _strep[)e]re_, to make a noise.]

STREPHON, stref'on, _n._ a love-sick shepherd in Sir Philip Sidney's
_Arcadia_, hence a love-sick swain generally.--_n._ STREPH'ONADE, a
love-song.

STREPITANT, strep'i-tant, _adj._ loud, noisy.

STREPITOSO, strep-i-t[=o]'z[=o], _adv._ (_mus._) in a loud, boisterous
manner.

STRESS, stres, _n._ force: pressure: urgency: strain: violence, as of the
weather: the relative loudness or emphasis with which certain syllables are
pronounced, accent: weight, importance: (_mech._) force exerted in any
direction or manner between two bodies--the greatest stress which a
substance will bear without being torn asunder being its ultimate
strength.--_v.t._ to constrain: lay stress on: to emphasise. [O. Fr.
_estrecir_, from L. _strictus_, _string[)e]re_, to draw tight.]

STRESS, stres, _n._ distress: legal distraining.

STRETCH, strech, _v.t._ to extend: to draw out: to expand: to reach out: to
exaggerate, strain, or carry further than is right: to cause to lie at full
length: (_slang_) to hang.--_v.i._ to be drawn out: to be extended: to
extend without breaking: to exaggerate.--_n._ act of stretching: effort:
struggle: reach: extension: state of being stretched: utmost extent of
meaning: course: one single uninterrupted sitting, turn, &c.: (_slang_) a
year's imprisonment.--_ns._ STRETCH'ER, anything used for stretching, as
gloves, hats, &c.: a frame on which a painter's canvas is stretched by
means of wedges forced into the corners: a frame for carrying the sick or
dead: a footboard for a rower; STRETCH'ER-BOND, a method of building in
which bricks or stones are laid lengthwise in successive courses, the
joints of the one falling at the middle of that above and below;
STRETCH'ING-COURSE, a course of bricks or stones having all the faces
outward; STRETCH'ING-FRAME, a machine for stretching cotton rovings before
being spun into yarn: a frame on which starched fabrics are dried;
STRETCH'ING-[=I]'RON, a currier's tool for dressing leather.--_adj._
STRETCH'Y, apt to stretch too much: liable to stretch one's self from
weariness. [A.S. _streccan_--_strec_, _stræc_, strong; cf. Ger. _strack_,
straight.]

STREW, str[=oo], _v.t._ to spread by scattering: to scatter
loosely:--_pa.p._ strewed or strewn.--_ns._ STREW'ING, act of scattering or
spreading over: anything fit to be strewed: (_Shak._) litter for cattle;
STREW'MENT (_Shak._), anything strewed or scattered in decoration. [A.S.
_streowian_; Ger. _streuen_, L. _stern[)e]re_.]

STRIA, str[=i]'a, _n._ a stripe or streak, a small channel or thread-like
line running parallel to another: (_archit._) one of the fillets between
the flutes of columns, &c.:--_pl._ STR[=I]'Æ ([=e]).--_v.t._
STR[=I][=A]TE', to score, stripe.--_adjs._ STR[=I]'[=A]TE, -D, marked with
striæ or small parallel channels.--_ns._ STR[=I][=A]'TION; STR[=I][=A]'TUM,
the _corpus striatum_, the great ganglion of the fore-brain; STR[=I]'ATURE,
mode of striation. [L. _stria_, a streak, _stri[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
furrow.]

STRICH, STRICK, strik, _n._ (_Spens._) the screech-owl. [L. _strix_,
_strigis_.]

STRICKEN, strik'n (_B._), _pa.p._ of strike.--STRICKEN IN YEARS, advanced
in years.--A STRICKEN HOUR, an hour as marked by the clock.

STRICKLE, strik'l, _n._ a straight-edge for levelling the top of a measure
of grain: a template.--Also STRICK'LER.

STRICT, strikt, _adj._ exact: extremely nice: observing exact rules,
regular: severe: restricted, taken strictly: thoroughly accurate: tense,
stiff: closely intimate: absolute, unbroken: constricted.--_n._
STRIC'TION.--_adv._ STRICT'LY, narrowly, closely, rigorously,
exclusively.--_ns._ STRICT'NESS; STRICT'URE (_surg._), an unnatural
contraction, either congenital or acquired, of a mucous canal, such as the
urethra, oesophagus, or intestine: an unfavourable criticism: censure:
critical remark. [L. _strictus_, pa.p. of _string[)e]re_, to draw tight.
Cf. _Strain_ and _Stringent_.]

STRIDDLE, strid'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to straddle.

STRIDE, str[=i]d, _v.i._ to walk with long steps: to straddle.--_v.t._ to
pass over at a step: to bestride, ride upon:--_pa.t._ str[=o]de (_obs._
strid); _pa.p._ strid'den.--_n._ a long step, the space passed over in
such. [A.S. _strídan_, to stride; Ger. _streiten_, strive.]

STRIDENT, str[=i]'dent, _adj._ creaking, grating, harsh.--_adv._
STR[=I]'DENTLY.--_n._ STR[=I]'DOR, a harsh sound.--_adj._ STRID'[=U]LANT,
strident.--_n.pl._ STRID[=U]LAN'TIA, a group of hemipterous insects, the
cicadas.--_v.i._ STRID'[=U]LATE, to make a stridulous sound.--_ns._
STRID[=U]L[=A]'TION, the act of stridulating; STRID'[=U]L[=A]TOR, an insect
which emits such a sound.--_adjs._ STRID'[=U]L[=A]TORY, stridulant;
STRID'[=U]LOUS, emitting a harsh creaking sound. [L. _stridens_, _-entis_,
pr.p. of _strid[=e]re_, to creak.]

STRIFE, str[=i]f, _n._ contention for superiority: struggle for victory:
contest: discord.--_adj._ STRIFE'FUL (_Spens._), full of strife,
contentious, discordant--also STRIF'FUL. [M. E. _strif_--O. Fr.
_estrif_--Scand., Ice. _strith_, strife; Ger. _streit_, Dut. _strijd_,
strife.]

STRIG, strig, _n._ the footstalk of a flower or leaf.--_v.t._ to strip this
off.

STRIGA, str[=i]'ga, _n._ (_bot_.) a sharp bristle or hair-like scale: a
stripe, stria: the flute of a column:--_pl._ STR[=I]'GÆ.--_adjs._
STR[=I]'GATE, STR[=I]'GOSE, having strigæ: streaked; STRIG'ILOSE, minutely
strigose. [L. _striga_, a furrow--_string[)e]re_, to contract.]

STRIGES, str[=i]'jez, _n.pl._ the owls or _Strigidæ_, a sub-order of
_Raptores_.--_adj._ STRIG'INE, owl-like. [L. _strix_, _strigis_, an owl.]

STRIGIL, strij'il, _n._ a flesh-scraper. [L. _strigilis_, a
scraper--_string[)e]re_, to contract.]

STRIGILIS, strij'i-lis, _n._ an organ for cleaning the antennæ on the first
tarsal-joint of a bee's foreleg.

STRIGOPS, str[=i]'gops, _n._ a genus containing the kakapo or nocturnal New
Zealand parrot, the owl-parrots. [L. _strix_, _strigis_, owl, Gr. _[=o]ps_,
face.]

STRIKE, str[=i]k, _v.t._ to give a blow to: to hit with force, to smite: to
pierce: to dash: to stamp: to coin: to thrust in: to cause to sound: to let
down, as a sail: to ground upon, as a ship: to punish: to affect strongly:
to affect suddenly with alarm or surprise: to make a compact or agreement,
to ratify: to take down and remove: to erase (with _out_, _off_): to come
upon unexpectedly: to occur to: to appear to: to assume: to hook a fish by
a quick turn of the wrist: (_slang_) to steal: (_B._) to stroke.--_v.i._ to
give a quick blow: to hit: to dash: to sound by being struck: to touch: to
run aground: to pass with a quick effect: to dart: to take root: to lower
the flag in token of respect or surrender: to give up work in order to
secure higher wages or the redress of some grievance: (_U.S._) to do menial
work for an officer: to become saturated with salt: to run, or fade in
colour:--_pa.t._ struck; _pa.p._ struck (_obs._ strick'en).--_n._ act of
striking for higher wages: (_geol_.) the direction of the outcrop of a
stratum--the line which it makes when it appears at the surface of the
earth, always being at right angles to the dip of the bend: (_U.S._) any
dishonest attempt to extort money by bringing in a bill in the hope of
being bought off by those interested: full measure, esp. of malt: the whole
coinage made at one time: an imperfect matrix for type: the metal plate
into which a door-latch strikes as the door closes: the crystalline
appearance of hard soaps.--_ns._ STRIKE'-PAY, an allowance paid by a
trades-union to men on strike; STR[=I]K'ER, one who, or that which,
strikes: a green-hand on shipboard.--_adj._ STR[=I]K'ING, affecting:
surprising: forcible: impressive: exact.--_adv._ STR[=I]K'INGLY.--_n._
STR[=I]K'INGNESS, quality of being striking, or of affecting or
surprising.--STRIKE A BALANCE, to bring out the relative state of a debtor
and creditor account; STRIKE A TENT, to take it down; STRIKE DOWN, to
prostrate by a blow or by illness; STRIKE FOR, to start suddenly for;
STRIKE FROM, to remove with a stroke; STRIKE HANDS (_B._), to become surety
for any one; STRIKE HOME, to strike right to the point aimed at; STRIKE IN,
to enter suddenly: to interpose; STRIKE INTO, to enter upon suddenly, to
break into; STRIKE OFF, to erase from an account, to deduct: to print: to
separate by a blow; STRIKE OIL, to find petroleum when boring for it: to
make a lucky hit; STRIKE OUT, to efface: to bring into light: to direct
one's course boldly outwards: to strike from the shoulder: to form by
sudden effort; STRIKE SAIL, to take in sail: to stop; STRIKE UP, to begin
to beat, sing, or play; STRIKE WORK, to cease work. [A.S. _strícan_; Ger.
_streichen_, to move, to strike.]

STRING, string, _n._ a small cord or slip of anything for tying, small
cord, twine: a ribbon: nerve, tendon, a vegetable fibre: the chord (slender
piece of wire or catgut stretched) of a musical instrument: (_pl._)
stringed instruments collectively: a cord on which things are filed, a
succession or series of things: a drove of horses: in billiards, the
buttons strung on a wire by which the score is kept, the score itself: an
expedient, object in view or of pursuit: the highest range of planks in a
ship's ceiling.--_v.t._ to supply with strings: to put in tune: to put on a
string: to make tense or firm: to take the strings off.--_v.i._ to stretch
out into a long line: to form itself into strings: at billiards, to drive
the ball against the end of the table and back, in order to determine which
player is to open the game:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ strung.--_ns._
STRING'-BAND, a band composed chiefly of stringed instruments;
STRING'-BOARD, a board which faces the well-hole of a staircase, and
receives the ends of the steps; STRING'-COURSE, a projecting horizontal
course or line of mouldings running quite along the face of a
building.--_adj._ STRINGED, having strings.--_ns._ STRING'ER, one who, or
that which, strings: a lengthwise timber on which a rail is fastened
resting on a transverse cross-tie or sleeper: any main lengthways timber in
a bridge or other building: a small screw-hook to which piano-strings are
sometimes attached: (_naut._) a shelf-piece, an inside horizontal plank,
supporting beam-ends, any heavy timber similarly carried round a vessel to
strengthen her for special heavy service, as whaling, &c.;
STRING'INESS.--_adj._ STRING'LESS, having no strings.--_ns._
STRING'-OR'GAN, a reed-organ having a graduated set of vibrators or free
reeds connected by rods which cause to vibrate corresponding wires or
strings stretched over a sounding-board; STRING'-PEA, a pea with edible
pods; STRING'-PIECE, a supporting timber forming the edge of the framework
of a floor or staircase, &c.; STRING'-PLATE; a metal plate bearing the
spring-block of a pianoforte.--_adj._ STRING'Y, consisting of strings or
small threads: fibrous: capable of being drawn into strings.--_n._
STRING'Y-BARK, one of a class of Australian gum-trees with very fibrous
bark.--HARP UPON ONE STRING (see under HARP); HAVE ONE ON A STRING, to gain
complete influence or control over some one: to place a person under great
anxiety; HAVE TWO STRINGS TO ONE'S BOW, to have more than one expedient for
attaining the object in view. [A.S. _strenge_, cord--_strang_, strong; Dut.
_streng_, Ice. _strengr_, Ger. _strang_; conn. with L. _string[)e]re_, to
draw tight.]

STRINGENT, strin'jent, _adj._ binding strongly: urgent.--_n._ STRIN'GENCY,
state or quality of being stringent: severe pressure.--_advs._ STRINGEN'DO
(_mus._) hastening the time; STRIN'GENTLY, in a stringent manner.--_n._
STRIN'GENTNESS. [L. _stringens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _string[)e]re_.]

STRINGHALT, string'hawlt, _n._ a peculiar catching up of a horse's limbs,
usually of one or both hind-limbs, a variety of chorea or St Vitus's dance.

STRINKLE, string'kl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Scot._) to sprinkle
sparingly.--_n._ STRINK'LING. [_Sprinkle_.]

STRIP, strip, v.t to pull off in strips or stripes: to tear off: to deprive
of a covering: to skin, to peel, to husk: to make bare: to expose: to
remove the overlying earth from a deposit: to deprive: to impoverish or
make destitute: to plunder: to press out the last milk at a milking: to
press out the ripe roe or milt from fishes, for artificial fecundation: to
separate the leaves of tobacco from the stems.--_v.i._ to undress: to lose
the thread, as a screw: to come off:--_pr.p._ strip'ping; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ stripped.--_n._ a long narrow piece of anything (cf.
_Stripe_).--_ns._ STRIP'LEAF, tobacco which has been stripped of the stalks
before packing; STRIP'PER, one who, or that which, strips.--_n.pl._
STRIP'PINGS, the last milk drawn from a cow at a milking.--STRIP OFF, to
pull or take off: to cast off. [A.S. _strýpan_; Ger. _streifen_.]

STRIPE, str[=i]p, _n._ a blow, esp. one made with a lash, rod, &c.: a wale
or discoloured mark made by a lash or rod: a line, or long narrow division
of a different colour from the ground: kind, particular sort: striped
cloth.--_v.t._ to make stripes upon: to form with lines of different
colours.--_adjs._ STR[=I]PED, having stripes of different colours;
STR[=I]'PY, stripelike. [Old Dut. _strijpe_, a stripe in cloth; Dut.
_streep_, Low Ger. _stripe_, Ger. _streif_.]

STRIPLING, strip'ling, _n._ a youth: one yet growing. [Dim. of _strip_.]

STRIVE, str[=i]v, _v.i._ to make efforts (with _with_, _against_, _for_):
to endeavour earnestly: to labour hard: to struggle, to fight: to contend:
to aim:--_pa.t._ str[=o]ve; _pa.p._ striv'en.--_ns._ STR[=I]V'ER;
STR[=I]V'ING.--_adv._ STR[=I]V'INGLY, with striving, struggles, or earnest
efforts. [O. Fr. _estriver_--_estrif_, strife--Scand., Ice. _strídh_,
strife.]

STRIX, striks, _n._ a genus typical of _Strigidæ_. [L. _strix_--Gr.
_strix_, a screech-owl.]

STROAM, str[=o]m, _v.i._ (_prov._) to wander idly about.

STROB, strob, _n._ the angular velocity of one radian per second.--_adj._
STROB'IC, seeming to spin. [Gr. _strobos_--_strephein_, to twist.]

STROBILA, stro-b[=i]'la, _n._ a discomedusan at the stage succeeding the
scyphistoma: a segmented tapeworm.--_adj._ STROBIL[=A]'CEOUS.--_v.i._
STROB'ILATE.--_n._ STROBIL[=A]'TION. [Gr. _strobil[=e]_, a twisted plug of
lint.]

STROBILE, strob'il, _n._ (_bot._) a cone--also STROB'ILUS.--_adjs._
STROBILIF'EROUS; STROBIL'IFORM; STROB'ILINE; STROB'ILOID.

STROBOSCOPE, strob'[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an apparatus for observing periodic
motion by throwing light at intervals on the rotating body.--_adj._
STROBOSCOP'IC. [Gr. _strobos_, a turning, _skopein_, to see.]

STRODE, str[=o]d, _pa.t._ of _stride_.

STROKE, str[=o]k, _n._ a blow: a sudden attack: calamity: the sound of a
clock: a dash in writing: the sweep of an oar in rowing, the aftmost oar of
a boat: the movement of the piston of a steam-engine: the touch of a pen or
pencil: any characteristic feature: an effective action, a feat, a masterly
effort: a mental act, the action of any faculty of the mind.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to act as stroke for, to row the stroke-oar of a boat.--_n._
STROKE'-OAR, the aftmost oar in a boat, or its rower, whose stroke leads
the rest. [A.S. _strác_, pa.t. of _strícan_, to strike.]

STROKE, str[=o]k, _v.t._ to rub gently in one direction: to rub gently in
kindness.--_ns._ STR[=O]K'ER; STR[=O]K'ING. [A.S. _strácian_, a causal of
_strícan_, as above; cf. Ger. _streicheln_, to stroke, from _streichen_, to
rub.]

STROKE, str[=o]k, obsolete _pa.p._ of _strike_.

STROKEN, str[=o]k'n (_Spens._), struck. [_Strike_.]

STROLL, str[=o]l, _v.i._ to ramble idly or leisurely: to wander on
foot.--_n._ a leisurely walk: a wandering on foot.--_n._ STROLL'ER. [Skeat
explains as formerly _stroule_, _stroyle_, a contracted form, as if for
_strugle_. Freq. of Dan. _stryge_, to stroll, Sw. _stryka_, to stroke, also
to ramble. Allied to _strike_.]

STROMA, str[=o]'ma, _n._ the subtentacular tissue or substance of an organ
or cell: in fungi, the substance in which the perithecia are immersed: the
solid mass left after all liquid is expressed from protoplasm.--_adjs._
STROMAT'IC; STR[=O]'MATIFORM; STR[=O]'MATOUS. [Gr. _str[=o]ma_, a
covering.]

STROMATOLOGY, str[=o]m-a-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the history of the formation of
the stratified rocks. [Gr. _str[=o]ma_, a covering, _logos_, discourse.]

STROMBUS, strom'bus, _n._ a genus of marine gasteropods, typical of the
family _Strombidæ_, their shells, often called conch-shells, frequently
used as decorative objects and in the manufacture of cameos. [Gr.
_strombos_, a pine-cone.]

STROND, strond, _n._ (_Shak._) the strand, beach.

STRONG, strong, _adj._ firm: having physical power: hale, healthy: able to
endure: solid: well fortified: having wealth or resources: moving with
rapidity: impetuous: earnest: having great vigour, as the mind: forcible:
energetic, determined, positive: affecting the senses, as smell and taste,
forcibly offensive or intense in quality, pungent: loud, stentorian: hard,
indigestible: having a quality in a great degree: intoxicating, rich in
alcohol: bright: intense: well established, firm, steadily going upward
without fluctuation: (_gram._) inflecting by a change of radical vowel
instead of by syllabic addition.--_n._ STRONG'HOLD, a place strong to hold
out against attack: a fastness or fortified place: a fortress.--_adj._
STRONG'-KNIT, firmly jointed or compacted.--_adv._ STRONG'LY.--_adj._
STRONG'-MIND'ED, having a vigorous mind: unfeminine, applied to women who
unsex themselves to obtain the freedom of men.--_ns._ STRONG'-MIND'EDNESS;
STRONG'-ROOM, a firmly secured place where valuables are stored;
STRONG'-WA'TER, ardent spirits.--STRONG ESCAPE (_Shak._), an escape
accomplished by strength. [A.S. _strang_, strong; Ice. _strangr_, Ger.
_streng_, tight.]

STRONGYLE, stron'jil, _n._ a strongyloid nematode worm.--_adj._
STRON'GYLOID. [Gr. _strongylos_, round.]

STRONTIUM, stron'shi-um, _n._ a yellowish, ductile, malleable metal
somewhat harder than lead, existing as a carbonate in the mineral
_Strontianite_ (first found in 1790 near _Strontian_ in Argyllshire), and
as a sulphate in the mineral known as _Celestine_.--_ns._ STRON'TIA, the
oxide of strontium--also STRON'TIAN; STRON'TIANITE, carbonate of strontia.

STROOK, str[=oo]k (_Milt._) obsolete _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _strike_.

STROP, strop, _n._ a strip of leather, or of wood covered with leather,
&c., for sharpening razors.--_v.t._ to sharpen on a strop:--_pr.p._
strop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stropped. [Older form of _strap_.]

STROPHANTHUS, str[=o]-fan'thus, _n._ a genus of tropical African and
Asiatic plants of order _Apocynaceæ_, often climbers, the seeds of several
species in Africa yielding arrow-poison, those of _S. hispidus_ yielding an
extremely poisonous bitter principle, STROPHAN'THIN, whose medicinal action
is very similar to that of Digitalis. [Gr. _strophos_, twisted band,
_anthos_, flower.]

STROPHE, str[=o]f'e, _n._ in the ancient drama, the song sung by the chorus
while dancing towards one side of the orchestra, to which its reverse, the
_antistrophe_, answers.--_adj._ STROPH'IC. [Gr.]

STROPHIOLE, strof'i-[=o]l, _n._ (_bot._) an aril-like appendage growing
from the _raphe_ in the fruits of Viola, &c.--_adjs._ STROPH'IOLATE, -D.
[Gr. _strophion_, dim. of _strophos_, a twisted band.]

STROSSERS, stros'[.e]rz, _n._ (_Shak._) trousers. [A form of
_trossers_=_trousers_.]

STROUDING, strowd'ing, _n._ a coarse, warm cloth or blanketing.

STROUP, str[=oo]p, _n._ (_Scot._) a spout, nozzle.

STROUT, strowt, _v.t._ (_Bacon_) to strut, to cause to project or swell
out.

STROVE, str[=o]v, _pa.t._ of _strive_.

STROW, str[=o], same as STREW:--_pa.p._ str[=o]wed or str[=o]wn.

STROY, stroi, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to destroy.

STRUB, strub, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_prov._) to rob.

STRUCK, STRUCKEN, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _strike_.

STRUCTURE, struk't[=u]r, _n._ manner of building: construction: a building,
esp. one of large size: arrangement of parts or of particles in a
substance: manner of organisation: an organic form.--_adj._ STRUC'T[=U]RAL,
morphological.--_n._ STRUCT[=U]RALIS[=A]'TION.--_adv._ STRUC'T[=U]RALLY, in
a structural manner.--_adjs._ STRUC'TURED, having a certain structure;
STRUC'TURELESS.--_adv._ STRUC'TURELY, in structure, by construction.--_n._
STRUC'T[=U]RIST, one who rears structures. [L. _structura_--_stru[)e]re_,
_structum_, to build.]

STRUGGLE, strug'l, _v.i._ to make great efforts with contortions of the
body: to make great exertions: to contend: to labour in pain: to be in
agony or distress.--_n._ a violent effort with contortions of the body:
great labour: agony.--_n._ STRUGG'LER, one who struggles, strives, or
contends. [Skeat explains M. E. _strogelen_ as a weakened form of an
assumed _strokelen_, a freq. verb, from Ice. _strok-_, stem of _strokinn_,
pa.p. of _strjúka_, to strike; cf. Ice. _strokka_, to churn, also Sw.
_stryka_, to strike.]

STRULDBRUG, struld'brug, _n._ one of a class of immortals in _Gulliver's
Travels_, born with a special mark in the forehead, kept by the public
after eighty.

STRUM, strum, _v.t._ to play on (as a musical instrument) in a coarse,
noisy manner:--_pr.p._ strum'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ strummed. [A variant
of _thrum_.]

STRUMA, str[=oo]'ma, _n._ scrofula:--_pl._ STRU'MÆ.--_adjs._ STRUMAT'IC,
STRU'MOUS, having scrofula: scrofulous--also STRUM[=O]SE'; STRUMIF'EROUS,
bearing strumæ or swellings; STRU'MIFORM, having the form of a
struma.--_ns._ STRUM[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the thyroid gland;
STRUM[=O]'SIS, production of struma; STRU'MOUSNESS. [L.
_strumosus_--_struma_, scrofula.]

STRUMPET, strum'pet, _n._ a whore.--_adj._ like a strumpet: inconstant:
false.--_v.t._ to make a strumpet of: to call a strumpet. [O. Fr. _strupe_,
_stupre_--L. _stuprum_, dishonour, _strupr[=a]re_, to debauch.]

STRUNG, strung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _string_.

STRUNT, strunt, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to strut.

STRUNT, strunt, _n._ (_Scot._) spirits, a dram of such: a sulky fit.

STRUT, strut, _v.i._ to walk in a pompous manner: to walk with affected
dignity:--_pr.p._ strut'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ strut'ted.--_n._ a proud
step or walk: affectation of dignity in walking.--_n._ STRUT'TER, one who
struts.--_adv._ STRUT'TINGLY, in a strutting manner. [Scand., Dan.
_strutte_, to strut; Low Ger. _strutt_, rigid; Ger. _strotzen_, to be
puffed up.]

STRUT, strut, _n._ a support for a rafter: an instrument for adjusting the
plaits of a ruff.--_v.t._ to brace.

STRUTHIO, str[=oo]'thi-[=o], _n._ the sole genus of _Struthionidæ_, the
African ostriches.--_adjs._ STRU'THIONINE, STRU'THIOUS. [L.,--Gr.
_strouthi[=o]n_, an ostrich.]

STRYCHNINE, strik'nin, _n._ a poisonous alkaloid occurring in crystals,
intensely bitter, colourless and inodorous, obtained from the seeds of nux
vomica--also STRYCH'NIA.--_adj._ STRYCH'NIC.--_ns._ STRYCH'NINISM, the
condition produced by a poisonous dose of strychnine; STRYCH'NISM, the
morbid state of the spinal cord produced by strychnine. [Gr. _strychnos_, a
kind of nightshade.]

STRYDE, str[=i]d, _n._ (_Spens._) stride.

STUB, stub, _n._ the stump left after a tree is cut down: anything short
and thick, a stump or truncated end of anything, a worn horse-shoe nail,
esp. in _pl._: the counterfoil in a cheque-book, &c.--_v.t._ to take the
stubs or roots of from the ground: to cut to a stub: to strike against a
stub:--_pr.p._ stub'bing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stubbed.--_adj._ STUBBED,
short and thick like a stump: blunt: obtuse.--_ns._ STUB'BEDNESS;
STUB'BINESS, state of being stubby: stubbedness.--_adj._ STUB'BY, abounding
with stubs: short, thick, and strong.--_ns._ STUB'-[=I]'RON, that worked up
from stubs for gun-barrels; STUB'-NAIL, a short thick nail. [A.S. _styb_;
Dut. _stobbe_, Ice. _stubbi_.]

STUBBLE, stub'l, _n._ the stumps or root-ends of the stalks of corn left in
the ground by the reaper or mower: anything like this, as a bristly beard,
&c.: the sugar-cane in the field after the first year.--_adjs._ STUBB'LED,
covered with stubble; STUBB'LE-FED, fed on the natural grass growing among
stubble.--_ns._ STUBB'LE-GOOSE, or _Harvest-goose_, the greylag goose;
STUBB'LE-RAKE, a rake with long teeth for raking stubble together.--_adj._
STUBB'LY, stubbled: having stubble: covered with stubble. [O. Fr.
_estouble_, prob. Teut. (Old High Ger. _stupfila_), or directly from L.
_stipula_, dim. of _stipes_, a stalk.]

STUBBORN, stub'orn, _adj._ immovably fixed in opinion: obstinate:
persevering: steady: stiff: inflexible: hardy: not easily melted or
worked.--_v.t._ (_Keats_) to make stubborn.--_adv._ STUBB'ORNLY.--_n._
STUBB'ORNNESS.--_adj._ STUBB'ORN-SHAFT'ED, having strong shafts or trunks.
[A.S. _styb_, a stub.]

STUCCO, stuk'[=o], _n._ a plaster of lime and fine sand, &c., used as a
coating for walls, for decorations, &c.: work done in stucco.--_v.t._ to
face or overlay with stucco: to form in stucco.--_n._ STUCC'[=O]ER, one who
works or deals in stucco. [It. _stucco_; from Old High Ger. _stucchi_, a
crust, a shell.]

STUCK, stuk, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _stick_.--_adj._ STUCK'-UP, affectedly
vain, self-important.

STUCK, stuk, _n._ (_Shak._) a thrust. [_Stoccado_.]

STUCKLE, stuk'l, _n._ (_prov._) several sheaves set together.

STUD, stud, _n._ a collection of breeding horses and mares, also the place
where they are kept: a collection of horses for racing or hunting, also of
other animals, even of dogs in America.--_ns._ STUD'-BOOK, a record of the
pedigrees of famous animals, esp. horses; STUD'-FARM, a farm where horses
are bred; STUD'-GROOM, a groom at a stud, esp. the head-groom; STUD'-HORSE,
a stallion. [A.S. _stód_; Ger. _gestüt_.]

STUD, stud, _n._ a nail with a large head: an ornamental double-headed
button worn in a cuff or shirt-front: one of the intermediate posts in a
partition to which laths are nailed: a cross-piece in the links of a
chain-cable for strengthening: a small pin in a watch: a trunk,
stem.--_v.t._ to adorn with knobs: to set thickly, as with studs:--_pr.p._
stud'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ stud'ded.--_ns._ STUD'-BOLT, a bolt with a
thread on each end, screwed into a fixed part at one end, receiving a nut
upon the other; STUD'DING-SAIL, a narrow sail set temporarily at the outer
edges of a square sail when the wind is light--also SCUDDING-SAIL;
STUD'DLE, a prop supporting a platform in a mine; STUD'-WORK, brickwork
walls between studs: studded leather armour. [A.S. _studu_, a post.]

STUDENT, st[=u]'dent, _n._ one who studies, a scholar at a higher school,
college, or university: one devoted to the study of any subject: a man
devoted to books.--_ns._ ST[=U]'DENTRY, students collectively;
ST[=U]'DENTSHIP, an endowment for a student in a college.

STUDIO, st[=u]'di-o, _n._ the workshop of an artist or photographer:--_pl._
ST[=U]'DIOS. [It.]

STUDIOUS, st[=u]'di-us, _adj._ given to study: thoughtful: diligent:
careful (with _of_): studied: deliberately planned: favourable for study or
meditation.--_adv._ ST[=U]'DIOUSLY.--_n._ ST[=U]'DIOUSNESS.

STUDY, stud'i, _v.t._ to bestow pains upon: to apply the mind to: to
examine closely, in order to learn thoroughly: to form and arrange by
thought: to con over.--_v.i._ to apply the mind closely to a subject: to
try hard: to muse, meditate, reflect: to apply the mind to books:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ stud'ied.--_n._ a setting of the mind upon a subject, earnest
endeavour, application to books, &c.: absorbed attention: contrivance: any
object of attentive consideration: any particular branch of learning: a
room devoted to study: a first sketch from nature, a drawing or painting
hastily done to facilitate later and more elaborate work, a student's
exercise in painting or sculpture: a composition in music intended to help
in acquiring mechanical facility: in theatrical phrase, one who commits a
part to memory.--_adj._ STUD'IED, qualified by, or versed in, study:
learned: planned with study or deliberation: premeditated.--_adv._
STUD'IEDLY, in a studied or premeditated manner.--_n._ STUD'IER, one who
studies. [O. Fr. _estudie_ (Fr. _étude_)--L. _studium_, zeal; Gr.
_spoud[=e]_, zeal.]

STUFA, st[=oo]f'a, _n._ a jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth.
[It.]

STUFF, stuf, _n._ materials of which anything is made: that which fills
anything: essence, elemental part: textile fabrics, cloth, esp. when
woollen: something trifling, worthless, or contemptible: a melted mass of
turpentine, tallow, &c. used for paying masts, planks, &c.: a medicinal
mixture: boards for building: (_slang_) money: worthless matter:
possessions generally, esp. household furniture, &c.--_v.t._ to fill by
crowding: to fill very full: to press in: to crowd: to cram, as with
nonsense or lies: to obstruct: to cause to bulge out by filling: to fill
with seasoning, as a fowl: to fill the skin of a dead animal, so as to
reproduce its living form.--_v.i._ to feed gluttonously: to practise
taxidermy.--_ns._ STUFF'ER, one who stuffs, esp. the skins of animals;
STUFF'-GOWN, a gown of stuff, not silk, esp. that of a junior barrister;
STUFF'ING, that which is used to stuff or fill anything--straw, sawdust,
feathers, hair, &c.: relishing ingredients put into meat, poultry, &c. in
cooking; STUFF'ING-BOX, a contrivance for keeping a piston-rod, &c.,
air-tight or water-tight by means of closely-fitting packing, while
allowing it free motion. [O. Fr. _estoffe_ (Fr. _étoffe_)--L. _stuppa_,
tow.]

STUFFY, stuf'i, _adj._ badly ventilated, musty: causing difficulty in
breathing: (_Scot._) stout: sturdy: (_slang_) sulky.--_n._ STUFF'INESS. [O.
Fr. _estouffer_, to choke--estoffe, stuff.]

STUG, stug, _n._ (_Scot._) a thorn.

STUGGY, stug'i, _adj._ (_prov._) thick-set, stout.

STULL, stul, _n._ (_prov._) in mining, a cross-timber in an excavation.

STULM, stulm, _n._ a small shaft used to drain a mine.

STULP, stulp, _n._ (_prov._) a post.

STULTIFY, stul'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make a fool of: to cause to appear
foolish: to destroy the force of one's argument by self-contradiction:
(_law_) to allege or prove to be of unsound mind:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
stul'tified.--_ns._ STULTIFIC[=A]'TION, act of stultifying or making
foolish; STUL'TIFIER, one who stultifies or makes a fool of;
STULTIL'OQUENCE, STULTIL'OQUY, foolish talk or discourse, babbling.--_adj._
STULTIL'OQUENT.--_adv._ STULTIL'OQUENTLY. [L. _stultus_, foolish,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

STUM, stum, _n._ must, grape-juice unfermented: new wine used to revive
dead or vapid wine: a mixture used to impart artificial strength, &c., to
weak beer or wine: wine revived by the addition of stum or by a second
fermentation.--_v.t._ to renew or doctor with stum: to fume, as a cask of
liquor, with burning sulphur. [Dut. _stom_, must--_stom_, mute; Ger.
_stumm_, dumb.]

STUMBLE, stum'bl, _v.i._ to strike the feet against something, to trip in
walking: to light on by chance (with _upon_): to slide into crime or
error.--_v.t._ to cause to trip or stop: to puzzle.--_n._ a trip in walking
or running: a blunder: a failure.--_ns._ STUM'BLER, one who stumbles;
STUM'BLING-BLOCK, -STONE, a block or stone over which one would be likely
to stumble: a cause of error.--_adv._ STUM'BLINGLY.--_adj._ STUM'BLY, apt
to stumble. [Skeat explains the _b_ as excrescent, the M. E. _stomblen_,
_stomelen_, _stumlen_, also _stomeren_ being from Ice. _stumra_, to
stumble. It is thus a doublet of _stammer_.]

STUMMEL, stum'el, _n._ the bowl and stem of a pipe.

STUMP, stump, _n._ the part of a tree left in the ground after the trunk is
cut down: the part of a body remaining after a part is cut off or
destroyed: (_cricket_) one of the three sticks forming a wicket.--_v.t._ to
reduce to a stump, to truncate, to cut off a part of: to strike
unexpectedly, as the foot against something fixed: (_cricket_) to knock
down the wickets when the batsman is out of his ground: to bring to a stop
by means of some obstacle or other, to defeat, ruin: (_U.S._) to challenge
to do something difficult: to make stump-speeches throughout a district,
constituency, &c.: (_slang_) to pay down, hand over (with _up_).--_v.i._ to
walk along heavily: to make stump-speeches.--_ns._ STUMP'ER, one who
stumps; STUMP'-OR'ATOR, one who harangues the multitude from a temporary
platform, as the stump of a tree: a speaker who travels about the country,
and whose appeals are mainly to the passions of his audience;
STUMP'-OR'ATORY; STUMP'-SPEECH, an impromptu speech delivered on any
improvised platform, any speech made all round a district by some frothy
agitator.--_adj._ STUMP'Y, full of stumps, short and thick.--_n._ (_slang_)
cash.--STUMP OUT (_cricket_), to put out by knocking down the stump or
wicket. [Ice. _stumpr_; Ger. _stumpf_, nasalised form of _stub_.]

STUN, stun, _v.t._ to stupefy or astonish with a loud noise, or with a
blow: to surprise completely: to amaze:--_pr.p._ stun'ning; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ stunned.--_n._ a stroke, shock, stupefying blow.--_ns._ STUN'NER, a
person or an action that strikes with amazement; STUN'NING,
stupefaction.--_adj._ very striking, astonishing.--_adv._ STUN'NINGLY.
[A.S. _stunian_, to make a din--_stun_, a din.]

STUNDIST, stun'dist, _n._ one of a body of Russian dissenters who reject
forms and ceremonies, and base their faith and practice on the Bible
alone.--_n._ STUN'DISM, the doctrines of the Stundists. [Ger. _stunde_, an
hour, from their stated meetings for Bible-reading.]

STUNG, stung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sting_.

STUNK, stungk, _pa.p._ of _stink_.

STUNT, stunt, _v.t._ to hinder from growth, to dwarf, check.--_n._ a check
in growth: an animal whose growth is stunted.--_adj._ STUNT'ED,
dwarfed.--_n._ STUNT'EDNESS, state of being stunted. [A.S. _stunt_, blunt;
Ice. _stuttr_, short.]

STUPA, st[=u]'pa, _n._ a Buddhist monument: a dagoba or shrine of Buddha.
[Sans.]

STUPE, st[=u]p, _n._ a fomentation, or rather the tow or cloth dipped in
it, and used in its application.--_v.t._ to treat with a stupe.--_adjs._
ST[=U]'P[=E]OUS, covered with long loose filaments or scales--also
ST[=U]'P[=O]SE; ST[=U]'PUL[=O]SE, finely stupose. [L.,--Gr. _stupp[=e]_,
tow.]

STUPEFY, st[=u]'pe-f[=i], _v.t._ to make stupid or senseless: to deaden the
perception: to deprive of sensibility:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
st[=u]'pefied.--_adj._ ST[=U]PEF[=A]'CIENT, stupefying.--_n._ anything that
stupefies, a narcotic drug.--_n._ ST[=U]PEFAC'TION, the act of making
stupid or senseless: insensibility: stupidity.--_adj._ ST[=U]PEFAC'TIVE,
causing stupefaction or insensibility.--_ns._ ST[=U]'PEF[=I]EDNESS;
ST[=U]'PEF[=I]ER.--_adj._ ST[=U]'PENT, struck with stupor. [L.
_stup[=e]re_, to be struck senseless, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

STUPENDOUS, st[=u]-pen'dus, _adj._ wonderful, amazing, astonishing for its
magnitude, force, enormity.--_adv._ ST[=U]PEN'DOUSLY.--_n._
ST[=U]PEN'DOUSNESS. [L. _stupendus_.]

STUPID, st[=u]'pid, _adj._ struck senseless: insensible: deficient or dull
in understanding: formed or done without reason or judgment: foolish:
unskilful.--_ns._ STUPE (_coll._), a stupid person; ST[=U]PID'ITY,
ST[=U]'PIDNESS.--_adv._ ST[=U]'PIDLY. [Fr.,--L. _stupidus_.]

STUPOR, st[=u]'por, _n._ the state of being struck senseless: suspension of
sense either complete or partial: insensibility, intellectual or moral:
excessive amazement or astonishment.--_adj._ ST[=U]'POROUS.

STUPRUM, st[=u]'prum, _n._ forcible violation of chastity: rape.--_v.t._
ST[=U]'PR[=A]TE, to ravish.--_n._ ST[=U]PR[=A]'TION. [L.,--_stupr[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to debauch.]

STURDY, stur'di, _adj._ (_comp._ STUR'DIER, _superl._ STUR'DIEST) resolute:
firm: forcible: strong: robust: stout: (_obs._) stubborn or
obstinate.--_adv._ STUR'DILY.--_n._ STUR'DINESS. [O. Fr. _estourdi_, pa.p.
of _estourdir_ (Fr. _étourdir_), It. _stordire_, to stun; acc. to Diez,
through an assumed Low L. form from L. _torpidus_, stupefied.]

STURDY, stur'di, _n._ the _gid_, a disease affecting young sheep with
staggering and stupor, caused by a species of tapeworm in the
brain.--_adj._ STUR'DIED.

STURGEON, stur'jun, _n._ a genus of large Ganoid fishes, yielding palatable
flesh, caviare from their roe, isinglass from their air-bladders. [O. Fr.
_esturgeon_, from Old High Ger. _sturjo_--_st[=o]ren_, to spread.]

STURNIDÆ, stur'ni-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of oscine passerine birds, its
representative genus, STUR'NUS, the starlings.--_adjs._ STUR'NIFORM;
STUR'NOID.

STURT, sturt, _n._ strife, wrath, vexation.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to vex,
annoy: start with fear.

STUTTER, stut'[.e]r, _v.i._ to hesitate in speaking: to stammer.--_n._ the
act of stuttering: a hesitation in speaking.--_n._ STUTT'ERER, one who
stutters.--_adj._ STUTT'ERING, hesitating in speaking: stammering.--_adv._
STUTT'ERINGLY. [A freq. of obs. _stut_, to stutter, M. E. _stoten_--Ice.
_stauta_; cog. with Ger. _stossen_.]

STY, st[=i], _n._ a small inflamed tumour on the eyelid. [A.S. _stígend_,
from _stígan_, to step up.]

STY, st[=i], _n._ an enclosure for swine: any place extremely filthy, any
place of gross debauchery. [A.S. _stígo_; Ger. _steige_.]

STYGIAN, stij'i-an, _adj._ relating to _Styx_, one of the rivers of Hades,
across which Charon ferries the shades of the departed: hellish, infernal,
deadly, impenetrable. [L.,--Gr. _stygein_, to hate.]

STYLE, st[=i]l, _n._ anything long and pointed, esp. a pointed tool for
engraving or writing: manner of writing, mode of expressing thought in
language: the distinctive manner peculiar to an author: characteristic or
peculiar mode of expression and execution (in the fine arts): title: mode
of address: practice, esp. in a law-court: manner: form: fashion: mode of
reckoning time--_Old Style_, when the system follows the Julian calendar,
as still in Russia, and in England before 2d September 1752; _New Style_,
when the system follows the Gregorian calendar (eleven days were omitted,
thus the 3d September became the 14th): the pin of a dial: (_bot._) the
middle portion of the pistil, between the ovary and the stigma (see
PISTIL).--_v.t._ to entitle in addressing or speaking of: to name or
designate.--_adjs._ STY'LAR, pertaining to the pin of a dial; STY'LATE,
like a style, styliform.--_n._ STY'LET, a stiletto: the perforator of a
trocar, a probe: a little style.--_adjs._ STY'LETIFORM, shaped like a
stylet; STYLIF'EROUS, having a style, stylate; STY'LIFORM, style-shaped;
STY'LISH, displaying style: fashionable: showy: pretending to
style.--_adv._ STY'LISHLY.--_ns._ STY'LISHNESS; STY'LIST, one with a
distinctive and fine literary style.--_adj._ STYLIST'IC.--_adv._
STYLIST'ICALLY.--_adj._ STY'LOID, resembling a style or pen.--_n._ STY'LUS,
a style, pen. [Fr.,--L. _stilus_.]

STYLITE, st[=i]'l[=i]t, _n._ one of an early class of anchorets who lived
unsheltered on the tops of pillars--Simeon _Stylites_ (c. 390-459) is said
to have lived thirty years on such. [Gr. _stylit[=e]s_--_stylos_, a
pillar.]

STYLOBATE, st[=i]'l[=o]-b[=a]t, _n._ the substructure of a temple beneath
the columns. [Gr. _stylobat[=e]s_--_stylos_, a column, _bainein_, to go.]

STYLOGRAPHY, st[=i]-log'ra-fi, _n._ a mode of writing or tracing lines with
a style or pointed instrument on prepared paper, cards, or tablets.--_n._
STYL'OGRAPH, a stylographic pen, a pencil-like pen from which ink is fed to
a tubular writing-point through which runs a needle which when pressed on
the paper releases the ink.--_adj._ STYLOGRAPH'IC.--_adv._
STYLOGRAPH'ICALLY. [Gr. _stylos_, a style, _graphein_, to write.]

STYMIE, st[=i]'mi, _n._ in golf, a position on the putting-green when the
ball of one player lies between that of his opponent and the hole.

STYPTIC, stip'tik, _adj._ drawing together: astringent: that stops
bleeding.--_n._ an agent employed in surgery for the purpose of checking
the flow of blood by application to the bleeding surface: an astringent
medicine.--_n._ STYPTIC'ITY. [Fr.,--L. _stypticus_--Gr.
_styptikos_--_styphein_, to contract.]

STYRAX, st[=i]'raks, _n._ a genus of plants abounding in resinous and
aromatic substances, one species of which produces storax, another benzoin.
[L.--Gr.]

STYTHE, st[=i]th, _n._ (_prov._) choke-damp.

STYX, stiks. See STYGIAN.

SUABLE, s[=u]'a-bl, _adj._ that may be sued.--_n._ SUABIL'ITY.

SUAGE, sw[=a]j, _v.t._ (_Milt._) to assuage.

SUASION, sw[=a]'zhun, _n._ the act of persuading or advising:
advice.--_adj._ SU[=A]'SIVE, tending to persuade: persuasive.--_adv._
SU[=A]'SIVELY.--_n._ SU[=A]'SIVENESS. [Fr.,--L. _suasio_--_suad[=e]re_, to
advise.]

SUAVE, sw[=a]v, or swäv, _adj._ pleasant: agreeable.--_adv._
SU[=A]VE'LY.--_n._ SUAV'ITY. [Fr.,--L. _suavis_, sweet.]

SUB, sub, _n._ (_coll._) a subordinate, a subaltern: subsist money, being a
part of a man's wages paid to him while the work is going on.

SUBABDOMINAL, sub-ab-dom'i-nal, _adj._ situated below the abdominal region,
in the lower part of the abdomen.

SUBACID, sub-as'id, _adj._ moderately acid, not unpleasantly sour: somewhat
sharp or biting.--_n._ SUBACID'ITY.--_adj._ SUBACID'ULOUS, moderately
acidulous.

SUBACRID, sub-ak'rid, _adj._ moderately acrid.

SUBACUTE, sub-a-k[=u]t', _adj._ slightly or moderately acute.

SUBAERIAL, sub-[=a]-[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ beneath the sky: in the open
air.--_n._ SUB[=A][=E]'RIALIST, one who ascribes the greater inequalities
in the earth's surface to atmospheric influences.--_adv._
SUB[=A][=E]'RIALLY.

SUBAGENT, sub-[=a]j'ent, _n._ one employed by an agent to transact business
in his stead.

SUBAHDAR, s[=oo]'ba-där, _n._ under the Mogul government, the title of the
governor of a province (SU'BAH): now a native officer ranking as a captain
under European officers.--_n._ SU'BAHDARY, the office or jurisdiction of
such.

SUBALPINE, sub-al'p[=i]n, _adj._ belonging to a mountainous region next
below alpine--i.e. near but not below the timber-line, alpestrine.

SUBALTERN, sub'al-t[.e]rn, or sub-al't[.e]rn, _adj._ inferior:
subordinate.--_n._ a subordinate: an officer in the army under the rank of
captain: (_logic_) a specific class as included under a general one, or a
particular statement as deducible from a universal one.--_adjs._
SUBALTER'NANT, universal as opposed to particular; SUBALTER'NATE,
succeeding by turns: subordinate.--_n._ a particular proposition or a
species, as opposed to a universal proposition or a genus.--_n._
SUBALTERN[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--Low L. _subalternus_--L. _sub_, under,
_alternus_, one after the other, _alter_, the other.]

SUBAPOSTOLIC, sub-ap-os-tol'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the period just after
that of the apostles--that of Barnabas, Clement of Rome, Hermas, Ignatius,
Papias, and Polycarp. Just after these follow Justin Martyr, Irenæus,
Clement of Alexandria, &c.

SUBAQUEOUS, sub-[=a]'kwe-us, _adj._ lying under water: formed under water:
living under water.--_adj._ SUBAQUAT'IC, subaqueous: partially aquatic.

SUBARBORESCENT, sub-ar-bor-es'ent, _adj._ somewhat arborescent or
tree-like.

SUBARCTIC, sub-ark'tik, _adj._ of a region or climate next to the arctic.

SUBARRHATION, sub-ar-[=a]'shun, _n._ the ancient custom of betrothal by
gift of pledges. [L. _sub_, under, _arrha_, earnest-money.]

SUBASTRAL, sub-as'tral, _adj._ situated beneath the stars, terrestrial.

SUBAUDITION, sub-aw-dish'un, _n._ a sense understood not expressed.

SUBAXILLARY, sub-aks'i-lar-i, _adj._ below the armpit: under the axil or
angle formed by a branch or leaf.

SUBBING, sub'ing, _n._ (_print._) the act of working as a substitute: the
practice of advancing part of the wages while the work is going on.

SUBCARBONATE, sub-kär'bon-[=a]t, _n._ a carbonate containing more than one
equivalent of the base for each equivalent of carbonic acid.

SUBCAUDAL, sub-kaw'dal, _adj._ beneath the tail.

SUBCELESTIAL, sub-sel-est'yal, _adj._ under the heavens.

SUBCLASS, sub'klas, _n._ a primary subdivision of a class.

SUBCLAVIAN, sub-kl[=a]'vi-an, _adj._ under the clavicle or
collar-bone.--Also SUBCLAVIC'ULAR.

SUBCOMMITTEE, sub'ko-mit-[=e], _n._ an under-committee: a division of a
committee.

SUBCONSCIOUS, sub-kon'shus, _adj._ faintly conscious, applying to
perceptions which are without consciousness or memory.--_adv._
SUBCON'SCIOUSLY.--_n._ SUBCON'SCIOUSNESS.

SUBCONTIGUOUS, sub-kon-tig'[=u]-us, _n._ almost touching.

SUBCONTINUOUS, sub-kon-tin'[=u]-us, _adj._ nearly continuous, with but
slight interruptions.

SUBCONTRACT, sub-kon'trakt, _n._ a contract subordinate to another
contract, as for the subletting of work.--_v.i._ SUBCONTRACT'.--_adj._
SUBCONTRACT'ED.--_n._ SUBCONTRACT'OR.

SUBCONTRARY, sub-kon'tra-ri, _adj._ contrary in an inferior degree:
(_geom._) said of a section of an oblique cone on a circular base, which
section is itself a circle: (_logic_) denoting the opposition of two
subalternate propositions.--_n._ a subcontrary proposition.--_n._
SUBCONTRAR[=I]'ETY.

SUBCORDATE, sub-kor'd[=a]t, _adj._ heart-shaped.

SUBCOSTAL, sub-kos'tal, _adj._ under or between the ribs.

SUBCREPITANT, sub-krep'i-tant, _adj._ slightly crepitant.--_n._
SUBCREPIT[=A]'TION.

SUBCULTURE, sub-kul't[=u]r, _n._ in bacteriology, a culture derived from a
previous one.

SUBCUTANEOUS, sub-k[=u]-t[=a]'ne-us, _adj._ under the skin.--SUBCUTANEOUS
SYRINGE, a syringe for injecting substances beneath the skin.

SUBDEACON, sub-d[=e]'kn, _n._ a member of the order of the ministry next
below that of deacon, preparing the vessels, &c., at the eucharist.--_ns._
SUBDEA'CONRY, SUBDEA'CONSHIP, SUBDIAC'ONATE.

SUBDEAN, sub-d[=e]n', _n._ an assistant or substitute dean.--_n._
SUBDEAN'ERY.

SUBDENTATE, sub-den't[=a]t, _adj._ imperfectly dentate, having indistinct
teeth.

SUBDERIVATIVE, sub-d[=e]-riv'a-tiv, _n._ a word derived from the
derivative, rather than directly from the primitive word.

SUBDIVIDE, sub-di-v[=i]d', _v.t._ to divide into smaller divisions: to
divide again.--_v.i._ to be subdivided: to separate.--_adj._
SUBDIV[=I]'SIBLE.--_n._ SUBDIVI'SION, the act of subdividing: the part made
by subdividing.--_adjs._ SUBDIVI'SIONAL; SUBDIV[=I]'SIVE.

SUBDOLOUS, sub'd[=o]-lus, _adj._ (_obs._) crafty, subtle.

SUBDOMINANT, sub-dom'i-nant, _n._ (_mus._) the tone next below the
dominant.

SUBDUCT, sub-dukt', _v.t._ to take away, to withdraw--also SUBDUCE'.--_n._
SUBDUC'TION. [L. _sub_, under, _duc[)e]re_, _ductum_, to lead.]

SUBDUE, sub-d[=u]', _v.t._ to conquer: to bring under dominion: to render
submissive: to tame: to soften.--_adj._ SUBD[=U]'ABLE.--_n._ SUBD[=U]'AL,
the act of subduing.--_adj._ SUBDUED', toned down.--_ns._ SUBDUED'NESS;
SUBDUE'MENT (_Shak._), conquests; SUBD[=U]'ER. [O. Fr. _souduire_--L.
_sub_, under, _duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

SUBDUPLE, sub'd[=u]-pl, _adj._ in the ratio of one to two.--_adj._
SUBD[=U]'PLICATE, expressed by the square root.

SUBEDITOR, sub-ed'i-tur, _n._ an under or assistant editor.--_adj._
SUBEDIT[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ SUBED'ITORSHIP.

SUBEQUAL, sub-[=e]k'wal, _adj._ approximately equal.

SUBERIC, s[=u]-b[.e]r'ik, _adj._ relating to, or extracted from,
cork.--_n._ S[=U]'BER[=A]TE, a salt of suberic acid.--_adj._
S[=U]B[=E]'R[=E]OUS.--_ns._ S[=U]'BERINE, the pure cellular tissue of cork;
S[=U]BERIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ S[=U]'BERISE, to render corky.--_adjs._
S[=U]'BEROSE, S[=U]'BEROUS, of the nature of cork, cork-like. [L. _suber_,
the cork-tree.]

SUBEROSE, sub-e-r[=o]s', _adj._ appearing as if somewhat gnawed. [L. _sub_,
under, _erosus_--_e_, out, _rod[)e]re_, _rosum_, to gnaw.]

SUBFAMILY, sub'fam-i-li, _n._ a primary division of a family, of one or
more genera.

SUBFEU, sub-f[=u]', _v.t._ to make subinfeudation of.--_n._
SUBFEUD[=A]'TION=_Subinfeudation_ (q.v.).--_adj._ SUBFEUD'ATORY.

SUBFLAVOUR, sub-fl[=a]'vur, _n._ a secondary flavour.

SUBFLORA, sub'fl[=o]-ra, _n._ a more local flora included within one of
wider range.

SUBFLUVIAL, sub-fl[=oo]'vi-al, _adj._ situated under a stream.

SUBFUSC, SUBFUSK, sub-fusk', _adj._ somewhat dark, dusky, tawny.--Also
SUBFUS'COUS.

SUBGENS, sub-jenz', _n._ the sociological division of a people next below
the gens or clan:--_pl._ SUBGEN'TES.

SUBGENUS, sub-j[=e]'nus, _n._ a primary division of a genus including one
or more species with common characters.--_adj._ SUBGENER'IC.--_adv._
SUBGENER'ICALLY.

SUBGLACIAL, sub-gl[=a]'shal, _adj._ belonging to the under side of a
glacier: under a glacier.

SUBGLOBULAR, sub-glob'[=u]-lar, _adj._ somewhat globular.

SUBGRANULAR, sub-gran'[=u]-lar, _adj._ somewhat granular.

SUBGROUP, sub'gr[=oo]p, _n._ any subordinate group in a classification.

SUBHASTATION, sub-has-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a sale under the lance--a Roman
method of auction. [L. _sub_, under, _hasta_, a lance.]

SUBHUMAN, sub-h[=u]'man, _adj._ next below the human.

SUBIMAGO, sub'i-m[=a]-g[=o], _n._ a stage in the metamorphosis of certain
insects, between the _pupa_ and the _imago_.--Also _Pseudimago_.

SUBINDICATE, sub-in'di-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to indicate by a hint.--_n._
SUBINDIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ SUBINDIC'[=A]TIVE, suggestive.

SUBINFEUDATION, sub-in-f[=u]-d[=a]'shun, _n._ the right enjoyed by the
inferior lord, in imitation of his superiors, of making similar grants of
portions of his land to others, to be held by them as his vassals.--_adjs._
and _ns._ SUBFEUD'ATORY, SUBINFEUD'ATORY.

SUBINSPECTOR, sub'in-spek-tor, _n._ a subordinate or assistant
inspector.--_n._ SUB'INSPECTORSHIP.

SUBINTRANT, sub-in'trant, _adj._ with paroxysms succeeding one another so
fast as to be almost continuous.

SUBIRRIGATION, sub-ir-i-g[=a]'shun, _n._ irrigation by means of channels
below the surface.

SUBITAMENTE, sub-it-a-men'te, _adv._ (_mus._) suddenly.--Also SUB'ITO.
[It.]

SUBITANEOUS, sub-i-t[=a]'ne-us, _adj._ (_obs._) sudden.--_n._
SUBIT[=A]'NEOUSNESS.

SUBJACENT, sub-j[=a]'sent, _adj._ lying under or below: being in a lower
situation.--_n._ SUBJ[=A]'CENCY. [L. _subjacens_--_sub_, under,
_jac[=e]re_, to lie.]

SUBJECT, sub'jekt, _adj._ under the power of another: liable, prone,
disposed: exposed: subordinate, tributary: subservient.--_n._ one under the
power of another: one under allegiance to a sovereign: that on which any
operation is performed: that which is treated or handled: (_anat._) a dead
body for dissection: a person supposed to be peculiarly sensitive to
hypnotic influence: that which it is the object of the artist to express,
the scheme or idea of a work of art: a picture representing action and
incident: that of which anything is said or of which a discourse treats,
bringing many things under a common head: the mind, regarded as the
thinking power, in contrast with the object, that about which it thinks:
topic: matter, materials: the general plan of any work of art.--_v.t._
SUBJECT', to throw or bring under: to bring under the power of: to make
subordinate or subservient: to subdue: to enslave: to expose or make liable
to: to cause to undergo.--_n._ SUBJEC'TION, the act of subjecting or
subduing: the state of being subject to another.--_adj._ SUBJECT'IVE,
relating to the subject: derived from one's own consciousness: denoting
those states of thought or feeling of which the mind is the conscious
subject--opp. to _Objective_.--_adv._ SUBJECT'IVELY.--_n._
SUBJECT'IVENESS.--_v.t._ SUBJECT'IVISE.--_ns._ SUBJECT'IVISM, a
philosophical doctrine which refers all knowledge to, and founds it upon,
subjective states; SUBJECT'IVIST, one who holds to subjectivism.--_adj._
SUBJECTIVIST'IC.--_adv._ SUBJECTIVIST'ICALLY.--_ns._ SUBJECTIV'ITY, state
of being subjective: that which is treated subjectively; SUB'JECT-MATTER, a
tautological compound for subject, theme, topic; SUB'JECT-OB'JECT, the
immediate object of cognition, or the thought itself; SUB'JECTSHIP, the
state of being subject. [Fr. _sujet_--L. _subjectus_--_sub_, under,
_jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

SUBJOIN, sub-join', _v.t._ to join under: to add at the end or afterwards:
to fix or annex.--_ns._ SUBJOIN'DER, a remark following on another;
SUB'JOINT, a secondary joint.

SUBJUGATE, sub'j[=oo]-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to bring under the yoke: to bring
under power or dominion: to conquer.--_ns._ SUBJUG[=A]'TION;
SUB'JUG[=A]TOR. [L. _sub_, under, _jugum_, a yoke.]

SUBJUNCTIVE, sub-jungk'tiv, _adj._ subjoined: added to something: denoting
that mood of a verb which expresses condition, hypothesis, or
contingency.--_n._ the subjunctive mood. [L. _sub_, under, _jung[)e]re_, to
join.]

SUBKINGDOM, sub-king'dum, _n._ a subordinate kingdom: a division of a
kingdom: a subdivision.

SUBLAPSARIAN, sub-laps-[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ relating to the sublapsarians or
to their doctrines.--_n._ one of a class of moderate Calvinists, who hold
that God merely _permitted_ the fall of Adam, without preordaining
it.--_n._ SUBLAPS[=A]'RIANISM. [L. _sub_, under, _lapsus_, fall.]

SUBLATE, sub-l[=a]t', _v.t._ to deny--opp. to _Posit:_ to remove.--_n._
SUBL[=A]'TION.--_adj._ SUB'L[=A]TIVE.

SUBLEASE, sub-l[=e]s', _n._ an under-lease or lease by a tenant to
another.--_n._ SUB'LESSEE, the holder of a sublease.

SUBLET, sub-let', _v.t._ to under-let or lease, as by one himself a tenant
to another.

SUBLEVATE, sub'l[=e]-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to raise, excite--also
SOL'LEVATE.--_n._ SUBL[=E]V[=A]'TION. [L. _sublev[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
lift up.]

SUBLIBRARIAN, sub-l[=i]b-r[=a]'ri-an, _n._ one who acts as an assistant to
a librarian.

SUBLIEUTENANT, sub-lef-ten'ant, _n._ formerly mate, or passed midshipman,
the intermediate rank in the navy between midshipman and
lieutenant.--SECOND LIEUTENANT, the rank given to officers on first joining
the army, corresponding to the former _Cornet_ and _Ensign_.

SUBLIMATE, sub'lim-[=a]t, _v.t._ to elevate: to refine and exalt: to purify
by raising by heat into vapour which again becomes solid.--_n._ the product
of sublimation.--_adj._ SUBL[=I]'MABLE.--_n._ SUBLIM[=A]'TION, the act of
purifying by raising into vapour by heat and condensing by cold: elevation:
exaltation.--_adj._ SUB'LIM[=A]TORY.--_n._ a vessel used in sublimation.
[L. _sublim[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to lift up.]

SUBLIME, sub-l[=i]m', _adj._ high: lofty: majestic: awakening feelings of
awe or veneration.--_n._ that which is sublime: the lofty or grand in
thought or style (THE SUBLIME): the emotion produced by sublime
objects.--_v.t._ to exalt: to dignify, to ennoble: to improve: to purify,
to bring to a state of vapour by heat and condense again by cold.--_v.i._
to be sublimed or sublimated.--_adv._ SUBLIME'LY, in a sublime manner:
loftily: with elevated conceptions.--_ns._ SUBLIME'NESS, SUBLIM'ITY,
loftiness: elevation: grandeur: loftiness of thought or style: nobleness of
nature or character: excellence. [L. _sublimis_, high, ety. dub.; perh.
_sub-limen_, up to the lintel.]

SUBLIMINAL, sub-lim'i-nal, _adj._ beneath the level of consciousness,
latent. [L. _sub_, under, _limen_, _liminis_, the door.]

SUBLINEATION, sub-lin-e-[=a]'shun, _n._ an underlining, as of a word or
words.

SUBLINGUAL, sub-ling'gwal, _adj._ under the tongue.

SUBLITTORAL, sub-lit'[=o]-ral, _adj._ being under the shore.

SUBLUNAR, sub-l[=u]'nar, _adj._ under the moon: earthly: belonging to this
world--also SUB'LUNARY.--_adj._ SUBL[=U]'NATE, approaching the form of a
crescent.

SUBMAMMARY, sub-mam'a-ri, _adj._ situated under the mammæ or paps.

SUBMARGINAL, sub-mar'ji-nal, _adj._ situated near the margin.

SUBMARINE, sub-ma-r[=e]n', _adj._ under, or in, the sea.--SUBMARINE BOAT,
one capable of being propelled under water, esp. for carrying and firing
torpedoes.--SUBMARINE MINE, a mass of explosives sunk in the sea.

SUBMAXILLARY, sub-mak'si-l[=a]-ri, _adj._ under the jaw.

SUBMEDIAN, sub-m[=e]'di-an, _adj._ near the middle.

SUBMENTAL, sub-men'tal, _adj._ under the chin. [L. _sub_, under, _mentum_,
the chin.]

SUBMERGE, sub-m[.e]rj', SUBMERSE, sub-m[.e]rs', _v.t._ to plunge under
water: to overflow with water: to drown.--_v.i._ to sink under
water.--_ns._ SUBMERG'ENCE, SUBMER'SION.--_adjs._ SUBMERGED', SUBMERSED',
being or growing under water. [L. _submerg[)e]re_, _-mersum_--_sub_, under,
_merg[)e]re_, to plunge.]

SUBMIT, sub-mit', _v.t._ to refer to the judgment of another: to surrender
to another.--_v.i._ to yield one's self to another: to surrender: to yield
one's opinion: to be subject:--_pr.p._ submit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
submit'ted.--_adj._ SUBMISS' (_Milt._), cast down, prostrate.--_n._
SUBMIS'SION, act of submitting or yielding: acknowledgment of inferiority
or of a fault: humble behaviour: resignation.--_adj._ SUBMIS'SIVE, willing
or ready to submit: yielding: humble: obedient.--_adv._ SUBMIS'SIVELY,
humbly--(_obs._) SUBMISS'LY.--_n._ SUBMIS'SIVENESS. [L.
_submitt[)e]re_--_sub_, under, _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send.]

SUBMONTANE, sub-mon't[=a]n, _adj._ situated at the foot of a mountain or
range.

SUBMULTIPLE, sub-mul'ti-pl, _n._ a number or quantity which is contained in
another an exact number of times, an aliquot part.

SUBMUNDANE, sub-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ situated beneath the ground.

SUBMUSCULAR, sub-mus'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ under the muscles.

SUBNASAL, sub-n[=a]'sal, _adj._ situated below the nose.

SUBNASCENT, sub-nas'ent, _adj._ growing underneath.

SUBNATURAL, sub-nat'[=u]-ral, _adj._ below nature, infranatural.

SUBNEURAL, sub-n[=u]'ral, _adj._ situated beneath a main neural axis or
nervous cord.

SUBNIVEAN, sub-n[=i]'v[=e]-an, _adj._ situated under the snow.

SUBNODAL, sub-n[=o]'dal, _adj._ situated beneath the nodus.

SUBNORMAL, sub-nor'mal, _adj._ less than normal.--_n._ SUBNORMAL'ITY.

SUBNUBILAR, sub-n[=u]'bi-lar, _adj._ situated under the clouds.

SUBNUVOLAR, sub-n[=u]'v[=o]-lar, _adj._ partially clouded.

SUBOBSCURE, sub-ob-sk[=u]r', _adj._ somewhat obscure.--_adv._
SUBOBSCURE'LY.

SUBOCCIPITAL, sub-ok-sip'i-tal, _adj._ situated behind the occiput, or on
the under surface of the occipital lobe of the brain.

SUBOCELLATE, sub-os'el-[=a]t, _adj._ somewhat like an ocellus.

SUBOCTAVE, sub'ok-t[=a]v, _adj._ existing in the proportion of 1 to
8.--_n._ an eighth part: (_mus._) the octave below a given tone.

SUBOCTUPLE, sub-ok't[=u]-pl, _adj._ containing one part of 8.

SUBOCULAR, sub-ok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated under the eye, suboptic.

SUBOPERCULUM, sub-[=o]-per'k[=u]-lum, _n._ a bone of the gill-cover below
and partly behind the operculum.--_adj._ SUBOPER'CULAR.

SUBORBITAL, sub-or'bi-tal, _adj._ situated below the orbit of the eye.

SUBORDER, sub-or'd[.e]r, _n._ a subdivision in an order.--_adj._
SUBOR'DINAL.

SUBORDINARY, sub-or'di-n[=a]-ri, _n._ (_her._) one of a class of armorial
charges less honourable than the ordinaries--the _bordure_, _orle_, _bend
sinister_, &c.

SUBORDINATE, sub-or'di-n[=a]t, _adj._ lower in order, rank, nature, power,
&c.: descending in a regular series.--_n._ one in a lower order or rank: an
inferior.--_v.t._ to place in a lower order: to consider of less value: to
make subject.--_ns._ SUBOR'DINACY, SUBOR'DINANCE, the state of being
subordinate.--_adv._ SUBOR'DINATELY.--_ns._ SUBOR'DINATENESS;
SUBORDIN[=A]'TION, act of subordinating or placing in a lower order: state
of being subordinate: inferiority of rank or position;
SUBORDIN[=A]'TIONISM, the doctrine of the inferiority of the second and
third Persons of the Trinity to the first.--_adj._ SUBOR'DIN[=A]TIVE,
tending to, or expressing, subordination. [L. _sub_, under, _ordo_,
_ordinis_, order.]

SUBORN, sub-orn', _v.t._ to cause to commit a perjury: to procure
indirectly.--_ns._ SUBORN[=A]'TION, act of causing a person to take a false
oath: crime of procuring any one to do a bad action; SUBORN'ER. [L.
_suborn[=a]re_--_sub_, under, _orn[=a]re_, to adorn.]

SUBOVATE, sub-[=o]'v[=a]t, _adj._ almost ovate.

SUBPANATION, sub-p[=a]-n[=a]'shun, _n._ the doctrine that the body and
blood of Christ are locally and materially present in the eucharist under
the form of bread and wine. [L. _sub_, under, _panis_, bread.]

SUBPERITONEAL, sub-per-i-t[=o]-n[=e]'al, _adj._ situated under the
peritoneum.

SUBPERMANENT, sub-per'ma-nent, _adj._ somewhat permanent.

SUBPOENA, SUBPENA, sub-p[=e]'na, _n._ a writ commanding the attendance of a
person in court under a penalty.--_v.t._ to serve with a writ of subpoena.
[L. _sub_, under, _poena_, punishment.]

SUBPOLAR, sub-p[=o]'lar, _adj._ under or below the poles of the earth.

SUBPREFECT, sub-pr[=e]'fekt, _n._ an assistant or deputy-prefect, esp. the
official in France charged with the administration of the arrondissement
under the prefect of the department.--_n._ SUB'PR[=E]FECTURE, the office or
jurisdiction of a subprefect.

SUBPRIOR, sub'pr[=i]-or, _n._ the vicegerent, deputy, or assistant of a
prior.

SUBPROVINCE, sub'prov-ins, _n._ a prime division of a province: in
zoogeography, a division subordinate to a subregion.

SUBPUBIC, sub-p[=u]'bik, _adj._ situated below the pubis.

SUBREGION, sub'r[=e]-jun, _n._ a subdivision of a region, esp. of fauna in
zoogeography.--_adj._ SUBR[=E]'GIONAL.

SUBREPTION, sub-rep'shun, _n._ a procuring of some advantage by fraudulent
concealment, esp. in Scots law, the gaining of a gift of escheat by
concealing the truth: false inference due to misrepresentation.--_adj._
SUBREP'TIVE, surreptitious, noting conceptions arising out of obscure and
unconscious suggestions of experience.

SUBROGATION, sub-r[=o]-g[=a]'shun, _n._ the succession or substitution of
one person or thing by or for another, in regard to a legal claim, &c.

SUBSACRAL, sub-s[=a]'kral, _adj._ situated on the anterior or ventral
surface of the sacrum.

SUBSCAPULAR, sub-skap'[=u]-lar, _adj._ beneath the scapula.--_n._ a
subscapular vessel or nerve.

SUBSCRIBE, sub-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to write underneath: to give consent to
something written, or to attest, by writing one's name underneath: to sign
one's name: to promise to give or pay, or to take, as a copy of a book, by
attaching one's name: to attest by attaching one's signature.--_v.i._ to
promise a certain sum by setting one's name to a paper: to enter one's name
for anything.--_adj._ SUBSCR[=I]B'ABLE, capable of being subscribed.--_n._
SUBSCR[=I]B'ER.--_adj._ SUB'SCRIPT, written underneath.--_n._
SUBSCRIP'TION, act of subscribing: a name subscribed: a paper with
signatures: consent by signature: sum subscribed. [L.
_subscrib[)e]re_--_sub_, under, _scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_, to write.]

SUBSECIVE, sub's[=e]-siv, _adj._ left over, remaining, extra. [L.
_subsecivus_--_sub_, under, _sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

SUBSECTION, sub-sek'shun, _n._ an under section or division: a subdivision.

SUBSENSATION, sub'sen-s[=a]-shun, _n._ a minor sensation.

SUBSENSIBLE, sub-sen'si-bl, _adj._ beyond the range of the senses.

SUBSEQUENT, sub's[=e]-kwent, _adj._ following or coming after.--_ns._
SUB'SEQUENCE, SUB'SEQUENCY, state of being subsequent.--_adv._
SUB'SEQUENTLY. [L. _subsequens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _subsequi_--_sub_,
under, after, _sequi_, to follow.]

SUBSEROUS, sub-s[=e]'rus, _adj._ somewhat serous or watery: below a serous
membrane.

SUBSERVE, sub-s[.e]rv', _v.t._ to serve subordinately or instrumentally: to
help forward.--_ns._ SUBSER'VIENCE, SUBSER'VIENCY, state of being
subservient: anything that promotes some purpose.--_adj._ SUBSER'VIENT,
subserving: serving to promote: subject: submissive.--_adv._
SUBSER'VIENTLY. [L. _subserv[=i]re_--_sub_, under, _serv[=i]re_, to serve.]

SUBSESSILE, sub-ses'il, _adj._ not quite sessile.

SUBSIDE, sub-s[=i]d', _v.i._ to settle down: to settle at the bottom: to
fall into a state of quiet: to sink to a lower level: (_coll._) to cease
talking, to take a less prominent place.--_ns._ SUBS[=I]'DENCE (also
SUB'SIDENCE), SUBS[=I]'DENCY, act or process of subsiding, settling, or
sinking. [L. _subsid[)e]re_--_sub_, down, _sid[)e]re_, to settle.]

SUBSIDY, sub'si-di, _n._ assistance: aid in money: a sum of money paid by
one state to another for assistance in war.--_adv._ SUBSID'IARILY.--_adj._
SUBSID'IARY, furnishing a subsidy, help, or additional supplies:
aiding.--_n._ one who, or that which, aids or supplies: an
assistant.--_v.t._ SUB'SID[=I]SE, to furnish with a subsidy, grant, or
regular allowance: to purchase the aid of, to buy over.--SUBSIDIARY TROOPS,
mercenaries. [Fr.,--L. _subsidium_, orig. troops stationed behind in
reserve, aid--_sub_, under, _sid[)e]re_, to settle.]

SUBSIMIOUS, sub-sim'i-us, _adj._ almost monkey-like.

SUBSIST, sub-sist', _v.i._ to have existence: to remain, continue, inhere:
to have the means of living.--_n._ SUBSIST'ENCE, state of being subsistent:
real being: means of supporting life: livelihood.--_adjs._ SUBSIST'ENT,
subsisting: having real being: inherent; SUBSISTEN'TIAL.--_n._ SUBSIST'ER.
[Fr.,--L. _subsist[)e]re_, to stand still--_sub_, under, _sist[)e]re_, to
stand.]

SUBSOIL, sub'soil, _n._ the under soil: the bed or stratum of earth which
lies immediately beneath the surface soil.--_v.t._ to turn up the subsoil
of.--_n._ SUB'SOILER.

SUBSPECIES, sub-sp[=e]'sh[=e]z, _n._ a division of a species, a
geographical variety.--_adj._ SUBSPECIF'IC.--_adv._ SUBSPECIF'ICALLY.

SUBSPHERICAL, sub-sfer'i-kal, _adj._ not perfectly spherical.--_adv._
SUBSPHER'ICALLY.

SUBSPINOUS, sub-sp[=i]'nus, _adj._ somewhat spinous: under the spinal
column, or a spinous process.

SUBSPIRAL, sub-sp[=i]'ral, _adj._ somewhat spiral: indistinctly marked with
a spiral line.

SUBSTAGE, sub'st[=a]j, _n._ an attachment below the stage of the compound
microscope, to support the achromatic condenser, &c.

SUBSTANCE, sub'stans, _n._ that in which qualities or attributes exist, the
existence to which qualities belong: that which constitutes anything what
it is: the essential part: body: matter: property: foundation, ground,
confidence. [L. _substantia_--_subst[=a]re_, to stand under--_sub_, under,
_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

SUBSTANTIAL, sub-stan'shal, _adj._ belonging to or having substance:
actually existing: real: solid: having substance or strength: lasting,
likely to be permanent: strong, stout, bulky: corporeal, material: having
property or estate: considerable, pretty wealthy: conforming to what is
essential: involving the essential rights or merits of.--_v.t._
SUBSTAN'TIAL[=I]SE, to give reality to.--_ns._ SUBSTAN'TIALISM, the theory
that there is a real existence or substratum underlying the phenomena of
consciousness; SUBSTANTIAL'ITY.--_adv._ SUBSTAN'TIALLY.--_n._
SUBSTAN'TIALNESS.--_n.pl._ SUBSTAN'TIALS, essential parts.--_v.t._
SUBSTAN'TI[=A]TE, to make substantial: to prove or confirm.--_n._
SUBSTANTI[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ SUBSTANT[=I]'VAL; SUB'STANTIVE, expressing
existence: real: of real, independent importance.--_n._ (_gram._) the part
of speech denoting something that exists: a noun.--_adv._
SUB'STANTIVELY.--_n._ SUB'STANTIVENESS.--_v.t._ SUB'STANTIVISE. [Fr.
_substantiel_--L. _substantialis_--_substantia_.]

SUBSTATION, sub-st[=a]'shun, _n._ a subordinate station.

SUBSTERNAL, sub-ster'nal, _adj._ situated beneath the sternum.

SUBSTITUTE, sub'sti-t[=u]t, _v.t._ to put in place of another.--_n._ one
who, or that which, is put in place of another.--_adj._ put instead of
another.--_n._ SUBSTIT[=U]'TION, act of substituting or putting in place of
another: (_Shak._) the office of a substitute: the use of one word for
another, syllepsis: (_alg._) the replacing one quantity by another which is
equal to it but differently expressed: (_chem._) the replacement of one or
more equivalents of a body by a like number of equivalents of
another.--_adjs._ SUBSTIT[=U]'TIONAL, SUBSTIT[=U]'TIONARY.--_adv._
SUBSTIT[=U]'TIONALLY.--_adj._ SUB'STIT[=U]TIVE. [L. _substitu[)e]re_,
_-[=u]tum_--_sub_, under, _statu[)e]re_, to set.]

SUBSTRACTOR, subs-trakt'or, _n._ (_Shak._) a detractor.

SUBSTRATUM, sub-str[=a]'tum, _n._ an under stratum or layer, a fundamental
element: the substance in which qualities exist.

SUBSTRUCTURE, sub'struk-t[=u]r, _n._ an under structure or building:
foundation.--_v.t._ SUBSTRUCT', to build beneath.--_n._
SUBSTRUC'TION.--_adj._ SUBSTRUC'TURAL.

SUBSTYLE, sub'st[=i]l, _n._ the right line on which the style or gnomon of
a dial is erected.--_adj._ SUB'STYLAR.

SUBSULPHATE, sub-sul'f[=a]t, _n._ a basic sulphide.

SUBSULTIVE, sub-sul'tiv, _adj._ bounding, moving by sudden leaps or starts,
or by twitches.--_adv._ SUBSUL'TORILY.--_n._ SUBSUL'TUS, a convulsive
movement.

SUBSUME, sub-s[=u]m', _v.t._ to place any one cognition under another as
belonging to it, as 'All horses are animals'--the minor premise is a
SUBSUMP'TION under the major.--_adj._ SUBSUMP'TIVE.

SUBSURFACE, sub'sur-f[=a]s, _adj._ below the surface.

SUBTACK, sub'tak, _n._ an under-lease in Scotland.

SUBTANGENT, sub'tan-jent, _n._ (_geom._) the part of the axis of a curve
contained between the tangent and the ordinate.

SUBTEMPERATE, sub-tem'p[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ pertaining to the colder parts
of the temperate zone.

SUBTENANT, sub-ten'ant, _n._ a tenant who hires or leases from one who is
also a tenant.--_n._ SUBTEN'ANCY.

SUBTEND, sub-tend', _v.t._ to extend under or be opposite to.--_n._
SUBTENSE' (_geom._), a line subtending or stretching across.

SUBTEPID, sub-tep'id, _adj._ slightly tepid.

SUBTERFUGE, sub't[.e]r-f[=u]j, _n._ that to which one resorts for escape or
concealment: an artifice to escape censure or the force of an argument:
evasion. [Fr.,--L. _subterfug[)e]re_--_subter_, under, _fug[)e]re_, to
flee.]

SUBTERNATURAL, sub-t[.e]r-nat'[=u]-ral, _adj._ less than, or below, the
natural.

SUBTERPOSITION, sub-t[.e]r-p[=o]-zish'un, _n._ the state of lying under
something else.

SUBTERRANEAN, sub-te-r[=a]'n[=e]-an, _adj._ under the earth or ground--also
SUBTERR[=A]'NEOUS, SUBTERR[=E]NE', SUBTERRES'TRIAL.--_adv._
SUBTERR[=A]'NEOUSLY. [L. _sub_, under, _terra_, the earth.]

SUBTHORACIC, sub-th[=o]-ras'ik, _adj._ situated below the thorax: nearly
thoracic in position.

SUBTIL, SUBTILLY. See SUBTLE.

SUBTILE, sub'til, _adj._ delicately constructed: fine: thin or rare:
piercing: shrewd.--_adv._ SUB'TILELY.--_ns._ SUB'TILENESS;
SUBTILIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ SUB'TILISE, to make subtile, thin, or rare: to
spin into niceties.--_v.i._ to make nice distinctions: to refine in
argument.--_ns._ SUB'TILISM, the quality of being subtile; SUB'TILTY, state
or quality of being subtile: fineness: extreme acuteness: cunning. [L.
_subtilis_--_sub_, under, _tela_, a web.]

SUBTITLE, sub't[=i]-tl, _n._ an additional or second title to a book, a
half-title.

SUBTLE, sut'l (_B._ SUB'TIL), _adj._ subtile in a figurative sense: acute,
quick to discern or discriminate: insinuating, sly, artful: cunningly
devised, ingenious.--_ns._ SUBT'LENESS, SUBT'LETY, quality of being subtle:
artfulness: shrewdness: extreme acuteness.--_adj._ SUBT'LE-WIT'TED,
sharp-witted.--_adv._ SUBT'LY (_B._ SUB'TILLY), ingeniously, cleverly:
artfully, deceitfully. [Contr. of _subtile_.]

SUBTONIC, sub'ton-ik, _n._ (_mus._) the seventh of the scale.

SUBTORRID, sub-tor'id, _adj._ approximately torrid.

SUBTRACT, sub-trakt', _v.t._ to take away a part from the rest: to take one
number or quantity from another to find their difference.--_ns._
SUBTRAC'TER; SUBTRAC'TION, the act or operation of subtracting: the taking
a less number or quantity from a greater.--_adj._ SUBTRACT'IVE,
subtracting: tending to subtract or lessen.--_n._ SUB'TRAHEND, the sum or
number to be subtracted from another. [L. _sub_, under, _trah[)e]re_,
_tractum_, to draw away.]

SUBTRIANGULAR, sub-tr[=i]-ang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ somewhat triangular.

SUBTRIBE, sub'tr[=i]b, _n._ a section or division of a tribe.--_adj._
SUB'TR[=I]BAL.

SUBTRIPLICATE, sub-trip'li-k[=a]t, _adj._ expressed by the cube root.

SUBTRIST, sub-trist', _adj._ somewhat sad.

SUBTROPICAL, sub-trop'i-kal, _adj._ approaching the tropical or torrid zone
in temperature: bordering on tropical regions.--Also SUBTROP'IC.

SUBTYPE, sub't[=i]p, _n._ a type included in another and more general
one.--_adj._ SUBTYP'ICAL.

SUBUCULA, s[=u]-buk'[=u]-la, _n._ a man's under-garment or shirt: in the
early English church, a kind of cassock worn under the alb.

SUBULATE, s[=u]'b[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ awl-shaped.--Also S[=U]'B[=U]L[=A]TED,
S[=U]'B[=U]LIFORM. [L. _subula_, an awl.]

SUBULICORN, s[=u]'b[=u]-li-korn, _adj._ with subulate antennæ.--_n.pl._
S[=U]B[=U]LICOR'NIA, a division of neuroptera, including dragon-flies,
May-flies, &c.

SUBUNGULATE, sub-ung'g[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ hoofed, but with several
digits.--_n._ a member of the Subungulata, as the elephant or the
hyrax.--_n.pl._ SUBUNG[=U]L[=A]'TA, a division of hoofed mammals, esp.
those having the carpal bones primitive.

SUBURB, sub'urb, SUBURBS, sub'urbz, _n._ the district which is near but
beyond the walls of a city: the confines, outskirts.--_adj._ SUBUR'BAN,
situated or living in the suburbs.--_n._ one living in a suburb.--_n._
SUBUR'BANISM, the state of being suburban.--_adj._ SUBURBIC[=A]'RIAN, being
near the city, esp. of the provinces of Italy forming the ancient diocese
of Rome. [L. _suburbium_--_sub_, under, near, _urbs_, a city.]

SUBURSINE, sub-ur's[=i]n, _adj._ somewhat bear-like.

SUBVARIETY, sub-va-r[=i]'e-ti, _n._ a subordinate variety.

SUBVENE, sub-v[=e]n', _v.i._ to occur so as to effect a result.--_n._
SUBVEN'TION, act of coming to relief, support: a government aid or subsidy.
[L. _sub_, under, _ven[=i]re_, _ventum_, to come.]

SUBVERSE, sub-v[.e]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to subvert.

SUBVERT, sub-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to turn upside down: to overthrow from the
foundation: to ruin utterly: to corrupt.--_n._ SUBVER'SION, act of
subverting or overthrowing from the foundation: entire overthrow:
ruin.--_adjs._ SUBVER'SIONARY, SUBVER'SIVE, tending to subvert, overthrow,
or destroy.--_p.adj._ SUBVERST' (_Spens._), subverted, overturned.--_n._
SUBVERT'ER.--_adj._ SUBVERT'IBLE. [L. _sub_, under, _vert[)e]re_, versum,
to turn.]

SUBVERTEBRAL, sub-v[.e]r't[=e]-bral, _adj._ placed under a vertebra.

SUBVERTICAL, sub-v[.e]r'ti-kal, _adj._ almost vertical.

SUBVIRATE, sub'vi-r[=a]t, _n._ one of stunted or imperfectly developed
manhood.

SUBVITALISED, sub-v[=i]'tal-[=i]zd, _p.adj._ deficient in vitality.

SUBVITREOUS, sub-vit'r[=e]-us, _adj._ partly vitreous or imperfectly so.

SUBWAY, sub'w[=a], _n._ an underground way for traffic under railways, &c.,
or for water-pipes, gas-pipes, sewers, &c.

SUBZONAL, sub-z[=o]'nal, _adj._ somewhat zonal: lying below a zone or
girdle.

SUCCADE, suk-k[=a]d' _n._ candied fruit.

SUCCEDANEOUS, suk-s[=e]-d[=a]'ne-us, _adj._ acting as a succedaneum:
supplying the place of something else: being a substitute.--_n._
SUCCED[=A]'NEUM, one who, or that which, comes in the place of another; a
substitute. [L. _succedaneus_--_succed[)e]re_.]

SUCCEED, suk-s[=e]d', _v.t._ to come after, to follow up or in order: to
follow: to take the place of.--_v.i._ to follow in order: to take the place
of: to obtain one's wish or accomplish what is attempted: to end with
advantage.--_adjs._ SUCCEED'ABLE, capable of success; SUCCEED'ANT (_her._),
following one another.--_ns._ SUCCEED'ER, one who succeeds: a successor;
SUCCESS', act of succeeding or state of having succeeded: the prosperous
termination of anything attempted: one who, or that which, succeeds, a
successful person or affair.--_adj._ SUCCESS'FUL, resulting in success:
having the desired effect or termination: prosperous.--_adv._
SUCCESS'FULLY.--_ns._ SUCCESS'FULNESS, state of being successful: success;
SUCCES'SION, act of succeeding or following after: series of persons or
things following each other in time or place: series of descendants: race:
(_agri._) rotation, as of crops: right to take possession: in Roman and
Scots law, the taking of property by one person in place of
another.--_adj._ SUCCES'SIONAL, existing in a regular succession or in
order.--_adv._ SUCCES'SIONALLY.--_n._ SUCCES'SIONIST, one who regards only
that priesthood as valid which can be traced in a direct line of succession
from the apostles.--_adj._ SUCCES'SIVE, following in succession or in
order.--_adv._ SUCCES'SIVELY.--_n._ SUCCES'SIVENESS.--_adj._ SUCCESS'LESS,
without success: unprosperous.--_ns._ SUCCES'SOR, one who succeeds or comes
after: one who takes the place of another; SUCCES'SORSHIP.--_adj._
SUCCES'SORY.--SUCCESSION DUTY, a tax imposed on any succession to property,
varying with the degree of relationship.--APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION (see
APOSTLE). [L. _succed[)e]re_--_sub_, up, _ced[)e]re_, to go.]

SUCCENTOR, suk-sen'tor, _n._ a subcantor: the bass soloist in a choir. [L.
_succin[)e]re_--_sub_, under, _can[)e]re_, to sing.]

SUCCIDUOUS, suk-sid'[=u]-us, _adj._ on the point of falling.
[L.,--_succid[)e]re_--_sub_, under, _cad[)e]re_, to fall.]

SUCCIFEROUS, suk-sif'e-rus, _adj._ producing sap. [L. _succus_, juice,
_ferre_, to bear.]

SUCCIN, suk'sin, _n._ amber.--_n._ SUC'CINATE, a salt of succinic
acid.--_adj._ SUCCIN'IC, of, relating to, or drawn from amber.--_n._
SUC'CINITE, amber.--_adj._ SUC'CINOUS, pertaining to amber.--SUCCINIC ACID,
a natural constituent of amber, pine-resins, leaves of lettuce, and
wormwood, &c. [L. _succinum_, amber.]

SUCCINCT, suk-singkt', _adj._ short: concise.--_adv._ SUCCINCT'LY.--_ns._
SUCCINCT'NESS; SUCCINCT[=O]'RIUM, a band embroidered with an Agnus Dei,
worn hanging from the girdle by the pope on some occasions. [L.
_succinctus_--_sub_, up, _cing[)e]re_, to gird.]

SUCCIVOROUS, suk-siv'[=o]-rus, _adj._ feeding on the sap of plants.--_adj._
SUCCOSE (suk'[=o]s), full of juice.

SUCCORY, suk'or-i, _n._ a form of chicory.

SUCCOTASH, suk'o-tash, _n._ a dish consisting of a stew of green Indian
corn and beans. [Amer. Ind.]

SUCCOUR, suk'ur, _v.t._ to assist: to relieve.--_n._ aid: relief.--_n._
SUCC'OURER.--_adj._ SUCC'OURLESS, destitute of succour. [L.
_succurr[)e]re_, to run up to--_sub_, up, _curr[)e]re_, to run.]

SUCCUBUS, suk'[=u]-bus, _n._ a demon in female form who consorts with men
in their sleep--also SUCC'UBA.--_v.t._ SUCC'UB[=A]TE, to have carnal
knowledge of a man by this means.--_adj._ SUCC'UBINE, pertaining to a
succubus. [L. _succuba_, a whore, _succumb[)e]re_, to lie down.]

SUCCULENT, suk'[=u]-lent, _adj._ full of juice or moisture: not dry or
barren.--_ns._ SUCC'[=U]LENCE, SUCC'[=U]LENCY.--_adv._ SUCC'[=U]LENTLY. [L.
_succulentus_--_succus_, juice--_sug[)e]re_, to suck.]

SUCCUMB, suk-kum', _v.i._ to lie down under: to sink under: to yield, to
submit, to die. [L. _sub_, under, _cumb[)e]re_, to lie down.]

SUCCURSAL, suk-ur'sal, _adj._ subsidiary, of the relation of a minor church
to a cathedral, &c.

SUCCUS, suk'us, _n._ a fluid secretion, expressed juice.

SUCCUSSIVE, suk-kus'iv, _adj._ characterised by a shaking motion, as that
of an earthquake.--_v.t._ SUCCUSS', to shake suddenly.--_ns._
SUCCUSS[=A]'TION, a shaking; SUCCUS'SION, a shaking, a shock: a shaking of
the thorax to detect pleural effusion. [L. _succut[)e]re_, _succussum_, to
shake below--_sub_, under, _quat[)e]re_, to shake.]

SUCH, such, _adj._ of the like kind: of that quality or character
mentioned.--_pron._ denoting a particular person or thing, as in such and
such.--_adv._ SUCH'WISE, in such a manner.--SUCH AND SUCH, SUCH OR SUCH,
this or that, some, indefinitely; SUCH LIKE (_B._)=_Such_. [A.S. _swylc_,
from _swa_, so, and _líc_, like, cog. with Goth. _swaleiks_.]

SUCK, suk, _v.t._ to draw in with the mouth: to draw milk from with the
mouth: to imbibe: to drain.--_v.i._ to draw with the mouth: to draw the
breast: to draw in.--_n._ act of sucking: milk drawn from the breast:
(_slang_) a short drink, esp. a dram of spirits.--_n._ SUCK'ER, one who, or
that which, sucks, a sucking-pig: one of various kinds of fish: the organ
by which an animal adheres to other bodies: the piston of a suction-pump: a
shoot rising from a subterranean stem: a leather disc to the middle of
which a string is attached, used by children as a toy: a parasite, toady,
sponge: a hard drinker: (_U.S._) a native of Illinois.--_v.t._ to strip off
suckers from: to provide with suckers.--_n._ SUCK'ET, a sugar-plum.--_adj._
SUCK'ING, still nourished by milk: young and inexperienced.--_ns._
SUCK'ING-BOT'TLE, a bottle of milk used for infants as a substitute for the
breast; SUCK'ING-FISH, a name sometimes given to the _Remora_ or
_Echineis_, which has a dorsal sucker, and to other fishes which have a
sucker formed by the union of the ventral fins, as the _Lumpsucker_.--SUCK
IN, to draw in, imbibe, absorb (_n._ a fraud); SUCK OUT, to draw out with
the mouth; SUCK THE MONKEY (see MONKEY); SUCK UP, to draw up into the
mouth. [A.S. _súcan_, _súgan_; Ger. _saugen_.]

SUCKEN, suk'n, _n._ (_Scots law_) the district round a mill, the tenants
farming which must grind their corn therein.--_n._ SUCK'ENER, a tenant so
bound. [_Soken_.]

SUCKLE, suk'l, _v.t._ to give suck to: to nurse at the breast.--_n._
SUCK'LER, a mammal that suckles its young, a suckling.--_n.pl._ SUCK'LERS,
red clover.--_n._ SUCK'LING, a young child or animal being nursed at the
breast.--_adj._ sucking. [Dim. of _suck_.]

SUCROSE, s[=u]'kr[=o]s, _n._ the white crystalline compound known variously
as _cane-sugar_, _beet-sugar_, _maple-sugar_.

SUCTION, suk'shun, _n._ act or power of sucking: act of drawing, as fluids,
by exhausting the air.--_n._ SUC'TION-PUMP, the common house-pump--not the
force-pump.--_adj._ SUCT[=O]'RIAL, adapted for sucking: living by
sucking--also SUCT[=O]'RIOUS.

SUDAMINA, s[=u]-dam'i-na, _n.pl._ also called _Military eruption_, one of
the vesicular diseases of the skin almost always occurring in association
with febrile disorders, particularly acute rheumatism.--_adj._ SUDAM'INAL.
[L. _sud[=a]re_, to sweat.]

SUDATORY, s[=u]'da-tor-i, _adj._ sweating.--_n._ a sweating-bath.--_ns._
S[=U]D[=A]'RIUM, a cloth for wiping off sweat, esp. that of St Veronica on
which the features of Jesus on His way to the Cross were miraculously
impressed--also S[=U]'DARY; S[=U]D[=A]'TION, excessive sweating;
S[=U]DAT[=O]'RIUM, a sweating-bath. [L. _sudatorius_--_sud[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_.]

SUDDEN, sud'en, _adj._ unexpected: hasty: abrupt.--_adv._ SUD'DENLY.--_n._
SUD'DENNESS, (_Scot._) SUD'DENTY.--ON A SUDDEN, Of a sudden, suddenly,
sooner than was expected. [O. Fr. _sodain_--L. _subitaneus_,
sudden--_subitus_, coming stealthily--_sub_, up, _[=i]re_, _[=i]tum_, to
go.]

SUDDER, sud'[.e]r, _adj._ supreme, chief--in Bengal. [Ar. _sadr_, chief.]

SUDORIFIC, s[=u]-dor-if'ik, _adj._ causing sweat.--_n._ a medicine
producing sweat: a diaphoretic.--_n._ S[=U]'DOR, sweat.--_adjs._
S[=U]'DORAL; S[=U]DORIF'EROUS. [L. _sudor_, sweat, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SUDRA, s[=u]'dra, _n._ a member of the fourth and lowest of the Hindu
castes. [Hind.,--Sans. _ç[=u]dra_.]

SUDS, sudz, _n.pl._ boiling water mixed with soap. [A.S. _soden_, pa.p. of
_seóthan_, to seethe; cog. with Ger. _sod_--_sieden_.]

SUE, s[=u], _v.t._ to prosecute at law: to seek after, to try to
win.--_v.i._ to make legal claim: to make application: to entreat: to
demand (with _for_).--SUED, (_naut._) to be left high and dry.--_n._
S[=U]'ING, the act of bringing a legal suit: wooing.--SUE OUT, to petition
for and take out. [M. E. _suen_--O. Fr. _sevre_, _suir_ (Fr. _suivre_)--L.
_sequi_, _secutus_, to follow.]

SUÈDE, sw[=a]d, _n._ undressed kid--often _adj._, as 'suède gloves.' [Fr.
_Suède_, Swede.]

SUET, s[=u]'et, _n._ a solid fatty tissue, accumulating about the kidneys
and omentum of the ox, sheep, &c.--_adj._ S[=U]'ETY. [O. Fr. _seu_ (Fr.
_suif_)--L. _sebum_, fat.]

SUFFER, suf'[.e]r, _v.t._ to undergo: to endure: to be affected by: to
permit.--_v.i._ to feel pain or punishment: to sustain loss: to be
injured.--_adj._ SUFF'ERABLE, that may be suffered: allowable.--_n._
SUFF'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ SUFF'ERABLY.--_ns._ SUFF'ERANCE, state of
suffering: endurance: permission: toleration; SUFF'ERER; SUFF'ERING,
distress, loss, or injury. [L. _sufferre_--_sub_, under, _ferre_, to bear.]

SUFFETE, suf'[=e]t, _n._ one of the suffetes or chief administrative
officials of ancient Carthage. [L. _sufes_, _-[)e]tis_--Punic; cf. Heb.
_shôphet_, a judge.]

SUFFICE, suf'f[=i]s, _v.i._ to be enough: to be equal to the end in
view.--_v.t._ to satisfy.--_n._ SUFFI'CIENCY, state of being sufficient:
competence: ability: capacity: conceit.--_adj._ SUFFI'CIENT, sufficing:
enough: equal to any end or purpose: competent.--_adv._
SUFFI'CIENTLY.--_n._ SUF'FISANCE (_Spens._), sufficiency. [Fr.,--L.
_suffic[)e]re_, to take the place of--_sub_, under, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SUFFIONI, suf-[=e]-[=o]'ni, _n.pl._ a name given to the exhalations of hot
sulphurous vapours, which are common in volcanic regions. [It.]

SUFFIX, suf'iks, _n._ a particle added to the root of a word.--_v.t._
SUFFIX', to add a letter or syllable to a word to mark different notions
and relations.--_adj._ SUFF'IXAL.--_n._ SUFFIX'ION. [L. _suffixus_, _sub_,
under, _fig[)e]re_, to fix.]

SUFFLAMINATE, suf-flam'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ (_obs._) to impede. [L.
_sufflamin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_suffl[=a]men_, a clog.]

SUFFLATE, suf-fl[=a]t', _v.t._ to blow up, inflate.--_n._ SUFFL[=A]'TION.
[L. _suffl[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

SUFFOCATE, suf'[=o]-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to choke by stopping the breath: to
stifle:--_pa.p._ suff'oc[=a]ted.--_p.adj._ (_Shak._) suffocated.--_p.adj._
SUFF'OC[=A]TING, choking.--_adv._ SUFF'OC[=A]TINGLY.--_n._ SUFFOC[=A]'TION,
act of suffocating: state of being suffocated.--_adj._ SUFF'OC[=A]TIVE,
tending to suffocate. [L. _suffoc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_sub_, under,
_fauces_, the throat.]

SUFFRAGAN, suf'ra-gan, _adj._ assisting.--_n._ a coadjutor-bishop: any
bishop in relation to his metropolitan.--_n._ SUFF'RAGANSHIP.

SUFFRAGE, suf'r[=a]j, _n._ a vote: a vote in approbation of any proposal,
hence approval, assent: testimony, witness: any short intercessory
prayer.--_n._ SUFF'RAGIST, one who votes: one holding particular opinions
about the right of voting. [L. _suffragium_, _saffrag[=a]ri_, to vote for.]

SUFFRAGO, suf-fr[=a]'g[=o], _n._ the joint between the tibia and tarsus, as
the hock of a horse's hind-leg, the heel of a bird.--_adj._ SUFFRAG'INOUS.
[L. _suffrago_, the hock--_sub_, under, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

SUFFRUTESCENT, suf-r[=oo]-tes'ent, _adj._ somewhat woody at the base.--_n._
SUFF'RUTEX, an under-shrub, a herb with permanent woody base.--_adj._
SUFFRU'TIC[=O]SE, shrubby at base, small with woody stem--also
SUFFRU'TICOUS.--_adj._ SUFFRUTIC'[=U]LOSE, somewhat fruticulose. [L. _sub_,
under, _frutex_, a shrub.]

SUFFULTED, su-ful'ted, _adj._ gradually blending into another colour. [L.
_suffulc[=i]re_, _suffultum_, to support.]

SUFFUMIGATE, suf-f[=u]'mi-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to apply fumes to.--_n._
SUFFUMIG[=A]'TION, the act of fumigating or burning perfumes.

SUFFUSE, suf-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to pour underneath: to overspread or cover, as
with a fluid.--_n._ SUFF[=U]'SION, act or operation of suffusing: state of
being suffused: that which is suffused. [L. _sub_, underneath,
_fund[)e]re_, _fusum_, to pour.]

SUFISM, s[=u]'fizm, _n._ a form of pantheistic mysticism within
Islam.--_ns._ S[=U]'FI, S[=O]'FI, one of such mystics.--_adjs._ S[=U]'FIC,
SUFIS'TIC. [Ar. _s[=u]fi_--Gr. _sophos_, wise.]

SUGAR, shoog'ar, _n._ a sweet substance obtained chiefly from a kind of
cane: anything sugary, honeyed words, flattery.--_v.t._ to sprinkle or mix
with sugar: to compliment.--_ns._ SUG'AR-BAK'ER, a sugar-refiner;
SUG'AR-BEET, any one of several varieties of the common garden beet, grown
for sugar; SUG'AR-CAN'DY, sugar candied or in large crystals; SUG'AR-CANE,
the saccharine grass (_Saccharum officinarum_) from which sugar is chiefly
obtained.--_adj._ SUG'AR-COAT'ED, coated with sugar.--_p.adj._ SUG'ARED,
sweetened with sugar.--_ns._ SUG'AR-GUM, a large Australian eucalyptus
yielding good timber, with sweetish foliage; SUG'AR-HOUSE, a factory where
sugar is made; SUG'ARINESS, state or quality of being sugary or sweet;
SUG'AR-LOAF, a loaf or mass of sugar, usually in the form of a truncated
cone; SUG'AR-M[=A]'PLE, the hard maple; SUG'AR-MILL, a machine for pressing
out the juice of the sugar-cane; SUG'AR-MITE, a mite infesting unrefined
sugar; SUG'AR-PLUM, a species of sweetmeat made up in small ornamental
balls or lumps like a plum: any very pleasing piece of flattery;
SUG'AR-REF[=I]'NER, one who refines raw sugar;
SUG'AR-REF[=I]'NERY.--_n.pl._ SUG'AR-TONGS, an implement for lifting pieces
of sugar at table.--_adj._ SUG'ARY, sweetened with, tasting of, or like
sugar: fond of sweets.--SUGAR OF LEAD, acetate of lead. [Fr. _sucre_--Sp.
_azucar_--Ar. _assokhar_--Pers. _shakar_--Sans. _carkar[=a]_, sugar, orig.
grains of sand, applied to sugar because occurring in grains.]

SUGGEST, suj-jest', _v.t._ to introduce indirectly to the thoughts: to
hint.--_v.i._ to make suggestions.--_ns._ SUGGES'TER; SUGGESTIBIL'ITY,
capability of being suggested.--_adj._ SUGGES'TIBLE.--_n._ SUGGES'TION, act
of suggesting: hint: proposal: incitement, temptation: (_law_) information
without oath, not being pleadable: the act of exercising control over a
hypnotised subject by communicating some belief or impulse by means of
words or gestures, also the idea so suggested; SUGGES'TIONISM, the theory
that hypnotic effects are entirely due to the action of suggestion upon
weak persons; SUGGES'TIONIST, one who holds this view.--_adj._ SUGGES'TIVE,
containing a hint: fitted to suggest: pertaining to hypnotic
suggestion.--_adv._ SUGGES'TIVELY.--_ns._ SUGGES'TIVENESS, state of being
suggestive; SUGGES'TOR; SUGGES'TRESS; SUGGES'TUM, a raised platform. [L.
_sub_, under, _ger[)e]re_, _gestum_, to carry.]

SUGGIL, suj'il, _v.t._ (_obs._) to beat black and blue--also
SUGG'IL[=A]TE.--_n._ SUGGIL[=A]'TION, a livid mark, a blow. [L.
_sugillatio_.]

SUICIDE, s[=u]'i-s[=i]d, _n._ one who dies by his own hand:
self-murder.--_adj._ S[=U]IC[=I]'DAL, pertaining to, or partaking of, the
crime of suicide.--_adv._ S[=U]IC[=I]'DALLY.--_n._ SU'ICIDISM, a tendency
towards suicide. [Coined from L. _sui_, of himself, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

SUIDÆ, s[=u]'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of even-toed, non-ruminant
Ungulates, including pigs, hogs, or boars, the Babiroussa, and the
wart-hogs (_Phacochoerus_).--_adjs._ S[=U]'IFORM, like the _Suidæ_;
S[=U]'ILLINE, swinish.

SUINT, swint, _n._ the natural grease of wool. [Fr.]

SUIST, s[=u]'ist, _n._ a self-seeker.--_n._ S[=U]'ICISM, selfishness.

SUIT, s[=u]t, _n._ act of suing: an action at law: a petition: a series: a
set: a number of things of the same kind or made to be used together, as
clothes or armour: courtship.--_v.t._ to fit: to become: to please.--_v.i._
to agree: to correspond.--_p.adj._ SUIT'ED (_Shak._), dressed,
clothed.--_ns._ SUIT'ING, cloth suitable for making suits of clothes,
usually in _pl._; SUIT'OR, one who sues in love or law: a petitioner: a
wooer:--_fem._ SUIT'RESS.--_v.i._ to play the suitor.--_adj._ SUIT'ORCIDE,
suitor-killing. [Fr.,--Low L. _secta_, a suit--L. _sequi_, to follow.]

SUITABLE, s[=u]t'a-bl, _adj._ that suits: fitting: agreeable to:
adequate.--_ns._ SUITABIL'ITY, SUIT'ABLENESS.--_adv._ SUIT'ABLY.

SUITE, sw[=e]t, _n._ a train of followers or attendants: a regular set,
particularly of rooms: a series of dances arranged for instruments in the
same or relative keys, and usually preceded by a prelude: a sequel. [Fr.
Cf. _Suit_.]

SUIVEZ, sw[=e]-v[=a]', _n._ (_mus._) a direction to the accompanist to
adapt his time and style to the soloist. [Fr., 'follow.']

SUJEE, s[=oo]'j[=e], _n._ fine flour made from the heart of the wheat, for
English tables in India--Also SOO'JEE, SOU'JEE. [Hind. _s[=u]j[=i]_.]

SULCATE, -D, sul'k[=a]t, -ed, adj, furrowed, grooved.--_n._
SULC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ SUL'CIFORM.--_n._ SUL'CUS:--_pl._ SUL'CI. [L.
_sulcus_, a furrow.]

SULK, sulk, _v.i._ to be sullen.--_adv._ SULK'ILY, in a sulky, sullen, or
morose manner.--_n._ SULK'INESS.--_n.pl._ SULKS, a fit of
sullenness.--_adj._ SULK'Y, silently sullen.--_n._ a light two-wheeled
vehicle for one person, sometimes having no body. [A.S. _solcen_,
slow--_seolcan_, to be slow.]

SULLAGE, sul'[=a]j, _n._ the floating scum on molten metal: silt: anything
which sullies.

SULLEN, sul'en, _adj._ gloomily angry and silent: malignant, baleful: dark:
dull.--_adv._ SULL'ENLY.--_n._ SULL'ENNESS.--_n.pl._ SULL'ENS, sullen fits.
[O. Fr. _solain_--L. _solus_, alone.]

SULLY, sul'i, _v.t._ to soil: to spot: to tarnish.--_v.i._ to be
soiled:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ sull'ied.--_n._ spot: tarnish. [A.S. _sylian_,
to defile--_sol_, mud.]

SULPHUR, sul'fur, _n._ a yellow mineral substance, very brittle, fusible,
and inflammable: brimstone.--_n._ SUL'PHATE, a salt formed by sulphuric
acid with a base.--_v.t._ to form a deposit of lead sulphate on.--_adj._
SULPHAT'IC.--_ns._ SUL'PHATILE, native sulphuric acid; SUL'PHIDE, a
combination of sulphur with a metal; SUL'PHITE, a salt formed by sulphurous
acid.--_v.t._ SUL'PH[=U]R[=A]TE, to combine with, or subject to, the action
of sulphur.--_ns._ SULPH[=U]R[=A]'TION, the act or operation of subjecting
to the action of sulphur or sulphurous acid; SULPHUR[=A]'TOR, an apparatus
for sulphurating.--_adj._ SULPH[=U]'R[=E]OUS, consisting of, containing, or
having the qualities of sulphur.--_adv._ SULPH[=U]'REOUSLY.--_ns._
SULPH[=U]'REOUSNESS; SUL'PH[=U]RET, a combination of sulphur with an
alkali, earth, or metal.--_adjs._ SUL'PH[=U]RETTED, having sulphur in
combination; SULPH[=U]'RIC, pertaining to, or obtained from, sulphur:
denoting a certain well-known strong acid, formerly called oil of vitriol;
SUL'PH[=U]ROUS, pertaining to, resembling, or containing sulphur: denoting
the pungent acid given out when sulphur is burned in air; SUL'PHURY,
partaking of the qualities of sulphur.--SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN, a compound
of sulphur and hydrogen, stinking and noxious; SULPHUROUS ACID, an acid
formed by one equivalent of sulphur combined with two of oxygen. [L.
_sulphur_; said to be conn. with Sans. _çulv[=a]ri_.]

SULTAN, sul'tan, _n._ a Mohammedan sovereign, esp. the supreme head of the
Ottoman empire: a purple or hyacinthine gallinule, or porphyrio: a small
white variety of the domestic hen:--_fem._ SULTANA (sul-tä'na), the mother,
a wife, or a daughter of a sultan--also SUL'TANESS.--_ns._ SULTANA
(sul-tä'na), a king's mistress: a kind of viol: an old form of necklace: a
small kind of raisin; SUL'TANATE, the authority or jurisdiction of a
sultan.--adj: SULTAN'IC.--_n._ SUL'TANSHIP. [Ar. _sult[=a]n_, victorious, a
ruler.]

SULTRY: sul'tri, _adj._ sweltering: very hot and oppressive: close.--_adv._
SUL'TRILY.--_n._ SUL'TRINESS. [Another form is _sweltry_, from root of
_swelter_.]

SUM, sum, _n._ the amount of two or more things taken together: the whole
of anything: a quantity of money: a problem in arithmetic: chief points:
substance or result of reasoning: summary: height: completion.--_v.t._ to
collect into one amount or whole: to count: to bring into a few
words:--_pr.p._ sum'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ summed.--_adj._ SUM'LESS, not
to be summed or counted: incalculable.--_ns._ SUM'MER, one who sums;
SUM'MING, the act of one who sums, arithmetic; SUM'MING-UP, a
recapitulation or review of the leading points, a judge's summary survey of
the evidence given to a jury before it withdraws to consider its verdict;
SUM'MIST, one who makes a summary, esp. a theological compendium. [Fr.,--L.
_summa_--_summus_, _supremus_, highest, superl. of _superus_, on
high--_super_, above.]

SUMAC, SUMACH, s[=u]'mak, _n._ a genus of small trees and shrubs of the
natural order _Anacardiaceæ_--the leaves of some species used in dyeing.
[Fr. _sumac_--Sp. _zumaque_--Ar. _summ[=a]q_.]

SUMERIAN, s[=u]-m[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Sumir_, one of the two
divisions of ancient Babylonia.

SUMMARY, sum'a-ri, _adj._ summed up or condensed: short: brief:
compendious: done by a short method.--_n._ an abstract, abridgment, or
compendium.--_adv._ SUMM'ARILY.--_n._ SUMM'ARINESS.--_v.t._ SUMM'ARISE, to
present in a summary or briefly.--_ns._ SUMM'ARIST; one who summarises;
SUMM'[=U]LA, a brief educational text-book.--SUMMARY DILIGENCE (Scots law),
the process by which execution may proceed without the need of further
application to the court, in the case of bonds and other instruments
registered for execution.

SUMMATION, sum-[=a]'shun, _n._ act of summing or forming a total amount: an
aggregate.--_adjs._ SUMM[=A]'TIONAL, SUMM'ATIVE.

SUMMER, sum'[.e]r, _n._ the second and warmest season of the year--June,
July, August.--_v.i._ to pass the summer.--_v.t._ to keep through the
summer.--_adj._ SUMM'ER-DRIED, dried by the heat of summer.--_n._
SUMM'ER-DUCK, a beautiful North American duck.--_adj._ SUMM'ER-FALL'OW,
lying fallow during the summer.--_ns._ SUMM'ER-HOUSE, a house in a garden
used in summer: a summer residence; SUMM'ERING, a kind of early
apple.--_adv._ SUMM'ER-LIKE.--_adj._ SUMM'ERLY, warm and bright like
summer.--_ns._ SUMM'ER-SHINE, the summer colour of a bird, insect, &c.;
SUMM'ER-TIDE, SUMM'ER-TIME, the summer season.--_adj._ SUMM'ERY, like
summer.--INDIAN SUMMER (see INDIAN); ST LUKE'S, ST MARTIN'S, SUMMER (see
SAINT). [A.S. _sumer_, _sumor_; Dut. _zomer_, Ger. _sommer_.]

SUMMER, sum'[.e]r, _n._ the first stone laid over columns or pilasters to
form a cross vault: the central beam of a floor which receives the joists:
any large piece of timber supported on two strong piers or posts, and
serving as a lintel to a door, window, &c.; (_obs._) a pack-horse, a
sumpter-horse. [_Sumpter_.]

SUMMERSET. Same as SOMERSAULT.

SUMMIT, sum'it, _n._ the highest point or degree: the top.--_adj._
SUMM'ITLESS, having no summit or top.--_n._ SUMM'IT-LEV'EL, the highest
level. [O. Fr. _som_, the top of a hill--L. _summum_, highest.]

SUMMON, sum'un, _v.t._ to call with authority: to command to appear, esp.
in court: to rouse to exertion.--_ns._ SUMM'ONER; SUMM'ONS, a summoning or
an authoritative call: a call to appear, esp. in court: a call to
surrender.--_v.t._ to serve with a summons. [O. Fr. _somoner_--L.
_summon[=e]re_--_sub_, secretly, _mon[=e]re_, to warn.]

SUMP, sump, _n._ a round pit of stone lined with clay, for receiving metal
on its first fusion or reduction: the reservoir at the lowest point of a
mine, from which the water is pumped: (_prov._) a bog, a puddle. [Dut.
_somp_; Ger. _sumpf_.]

SUMPH, sumf, _n._ (_prov._) a blockhead, a soft sheepish fellow.--_adj._
SUMPH'ISH.--_n._ SUMPH'ISHNESS.

SUMPIT, sum'pit, _n._ the poisoned arrow thrown from the SUM'PITAN, or
Malay blow-gun.

SUMPSIMUS, sump'si-mus, _n._ a correct expression displacing an incorrect
but common one (see MUMPSIMUS). [L., 1st pers. _pl._ perf. indic. of
_sum[)e]re_, to take.]

SUMPTER, sump't[.e]r, _n._ a horse for carrying burdens. [With inserted _p_
from O. Fr. _somier_--Low L. _sagmarius_--Gr. _sagma_, a pack-saddle--Gr.
_sattein_, to pack.]

SUMPTUARY, sumpt'[=u]-ar-i, _adj._ pertaining to or regulating expense, as
in SUMPTUARY LAWS, which sought to prevent extravagance in banquets, dress,
&c. [L. _sumptuarius_--_sum[)e]re_, _sumptum_, to take, contr. of _sub_,
up, _em[)e]re_, to buy.]

SUMPTUOUS, sumpt'[=u]-us, _adj._ costly: magnificent.--_ns._
SUMPT[=U]OS'ITY, SUMPT'[=U]OUSNESS.--_adv._ SUMPT'[=U]OUSLY. [L.
_sumptuosus_, costly--_sumptus_, cost.]

SUN, sun, _n._ the body which is the source of light and heat to our
planetary system: a body which forms the centre of a system of orbs: that
which resembles the sun in brightness or value: the sunshine: a revolution
of the earth round the sun, a year: sunrise, day: (_her._) a bearing
representing the sun.--_v.t._ to expose to the sun's rays.--_v.i._ to
become warm in the sunshine:--_pr.p._ sun'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
sunned.--_n._ SUN'BEAM, a beam or ray of the sun.--_adjs._ SUN'-BEAT, -EN,
smitten by the rays of the sun.--_ns._ SUN'-BIRD, a family of small
tropical birds, the male with resplendent metallic plumage; SUN'-BITT'ERN,
a South American bird about the size of a small curlew, long-legged and
long-necked, with brilliant many-coloured markings; SUN'-BONN'ET, a light
bonnet projecting beyond the face to protect from the sun; SUN'BOW, an iris
formed by the sun, esp. in the spray of a cataract; SUN'BURN, a burning or
scorching by the sun, esp. the browning of the skin of the face, hands, &c.
exposed to the sun.--_adjs._ SUN'BURNED, SUN'BURNT, burned or discoloured
by the sun.--_n._ SUN'BURST, a strong outburst of sunlight.--_adj._
SUN'-CLAD, clothed in radiant light.--_ns._ SUN'-CRACK, one of the
superficial markings frequently seen on the surfaces of thin-bedded
flagstones and argillaceous sandstones; SUN'DAWN, the light of the dawning
sun; SUN'DEW, a plant of the genus Drosera, found in bogs and moist heathy
ground; SUN'-D[=I]'AL, an instrument for measuring time by means of the
motion of the sun's shadow cast by a style erected on its surface;
SUN'-DOG, a mock sun or parhelion; SUN'DOWN, sunset: a hat with a wide brim
to shade the eyes; SUN'DOWNER, in Australia, a loafer who saunters from
station to station in the interior, arriving about sundown in the hope of
getting free rations and lodging for the night: a physician in government
employment who practises for private fees after his official hours.--_adj._
SUN'-DRIED, dried by exposure to the sun.--_ns._ SUN'-FISH, a fish whose
body resembles the forepart of a larger fish cut short off, supposed to be
so called from its nearly circular form; SUN'FLOWER, a plant so called from
its flower, which is a large disc with yellow rays; SUN'GOD, the sun
considered as a deity; SUN'HAT, a light hat with wide brim to shade the
face from the sun.--_adj._ SUN'LESS, without the sun: deprived of the sun
or its rays: shaded: dark.--_ns._ SUN'LESSNESS; SUN'LIGHT, the light of the
sun.--_adjs._ SUN'LIKE, like the sun; SUN'LIT, lighted up by the sun.--_n._
SUN'-MYTH, a solar myth (see SOLAR).--_p.adj._ SUNNED, exposed to the
sun.--_n._ SUN'NINESS.--_adj._ SUN'NY, pertaining to, coming from, or like
the sun: exposed to, warmed, or coloured by the sun's rays.--_ns._
SUN'-PICT'URE, -PRINT, a photograph; SUN'RISE, SUN'RISING, the rising or
first appearance of the sun above the horizon: the time of this rising: the
east; SUN'SET, SUN'SETTING, the setting or going down of the sun: the west;
SUN'SHADE, a ladies' parasol: an awning; SUN'SHINE, the shining light of
the sun: the place on which it shines: warmth.--_adjs._ SUN'SHINE,
SUN'SHINY, bright with sunshine: pleasant: bright like the sun;
SUN'-SMITT'EN, smitten by the rays of the sun.--_ns._ SUN'SPOT, one of the
dark irregular spots appearing on the surface of the sun; SUN'STONE,
aventurine feldspar.--_adj._ SUN'-STRICK'EN.--_n._ SUN'STROKE, a nervous
disease, from exposure to the sun.--_adv._ SUN'WARD, toward the sun.--_ns._
SUN'-WOR'SHIP, adoration of the sun; SUN'-WOR'SHIPPER.--BE IN THE SUNSHINE,
HAVE THE SUN IN ONE'S EYES, to be in liquor, to be drunk; TAKE THE SUN, to
ascertain the latitude from the sun; UNDER THE SUN, in the world, on earth.
[A.S. _sunne_; Ice. _sunna_, Ger. _sunne_.]

SUNDARI, sun'da-ri, _n._ a tree abundant in Burma and Borneo, with dark
durable timber.--Also SUN'DRA-TREE, SUN'DER-TREE.

SUNDAY, sun'd[=a], _n._ the first day of the week, so called because
anciently dedicated to the sun or its worship.--_ns._ SUN'DAY-BEST, one's
best clothes; SUN'DAY-SAINT, one whose religion is confined to Sundays;
SUN'DAY-SCHOOL, a school for religious instruction for children, held on
Sunday. [A.S. _sunnan dæg_; Ger. _sonntag_.]

SUNDER, sun'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to separate: to divide.--_ns._ SUN'DERANCE;
SUN'DERMENT.--IN SUNDER (_B._), asunder. [A.S. _syndrian_, to
separate--_sundor_, separate; Ice. _sundr_, asunder.]

SUNDRY, sun'dri, _adj._ separate: more than one or two: several:
divers.--_n.pl._ SUN'DRIES, sundry things: different small things.--ALL AND
SUNDRY, all collectively and individually.

SUNG, sung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sing_.

SUNK, sungk, SUNKEN, sungk'n, _pa.p._ of _sink_.

SUNKET, sung'ket, _n._ (_Scot._) a dainty.

SUNN, sun, _n._ an Indian leguminous plant cultivated for the fibre of its
bark. [Hind. _san_.]

SUNNITE, sun'[=i]t, _n._ the name commonly given to orthodox Muslims,
because in their rule of faith and manners the _Sunna_, or traditional
teaching of the prophet, is added to the Koran.--Also SONN'ITE.

SUP, sup, _v.t._ to take into the mouth, as a liquid: (_Scot._) to eat with
a spoon.--_v.i._ to eat the evening meal: (_B._) to sip:--_pr.p._ sup'ping;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ supped.--_n._ a small mouthful, as of a liquid. [A.S.
_súpan_; Ice. _súpa_, Ger. _saufen_, to drink.]

SUPAWN, su-pan', _n._ mush, or Indian meal boiled in water, eaten with
milk.--Also SUPPAWN', SEPAWN', SEPON'. [Amer. Ind.]

SUPE, s[=u]p, _n._ (_U.S._) a theatrical super: a toady.

SUPER, s[=u]'p[.e]r, _n._ a supernumerary actor.

SUPERABLE, s[=u]'p[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ capable of being overcome.--_n._
S[=U]'PERABLENESS.--_adv._ S[=U]'PERABLY.

SUPERABUNDANT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-ab-und'ant, _adj._ abundant to excess: more
than enough: copious.--_v.i._ SUPERABOUND', to abound exceedingly: to be
more than enough.--_n._ SUPERABUND'ANCE.--_adv._ SUPERABUND'ANTLY.

SUPERACIDULATED, s[=u]-p[.e]r-a-sid'[=u]-l[=a]-ted, _adj._ acidulated to
excess.

SUPERADD, s[=u]-p[.e]r-ad', _v.t._ to add over and above.--_n._
SUPERADDI'TION.

SUPERALTAR, s[=u]'p[.e]r-awlt-ar, _n._ a small slab of stone used as a
portable altar, to be laid on the top of an unconsecrated altar.

SUPERANGELIC, s[=u]-p[.e]r-an-jel'ik, _adj._ more than angelic.

SUPERANNUATE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-an'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to impair or disqualify by
living beyond the years of service or by old age: to pension on account of
old age or infirmity.--_v.i._ to become incapacitated by long
service.--_n._ SUPERANNU[=A]'TION, state of being superannuated: the
allowance granted in consideration of such. [L. _super_, above, _annus_, a
year.]

SUPERATION, s[=u]-pe-r[=a]'shun, _n._ the apparent passing of one planet by
another in longitude: the act of surmounting.

SUPERB, s[=u]-p[.e]rb', _adj._ proud: magnificent: stately: elegant: showy:
(_coll._) first-class, very good.--_adv._ SUPERB'LY.--_n._ SUPERB'NESS, the
state of being superb. [L. _superbus_, proud--_super_, above.]

SUPERCALENDERED, s[=u]-p[.e]r-kal'en-derd, _adj._ denoting paper of a very
high degree of polish due to several courses of rolling.

SUPERCALLOSAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-ka-l[=o]'sal, _adj._ lying above the corpus
callosum, specifying a fissure or sulcus of the median aspect of the
cerebrum.

SUPERCANOPY, s[=u]-p[.e]r-kan'[=o]-pi, _n._ an upper arch or gable above a
lesser or lower one.

SUPERCARGO, s[=u]-p[.e]r-kär'go, _n._ a person in a merchant-ship placed in
charge of the cargo and superintending all the commercial transactions of
the voyage.--_n._ SUPERCAR'GOSHIP.

SUPERCELESTIAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-sel-est'yal, _adj._ situated above the
firmament or vault of heaven.

SUPERCHARGE, s[=u]'p[.e]r-chärj, _n._ (_her._) a charge borne upon an
ordinary or other charge.

SUPERCILIOUS, s[=u]-p[.e]r-sil'i-us, _adj._ lofty with pride: disdainful:
dictatorial: overbearing.--_adj._ SUPERCIL'IARY, above the eyebrow.--_adv._
SUPERCIL'IOUSLY.--_n._ SUPERCIL'IOUSNESS. [L.
_superciliosus_--_supercilium_, an eyebrow--_super_, above, _cilium_,
eyelid.]

SUPERCRETACEOUS, s[=u]-p[.e]r-kr[=e]-t[=a]'shus, _adj._ (_geol._) lying
above the chalk.

SUPERDAINTY, s[=u]-p[.e]r-d[=a]n'ti, _adj._ (_Shak._) over-dainty.

SUPERDOMINANT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-dom'i-nant, _n._ (_mus._) the tone just above
the dominant, the sixth or submediant.

SUPEREMINENT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-em'i-nent, _adj._ eminent in a superior degree:
excellent beyond others.--_n._ SUPEREM'INENCE.--_adv._ SUPEREM'INENTLY.

SUPEREROGATION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-er-[=o]-g[=a]'shun, _n._ doing more than duty
requires or is necessary for salvation, hence anything superfluous or
uncalled for.--_adjs._ SUPEREROG'ATIVE, SUPEREROG'ATORY
(SUPERER'OGANT).--WORKS OF SUPEREROGATION (_R.C._), works not absolutely
required of each individual for salvation, but which may be done for the
sake of greater perfection--affording the church a store of surplus merit,
to eke out the deficient merit of others. [L. _super_, above, _erog[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to pay out.]

SUPERESSENTIAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-e-sen'shal, _adj._ transcending mere being and
essence.

SUPEREXALT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-egz-awlt', _v.t._ to exalt to a superior
degree.--_n._ SUPEREXALT[=A]'TION.

SUPEREXCELLENT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-ek'sel-lent, _adj._ excellent above others, or
in an uncommon degree.--_n._ SUPEREX'CELLENCE.

SUPERFAMILY, s[=u]'p[.e]r-fam-i-li, _n._ a group in classification between
a suborder and a family, a group of families.

SUPERFECUNDATION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-fek-un-d[=a]'shun, _n._ the impregnation of
two or more ova at the same stage of development by different acts of
coition.

SUPERFICIES, s[=u]-p[.e]r-fish'y[=e]z, _n._ the upper face or surface: the
outer face or part of a thing.--_adj._ SUPERFI'CIAL, pertaining to, or
being on, the surface: shallow: slight: containing only what is apparent
and simple: not learned.--_v.t._ SUPERFI'CIALISE, to treat
superficially.--_n._ SUPERFI'CIALIST, a person of merely superficial
knowledge.--_adv._ SUPERFI'CIALLY.--_ns._ SUPERFI'CIALNESS,
SUPERFICIAL'ITY; SUPERFI'CIARY, one possessing a right to what stands on
the surface of the lands of another.--_adj._ belonging to the surface:
situated on another's land. [L. _super_, above, _facies_, face.]

SUPERFINE, s[=u]'p[.e]r-f[=i]n, _adj._ fine above others: finer than
ordinary.--_n._ S[=U]'PERFINENESS.--_adj._ SUPERFIN'ICAL, very finical.

SUPERFLUOUS, s[=u]-p[.e]r'fl[=oo]-us, _adj._ more than enough: unnecessary
or useless.--_n._ SUPERFL[=U]'ITY, a superfluous quantity or more than
enough: state of being superfluous: superabundance.--_adv._
SUPER'FLUOUSLY.--_ns._ SUPER'FLUOUSNESS, superfluity; S[=U]'PERFLUX
(_Shak._), any superfluity. [L. _superfluus_--_super_, above, _flu[)e]re_,
to flow.]

SUPERFOETATION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-f[=e]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the circumstance of two
distinct conceptions occurring in the same woman at a considerable interval
so that two foetuses of different ages--the offspring possibly of different
fathers--may coexist in the uterus--also SUPERFET[=A]'TION.--_vs.i._
SUPERFOE'TATE, SUPERF[=E]'TATE, to conceive after a prior conception.

SUPERFRONTAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-fron'tal, _adj._ pertaining to the upper part of
the frontal lobe of the brain.--_n._ a covering for the top of the altar,
generally hanging down all round, and fringed.

SUPERFUNCTION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-fungk'shun, _n._ action of some organ in excess
of what is normal.--_adj._ SUPERFUNC'TIONAL.

SUPERFUSE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to pour over something else.

SUPERHEAT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-h[=e]t', _v.t._ to heat to excess.--_n._
SUPERHEAT'ER.

SUPERHUMAN, s[=u]-p[.e]r-h[=u]'man, _adj._ above what is human:
divine.--_n._ SUPERHUMAN'ITY.--_adv._ SUPERH[=U]'MANLY.

SUPERHUMERAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-h[=u]'me-ral, _n._ anything carried on the
shoulders: the amice: the pallium: a Jewish ephod.

SUPERIMPOSE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-im-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to impose or lay above:
(_geol._) to establish a structural system over, independently of
underlying structures.--_n._ SUPERIMPOSI'TION, the act of superimposing:
state of being superimposed.

SUPERINCUMBENT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-in-kum'bent, _adj._ lying above.--_ns._
SUPERINCUM'BENCE, SUPERINCUM'BENCY.

SUPERINDUCE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-in-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to bring in over and above
something else, to superadd.--_ns._ SUPERINDUC'TION, SUPERINDUCE'MENT.

SUPERINENARRABLE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-in-[=e]-nar'a-bl, _adj._ in the highest
degree incapable of being described.

SUPERINTEND, s[=u]-p[.e]r-in-tend', _v.t._ to have the oversight or charge
of: to control, manage.--_v.i._ to exercise supervision.--_ns._
SUPERINTEN'DENCE, SUPERINTEN'DENCY, oversight: direction:
management.--_adj._ SUPERINTEN'DENT, superintending.--_n._ one who
superintends: the head of a Sunday-school: in some Protestant churches a
clergyman having the oversight of the clergy of a district: overseer.--_n._
SUPERINTEN'DENTSHIP.

SUPERIOR, s[=u]-p[=e]'ri-or, _adj._ upper: higher in place, rank, or
excellence: surpassing others: beyond the influence of: of wider
application, generic: (_print._) set above the level of the line.--_n._ one
superior to others: the chief of a monastery, &c., and of certain churches
and colleges: (_Scots law_) one who has made an original grant of heritable
property to a tenant or _vassal_, on condition of a certain annual payment
(_feu-duty_) or of the performance of certain services.--_ns._
SUP[=E]'RIORESS, a female superior or chief in a convent, nunnery, &c.;
SUPERIOR'ITY, quality or state of being superior: pre-eminence: advantage:
(_Scots law_) the right which the superior enjoys in the land held by the
vassal.--_adv._ SUP[=E]'RIORLY, in a superior manner.--SUPERIOR PLANETS,
those more distant from the sun than the earth. [L., comp. of _superus_,
high--_super_, above.]

SUPERJACENT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-j[=a]'sent, _adj._ lying above or upon.

SUPERLATIVE, s[=u]-p[.e]r'la-tiv, _adj._ raised above others or to the
highest degree: superior to all others: most eminent: (_gram._) expressing
the highest degree of a quality.--_n._ (_gram._) the superlative or highest
degree of adjectives and adverbs: any word or phrase full of
exaggeration.--_adv._ SUPER'LATIVELY.--_n._ SUPER'LATIVENESS, state of
being superlative or in the highest degree. [L.
_superlativus_--_superlatus_, pa.p. of _superferre_--_super_, above,
_ferre_, to carry.]

SUPERLUNAR, s[=u]-p[.e]r-l[=u]'nar, _adj._ above the moon: not of this
world.--Also SUPERL[=U]'NARY.

SUPERMEDIAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-m[=e]'di-al, _adj._ being above the middle.

SUPERMUNDANE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ above the world.

SUPERNACULAR, s[=u]-p[.e]r-nak'[=u]-lar, _adj._ very choice, of
liquor.--_n._ SUPERNAC'[=U]LUM, wine fit to be drunk to the last drop with
no heeltaps, anything very choice.--_adv._ to the last drop.

SUPERNAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r'nal, _adj._ that is above or in a higher place or
region: relating to things above: celestial. [L. _supernus_--_super_,
above.]

SUPERNATANT, s[=u]-p[.e]r-n[=a]'tant, _adj._ floating on the surface.--_n._
SUPERNAT[=A]'TION. [L. _supernat[=a]re_--_super_, above, _nat[=a]re_, to
swim.]

SUPERNATIONAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-nash'un-al, _adj._ transcending the national,
and belonging to mankind.--_n._ SUPERNA'TIONALISM.

SUPERNATURAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-nat'[=u]-ral, _adj._ above or beyond the powers
of nature: not according to the usual course of nature: miraculous:
spiritual.--_v.t._ SUPERNAT'URALISE, to bring into the supernatural
sphere.--_ns._ SUPERNAT'URALISM, the belief in the influence of the
supernatural in the world; SUPERNAT'URALIST, a believer in the
supernatural.--_adj._ of or pertaining to the supernatural.--_adj._
SUPERNATURALIST'IC.--_adv._ SUPERNAT'URALLY.--_n._ SUPERNAT'URALNESS.

SUPERNUMERARY, s[=u]-p[.e]r-n[=u]m'[.e]r-ar-i, _adj._ over and above the
number stated, or which is usual or necessary.--_n._ a person or thing
beyond the usual, necessary, or stated number: one who appears on the stage
without a speaking part. [L. _supernumerarius_--_super_, over, _numerus_, a
number.]

SUPERNUTRITION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-n[=u]-trish'un, _n._ excessive nutrition.

SUPEROCCIPITAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-ok-sip'e-tal, _adj._ pertaining to the upper
part of the occipital lobe of the brain.

SUPEROCTAVE, s[=u]'p[.e]r-ok-t[=a]v, _n._ (_mus._) a coupler in the organ
by means of which is sounded an octave higher than the one struck: an
organ-stop two octaves above the principal.

SUPEROLATERAL, s[=u]-pe-r[=o]-lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ situated above and at
the side.

SUPERORDER, s[=u]-p[.e]r-or'd[.e]r, _n._ a group in the classifications of
natural history above the order but below the class.--_adj._ SUPEROR'DINAL.

SUPERORDINARY, s[=u]-p[.e]r-or'di-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ above the ordinary.

SUPERORDINATION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-or-di-n[=a]'shun, _n._ the ordination of a
successor by an ecclesiastic: (_logic_) the relation of a universal
proposition to a particular proposition in the same terms.--_adj._
SUPEROR'DINATE.

SUPERORGANIC, s[=u]-p[.e]r-or-gan'ik, _adj._ not dependent on organisation,
psychical, spiritual: social.

SUPERPARASITISM, s[=u]-p[.e]r-par'a-s[=i]t-izm, _n._ the infestation of
parasites by other parasites.--_n._ S[=U]'PERPARASITE, the parasite of a
parasite.--_adj._ SUPERPARASIT'IC.

SUPERPHOSPHATE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-fos'f[=a]t, _n._ a phosphate containing the
greatest amount of phosphoric acid that can combine with the base.

SUPERPHYSICAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-fiz'i-kal, _adj._ superorganic, psychical.

SUPERPOSE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to place over or upon.--_adjs._
SUPERP[=O]'SABLE; SUPERPOSED'.--_n._ SUPERPOSI'TION, act of superposing:
state of being superposed: that which is above anything.

SUPERPRAISE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-pr[=a]z', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to praise excessively.

SUPER-ROYAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-roi'al, _adj._ larger than royal, denoting a size
of paper, 19¼ × 27½ in. for writing and drawing paper, 20½ × 27½ in. for
printing-paper.

SUPERSACRAL, s[=u]-p[.e]r-s[=a]'kral, _adj._ situated on or over the
sacrum.

SUPERSALT, s[=u]'p[.e]r-sawlt, _n._ a salt having a greater number of
equivalents of acid than base.

SUPERSATURATE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-sat'[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to saturate beyond the
normal point.--_n._ SUPERSATUR[=A]'TION.

SUPERSCRIBE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to write or engrave over, on
the outside or top: to write the name on the outside or cover of.--_ns._
S[=U]'PERSCRIPT, SUPERSCRIP'TION, act of superscribing: that which is
written or engraved above or on the outside. [L. _super_, above,
_scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_, to write.]

SUPERSEDE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-s[=e]d', _v.t._ to take the place of another by
reason of superior right, power, &c.: to make useless by superior power: to
come in the room of, to replace: to displace, set aside, render
unnecessary.--_ns._ SUPERS[=E]'DEAS, a writ to stay proceedings, or to
suspend the powers of an officer in certain cases; SUPERS[=E]'DENCE,
SUPERS[=E]'DURE, SUPERSES'SION, a setting aside, the act of superseding;
SUPERSED[=E]'RE (_Scots law_), a private agreement among creditors, under a
trust-deed, to supersede or sist diligence for a certain period: an order
of court granting protection to a debtor. [L. _super_, above, _sed[=e]re_,
_sessum_, to sit.]

SUPERSENSIBLE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-sen'si-bl, _adj._ above the range of the
senses, spiritual.--_adv._ SUPERSEN'SIBLY.--_adj._ SUPERSEN'SITIVE,
excessively sensitive.--_n._ SUPERSEN'SITIVENESS.--_adjs._ SUPERSEN'SORY,
SUPERSEN'SUAL, beyond the senses.

SUPERSERVICEABLE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-s[.e]rv'is-a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) doing more
than required, over-officious.

SUPERSOLAR, s[=u]-p[.e]r-s[=o]'lar, _adj._ above the sun.

SUPERSTITION, s[=u]-p[.e]r-stish'un, _n._ excessive reverence or fear,
based on ignorance: excessive exactness in religious opinions or practice:
false worship or religion: an ignorant and irrational belief in
supernatural agency, omens, divination, sorcery, &c.: belief in what is
absurd, without evidence: rites or practices proceeding from superstitious
belief or fear: over-nicety, exactness too scrupulous or morbid.--_adj._
SUPERSTI'TIOUS, pertaining to, or proceeding from, superstition:
over-exact.--_adv._ SUPERSTI'TIOUSLY.--_n._ SUPERSTI'TIOUSNESS. [L.
_superstitio_, excessive religious belief--_super_, over, above, _statum_,
_sist[)e]re_--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

SUPERSTRATUM, s[=u]-p[.e]r-str[=a]'tum, _n._ a stratum or layer situated
above another.

SUPERSTRUCTURE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-strukt'[=u]r, _n._ a structure above or on
something else: anything erected on a foundation--also
SUPERSTRUC'TION.--_adjs._ SUPERSTRUCT'IVE, SUPERSTRUCT'[=U]RAL.

SUPERSUBTLE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-sut'l, _adj._ over-subtle.--_adj._
SUPERSUBT'ILISED, subtilised or refined to excess.--_n._ SUPERSUBT'LETY,
excessive subtlety, over-nicety.

SUPERTONIC, s[=u]-p[.e]r-ton'ik, _n._ (_mus._) the tone in a scale next
above the tonic or keynote.

SUPERVENE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-v[=e]n', _v.i._ to come in addition, or closely
after: to occur, take place.--_adj._ SUPERV[=E]'NIENT, coming above, as
something additional.--_n._ SUPERVEN'TION, act of supervening or taking
place. [L. _super_, above, _ven[=i]re_, _ventum_, come.]

SUPERVISE, s[=u]-p[.e]r-v[=i]z', _v.i._ to oversee: to superintend.--_ns._
SUPERV[=I]'SAL, SUPERVI'SION, act of supervising: inspection: control;
SUPERV[=I]'SOR, one who supervises: an overseer: an inspector: (_Shak._) a
spectator.--_adjs._ SUPERV[=I]'SORY, pertaining to, or having, supervision;
SUPERVIS'[=U]AL, beyond the ordinary visual powers. [L. _super_, over,
_vid[=e]re_, _visum_, to see.]

SUPERVOLUTE, s[=u]'p[.e]r-vol-[=u]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having a plaited or
convolute arrangement in the bud.

SUPINE, s[=u]-p[=i]n', _adj._ lying on the back: leaning backward,
inclined, sloping: negligent: indolent.--_v.t._ S[=U]'PIN[=A]TE, to bring
the palm upward.--_ns._ S[=U]PIN[=A]'TION, the state of being supine: the
act of lying or being laid with the face upward: the act of turning the
palm of the hand upward: the hand so turned; S[=U]PIN[=A]'TOR, that which
produces supination: a muscle that turns the palm upward; S[=U]'PINE, one
of two parts of the Latin verb, really verbal nouns, ending in _tum_ and
_tu_, called the first and second supine respectively.--_adv._
S[=U]PINE'LY.--_n._ S[=U]PINE'NESS. [L. _supinus_--_sub_, under.]

SUPPEDANEUM, sup-[=e]-d[=a]'n[=e]-um, _n._ a foot-rest on a cross or
crucifix.--_adj._ SUPPED[=A]'NEOUS, being under the feet. [L. _sub_, under,
_pes_, _pedis_, the foot.]

SUPPEDITATE, sup-ed'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to supply, furnish.--_n._
SUPPEDIT[=A]'TION, supply. [L. _suppedit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
supply--_suppet[)e]re_, to be in store--_sub_, under, _pet[)e]re_, to
seek.]

SUPPER, sup'[.e]r, _n._ a meal taken at the close of the day.--_adj._
SUPP'ERLESS, without supper.--_ns._ SUPP'ING, the act of one who sups: that
which is supped; LORD'S'-SUPP'ER (see LORD). [O. Fr. _soper_ (Fr.
_souper_)--from Low Ger. _supen_, to sup.]

SUPPLANT, sup-plant', _v.t._ to displace by stratagem: to take the place
of: to undermine.--_ns._ SUPPLANT[=A]'TION; SUPPLANT'ER. [L.
_supplant[=a]re_, to trip up one's heels--_sub_, under, _planta_, the sole
of the foot.]

SUPPLE, sup'l, _adj._ pliant: lithe: yielding to the humour of others:
fawning.--_v.t._ to make supple: to make soft or compliant.--_v.i._ to
become supple.--_n._ SUPP'LENESS.--_adj._ SUPP'LE-SIN'EWED, having supple
sinews: lithe.--SUPPLE JACK (_U.S._), one of various climbing-shrubs with
strong stems: a pliant cane. [Fr. _souple_--L. _supplex_, bending the
knees--_sub_, under, plic[=a]re, to fold.]

SUPPLEMENT, sup'le-ment, _n._ that which supplies or fills up: any addition
by which defects are supplied: the quantity by which an angle or an arc
falls short of 180° or a semicircle.--_v.t._ SUPPLEMENT', to supply or fill
up: to add to.--_adjs._ SUPPLEMEN'TAL, SUPPLEMENT'ARY, added to supply what
is wanting: additional.--_adv._ SUPPLEMENT'ARILY.--_ns._
SUPPLEMENT[=A]'TION; SUPPLEMENT'ER.--_v.t._ SUPPL[=E]TE', to
supplement.--_adjs._ SUPP'L[=E]TIVE, SUPP'L[=E]TORY, supplemental.--_n._ a
supplement. [L. _supplementum_--_suppl[=e]re_, to fill up.]

SUPPLIANT, sup'li-ant, _adj._ supplicating: asking earnestly:
entreating.--_n._ a humble petitioner.--_adv._ SUPP'LIANTLY.--_n._
SUPP'LIANTNESS. [Fr. _suppliant_, pr.p. of supplier--L. _supplic[=a]re_.]

SUPPLICANT, sup'li-kant, _adj._ supplicating: asking submissively.--_n._
one who supplicates or entreats earnestly.--_adv._ SUPP'LICANTLY. [L.
_supplicans_, _pr.p._ of supplic[=a]re.]

SUPPLICATE, sup'li-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to entreat earnestly: to address in
prayer.--_n._ SUPP'LICAT, in the English universities, a petition.--_adv._
SUPP'LIC[=A]TINGLY.--_n._ SUPPLIC[=A]'TION, act of supplicating: in ancient
Rome, a solemn service or day decreed for giving formal thanks to the gods
for victory, &c.: earnest prayer or entreaty, especially, in liturgies, a
litany petition for some special blessing.--_adj._ SUPP'LIC[=A]TORY,
containing supplication or entreaty: humble.--_n._ SUPPLIC[=A]'VIT,
formerly a writ issued by the King's Bench or Chancery for taking the
surety of the peace against a person. [L. _supplic[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_supplex_--_sub_, under, _plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

SUPPLY, sup-pl[=i]', _v.t._ to fill up, esp. a deficiency: to add what is
wanted: to furnish: to fill a vacant place: to serve instead of:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ supplied'. [Fr.,--L. _suppl[=e]re_--_sub_, up, _pl[=e]re_, to
fill.]

SUPPLY, sup-pl[=i]', _n._ act of supplying: that which is supplied or which
supplies a want: amount of food or money provided (used generally in
_pl._): a grant of money provided by a legislature for the expenses of
government: a person who takes another's duty temporarily, a substitute,
esp. a clergyman.--_ns._ SUPPL[=I]'AL, the act of supplying, the thing
supplied; SUP'PLIANCE (_Shak._), that which is supplied,
gratification.--_adj._ SUPPL[=I]'ANT (_Shak._), supplying,
auxiliary.--_adv._ SUP'PLIANTLY.--_ns._ SUPPL[=I]'ER, one who supplies;
SUPPLY'MENT (_Shak._), a supply.--COMMISSIONER OF SUPPLY, one of the body
forming the chief county authority in Scotland for administrative and
rating purposes, down to 1889.

SUPPORT, sup-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to bear up: to endure or sustain: to keep up
as a part or character: to make good: to defend: to represent in acting: to
supply with means of living: to uphold by countenance, patronise: to follow
on the same side as a speaker.--_n._ act of supporting or upholding: that
which supports, sustains, or maintains: maintenance: an actor playing a
subordinate part with a star: an accompaniment in music.--_adj._
SUPPORT'ABLE, capable of being supported: endurable: capable of being
maintained.--_n._ SUPPORT'ABLENESS.--_adv._ SUPPORT'ABLY.--_ns._
SUPPORT'ANCE (_Shak._), support; SUPPORT'ER, one who, or that which,
supports: an adherent: a defender: (_her._) a figure on each side of the
escutcheon.--_adjs._ SUPPORT'ING, SUPPORT'IVE.--_n.fem._ SUPPORT'RESS. [L.
_support[=a]re_--_sub_, up, _port[=a]re_, to bear.]

SUPPOSE, sup-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to lay down, assume, or state as true: to
imagine.--_adj._ SUPP[=O]'SABLE, that may be supposed.--_n._ SUPP[=O]'SAL
(_Shak._), supposition.--_adj._ SUPP[=O]SED' (_Shak._),
counterfeit.--_adv._ SUPP[=O]'SEDLY, according to supposition.--_ns._
SUPP[=O]'SER; SUPPOSI'TION, act of supposing: that which is supposed:
assumption: presumption, opinion.--_adj._ SUPPOSI'TIONAL, implying
supposition.--_adv._ SUPPOSI'TIONALLY.--_adjs._ SUPPOSI'TIONARY,
hypothetical; SUPPOS'ITIVE, implying, expressing, or including a
supposition.--_adv._ SUPPOS'ITIVELY.--_ns._ SUPPOS'ITORY (_med._), a pill
of any solid medicine in the form of a cone or cylinder intended for
introduction into the rectum or other canal; SUPPOS'ITUM, that which is
supposed; SUPP[=O]'S[=U]RE, supposition. [Fr. _supposer_--L.
_suppon[)e]re_, _-positum_--_sub_, under, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

SUPPOSITITIOUS, sup-poz-i-tish'us, _adj._ put by trick in the place of
another: spurious: imaginary, hypothetical, supposed.--_adv._
SUPPOSITI'TIOUSLY, in a supposititious manner.--_n._ SUPPOSITI'TIOUSNESS,
the state of being supposititious. [L. _supposititius_--_suppon[)e]re_, to
put in the place of another--_sub_, under, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

SUPPRESS, sup-pres', _v.t._ to crush, put down: to keep in: to retain or
conceal: to stop, restrain.--_adv._ SUPPRESS'EDLY.--_ns._ SUPPRESS'ER,
SUPPRESS'OR.--_adj._ SUPPRESS'IBLE.--_ns._ SUPPRES'SION, act of
suppressing: stoppage: concealment; SUPPRES'SIONIST, one who supports
suppression.--_adj._ SUPPRESS'IVE, tending to suppress: subduing. [L.
_supprim[)e]re_, _suppressum_--_sub_, under, _prem[)e]re_, to press.]

SUPPURATE, sup'[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.i._ to gather pus or matter.--_n._
SUPPUR[=A]'TION, a morbid process which gives rise to the formation of pus,
one of the commonest products of inflammation.--_adj._ SUPP'UR[=A]TIVE,
tending to suppurate: promoting suppuration.--_n._ a medicine which
promotes suppuration. [L. _sub_, under, _pus_, _pur-is_, pus.]

SUPRACILIARY, s[=u]-pra-sil'i-ar-i, _adj._ above the eyebrow.--Also
SUPERCIL'IARY.

SUPRACLAVICULAR, s[=u]-pra-kla-vik'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated above the
clavicle or collar-bone.

SUPRACOSTAL, s[=u]-pra-kost'al, _adj._ above or upon the ribs.

SUPRACRETACEOUS, s[=u]-pra-kr[=e]-t[=a]'shus, _adj._ (_geol._) denoting
strata lying above the chalk.

SUPRALAPSARIAN, s[=u]-pra-laps-[=a]'ri-an, _n._ one of a class of
Calvinists who make the decree of election and predestination to precede
the Creation and the Fall--opp. to _Sublapsarian_.--_adj._ pertaining to
the Supralapsarians or to their opinions.--_n._ SUPRALAPS[=A]'RIANISM. [L.
_supra_, above, beyond, _labi_, _lapsus_, to fall.]

SUPRALATERAL, s[=u]-pra-lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ placed on the upper part of
the side.

SUPRALUNAR, s[=u]-pra-l[=u]'nar, _adj._ beyond the moon: very lofty.

SUPRAMAXILLARY, s[=u]-pra-mak'si-l[=a]-ri, _adj._ pertaining to the upper
jaw.--_n._ the superior maxillary or upper jaw-bone.

SUPRAMUNDANE, s[=u]-pra-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ above the world.

SUPRA-ORBITAL, s[=u]-pra-or'bi-tal, _adj._ being above the orbit of the
eye.

SUPRAPOSITION, s[=u]-pra-p[=o]-zish'un, _n._ the placing of one thing above
another.

SUPRAPROTEST, s[=u]-pra-pr[=o]'test, _n._ acceptance or payment of a bill
of exchange, by one not a party to it, after protest for non-acceptance or
non-payment.

SUPRARENAL, s[=u]-pra-r[=e]'nal, _adj._ situated above the kidneys.

SUPRASCAPULAR, s[=u]-pra-skap'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated above the scapula
or shoulder-blade.--Also S[=U]PRASCAP'ULARY.

SUPRASENSIBLE, s[=u]-pra-sen'si-bl, _adj._ above the reach of the senses.

SUPRASPINAL, s[=u]-pra-sp[=i]'nal, _adj._ situated above the spine.--_adj._
SUPRASP[=I]'NOUS, above a spine or spinous process.

SUPREME, s[=u]-pr[=e]m', _adj._ highest: greatest: most excellent.--_n._
the highest point: the chief, the superior.--_n._ SUPREM'ACY, state of
being supreme; highest authority or power.--_adv._ SUPREME'LY.--_ns._
SUPREME'NESS, SUPREM'ITY.--OATH OF SUPREMACY, an oath denying the supremacy
of the pope; THE SUPREME BEING, God. [L. _supremus_, superl. of _superus_,
high--_super_, above.]

SURA, s[=oo]'ra, _n._ a chapter of the Koran.--Also SU'RAH. [Ar. _s[=u]ra_,
a step.]

SURA, s[=oo]'ra, _n._ the sap of the palmyra and coco-palm, &c. [Hind.
_sur[=a]_.]

SURADDITION, sur-a-dish'un, _n._ (_Shak._) something added, as to a name.

SURAH, s[=u]'ra, _n._ a soft twilled silk fabric.--Also SURAH SILK.

SURAL, s[=u]'ral, _adj._ pertaining to the calf of the leg. [L. _sura_, the
calf.]

SURANCE, sh[=oo]r'ans, _n._ (_Shak._) assurance.

SURAT, s[=u]-rat', _n._ coarse uncoloured cotton made at _Surat_, 160 miles
north of Bombay.

SURBASE, sur'b[=a]s, _n._ a cornice or series of mouldings above the base
of a pedestal.--_adj._ SURBASED'.--_n._ SURBASE'MENT.

SURBATE, sur-b[=a]t', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to bruise, as the feet by
travel.--Also SURBET'. [Prob. Fr. _solbatu_, _solbature_--_sole_, the sole,
_battu_, pa.p. of _battre_, to beat.]

SURBED, sur-bed', _v.t._ to set edgewise, as a stone with reference to the
grain.

SURCEASE, sur-s[=e]s', _v.i._ to cease.--_v.t._ to cause to cease.--_n._
cessation. [O. Fr. _sursis_, pa.p. of _surseoir_--L. _super-sed[=e]re_, to
refrain from.]

SURCHARGE, sur-chärj', _v.t._ to overcharge or overload.--_n._ an excessive
load: an overcharge: an extra charge: a painting in lighter enamel over a
darker which serves as the ground.--_adj._ SURCHARGED', overloaded.--_n._
SURCHARGE'MENT.

SURCINGLE, sur'sing-gl, _n._ a girth or strap for holding a saddle on an
animal's back: the girdle of a cassock.--_v.t._ to surround with such. [L.
_super_, above, _cingulum_, a belt.]

[Illustration]

SURCOAT, sur'k[=o]t, _n._ an overcoat, generally applied to the long
flowing drapery of knights anterior to the introduction of plate-armour: a
short robe worn by ladies over the tunic at the close of the 11th century.
[O. Fr. _surcote_, _surcot_--_sur_, over, _cote_, a garment.]

SURCULUS, sur'k[=u]-lus, _n._ a shoot from a root-stock, a sucker.--_adjs._
SURCULIG'EROUS, bearing such; SUR'CULOSE, producing such. [L.]

SURD, surd, _adj._ (_alg._) involving surds: produced by the action of the
speech organs on the breath (not the voice), as the 'hard' sounds _k_, _t_,
_p_, _f_, &c.: deaf: (_obs._) unheard, senseless.--_n._ (_alg._) a quantity
inexpressible by rational numbers, or which has no root.--_ns._
SURDIM[=U]'TISM, the condition of being deaf and dumb; SURD'ITY, want of
sonant quality. [L. _surdus_, deaf.]

SURE, sh[=oo]r, _adj._ secure: fit to be depended on; certain: strong:
confident beyond doubt.--_advs._ SURE, SURELY, firmly, safely: certainly,
assuredly.--_adj._ SURE'FOOTED, walking firmly or securely: not liable to
stumble.--_adv._ SUREFOOT'EDLY.--_ns._ SUREFOOT'EDNESS; SURE'NESS.--SURE
ENOUGH, certainly.--BE SURE, be certain, see to it; HAVE A SURE THING
(_slang_), to have a certainty; MAKE SURE, to make certain; TO BE SURE,
without doubt. [O. Fr, _seür_ (Fr. _sûr_)--L. _securus_--_se-_, apart from,
_cura_, care.]

SURETY, sh[=oo]r'ti, _n._ certainty: he who, or that which, makes sure:
security against loss: one who becomes bound for another, a sponsor.--_ns._
SURE'TYSHIP, SURE'TISHIP, state of being surety: obligation of one person
to answer for another. [Doublet _security_.]

SURF, surf, _n._ the foam made by the dashing of waves.--_ns._ SURF'-BIRD,
a plover-like bird found on the Pacific coasts of North and South America,
akin to sandpipers and turnstones, and sometimes called _Boreal sandpiper_
and _Plover-billed turnstone_; SURF'-DUCK, the scoter (q.v.); SURF'MAN, one
skilful in handling boats in surf.--_adj._ SURF'Y. [Skeat explains the _r_
as intrusive, and suggests that _suffe_ is the same as '_sough_ of the
sea,' M. E. _swough_, _swoughen_, _swowen_--A.S. _swógan_, to make a
rushing sound.]

SURFACE, sur'f[=a]s, _n._ the exterior part of anything.--_adj._ SUR'FACED,
having a surface.--_ns._ SUR'FACEMAN, a miner employed in open-air working:
a workman employed in keeping a railway-bed in repair; SUR'FACE-PRINT'ING,
printing from a relief surface, as cotton-cloth; SUR'FACER, one who, or
that which, smooths or levels a surface; SUR'FACE-TEN'SION, in liquids,
that property in virtue of which a liquid surface behaves as if it were a
stretched elastic membrane--say a sheet of india-rubber; SUR'FACE-WA'TER,
drainage-water; SUR'FACING, the act of giving a certain surface to
anything. [Fr., from _sur_--L. _super_, and _face_--L. _facies_.]

SURFEIT, sur'fit, _v.t._ to fill to satiety and disgust.--_n._ excess in
eating and drinking: sickness or satiety caused by overfullness.--_ns._
SUR'FEITER (_Shak._), one who surfeits, a glutton; SUR'FEITING, eating
overmuch: gluttony. [O. Fr. _surfait_, excess, _sorfaire_, to augment--L.
_super_, above, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

SURFICIAL, sur-fish'al, _adj._ formed on the surface, as opposed to
_Subterranean_.

SURFRAPPÉ, sur-frap'[=a], _adj._ restruck or restamped--of a coin. [Fr.]

SURFUSION, sur-f[=u]'shun, _n._ the condition of being liquid below
fusing-point.

SURGE, surj, _n._ the rising or swelling of a large wave.--_v.i._ to rise
high: to swell.--_adj._ SUR'GY, full of surges or waves: billowy. [L.
_surg[)e]re_, to rise.]

SURGEON, sur'jun, _n._ one who treats injuries or diseases by manual
operations.--_ns._ SUR'GEONCY, SUR'GEONSHIP, the office or employment of a
surgeon in the army or navy; SUR'GERY, act and art of treating lesions or
malformations of the human body by manual operations, mediate and
immediate: a place for surgical operations.--_adj._ SUR'GICAL, pertaining
to surgeons, or to surgery: done by surgery.--_adv._ SUR'GICALLY. [A
doublet of _chirurgeon_ (q.v.).]

SURICATE, s[=u]'ri-k[=a]t, _n._ a long-legged South African carnivore,
allied to the civet, genette, and ichneumon.

SURINAM-TOAD, s[=u]-ri-nam'-t[=o]d, _n._ a South American toad-like
amphibian.

SURLOIN, the preferable form of _sirloin_ (q.v.).

SURLY, sur'li, _adj._ morose: uncivil: tempestuous.--_adv._ SUR'LILY.--_n._
SUR'LINESS. [For _sir-ly_, for _sir-like_, arrogant.]

SURMASTER, sur'mas-t[.e]r, _n._ a master in a school next in rank to a
headmaster.

SURMISE, sur-m[=i]z', _n._ suspicion: conjecture.--_v.t._ to imagine: to
suspect.--_adjs._ SURM[=I]'SABLE, SURM[=I]'SANT.--_n._ SURM[=I]'SER. [O.
Fr.,--_surmettre_, to accuse--L. _super_, upon, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

SURMOUNT, sur-mownt', _v.t._ to mount above: to surpass: to overcome, get
the better of.--_adj._ SURMOUNT'ABLE, that may be surmounted.--_n._
SURMOUNT'ABLENESS.--_adj._ SURMOUNT'ED, surpassed: overcome: (_archit._)
denoting an arch or dome rising higher than a semicircle: (_her._) denoting
a figure when another is laid over it.--_n._ SURMOUNT'ER. [Fr.--_sur_ (L.
_super_), above, _monter_, to mount.]

SURMULLET, sur-mul'et, _n._ a mulloid food-fish of the genus _Mullus_, with
two long barbels on the throat.

SURNAME, sur'n[=a]m, _n._ a name over and above the Christian name: the
family name.--_v.t._ to call by a surname.--_adj._ SURNOM'INAL. [Formed
from Fr. _sur_--L. _super_, over and above, and Eng. _name_, on the analogy
of Fr. _sur-nom_.]

SURPASS, sur-pas', _v.t._ to pass beyond: to exceed: to excel: to go past
in space.--_adj._ SURPASS'ABLE, that may be surpassed.--_p.adj._
SURPASS'ING, passing beyond others: excellent in a high degree.--_adv._
SURPASS'INGLY.--_n._ SURPASS'INGNESS. [Fr. _surpasser_, _sur_--L. _super_,
beyond, _passer_, to pass.]

SURPLICE, sur'plis, _n._ a white linen garment worn over the cassock by
clerks of all degrees, most commonly used for the service of the choir, and
also employed, along with the stole, by priests in the administration of
the sacraments and in preaching.--_adj._ SUR'PLICED, wearing a surplice.
[Fr. _surplis_--Low L. _superpellicium_, an over-garment.]

SURPLUS, sur'plus, _n._ the overplus: excess above what is required.--_n._
SUR'PLUSAGE, overplus. [Fr., from _sur_--L. _super_, over, _plus_, more.]

SURPRISE, sur-pr[=i]z', _n._ act of taking unawares: the emotion caused by
anything sudden: amazement.--_v.t._ to come upon suddenly or unawares: to
lead or bring unawares, to betray (with _into_): to strike with wonder or
astonishment: to confuse.--_n._ SURPR[=I]S'AL, act of surprising.--_adv._
SURPR[=I]S'EDLY.--_adj._ SURPR[=I]S'ING, exciting surprise: wonderful:
unexpected.--_adv._ SURPR[=I]S'INGLY.--_n._ SURPR[=I]S'INGNESS.
[Fr.,--surpris, pa.p. of _surprendre_--L. _super_, over, _prehend[)e]re_,
to catch.]

SURQUEDRY, sur'kwe-dri, _n._ (_Spens._) pride, arrogance--also
SUR'QUIDRY.--_adj._ SUR'QUEDOUS.

SURREBOUND, sur-e-bownd', _v.i._ to rebound again and again: to give back
echoes.

SURREBUT, sur-e-but', _v.i._ to reply to a defendant's rebutter.--_ns._
SURREBUT'TAL, a plaintiff's evidence or presentation of evidence, in
response to a defendant's rebuttal; SURREBUT'TER, the plaintiffs reply, in
common law pleading, to a defendant's rebutter; SURREJOIN'DER, the answer
of a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.

SURREINED, sur'r[=a]nd, _adj._ (_Shak._) injured by driving, overworked.

SURRENAL, sur-r[=e]'nal, _adj._ situated above the kidneys.

SURRENDER, sur-ren'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to deliver over: to resign.--_v.i._ to
yield up one's self to another.--_n._ act of yielding, or giving up to
another.--_ns._ SURRENDEREE', one to whom a legal surrender is made;
SURREN'DERER, one who surrenders; SURREN'DEROR (_law_), one who makes a
surrender; SURREN'DRY, SURREN'DERY (_obs._), a surrender. [O. Fr.
_surrendre_, from _sur_, over--L. _super_, over, _rendre_--L. _redd[)e]re_,
to render.]

SURREPTITIOUS, sur-rep-tish'us, _adj._ done by stealth or fraud.--_adv._
SURREPTI'TIOUSLY. [L., from _surrip[)e]re_, _surreptum_--_sub_, under,
_rap[)e]re_, to seize.]

SURREY, sur'[=a], _n._ (_U.S._) a light four-wheeled vehicle for four
persons, usually with two seats in a box mounted on side-bars.

SURROGATE, sur'r[=o]-g[=a]t, _n._ a substitute: the deputy of an
ecclesiastical judge.--_ns._ SUR'ROG[=A]TESHIP; SURROG[=A]'TION,
subrogation; SURROG[=A]'TUM, that which comes in place of something else.
[L. _surrog[=a]re_, _[=a]tum_--_sub_, in the place of, _rog[=a]re_, to
ask.]

SURROUND, sur-rownd', _v.t._ to go round about; to encompass, environ: to
cut off from communication or retreat.--_n._ SURROUND'ING, an encompassing:
(_pl._) things which surround, external circumstances. [O. Fr.
_suronder_--L. _superund[=a]re_, to overflow, often confused with _round_.]

SURSIZE, sur-s[=i]z', _n._ a penalty in feudal times for non-payment of
castle-guard rent on the appointed day.

SURTAX, sur'taks, _n._ an additional tax on certain articles.--_v.t._ to
lay such a tax upon.

SURTOUT, sur-t[=oo]', -t[=oo]t', _n._ a close-bodied frock-coat: (_fort._)
a raised portion of the parapet of a work at the angles, to protect from
enfilade fire. [Fr.,--Low L. _super-totus_, an outer garment.]

SURVEILLANCE, sur-vel'yans, _n._ a being vigilant or watchful:
inspection.--_adj._ SURVEILL'ANT. [Fr.,--_surveiller_--_sur_, over--L.
_super_, _veiller_, to watch--L. _vigil[=a]re_.]

SURVEY, sur-v[=a]', _v.t._ to see or look over: to inspect: to superintend:
to examine: to measure and estimate, as land--(_obs._) SURVIEW'.--_ns._
SUR'VEY, oversight: view: examination: the measuring of land, or of a
country: general view: a description of the condition, use, &c. of property
to be insured: an auction at which a farm is let for three lives: (_U.S._)
a district for the collection of customs under a particular officer;
SURVEY'ING, the art of ascertaining the boundaries and superficial extent
of any portion of the earth's surface; SURVEY'OR, an overseer: a measurer
of land; SURVEY'ORSHIP. [O. Fr. _surveoir_--L. _super_, over, _vid[=e]re_,
to see.]

SURVIVE, sur-v[=i]v', _v.t._ to live beyond: to outlive.--_v.i._ to remain
alive.--_n._ SURV[=I]'VAL, a surviving or living after: any custom or
belief surviving in folklore from a more or less savage earlier state of
society, long after the philosophy or rationale of it is
forgotten.--_p.adj._ SURV[=I]'VING, continuing alive: outliving.--_ns._
SURV[=I]'VOR, one who survives or lives after another;
SURV[=I]'VORSHIP.--SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST, the preservation of favourable
variations, attended with the destruction of injurious ones, such being the
result of Natural Selection (see Natural). [Fr.,--L. _super_, beyond,
_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

SURYA, s[=oo]r'ya, _n._ the sun-god in Hindu mythology. [Sans. _s[=u]rya_,
the sun.]

SUSCEPTIBLE, sus-sep'ti-bl, _adj._ capable of receiving anything:
impressible: disposed to admit.--_ns._ SUSCEPTIBIL'ITY, SUSCEP'TIBLENESS,
quality of being susceptible: capability: sensibility.--_adv._
SUSCEP'TIBLY.--_adj._ SUSCEP'TIVE, capable of receiving or admitting:
readily admitting.--_ns._ SUSCEP'TIVENESS; SUSCEPTIV'ITY; SUSCEP'TOR;
SUSCIP'IENCY.--_adj._ SUSCIP'IENT. [Fr.,--L. _suscip[)e]re_, _susceptum_,
to take up--_sub_, up, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

SUSCITATE, sus'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to excite, rouse.--_n._ SUSCIT[=A]'TION.
[L. _suscit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_sub_, under, _cit[=a]re_, to arouse.]

SUSPECT, sus-pekt', _v.t._ to mistrust: to imagine to be guilty: to doubt:
to have a slight opinion that something exists, but without sufficient
evidence, to conjecture.--_v.i._ to imagine guilt, to be suspicious.--_n._
a person suspected.--_adv._ SUSPEC'TEDLY.--_n._ SUSPEC'TEDNESS.--_adj._
SUSPECT'LESS, not suspected. [L. _suspic[)e]re_, _suspectum_, to look at
secretly--_sub_, up, _spec[)e]re_, to look at.]

SUSPEND, sus-pend', _v.t._ to hang one thing beneath another: to make to
depend on: to make to stop for a time: to delay: to debar from any
privilege, office, emolument, &c. for a time.--_ns._
SUSPEN'DED-ANIM[=A]'TION, the temporary cessation of the outward signs and
of some of the functions of life--due to asphyxia, drowning, strangulation;
SUSPEN'DER, one who, or that which, suspends, one of a pair of straps
crossing the shoulders to support the trousers; SUSPENSE', state of being
suspended: act of withholding the judgment: uncertainty: indecision: stop
betwixt two opposites; SUSPENSIBIL'ITY, susceptibility of being
suspended.--_adj._ SUSPEN'SIBLE, capable of being suspended.--_ns._
SUSPEN'SION, act of suspending: interruption: delay: temporary privation of
office or privilege: a conditional withholding; SUSPEN'SION-BRIDGE, a
bridge in which the roadway is supported by chains, which pass over
elevated piers, and are secured below at each end.--_adj._
SUSPEN'SIVE.--_adv._ SUSPEN'SIVELY.--_n._ SUSPEN'SOR, a suspensory
bandage.--_adj._ SUSPENS[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ SUSPENS[=O]'RIUM, that which holds
up a part, esp. the arrangement joining the lower jaw to the cranium in
vertebrates below mammals.--_adj._ SUSPEN'SORY, that suspends:
doubtful.--_n._ that which suspends: a bandage: having the effect of
delaying or staying.--SUSPEND PAYMENT, to publicly stop paying debts from
insolvency. [L. _suspend[)e]re_--_sub_, beneath, _pend[=e]re_, _pensum_, to
hang.]

SUSPERCOLLATE, sus-p[.e]r-kol'[=a]t, _v.t._ to hang. [_Sus. per coll._,
abbrev. for L. _suspensio per collum_, hanging by the neck.]

SUSPICION, sus-pish'un, _n._ act of suspecting: the imagining of something
without evidence or on slender evidence: mistrust: (_coll._) a slight
quantity of, as of spirits.--_adj._ SUSPI'CIOUS, full of suspicion: showing
suspicion: inclined to suspect: liable to suspicion, doubtful.--_adv._
SUSPI'CIOUSLY.--_n._ SUSPI'CIOUSNESS.

SUSPIRE, sus-p[=i]r', _v.i._ to fetch a deep breath, to sigh, to
breathe.--_n._ SUSPIR[=A]'TION, act of sighing.--_adj._ SUSPIR'IOUS,
sighing. [L. _susp[=i]r[=a]re_--_sub_, under, _spir[=a]re_, to breathe.]

SUSTAIN, sus-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to hold up: to bear: to maintain: to relieve:
to prove: to sanction: to prolong.--_adjs._ SUSTAIN'ABLE, that may be
sustained; SUSTAINED', kept up at one uniform pitch.--_ns._ SUSTAIN'ER, one
who, or that which, sustains; SUSTAIN'MENT, act of sustaining, sustenance;
SUS'TENANCE, that which sustains: maintenance: provisions.--_adj._
SUSTENTAC'ULAR, supporting, pertaining to a SUSTENTAC'ULUM, a support or
sustaining tissue, esp. an inferior spine of the tarsus in spiders of the
genus _Epeira_.--_v.t._ SUS'TENT[=A]TE, to sustain.--_n._ SUSTENT[=A]'TION,
that which sustains: support: maintenance.--_adj._ SUSTEN'TATIVE,
sustaining.--_ns._ SUS'TENT[=A]TOR, a sustaining part or structure;
SUSTEN'TION, the act of sustaining; SUSTEN'TOR, one of two posterior
projections of a butterfly-chrysalis.--SUSTENTATION FUND, the scheme by
which the ministers of the Free Church of Scotland are supported by
voluntary contributions not local or congregational, but with a national
altruism or solidarity paid into a great central fund, out of which equal
stipends are paid to all alike. [L. _sustin[=e]re_--_sub_, up, _ten[=e]re_,
to hold.]

SUSURRANT, s[=u]-sur'ant, _adj._ murmuring, whispering.--_n._
SUSURR[=A]'TION, a soft murmur.--_adv._ SUSUR'RINGLY.--_adj._ SUSUR'ROUS,
whispering, rustling.--_n._ SUSUR'RUS, a soft murmuring, a whispering. [L.
_susurr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to whisper.]

SUTILE, s[=u]'til, _adj._ done by stitching. [L. _sutilis_--_su[)e]re_, to
sew.]

SUTLER, sut'l[.e]r, _n._ a person who follows an army and sells liquor or
provisions: a camp-hawker.--_n._ SUT'LERY, a sutler's work: a sutler's
store.--_adj._ SUT'LING, pertaining to sutlers: engaged in the occupation
of a sutler. [Old Dut. _soetelaar_, _zoetelaar_, a small
trader--_zoetelen_, to do mean work; Low Ger. _suddeln_, to do dirty work.]

SUTOR, s[=u]'tor, _n._ a cobbler.--_adj._ SUT[=O]'RIAL. [L.]

SUTRA, s[=oo]t'ra, _n._ in Sanskrit literature, the technical name of
aphoristic rules, and of works consisting of such rules--the groundworks of
the ritual, grammatical, metrical, and philosophical literature of India
being written in this form.

SUTTEE, sut-t[=e]', _n._ a usage long prevalent in India, in accordance
with which, on the death of her husband, the faithful widow burned herself
on the funeral pyre along with her husband's body.--_n._ SUTTEE'ISM, the
practice of self-immolation among Hindu widows. [Sans. _satí_, a true
wife.]

SUTTLE, sut'l, _adj._ light. [_Subtle_.]

SUTURE, s[=u]'t[=u]r, _n._ the mode of connection between the various bones
of the cranium and face--_serrated_, when formed by the union of two edges
of bone with projections and indentations fitting into one
another--_squamous_, when formed by the overlapping of the bevelled edges
of two contiguous bones: (_surg._) the sewing up of a wound by one or other
mode, so as to maintain the opposed surfaces in contact: (_bot._) the seam
at the union of two margins in a plant.--_adj._ S[=U]'T[=U]RAL, relating to
a suture.--_adv._ S[=U]'T[=U]RALLY.--_n._ S[=U]T[=U]R[=A]'TION.--_adj._
S[=U]'T[=U]RED, having, or united by, sutures. [L. _sutura_--_su[)e]re_, to
sew.]

SUVERSED, su-verst', _adj._ versed and belonging to the supplement.

SUZERAIN, s[=u]'ze-r[=a]n, _n._ a feudal lord: supreme or paramount
ruler.--_n._ S[=U]'ZERAINTY, the dominion of a suzerain: paramount
authority. [O. Fr.,--_sus_--Late L. _susum_, for _sursum_=_sub-versum_,
above; the termination in imitation of Fr. _souverain_, Eng. _sovereign_.]

SVELT, svelt, _adj._ in art, free, easy, bold. [Fr.,--It.]

SWAB, swob, _n._ a mop for cleaning or drying floors or decks, or for
cleaning out the bore of a cannon: a bit of sponge, &c., for cleansing the
mouth of a sick person: (_slang_) a naval officer's epaulet: a lubber or
clumsy fellow in sailor's slang.--_v.t._ to clean or dry with a
swab:--_pr.p._ swab'bing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ swabbed.--_n._ SWAB'BER, one
who uses a swab: a baker's implement for cleaning ovens. [Dut. _zwabber_, a
swabber, _zwabberen_, to swab; Ger. _schwabber_.]

SWACK, swak, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to drink greedily.

SWACK, swak, _adj._ (_Scot._) active, nimble.

SWAD, swad, _n._ a country lout.

SWADDLE, swod'l, _v.t._ to swathe or bind tight with clothes, as an
infant.--_ns._ SWADD'LER, an Irish papist's name for a Methodist, &c.;
SWADD'LING-BAND, SWADD'LING-CLOTH, a cloth for swaddling an infant:--_pl._
SWADD'LING-CLOTHES (_B._). [A.S. _swethel_, a swaddling-band, _swathu_, a
bandage.]

SWADDY, swod'i, _n._ a soldier, esp. a militiaman.

SWAG, swag, _n._ (_slang_) anything obtained by plunder: baggage, esp. that
carried by one tramping through the bush, a swagman's pack: the subsidence
of a mine-roof: a festoon or hanging cluster of flowers.--_ns._ SWAG'GER,
SWAG'MAN, one who carries his swag about with him in his search for work;
SWAG'SHOP, a place where cheap and trashy goods are sold. [Prob. _swag_
(v.).]

SWAG, swag, _v.i._ to sink down by its own weight.--_adj._ SWAG'-BELL'IED,
having a large projecting belly. [Prob. conn. with _sway_.]

SWAGE, sw[=a]j, _n._ a tool used for making mouldings on sheet-iron.

SWAGE, sw[=a]j, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Milt._) to assuage.

SWAGGER, swag'[.e]r, _v.i._ to swing the body in a blustering defiant way:
to brag noisily, to bully.--_n._ boastfulness: insolence of manner.--_adj._
(_slang_) very fashionable.--_n._ SWAGG'ERER.--_adj._ and _n._
SWAGG'ERING.--_adv._ SWAGG'ERINGLY. [A freq. of _swag_=_sway_.]

SWAHILI, swa-h[=e]'li, _n._ the name given to the people of Zanzibar and
the opposite coast belonging to the Bantu stock, with an Arab infusion, and
speaking a Bantu tongue modified by Arabic.--_adj._ SWAHI'LIAN. [Ar.
_Waswahili_, 'coast people.']

SWAIN, sw[=a]n, _n._ a young man: a peasant: a country lover.--_n._
SWAIN'ING, love-making.--_adj._ SWAIN'ISH, boorish.--_n._ SWAIN'ISHNESS,
boorishness. [Ice. _sveinn_, young man, servant, Dan. _svend_, servant.]

SWALE, sw[=a]l, _n._ a shady spot: a lower tract of rolling prairie.

SWALLOW, swol'[=o], _n._ a migratory bird with long wings, which seizes its
insect food on the wing: a genus (_Hirundo_) and family (_Hirundinidæ_) of
passerine birds, with long and pointed wings.--_adj._ SWALL'OW-TAILED, like
a swallow's tail in form, forked and pointed--of a dress-coat. [A.S.
_swalewe_; Ger. _schwalbe_.]

SWALLOW, swol'[=o], _v.t._ to receive through the gullet into the stomach:
to engulf: to absorb: to occupy: to exhaust.--_n._ SWALL'OWER. [A.S.
_swelgan_, to swallow; cog. with Ger. _schwelgen_.]

SWAM, swam, _pa.t._ of _swim_.

SWAMP, swomp, _n._ wet, spongy land: low ground filled with water.--_v.t._
to sink in, or as in a swamp: to overset, or cause to fill with water, as a
boat.--_adj._ SWAMP'Y, consisting of swamp: wet and spongy. [Scand., Dan.
and Sw. _svamp_, a sponge; from the root of _swim_.]

SWAN, swon, _n._ a genus of birds constituting a very distinct section of
the Duck family _Anatidæ_, having the neck as long as the body, noted for
grace and stateliness of movement on the water.--_ns._ SWAN'-GOOSE, the
China goose; SWAN'-HERD, one who tends swans; SWAN'-HOP'PING, better
SWAN'-MARK'ING and SWAN'-UP'PING, the custom of marking the upper mandible
of a swan to show ownership--done annually to the royal swans on the
Thames, the occasion being excuse for a festive expedition.--_adj._
SWAN'-LIKE.--_ns._ SWAN'-MAID'EN, a familiar figure in European folklore,
changing at will into a maiden or a swan by means of the magic properties
of her shift; SWAN'-MARK, the notch made on the swan's upper mandible;
SWAN'-NECK, the end of a pipe, &c., curved like a swan's neck; SWAN'NERY, a
place where swans are kept and tended.--_adj._ SWAN'NY, swan-like.--_ns._
SWAN'S'-DOWN, the down or under-plumage of a swan, used for powder-puffs,
&c.: a soft woollen cloth: a thick cotton with a soft nap on one side;
SWAN'-SHOT, a shot of large size, like buck-shot; SWAN'-SKIN, the unplucked
skin of a swan: a soft, nappy, fine-twilled flannel; SWAN'-SONG, the fabled
song of a swan just before its death: a poet's or musician's last work.
[A.S. _swan_; Ger. _schwan_, Dut. _zwaan_.]

SWANG, swang, _n._ (_prov._) a swamp.

SWANK, swangk, _adj._ (_Scot._) slender, pliant: agile, supple--also
SWANK'ING.--_n._ SWANK'Y, an active fellow. [A.S. _swancor_, pliant; Ger.
_schwank_.]

SWANKY, SWANKIE, swangk'i, _n._ poor thin beer or any sloppy drink, even
sweetened water and vinegar.

SWANPAN. See SHWANPAN.

SWAP, swop, _v.t._ to barter.--_n._ an exchange.--_adj._ SWAP'PING, large.
[_Swop_.]

SWAPE, sw[=a]p, _n._ (_prov._) a pump-handle: a large oar or sweep: a
sconce for holding a light.--_v.i._ to sweep: to place aslant.--_n._
SWAPE'-WELL, a well from which water is raised by a well-sweep.

SWARD, swawrd, _n._ the grassy surface of land: green turf--also
SWARTH.--_v.t._ to cover with sward.--_adjs._ SWARD'ED, SWARD'Y, covered
with sward. [A.S. _sweard_; Dut. _zwoord_, Ger. _schwarte_.]

SWARE, sw[=a]r (_B._), _pa.t._ of _swear_.

SWARF, swärf, _v.i._ to faint.--_n._ a swoon.

SWARF, swärf, _n._ the grit from a grindstone in grinding cutlery wet.

SWARM, swawrm, _n._ a body of humming or buzzing insects: a cluster of
insects, esp. of bee: a great number: throng.--_v.i._ to gather as bees: to
appear in a crowd: to throng: to abound: to breed multitudes.--_v.t._ to
cause to breed in swarms. [A.S. _swearm_; Ger. _schwarm_; from the same
root as Ger. _schwirren_.]

SWARM, swawrm, _v.i._ to climb a tree by scrambling up by means of arms and
legs (with _up_).

SWARTH, swawrth, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as SWATH.

SWARTH, swawrth, _n._ a wraith, apparition of a person about to die.

SWARTHY, swawrth'i, _adj._ of a blackish complexion: dark-skinned:
tawny--also SWART, SWARTH.--_adv._ SWARTH'ILY.--_ns._ SWARTHI'INESS;
SWART'-STAR (_Milt._), the dog-star, so called because at the time of its
appearance it darkens the complexion. [A.S. _sweart_; Ice. _svartr_, Ger.
_schwarz_, black.]

SWARVE, swawrv, _v.i._ to swerve.

SWASH, swosh, _v.t._ to dash or splash.--_v.i._ to make a splashing noise,
to wash up against.--_ns._ SWASH'-BUCK'LER, a bully, a blusterer; SWASH'ER
(_Shak._), one who swashes, a blusterer.--_adj._ SWASH'ING, slashing,
crushing.--_n.pl._ SWASH'-LETT'ERS, Italic capitals with top and bottom
flourishes, intended to fill out ugly gaps.--_ns._ SWASH'-PLATE, a disc set
obliquely on a revolving axis, to give a reciprocating motion to a bar
along its length; SWASH'-WORK, lathe-work in which the cuts are inclined to
the axis of rotation.--_adj._ SWASH'Y, swaggering. [Scand.; cf. dial. Sw.
_svasska_, Norw. _svakka_, prov. Eng. _swack_, a blow.]

SWASTIKA, swäs'ti-ka, _n._ the same as _Fylfot_ (q.v.).--Also SVAS'TIKA and
_Gammadion_. [Sans., 'fortunate.']

SWAT, swot (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _sweat_.

SWATCH, swach, _n._ a strip of cloth as a sample. [_Swath_.]

SWATH, swawth, _n._ a line of grass or corn cut by the scythe: the sweep of
a scythe.--_adj._ SWATH'Y. [A.S. _swathu_, a track; Dut. _zwade_, also a
scythe.]

SWATHE, sw[=a]th, _v.t._ to bind with a band or bandage.--_n._ a bandage.
[A.S. _swethian_; cf. _Swaddle_.]

SWATS, swats, _n._ (_Scot._) new ale: thin sowens.

SWATTER, swat'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_prov._) to spill water about. [Cf. Dut.
_swaddren_, to dabble in water.]

SWAY, sw[=a], _v.t._ to swing or wield with the hand: to incline to one
side: to influence by power or moral force: to govern: to hoist,
raise.--_v.i._ to incline to one side: to govern: to have weight or
influence.--_n._ the sweep of a weapon: that which moves with power:
preponderance: power in governing: influence or authority inclining to one
side: a thatcher's binding-switch.--_adj._ SWAYED (_Shak._), bent down and
injured in the back by heavy burdens--said of a horse. [Prob. Scand., as
Ice. _sveigja_, Dan. _svaie_, to sway; akin to _swing_.]

SWEAL, sw[=e]l, _v.t._ to scorch.--_v.i._ to melt and run down: to burn
away slowly. [A.S. _swelan_.]

SWEAR, sw[=a]r, _v.i._ to affirm, calling God to witness: to give evidence
on oath: to utter the name of God or of sacred things profanely.--_v.t._ to
utter, calling God to witness: to administer an oath to: to declare on
oath:--_pa.t._ sw[=o]re; _pa.p._ sworn.--_n._ SWEAR'ER.--SWEAR AT, to aim
profanity at: to be very incongruous with, esp. in colour; SWEAR BY, to put
complete confidence in; SWEAR IN, to inaugurate by oath; SWEAR OFF, to
renounce, promise to give up. [A.S. _swerian_; Dut. _zweren_, Ger.
_schwören_.]

SWEARD, sw[=e]rd, _n._ (_Spens._) sword.

SWEAT, swet, _n._ the moisture from the skin, the state of one who sweats,
diaphoresis: labour: drudgery.--_v.i._ to give out sweat or moisture: to
toil, drudge for poor wages: to suffer penalty, smart.--_v.t._ to give out,
as sweat: to cause to sweat: to squeeze money or extortionate interest
from, to compel to hard work for mean wages: to wear away or pare down by
friction or other means, as coins: to scrape the sweat from a horse.--_ns._
SWEAT'ER, one who sweats, or that which causes sweating, a diaphoretic: a
heavy kind of jersey used by persons in training for athletic contests, to
reduce their weight: one who sweats coins: a London street ruffian in Queen
Anne's time who prodded weak passengers with his sword-point; SWEAT'INESS;
SWEAT'ING-BATH, a bath to promote perspiration; SWEAT'ING-HOUSE, -ROOM, a
house, room, for sweating persons: a room for sweating cheese and carrying
off the superfluous juices; SWEAT'ING-SICK'NESS, an extremely fatal
epidemic disorder which ravaged Europe, and esp. England, in the 15th and
16th centuries--a violent inflammatory fever, with a fetid perspiration
over the whole body; SWEAT'ING-SYS'TEM, the practice of working poor people
at starvation wages, esp. in making up clothes in their own houses.--_adj._
SWEAT'Y, wet with sweat: consisting of sweat: laborious. [A.S. _swát_,
sweat, _sw['æ]tan_, to sweat; Dut. _zweet_; Low Ger. _sweet_, Ger.
_schweiss_.]

SWEATH-BAND, sw[=e]th'-band, _n._ (_Spens._) a swaddling-band. [_Swathe_.]

SWEDE, sw[=e]d, _n._ a native of _Sweden_; a Swedish turnip.--_adj._
SW[=E]D'ISH, pertaining to Sweden, to Swedish turnips, gloves of undressed
kid, &c.

SWEDENBORGIAN, sw[=e]-dn-bor'ji-an, _n._ one who holds the religious
doctrines of Emanuel Swedenborg, a Swedish philosopher (1688-1772), founder
of the New Jerusalem Church.--_n._ SWEDENBOR'GIANISM.

SWEENY, sw[=e]'ni, _n._ atrophy of a muscle.

SWEEP, sw[=e]p, _v.t._ to wipe or rub over with a brush or broom: to carry
along or off by a long brushing stroke or force: to destroy or carry off at
a stroke: to strike with a long stroke: to carry with pomp: to drag over:
to pass rapidly over.--_v.i._ to pass swiftly and forcibly: to pass with
pomp: to move with a long reach:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ swept.--_n._ act of
sweeping: extent of a stroke, or of anything turning or in motion:
prevalence, range: direction of a curve: the act of bringing into a general
movement: rapid or wide-spread destructiveness: a curved approach before a
building: a chimney-sweeper: (_pl._) oars of great length used during a
calm or in still water, either to assist the rudder or to propel the
vessel.--_n._ SWEEP'ER.--_adv._ SWEEP'INGLY, in a sweeping manner.--_n._
SWEEP'INGNESS.--_n.pl._ SWEEP'INGS, things collected by sweeping:
rubbish.--_ns._ SWEEP'-NET, a net that embraces a large compass:
SWEEP'STAKE (_Shak._), one who wins all--usually in _pl._ SWEEP'STAKES, a
method of gambling by which several persons contribute each certain stakes,
the whole of which fall to one in case of a certain event happening;
SWEEP'-WASH'ER, one who scrapes a little gold or silver from the sweepings
of refineries.--_adj._ SWEEP'Y, swaying, sweeping, curving. [A.S. _swápan_;
Ger. _schweifen_, Cf. _Swoop_.]

SWEER, SWEIR, sw[=e]r, _adj._ (_Scot._) lazy, unwilling. [A.S. _sw['æ]r_,
_swár_, heavy.]

SWEET, sw[=e]t, _adj._ pleasing to the taste or senses: tasting like sugar:
fragrant: melodious: beautiful, grateful to the eye: fresh, as opposed to
salt or to sour: pure: recent, not stale, sour, or putrid: mild, soft,
gentle: kind, obliging.--_n._ a sweet substance: a term of endearment:
(_pl._) sweetmeats, confections: sweet dishes served at table, puddings,
tarts, jellies, &c.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to sweeten.--_adj._ SWEET'-AND-TWEN'TY
(_Shak._), at once fair and young.--_ns._ SWEET'-BAY, the laurel (_Laurus
nobilis_); SWEET'BREAD, the pancreas of an animal used for food, both
delicate and nutritious.--_adj._ SWEET'-BREATHED, sweet-smelling.--_ns._
SWEET'-BR[=I]'ER, a thorny shrub of the rose kind resembling the brier,
having a sweet smell; SWEET'-CORN, a variety of maize.--_v.t._ SWEET'EN, to
make sweet: to make pleasing, mild, or kind: to increase the agreeable
qualities of: to make pure and healthy.--_ns._ SWEET'ENER, one who, or that
which, sweetens; SWEET'ENING, act of sweetening: that which sweetens;
SWEET'-FLAG, -RUSH, an aromatic plant of the genus _Acorus_ of the arum
family; SWEET'HEART, a lover or mistress.--_n.pl._ SWEET'IES,
confections.--_n._ SWEET'ING, a sweet apple: (_Shak._) a darling, a word of
endearment.--_adj._ SWEET'ISH, somewhat sweet to the taste.--_ns._
SWEET'ISHNESS; SWEET'-JOHN, a flower of the narrow-leaved varieties of a
species of pink, _Dianthus barbatus_, as distinguished from other varieties
called _Sweet-william_; SWEET'LEAF, a small tree in the southern United
States, having sweetish leaves relished by cattle and horses; SWEET'-LIPS,
one whose lips are sweet--a term of endearment: the ballanwrasse, or
_Labrus maculatus_.--_adv._ SWEET'LY.--_ns._ SWEET'-MAR'JORAM, a fragrant
species of marjoram; SWEET'MEAT, a confection made wholly or chiefly of
sugar; SWEET'-NAN'CY, the double-flowered variety of _Narcissus poeticus_;
SWEET'NESS; SWEET'-OIL, olive-oil; SWEET'-PEA, a pea cultivated for its
fragrance and beauty; SWEET'-POT[=A]'TO, a twining plant common in tropical
and sub-tropical countries, having large sweetish edible tubers.--_adj._
SWEET'-SCENT'ED, having a sweet smell.--_n._ SWEET'-SOP, a tropical
American evergreen, also its pulpy fruit.--_adj._ SWEET'-TEM'PERED, having
a mild, amiable disposition.--_ns._ SWEET'-WA'TER, a white variety of the
European grape, with very sweet juice; SWEET'-WILL'IAM, the bunch-pink,
_Dianthus barbatus_, a garden flower of many colours and varieties;
SWEET'WOOD, a name applied to various trees and shrubs of the laurel family
found in South America and the West Indies.--BE SWEET ON, or UPON, to be in
love with. [A.S. _swéte_; Ger. _süsz_, Gr. _h[=e]dys_, L. _suavis_, sweet,
Sans. _svad_, to taste.]

SWELL, swel, _v.i._ to grow larger: to expand: to rise into waves: to
heave: to be inflated: to bulge out: to grow louder: to be bombastic, to
strut: to become elated, arrogant, or angry: to grow upon the view: to grow
more violent: to grow louder, as a note.--_v.t._ to increase the size of:
to aggravate: to increase the sound of: to raise to arrogance: to augment
the sound of:--_pa.p._ swelled or swollen (sw[=o]ln).--_n._ act of
swelling: a bulge or protuberance: increase in size: an increase and a
succeeding decrease in the volume of a tone: a gradual rise of ground: a
wave or billow or succession of them in one direction, as after a storm: a
distinct set of pipes in an organ, enclosed in a case furnished with
movable shutters which being more or less opened by means of a pedal,
produce a swell of sound: (_geol._) an upward protrusion of strata from
whose central region the beds dip quaquaversally at a low angle: a
strutting foppish fellow, a dandy.--_adj._ fashionable.--_n._ SWELL'DOM,
the fashionable world generally.--_adj._ SWELL'ING (_B._), inflated, proud,
haughty.--_n._ protuberance: a tumour: a rising, as of passion: (_B._)
inflation by pride.--_adj._ SWELL'ISH, foppish, dandified.--_ns._
SWELL'-MOB, well-dressed pickpockets collectively; SWELL'-MOBS'MAN, a
well-dressed pickpocket. [A.S. _swellan_; Ger. _schwellen_.]

SWELT, swelt, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to swelter.

SWELTER, swelt'[.e]r, _v.i._ to be faint or oppressed with heat: to
perspire copiously from heat.--_v.t._ to cause to faint, to overpower, as
with heat.--_p.adj._ SWELT'ERING.--_adv._ SWELT'ERINGLY.--_adj._ SWELT'RY,
sultry, oppressive with heat. [A.S. _sweltan_, to die; Ice. _svelta_, to
hunger.]

SWEPT, swept, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _sweep_.

SWERVE, sw[.e]rv, _v.i._ to turn, depart from any line, duty, or custom: to
incline: to rove, wander.--_n._ an act of swerving.--_adj._ SWERVE'LESS,
that does not swerve.--_n._ SWERV'ER, one who swerves. [A.S. _sweorfan_;
Dut. _zwerven_.]

SWEVEN, sw[=e]'vn, _n._ (_obs._) a dream.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to sleep,
dream. [A.S. _swefen_, sleep, dream.]

SWIFT, swift, _adj._ moving quickly: fleet, rapid: speedy: ready.--_n._ a
genus (_Cypselus_) and family (_Cypselidæ_) of picarian birds, resembling
the swallows in general appearance and habits, but most closely allied by
anatomical structure to the humming-birds--with long pointed wings, a short
tail, and remarkable powers of rapid and prolonged flight: the common newt:
a reel for winding yarn: the main cylinder of a carding-machine: the
current of a stream.--_n._ SWIF'TER, any rope temporarily used to tighten
or keep a thing in its place.--_adjs._ SWIFT'-FOOT'ED; SWIFT'-HAND'ED;
SWIFT'-HEELED.--_adv._ SWIFT'LY, with swiftness: rapidly.--_n._ SWIFT'NESS,
quality of being swift: quickness: fleetness: rapidity: speed.--_adj._
SWIFT'-WINGED. [A.S. _swift_, from same root as _swoop_.]

SWIG, swig, _n._ a pulley with ropes not parallel.--_v.t._ to tighten a
rope by hauling at right angles to its lead: to castrate by ligating the
scrotum and making the testicles slough off. [Prob. _swag_.]

SWIG, swig, _n._ a large draught: one who drinks deep.--_v.t._ to drink by
large draughts, to gulp down. [Prob. conn. with A.S. _swelgan_, to
swallow.]

SWILL, swil, _v.t._ or _v.i._ to drink greedily or largely, to drink
habitually, to drench one's self with: to wash, rinse.--_n._ a large
draught of liquor: the liquid mixture given to swine.--_ns._ SWILL'ER;
SWILL'ING.--_n.pl._ SWILL'INGS, hog wash. [A.S. _swilian_, to wash; cf. Sw.
_sqvala_, to gush.]

SWIM, swim, _v.i._ to float, as opposed to sink: to move on or in water: to
be borne along by a current: to glide along with a waving motion: to be
dizzy: to be drenched: to overflow: to abound.--_v.t._ to pass by swimming:
to make to swim or float:--_pr.p._ swim'ming; _pa.t._ swam; _pa.p._ swum or
swam.--_n._ act of swimming: any motion like swimming: air-bladder of a
fish.--_adj._ SWIM'MABLE, capable of being swum.--_ns._ SWIM'MER, one who
swims: a web-footed aquatic bird; SWIM'MERET, one of the abdominal
appendages which in the lobster and other Crustacea are used in swimming;
SWIM'MING, the act of floating or moving on or in the water: dizziness;
SWIM'MING-BATH, a bath large enough for swimming in.--_adv._ SWIM'MINGLY,
in a gliding manner, as if swimming: smoothly, successfully.--_ns._
SWIM'MINGNESS, the state of swimming: a melting look, tearfulness;
SWIM'MING-POND, an artificial pond adapted for swimming in;
SWIM'MING-SCHOOL, a place where swimming is taught; SWIM'MING-STONE, a
cellular variety of flint--_float-stone_.--IN THE SWIM, in the main
current, of affairs, business, &c. [A.S. _swimman_; Ger. _schwimmen_.]

SWINCK, swingk, _v.i._ (_Spens._). Same as SWINK.

SWINDGE, swindj, _v.t._ (_Milt._). Same as SWINGE (1).

SWINDLE, swin'dl, _v.t._ to cheat under the pretence of fair dealing.--_n._
the act of swindling or defrauding: anything not really what it appears to
be.--_adj._ SWIN'DLEABLE, capable of being swindled.--_ns._ SWIN'DLER, one
who defrauds by imposition: a cheat or rogue; SWIN'DLERY, roguery,
swindling practices.--_adj._ SWIN'DLING, cheating. [Ger. _schwindler_, a
cheat--_schwindeln_, to be giddy, _schwinden_empty, to sink; A.S.
_swindan_, to droop.]

SWINE, sw[=i]n, _n.sing._ and _pl._ a well-known quadruped with bristly
skin and long snout, fed for its flesh: a pig: pigs collectively.--_ns._
SWINE'HERD, a herd or keeper of swine; SWINE'-POX, chicken-pox; SWIN'ERY, a
place where pigs are kept; SWINE'S'-SNOUT, the dandelion; SWINE'-STONE
(same as STINK-STONE); SWINE'-STY, a pig-sty. [A.S. _swín_, a pig; Ger.
_schwein_, L. _sus_, Gr. _hys_.]

SWING, swing, _v.i._ to sway or wave to and fro, as a body hanging in air:
to move forward with swaying gait: to vibrate: to practise swinging: to
turn round at anchor: to be hanged.--_v.t._ to move to and fro: to cause to
wave or vibrate: to whirl, to brandish: to cause to wheel or turn as about
some point: to fix up anything so as to hang freely:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
swung.--_n._ the act of swinging: motion to and fro: a waving motion:
anything suspended for swinging in: the sweep or compass of a swinging
body: the sweep of a golf-club when driving: influence or power of anything
put in motion: free course, unrestrained liberty.--_ns._ SWING'-BACK, a
device for adjusting the plate-holder of a camera at any desired angle;
SWING'BOAT, a boat-shaped carriage swung from a frame, in use for swinging
in at fairs, &c.; SWING'-BRIDGE, a bridge that may be moved aside by
swinging, at the mouth of docks, &c.; SWING'-CHURN, a churn-box so hung as
to be worked by oscillation; SWING'ER; SWING'-HAN'DLE, a pivoted handle of
any utensil, esp. a bail or other arched handle; SWING'ING, the act of
moving back and forth, esp. the pastime of moving in a swing.--_adj._
having a free easy motion.--_n._ SWING'ING-BOOM, the spar which stretches
the foot of a lower studding-sail.--_adv._ SWING'INGLY, in a
swinging-manner.--_ns._ SWING'ING-POST, the post to which a gate is hung;
SWING'ISM, a form of intimidation common in England about 1830-33, which
consisted mainly in sending letters signed 'Swing' or 'Captain Swing' to
farmers, ordering them under threats to give up threshing-machines, &c.;
SWING'-M[=O]'TION, a mechanism in the truck of a railway carriage, &c.,
permitting swaying from side to side; SWING'-PAN, a sugar-pan with spout,
pivoted so that it may be emptied by tipping; SWING'-PLOUGH, a plough
without a fore-wheel under the beam; SWING'-SHELF, a hanging shelf;
SWING'-STOCK, an upright timber, with a blunt edge at top over which flax
was beaten by the swingle--also SWING'ING-BLOCK; SWING'-SWANG, a complete
oscillation.--_adj._ swinging, drawling.--_ns._ SWING'-T[=A]'BLE, a
moveable bed on which plate-glass is cemented for polishing; SWING'-TOOL, a
holder swinging on horizontal centres, on which work is fastened so as to
hold flat against the face of a file; SWING'-TREE=_Swingle-tree_ (q.v.);
SWING'-TROT, a swinging trot; SWING'-WHEEL, the wheel that drives a clock
pendulum, corresponding to the balance-wheel in a watch. [A.S. _swingan_;
Ger. _schwingen_, to swing; allied to _wag_, _sway_.]

SWINGE, swinj, _v.t._ to beat, chastise: to forge, weld together: to wave
to and fro.--_n._ a lash, a lashing movement.--_n._ SWINGE'-BUCK'LER
(_Shak._), one who pretends to feats of arms, a blusterer.--_adj._
SWINGE'ING, great, huge.--_adv._ SWINGE'INGLY.--_n._ SWINGER (swinj'[.e]r),
any person or thing great or astonishing, a bold lie, a whopper. [A.S.
_swengan_, to shake, a causal form of _swingan_, to swing.]

SWINGE, swinj, _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as SINGE.

SWINGLE, swing'gl, _v.t._ to dress or separate the fibrous parts of flax
from the woody substance by beating.--_n._ an implement for this
purpose.--_ns._ SWING'LE, the part of the flail which falls on the grain in
threshing; SWING'LE-TREE, SING'LE-TREE, the cross-piece of a carriage,
plough, &c. to which the traces of a harnessed horse are fixed. [_Swing_.]

SWINISH, sw[=i]'nish, _adj._ like or befitting swine: gross:
brutal.--_adv._ SWIN'ISHLY.--_n._ SWIN'ISHNESS.

SWINK, swingk, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to labour, to toil, to drudge.--_v.t._ to
tire out with labour.--_n._ labour.--_adj._ SWINK'ED (_Milt._), wearied
with labour, fatigued. [A.S. _swincan_, to labour; cf. _swingan_, swing.]

SWIPE, sw[=i]p, _n._ a hard blow.--_v.t._ to give a strong blow to: to
steal by snatching.--_n._ SW[=I]'PER, one who swipes. [A.S. _swipe_, a
whip.]

SWIPES, sw[=i]ps, _n._ bad or spoilt beer, also small-beer.--_adj._
SW[=I]'PEY, fuddled with malt liquor.

SWIRE, sw[=i]r, _n._ a hollow between two hills. [Prob. A.S. _swéora_, the
neck.]

SWIRL, sw[.e]rl, _v.i._ to sweep along with a whirling motion.--_n._
whirling motion, as of wind or water: a curl or twist: the rush of a fish
through the water in rising to a fly.--_adj._ SWIRL'Y. [Skeat explains as
Scand., Norw. _svirla_, to whirl round, a freq. of _sverra_, to whirl,
orig. to hum.]

SWISH, swish, _v.t._ to cause to move or to cut with a whistling sound: to
flog, thrash.--_n._ a swishing sound.--_adv._ in a swishing manner or with
such a sound.--_ns._ SWISH'ER, one who swishes or flogs; SWISH'-SWASH, a
swishing action or sound: a washy drink. [Imit.]

SWISS, swis, _adj._ of or belonging to _Switzerland_.--_n._ a native of
Switzerland: the language of Switzerland: a High German patois, spoken in
fifteen of the cantons.--_n._ SWIT'ZER, a native of Switzerland: one of a
hired bodyguard of a king or pope.--SWISS GUARDS, a celebrated corps or
regiment of Swiss mercenaries in the French army of the old régime,
constituted 'Gardes' by royal decree in 1616.

SWISSING, swis'ing, _n._ the calendering of bleached cloth, after
dampening, by passing between bowls or pairs of rollers.

SWITCH, swich, _n._ a small flexible twig: a movable rail for transferring
a carriage from one line of rails to another: a device to make or break a
circuit, or transfer an electric current from one conductor to
another.--_v.t._ to strike with a switch: to swing, whisk: to transfer a
carriage from one line of rails to another by a switch: to shift from one
circuit to another, or in or out of circuit, as an electric current, to
shunt.--_ns._ SWITCH'BACK, a term applied to a zigzagging, alternate
back-and-forward mode of progression up a slope; SWITCH'BACK-RAIL'WAY, an
apparatus for public amusement, consisting of a short length of elevated
railway with a series of rounded inclines, so that the car gains enough of
momentum descending the first steep incline to ascend one or more smaller
inclines till it gradually and more slowly works its way to the original
level at the far end of the course; SWITCH'ING, a beating with a switch:
trimming; SWITCH'MAN, a pointsman. [Old Dut. _swick_, a whip.]

SWITCHEL, swich'el, _n._ treacle-beer, molasses and water, &c.

SWITH, swith, _adv._ (_obs._) quickly: away! begone!

SWITHER, swith'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_prov._) to doubt, hesitate.--_n._
hesitation: a fright, a sweat.

[Illustration]

SWIVEL, swiv'l, _n._ something fixed in another body so as to turn round in
it: a ring or link that turns round on a pin or neck: a small cannon
turning on a swivel.--_v.i._ to turn on a pin or pivot.--_ns._ SWIV'EL-EYE,
a squint-eye; SWIV'EL-HOOK, a hook secured to anything by means of a
swivel. [A.S. _swífan_, to move quickly, to turn round.]

SWIZZLE, swiz'l, _v.i._ to drink to excess.--_n._ a mixed or compounded
drink.

SWOLLEN, sw[=o]ln, _pa.p._ of _swell_.

SWOON, sw[=oo]n, _v.i._ to faint: to fall into a fainting-fit.--_n._ the
act of swooning: a fainting-fit.--SWOOND'ED, obsolete _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
of _swoon_.--_n._ SWOON'ING.--_adv._ SWOON'INGLY, [M. E. _swounen_,
_swoghenen_--A.S. _swógan_, to resound.]

SWOOP, sw[=oo]p, _v.t._ to sweep down upon: to take with a sweep: to catch
while on the wing: to catch up.--_v.i._ to descend with a sweep.--_n._ the
act of swooping: a seizing, as a bird on its prey. [A.S. _swápan_, to
sweep; Ger. _schweifen_, to rove.]

SWOP, swop, _v.t._ to exchange, to barter:--_pr.p._ swop'ping; pa.t and
_pa.p._ swopped.--_n._ an exchange.--Also SWAP. [Most prob. the same as
obs. _swap_, _swop_, to beat, cog. with _swoop_.]

[Illustration]

SWORD, s[=o]rd, _n._ an offensive weapon with a long blade, sharp upon one
or both edges, for cutting or thrusting: destruction by the sword or by
war, war, military force: the emblem of vengeance or justice, or of
authority and power.--_adj._ SWORD'-AND-BUCK'LER, fought with sword and
buckler, not the rapier: armed with sword and buckler.--_ns._ SWORD'-ARM,
-HAND, the arm, hand, that wields the sword; SWORD'-BAY'ONET, a bayonet
shaped somewhat like a sword, and used as one; SWORD'-BEAR'ER, a public
officer who carries the sword of state; SWORD'-BELT, a military belt from
which the sword is hung; SWORD'BILL, a South American humming-bird with a
bill longer than its body; SWORD'-BREAK'ER, an old weapon for grasping and
breaking an adversary's sword; SWORD'-CANE, -STICK, a cane or stick
containing a sword; SWORD'CRAFT, skill with the sword; military power;
SWORD'-CUT, a blow, wound, or scar caused by the edge of a sword;
SWORD'-DANCE, a dance in which the display of naked swords, or movements
made with such, form a part; SWORD'-DOLL'AR, a Scotch silver coin under
James VI., worth 2s. 6d. in English money, having a sword on the reverse;
SWORD'ER (_Shak._), a swordsman; SWORD'FISH, a family of spiny-rayed
Teleostean fishes, sometimes 12 to 15 feet in length, with a sword about 3
feet long, formed from a compressed prolongation of the upper jaw;
SWORD'-FLAG, the European water-flag or yellow iris; SWORD'-GRASS, a kind
of sedge; SWORD'-GUARD, the part of a sword-hilt that protects the bearer's
hand; SWORD'-KNOT, a ribbon tied to the hilt of a sword; SWORD'-LAW,
government by the sword.--_adj._ SWORD'LESS, destitute of a sword.--_ns._
SWORD'PLAY, fencing; SWORD'PLAYER, a fencer.--_adj._ SWORD'-PROOF, capable
of resisting the blow or thrust of a sword.--_n._ SWORD'-RACK, a rack for
holding swords.--_adj._ SWORD'-SHAPED, ensiform.--_ns._ SWORDS'MAN, a man
skilled in the use of a sword; SWORDS'MANSHIP. [A.S. _sweord_; Ice.
_sverdh_, Ger. _schwert_.]

SWORE, SWORN. See SWEAR.

SWORN, sw[=o]rn, _pa.p._ of swear.--SWORN BROKER, a London broker who
swears before the court of aldermen to maintain honesty in dealing; SWORN
ENEMIES, enemies determined not to be reconciled; SWORN FRIENDS, fast or
close friends.

SWOTE, sw[=o]t, _adv._ (_Spens._) sweetly.

SWOUND, swownd, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to swoon--also _n._

SWUM, swum, _pa.p._ of _swim_.

SWUNG, swung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _swing_.

SYB, sib, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as SIB.

SYBARITE, sib'a-r[=i]t, _n._ an inhabitant of Sybaris, a Greek city in
ancient Italy, on the Gulf of Tarentum, noted for the effeminacy and luxury
of its inhabitants: one devoted to luxury.--_adjs._ SYBARIT'IC, -AL.--_n._
SYB'ARITISM.

SYBO, s[=i]'b[=o], _n._ a Scotch form of _Cibol_ (q.v.):--_pl._ SY'BOES.

SYBOTIC, s[=i]-bot'ik, _adj._ pertaining to a swineherd.--_n._ SY'BOTISM.
[Gr. _syb[=o]t[=e]s_, swineherd.]

SYCAMINE, sik'a-m[=i]n, _n._ (_B._) supposed to be the black mulberry-tree
(_Morus nigra_).

SYCAMORE, sik'a-m[=o]r, _n._ a fruit-tree of the fig family, common in
Palestine, &c.: a species of maple, in Scotland usually called
_plane-tree_: in America, the native plane. [Gr. _sykomoros_--_sykon_, a
fig, _moron_, black mulberry.]

SYCE. Same as _Sice_ (q.v.).

SYCOPHANT, sik'[=o]-fant, _n._ a common informer: a servile
flatterer.--_n._ SYC'OPHANCY, the behaviour of a sycophant: mean
tale-bearing: obsequious flattery: servility--also SYCOPHANT'ISM.--_adjs._
SYCOPHANT'IC, -AL, SYCOPHANT'ISH, like a sycophant: obsequiously
flattering: parasitic.--_v.i._ SYC'OPHANTISE.--_adv._
SYC'OPHANTISHLY.--_n._ SYC'OPHANTRY, the arts of the sycophant. [Gr.
_sykophant[=e]s_, usually said to mean one who informed against persons
exporting figs from Attica or plundering the sacred fig-trees; but more
prob. one who brings figs to light by shaking the tree, hence one who makes
rich men yield up their fruit by informations and other vile arts--_sykon_,
a fig, _phainein_, to show.]

SYCOSIS, s[=i]-k[=o]'sis, _n._ a pustular eruption on the scalp or bearded
part of the face, due to ringworm, acne, or impetigo. [Gr.,--_sykon_, a
fig.]

SYENITE, s[=i]'en-[=i]t, _n._ a rock composed of feldspar and
hornblende.--_adj._ SYENIT'IC, relating to _Syene_ in Egypt: pertaining to
syenite. [From Gr. _Sy[=e]n[=e]_, Syene in Egypt.]

SYKER, sik'[.e]r, _adv._ (_Spens._) surely. [_Sicker_.]

SYLLABLE, sil'a-bl, _n._ several letters taken together so as to form one
sound: a word or part of a word uttered by a single effort of the voice: a
small part of a sentence.--_v.t._ to express by syllables, to utter.--_n._
SYLL'ABARY, a list of characters representing syllables--also
SYLLAB[=A]'RIUM.--_adjs._ SYLLAB'IC, -AL, consisting of a syllable or
syllables.--_adv._ SYLLAB'ICALLY.--_vs.t._ SYLLAB'IC[=A]TE, SYLLAB'IFY
(_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ syllab'ified), to form into syllables--_ns._
SYLLABIC[=A]'TION, SYLLABIFIC[=A]'TION; SYLL'ABISM, syllabic character,
representation of syllables. [L. _syllaba_--Gr. _syllab[=e]_--_syn_, with,
_lab-_, _lambanein_, to take.]

SYLLABUB, sil'a-bub, _n._ Same as SILLIBUB.

SYLLABUS, sil'a-bus, _n._ an abstract: a table of contents: the catalogue
of eighty heresies, annexed to the Encyclical _Quanta Cura_, addressed by
Pius IX. to all Catholic bishops, 8th Dec. 1864. [L.]

SYLLEPSIS, sil-lep'sis, _n._ substitution: a figure in rhetoric by which we
take the sense of words rather by the intention of the author than by the
strictness of grammar: the agreement of a verb or adjective, not with the
word next it, but with some other word in the sentence.--_adjs._
SYLLEP'TIC, -AL.--_adv._ SYLLEP'TICALLY. [Gr. _syll[=e]psis_--_syn_,
together, _lambanein_, to take.]

SYLLOGISM, sil'[=o]-jizm, _n._ logical form of every argument, consisting
of three propositions, of which the first two are called the premises, and
the last, which follows from them, the conclusion.--_n._
SYLLOGIS[=A]'TION.--_v.i._ SYLL'OGISE, to reason by syllogisms.--_v.t._ to
deduce consequences from.--_n._ SYLL'OGISER.--_adjs._ SYLLOGIS'TIC, -AL,
pertaining to a syllogism: in the form of a syllogism.--_adv._
SYLLOGIS'TICALLY. [Gr. _syllogismos_--_syllogizesthai_--_syn_, together,
_logizesthai_, to reckon--_logos_, speech.]

SYLPH, silf, _n._ one of the elemental spirits of the air, intermediate
between immaterial and material beings, occasionally holding intercourse
with human creatures: a fairy.--_n._ SYLPH'ID, a little sylph.--_adjs._
SYLPH'INE, SYLPH'ISH. [Fr. _sylphe_, of Celtic origin; but cf. Gr.
_silph[=e]_, a kind of beetle.]

SYLVA, SILVA, sil'va, _n._ the forest trees of any region
collectively.--_adjs._ SYL'VAN, SIL'VAN.--_n._ SYLVICUL'TURE,
arboriculture, forestry. [L.]

SYMBAL, sim'bal, _n._ Same as CYMBAL.

SYMBIOSIS, sim-bi-[=o]'sis, _n._ a term introduced by De Bary to denote
certain kinds of physiological partnership between organisms of different
kinds--best restricted to such intimate and complementary partnerships as
exist between algoid and fungoid elements in lichens, or between
unicellular Algæ; and Radiolarians.--_n._ SYM'BION, an organism living in
such a state.--_adj._ SYMBIOT'IC.--_adv._ SYMBIOT'ICALLY. [Gr. _syn_,
together, _bios_, life.]

SYMBOL, sim'bol, _n._ a sign by which one knows a thing: an arbitrary or
other conventional mark, abbreviating methods of scientific expression, as
in algebra, and esp. chemistry: an emblem: that which represents something
else: a figure or letter representing something: (_theol._) a creed,
compendium of doctrine, or a typical religious rite, as the
Eucharist.--_adjs._ SYMBOL'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or of the nature of, a
symbol: representing by signs: emblematic: figurative: typical.--_adv._
SYMBOL'ICALLY.--_ns._ SYMBOL'ICALNESS; SYMBOL'ICS, the study of the history
and contents of Christian creeds; SYMBOLIS[=A]'TION.--_v.i._ SYM'BOLISE, to
be symbolical: to resemble in qualities.--_v.t._ to represent by
symbols.--_ns._ SYM'BOLISER, SYM'BOLIST, one who uses symbols; SYM'BOLISM,
representation by symbols or signs: a system of symbols: use of symbols:
(_theol._) the science of symbols or creeds.--_adjs._ SYMBOLIST'IC,
-AL.--_ns._ SYMBOL'OGY, SYMBOLOL'OGY, the art of representing by symbols;
SYMBOLOL'ATRY, undue veneration for symbols; SYM'BOLRY, the use of symbols
generally. [Gr. _symbolon_, from _symballein_--_syn_, together, _ballein_,
to throw.]

SYMMETRY, sim'e-tri, _n._ the state of one part being of the same measure
with or proportionate to another: due proportion: harmony or adaptation of
parts to each other.--_adj._ SYMM'ETRAL, commensurable, symmetrical.--_n._
SYMMET'RIAN, one who is careful about symmetry.--_adjs._ SYMMET'RIC, -AL,
having symmetry or due proportion in its parts: harmonious.--_adv._
SYMMET'RICALLY, with symmetry.--_ns._ SYMMET'RICALNESS; SYMMETRI'CIAN,
SYMM'ETRIST, one careful about symmetry; SYMMETRIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
SYMM'ETRISE, to make symmetrical.--_n._ SYMMETROPH[=O]'BIA, fear or strong
dislike of mechanical symmetry. [L. and Gr. _symmetria_--_syn_, together,
_metron_, a measure.]

SYMMORPH, sim'morf, _n._ a character different in form from another, but
representing the same notion. [Gr. _symmorphos_, similar--_syn_, with,
_morph[=e]_, form.]

SYMPATHY, sim'pa-thi, _n._ like feeling: an agreement of inclination,
feeling, or sensation: compassion: pity: tenderness: an agreement of
affections or inclinations, or a conformity of natural temperament: mutual
conformity of parts in the fine arts: correspondence of parts in similar
sensations or affections, or the affection of the whole body or system, or
some part of it, in consequence of local injury or disease: propensity of
inanimate bodies to union or mutual action: the effective union of
colours.--_adjs._ SYMPATHET'IC, -AL, showing, or inclined to, sympathy:
feeling with another: able to sympathise: compassionate: produced by
sympathy: uniting viscera and blood-vessels in a nervous action common to
them all: noting sounds induced by vibrations conveyed through air, &c.,
from a body already in vibration.--_adv._ SYMPATHET'ICALLY.--_n._
SYMPATHET'ICISM, undue disipostion to be sympathetic.--_v.i._ SYM'PATHISE,
to have sympathy: to feel with or for another: to be compassionate.--_ns._
SYM'PATHISER; SYM'PATHISM; SYM'PATHIST.--SYMPATHETIC INK (see INK). [Gr.
_sympatheia_--_syn_, with, _pathos_, suffering.]

SYMPELMOUS, sim-pel'mus, _adj._ in birds, having the tendons of the deep
flexors of the toes blended in one before separating to proceed one to each
of the four digits--opp. to _Nomopelmous_. [Gr. _syn_, with, _pelma_, the
sole of the foot.]

SYMPETALOUS, sim-pet'a-lus, _adj._ having all the petals united.

SYMPHENOMENON, sim-f[=e]-nom'e-non, _n._ a phenomenon resembling others
shown by the same object:--_pl._ SYMPHENOM'ENA.--_adj._ SYMPHENOM'ENAL.

SYMPHONY, sim'f[=o]-ni, _n._ an agreeing together in sound: unison,
consonance, or harmony of sound: a musical composition for a full band of
instruments: an instrumental introduction or termination to a vocal
composition.--_n._ SYMPH[=O]'NIA, concord in Greek music: a medieval name
for the bagpipe, the virginal.--_adj._ SYMPHON'IC, relating to, or
resembling, a symphony: symphonious.--_n._ SYMPH[=O]'NION, a combination of
pianoforte and harmonium, the precursor of the orchestrion.--_adj._
SYMPH[=O]'NIOUS, agreeing or harmonising in sound: accordant:
harmonious.--_n._ SYM'PHONIST, a composer of symphonies. [Gr.
_symph[=o]nia_--_syn_, together, _ph[=o]n[=e]_ a sound.]

SYMPHORICARPOUS, sim-f[=o]-ri-kar'pus, _adj._ bearing several fruits
clustered together.

SYMPHYLA, sim'fi-la, _n.pl._ an order or suborder of insects related to
typical _Thysanura_, but resembling chilopods and having many abdominal
legs.--_adj._ SYM'PHYLLOUS. [Gr. _symphylos_, of the same race--_syn_,
with, _phylon_, a clan.]

SYMPHYNOTE, sim'fi-n[=o]t, _adj._ soldered together at the hinge, as the
valves of some unios. [Gr. _symphy[=e]s_, growing together, _n[=o]ton_, the
back.]

SYMPHYOGENESIS, sim-fi-[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ (_bot._) the forming of an
organ or part by union of parts formerly separate.--_adj._ SYMPHYOGENET'IC.
[Gr. _symphyesthai_, to grow together, _genesis_, generation.]

SYMPHYSIS, sim'fi-sis, _n._ the union of two parts of the skeleton, either
by confluence, by direct apposition, or by the intervention of cartilage or
ligament: the union of parts normally separate, coalescence or growing
together of parts.--_adj._ SYMPHYS'[=E]AL.--_ns._ SYMPHYS'IA, a
malformation produced by the union of parts properly separate; SYM'PHYTISM,
a coalescence of word-elements. [Gr. _syn_, with, _phyein_, to grow.]

SYMPHYTUM, sim'fi-tum, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants, of the natural
order _Boraginaceæ_.

SYMPIESOMETER, sim-pi-e-som'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a barometer in which oil and
hydrogen gas replace mercury and the Toricellian vacuum: an instrument for
measuring the pressure of a current. [Gr. _sympiesis_, a pressing
together--_syn_, with, _piezein_, to press, _metron_, a measure.]

SYMPLECTIC, sim-plek'tik, _adj._ placed in or among, as if woven
together.--_n._ a bone in the Teleostean fishes which forms the lower
ossification of the suspensorium, and which articulates below with the
quadrate bone by which it is firmly held. [Gr. _symplektikos_--_syn_,
together, _plekein_, to weave.]

SYMPLESITE, sim'ple-s[=i]t, _n._ a pearly, vitreous arseniate of ferrous
iron. [Gr. _syn_, together, _pl[=e]sios_, near.]

SYMPLOCE, sim'pl[=o]-s[=e], _n._ (_rhet._) the repetition of a word at the
beginning and another at the end of successive clauses. [Gr. _symplok[=e]_,
an interweaving.]

SYMPLOCIUM, sim-pl[=o]'si-um, _n._ (_bot._) the annulus in the sporangium
of ferns.

SYMPODIUM, sim-p[=o]'di-um, _n._ (_bot._) an axis or stem morphologically
made up of a series of superposed branches imitating a simple stem. [Gr.
_syn_, with, _pous_, _podos_, foot.]

SYMPOSIUM, sim-p[=o]'zi-um, _n._ a drinking together: a banquet with
philosophic conversation: a merry feast.--_adjs._ SYMP[=O]'SIAC,
SYMP[=O]'SIAL.--_ns._ SYM-P[=O]'SIARCH, the master of the feast, a
toast-master; SYMP[=O]'SIAST, one who takes part in a symposium. [L.,--Gr.
_symposion_--_syn_, together, _posis_, a drinking--_pinein_, to drink.]

SYMPTOM, simp'tum, _n._ that which attends and indicates the existence of
something else, not as a cause, but as a constant effect: (_med._) that
which indicates disease.--_adjs._ SYMPTOMAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to
symptoms: indicating the existence of something else: (_med._) proceeding
from some prior disorder.--_adv._ SYMPTOMAT'ICALLY.--_n._ SYMPTOMATOL'OGY,
the sum of knowledge concerning symptoms. [Gr. _sympt[=o]ma_--_syn_, with,
_piptein_, to fall.]

SYMPTOSIS, simp-t[=o]'sis, _n._ the meeting of polars of the same point
with reference to different loci.

SYNACMY, sin-ak'mi, _n._ the simultaneous maturity of the anthers and
stigmas of a flower.--_adj._ SYNAC'MIC. [Gr. _syn_, with, _akm[=e]_,
maturity.]

SYNACRAL, sin-ak'ral, _adj._ having a common vertex, as faces of a
polyhedron. [Gr. _syn_, with, _acros_, top.]

SYNADELPHIC, sin-a-del'fik, _adj._ acting together, as different members of
an animal body. [Gr. _syn_, with, _adelphos_, a brother.]

SYNADELPHITE, sin-a-del'f[=i]t, _n._ an arseniate of manganese.

SYNÆRESIS. See SYNERESIS.

SYNÆSTHESIA, sin-es-th[=e]'si-a, _n._ sensation produced at a point
different from the point of stimulation.

SYNAGOGUE, sin'a-gog, _n._ an assembly of Jews for worship: a Jewish place
of worship.--_adjs._ SYN'AGOGAL, SYNAGOG'ICAL. [Fr.,--Gr.
_synag[=o]g[=e]_--_syn_, together, _agein_, to lead.]

SYNALEPHA, sin-a-l[=e]'fa, _n._ a contraction by suppressing a final vowel
or diphthong before another vowel or diphthong, so that the final syllable
of one word runs or melts into the first of the other.--Also SYNAL[=E]'PHE.
[Gr. _synaloiph[=e]_--_synaleiphein_, to melt together--_syn_, together
with, _aleiphein_, to anoint.]

SYNALGIA, si-nal'ji-a, _n._ sympathetic pain. [Gr. _syn_, with, _algos_,
pain.]

SYNALLAGMATIC, sin-a-lag-mat'ik, _adj._ mutually or reciprocally
obligatory. [Gr. _synallagmatikos_--_synallagma_, a covenant.]

SYNANCIA, si-nan'si-a, _n._ a genus of fishes with spines and
poison-glands, of family _Synanciidæ_.--_adj._ SYNAN'CIOID. [Gr.
_synangchos_, quinsy.]

SYNANGIUM, si-nan'ji-um, _n._ an arterial trunk: the boat-shaped sorus of
certain ferns. [Gr. _syn_, with, _angeion_, a vessel.]

SYNANTHEROUS, si-nan'ther-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having the anthers united.

SYNANTHOUS, si-nan'thus, _adj._ (_bot._) denoting plants whose flowers and
leaves appear together or at the same time.--_n._ SYNAN'THY. [Gr. _syn_,
together, _anthos_, a flower.]

SYNAPHEA, sin-a-f[=e]'a, _n._ the metrical continuity between one colon and
another, mutual connection of all the verses in a system, so that they are
scanned as one verse, as in anapæstics: elision or synalepha, at the end of
a line, of the final vowel of a dactylic hexameter before the initial vowel
of the next.--Also SYNAPHEI'A. [Gr.,--_synaptein_, to join together.]

SYNAPTE, si-nap't[=e], _n._ (_Gr. Church_) a litany. [Gr. _synapt[=e]_
(_euch[=e]_, a prayer), joined together.]

SYNARCHY, sin'ar-ki, _n._ joint sovereignty. [Gr. _synarchia_--_syn_, with,
_archein_, to rule.]

SYNARTESIS, sin-ar-t[=e]'sis, _n._ a fastening together, close
union.--_adj._ SYNARTET'IC. [Gr. _synart[=e]sis_--_syn_, with, _artaein_,
to fasten to.]

SYNARTHROSIS, sin-ar-thr[=o]'sis, _n._ a joint permitting no motion,
between the parts articulated.--_adj._ SYNARTHR[=O]'DIAL.--_adv._
SYNARTHR[=O]'DIALLY. [Gr. _syn-arthr[=o]sis_--_syn_, with, _arthron_, a
joint.]

SYNASCETE, sin'a-s[=e]t, _n._ a fellow-ascetic.

SYNASTRY, si-nas'tri, _n._ coincidence as regards stellar influences. [Gr.
_syn_, together with, _astron_, a star.]

SYNAXIS, si-nak'sis, _n._ in the early Church, an assembly for worship,
esp. for celebrating the Eucharist.--_n._ SYNAX[=A]'RION, in Greek usage, a
lection containing an account of a saint's life. [Gr. _synaxis_, a bringing
together--_syn_, together, _agein_, to lead.]

SYNCARPOUS, sin-kär'pus, _adj._ (_bot._) having the carpels consolidated
into one. [Gr. _syn_, together, _karpos_, a fruit.]

SYNCATEGOREMATIC, sin-kat-[=e]-gor-[=e]-mat'ik, _adj._ denoting words that
can only form parts of terms, as adverbs, &c.--_adv._
SYNCATEGOREMAT'ICALLY.

SYNCHONDROSIS, sing-kon-dr[=o]'sis, _n._ an articulation formed by the
addition of a plate of cartilage.--_n._ SYNCHONDROT'OMY, the section of
such. [Gr. _syngchondr[=o]sis_--_syn_, with, _chondros_, a cartilage.]

SYNCHORESIS, sing-k[=o]-r[=e]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) an admission made for the
purpose of making a more effective retort. [Gr. _synch[=o]r[=e]sis_--_syn_,
with, _ch[=o]ros_, space.]

SYNCHRONAL, sing'kr[=o]-nal, _adj._ happening or being at the same time:
simultaneous: lasting for the same time--also SYNCHRON'ICAL,
SYN'CHRONOUS.--_adv._ SYNCHRON'ICALLY.--_n._ SYNCHRONIS[=A]'TION.--_v.i._
SYN'CHRONISE, to be synchronal or simultaneous: to agree in time.--_v.t._
to cause to be synchronous: to regulate a clock, &c., by some
standard.--_ns._ SYN'CHRONISER; SYN'CHRONISM, concurrence of events in
time: the tabular arrangement of contemporary events, &c., in
history.--_adj._ SYNCHRONIS'TIC, showing synchronism.--_adv._
SYNCHRONIS'TICALLY.--_n._ SYNCHRONOL'OGY, chronological arrangement side by
side.--_adv._ SYN'CHRONOUSLY.--_ns._ SYN'CHRONOUSNESS; SYN'CHRONY,
simultaneity. [Gr. _synchronismos_--_synchronizein_, to agree in
time--_syn_, together, _chronos_, time.]

SYNCHYSIS, sing'ki-sis, _n._ (_rhet._) confusion of meaning due to unusual
arrangement: fluidity of the vitreous humour of the eye. [Gr.
_syngchysis_--_syn_, together with, _chein_, to pour.]

SYNELASTIC, sin-klas'tik, _adj._ having the same kind of curvature in all
directions--opp. to _Anticlastic_. [Gr. _syn_, together, _klastos_,
broken.]

SYNCLINAL, sin-kl[=i]'nal, _adj._ sloping downwards in opposite directions
so as to meet in a common point or line: (_geol._) denoting strata dipping
toward a common central line or plane.--_ns._ SYN'CLINE, a synclinal
flexure--also SYNCL[=I]'NAL; SYNCLIN[=O]'RIUM, a mountain with a synclinal
structure. [Gr. _syn_, together, _klinein_, to bend.]

SYNCOPATE, sing'k[=o]-p[=a]t, _v.t._ to contract, as a word, by taking away
letters from the middle: (_mus._) to unite by a slur the last note of a bar
to the first note of the next.--_adjs._ SYN'COPAL, SYNCOP'IC, pertaining to
syncope.--_ns._ SYNCOP[=A]'TION, act of syncopating; SYN'COPE, the omission
of letters from the middle of a word, as _ne'er_ for _never_: (_med._) a
fainting-fit, an attack in which the breathing and circulation become
faint: (_mus._) syncopation.--_v.t._ SYN'COPISE, to contract by
syncope.--_n._ SYN'COPIST.--_adj._ SYNCOP'TIC. [Low L. _syncop[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--L. _syncope_---Gr. _syn_, together, _koptein_, to cut off.]

SYNCRETISM, sin'kre-tizm, _n._ the attempted reconciliation of
irreconcilable principles, theological compromise--between Catholics and
Protestants, between Lutherans and Reformed.--_adj._ SYNCRET'IC, pertaining
to syncretism, tending to blend opposing parties and speculative systems by
minimising differences.--_v.t._ SYN'CRETISE.--_n._ SYN'CRETIST.--_adj._
SYNCRETIS'TIC. [Gr. _synkr[=e]tismos_--_synkr[=e]tizein_, to unite
against.]

SYNDACTYL, sin-dak'til, _adj._ having the digits connected with a web,
&c.--_n._ SYNDAC'TYLISM, union of digits.--_adj._ SYNDAC'TYLOUS.

SYNDESMOSIS, sin-des-m[=o]'sis, _n._ the connection of bones by
ligaments.--_ns._ SYNDESMOG'RAPHY, description of the ligaments and joints;
SYNDESMOL'OGY, the knowledge of the ligaments.--_adj._ SYNDESMOT'IC.--_n._
SYNDESMOT'OMY, the anatomy of the ligaments. [Gr. _syndesmos_--_syn_,
together with, _dein_, to bind.]

SYNDETIC, -AL, sin-det'ik, -al, _adj._ connecting by conjunctions, &c. [Gr.
_syndetikos_, binding together--_syn_, together, _dein_, to bind.]

SYNDIC, sin'dik, _n._ the chief magistrate in Geneva, one of those officers
delegated as agents by cities in France under the old régime, &c.: one
chosen to transact business for others, esp. the accredited legal
representative of a corporation, society, or company.--_n._ SYN'DIC[=A]TE,
a body of syndics: a council: the office of a syndic: a body of men chosen
to watch the interests of a company, or to manage a bankrupt's property,
esp. an association of merchants or others for the purpose of carrying
through some great or important enterprise, or for securing a kind of
artificial monopoly in the production or supply of some commodity.--_v.t._
to effect by means of a syndicate.--_v.i._ to join in a syndicate.--_ns._
SYNDIC[=A]'TION; SYN'DIC[=A]TOR. [L. _syndicus_--Gr. _syndikos_--_syn_,
with, _dik[=e]_, justice.]

SYNDROME, sin'dr[=o]-m[=e], _n._ concurrence. [Gr., _syn_, together,
_dramein_, to run.]

SYNDYASMIAN, sin-di-as'mi-an, _adj._ coupling, noting the sexual relation.
[Gr. _syndyasmos_, coupling.]

SYNECDOCHE, sin-ek'd[=o]-k[=e], _n._ a figure of speech by which a part is
made to comprehend the whole, or the whole is put for a part.--_adj._
SYNECDOCH'ICAL, expressed by, or implying, synecdoche. [Gr.
_synekdoch[=e]_--_syn_, together, _ekdechesthai_, to receive.]

SYNECHIA, sin-e-k[=i]'a, _n._ morbid adhesion between the iris and the
cornea.--_n._ SYNECHIOL'OGY, the doctrine of the connection of things by
causation.--_adj._ SYNEC'TIC, bringing into connection things of different
nature.--_n._ SYNECTIC'ITY. [Gr. _synektikos_, holding together,
_synechein_--_syn_, together with, _echein_, to hold.]

SYNECPHONESIS, si-nek-f[=o]-n[=e]'sis, _n._ syneresis.

SYNEDRAL, si-n[=e]'dral, _adj._ (_bot._) growing on the angle of a
stem.--Also SYN[=E]'DROUS. [Gr. _synedros_, sitting together--_syn_,
together, _hedra_, a seat.]

SYNEDRION, si-ned'ri-on, _n._ a judicial assembly, a sanhedrim--also
SYNED'RIUM.--_adj._ SYNED'RIAL. [_Sanhedrim_.]

SYNEMA, si-n[=e]'ma, _n._ (_bot._) the column of combined filaments in a
monadelphous flower. [Gr. _syn_, together, _n[=e]ma_, a thread.]

SYNERESIS, SYNÆRESIS, si-ner'e-sis, _n._ the coalescence of two vowels or
syllables--opp. to _Diæresis_. [Gr. _syn_, together, _hairein_, to take.]

SYNERGISM, sin'[.e]r-jizm, _n._ the doctrine that the human will and the
Divine Spirit are two efficient agents that co-operate in
regeneration--ascribed to Melanchthon.--_adj._ SYNERGET'IC.--_n._
SYN'ERGIST, one maintaining the doctrine of synergism.--_adj._
SYNERGIST'IC.--_n._ SYN'ERGY, combined action. [Gr. _synergia_,
co-operation--_syn_, together, _ergein_, to work.]

SYNESIS, sin'e-sis, _n._ a grammatical construction in harmony with the
sense rather than with strict syntax. [Gr., 'understanding.']

SYNGENESIOUS, sin-je-n[=e]'shus, _adj._ (_bot._) cohering into a ring, as
the anthers of _Compositæ_, &c.--those plants which show this forming the
19th class in the Linnean system, the SYNGEN[=E]'SIA. [Gr. _syn_, with,
_genesis_, generation.]

SYNGENESIS, sin-jen'e-sis, _n._ the theory of reproduction which makes the
embryo the product of both male and female by the union of spermatozoon and
ovum: the theory that the germ so formed contains the germs of all future
generations--opp. to _Epigenesis_.--_adj._ SYNGENET'IC. [Gr. _syn_, with,
_genesis_, generation.]

SYNGRAPH, sing'graf, _n._ a writing signed by both or all the parties
thereto. [Gr. _synggraph[=e]_--_syn_, with, _graphein_, to write.]

SYNIZESIS, sin-i-z[=e]'sis, _n._ the union into one syllable of two vowels
incapable of forming a diphthong: closure of the pupil of the eye, with
loss of sight. [Gr. _syn_, with, _hizein_, to place.]

SYNOCHUS, sin'[=o]-kus, _n._ a continued fever--also SYN'OCHA.--_adjs._
SYN'OCHAL, SYN'OCHOID. [Gr. _synochos_, joined together--_syn_, with,
_echein_, to hold.]

SYNOCIL, sin'[=o]-sil, _n._ a filamentous formation of certain sponges,
supposed to function as a sense-organ, probably an eye. [Gr. _syn_, with,
L. _cilium_, an eyelid.]

SYNOCREATE, si-nok'r[=e]-[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) uniting together on the
opposite side of the stem from the leaf, and enclosing the stem in a
sheath--of stipules. [Gr. _syn_, with, and _ocreate_.]

SYNOD, sin'od, _n._ a meeting: an ecclesiastical council: among
Presbyterians, a church court consisting of several presbyteries,
intermediate between these and the General Assembly, also the supreme court
of the United Presbyterian Church until its union with the Free Church in
1900.--_adjs._ SYN'ODAL, SYNOD'IC, -AL, pertaining to a synod: done in a
synod.-_adv._ SYNOD'ICALLY.--_n._ SYN'ODIST. [L. _synodus_--Gr.
_synodos_--_syn_, together, _hodos_, a way.]

SYNOECIOUS, si-n[=e]'shi-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having male and female flowers
in one head as in the _Compositæ_: having antheridia and archegonia on the
same receptacle, as in many mosses. [Gr. _synoikia_, a living
together--_syn_, with, _oikein_, to dwell.]

SYNOMOSY, sin'[=o]-m[=o]-si, _n._ a body of political or other conspirators
bound together by oath, a secret society. [Gr. _syn[=o]mosia_, a
conspiracy--_syn_, with, _omnynai_, to take an oath.]

SYNONYM, sin'o-nim, _n._ a name or word having the same meaning with
another: one of two or more words which have the same meaning.--_adjs._
SYNONYMAT'IC, SYNONYM'IC, -AL.--_ns._ SYNONYM'ICON, a dictionary of
synonymous words; SYNONYM'ICS, synonymy.--_v.t._ SYNON'YMISE, to express by
other words of the same meaning.--_ns._ SYNON'YMIST, one who studies
synonyms, or the different names of plants and animals; SYNONYM'ITY, the
state of being synonymous.--_adj._ SYNON'YMOUS, pertaining to synonyms:
expressing the same thing: having the same meaning.--_adv._
SYNON'YMOUSLY.--_n._ SYNON'YMY, the quality of being synonymous: a
rhetorical figure by which synonymous words are used. [Gr.
_syn[=o]nymon_--_syn_, with, _onoma_, a name.]

SYNOPSIS, si-nop'sis, _n._ a view of the whole together: a collective or
general view of any subject:--_pl._ SYNOP'S[=E]S.--_adjs._ SYNOP'TIC, -AL,
affording a general view of the whole.--_adv._ SYNOP'TICALLY.--_n._
SYNOP'TIST, one of the writers of the Synoptic Gospels.--_adj._
SYNOPTIS'TIC.--The SYNOPTIC GOSPELS, a name first used by Griesbach for the
first three gospels, those of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, which present such a
similarity in matter and form that they readily admit of being brought
under one and the same combined view or _synopsis_. [Gr. _synopsis_--_syn_,
with, together, _opsis_, a view.]

SYNOSTEOSIS, si-nos-t[=e]-[=o]'sis, _n._ union of different parts of the
skeleton by means of bone, co-ossification--also SYNOST[=O]'SIS.--_ns._
SYNOSTEOL'OGY, the knowledge of the joints of the body; SYNOSTEOT'OMY, the
dissection of the joints.--_adj._ SYNOSTOT'IC. [Gr. _syn_, together,
_osteon_, a bone.]

SYNOTUS, si-n[=o]'tus, _n._ a genus of long-eared bats having the rim of
the ear produced in front of the eye, including the European Barbastel: a
double monster united above the umbilicus, the head incompletely double.
[Gr. _syn_, together, _ous_, _[=o]tos_, the ear.]

SYNOVIAL, sin-[=o]'vi-al, _adj._ relating to SYN[=O]'VIA, an unctuous
albuminous fluid, secreted from certain glands in the joints.--_adv._
SYN[=O]'VIALLY.--_n._ SYNOV[=I]'TIS, inflammation of a synovial membrane.
[Gr. _syn_, with, _[=o]on_, an egg.]

SYNTAX, sin'taks, _n._ (_gram._) the correct arrangement of words in
sentences.--_adjs._ SYNTAC'TIC, -AL, pertaining to syntax: according to the
rules of syntax.--_adv._ SYNTAC'TICALLY. [Gr. _syntaxis_--_syn_, together,
_tassein_, _taxein_, to put in order.]

SYNTENOSIS, sin-te-n[=o]'sis, _n._ the connection of bones by tendons. [Gr.
_syn_, with, _ten[=o]n_, a sinew.]

SYNTERESIS, sin-t[=e]-r[=e]'sis, _n._ preventive treatment,
prophylaxis.--_adj._ SYNTERET'IC.--_n._ SYNTERET'ICS, hygiene. [Gr.
_synt[=e]r[=e]sis_, observation--_syn_, with, _t[=e]rein_, to watch over.]

SYNTEXIS, sin-tek'sis, _n._ a wasting of the body.--_adjs._ SYNTEC'TIC,
-AL. [Gr. _synt[=e]xis_, a wasting away--_syn_, with, _t[=e]kein_, to
melt.]

SYNTHERMAL, sin-th[.e]rm'al, _adj._ having the same degree of heat. [Gr.
_syn_, together, _therm[=e]_, heat.]

SYNTHESIS, sin'the-sis, _n._ a term applied to the building up of compound
substances from the elements they contain or from other compounds, usually
of less complexity than themselves: a making a whole out of parts: the
combination of separate elements of thought into a whole, or reasoning from
principles previously established to a conclusion, as opposed to
_analysis_: (_gram._) the uniting of ideas into a sentence: (_med._) the
reunion of parts that have been divided: (_chem._) the uniting of elements
to form a compound:--_pl._ SYN'THESES (-s[=e]z).--_v.t._ SYN'THES[=I]SE, to
unite by synthesis.--_ns._ SYN'THESIST, SYN'THETIST, one who
synthetises.--_adjs._ SYNTHET'IC, -AL, pertaining to synthesis: consisting
in synthesis or composition.--_adv._ SYNTHET'ICALLY.--_n._ SYNTHET'ICISM,
the principles of synthesis, a synthetic system.--_v.t._
SYN'THETISE.--SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY, the system of Herbert Spencer, so
called by himself because conceived as a fusion of the different sciences
into a whole. [Gr. _synthesis_--_syn_, with, together, _thesis_, a
placing--_tith[=e]mi_, I place.]

SYNTHRONUS, sin'thr[=o]-nus, _n._ the seat of the bishop and his
presbyters, behind the altar. [Gr. _syn_, together with, _thronos_, a
throne.]

SYNTONIN, sin't[=o]-nin, _n._ a substance akin to fibrin, which is an
important constituent of muscular tissue--also called Muscle Fibrin.

SYNTONOUS, sin't[=o]-nus, _adj._ intense in quality.--Also SYNTON'IC. [Gr.
_syntonos_, tightly drawn.]

SYNTROPIC, sin-trop'ik, _adj._ turning or pointing in the same direction,
as several vertebræ. [Gr. _syn_, together with, _trepein_, to turn.]

SYPHILIS, sif'i-lis, _n._ a markedly contagious, infective, and inoculable
disease, capable of being transmitted to the offspring, propagated by
direct contagion or by the transmission of the virus through some vessel or
medium which has recently been contaminated--most commonly caused by impure
sexual intercourse.--_n._ SYPHILIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ SYPH'ILISE, to attempt
to inoculate the system with the virus of syphilis as a preventive and
curative measure.--_adj._ SYPHILIT'IC.--_n._ SYPHILOG'RAPHY, the
description of syphilis.--_adj._ SYPH'ILOID, relating to syphilis.--_ns._
SYPHILOL'OGIST, one versed in syphilology; SYPHILOL'OGY, the knowledge of
syphilis; SYPHIL[=O]'MA, a syphilitic tumour; SYPHILOPH[=O]'BIA, a morbid
dread of contracting syphilis. [The word is borrowed from the name of a
figure in Fracastoro's poem, _Syphilidis Libri III_.]

SYPHON, SYREN. Same as SIPHON, SIREN.

SYRIAC, sir'i-ak, _adj._ relating to _Syria_, or to its language.--_n._ the
language, esp. the ancient language of Syria, a western dialect of Aramaic
(q.v.).--_ns._ SYR'IACISM, SYR'IANISM, a Syrian idiom.--_adj._ SYR'IAN,
relating to Syria.--_n._ a native of Syria.--_n._ SYR'IARCH, the chief
priest in the Roman province of Syria.

SYRINGA, s[=i]-ring'ga, _n._ the mock-orange.

SYRINGE, sir'inj, _n._ a portable hydraulic instrument of the pump kind,
used to draw in a quantity of liquid and eject it forcibly: a tube used by
surgeons for injecting, &c.--_v.t._ to inject or clean with a syringe. [L.
_syrinx_, (gen.) _syringos_--Gr. _syringx_, a reed.]

SYRINGOTOMY, sir-in-got'[=o]-mi, _n._ the operation of cutting for the
fistula.--_n._ SYR'INX, a fistula or fistulous opening: a narrow gallery in
the tombs of ancient Egypt. [Gr. _syringx_, a pipe, _tom[=e]_, a
cutting--_temnein_, to cut.]

SYROPHOENICIAN, s[=i]-r[=o]-f[=e]-nish'an, _adj._ pertaining to
_Syro-Phoenicia_ or its people, of mixed Phoenician and Syrian descent.

SYRTIS, s[.e]r'tis, _n._ (_Milt._) a quicksand--also SYRT.--_adj._ SYR'TIC.
[L.,--Gr.--_syrein_, to draw along.]

SYRUP, sir'up, _n._ a saturated solution of sugar boiled to prevent
fermentation: the juice of fruits saturated with sugar and many flavoured
liquids, treated in the same way--also SIR'UP.--_adj._ SYR'UPY. [Fr.
_syrop_--Sp. _xarope_, a drink--Ar. _shar[=a]b_.]

SYSSARCOSIS, sis-ar-k[=o]'sis, _n._ the connection of one bone with another
by intervening muscle.--_adj._ SYSSARC[=O]'SIC. [Gr., _syn_, together,
_sarx_, flesh.]

SYSSITIA, si-sit'i-a, _n._ the ancient Spartan custom of eating together in
public the chief meal of the day. [Gr. _syn_, together with, _sitos_,
food.]

SYSTALTIC, sis-tal'tik, _adj._ alternately contracting and dilating,
pulsatory. [Gr. _systaltikos_--_syn_, together, _stellein_, to place.]

SYSTASIS, sis't[=a]-sis, _n._ a union or confederation.--_adj._ SYSTAT'IC,
introductory, recommendatory. [Gr. _syn_, with, _histanai_, to set up.]

SYSTEM, sis'tem, _n._ anything formed of parts placed together or adjusted
into a regular and connected whole: an assemblage of bodies as a connected
whole: an orderly arrangement of objects according to some common law or
end: regular method or order: a full and connected view of some department
of knowledge: an explanatory hypothesis or theory: the universe.--_adjs._
SYSTEMAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or consisting of, system: formed or done
according to system: methodical.--_adv._ SYSTEMAT'ICALLY.--_ns._
SYSTEMATI'CIAN; SYSTEMATIS[=A]'TION, SYSTEMIS[=A]'TION.--_vs.t._
SYS'TEMATISE, SYS'TEMISE, to reduce to a system.--_ns._ SYS'TEMATISER;
SYS'TEMATISM; SYS'TEMATIST; SYSTEMATOL'OGY.--_adjs._ SYSTEM'IC, systematic;
pertaining to the human system; SYS'TEMLESS, without system: not exhibiting
organic structure.--_ns._ SYS'TEM-M[=A]K'ER, -MON'GER, one unduly fond of
constructing systems. [Gr. _syst[=e]ma_--_syn_, together, _hist[=e]mi_, I
place.]

SYSTOLE, s[=i]s't[=o]-l[=e], _n._ the regular contraction of the heart for
impelling the blood outward--opp. to _Diastole_: (_gram._) the shortening
of a long syllable.--_adj._ SYSTOL'IC. [Gr. _systol[=e]_--_syn_, together,
_stellein_, to place.]

SYSTYLE, sis't[=i]l, _n._ (_archit._) the arrangement of columns so that
they are only two diameters apart: a front or portico having columns so
arranged.--_adj._ SYS'TYLOUS (_bot._), having the styles united into a
single body. [Gr. _syn_, with, _stylos_, a column.]

SYTHE=_Scythe_.

SYZYGY, siz'i-ji, _n._ the relative position of a planet (esp. the moon)
when either in conjunction or in opposition with the sun: the period of new
or full moon:--_pl._ SYZ'YGIES.--_n._ SYZ'YGANT (-gant), a rational
integral function of the invariants of a quantic that vanishes when
expressed as a function of the coefficients.--_adj._ SYZYGET'IC, pertaining
to a linear relation.--_adv._ SYZYGET'ICALLY.--_adj._ SYZYG'IAL, pertaining
to a syzygy. [Gr. _syzygia_, union.]

       *       *       *       *       *

T the twentieth letter in our alphabet, its sound that of the hard dental
mute, produced by the tip of the tongue being brought into contact with the
base of the upper teeth: as a medieval numeral=160; [=T]=160,000: something
fashioned like a T, or having a cross section like a T--also written TEE
and sometimes TAU.--_ns._ T'-BAND'AGE, a bandage composed of two strips
fashioned in the shape of the letter T, as for use about the perineum;
T'-CART, a four-wheeled pleasure-vehicle without top, having a T-shaped
body; T'-CLOTH, a plain cotton made for the India and China market--stamped
with a T; T'-CROSS, a tau-cross; T'-PLATE, a T-shaped plate, as for
strengthening a joint in a wooden framework; T'-RAIL, a rail, as for a
railway, having a T-like cross section; T'-SQUARE, a ruler shaped like the
letter T, used in mechanical and architectural drawing.--TO A T, with
perfect exactness; BE MARKED WITH A T, to be branded as a thief.

TAB, tab, _n._ a small tag, flap, or strap, forming an appendage of
something: reckoning, tally, check.

TABANUS, ta-b[=a]'nus, _n._ a genus of flies, including the horse-flies.
[L.]

TABARD, tab'ard, _n._ a military cloak of the 15th and 16th centuries, now
a loose sleeveless coat worn by heralds.--_n._ TAB'ARDER, one who wears a
tabard. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _tabardum_; perh. conn, with L. _tapete_,
tapestry.]

TABARET, tab'a-ret, _n._ an upholsterer's silk stuff, with alternate
stripes of watered and satin surface. [_Tabby_.]

TABASHEER, TABASBIR, tab-a-sh[=e]r', _n._ a substance, consisting chiefly
of silica, sometimes found in the cavities or tubular parts of the stems of
bamboos and other large grasses, and prized by the Hindus as a tonic, &c.,
prepared by imperfect calcination and trituration. [Hind.
_tab[=a]sh[=i]r_.]

TABBY, tab'i, _n._ a coarser kind of waved or watered silk: an artificial
stone, a mixture of lime, shells, gravel, stones, and water: a female
cat--also TABB'Y-CAT.--_adj._ brindled: diversified in colour.--_v.t._ to
water or cause to look wavy:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tabb'ied.--_n._
TABB'INET, a more delicate kind of tabby resembling damask, used for
window-curtains. [Fr. _tabis_--Ar. _'att[=a]b[=i]_, a kind of rich, waved
silk--_'Attabiya_, the quarter in Bagdad where first made.]

TABEFACTION, tab-[=e]-fak'shun, _n._ a wasting away from disease.--_v.t._
TAB'EFY, to emaciate.--_v.i._ to lose flesh, to waste away.--_ns._
T[=A]'BES, a gradual wasting away; TABES'CENCE.--_adjs._ TABES'CENT;
TABET'IC; TAB'IC; TAB'ID.--_adv._ TAB'IDLY.--_n._ TAB'IDNESS.--_adj._
TABIF'IC, causing tabes.--_n._ TAB'ITUDE, state of one affected with
tabes.--TABES DORSALIS, the same as locomotor ataxia. [L. _tabes_, a
wasting, _tab[=e]re_, to waste away.]

TABELLA, t[=a]-bel'a, _n._ a medicated lozenge or hard electuary.--_adj._
TAB'ELLARY, tabular.--_n._ TABELL'ION, an official scrivener in the Roman
empire, and in France down to 1761. [L. _tabella_, dim. of _tabula_, a
table.]

TABER, _v.i._ (_B._). Same as TABOUR.

TABERD, tab'[.e]rd, _n._ Same as TABARD.

TABERNACLE, tab'[.e]r-na-kl, _n._ (_B._) the movable tent carried by the
Jews through the desert, and used as a temple: a tent: the human body as
the temporary abode of the soul: a place of worship or sacred place:
(_R.C._) the place in which the consecrated elements of the Eucharist are
kept: a socket permitting a mast to be lowered beneath bridges.--_v.i._ to
dwell: to abide for a time.--_adj._ TABERNAC'ULAR.--TABERNACLE WORK
(_archit._), ornamental work over niches, stalls, &c. with canopies and
pinnacles, or any work in which such forms a characteristic feature.--FEAST
OF TABERNACLES, a Jewish autumn festival, celebrating the sojourning of the
children of Israel in the wilderness (Lev. xxiii. 43), and the gathering-in
of all the fruits of the year (Ex. xxiii. 16). [L. _tabernaculum_, double
dim. of _taberna_, a hut, shed of boards.]

TABLATURE, tab'la-t[=u]r, _n._ something tabular: a painting on a wall or
ceiling: a picture in general: a method of musical notation, principally
employed in the 15th and 16th centuries for the lute: (_anat._) a division
of the skull into two tables. [Fr.,--L. _tabula_, a board.]

TABLE, t[=a]'bl, _n._ a smooth, flat slab or board, with legs, used as an
article of furniture: supply of food, entertainment: the company at a
table: the board or table on which a game is played, as billiards,
backgammon, draughts: a surface on which something is written or engraved:
that which is cut or written on a flat surface: a flat gravestone supported
on pillars: an inscription: a condensed statement: syllabus or index;
(_B._) a writing tablet.--_adj._ of or pertaining to a table, or the food
partaken from the table.--_v.t._ to make into a table or catalogue: to lay
(money) on the table: to pay down: to lay on the table--i.e. to postpone
consideration of.--_ns._ T[=A]'BLE-BEER, light beer for common use;
T[=A]'BLE-BOOK, a book of tablets, on which anything is written without
ink: a note-book: a book of tables, as of weights, measures, &c.;
T[=A]'BLE-CLOTH, a cloth usually of linen, for covering a table, esp. at
meals; T[=A]'BLE-COV'ER, a cloth for covering a table, esp. at other than
meal-times; TABLE-D'HÔTE (ta'bl-d[=o]t), a meal for several persons at the
same hour and at fixed prices; T[=A]'BLEFUL, as many as a table will hold;
T[=A]'BLELAND, an extensive region of elevated land with a plain-like or
undulating surface: a plateau; T[=A]'BLE-LEAF, a board at the side of a
table which can be put up or down to vary the size of the table;
T[=A]'BLE-LIN'EN, linen table-cloths, napkins, &c.; T[=A]'BLE-MON'EY, an
allowance granted to general officers in the army, and flag-officers in the
navy, to enable them to fulfil the duties of hospitality within their
respective commands; T[=A]'BLE-RAP'PING, production of raps on tables by
alleged spiritual agency.--_n.pl._ T[=A]'BLES, the game of
backgammon.--_ns._ T[=A]'BLE-SPOON, one of the largest spoons used at
table; T[=A]'BLE-SPOON'FUL, as much as will fill a table-spoon;
T[=A]'BLE-TALK, familiar conversation, as that round a table, during and
after meals; T[=A]'BLE-TURN'ING, movements of tables or other objects,
attributed by spiritualists to the agency of spirits--by rational persons
to involuntary muscular action--similarly T[=A]'BLE-LIFT'ING,
T[=A]'BLE-RAP'PING; T[=A]'BLE-WARE, dishes, spoons, knives, forks, &c. for
table use.--_adv._ T[=A]'BLEWISE, like a table--of the communion-table,
with the ends east and west--opp. to _Altar-wise_.--_ns._ T[=A]'BLE-WORK,
the setting of type for tables, columns of figures, &c.; T[=A]'BLING, the
act of tabling or forming into tables: (_carp._) a rude dove-tailing:
(_naut._) a broad hem on the skirts of sails.--THE LORD'S TABLE, the table
at which the Lord's Supper is partaken, or on which the elements are laid:
the Lord's Supper.--FENCE THE TABLES (see FENCE); LAY ON THE TABLE, to lay
aside any proposed measure indefinitely, or for future discussion; LIE ON
THE TABLE, to be laid upon the table; TURN THE TABLES, to bring about a
complete reversal of circumstances. [O. Fr. _table_--L. _tabula_, a board.]

TABLEAU, tab'l[=o], _n._ a picture: a striking and vivid
representation:--_pl._ TABLEAUX (tab'l[=o]z).--TABLEAU VIVANT, a
representation of a historical or other personage by a motionless living
person dressed in suitable costume. [Fr.,--L. _tabula_, a painting.]

TABLET, tab'let, _n._ a small flat surface: something flat on which to
write, paint, &c.: a confection in a flat square form.--_n._ TAB'LOID, a
small tablet containing a certain definite portion of some drug, a troche
or lozenge. Registered trade mark. [Dim. of _table_.]

TABOO, TABU, ta-b[=oo]', _n._ an institution among the Polynesians, forming
a penal system based on religious sanctions, by which certain things are
held sacred or consecrated, and hence prohibited to be used--by a natural
transference of meaning by association of ideas becoming equivalent to
'unholy,' 'accursed'--also TAMBOO', TAMBU', and TAPU': any prohibition,
interdict, restraint, ban, exclusion, ostracism.--_v.t._ to forbid approach
to: to forbid the use of:--_pr.p._ tab[=oo]'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
tab[=oo]ed'. [Polynesian _tapu_--prob. _ta_, to mark, _pu_, expressing
intensity.]

TABOR, t[=a]'bor, _n._ a camp amongst the ancient nomadic Slavs and Turks,
inside a ring of wagons.

TABORITE, t[=a]'bor-[=i]t, _n._ one of the more extreme party of the
Hussites, as opposed to the Calixtines or Utraquists, so named from their
headquarters being at Mount _Tabor_, 24 miles N.E. of Pisek.

TABOUR, TABOR, t[=a]'bor, _n._ a small drum like the timbrel or tambourine
without jingles, usually played with one stick, and in combination with a
fife.--_v.i._ to play on a tabour: to beat lightly and often:--_pr.p._
t[=a]'bouring: _pa.p._ t[=a]'boured.--_ns._ T[=A]'BORER (_Shak._), one who
beats the tabour; TAB'ORINE (_Shak._), a tabour or small drum; TAB'OURET,
TAB'RET, a small tabour or drum; TAB'R[=E]RE (_Spens._), a labourer. [O.
Fr. _tabour_ (Fr. _tambour_)--Pers. _tamb[=u]r_, a kind of cithern.]

TABOURET, tab'[=oo]-ret, _n._ a cushioned seat, without arms or back,
highly ornamented: a frame for embroidery: a needle-case.

TABU. Same as TABOO.

TABULAR, tab'[=u]-lar, _adj._ of the form of, or pertaining to, a table:
having a flat surface: arranged in a table or schedule, computed from
tables: having the form of laminæ or plates.--_ns._ TAB'ULA, a
writing-tablet, a legal record: a frontal: a dissepiment in corals, &c.;
TABULARIS[=A]'TION, the act of tabularising or forming into tables: the
state of being tabularised.--_v.t._ TAB'ULARISE, to put in a tabular form:
to tabulate:--_pr.p._ tab'[=u]lar[=i]sing; _pa.p._
tab'[=u]lar[=i]sed.--_adv._ TAB'ULARLY.--_v.t._ TAB'UL[=A]TE, to reduce to
tables or synopses: to shape with a flat surface.--_n._ TABUL[=A]'TION, the
act of forming into tables.

TACAHOUT, tak'a-howt, _n._ an Arab name for the small gall formed on the
tamarisk-tree, and used as one source for obtaining gallic acid.

TACAMAHAC, tak'a-ma-hak, _n._ a gum-resin yielded by several tropical
trees. [South American.]

TAC-AU-TAC, tak'-[=o]-tak', _n._ in fencing, the parry combined with the
riposte, also a series of close attacks and parries between fencers of
equal skill. [Fr.]

TACE, t[=a]'s[=e], be silent.--TACE IS LATIN FOR A CANDLE, a phrase
understood as requesting or promising silence. [L., imper. of _tac[=e]re_,
to be silent.]

TACHE, tash, _n._ (_B._) a fastening or catch. [_Tack_.]

TACHE, tash, _n._ a spot, stain, or freckle: a moral blemish: a
characteristic. [Fr.]

TACHOMETER, t[=a]-kom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring variations
in the velocity of machines.--Also TACHYM'ETER. [Gr. _tachos_, speed,
_metron_, a measure.]

TACHYGRAPHY, t[=a]-kig'ra-fi, _n._ stenography, the art of writing in
abbreviations.--_n._ TACHYG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ TACHYGRAPN'IC, -AL. [Gr.
_tachys_, swift, _graphein_, to write.]

TACHYLITE, tak'i-l[=i]t, _n._ a black opaque natural glass, which results
from the rapid cooling of molten basalt, occurring as a thin selvage to
dikes and veins of intrusive basalt.--_adj._ TACHYLIT'IC.

TACHYMETER, t[=a]-kim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a surveying instrument--also
TACHEOM'ETER.--_n._ TACHYM'ETRY, scientific use of the tachymeter.

TACIT, tas'it, _adj._ implied, but not expressed by words: silent, giving
no sound.--_adv._ TAC'ITLY.--_n._ TAC'ITNESS.--_adj._ TAC'ITURN, habitually
tacit or silent: not fond of talking: reserved in speech.--_ns._
TAC'ITURNIST, one habitually taciturn; TACITURN'ITY, habitual silence:
reserve in speaking.--_adv._ TAC'ITURNLY. [L. _tacitus_, pa.p. of
_tac[=e]re_, to be silent.]

TACK, tak, _n._ a short, sharp nail with a broad head: a fastening, a long
temporary stitch: the weather clew or foremost lower corner of any of the
courses, or of any sail set with a boom or gaff, or of a flag, also the
rope by which such clew or tack is confined or fastened: the course of a
ship in reference to the position of her sails: a determinate course, the
art of tacking, hence a change of policy, a strategical move: a shelf for
drying cheese: term of a lease: adhesiveness, sticky condition, as of
varnish, &c.--_v.t._ to attach or fasten, esp. in a slight manner, as by
tacks.--_v.i._ to change the course or tack of a ship by shifting the
position of the sails: to shift one's position, to veer.--_adj._ TACK'Y,
adhesive, viscous. [Most prob. Celt., Ir. _taca_, a pin, Bret. _tach_, a
nail.]

TACK, tak, _n._ (_prov._) any distinctive and permanent flavour.

TACK, tak, _n._ food generally, fare, esp. of the bread kind, as _hard
tack_, _soft tack_, &c.

TACKET, tak'et, _n._ (_Scot._) a hobnail in the soles of strong shoes.

TACKLE, tak'l, _n._ the ropes, rigging, &c. of a ship: tools, weapons:
ropes, &c., for raising heavy weights: a pulley.--_v.t._ to harness:
(_prov._) to seize or take hold of, attack, fasten upon.--_v.i._ to get a
hold of.--_adj._ TACK'LED, made of ropes tackled together.--_ns._
TACK'LING, furniture or apparatus belonging to the masts, yards, &c. of a
ship: harness for drawing a carriage: tackle or instruments; TACKS'MAN, a
tenant or lessee. [Scand., Sw. _tackel_--Ice. _taka_, to take.]

TACKY, tak'i, _n._ (_U.S._) a poor ill-conditioned horse.

TACT, takt, _n._ adroitness in managing the feelings of persons dealt with:
nice perception in seeing and doing exactly what is best in the
circumstances: (_mus._) the stroke in keeping time.--_adjs._ TACT'FUL;
TAC'TILE, that may be touched or felt.--_ns._ TACTIL'ITY, state of being
tactile: touchiness; TAC'TION, act of touching: sense of touch.--_adj._
TACT'LESS, without tact.--_n._ TACT'LESSNESS.--_adj._ TACT'[=U]AL, relating
to, or derived from, the sense of touch.--_adv._ TACT'[=U]ALLY.--_n._
TACT'US, the sense of touch. [L. _tactus_--_tang[)e]re_, _tactum_, to
touch.]

TACTICS, tak'tiks, _n.sing._ the science or art of manoeuvring military and
naval forces in the presence of the enemy: way or method of
proceeding.--_adjs._ TAC'TIC, -AL, pertaining to tactics.--_adv._
TAC'TICALLY.--_n._ TACTI'CIAN, one skilled in tactics. [Gr. _taktik[=e]_
(_techn[=e]_, art, understood), art of arranging men in a field of
battle--_tassein_, _taxein_, to arrange.]

TADPOLE, tad'p[=o]l, _n._ a young toad or frog in its first state, before
the tail is absorbed and the limbs pushed forth.--_n._ TAD (_U.S._), a
street-boy. [A _toad_ with a _poll_.]

TÆDIUM, t[=e]'di-um, _n._ weariness, tediousness. [L.]

TAEL, t[=a]l, _n._ the Chinese _liang_ or ounce, equal to 1-1/3 oz. avoir.:
a money of account in China, equivalent to a tael weight of pure silver, or
to about 1250 of the copper coin known as 'cash.' The value of the Haikwan
tael, or customs tael, is about 4s. 9d. English, varying with the price of
silver.

TA'EN, t[=a]n, a contraction of taken.

TÆNIA, t[=e]'ni-a, _n._ a ribbon or fillet: the fillet above the architrave
of the Doric order: a tapeworm.--_n._ TÆ'NICIDE, a drug that destroys
tapeworms.--_adj._ TÆ'NIFORM, ribbon-like.--_n._ TÆ'NIFUGE, anything used
to expel tapeworms.--_adj._ TÆ'NIOID, ribbon-like. [L.,--Gr. _tainia_, a
band.]

TAFFEREL, taf'[.e]r-el, TAFFRAIL, taf'r[=a]l, _n._ the upper part of a
ship's stern timbers. [Dut. _tafereel_, a panel--_tafel_, a table--L.
_tabula_, a table; cf. Ger. _täfelei_, flooring--_tafel_, a table.]

TAFFETA, taf'e-ta, _n._ a thin glossy silk-stuff having a wavy lustre:
(_orig._) silk-stuff plainly woven.--Also TAFF'ETY. [It. _taffetà_--Pers.
_t[=a]ftah_, woven--_t[=a]ftan_, to twist.]

TAFFY, taf'i, _n._ Same as TOFFY.

TAFFY, taf'i, _n._ a Welshman--from _Davy_.

TAFIA, taf'i-a, _n._ a variety of rum. [Malay.]

TAFT, taft, _v.t._ in plumbing, to spread the end of a lead pipe outward so
as to form a wide thin flange.

TAG, tag, _n._ a tack or point of metal at the end of a string: any small
thing tacked or attached to another: any pendant or appendage, the tip of
an animal's tail: the rabble collectively, anything mean.--_v.t._ to fit a
tag or point to: to tack, fasten, or hang to: to dog or follow
closely.--_v.i._ to make tags, to string words or ideas together: to go
behind as a follower:--_pr.p._ tag'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tagged.--_ns._
TAG'-END, a loosely connected end, the concluding part; TAG'GER, anything
that tags, an appendage.--_n.pl._ TAG'GERS, thin sheet-iron.--_n._ and
_adj._ TAG'RAG, a fluttering rag, a tatter: the rabble, or denoting it--the
same as _Rag-tag_, often in phrase TAGRAG AND BOBTAIL.--_ns._ TAG'-SORE, a
disease in sheep, in which, the tail is excoriated through diarrhoea;
TAG'-TAIL, a worm with a tail like a tag: a hanger-on, parasite. [A weaker
form of _tack_.]

TAG, tag, _n._ a children's game in which the object is for the player to
chase the rest until he touches one, who then takes his place as
TAGG'GER.--_v.t._ to touch or hit in this game.

TAGHAIRM, tag'erm, _n._ an ancient mode of divination among the Scotch
Highlanders, in which a man was wrapped in a fresh bullock's hide and left
by a running stream to wait for inspiration. [Gael.]

TAGLIA, tal'ya, _n._ a rope and pulleys, tackle with a set of sheaves in a
fixed block and another set in a movable block to which the weight is
attached. [It.]

TAGLIONI, tal-y[=o]'ni, _n._ a kind of overcoat, so called from the famous
family of dancers, the most famous of whom was Maria _Taglioni_ (1804-84).

TAHA, tä'ha, _n._ an African weaver-bird of the family _Ploceidæ_.

TAHLI, tä'li, _n._ a Hindu gold ornament worn by the wives of Brahmans.

TAHONA, ta-h[=o]'na, _n._ a crushing-mill for ores worked by horse-power.
[Sp.,--Ar.]

TAI, t[=i], _n._ the Japanese bream.

TAIC, tä'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the _Tai_, the chief race in the
Indo-Chinese peninsula, including the Siamese, the Laos, &c.--_n._ the
group of languages spoken by the Tai.

TAIGLE, t[=a]'gl, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to entangle, hinder.--_v.i._ to delay,
tarry.

TAIL, t[=a]l, _n._ the posterior extremity of an animal, its caudal
appendage: anything resembling a tail in appearance, position, &c.: the
back, lower, or hinder part of anything: a retinue, suite: a queue or body
of persons in single file: anything long and hanging, as a catkin, train of
a comet, long curl of hair, &c.: in Turkey, a horse-tail, formerly carried
before a pasha as an emblem of relative rank.--_n._ TAIL'-BOARD, the board
at the hinder end of a cart or wagon, which can be let down or removed, for
convenience in unloading.--_adj._ TAILED, having a tail of a specified
kind.--_ns._ TAIL'-END, the hind part of any animal, the tip of the tail:
the end or finish of anything, the fag-end: (_pl._) inferior corn sorted
out from that of better quality; TAIL'-FEATH'ER, one of the rectrices or
rudder-feathers of a bird's tail; TAIL'-GATE, the aft or lower gate of a
canal lock.--_n.pl._ TAIL'INGS, refuse, dregs.--_adj._ TAIL'LESS, having no
tail.--_ns._ TAIL'PIECE, a piece at the tail or end, esp. of a series, as
of engravings; TAIL'PIPE, the suction pipe in a pump.--_v.t._ to fasten
something to the tail of, as a dog, to fix something to one by way of
joke.--_ns._ TAIL'RACE, the channel in which water runs away below a
mill-wheel; TAIL'ROPE, in coal-mining, a rope extending from the hind part
of a car or kibble in a slightly inclined passage, by means of which the
empties are drawn 'inby,' while the loaded cars are drawn 'outby.'--LAY, or
PUT, SALT ON THE TAIL OF (see SALT); MAKE NEITHER HEAD NOR TAIL OF ANYTHING
(see HEAD); TURN TAIL, to run away, to shirk a combat; TWIST THE LION'S
TAIL (_U.S._), to goad or insult the pacific and long-suffering British
public feeling for political purposes in America; WITH THE TAIL BETWEEN THE
LEGS, in a cowardly way, after the manner of a beaten cur when he sneaks
away. [A.S. _tægel_; Ger. _zagel_; Goth. _tagl_, hair.]

TAIL, t[=a]l, _n._ (_law_) the term applied to an estate which is cut off
or limited to certain heirs.--_ns._ TAIL'[=A]GE, TALL'[=A]GE. [Fr.
_taille_, cutting. Cf. _Entail_.]

TAILOR, t[=a]l'ur, _n._ one whose business is to cut out and make men's
clothes:--_fem._ TAIL'ORESS.--_v.i._ to work as a tailor.--_v.t._ to make
clothes for.--_ns._ TAIL'OR-BIRD, one of several Oriental small passerine
birds which sew leaves together to form a nest: TAIL'ORING, the business or
work of a tailor.--_adj._ TAIL'OR-MADE, made by a tailor, esp. of plain,
close-fitting garments for women, in imitation of men's. [Fr.
_tailleur_--_tailler_, to cut.]

TAILZIE, TAILYE, t[=a]l'y[=e], _n._ (_law_) a Scotch form of _tail_.

TAINT, t[=a]nt, _v.t._ to tinge, moisten, or impregnate with anything
noxious: to infect: to stain.--_v.i._ to be affected with something
corrupting.--_n._ a stain or tincture: infection or corruption: a spot: a
moral blemish.--_adj._ TAINT'LESS, without taint, pure.--_adv._
TAINT'LESSLY, without taint.--_n._ TAINT'URE (_Shak._), taint, tinge,
stain. [O. Fr. _taint_ (Fr. _teint_), pa.p. of _teindre_, to dye--L.
_ting[)e]re_, _tinctum_, to wet.]

T'ÂI-P'ING, t[=i]-ping', _n._ the name given by foreigners to one of the
followers of Hung Hsiû-ch'wan (S'eiw-tseuen), who raised the standard of
rebellion in China in 1851, and whose enterprise was finally suppressed in
1865 mainly through the vigour of Colonel Charles ('Chinese') Gordon, the
hero of Khartoum.

TAISCH, t[=a]sh, _n._ the sound of the voice of a person about to die heard
by some one at a distance beyond the range of ordinary sounds.--Also TASK.
[Gael. _taibhs_, _taibhse_, an apparition.]

TAJ, täj, _n._ a crown, a distinctive head-dress, esp. the tall conical cap
worn by Mohammedan dervishes--applied as expressing pre-eminence to the
_Taj_ Mahal, the magnificent mausoleum of Shah Jehan (1628-58) at Agra.
[Pers.]

TAKE, t[=a]k, _v.t._ to lay hold of: to get into one's possession: to
catch: to capture: to captivate: to receive: to choose: to use: to allow:
to understand: to agree to: to become affected with.--_v.i._ to catch: to
have the intended effect: to gain reception, to please: to move or direct
the course of: to have recourse to:--_pa.t._ took; _pa.p._ t[=a]'ken.--_n._
quantity of fish taken or captured at one time.--_ns._ TAKE'-IN, an
imposition, fraud: that by which one is deceived; TAKE'-OFF, a burlesque
representation of any one; T[=A]'KER; T[=A]'KING, act of taking or gaining
possession: a seizing: agitation, excitement: (_Spens._ sickness: (_Shak._)
witchery: malignant influence.--_adj._ captivating: alluring.--_adv._
T[=A]'KINGLY.--_n._ T[=A]'KINGNESS, quality of being taking or
attractive.--_adj._ T[=A]'KY, attractive.--TAKE ADVANTAGE OF, to employ to
advantage: to make use of circumstances to the prejudice of; TAKE AFTER, to
follow in resemblance; TAKE AIR, to be disclosed or made public; TAKE
BREATH, to stop in order to breathe, to be refreshed; TAKE CARE, CARE OF
(see CARE); TAKE DOWN, to reduce: to bring down from a higher place, to
lower: to swallow: to pull down: to write down; TAKE FOR, to mistake; TAKE
FRENCH LEAVE (see FRENCH); TAKE FROM, to derogate or detract from; TAKE
HEED, to be careful; TAKE HEED TO, to attend to with care; TAKE IN, to
enclose, to embrace: to receive: to contract, to furl, as a sail: to
comprehend: to accept as true: to cheat: (_Shak._) to conquer; TAKE IN
HAND, to undertake; TAKE INTO ONE'S HEAD, to be seized with a sudden
notion; TAKE IN VAIN, to use with unbecoming levity or profaneness; TAKE IN
WITH, to deceive by means of; TAKE IT OUT OF, to extort reparation from: to
exhaust the strength or energy of; TAKE LEAVE (see LEAVE); TAKEN IN,
deceived, cheated; TAKE NOTICE, to observe: to show that observation is
made: (with _of_) to remark upon; TAKE OFF, to remove: to swallow: to mimic
or imitate; TAKE ON, to take upon: to claim a character: (_coll._) to
grieve; TAKE ORDERS, to receive ordination; TAKE ORDER WITH (_Bacon_), to
check; TAKE OUT, to remove from within: to deduct: (_Shak._) to copy; TAKE
PART, to share; TAKE PLACE, to happen: to prevail; TAKE ROOT, to strike out
roots, to live and grow, as a plant: to be established; TAKE THE FIELD, to
begin military operations; TAKE THE WALL OF, to pass on the side nearest
the wall: to get the advantage of; TAKE TO, to apply to: to resort to: to
be fond of; TAKE TO HEART, to feel sensibly; TAKE UP, to lift, to raise:
(_Shak._) to borrow money, to buy on credit, to make up a quarrel: to
employ, occupy or fill: to arrest: to comprise; TAKE UP ARMS, to commence
to fight; TAKE UPON, to assume; TAKE UP WITH, to be pleased or contented
with, to form a connection with, to fall in love with: to lodge; TAKE WITH,
to be pleased with. [M. E. _taken_--Scand.; Ice. _taka_ pa.t. _tók_, pa.p.
_tekinn_); conn. with L. _tang[)e]re_, _tetig-i_, to touch, and with Eng.
_tack_.]

TALARIA, t[=a]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n.pl._ the winged sandals of Hermes and other
divinities.--_adj._ TALAR'IC, pertaining to the ankles. [L.,--_talus_, the
ankle.]

TALAUNT, tal'awnt, _n._ (_Spens._) talon.

TALBOT, tal'bot, _n._ a broad-mouthed large-eared hound, usually
white--apparently the same as the St Hubert's breed. [From the _Talbot_
family.]

TALBOTYPE, tal'b[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a photographic process invented by
William Henry Fox _Talbot_ (1800-77), a calotype.

TALC, talk, _n._ a mineral occurring in thin flakes, of a white or green
colour and a soapy feel.--_n._ TAL'CITE, a massive variety of
talc.--_adjs._ TALC'KY, TAL'COSE, TAL'COUS, containing, consisting of, or
like talc. [Fr. _talc_ (Ger. _talk_)--Sp. _talco_--Ar. _talq_.]

TALE, t[=a]l, _n._ a narrative or story: a fable: what is told or counted
off: number: reckoning.--_v.i._ (_obs._) to speak.--_n._ TALE'-BEAR'ER, one
who maliciously tells tales or gives information.--_adj._ TALE'-BEAR'ING,
given to tell tales or give information officiously.--_n._ act of telling
secrets.--_adj._ TALE'FUL, abounding with stories.--_n._ TALE'-TELL'ER, one
who tells stories, esp. officiously.--BE IN A (or ONE) TALE, to be in full
accord; OLD WIVES' TALE, any marvellous story appealing to one's credulity;
TELL ONE'S (or ITS) OWN TALE, to speak for one's self or itself; TELL
TALES, to play the informer; TELL TALES OUT OF SCHOOL, to reveal
confidential matters. [A.S. _talu_, a reckoning, a tale, also speech; Ger.
_zahl_, a number.]

TALEGALLA, tal-e-gal'a, _n._ the brush-turkey, a genus of gallinaceous
birds, in the same family as the mound-building _Megapodes_.--Also
TALEGALL'US. [The latter part is probably from L. _gallus_, a cock.]

TALENT, tal'ent, _n._ an ancient weight or denomination of money--in the
Attic system of money (_N.T._), 100 _drachmæ_ made a _mnâ_ (pound, Luke
xix. 13), and 6000 made a _talent_; this talent weighed 57 lb. avoirdupois,
and in value may be put roughly at about £213-£235, the mnâ at about £4:
faculty: any natural or special gift: special aptitude: eminent ability:
abundance.--_adjs._ TAL'ENTED, possessing mental gifts; TAL'ENTLESS,
without talent. [L. _talentum_--Gr. _talanton_, a weight, a talent, from a
root meaning to lift, as in _tl[=e]nai_, to bear; akin to L. _toll[)e]re_,
Ger. _dulden_, Scot. _thole_.]

TALES, t[=a]'l[=e]z, _n.pl._ a list of persons, apparently a selection from
spectators in court, made by the sheriff or judge at a trial, to supply any
defect in a jury or panel.--_n._ T[=A]'LESMAN, a bystander so chosen.--PRAY
A TALES, to plead that the number of jurymen be completed in this way.
[From the phrase '_tales_ de circumstantibus,' _tales_, _pl._ of L.
_talis_, such.]

TALIACOTIAN, tal-i-a-k[=o]'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the rhinoplastic
operation of _Tagliacozzi_ or _Taliacotius_ (1546-99), in which the skin
for the new nose was taken from the arm of the patient, the arm requiring
to be kept in apposition with the face for about twenty days.

TALIAN, tal'i-an, _n._ an old Bohemian dance, or its music.

TALION, tal'i-on, _n._ the law of retaliation.--_adj._ TALION'IC. [L.
_talio_, like punishment--_talis_, of such kind.]

TALIPED, tal'i-ped, _adj._ club-footed: walking like the sloth.--_n._ a
club-footed person.--_n._ TAL'IPES, a club-foot: club-footedness: the
distorted formation of the feet of the sloth. [L. _talus_, the ankle,
_pes_, the foot.]

TALIPOT, tal'i-pot, _n._ an East Indian palm with fan-shaped leaves.--Also
TAL'IPUT, TAL'IPAT. [Hind. _t[=a]lp[=a]t_.]

TALISMAN, tal'is-man, _n._ a species of charm engraved on metal or stone
when two planets are in conjunction, or when a star is at its culminating
point, and supposed to exert some protective influence over the wearer of
it: (_fig._) something that produces extraordinary effects:--_pl._
TAL'ISMANS.--_adjs._ TALISMAN'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or having the
properties of, a talisman: magical. [Fr.,--Ar. _tilsam_--Late Ger.
_telesma_, consecration, incantation--Gr. _telein_, to consecrate.]

TALK, tawk, _v.i._ to speak familiarly: to prattle: to reason.--_n._
familiar conversation: that which is uttered in familiar intercourse:
subject of discourse: rumour.--_adjs._ TALK'ABLE, capable of talking, or of
being talked about; TALK'ATIVE, given to much talking: prating.--_adv._
TALK'ATIVELY.--_ns._ TALK'ATIVENESS; TALK'EE-TALK'EE, a corrupt dialect:
incessant chatter--also _adj._ TALK'Y-TALK'Y.--_n._ TALK'ER.--_adj._
TALK'ING, given to talking.--TALK AGAINST TIME, to keep on talking merely
to fill up time, as often in parliament: TALK BIG, to talk boastfully; TALK
DOWN, to argue down; TALK FROM THE POINT, to wander away from the proper
question; TALK GREEK, to talk above the understanding of one's hearers;
TALKING OF, apropos of, with regard to; TALK OVER, to persuade, convince:
to discuss, consider together; TALK ROUND, to exhaust the subject: to bring
to one's way of thinking by persuasive talk; TALK SHOP (see SHOP); TALK TO,
to address: to rebuke; TALK UP, to speak impudently or boldly to. [Prof.
Skeat takes the M. E. _talken_ from Scand., and that from Lithuanian; Sw.
_tolka_ (Ice. _túlka_), to interpret--Lith. _tulkas_, an interpreter.
Prob., however, the M. E. _talken_ is _talen_, _talien_, to speak, with
formative _-k_, giving a freq. or dim. force; cf. _Tale_.]

TALL, tawl, _adj._ high, esp. in stature: lofty: long: sturdy: bold:
courageous: great, remarkable: demanding much credulity, hardly to be
believed.--_n._ TALL'NESS. [Ety. very dub.; perh. conn. with W. _tal_,
large.]

TALLAGE, tal'[=a]j, _n._ a name applied to those taxes to which, under the
Anglo-Norman kings, the demesne lands of the crown and all royal towns were
subject--also TALL'IAGE.--_v.t._ to lay an impost upon--also
TALL'IATE.--_adj._ TALL'IABLE, subject to tallage.

TALLAT, tal'at, _n._ (_prov._) a hay-loft.--ALSO TALL'OT, TALL'ET.

TALLITH, tal'ith, _n._ the mantle worn by the Jews at prayer. [Heb.]

TALLOW, tal'[=o], _n._ the fat of animals melted: any coarse, hard
fat.--_v.t._ to grease with tallow.--_ns._ TALL'OW-CAN'DLE, a candle made
of tallow; TALL'OW-CATCH, -KEECH, (_Shak._), a keech or lump of tallow: a
low mean fellow; TALL'OW-CHAND'LER, a dealer in tallow, candles, &c.;
TALL'OW-CHAND'LERY, the trade or place of business of a tallow-chandler;
TALL'OWER, a tallow-chandler; TALL'OW-FACE, a yellow pasty-faced
person.--_adj._ TALL'OW-FACED.--_n._ TALL'OW-TREE, the name given to trees
of different kinds which produce a thick oil or vegetable tallow, or a
somewhat resinous substance, capable of making candles.--_adj._ TALL'OWY,
like tallow, greasy. [Old Dut. _talgh_, _talch_; Low Ger. _talq_, Ice.
_tólgr_, _tólg_.]

TALLY, tal'i, _n._ a stick cut or notched to match another stick, used to
mark numbers or keep accounts by--(down to the beginning of the 19th
century these were used in England for keeping accounts in Exchequer,
answering the double purpose of receipts and public records): anything made
to suit another:--_pl._ TALL'IES.--_v.t._ to score with corresponding
notches: to make to fit.--_v.i._ to correspond: to suit:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ tall'ied.--_ns._ TALL'IER, one who keeps a tally; TALL'YMAN, one
who keeps a tally-shop: one who lives with a woman without marriage;
TALL'YSHOP, a shop where goods are sold to be paid by instalments, the
seller having one account-book which tallies with the buyer's;
TALL'Y-SYS'TEM, -TRADE, a mode of dealing by which dealers furnish certain
articles on credit to their customers upon an agreement for the payment of
the stipulated price by certain weekly or monthly instalments.--LIVE TALLY,
to cohabit without marriage. [Fr. _taille_ (It. _taglia_)--L. _talea_, a
cutting. Cf. _Tail_ (law).]

TALLY-HO, tal'i-h[=o], _interj._ the huntsman's cry betokening that a fox
has gone away: a four-in-hand pleasure-coach.--_v.t._ to urge on, as
hounds.

TALMA, tal'ma, _n._ a woman's loose cloak, generally hooded: a similar form
of overcoat for men. [From F. J. _Talma_, the actor (1763-1826).]

TALMUD, tal'mud, _n._ the name of the fundamental code of the Jewish civil
and canonical law, comprising the _Mishna_ and the _Gemara_, the former as
the text, the latter as the commentary and complement.--There are two
Talmuds, the one called the Talmud of the Occidentals, or the JERUSALEM
(Palestine) TALMUD, which was closed at Tiberias in the end of the 4th
century, and the other the BABYLONIAN TALMUD, emphatically styled 'our
Talmud,' not completed till the end of the 5th century, and making use of
the former.--_adjs._ TALMUD'IC, -AL.--n, TAL'MUDIST, one learned in the
Talmud.--_adj._ TALMUDIST'IC, relating to, or contained in the Talmud.
[Chaldee _talm[=u]d_, instruction--_l[=a]mad_, to learn.]

TALON, tal'on, _n._ the claw of a bird of prey.--_adj._ TAL'ONED. [Fr.
_talon_, through Low L., from L. _talus_, the heel.]

TALPA, tal'pa, _n._ the chief genus of the family _Talpidæ_, the moles: an
encysted tumour on the head, a wen. [L., a mole.]

TALUK, ta-l[=oo]k', _n._ in south and western India, a subdivision of a
district presided over as regards revenue matters by a
_tahs[=i]ld[=a]r_--in Bengal, a tract of proprietary land.--_n._ TALUK'DAR.
[Hind.]

TALUS, t[=a]'lus, _n._ the ankle-bone: (_arch._) a slope: (_fort._) the
sloping part of a work: (_geol._) a sloping heap of fragments at the foot
of a steep rock. [L.]

TAMAL, tä-mal', _n._ a dish of crushed Indian corn highly seasoned, sold on
the streets in Mexico, Texas, &c.--Also TAMA'LE. [Sp.]

TAMANDUA, tä-man'd[=u]-a, _n._ an arboreal ant-eater with prehensile
tail.--_n._ TAMANOIR (tam'a-nwor), the great ant-eater of tropical America.
[Braz.]

TAMANU, tam'a-n[=oo], _n._ a lofty gamboge tree of the East Indies and
Pacific Islands, its trunk yielding tacamabac. [East Ind.]

TAMARA, tam'a-ra, _n._ a condiment much used in Italy, made of powdered
cinnamon, cloves, coriander, &c. [East Ind.]

TAMARACK, tam'a-rak, _n._ the American or black larch. [Amer. Ind]

TAMARIN, tam'a-rin, _n._ a small South American squirrel-monkey.

TAMARIND, tam'a-rind, _n._ a beautiful spreading East Indian tree, its pods
filled with a pleasant, acidulous, sweet, reddish-black pulp, in which the
seeds are embedded. [_Tamarindus_, Latinised from Ar. _tamar-u'l Hind_,
'date of India,' or perhaps rather, in Persian form, _tamar-i-Hind[=i]_.]

TAMARISK, tam'ar-isk, _n._ a genus of Mediterranean evergreen shrubs with
small white or pink flowers. [L. _tamariscus_.]

TAMBAC, tam'bak, _n._ agallochum or aloes-wood.--Also TOM'BAC.

TAMBOO, TAMBU. See TABOO.

TAMBOUR, tam'b[=oo]r, _n._ a small, shallow drum: a frame on which muslin
or other material is stretched for embroidering: a rich kind of gold and
silver embroidery: silk or other stuff embroidered on a tambour: a
cylindrical stone in the shaft of a column, a drum: a vestibule of
timber-work serving to break the draught in a church-porch, &c.: a work
formed of palisades, defending a gate, &c.--_v.t._ to embroider on a
tambour.--_v.i._ to do tambour-work. [Fr. _tambour_. Cf. _Tabour_.]

TAMBOURINE, tam-b[=oo]-r[=e]n', _n._ a shallow drum with one skin and bells
or jingles, and played on with the hand: a Provençal dance, also the music
for such--(_Spens._) TAM'BURIN. [Fr. _tambourin_, dim. of tambour.]

TAME, t[=a]m, _adj._ having lost native wildness and shyness: domesticated:
gentle: spiritless: without vigour: dull, flat, uninspiring: wonted,
accustomed.--_v.t._ to reduce to a domestic state: to make gentle: to
reclaim: to civilise.--_ns._ T[=A]MABIL'ITY, T[=A]MEABLI'ITY,
T[=A]M'ABLENESS, T[=A]ME'ABLENESS.--_adjs._ T[=A]M'ABLE, T[=A]ME'ABLE, that
may be tamed; T[=A]ME'LESS.--_n._ T[=A]ME'LESSNESS.--_adv._
T[=A]ME'LY.--_ns._ T[=A]ME'NESS; T[=A]'MER, one who tames. [A.S. _tam_;
cog. with Ger. _zahm_.]

TAMIL, tam'il, _n._ one of the Dravidian languages spoken in south-eastern
India and the northern half of Ceylon, possessing a rich and varied
literature: one of the Dravidian inhabitants of southern India and
Ceylon.--_adjs._ TAM'IL, TAMIL'LIAN, TAMIL'IC, TAMUL'IC.

TAMIN, tam'in, _n._ a thin worsted stuff, highly glazed.--Also TAM'INE,
TAM'INY, TAM'MY.

TAMISE, ta-m[=e]z', _n._ a trade name for various thin woollen
fabrics.--_n._ TAM'IS, a cloth for straining liquids.

TAMMANY, tam'a-ni, _n._ the Tammany Society, a Democratic organisation in
New York, notorious for the corrupt influence it has exerted in city
politics. [From the name of an Indian chief, _Tammanend_, who is said to
have signed the treaty with Penn.]

TAMMUZ, tam'uz, _n._ a Syrian deity, same as the Phoenician Adonis, a
sun-god, worshipped with peculiar naturalistic rites by women among the
Chaldæans, and even in Jerusalem (Ezek. viii. 14).

TAMMY-NORIE, tam'i-n[=o]'ri, _n._ (_Scot._) a sea-bird, the auk or puffin.

TAM-O'-SHANTER, tam-[=o]-shan't[.e]r, _n._ a broad bonnet. [From the hero
of Burns's famous poem.]

TAMP, tamp, _v.t._ to fill up, as a hole bored in a rock for blasting: to
pack earth, &c., round, as a mine, to prevent an explosion in a wrong
direction.--_n._ TAM'PING, the act of filling up a hole in a rock for
blasting: the material used. [_Tampion_ (q.v.).]

TAMPER, tam'p[.e]r, _v.i._ to try the temper of: to try little experiments
without necessity or authority: to meddle: to practise secretly and
unfairly.--_n._ TAM'PERER. [A by-form of _temper_.]

TAMPION, tamp'i-un, _n._ the stopper used to close the mouth of a cannon or
mortar.--Also TOM'PION. [O. Fr. _tampon_, _tapon_--_tape_, a tap--Dut.
_tap_, a bung.]

TAMPON, tamp'on, _n._ (_surg._) a. plug inserted in a cavity of the body in
order to arrest hæmorrhage.--_v.t._ to plug tightly.--_ns._ TAMPONADE',
TAM'PONAGE, TAM'PONING, TAM'PONMENT. [_Tampion_.]

TAM-TAM. See TOM-TOM.

TAN, tan, _n._ bark of the oak, &c., bruised and broken for tanning: a
yellowish-brown colour.--_v.t._ to convert skins and hides into leather by
steeping in vegetable solutions containing tannin: to make brown or tawny:
to take the freshness from: (_coll._) to beat.--_v.i._ to become
tanned:--_pr.p._ tan'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tanned.--_n.pl._ TAN'-BALLS,
the spent bark of the tanner's yard pressed into lumps, which harden on
drying, and serve for fuel.--_n._ TAN'-BED (_hort._), a bark-bed.--_adj._
TAN'-COL'OURED, of the colour of tan.--_ns._ TAN'LING (_Shak._), one tanned
or scorched by the heat of the sun; TAN'-LIQ'UOR, -OOZE, an aqueous extract
of tan-bark.--_adj._ TAN'NABLE.--_ns._ TAN'NAGE, act of tanning: browning
from exposure to the sun: the act of steeping cast slabs of artificial
marble in a solution of potash alum to harden it and make it insoluble;
TAN'NER, one who tans; TAN'NERY, a place for tanning; TAN'NING, the art of
tanning or converting into leather; TAN'-PIT, -VAT, a vat in which hides
are steeped in liquor with tan; TAN'-YARD, a yard or enclosure where
leather is tanned. [A.S. _tannian_; cf. Dut. _tanen_, or prob. O. Fr.
_tan_--Bret. _tann_, an oak. If the latter, then Old High Ger. _tanna_
(Ger. _tanne_), fir, oak, is borrowed.]

TANA, tä'nä, _n._ a military or police station In India--also TAN'NA,
THAN'NAH.--_ns._ TÄ'NADAR, TAN'NADAR, the commandant of a tana. [Hind.
_th[=a]na_.]

TANAGER, tan'[=a]-j[.e]r, _n._ any tanagrine bird, a member of the
_Tanagridæ_, a family of the Passeriformes or perching birds, closely
allied to the finches.--_n._ TAN'[=A]GRA, the name-giving genus of the
family, now restricted to about a dozen species.--_adjs._ TAN'[=A]GRINE,
TAN'[=A]GROID. [Braz. _tangara_.]

TANDEM, tan'dem, _adv._ applied to the position of horses harnessed singly
one before the other instead of abreast.--_n._ a team of horses (usually
two) so harnessed: a bicycle or tricycle on which two ride one before the
other. [Originated in university slang, in a play on the L. adv. _tandem_,
at length.]

TANE, t[=a]n, _pa.p._ ta'en, taken.

TANG, tang, _n._ seaweed. [_Tangle_.]

TANG, tang, _n._ a twang or sharp sound.--_v.t._ to cause to ring.--_v.i._
to ring. [Imit., like _twang_.]

TANG, tang, _n._ a strong or offensive taste, esp. of something extraneous:
relish: taste: specific flavour.--_adj._ TANG'Y. [A special use of _tang_,
point.]

TANG, tang, _n._ a point, the tapering part of a knife or tool which goes
into the haft. [Ice. _tangi_; cog. with _tongs_.]

[Illustration]

TANGENT, tan'jent, _n._ a line which touches a curve, and which when
produced does not cut it.--_ns._ TAN'GENCY, TAN'GENCE, state of being
tangent: a contact or touching.--_adj._ TANGEN'TIAL, of or pertaining to a
tangent: in the direction of a tangent.--_n._ TANGENTIAL'ITY.--_adv._
TANGEN'TIALLY, in the direction of a tangent.--GO OFF, or FLY OFF, AT A
TANGENT, to break off suddenly into a different line of thought, &c. [L.
_tangens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _tang[)e]re_, to touch.]

TANGERINE, tan-je-r[=e]n', _adj._ relating to _Tangiers_ on the Morocco
coast.--_n._ a native of Tangiers: a Tangerine orange.

TANGHIN, tang'gin, _n._ a vegetable poison of Madagascar, acting upon the
heart like digitalis--formerly used for the judicial ordeal.

TANGIBLE, tan'ji-bl, _adj._ perceptible by the touch: capable of being
possessed or realised.--_ns._ TANGIB'IL[=E], a tactile sensation or object;
TANGIBIL'ITY, quality of being tangible or perceptible to the touch;
TAN'GIBLENESS, the state or quality of being tangible.--_adv._ TAN'GIBLY.
[L. _tangibilis_--_tang[)e]re_.]

TANGIE, tang'i, _n._ an Orcadian water-spirit, appearing as a seahorse, or
man covered with seaweed.

TANGLE, tang'gl, _n._ a knot of things united confusedly: an edible
seaweed: a perplexity, complication: (_Scot._) any long hanging thing, even
a lank person: an apparatus for dredging.--_v.t._ to unite together
confusedly: to interweave: to ensnare, entangle.--_n._ TANG'LEFOOT
(_U.S._), whisky, &c.--_adj._ TANG'LESOME (_prov._), quarrelsome.--_adv._
TANG'LINGLY.--_adj._ TANG'LY, in a tangle: united confusedly: covered with
tangle or seaweed. [Scand.; Dan. _tang_, Ice. _thang_, seaweed.]

TANGRAM, tan'gram, _n._ a Chinese puzzle, consisting of a square of wood
cut into seven pieces of various shapes.

TANGUM, tang'gum, _n._ the Tibetan piebald horse.

TANIST, tan'ist, _n._ the chief or holder of lands, &c., in certain Celtic
races, also the chief's elective successor.--_n._ TAN'ISTRY, an ancient
Celtic mode of tenure, according to which the right of succession lay not
with the individual, but with the family in which it was hereditary, and by
the family the holder of office or lands was elected. [Ir. and Gael.
_tanaiste_, lord--_tan_, country.]

TANITE, tan'[=i]t, _n._ an emery cement.

TANJIB, tan'jib, _n._ a kind of figured muslin made in Oude.--Also TAN'ZIB.

TANK, tangk, _n._ a large basin or cistern: a reservoir of water.--_v.t._
to cause to flow into a tank: to plunge into a tank.--_ns._ TANK'AGE, the
act of storing oil, &c., in tanks: the price charged for such storage: the
capacity of a tank or series of tanks; TANK'-CAR, a railway-car for
carrying petroleum in bulk in a long cylindrical tank; TANK'-EN'GINE, a
locomotive that carries the water and coal it requires; TANK'-WORM, a
nematode worm in the mud of tanks in India. [Port. _tanque_ (Sp.
_estanque_, O. Fr. _estang_)--L. _stagnum_, a stagnant pool.]

TANKA, tan'ka, _n._ the boat population of Canton, inhabiting permanently
the so-called tanka-boats, about 25 feet long.--Also TAN'KIA.

TANKARD, tangk'ard, _n._ a large vessel for holding liquors: a
drinking-vessel with a lid. [O. Fr. _tanquard_, prob. from L.
_cantharus_--Gr. _kantharos_.]

TANNER, tan'[.e]r, _n._ (_slang_) a sixpence. [Said to be Gipsy _tano_,
little.]

TANNIN, tan'in, _n._ an astringent substance found largely in oak-bark or
gall-nuts, of great use in tanning.--_n._ TANN'ATE, a salt of tannic
acid.--_adjs._ TANN'IC; TANNIF'EROUS, yielding tannin.--_n._ TAN'-RIDE, an
enclosure spread with tan for riding.--TANNIC ACID, an acid forming the
astringent principle of the bark of oak and other trees, used in tanning
and in medicine. [Fr. _tannin_.]

TANREC=_Tenrec_ (q.v.).

TANSY, tan'zi, _n._ a genus of composite plants allied to
_Artemisia_--Common tansy is a bitter, aromatic plant with small yellow
flowers, common on old pasture: a pudding or cake flavoured with tansy,
eaten at Easter. [O. Fr. _tanasie_, through Late L., from Gr. _athanasia_,
immortality.]

TANTALISE, tan'ta-l[=i]z, _v.t._ to torment by presenting something to
excite desire, but keeping it out of reach.--_ns._ TANTALIS[=A]'TION, the
act of tantalising: state of being tantalised; TAN'TALISER, one who, or
that which, tantalises.--_adv._ TAN'TALISINGLY.--_ns._ TAN'TALISM, the
punishment of Tantalus: a tormenting; TAN'TALUS, a spirit-case that locks;
TAN'TALUS-CUP, a philosophical toy, having a siphon within the figure of a
man whose chin is on a level with its bend. [_Tantalus_, in Gr. mythology,
who stood in Tartarus up to his chin in water, with branches of fruit over
his head, the water receding when he wished to drink, and the fruit when he
wished to eat.]

TANTALUM, tan'tal-um, _n._ a very rare metal of no practical importance,
discovered in 1801, closely allied to columbium or niobium.

TANTALUS, tan'ta-lus, _n._ the wood-ibis, a genus of birds of the stork
family, quite distinct from the true ibises.

TANTAMOUNT, tan'ta-mownt, _adj._ amounting to so much or to the same:
equivalent: equal in value or meaning.--_n._ TAN'TITY, the fact of being or
having so much.--_adv._ TAN'TO (_mus._), so much or too much. [O. Fr.,
_tant_--L. _tantum_, so much, so great, and O. Fr. _amonter_, to amount.]

TANTARA, tan-tar'a, _n._ a blast on a trumpet or horn. [Imit.]

TANTIVY, tan-tiv'i, _adv._ with great speed.--_adj._ swift, hasty.--_v.i._
to hurry off.--_n._ a hunting cry: a rapid movement, a rush. [Imit.]

TANTONY, tan't[=o]-ni, _n._ the smallest pig in the litter--also TANTONY
PIG: a petted servant or follower. [From St _Anthony_, who was attended by
a pig.]

TANTRA, tan'tra, _n._ in Sanscrit literature, one of the religious
text-books of the numerous sects of _S'âktas_--i.e. worshippers of the
_S'akti_, or active divine energy, personified in some female deity, esp.
in one of the many forms of Pârvatî, the wife of S'iva.--_ns._ TAN'TRISM,
the doctrines of the tantras; TAN'TRIST, a devotee of tantrism. [Sans.
_tantra_, thread, fundamental doctrine.]

TANTRUM, tan'trum, _n._ a capricious fit of ill-temper without adequate
cause. [Prob. W. _tant_, a passion.]

TANTUM ERGO, tan'tum er'g[=o], _n._ the fifth stanza of the hymn 'Pange,
lingua, gloriosi corporis mysterium,' written for the office of the
Festival of Corpus Christi, which St Thomas of Aquino drew up in 1263.
[From its opening words.]

TANZIMAT, tan'zi-mat, _n._ an organic statute of the Turkish empire,
introducing reforms and granting fuller personal liberty, esp. applied to
the _hatti-sherif_ of the sultan Abdul Medjid in 1839. [Turk.]

TÂOISM, tä'[=o]-izm, or tow'izm, _n._ the religious system founded by the
Chinese philosopher Lâo-tsze (born 604 B.C.), set forth in the _Tâo Teh
King_.--_n._ TÂ'[=O]IST, an adherent of Tâoism.--_adj._ TÂOIST'IC.

TAO-TAI, tä'[=o]-t[=i]', _n._ an officer presiding over a Chinese _tao_, or
circuit, containing two or more _fu_, or departments.

TAP, tap, _n._ a gentle blow or touch, esp. with something small: a signal
with a drum to put lights out.--_v.t._ to strike lightly, touch
gently.--_v.i._ to give a gentle knock:--_pr.p._ tap'ping; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ tapped. [O. Fr. _tapper_--Low Ger. _tappen_.]

[Illustration]

TAP, tap, _n._ a hole or short pipe through which liquor is drawn: a place
where liquor is drawn: any particular liquor drawn through a tap.--_v.t._
to pierce, so as to let out fluid: to open a cask and draw off liquor: to
broach a vessel.--_v.i._ to act as a tapster:--_pr.p._ tap'ping; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ tapped.--_ns._ TAP'-BOLT, a bolt with a head on one end and a
thread on the other, to be screwed into some fixed part instead of passing
through and receiving a nut; TAP'-CIN'DER, slag produced during puddling;
TAP'-HOUSE, a tavern; TAP'LASH, poor stale swipes; TAPOTE'MENT, percussion;
TAP'PER, one who taps; TAP'PING, an operation frequently resorted to for
the removal of fluid accumulations, particularly in the pleural and
peritoneal cavities, consisting in the introduction of one end of a small
tube into the cavity and withdrawing the fluid by siphon action, or by
means of a vacuum: the act or art of tapping or drawing out fluid;
TAP'ROOM, a room where beer is served from the tap or cask; TAP'ROOT, a
root of a plant or tree striking directly downward without dividing, and
tapering towards the end, as that of the carrot; TAP'STER, one who taps or
draws off liquor, a publican, barman.--ON TAP, kept in cask--opp. to
bottled: ready to be drawn upon. [A.S. _tæppe_, seen in _tæppere_, one who
taps casks; Dut. _tap_, Ger. _zapfen_, a tap.]

TAP, tap, _n._ a Scotch form of _top_.

TAP, tap, _n._ an Indian malarial fever. [Hind.]

TAPA, tä'pä, _n._ the bark of the paper-mulberry, much used in the South
Seas for mats, &c.--Also TAP'PA.

TAPADERA, tap-a-d[=a]'ra, _n._ a leather guard for the stirrup of the
Californian saddle. [Sp., 'a cover'--_tapar_, to cover.]

TAPE, t[=a]p, _n._ a narrow fillet or band of woven work, used for strings,
&c.: a strong flexible band rotating on pulleys for directing the sheets in
a printing-machine: the strip of paper used in a printing-telegraph
instrument, &c.: (_slang_) liquor.--_v.t._ to furnish, or tie up, with
tape: to extend.--_ns._ TAPE'-LINE, -MEAS'URE, a measuring-line of tape,
marked with inches, &c.--_adj._ T[=A]'PEN, made of tape.--_n._ T[=A]'PIST,
one who uses tape, an official formalist.--BREAST THE TAPE, in foot-racing,
to touch with the breast the tape or ribbon held by the judge at the
finish-line. [A.S. _tæppe_, a fillet--L. _tapete_--Gr. _tap[=e]s_.]

TAPER, t[=a]'p[.e]r, _n._ a small wax-candle or light: tapering
form.--_adj._ narrowed towards the point, like a taper: long and
slender.--_v.i._ to become gradually smaller towards one end.--_v.t._ to
make to taper.--_adj._ T[=A]'PERING, growing gradually thinner.--_adv._
T[=A]'PERINGLY, in a tapering manner.--_n._ T[=A]'PERNESS, state of being
taper. [A.S. _tapor_, prob. Ir. _tapar_.]

TAPESTRY, tap'es-tri, _n._ an ornamental textile used for the covering of
walls and furniture, and for curtains and hangings--divided into two
classes, according as they are made in high-warp (_haute lisse_) or
low-warp (_basse lisse_) looms.--_v.t._ to adorn with tapestry--_n._ TAP'ET
(_Spens._). [O. Fr. _tapisserie_--_tapis_; a carpet--L. _tapete_, a carpet,
tapestry--Gr. _tap[=e]s_, _-etis_--Pers. _tabsch_.]

TAPETI, tap'e-ti, _n._ the Brazilian hare.

TAPETUM, t[=a]-p[=e]'tum, _n._ (_bot._) the cells on the outside of an
archesporium: the pigmentary layer of the retina:--_pl._ T[=A]'PETA. [L.
_tapete_--Gr. _tap[=e]s_, _tap[=e]tos_, a carpet.]

TAPEWORM, t[=a]p'wurm, _n._ a term sometimes used as a popular synonym for
Cestoda or Cestoid Worms, but especially for those which belong to the
families _Tæniadæ_ and _Bothriocephalidæ_.

TAPIOCA, tap-i-[=o]'ka, _n._ a farinaceous substance obtained from cassava
or manioc by drying it while moist on hot plates, so that the starch grains
swell or burst, and the whole agglomerates in small lumps. [Braz.
_tipioka_, the poisonous juice of the cassava.]

TAPIR, t[=a]'pir, _n._ a genus of _Ungulata_, of the section
Perissodactyla, thick-skinned, short-necked, with a short flexible
proboscis, found in South America.--_adjs._ TAPIR'ODONT, having teeth like
the tapir; TAP'IROID, related to the tapirs. [Braz.]

TAPIS, tap'is, or ta-p[=e]', _n._ tapestry, carpeting: formerly, the cover
of a council-table.--_vs.i._ (_obs._) TAP'PISH, TAP'PICE, to hide.--UPON
THE TAPIS, on the table: under consideration. [Fr.]

TAPPET, tap'et, _n._ (_Spens._) tapestry.

TAPPET, tap'et, _n._ a projecting arm, lever, &c. from any moving part of a
machine supplying intermittent motion to some other part.--_ns._
TAPP'ET-LOOM, -MO'TION, -RING, -ROD, &c.

TAPPIT, tap'it, _adj._ (_Scot._) having a top or crest.--_n._ TAPP'IT-HEN,
a crested hen: a vessel for liquor holding about three quarts, a liberal
allowance of drink generally.

TAPSALTEERIE, tap-sal-t[=e]'ri, _adj._ (_Scot._) topsy-turvy.--Also
TAPSIETEER'IE.

TAPSMAN, taps'man, _n._ (_Scot._) a servant with principal charge, the
chief of a company of drovers.

TAPU. See TABOO.

TAR, tär, _v.t._ to set on, incite to fight. [M. E. _tarien_, to
irritate--A.S. _tergan_, to provoke.]

TAR, tär, _n._ a viscous, liquid, resinous substance of a dark colour,
obtained from pine-trees: a sailor, so called from his tarred
clothes.--_v.t._ to smear with tar:--_pr.p._ tar'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
tarred.--_ns._ TAR'HEEL, a North Carolinian; TAR'HOOD, sailors
collectively.--TAR AND FEATHER, to smear with tar and then cover with
feathers.--BE TARRED WITH THE SAME BRUSH, or STICK, to have the same faults
as another; HAVE A TOUCH OF THE TAR-BRUSH, to have an infusion of negro
blood in the veins. [A.S. _teoro_, _teru_; Dut. _teer_.]

TARABOOKA, ta-ra-b[=oo]'ka, _n._ a drum-like instrument.

TARA-FERN, tä'rä-fern, _n._ a New Zealand brake, with a thickened edible
rhizome.

TARANTASS, tar-an-tas', _n._ a four-wheeled vehicle having a boat-shaped
body, without springs. [Russ.]

TARANTELLA. See under TARANTISM.

TARANTISM, tar'ant-izm, _n._ an epidemic leaping or dancing mania, somewhat
resembling chorea--also TAR'ENTISM.--_ns._ TARANTEL'LA, TARENTEL'LA, a
lively Neapolitan dance in triplets for one couple--thought a remedy for
tarantism; TARAN'TULA, TAREN'TULA, a species of spider found in South
Italy, whose bite is much dreaded, and was long supposed to cause
tarantism. [It. _tarantola_--_Taranto_--L. _Tarentum_, a town in South
Italy where the spider abounds.]

TARATANTARA, tar-a-tan-tar'a, _n._ or _adv._ a word imitative of the sound
of a trumpet.--Also TANTAR'A, TARANTAR'A.

TARAXACUM, tar-aks'a-kum, _n._ the root of the dandelion, a tonic laxative
in diseases of the liver.--_n._ TARAX'ACINE, a crystallisable substance
extracted from the foregoing. [A botanical Latin word, coined from Gr.
_taraxis_, trouble--_tarassein_, to trouble. Davic refers to Ar.
_taras-acon_, a kind of succory, Latinised in Avicenna as _taraxacon_.]

[Illustration]

TARBOOSH, TARBOUCHE, tär-boosh', _n._ a red cap with dark tassel worn by
Moslem men. [Ar. _tarb[=u]sh_.]

TARDIGRADE, tär'di-gr[=a]d, _adj._ slow in pace; belonging to the
TAR'DIGRADA, a group or suborder of mammals containing the two genera of
sloth.--_n._ one of the Tardigrada. [L. _tardus_, slow, _gradi_, to step.]

TARDY, tär'di, _adj._ slow, late, sluggish: out of season.--_advs._
TARDAMEN'TE (_mus._), slowly; TAR'DILY, slowly: reluctantly: late.--_n._
TAR'DINESS.--_adj._ TAR'DY-GAIT'ED (_Shak._) slow-paced. [Fr.
_tardif_--_tard_--L. _tardus_, slow.]

TARE, t[=a]r, _n._ any one of several species of vetch: (_B._) an
unidentified weed, prob. darnel. [Prob. _tear_.]

TARE, t[=a]r, _n._ the weight of the vessel or package in which goods are
contained: an allowance made for it, the remainder being the _net_ weight.
[Fr.,--Sp. _tara_--Ar. _tarha_, thrown away.]

TARE, t[=a]r, obsolete, _pa.p._ of _tear_ (2).

[Illustration]

TARGET, tär'get, _n._ a small buckler or shield: a mark to fire at for
practice or competition: any object of desire or ambition: the frame
holding railway-signals: (_her._) a bearing representing a buckler:
(_Scot._) a pendant, tassel--also TARGE.--_adj._ TAR'GETED, provided with a
shield.--_ns._ TARGETEER', TARGETIER', one armed with a shield, a peltast.
[A.S. _targe_; Old High Ger. _zarga_, a frame, wall; Fr. _targe_ is of
Teut. origin.]

TARGUM, t[=a]r'gum, _n._ a general term for the Aramaic versions--often
paraphrases--of the Old Testament, which became necessary when, after and
perhaps during the Babylonian Exile, Hebrew began to die out as the popular
language and was supplanted by Aramaic.--_adj._ TAR'GUMIC.--_n._
TAR'GUMIST, a writer of a Targum: a student of the Targums.--_adj._
TARGUMIST'IC. [Assyr. _ragâmu_, to speak, whence _targumânu_, speaker.]

TARIFF, tar'if, _n._ a list of the duties, &c., fixed by law on
merchandise: a list of charges, fees, or prices. [Fr.,--Sp.,--Ar.
_ta`r[=i]f_, giving information, from _`arafa_, to explain.]

TARLATAN, tär'la-tan, _n._ a fine, open, transparent muslin for women's
dresses, often coarse in texture, made at _Tarare_ in the department of
Rhône.--Also TAR'LETAN. [Prob. Milanese _tarlantanna_.]

TARN, tärn, _n._ a small lake among the mountains. [Ice. _tjörn_.]

TARNATION, tär-n[=a]'shun, _adj._ and _adv._ a softened form of damnation,
as TAR'NAL, of _eternal_ or _infernal_.

TARNISH, tär'nish, _v.t._ to soil by exposure to the air, &c.: to diminish
the lustre or purity of, to stain, sully.--_v.i._ to become dull: to lose
lustre.--_n._ a spot, stain, change in lustre of a mineral.--_n._
TAR'NISHER. [Fr. _ternir_ (pr.p. _ternissant_); _terne_, dull, wan--Mid.
High Ger. _ternen_, Old High Ger. _tarnjan_, to darken; A.S. _dernan_, to
cover.]

TARO, tä'r[=o], _n._ a plant of the arum family, widely cultivated for its
edible roots in the islands of the Pacific. [Polynesian.]

TAROT, tar'ot, _n._ a kind of playing card used, and probably invented, in
Italy about the middle of the 14th century, 78 to the pack: a game played
with such.--Also TAR'OC. [Fr., so called prob. because _tarotée_ on the
back--i.e. marked with plain or dotted lines crossing diagonally--It.
_tarocchi_.]

TARPAN, tar'pan, _n._ the small wild horse of the steppes of Russia.
[Tatar.]

TARPAULIN, tär-paw'lin, _n._ strong linen or hempen cloth coated with tar
or pitch to render it waterproof: a sailor's wide-brimmed storm-hat:
(_coll._) a sailor.--Also TARPAU'LING. [From _tar_, and prov. Eng.
_pauling_, a cart cover; cf. _Pall_.]

TARPEIAN, tär-p[=e]'an, _adj._ designating a cliff--the TARPEIAN ROCK upon
the Capitoline Hill at Rome, from which state criminals were thrown--from
the Roman traitress _Tarpeia_.

TARPON, tär'pon, TARPUM, tär'pum, _n._ a food-fish of America, of the
herring family, common in the warmer Atlantic waters, and six feet
long.--Also _Jew-fish_. [Amer. Ind.]

TARRADIDDLE, tar-a-did'l, _n._ a fib, a lie. [App. a coined word, the last
part being the slang word _diddle_, to cheat.]

TARRAGON, tar'a-gon, _n._ the herb-dragon, an aromatic plant used for
flavouring vinegar, sauces, &c. [Sp. _taragontia_--Ar. _tarkh[=u]n_--Gr.
_drak[=o]n_, a dragon.]

TARRAS, tar'ras, _n._ (_Spens._) terrace.

TARRE, tär, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to set on, to encourage.

TARRIANCE, tar'i-ans, _n._ (_arch._) act of tarrying, delay.

TARRIER, tar'i-[.e]r, _n._ old form of _terrier_: (_slang_) a rough fellow,
a tough.

TARROCK, tar'ok, _n._ the young of the kittiwake: the tern: guillemot.

TARRY, tär'i, _adj._ consisting of, covered with, or like tar.--_n._
TARR'Y-BREEKS, a sailor.--_adj._ TARR'Y-FING'ERED, thievish.--_n.pl._
TARR'Y-FING'ERS, thieving fingers.

TARRY, tar'i, _v.i._ to be tardy or slow: to loiter or stay behind: to
delay:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tarr'ied.--_n._ TARR'IER, one who tarries or
delays.--_v.i._ TARR'OW (_Scot._), to hesitate, refuse. [M. E. _targen_, to
delay (confused in form with _tarien_, to irritate)--O. Fr. _targer_ (Fr.
_tarder_)--L. _tardus_, slow.]

TARSIA, tär'si-a, _n._ an Italian mosaic, at first dealing with geometrical
patterns in wood, but which developed into inlaid representations of
architecture, views, figures, and drapery, and finally into foliaceous
scrolls of modern marquetry. [It.]

TARSIER, tär'si-er, _n._ a small arboreal East Indian lemuroid, the
malmag.--_adj._ TAR'SIPED, having the same tarsal structure as the
foregoing. [Fr.]

TARSUS, tär'sus, _n._ the part of the foot to which the leg is
articulated:--_pl._ TAR'S[=I].--_adj._ TAR'SAL, relating to the tarsus or
ankle.--_ns._ TARSAL'GIA, pain in the tarsus: a neuralgic affection of the
foot from which persons walking much sometimes suffer; TAR'SIPES, a small
Australian honey-sucking marsupial, of the family _Phalangistidæ_, about
the size of a mouse.--_adj._ TARSOMETATAR'SAL, pertaining to the tarsus and
the metatarsus.--_n._ TARSOMETATAR'SUS, the single compound bone of
birds.--_adj._ TARSOTAR'SAL, mediotarsal. [Gr. _tarsos_, the flat part of
the foot.]

TART, tärt, _adj._ sharp or sour to the taste: (_fig._) sharp:
severe.--_adj._ TART'ISH, somewhat tart.--_adv._ TART'LY.--_n._ TART'NESS.
[A.S. _teart_--_teran_, to tear.]

TART, tärt, _n._ a small pie, containing fruit or jelly baked in
paste.--_n._ TART'LET, a small tart. [O. Fr. _tarte_--L. _torta_, fem. of
pa.p. of _torqu[=e]re_, twist.]

TARTAN, tär'tan, _n._ a woollen or worsted stuff checked with various
colours, once the distinctive dress of the Scottish Highlanders, each clan
having its own pattern. [Fr. _tiretaine_, linsey-woolsey--Sp. _tiritaña_, a
thin woollen stuff--_tiritar_, to shiver.]

TARTAN, tär'tan, _n._ a Mediterranean vessel with lateen sail: a kind of
long covered carriage [Fr.,--Ar. _taridah_, a small ship.]

TARTAR, tär'tar, _n._ a mixture of bitartrate of potash and tartrate of
lime, being a deposit formed from wine, and known in its crude form as
argol: a concretion which sometimes forms on the teeth.--_adjs._
TAR-T[=A]'REOUS, TAR'TAROUS, consisting of, or resembling, tartar;
TARTAR'IC, pertaining to, or obtained from, tartar.--_v.t._ TAR'TARISE, to
impregnate or treat with tartar.--_adjs._ TARTRAL'IC, TARTREL'IC, derived
from tartar.--_n._ TAR'TR[=A]TE, a salt of tartaric acid.--TARTAR EMETIC, a
compound of potassium and antimony.--CREAM OF TARTAR (see CREAM). [Fr.
_tartre_--Low L. _tartarum_--Ar. _durd_, dregs.]

TARTAR, tär'tar, _n._ a native of _Tartary_ in Asia: an irritable person,
or one too strong for his assailant.

TARTARUS, tär'ta-rus, _n._ the lower world generally, but esp. the place of
punishment for the wicked, according to Homer, a deep and sunless abyss, as
far below Hades as earth is below heaven, and closed in by iron
gates--(_Shak._) TAR'TAR: (_Spens._) TAR'TARY.--_adj._ TART[=A]'REAN.
[L.,--Gr. _tartaros_.]

TARTUFFE, tär-t[=oo]f', _n._ a hypocritical pretender to religion, from the
chief character in Molière's most celebrated comedy (1669).--_adjs._
TARTUFF'ISH, TAR-TUF'ISH.--_ns._ TARTUFF'ISM, TARTUF'ISM.

TARVE, tärv, _n._ (_prov._) a curve, bend.

TAR-WATER, tär'-waw'tèr, _n._ cold infusion of tar in water, once used as a
medicine for chest complaints.

TASCAL, tas'kal, _n._ a reward for information about cattle-stealing.--Also
TAS'CALL. [Gael, _taisgeal_.]

TASEOMETER, tas-[=e]-om'e-tèr, _n._ an instrument for measuring strains in
a structure. [Gr. _tasis_, a stretching, _metron_, measure.]

TASH, tash, _n._ an Oriental silk fabric, with gold or silver thread.--Also
TASS. [Hind, _t[=a]sh_, _t[=a]s_.]

TASIMETER, ta-sim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an apparatus for detecting changes in
pressure by the variations in the electrical conductivity of
carbon.--_adj._ TASIMET'RIC.--_n._ TASIM'ETRY. [Gr. _tasis_--_teinein_,
stretch.]

TASK, task, _n._ a set amount of work, esp. of study, given by another:
work: drudgery.--_v.t._ to impose a task on: to burden with severe
work.--_ns._ TASK'ER, one who imposes a task, or who performs it; TASK'ING,
task-work; TASK'MASTER, a master who imposes a task: an overseer:--_fem._
TASK'MISTRESS; TASK'WORK, work done as a task, or by the job.--TAKE TO
TASK, to reprove. [O. Fr. _tasque_ (Fr. _tâche_)--Low L. _tasca_,
_taxa_--L. _tax[=a]re_, to rate.]

TASLET, tas'let, _n._ a tass or piece of armour for the thigh--prob. the
same as TASSET.

TASMANIAN, tas-m[=a]'ni-an, _adj._ of or belonging to _Tasmania_ or Van
Diemen's Land.--_n._ a native of Tasmania.--TASMANIAN DEVIL, or Dasyure
(see DEVIL); TASMANIAN WOLF, a nocturnal carnivorous marsupial of Tasmania.
[From Abel Jans _Tasman_ (c. 1602-59), the discoverer.]

TASS, tas, _n._ (_prov._) a hay-mow, a heap. [O. Fr. _tas_, a heap, most
prob. Teut.]

TASS, tas, _n._ (_obs._) a pouch. [_Tasset_.]

TASS, tas, _n._ a drinking-cup or its contents. [Fr. _tasse_--Ar. _t[=a]s_,
a cup.]

TASS, tas, _n._ a piece of armour for the thigh. [_Tasset_.]

TASSEL, tas'el, _n._ a hanging ornament consisting of a bunch of silk or
other material: anything like a tassel: the silk or ribbon-marker of a
book: a thin plate of gold on the back of a bishop's gloves.--_v.t._ to
attach a tassel to, to ornament with tassels.--_adj._ TASS'ELLED, adorned
with tassels. [O. Fr. _tassel_, an ornament of a square shape, attached to
the dress--L. _taxillus_, dim. of _talus_, a die.]

TASSEL-GENTLE, tas'el-jen'tl, _n._ (_Shak._) the tiercel or male
goshawk--also TASS'EL-GENT--properly TIER'CEL-GEN'TLE.

TASSET, tas'et, _n._ an overlapping plate from the cuirass protecting the
thigh. [O. Fr. _tassette_--_tasse_, n pouch--Teut., Old High Ger. _tasca_,
a pouch.]

TASSIE, tas'i, _n._ (_Scot._) a drinking-cup. [See _Tass_ (3).]

TASTE, t[=a]st, _v.t._ to try or perceive by the touch of the tongue or
palate: to try by eating a little: to eat a little of: to partake of: to
relish, enjoy: to experience: (_Shak._) to enjoy carnally.--_v.i._ to try
or perceive by the mouth: to have a flavour of.--_n._ the act or sense of
tasting: the particular sensation caused by a substance on the tongue: the
sense by which we perceive the flavour of a thing: the quality or flavour
of anything: a small portion: intellectual relish or discernment: the
faculty by which the mind perceives the beautiful: nice perception: choice,
predilection.--_adjs._ T[=A]ST'ABLE, that may be tasted; TASTE'FUL, full of
taste: having a high relish: showing good taste.--_adv._ TASTE'FULLY.--_n._
TASTE'FULNESS.--_adj._ TASTE'LESS, without taste: insipid.--_adv._
TASTE'LESSLY.--_ns._ TASTE'LESSNESS; T[=A]ST'ER, one skilful in
distinguishing flavours by the taste: one whose duty it is to test the
quality of food by tasting it before serving it to his master.--_adv._
T[=A]ST'ILY, with good taste, neatly.--_n._ T[=A]ST'ING, the act or sense
of tasting.--_adj._ T[=A]ST'Y, having a good taste: possessing nice
perception of excellence: in conformity with good taste.--TO ONE'S TASTE,
to one's liking, agreeable. [O. Fr. _taster_ (Fr. _tâter_), as if from Low
L. _taxit[=a]re_--L. _tax[=a]re_, to touch repeatedly, to
estimate--_tang[)e]re_, to touch.]

TAT, tat, _v.t._ to make by hand, as an edging with a shuttle by knotting
and looping thread.--_v.i._ to make tatting.--_n._ TAT'TING, a kind of lace
edging woven or knit from common sewing-thread. [Prob. Scand., Ice. _tæta_,
to tease, _tæta_, shreds.]

TAT, tat, _n._ East Indian matting, gunny-cloth.

TAT, tat, _n._ a native-bred pony. [Anglo-Ind.]

TA-TA, tä-tä, _interj._ (_coll._) good-bye.

TATAR, tä'tar, _n._ a name originally applied to a native of certain
Tungustic tribes in Chinese Tartary, but extended to the Mongol, Turkish,
and other warriors, who swept over Asia under Genghis Khan. The term
_Tatars_ is used loosely for tribes of mixed origin in Tartary, Siberia,
and the Russian steppes, including Kazan Tartars, Crim Tartars, Kipchaks,
Kalmucks, &c. In the classification of languages TARTAR'IC is used of the
Turkish group.--_adjs._ TAT[=A]'RIAN, TATAR'IC. [The Turkish and Persian
_Tátar_ became _Tartar_, because they were supposed to be like fiends from
hell--Gr. _tartoros_.]

TATE, t[=a]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a small portion of anything fibrous.--Also
TAIT.

TATER, t[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ a vulgar form of _potato_.--Also T[=A]'TIE.

TATH, tath, _n._ (_prov._) the dung of cattle.--_v.t._ to manure.

TATTER, tat'[.e]r, _n._ a torn piece: a loose hanging rag.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to tear to tatters: to fall into tatters.--_n._ TATTERDEM[=A]'LION,
a ragged fellow.--_p.adj._ TATT'ERED, in tatters or rags: torn.--_adj._
TATT'ERY, very ragged. [Ice. _töturr_ (pl. _tötrar_), rags, a torn
garment.]

TATTERSALLS, tat'[.e]r-salz, _n._ a famous mart in London for the sale of
racing and other high-class horses, and one of the principal haunts of
racing men--so called from Richard _Tattersall_ (1724-95).

TATTLE, tat'l, _n._ trifling talk or chat.--_v.i._ to talk idly or
triflingly: to tell tales or secrets.--_n._ idle talk.--_ns._ TATT'LER, one
given to tattling; TATT'LERY, idle talk.--_p.adj._ TATT'LING, given to
tattling or telling tales.--_n._ (_Shak._) the act of tale-telling.--_adv._
TATT'LINGLY. [M. E. _tatelen_; Low Ger. _tateln_, to gabble; an imit.
word.]

TATTOO, tat-t[=oo]', _n._ a beat of drum and a bugle-call to call soldiers
to quarters, originally to shut the taps or drinking-houses against
them.--THE DEVIL'S TATTOO, the act of drumming with the fingers on a table,
&c.; in absence of mind or impatience. [Dut. _taptoe_--_tap_, a tap, and
_toe_, which is the prep., Eng. _to_. Ger. _zu_, in the sense of 'shut.']

TATTOO, tat-t[=oo]', _v.t._ to mark permanently (as the skin) with figures,
by pricking in colouring-matter.--_n._ marks or figures made by pricking
colouring-matter into the skin.--_ns._ TATTOO'[=A]GE; TATTOO'ER;
TATTOO'ING. [Tahitian _tatu_.]

TATTY, tat'i, _n._ an East Indian screen or mat made of the roots of the
fragrant cuscus-grass, with which door or window openings are filled up in
the season of hot winds. [Hind. _t[=a]t[=i]_.]

TAU, taw, _n._ the toad-fish: a tau-cross.--_ns._ TAU'-BONE, a  [Greek:
T]-shaped bone, as the interclavicle of a monotreme; TAU'-CROSS, a cross in
the form of a [Greek: T]--also _Cross-tau_ and _Cross of St Anthony_;
TAU'-STAFF, a staff with a cross-piece at the top like a crutch.--_adj._
TAU'-TOPPED, having a handle like a tau-cross. [See T.]

TAUGHT, tawt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _teach_.

TAUNT, tawnt, _v.t._ to reproach or upbraid with severe or insulting words:
to censure sarcastically.--_n._ upbraiding, sarcastic, or insulting words:
a bitter reproach.--_n._ TAUNT'ER.--_adj._ TAUNT'ING.--_adv._ TAUNT'INGLY.
[O. Fr. _tanter_--L. _tent[=a]re_, to tempt.]

TAUPIE, TAWPIE, taw'pi, _n._ (_Scot._) a thoughtless girl. [Ice. _tópi_, a
fool.]

TAURUS, taw'rus, _n._ the Bull, one of the signs of the zodiac.--_adjs._
TAU'RIAN, pertaining to a bull; TAU'RIFORM, having the form of a bull;
TAU'R[=I]NE, bull-like.--_ns._ TAUROB[=O]'LIUM, the slaughter of a bull in
the Mithraic rites, or an artistic representation of the same; TAUROM'ACHY,
bull-fighting.--_adj._ TAUROMOR'PHOUS, bull-shaped. [L.,--Gr.]

TAUT, TAUGHT, tawt, _adj._ tightly drawn: in good condition.--_v.t._
TAUT'EN, to make tight.--_n._ TAUT'NESS. [A form of _tight_.]

TAUTED, taw'ted, _adj._ (_Scot._) matted.--Also TAW'TIE, TAU'TIE, TAT'TY.
[See TAT (1).]

TAUTOCHRONOUS, taw-tok'r[=o]-nus, _adj._ isochronous.--_n._ TAU'TOCHRONE.

TAUTOG, taw-tog', _n._ a labroid fish of the United States Atlantic coast.

TAUTOLOGY, taw-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ needless repetition of the same thing in
different words.--_adjs._ TAUTOLOG'IC, -AL, containing tautology.--_adv._
TAUTOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ TAUTOL'OGISE, to use tautology: to repeat the same
thing in different words.--_ns._ TAUTOL'OGISM; TAUTOL'OGIST.--_adjs._
TAUTOL'OGOUS, tautological; TAUTOPHON'ICAL.--_n._ TAUTOPH'ONY, repetition
of the same sound. [Gr. _tautologia_--_tauto_, the same, _legein_, to
speak.]

TAVERN, tav'[.e]rn, _n._ a licensed house for the sale of liquors, with
accommodation for travellers: an inn.--_ns._ TAV'ERNER, an innkeeper;
TAV'ERNING. [Fr. _taverne_--L. _taberna_, from root of _tabula_, a board.]

TAVERS, TAIVERS, t[=a]'vers, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) tatters.

TAVERT, TAIVERT, t[=a]'vert, _adj._ (_Scot._) muddled: fuddled.

TAW, taw, _n._ a marble chosen to be played with, a game at marbles, also
the line from which to play.

TAW, taw, _v.t._ to prepare and dress, as skins into white leather.--_ns._
TAW'ER, a maker of white leather; TAW'ERY, a place where skins are dressed;
TAW'ING. [A.S. _tawian_, to prepare; Old High Ger. _zoujan_, make, Dut.
_touwen_, curry.]

TAWDRY, taw'dri, _adj._ showy without taste: gaudily dressed.--_adj._
TAW'DERED, tawdrily dressed.--_adv._ TAW'DRILY.--_n._ TAW'DRINESS.--_n.pl._
TAW'DRUMS, finery. [Said to be corr. from _St Awdrey_=_St Ethelreda_, at
whose fair (17th October) laces and gay toys were sold.]

TAWIE, taw'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) tame.

TAWNY, taw'ni, _adj._ of the colour of things tanned, a yellowish
brown.--_n._ TAW'NINESS. [Fr. _tanné_, pa.p. of _tanner_, to tan.]

TAWS, TAWSE, tawz, _n._ (_Scot._) a leather strap, usually fringed at the
end, for chastising children.

TAX, taks, _n._ a rate imposed on property or persons for the benefit of
the state: anything imposed: a burdensome duty.--_v.t._ to lay a tax on: to
register or enrol for fiscal purposes (Luke ii. 1): to burden: to accuse:
to examine accounts in order to allow or disallow items.--_ns._
TAXABIL'ITY, TAX'ABLENESS.--_adj._ TAX'ABLE, capable of being, or liable to
be, taxed--_adv._ TAX'ABLY.--_ns._ TAX[=A]'TION, act of taxing; TAX'-CART,
a light spring-cart; TAX'ER.--_adj._ TAX'FREE, exempt from taxation.--_ns._
TAX'-GATH'ERER; TAXIM'ETER (see Addenda); TAX'ING-MAS'TER, an officer of a
court of law who examines bills of costs; TAX'-PAY'ER. [Fr. _taxe_, a
tax--L. _tax[=a]re_, to handle, value, charge--_tang[)e]re_ to touch.]

TAXIARCH, tak'si-ärk, _n._ the commander of an ancient Greek taxis or
battalion.

TAXIDERMY, taks'i-d[.e]r-mi, _n._ the art of preparing and stuffing the
skins of animals.--_adjs._ TAXIDER'MAL, TAXIDER'MIC.--_v.t._
TAX'IDERMISE.--_n._ TAX'IDERMIST. [Fr.,--Gr. _taxis_, arrangement, _derma_,
a skin.]

TAXING, taks'ing, _n._ (_Shak._) satire. [_Tax_.]

TAXIS, tak'sis, _n._ (_surg._) the art of putting parts in their natural
place by means of pressure: orderly arrangement, classification: a brigade
in an ancient Greek army.--_ns._ TAXOL'OGY, the science of classification;
TAXON'OMER, a taxonomist.--_adjs._ TAXONOM'IC, -AL.--_adv._
TAXONOM'ICALLY.--_ns._ TAXON'OMIST, one versed in taxonomy; TAXON'OMY, the
laws and principles of taxology or orderly classification, also their
application to natural history. [Gr.,--_tassein_, to arrange.]

TAXUS, tak'sus, _n._ the yew genus of conifers.

TAYO, ta'y[=o], _n._ a garment like an apron worn by South American
Indians.

TAZZA, tat'sa, _n._ a shallow vessel mounted on a foot: a saucer-shaped
bowl. [It.]

TCHICK, chik, _n._ a sound made by pressing the tongue against the roof of
the mouth and then drawing it back quickly, as in urging a horse
on.--_v.i._ to make such a sound. [Imit.]

TEA, t[=e], _n._ the dried leaves of a shrub in China, Japan, Assam, and
Ceylon: an infusion of the leaves in boiling water: any vegetable
infusion.--_ns._ TEA'-BREAD, light spongy bread or buns to be eaten with
tea; TEA'-CADD'Y, a caddy or small box for holding tea; TEA'-CAKE, a light
cake to be eaten with tea; TEA'-CAN'ISTER, an air-tight jar or box for
holding tea; TEA'-CHEST, a chest or case in which tea is imported;
TEA'-CLIP'PER, a fast-sailing ship in the tea-trade; TEA'-C[=O]'SY (see
COSY); TEA'-CUP, a small cup used in drinking tea; TEA'-DEAL'ER, one who
buys and sells tea; TEA'-FIGHT (_slang_), a tea-party; TEA'-GAR'DEN, a
public garden where tea and other refreshments are served; TEA'-GOWN, a
loose gown for wearing at afternoon tea at home; TEA'-HOUSE, a Chinese or
Japanese house for tea, &c.; TEA'-KETT'LE, a kettle in which to boil water
for making tea; TEA'-LEAD, thin sheet-lead, used in lining tea-chests;
TEA'-PAR'TY, a social gathering at which tea is served, also the persons
present; TEA'-PLANT, the plant or shrub from which tea is obtained;
TEA'-POT, a pot or vessel in which the beverage tea is made; TEA'-SAU'CER,
a saucer in which a tea-cup is set; TEA'-SER'VICE, -SET, the utensils
necessary for a tea-table; TEA'-SPOON, a small spoon used with the tea-cup,
smaller still than the dessert-spoon; TEA'-STICK, a stick cut from the
Australian tea-tree; TEA'-T[=A]'BLE, a table at which tea is drunk;
TEA'-TAST'ER, one who ascertains the quality of tea by tasting it.--_n.pl._
TEA'-THINGS, the tea-pot, cups, &c.--_ns._ TEA'-TREE, the common tea-plant
or shrub; a name of various Australian myrtaceous and other plants;
TEA'-URN, a vessel for boiling water or keeping it hot, used on the
tea-table.--BLACK TEA, that which in the process of manufacture is
fermented between rolling and firing (heating with charcoal in a sieve),
while GREEN TEA is that which is fired immediately after rolling. Among
black teas are _bohea_, _congou_, _souchong_, and _pekoe_; among green,
_hyson_, _imperial_, and _gunpowder_. The finest black is _Pekoe_; the
finest green, _Gunpowder_. [From South Chinese _te_ (pron. _t[=a]_), the
common form being _ch'a_ or _ts'a_.]

TEACH, t[=e]ch, _v.t._ to show: to impart knowledge to: to guide the
studies of: to exhibit so as to impress upon the mind: to impart the
knowledge of: to accustom: to counsel.--_v.i._ to practise giving
instruction:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ taught (tawt).--_n._
TEACHABIL'ITY.--_adj._ TEACH'ABLE, capable of being taught: apt or willing
to learn.--_ns._ TEACH'ABLENESS; TEACH'ER, one who teaches or instructs;
TEACH'ING, the act of teaching or instructing: instruction.--_adj._
TEACH'LESS, indocile. [A.S. _t['æ]can_, to show, teach; Ger. _zeigen_, to
show; allied to L. _doc[=e]re_, to teach, Gr. _deiknunai_, to show.]

TEAD, t[=e]d, _n._ (_Spens._) a torch, a flambeau. [L. _tæda_.]

TEAGLE, t[=e]'gl, _n._ (_prov._) a hoist or lift. [Prob. a form of
_tackle_.]

TEAGUE, t[=e]g, _n._ an Irishman.

TEAK, t[=e]k, _n._ a tree in the East Indies and Africa, also its wood,
remarkable for its hardness and durability. [Malayalam _tekka_.]

TEAL, t[=e]l, _n._ a web-footed water-fowl allied to the duck, but smaller.
[Dut. _teling_, _taling_.]

TEAM, t[=e]m, _n._ a number of animals moving together or in order: two or
more oxen or other animals harnessed to the same vehicle; a number of
persons associated for doing anything conjointly, playing a game,
&c.--_v.t._ to join together in a team: to give work to a gang under a
sub-contractor.--_adj._ TEAMED (_Spens._), arranged in a team.--_n._
TEAM'STER, one who drives a team.--_adv._ TEAM'WISE, like a team, harnessed
together. [A.S. _teám_, offspring; prob. _teón_, to draw.]

TEAPOY, t[=e]'poi, _n._ a small table for the tea-service, &c. [Hind.
_t[=i]p[=a]i_--Pers. _s[=i]p[=a]i_.]

TEAR, t[=e]r, _n._ a drop of the fluid secreted by the lachrymal gland,
appearing in the eyes: anything like a tear.--_ns._ TEAR'-DROP, a tear;
TEAR'-DUCT, the lachrymal or nasal duct.--_adjs._ TEAR'-FALL'ING (_Shak._),
shedding tears, tender; TEAR'FUL, abounding with or shedding tears:
weeping.--_adv._ TEAR'FULLY.--_n._ TEAR'FULNESS.--_adjs._ TEAR'LESS,
without tears: unfeeling; TEAR'-STAINED (_Shak._), stained with tears;
TEAR'Y, tearful, [A.S. _teár_, _t['æ]r_; Goth. _tagr_; cf. L. _lacrima_,
Gr. _dakru_.]

TEAR, t[=a]r, _v.t._ to draw asunder or separate with violence: to make a
violent rent in: to lacerate.--_v.i._ to move or act with violence: to
rage:--_pa.t._ t[=o]re, (_B._) t[=a]re; _pa.p._ t[=o]rn.--_n._ something
torn, a rent: (_slang_) a spree.--_n._ TEAR'ER, one who, or that which,
tears: (_slang_) a boisterous person.--_p.adj._ TEAR'ING, great, terrible,
rushing.--TEAR AND WEAR (see WEAR); TEAR ONE'S SELF AWAY, to go off with
great unwillingness; TEAR THE HAIR, to pull the hair in a frenzy of grief
or rage; TEAR UP, to remove from a fixed state by violence: to pull to
pieces. [A.S. _teran_; cf. Ger. _zehren_.]

TEASE, t[=e]z, _v.t._ to comb or card, as wool: to scratch, as cloth: to
raise a nap: to vex with importunity, jests, &c.: to torment,
irritate.--_n._ one who teases or torments.--_n._ TEAS'ER, one who teases
out anything: the stoker of a glass-works furnace.--_adj._ TEAS'ING,
vexatious.--_adv._ TEAS'INGLY. [A.S. _t['æ]san_, to pluck; Dut. _teezen_,
Ger. _zeisen_.]

TEASEL, t[=e]z'l, _n._ a plant with large burs or heads covered with stiff,
hooked awns, which are used in raising a nap on cloth--also TEAZ'EL,
TEAZ'LE.--_v.t._ to raise a nap on with the teasel:--_pr.p._ teas'eling;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ teas'eled.--_ns._ TEAS'ELER; TEAS'ELING, the act of
raising a nap on cloth. [A.S. _tæsel_, _tæsl_--_t['æ]san_, to pluck.]

TEAT, t[=e]t, _n._ the nipple of the female breast through which the young
suck the milk.--_adj._ TEAT'ED, mammiferous. [A.S. _tit_; cog. with Ger.
_zitze_; or perh. through O. Fr. _tete_, from Teut.]

TEBETH, teb'eth, _n._ the tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical, and
fourth of the secular, year, corresponding to parts of December and
January.

TECHNIC, -AL, tek'nik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to art, esp. the useful arts:
belonging to a particular art or profession.--_n._ TECHNICAL'ITY, state or
quality of being technical: that which is technical.--_adv._
TECH'NICALLY.--_ns._ TECH'NICALNESS; TECHNI'CIAN; TECH'NICIST, one skilled
in the practical arts.--_n.pl._ TECH'NICS, the doctrine of arts in general:
the branches that relate to the arts; TECHNIQUE (tek-n[=e]k'), method of
performance, manipulation, esp. everything concerned with the mechanical
part of a musical performance.--_adjs._ TECHNOLOG'IC, -AL, relating to
technology.--_ns._ TECHNOL'OGIST, one skilled in technology; TECHNOL'OGY,
the systematic knowledge of the industrial arts: a discourse or treatise on
the arts: an explanation of terms employed in the arts; TECHNON'OMY, the
principles underlying technology. [Gr. _technikos_--_techn[=e]_, art, akin
to _tekein_, to produce.]

TECHY. See TETCHY.

TECNOLOGY, tek-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ a treatise on children. [Gr. _teknon_, a
child, _logia_, discourse.]

TECTARIA, tek-t[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of univalves with a turbinate or
conic shell.--_adjs._ TECTIBRANCH'IATE, having the gills covered;
TEC'TIFORM, roof-like: (_entom._) ridged in the middle and sloping down on
the sides. [L. _tectum_, a roof.]

TECTOLOGY, tek-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ structural morphology according to which
an organism is regarded as composed of individuals of different
orders.--_adj._ TECTOLOG'ICAL. [Gr. _tekt[=o]n_, a builder.]

TECTONIC, tek-ton'ik, _adj._ pertaining to building.--_n.sing._ and _pl._
TECTON'ICS, building as an art: the shaping and ornamentation of furniture,
weapons, &c. [Gr. _tekt[=o]n_, a builder.]

TECTORIAL, tek-t[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ covering.--_n._ TECT[=O]'RIUM, a
covering: the coverts of the wing or tail of birds taken collectively.

TECTRICES, tek-tr[=i]'sez, _n.pl._ wing or tail coverts of birds:--_sing._
TEC'TRIX.--_adj._ TECTRI'CIAL.

TED, ted, _v.t._ to spread or turn, as new-mown grass, for drying:--_pr.p._
ted'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ ted'ded.--_n._ TED'DER, an implement for
spreading hay. [Scand.; Ice. _tedhja_, spread manure.]

TEDE, TEAD, t[=e]d, _n._ (_obs._) a torch. [L. _tæda_.]

TEDESCO, te-des'k[=o], _adj._ German. [It.]

TE DEUM, t[=e] d[=e]'um, _n._ a famous Latin hymn of the Western Church,
sung at the end of matins on all feasts except Innocents' Day, and on all
Sundays except during penitential seasons--it begins with the words _Te
Deum Laudamus_, 'We praise thee, O God:' a thanksgiving service in which
this hymn forms a principal part.

TEDIOUS, t[=e]'di-us, _adj._ wearisome: tiresome from length or slowness:
irksome: slow.--_n._ TEDIOS'ITY, tediousness.--_adv._ T[=E]'DIOUSLY.--_n._
T[=E]'DIOUSNESS. [L. _tædiosus_.]

TEDIUM, t[=e]'di-um, _n._ wearisomeness: irksomeness. [L.
_tædium_--_tædet_, it wearies.]

TEE, t[=e], _n._ a mark for quoits, curling-stones, &c.: (_golf_) the
raised sand from which the ball is played at the commencement of each
hole.--_v.t._ to place the golf-ball on this before striking off.

TEE, t[=e], _n._ a finial in the form of a conventionalised umbrella,
crowning a dagoba in Indo-Chinese countries.

TEEM, t[=e]m, _v.i._ to bring forth or produce: to bear or be fruitful: to
be pregnant: to be full or prolific.--_n._ TEEM'ER.--_adjs._ TEEM'FUL;
TEEM'ING; TEEM'LESS, barren. [A.S. _teám_, offspring.]

TEEM, t[=e]m, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to pour, empty.

TEEN, t[=e]n, _n._ (_arch._) grief, affliction, injury. [A.S. _teóna_,
reproach, injury.]

TEEN, t[=e]n, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to excite, provoke. [A.S. _týnan_, to
irritate, vex.]

TEEN, t[=e]n, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to allot, bestow.

TEENS, t[=e]nz, _n.pl._ the years of one's age from thir_teen_ to
nine_teen_.

TEENY, t[=e]'ni, _adj._ very small, tiny.

TEENY, t[=e]'ni, _adj._ (_prov._) peevish.

TEER, t[=e]r, _v.t._ to stir, as a calico-printer's sieve.

TEE-TEE, TITI, t[=e]'t[=e], _n._ a South American squirrel-monkey.

TEETER, t[=e]'ter, _n._ (_U.S._) a see-saw.--_v.i._ to see-saw.

TEETH. See TOOTH.

TEETHING, t[=e]th'ing, _n._ the first growth of teeth, or the process by
which they make their way through the gums.--_v.i._ TEETHE, to grow or cut
the teeth.

TEETOTALER, t[=e]-t[=o]'tal-[.e]r, _n._ one pledged to entire abstinence
from intoxicating drinks.--_adj._ TEET[=O]'TAL.--_n._ TEET[=O]'TALISM.
[Prob. from a stammering pronunciation of the word _Total_ by Richard
Turner of Preston in 1833.]

TEE-TOTUM, t[=e]-t[=o]'tum, _n._ a toy like a small top, twirled by the
fingers.

TEFF, tef, _n._ an Abyssinian cereal-grass.

TEGMEN, teg'men, _n._ a covering: (_bot._) the endopleura or inner coat of
the seed: (_anat._) the roof of the tympanic cavity of the ear: the
covering of the posterior wing of some insects;--_pl._ TEG'MINA.--_adj._
TEG'MINAL. [L.]

TEGMENTUM, teg-men'tum, _n._ the scaly covering of the leaf-buds of
deciduous trees.--_adj._ TEGMEN'TAL.

TEGULATED, teg-[=u]-l[=a]t'ed, _adj._ composed of plates overlapping like
tiles.--_adj._ TEG'ULAR.--_adv._ TEG'U-LARLY. [L. _tegula_, a
tile--_teg[)e]re_, to cover.]

TEGUMENT, teg'[=u]-ment, _n._ an integument.--_adjs._ TEGUMEN'TAL,
TEGUMEN'TARY. [L. _tegumentum_--_teg[)e]re_, to cover.]

TEHEE, t[=e]'h[=e]', _n._ a laugh.--_v.i._ to titter. [Imit.]

TEIAN, TEAN, t[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Teos_ in ancient Ionia, or to
the poet Anacreon, a native.

TE IGITUR, t[=e] ij'i-tur, _n._ the first paragraph of the eucharistic
canon in the Roman liturgy.

TEIL, t[=e]l, _n._ the linden or lime tree: the terebinth. [O. Fr.
_teil_--L. _tilia_.]

TEINDS, t[=e]ndz, _n.pl._ the name given in Scotland to tithes, or,
strictly, to that part of the estates of the laity which is liable to be
assessed for the stipend of the clergy of the established church.

TEINOSCOPE, t[=i]'n[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an optical instrument consisting of
two prisms so combined as to correct the chromatic aberration.

TEKNONYMY, tek-non'i-mi, _n._ the naming of the parent from the
child.--_adj._ TEKNON'YMOUS. [Gr. _teknon_, a child, _onoma_, a name.]

TELA, t[=e]'la, _n._ a tissue:--_pl._ TELÆ (t[=e]'l[=e]).--_adjs._
T[=E]'LAR, pertaining to a tela, web, or tissue; TEL[=A]'RIAN, spinning a
web.--_n._ a spinning spider.--_adj._ TEL'ARY, pertaining to a tela, woven,
spun. [L.]

TELAMON, tel'a-mon, _n._ (_archit._) a man's figure bearing an entablature.
[Gr. _telam[=o]n_, bearer.]

TELANGIECTASIA, te-lan-ji-ek-t[=a]'si-a, _n._ a dilation of the small
arteries or capillaries--also TELANGIEC'TASIS.--_adj._ TELANGIECTAT'IC.
[Gr. _telos_, the end, _angeion_, a vessel, _ektasis_, extension.]

TELAUTOGRAPH, te-law't[=o]-graf, _n._ a writing or copying telegraph,
invented by Elisha Gray, for reproducing writings at a distance. [Gr.
_t[=e]le_, far, _autos_, self, _graphein_, to write.]

TELD, teld, (_Spens._) told.

TELEDU, tel'e-d[=oo], _n._ the stinking badger of Java.

TELEGA, t[=e]-l[=a]'ga, _n._ a Russian cart without springs.

TELEGRAM, tel'e-gram, _n._ a message sent by telegraph.--_adj._
TELEGRAM'MIC, pertaining to a telegram, brief, succinct. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, at
a distance, _gramma_, that which is written--_graphein_, to write.]

TELEGRAPH, tel'e-graf, _n._ an apparatus for transmitting intelligible
messages to a distance, esp. by means of electricity.--_v.t._ to convey or
announce by telegraph.--_ns._ TEL'EGRAPH-C[=A]'BLE, a cable containing
wires for transmitting telegraphic messages; TEL'EGRAPHER (or t[=e]-leg'-),
TEL'EGRAPHIST (or t[=e]-leg'-), one who works a telegraph.--_adjs._
TELEGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or communicated by, a telegraph.--_adv._
TELEGRAPH'ICALLY, in a telegraphic manner: by means of the
telegraph.--_ns._ TEL'EGRAPH-PLANT, an Indian leguminous plant, the small
lateral leaflets of whose trifoliate leaves have a strange, spontaneous
motion, jerking up and down (sometimes 180 times in a minute), as if
signalling, and also rotate on their axes; TEL'EGRAPHY (or t[=e]-leg'-),
the science or art of constructing or using telegraphs. [Gr. _t[=e]le_ at a
distance, _graphein_ to write.]

TELEKINESIS, tel-[=e]-ki-n[=e]'sis, _n._ the production of motion without
contact, through supra-physical causes, beyond the range of the
senses.--_adj._ TELEKINET'IC. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far, _kin[=e]sis_, movement.]

TELEMETER, t[=e]-lem'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for fixing distances in
surveying, &c.--_adj._ TELEMET'RIC.--_n._ TELEM'ETRY. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far,
_metron_, measure.]

TELEOLOGY, tel-e-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the doctrine of the final causes of
things.--_adjs._ TELEOLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._ TELEOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._
TELEOL'OGISM; TELEOL'OGIST. [Gr. _telos_, issue, _logos_, a discourse.]

TELEOSAURUS, t[=e]-l[=e]-[=o]-sawr'us, _n._ a genus of fossil saurians
belonging to the Oolitic period.--_adj._ and _n._ TELEOSAU'RIAN. [Gr.
_teleios_, perfect, _sauros_, a lizard.]

TELEOST, tel'[=e]-ost, _adj._ osseous.--_n._ an osseous fish--also
TELEOS'TEAN. [Gr. _teleios_, complete, _osteon_, bone.]

TELEPATHY, tel'[=e]-path-i, or t[=e]-lep'a-thi, _n._ the supposed fact that
communication is possible between mind and mind otherwise than through the
known channels of the senses, as at a distance without external
means.--_adj._ TELEPATH'IC.--_adv._ TELEPATH'ICALLY.--_v.t._ TEL'EPATHISE,
to affect or act upon through telepathy.--_v.i._ to practise
telepathy.--_n._ TEL'EPATHIST (or te-lep'-), one who believes in telepathy.
[Gr. _t[=e]le_, far, _pathos_, feeling.]

TELEPHEME, tel'[=e]-f[=e]m, _n._ a telephonic message. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far,
_ph[=e]m[=e]_, a saying.]

TELEPHONE, tel'e-f[=o]n, _n._ an instrument for reproducing sound at a
distance over a conducting wire or cord, esp. by means of
electricity.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to communicate by telephone.--_n._
TEL'EPH[=O]NER, one who uses a telephone.--_adj._ TELEPHON'IC.--_adv._
TELEPHON'ICALLY.--_ns._ TEL'EPH[=O]NIST, one who uses the telephone, one
skilled in its use; TELEPH[=O]'NOGRAPH, an apparatus for recording a
telephone message.--_adj._ TELEPHONOGRAPH'IC.--_n._ TEL'EPHONY, the art of
telephoning. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, a sound.]

TELEPHOTE, tel'[=e]-f[=o]t, _n._ an instrument for reproducing images of
objects at a distance by means of electricity.--_ns._ TELEPH[=O]'TOGRAPH, a
picture so produced; TELEPHOTOG'RAPHY, the art of producing such--still a
dream of the future. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far, _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light.]

TELEPLASTIC, tel-[=e]-plas'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the materialisation of
spiritualistic phenomena.--Also TELESOMAT'IC. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far,
_plassein_, to form.]

TELERPETON, t[=e]-l[.e]r'pe-ton, _n._ a remarkable genus of fossil reptiles
of the Mesozoic period. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far, _herpeton_, a reptile.]

TELESCOPE, tel'e-sk[=o]p, _n._ an optical instrument for viewing objects at
a distance.--_v.t._ to drive together so that one thing, as a
railway-carriage in a collision, slides into another like the movable
joints of a spyglass.--_v.i._ to be forced into each other in such a
way.--_adjs._ TELESCOP'IC, -AL, pertaining to, performed by, or like a
telescope: seen only by a telescope.--_adv._ TELESCOP'ICALLY.--_adj._
TEL'ESCOPIFORM.--_ns._ TEL'ESCOPIST, one who uses the telescope; TEL'ESCOPY
(or t[=e]-les'-), the art of constructing or of using the telescope.
[Fr.,--Gr. _t[=e]le_, at a distance, _skopein_, to see.]

TELESEME, tel'[=e]-s[=e]m, _n._ a system of electric signalling for the
automatic transmission of different signals, in use in large hotels, for
police alarms, &c. [Gr. _t[=e]le_, far, _s[=e]ma_, a sign.]

TELESIA, t[=e]-l[=e]'si-a, _n._ the sapphire. [Gr. _telesios_,
finishing--_telos_, the end.]

TELESPECTROSCOPE, tel-[=e]-spek'tr[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ a combined
astronomical telescope and spectroscope.

TELESTEREOSCOPE, tel-[=e]-ster'[=e]-[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an optical
instrument presenting distant objects in relief.

TELESTIC, t[=e]-les'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the final end. [Gr. _telos_,
an end.]

TELESTICH, tel'[=e]-stik, _n._ a poem in which the final letters of the
lines make a name.

TELETHERMOGRAPH, tel-[=e]-ther'm[=o]-graf, _n._ a self-registering
telethermometer.

TELETHERMOMETER, tel-[=e]-ther-mom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ thermometer that records
its temperature at a distance.

TELEUTOSPORE, t[=e]-l[=u]'t[=o]-sp[=o]r, _n._ a thick-walled winter spore
of the rust-fungi (_Uredineæ_), producing on germination a promycelium.
[Gr. _teleut[=e]_ completion, spora, _seed_.]

TELIC, tel'ik; _adj._ denoting a final end or purpose.

TELL, tel, _v.t._ to number or give an account of: to utter: to narrate: to
disclose: to inform: to discern: to explain.--_v.i._ to give an account: to
produce or take effect: to chat, gossip: to tell tales, play the
informer:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ t[=o]ld.--_adj._ TELL'ABLE, capable of being
told.--_ns._ TELL'ER, one who tells or counts: a clerk whose duty it is to
receive and pay money; TELL'ERSHIP, the office of a teller.--_p.adj._
TELL'ING, having great effect.--_adv._ TELL'INGLY, in a telling or
effective manner.--_n._ TELL'-TALE, one who tells tales: one who
officiously tells the private concerns of others: an indication or an
indicator, as an automatic instrument: a bird of genus _Totanus_, a
tattler.--_adj._ given to reveal secrets, blabbing: apparent, openly seen:
giving warning.--TELL OFF, to count off: to detach on some special duty.
[A.S. _tellan_; Ice. _telja_, Ger. _zählen_, to number.]

TELLURAL, tel'[=u]-ral, _adj._ pertaining to the earth.

TELLURIUM, te-l[=u]'ri-um, _n._ an element by some classed as a metal,
placed by others among the metalloids, brittle and crystalline, of high
metallic lustre, bluish-white in colour, with close analogies to sulphur
and selenium.--_n._ TEL'LURATE, a salt of telluric acid.--_adjs._
TEL'L[=U]RETTED, combined with tellurium; TELL[=U]'RIAN, pertaining to the
earth.--_n._ an inhabitant of the earth.--_adj._ TELL[=U]'RIC, pertaining
to, or proceeding from, the earth: of or from tellurium.--_n._ TEL'LURIDE,
a compound of tellurium with an electro-positive element.--_adjs._
TELL[=U]RIF'EROUS, containing tellurium; TEL'L[=U]ROUS, pertaining to
tellurium. [L. _tellus_, _telluris_, the earth.]

TELOTYPE, tel'[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a printing electric telegraph: an
automatically printed telegram.

TELPHER, tel'f[.e]r, _adj._ pertaining to a system of telpherage.--_n._
TEL'PHERAGE, a term coined by Prof. Fleeming Jenkin for a system of
electric traction developed on an absolute automatic block system, the
presence of a train on one section cutting off the supply of electric
energy to the section behind, any mode of transport effected automatically
with the aid of electricity. [Framed from _tel_(egraph)--Gr. _t[=e]le_,
far, _pherein_, to carry.]

TELSON, tel'son, _n._ the last somite of the pleon or abdomen of certain
crustaceans and arachnidans. [Gr. _telson_, a boundary.]

TELUGU, tel'[=oo]-g[=oo], _n._ the language spoken in the north-western
portion of the Dravidian area inhabited by the _Telingas_.--Also TEL'OOGOO.

TEMED, t[=e]md, _adj._ (_Spens._) yoked in a team.

TEMENOS, tem'e-nos, _n._ a piece of land marked off from common uses and
dedicated to a god, a precinct. [Gr.,--_temnein_, to cut off.]

TEMERITY, te-m[.e]r'i-ti, _n._ rashness: unreasonable contempt for
danger.--_adj._ TEMER[=A]'RIOUS (_obs._), rash, reckless.--_adv._
TEMER[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_adj._ TEM'EROUS, rash.--_adv._ TEM'EROUSLY. [Fr.
_témérité_--L. _temeritas_--_temere_, by chance, rashly.]

TEMEWISE, t[=e]m'w[=i]z, _adv._ (_Spens._) like a team.

TEMPEAN, tem-p[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to, or resembling, _Tempe_, a
valley in Thessaly, praised by the classic poets for its matchless beauty:
beautiful: delightful.

TEMPER, tem'p[.e]r, _v.t._ to mix in due proportion: to modify by blending
or mixture: to moderate: to soften: to bring to a proper degree of hardness
and elasticity, as steel: to amend or adjust, as a false or imperfect
concord.--_n._ due mixture or balance or different or contrary qualities:
state of a metal as to hardness, &c.: constitution of the body:
constitutional frame or state of mind, esp. with regard to feelings,
disposition, temperament, mood: passion, irritation: calmness or
moderation: in sugar-works lime or other substance used to neutralise the
acidity of cane-juice.--_adjs._ TEM'PERABLE, capable of being tempered;
TEM'PERED, having a certain specified disposition or temper: brought to a
certain temper, as steel: (_mus._) tuned or adjusted to some mean, or to
equal, temperament.--_adv._ TEM'PEREDLY.--_ns._ TEM'PERER; TEM'PERING, the
process of giving the required degree of hardness or softness to iron or
steel, by heating to redness and cooling in different ways. [L.
_temper[=a]re_, to combine properly, allied to _tempus_, time.]

TEMPERA, tem'pe-rä, _n._ (_paint._) same as DISTEMPER.

TEMPERAMENT, tem'p[.e]r-a-ment, _n._ state with respect to the predominance
of any quality: internal constitution or state: disposition, one of the
peculiarities of physical and mental organisation which to a certain extent
influence our thoughts and actions--_choleric_ or _bilious_, _lymphatic_,
_nervous_, _sanguine_: the adjustment of imperfect concords, so that the
difference between two contiguous sounds is reduced to a minimum and the
two appear identical--a system of compromise in the tuning of keyed
instruments.--_adj._ TEMPERAMEN'TAL.--_adv._ TEMPERAMEN'TALLY. [L.
_temperamentum_--_temper[=a]re_.]

TEMPERANCE, tem'p[.e]r-ans, _n._ moderation, esp. in the indulgence of the
natural appetites and passions--in a narrower sense, moderation in the use
of alcoholic liquors, and even entire abstinence from such.--TEMPERANCE
HOTEL, one which professes to supply no alcoholic liquors; TEMPERANCE
MOVEMENT, a political agitation for the restriction or abolition of the use
of alcoholic liquors; TEMPERANCE SOCIETY, usually an association of
total-abstainers from alcoholic liquors. [L. _temperantia_.]

TEMPERATE, tem'p[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ moderate in degree of any quality, esp.
in the appetites and passions, self-restrained: calm: cool, mild, moderate
in temperature: abstemious.--_adv._ TEM'PERATELY.--_n._
TEM'PERATENESS.--_adj._ TEM'PERATIVE.--_n._ TEM'PERATURE, constitution:
proportion: degree of any quality, esp. of heat or cold in weather or
climate: the thermal condition of a body which determines the interchange
of heat between it and other bodies: state of a living body with respect to
sensible heat.--TEMPERATE ZONES, the parts of the earth of more cool and
equable temperature lying between the tropics and the polar circles--the
_North Temperate Zone_ being the space between the tropic of Cancer and the
arctic circle; the _South Temperate Zone_, that between the tropic of
Capricorn and the antarctic circle.

TEMPEST, tem'pest, _n._ wind rushing with great velocity, usually with rain
or snow: a violent storm: any violent commotion.--_adjs._ TEM'PEST-BEAT'EN;
TEM'PEST-TOST (_Shak._), driven about by storms; TEMPES'T[=U]OUS,
resembling, or pertaining to, a tempest: very stormy: turbulent.--_adv._
TEMPES'T[=U]OUSLY.--_n._ TEMPES'T[=U]OUSNESS.--TEMPEST IN A TEA-POT, a
great disturbance over a trivial matter. [O. Fr. _tempeste_--L.
_tempestas_, a season, tempest--_tempus_, time.]

TEMPLAR, tem'plar, _n._ one of a religious and military order founded in
1119 for the protection of the Holy Sepulchre and pilgrims going
thither--extinguished, 1307-14, in one of the darkest tragedies of history:
a student or lawyer living in the Temple, London.--GOOD TEMPLAR, a member
of a teetotal society whose organisation is a travesty of that of the
Freemasons. [Orig. called 'Poor fellow-soldiers of Christ and of the
_Temple_ of Solomon,' from their first headquarters in the palace of King
Baldwin II., which was built on the site of the temple of Solomon, close to
the church of the Holy Sepulchre.]

TEMPLATE, tem'pl[=a]t, _n._ a mould in wood or metal, showing the outline
or profile of mouldings, and from which the workmen execute the
moulding.--Also TEM'PLET. [Low L. _templatus_, vaulted--L. _templum_, a
small timber.]

TEMPLE, tem'pl, _n._ an edifice erected to a deity or for religious
purposes: a place of worship: in London, two inns of court, once occupied
by the Knights Templars. [L. _templum_, prob. for _temulum_, a space marked
out for religious purposes, dim. of _tempus_, a piece cut off.]

TEMPLE, tem'pl, _n._ the flat portion of either side of the head above the
cheekbone.--_adj._ TEM'PORAL, pertaining to the temples. [O. Fr.
_temple_--L. _tempora_, the temples, pl. of _tempus_, time.]

TEMPO, tem'p[=o], _n._ (_mus._) time, relative rapidity of rhythm. [It.]

TEMPORAL, tem'por-al, _adj._ pertaining to time, esp. to this life or
world--opposed to eternal: worldly, secular, or civil--opposed to sacred or
ecclesiastical.--_n._ TEMPORAL'ITY, what pertains to temporal welfare:
(_pl._) secular possessions, revenues of an ecclesiastic proceeding from
lands, tithes, and the like.--_adv._ TEM'PORALLY.--_n._
TEM'PORALNESS.--_adv._ TEM'PORARILY.--_n._ TEM'PORARINESS.--_adjs._
TEM'PORARY, TEMPOR[=A]'NEOUS, for a time only: transient.--_n._
TEMPORIS[=A]'TION.--_v.i._ TEM'PORISE, to comply with the time or occasion:
to yield to circumstances.--_ns._ TEM'PORISER; TEM'PORISING.--_adv._
TEM'PORISINGLY. [Fr.,--L. _tempus_, time.]

TEMPT, temt, _v.t._ to put to trial: to test: to try to persuade, esp. to
evil: to entice.--_adj._ TEMP'TABLE.--_ns._ TEMP'TABLENESS; TEMPT[=A]'TION,
act of tempting: state of being tempted: that which tempts: enticement to
evil: trial.--_adj._ TEMPT[=A]'TIOUS, seductive.--_n._ TEMP'TER, one who
tempts, esp. the devil:--_fem._ TEMP'TRESS.--_adj._ TEMP'TING, adapted to
tempt or entice.--_adv._ TEMP'TINGLY.--_n._ TEMP'TINGNESS. [O. Fr.
_tempter_ (Fr. _tenter_)--L. _tent[=a]re_, an inten. of _tend[)e]re_, to
stretch.]

TEMSE, TEMS, tems, _n._ a sieve.--_v.t._ to sift. [Cf. Dut. _tems_.]

TEMULENCE, tem'[=u]-lens, _n._ intoxication--also TEM'ULENCY.--_adj._
TEM'ULENT.--_adv._ TEM'ULENTLY. [L. _temulentus_, drunk.]

TEN, ten, _adj._ twice five.--_n._ a figure denoting ten units, as 10 or
x.: a playing-card with ten spots: ten o'clock in the morning or
evening.--_n._ UP'PER-TEN (see under UPPER). [A.S. _tén_, _tíen_; Ger.
_zehn_, W. _deg_, L. _decem_, Gr. _deka_, Sans. _daçan_.]

TENABLE, ten'a-bl, _adj._ capable of being retained, kept, or
defended.--_ns._ TENABIL'ITY, TEN'ABLENESS, the state or quality of being
tenable. [Fr. _tenable_, from _tenir_--L. _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENACE, ten'[=a]s, _n._ at whist, a holding of the first and third best
cards (_major tenace_), or the second and fourth best cards (_minor
tenace_), in a suit. [Fr.]

TENACIOUS, t[=e]-n[=a]'shus, _adj._ retaining or holding fast: apt to
stick: stubborn.--_adv._ TEN[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ TEN[=A]'CIOUSNESS,
TENAC'ITY, quality of being tenacious: the quality of bodies which makes
them stick to others. [L. _tenax_--_ten[=e]re_.]

TENACULUM, t[=e]-nak'[=u]-lum, _n._ a surgical hooked instrument for
drawing out a divided blood-vessel to be tied.

TENAILLE, te-n[=a]l', _n._ (_fort._) an outwork in the main ditch
immediately in front of the curtain, of great use for protecting the ditch,
covering the postern from the enemy's view, &c.--_n._ TENAILLON
(te-nal'yon), a work to strengthen the side of a small ravelin, and to
support the shoulder of the bastion. [Fr.,--L. _tenaculum_, a
holder--_ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENANT, ten'ant, _n._ one who holds or possesses land or property under
another, the payments and services which he owes to his superior
constituting his tenure: one who has, on certain conditions, temporary
possession of any place, an occupant.--_v.t._ to hold as a tenant.--_n._
TEN'ANCY, a holding by private ownership: a temporary holding of land or
property by a tenant.--_adj._ TEN'ANTABLE, fit to be tenanted: in a state
of repair suitable for a tenant.--_n._ TEN'ANT-FARM'ER, a farmer who rents
a farm from the landlord.--_adj._ TEN'ANTLESS, without a tenant.--_ns._

TEN'ANT-RIGHT, the customary right of the tenant to sit continuously at a
reasonable rent, and to receive compensation for his interest from the
incoming tenant, and for all permanent or unexhausted improvements from the
landlord; TEN'ANTRY, the body of tenants on an estate. [Fr. _tenant_--L.
_tenens_, pr.p. of _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENCH, tensh, _n._ a fresh-water fish, of the carp family, very tenacious
of life. [O. Fr. _tenche_ (Fr. _tanche_)--L. _tinca_.]

TEND, tend, _v.t._ to accompany as assistant or protector: to take care of,
to be attentive to, to wait upon so as to execute.--_ns._ TEN'DANCE
(_Spens._), state of expectation: (_Shak._) act of waiting or tending, also
persons attendant; TEN'DER, a small vessel that attends a larger with
stores, &c.: a carriage attached to locomotives to supply fuel and water.
[Contracted from _attend_.]

TEND, tend, _v.i._ to stretch, aim at, move, or incline in a certain
direction: to be directed to any end or purpose: to contribute.--_n._
TEN'DENCY, direction, object, or result to which anything tends:
inclination: drift. [Fr. _tendre_--L. _tend[)e]re_; Gr. _teinein_, to
stretch.]

TENDER, ten'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to stretch out or offer for acceptance, esp. to
offer to supply certain commodities for a certain period at rates
specified.--_n._ an offer or proposal, esp. of some service, also the paper
containing it: the thing offered, the actual production and formal offer of
a sum due in legal money, or an offer of services to be performed, in order
to save the consequences of non-payment or non-performance.

TENDER, ten'd[.e]r, _adj._ soft, delicate: easily impressed or injured: not
hardy: fragile: weak and feeble: easily moved to pity, love, &c.: careful
not to injure (with _of_): unwilling to cause pain: apt to cause pain:
pathetic, expressive of the softer passions: compassionate, loving,
affectionate: young and inexperienced: weakly in health: delicate,
requiring careful handling: quick, keen: apt to lean over under sail.--_n._
TEN'DER-FOOT, one not yet hardened to life in the prairie, mining-camp,
&c.: a new-comer.--_adj._ TEN'DER-HEART'ED, full of feeling.--_adv._
TEN'DER-HEART'EDLY.--_n._ TEN'DER-HEART'EDNESS.--_adj._ TEN'DER-HEFT'ED
(_Shak._), having great tenderness.--_ns._ TEN'DERLING, one too much
coddled, an effeminate fellow: one of the first horns of a deer;
TEN'DER-LOIN, the tenderest part of the loin of beef, pork, &c., lying
close to the ventral side of the lumbar vertebræ.--_adv._ TEN'DERLY.--_n._
TEN'DERNESS. [Fr. _tendre_--L. _tener_, allied to _tenuis_, thin.]

TENDON, ten'don, _n._ the white fibrous tissue reaching from the end of a
muscle to bone or some other structure which is to serve as a fixed
attachment for it, or which it is intended to move--_funicular_, as the
long tendon of the biceps muscle of the arm; _fascicular_, as the short
tendon of that muscle, and as most tendons generally; _aponeurotic_,
tendinous expansions, as the tendons of the abdominal muscles--L.
TEN'DO:--_pl._ TEN'DINES.--_adj._ TEN'DINOUS, consisting of, containing, or
resembling tendons: full of tendons: sinewy.--_ns._ TENOG'RAPHY, the
description of tendons; TENOL'OGY, that part of anatomy which relates to
tendons; TENOT'OMY, the surgical operation of dividing a tendon. [Fr.
_tendon_--L. _tend[)e]re_, to stretch; cf. Gr. _ten[=o]n_--_teinein_, to
stretch.]

TENDRIL, ten'dril, _n._ a slender, spiral shoot of a plant by which it
attaches itself for support.--_adj._ clasping or climbing.--_adj._
TEN'DRILLED. [O. Fr. _tendrillons_, _tendre_--L. _tener_, tender.]

TENEBROUS, ten'e-brus, _adj._ dark: gloomy--also TEN'EBROSE.--_n.pl._
TENEBRÆ (ten'e-br[=e]), an office held by Roman Catholics on Good Friday
and the preceding two days, consisting of the matins and lauds of the
following day. During it the church is gradually darkened by the putting
out of all the candles but one, which for a time (as a symbol of our Lord's
death and burial) is hidden at the Epistle corner of the altar.--_adj._
TENEBRIF'IC, producing darkness.--_ns._ T[=E]NEB'RIO, a genus of beetles,
including the meal-worm; TENEBROS'ITY, darkness. [L.
_tenebrosus_--_tenebræ_, darkness.]

TENEMENT, ten'e-ment, _n._ anything held, or that may be held, by a tenant:
a dwelling or habitation, or part of it, used by one family: one of a set
of apartments in one building, each occupied by a separate family.--_adjs._
TENEMENT'AL; TENEMENT'ARY.

TENENDUM, t[=e]-nen'dum, _n._ that clause in a deed wherein the tenure of
the land is defined and limited. [L., neut. of _tenendus_, ger. of
_ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENESMUS, t[=e]-nes'mus, _n._ the term applied in medicine to a straining
and painful effort to relieve the bowels when no fæcal matter is present in
the rectum, the effort being caused by some adjacent source of
irritation.--_adj._ TENES'MIC.

TENET, ten'et, _n._ any opinion, principle, or doctrine which a person
holds or maintains as true. [L. _tenet_, he holds--_ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENFOLD, ten'f[=o]ld, _adj._ ten times folded: ten times more.

TENIOID=_Tænioid_.

TENNÉ, te-n[=a]', _n._ (_her._) an orange-brown tincture. [_Tawny_.]

TENNER, ten'[.e]r, _n._ (_slang_) a ten-pound note.

TENNIS, ten'is, _n._ an ancient game for two to four persons, played with
ball and rackets within a building specially constructed for the purpose:
lawn-tennis (q.v.), a modern imitation of the former.--_ns._ TENN'IS-BALL,
a ball used in the game of tennis; TENN'IS-COURT, a place or court for
playing at tennis. [Skeat suggests O. Fr. _tenies_, pl. of _tenie_, a
fillet--L. _tænia_.]

TENON, ten'un, _n._ a projection at the end of a piece of wood inserted
into the socket or mortise of another, to hold the two together.--_v.t._ to
fit with tenons.--_ns._ TEN'ONER, a machine for forming tenons; TEN'ON-SAW,
a thin back-saw for tenons, &c. [Fr. _tenon_--_tenir_, to hold--L.
_ten[=e]re_.]

TENOR, ten'ur, _n._ continuity of state: general run or currency: purport:
the higher of the two kinds of voices usually belonging to adult males: the
part next above the bass in a vocal quartet: one who sings tenor.--_adj._
pertaining to the tenor in music.--_ns._ TEN'OR-CLEF, the C clef, placed on
the fourth line; TEN'ORIST. [L. _tenor_--_ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENPENNY, ten'pen-i, _adj._ worth or sold at tenpence.

TENPINS, ten'pinz, _n._ a game played in a bowling-alley, the aim being to
bowl down ten pins set up at the far end.

TENREC, ten'rek, _n._ a genus of _Insectivora_, of one species, 12 to 16
inches long, with squat body and hardly any tail, found in Madagascar and
Mauritius.--Also TAN'REC. [Malagasy.]

TENSE, tens, _n._ time in grammar, the form of a verb to indicate the time
of the action. [O. Fr. _tens_ (Fr. _temps_)--L. _tempus_, time.]

TENSE, tens, _adj._ strained to stiffness: rigid.--_adv._ TENSE'LY.--_ns._
TENSE'NESS, state of being tense; TENSIBIL'ITY, TENSIL'ITY, quality of
being tensile.--_adjs._ TEN'SIBLE, TEN'SILE, capable of being
stretched.--_ns._ TEN'SION, act of stretching: state of being stretched or
strained: strain: effort: strain in the direction of the length, or the
degree of it: mental strain, excited feeling: a strained state of any kind;
TEN'SION-ROD, a rod in a structure holding together different parts;
TEN'SITY, tenseness: state of being tense.--_adj._ TEN'SIVE, giving the
sensation of tenseness or stiffness.--_n._ TEN'SOR, a muscle that tightens
a part. [L. _tensus_, pa.p. of _tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENSON, ten'son, _n._ a competition in verse between two troubadours before
a tribunal of love, also a subdivision of the chanson composed at
such.--Also TEN'ZON. [Fr.,--L. _tensio_, a struggle.]

TENT, tent, _n._ a portable lodge or shelter, generally of canvas stretched
on poles: a plug or roll of lint used to dilate a wound or opening in the
flesh--_v.t._ to probe: to keep open with a tent.--_ns._ TENT'-BED, a bed
having a canopy hanging from a central point overhead; TENT'-CLOTH, canvas,
duck, &c. suitable for tents.--_adj._ TEN'TED, covered with tents.--_ns._
TEN'TER, one who lives in a tent; TENT'-FLY, an external piece of canvas
stretched above the ridge-pole of a tent, shading from sun or shielding
from rain; TENT'FUL, as many as a tent will hold; TENT'-GUY, an additional
rope for securing a tent against a storm.--_adjs._ TEN'TIFORM, shaped like
a tent; TEN'TING (_Keats_), having the form of a tent.--_ns._ TENT'-MAK'ER,
one who makes tents; TENT'-PEG, -PIN, a strong peg of notched wood, or of
iron, driven into the ground to fasten one of the ropes of a tent to;
TENT'-PEG'GING, a favourite cavalry exercise in India, in which the
competitor, riding at full speed, tries to bear off a tent-peg on the point
of a lance; TENT'-POLE, one of the poles used in pitching a tent;
TENT'-ROPE, one of the ropes by which a tent is secured to the tent-pins,
generally one for each breadth of the canvas; TENT'-STITCH, in worsted and
embroidery, a series of parallel diagonal stitches--also _Petit point_;
TENT'-WORK, work produced by embroidering with tent-stitch. [Fr.
_tente_--Low L. _tenta_--L. _tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENT, tent, _n._ a Spanish wine of a deep-red colour. [Sp. _tinto_,
deep-coloured--L. _tinctus_, pa.p. of _ting[)e]re_, to dye.]

TENT, tent, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to take heed.--_v.i._ to be careful.--_n._
care, watchfulness. [Same as _Intent_.]

TENTACLE, ten'ta-kl, _n._ a thread-like organ of certain insects for
feeling or motion.--_adjs._ TEN'TACLED; TENTAC'[=U]LAR; TENTAC'[=U]LATE;
TENTACULIF'EROUS.--_n._ TENTAC'[=U]LITE, a genus of annulated tapering
shells, found abundantly in Silurian and Devonian strata. [Fr.
_tentacule_--L. _tent[=a]re_, to feel--_tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENTATION, ten-t[=a]'shun, _n._ old form of _temptation_.

TENTATIVE, ten'ta-tiv, _adj._ trying: experimental.--_n._ any attempt,
conjecture.--_adv._ TEN'TATIVELY. [Fr.,--Late L.,--L. _tent[=a]re_, to
try--_tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENTER, ten't[.e]r, _n._ a machine for extending or stretching cloth on by
hooks.--_v.t._ to stretch on hooks.--_n._ TEN'TER-HOOK, a sharp, hooked
nail, anything that gives torture.--BE ON TENTER-HOOKS, to be on the
stretch: to be in suspense or anxiety. [Fr. _tenture_--L.
_tentura_--_tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENTER, ten't[.e]r, _n._ one who has charge of something.--_adj._ TEN'TY,
attentive.

TENTH, tenth, _adj._ the last of ten: next in order after the ninth.--_n._
one of ten equal parts.--_adv._ TENTH'LY, in the tenth place.

TENTIGO, ten-t[=i]'g[=o], _n._ morbid lasciviousness.--_adj._ TENTIG'INOUS.

TENTORIUM, ten-t[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a sheet of the dura mater stretched
between the cerebrum and the cerebellum.--_adj._ TENT[=O]'RIAL. [L., 'a
tent'--_tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENTURE, ten't[=u]r, _n._ hangings for walls.

TENUITY, te-n[=u]'i-ti, _n._ thinness: smallness of diameter: slenderness:
rarity.--_v.t._ TEN'[=U]ATE, to make tenuous.--_adj._ TEN[=U]IROS'TRAL,
slender-billed, as a bird of the TEN[=U]IROS'TRES, a large division of
passerine birds including humming-birds, nuthatches, &c.--_adj._
TEN'[=U]OUS, thin, slender. [L. _tenuitas_--_tenuis_, thin, slender; cf.
_tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

TENURE, ten'[=u]r, _n._ a general name for the conditions on which land is
held by the persons who occupy and use it. [Fr. _tenure_--Low L.
_tenura_--L. _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

TENUTO, te-n[=oo]'t[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) sustained--opp. to _Staccato_.
[It.]

TEOCALLI, te-[=o]-kal'li, _n._ one of the temples of the aborigines of
Central America, which were erected on the top of a four-sided pyramid, and
the remains of which are chiefly found in Mexico.

TEPEFY, tep'[=e]-f[=i], _v.t._ to make tepid or moderately warm:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ tep'ef[=i]ed.--_n._ TEPEFAC'TION, act of making tepid or
lukewarm. [L. _tepefac[)e]re_--_tep[=e]re_, to be warm, _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

TEPHRITE, tef'r[=i]t, _n._ a name applied to certain modern volcanic
rocks.--_adj._ TEPHRIT'IC.--_ns._ TEPH'RITOID, a variety of tephrite;
TEPHI'ROITE, a reddish silicate of manganese.

TEPHROMANCY, tef'r[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination from the inspection of the
ashes of a sacrifice.--Also TEPH'RAMANCY. [Gr. _tephra_, ashes, _manteia_,
divination.]

TEPID, tep'id, _adj._ moderately warm: lukewarm.--_ns._ TEPID[=A]'RIUM, an
intermediate chamber in a Roman series of bathrooms, moderately hot: a
boiler in which the water was heated: any room containing a warm bath;
TEPID'ITY, TEP'IDNESS, lukewarmness; TEP'OR, gentle heat. [L.
_tepidus_--_tep[=e]re_, to be warm.]

TER, t[.e]r, _adv._ thrice. [L.]

TERAMORPHOUS, ter-a-mor'fus, _adj._ monstrous in form or nature. [Gr.
_teras_, a monster, _morph[=e]_, form.]

TERAPHIM, ter'a-fim, _n.pl._ a Hebrew word of uncertain derivation,
denoting a certain kind of images, idols, or household gods, of a human
figure, associated with divination, and commonly used in the popular
worship:--sing. TER'APH. [Heb.]

TERATOLOGY, ter-a-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the study of malformations or abnormal
growths, animal or vegetable.--_adj._ TERATOGEN'IC, producing
monsters.--_n._ TERATOG'ENY, the production of monsters.--_adjs._
TER'ATOID, monstrous; TERATOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to teratology.--_ns._
TERATOL'OGIST, one skilled in teratology; TERAT[=O]'MA, an anomalous
congenital tumour, often containing many different tissues.--_adj._
TERAT[=O]'MATOUS.--_n._ TERAT[=O]'SIS, monstrosity. [Gr. _teras_,
_teratos_, a monster.]

TERBIUM, ter'bi-um, _n._ a rare metal found in certain yttrium
minerals.--_adj._ TER'BIC.

TERCE, t[.e]rs, _n._ (_Scots law_) a widow's right, where she has no
conventional provision, to a liferent of a third of the husband's heritable
property: the office of the third hour, which should be said between
sunrise and noon. [_Tierce_.]

TERCEL, t[.e]rs'el, _n._ Same as TIERCEL.

TERCENTENARY, t[.e]r-sen'te-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ including or relating to an
interval of three hundred years.--_n._ the 300th anniversary of
anything.--_adj._ TERCENTEN'NIAL.

TERCET, ter'set, _n._ a triplet.

TERCINE, ter'sin, _n._ (_bot._) a layer of the primine coat of an ovule.

TEREBENE, ter'[=e]-b[=e]n, _n._ a light-yellow liquid, obtained by treating
oil of turpentine with sulphuric acid, used as a disinfectant.--_adj._
TEREB'IC, pertaining to turpentine.--_n._ TER'EBINTH, the
turpentine-tree.--_adj._ TEREBINTH'INE. [L.,--Gr. _terebinthos_.]

TEREBRA, ter'[=e]-bra, _n._ a Roman engine for making a breach in a wall:
the borer or ovipositor of various insects.--_adj._ TER'EBRANT.--_n._ a
borer, a bore.--_v.t._ TER'EBR[=A]TE, to bore.--_adj._ provided with a
borer.--_n._ TEREBR[=A]'TION. [L.]

TEREBRATULA, ter-[=e]-brat'[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of deep-sea Brachiopods,
from the form of the ventral valve of their shell termed Lamp-shells.--_n._
TEREBRAT'ULID, one of this genus.--_adj._ TEREBRAT'[=U]LIFORM.--_n._
TEREBRAT'ULITE, a fossil terebratulid.--_adj._ TEREBRAT'[=U]LOID (also
_n._).

TEREDO, t[=e]-r[=e]'do, _n._ the ship-worm, a worm very destructive in
boring into wood.--Also TER'EDINE. [L.,--Gr. _ter[=e]d[=o]n_, from
_teirein_, to wear away.]

TEREK, ter'ek, _n._ a kind of sandpiper, of the genus TER[=E]'KIA.

TERENTIAN, ter-en'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Roman comic poet
_Terence_, P. Terentius Afer (b. 195 B.C.).

TERES, t[=e]'r[=e]z, _n._ a terete muscle.--_adjs._ TERETE', cylindrical
and tapering, columnar; TERETICAU'DATE, round-tailed. [L. _teres_,
_ter[)e]tis_, smooth, _ter[)e]re_, to rub.]

TERGAL, ter'gal, _adj._ pertaining to the back, dorsal.--_adjs._ TER'GANT
(_her._), turning the back, recursant; TERGIF'EROUS, bearing on the
back.--_n._ TER'GITE, the tergum or back of one of the somites or segments
of an arthropod, &c.--_adj._ TERGIT'IC.--_n._ TER'GUM, the back, dorsum, or
notum, as of an arthropod:--_pl._ TER'GA. [L. _tergum_, the back.]

TERGEMINATE, ter-jem'i-n[=a]t, _adj._ thrice double.--Also TERGEM'INAL,
TERGEM'INOUS.

TERGIVERSATION, t[.e]r-ji-v[.e]r-s[=a]'shun, _n._ a shuffling or shifting:
subterfuge: fickleness of conduct.--_v.i._ TER'GIVERSATE, to practise or
use evasion.--_n._ TER'GIVERS[=A]TOR. [L., from _tergum_, the back,
_vers[=a]ri_, to turn.]

TERM, t[.e]rm, _n._ any limited period: the time for which anything lasts:
the time during which the courts of law are open: certain days on which
rent is paid: that by which a thought is expressed, a word or expression: a
condition or arrangement (gener. in _pl._): (_alg._) a member of a compound
quantity.--_v.t._ to apply a term to: to name or call.--_n._ TERM'ER, one
who attends a court term, often with the sense of a shifty rogue: one
holding an estate for a term of years--also TERM'OR.--_adj._
TERMINOLOG'ICAL.--_adv._ TERMINOLOGY'ICALLY.--_n._ TERMINOL'OGY, doctrine
of terms: the terms used in any art, science, &c.--_adj._ TERM'LESS, having
no term or end: (_Spens._) unlimited, boundless.--_adv._ TERM'LY, term by
term.--BE ON TERMS WITH, to be on friendly relations with; BRING TO TERMS,
to compel to the acceptance of conditions; COME TO TERMS, to come to an
agreement: to submit; EAT ONE'S TERMS (see EAT); IN TERMS OF, in the
language peculiar to anything, in modes of; KEEP A TERM, to give the
regular attendance during a period of study; MAJOR TERM, in a syllogism,
that which is the predicate of the conclusion; the MINOR TERM, that which
is the subject of the conclusion; MAKE TERMS, to come to an agreement;
SPEAK IN TERMS, to speak plainly; STAND UPON ONE'S TERMS (_with_), to
insist upon conditions. [Fr. _terme_--L. _terminus_, a boundary.]

TERMA, ter'ma, _n._ the terminal lamina of the brain.--_adj._
TERMAT'IC.--_n._ the termatic artery. [Gr., 'a limit.']

TERMAGANT, t[.e]r'ma-gant, _n._ a boisterous, bold woman.--_adj._
boisterous: brawling: tumultuous.--_n._ TER'MAGANCY, state or quality of
being a termagant: turbulence.--_adv._ TER'MAGANTLY. [M. E. _Termagant_ or
_Tervagant_, a supposed Mohammedan idol, represented in the old plays and
moralities as of a violent character--O. Fr. _Tervagant_, _Tervagan_--It.
_Trivigante_, perh. from the moon as wandering under three names of
_Selene_ (_Luna_) in heaven, _Artemis_ (_Diana_) on earth, and _Persephone_
(_Proserpine_) in the lower world.]

TERMES, t[.e]r'm[=e]z, _n._ a genus of pseudoneuropterous insects.
[_Termite_.]

TERMINATE, t[.e]r'min-[=a]t, _v.t._ to set a limit to: to set the boundary:
to put an end to: to finish.--_v.i._ to be limited: to end either in space
or time: to close.--_adj._ TER'MINABLE, that may be limited: that may
terminate or cease.--_n._ TER'MINABLENESS.--_adj._ TER'MINAL, pertaining
to, or growing at, the end or extremity: ending a series or part: occurring
in every term.--_n.pl._ TERMIN[=A]'LIA, an annual Roman festival in honour
of _Terminus_, the god of boundaries.--_adv._ TER'MINALLY.--_n._
TERMIN[=A]'TION, act of terminating or ending: limit: end: result: the
ending of words as varied by their signification.--_adjs._
TERMIN[=A]'TIONAL, pertaining to, or forming, a termination;
TER'MIN[=A]TIVE, tending to terminate or determine: absolute.--_adv._
TER'MIN[=A]TIVELY.--_n._ TER'MIN[=A]TOR, one who, or that which,
terminates: the boundary between the illuminated and dark portions of the
moon or of a planet.--_adj._ TER'MIN[=A]TORY. [L. _terminus_.]

TERMINUS, t[.e]r'mi-nus, _n._ the end or extreme point: one of the extreme
points of a railway, &c.: the ancient Roman god of boundaries:--_pl._
TER'MINI ([=i]).--_ns._ TER'MINER (_law_), the act of determining;
TER'MINISM, the theological doctrine that there is a limit in the life of
each man and of mankind for the operation of grace; TER'MINIST, one who
believes in terminism.

TERMITE, ter'm[=i]t, _n._ the white ant.--_ns._ TERMIT[=A]'RIUM,
TER'MITARY, a mound of termites.--_adj._ TER'MITINE. [L. _termes_,
_termitis_, a wood-worm.]

TERN, t[.e]rn, _n._ a long-winged aquatic fowl allied to the gull.--_n._
TER'NERY, a place where terns breed. [Allied to Dan. _terne_, sea-swallow,
Ice. _therna_.]

TERN, t[.e]rn, _adj._ threefold: consisting of three: growing in
threes.--_n._ that which consists of three things or numbers together: a
prize in a lottery got by drawing three favourable numbers.--_adjs._
TER'NAL, threefold; TER'NARY, proceeding by, or consisting of,
threes.--_n._ the number three.--_adj._ TER'N[=A]TE, threefold, or arranged
in threes.--_adv._ TER'N[=A]TELY.--_n._ TER'NION, a section of paper for a
book containing three double leaves or twelve pages. [L. _terni_, three
each--_tres_, three.]

TERNE, t[.e]rn, _n._ an inferior tin-plate for roofs and the inside of
packing-cases. [Fr. _terne_, dull.]

TERPENE, ter'p[=e]n, _n._ one of several isomeric oily hydrocarbons.
[_Terebene_.]

TERPSICHORE, t[.e]rp-sik'[=o]-r[=e], _n._ one of the nine muses, who
presided over choral song and dancing.--_adj._ TERPSICHOR[=E]'AN, relating
to _Terpsichore_, or to dancing. [Gr. _terpsichor[=e]_, delighting in
dancing--_terpsis_, delight--_terpein_, to enjoy, choros, dancing.]

TERRA, ter'a, _n._ earth.--_ns._ TERR'A-COT'TA, a composition of clay and
sand used for statues, hardened like bricks by fire; TERR'ACULTURE,
agriculture; TERR'Æ-FIL'IUS, a person of humble origin: formerly the title
of a scholar at Oxford who composed annually a satirical lampoon in which
considerable license was allowed; TERR'A-FIR'MA, a term frequently employed
to denote continental land as distinguished from islands: (_coll._) land as
distinguished from water; TERR'A-JAPON'ICA, pale catechu or gambier;
TERR'A-MARA (-mä'ra), an earthy deposit containing fertilising organic or
mineral matter, any deposit containing prehistoric remains.--_adjs._
TERR[=A]'N[=E]AN, being in the earth; TERR[=A]'N[=E]OUS, growing on
land.--_ns._ TERR[=A]'RIUM, a vivarium for land animals; TERR'A-ROS'SA, a
name given to a ferruginous red earth extensively developed in the
limestone districts of south-eastern Europe, esp. in Istria and Dalmatia.
[L. _terra_, earth; L. _cocta_, pa.p. of _coqu[)e]re_, to cook; L.
_firmus_, firm; It. _amara_, bitter; _rosso_, red.]

TERRACE, ter'[=a]s, _n._ a raised level bank of earth: any raised flat
place: the flat roof of a house:--_pl._ (_geol._) comparatively level
strips of land near the sea, lakes, or rivers, with a sharp descent at the
edge towards the water, showing an ancient water-level.--_v.t._ to form
into a terrace. [Fr. _terrasse_--It. _terrazza_--L. _terra_, the earth.]

TERRAIN, ter'[=a]n, _n._ (_geol._) any series of rocks continuously
related: any tract considered in relation to its fitness for some purpose.
[Fr.,--L. _terrenum_.]

TERRAPIN, ter'a-pin, _n._ the popular name of many species of fresh-water
and tidal tortoises of the family _Emydidæ_, natives of tropical and the
warmer temperate countries. [Supposed to be Amer. Ind. in origin.]

TERRAQUEOUS, ter-[=a]'kw[=e]-us, _adj._ consisting of land and water.--Also
TERR[=A]'QU[=E]AN. [Coined from L. _terra_, earth, _aqua_, water.]

TERREEN, ter-[=e]n', _n._ less common form of _tureen_.

TERREMOTIVE, ter-e-m[=o]'tiv, _adj._ seismic.

TERRENE, te-r[=e]n', _adj._ pertaining to the earth: earthy:
earthly.--_adv._ TERRENE'LY.--_n._ TERREN'ITY. [L. _terrenus_--_terra_, the
earth.]

TERRESTRIAL, te-res'tri-al, _adj._ pertaining to, or existing on, the
earth: earthly: living on the ground: representing the earth.--_adv._
TERRES'TRIALLY.--_n._ TERRES'TRIALNESS.--_adj._ TERRES'TRIOUS, terrestrial.
[L. _terrestris_--_terra_, the earth.]

TERRET, ter'et, _n._ one of the two round loops or rings on a pad-tree,
through which the driving reins pass.--Also TERR'IT.

TERRIBLE, ter'i-bl, _adj._ fitted to excite terror or awe: awful:
dreadful.--_ns._ TERR'IBLE-IN'FANT, an inconveniently outspoken child--the
Fr. _enfant terrible_; TERR'IBLENESS, state of being terrible: terror,
dread.--_adv._ TERR'IBLY. [L. _terribilis_--_terr[=e]re_, to frighten.]

TERRICOLOUS, te-rik'[=o]-lus, _adj._ terrestrial.--Also TER'RICOLE,
TERRIC'OLINE. [L. _terra_, earth, _col[)e]re_, to inhabit.]

TERRIER, ter'i-[.e]r, _n._ a name originally applied to any breed of dog
used to burrow underground, but now applied to any small dog--varieties are
the _Fox terrier_, _Scotch terrier_ (sometimes _Skye terrier_), _Dandie
Dinmont_ (from the stout Borderer in Scott's 'Guy Mannering'), the _Irish
terrier_, _Bedlington_, &c.: a hole or burrow where foxes, rabbits, &c.
secure themselves. [Fr. _terrier_--_terre_, the earth--L. _terra_.]

TERRIER, ter'i-[.e]r, _n._ a register or roll of a landed estate. [O.
Fr.,--L. _terrarius_--_terra_, land.]

TERRIFY, ter'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to cause terror in: to frighten greatly: to
alarm:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ terr'if[=i]ed.--_adj._ TERRIF'IC, creating or
causing terror: fitted to terrify: dreadful.--_adv._ TERRIF'ICALLY. [L.
_terr[=e]re_, to terrify, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

TERRIGENOUS, te-rij'e-nus, _adj._ produced by the earth.

TERRINE, te-r[=e]n', _n._ an earthenware vessel for containing some dainty:
a tureen for soup. [Fr.,--L. _terra_, earth.]

TERRITORY, ter'i-t[=o]-ri, _n._ the extent of land around or belonging to a
city or state: domain: (_U.S._) a portion of the country not yet admitted
as a State into the Union, and still under a provisional
government.--_adj._ TERRIT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to territory: limited to a
district.--_v.t._ TERRIT[=O]'RIALISE, to enlarge by addition of territory:
to reduce to the state of a territory.--_ns._ TERRIT[=O]'RIALISM, a theory
of church government according to which the ruler of a country has the
natural right to rule also over the ecclesiastical affairs of his people;
TERRITORIAL'ITY, the possession of territory.--_adv._
TERRIT[=O]'RIALLY.--_adj._ TERR'ITORIED, possessed of territory. [L.
_territorium_--_terra_, the earth.]

TERROR, ter'or, _n._ extreme fear: an object of fear or dread--(_Milt._)
TERR'OUR.--_adj._ TERR'OR-HAUNT'ED, haunted with terror.--_n._
TERRORIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ TERR'ORISE, to terrify: to govern by
terror.--_ns._ TERR'ORISER, one who terrorises; TERR'ORISM, a state of
terror: a state which impresses terror: an organised system of
intimidation; TERR'ORIST, one who rules by terror.--_adjs._ TERR'ORLESS,
free from terror: harmless; TERR'OR-SMIT'TEN, -STRICK'EN, -STRUCK, seized
with terror, terrified.--_v.t._ TERR'OR-STRIKE, to smite with terror.--KING
OF TERRORS, death; REIGN OF TERROR, or THE TERROR, the period of fever in
the first French Revolution, during which the king, the queen, thousands of
victims--the innocent and the guilty--the Girondists, Danton, Madame
Roland, and at last Robespierre, were hurried to the guillotine. [L.
_terror_--_terr[=e]re_, to frighten.]

TERRY, ter'i, _n._ a pile fabric with uncut loops.

TERSANCTUS. See TRISAGION.

TERSE, t[.e]rs, _adj._ compact or concise, with smoothness or elegance:
neat.--_adv._ TERSE'LY.--_ns._ TERSE'NESS, conciseness, brevity; TER'SION,
act of wiping. [L. _tersus_--_terg[=e]re_, _tersum_, to rub clean.]

TERTIAL, ter'shal, _adj._ of the third rank among the flight-feathers of a
bird's wing.--_n._ a tertiary flight-feather.

TERTIAN, t[.e]r'shi-an, _adj._ occurring every third day.--_n._ an ague or
fever with paroxysms every third day. [L. _tertianus_--_tertius_,
third--_tres_, three.]

TERTIARY, t[.e]r'shi-ar-i, _adj._ of the third degree, order, or formation:
pertaining to the series of sedimentary rocks or strata lying above the
chalk and other secondary strata, and abounding in organic remains--the
_Cainozoic_: (_ornith._) tertial.--_n._ one who, or that which, is
tertiary.--_n.pl._ TER'TIARIES, a class in the R.C. Church, who, without
entering into the seclusion of a monastery, aspire to practise in ordinary
life all the substantial obligations of the scheme of virtue laid down in
the Gospel. [L. _tertiarius_--_tertius_.]

TERUNCIUS, te-run'shi-us, _n._ an ancient Roman coin, ¼ as, weighing 3 oz.

TERU-TERO, ter'[=oo]-ter'[=o], _n._ the Cayenne lapwing.

TERVY, ter'vi, _v.i._ (_prov._) to struggle.

TERZA-RIMA, ter'tsa-r[=e]'ma, _n._ a form of Italian triplet in iambic
decasyllables, in which the middle line of the first triplet rhymes with
the first and third lines of the next triplet, as in Dante's _Divina
Commedia_ and Longfellow's translation of it.--_n._ TERZET'TO, a musical
composition for three voices. [It., _terza_, fem. of _terzo_, third,
_rima_, rhyme.]

TESHO-LAMA. See LAMA.

TESSERA, tes'e-ra, _n._ one of the small square tiles or cut stones used in
forming tessellated pavements:--_pl._ TESS'ERÆ--also TESSEL'LA:--_pl._
TESSEL'LÆ.--_adjs._ TESS'ELLAR, composed of, or like, tessellæ; TESS'ELLAR,
TESSER[=A]'IC, TESS'ERAL, made up of tesseræ.--_v.t._ TESS'ELLATE, to form
into squares or lay with chequered work.--_adj._ TESS'ELLATED.--_n._
TESSELL[=A]'TION, tessellated or mosaic work: the operation of making it.
[L. _tessella_, dim. of _tessera_, a square piece.]

[Illustration]

TEST, test, _n._ a pot in which metals are tried and refined: any critical
trial: means of trial: (_chem._) anything used to distinguish substances or
detect their presence, a reagent: standard: proof: distinction: a witness,
testimony: the hard covering of certain animals, shield, lorica.--_v.t._ to
put to proof: to examine critically.--_ns._ TEST'-P[=A]'PER, a bibulous
paper saturated with some chemical compound that readily changes colour
when exposed to certain other chemicals; TEST'-PLATE, a white plate or tile
on which to try vitrifiable colours by heat: a glass plate with a series of
finely ruled lines used in testing the resolving power of microscopic
objectives; TEST'-TUBE, a cylinder of thin glass closed at one end, used in
testing liquids.--_n.pl._ TEST'-TYPES, letters or words in type of
different sizes for testing the sight.--TEST ACTS, acts meant to secure
that none but rightly affected persons and members of the established
religion shall hold office--especially those of 1673 and 1685. [O. Fr.
_test_--L. _testa_, an earthen pot.]

TEST, test, _v.t._ to attest legally and date.--_v.i._ to make a
will.--_adj._ TES'TABLE, capable of being given by will, capable of
witnessing. [Fr. _tester_--L. _test[=a]ri_, to testify.]

TESTA, tes'ta, _n._ the outer integument of a seed.

TESTACEA, tes-t[=a]'s[=e]-a, _n.pl._ shelled or crustaceous
animals.--_adjs._ TEST[=A]'CEAN (also _n._), TEST[=A]'CEOUS, consisting of,
or having, a hard shell.--_ns._ TESTACELL'A, a genus of molluscs belonging
to the _Pulmonifera_, and represented in Britain by three species;
TESTACEOG'RAPHY, descriptive testaceology; TESTACEOL'OGY, conchology. [L.
_testaceus_--_testa_, a shell.]

TESTAMENT, tes'ta-ment, _n._ that which testifies, or in which an
attestation is made: the solemn declaration in writing of one's will: a
will: a dispensation, as of the Mosaic or old and the Christian or new, one
of the two great divisions of the Bible.--_n._ TES'TACY, state of being
testate.--_adjs._ TESTAMEN'TAL, TESTAMEN'TARY, pertaining to a testament or
will: bequeathed or done by will.--_adv._ TESTAMEN'TARILY.--_adj._
TES'T[=A]TE, having made and left a will.--_ns._ TEST[=A]'TION, a
witnessing, a giving by will; TEST[=A]'TOR, one who leaves a will;--_fem._
TEST[=A]'TRIX; TEST[=A]'TUM, one of the clauses of an English deed,
enumerating the operative words of transfer, statement of consideration,
money, &c. [L. _testamentum_--_test[=a]ri_, to be a witness--_testis_, a
witness.]

TESTAMUR, tes-t[=a]'mur, _n._ a certificate that one has passed an
examination at an English university--from the opening word. [L., 'we
testify.']

TESTER, tes't[.e]r, _n._ a flat canopy, esp. over the head of a bed. [O.
Fr. _teste_ (Fr. _tête_), the head--L. _testa_, an earthen pot, the skull.]

TESTER, tes't[.e]r, _n._ a sixpence--also TES'TERN.--_v.t._ TES'TERN
(_Shak._), to present or reward with a sixpence. [O. Fr. _teston_--_teste_
(Fr. _tête_), the head, from that of Louis XII. on it.]

TESTICLE, tes'ti-kl, _n._ a gland which secretes the seminal fluid in
males, a testis, one of the stones.--_adjs._ TES'TICOND, having the testes
concealed; TESTIC'ULAR, pertaining to a testicle; TESTIC'ULATE, -D, shaped
like a testicle.--_n._ TES'TIS, a testicle, a rounded body resembling
it:--_pl._ TES'TES. [L. _testiculus_, dim. of _testis_, a testicle.]

TESTIERE, tes-ti-[=a]r', _n._ complete armour for a horse's head. [O. Fr.]

TESTIFY, tes'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to bear witness: to make a solemn
declaration: to protest or declare a charge (with _against_).--_v.t._ to
bear witness to: to affirm or declare solemnly or on oath:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ tes'tif[=i]ed.--_ns._ TESTIF'IC[=A]TE (_Scots law_), a solemn
written assertion; TESTIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of testifying or of bearing
witness; TES'TIFIER. [L. _testific[=a]ri_--_testis_, a witness,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

TESTIMONY, tes'ti-m[=o]-ni, _n._ evidence: declaration to prove some fact:
proof: (_B._) the two tables of the law: the whole divine
revelation.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to witness.--_adj._ TESTIM[=O]'NIAL,
containing testimony.--_n._ a writing or certificate bearing testimony to
one's character or abilities: a sum of money raised by subscription and
presented in any form to a person as a token of respect.--_v.t._
TESTIM[=O]'NIALISE, to present with a testimonial. [L.
_testimonium_--_test[=a]ri_, to witness.]

TESTING, tes'ting, _n._ the act of trying for proof: the operation of
refining gold and silver: chemical analysis.--TESTING CLAUSE, in a Scotch
deed, the last clause which narrates when and where the parties signed the
deed, before what witnesses, by whose hand written, &c.

TESTRIL, tes'tril, _n._ (_Shak._) same as _Tester_, a sixpence.

TESTUDINAL, tes-t[=u]'din-al, _adj._ relating to, or resembling, the
tortoise.--_adjs._ TEST[=U]'DINATE, -D, TESTUDIN'EOUS, arched, vaulted,
resembling the carapace of a tortoise.--_n._ TEST[=U]'DO, a cover for the
protection of Roman soldiers attacking a wall, formed by overlapping their
oblong shields above their heads: any similarly shaped shelter for miners,
&c.: an encysted tumour: the fornix: a kind of lyre, the lute. [L.
_testudo_, _-inis_, the tortoise.]

TESTY, tes'ti, _adj._ heady: easily irritated: fretful: peevish.--_adv._
TES'TILY.--_n._ TES'TINESS. [From O. Fr. _teste_ (Fr. _tête_), the head.]

TETANUS, tet'a-nus, _n._ an involuntary, persistent, intense, and painful
contraction or cramp of more or less extensive groups of the voluntary
muscles: lockjaw: the state of prolonged contraction of a muscle under
stimuli repeated quickly.--_adjs._ TETAN'IC; TET'ANIFORM;
TETANIG'ENOUS.--_n._ TETANIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ TET'ANISE.--_adj._
TET'ANOID.--_n._ TET'ANY, a rare and little understood disease of the
nervous system, occurring both in children and adults, characterised by
recurring attacks of tonic spasm of various muscles, particularly those of
the fingers and toes, associated with defective hygienic conditions,
imperfect ventilation, poor diet, and in children with rickets.
[L.,--Gr.,--_tetanos_, stretched--_teinein_, to stretch.]

TETCHY, TECHY, tech'i, _adj._ touchy, peevish, fretful.--_adv._ TETCH'ILY,
in a tetchy or fretful manner.--_n._ TETCH'INESS, the state of being tetchy
or fretful. [_Touchy_.]

TÊTE, t[=a]t, _n._ a head, head-dress.--_n._ TÊTE-À-TÊTE
(t[=a]t'-a-t[=a]t'), a private confidential interview: a sofa for
two.--_adj._ confidential, secret.--_adv._ in private conversation: face to
face. [Fr.]

TETHER, teth'[.e]r, _n._ a rope or chain for tying a beast, while feeding,
within certain limits.--_v.t._ to confine with a tether: to restrain within
certain limits. [M. E. _tedir_, acc. to Skeat, prob. Celt., Gael.
_teadhair_, a tether, W. _tid_, a chain. The Low Ger. _tider_, Ice.
_tjóðir_, are prob. borrowed.]

TETRABRANCHIATE, tet-ra-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having four gills.--_n.pl._
TETRABRANCH'I[=A]TA.

TETRACHORD, tet'ra-kord, _n._ a series of four sounds, forming a scale of
two tones and a half.--_adj._ TET'RACHORDAL. [Gr. _tetrachordos_,
four-stringed--_tetra_, for _tetara_=_tessares_, four, _chord[=e]_, chord.]

TETRACHOTOMOUS, tet-ra-kot'[=o]-mus, _adj._ doubly dichotomous, arranged in
four rows.--_n._ TETRAC'TOMY, a division into four parts. [Gr. _tetracha_,
in four parts, _temnein_, to cut.]

TETRACT, tet'rakt, _adj._ having four rays.--Also TETRAC'TINAL,
TETRAC'TINE. [Gr., _tetra-_, four, _aktis_, a ray.]

TETRAD, tet'rad, _n._ a group of four: (_chem._) an atom, radical, or
element having a combining power of four.--_adjs._ TET'RAD,
TETRAD'IC.--_n._ TET'RADITE, one who attaches mystic properties to the
number four, one born in the fourth month or on the fourth day of the
month.

TETRADACTYL, tet-ra-dak'til. _adj._ having four fingers or toes--also
TETRADAC'TYLOUS.--_n._ TETRADAC'TYL, a four-toed animal.

TETRADECAPOD, tet-ra-dek'a-pod, _adj._ having fourteen feet.--_n.pl._
TETRADECAP'ODA, fourteen-footed crustaceans.--_adj._ TETRADECAP'ODOUS.

TETRAGAMY, te-trag'a-mi, _n._ marriage for the fourth time. [Gr., _tetra-_,
four, _gamos_, marriage.]

TETRAGON, tet'ra-gon, _n._ a figure of four angles.--_adj._ TETRAG'ONAL.
[Gr. _tetragonon_--_tetra-_, four _g[=o]nia_, an angle.]

TETRAGRAM, tet'ra-gram, _n._ a word of four letters: the TETRAGRAMMATON:
(_geom._) a quadrilateral.--_n._ TETRAGRAM'MATON, the name JeHoVaH as
written with four Hebrew letters, regarded as a mystic symbol: similarly
some other sacred word of four letters, as the Latin _Deus_. [Gr.,
_tetra-_, four, _gramma_, a letter.]

TETRAGYNOUS, tet-raj'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) having four styles or
pistils--also TETRAGYN'IAN.--_n.pl._ TETRAGYN'IA.

[Illustration]

TETRAHEDRON, tet-ra-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a solid figure enclosed by four bases
or triangles.--_adjs._ TETRAH[=E]'DRAL, having four sides: bounded by four
triangles; TETRAHEXAH[=E]'DRAL.--_n._ TETRAHEX'AH[=E]DRON, a solid of
twenty-four triangular faces. [Gr., _tetra-_, four, _hedra_, a base.]

TETRALOGY, te-tral'[=o]-ji, _n._ a group of four dramas, three tragic and
one satiric, exhibited together at the festivals of Dionysos at Athens: any
series of four related dramatic or operatic works.

TETRAMERA, te-tram'e-ra, _n.pl._ a division of beetles with four-jointed
tarsi.--_adj._ TETRAM'ERAL, four-parted.--_n._ TETRAM'ERISM, division into
four parts.--_adj._ TETRAM'EROUS, having four parts. [Gr., _tetra-_, four,
_meros_, part.]

TETRAMETER, te-tram'e-t[.e]r, _adj._ having four measures, each of two
iambic or trochaic feet.--_n._ a verse of four measures. [Gr.
_tetrametros_--_tetra-_, four, _metron_, measure.]

TETRANDRIA, te-tran'dri-a, _n._ the fourth class of the Linnæan
classification of plants, containing those with four stamens in a
flower.--_adjs._ TETRAN'DRIAN, TETRAN'DROUS. [Gr., _tetra-_, four,
_an[=e]r_, _andros_, a man.]

TETRAO, tet'r[=a]-o, _n._ the chief genus of the family _Tetraonidæ_, which
also includes quails and partridges. From these the grouse (forming a
subfamily, _Tetraoninæ_) are distinguished. The genus _Tetrao_ is
represented by the Capercailzie and the Blackcock or Black Grouse.
[L.,--Gr. _tetra[=o]n_, a pheasant.]

TETRAPETALOUS, tet-ra-pet'a-lus, _adj._ (_bot._) having four distinct
petals or flower-leaves.

TETRAPHYLLOUS, tet-ra-fil'us, _adj._ having four leaves: consisting of four
distinct leaves or leaflets. [Gr., _tetra-_, four, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

TETRAPLA, tet'ra-pla, _n._ a Bible consisting of four different versions in
parallel columns, originally the edition of the Old Testament published by
Origen, containing four Greek versions (those of Aquila, Symmachus,
Theodotion, and the Septuagint). [Gr. _tetraplous_, fourfold.]

TETRAPOD, tet'ra-pod, _n._ an insect distinguished by having but four
perfect legs.--_adj._ four-footed, with four legs--also TETRAP'ODOUS.--_n._
TETRAP'ODY, a group of four feet. [Gr., _tetra-_, four, _pous_, _podos_,
foot.]

TETRAPOLITAN, tet-ra-pol'i-tan, _adj._ pertaining to a TETRAP'OLIS or a
group of four towns.--TETRAPOLITAN CONFESSION, the Confession which the
four cities of Strasburg, Constance, Memmingen, and Lindau presented to the
Diet of Augsburg (11th July 1530), and, properly speaking, the first
Confession of the Reformed Church.

TETRAPTEROUS, te-trap'te-rus, _adj._ having four wings.--Also TETRAP'TERAN.
[Gr., _tetra-_, four, _pteron_, a wing.]

TETRAPTOTE, tet'rap-t[=o]t, _n._ a noun with but four cases. [Gr.,
_tetra-_, four, _pt[=o]sis_, a case.]

TETRARCH, tet'rärk, or t[=e]', _n._ under the Romans, the ruler of the
fourth part of a province: a subordinate prince: the commander of a
subdivision of a Greek phalanx.--_ns._ TET'RARCHATE, TET'RARCHY, office or
jurisdiction of a tetrarch: the fourth part of a province. [Gr., _tetra-_,
four, _arch[=e]s_, a ruler.]

TETRASEMIC, tet-ra-s[=e]'mik, _adj._ (_pros._) equivalent to four short
syllables, as a dactyl, anapæst, or spondee. [Gr., tetra-, four, _s[=e]ma_,
a sign.]

TETRASPERMOUS, tet-ra-sper'mus, _adj._ four-seeded. [Gr., _tetra-_, four,
sperma, seed.]

TETRASPORE, tet'ra-sp[=o]r, _n._ a reproductive body, composed of four
spores or germs, found in algæ.--_adjs._ TETRASPOR'IC, TET'RASPOROUS. [Gr.,
_tetra-_, four, spora, seed.]

TETRASTICH, tet'ra-stik, _n._ a stanza, &c., of four lines, a
quartet.--_adjs._ TETRASTICH'IC, TETRAS'TICHOUS. [Gr., _tetra-_, four,
_stichos_, a row.]

TETRASTYLE, tet'ra-st[=i]l, _n._ a temple or other building having four
front columns in its portico: a group of four pillars.--_adj._ having four
pillars. [Gr., _tetra-_, four, _stylos_, a column.]

TETRASYLLABLE, tet'ra-sil-a-bl, _n._ a word of four syllables.--_adjs._
TETRASYLLAB'IC, -AL, consisting of four syllables.

TETRATHEISM, tet'ra-th[=e]-izm, _n._ the belief in four elements in the
Godhead--the three persons of the Trinity and a divine essence out of which
each of these originates. [Gr., _tetra-_, four, _theos_, God.]

TETT, tet, _n._ (_obs._) a plait.

TETTER, tet'[.e]r, _n._ a popular name for several eruptive diseases of the
skin.--_v.t._ to affect with such.--_adj._ TETT'EROUS. [A.S. _teter_.]

TETTIX, tet'iks, _n._ a cicada: an ornament for the hair of that shape.
[Gr., 'grasshopper.']

TEUCH, TEUGH, t[=u]h, _adj._ a Scotch form of _tough_.

TEUCRIAN, t[=u]'kri-an, _adj._ relating to the ancient Trojans (_Teucri_)
or to the Troad.--_n._ a Trojan.

TEUTON, t[=u]'ton, _n._ one of the ancient inhabitants of Germany, esp. of
a tribe living north of the Elbe who invaded Gaul, along with the Cimbri,
and were cut to pieces by Marius near Aix in 102 B.C.: one belonging to
that division of the Aryans including High and Low Germans and
Scandinavians.--_adj._ TEUTON'IC, belonging to the race so called,
including Germans, Scandinavians, English, &c.: also to their
language.--_ns._ TEUTON'ICISM, TEU'TONISM, a Germanism; TEUTONIS[=A]'TION,
the act of Germanising.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ TEU'TONISE, to Germanise, to
adopt German ways.--TEUTONIC KNIGHTS, one of the three military-religious
orders of knighthood founded during the period of the Crusades, their
distinguishing habiliment a white mantle with a black cross. [L.
_Teutones_--Goth. _thiuda_, a nation. Cf. _Dutch_.]

TEW, t[=u], _v.t._ to make anything ready, to work up: to beat, mix, pound:
to taw, as leather: to scourge, drub.--_v.i._ to work, to bustle, to potter
about.--_n._ trouble, worry.

TEXT, tekst, _n._ the original words of an author: that on which a comment
is written: a passage of Scripture on which a sermon is supposed to be
based.--_ns._ TEXT'-BOOK, a book containing the leading principles of a
science; TEXT'-HAND, a large hand in writing--so called because it was the
practice to write the text of a book in large-hand; TEXT'-MAN,
TEX'T[=U]ALIST, one ready in citing Scripture texts: one who adheres to the
text.--_adj._ TEX'T[=U]AL, pertaining to, or contained in, the text:
serving for a text.--_adv._ TEX'TUALLY.--_ns._ TEX'TUARY, a textualist;
TEX'TUS, the authoritative text, esp. of the Bible.--TEXTUS RECEPTUS, the
received text of the Greek Testament. [L. _textus_--_tex[)e]re_, _textum_,
to weave.]

TEXTILE, teks'til, _adj._ woven: capable of being woven.--_n._ a woven
fabric.--_adj._ TEXT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to weaving. [L.
_textilis_--_tex[)e]re_, textum, to weave.]

TEXTURE, teks't[=u]r, _n._ anything woven, a web: manner of weaving or
connecting: disposition of the parts of a body.--_adj._ TEX'T[=U]RAL. [L.
_textura_--_tex[)e]re_.]

THACK, thak, _n._ a Scotch form of _thatch_.--UNDER THACK AND RAPE, safely
secured under thatch and rope, snug generally.

THAIRM, _th_[=a]rm, _n._ (_Scot._) an intestine: catgut, a musical string.

THALAMUS, thal'a-mus, _n._ the receptacle of a flower, the thallus of a
fungus: an inner room, nuptial chamber:--_pl._ THAL'AM[=I].--_adjs._
THAL'AMIC, pertaining to the optic thalamus, a part of the brain near the
origin of the optic nerve; THAL'AMI-FL[=O]'RAL, having the parts of the
flower inserted on the thalamus or receptacle.--_n._ THAL[=A]'MIUM, the
layer of reproductive cells in the apothecia of lichens:--_pl._
THAL[=A]'MIA. [Gr., 'chamber.']

THALASSIC, tha-las'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the smaller seas--opp. to
_Oceanic_: (_zool._) pelagic.--_ns._ THALASSOC'RACY, THALASSOC'RATY, the
sovereignty of the seas; THALASSOG'RAPHER, a student of the phenomena of
the ocean.--_adj._ THALASSOGRAPH'IC.--_ns._ THALASSOG'RAPHY, the science of
the ocean, oceanography; THALASSOM'ETER, a tide-gauge. [Gr. _thalassa_, the
sea.]

THALER, tä'l[.e]r, _n._ a dollar, in Germany a silver coin worth about 3s.
[Ger. Cf. _Dollar_.]

THALIA, th[=a]-l[=i]'a, _n._ one of the nine muses, who presided over
pastoral and comic poetry.--_adj._ TH[=A]L[=I]'AN. [Gr. _Thaleia_,
_Thalia_--_thallein_, to bloom.]

THALICTRUM, th[=a]-lik'trum, _n._ a genus of perennial herbs of the
Crowfoot family, the meadow-rues: a plant of this genus. [Gr.
_thaliktron_--_thallein_, to bloom.]

THALLIUM, thal'i-um, _n._ a metal closely resembling lead in colour and
softness, but slightly heavier, first discovered in 1861, and so called
from the presence of an intense green line in the spectrum of the flame in
which it is volatilised.--_adjs._ THALL'IC, THALL'IOUS. [Gr. _thallos_, a
green shoot.]

THALLUS, thal'us, _n._ a vegetative body showing little or no
differentiation into leaf, stem, and root, and characteristic of the
THALL'OPHYTES or lower Cryptogamia, including algæ, fungi, and
lichens.--_adjs._ THALL'IFORM, of the form of a thallus; THALL'INE,
THALLOD'IC, pertaining to a thallus.--_n._ THALL'OGEN, a
thallophyte.--_adjs._ THALLOG'ENOUS, belonging to the thallogens;
THALL'OID, THALL'OSE, resembling a thallus.--_ns._ THALL'[=O]ME, a thallus;
THAM'NIUM, the branched shrub-like thallus of fruticulose lichens. [Gr.
_thallos_, a young shoot.]

THALWEG, tal'v[=a]h, _n._ the deepest part of a valley. [Ger., _thal_,
valley, _weg_, way.]

THAMMUZ=_Tammuz_ (q.v.).

THAN, _th_an, _conj._ when, as, if compared with--a word placed after the
comparative of an adjective or adverb between the things compared. [A.S.
_thonne_, in its use a relative or conjunctive adverb, equivalent to our
when, used after comparatives to introduce the standard of comparison;
closely allied to _thone_, accus. masc. of def. art. Cf. _The_.]

THANATOID, than'a-toid, _adj._ looking like dead: deadly.--_adj._
THANATOGNOMON'IC, indicating death.--_ns._ THANATOG'RAPHY, an account of
one's death; THANATOL'OGY, the scientific consideration of death;
THANATOPH[=O]'BIA, a morbid dread of death; THANATOP'SIS, a view of, or
reflection upon, death; THANAT[=O]'SIS, death of a part, gangrene. [Gr.
_thanatos_, death.]

THANE, th[=a]n, _n._ a member of a class in the old English community that
stood distinctly below the old nobility (_eorlas_, &c.), but above the mere
landowners or _ceorls_--a kind of nobility of service rather than
blood.--_ns._ TH[=A]'NAGE, THANE'DOM, the jurisdiction or the dignity of a
thane; THANE'HOOD, THANE'SHIP. [A.S. _thegen_, _thegn_, a servant,
nobleman--_thíhan_, to grow; cog. with Ice. _thegn_, a man, warrior, Ger.
_degen_, a soldier, servant, Gr. _teknon_, child.]

THANK, thangk, _v.t._ to express gratitude for a favour.--_n._ (usually in
_pl._) expression of gratitude for favour received, often elliptically=My
thanks to you.--_adj._ THANK'FUL, full of thanks: grateful.--_adv._
THANK'FULLY.--_n._ THANK'FULNESS.--_adj._ THANK'LESS, unthankful: not
expressing thanks or favours: not gaining thanks.--_adv._ THANK'LESSLY, in
a thankless manner: unthankfully.--_ns._ THANK'LESSNESS, the state of being
thankless: ingratitude; THANK'-OFF'ERING, an offering made to express
thanks for mercies received; THANKS'GIVER, one who gives thanks, or
acknowledges a favour; THANKS'GIVING, act of giving thanks: a public
acknowledgment of divine goodness and mercy: a day set apart for this, esp.
that in the United States on the last Thursday of November: a form of
giving thanks, a grace, that form preceding the last two prayers of morning
or evening prayer or of the litany--the _General Thanksgiving_;
THANK'WORTHINESS, the state of being thankworthy.--_adj._ THANK'WORTHY,
worthy of, or deserving, thanks.--_n._ THANK'-YOU-MA'AM, a ridge or hollow
across a road--from the sudden bobbing of the head of a person in a vehicle
crossing it. [A.S. _thanc_, _thonc_, will, thanks; cog. with Ger. _dank_;
from the root of _think_.]

THAPSIA, thap'si-a, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous plants round the
Mediterranean. [L.,--Gr., a plant that dyed yellow, prob. _Thapsia
garganica_, brought from _Thapsus_, Sicily.]

THARGELIA, thar-g[=e]'li-a, _n.pl._ one of the more important ancient Greek
festivals, held at Athens in honour of Apollo; in the month of _Thargelion_
(May-June).

THAT, _th_at, _pron. demons._ and _rel._--as a _demons._ (_pl._ THOSE) it
points out a person or thing: the former or more distant thing: not this
but the other: as a _rel._, who or which.--_conj._ used to introduce a
clause: because: for: in order that. [A.S. _thæt_, neut. of the article
_the_ (_ðe_, _ðeó_, _ðæt_, usually replaced by _se_, _seó_, _ðæt_); cog.
with Ger. _das_, _dass_; Gr. _to_, Sans. _tat_. Cf. _The_.]

THATCH, thach, _v.t._ to cover, as a roof, with straw, reeds, &c.--_n._
straw, &c., used to cover the roofs of buildings and stacks.--_ns._
THATCH'ER; THATCH'ING, the act or art of covering with thatch: the
materials used for thatching. [A.S. _thæc_, thatch, whence _theccan_, to
cover; cog. with Ger. _decken_, L. _teg[)e]re_, Gr. _stegein_, to cover.]

THAUMASITE, thaw'ma-s[=i]t, _n._ a dull white mineral calcium compound.
[Gr. _thaumazein_, to wonder.]

THAUMATROPE, thaw'ma-tr[=o]p, _n._ a variation of the Zoetrope (q.v.). [Gr.
_thauma_, wonder, _tropos_--_trepein_, to turn.]

THAUMATURGY, thaw'ma-tur-ji, _n._ the art of working wonders or
miracles.--_adj._ THAUMAN'TIAN (_Ruskin_), wonderful.--_ns._ THAUMATOG'ENY,
the doctrine of the miraculous origination of life; THAUMATOG'RAPHY,
description of natural wonders; THAUMATOL'ATRY, undue wonder-worship;
THAU'MATURGE, a wonder-worker.--_adjs._ THAUMATUR'GIC, -AL,
wonder-working.--_n.pl._ THAUMATUR'GICS, wonderful, especially magical,
performances: feats of legerdemain.--_ns._ THAUMATUR'GISM, thaumaturgy;
THAUMATUR'GIST, a wonder-worker; THAUMATUR'GUS, a wonder-worker: a worker
of miracles, applied to certain saints. [Gr.,--_thauma_, a wonder, _ergon_,
work.]

THAW, thaw, _v.i._ to melt or grow liquid, as ice: to become so warm as to
melt ice.--_v.t._ to cause to melt.--_n._ the melting of ice or snow by
heat: the change of weather which causes it.--_adj._ THAW'Y, inclined to
thaw. [A.S. _tháwian_; cog. with Ger. _thauen_, to thaw, to fall in dew.]

THE, _th_e, or (when emphatic) _th_[=e], _demons. pron._ usually called the
definite article, used to denote a particular person or thing: also to
denote a species. [A.S. _the_, rarely used as nom. masc. of def. art., but
common as an indeclinable relative. Cf. _That_.]

THE, _th_e, _adv._ used before comparatives, as, 'the more the better.'
[A.S. _thý_, by that, by that much, the instrumental case of the def. art.]

THEANDRIC, th[=e]-an'drik, _adj._ pertaining to the union and co-operation
of the divine and human natures. [Gr., _theos_, a god, _an[=e]r_, _andros_,
man.]

THEANTHROPOS, th[=e]-an-thr[=o]'pos, _n._ the God-man, Christ as having
both a divine and human person.--_adjs._ THEANTHROP'IC, -AL, being at once
divine and human: embodying deity in human forms.--_ns._ THEAN'THROPISM,
THEAN'THROPY, the ascribing of human qualities to deity, also of divine
qualities to man; THEAN'THROPIST, one who believes in theanthropism. [Gr.
_theos_, a god, _anthr[=o]pos_, man.]

THEARCHY, th[=e]'ärk-i, _n._ a theocracy: a body of divine rulers.--_adj._
THEAR'CHIC. [Gr. _thearchia_--_theos_, a god, _archein_, to be first, to
rule--_arch[=e]_, beginning.]

THEATIN, th[=e]'a-tin, _n._ a member of a R.C. religious brotherhood
founded in 1524, taking its name from _Theate_ (It. _Chieti_), of which one
of its first founders, John Peter Caraffa, was bishop.

THEATRE, th[=e]'a-t[.e]r, _n._ a place where public representations,
chiefly dramatic or musical, are seen, a play-house: any place rising by
steps like the seats of a theatre: a building adapted for scholastic
exercises, anatomical demonstrations, &c.: scene of action, field of
operations: the drama, the stage.--_adjs._ THEAT'RIC, -AL, relating or
suitable to a theatre, or to actors: pompous: artificial, affected.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ THEAT'RICALISE, to adapt to dramatic representation: to make
stagy.--_ns._ THEAT'RICALISM, THEATRICAL'ITY, staginess,
artificiality.--_adv._ THEAT'RICALLY, in a theatrical manner: in a manner
suiting the stage.--_n._ THEAT'RICALNESS.--_n.pl._ THEAT'RICALS, dramatic
performances.--_v.i._ THEAT'RICISE, to play a part.--_ns._ THEAT'RICISM,
theatricality, affectation, staginess; THEATROM[=A]'NIA, a craze for
play-going; THEAT'ROPHONE, a telephone connected with a theatre. [Gr.
_theatron_--_theaomai_, I see.]

THEAVE, th[=e]v, _n._ (_prov._) a ewe of the first year.

THEBAINE, th[=e]'ba-in, _n._ an alkaloid obtained from opium.--Also
THEB[=A]'IA.

THEBAN, th[=e]'ban, _n._ a native of _Thebes_: (_Shak._) a wise
man.--_adjs._ THEB[=A]'IC, TH[=E]'BAN.--_n._ THEB[=A]'ID, the district
around Egyptian Thebes.--THEBAN YEAR, the Egyptian year of 365¼ days.

THECA, th[=e]'ka, _n._ a sheath, case, or sac, a spore-case: a case for a
corporal-cloth:--_pl._ TH[=E]'CÆ.--_adjs._ TH[=E]'CAL, TH[=E]'CATE.--_ns._
TH[=E]'CAPHORE, a receptacle bearing thecæ; TH[=E]'CASPORE, a spore
produced in a theca.--_adjs._ THECASP[=O]'ROUS; THECIF'EROUS, bearing
thecæ; TH[=E]'CIFORM, thecal in use or form.--_n._ TH[=E]'CIUM, the part of
the apothecium containing the organs of the fruit in lichens. [Gr.
_th[=e]k[=e]_.]

THECLA, thek'la, _n._ a genus of butterflies, containing the
_hair-streaks_.

THEE, _th_[=e], _pron._ objective of _thou_. [A.S. _the_, dat. accus. of
_thu_ (cf. _Thou_).]

THEE, th[=e], _v.i._ (_Spens._) to prosper, to thrive. [A.S. _theón_,
_thión_, to thrive, to grow; Ger. _ge-deihen_, to increase.]

THEFT, theft, _n._ act of thieving.--_adj._ THEFT'[=U]OUS,
thievish.--_adv._ THEFT'[=U]OUSLY. [A.S. _theófth_, _thýfth_--_theóf_,
thief.]

THEINE, th[=e]'in, _n._ a bitter crystallisable volatile principle found in
tea.--_ns._ TH[=E]'IC, a tea-drunkard; TH[=E]'ISM, a morbid state resulting
from over-much tea-drinking.

THEIR, _th_[=a]r, _poss. adj. pron._ of or belonging to them. [A.S. _þára_,
gen. pl. of the def. art. (replaced the older _hira_).]

THEIRS, _th_[=a]rz, _poss._ of _they_. [Like _hers_, _ours_, _yours_, a
double genitive containing a plural suffix _r_ + a sing. _-s_. These forms
were confined in the 13th and 14th centuries to the Northern dialects, and
are probably due to Scandinavian influence.]

THEISM, th[=e]'izm, _n._ belief in the existence of God with or without a
belief in a special revelation.--_n._ TH[=E]'IST, one who believes in
God.--_adjs._ TH[=E]IST'IC, -AL, pertaining to theism, or to a theist:
according to the doctrines of theists. [Gr. _theos_, God.]

THEM, _th_em, _pron._ objective of _they_. [A.S. _ðám_, dat. pl. of the
def. art. (this replaced the older _heom_, _hem_). It is the result of two
cross influences; the _th_ is taken from Old Norse _þeim_, the _e_ from
A.S. _hem_.]

THEME, th[=e]m, _n._ a subject set or proposed for discussion, or on which
a person speaks or writes, a thesis, a brief essay: a verb in its radical
form unmodified by inflections: (_mus._) subject, a short melody developed
with variations: an administrative division under the Byzantine
empire.--_n._ TH[=E]'MA, that which constitutes a subject of
thought.--_adj._ TH[=E]MAT'IC.--_adv._ TH[=E]MAT'ICALLY.--_n._
TH[=E]'MATIST, a writer of themes. [Fr. _thème_--L. _thema_--Gr.
_tith[=e]mi_, I place, set.]

THEMIS, them'is, _n._ daughter of Uranus and G[=e], mother of the Hours and
the Fates, the personification of the order of things established by law,
custom, and equity. [Gr.]

THEMSELVES, _th_em-selvz', _pron._ _pl._ of _himself_, _herself_, and
_itself_. [_Them_ and _self_.]

THEN, _th_en, _adv._ at that time: afterward: immediately: at another
time.--_conj._ for that reason, therefore: in that case.--_adj._ being at
that time.--_n._ a specific time already mentioned.--BY THEN, by that time.
[A doublet of _than_.]

THENAR, th[=e]'nar, _n._ the palm of the hand or the sole of the
foot.--_adj._ of or pertaining to the thenar. [Gr. _thenar_--_theinein_, to
stretch.]

THENCE, _th_ens, _adv._ from that time or place: for that reason.--_advs._
THENCE'FORTH, from that time forth or forward; THENCEFOR'WARD, from that
time forward or onward. [M. E. _thenne-s_, _thenne_ (cf. _Then_), with the
gen. ending _-s_--A.S. _ðanan_. Cf. _Hence_ and _Whence_.]

THEOBROMA, th[=e]-[=o]-br[=o]'ma, _n._ a small tropical American genus of
trees of the sterculia or kola-nut family. The best-known species,
_Theobroma cacao_, yields the cocoa and chocolate of commerce.--_n._
THEOBR[=O]'MINE, an alkaloid principle, similar to theine and caffeine,
existing in the chocolate nut. [Gr., _theos_, a god, _br[=o]ma_, food.]

THEOCRACY, th[=e]-ok'ra-si, _n._ that constitution of a state in which the
Almighty is regarded as the sole sovereign, and the laws of the realm as
divine commands rather than human ordinances--the priesthood necessarily
becoming the officers of the invisible ruler: the state thus
governed.--_ns._ TH[=E]'OCRAT, THEOC'RATIST.--_adjs._ THEOCRAT'IC, -AL.
[Gr. _theokratia_--_theos_, God, _kratein_, to rule.]

THEOCRASY, th[=e]-[=o]-kr[=a]'si, _n._ the mixed worship of polytheism: a
mystic intimacy with deity reached through profound contemplation. [Gr.
_theos_, a god, _krasis_, a mixing.]

THEOCRITEAN, th[=e]-ok-ri-t[=e]'an, _adj._ after the manner of _Theocritus_
(3d century B.C.), the greatest of Greek pastoral poets: pastoral, idyllic.

THEODICY, th[=e]-od'i-si, _n._ a name given to the exposition of the theory
of Divine Providence, with a view especially to the vindication of the
sanctity and justice of God in establishing the present order of things, in
which evil, moral as well as physical, so largely appears to
prevail.--_adj._ THEODIC[=E]'AN. [Gr. _theos_, God, _dik[=e]_, justice.]

THEODOLITE, th[=e]-od'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ an instrument used in
land-surveying for the measurement of angles horizontal and vertical, being
neither more nor less than an altitude and azimuth instrument, proportioned
and constructed so as to be conveniently portable.--_adj._ THEODOLIT'IC.
[Ety. unknown; Gr. _theasthai_, to see + _hodos_, way + _litos_, smooth;
_theasthai_ + _dolichos_, long, &c.]

THEOGONY, th[=e]-og'[=o]-ni, _n._ the birth and genealogy of the gods, esp.
as told in ancient poetry.--_adj._ THEOGON'IC.--_n._ THEOG'ONIST, a writer
on theogony. [Gr. _theogonia_--_theos_, a god, _gon[=e]_, _genos_,
race--_genein_, to beget.]

THEOLOGY, th[=e]-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science which treats of God, and of
man's duty to Him--_Natural_, as discoverable by the light of reason alone;
or _Positive_ or _Revealed_, based on the study of divine
revelation.--_ns._ THEOL'OGASTER (-gas-), a shallow fellow who pretends to
a knowledge of theology; THEOL'OGATE (-g[=a]t), the course of study for
R.C. priests; THEOL'OGER, a theologian; THEOL[=O]'GIAN, one well versed in
theology: a divine, a professor of or writer on divinity, esp. in R.C.
usage, a theological lecturer attached to a cathedral church--also
THEOL[=O]'GUS (-gus).--_adjs._ THEOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to theology or
divinity.--_adv._ THEOLOG'ICALLY.--_n._ THEOLOG'ICS, theological
disputation.--_v.t._ THEOL'OGISE, to render theological.--_v.i._ to make a
system of theology.--_ns._ THEOL'OGISER, one who theologises; THEOL'OGIST,
a student in the science of theology: a theologian; TH[=E]'OLOGUE (-log), a
theologian, esp. a theological student. [Gr. _theologia_--_theos_, God,
_logos_, a treatise.]

THEOMACHY, th[=e]-om'a-ki, _n._ a fighting against the gods, as by the
Titans and giants: (_Bacon_) opposition to the divine will.--_n._
THEOM'ACHIST. [Gr. _theomachia_--_theos_, a god, _mach[=e]_, a battle.]

THEOMANCY, th[=e]'[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by means of oracles, sibyls,
and other persons inspired immediately by some divinity.--_adj._
TH[=E][=O]MAN'TIC. [Gr., _theos_, a god, _manteia_, divination.]

THEOMANIA, th[=e]-[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ a madman's belief that he himself
is God, or that God dwells in him.--_n._ THEOM[=A]'NIAC, one who shows
theomania. [Gr., _theos_, God, _mania_, madness.]

THEOMORPHIC, th[=e]-[=o]-mor'fik, _adj._ having the form or likeness of a
god.--_n._ THEOMOR'PHISM. [Gr., _theos_, a god, _morph[=e]_, form.]

THEOPASCHITE, th[=e]-[=o]-pas'k[=i]t, _n._ a by-name applied to such as
accepted the formula, that, in the passion of Christ, 'God had suffered and
been crucified.' It was applied to the Monophysites.--_n._ THEOPAS'CHITISM.
[Gr., _theos_, God, _paschein_, to suffer.]

THEOPATHY, th[=e]-[=o]p'a-thi, _n._ religious emotion aroused by meditation
about God.--_adj._ THEOPATHET'IC.

THEOPHANY, th[=e]-of'a-ni, _n._ a manifestation or appearance of deity or
the gods to man, esp. the appearance of God to the patriarchs in the form
of an angel or in human form: the incarnation and second coming of
Christ.--_adj._ THEOPHAN'IC. [Gr., _theos_, God, _phainomai_, I appear.]

THEOPHILANTHROPY, th[=e]-[=o]-fil-an'thr[=o]-pi, _n._ a deistical system of
religion drawn up under the French Directory in 1796, and designed to take
the place of Christianity.--_adj._ THEOPHILANTHROP'IC.--_ns._
THEOPHILAN'THROPISM; THEOPHILAN'THROPIST; TH[=E]'OPHILE, one who loves God.

THEOPNEUSTY, th[=e]'op-n[=u]s-ti, _n._ divine inspiration.--_adj._
THEOPNEUS'TIC. [Gr., _theos_, God, _pneustos_, inspired--_pnein_, to
breathe.]

THEORBO, th[=e]-orb'[=o], _n._ a large lute with two necks, one above the
other, formerly used for the bass.--_n._ THEORB'IST. [It. _tiorba_.]

THEOREM, th[=e]'[=o]-rem, _n._ a proposition to be proved.--_adjs._
THEOREMAT'IC, THEOREM'IC.--_n._ THEOREM'AT[=I]ST.--_adjs._ THEORET'IC, -AL,
pertaining to theory: not practical: speculative.--_adv._
THEORET'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ THEORET'ICS, the speculative parts of a
science.--_n._ TH[=E]'ORIC (_Shak._), theory, speculation.--_v.i._
TH[=E]'ORISE, to form a theory: to form opinions solely by theories: to
speculate.--_ns._ TH[=E]'OR[=I]SER; TH[=E]'ORIST, a theoriser: one given to
theory and speculation; TH[=E]'ORY, an explanation or system of anything:
an exposition of the abstract principles of a science or art: speculation
as opposed to practice. [Gr. _the[=o]r[=e]ma_--_the[=o]rein_, to
view--_theasthai_, to see.]

THEOSOPHY, th[=e]-os'[=o]-fi, _n._ immediate divine illumination or
inspiration claimed to be possessed by specially gifted men, who also
possess abnormal control over natural forces.--_ns._ TH[=E]'[=O]SOPH,
THEOS'OPHER, THEOS'OPHIST, one who claims to believe in immediate divine
illumination.--_adjs._ THEOSOPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to theosophy.--_adv._
THEOSOPH'ICALLY.--_v.i._ THEOS'OPHISE, to practise theosophy.--_n._
THEOS'OPHISM, theosophical tenets.--_adj._ THEOSOPHI'STICAL, theosophical.
[Gr. _the[=o]sophia_--_theos_, God, _sophia_, wisdom.]

THEOTECHNY, th[=e]-[=o]-tek'ni, _n._ the scheme of divine intervention, the
art of introducing deities into poetry.--_adj._ THEOTECH'NIC. [Gr.,
_theos_, a god, _techn[=e]_, art.]

THEOTOCOS, th[=e]-ot'[=o]-kos, _n._ the mother of God, a title of the
Virgin Mary repudiated by Nestorius--it being not God the Logos but only
the human nature which had a mother and suffered pain and death.--Also
THEOT'OKOS. [Gr., _theos_, God, _tiktein_, _tekein_, to bring forth.]

THERAPEUTÆ, ther-a-p[=u]'t[=e], _n.pl._ a traditional ascetic sect, allied
to the Essenes, living chiefly on the Lake Mareotis, near Alexandria.

THERAPEUTIC, ther-a-p[=u]'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the healing art:
curative.--_adv._ THERAPEU'TICALLY.--_n.sing._ THERAPEU'TICS, that part of
medicine concerned with the treatment and cure of diseases.--_n._
THERAPEU'TIST, one versed in therapeutics. [Gr. _therapeuein_, to take care
of, to heal.]

THERE, _th_[=a]r, _adv._ in that place--opp. to _Here_, at that point--it
is used to begin sentences when the subject comes after the
verb.--_interj._ expressing certainty, alarm, &c., and in interjectional
phrases equivalent to _that_, as 'There's a good boy.'--_advs._ THEREABOUT'
or -ABOUTS', about or near that place: near that number, quantity, or
degree; THEREAFT'ER, after or according to that; THERE'AMONG, among them;
THERE'-ANENT' (_Scot._), concerning that matter; THEREAT', at that place or
occurrence: on that account; THERE'AWAY, from that place or direction,
thence: in those parts, thereabout; THEREBY', by that means: in consequence
of that; THEREFOR', for that, this, or it; THEREFORE (_th_[.e]r'fur), for
that or this reason: consequently; THEREFROM', from that or this; THEREIN',
in that or this place, time, or thing; THEREINAFT'ER, later in the same
document; THEREIN'TO, into that place.--_n._ THERE'NESS, the property of
having relative situation or existence.--_advs._ THEREOF', of that or this;
THEREON', on that or this; THEREOUT', out of that or this: outside;
THERETHROUGH', through that, by that means; THERETO', THEREUN'TO, to that
or this; THERE'TOFORE, before that time; THEREUN'DER, under that;
THEREUPON', upon or in consequence of that or this: immediately;
THEREWITH', with that or this, thereupon; THERE'WITHAL, with that or this:
at the same time, over and above. [A.S. _ðær_, _ðer_; conn. with the stem
of _the_.]

THEREOLOGY, ther-[=e]-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the art of healing,
therapeutics.--_n._ THEREOL'OGIST, one versed in thereology. [Gr.
_therein_=_therapeuein_, to tend the sick, _logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

THERIACA, th[=e]-r[=i]'a-ka, _n._ one of the various preparations of opium:
a medicine in the form of an electuary, supposed to be an antidote to
snakebites, &c.--also TH[=E]'RIAC.--_adjs._ TH[=E]'RIAC, -AL, TH[=E]'RIAL,
medicinal. [L.,--Gr. _th[=e]riak[=e]_--_th[=e]rion_, a wild beast.]

THERIANTHROPISM, th[=e]-ri-an'thr[=o]-pizm, _n._ the representation of
deities in combined man and beast forms.--_adj._ THERIANTHROP'IC,
pertaining to super human beings of combined human and bestial forms, or
their worship.--_n._ TH[=E]'RIOMANCY, divination by observation of
beasts.--_adjs._ THERIOMOR'PHIC, THERIOMOR'PHOUS, beast-like.--_n._
THERIOT'OMY, the dissection of beasts, zootomy.

THERIATRICA, th[=e]-ri-at'ri-ka, _n._ the art of veterinary medicine.

THERMAL, th[.e]r'mal, _adj._ pertaining to heat: warm.--_n._ THERM, a
thermal unit.--_n.pl._ THER'MÆ, hot springs or baths.--_adv._
THER'MALLY.--_n._ THERMATOL'OGY, the science of the treatment of disease by
heat, esp. by thermal mineral waters.--_adj._ THER'MIC, thermal.--_adv._
THER'MICALLY.--_ns._ THERMOBAROM'ETER, an apparatus for measuring pressure
of the atmosphere from the boiling-point of water; THERMOCHEM'ISTRY, that
branch of chemistry which treats of the relations between chemical action
and heat; THER'MOCHROSY, the property possessed by rays of radiant heat of
having varying wave-lengths and degrees of refrangibility;
THER'MO-CURR'ENT, a thermo-electric current.--_adj._
THER'MO-DYNAM'IC.--_n._ THER'MO-DYNAM'ICS, the branch of physics which
treats of heat as a mechanical agent.--_adj._ THER'MO-ELEC'TRIC.--_ns._
THER'MO-ELECTRIC'ITY, electricity developed by the unequal heating of
bodies; THER'MO-ELECTROM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the strength of
a current of electricity by its effect in producing heat; THERMOGEN'ESIS,
the production of heat, esp. in the body by physiological
processes.--_adjs._ THERMOGENET'IC, THERMOGEN'IC.--_ns._ THER'MOGRAM, the
record made by a thermograph; THER'MOGRAPH, an automatic self-registering
thermometer; THERMOG'RAPHY, any process of writing involving the use of
heat; THER'MO-MAG'NETISM, magnetism as modified or produced by the action
of heat on the body magnetised or on the medium surrounding it;
THERMOMET'ROGRAPH, a self-registering thermometer; THER'MO-PILE, a
thermo-electric battery used as a thermometer; THER'MOSCOPE, an instrument
for detecting changes of temperature without measuring them
accurately.--_adj._ THERMOSCOP'IC.--_adv._ THERMOSCOP'ICALLY.--_n._
THER'MOSTAT, an appliance for showing temperatures automatically by the
expansion of substances--used in regulating steam pressures, &c.--_adj._
THERMOSTAT'IC.--_adv._ THERMOSTAT'ICALLY.--_adjs._ THERMOT'IC, -AL,
pertaining to heat.--_n._ THERMOT'ICS, the science of heat. [Gr. _thermos_,
hot--_therm[=e]_, heat--_therein_, to heat.]

THERMIDOR, ther-mi-d[=o]r', _n._ the eleventh month in the calendar of the
first French Republic, lasting from the 19th of July to the 18th of August.
The 9th Thermidor of the Republican year 2 (July 27, 1794) is historically
memorable as the date of Robespierre's fall and the termination of the
Reign of Terror.--_n._ THERMID[=O]'RIAN, one who took part in this
fortunate coup d'état.

THERMOMETER, th[.e]r-mom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
variations of sensible heat or temperature.--_adjs._ THERMOMET'RIC, -AL,
pertaining to, or made with, a thermometer.--_adv._ THERMOMET'RICALLY.--For
the _Centigrade_ and the _Fahrenheit_ scale and their relations to each
other, see Centigrade and Fahrenheit. In the Réaumur scale, still largely
used in Russia and Germany, the freezing-point is marked zero, and the
space between this and boiling-point is divided into 80 degrees. To reduce
it to Fahrenheit, multiply by 2¼ and add 32; to Centigrade, increase the
number by one-fourth of itself. Thus: F = 9/5 C + 32 = 9/4 R + 32; C = 5/9
(F - 32) = 5/4 R; R = 4/9 (F - 32) = 4/5 C.--MAXIMUM THERMOMETER, one that
registers the maximum temperature to which it is exposed; MINIMUM
THERMOMETER, one that registers the minimum temperature to which it is
exposed. [Gr. _therm[=e]_, heat, _metron_, a measure.]

THESAURUS, th[=e]-saw'rus, _n._ a treasury or repository, esp. of
knowledge: a lexicon or cyclopædia. [L.,--Gr. _th[=e]sauros_--_tith[=e]mi_,
I place.]

THESE, _th_[=e]z, _demons. pron._, _pl._ of _this_. [A.S. _th['æ]s_, pl. of
_thes_, this. Doublet _those_.]

THESIS, th[=e]'sis, _n._ a position or that which is set down or advanced
for argument: a subject for a scholastic exercise: an essay on a
theme:--_pl._ THESES (th[=e]'s[=e]z).--_adj._ THET'IC.--_adv._ THET'ICALLY.
[L.--Gr. _ti-th[=e]-mi_, I set.]

THESMOPHORIA, thes-m[=o]-ph[=o]'ri-a, _n.pl._ an ancient Greek festival
with mysteries, celebrated by married women in honour of Demeter (Ceres)
five days about October.

THESMOTHETE, thes'm[=o]-th[=e]t, _n._ a lawgiver, esp. one of the six
junior archons in ancient Athens.

THESPIAN, thes'pi-an, _adj._ pertaining to tragedy: tragic. [Gr. _Thespis_,
founder of the Greek drama.]

THETCH, thech, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as THATCH.

THETHER, theth'[.e]r, _adv._ (_Spens._). Same as THITHER.

THEURGY, th[=e]'ur-ji, _n._ that kind of magic which affects to work by
supernatural agency, as distinguished from natural magic and
necromancy.--_adjs._ THEUR'GIC, -AL.--_n._ THEUR'GIST, a magician. [Gr.
_theourgia_--_theos_, a god, _ergein_, to work.]

THEW, th[=u], _n._ (used chiefly in _pl._) muscle or strength:
sinews.--_adjs._ THEWED (_Spens._), furnished with thews or sinews;
THEW'LESS, weak; THEW'Y, muscular, strong. [Perh. a form of _thigh_.]

THEWED, th[=u]d, _adj._ (_Spens._) mannered, behaved, educated. [A.S.
_théaw_, manner, habit.]

THEY, _th_[=a], _pers. pron._, _pl._ of _he_, _she_, or _it_. [The form
_thei_, _tha_, that came into use in the north of England in the 13th
cent., replacing the older _hi_, _heo_. It is the A.S. _þá_, nom. pl. of
the definite article, prob. modified by Scandinavian influence.]

THIBLE, thib'l, _n._ (_prov._) a pot-stick.

THICK, thik, _adj._ dense: imperfectly mobile: compact: not transparent or
clear: misty: dull, mentally clouded: crowded: closely set: abundant:
frequent, in quick succession: having great depth or circumference:
(_coll._) in fast friendship.--_n._ the thickest part of anything: a stupid
person.--_adv._ closely: frequently: fast: to a great depth.--_adjs._
THICK'-AND-THIN, thorough, completely devoted; THICK'-COM'ING (_Shak._),
coming fast or close together.--_v.t._ THICK'EN, to make thick or close: to
strengthen.--_v.i._ to become thick or obscure: to crowd or press.--_ns._
THICK'ENING, something put into a liquid or mass to make it more thick;
THICK'ET, a collection of trees or shrubs thickly or closely set: close
wood or copse.--_adjs._ THICK'-HEAD'ED, having a thick head or skull:
stupid; THICK'ISH, somewhat thick.--_n._ THICK'-KNEE, a
stone-plover.--_adj._ THICK'-LIPPED (_Shak._), having thick lips.--_adv._
THICK'LY.--_n._ THICK'NESS.--_adjs._ THICK'-PLEACHED (_Shak._), closely
interwoven; THICK'-SET, closely planted: having a short, thick body.--_n._
THICK'-SKIN, a person wanting sensibility: a dull, stupid person, a
blockhead.--_adj._ THICK'-SKINNED, having a thick skin: wanting
sensibility: dull: obtuse.--_n._ THICK'-SKULL (same as
THICK-SKIN).--_adjs._ THICK'-SKULLED, having a thick skull: dull: stupid;
THICK'-SPRUNG (_Shak._), that have sprung up thick or close together.--_n._
THICK'UN (_slang_), a sovereign: a crown.--LAY IT ON THICK, to flatter or
praise extravagantly; THROUGH THICK AND THIN, in spite of all obstacles,
without any wavering. [A.S. _thicce_; cog. with Ger. _dick_.]

THICK, thik, _n._ (_Spens._) a thicket.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to grow dense.

THIEF, th[=e]f, _n._ one who steals or takes unlawfully what is not his
own.--_ns._ THIEF'-CATCH'ER, -T[=A]'KER, one whose business is to detect
thieves and bring them to justice: a detective. [A.S. _theóf_; Ice.
_thjóf-r_, Ger. _dieb_.]

THIEVE, th[=e]v, _v.i._ to practise theft: to steal.--_n._ THIEV'ERY, the
practice of thieving.--_adj._ THIEV'ISH, given to, or like, theft or
stealing: acting by stealth: secret: sly.--_adv._ THIEV'ISHLY.--_n._
THIEV'ISHNESS. [A.S. _theófian_.]

THIG, thig, _v.i._ to make supplication, to live on alms.--_v.t._ to
beseech, beg.--_n._ THIG'GER, a beggar, a sorner. [A.S. _thicgan_, to
take.]

THIGH, th[=i], _n._ the thick fleshy part of the leg from the knee to the
trunk.--_n._ THIGH'-BONE, the bone of the leg between the hip-joint and the
knee. [A.S. _theó_, _theóh_; Ice. _thjó_, Old High Ger. _deoh_.]

THILK, thilk, _pron._ (_Spens._) the same. [A.S. _thylc_, _thyllíc_, the
like, such--_thí_, instrumental case of _thæt_, that, and _líc_, like.]

THILL, thil, _n._ one of the shafts of a cart or other carriage.--_ns._
THILL'ER, THILL'-HORSE (_Shak._), the horse that goes between the thills or
shafts of a carriage, or the last of a team. [A.S. _thille_, a board, a
plank.]

THIMBLE, thim'bl, _n._ a metal cover for the finger, used in sewing.--_ns._
THIM'BLE-CASE, a case for holding a thimble; THIM'BLEFUL, as much as a
thimble will hold: a small quantity; THIM'BLE-RIG, a sleight-of-hand trick
in which the performer conceals, or pretends to conceal, a pea or small
ball under one of three thimble-like cups.--_v.i._ to cheat by such
means.--_ns._ THIM'BLE-RIG'GER; THIM'BLE-RIG'GING. [A.S. _thýmel_, a
thumb-stall--_thúma_, a thumb. An extension of _thumb_.]

THIN, thin, _adj._ having little thickness: slim: lean: freely mobile:
small: fine: not close or crowded: transparent, flimsy, shallow: not full
or well grown, meagre, weak.--_adv._ not thickly or closely: in a scattered
state.--_v.t._ to make thin: to make less close or crowded (with _away_,
_out_, &c.): to make rare or less thick or dense.--_v.i._ to grow or become
thin:--_pr.p._ thin'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ thinned.--_adj._ THIN'-FACED
(_Shak._), having a thin face.--_adv._ THIN'LY.--_n._ THIN'NESS.--_adjs._
THIN'NISH, somewhat thin; THIN'-SKINNED, having a thin skin: sensitive:
irritable.--_n._ THIN'-SKINNED'NESS. [A.S. _thynne_; Ice. _thunnr_, Ger.
_dünn_.]

THINE, _th_[=i]n, _pron._ (poss. form of _thou_) belonging to thee: thy.
[A.S. _thín_, thy--_thín_, gen. of _thú_, thou; Ger. _dein_.]

THING, thing, _n._ an inanimate object: a living being (in tenderness or in
contempt): an event: a part: (_pl._) clothes, wraps.--_ns._ THING'INESS,
reality, objectivity: disposition to take a materialistic view of things;
THING'-IN-ITSELF', a noumenon, the Ger. _ding an sich_; THING'UMBOB,
THING'UMMY (_coll._), a thing, anything, an indefinite name for some person
whom one cannot be troubled to name distinctly.--_adj._ THING'Y,
materialistic.--DO THE HANDSOME THING BY, to treat generously; KNOW A THING
OR TWO, to be shrewd; MAKE A GOOD THING OF IT, to reap a good advantage
from; THE THING, the proper or right thing. [A.S. _thing_, _thinc_; Ger.
_ding_.]

THING, ting, _n._ a parliament, or a court of law, in Scandinavian
countries. [Ice. _thing_, an assembly.]

THINK, thingk, _v.i._ to exercise the mind (with _about_, _of_, _on_): to
revolve ideas in the mind: to judge: to form or hold as an opinion: to
consider: to purpose or design.--_v.t._ to imagine: to judge: to believe or
consider:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ thought.--_adj._ THINK'ABLE, capable of
being thought.--_n._ THINK'ER.--_p.adj._ THINK'ING, having the faculty of
thought.--_n._ the act or state of one who thinks: (_Shak._) thought,
imagination, judgment.--_adv._ THINK'INGLY.--THINK LITTLE OF, to have a
poor opinion of--opposite to THINK MUCH, or WELL, OF; THINK LONG, to yearn
for: to become weary in waiting; THINK OUT, to devise, project: to solve by
a process of thought. [A.S. _thencan_, _thencean_; cog. with Ger. _denken_,
from root of _thank_.]

THIRD, th[.e]rd, _adj._ the last of three.--_n._ one of three equal parts:
(_golf_) a handicap of a stroke every third hole.--_ns._ THIRD'-BOR'OUGH
(_Shak._), an under-constable; THIRD'ING, the third part of
anything.--_adv._ THIRD'LY, in the third place.--_adj._ THIRD'-RATE, of the
third order.--_n._ THIRDS'MAN, a mediator.--THIRD ESTATE, in England, the
House of Commons; THIRD PERSON IN THE TRINITY, the Holy Spirit. [A.S.
_thridda_--_threó_, three.]

THIRL, th[.e]rl, _n._ (_prov._) a hole: an opening: a short passage between
two headings in a mine.--_v.t._ to pierce, wound: cause to quiver.--_v.i._
to vibrate, tingle, thrill.

THIRL, th[.e]rl, _n._ a form of thrall.--_v.t._ to bind or subject.--_n._
THIRL'AGE, a form of servitude by which the grain produced on certain lands
had to be ground at a certain mill and a certain proportion paid.

THIRST, th[.e]rst, _n._ the uneasiness caused by want of drink: vehement
desire for drink: eager desire for anything.--_v.i._ to feel thirst: to
desire vehemently.--_n._ THIRST'ER.--_adv._ THIRST'ILY.--_n._
THIRST'INESS.--_adj._ THIRST'Y, suffering from thirst: dry: parched:
vehemently desiring. [A.S. _thurst_, _thyrst_; Ger. _durst_; cf. Gr.
_tersesthai_, L. _torr[=e]re_, to dry.]

THIRTEEN, th[.e]r't[=e]n, _adj._ and _n._ three and ten.--_adj._ and _n._
THIR'TEENTH, the last of thirteen: a thirteenth part. [A.S.
_threótýne_--_threó_, three, _týn_, ten.]

THIRTY, th[.e]r'ti, _adj._ and _n._ three times ten.--_adj._ THIR'TIETH,
the last of thirty.--_n._ a thirtieth part. [A.S. _thrítig_--_threó_,
three, _-tig_, suff. denoting ten.]

THIS, _th_is, _demons. pron._ or _adj._ denoting a person or thing near,
just mentioned, or about to be mentioned: (_B._) the last past:--_pl._
THESE.--_n._ THIS'NESS, hæccity. [A.S. _this_, the neut. of the adj. pron.
_thes_ (masc.), _theós_ (fem.), _this_ (neut.)--pl. _th['æ]s_ (=these),
_thás_ (=those); Ice. _thessi_, Ger. _dieser_.]

THISTLE, this'l, _n._ a genus of prickly plants.--_n._ THIS'TLE-DOWN, the
tufted feathery bristles of the seeds of the thistle.--_adj._ THIS'TLY,
overgrown with thistles. [A.S. _thistel_; Ger. _distel_.]

THITHER, _th_ith'[.e]r, _adv._ to that place: to that end or
result.--_adv._ THITH'ERWARD, toward that place. [A.S. _ðider_.]

THLIPSIS, thlip'sis, _n._ constriction of a blood-vessel by external
compression. [Gr.,--_thlibein_, to press.]

THO, th[=o], _adv._ (_Spens._) then, also the sing. of _those_.

THO'=_Though_.

THOFT, thoft, _n._ (_prov._) a rowing-bench. [A.S. _thofte_.]

THOLE, th[=o]l, _n._ a pin in the side of a boat to keep the oar in
place.--Also THOLE'-PIN, THOWL, THOWEL. [A.S. _thol_; Dut. _dol_, Ice.
_thollr_.]

THOLE, th[=o]l, _v.t._ to endure, to suffer: to yield.--_v.i._ to be
patient, to wait. [A.S. _tholian_, to suffer; Goth. _thulan_, Ice. _thola_;
Old High Ger. _dolén_, whence Ger, _ge-duld_, patience, _dulden_, to
suffer.]

THOLOBATE, th[=o]'l[=o]-b[=a]t, _n._ (_archit._) the substructure on which
a dome or cupola rests. [Gr. _tholos_, a dome, _bainein_, to go.]

THOLUS, th[=o]'lus, _n._ a round building, dome, cupola:--_pl._
TH[=O]'LI.--Also THOLE. [Gr.]

THOMISM, t[=o]'mizm, _n._ the doctrines of the followers of the prince of
scholastic theologians, _Thomas_ Aquinas (1226-74), esp. as these are set
forth in his _Summa Theologiæ_, which still represent, with few exceptions,
the general teaching of the R.C. Church.--_n._ TH[=O]'MIST, a follower of
Aquinas.--_adjs._ THOMIST'IC, -AL.

THONG, thong, _n._ a piece or strap of leather to fasten anything. [A.S.
_thwang_.]

THOR, th[=o]r, _n._ the second principal Scandinavian divinity, the god of
thunder. [Ice. _Thórr_.]

THORAH=_Torah_.

THORAL, th[=o]'ral, _adj._ nuptial. [L. _torus_, the bed.]

THORAX, th[=o]'raks, _n._ the part of the body between the neck and belly:
the chest.--_adj._ THORACIC (-ras'-), pertaining to the thorax or breast.
[L.,--Gr.]

THORIUM, th[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a rare metal resembling aluminium, but taking
fire below a red heat, and burning with great brilliancy.--Also
THOR[=I]'NUM.

THORN, thorn, _n._ a sharp, woody spine on the stem of a plant: a spine: a
plant having spines or thorns: anything prickly or troublesome.--_ns._
THORN'-APP'LE, a plant of genus _Datura_: a haw, a thorn-tree; THORN'BACK,
a species of ray or skate which has nail-like crooked spines in its back;
THORN'BILL, a variety of humming-bird with short, straight bill;
THORN'-BUSH, a shrub producing thorns; THORN'-HEDGE, a hedge of
hawthorn.--_adjs._ THORN'LESS, without thorns; THORN'SET, set or beset with
thorns; THORN'Y, full of thorns: prickly: troublesome: harassing (A.S.
_thorniht_).--THORN IN THE FLESH, any cause of constant irritation, from 2
Cor. xii. 7. [A.S. _thorn_; Ice. _thorn_, Ger. _dorn_.]

THOROUGH, thur'[=o], _adj._ passing through or to the end: complete:
entire.--_prep._ (_obs._) through.--_n._ that which goes through, a
passage: the blind and obstinately tyrannical policy of Strafford and Laud
in administering civil and ecclesiastical affairs without regard to
opposite convictions.--_n._ THOR'OUGH-BASS (_mus._), a bass part all
through a piece, with figures placed over the notes to indicate the harmony
to be played to each.--_adj._ THOR'OUGHBRED, thoroughly or completely bred:
bred from a dam and sire of the best blood, as a horse, and having the
qualities supposed to depend thereon.--_n._ an animal, esp. a horse, of
pure blood--of race-horses, one all of whose ancestors for seven
generations (five in America) are recorded in the stud-book.--_n._
THOR'OUGHFARE, a fare or passage for going through: a public way or street:
right of passing through.--_adj._ THOR'OUGHG[=O]'ING, going through or to
the end: going all lengths: complete.--_adv._ THOR'OUGHLY.--_n._
THOR'OUGHNESS.--_adj._ THOR'OUGH-PACED, thoroughly or perfectly paced or
trained: complete. [The longer form of _through_.]

THORP, THORPE, thorp, _n._ a homestead: a hamlet. [A.S. _thorp_; Goth.
_thaurp_, Ger. _dorf_.]

THOSE, _th_[=o]z, _pron._, _pl._ of _that_. [From A.S. _thás_, the old pl.
of _thes_, this. Cf. _This_. Doublet _these_.]

THOTH, thoth, _n._ the ancient Egyptian god of wisdom, and the inventor of
art, science, letters, &c., ibis-headed, with a tau-cross in his hand.

THOU, thow, _pron._ of the second person sing., the person addressed (now
generally used only in solemn address). [A.S. _ðú_; cog. with Goth. _thu_,
Gr. _tu_, L. _tu_, Sans. _tva-m_.]

THOUGH, _th_[=o], _conj._ admitting: allowing: even if notwithstanding.
[Lit. 'on that' (condition), A.S. _ðeáh_, _ðéh_; cog. with Goth. _thau-h_,
Ice. _thó_, Ger. _doch_; from the stem of _the_.]

THOUGHT, thawt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _think_. [A.S. _þoht_--_þencan_, to
think.]

THOUGHT, thawt, _n._ the act of thinking: reasoning: deliberation: that
which one thinks: idea: fancy: consideration: opinion: meditation: design:
care.--_adjs._ THOUGHT'ED, having thoughts; THOUGHT'FUL, full of thought:
employed in meditation: attentive: considerate: promoting serious thought:
favourable to meditation.--_adv._ THOUGHT'FULLY.--_n._
THOUGHT'FULNESS.--_adj._ THOUGHT'LESS, without thought or care: careless:
inattentive: stupid: dull.--_adv._ THOUGHT'LESSLY.--_ns._ THOUGHT'LESSNESS;
THOUGHT'-READ'ER; THOUGHT'-READ'ING, the dubious act or art of discerning
what is passing in another's mind by some direct and unexplained method,
depending neither on gesture, facial expression, nor any articulate or
other voluntary indication.--_adj._ THOUGHT'-SICK (_Shak._), uneasy with
reflection.--_n._ THOUGHT'-TRANS'FERENCE, telepathy.--_adj._
THOUGHT'-TRANSFEREN'TIAL, telepathic.--_n._ THOUGHT'-WAVE, a supposed
undulatory movement of a hypothetical medium by which the phenomena of
thought-transference are explained.--TAKE THOUGHT (_Shak._), to give way to
grief. [A.S. _ge-thóht_; Ice. _thóttr_, Ger. _bedacht_. Cf. _Think_.]

THOUS, _th_owz (_Spens._), Thou art.

THOUS, th[=o]'us, _n._ a genus of canines, the African jackals, [L.
_thos_--Gr. _th[=o]s_, a wild dog.]

THOUSAND, thow'zand, _adj._ denoting ten hundred: proverbially, denoting
any great number.--_n._ the number ten hundred: any large number.--_adj._
THOU'SANDFOLD, folded a thousand times: multiplied by a thousand.--_n._
THOU'SAND-LEGS, any one of the Myriapoda.--_adj._ THOU'SANDTH, the last of
a thousand or of any great number.--_n._ one of a thousand or of any great
number.--ONE IN [OF] A THOUSAND, anything exceedingly rare, implying a high
degree of rarity or excellence. [A.S. _thúsend_; Ger. _tausend_, Goth.
_thúsundi_.]

THOWEL, THOWL. See THOLE (1).

THOWLESS, thow'les, _adj._ (_Scot._) pithless: lazy. [_Thew_.]

THRALL, thrawl, _n._ a slave, serf: slavery, servitude: a shelf for
barrels.--_adj._ (_arch._) subject.--_v.t._ to enslave.--_ns._ THRAL'DOM,
THRALL'DOM, the condition of a thrall or slave: slavery: bondage.--_adj._
THRALL'-LIKE (_Milt._), resembling a thrall or slave: resembling slavery:
slavish. [Old Northumbrian _ðr['æ]l_--Ice. _þræll_, a slave; cf. Old High
Ger. _drigil_, a slave, one who runs errands. From root of A.S. _þrægian_,
to run.]

THRAP, thrap, _v.t._ to fasten about. [Prob. _frap_.]

THRAPPLE, thrap'l, _n._ (_Scot._) the windpipe.--Also THROPP'LE.
[_Throttle_.]

THRASH, thrash, _v.t._ to heat out grain from the straw, to beat
soundly--also THRESH.--_ns._ THRASH'ER, THRESH'ER; THRASH'ING, THRESH'ING,
the act of beating out grain from the straw: a sound beating or drubbing;
THRASH'ING-FLOOR, THRESH'ING-FLOOR, a floor on which grain is thrashed;
THRASH'ING-MACHINE', -MILL, a machine or apparatus for thrashing corn.
[A.S. _therscan_; cog. with Ger. _dreschen_.]

THRASH, thrash, _n._ (_Scot._) a rush.--Also THRESH.

THRASHER, thrash'[.e]r, _n._ an American throstle or thrush, the brown
thrush or sandy mocking-bird.--Also THRESH'ER.

THRASONICAL, thr[=a]-son'ik-al, _adj._ resembling _Thraso_, a boastful
soldier in Terence's _Eunuchus_: boastful, bragging.--_adv._
THRASON'ICALLY.

THRATCH, thrach, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to gasp for breath.--_n._ laboured
breathing.

THRAVE, thr[=a]v, _n._ twenty-four sheaves of grain set up in two _stooks_
of twelve sheaves each: the number of two dozen, a good number.--Also
THREAVE (thr[=e]v). [Scand., Ice. _þrefi_--_þrífa_, to grasp.]

THRAW, thraw, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to twist, wrench.--_v.i._ to writhe, to
wriggle: to be perverse.--_adjs._ THRÄ'WARD, THRÄ'WART, obstinate; THRAWN,
twisted: perverse.--HEADS AND THRAWS, lying beside each other, the head of
the one by the feet of the other; IN THE DEAD THRAW, in the agony of death.
[_Throw_.]

THREAD, thred, _n._ a very thin line of any substance twisted and drawn
out: a filament of any fibrous substance: a fine line of yarn: anything
resembling a thread: the prominent spiral part of a screw: something
continued in long course: the uniform tenor of a discourse.--_v.t._ to pass
a thread through the eye of (as a needle): to pass or pierce through, as a
narrow way: to furnish with a thread.--_adj._ THREAD'BARE, worn to the bare
thread: having the nap worn off: hackneyed: used till its novelty or
interest is gone.--_n._ THREAD'BARENESS.--_adj._ THREAD'EN (_Shak._), made
of thread.--_ns._ THREAD'ER; THREAD'INESS, the state of being thread-like
or slender: the quality of containing threads; THREAD'-LACE, lace made of
linen thread; THREAD'-P[=A]'PER, a piece of thin soft paper for wrapping up
a skein of thread.--_n.pl._ THREAD'-WORMS, a popular name for Nematoda, a
class of more or less thread-like worms, many parasitic, others
free-living.--_adj._ THREAD'Y, like thread: slender: containing, or
consisting of, thread.--THREAD AND THRUM, all, the good and bad together;
THREAD OF LIFE, the thread imagined to be spun and cut by the Fates.--LISLE
THREAD, a fine hard-twisted linen thread originally made at _Lille_ in
France. [A.S. _thr['æ]d_--_thráwan_, to wind, to twist; Ger. _drehen_.]

THREAP, THREEP, thr[=e]p, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to maintain persistently: to
contradict: to urge, to press eagerly.--_v.i._ to dispute.--_n._ stubborn
insistence: contradiction: a freet. [A.S. _threápian_, to rebuke.]

THREAT, thret, _n._ declaration of an intention to inflict punishment or
other evil upon another: menace.--_v.t._ THREAT'EN, to declare the
intention of inflicting punishment or other evil upon another: to terrify
by menaces: to present the appearance of coming evil or of something
unpleasant.--_n._ THREAT'ENER.--_adj._ THREAT'ENING, indicating a threat or
menace: indicating something approaching or impending.--_adv._
THREAT'ENINGLY.--_adj._ THREAT'FUL (_Spens._), full of threats, having a
menacing appearance. [A.S. _þreát_--_þreótan_, to afflict; cog. with Ger.
_verdriessen_, Goth. _thriutan_, to vex.]

THREE, thr[=e], _adj._ and _n._ two and one.--_adj._ THREE'-COR'NERED,
having three corners or angles: (_bot._) having three prominent
longitudinal angles, as a stem.--_n._ THREE'-DECK'ER, ship of war carrying
guns on three decks: an old-fashioned pulpit.--_adjs._ THREE'FOLD, folded
thrice: thrice repeated: consisting of three; THREE'-FOOT, measuring three
feet, or having three feet; THREE'-LEAFED, -LEAVED (_bot._), having three
distinct leaflets: having the leaves arranged in threes; THREE'-LOBED
(_bot._), having three lobes; THREE'-MAN (_Shak._), worked by three
men.--_n._ THREE'-MAS'TER, a ship with three masts.--_adjs._ THREE'-NERVED,
having three nerves: (_bot._) having three distinct nerves running
longitudinally without branching, as a leaf; THREE'-NOOKED (_Shak._),
three-cornered; THREE'-PART'ED, consisting of three parts: (_bot._) divided
into three parts down to the base, as a leaf.--_n._ THREEPENCE
(thr[=e]'pens, _coll._ thrip'ens), three pennies: a silver coin of the
value of threepence.--_adj._ THREE'PENNY, worth threepence: of little
worth: mean, vulgar.--_ns._ THREE'-PER-CENTS., bonds or other securities
paying three per cent. interest, esp. a portion of the consolidated debt of
Great Britain; THREE'-PILE (_Shak._), the finest kind of velvet.--_adjs._
THREE'-PILED, set with a thick pile, as velvet: (_Shak._) of the best
quality: (_Shak._) piled one on another; THREE'PLY, having three plies or
folds; THREE'SCORE, three times a score, sixty (also _n._); THREE'-SID'ED,
having three sides; THREE'SOME, triple; THREE'-SUIT'ED, having but three
suits of clothes; THREE'-VALVED, consisting of, or opening with, three
valves.--THREE F'S, free sale, fixity of tenure, fair rent--the three
demands of the Irish Land League; THREE R'S (see R); THREE TIMES THREE,
three cheers thrice repeated. [A.S. _þreó_, _þrý_, _þír_; Ice. _þrír_,
Gael. _tri_, Goth. _threis_, Ger. _drei_, L. _tres_, Gr. _treis_, Sans.
_tri_.]

THREMMATOLOGY, threm-a-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of breeding or
propagating animals and plants under domestication. [Gr.
_thremma_--_trephein_, to nurse, _logia_--_legein_, to say.]

THRENODY, thren'[=o]-di, _n._ an ode or song of lamentation.--_n._ THRENE,
a lament, lamentation.--_adjs._ THRENET'IC, -AL; THREN[=O]'DIAL,
THRENOD'IC.--_n._ THREN'ODIST, a writer of threnodies. [Gr.
_thr[=e]n[=o]dia_--_thr[=e]nos_, a lament, _[=o]d[=e]_, a song.]

THREPSOLOGY, threp-sol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the nutrition of living
organisms, or a treatise thereon. [Gr. _threpsis_--_trephein_, to nourish,
_logia_--_legein_, to say.]

THRESH, thresh (see THRASH).--_ns._ THRESH'EL, a flail; THRESH'ER, the
fox-shark; THRESH'ER-WHALE, the grampus.

THRESHOLD, thresh'[=o]ld, _n._ a piece of wood or stone under the door of a
house: door: entrance: the place or point of entering. [M. E.
_threshwold_--A.S. _therscwald_--_therscan_, to thresh, _wald_, wood.]

THRESTLE, thres'l, _n._ a three-legged stool. [_Trestle_.]

THRETTY, thret'i, a dial. form of _thirty_.

THREW, thr[=oo], _pa.t._ of _throw_.

THRICE, thr[=i]s, _adv._ three times. [M. E. _thriës_--A.S. _þríwa_,
thrice--_þrí_, three.]

THRID, thrid, _n._ (_Spens._) a thread.--_v.t._ to slip through, as a
narrow passage. [_Thread_.]

THRIDACIUM, thri-d[=a]'si-um, _n._ the inspissated juice of lettuce.--Also
THRID'ACE. [L. _thridax_--Gr. _thridax_, lettuce.]

THRIFT, thrift, _n._ state of thriving: frugality: prosperity: increase of
wealth: gain: a plant of genus _Armeria_, order _Plumbagineæ_, the
marsh-rosemary.--_adv._ THRIFT'ILY.--_n._ THRIFT'INESS.--_adj._
THRIFT'LESS, not thrifty: extravagant: not thriving.--_adv._
THRIFT'LESSLY.--_n._ THRIFT'LESSNESS.--_adj._ THRIFT'Y (_comp._ THRIFT'IER,
_superl._ THRIFT'IEST), showing thrift or economy: thriving by frugality.
[_Thrive_.]

THRILL, thril, _v.t._ to pierce: to affect strongly.--_v.i._ to pierce, as
something sharp: to cause a tingling, shivering feeling to run through the
body: to feel a sharp, shivering sensation.--_n._ a thrilling
sensation.--_adjs._ THRILL'ANT (_Spens._), thrilling, piercing; THRILL'ING,
causing to thrill.--_adv._ THRILL'INGLY, in a thrilling manner: with
thrilling sensations.--_n._ THRILL'INGNESS. [A.S. _thyrlian_, to bore a
hole--_thyrel_, a hole; Ger. _drillen_, to drill a hole.]

THRIPS, thrips, _n._ a genus of the family _Thripidæ_, which is the sole
family of the order _Thysanoptera_, any member of the same, the
corn-thrips, the jassid, the grape-vine thrips. [Gr. _thrips_, a
wood-worm.]

THRIST, thrist, _v.i._ (_Spens._) same as _Thirst_.--_adj._
THRIST'Y=_Thirsty_.

THRIVE, thr[=i]v, _v.i._ to prosper: to increase in goods: to be
successful: to grow: to flourish:--_pa.t._ thr[=o]ve and thr[=i]ved;
_pa.p._ thriv'en.--_adj._ THRIVE'LESS, thriftless.--_n._ THR[=I]'VER, one
who succeeds.--_p.adj._ THR[=I]'VING, flourishing, successful.--_adv._
THR[=I]'VINGLY, in a thriving or prosperous manner.--_n._ THR[=I]'VINGNESS.
[Ice. _thrífa_, to grasp.]

THRO', THRO=_Through_.

THROAT, thr[=o]t, _n._ the forepart of the neck, in which are the gullet
and windpipe: an entrance: a narrow part of anything: (_naut._) the widened
and hollowed end of a gaff next the mast--opp. to Peak, the outer
end.--_ns._ THROAT'-BAND, -STRAP, -LATCH, a band about the throat;
THROAT'-BOLT, an eye-bolt to which to hook the throat-halyards.--_n.pl._
THROAT'-BRAILS, those which are attached to the gaff for trussing up the
sail close to the gaff as well as the mast.--_adj._ THROAT'ED, with a
throat of a specified kind.--_n.pl._ THROAT'-HAL'YARDS, those for hoisting
the throat of a gaff.--_adj._ THROAT'Y, formed in the throat, guttural in
sound.--CLERGYMAN'S SORE THROAT, an affection commonly arising from too
prolonged or powerful exercise of the voice by persons in whom the mucous
membrane of the throat is in a relaxed condition; CUT ONE'S OWN, or
ANOTHER'S, THROAT, to pursue some course ruinous to one's own or to
another's interests; GIVE ONE THE LIE IN HIS THROAT, to accuse one to his
face of a lie. [A.S. _throte_; Dut. _strot_, Ger. _drossel_, the throat.]

THROB, throb, _v.i._ to beat or palpitate, as the heart or pulse, with more
than usual force:--_pr.p._ throb'bing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ throbbed.--_n._
a beat or strong pulsation.--_adv._ THROB'BINGLY.--_adj._ THROB'LESS. [M.
E. _throbben_; cf. L. _trepidus_, trembling.]

THROE, thr[=o], _n._ suffering, pain: agony: the pains of
childbirth.--_v.i._ to be in agony.--_v.t._ to put in agony. [A.S. _threá_,
_threáw_, suffering--_threówan_, to suffer.]

THROMBOSIS, throm-b[=o]'sis, _n._ an affection of the blood--vessels
(either veins or arteries), which essentially consists in a coagulation of
blood, forming a true clot, at a certain fixed spot.--_adjs._ THROM'BOSED,
THROMBOT'IC.--_n._ THROM'BUS, the blood-clot formed in thrombosis.

THRONE, thr[=o]n, _n._ a chair of state richly ornamented and covered with
a canopy: seat of a bishop in the cathedral-church of his diocese:
sovereign power and dignity: (_pl._) the third order of angels in the first
triad of the celestial hierarchy.--_v.t._ to place on a royal seat: to
exalt.--_v.i._ to sit in state, as on a throne:--_pr.p._ thr[=o]n'ing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ thr[=o]ned.--_adjs._ THR[=O]'NAL; THRONE'LESS. [O.
Fr.,--L. _thronus_--Gr. _thronos_, a seat.]

THRONG, throng, _n._ a large number of people pressed or crowded together:
a crowd: a great multitude.--_v.t._ to press or crowd: to annoy with
numbers.--_v.i._ to crowd together: to come in multitudes.--_adj._
(_prov._) crowded: busy.--_adj._ THRONG'FUL, thronged. [A.S.
_ge-thrang_--_thringan_, to press.]

THROPPLE. Same as THRAPPLE.

THROSTLE, thros'l, _n._ the song-thrush or mavis: a machine for twisting
and winding fibres from roves, consisting of a set of drawing-rollers with
bobbins and fliers--also _Water-frame_.--_n._ THROS'TLE-COOK, the
missel-thrush. [A.S. _throstle_; Ger. _drossel_, L. _turdus_, a thrush.]

THROSTLING, thros'ling, _n._ a swelling on the throat of cattle causing
strangulation.

THROTTLE, throt'l, _n._ the throat or windpipe.--_v.t._ to choke by
pressure on the windpipe: to shut off the steam from a steam-pipe, engine,
&c.--_v.i._ to breathe hard, as when nearly suffocated.--_ns._
THROTT'LE-PIPE, the vertical pipe between the throttle-valve and dry-pipe
of a locomotive; THROTT'LER, one who throttles; THROTT'LE-VALVE, a valve
regulating the supply of steam to the cylinder. [Dim. of _throat_.]

THROUGH, thr[=oo], _prep._ from end to end, or from side to side of:
between the sides of: over the whole extent of: among: from beginning to
end: by means of: in consequence of.--_adv._ from one end or side to the
other: from beginning to end: to the end or purpose.--_adj._ clear,
unobstructed, serving for an entire route.--_adv._ THROUGH'-AND-THROUGH,
thoroughly.--_ns._ THROUGH'-BOLT, a bolt which passes through from side to
side of what it fastens; THROUGH'FARE (_Shak._), same as THOROUGHFARE;
THROUGH'-GANG (_Scot._), a thoroughfare.--_adj._ THROUGH'-GANG'ING,
thorough-going.--_n._ THROUGH-G[=O]'ING (_Scot._), a scolding.--_adj._
active, energetic.--_adv._ THROUGH'LY (_obs._) same as THOROUGHLY.--_prep._
THROUGHOUT', through to the outside: in every part of: from one end to the
other.--_adv._ in every part: everywhere.--_ns._ THROUGH'-STONE, a bonder
or bond-stone in building: a grave-stone made so as to lie flat;
THROUGH'-TICK'ET, a ticket for the whole of a journey; THROUGH'-TRAFF'IC,
the traffic between two centres at a distance from each other--opp. to
_Local traffic_; THROUGH'-TRAIN, a train which goes the whole length of a
long route.--BE THROUGH, to be finished; CARRY THROUGH (see CARRY); GO
THROUGH (see GO). [A.S. _þurh_; Ger. _durch_, Sans. _tiras_.]

THROVE, thr[=o]v, _pa.t._ of _thrive_.

THROW, thr[=o], _v.t._ to hurl: to fling: to wind or twist together, as
yarn: to form on a wheel, as pottery: to venture at dice: to put off: to
put on or spread carelessly: to cast down in wrestling.--_v.i._ to cast or
hurl: to cast dice:--_pa.t._ threw (thr[=oo]); _pa.p._ thr[=o]wn.--_n._ the
act of throwing; a cast, esp. of dice: the distance to which anything may
be thrown: a violent effort.--_ns._ THROW'ER; THROW'ING-T[=A]'BLE, a
potter's wheel.--_adj._ THROWN, twisted.--_ns._ THROWN'-SILK, organzine,
silk thread formed by twisting together two or more threads or singles;
THROW'STER, one who throws silk: a gambler; THROW'-STICK, a weapon thrown
whirling from the hand, as the boomerang.--THROW ABOUT (_Spens._), to cast
about or try expedients; THROW AWAY, to lose by neglect or folly, to spend
in vain, to reject; THROW BACK, to retort, to refuse: to revert to some
ancestral character, to show atavism; THROW BY, to reject, to lay aside as
of no use; THROW DOWN, to destroy, to subvert: to depress; THROW IN, to
inject, as a fluid, to put in or deposit along with others, to add as an
extra; THROW LIGHT ON, to make clear; THROW OFF, to expel, to reject, to
renounce: to give forth in an unpremeditated manner; THROW ON, to put on
hastily; THROW ONE'S SELF INTO, to engage heartily in; THROW ONE'S SELF ON,
or UPON, to cast one's confidence upon, to resign one's self to; THROW
OPEN, to cause to swing wide open, to make freely accessible; THROW OUT, to
cast out, to reject, to expel: to emit, to utter carelessly, to cause to
project: to put into confusion, to confuse: to distance, leave behind;
THROW OVER, to discard or desert; THROW UP, to hoist or raise, to raise
hastily: to enlarge, as a picture reflected on a screen: to give up, to
resign: to vomit. [A.S. _thráwan_, to turn, to twist; Ger. _drehen_, to
twist, L. _torqu[=e]re_.]

THRUM, thrum, _n._ the end of a weaver's thread, any loose thread or
fringe: coarse yarn.--_v.t._ to furnish with thrums: to fringe: to insert
short pieces of rope-yarn in a mat or piece of canvas:--_pr.p._ thrum'ming;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ thrummed.--_ns._ THRUM'-CAP, -HAT (_Shak._), a cap or
hat made of thrums or of coarse, shaggy cloth.--_adj._ THRUM'MY, made of,
or like, thrums. [Ice. _þrómr_, the edge; Ger. _trumm_, a fragment.]

THRUM, thrum, _v.i._ to play rudely or monotonously on an instrument with
the fingers.--_n._ a monotonous sound, as that made by unskilled fingers on
a harp, &c.--_n._ THRUM'MER.

THRUSH, thrush, _n._ a genus of Passerine birds of the family _Turdidæ_,
specifically the throstle, song-thrush, or mavis of Europe. [A.S. _þrysce_,
a thrush.]

THRUSH, thrush, _n._ an inflammatory and suppurating affection of the
sensitive surfaces within the frog of the horse: an infantile disease of
the mouth and throat. [Scand., Ice. _þurr_, dry.]

THRUST, thrust, _v.t._ to push or drive with force: to stab,
pierce.--_v.i._ to make a push, esp. with a pointed weapon: to squeeze in:
to intrude:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ thrust.--_n._ a stab: an assault: the
horizontal outward pressure of an arch against its abutments, or of
rafters, beams, &c. against the walls or bearings: the white whey, the last
to be squeezed from the curd.--_ns._ THRUST'ER; THRUST'-HOE, a hoe worked
by pushing.--THRUST ASIDE, to push away, to reject; THRUST OFF, to push
away; THRUST ON, to urge or impel; THRUST ONE'S SELF INTO, to intrude;
THRUST OUT, to drive out or away; THRUST THROUGH (_Shak._), to pierce, to
stab; THRUST TO (_Spens._), to rush upon; THRUST TOGETHER, to compress;
THRUST UPON, to force upon. [Ice. _thrýsta_, to press.]

THRUST, thrust, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to thirst.--_n._ thirst.

THUD, thud, _n._ a dull, hollow sound, caused by a blow or a heavy body
falling: a loud noise, concussion, or blast.--_v.i._ to make a thudding
sound: (_Scot._) to move quickly.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to beat, strike. [A.S.
_þóden_, noise.]

THUG, thug, _n._ one of a class of professional robbers and assassins in
India--a kind of secret religious fraternity, murdering stealthily by
strangling or poisoning with datura, extirpated 1826-35: any cut-throat
ruffian.--_ns._ THUGGEE', THUG'GERY, THUG'GISM, the practice and
superstition of the Thugs. [Hind., _thag_, _thug_, cheat.]

THULE, th[=u]'l[=e], _n._ the name generally given by the ancients to the
most northerly part of Europe known to them, of which their want of
knowledge was eked out by the imagination--the Orkney and Shetland groups,
Iceland, &c. The usual Roman phrase was _Ultima Thule_. [L.,--Gr.
_thyl[=e]_.]

THUMB, thum, _n._ the short, thick digit, consisting of two phalanges, on
the radial side of the human hand: the corresponding member in other
animals.--_v.t._ to handle awkwardly: to play or soil with the thumb or
fingers.--_v.i._ to finger.--_adj._ THUMBED, having thumbs: marked by the
thumb, worn.--_ns._ THUMB'KIN, THUMB'SCREW, an old instrument of torture
for compressing the thumb by means of a screw.--_adj._ THUMB'LESS.--_ns._
THUMB'-MARK, a mark left by the impression of the thumb on the pages of a
book, &c.; THUMB'PIECE, a piece serving as a support for the thumb: a knob
or projection by means of which a spring is worked by pressure of the
thumb; THUMB'POT, a very small pot used by florists for starting slips or
seedlings; THUMB'-RING (_Shak._), a ring worn on the thumb: a ring for the
thumb fastened to the guard of a dagger or sword; THUMB'-STALL, a covering
or sheath for the thumb.--BY RULE OF THUMB, in a rough-and-ready practical
manner, found by experience to be convenient; UNDER ONE'S THUMB, under
one's influence. [With intrusive _b_ from A.S. _þuma_; cog. with Ger.
_daumen_.]

THUMMIM, thum'im, _n.pl._ perfection. [Heb., _tumm[=i]m_ (pl. of _t[=o]m_),
perfection--_t[=a]mam_, to be perfect. Cf. _Urim_.]

THUMP, thump, _n._ a heavy blow.--_v.t._ to beat with something
heavy.--_v.i._ to strike or fall with a dull, heavy blow.--_n._ THUMP'ER,
one who, or that which, thumps: anything very big, a big lie, &c.--_adj._
THUMP'ING, unusually big. [Prob. imit., like Ice. _dumpa_, to thump.]

THUNDER, thun'd[.e]r, _n._ the deep rumbling sound after a flash of
lightning, a thunderbolt: any loud noise: an alarming denunciation.--_v.i._
to make thunder: to sound as thunder.--_v.t._ to give out with noise and
terror: to publish a denunciation.--_ns._ THUN'DERBOLT, a bolt or shaft of
lightning preceding a peal of thunder: anything sudden and irresistible: a
daring or irresistible hero: ecclesiastical denunciation; THUN'DER-CLAP, a
sudden peal of thunder: the report of an explosion of electricity in the
clouds; THUN'DER-CLOUD, a cloud charged with electricity, which generally
produces lightning and thunder; THUN'DERER; THUN'DERING, the report of a
discharge of electricity in the clouds: thunder.--_adj._ unusually big,
tremendous.--_adv._ THUN'DERINGLY.--_adjs._ THUN'DERLESS, without thunder;
THUN'DER-LIKE (_Shak._), like thunder, as a loud noise; THUN'DEROUS, giving
forth a sound like thunder, awful.--_adv._ THUN'DEROUSLY.--_ns._
THUN'DER-PEAL, a clap of thunder; THUN'DER-PLUMP, a heavy fall of rain in a
thunder-storm; THUN'DER-SHOWER, a shower accompanied with thunder, or a
short heavy shower from a thunder-cloud; THUN'DER-STONE (_Shak._), a stone
fabulously supposed to be hurled by thunder, and to do the damage of
lightning, a thunderbolt: (_geol._) a belemnite, so called from its
dart-like shape; THUN'DER-STORM, continued discharges of electricity from
the clouds, producing lightning and thunder, and generally accompanied with
heavy rain.--_v.t._ THUN'DER-STRIKE, to strike as by lightning.--_n._
THUN'DER-STROKE (_Shak._), a stroke or blast by lightning.--_adjs._
THUN'DER-STRUCK, struck by lightning: astonished: struck dumb; THUN'DERY,
indicative of thunder, or attended by it. [With intrusive _d_ from A.S.
_þunor_--_þunian_, to rattle; cog. with Ger. _donner_, Ice. _þorr_ for
_þonr_, L. _ton[=a]re_.]

THURIBLE, th[=u]'ri-bl, _n._ a censer of metal for burning
frankincense.--_n._ TH[=U]'RIFER, the server who carries the
thurible.--_adjs._ THURIF'EROUS, producing or bearing frankincense;
THURIF'ICATE, having offered incense.--_n._ THURIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
TH[=U]'RIFY, to cense.--_n._ THUS, frankincense. [L. _thuribulum_--_thus_,
_thuris_, frankincense; akin to Gr. _thyos_, a sacrifice.]

THURSDAY, thurz'd[=a], _n._ the fifth day of the week, so called because
originally sacred to _Thor_, the old Teutonic god of thunder. [A.S.
_thunres dæg_--_thunres_, gen. of _thunor_, thunder, _dæg_, day; Ice.
_Thórsdag-r_, Thor's day, Ger. _Donnerstag_.]

THUS, _th_us, _adv._ in this or that manner: to this degree or
extent.--_n._ THUS'NESS, state of being thus.--_adv._ THUS'WISE, in this
manner. [A.S. _ðus_, prob. _ðýs_, instrumental case of _ðes_, this.]

THWACK, thwak, _v.t._ to strike with something blunt and heavy, to
thrash.--_n._ a heavy blow. [A.S. _thaccian_, to stroke.]

THWAITE, thw[=a]t, _n._ a piece of land reclaimed to tillage--common in
place-names, as Bassen_thwaite_, Cross_thwaite_. [Ice. _thveit_.]

THWART, thwawrt, _adj._ cross: being crosswise.--_v.t._ to cross: to
oppose; to defeat.--_n._ the bench for rowers placed athwart the
boat.--_advs._ THWART; THWAR'TEDLY.--_n._ THWAR'TER.--_adj._ THWAR'TING,
perverse.--_advs._ THWAR'TINGLY, perversely; THWART'LY; THWART'SHIPS,
across the ship. [Ice. _thvert_, neut. of _thverr_; perverse; cog. with
A.S. _thweorh_, Ger. _zwerch_.]

THY, _th_[=i], _poss. adj._ thine, of or pertaining to thee. [Short for
_thine_, A.S. _ðín_, gen. of _ðu_, thou.]

THYINE-WOOD, th[=i]'in-w[=oo]d, _n._ a wood named in Rev. xviii. 12,
probably that of the sandarac-tree. [Gr.]

THYLACINE, th[=i]'la-s[=e]n, _n._ the largest of the extant predaceous
marsupials, represented by one species, now restricted to Tasmania.

THYME, t[=i]m, _n._ a genus of humble half-shrubby plants of the natural
order _Labiatæ_, the common garden-thyme, cultivated for its fragrance,
wild-thyme, &c.--_n._ THY'MOL, an antiseptic phenol, obtained from oil of
thyme by distillation.--_adj._ THY'MY. [Fr.,--L. L. _thymum_--Gr. _thyein_,
to fill with sweet smells, to burn in sacrifice.]

THYMUS, th[=i]'mus, _n._ a ductless gland near the root of the neck, of no
known function, vestigial in adult man--that of veal and lamb called
_neck-sweetbread_. [Gr. _thymos_, sweet thyme.]

THYROID, th[=i]'roid, _adj._ in the form of a shield: denoting a cartilage
constituting the anterior, upper part of the larynx, popularly called
Adam's apple: denoting a vascular or ductless gland which arises in the
earlier human embryo as an ingrowth from the lower part of the pharynx (see
Myxoedema). [Gr. _thyreos_, a shield, _eidos_, form.]

THYRSUS, th[.e]r'sus, _n._ (_bot._) an inflorescence consisting of a
panicle with the lower branches shorter than the middle ones: the wand of
Bacchus, a staff wreathed with ivy--also THYRSE.--_adjs._ THYR'SOID, -AL,
having the form of a thyrsus. [Gr. _thyrsos_.]

THYSANURA, this-a-n[=u]'ra, _n._ an order of wingless insects of small
size, undergoing no metamorphosis, the abdomen usually bearing peculiar
structures which seem to be abortive limbs, the spring-tails or
bristle-tails.--_adjs._ THYSAN[=U]'RIAN; THYSAN[=U]'RIFORM. [Gr.
_thysanos_, a fringe, _oura_, a tail.]

THYSELF, _th_[=i]-self, _pron._ thou or thee, in person--used for emphasis.

TI, t[=e], _n._ a small Pacific tree of the lily family whose fleshy roots
are eaten, and yield sugar and spirit.

[Illustration]

TIARA, t[=i]-[=a]'ra, _n._ the lofty ornamental head-dress of the ancient
Persians: a head-dress: the mitre of the Jewish high-priest: the pope's
triple crown, the papal dignity--also (_poet._) TIAR.--_adj._ TI[=A]'RAED,
wearing a tiara. [Fr. _tiare_--L. _tiara_--Gr. _tiara_.]

TIB, tib, _n._ (_Shak._) a punk, whore.

TIBET, THIBET, ti-bet', _n._ a woollen stuff generally printed in colours:
a heavy fabric used for the same purposes as furs, made of goat's hair,
black and finely curled--also TIBET CLOTH.--_adj._ TIB'ETAN, pertaining to
_Tibet_, its language or people.--_n._ the language or people of Tibet.

TIBIA, tib'i-a, _n._ the large shinbone.--_adj._ TIB'IAL, pertaining to the
tibia: pertaining to a pipe or flute.--_ns._ TIBI[=A]'LIS, a tibial muscle;
TIB[=I]'CEN, a flute-player. [L., the shinbone, hence a flute.]

TIC, tik, _n._ a convulsive motion of certain muscles, esp. of the
face.--_n._ TIC'-DOUL'OUREUX, painful convulsive motion of a nerve, usually
in the face. [Fr. _tic_, a twitching; cf. Low Ger. _tukken_, to twitch.]

TICE, t[=i]s, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to entice.

TICK, tik, _n._ the popular name for several acaridan arachnids which
infest dogs, sheep, &c. [M. E. _teke_; Dut. _teek_, Ger. _zecke_.]

TICK, tik, _n._ the case or cover in which feathers, &c., are put for
bedding.--_ns._ TICK'EN, TICK'ING, the cloth of which ticks are made. [L.
_theca_---Gr. _th[=e]k[=e]_, a case--_tith[=e]mi_, I put.]

TICK, tik, _v.i._ to make a small, quick noise: to beat, as a watch.--_ns._
TICK'ER, anything which ticks, a watch; TICK'-TACK, a noise like that made
by a clock: (_Shak._) a game somewhat like backgammon--_adv._ with a
recurring ticking sound. [Imit.; cf. Ger. _ticken_.]

TICK, tik, _v.i._ to get or give credit.--_n._ credit: trust.--_n._
TICK'-SHOP, a shop where goods are given on credit.--BUY ON TICK, to buy on
credit. [_Ticket_.]

TICK, tik, _v.i._ to touch lightly.--_n._ a tap or light touch: a slight
speck.--_adj._ TICKED, speckled.--_v.t._ TICK'LE, to touch lightly and
cause to laugh: to please by slight gratification.--_v.i._ to feel
titillation or tickling.--_ns._ TICK'LER; TICK'LING. [_Tickle_ is a dim. of
_tick_, to touch lightly, M. E. _teck_, a touch; Dut. _tik_.]

TICKET, tik'et, _n._ a marked card: a token of any right or debt, as for
admission, &c.: a list of candidates put forward by a party for election:
(_obs._) a visiting-card.--_v.t._ to mark by a ticket.--_ns._ TICK'ET-DAY,
the day before settling day on the Stock Exchange; TICK'ET-OF-LEAVE, a
license to be at large, granted to a convict for good conduct;
TICK'ET-POR'TER, a licensed porter wearing a badge or ticket;
COU'PON-TICK'ET (see COUPON); STRAIGHT'-TICKET, a ticket bearing the names
of the nominees of a political party, and them only.--SEASON TICKET, a
ticket entitling the holder to admission to lectures, &c., or to travel
between certain places on a line of railway, for a certain specified
period; THE TICKET, the correct thing. [Short for O. Fr. _etiquet_, a
label, from Teut.; Ger. _stecken_, to stick.]

TICKLE, tik'l, _adj._ (_Spens._) uncertain, insecure: (_Shak._) tottering,
insecure, easily tickled, ticklish.--_n._ TICK'LER, something difficult, a
puzzle: a banker's memorandum-book: a dram of spirits.--_adj._ TICK'LISH,
easily tickled: easily affected: nice: critical.--_adv._ TICK'LISHLY.--_n._
TICK'LISHNESS.--_adj._ TICK'LY, ticklish.--_n._ TICKLY-BEND'ER, risky ice
that bends under a skater: (_pl._) any game, as tag, played on such ice.
[M. E. _tikel_, unstable, _tikelen_, freq. of _tick_, to touch lightly.]

TID, tid, _n._ (_Scot._) fit time or condition.

TIDBIT. Same as TITBIT.

TIDDLE, tid'l, _v.t._ to fondle--also TID'DER.--_v.i._ to potter, trifle.

TIDDLYWINK, tid'ly-wingk, _n._ (_prov._) an unlicensed pawn-shop or
beer-house.--_n.pl._ TIDD'LEDYWINKS, a parlour-game in which small discs of
ivory, &c., are snapped from the level of the table into a cup in the
centre of it--also TIDD'LY-WINKS.

TIDDY, tid'i, _n._ (_prov._) the European wren.

TIDE, t[=i]d, _n._ time: season: the regular flux and reflux or rhythmic
ebb and flow of the sea: course: a tide, time, or season, a feast-day,
festival, a certain time, a day of twelve hours: commotion:
turning-point.--_v.t._ to drive with the stream.--_v.i._ to pour a tide or
flood: to work in or out of a river or harbour with the tide.--_adj._
T[=I]'DAL, pertaining to tides: flowing and ebbing periodically.--_ns._
TIDE'-GATE, a gate through which the water flows into a basin or dock with
the tide, and which is shut to keep it from flowing out again when the tide
ebbs: a place where the tide runs with great velocity; TIDE'-GAUGE, an
instrument for registering the state of the tide continuously.--_adj._
TIDE'LESS, having no tides.--_ns._ TIDE'-LOCK, a lock placed between an
entrance-basin and a harbour, canal, or river, and furnished with double
gates, so that vessels can pass either out or in at all times of the tide;
TIDE'MILL, a mill moved by tide-water: a mill for clearing lands of
tide-water; TIDES'-MAN, TIDE'-WAIT'ER, an officer who waits the arrival of
vessels, to secure the payment of the duties: one who watches public
opinion before declaring his own; TIDE'-T[=A]'BLE, a table giving the time
of high-tide at any place; TIDE'-WA'TER, the water of the portion of a
river affected by the tide, the seaboard; TIDE'-WAVE, the great wave which
follows the apparent motion of the moon; TIDE'-WAY, the channel in which
the tide sets; NEAP'-TIDE (see Neap); SPRING'-TIDE (see SPRING).--TIDE
OVER, to surmount difficulties, for the time at least, by favourable
accidents or by skill. [A.S. _tíd_; Dut. _tijd_, Ger. _zeit_.]

TIDINGS, t[=i]'dingz, _n.pl._ news: intelligence. [Ice. _tiðindi_--_tið_,
time; cf. Ger. _zeit-ung_, news, from _zeit_.]

TIDY, t[=i]'di, _adj._ neat: in good order: fairly large: (_coll._)
comfortable.--_n._ a cover for chairs, &c.: a child's pinafore.--_v.t._ to
make neat: to put in good order:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ t[=i]'died.--_adv._
T[=I]'DILY, in a tidy manner.--_n._ TI'DINESS, state or quality of being
tidy: neatness.--TID'IVATE (_coll._) (see TITIVATE). [M. E. _tidy_,
seasonable--_tid_, _tide_, time: Ger. _zeitig_.]

TIE, t[=i], _v.t._ to bind: to fasten with a cord: to unite: to constrain:
(_mus._) to unite notes with a tie: to score equally with: to bind with a
ligature.--_v.i._ to make an exactly equal number of points with:--_pr.p._
ty'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tied (t[=i]d).--_n._ a knot, bow, &c.: a bond:
something for tying: a necktie: a member fastening parts together, one of a
set of timbers laid crosswise: an equality in numbers, as of votes, or of
points in a game: (_mus._) a curved line drawn over two or more notes on
the same degree of the stave, signifying that the second note is not to be
sounded separately, but is to sustain the first.--_ns._ TIE'-BEAM, a beam
resting on the walls and stretching across, keeping the rafters fast;
T[=I]'ER, one who ties: a child's apron; TIE'-ROD, a rod serving as a tie
between two pieces; TIE'-WIG, a court-wig tied with ribbon at the
back.--PLAY OFF A TIE, to take part in a final contest to decide a tie in a
game. [M. E. _teyen_--_teye_, a band--A.S. _teág_, _teáh_, _týge_, a rope.]

TIER, t[=e]r, _n._ a row or rank, especially when several rows are placed
one above another. [Fr. _tire_--_tirer_, to draw.]

TIERCE, t[=e]rs, _n._ a cask containing one-third of a pipe--that is, 42
gallons: a sequence of three cards of the same colour: (_mus._) a third: a
thrust, in fencing: (_her._) a field tripartitely divided in three
different tinctures: the third hour of the day, or the office of that hour,
the terce.--_ns._ TIER'CERON (_archit._), in vaulting, a rib springing from
the intersection of two other ribs; TIER'CET, a stanza of three rhymed
verses, a triplet. [O. Fr. _tiers_, _tierce_--L. _tertia (pars)_, a third
(part)--_tres_, three.]

TIERCEL, t[=e]rs'el, _n._ a male hawk.--Also TIERCE'LET. [O. Fr.
_tiercelet_--_tiers_, _tierce_, third.]

TIERS ÉTAT, ty[=a]rz [=a]-tä', _n._ the third estate of the realm, the
common people in relation to political power. See ESTATE. [Fr.]

TIFF, tif, _v.t._ to sip, quaff.--_n._ a dram.

TIFF, tif, _v.t._ (_obs._) to dress, trick out. [O. Fr. _tiffer_,
_atiffer_, to adorn; of Teut. origin.]

TIFF, tif, _v.i._ to be in a pet---n: a display of irritation, a pet,
huff.--Also TIFT. [Orig. a _sniff_. Norw. _tev_, a drawing in of the
breath, _teva_, to sniff.]

TIFFANY, tif'a-ni, _n._ a silk-like gauze.--_adj._ made of tiffany,
transparent. [_Tiff_, to adorn.]

TIFFIN, tif'in, _n._ the East Indian name for luncheon.--_v.i._ TIFF, to
take lunch--TIFF'IN is less correct. [From Prov. Eng. _tiff_, a draught of
beer.]

TIG, tig, _n._ a game in which one tries to tag or touch another.

TIG, tig, _n._ an old four-handed drinking-cup.

TIGE, t[=i]zh, _n._ a stalk: the shaft of a column. [Fr.--L. _tibia_, a
pipe.]

TIGELLUS, tij-el'us, _n._ the internode of a stem. [Fr.]

TIGER, t[=i]'g[.e]r, _n._ a fierce and rapacious feline quadruped, nearly
as large as a lion: the jaguar: a servant in livery who rides with his
master: a swaggering bully, a low ruffian: (_U.S._) one more cheer after a
round of cheers: a tiger-beetle:--_fem._ T[=I]'GRESS.--_ns._
TI'GER-BEE'TLE, a cicindela; T[=I]'GER-CAT, a wild-cat: the margay, ocelot,
and serval; T[=I]'GER-FLOW'ER, a Mexican plant cultivated in flower-gardens
for its streaked flowers.--_adjs._ T[=I]'GER-FOOT'ED (_Shak._), hastening
to devour, fierce and rapacious; T[=I]'GERISH, like a tiger in
disposition.--_ns._ T[=I]'GERISM; T[=I]'GER-LIL'Y, a species of lily with
spotted flowers; T[=I]'GER-MOTH, any one of the _Arctiidæ_, whose larvæ are
called woolly bears; T[=I]'GER-WOLF, a name given to the spotted hyena and
to the Thylacine.--_adj._ T[=I]'GRINE, like a tiger. [Fr. _tigre_--L.
_tigris_--Gr. _tigris_--Zend. _tighri_, an arrow, whence the river Tigris.]

TIGHT, t[=i]t, _adj._ close: compact: rigid: hampered from want of money:
snug, trim: not leaky: fitting closely, also too closely: scarce, not
easily obtainable: (_coll._) unwilling to part with money: tipsy: not loose
or free in treatment.--_v.t._ TIGHT'EN, to make tight or tighter: to
straiten.--_v.i._ to grow tight or tighter.--_n._ TIGHT'ENER, one who, or
that which, tightens: (_anat._) a tensor: (_slang_) a heavy meal.--_adv._
TIGHT'LY.--_ns._ TIGHT'NESS; TIGHT'ROPE, a tightly-stretched rope on which
rope-dancers perform.--_n.pl._ TIGHTS, a garment often of silk, closely
fitting the body, or at least the legs, worn by acrobats, dancers, &c.
[Scand., Ice. _þéitr_; cf. Dan. _tæt_, Dut. _digt_, Ger. _dicht_.]

TIGHT, t[=i]t (_Spens._), _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _tie_.

TIKE, t[=i]k, _n._ (_Shak._) a dog, a cur, a boor: an uncouth fellow: a
Yorkshireman. [Ice. _tík_, a bitch.]

TILBURY, til'ber-i, _n._ a kind of gig for two. [Said to be so named from
its first maker.]

TILDE, til'd[=e], _n._ the diacritical sign over _n_ in Spanish--thus _ñ_.
[Sp.,--L. _titulus_, a title.]

TILE, t[=i]l, _n._ a piece of baked clay used for covering roofs, floors,
&c.: a tube or pipe of baked clay used in drains: (_slang_) a tall
cylindrical silk hat.--_v.t._ to cover with tiles: to drain by means of
tiles: to secure against the intrusion of unauthorised persons by placing a
person at the door of a lodge or close meeting.--_ns._ T[=I]'LER, one who
makes or who lays tiles: the keeper of the door in a Freemasons'
lodge--also TY'LER; TILE'-RED, a brownish-red, the colour of baked tiles;
T[=I]'LERY, a place where tiles are made; TILE'-STONE, a tile: (_pl._,
_geol._) the uppermost group of the Silurian period, consisting of a
reddish, thin-bedded, slightly micaceous sandstone; T[=I]'LING, a roof of
tiles: tiles in general.--DUTCH TILES, enamelled earthenware tiles, usually
blue, with scriptural subjects, for chimney pieces, &c. [A.S. _tigele_--L.
_tegula_--_teg[)e]re_, to cover.]

TILIACEÆ, til-i-[=a]'se-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of exogenous trees
and shrubs, mostly native to the tropics--the linden family. [L. _tilia_, a
lime-tree.]

TILKA, til'ka, _n._ the caste-mark on the forehead of Hindus. [Sans.]

TILL, til, _n._ a money-box or drawer in a desk, counter, or trunk. [M. E.
_tillen_, to draw out--A.S. _tyllan_, in _for-tyllan_, to draw aside.]

TILL, til, _prep._ to the time of.--_adv._ to the time when: to the degree
that. [Old Northumbrian _til_--Scand., Ice. _til_.]

TILL, til, _v.t._ to cultivate.--_adj._ TILL'ABLE, arable.--_ns._ TILL'AGE,
act or practice of tilling: husbandry: a place tilled; TILL'ER; TILL'ING.
[A.S. _tilian_, to till--_til_, good, a limit; Ger. _zielen_, to arrange.]

TILL, til, _n._ the usual name in Scotland for _Boulder-clay_, a
widely-distributed stony clay, usually tough and hard, unquestionably the
result of glaciation, probably being merely the bottom-moraine or
ground-moraine of extinct glaciers.

TILLANDSIA, ti-land'zi-a, _n._ a genus of mainly epiphytic plants of the
pine-apple family (_Bromeliaceæ_). [From the Swedish botanist, _Tillands_.]

TILLER, til'[.e]r, _n._ the handle or lever for turning a rudder.--_ns._
TILL'ER-CHAIN, -ROPE, the chain or rope uniting the fore-end of the tiller
with the steering-wheel. [M. E. _tillen_, to draw out--A.S. _tyllan_. Cf.
_Till_ (1).]

TILLY-VALLY, til'i-val'i, _n._ (_Shak._) an expression of contempt at what
has been said.--Also TILL'IE-VALL'IE.

TILT, tilt, _n._ the canvas covering of a cart or wagon: an awning in a
boat.--_v.t._ to cover with an awning. [A.S. _teld_--_teldan_, to cover;
cog. with Ger. _zelt_.]

TILT, tilt, _v.i._ to ride against another and thrust with a lance: to
thrust or fight with a lance or rapier: to fall into a sloping posture, to
heel over.--_v.t._ to point or thrust with, as a lance: to slant: to raise
one end of: to forge with a tilt-hammer.--_n._ a thrust: in the Middle
Ages, an exercise in which combatants rode against each other with lances:
inclination forward, dip, slant.--_ns._ TILT'ER; TILT'-HAMM'ER, a heavy
hammer used in ironworks, which is tilted or lifted by means of projections
on the axis of a wheel; TILT'ING; TILT'-YARD, a place for tilting. [A.S.
_tealt_, tottering; Ice. _tölta_, to trot; Ger. _zelter_.]

TILTH, tilth, _n._ cultivation: cultivated land: the depth of soil turned
up in cultivation. [From _till_ (3).]

TIMARIOT, ti-mä'ri-ot, _n._ a soldier of the Turkish feudal militia. [Turk.
_t[=i]m[=a]r_.]

TIMBAL, tim'bal, _n._ a kettledrum. [Fr.,--It. _timballo_.]

TIMBALE, tang-bal', _n._ a dish of fowl or fish pounded and mixed with
white of egg, sweet cream, &c., poured into a mould. [Fr.]

TIMBER, tim'b[.e]r, _n._ wood for building purposes: the trunk of a tree:
material for any structure: one of the larger pieces of the framework of a
house, ship, &c.: one of the planks forming the sides and roof of a gallery
in a mine.--_v.t._ to furnish with timber or beams.--_p.adj._ TIM'BERED,
furnished with timber: (_Shak._) built, formed, contrived: (_Spens._) made
like timber, massive.--_ns._ TIM'BERING, timber materials; TIM'BER-MAN, one
responsible for the timbers in a mine; TIM'BER-TOES, a person with a wooden
leg; TIM'BER-TREE, a tree suitable for timber; TIM'BER-YARD, a yard or
place where timber is stored. [A.S. _timber_, building, wood; Ger.
_zimmer_, an apartment.]

TIMBRE, tim'b[.e]r, _n._ tone, character, or quality of a musical sound.
[O. Fr.,--L. _tympanum_, a drum.]

TIMBREL, tim'brel, _n._ an ancient musical instrument, carried in the hand,
apparently like a tambourine.--_adj._ TIM'BRELLED (_Milt._), sung to the
sound of the timbrel. [O. Fr. _timbre_--L. _tympanum_, a drum.]

TIMBROLOGY, tim-brol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the study of postage-stamps.--_n._
TIMBROPH'ILY, love for this harmless pursuit. [Fr. _timbre_, postage-stamp,
_-ology_.]

TIME, t[=i]m, _n._ a point at which, or period during which, things happen:
a season or proper time: an opportunity: absolute duration: an interval:
past time: the duration of one's life: allotted period: repetition of
anything or mention with reference to repetition: musical measure, or rate
of movement: a measured interval in verse: (_gram._) the relation of a verb
with regard to tense: the umpire's call in prize-fights, &c.: hour of
travail: the state of things at any period, usually in _pl._: the history
of the world, as opposed to eternity: addition of a thing to
itself.--_v.t._ to do at the proper season: to regulate as to time:
(_mus._) to measure.--_v.i._ to keep or beat time.--_ns._ TIME'-BALL, a
ball arranged to drop from the summit of a pole at a particular time;
TIME'-BARGAIN, a contract to buy or sell merchandise or stock at a certain
time in the future.--_adjs._ TIME'-BEGUIL'ING, making the time pass
quickly; TIME'-BETT'ERING, improving the state of things as time goes on;
TIME'-BEWAST'ED (_Shak._), wasted or worn by time.--_ns._ TIME'-BILL, a
time-table; TIME'-BOOK, a book for keeping an account of the time men have
worked; TIME'-CARD, a card bearing a time-table: a card with blank spaces
for workmen's hours, &c., being filled in; TIME'-FUSE, a fuse calculated to
burn a definite length of time; TIME'-GUN, a gun which is fired by means of
a mechanical contrivance and a current of electricity at a particular
time.--_adj._ TIME'-HON'OURED, honoured for a long time: venerable on
account of antiquity.--_ns._ TIME'IST, TIM'IST, a musical performer in
relation to his sense for time; TIME'-KEEP'ER, a clock, watch, or other
instrument for keeping or marking time: one who keeps the time of
workmen.--_adj._ TIME'LESS, done at an improper time, unseasonable:
(_Shak._) done before the proper time.--_adv._ TIME'LESSLY, before the
proper time: unseasonably.--_n._ TIME'LINESS.--_adj._ TIME'LY, in good
time: sufficiently early: (_obs._) keeping time.--_adv._ early,
soon.--_adjs._ TIME'LY-PART'ED (_Shak._), having died in time--i.e. at a
natural time; TIME'OUS, in Scot. legal phraseology, in good time:
seasonable.--_adv._ TIME'OUSLY, in good time.--_ns._ TIME'PIECE, a piece of
machinery for keeping time, esp. a clock for a mantel-piece; TIME'-PLEAS'ER
(_Shak._), one who complies with prevailing opinions, whatever they be;
TIME'-SERV'ER, one who serves or meanly suits his opinions to the
times.--_adj._ TIME'-SERVING, complying with the spirit of the times or
with present power.--_n._ mean compliance with the spirit of the times or
with present power.--_ns._ TIME'-T[=A]'BLE, a table or list showing the
times of certain things, as trains, steamers, &c.; TIME'-THRUST, a thrust
made in fencing at the moment the opponent draws breath for his thrust;
TIME'-WORK, labour paid for by the hour or the day--opp. to
_Piece-work_.--_adjs._ TIME'-WORN, worn or decayed by time; TIM'OUS
(_Bacon_), timely.--TIME OUT OF MIND, from time immemorial.--APPARENT TIME,
true solar time as shown by a carefully adjusted sun-dial; ASTRONOMICAL
TIME, the time past mean noon of that day, and reckoned on to twenty-four
hours in mean time; AT TIMES, at distinct intervals: occasionally; BE
MASTER OF ONE'S TIME, to be free to do what one likes; CIVIL TIME, common
time, or mean time, in which the day begins at midnight, and is divided
into equal portions of twelve hours each; FILL TIME, to book vacant dates;
IN TIME, TIME ENOUGH, in good season, sufficiently early; KEEP TIME, to
indicate the time correctly: to make any regular rhythmical movements at
the same time with others; LOSE TIME, to let time pass without making use
of it: to run slow--of a watch, &c.; MAKE TIME, to recover lost time: to
perform in a certain time; MEAN TIME, the mean or average of apparent time,
as shown by a good clock; SIDEREAL TIME, the portion of a sidereal day
which has elapsed since the transit of the first point of Aries; SOLAR
TIME, time as shown by the sun or sun-dial; THE TIME BEING, the present
time. [A.S. _tíma_; cf. Ice. _tími_; and _Tide_.]

TIMENOGUY, t[=i]-men'[=o]-g[=i], _n._ (_naut._) a rope stretched so as to
prevent gear from getting fouled.

TIMID, tim'id, _adj._ fearful: wanting courage: faint-hearted.--_n._
TIMID'ITY, quality or state of being timid: want of courage.--_adv._
TIM'IDLY.--_n._ TIM'IDNESS.--_adv._ TIMOR[=O]'SO (_mus._), timid,
hesitating, to be so rendered.--_adj._ TIM'OROUS, timid: indicating
fear.--_adv._ TIM'OROUSLY.--_n._ TIM'OROUSNESS.--_adj._ TIM'ORSOME
(_Scot._), easily frightened. [Fr.,--L. _timidus_--_tim[=e]re_, to fear.]

TIMOCRACY, t[=i]-mok'r[=a]-si, _n._ a form of government in which a certain
amount of property is a necessary qualification for office.--_adj._
TIMOCRAT'IC. [Gr. _timokratia_--_tim[=e]_, honour, _kratein_, to rule.]

TIMON, t[=i]'mon, _n._ (_obs._) a helm.--_n._ TIMONEER', a helmsman. [L.
_temo_, a beam.]

TIMONIST, t[=i]'mon-ist, _n._ a misanthrope--from _Timon_ of Athens, the
hero of Shakespeare's play so named which was based upon the story in
Plutarch's Life of Alcibiades, as in North's translation.--_v.i._
T[=I]'MONISE, to play the misanthrope.

TIMOTHY, tim'[=o]-thi, _n._ timothy-grass, the name commonly given to
_Phleum pratense_, a grass much valued for feeding cattle--called also
_Cat's-tail grass_ or _Meadow cat's-tail_. [So named from _Timothy_ Hanson,
who introduced it to America about 1720.]

TIMPANO, tim'pa-n[=o], _n._ an orchestral kettledrum:--_pl._
TIM'PANI.--Also TYM'PANO. [It.]

TIM-WHISKY, tim'-hwis'ki, _n._ a kind of light one-horse chaise.

TIN, tin, _n._ a silvery-white, non-elastic, easily fusible, and malleable
metal: (_slang_) money: a vessel of tin, a can, &c.--_adj._ made of
tin.--_v.t._ to cover or overlay with tin or tinfoil: to pack in
tins:--_pr.p._ tin'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tinned.--_ns._ TIN'MAN,
TIN'NER, a tinsmith; TIN'NING, the art of coating with tin, or of repairing
tin-ware: the act of packing in tin cans for preservation.--_adj._ TIN'NY,
like tin.--_n._ a small vessel of tin.--_ns._ TIN'-PLATE, thin sheet-iron
coated with tin; TIN'-SMITH, a manufacturer of tin vessels: a worker in
tin: a dealer in tin-ware; TIN'-TYPE, a ferrotype; TIN'-WARE, articles made
of tin.--_ns.pl._ TIN'WITTS, dressed tin ore containing pyrites, &c.;
TIN'-WORKS, works for working tin. [A.S. _tin_; Ice. _tin_, Ger. _zinn_.]

TINAMOU, tin'a-m[=oo], _n._ a South American genus of birds sometimes
called partridges, but really more akin to bustards, and having affinities
with the rhea and emu. [Fr.,--native name.]

TINCAL, TINKAL, ting'kal, _n._ crude borax. [Malay.]

TINCHEL, tin'chel, _n._ a circle of men who close in round a herd of
deer.--Also TIN'CHIL. [Gael. _timchioll_, a circuit.]

TINCTURE, tingk't[=u]r, _n._ a tinge or shade of colour: a slight taste
added to anything: (_med._) a solution of any substance in or by means of
spirit of wine: (_her._) one of the metals, colours, or furs in
achievements.--_v.t._ to tinge: to imbue: to mix with anything
foreign.--_adj._ TINCT (_Spens._), tinged, coloured.--_n._ (_Tenn._)
colour, stain, spot.--_adj._ TINCT[=O]'RIAL, giving a tinge: colouring. [L.
_tinctura_.]

TIND, tind, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to kindle. [A.S. _tendan_.]

TINDAL, tin'dal, _n._ a native petty-officer of lascars.

TINDER, tin'd[.e]r, _n._ anything used for kindling fire from a
spark.--_n._ TIN'DER-BOX, a box in which tinder is kept.--_adjs._
TIN'DER-LIKE (_Shak._), inflammable as tinder; TIN'DERY, irascible. [A.S.
_tynder_; Ice. _tundr_, Ger. _zunder_. The root is found in A.S. _tendan_,
Ger. _zünden_, to kindle.]

TINE, t[=i]n, _n._ the spike of a fork or harrow, or of a deer's
antler.--_adj._ T[=I]NED, furnished with spikes. [A.S. _tind_, a point;
cog. with Ice. _tind-r_, a tooth, a prickle; and prob. conn. with _tooth_.]

TINE, t[=i]n, _v.t._ (_Spens._) same as TIND.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to rage,
to smart.

TINE, t[=i]n, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as TEEN.

TINE, t[=i]n, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to lose.--_v.i._ to be lost, to perish. [M.
E. _tinen_, _tynen_--Scand., Ice. _týna_, to lose.]

TINE, t[=i]n, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_prov._) to enclose. [A.S. _týnan_, to
surround.]

TINE, t[=i]n, _n._ (_prov._) a wild vetch or tare.

TINEA, tin'[=e]-ä, _n._ the generic name of certain diseases of the skin
caused by the growth of microscopic fungi: a genus of small moths of the
family _Tineidæ_ and superfamily _Tineina_.--_adj._ TIN'[=E]ID, relating to
these moths. [L., a worm.]

TINEWALD=_Tynewald_ (q.v.).

TINFOIL, tin'foil, _n._ tin in thin leaves for wrapping articles.--_v.t._
to cover with such.

TING, ting, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to tinkle like a bell.--_n._ a sharp sound, a
tinkling.--_n._ TING'-A-LING, the sound of a bell tinkling--used
adverbially.

TINGE, tinj, _v.t._ to tint or colour: to mix with something: to give in
some degree the qualities of a substance.--_n._ a small amount of colour or
taste infused into another substance. [L. _ting[)e]re_, _tinctum_; conn.
with Gr. _tenggein_, to wet, to stain.]

TINGI, ting'gi, _n._ a Brazilian tree whose seeds yield soap.--Also
TIN'GUY.

TINGIS, tin'jis, _n._ a genus of heteropterous insects.

TINGLE, ting'gl, _v.i._ to feel a thrilling sensation, as in hearing a
shrill sound: to feel a sharp, thrilling pain: to tinkle.--_v.t._ to cause
to tingle, to ring.--_n._ a tingling sensation.--_adj._ TING'LISH, capable
of tingling or thrilling. [M. E. _tinglen_, a variant of _tinklen_, itself
a freq. of _tinken_, to tink.]

TINKER, tingk'[.e]r, _n._ a mender of brazen or tin kettles, pans,
&c.--(_Scot._) TINK'LER: the act of doing tinker's work: a botcher or
bungler: a botch or bungle: a young mackerel.--_v.t._ to repair, esp.
unskilfully.--_v.i._ to do tinker's work: to make a botch or mess of
anything. [M. E. _tinkere_--_tinken_, to tink, to make a sharp, shrill
sound; cf. Scot. _tinkler_, a worker in tin.]

TINKLE, tingk'l, _v.i._ to make small, sharp sounds: to clink: to jingle:
to clink repeatedly or continuously.--_v.t._ to cause to make quick, sharp
sounds.--_n._ a sharp, clinking sound.--_ns._ TINK'LER, a small bell;
TINK'LING, a tinkling noise. [A freq. of M. E. _tinken_.]

TINNITUS, ti-n[=i]'tus, _n._ a ringing in the ears. [L. 'a
ringing'--_tinn[=i]re_, to ring.]

TINSEL, tin'sel, _n._ something sparkling or shining: glittering metallic
sheets, as of burnished brass, copper, or tin, almost as thin as foil, and
used in discs, patches, strips, or threads, for giving clothing, &c., a
striking appearance: anything showy, but of little value: anything having a
false lustre.--_adj._ like tinsel: gaudy: superficial.--_v.t._ to adorn
with, or as with, tinsel: to make glittering or gaudy:--_pr.p._
tin'selling: _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tin'selled.--_adj._ TIN'SELLY, like
tinsel, gaudy, showy.--_n._ TIN'SELRY, glittering and tawdry material. [O.
Fr. _estincelle_--L. _scintilla_, a spark.]

TINT, tint, _n._ a slight tinge distinct from the principal colour: a
series of parallel lines in engraving, producing a uniform shading.--_v.t._
to give a slight colouring to.--_ns._ TIN'TAGE, the colouring or shading of
anything; TINT'-BLOCK, a surface prepared for printing a background;
TINT'-DRAW'ING, drawing in a wash of uniform tint; TIN'TER, one who, or
that which, tints: a special kind of slide used with the magic-lantern to
give moonlight effects, &c.; TIN'TINESS, state of being tinty; TIN'TING,
the method of producing a uniform shading.--_adj._ TINT'LESS, having no
tint or colour.--_ns._ TINTOM'ETER, an appliance for determining tints;
TINT'-TOOL, an implement for producing a tint by parallel lines.--_adj._
TIN'TY, inharmoniously tinted. [L. _tinctus_.]

TINTINNABULATION, tin-tin-ab-[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ the tinkling sound of
bells.--_adjs._ TINTINNAB'ULANT, TINTINNAB'ULAR, TINTINNAB'ULARY,
TINTINNAB'ULOUS.--_n._ TINTINNAB'ULUM, a bell:--_pl._ TINTINNAB'ULA. [L.
_tintinnabulum_, a bell:--_tintinn[=a]re_, to jingle, reduplicated from
_tinn[=i]re_, to jingle.]

TINY, t[=i]'ni, _adj._ (_comp._ T[=I]'NIER, _superl._ T[=I]'NIEST) thin:
very small. [Prob. _teen_, and therefore 'fretful,' 'peevish.']

TIP, tip, _n._ the top or point of anything small: the end, as of a
billiard-cue, &c.--_v.t._ to form a point to: to cover the tip or end
of:--_pr.p._ tip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tipped.--ON THE TIP OF THE
TONGUE, on the very point of being spoken. [A variant of top; cf. Dut.
_tip_; Ger. _zipf-el_, point.]

TIP, tip, _v.t._ to strike lightly: to cause to slant: (_slang_) to
communicate, give: (_slang_) to give private information to, about betting,
&c.: (_coll._) to give a small gift of money to, as a gratuity.--_v.i._ to
slant: to give tips.--_n._ a tap or light stroke: a place for tipping any
refuse into, a dump: a tram for expeditiously transferring coal: private
information about horse-racing, stock speculations, &c.: a gratuity.--_ns._
TIP'-CART, a cart emptied by being canted up; TIP'-CAT, a game in which a
pointed piece of wood called a cat is made to rebound from the ground by
being struck on the tip with a stick; TIP'-CHEESE, a boys' game in which a
small stick is struck forward; TIP'PER, a means of tipping, esp. an
arrangement for dumping coal: one who tips: one who gives gratuities: one
who gives private hints about speculation, racing, &c.; TIP'PING, act of
tilting: the habit of giving gratuities to servants; TIP'STER, one whose
business is to give private hints about racing, the rise and fall of
stocks, &c.--_adj._ TIP'-TILT'ED, having the tip tilted up.--TIP OFF
LIQUOR, to turn up the vessel till quite empty; TIP ONE THE WINK, to wink
as a caution, or in mutual understanding; TIP OVER, to overturn by tipping;
TIP THE SCALE, to depress one end of the scales.--FOUL TIP, a foul hit in
baseball; STRAIGHT TIP, a reliable hint about betting, &c. [Scand., Sw.
_tippa_, to tap; Ger. _tupfen_.]

TIPPER, tip'[.e]r, _n._ a kind of ale--from Thomas _Tipper_, who brewed it
in Sussex.

TIPPET, tip'et, _n._ the cape of a coat: a cape of fur, &c.: the stuff cape
worn in the English Church by a literate or non-graduate: a bird's ruffle:
one of the patagia, or pieces at the side of the pronotum of a moth.--_ns._
TIPP'ET-GREBE, -GROUSE, a ruffed grebe or grouse. [A.S. _tæppet_--L.
_tapete_, cloth.]

TIPPLE, tip'l, _v.i._ to drink in small quantities: to drink strong liquors
often or habitually.--_v.t._ to drink, as strong liquors, to excess.--_n._
liquor tippled.--_ns._ TIPP'LER, a constant toper; TIPP'LING-HOUSE.--_adj._
TIPP'Y, unsteady: smart, fine. [A freq. of _tip_, to tilt up a vessel in
drinking; Norw. _tipla_; Ger. _zipfeln_.]

TIPSTAFF, tip'staf, _n._ a staff tipped with metal, or an officer who
carries it: a constable.

TIPSY, tip'si, _adj._ partially intoxicated.--_v.t._ TIP'SIFY, to
fuddle.--_adv._ TIP'SILY.--_ns._ TIP'SINESS; TIP'SY-CAKE, a cake made of
pastry and almonds, with wine, served with custard-sauce; TIP'SY-KEY, a
watch-key in which the head is released if an attempt is made to turn it
backward. [_Tipple_.]

TIPTOE, tip't[=o], _n._ the end of the toe.--_adv._ on tiptoe, literally or
figuratively, through excitement, expectation, &c.--_v.i._ to walk on
tiptoe, to go lightly and slyly.

TIPTOP, tip'top, _n._ the extreme top: the height of excellence.--_adj._
first-rate.--_adv._ in a first-rate manner.

TIPULA, tip'[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of crane-flies.--_n._ TIPUL[=A]'RIA, a
genus of fossil crane-flies: a genus of terrestrial orchids, including the
American crane-fly orchis.--_adj._ TIPUL[=A]'RIAN. [L., a water-spider.]

TIRADE, ti-r[=a]d', _n._ a strain of censure or reproof; a long vehement
reproof. [Fr.,--It. _tirata_--_tirare_, to pull.]

TIRAILLEUR, ti-ra-ly[.e]r', _n._ a skirmisher, sharpshooter.

TIRASSE, ti-ras', _n._ a pedal-coupler in organ-building.

TIRAZ, t[=e]'raz, _n._ an ancient Moorish silk fabric.

TIRE, t[=i]r, _n._ attire, apparel: furniture: a head-dress.--_v.t._ to
dress, as the head.--_ns._ TIRE'-VAL'IANT (_Shak._), a kind of fanciful
head-dress; TIRE'-WOM'AN, a lady's-maid; TIR'ING-HOUSE, -ROOM, the place
where actors dress. [Short for _attire_.]

TIRE, t[=i]r, _n._ the hoop of iron that ties or binds the fellies of
wheels.--_ns._ TIRE'-MEAS'URER, -PRESS, -ROLL'ER, -SET'TER, -SHRINK'ER,
-SMITH. [From _tie_.]

TIRE, t[=i]r, _n._ (_Spens._, _Milt._) rank or row, esp. of guns, train.
[Same as _tier_.]

TIRE, t[=i]r, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to rend as a bird of prey: to feed: to dwell
upon, gloat over:--_pr.p._ t[=i]r'ing; _pa.p._ t[=i]red. [O. Fr. _tirer_,
to draw--Low L. _tir[=a]re_, to draw; prob. Teut., Goth. _tairan_, to
tear.]

TIRE, t[=i]r, _v.t._ to harass, to vex: to exhaust the strength of: to
weary.--_v.i._ to become weary: to be fatigued: to have the patience
exhausted.--_adj._ TIRED, wearied: fatigued.--_n._ TIRED'NESS.--_adj._
TIRE'LESS, untiring.--_adv._ TIRE'LESSLY.--_n._ TIRE'LESSNESS.--_adj._
TIRE'SOME, that tires: fatiguing: tedious.--_adv._ TIRE'SOMELY.--_n._
TIRE'SOMENESS. [A.S. _teorian_, to be tired--_teran_, to tear.]

TIRL, tirl, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to quiver, vibrate: to make a twirling
noise.--_v.t._ to twist: to strip, unroof.--_n._ a twirl, vibration: a
substitute for a trundle or lantern wheel in a mill.--_n._
TIR'LIE-WHIR'LIE, a whirligig: an ornamental combination of irregular
lines.--_adj._ irregular, twisting. [A variant of _twirl_.]

TIRO. See TYRO.

TIROCINIUM, t[=i]-r[=o]-sin'i-um, _n._ the first service of a soldier, any
novitiate. [L.,--_tiro_, a raw soldier.]

TIRONIAN, t[=i]-r[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Tiro_, Cicero's
amanuensis.--TIRONIAN NOTES, the shorthand signs of the ancient Romans.

TIRR, tir, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to tear or strip off.

TIRRA-LIRRA, tir'ra-lir'ra, _n._ (_Shak._, _Tenn._) an imitation of a
musical sound.

TIRRET, tir'et, _n._ (_her._) a manacle.

TIRRIT, tir'it, _n._ (_Shak._) Mrs Quickly's word for terror.

TIRRIVEE, tir'i-v[=e], _n._ (_Scot._) a tantrum or fit of passion.--Also
TIRR'IVIE.

'TIS, tiz, a contraction of _it is_.

TISANE, t[=e]-zan', _n._ a medicinal decoction. See PTISAN.

TISIC, tiz'ik, _n._ (_Shak._) an obsolete spelling of _phthisic_.

TISIPHONE, ti-sif'[=o]-n[=e], _n._ one of the Furies. [Gr. _tinein_, to
avenge, _phonos_, murder.]

TISRI, tiz'ri, _n._ the first month of the Jewish civil year, and the
seventh of the ecclesiastical year, corresponding to part of September and
October.

TISSUE, tish'[=u], _n._ cloth interwoven with gold or silver, or with
figured colours: (_anat._) the substance of which organs are composed: a
connected series.--_v.t._ to form, as tissue: to interweave: to
variegate.--_n._ TIS'SUE-P[=A]'PER, a thin, soft, semi-transparent kind of
paper. [Fr. _tissu_, woven, pa.p. of _tistre_--L. _tex[)e]re_, to weave.]

TIT, tit, _n._ a teat.

TIT, tit, _n._ one of various small birds, a pipit, tomtit, or titmouse.
[Ice. _tittr_, a little bird, Norw. _tita_.]

TIT, tit, _n._ in phrase TIT FOR TAT, properly _tip for tap_, blow for
blow.

TITAN, t[=i]'tan, TITANIC, t[=i]-tan'ik, _adj._ relating to the _Titans_,
giants of mythology, sons and daughters of Uranus (heaven) and Gæa (earth),
enormous in size and strength: gigantic, huge generally.--_n._ T[=I]'TAN,
any of the descendants of the Titans, as Prometheus: the sun personified:
any one of commanding forces or ability:--_fem._ T[=I]'TANESS.--_adj._
TITANESQUE', like the Titans, Titanic in character.--_n._ TITANOM'ACHY, the
battle of the Titans with the gods.

TITANIA, t[=i]-t[=a]'ni-a, _n._ the queen of Fairyland, wife of Oberon.
[L., applied to Diana.]

TITANIUM, t[=i]-t[=a]'ni-um, _n._ a comparatively rare metal, occurring as
a gray heavy iron-like powder, burning with brilliant scintillations in the
air, forming titanium dioxide and nitride.--_adjs._ TIT[=A]'NIAN, TITAN'IC,
TITANIT'IC; TITANIF'EROUS, containing titanium.--_n._ T[=I]'TANITE, or
_Sphene_, a soft greenish mineral often present in syenite.

TITBIT, tit'bit, _n._ a choice little bit.

TITELY, t[=i]t'li, _adv._ (_Shak._) quickly--sometimes TITHE'LY, and
erroneously _Tightly_. [M. E. _tytly_--Scand., Ice. _tídhr_, frequent.]

TITHE, t[=i]th, _n._ a tenth part, hence any indefinitely small part: the
tenth of the produce of land and stock allotted for the maintenance of the
clergy and other church purposes: any rateable tax payable in kind or by
commutation of its value in money.--_v.t._ to tax to a tenth.--_adjs._
T[=I]'THABLE, subject to the payment of tithes; TITHE'-FREE, exempt from
paying tithes.--_n._ TITHE'-GATH'ERER, one who collects tithes.--_adj._
TITHE'-PAY'ING, subjected to pay tithes.--_ns._ TITHE'-PIG, one pig out of
ten paid as a tithe; TITHE'-PROC'TOR, a levier or collector of tithes;
T[=I]'THER, one who collects tithes; T[=I]'THING, an old Saxon district
containing ten householders, each responsible for the behaviour of the
rest; T[=I]'THING-MAN, the chief man of a tithing. [A.S. _teóða_,
tenth--_teón_, or _týn_, ten; cog. with Ger. _zehnte_--_zehn_.]

TITHONIC, ti-thon'ik, _adj._ denoting such rays of light as produce
chemical effects.--_n._ TITHONIC'ITY, actinism.--_adj._ TITHONOGRAPH'IC,
fixed by the tithonic rays of light.--_n._ TITHONOM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the tithonicity of light-rays.

TITIANESQUE, tish-an-esk', _adj._ in the manner of the Venetian painter
_Titian_ (Tiziano Vecellio), 1477-1576, a combination of the richest
surface with the most magnificent colour.

TITILLATE, tit'il-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to tickle.--_n._ TITILL[=A]'TION, act of
titillating: state of being titillated: a pleasant feeling.--_adj._
TIT'ILLATIVE. [L. _titill[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

TITIVATE, TITTIVATE, tit'i-v[=a]t, _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_slang_) to smarten
up, by dress or otherwise. [Most prob. a factitious word, perh. based on
_tidy_.]

TITLARK, tit'lärk, _n._ a titling, a pipit. [_Tit_ and _lark_.]

TITLE, t[=i]'tl, _n._ an inscription set over or at the beginning of a
thing by which it is known, a title-page: a name of distinction: that which
gives a just right to possession: ownership: the writing that proves a
right: (_B._) a sign: a fixed sphere of work required as a condition for
ordination, a parish in Rome--of these fifty give titles to
cardinal-priests: in bookbinding, the panel on the back on which the name
of the book is printed.--_adj._ T[=I]'TLED, having a title.--_ns._
T[=I]'TLE-DEED, a deed or document that proves a title or just right to
exclusive possession; T[=I]'TLE-LEAF, the leaf on which is the title of a
book.--_adj._ T[=I]'TLELESS (_Shak._), wanting a title or name.--_ns._
T[=I]'TLE-PAGE, the page of a book containing its title and usually the
author's name; T[=I]'TLE-RÔLE, the part in a play which gives its name to
it, as 'Macbeth;' T[=I]'TLE-SHEET, the first sheet of a book as printed,
containing title, bastard-title, &c.; T[=I]'TLING, the act of impressing
the title on the back of a book; T[=I]'TLONYM, a title taken as a
pseudonym; BAS'TARD-T[=I]'TLE (see BASTARD). [O. Fr. _title_ (Fr.
_titre_)--L. _titulus_.]

TITLING, tit'ling, _n._ the hedge-sparrow.--_ns._ TIT'MAN, a puny man;
TIT'MOUSE, a genus of little birds, which feed on insects, &c.:--_pl._
TITMICE (tit'm[=i]s). [Obs. Eng. _tit_, anything small; A.S. _máse_; Ger.
_meise_, a small bird.]

TITRATE, tit'r[=a]t, _v.t._ to subject to titration.--_n._ TITR[=A]'TION,
volumetric analysis, the process of ascertaining the quantity of any given
constituent present in a compound by observing it under the application of
standard solutions.

TI-TREE, t[=e]'-tr[=e], _n._ a palm-lily, a tea-tree or manuka.

TIT-TAT-TO, tit'-tat-t[=oo] (or -t[=o]), _n._ a child's game, same as
_Criss-cross_ (q.v.).

TITTER, tit'[.e]r, _v.i._ to giggle, snicker, or laugh with the tongue
striking the teeth: to laugh restrainedly.--_n._ a restrained laugh.--_ns._
TITTER[=A]'TION, a fit of giggling; TITT'ERER, one who titters. [M. E.
_titeren_, to tattle. Prob. imit.]

TITTLE, tit'l, _n._ a small particle: an iota.--_n._ TITT'LEBAT, the
stickleback. [O. Fr. _title_--_titulus_, a title.]

TITTLE, tit'l, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to chatter.--_n._ TITT'LE-TATT'LE, idle,
empty talk.--_v.i._ to prate idly.--_ns._ TITT'LE-TATT'LER, a trifling
tattler; TITT'LE-TATT'LING, the act of talking idly.

TITTUP, TITUP, tit'up, _v.i._ to skip about gaily.--_n._ a light springy
step, a canter.--_adjs._ TITT'UPPY, TIT'UPPY, gay, lively: unsteady.

TITTY, tit'i, _n._ a teat, the breast.

TITTY, tit'i, _n._ (_Scot._) sister.

TITUBANT, tit'[=u]-bant, _adj._ staggering, stumbling.--_v.i._
TIT'[=U]BATE, to stagger, stumble.--_n._ TITUB[=A]'TION, reeling,
stumbling; restlessness. [L. _titub[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to stagger.]

TITULAR, tit'[=u]-lar, _adj._ existing in name or title only: nominal:
having the title without the duties of an office.--_n._ one who enjoys the
bare title of an office, without the actual possession of that office: a
person invested with a title in virtue of which he holds a benefice,
whether he performs its duties or not.--_n._ TITULAR'ITY.--_adv._
TIT'ULARLY.--_adj._ TIT'ULARY, consisting in, or pertaining to, a
title.--_n._ one having the title of an office whether he performs its
duties or not.--TITULAR BISHOP, in R.C. usage, a bishop without a diocese,
taking his title from a place where there is no longer a bishop's see, as
in the countries once conquered by Crusaders in the East--before 1882
called 'bishop in partibus infidelium;' TITULAR CHURCH, one of the parish
churches of Rome supplying a title to cardinal-priests; TITULAR OF A
CHURCH, that from which a church takes its special name--distinguished from
a patron, who must be a canonised person or an angel; TITULARS OF THE
TITHES, laymen invested with church lands after the Reformation in
Scotland.

TIVER, tiv'[.e]r, _n._ a kind of ochre for marking sheep.--_v.t._ to mark
with such.

TIVY, tiv'i, _adv._ with speed.

TIZZY, tiz'i, _n._ (_slang_) a sixpence.

TMESIS, tm[=e]'sis, _n._ (_gram._) the separation of the parts of a
compound word by one or more words inserted between them, as 'Saxo
_cere-_comminuit-_brum_;' 'of whom _be_ thou _ware_ also' (2 Tim. iv. 15).
[L.,--Gr. _tm[=e]sis_--_temnein_, to cut.]

TO, t[=oo], _prep._ in the direction of: in order to: as far as; in
accordance with, in the character of: regarding, concerning, in connection
with: expressing the end or purpose of an action, as in many uses of the
gerundial infinitive, the sign of the infinitive mood: (_B._)
sometimes=for.--_adv._ to a place in view, forward: to its place,
together.--TO AND FRO, backwards and forwards. [A.S. _tó_; Ger. _zu_, Goth.
_du_.]

TOAD, t[=o]d, _n._ a genus of amphibians, typical of the family _Bufonidæ_,
represented in Britain by two species--the Common Toad and the
Natterjack.--_ns._ TOAD'-EAT'ER, a fawning sycophant--originally a
mountebank's assistant, whose duty was to swallow, or pretend to swallow,
any kind of garbage; TOAD'-EAT'ING, sycophancy.--_adj._ sycophantic.--_ns._
TOAD'-FISH, the sapo of the United States Atlantic coast; TOAD'-FLAX, a
genus of herbaceous plants, closely allied to the Snapdragon;
TOAD'-IN-A-HOLE, a piece of beef baked in batter; TOAD'-SPIT,
cuckoo-spit.--_adj._ TOAD'-SPOT'TED, thickly stained or spotted like a
toad.--_ns._ TOAD'-STONE, a soft and earthy variety of trap-rock of a
brownish-gray colour, looking like an argillaceous deposit; TOAD'STOOL, a
poisonous kind of mushroom; TOAD'Y, a mean hanger-on and flatterer.--_v.t._
to fawn as a sycophant:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ toad'ied.--_adj._
TOAD'YISH.--_n._ TOAD'YISM, the practice of a toady. [A.S. _tádige_,
_tádie_, a toad.]

TOAST, t[=o]st, _v.t._ to dry and scorch at the fire: to name when a health
is drunk: to drink to the health of.--_v.i._ to drink toasts.--_n._ bread
toasted: a slice of such dipped in liquor: the person or thing named whose
health is to be drunk.--_ns._ TOAST'ER, one who, or that which, toasts;
TOAST'ING-FORK, -[=I]'RON, a long-handled fork for toasting bread: a sword;
TOAST'-MAS'TER, the master and announcer of toasts at public dinners;
TOAST'-RACK, a stand, with partitions for slices of toast, for setting on
the table. [O. Fr. _toster_--L. _tostus_, roasted, pa.p. of _torr[=e]re_.]

TOBACCO, to-bak'[=o], _n._ a plant of genus _Nicotiana_, order _Solanaceæ_,
esp. one of several species, the most generally cultivated being the
stately Nicotiana _Tabacum_, a native of America--the dried leaves used for
the sedative effects for smoking in pipes, &c., and also in the form of
snuff.--_ns._ TOBACCAN[=A]'LIAN, a smoker; TOBACC'O-HEART, a functional
disorder of the heart, due to excessive use of tobacco; TOBACC'ONIST, one
who sells or manufactures tobacco; TOBACC'O-PIPE, a pipe used for smoking
tobacco; TOBACC'O-POUCH, a small pouch for holding tobacco;
TOBACC'O-STOP'PER, an instrument for pressing down the tobacco in a pipe.
[Through Sp. _tabaco_, from the Haytian.]

TOBIT, t[=o]'bit, _n._ an apocryphal Old Testament book, containing the
story of _Tobit_.

TOBOGGAN, t[=o]-bog'gan, _n._ a kind of sled turned up at the front, much
used in Canada for sliding down snow-covered slopes.--_v.i._ to slide down
over snow on such.--Earlier also TOBOG'GIN, TABOG'GAN, TARBOG'GIN.--_ns._
TOBOG'GANER; TOBOG'GANING; TOBOG'GANIST. [A native word.]

TO-BRAKE, t[=oo]-br[=a]k', _v.t._ (Judges ix. 53) broke in pieces. [A.S.
_tóbrecan_--pfx. _tó-_, asunder, and _brecan_, to break.]

TOBY, t[=o]'bi, _n._ a beer-mug shaped like an old man with three-cornered
hat.

TOCCATA, tok-kä'tä, _n._ (_mus._) a work primarily intended to display the
performer's touch.--_ns._ TOCCATEL'LA, TOCCATINA (-t[=e]'na), a short
toccata. [It.,--_toccare_, to touch.]

TOCHER, toh'[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a woman's dowry.--_v.t._ to give a dowry
to.--_adj._ TOCH'ERLESS, without a marriage portion. [Ir. _tochar_, Gael.
_tochradh_.]

TOCO, t[=o]'k[=o], _n._ (_slang_) punishment.--Also T[=O]'KO. [Gr. _tokos_,
interest.]

TOCOLOGY, t[=o]-kol'[=o]-ji, _n._ obstetrics.--Also TOKOL'OGY. [Gr.
_tokos_, birth, _logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

TOCSIN, tok'sin, _n._ an alarm-bell, or the ringing of it. [O. Fr.
_toquesin_ (Fr. _tocsin_)--_toquer_, to strike; O. Fr. _sing_ (Fr.
_signe_), a sign.]

TOD, tod, _n._ (_Scot._), a fox.--_n._ TODLOW'RIE, a fox, a crafty fellow.

TOD, tod, _n._ an ivy-bush--(_Spens._) TODDE: an old weight of about 28
lb.--_v.i._ to weigh a tod.

TO-DAY, too-d[=a]', _n._ this or the present day. [A.S. _tó dæge_.]

TODDLE, tod'l, _v.i._ to walk with short feeble steps, as a child.--_n._ a
toddling gait: an aimless stroll.--_n._ TODD'LER, one who toddles.--_adj._
TODD'LING. [Prob. a by-form of _totter_.]

TODDY, tod'i, _n._ the fermented juice of various palms of the East Indies:
a mixture of whisky, sugar, and hot water.--_ns._ TODD'Y-L[=A]'DLE, a small
ladle like a punch-ladle for use in mixing or serving out toddy;
TODD'Y-PALM, a palm yielding toddy, as the jaggery-palm; TODD'Y-STICK, a
small stick used in mixing toddy. [Hind. _t[=a]ri_--_t[=a]r_, a palm-tree.]

TO-DO, t[=oo]-d[=oo]', _n._ bustle: stir: commotion.

TODY, t[=o]'di, _n._ a small West Indian insectivorous bird--the _green
sparrow_, _green humming-bird_, &c.

TOE, t[=o], _n._ one of the five small members at the point of the foot:
the corresponding member of a beast's foot: the front of an animal's
hoof.--_v.t._ to touch or reach with the toes: to furnish with a toe, as a
stocking.--_v.i._ to place the toes in any particular way.--_n._ TOE'-CAP,
a cap of leather, &c., covering the toe of a shoe.--_adj._ TOED (t[=o]d),
having toes.--_ns._ TOE'-NAIL; TOE'-PIECE. [A.S. _tá_ (pl. _tán_); Ice.
_tá_, Ger. _zehe_.]

TOFF, tof, _n._ (_slang_) a dandy, a swell. [Ety. dub.]

TOFFEE, TOFFY, tof'i, _n._ a hard-baked sweetmeat, made of sugar and
butter.--Also TAFF'Y. [Ety. unknown.]

TOFORE, t[=oo]-f[=o]r', _adv._, _prep._ (_Shak._) before: formerly. [A.S.
_tóforan_.]

TOFT, toft, _n._ a hillock: a messuage with right of common.--_ns._
TOFT'MAN; TOFT'STEAD. [Ice.]

TOG, tog, _n._ (_slang_) a garment--generally in _pl._--_v.t._ to
dress.--_n._ TOG'GERY, clothes.--_n.pl._ Long'-togs (_naut._), shore
clothes. [Prob. through Fr. from L. _toga_, a robe.]

TOGA, t[=o]'ga, _n._ the mantle or outer garment of a Roman
citizen.--_adjs._ TOG[=A]'TED, T[=O]'GED, dressed in a toga or gown.--_n._
TOGE (_Shak._), a robe.--TOGA PRÆTEXTA, the purple-hemmed toga worn by
curule magistrates and censors, and by freeborn boys till fourteen; TOGA
VIRILIS, the garb of manhood, put on by boys at fourteen.
[L.,--_teg[)e]re_, to cover.]

TOGETHER, t[=oo]-geth'[.e]r, _adv._ gathered to one place: in the same
place, time, or company: in or into union: in concert. [A.S.
_tógædere_--_tó_, to, _geador_, together.]

[Illustration]

TOGGLE, tog'l, _n._ (_naut._) a short bar of wood, tapering from the middle
towards each end, placed in an eye at the end of a rope, to keep the end
from passing through a loop or knot: an appliance for transmitting force at
right angles to its direction.--_v.t._ to fix like a toggle-iron: to fix
fast.--_ns._ TOGG'LE-[=I]'RON, a whaler's harpoon with movable blade
instead of barbs; TOGG'LE-JOINT, an elbow or knee joint. [Conn. with _tug_
and _tow_.]

TOGUE, t[=o]g, _n._ the mackinaw or great lake-trout.

TOHO, t[=o]-h[=o]', _interj._ a call to pointers to stop.

TOHU BOHU, t[=o]'h[=oo] b[=o]'h[=oo], _n._ chaos. [From the Heb. words in
Gen. i. 2, 'without form' and 'void.']

TOIL, toil, _n._ a net or snare. [O. Fr. _toile_, cloth--L. _tela_, from
_tex[)e]re_, to weave.]

TOIL, toil, _v.i._ to labour: to work with fatigue.--_n._ labour, esp. of a
fatiguing kind.--_n._ TOIL'ER.--_adjs._ TOIL'FUL, TOIL'SOME, full of
fatigue: wearisome; TOIL'LESS.--_adv._ TOIL'SOMELY.--_n._
TOIL'SOMENESS.--_adj._ TOIL'-WORN, worn out with toil. [O. Fr. _touiller_,
to entangle; of dubious origin--prob., acc. to Skeat, from a freq. form of
Old High Ger. _zucchen_ (Ger. _zucken_), to twitch; cf. Old High Ger.
_zocchón_, to pull, _zogón_, to tear; all derivatives from Old High Ger.
_zíhan_ (Ger. _ziehen_), to pull.]

TOILE, twol, _n._ cloth.--_n._ TOILINET', -TE', a fabric with silk and
cotton chain and woollen filling: a kind of German quilting. [Fr.]

TOILET, TOILETTE, toil'et, _n._ a dressing-table with a mirror: also a
cover for such a table: the whole articles used in dressing: mode or
operation of dressing: the whole dress and appearance of a person, any
particular costume.--_ns._ TOIL'ET-CLOTH, -COV'ER, a cover for a
dressing-table.--_adj._ TOIL'ETED, dressed.--_ns._ TOIL'ET-GLASS, a mirror
set on the dressing-table; TOIL'ET-SET, -SERV'ICE, the utensils
collectively used in dressing; TOIL'ET-SOAP, a fine kind of soap made up in
cakes; TOIL'ET-T[=A]'BLE, a dressing-table.--MAKE ONE'S TOILET, to dress.
[Fr. _toilette_, dim. of _toile_, cloth; cf. _Toil_ (1).]

TOISE, toiz, _n._ an old French lineal measure=6.395 Eng. feet. [Fr.,--L.
_tend[)e]re_, _tensum_, to stretch.]

TOISON, toi'zon, _n._ the fleece of a sheep.--TOISON D'OR, the golden
fleece. [Fr.,--Low L. _tonsion-em_--L. _tond[=e]re_, to shear.]

TOIT, toit, _n._ (_prov._) a cushion.

TOKAY, t[=o]-k[=a]', _n._ a sweetish and heavy wine with an aromatic
flavour, produced at _Tokay_ in Hungary: a variety of grape.

TOKEN, t[=o]'kn, _n._ a mark: something representing another thing or
event: a sign: a memorial of friendship: a coin issued by a private person
or civic authority redeemable in current money: in old Presbyterian use, a
voucher of lead or tin, inscribed with the name of the church or parish,
admitting a qualified communicant to the celebration of the Lord's Supper:
a measure of press-work, 250 impressions on one form: a thin bed of coal
showing the vicinity of a thicker seam.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to set a mark
upon.--BY THE SAME TOKEN, further in corroboration; MORE BY TOKEN (see
MORE). [A.S. _tácen_; Ger. _zeichen_, a mark.]

TOLA, t[=o]'la, _n._ the Indian unit of weight=180 grains troy. [Hind.]

TOLD, t[=o]ld, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _tell_.

TOLE, TOLL, t[=o]l, _v.t._ to draw as with a lure, to attract,
entice.--_ns._ T[=O]'LING, T[=O]'LLING, the use of toll-bait to allure
fish: a method of decoying ducks. [See _Toll_ (1).]

TOLEDO, t[=o]-l[=e]'d[=o], _n._ a sword-blade made at _Toledo_ in
Spain.--_adj._ TOL'LETAN, of Toledo. [L. _Toletum_.]

TOLERABLE, tol'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that may be tolerated or endured:
moderately good or agreeable: not contemptible.--_ns._ TOLERABIL'ITY,
TOL'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ TOL'ERABLY.--_n._ TOL'ERANCE, the tolerating or
enduring of offensive persons or opinions, charity, patience,
indulgence.--_adj._ TOL'ERANT, tolerating: enduring: indulgent: favouring
toleration.--_adv._ TOL'ERANTLY.--_v.t._ TOL'ER[=A]TE, to bear: to endure:
to allow by not hindering.--_ns._ TOLER[=A]'TION, act of tolerating:
allowance of what is not approved: liberty given to a minority to hold and
express their own political or religious opinions, and to be admitted to
the same civil privileges as the majority; TOLER[=A]'TIONIST; TOL'ERATOR.
[L. _toler[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, from _toll[)e]re_, to lift up.]

TOLL, t[=o]l, _n._ a tax for the liberty of passing over a bridge or road,
selling goods in a market, &c.: a portion of grain taken by a miller for
grinding.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to exact as a tribute.--_adj._ TOLL'ABLE,
subject to toll.--_ns._ TOLL'AGE, payment of toll: the amount paid as toll;
TOLL'BAR, a movable bar across a road, &c., to stop passengers liable to
toll; TOLL'BOOTH, a booth where tolls are collected; TOLL'BRIDGE, a bridge
where toll is taken; TOLL'DISH, a dish for measuring the toll in mills;
TOLL'ER, TOLL'-GATH'ERER; TOLL'GATE, a gate where toll is taken;
TOLL'HOUSE, the house of a toll-gatherer; TOLL'MAN, the man who collects
toll: a toll-gatherer; TOL'SEY (_obs._), a tollbooth: an exchange. [A.S.
_tol_, _toll_; cf. Dut. _tol_, Ger. _zoll_; and _tell_, to count.]

TOLL, t[=o]l, _v.i._ to sound, as a large bell, esp. with a measured sound,
as a funeral bell.--_v.t._ to cause to sound, as a bell: to strike, or
signal by striking.--_n._ the sound of a bell when tolling.--_n._ TOLL'ER.
[M. E. _tollen_, to pull--A.S. _tyllan_, in _for-tyllan_, to allure.]

TOLL, t[=o]l, _v.t._ (_law_) to take, annul. [L. _toll[)e]re_, to take
away.]

TOL-LOL, tol-lol', _adj._ (_slang_) pretty good.--_adj._ TOL-LOL'ISH,
tolerable.

TOLT, t[=o]lt, _n._ an old English writ removing a court-baron cause to a
county-court. [O. Fr. _tolte_--Low L. _tolta_--L. _toll[)e]re_, to take
away.]

TOLTEC, tol'tek, _n._ a member of the earlier race who occupied Mexico,
their power passing later into the hands of the Aztecs.--_adj._ TOL'TECAN.

TOLTER, tol't[.e]r, _v.i._ (_prov._) to flounder about.

TOLU, t[=o]'l[=u], _n._ Tolu balsam, yielded by _Myroxylon Toluifera_, a
native of Venezuela, Ecuador, and Brazil, employed in medicine and
perfumery.--_n._ TOL'[=U][=E]NE, methyl benzene.--_adj._ TOL'[=U]IC. [From
Santiago de _Tolu_ in Columbia.]

TOM, tom, _n._ a dim. of _Thomas_--used generically for man in 'tomfool,'
&c.: a male, esp. a male cat: (_prov._) a close-stool.--_ns._
TOM'-AND-JER'RY, a drink of hot rum and eggs, spiced and sweetened;
TOM'-TROT, a toffee made with treacle, sugar, and butter.--TOM, DICK, AND
HARRY, any persons taken at random.--LONG TOM, a long gun, as distinguished
from a carronade, a gun carried amidships on a swivel-carriage.

TOMAHAWK, tom'a-hawk, _n._ a light war-hatchet of the North American
Indians, either wielded or thrown.--_v.t._ to cut or kill with a tomahawk.
[The Indian name.]

TOMALLEY, to-mal'i, _n._ the so-called liver of the lobster.--Also
TOMALL'Y. [Prob. _tourmalin_, from the greenish colour.]

TOMAN, t[=o]-män', _n._ a Persian gold coin worth 7s. 2d.--Also TOMAUN'.
[Pers.]

TOMATO, t[=o]-mä't[=o], or t[=o]-m[=a]'t[=o], _n._ the pulpy edible fruit
of a plant of the Nightshade family (_Solanaceæ_), or the plant itself,
native to South America, but now much cultivated in Europe--earlier called
the 'love-apple':--_pl._ TOMA'TOES. [Sp. _tomate_--Mex. _tomate_.]

TOMB, t[=oo]m, _n._ a pit or vault in the earth, in which a dead body is
placed: a tombstone.--_adjs._ TOMB'IC; TOMB'LESS, without a tomb.--_n._
TOMB'STONE, a stone erected over a tomb to preserve the memory of the dead.
[Fr. _tombe_--L. _tumba_--Gr. _tymbos_.]

TOMBAC, tom'bak, _n._ a name given to an alloy of copper and zinc like
Prince's metal, or to an alloy of copper and arsenic.--Also TOM'BAK. [Malay
_t[=a]mbaga_, copper.]

TOMBOC, tom'bok, _n._ a Javanese long-handled weapon.

TOMBOLA, tom'b[=o]-la, _n._ a kind of lottery game played in France and the
southern United States. [It.,--_tombolare_, to tumble.]

TOMBOY, tom'boi, _n._ a wild romping girl, a hoyden: (_Shak._) a strumpet.
[_Tom_ and _boy_.]

TOMCAT, tom'kat, _n._ a full-grown male cat. [_Tom_.]

TOME, t[=o]m, _n._ part of a book: a volume of a large work: a book.
[Fr.,--L. _tomus_--Gr. _tomos_--_temnein_, to cut.]

TOMENTUM, t[=o]-men'tum, _n._ (_bot._) a species of pubescence.--_adjs._
TOMEN'TOSE, TOMEN'TOUS. [L.]

TOMFOOL, tom'f[=oo]l, _n._ a great fool: a trifling fellow.--_v.i._ to act
foolishly.--_n._ TOMFOOL'ERY, foolish trifling or jesting:
buffoonery.--_adj._ TOM'FOOLISH. [_Tom_.]

TOMIUM, t[=o]'mi-um, _n._ the cutting edge of a bird's bill.--_adj._
T[=O]'MIAL. [Gr. _tomos_, _temnein_, to cut.]

TOMMY, tom'i, _n._ a penny roll, bread, provisions: the system of giving
food as part wages.--_v.t._ to oppress by the tommy or truck-system.--_ns._
TOMM'Y-SHOP, a truck-shop; TOM'-NOD'DY, the puffin or sea-parrot: a
fool.--TOMMY ATKINS, or TOMM'Y, a generic name for the English private
soldier.--SOFT TOMMY, soft bread, as opposed to hard tack or sea-biscuit.

TO-MORROW, t[=oo]-mor'[=o], _n._ the morrow after this.--_adv._ on the
morrow. [A.S. _tó morgen_.]

TOMPION, tom'pi-on, _n._ the inking-pad of the lithographic printer.--Also
TOM'PON. [_Tampion_.]

TOMPION, tom'pi-on, _n._ (_obs._) a watch.

TOMTIT, tom'tit, _n._ the titmouse. [_Tom_, a common name like Jack, and
_tit_, as in _titmouse_.]

[Illustration]

TOM-TOM, tom'-tom, _n._ the drum used in India by musicians, jugglers, &c.:
a gong.--_v.i._ TAM'-TAM, to beat on a tom-tom.

TOMUNDAR, to-mun'-dar, _n._ the head chief of a Baluchi tribe.

TON, tun, _n._ a measure of capacity, varying with the substance
measured--timber, wheat, gravel, lime, coke, &c.--in the carrying capacity
of ships, 40 cubic feet: a measure of weight, equal to 20 cwt. or 2240 lb.
avoirdupois. [A.S. _tunne_, a vat, tub; Ger. _tonne_, cask.]

TON, ton, _n._ fashion, style.--_adj._ TON'ISH, stylish.--_adv._ TON'ISHLY.

TONALITE, t[=o]'nal-[=i]t, _n._ an igneous rock having a granitic
structure, and composed essentially of plagioclase, biolite, and quartzite.

TO-NAME, t[=oo]'-n[=a]m, _n._ a byname, nickname, or name in addition to
Christian name and surname.

TONE, t[=o]n, _n._ the character of a sound: quality of the voice: harmony
of the colours of a painting, also its characteristic or prevailing effect
as due to the management of chiaroscuro and to the effect of light upon the
quality of colour: (_phot._) the shade or colour of a finished positive
picture: (_gram._) syllabic stress, special accent given to a syllable:
character or style: state of mind: mood: a healthy state of the
body.--_v.t._ to utter with an affected tone: to intone, to utter in a
drawling way: to give tone or quality to, in respect either of sound or
colour: to alter or modify the colour.--_adj._ T[=O]'NAL.--_n._
TONAL'ITY.--_adjs._ TONED, having a tone (in compounds); TONE'LESS.--TONE
DOWN, to give a lower tone to, to moderate, to soften, to harmonise the
colours of as to light and shade, as a painting. [L. _tonus_--Gr. _tonos_,
a sound--_tein[=o]_, to stretch.]

TONG, tung, _n._ (_Spens._) the tongue of a buckle.

TONGA, tong'ga, _n._ a light two-wheeled cart for four, in use in Burma.

TONGA-BEAN, tong'ga-b[=e]n, _n._ Same as TONKA-BEAN.

TONGS, tongz, _n.pl._ a domestic instrument, consisting of two jointed
pieces or shafts of metal, used for lifting. [A.S. _tange_; Ice. _töng_,
Ger. _zange_.]

TONGUE, tung, _n._ the fleshy organ in the mouth, used in tasting,
swallowing, and speech: power of speech: manner of speaking: speech:
discourse: a language: anything like a tongue in shape: the catch of a
buckle: the pointer of a balance: a point of land.--_adjs._ TONGUED, having
a tongue.; TONGUE'LESS, having no tongue.--_n._ TONGUE'LET, a little
tongue.--_p.adj._ TONGUE'-SHAPED, shaped like a tongue: (_bot._) linear and
fleshy and blunt at the point, as a leaf.--_n._ TONGUE'STER, a
babbler.--_adjs._ TONGUE'-TIED, -TACKED, having an impediment, as if the
tongue were tied: unable to speak freely.--_n._ TONGUE'-WORK, babble,
chatter.--HOLD ONE'S TONGUE (see HOLD). [A.S. _tunge_; Ice. _tunga_, Ger.
_zunge_, the tongue; L. _lingua_ (old form _dingua_).]

TONIC, ton'ik, _adj._ relating to tones or sounds: (_med._) giving tone and
vigour to the system: giving or increasing strength.--_n._ a medicine which
gives tone and vigour to the system.--_n._ TONIC'ITY, the healthy state of
muscular fibres when at rest.--TONIC SPASM (see SPASM).

TONIC SOLFA, ton'ik s[=o]l-fä', _n._ a modern system of musical notation,
in which the notes are indicated by letters, and time and accent by dashes
and colons.

TO-NIGHT, t[=oo]-n[=i]t', _n._ this night: the night after the present day.

TONITE, t[=o]'n[=i]t, _n._ an explosive made from pulverised gun-cotton.

TONKA-BEAN, tong'ka-b[=e]n, _n._ the seed of a large tree of Guiana, used
for flavouring snuff.--Also TON'QUIN-BEAN.

TONNAGE, tun'[=a]j, _n._ in regard to ships, a measure both of cubical
capacity and of dead-weight carrying capability--the _freight ton_ simply
means 40 cubic feet of space available for cargo, and is therefore
two-fifths of a register ton: a duty on ships, estimated per ton.--Also
TUN'NAGE.

TONSIL, ton'sil, _n._ one of two glands at the root of the tongue, so named
from its shape.--_n._ TONSIL[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the tonsils.--_adjs._
TON'SILLAR, TON'SILAR, TONSILIT'IC. [L. _tonsilla_, a stake, a tonsil, dim.
of _tonsa_, an oar.]

TONSILE, ton'sil, _adj._ that may be clipped.--_n._ TON'SOR, a
barber.--_adj._ TONS[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a barber or to shaving. [L.
_tonsilis_--_tond[=e]re_, _tonsum_, to clip.]

TONSURE, ton'sh[=oo]r, _n._ act of clipping the hair, or of shaving the
head: a religious observance of the R.C. and Eastern Churches, which
consists in shaving or cutting part of the hair of the head as a sign of
the dedication of the person to the special service of God, and commonly to
the public ministry of religion.--_adj._ TON'SURED, having the crown of the
head shaven as a priest: shaven: bald. [L. _tonsura_, a
shearing--_tond[=e]re_.]

TONTINE, ton-t[=e]n', _n._ a kind of life-annuity, increasing as the
subscribers die: a loan raised with the benefit of survivorship--also
_adj._--_n._ TONTIN'ER. [From Lorenzo _Tonti_, a Neapolitan, its inventor.]

TONY, t[=o]'ni, _n._ a simpleton. [_Antony_.]

TONY, t[=o]'ni, _adj._ (_U.S._) genteel, high-toned.

TOO, t[=oo], _adv._ over: more than enough: extremely: likewise.--_adj._
TOO-TOO, quite too: extreme, superlative: (_slang_) extravagantly and
affectedly sentimental, gushing. [A form of _to_, sig. lit. 'added to.']

TOOART, t[=oo]'art, _n._ a eucalyptus of south-western Australia, with
remarkably heavy and durable wood.--Also TU'ART, TEW'ART.

TOOK, t[=oo]k, _pa.t._ and obsolete _pa.p._ of _take_.

TOOL, t[=oo]l, _n._ an instrument used by workmen: one who acts as the mere
instrument of another.--_v.t._ to mark with a tool, esp. to ornament or
imprint designs upon, of bookbinders: (_slang_) to drive, as a coach or
other vehicle: to carry in a vehicle.--_v.i._ to travel in a vehicle, to
drive.--_n._ TOOL'ING, workmanship done with a tool. [A.S. _tól_, _tohl_;
perh. from the root of _tow_.]

TOOLEY STREET, t[=oo]l'i str[=e]t, _n._ a street in Southwark, at the foot
of London Bridge, famous through Canning's story of its three tailors who
began their petition to parliament with 'We, the people of England.'

TOOM, t[=oo]m, _adj._ empty.--_n._ a dumping-ground for rubbish. [Ice.
_tómr_, empty.]

TOON, t[=oo]n, _n._ a large tree of the bead-tree family, with red wood and
astringent bark.--Also _East Indian mahogany_, _Indian cedar_.

TOOT, t[=oo]t, _v.i._ to pry or peep about: (_obs._) to be prominent.--_n._
TOOT'ER, anything projecting. [A.S. _totian_, to elevate.]

TOOT, t[=oo]t, _v.i._ to make short unmusical sounds on a flute or
horn.--_v.t._ to blow, as a horn, &c.--_n._ a sound, as of a horn, a blast:
(_U.S._) a spree.--_n._ TOOT'ER, one who toots, or that upon which he
toots. [Old Dut. _tuyten_; cf. Ice. _thjóta_, to resound, A.S. _theótan_,
to howl.]

TOOT, t[=oo]t, _n._ (_slang_) an idle worthless creature: the devil.

TOOTH, t[=oo]th, _n._ one of the hard bodies in the mouth, attached to the
skeleton, but not forming part of it, developed from the dermis or true
skin, their function primarily the mastication of the food: the taste or
palate, relish: anything tooth-like: a prong: one of the projections on a
saw or wheel:--_pl._ TEETH.--_v.t._ to furnish with teeth: to cut into
teeth.--_ns._ TOOTH'ACHE, an ache or pain in a tooth; TOOTH'-BRUSH, a brush
for cleaning the teeth; TOOTH'-DRAW'ER (_Shak._), one whose business is to
extract teeth with instruments, a dentist; TOOTH'-DRAW'ING, the act of
extracting a tooth: the practice of extracting teeth.--_adjs._ TOOTHED,
having teeth: (_bot._) having tooth-like projections on the edge, as a
leaf; TOOTH'FUL, full of teeth.--_n._ a small drink of spirits, &c.--_adj._
TOOTH'LESS, having no teeth.--_ns._ TOOTH'-ORNAMENT, a Romanesque and Early
Pointed moulding, consisting of a square four-leaved flower pointed in the
centre; TOOTH'PICK, an instrument for picking out anything in the teeth;
TOOTH'-POW'DER, a powder used with a tooth-brush for cleaning the
teeth.--_adj._ TOOTH'SOME, pleasant to the taste.--_ns._ TOOTH'SOMENESS;
TOOTH'-WASH, a liquid preparation for cleansing the teeth; TOOTH'WORT, a
name for _Lathræa squamaria_, one of the insectivorous plants, as well as
for _Dentaria bulbifera_, one of the Cruciferæ, common in England, also
known as 'coral-wort' and 'tooth-violet.'--_adj._ TOOTH'Y, having teeth:
toothsome: biting.--TOOTH AND NAIL, with all possible vigour and fury.--A
SWEET TOOTH, a relish for sweet things; IN SPITE OF ONE'S TEETH, IN THE
TEETH OF, in defiance of opposition; SHOW ONE'S TEETH, to threaten, to show
one's anger and power to injure; THROW, CAST, IN ONE'S TEETH, to fling at
one, as a taunt, or in challenge; TO THE TEETH (_Shak._), in open
opposition or defiance. [A.S. _tóth_ (pl. _téth_, also _tóthas_); cog. with
Goth. _tunthus_, L. _dens_, _dent-is_, Gr. _o-dous_, _o-dont-os_, Sans.
_danta_.]

TOOTLE, t[=oo]t'l, _v.i._ to make a series of feeble sounds, as a poor
player on the flute. [Freq. of _toot_.]

TOP, top, _n._ the highest part of anything: the upper end or surface: the
upper part of a plant: the crown of the head: the highest place, rank, or
crown, consummation: the chief or highest person: (_naut._) a small
platform at the head of the lower mast: the end-piece of a jointed
fishing-rod: the same as _top-boot_, esp. in _pl._--_adj._ highest,
foremost, chief: good, capital.--_v.t._ to cover on the top: to tip: to
rise above: to surpass: to rise to the top of: to take off the top of: to
hit a golf ball above its centre.--_v.i._ to be eminent:--_pr.p._ top'ping;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ topped.--_adj._ TOP'-BOOT'ED, wearing
top-boots.--_n.pl._ TOP'-BOOTS, long-legged boots with an ornamental band
of bright-coloured leather round the top.--_ns._ TOP'COAT, a coat worn
outside one's other clothes: TOP'-DRAIN'ING, the act or practice of
draining the surface of land.--_v.t._ TOP'-DRESS, to spread manure on the
surface of.--_n._ TOP'-DRESS'ING, a dressing of manure laid on the surface
of land: (_fig._) any superficial covering.--_adjs._ TOP'FULL (_Shak._),
full to the top or brim; TOP'GALLANT, applied to the mast and sail next
above the topmast and topsail and below the royal-mast.--_n._ TOP'-HAMP'ER,
unnecessary weight on a ship's upper-deck.--_adj._ TOP'-HEAV'Y, having the
upper part too heavy for the lower: tipsy.--_n._ TOP'-KNOT, a crest or knot
of feathers upon the head of a bird: a knot of ribbons worn by women on the
top of the head: the popular name of some small fishes of the same genus as
the turbot and brill.--_adjs._ TOP'-KNOTTED; TOP'LESS (_Shak._), supreme,
without superior; TOP'LOFTICAL, TOP'LOFTY, having a high top, pompous,
bombastic.--_ns._ TOP'LOFTINESS; TOP'MAN, a man stationed in one of the
tops: a top-sawyer; TOP'MAST, the second mast, or that immediately above
the lower mast.--_adj._ TOP'MOST, next the top: highest.--_ns._ TOP'PER,
one who, or that which, excels; TOP'PING, the act of one who tops, that
which tops: (_pl._) that cut off in topping.--_adj._ surpassing,
pre-eminent: arrogant.--_adv._ TOP'PINGLY.--_adj._ TOP'-PROUD (_Shak._),
proud in the highest degree.--_ns._ TOPSAIL (top's[=a]l, or -sl), a sail
across the topmast; TOP'-SAW'YER, the upper sawyer in a sawpit: (_coll._) a
superior, a person of importance; TOP'-SIDE, the upper part; TOPS'MAN, a
head-drover, a foreman; TOP'-SOIL, the upper part or surface of the soil;
TOP'-SOIL'ING, removal of the top-soil; TOP'-STONE, a stone placed on the
top, or which forms the top. [A.S. _top_; Ger. _zopf_.]

TOP, top, _n._ a child's toy, shaped like a pear, and set or kept whirling
round by means of a string or a whip. [Prob. Old Dut. _top_, _toppe_,
_dop_, _doppe_; Mid. High Ger. _topf_, _tupfen_, a pot.]

TOPARCH, t[=o]'pärk, _n._ the ruler or principal man in a place: the
governor of a toparchy.--_n._ T[=O]'PARCHY, a small state or government
consisting of only a few cities: command in a small state or subdivision of
a country. [Gr. _toparch[=e]s_--_topos_, a place, _archein_, to
rule--_arch[=e]_, beginning.]

TOPAZ, t[=o]'paz, _n._ a mineral, ranked among gems, found generally in
primitive rocks, colourless, light blue or green, rose-pink, orange or
straw-yellow, in great variety of shades, the most prized generally from
Brazil.--_adj._ T[=O]'PAZINE.--_n._ TOPAZ'OLITE, a garnet resembling a
topaz. [O. Fr. _topase_, _topaze_--Gr. _topazion_, also _topazos_.]

TOPAZA, t[=o]-p[=a]'za, _n._ a genus of humming-birds.

TOPE, t[=o]p, _v.i._ to drink hard or to excess: to tipple:--_pr.p._
t[=o]'ping; _pa.p._ t[=o]ped.--_n._ T[=O]'PER, a drunkard. [From _tope_, an
obs. verb 'to drink hard,' from the phrase _to top off_, sig. 'to drink off
at one draught.']

TOPE, t[=o]p, _n._ a Buddhist tumulus for the preservation of relics, of
more or less solid masonry, in which the relics are deposited--the oldest
spherical, others having polygonal bases, originally crowned with an
umbrella-shaped finial, and surrounded by a carved stone railing with
elaborately carved gateway. [Corr. from Sans. _st[=u]pa_, a heap.]

TOPE, t[=o]p, _n._ a small species of British shark--the _Miller's dog_ and
_Penny dog_.

TOPHET, t[=o]'fet, _n._ a place at the south-east corner of Gehenna, or
vale of Hinnom, to the south of Jerusalem, once the scene of idolatrous
rites, later the common lay-stall of the city, in which fires were kept
burning: the future place of torment for the damned. [Heb. _t[=o]pheth_.]

TOPHUS, t[=o]'fus, _n._ a gouty deposit:--_pl._ T[=O]'PH[=I].--_adj._
TOPH[=A]'CEOUS. [L., 'sandstone.']

TOPIA, t[=o]'pi-a, _n._ a kind of mural decoration common in old Roman
houses.--_adj._ T[=O]'PI[=A]RY, clipped into ornamental shapes, of trees
and shrubs--also T[=O]PI[=A]'RIAN. [L.,--Gr. _topos_, a place.]

TOPIC, top'ik, _n._ a subject of discourse or argument: a matter.--_adj._
TOP'ICAL, pertaining to a place: local: relating to a topic or subject:
relating to things of local interest.--_adv._ TOP'ICALLY, with reference to
a particular place or topic. [Fr.,--Low L.,--Gr. _ta topika_, the general
principles of argument--_topos_, a place.]

TOPOGRAPHER, t[=o]-pog'raf-[.e]r, _n._ one who describes a place, &c.: one
skilled in topography.--_adjs._ TOPOGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to
topography.--_adv._ TOPOGRAPH'ICALLY, in a topographical manner.--_ns._
TOPOG'RAPHIST; TOPOG'RAPHY, the description of a place: a detailed account
of the superficial features of a tract of country: the art of describing
places. [Gr. _topos_, a place, _graphein_, to describe.]

TOPOLATRY, t[=o]pol'a-tri, _n._ veneration for a place. [Gr. _topos_, a
place, _latreia_, worship.]

TOPOLOGY, t[=o]-pol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the art of aiding the memory by
associating things with places. [Gr. _topos_, a place, _legein_, to speak.]

TOPONYM, top'[=o]-nim, _n._ (_anat._) a topographical name, the technical
designation of any region of an animal.--_n._ TOPON'OMY, topical
terminology, the place-names of a district.--_adjs._ TOPON'YMAL,
TOPONYM'IC, -AL.--_n._ TOPON'YMY, the nomenclature of anatomical regions.
[Gr. _topos_, a place, _onoma_, a name.]

TOPPLE, top'l, _v.i._ to fall forward: to tumble down. [Freq. of _top_.]

TOPSYTURVY, top'si-tur-vi, _adv._ bottom upwards.--_adj._ turned upside
down.--_n._ confusion.--_v.t._ to turn upside down.--_n._
TOPSYTURVIFIC[=A]'TION, a turning upside down.--_adv._
TOPSYTUR'VILY.--_ns._ TOPSYTUR'VINESS; TOPSYTUR'VYDOM. [Explained by Skeat
as _top_ + _so_ (_adv._) + _tervy_, overturned--M. E. _terven_, to
throw--A.S. _torfian_, to throw.]

TOQUE, t[=o]k, _n._ a form of hat or cap worn in the 16th century: a modern
close-fitting brimless bonnet for women: an African nominal money of
account, equal to 40 cowries: the bonnet-macaque. [Fr., prob. Celt., Bret.
_tok_, W. _toc_, a hat.]

TOR, tor, _n._ a hill, a rocky height. [A.S. _torr_, _tor_--W. _tor_; Gael.
_torr_.]

TORAH, t[=o]'ra, _n._ the Mosaic law: the book of the law, the
Pentateuch.--Also TH[=O]'RAH. [Heb.]

TORBITE, t[=o]r'b[=i]t, _n._ a preparation of peat for fuel.

TORCH, torch, _n._ a light formed of twisted tow dipped in pitch or other
inflammable material: a large candle or flambeau.--_ns._ TORCH'-BEAR'ER;
TORCH'-DANCE; TORCH'ER (_Shak._), one who gives light with, or as with, a
torch; TORCH'ING, a way of catching fish at night with torch-light-and
spear; TORCH'-LIGHT; TORCH'-RACE.--_n.pl._ TORCH'-STAVES (_Shak._), staves
for carrying torches. [Fr. _torche_--L. _tortum_, pa.p. of _torqu[=e]re_,
to twist.]

TORCHÈRE, tor-sh[=a]r', _n._ a large ornamental candelabrum. [Fr.]

TORCULAR, tor'k[=u]-lar, _n._ the tourniquet. [L.]

TORE, t[=o]r, _pa.t._ of _tear_.

TORE, t[=o]r, _n._ (_prov._) dead grass.

TORE=_Torus_.

TOREADOR, tor-e-a-d[=o]r', _n._ a bull-fighter, esp. on horseback. [Sp.]

TO-RENT, t[=oo]'-rent', _p.adj._ (_Spens._) rent asunder.

TOREUTIC, t[=o]-r[=oo]'tik, _adj._ pertaining to chased or embossed
metal-work.--_ns._ TOREUMATOG'RAPHY, a treatise on ancient work in metal;
TOREUMATOL'OGY, the art of ancient art-work on metal; TOREU'TES, an artist
in metal. [Gr., _toreuein_, to bore.]

TORGOCH, tor'goh, _n._ the red-bellied char. [W.]

TORMENT, tor'ment, _n._ torture: anguish: that which causes pain.--_v.t._
TORMENT', to torture: to put to extreme pain, physical or mental: to
distress: to afflict.--_p.adj._ TORMEN'TED (_U.S._), a euphemism for
damned.--_adj._ TORMEN'TING, causing torment.--_adv._ TORMEN'TINGLY, in a
tormenting manner.--_ns._ TORMEN'TOR, -ER, one who, or that which,
torments: (_B._) a torturer, an executioner: a long meat-fork: a wing in
the first groove of a stage; TORMEN'TUM, a whirligig. [O. Fr.,--L.
_tormentum_, an engine for hurling stones--L. _torqu[=e]re_, to twist.]

TORMENTIL, tor'men-til, _n._ a genus of plants, one species with an
astringent woody root. [Fr.,--Low L. _tormentilla_--L. _tormentum_.]

TORMINA, tor'mi-na, _n.pl._ gripes, colic.--_adjs._ TOR'MINAL, TOR'MINOUS.

TORMODONT, tor'm[=o]-dont, _adj._ socketed, of teeth. [Gr. _tormos_, a
hole, _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

TORN, t[=o]rn, _pa.p._ of _tear_: (_B._) stolen.--_adj._ TORN'-DOWN,
rebellious, ungovernable.

TORNADO, tor-n[=a]'d[=o], _n._ a violent hurricane, frequent in tropical
countries:--_pl._ TORN[=A]'DOES.--_adj._ TORNAD'IC. [Sp.,
_tornada_--_tornar_--L. _torn[=a]re_.]

TORNEAMENT, an obsolete form of _tournament_.

TOROIDAL, t[=o]-roi'dal, _adj._ shaped like an anchor-ring.

TOROUS, t[=o]'rus, _adj._ swelling, muscular.--_n._ TOROS'ITY, muscularity.

TORPEDO, tor-p[=e]'do, _n._ a genus of cartilaginous fishes of family
_Torpedinidæ_, related to the skates and rays, with electric organs on each
side of the head, giving an electric shock when touched so as to produce
torpor or numbness, the cramp-fish: a submarine weapon of offence, carrying
a charge of gun-cotton or other explosive, and possessing powers of
locomotion--in distinction to a submarine mine, which is stationary and
used for defensive purposes:--_pl._ TORP[=E]'DOES.--_v.t._ to attack with
torpedoes, to explode a torpedo in or under.--_adj._ TORPED'INOUS.--_ns._
TORP[=E]'DO-BOAT, a small swift steamer from which torpedoes are
discharged; TORP[=E]'DO-BOOM, a spar for carrying a torpedo, projecting
from a boat or anchored in a channel; TORP[=E]'DO-CATCH'ER, a swift vessel
for capturing torpedo-boats; TORP[=E]'DOIST, one skilled in the management
of torpedoes; TORP[=E]'DO-NET, a net of wire hung at some distance round a
ship to intercept torpedoes. [L.,--_torp[=e]re_, to be stiff.]

TORPESCENT, tor-pes'ent, _adj._ becoming torpid or numb.--_n._
TORPES'CENCE. [L., _pr.p._ of _torpesc[)e]re_, to become
stiff--_torp[=e]re_, to be stiff.]

TORPID, tor'pid, _adj._ stiff, numb: having lost the power of motion and
feeling: sluggish, dormant: pertaining to the _Torpids_, or Lent
boat-races, at Oxford.--_n._ a second-class racing boat, or one of its
crew.--_n._ TORPID'ITY.--_adv._ TOR'PIDLY.--_n._ TOR'PIDNESS.--_v.t._
TOR'PIFY, to make torpid.--_ns._ TOR'PITUDE, state of being torpid:
numbness: dullness: stupidity; TOR'POR, numbness: inactivity: dullness:
stupidity. [L. _torpidus_--_torp[=e]re_.]

TORQUE, tork, _n._ a twisting force: a necklace of metal rings
interlaced.--_adjs._ TOR'QUATE, -D, collared; TORQUED', twisted. [L.
_torques_--_torqu[=e]re_, to twist.]

TORREFY, tor'e-f[=i], _v.t._ to scorch: to parch:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
torr'efied.--_n._ TORREFAC'TION, act of torrefying: state of being
torrefied. [L. _torr[=e]re_, to dry, to burn, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

TORRENT, tor'ent, _n._ a rushing stream: a strong or turbulent
current.--_adj._ rushing in a stream.--_ns._ TORR'ENT-BOW, a bow of
prismatic colours formed above the spray of a torrent; TORR'ENT-DUCK, a
merganser of genus _Merganetta_, found in the swift water-courses of the
Andes.--_adj._ TORREN'TIAL, of the nature of a torrent, produced by the
agency of rapid streams: overwhelmingly voluble.--_n._
TORRENTIAL'ITY.--_adv._ TORREN'TIALLY. [L. _torrens_, _-entis_, boiling,
_pr.p._ of _torr[=e]re_, to dry.]

TORRICELLIAN, tor-i-sel'i-an, or tor-i-ch[=e]l'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to
the Italian mathematician Evangelista _Torricelli_ (1608-47), who
discovered in 1643 the principle on which the barometer is
constructed.--TORRICELLIAN TUBE, the barometer; TORRICELLIAN VACUUM, the
vacuum in the barometer.

TORRID, tor'id, _adj._ burning or parching: violently hot: dried with
heat.--_ns._ TORRID'ITY, TORR'IDNESS.--TORRID ZONE, the broad belt round
the earth betwixt the tropics, on either side of the equator. [L.
_torridus_--_torr[=e]re_, to burn.]

TORSE, tors, _n._ a heraldic wreath.--_ns._ TORSADE', an ornament like a
twisted cord; TOR'SEL, a twisted scroll: a plate in a brick wall to support
the end of a beam.

TORSHENT, tor'shent, _n._ (_U.S._) the youngest child and pet of a
family.--Also TORSH.

TORSION, tor'shun, _n._ act of twisting or turning a body: the force with
which a thread or wire tends to return when twisted, the kind of strain
produced in a bar or wire when one end is kept fixed and the other is
rotated about the axis: (_surg._) a method of common application for the
purpose of checking arterial hæmorrhage in certain cases, by twisting the
cut end of the artery.--_n._ TORSIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ TOR'SIONAL, pertaining
to, or resulting from, torsion.--_n._ TOR'SION-BAL'ANCE, an instrument for
measuring very minute forces by a delicate horizontal bar or needle,
suspended by a very fine thread or wire.--_adj._ TOR'SIVE, twisted
spirally. [L. _torsio_--_torqu[=e]re_, _tortum_, to twist.]

TORSK, torsk, _n._ a genus of fish of the cod family, abundant in the
northern parts of the Atlantic Ocean, characterised by a single long dorsal
fin, and by having the vertical fins separate. [Sw. _torsk;_ Ger. _dorsch_,
a haddock.]

TORSO, tor's[=o], _n._ the trunk of a statue without head or limbs:--_pl._
TOR'SOS.--Also TORSE. [It.; prob. Teut., Old High Ger. _turso_, _torso_,
stalk.]

TORT, tort, _n._ a term in the law of England including all those wrongs,
not arising out of contract, for which a remedy by compensation or damages
is given in a court of law: (_Spens._) wrong, injury, calamity.--_adj._
TOR'TIOUS (_Spens._), wrongful, injurious. [Low L. _tortum_--L.
_torqu[)e]re, tortum, to twist.]_

TORTICOLLIS, tor-ti-kol'is, _n._ wryneck.

TORTILE, tor'til, _adj._ twisted: wreathed: coiled.--_n._
TORTIL'ITY.--_adj._ TOR'TIVE (_Shak._), twisted, wreathed.

TORTILLA, tor-t[=e]'lya, _n._ a round flat cake made from maize in Mexico.
[Sp., dim. of _torta_, a tart.]

TORTOISE, tor'tis, or -tois, _n._ together with turtles, a well-defined
order of reptiles, distinguished especially by the dorsal (_carapace_) and
ventral (_plastron_) shields which protect the body.--_n._ TOR'TOISE-SHELL,
the horny epidermic plate of a species of turtle.--_adj._ of the colour of
the foregoing, mottled in yellow and black. [O. Fr. _tortis_--L. _tortus_,
twisted.]

TORTRIX, tor'triks, _n._ the typical genus of _Tortricidæ_, a family of
small lepidopterous insects.

TORTULOUS, tor't[=u]-lus, _adj._ having swellings at regular intervals.

TORTUOUS, tor't[=u]-us, _adj._ twisted, winding: (_fig._)
deceitful.--_adj._ TOR'TU[=O]SE, twisted: wreathed: winding.--_n._
TORTUOS'ITY, state of being tortuous.--_adv._ TOR'TUOUSLY.--_n._
TOR'TUOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _tortuosus_--_torqu[=e]re_, _tortum_, to twist.]

TORTURE, tor't[=u]r, _n._ a putting to the rack or severe pain to extort a
confession, or as a punishment: extreme pain: anguish of body or
mind.--_v.t._ to put to torture or to the rack: to put to extreme pain: to
annoy: to vex.--_n._ TOR'TURER.--_adv._ TOR'TURINGLY, in a torturing
manner: so as to torment or punish.--_adj._ TOR'TUROUS, causing torture.
[Late L. _tortura_, torment--_torqu[=e]re_.]

TORUFFLED, too-ruf'ld, _adj._ (_Milt._) ruffled.

TORULA, tor'[=u]-la, _n._ a small torus: the yeast-plant.--_adjs._
TOR'ULIFORM; TOR'ULOID; TOR'ULOSE; TOR'ULOUS.--_n._ TOR'ULUS, the socket of
the antenna. [L. _torulus_, dim. of _torus_, swelling.]

TORUS, t[=o]'rus, _n._ (_archit._) a moulding in the base of columns, the
profile of which is semicircular: (_bot._) the receptacle or part of the
flower on which the carpels stand: (_anat._) a rounded ridge, esp. one on
the occipital bone of the skull:--_pl._ T[=O]'RI. [L., a round, swelling
place, an elevation.]

TORY, t[=o]'ri, _n._ a Conservative in English politics--a term since 1830
largely superseded by Conservative, but since 1880 a good deal revived in
the sense frequently of a non-conservative Conservative.--_v.t._
T[=O]'RIFY, to infect with Tory principles.--_n._ T[=O]'RYISM, the
principles of the Tories. [Ir. _toiridhe_, a pursuer; first applied to the
Irish bog-trotters and robbers; next, about 1680, to the most hot-headed
asserters of the royal prerogative.]

TOSE, t[=o]z, _v.t._ (_obs._) to pull about, esp. to tease.--_adj._
T[=O]'SY, teased, soft.

TOSH, tosh, _adj._ (_Scot._) neat, trim.

TOSS, tos, _v.t._ to throw up suddenly or violently: to cause to rise and
fall: to make restless: to agitate, pass from one to another: to toss up
with: to drink off: to dress out smartly.--_v.i._ to be tossed: to be in
violent commotion: to tumble about: to fling.--_n._ act of throwing upward:
a throwing up of the head: confusion, commotion: a toss-up.--_v.t._ TOSS'EN
(_Spens._), to toss, to brandish.--_n._ TOSS'ER.--_adv._ TOSS'ILY,
pertly.--_ns._ TOSS'ING, the act of tossing or throwing upward: (_B._)
violent commotion: (_mining_) process of washing ores; TOSS'-POT (_Shak._),
a toper, a drunkard; TOSS'-UP, the throwing up of a coin to decide
anything: an even chance or hazard.--_adj._ TOSS'Y, pert,
contemptuous.--TOSS OFF, to drink off; TOSS UP, to throw up a coin and
wager on which side it will fall. [Celt., as W. _tosio_, to jerk, _tos_, a
quick jerk.]

TOST, a form of _tossed_, _pa.p._ of _toss_.

TOSTICATED, tos'ti-k[=a]-ted, _adj._ fuddled: perplexed--also
TOS'SIC[=A]TED.--_n._ TOSTIC[=A]'TION, perplexity.

TOT, tot, _n._ anything little, esp. a child: a drinking-cup holding but
half-a-pint, a small dram.--_n._ TOT'TIE, a dim. of tot. [Cf. Ice. _tottr_,
a dwarf.]

TOT, tot, _v.t._ to add or sum up.--_n._ an addition of a long column.
[Coll. abbrev. of _total_.]

TOTAL, t[=o]'tal, _adj._ whole: complete: undivided: unqualified,
absolute.--_n._ the whole: the entire amount.--_v.t._ to bring to a total,
add up: to amount to.--_ns._ T[=O]TALIS[=A]'TION; T[=O]TALIS[=A]'TOR,
T[=O]'TAL[=I]SER, an automatic betting-machine.--_v.t._
T[=O]'TAL[=I]SE.--_ns._ T[=O]'TAL[=I]SER; T[=O]TAL'ITY, the whole sum,
quantity, or amount.--_adv._ T[=O]'TALLY.--_n._ T[=O]'TALNESS, entireness.
[Fr.,--Low L. _totalis_--L. _totus_, whole.]

TOTE, t[=o]t, _v.t._ to carry as a personal burden, to bear.--_n._
TOTE'-ROAD, a rough road for carriers.

TOTEM, t[=o]'tem, _n._ a natural object, not an individual but one of a
class, taken by a tribe, a family, or a single person, and treated with
superstitious respect as an outward symbol of an existing intimate unseen
relation.--_adj._ TOTEM'IC.--_ns._ T[=O]'TEMISM, the use of totems as the
foundation of a vast social system of alternate obligation and restriction;
T[=O]'TEMIST, one designated by a totem.--_adj._ T[=O]'TEMISTIC. [Algonquin
_otem_, which must be preceded by the personal article, as _kitotem_=the
family-mark, _nind-otem_=my family-mark.]

T'OTHER, tuth'[.e]r, _indef. pron._ that other.

TOTIENT, t[=o]'shi-ent, _n._ the number of totitives of a number. [L.
_toties_, so many.]

TOTIPALMATE, t[=o]-ti-pal'm[=a]t, _adj._ fully webbed in all four
toes.--_n._ a bird showing this.--_n._ TOTIPALM[=A]'TION.

TOTITIVE, tot'i-tiv, _n._ a number less than another having with it no
common divisor but unity.

TO-TORNE, t[=oo]-t[=o]rn', _p.adj._ (_Spens._) torn to pieces.

TOTTER, tot'[.e]r, _v.i._ to shake as if about to fall: to be unsteady: to
stagger: to shake.--_n._ TOTT'ERER.--_adv._ TOTT'ERINGLY, in a tottering
manner.--_adjs._ TOTT'ERY, shaky; TOTT'Y (_Spens._), tottering, unsteady.
[For _tolter_--M. E. _tulten_--A.S. _tealtrian_, to totter, _tealt_,
unsteady.]

TOUCAN, t[=oo]-kan', or t[=oo]'-, _n._ a genus of South American Picarian
birds, with an immense beak. [Fr.,--Braz.]

TOUCH, tuch, _v.t._ to come in contact with: to perceive by feeling: to
reach: to relate to: to handle or treat gently or slightly, as in 'to touch
the hat,' &c.: to take, taste: to move or soften: to influence: to move to
pity: to taint: (_slang_) to cheat: to lay the hand upon for the purpose of
curing scrofula or king's evil--a practice that ceased only with the
accession of the House of Brunswick.--_v.i._ to be in contact with: to make
a passing call: to speak of anything slightly: (_prov._) to salute by
touching the cap.--_n._ act of touching: a movement on a musical
instrument, skill or nicety in such, a musical note or strain: any
impression conveyed by contact, a hint, a slight sound: a stroke with a
pen, brush, &c.: a tinge, smack, trace, a slight degree of a thing: sense
of feeling, contact, close sympathy, harmony: peculiar or characteristic
manner: a style of anything at a certain expenditure: a touchstone,
test.--_adj._ TOUCH'ABLE, capable of being touched.--_n._ TOUCH'ABLENESS,
the state or quality of being touchable.--_adj._ TOUCH'-AND-GO, of
uncertain issue, ticklish, difficult.--_ns._ TOUCH'-BACK, the act of
touching the football to the ground behind the player's own goal when it
has been kicked by an opponent; TOUCH'-BOX, a box containing tinder, which
used to be carried by soldiers armed with matchlocks; TOUCH'-DOWN, the
touching to the ground of a football by a player behind the opponents'
goal; TOUCH'ER; TOUCH'-HOLE, the small hole of a cannon through which the
fire is communicated to the charge.--_adv._ TOUCH'ILY, in a touchy manner:
peevishly.--_n._ TOUCH'INESS, the quality of being touchy: peevishness:
irritability.--_adj._ TOUCH'ING, affecting: moving: pathetic.--_prep._
concerning: with regard to.--_adv._ TOUCH'INGLY.--_ns._ TOUCH'INGNESS;
TOUCH'-ME-NOT, a plant of genus _Impatiens_: lupus; TOUCH'-NEE'DLE, a small
bar or needle of gold for testing articles of the same metal by comparing
the streaks they make on a touchstone with those made by the needle;
TOUCH'-P[=A]'PER, paper steeped in saltpetre for firing a train of powder,
&c.; TOUCH'PIECE, a coin or medal formerly given by English sovereigns to
those whom they touched for the cure of the king's evil; TOUCH'STONE, a
kind of compact basalt or stone for testing gold or silver by the streak of
the touch-needle: any test; TOUCH'WOOD, some soft combustible material, as
amadou, used as tinder.--_adj._ TOUCH'Y, irritable: peevish.--TOUCH UP, to
improve by a series of small touches, to elaborate, embellish.--A NEAR
TOUCH, a close shave. [Fr. _toucher_--from Old High Ger. _zucchen_ (Ger.
_zucken_), to move, to draw.]

TOUGH, tuf, _adj._ not easily broken: firm: stiff, viscous, sticky:
stubborn, hard to manage, trying: violent: tenacious: able to endure
hardship.--_n._ a rough, a bully.--_v.t._ or _v.i._ TOUGH'EN, to make or
become tough.--_adj._ TOUGH'ISH, rather tough.--_adv._ TOUGH'LY.--_n._
TOUGH'NESS. [A.S. _tóh_; cog. with Ger. _zähe_.]

TOUPEE, t[=oo]-p[=e]', _n._ a little tuft or lock of hair, the top of a
periwig, a small wig. [Fr. _toupet_.]

TOUR, t[=oo]r, _n._ a going round: a journey in a circuit: a prolonged
journey: a ramble.--_n._ TOUR'IST, one who makes a tour, a traveller for
sight-seeing.--_adj._ TOURIS'TIC. [Fr.,--L. _tornus_, a turn.]

TOURACO, t[=oo]'ra-k[=o], or t[=oo]-rä'-, _n._ a bird about the size of a
pheasant found in the Amazon region, whose structure shows many
anomalies--the sternal apparatus, the divided muscular crop, and the
reptilian character of the head of the unhatched chick.

TOURBILLON, t[=oo]r-bil'yun, _n._ anything with a spiral movement: a
whirlwind: a kind of firework which gyrates in the air. [Fr., a
whirlwind--L. _turbo_.]

TOURMALIN, -E, t[=oo]r'ma-lin, _n._ a beautiful mineral, with vitreous
lustre, mostly black, brownish-black, and bluish-black. [From _Tourmali_,
in Ceylon, whence a variety of the stone was first brought.]

TOURNAMENT, t[=oo]r'na-ment, _n._ a military sport of the Middle Ages in
which combatants engaged one another to display their courage and skill in
arms: any contest in skill involving a number of competitors and a series
of games.--Also TOUR'NEY. [O. Fr. _tournoiement_, _tornoi_--_torner_--L.
_torn[=a]re_, to turn.]

TOURNIQUET, t[=oo]r'ni-ket, _n._ an instrument for compressing the main
artery of the thigh or arm, either for the purpose of preventing too great
a loss of blood in amputation, or to check dangerous hæmorrhage from
accidental wounds, or to stop the circulation through an aneurism. [Fr.,
_tourner_--L. _torn[=a]re_, to turn.]

TOURNURE, t[=oo]r-n[=u]r', _n._ contour, the characteristic turn of a
drawing: a pad worn by women to give the hips a well-rounded outline, the
drapery at the back of a gown.

TOUSE, towz, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to pull, to tear, to tease or
worry:--_pr.p._ tous'ing; _pa.p._ toused.--_n._ a pull: a
disturbance.--_n._ TOUS'ER, one who, or that which, touses.--_v.t._ TOUS'LE
(_coll._), to disarrange, to tumble.--_adj._ TOUS'Y, shaggy, unkempt,
tousled.

TOUT, towt, _v.i._ to look out for custom in an obtrusive way.--_n._ one
who does so: a low fellow who hangs about racing-stables, &c., to pick up
profitable information.--_n._ TOUT'ER, one who touts. [A.S. _tótian_, to
look out.]

TOUT, towt, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to pout.--_n._ a pet, a fit of the sulks, a
sudden illness.--_adj._ TOUT'IE, petulant.

TOW, t[=o], _v.t._ to pull a vessel through the water with a rope.--_n._
originally a rope for towing with: the coarse part of flax or hemp: the act
of towing.--_ns._ TOW'AGE, act of towing: money for towing; TOW'-BOAT, a
boat that is towed, or one used for towing other vessels.--_n.pl._
TOW'ING-BITTS, upright timbers projecting above the deck for fastening
tow-lines to.--_ns._ TOW'ING-NET, a drag-net for collecting objects of
natural history, &c.; TOW'ING-PATH, TOW'-PATH, a path, generally by the
side of a canal or river, for horses towing barges; TOW'-[=I]'RON, a
toggle-iron used in whaling; TOW'LINE, a line used in towing.--_adj._
TOW'Y, like tow. [A.S. _teóhan_, _teón_. Cf. _Tug_.]

TOWARD, t[=o]'ard, TOWARDS, t[=o]'ardz, _prep._ in the direction of: with a
tendency to: for, as a help to: near, about.--_adv._ nearly: in a state of
preparation. [A.S. _tóweard_, _adj._--_tó_, to, and _ward_, sig.
direction.]

TOWARD, -LY, t[=o]'ward, -li, _adj._ ready to do or learn: apt.--_ns._
T[=O]'WARDNESS, T[=O]'WARDLINESS.

TOWEL, tow'el, _n._ a cloth for wiping the skin after it is washed, and for
other purposes: an altar-cloth.--_ns._ TOW'EL-HORSE, -RACK, a frame for
hanging towels on; TOW'ELLING, cloth for towels: a thrashing.--A LEAD
TOWEL, a bullet; AN OAKEN TOWEL, a cudgel. [O. Fr. _touaille_--Old High
Ger. _twahilla_ (Ger. _zwehle_)--Old High Ger. _twahan_, to wash.]

TOWER, tow'[.e]r, _n._ a lofty building, standing alone or forming part of
another: a fortress: (_her._) a bearing representing a tower with
battlements, &c.: a high head-dress worn by women under William III. and
Anne.--_v.i._ to rise into the air: to be lofty.--_v.t._ (_Milt._) to rise
aloft into.--_adjs._ TOW'ERED, having towers; TOW'ERING, very high,
elevated: very violent; TOW'ERY, having towers: lofty. [O. Fr. _tur_--L.
_turris_, a tower.]

TOWHEE, tow'h[=e], _n._ the chewink, ground-robin, or marsh-robin of the
United States. [Imit.]

TOWN, town, _n._ a place larger than a village, not a city: the inhabitants
of a town.--_ns._ TOWN'-CLERK, a clerk who keeps the records of a town;
TOWN'-COUN'CIL, the governing body in a town, elected by the ratepayers;
TOWN'-COUN'CILLOR, a member of a town-council; TOWN'-CR[=I]'ER, one who
cries or makes public proclamations in a town; TOWN'HALL, a public hall for
the official business of a town; TOWN'HOUSE, a house or building for
transacting the public business of a town: a house in town as opposed to
one in the country.--_adj._ TOWN'ISH, characteristic of town as opposed to
country.--_ns._ TOWN'LAND, a township; TOWN'-MEET'ING, in New England, a
primary meeting of the voters of a town.--_n.pl._ TOWNS'FOLK, the folk or
people of a town.--_ns._ TOWN'SHIP, the territory or district of a town:
the corporation of a town: a district; TOWNS'MAN, an inhabitant or
fellow-inhabitant of a town.--_n.pl._ TOWNS'PEOPLE, townsfolk.--_ns._
TOWN'-TALK, the general talk of a town: the subject of common conversation;
TOWN'Y, a townsman. [A.S. _tún_, an enclosure, town; Ice. _tún_, an
enclosure, Ger. _zaun_, a hedge.]

TO-WORNE, t[=oo]-worn', _p.adj._ (_Spens._) worn-out.

TOXICOLOGY, tok-si-kol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of poisons.--_ns._
TOX[=E]'MIA, TOXÆ'MIA, TOXIC[=E]'MIA, TOXICÆ'MIA, blood-poisoning.--_adjs._
TOX[=E]'MIC, TOXÆ'MIC, septicemic; TOX'IC, -AL, pertaining to poisons,
toxicological.--_adv._ TOX'ICALLY.--_adj._ TOX'ICANT, poisoning.--_n._ a
poison.--_adj._ TOXICOLOG'ICAL, pertaining to toxicology.--_adv._
TOXICOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ TOXICOL'OGIST, one versed in toxicology;
TOXIC[=O]'SIS, a morbid condition caused by the action of a poison; TOX'IN,
-E, a poisonous ptomaine. [Gr. _toxikon_, arrow-poison--_toxikos_, for the
bow--_toxon_, a bow, _logia_--_legein_, to say.]

TOXOPHILITE, tok-sof'i-l[=i]t, _n._ a lover of archery: an archer.--_adj._
TOXOPHILIT'IC. [Gr. _toxon_, a bow, _philein_, to love.]

TOY, toi, _n._ a child's plaything: a trifle: a thing only for amusement or
look: a curious conceit, a story: a matter of no importance: amorous
sport.--_v.i._ to trifle: to dally amorously.--_n._ TOY'ER, one who
toys.--_adj._ TOY'ISH, given to toying or trifling: playful:
wanton.--_adv._ TOY'ISHLY.--_ns._ TOY'ISHNESS; TOY'MAN, one who deals in
toys; TOY'SHOP, a shop where toys are sold.--_adj._ TOY'SOME, disposed to
toy: wanton. [Dut. _tuig_, tools; Ger. _zeng_, stuff.]

TOYLE, toil (_Spens._). Same as _Toil_ (1).

TOZE, t[=o]z, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to pull by violence or importunity:--_pr.p._
t[=o]z'ing; _pa.p._ t[=o]zed.

TRABEATED, trä-b[=e]-[=a]'ted, _adj._ having an entablature: belonging to
beam or lintel construction.--_adj._ TRAB'AL.--_ns._ TR[=A]'B[=E]A, a robe
of state worn by consuls, augurs, &c. in ancient Rome:--_pl._ TR[=A]'BEÆ;
TRAB[=E][=A]'TION, an entablature: combination of beams in a structure;
TRABEC'ULA (_bot._), a projection from the cell-wall across the cell-cavity
of the ducts of certain plants: one of the fibrous cords of connective
tissue in the substance of spleen, kidneys, &c.: one of the fleshy columns,
or _columnæ carneæ_, in the ventricle of the heart, to which the chordæ
tendineæ are attached: (_entom._) one of the pair of movable appendages on
the head, in front of the antennæ of some mallophagous insects--also
TRABEC'ULUS:--_pl._ TRABEC'ULÆ.--_adj._ TRABEC'ULAR.--_n._
TRABEC'ULARISM.--_adjs._ TRABEC'ULATE, -D, having a trabecula. [L. _trabs_,
a beam.]

TRACE, tr[=a]s, _n._ a mark left: footprint: a small quantity: (_fort._)
the ground-plan of a work.--_v.t._ to follow by tracks or footsteps, to
discover the tracks of, to follow step by step, to traverse: to follow with
exactness: to sketch: to cover with traced lines or tracery.--_v.i._ to
move, travel: to dance.--_adj._ TRACE'ABLE, that may be traced.--_n._
TRACE'ABLENESS.--_adv._ TRACE'ABLY.--_ns._ TR[=A]'CER; TR[=A]'CERY,
ornamentation traced in flowing outline: the beautiful forms in stone with
which the arches of Gothic windows are filled for the support of the glass.
[Fr.,--L. _tructus_, pa.p. of _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

TRACE, tr[=a]s, _n._ one of the straps by which a vehicle is drawn. [O. Fr.
_trays_, _trais_, same as _traits_, pl. of _trait_; cf. TRAIT.]

TRACHEA, tra-k[=e]'a, _n._ that part of the air-passages which lies between
the larynx and the bronchi:--_pl._ TRACH[=E]'Æ.--_adjs._ TR[=A]'CH[=E]AL,
pertaining to the trachea; TR[=A]'CH[=E]AN, having tracheæ.--_n.pl._
TR[=A]CH[=E][=A]'RIA, the tracheate arachnidans.--_adjs._
TR[=A]CH[=E][=A]'RIAN, pertaining to the tracheate arachnidans;
TRA'CH[=E][=A]RY, pertaining to the trachea; TR[=A]'CH[=E][=A]TE, -D,
having a trachea.--_ns._ TR[=A]CHENCH'YMA, tracheary tissue;
TR[=A]CH[=E][=O]BRANCH'IA, a breathing-organ of certain aquatic insect
larvæ.--_adj._ TR[=A]CH[=E][=O]BRONCH'IAL, pertaining to the trachea and
the bronchi.--_n._ TR[=A]CH[=E]'[=O]C[=E]LE, an enlargement of the thyroid
gland.--_adj._ TR[=A]CH[=E][=O]SCOP'IC, pertaining to tracheoscopy.--_ns._
TR[=A]CH[=E]'[=O]SCOPIST, one who practises tracheoscopy;
TR[=A]CH[=E]'[=O]SC[=O]PY, the inspection of the trachea; TR[=A]'CHEOTOME,
a knife used in tracheotomy; TR[=A]CH[=E]OT'[=O]MIST, one who practices
tracheotomy; TR[=A]CHEOT'OMY, the operation of making an opening in the
trachea; TR[=A]CH[=I]'TIS, TRACH[=E][=I]'TIS, inflammation of the trachea.
[L. _trach[=i]a_--Gr. _trachys_, _tracheia_, rough.]

TRACHELIUM, tr[=a]-k[=e]'li-um, _n._ the neck of a column: a genus of
_Campanulaceæ_, native to the Mediterranean region.--_adj._
TR[=A]CH[=E]LO-OCCIP'ITAL, pertaining to the nape of the neck and the
hind-head. [Gr. _trach[=e]los_, the neck.]

TRACHINUS, tr[=a]-k[=i]'nus, _n._ the typical genus of _Trachinidæ_, a
family of acanthopterygian fishes, the weevers. [Gr. _trachys_, rough.]

TRACHLE, TRAUCHLE, träh'l, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to draggle: to fatigue.--_n._ a
long and exhausting effort.--_adj._ TRACH'LY, dirty, slovenly.

TRACHOMA, tra-k[=o]'ma, _n._ a disease of the eye, with hard pustules on
the inner surface of the eyelids.

TRACHURUS, tr[=a]-k[=u]'rus, _n._ a genus of carangoid fishes, the saurels.
[Gr. _trachys_, rough, _oura_, tail.]

TRACHYTE, tr[=a]'k[=i]t, _n._ a crystalline igneous rock, generally grayish
in colour, usually fine-grained or compact, more or less markedly
porphyritic, with large crystals of sanidine and scales of black
mica.--_adjs._ TRACHYT'IC; TRACH'YTOID. [Gr. _trachys_, rough.]

TRACING, tr[=a]'sing, _n._ act of one who traces: act of copying by marking
on thin paper the lines of a pattern placed beneath: the copy so
produced.--_n._ TR[=A]'CING-P[=A]'PER, a transparent paper which, when laid
over a drawing, &c., allows the drawing to be seen through it, so that a
copy can be made by tracing the lines of the original on the paper.

TRACK, trak, _v.t._ to follow by marks or footsteps: to tow: to traverse:
to make marks upon.--_n._ a mark left: footprint: a beaten path: course
laid out for horse, foot, or bicycle races: the two continuous lines of
rails on which railway carriages run.--_ns._ TRACK'AGE, a drawing or
towing, as of a boat; TRACK'-BOAT, a boat towed by a line from the shore;
TRACK'-CLEAR'ER, a guard in front of the wheels of a locomotive, &c., to
clear any obstruction from the track; TRACK'ER, one who, or that which,
tracks; TRACK'-LAY'ER, a workman engaged in laying railway-tracks.--_adj._
TRACK'LESS, without a path: untrodden.--_adv._ TRACK'LESSLY.--_ns._
TRACK'LESSNESS; TRACK'MAN, one who has charge of a railway-track;
TRACK'-ROAD, a towing-path; TRACK'-WALK'ER, a trackman having charge of a
certain section of railway-track.--IN ONE'S TRACKS, just where one stands;
MAKE TRACKS, to go away hastily, to decamp; MAKE TRACKS FOR, to go after;
OFF THE TRACK, derailed, of a railway carriage, &c.: away from the proper
subject. [Fr. _trac_--Dut. _trek_, draught, _trekken_, to draw.]

TRACT, trakt, _n._ something drawn out or extended: continued duration: a
region, area: a short treatise: an anthem sung instead of the Alleluia
after the gradual, or instead of it, from Septuagesima till
Easter-eve.--_n._ TRACTABIL'ITY, quality or state of being tractable:
docility.--_adj._ TRAC'TABLE, easily drawn, managed, or taught:
docile.--_n._ TRAC'TABLENESS.--_adv._ TRAC'TABLY.--_n._ TRAC'TATE, a
treatise, tract.--_adj._ TRAC'TILE, that may be drawn out.--_ns._
TRACTIL'ITY, the quality of being tractile: ductility; TRAC'TION, act of
drawing or state of being drawn; TRAC'TION-EN'GINE, a steam vehicle for
hauling heavy weights along a road, &c.--_adj._ TRAC'TIVE, that draws or
pulls.--_ns._ TRAC'TOR, that which draws, esp. in _pl._ metallic tractors,
two bars of iron and of steel, drawn over diseased parts of the body to
give supposed relief; TRACTOR[=A]'TION, the use of metallic tractors in
medicine. [L. _tractus_, pa.p. of _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

TRACTARIAN, trakt-[=a]r'i-an, _n._ one of the writers of the famous _Tracts
for the Times_, published at Oxford during the years 1833-41--Pusey,
Newman, Keble, Hurrell Froude, and Isaac Williams.--_ns._
TRACT[=A]R'IANISM, the system of religious opinion promulgated in these,
its main aim to assert the authority and dignity of the Anglican Church;
TRACT[=A]'TOR, one of the writers of the foregoing.

TRADE, tr[=a]d, _n._ buying and selling: commerce: occupation, craft; men
engaged in the same occupation: rubbish.--_v.i._ to buy and sell: to act
merely for money.--_v.i._ to traffic with.--_adjs._ TR[=A]D'ED (_Shak._),
versed, practised; TRADE'FUL (_Spens._), commercial, busy in
traffic.--_ns._ TRADE'-HALL, a hall for the meetings of any trade or guild;
TRADE'-MARK, any name or distinctive device warranting goods for sale as
the production of any individual or firm; TRADE'-PRICE, the price at which
goods are sold to members of the same trade, or are sold by wholesale to
retail dealers; TR[=A]'DER; TRADE'-SALE, an auction sale of goods by
producers, &c., to persons in the trade.--_n.pl._ TRADES'-FOLK, people
employed in trade.--_n._ TRADES'MAN, a common name for a shopkeeper: a
mechanic:--_fem._ TRADES'WOMAN.--_n.pl._ TRADES'PEO'PLE, people employed in
various trades, esp. shopkeeping, &c.--_ns._ TRADES'-UN'ION, TRADE'-UN'ION,
an organised association of the workmen of any trade or industry for the
protection of their common interests; TRADE'-UN'IONISM; TRADE'-UN'IONIST;
TRADE'-WIND, a wind blowing steadily toward the thermal equator and
deflected westwardly by the eastward rotation of the earth.--_adj._
TR[=A]'DING, carrying on commerce (also _n._): (_Milt._) frequented by
traders, denoting places where the trade-winds blow.--TRADE ON, to take
advantage of.--BOARD OF TRADE, a department of government for control of
railways, mercantile marine, harbours, and commercial matters generally.
[A.S. _træd_, pa.t. of tredan, to tread. Not Fr. _traite_, transport of
goods--L. _tract[=a]re_, freq. of _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

TRADE, tr[=a]d, _n._ (_Spens._) same as TREAD: (_Shak._) beaten path.

TRADITION, tra-dish'un, _n._ the handing down of opinions or practices to
posterity unwritten: a belief or practice thus handed down.--_adjs._
TRADI'TIONAL, TRADI'TIONARY, delivered by tradition.--_ns._
TRADI'TIONALISM; TRADITIONAL'ITY.--_advs._ TRADI'TIONALLY,
TRADI'TIONARILY.--_n._ TRADI'TIONIST, one who adheres to tradition.--_adj._
TRAD'ITIVE, traditional. [L.,--_trans_, over, _d[)a]re_, to give.]

TRADITOR, trad'i-tor, _n._ one of those early Christians who under
persecution gave up copies of the Scriptures, the sacred vessels, or the
names of their fellow-Christians. [L.,--_trad[)e]re_; to give up.]

TRADUCE, tra-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to calumniate: to defame.--_ns._ TRADUCE'MENT,
the act of traducing: (_Shak._) misrepresentation, calumny;
TRAD[=U]'CER.--_adj._ TRAD[=U]'CIBLE.--_adv._ TRAD[=U]'CINGLY. [L.
_traduc[)e]re_, to lead along--_trans_, across, _duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

TRADUCTION, tra-duk'shun, _n._ the act of transferring, conveyance:
(_Spens._) transfer: transmission from one to another, tradition:
derivation from one of the same kind.--_ns._ TRAD[=U]'CIAN, one who
believes in traducianism; TRAD[=U]'CIANISM, the belief, long prevalent in
the Western Church, that children receive soul as well as body from their
parents through natural generation--every soul being a fresh creation--also
_Generationism_.--_adj._ TRADUC'TIVE.

TRAFFIC, traf'ik, _n._ commerce: large trade: the business done on a
railway, &c.--_v.i._ to trade: to trade meanly.--_v.t._ to
exchange:--_pr.p._ traff'icking; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ traff'icked.--_n._
TRAFF'ICKER.--_adj._ TRAFF'ICLESS.--_n._ TRAFF'IC-MAN'AGER, the manager of
the traffic on a railway, &c. [O. Fr. _trafique_; cf. It. _trafficare_,
prob. from L. _trans_, across, and Low L. _vic[=a]re_, to exchange--L.
_vicis_, change; not from fac[)e]re, to make.]

TRAGACANTH, trag'a-kanth, _n._ a name given to several low spiny shrubs of
the genus _Astragalus_, found in western Asia, as well as to the
mucilaginous substance or gum derived from them.

TRAGALISM, trag'a-lizm, _n._ goatishness, lust.

TRAGEDY, traj'e-di, _n._ a species of drama in which the action and
language are elevated, and the catastrophe sad: any mournful and dreadful
event.--_n._ TRAG[=E]'DIAN, an actor of tragedy:--_fem._
TRAG[=E]'DIENNE.--_adjs._ TRAG'IC, -AL, pertaining to tragedy: sorrowful:
calamitous.--_adv._ TRAG'ICALLY.--_ns._ TRAG'ICALNESS; TRAG'I-COM'EDY, a
dramatic piece in which grave and comic scenes are blended.--_adjs._
TRAG'I-COM'IC, -AL.--_adv._ TRAG'I-COM'ICALLY. [Lit. 'goat-song,' so called
either from the old dramas being exhibited when a goat was sacrificed, or
from a goat being the prize, or because the actors were dressed in
goat-skins--L. _tragoedia_--Gr. _trag[=o]dia_--_tragos_, a he-goat,
_aoidos_, _[=o]dos_, a singer--_aeidein_, _adein_, to sing.]

TRAGELAPHUS, tr[=a]-jel'a-fus, _n._ a fabulous animal associated with
Diana: a genus of African antelopes, the boschbok, &c. [Gr.,--_tragos_, a
goat, _elaphos_, a deer.]

TRAGOPAN, trag'[=o]-pan, _n._ a genus of birds in the pheasant family,
represented by five species in India and China, of most brilliant plumage.

TRAGULINE, trag'[=u]-lin, _adj._ goat-like.

TRAGUS, tr[=a]'gus, _n._ a small prominence at the entrance of the external
ear: a corresponding process in bats, &c. [Gr. _tragos_.]

TRAIK, tr[=a]k, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to wander about, to get lost: to decline
in health.--_n._ a misfortune: the mutton of sheep that have died of
disease or accident.--_adj._ TRAIK'ET, worn out.--TRAIK AFTER, to dangle
after.

TRAIL, tr[=a]l, _v.t._ to draw along the ground: to hunt by tracking: to
draw out, lead on: to tread down, as grass, by walking through: to carry,
as a musket or pike, in an oblique forward position, the breech or the butt
near the ground.--_v.i._ to be drawn out in length, to hang or drag loosely
behind: to run or climb as a plant: to move with slow sweeping motion: to
drag one's self lazily along.--_n._ anything drawn out in length: track
followed by the hunter.--_ns._ TRAIL'ER, one who trails: a climbing plant:
a carriage dragged (or trailed) behind another to which the motive power is
applied; TRAIL'-NET, a drag-net. [O. Fr. _traail_--Low L. _trahale_--L.
_traha_, a sledge--_trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

TRAIN, tr[=a]n, _v.t._ to draw along: to allure: to educate: to discipline:
to tame for use, as animals: to cause to grow properly: to prepare men for
athletic feats, or horses for the race.--_v.i._ to exercise, to prepare
one's self for anything: to be under drill: to travel by train: (_coll._)
to be on intimate terms with.--_n._ that which is drawn along after
something else: the part of a dress which trails behind the wearer: a
retinue: a series: process: a clue, trace: a line of gunpowder to fire a
charge: a line of carriages on a railway: a set of wheels acting on each
other, for transmitting motion: a string of animals, &c.: a lure,
stratagem.--_adj._ TRAIN'ABLE, capable of being trained.--_ns._
TRAIN'-BAND, a band of citizens trained to bear arms; TRAIN'-BEAR'ER, one
who bears or holds up a train, as of a robe or gown.--_adj._ TRAINED,
formed by training, skilled.--_ns._ TRAIN'ER, one who prepares men for
athletic feats, horses for a race, or the like; TRAIN'ING, practical
education in any profession, art, or handicraft: the method adopted by
athletes for developing their physical strength, endurance, or dexterity,
or to qualify them for victory in competitive trials of skill, races,
matches, &c.--including both bodily exercise and regulated dieting;
TRAIN'ING-COL'LEGE, -SCHOOL, the same as _Normal school_ (see NORM);
TRAIN'ING-SHIP, a ship equipped with instructors, &c., to train boys for
the sea; TRAIN'-MILE, one of the aggregate number of miles traversed by the
trains of any system--a unit of calculation.--TRAIN FINE, to discipline the
body to a high pitch of effectiveness: to train the intellectual powers.
[Fr. _train_, _trainer_, through Low L. forms from L. _trah[)e]re_, to
draw.]

TRAIN-OIL, tr[=a]n'-oil, _n._ whale-oil extracted from the blubber by
boiling. [Old Dut. _traen_, whale-oil.]

TRAIPSE. See TRAPE.

TRAIT, tr[=a], or tr[=a]t, _n._ a drawing: a touch: a feature. [Fr.,--L.
_tractus_, _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

TRAITOR, tr[=a]'tur, _n._ one who, being trusted, betrays: one guilty of
treason: a deceiver:--_fem._ TRAIT'RESS.--_n._ TRAIT'ORISM.--_adv._
TRAIT'ORLY (_Shak._).--_adj._ TRAIT'OROUS, like a traitor: perfidious:
treasonable.--_adv._ TRAIT'OROUSLY.--_n._ TRAIT'OROUSNESS. [Fr.
_traître_--L. _traditor_--_trad[)e]re_, to give up.]

TRAJECTORY, tra-jek't[=o]-ri, _n._ the curve described by a body (as a
planet or a projectile) under the action of given forces.--_v.t._ TRAJECT',
to throw across.--_ns._ TRAJ'ECT, a ferry: transmission; TRAJEC'TION, a
crossing. [From L. _trajic[)e]re_, _-jectum_--_trans_, across, _jac[)e]re_,
to throw.]

TRAM, tram, _n._ a tramway or tramway-line: a four-wheeled coal-wagon in
pits: a beam, bar, the shaft of a cart, barrow, &c.--_ns._ TRAM'-CAR, a
tramway-car; TRAM'POT, the socket in which an upright spindle is stepped;
TRAM'-ROAD, TRAM'WAY, a road or way for carriages or wagons to run along
easily; TRAM'WAY-CAR, a carriage for conveying passengers along the public
streets, running on rails, drawn by horses or impelled by cable traction,
electrical power, or steam. [Prov. Eng. _tram_, a beam, is prob. cog. with
Sw. dial. _tromm_, a log, Low Ger. _traam_, a beam, &c.]

TRAMMEL, tram'el, _n._ a net used in fowling and fishing: shackles for
making a horse amble: anything that confines.--_v.t._ to shackle: to
confine:--_pr.p._ tramm'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tramm'elled.--_n._
TRAMM'ELLER. [O. Fr. _tramail_, a net--Low L. _tramacula_, from L. _tres_,
three, _macula_, a mesh.]

TRAMONTANE, tra-mon't[=a]n, _adj._ lying beyond the mountains (originally
the Alps), from Rome: foreign: uncivilised.--_n._ TRAMONTÄ'NA, the north
wind. [L. _trans_, beyond, _mons_, _montis_, a mountain.]

TRAMP, tramp, _v.t._ to tread, to travel over on foot: (_Scot._) to tread
clothes in a tub of water so as to cleanse them.--_v.i._ to walk, to go on
foot: to wander about as a vagrant.--_n._ a foot-journey: a vagrant: a
plate of iron worn by diggers under the hollow of the foot to save the
shoe.--_n._ TRAMP'ER.--_vs.i._ TRAM'POUS, TRAM'POOSE, to tramp about.--_n._
TRAMP'-PICK, an iron pick forced by the foot into the ground. [M. E.
_trampen_; an extension of _trap_, _trip_; cf. Ger. _trampen_.]

TRAMPLE, tramp'l, _v.t._ to tread under foot: to tread with pride, to
insult.--_v.i._ to tread in contempt: to tread forcibly and rapidly.--_n._
a trampling.--_n._ TRAMP'LER. [A freq. of _tramp_.]

TRANCE, trans, _n._ a morbid sleep, differing from natural repose in
duration, in profound insensibility, &c.--the concomitant or symptom of
diseases of the nervous system, particularly hysteria: catalepsy.--_adv._
TRANCED (_Shak._), lying in a trance or ecstasy.--_adv._ TRANC'EDLY. [Fr.
_transe_--L. _transitum_--_trans-[=i]re_, to go across, in Late L. to die.]

TRANECT, tra-nekt', _n._ (_Shak._) a ferry. [L. _trans_, across,
_nect[)e]re_, to join.]

TRANGLE, trang'gl, _n._ (_her._) one of the diminutives of the fesse.

TRANGRAM, trang'gram, _n._ a trumpery gimcrack.--Also TRANK'UM.

TRANK, trangk, _n._ an oblong piece of skin from which the pieces for a
glove are cut.

TRANKA, trang'kä, _n._ a long cylindrical box balanced on their feet by
jugglers.

TRANQUIL, trang'kwil, _adj._ quiet: peaceful.--_n._
TRANQUILLIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ TRAN'QUILISE, to make tranquil.--_n._
TRANQUILL[=I]'SER.--_adv._ TRAN'QUILLISINGLY.--_n._ TRANQUILL'ITY.--_adv._
TRAN'QUILLY.--_n._ TRAN'QUILNESS, state of being tranquil: quietness.
[Fr.,--L. _tranquillus_.]

TRANSACT, trans-akt', _v.t._ to manage: to perform.--_v.i._ to manage
anything.--_ns._ TRANSAC'TION, act of transacting: management of any
affair: an affair: (_pl._) the reports or publications of certain learned
societies; TRANSAC'TOR. [L. _transactum_, pa.p. of
_transig[)e]re_--_trans_, through, _ag[)e]re_, carry on.]

TRANSALPINE, trans-al'pin, _adj._ beyond the _Alps_ (in regard to Rome).
[L. _transalpinus_--_trans_, beyond, _Alpinus_, pertaining to the Alps.]

TRANSATLANTIC, trans-at-lan'tik, _adj._ beyond the Atlantic Ocean: crossing
the Atlantic.

TRANSCEND, tran-send', _v.t._ to rise above: to surmount: to surpass: to
exceed.--_ns._ TRANSCEN'DENCE, TRANSCEN'DENCY.--_adjs._ TRANSCEN'DENT,
transcending: superior or supreme in excellence: surpassing others: as
applicable to _being_, relating to the absolute, transcending all
limitation--as applicable to _knowledge_, pertaining to what transcends
experience, being given _à priori_: beyond human knowledge: abstrusely
speculative, fantastic; TRANSCENDEN'TAL, transcending: supereminent,
surpassing others: concerned with what is independent of experience:
vague.--_v.t._ TRANSCENDEN'TALISE.--_ns._ TRANSCENDEN'TALISM, the
investigation of what is _à priori_ in human knowledge, or independent of
experience: that which is vague and illusive in philosophy: the American
reaction against Puritan prejudices, humdrum orthodoxy, old-fashioned
metaphysics, materialistic philistinism, and materialism--best associated
with the name of R. W. Emerson (1803-82); TRANSCENDEN'TALIST.--_advs._
TRANSCENDEN'TALLY; TRANSCEN'DENTLY.--_n._ TRANSCEN'DENTNESS. [L. _trans_,
beyond, _scand[)e]re_, to climb.]

TRANSCRIBE, tran-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to write over from one book into
another: to copy.--_ns._ TRANSCRIB'ER; TRANS'CRIPT, that which is
transcribed: a copy; TRANSCRIP'TION, the act of copying: a transcript: a
copy.--_adjs._ TRANSCRIP'TIONAL; TRANSCRIP'TIVE.--_adv._ TRANSCRIP'TIVELY.
[L. _transcrib[)e]re_, _-scriptum_--_trans_, over, _scrib[)e]re_, to
write.]

TRANSCURRENT, trans-kur'ent, _adj._ passing transversely, as the postfrena
of a beetle.

TRANSDUCTOR, trans-duk'tor, _n._ that which draws across, esp. a muscle of
the great-toe.--_n._ TRANSDUC'TION, the act of carrying over.

TRANSENNA, tran-sen'a, _n._ a lattice-grating for enclosing shrines, as
those of martyrs, while yet allowing the coffer to be seen.

TRANSEPT, tran'sept, _n._ one of the wings or cross-aisles of a church, at
right angles to the nave. [L. _trans_, across, _septum_, an
enclosure--_sepes_, a hedge.]

TRANSFARD, trans-fard', _p.adj._ (_Spens._) transferred.

TRANSFER, trans-f[.e]r', _v.t._ to carry or bring over: to convey to
another place: to remove: to transport:--_pr.p._ transfer'ring; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ transferred'.--_ns._ TRANS'FER, the act of transferring: the
conveyance of anything from one person or place to another: that which is
transferred; TRANSFERABIL'ITY, TRANSFERRIBIL'ITY.--_adjs._ TRANSFER'ABLE,
TRANSFER'RIBLE, that may be transferred or conveyed from one place or
person to another.--_ns._ TRANS'FER-BOOK, a register of the transfer of
property, shares, &c.; TRANS'FER-DAY, one of certain regular days for
registering transfer of bank-stock and government funds at the Bank of
England; TRANSFER[=EE]', the person to whom a thing is transferred;
TRANS'FERENCE, the act of transferring or conveying from one person or
place to another: passage from one place to another; TRANS'FER-P[=A]'PER, a
kind of prepared paper used for transferring impressions with
copying-presses, &c.; TRANSFER'RER. [L. _trans_, across, _ferre_, to
carry.]

TRANSFIGURATION, trans-fig-[=u]r-[=a]'shun, _n._ a change of form.--_v.t._
TRANSFIG'URE (_rare_), to change the figure or form of: to change the
appearance of--also TRANSFIG'[=U]R[=A]TE.--_n._ TRANSFIG'UREMENT.--THE
TRANSFIGURATION, the supernatural change in the appearance of Christ,
described in Matt. xvii.: a festival on 6th August, in commemoration of it.

TRANSFIX, trans-fiks', _v.t._ to pierce through.--_n._ TRANSFIS'SION,
cross-section.--_adj._ TRANSFIXED'.--_n._ TRANSFIX'ION.

TRANSFLUENT, trans'fl[=oo]-ent, _adj._ flowing through.--_n._ TRANSFLUX', a
flowing through.

TRANSFORATE, trans'f[=o]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to bore through.--_n._
TRANSFOR[=A]'TION.

TRANSFORM, trans-form', _v.t._ to change the shape of: to change into
another substance: to change the disposition.--_v.i._ to be changed in form
or substance.--_adj._ TRANSFOR'MABLE.--_ns._ TRANSFORM[=A]'TION, change of
form or substance, metamorphosis: the change of one metal into another:
(_path._) any morbid change in a part; TRANSFORM[=A]'TION-SCENE, any scene
on the stage which changes in presence of the audience.--_adj._
TRANSFOR'MATIVE.--_ns._ TRANSFOR'M[=A]TOR, TRANSFOR'MER.--_p.adj._
TRANSFOR'MING, effecting, or able to effect, a change of form or
state.--_ns._ TRANSFOR'MISM, the theory of the development of one species
from another; TRANSFOR'MIST.--_adj._ TRANSFORMIS'TIC.

TRANSFRONTIER, trans-fron't[=e]r, _adj._ beyond the frontier.

TRANSFUGE, trans'f[=u]j, _n._ a deserter.--Also TRANSF[=U]'GITIVE. [L.
_transfuga_, a deserter.]

TRANSFUND, trans-fund', _v.t._ to transfuse.

TRANSFUSE, trans-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to pour out into another vessel: to cause
to pass from one to another: to cause to be imbibed.--_n._
TRANSF[=U]'SER.--_adj._ TRANSF[=U]'SIBLE, capable of being
transfused.--_ns._ TRANSF[=U]'SION, the act of transfusing, esp. blood from
the veins of one animal into another; TRANSF[=U]'SIONIST.--_adj._
TRANSF[=U]'SIVE, tending or having power to transfuse.--_adv._
TRANSF[=U]'SIVELY. [L. _trans_, over, _fund[)e]re_, _fusum_, to pour.]

TRANSGRESS, trans-gres', _v.t._ to pass beyond a limit: to break, as a
law.--_v.i._ to offend by violating a law: to sin.--_adj._
TRANSGRES'SIBLE.--_n._ TRANSGRES'SION, the act of transgressing: violation
of a law or command: offence: fault: crime: sin.--_adjs._ TRANSGRES'SIONAL;
TRANSGRES'SIVE.--_adv._ TRANSGRES'SIVELY.--_n._ TRANSGRES'SOR, one who
transgresses: one who violates a law or command: a sinner. [L. _trans_,
across, _gradi_, _gressus_, to step.]

TRANSHIP, tran-ship', _v.t._ to convey from one ship into another, or from
one conveyance to another.--_ns._ TRANSHIP'MENT; TRANSHIP'PER;
TRANSHIP'PING.

TRANSHUMAN, trans-h[=u]'man, _adj._ more than human.--_v.t._
TRANSH[=U]'MANISE, to elevate into a higher or heavenly nature.

TRANSIENT, tran'shent, _adj._ passing: of short duration: not lasting:
momentary: (_mus._) intermediate.--_ns._ TRAN'SIENCE, TRAN'SIENCY,
transientness.--_adv._ TRAN'SIENTLY.--_n._ TRAN'SIENTNESS. [L.
_transiens_--_trans_, across, _[=i]re_, _itum_, to go.]

TRANSILIENT, tran-sil'i-ent, _adj._ leaping across.--_n._ TRANSIL'IENCY.
[L. _trans[=i]lire_, to leap across.]

TRANSILLUMINATION, trans-il-l[=u]-mi-n[=a]'shun, _n._ a shining through.

TRANSISTHMIAN, trans-ist'mi-an, _adj._ extending across an isthmus.

TRANSIT, tran'sit, _n._ a passing over: conveyance: (_astron._) the passage
of a heavenly body over the meridian of a place: the passage of a planet
over the sun's disc: a transit circle, or instrument, for observing the
transit of a heavenly body across the meridian.--_ns._ TRANS'IT-D[=U]'TY, a
duty chargeable on goods passing through a country; TRANS'IT-IN'STRUMENT,
an astronomical telescope mounted in the meridian and turning on a fixed
east and west axis; TRANSI'TION, passage from one place or state to
another: change: (_mus._) a change of key.--_adjs._ TRANSI'TIONAL,
TRANSI'TIONARY, containing or denoting transition: of intermediate
character between species or genera, transmutational: characteristic of one
epoch or style in its transition to another.--_adv._
TRANSI'TIONALLY.--_adj._ TRANS'ITIVE, passing over: having the power of
passing: (_gram._) denoting a verb which has a direct object.--_adv._
TRANS'ITIVELY.--_n._ TRANS'ITIVENESS.--_adv._ TRANS'ITORILY.--_n._
TRANS'ITORINESS.--_adj._ TRANS'ITORY, going or passing away: lasting for a
short time: speedily vanishing.--_n._ TRANS'IT-TRADE, the trade of carrying
foreign goods through a country.

TRANSLATE, trans-l[=a]t', _v.t._ to remove to another place: to render into
another language: to explain: to transfer from one office to another: to
transform.--_adj._ TRANSL[=A]'TABLE, capable of being translated or
rendered into another language.--_n._ TRANSL[=A]'TION, the act of
translating: removal to another place: the rendering into another language:
a version: (_slang_) the process of working up new things from old
materials: motion free from rotation: the automatic retransmission of a
telegraphic message.--_adjs._ TRANSL[=A]'TIONAL, TRANS'L[=A]TORY.--_n._
TRANSL[=A]'TOR:--_fem._ TRANSL[=A]'TRESS. [Fr.,--L. _trans_, over, _ferre_,
_latum_, to carry.]

TRANSLEITHAN, trans-l[=i]'than, _adj._ beyond the Leitha, the boundary
river between the archduchy of Austria and Hungary.

TRANSLITERATE, trans-lit'e-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to express the words of one
language in the alphabetic characters of another.--_ns._
TRANSLITER[=A]'TION; TRANSLIT'ER[=A]TOR.

TRANSLUCENT, trans-l[=u]'sent, _adj._ shining through: allowing light to
pass, but not transparent: clear.--_ns._ TRANSL[=U]'CENCE,
TRANSL[=U]'CENCY.--_adv._ TRANSL[=U]'CENTLY.--_adj._ TRANSL[=U]'CID,
translucent. [L. _translucens_--_trans_, across, _luc[=e]re_, to
shine--_lux_, _lucis_, light.]

TRANSLUNAR, trans-l[=u]'nar, _adj._ beyond the moon.--Also TRANS'L[=U]NARY.

TRANSMARINE, trans-ma-r[=e]n', _adj._ across or beyond the sea.

TRANSMEABLE, trans'm[=e]-a-bl, _adj._ capable of being traversed.--_v.t._
TRANS'M[=E]ATE.--_n._ TRANSME[=A]'TION.

TRANSMEW, trans-m[=u]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to transmute, to transpose.

TRANSMIGRATE, trans'mi-gr[=a]t, _v.i._ to migrate or remove across, esp. to
another country: to pass into another country or state.--_adj._
TRANS'MIGRANT.--_ns._ TRANSMIGR[=A]'TION, the act of removing to another
country: the passing into another state: the passage of the soul after
death into another body; TRANS'MIGR[=A]TOR.--_adj._ TRANSM[=I]'GR[=A]TORY,
passing to another place, body, or state.

TRANSMIT, trans-mit', _v.t._ to send across to another person or place: to
suffer to pass through:--_pr.p._ transmit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
transmit'ted.--_n._ TRANSMISSIBIL'ITY.--_adjs._ TRANSMIS'SIBLE,
TRANSMIT'TIBLE, that may be transmitted from one to another, or through any
body or substance.--_ns._ TRANSMIS'SION, TRANSMIT'TAL, act of transmitting:
the sending from one place or person to another: passage through.--_adj._
TRANSMIS'SIVE, transmitted: derived from one to another.--_ns._
TRANSMIT'TANCE, transfer; TRANSMIT'TER. [L. _trans_, across, _mitt[)e]re_,
_missum_, to send.]

TRANSMOGRIFY, trans-mog'ri-f[=i], _v.t._ (_coll._) to transform into
something else, as by magic.--_n._ TRANSMOGRIFIC[=A]'TION.

TRANSMONTANE, trans-mon-t[=a]n', _adj._ across a mountain.

TRANSMORPHISM, trans-mor'fizm, _n._ the evolution of one thing from
another. [L. _trans_, over, Gr. _morph[=e]_, form.]

TRANSMOVE, trans-m[=oo]v', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to transpose.

TRANSMUTE, trans-m[=u]t', _v.t._ to change to another form or
substance.--_adj._ TRANSM[=U]'TABLE, that may be transmuted or changed into
a different form, nature, or substance.--_ns._ TRANSM[=U]'TABLENESS,
TRANSM[=U]TABIL'ITY.--_adv._ TRANSM[=U]'TABLY.--_adj._
TRANSM[=U]'TANT.--_ns._ TRANSM[=U]T[=A]'TION, a changing into a different
form, nature, or substance; TRANSM[=U]T[=A]'TIONIST.--_adj._
TRANSM[=U]'TATIVE.--_n._ TRANSM[=U]'TER. [L. _trans_, over, _mut[=a]re_, to
change.]

TRANSNORMAL, trans-nor'mal, _adj._ beyond what is normal.

TRANSOCEANIC, trans-[=o]-sh[=e]-an'ik, _adj._ crossing the ocean.

TRANSOM, tran'sum, _n._ a thwart beam or lintel, esp. the horizontal
mullion or crossbar of a window: in ships, the beam across the sternpost to
strengthen the afterpart.--_n._ TRANS'OM-WIN'DOW, a window divided into two
parts by a transom. [L. _transtrum_, a cross-bank--_trans_, across.]

TRANSPADANE, trans-p[=a]'d[=a]n, _adj._ situated beyond the Po (L.
_Padanus_), with reference to Rome.

TRANSPARENCY, trans-p[=a]r'en-si, _n._ the quality of being transparent:
clearness: that which is transparent: a picture on semi-transparent
material seen by means of light shining through, a positive picture on
glass, to be viewed by transmitted light: a humorous translation of the
German title _Durchlaucht_--also TRANSP[=A]R'ENCE.--_adj._ TRANSP[=A]R'ENT,
that may be distinctly seen through: clear.--_adv._
TRANSP[=A]R'ENTLY.--_n._ TRANSP[=A]R'ENTNESS. [L. _trans_, through,
_par[=e]re_, to appear.]

TRANSPICUOUS, tran-spik'[=u]-us, _adj._ (_Milt._) that can be seen through,
transparent. [L. _transpic[)e]re_, to see through--_trans_, through,
_spec[)e]re_, to look.]

TRANSPIERCE, trans-p[=e]rs', _v.t._ to pierce through: to permeate.

TRANSPIRE, tran-sp[=i]r', _v.t._ to breathe or pass through the pores of
the skin.--_v.i._ to exhale: to become public, to come to light: to occur
(a bad use).--_adj._ TRANSP[=I]R'ABLE.--_n._ TRANSPIR[=A]'TION, act or
process of transpiring; exhalation through the skin.--_adj._
TRANSP[=I]R'ATORY.--_n._ TRANS'PIRY, act of transpiring. [L. _trans_,
through, _spir[=a]re_, to breathe.]

TRANSPLANT, trans-plant', _v.t._ to remove and plant in another place: to
remove.--_adj._ TRANSPLAN'TABLE.--_ns._ TRANSPLANT[=A]'TION, act of
transplanting, the removal of a living plant to another place, the removal
of living tissue from one part of the body, or from one individual, to
another; TRANSPLAN'TER, a machine for moving trees.

TRANSPONTINE, trans-pon'tin, _adj._ situated across a bridge, esp.
belonging to the part of London on the Surrey side of the Thames, hence
melodramatic from the tastes of the theatres there.

TRANSPORT, trans-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to carry across or from one place to
another: to banish: to carry away by violence of passion or
pleasure.--_ns._ TRANS'PORT, carriage from one place to another: a vessel
for conveyance: the conveyance of troops and their necessaries by sea or
land: ecstasy; TRANSPORTABIL'ITY.--_adj._ TRANSPOR'TABLE, that may be
carried across.--_ns._ TRANSPOR'TAL, transportation; TRANSPOR'TANCE
(_Shak._), conveyance, removal; TRANSPORT[=A]'TION, removal:
banishment.--_p.adj._ TRANSPOR'TED, carried away with ecstatic
emotion.--_adv._ TRANSPOR'TEDLY.--_ns._ TRANSPOR'TEDNESS;
TRANSPOR'TER.--_p.adj._ TRANSPOR'TING, carrying away with emotion:
passionate: ravishing.--_adv._ TRANSPOR'TINGLY.--_ns._ TRANS'PORT-RID'ER, a
carrier; TRANS'PORT-SHIP, -VESS'EL, a ship used for transporting, esp. for
conveying troops, stores, &c. [L. _trans_, across, _port[=a]re_, to carry.]

TRANSPOSE, trans-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to put each in the place of the other: to
change, as the order of words, or the key in music.--_adj._
TRANSP[=O]'SABLE.--_ns._ TRANSP[=O]'SAL, a change of place or order;
TRANSP[=O]'SER; TRANSPOSI'TION, act of putting one thing in place of
another: state of being transposed; a change of the order of words:
(_mus._) a change of key into a higher or lower scale.--_adjs._
TRANSPOSI'TIONAL; TRANSPOS'ITIVE.--_adv._ TRANSPOS'ITIVELY.--_n._
TRANSPOS'ITOR. [Fr.,--L. _transpon[)e]re_--_trans_, across, _pon[)e]re_, to
place.]

TRANSPRINT, trans-print', _v.t._ to print out of place.

TRANS-SHAPE, trans-sh[=a]p', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to change into another shape,
to transform.

TRANS-SHIP. Same as TRANSHIP.

TRANSUBSTANTIATE, tran-sub-stan'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to change to another
substance.--_ns._ TRANSUBSTANTI[=A]'TION, a change into another substance:
(_R.C._) the conversion, in the consecration of the elements of the
Eucharist, of the whole substance of the bread and wine into Christ's body
and blood, only the appearances of bread and wine remaining;
TRANSUBSTANTI[=A]'TIONALIST, TRANSUBSTAN'TI[=A]TOR. [L. _trans_, across,
_substantia_, a substance.]

TRANSUDE, tran-s[=u]d', _v.i._ to ooze or pass through the pores or
interstices of a membrane or substance.--_pr.p._ trans[=u]d'ing; _pa.p._
trans[=u]d'ed.--_n._ TRANSUD[=A]'TION.--_adj._ TRANS[=U]'DATORY. [L.
_trans_, through, _sud[=a]re_, to sweat.]

TRANSUMPTIVE, tran-sump'tiv, _adj._ transferred from one to another.--_ns._
TRANSUMPT', a copy of a writing; TRANSUMP'TION, the act of taking from one
place to another.

TRANSVERBERATE, trans-v[.e]r'be-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to beat or strike through.

TRANSVERSE, trans-v[.e]rs', _adj._ turned or lying across.--_adv._
crosswise.--_n._ TRANSVER'SAL, a line drawn across several others so as to
cut them all.--_adv._ TRANSVER'SALLY.--_adj._ TRANS'VERSARY.--_adv._
TRANSVERSE'LY, in a transverse or cross direction.--_n._ TRANSVER'SION. [L.
_trans_, across, _vert[)e]re_, _versum_, to turn.]

TRANSYLVANIAN, tran-sil-v[=a]'ni-an, _adj._ belonging to _Transylvania_, in
Austro-Hungary.

TRANT, trant, _v.i._ (_prov._) to go about.--_n._ TRAN'TER, a peddler.

TRAP, trap, _n._ an instrument for snaring animals: an ambush: a stratagem:
a contrivance for hindering the passage of foul air from a waste-pipe, &c.:
a trap-door: any rickety structure: a carriage, a vehicle: (_slang_) a
policeman.--_v.t._ to catch in a trap:--_pr.p._ trap'ping; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ trapped.--_ns._ TRAP'-BALL, an old game played with a ball or bat
and trap; TRAP'-DOOR, a door in a floor shutting like the catch of a trap;
TRAP'-FALL, a trap-door which gives way beneath the feet; TRAP'PER, one who
traps animals for their fur, &c.; TRAP'PINESS, the state of being trappy or
unsafe; TRAP'PING; TRAP'-STAIR, a stair or kind of ladder surmounted by a
trap-door.--_adj._ TRAP'PY, treacherous. [A.S. _træppe_; cog. with Old High
Ger. _trapa_, a snare (whence Fr. _trappe_, by which the Eng. word has been
modified).]

TRAP, trap, _n._ a term loosely applied to many rocks of volcanic origin,
so called because lying often in steps or terraces.--_adjs._ TRAP'P[=E]AN,
TRAP'POUS, TRAP'PY.--_ns._ TRAP'-T[=U]'FA, -TUFF, a variety of tufa
consisting of the detrital matter of trap-rock. [Sw. _trapp_--_trappa_, a
stair.]

TRAP, trap, _v.t._ to drape or adorn with gay clothes: to
ornament:--_pr.p._ trap'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ trapped.--_n._ a
horse-cloth: (_pl._) one's personal belongings, luggage.--_n.pl._
TRAP'PINGS, gay clothes: ornaments, esp. those put on horses. [Fr.
_drap_--Low L. _drappus_, cloth; cf. _Drab_, _Drape_.]

TRAPAN, tra-pan', _v.t._ to trap, to ensnare:--_pr.p._ trapan'ning; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ trapanned'.--_n._ a snare: a stratagem: a trapanner.--_n._
TRAPAN'NER. [From _trap_, instrument for snaring.]

TRAPE, tr[=a]p, _v.i._ to run about idly or like a slattern.--_n._ TRAPES,
a slattern: a tramp.--_v.i._ TRAPES, TRAIPSE, to gad about idly.

TRAPEZIUM, tra-p[=e]'zi-um, _n._ a plane figure having four unequal sides,
no two of which are parallel: one of the wrist-bones--also
TRAP[=E]ZE':--_pl._ TRAP[=E]'ZIA, TRAP[=E]'ZIUMS.--_n._ TRAP[=E]ZE', a
swing of one or more cross-bars used in gymnastic exercises.--_adjs._
TRAP[=E]'ZIAN, having opposed trapeziform faces; TRAP[=E]'ZIFORM, having
the form of a trapeze.--_n._ TRAP'EZOID (also TRAP[=E]'ZOID), a plane
four-sided figure like a trapezium, having two of its opposite sides
parallel.--_adj._ TRAPEZOID'AL, having the form of a trapezoid. [Gr.
_trapezion_ dim. of _trapeza_, a table; from _tetra_, four, _pous_,
_podos_, a foot.]

TRAPPIST, trap'ist, _n._ a member of a monastic body, a branch of the
Cistercians, noted for the extreme austerity of the rule--so named from the
abbey of La _Trappe_ in the French department of Orne.--_n._ TRAP'PISTINE,
a nun of this order of La Trappe.

TRASH, trash, _n._ a clog fastened to a dog or other animal to restrain his
movements.--_v.t._ to encumber, check.

TRASH, trash, _v.t._ to crop: to strip off superfluous leaves.--_n._
refuse, matter unfit for food, rubbish good for nothing, a worthless
person.--_n._ TRASH'ERY, trash, rubbish.--_adv._ TRASH'ILY.--_ns._
TRASH'INESS, the state or quality of being trashy; TRASH'TRIE (_Scot._),
trash.--_adj._ TRASH'Y, like trash; worthless. [Prob. Scand., Ice. _tros_,
fallen twigs.]

TRASH, trash, _v.t._ to wear out, to harass.

TRASS, tras, _n._ a volcanic earth used as a hydraulic cement. [Dut.
_tras_.]

TRATTORIA, trat-t[=o]-r[=e]'a, _n._ a cook-shop. [It.]

TRAUMA, traw'ma, _n._ an abnormal condition of the body caused by external
injury.--_adj._ TRAUMAT'IC, produced by wounds.--_adv._
TRAUMAT'ICALLY.--_n._ TRAUM'ATISM, trauma. [Gr., a wound.]

TRAVAIL, trav'[=a]l, _n._ excessive labour: toil: labour in
childbirth.--_v.i._ to labour: to suffer the pains of childbirth.--_p.adj._
TRAV'EILED (_Spens._), toiled. [O. Fr. _travail_--Low L. _travaculum_, a
shackle--L. _trabs_, a beam.]

TRAVAIL, tra-v[=a]'ye, _n._ an appliance used among some North American
Indians as a means of transporting sick persons, goods, &c.--a kind of
litter attached by two poles on each side to a pack-saddle, the other ends
trailing on the ground:--_pl._ TRAVAUX (tra-v[=o]'). [Fr.]

TRAVE, tr[=a]v, _n._ a beam: a wooden frame to confine unruly horses while
being shod. [O. Fr. _traf_, _tref_--L. _trabs_, _trabis_, a beam.]

TRAVEL, trav'el, _v.i._ to walk: to journey: to pass: to move.--_v.t._ to
pass: to journey over:--_pr.p._ trav'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
trav'elled.--_n._ act of passing from place to place: journey: labour:
(_pl._) an account of a journey.--_p.adj._ TRAV'ELLED, having made
journeys: knowing.--_ns._ TRAV'ELLER, one who travels: a wayfarer: one who
travels for a mercantile house: a ring that slides along a rope or spar;
TRAV'ELLER'S-JOY, the virgin's-bower, _Clematis Vitalba_;
TRAV'ELLER'S-TALE, a story that cannot be accepted, a tall story, an
astounding lie, a whopper; TRAV'ELLER'S-TREE, a remarkable Madagascar tree,
its stem resembling a plantain, but sending out leaves only on two opposite
sides, like a great expanded fan.--_adj._ TRAV'ELLING.--_ns._
TRAV'ELLING-BAG, a bag for carrying necessaries on a journey, toilet
articles, &c.; TRAV'ELLING-CARR'IAGE, a heavy carriage, fitted up for
travelling in before railways; TRAV'ELLING-COU'VERT, a set of table
utensils, arranged to pack up easily for travelling; TRAV'ELLING-CRANE, a
crane fixed on a carriage which may be moved on rails; TRAV'ELLING-DRESS, a
plain and easy dress to wear when travelling.--_p.adjs._ TRAV'EL-SOILED,
-STAINED, showing the marks of travel; TRAV'EL-TAINT'ED (_Shak._), fatigued
with travel, harassed. [A form of _travail_.]

TRAVERSE, trav'[.e]rs, _adj._ turned or lying across: denoting a method of
cross-sailing.--_n._ anything laid or built across: something that crosses
or obstructs: a turn: (_law_) a plea containing a denial of some fact
alleged by an opponent: a work for protection from the fire of an enemy: a
gallery from one side of a large building to another.--_v.t._ to cross: to
pass over: to survey: to plane across the grain of the wood: (_law_) to
deny an opponent's allegation.--_v.i._ (_fencing_) to use the motions of
opposition or counteraction: to direct a gun to the right or left of its
position.--_adv._ athwart, crosswise--(_obs._) TRAV'ERS.--_adj._
TRAV'ERSABLE, that may be traversed or denied.--_ns._ TRAV'ERSER;
TRAV'ERSE-T[=A]'BLE, a table or platform for shifting carriages to other
rails; TRAV'ERSING-PLAT'FORM, a platform to support a gun and carriage
which can easily be turned round. [L. _trans_, across, _vert[)e]re_,
_versum_, to turn.]

TRAVERTIN, -E, trav'er-tin, _n._ the Italian name for limestone formed by
springs holding lime in solution. [It. _travertino_--L. _tiburtinus_
(_lapis_), stone of Tibur.]

TRAVESTY, trav'es-ti, _adj._ having on the vesture or appearance of
another: disguised so as to be ridiculous.--_n._ a kind of burlesque in
which the original characters are preserved, the situations
parodied.--_v.t._ to turn into burlesque. [Fr. _travestir_, to disguise--L.
_trans_, over, _vest[=i]re_, to clothe.]

TRAWL, trawl, _v.i._ to fish by dragging a trawl along the bottom.--_v.t._
to drag, to take with a trawl.--_n._ a wide-mouthed bag-net for trawling: a
long line buoyed upon water, with baited hooks at intervals.--_ns._
TRAW'LER, one who, or that which, trawls: a vessel engaged in trawling--a
method adopted in deep-sea fishing; TRAW'LING. [O. Fr. _trauler_, also
_troller_, to go hither and thither.]

TRAY, tr[=a], _n._ a shallow trough-like vessel: a salver. [M. E.
_treye_--A.S. _treg_.]

TRAY, TREY, tr[=a], _n._ the third branch of a deer's antler.

TRAYLED, tr[=a]ld, _p.adj._ (_Spens._) interwoven, adorned.

TRAY-TRIP, tr[=a]'-trip, _n._ (_Shak._) a game at dice.

TREACHERY, trech'[.e]r-i, _n._ faithlessness.--_ns._ TREACH'ER,
TREACH'ETOUR, TREACH'OUR (_obs._), a traitor.--_adj._ TREACH'EROUS, full of
treachery: faithless.--_adv._ TREACH'EROUSLY.--_n._ TREACH'EROUSNESS. [O.
Fr. _tricherie_--_tricher_--Teut., Mid. High Ger. _trechen_, to draw.
_Trick_ is a doublet.]

TREACLE, tr[=e]'kl, _n._ the dark, viscous uncrystallisable syrup obtained
in refining sugar, also the drainings of crude sugar, properly
distinguished from treacle as molasses.--_ns._ TREA'CLE-SLEEP, a sweet and
refreshing sleep; TREA'CLINESS, viscosity.--_adj._ TREA'CLY, composed of,
or like, treacle. [Orig. 'an antidote against the bite of poisonous
animals,' O. Fr. _triacle_--L. _theriacum_--Gr. _th[=e]riaka_ (_pharmaka_),
antidotes against the bites of wild beasts--_th[=e]rion_, a wild beast.]

TREAD, tred, _v.i._ to set the foot down: to walk or go: to copulate, as
fowls.--_v.t._ to walk on: to press with the foot: to trample in contempt:
to subdue:--_pa.t._ trod; _pa.p._ trod or trod'den.--_n._ pressure with the
foot: a step, way of stepping.--_ns._ TREAD'ER; TREAD'ING; TREAD'LE,
TRED'DLE, the part of any machine which the foot moves.--_vs.i._ to work a
treadle.--_ns._ TREAD'LER; TREAD'LING; TREAD'-MILL, a mill in which a
rotary motion is produced by the weight of a person or persons treading or
stepping from one to another of the steps of a cylindrical wheel, used
chiefly as an instrument of prison discipline; TREAD'-WHEEL, a form of
tread-mill with steps on its exterior surface, by treading on which the
wheel is turned.--TREAD DOWN, to trample to destruction; TREAD IN ONE'S
FOOTSTEPS, or STEPS, to follow one's example; TREAD ON, or UPON, to trample
with contempt: to come close after; TREAD ON ONE'S TOES, to give offence to
one; TREAD ON, or UPON, THE HEELS OF, to follow close after; TREAD OUT, to
press out with the feet: to extinguish; TREAD UNDERFOOT, to treat with
scorn: to destroy. [A.S. _tredan_; Ice. _trodha_, Ger. _treten_.]

TREAGUE, tr[=e]g, _n._ (_Spens._) a truce. [It. _tregua_--Low L.
_treuga_--Goth. _triggwa_.]

TREASON, tr[=e]'zn, _n._ betraying of the government or an attempt to
overthrow it: treachery; disloyalty.--_adj._ TREA'SONABLE, pertaining to,
consisting of, or involving treason.--_n._ TREA'SONABLENESS.--_adv._
TREA'SONABLY.--_adj._ TREA'SONOUS.--TREASON FELONY, the crime of desiring
to depose the sovereign, intimidate parliament, stir up a foreign invasion,
&c.--declared by statute in 1848.--CONSTRUCTIVE TREASON, anything which may
be interpreted as equivalent to actual treason by leading naturally to it;
HIGH TREASON, offences against the state; MISPRISION OF TREASON, knowledge
of the principal crime and concealment thereof; PETTY TREASON, the murder
of a husband by a wife, a master by a servant, &c. [O. Fr. _traïson_ (Fr.
_trahison_)--_trahir_--L. _trad[)e]re_, to betray.]

TREASURE, trezh'[=u]r, _n._ wealth stored up: riches: a great quantity
collected: great abundance: anything much valued: (_obs._) a
treasure-house.--_v.t._ to board up: to collect for future use: to value
greatly: to enrich.--_ns._ TREAS'URE-CHEST, a box for keeping articles of
value; TREAS'URE-CIT'Y, a city for stores, magazines, &c.; TREAS'URE-HOUSE,
a house for holding treasures; TREAS'URER, one who has the care of a
treasure or treasury: one who has charge of collected funds;
TREAS'URERSHIP; TREAS'URY, a place where treasure is deposited: a
department of a government which has charge of the finances: one of a class
of subterranean structures, now believed to be merely sepulchral;
TREAS'URY-BENCH, the first row of seats on the Speaker's right hand in the
House of Commons, occupied by the members of the government. [Fr.
_trésor_--L. _thesaurus_--Gr. _th[=e]sauros_.]

TREASURE-TROVE, trezh'[=u]r-tr[=o]v, _n._ treasure or money found in the
earth, the owner unknown. [_Treasure_ and _trové_, pa.p. of O. Fr.
_trover_, to find.]

TREAT, tr[=e]t, _v.t._ to handle in a particular manner: to discourse on:
to entertain, as with food or drink, &c.: to manage in the application of
remedies: to use.--_v.i._ to handle a subject in writing or speaking: to
negotiate: to give an entertainment.--_n._ an entertainment, esp. if of
anything unusual: one's turn to provide such.--_adj._ TREAT'ABLE,
moderate.--_ns._ TREAT'ER; TREAT'ING; TREAT'ISE, a written composition in
which a subject is treated: a formal essay; TREAT'MENT, the act or manner
of treating: management: behaviour to any one: way of applying remedies;
TREAT'Y, the act of treating, negotiation: a formal agreement between
states: (_Shak._, same as ENTREATY). [O. Fr. _traiter_--L. _tract[=a]re_,
to manage--_trah[)e]re_, _tractum_, to draw.]

TREBLE, treb'l, _adj._ triple: threefold: (_mus._) denoting the treble,
that plays or sings the treble.--_n._ the highest of the four principal
parts in the musical scale.--_v.t._ to make three times as much.--_v.i._ to
become threefold:--_pa.p._ treb'led (-ld).--_adj._ TREB'LE-D[=A]'TED,
living three times as long as man.--_n._ TREB'LENESS.--_p.adj._
TREB'LE-SIN'EWED (_Shak._), having threefold sinews, very strong.--_adv._
TREB'LY. [O. Fr.,--L. _triplus_.]

TREBUCHET, treb'[=u]-shet, _n._ a military engine like the ballista. [O.
Fr.]

TRECENTO, tr[=a]-chen't[=o], _n._ the 14th century in Italian art,
&c.--_n._ TRECEN'TIST, an admirer of it. [It.]

TRECHOMETER, tre-kom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an odometer. [Gr. _trechein_, to run,
_metron_, measure.]

TREDDLE. See TREAD.

TREDDLE, tred'l, _n._ (_prov._) dung: (_slang_) a strumpet.

TREDILLE, tre-dil', _n._ a game at cards for three.--Also TREDRILLE'.

TREE, tr[=e], _n._ a plant having a single trunk, woody, branched, and of a
large size: anything like a tree: wood, as in the compounds _axle-tree_,
_saddle-tree_, &c.: a cudgel: (_B._) a cross.--_v.t._ to drive into a tree,
to corner: to form on a tree.--_v.i._ to take refuge in a tree.--_ns._
TREE'-CAC'TUS, the giant cactus or saguaro; TREE'-CALF, a light-brown calf
bookbinding, stained by acids into a conventional pattern, supposed to
resemble the trunk of a tree and its branches; TREE'-DOVE, one of many
arboricole Indian pigeons; TREE'-FERN, a fern with a tree-like, woody stem,
and a head of fronds resembling the leaves of palms, found only in tropical
countries; TREE'-FROG, a family of Amphibians, more closely related in
structure to the toads than to frogs proper.--_adjs._ TREE'LESS, having no
trees; TR[=EE]N, wooden, made of wood: (_Spens._) of trees.--_ns._
TREE'NAIL, TRE'NAIL, a long wooden pin or nail to fasten the planks of a
ship to the timbers; TREE'-NYMPH, a hamadryad; TREE'-OF-LIB'ERTY, a tree
dedicated to liberty, set up in some public place; TREE'-OF-LIFE, arbor
vitæ: a tree in the garden of Eden, described in Gen. ii. 9; TREE'SHIP,
existence as a tree; TREE'-TOP, the top of a tree; TREE'-WOR'SHIP,
dendrolatry. [A.S. _treó_, _treów_; Ice. _tré_, Gr. _drus_, Sans. _dru_.]

TREEN, tr[=e]n, _n._ a territorial division in the Isle of Man.

[Illustration]

TREFOIL, tr[=e]'foil, _n._ a three-leaved plant, as the white and red
clover: (_archit._) an ornament like trefoil.--_n._ TREF'LE, a
trefoil.--_adj._ TREFLE (tref'l[=a]), ending in a three-lobed figure
(_her._). [L. _trifolium_--_tres_, three, _folium_, a leaf.]

TREHALA, tr[=e]-hä'la, _n._ a kind of manna excreted by the insect _Larinus
maculatus_, in the form of cocoons--also _Turkish manna_.--_n._
TR[=E]'HAL[=O]SE, a sugar extracted from trehala.

TREILLAGE, trel'[=a]j, _n._ a frame to train shrubs and fruit-trees upon.
[Fr.]

TREK, trek, _v.i._ to drag a vehicle: to journey by ox-wagon.--_n._ the
distance from one station to another.--_n._ TREK'KER, a traveller. [Dut.
_trekken_, to draw.]

TRELLIS, trel'is, _n._ a structure of cross-barred or lattice work, for
supporting plants, &c.: a shed, &c., of trellis-work.--_adj._ TRELL'ISED,
having a trellis, or formed as a trellis.--_n._ TRELL'IS-WORK,
lattice-work. [O. Fr. _treillis_--L. _trichila_, a bower.]

TREMANDO, tr[=a]-man'd[=o], _adv._ (_mus._) in a trembling, wavering
manner. [It.]

TREMATODA, trem-a-t[=o]'da, _n.pl._ a class of flat-worms whose members are
parasitic in or on a great variety of animals, the body unsegmented,
leaf-like or more or less cylindrical, and provided with adhesive
suckers.--_n._ TREM'ATODE, one of the foregoing--also TREM'ATOID.--_adj._
TREM'ATOID, suctorial. [Gr. _tr[=e]mat[=o]d[=e]s_, porous--_tr[=e]ma_, a
hole.]

TREMBLE, trem'bl, _v.i._ to shake, as from fear, cold, or weakness: to
shiver: to shake, as sound.--_n._ the act of trembling: a morbid
trembling.--_ns._ TREM'BLEMENT; TREM'BLER; TREM'BLING.--_adv._
TREM'BLINGLY.--_n._ TREM'BLING-POP'LAR, the aspen.--_adj._ TREM'BLY,
tremulous.--_adv._ tremulously.--_adjs._ TREM'[=U]LANT, TREM'[=U]LOUS,
trembling: affected with fear: quivering.--_adv._ TREM'[=U]LOUSLY.--_n._
TREM'[=U]LOUSNESS. [O. Fr. _trembler_--L. _tremulus_,
trembling--_trem[)e]re_, to shake.]

TREMELLA, tr[=e]-mel'a, _n._ a genus of fungi, of the division
_Hymenomycetes_, soft and gelatinous, mostly growing on decaying
wood--_Witches' Meat_, _Fairy Butter_.--_adjs._ TREM'ELLOID, TREM'ELLOSE.

TREMENDOUS, tr[=e]-men'dus, _adj._ such as astonishes or terrifies by its
force or greatness: dreadful.--_adv._ TREMEN'DOUSLY.--_n._ TREMEN'DOUSNESS.

TREMEX, tr[=e]'meks, _n._ a genus of hymenopterous insects. [Gr.
_tr[=e]ma_, a hole.]

TREMOLITE, trem'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ one of the amphibole group of minerals,
composed of silica, magnesia, and lime, occurring usually in long prisms,
white or gray, vitreous, translucent to opaque, usually associated with
crystalline schistose rocks.--_adj._ TREMOLIT'IC. [From the Val _Tremola_
in the Alps.]

TREMOLO, trem'[=o]-l[=o], _n._ (_mus._) a tremulous effect suggesting
passion: the device in an organ by which this is produced--also TREM'OLANT,
TREM'ULANT.--_adv._ TREMOLAN'DO, in a tremulous manner. [It.]

TREMOR, trem'or, _n._ a shaking or quivering, any involuntary
shaking.--_adj._ TREM'ORLESS. [_Tremble_.]

TRENCH, trensh, _v.t._ to dig a ditch: to dig deeply with the spade or
plough.--_v.i._ to encroach.--_n._ a long narrow cut in the earth:
(_fort._) an excavation to interrupt the approach of an enemy: an excavated
approach made by besiegers.--_n._ TREN'CHANCY, causticity.--_adjs._
TREN'CHANT, TREN'CHING, cutting: sharp: severe--(_Spens._)
TREN'CHAND.--_ns._ TREN'CHER; TRENCH'-PLOUGH, a plough for trenching or
turning up the land more deeply than usual.--_v.t._ to plough with a
trench-plough. [O. Fr. _trencher_ (Fr. _trancher_), acc. to Littré from L.
_trunc[=a]re_, to maim--_truncus_, maimed.]

TRENCHER, tren'sh[.e]r, _n._ a wooden plate formerly used for cutting meat
on at meals: the table: food: pleasures of the table.--_ns._ TREN'CHER-CAP,
a style of college-cap: a mortar-board; TREN'CHER-FRIEND (_Shak._), one who
frequents the table of another, a parasite; TREN'CHER-KNIGHT, -MAN
(_Shak._), one who can do feats in the way of eating, a feeder;
TREN'CHER-MATE, a table-companion, parasite. [O. Fr.
_trenchoir_--_trencher_, to cut.]

TREND, trend, _v.i._ to tend, to run, to go in a particular direction: to
incline, lean.--_n._ tendency. [A.S. _trendan_.]

TRENTAL, tren'tal, _n._ a service of thirty masses for thirty days, one
each day, for a deceased person. [Low L. _trentale_--L. _triginta_,
thirty.]

TRENTE-ET-QUARANTE. See ROUGE-ET-NOIR.

TREPAN, tr[=e]-pan', _v.t._ to ensnare:--_pr.p._ trepan'ning: _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ trepanned'. [Same as _trapan_, of which it is an erroneous
spelling.]

TREPAN, tr[=e]-pan', _n._ (_surg._) a small cylindrical saw used in
perforating the skull: a powerful rock-boring tool.--_v.t._ to remove a
circular piece of the skull with a trepan, in order to relieve the brain
from pressure or irritation.--_ns._ TREPAN[=A]'TION, TREPAN'NING;
TREPAN'NER. [Fr.,--Low L. _trepanum_--Gr. _tryp[)a]non_--_trypan_, to
bore.]

TREPANG, tr[=e]-pang', _n._ the Malay name for a species of Holothuria,
much esteemed in China as a food delicacy--_bêche-de-mer_, sea-slug.

[Illustration]

TREPHINE, tre-f[=e]n', or tre-f[=i]n', _n._ the modern trepan, having a
little sharp borer called the centre-pin.--_v.t._ to perforate with the
trephine.

TREPIDATION, trep-i-d[=a]'-shun, _n._ a state of confused hurry or alarm:
an involuntary trembling.--_adj._ TREP'ID, quaking. [L. _trepid[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to hurry with alarm--_trepidus_, restless.]

TRESPASS, tres'pas, _v.i._ to pass over a limit or boundary: to enter
unlawfully upon another's land: to inconvenience by importunity: to
intrude: to injure or annoy another: to sin.--_n._ act of trespassing: any
injury to another's person or property: a sin.--_ns._ TRES'PASSER;
TRES'PASS-OFF'ERING, an offering in expiation of a trespass or sin (See
Lev. xiv. 12-18). [O. Fr. _trespasser_ (Fr. _trépasser_)--L. _trans_,
across, _pass[=a]re_, to pass.]

TRESS, tres, _n._ a lock or curl of hair: a ringlet (esp. in _pl._)--_v.t._
to form into tresses.--_adjs._ TRESSED, having tresses: formed into tresses
or ringlets: curled; TRESS'Y, pertaining to tresses, like tresses. [Fr.
_tresse_, through Low L. _tricia_, _trica_, from Gr. _tricha_,
threefold--_treis_, three.]

TRESSURE, tresh'[=u]r, _n._ (_her._) a subordinary, half the breadth of the
orle, and usually borne double, and flowered and counter-flowered with
fleurs-de-lis.--_p.adj._ TRES'SURED, having a tressure: arranged in the
form of, or occupying the position of, a tressure. [Fr., from _tresser_, to
plait.]

TRESTLE, tres'l, _n._ a movable support fastened to a top-piece: the frame
of a table--also, TRESS'EL.--_ns._ TREST (_Scot._), a beam: a stool;
TRES'TLE-BRIDGE, one whose bed rests on framed sections or trestles;
TRES'TLE-WORK, a series of trestles forming a viaduct. [O. Fr. _trestel_
(_tréteau_); ety. dub.; perh. through a Low L. dim. from L. _transtrum_, a
beam.]

TRET, tret, _n._ an allowance to purchasers of 4 lb. on every 104 lb. for
waste. [Norm. Fr. _trett_, deduction (Fr. _trait_)--O. Fr. _traire_--L.
_trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

TREVISS, trev'is, _n._ a bar or beam separating stalls: a stall itself. [O.
Fr. _travers_, across.]

TREWS, tr[=oo]z, _n.pl._ trousers, esp. of tartan cloth.--_n._ TREWS'MAN,
one wearing trews. [Ir. _trius_, Gael. _triubhas_. Cf. _Trousers_.]

TREY, tr[=a], _n._ (_Shak._) a three at cards or dice: a card or die of
three spots. [O. Fr. _treis_--L. _tres_, three.]

TRIABLE, tr[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ subject to legal trial.--_n._ TR[=I]'ABLENESS.

TRIACT, tr[=i]'akt, _adj._ having three rays.--Also TRIAC'TINAL,
TR[=I]'ACTINE.

TRIAD, tr[=i]'ad, _n._ the union of three: a Welsh composition arranged in
groups of three: an association of three kindred deities.--_adj._
TRIAD'IC.--_n._ TR[=I]'ADIST, a composer of triads. [L. _trias_,
_triadis_--Gr. _trias_, _triados_--_treis_, three.]

TRIADELPHOUS, tr[=i]-a-del'fus, _adj._ (_bot._) having stamens united into
three bundles. [Gr. _treis_, _tria_, three, _adelphos_, a brother.]

TRIAGE, tr[=i]'[=a]j, _n._ what is picked out, esp. broken coffee-beans.

TRIAL, tr[=i]'al, _n._ a trying: the act of trying: examination by a test:
the state of being tried: suffering: temptation: judicial examination:
attempt: a piece of ware used to test the heat of a kiln.--_ns._
TR[=I]'AL-DAY (_Shak._), day of trial; TR[=I]'AL-FIRE (_Shak._), a fire for
trying or proving; TR[=I]'AL-TRIP, an experimental trip of a new vessel, to
test her sailing-powers, &c.--ON TRIAL, on probation, as an experiment.

TRIALISM, tr[=i]'a-lizm, _n._ the doctrine of the existence of body, soul,
and spirit in man.--_ns._ TR[=I]AL'ITY, threeness; TR[=I]'ALOGUE, a
colloquy of three persons.

TRIANDRIA, tr[=i]-an'dri-a, _n._ an order of plants having three equal
stamens.--_n._ TRIAN'DER, such a plant.--_adjs._ TRIAN'DRIAN, TRIAN'DROUS.
[Gr. _treis_, _tria_, three, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a male.]

[Illustration]

TRIANGLE, tr[=i]'ang-gl, _n._ (_math._) a plane figure with three angles
and three sides: a musical instrument of percussion, formed of a steel rod
bent in triangle-form, open at one angle: a frame of three halberds stuck
in the ground to which soldiers were formerly bound to be flogged
(generally _pl._).--_adjs._ TR[=I]'ANGLED, TRIANG'[=U]LAR, having three
angles.--_n._ TRIANG[=U]LAR'ITY.--_adv._ TRIANG'[=U]LARLY.--_v.t._
TRIANG'[=U]L[=A]TE, to survey by means of a series of triangles.--_adv._
TRIANG'[=U]L[=A]TELY.--_n._ TRIANG[=U]L[=A]'TION, act of triangulating: the
series of triangles so used.--_adj._ TRIANG'[=U]LOID. [Fr.,--L.
_triangulum_--_tres_, three, _angulus_, an angle.]

TRIAPSAL, tr[=i]-ap'sal, _adj._ having three apses.--Also TRIAP'SIDAL.

TRIARCHY, tr[=i]'ar-ki, _n._ government by three persons: a state governed
by three persons. [Gr. _triarchia_--_treis_, _tria_, three, _arch[=e]_,
beginning, sovereignty.]

TRIARIAN, tr[=i]-[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ of the third rank.

TRIAS, tr[=i]'as, _n._ (_geol._) the oldest group of the Mesozoic or
Secondary strata, formerly associated with the Permian rocks under the name
of the New Red Sandstone.--_adj._ TRIAS'SIC. [So called by the German
geologists, from their threefold grouping of the system, from Gr. _trias_,
union of three.]

TRIATOMIC, tr[=i]-a-tom'ik, _adj._ consisting of three atoms: trivalent.

TRIAXIAL, tr[=i]-ak'si-al, _adj._ having three axes.--_n._ TRIAX'ON. [L.
_tres_, _tri-_, three, _axis_, axis.]

TRIBASIC, tr[=i]-b[=a]'sik, _adj._ having three hydrogen atoms replaceable
by equivalents of a base--of some acids.

TRIBBLE, trib'l, _n._ a horizontal frame for drying paper, having wires
stretched across it.

TRIBE, tr[=i]b, _n._ an aggregate of stocks--a stock being an aggregate of
persons considered to be kindred--or an aggregate of families, forming a
community usually under the government of a chief: a number of things
having certain common qualities.--_adj._ TRIB'AL.--_n._ TRIB'ALISM.--_adv._
TRIB'ALLY.--_ns._ TRIBE'LET; TRIBES'MAN. [L. _tribus_, orig. applied to one
of the three divisions of the ancient Roman people--_tri-_, _tres_, three.]

TRIBLET, trib'let, _n._ a tapering mandrel on which rings, nuts, &c. are
forged.

TRIBOMETER, tr[=i]-bom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a sled-like apparatus for measuring
sliding friction.

TRIBONYX, trib'[=o]-niks, _n._ a genus of Australian gallinules. [Gr.
_tribein_, to rub, _onyx_, a claw.]

TRIBRACH., tr[=i]'brak, _n._ (_poet._) a foot of three short
syllables.--_adj._ TRIBRACH'IC. [L.,--Gr. _tribrachys_,--_tri-_, root of
_treis_, three, _brachys_, short.]

TRIBULATION, trib-[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ severe affliction: distress.
[L.,--_tribul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to afflict--_tribulum_, a sledge for
rubbing out corn--_ter[)e]re_, to rub.]

TRIBUNAL, tr[=i]-b[=u]'nal, _n._ the bench on which a judge and his
associates sit to administer justice: court of justice: the confessional.
[L.]

TRIBUNE, trib'[=u]n, _n._ a magistrate elected by the Roman plebeians to
defend their rights: a champion of popular rights: the raised platform from
which speeches were delivered, any platform or pulpit.--_ns._
TRIB'UN[=A]TE, TRIB'UNESHIP.--_adjs._ TRIBUNI'TIAL, TRIBUNI'CIAN,
TRIBUNI'TIAN. [L. _tribunus_--_tribus_, a tribe.]

TRIBUTE, trib'[=u]t, _n._ a fixed amount paid at certain intervals by one
nation to another for peace or protection: a personal contribution:
acknowledgment, or homage paid.--_adv._ TRIB'[=U]TARILY.--_n._
TRIB'UTARINESS.--_adj._ TRIB'[=U]TARY, paying tribute: subject: yielding
supplies of anything, subsidiary: paid in tribute.--_n._ one who pays
tribute: a stream which contributes water to another.--_ns._
TRIB'UTE-MON'EY, money paid as tribute; TRIB'[=U]TER, a miner paid by a
proportion of the ore raised. [L. _tributum_--_tribu[)e]re_, to
assign--_tribus_, a tribe.]

TRICAPSULAR, tr[=i]-kap's[=u]-lar, _adj._ (_bot._) three-capsuled: having
three capsules to each flower.

TRICARPOUS, tr[=i]-kar'pus, _adj._ (_bot._) having three carpels.

TRICAUDATE, tr[=i]-kaw'd[=a]t, _adj._ having three tail-like processes, as
a butterfly's wing.

TRICE, tr[=i]s, _v.t._ (_naut._) to haul or lift up by means of a
rope:--_pr.p._ tr[=i]c'ing; _pa.p._ tri[=i]ced. [Ger. _trissen_.]

TRICE, tr[=i]s, _n._ a very short time: an instant. [Perh. from _thrice_,
while one can count three; or from Sp. _tris_, noise of breaking glass; cf.
Scot. 'in a crack.']

TRICENNIAL, tr[=i]-sen'i-al, _adj._ pertaining to thirty years: occurring
every thirty years. [L. _tricennium_, thirty years--_triginta_, thirty,
_annus_, a year.]

TRICENTENARY, tr[=i]-sen'te-n[=a]-ri, _n._ a space of three hundred years.
[L. _trecenti_, three hundred--_tres_, three, _centum_, a hundred.]

TRICEPHALOUS, tr[=i]-sef'a-lus, _adj._ three-headed [Gr., _treis_, three,
_kephal[=e]_, a head.]

TRICEPS, tr[=i]'seps, _adj._ three-headed.--Also TRICIP'ITAL. [L., _tres_,
three, _caput_, head.]

TRICERION, tr[=i]-s[=e]'ri-on, _n._ in Greek ecclesiastical use, a
candlestick with three lights. [Late Gr.,--Gr. _treis_, three, _k[=e]ros_,
wax.]

TRICHANGIA, tr[=i]-kan'ji-a, _n.pl._ the capillary blood vessels. [Gr.
_thriks_--_trichos_, hair, _angeion_, a vessel.]

TRICHAS, tr[=i]'kas, _n._ a genus of American warblers. [Gr., a thrush.]

TRICHATROPHIA, trik-a-tr[=o]'fi-a, _n._ a brittle condition of the
hair.--_ns._ TRICH'IA, a folding inward of the eyelashes; TRICH[=I]'ASIS, a
kidney disease: a morbid swelling of the breasts: trichia. [Gr. _thrix_,
_trichos_, hair, _atrophia_, atrophy.]

TRICHINA, tri-k[=i]'na, _n._ a parasitic worm, which in its mature state
infests the intestinal canal, and in its larval state the muscular tissue
of man and certain animals, esp. the hog:--_pl._ TRICH[=I]'NÆ:--_ns._
TRICHIN[=I]'ASIS (more usually TRICHIN[=O]'SIS), the disease caused by the
presence of trichinæ in the body; TRICNINIS[=A]'TION.--_adjs._
TRICH'IN[=O]SED, TRICHINOT'IC, TRICH'INOUS. [Gr. _trichinos_, small like a
hair--_thrix_, _trichos_, hair.]

TRICHITE, tr[=i]'k[=i]t, _n._ a spicule of some sponges.--_adj._
TRICHIT'IC.

TRICHIURUS, trik-i-[=u]'rus, _n._ the genus of hair-tails.

TRICHODA, tr[=i]-k[=o]'da, _n._ a genus of ciliate infusorians.

TRICHOGENOUS, tr[=i]-koj'e-nus, _adj._ helping the hair to grow.--_ns._
TRICHOCL[=A]'SIA, TRICHOCL[=A]'SIS, a brittle condition of the hair;
TRICH'OGEN, a preparation for causing the hair to grow; TRICHOGYNE
(trik'[=o]-j[=i]n), the slender portion of the procarp in red algæ, a
receptive organ of reproduction; TRICHOL'OGY, the knowledge of the hair;
TRICH[=O]'MA, a morbid condition of the hair, introversion of the
eyelid.--_adjs._ TRICHOM'ATOSE; TRICHOPATH'IC, relating to disease of the
hair.--_ns._ TRICHOP'ATHY, the treatment of diseases of the hair;
TRICH'OPH[=O]RE (_bot._), the cell or cells in certain algæ supporting the
trichogyne: a sac-like body from which the chitinous parapodial appendages
of an annelid are developed.--_adjs._ TRICHOPHOR'IC, TRICHOPH'OROUS.--_ns._
TRICHOPH'YTON, a fungus growth round the hair-bulbs causing baldness,
ringworm, &c.; TRICHOPHYT[=O]'SIS, disease of the skin due to the presence
of the foregoing; TRICHOREX'IS, brittleness of the hair; TRICHORRH[=E]'A, a
falling of the hair; TRICH[=O]'SIS, any disease of the hair.

TRICHOME, tr[=i]'k[=o]m, _n._ an outgrowth from the epidermis of a plant.

TRICHOPTERA, tr[=i]-kop'te-ra, _n.pl._ the caddis-flies.--_adjs._
TRICHOP'TERAN, TRICHOP'TEROUS.

TRICHORD, tr[=i]'kord, _adj._ having three strings.

TRICHOTOMOUS, tr[=i]-kot'[=o]-mus, _adj._ divided into three parts, or into
threes--also TRICHOTOM'IC.--_adv._ TRICHOT'OMOUSLY.--_n._ TRICHOT'OMY,
division into three parts. [Gr. _tricha_, threefold, _treis_, three;
_tom[=e]_, a cutting--_temnein_, to cut.]

TRICHROMATIC, tr[=i]-kr[=o]-mat'ik, _adj._ characterised by three colours,
having the three fundamental colour-sensations of red, green, and purple,
of the normal eye, as opposed to the colour-blind eye, which has but
two.--Also TRICHR[=O]'MIC. [Gr. _treis_, three, _chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

TRICHRONOUS, tr[=i]'kr[=o]-nus, _adj._ in ancient prosody, consisting of
three times or _moræ_, trisemic. [Gr. _treis_, three, _chronos_, time.]

TRICK, trik, _v.t._ to dress, to decorate.--_n._ TRICK'ING, the act of one
who tricks: (_Shak._) dress, ornament. [Celt.; W. treciaw, to adorn.]

TRICK, trik, _n._ any fraud or stratagem to deceive, an illusion: a clever
contrivance to puzzle, amuse, or annoy: a particular habit or manner,
skill, adroitness, manner: a parcel of cards falling to a winner at one
turn: any toy or gimcrack: a turn as at the helm: (_slang_) a
watch.--_v.t._ to deceive, to cheat.--_ns._ TRICK'ER; TRICK'ERY, act or
practice of playing tricks: artifice: stratagem: imposition.--_adv._
TRICK'ILY.--_n._ TRICK'INESS.--_adj._ TRICK'ISH, addicted to tricks: artful
in making bargains.--_adv._ TRICK'ISHLY, in a trickish manner: artfully:
knavishly.--_n._ TRICK'ISHNESS, the state of being trickish or
deceitful.--_adv._ TRICK'LY, cleverly, deftly.--_n._ TRICK'SCENE, a scene
in which changes are made before the audience.--_adjs._ TRICK'SEY,
TRICK'SY, trickish, exhibiting artfulness: pretty, dainty, neat.--_n._
TRICK'SINESS, state of being tricksey.--_adj._ TRICK'SOME.--_ns._
TRICK'STER, one who practises tricks, a cheat; TRICK'-WIG, a kind of wig
worn by actors, the hair of which can be made to stand on end by a
device.--_adj._ TRICK'Y. [O. Fr. _tricher_, to beguile--L. _tric[=a]ri_, to
trifle.]

TRICKLE, trik'l, _v.i._ to flow gently or in a small stream.--_n._ a
trickling rill.--_n._ TRICK'LET, a little rill.--_adj._ TRICK'LY,
trickling. [M. E. _triklen_, prob. for _striklen_, freq. of _striken_, to
go.]

TRICK-TRACK, trik'-trak, _n._ a form of backgammon in which pegs as well as
pieces are used.--Also TRIC'-TRAC, TICK'-TACK. [Fr. _tric trac_]

TRICLINIC, tr[=i]-klin'ik, _adj._ (_min._) having three axes obliquely
inclined to each other. [Gr. _treis_, three, _klinein_, to bend.]

TRICLINIUM, tr[=i]-klin'i-um, _n._ a couch running round three sides of a
table for reclining on at meals: a dining-room with couches on three sides.
[L.,--Gr. _triklinos_--_treis_, three, _klin[=e]_, a couch.]

TRICOLOUR, TRICOLOR, tr[=i]'kul-or, _n._ the national flag of France, of
three colours, red, white, and blue, in vertical stripes.--_adj._
TR[=I]'COLOURED, having three colours. [Fr. _tricolore_--L. _tres_, three,
_color_, colour.]

TRICONSONANTAL, tr[=i]-kon's[=o]-nan-tal, _adj._ composed of three
consonants.--Also TRICONSONAN'TIC.

TRICORN, tr[=i]'korn, _adj._ having three horns.--_n._ a hat with three
points or corners. [L. _tricornis_, three-horned--_tres_, three, _cornu_, a
horn.]

TRICORNERED, tr[=i]-kor'n[.e]rd, _adj._ three-cornered.

TRICORNIGEROUS, tr[=i]-kor-nij'e-rus, _adj._ bearing three horns. [L.
_tres_, three, _cornu_, a horn, _ger[)e]re_, to bear.]

TRICORNUTE, -D, tr[=i]-kor'n[=u]t, -ed, _adj._ having three horn-like
processes.

TRICORPORATE, tr[=i]-kor'p[=o]-r[=a]t, _adj._ having three bodies and only
one head common to the three.

TRICOSTATE, tr[=i]-kos't[=a]t, _adj._ three-ribbed.

TRICOT, tr[=e]'k[=o], _n._ a hand-knitted woollen fabric, or machine fabric
imitating it: a soft, slightly-ribbed cloth for women's garments. [Fr.
_tricot_, knitting, _tricoter_, to knit, from Teut.; Ger. _stricken_.]

TRICROTIC, tr[=i]-krot'ik, _adj._ having three beats.--_n._
TR[=I]'CROTISM.--_adj._ TR[=I]'CROTOUS. [Gr. _treis_, three, _krotos_, a
beat.]

[Illustration]

TRICUSPID, tr[=i]-kus'pid, _adj._ having three cusps or points: (_anat._)
denoting certain of the teeth, and the valve of the right ventricle of the
heart.--_adj._ TRICUS'PIDATE (_bot._), three-pointed or ending in three
points. [L. _tricuspis_, _tricuspidis_--_tri_, _tris_, thrice, _cuspis_, a
point.]

TRICYCLE, tr[=i]'si-kl, _n._ a velocipede with three wheels.--_v.i._ to
ride on such.--_n._ TR[=I]'CYCLIST. [Gr. _tri-_, root of _treis_, three,
_kyklos_, circle, wheel.]

TRIDACNA, tr[=i]-dak'na, _n._ a genus of bivalves, the giant clam, without
the shell weighing 20 lb., with the shell so much even as 500 lb. [Gr.
_treis_, three, _daknein_, to bite.]

TRIDACTYLOUS, tr[=i]-dak'til-us, _adj._ having three toes or fingers.

TRIDE, tr[=i]d, _adj._ swift, fleet. [Fr.]

TRIDENT, tr[=i]'dent, _n._ the three-pronged spear or sceptre of Neptune,
god of the ocean: any three-toothed instrument.--_adjs._ TR[=I]'DENT,
TRIDENT'[=A]TE, TR[=I]'DENTED, having three teeth or prongs. [Fr.,--L.
_tres_, three, _dens_, _dentis_, tooth.]

TRIDENTINE, tr[=i]-den'tin, _adj._ pertaining to the Council of _Trent_
(1545-63), or to its decrees.--_n._ a Roman Catholic. [L. _Tridentum_,
Trent.]

TRIDIGITATE, tr[=i]-dij'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ with three fingers or toes.

TRIDIMENSIONAL, tr[=i]-di-men'shun-al, _adj._ having three
dimensions--length, breadth, thickness.

TRIDUUM, trid'[=u]-um, _n._ a space of three days: a three days' service of
prayer preparatory to a saint's day, &c.--_adj._ TRID'[=U]AN, lasting three
days. [L.]

TRIDYMITE, trid'i-m[=i]t, _n._ a brittle mineral composed of silica, which
occurs in various acid igneous rocks in the form of thin transparent
six-sided plates, several of which are usually grouped together.

TRIED. See TRY.

TRIENNIAL, tr[=i]-en'yal, _adj._ continuing three years: happening every
third year.--_adv._ TRIENN'IALLY. [L. _triennis_--_tres_, three, _annus_, a
year.]

TRIER, tr[=i]'[.e]r, _n._ one who tries by experiment: one who tries, as a
judge: one of Cromwell's commissioners for examining into the
qualifications of ministers: (_Shak._) one who brings to the test, a test.

TRIERARCH, tr[=i]'[.e]r-ärk, _n._ the commander of an ancient Greek
trireme--also a person obliged to furnish ships to the state.--_adj._
TR[=I]'ERARCHAL.--_n._ TR[=I]'ERARCHY, the office of trierarch: the system
of requisitioning vessels from wealthy citizens. [Gr. _tri[=e]r[=e]s_, a
trireme, _archein_, to rule.]

TRIETERIC, -AL, tr[=i]-e-t[.e]r'ik, -al, _adj._ triennial. [Gr., _treis_,
three, _etos_, a year.]

TRIFACIAL, tr[=i]-f[=a]'shal, adj, threefold and pertaining to the face,
esp. of the fifth cranial nerve.--_n._ the trigeminal nerve. [L. _tres_,
three, _facies_, face.]

TRIFARIOUS, tr[=i]-f[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ arranged in three rows: facing three
ways.

TRIFID, tr[=i]'fid, _adj._ three-cleft.

TRIFLE, tr[=i]'fl, _v.i._ to act or talk lightly: to indulge in light or
silly amusements: to waste or spend idly or unprofitably (_with_).--_n._
anything of little value: a light confection of whipped cream or white of
egg, with fruit, wine, &c.--_n._ TR[=I]'FLER.--_adj._ TR[=I]'FLING, of
small value or importance: trivial.--_adv._ TR[=I]'FLINGLY.--_n._
TR[=I]'FLINGNESS. [O. Fr. _trufle_, dim. of _truffe_, a gibe, also a
truffle.]

TRIFLOROUS, tr[=i]-fl[=o]'rus, _adj._ three-flowered.--Also TRIFL[=O]'RAL.

TRIFOLIATE, -D, tr[=i]-f[=o]'li-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ three-leaved.--_ns._
TRIF[=O]'LIUM, a genus of small plants of the bean family--the clovers with
trifoliate leaves and purple, red, white, or yellow flowers; TR[=I]'FOLY
(_Browning_), trefoil. [L. _tres_, three, _folium_, leaf.]

TRIFORIUM, tr[=i]-f[=o]'ri-um, _n._ the arcade over the arches of a church
between nave and side aisles:--_pl._ TRIF[=O]'RIA. [L. _tri_, _tris_,
thrice, _foris_, a door.]

TRIFORM, tr[=i]'form, _adj._ having a triple form--also
TR[=I]'FORMED.--_n._ TRIFORM'ITY.--_adj._ TRIFORM'OUS. [L.
_triformis_--_tres_, three, _forma_, form.]

TRIFURCATE, -D, tr[=i]-fur'k[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ having three forks or
branches.--_v.i._ TRIFUR'CATE, to divide into three parts.--_n._
TRIFURC[=A]'TION. [L. _trifurcus_--_tri_, _tris_, thrice, _furca_, a fork.]

TRIG, trig, _adj._ trim, neat: tight, sound.--_n._ a dandy.--_adv._
TRIG'LY.--_n._ TRIG'NESS. [Prob. Scand., Ice. _tryggr_, fine.]

TRIG, trig, _n._ a skid for a wheel, &c.: the mark for players at skittles,
&c.--_v.t._ to stop, to obstruct, to skid.

TRIGAMOUS, trig'am-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having three sorts of flowers, male,
female, and hermaphrodite, in the same flower-head.--_ns._ TRIG'AMIST, one
who marries three wives; TRIG'AMY, the state of having three husbands or
wives at the same time. [Gr. _tri_, _tris_, three, _gamos_, marriage.]

TRIGEMINAL, tr[=i]-jem'i-nal, _adj._ triple, threefold.--_adj._
TRIGEM'INOUS, born three at a birth.--_n._ TRIGEMI'NUS, the trifacial
nerve.

TRIGGER, trig'[.e]r, _n._ a catch which when pulled looses the hammer of a
gun in firing: a catch to hold a wheel when driving on steep ground. [Dut.
_trekker_--_trekken_, to pull.]

TRIGLA, trig'la, _n._ the typical genus of _Triglidæ_, the
gurnards.--_adj._ TRIG'LOID.

TRIGLOT, tr[=i]'glot, _adj._ containing three languages. [Gr. _treis_,
three, _gl[=o]ssa_, _gl[=o]tta_, tongue.]

[Illustration]

TRIGLYPH, tr[=i]'glif, _n._ a three-grooved tablet at equal distances along
the frieze in Doric architecture.--_adjs._ TRIGLYPH'IC, -AL, consisting of,
or pertaining to, triglyphs: containing three sets of characters or
sculptures. [L. _triglyphus_--Gr. _triglyphos_--_treis_, three, _glyphein_,
to carve.]

TRIGON, tr[=i]'gon, _n._ a three-cornered figure, a triangle--also
TRIG[=O]'NON: (_astrol._) the junction of three signs, the zodiac being
divided into four trigons--the first or _watery_ trigon, Cancer, Scorpio,
Pisces; the _earthly_, Taurus, Virgo, Capricornus; the _airy_, Gemini,
Libra, Aquarius; the _fiery_, Aries, Leo, Sagittarius.--_adjs._ TRIG'ONAL,
triangular in cross-section: three-angled, esp. in botany; TRIGON'IC,
pertaining to a trigon; TRIG'ONOUS, three-angled. [Gr.
_trig[=o]non_--_tri_, _tris_, thrice, _g[=o]nia_, an angle.]

TRIGONEUTIC, tr[=i]-g[=o]-n[=u]'tik, _adj._ producing three broods in a
year, of insects.--_n._ TRIGONEU'TISM. [Gr. _treis_, three, _goneuein_, to
beget.]

TRIGONOCEROUS, trig-[=o]-nos'e-rus, _adj._ having horns with three angles.

TRIGONOMETRY, trig-[=o]-nom'e-tri, _n._ the branch of mathematics which
treats of the relations between the sides and angles of triangles.--_n._
TRIGONOM'ETER, an instrument for solving plane right-angled figures by
inspection.--_adjs._ TRIGONOMET'RIC, -AL, pertaining to trigonometry: done
by the rules of trigonometry.--_adv._ TRIGONOMET'RICALLY.--TRIGONOMETRICAL
SURVEY, the survey of a country by triangulation and trigonometrical
calculation upon a single base. [Gr. _trig[=o]non_, a triangle, _metron_, a
measure.]

TRIGRAM, tr[=i]'gram, _n._ same as TRIGRAPH.--_adjs._ TRIGRAMMAT'IC,
TRIGRAM'MIC. [Gr. _tri_, _tris_, thrice, _gramma_, a letter.]

TRIGRAPH, tr[=i]'graf, _n._ a combination of three letters sounded as one,
a triphthong. [Gr. _tri_, _tris_, thrice, and _graph[=e]_, a
writing--_graphein_, to write.]

TRIGYNIA, tr[=i]-jin'i-a, _n._ an order of plants having three pistils or
styles.--_n._ TR[=I]'GYN, a plant with three styles.--_adjs._
TR[=I]GYN'IAN, TRIG'YNOUS. [Gr. _tri_, _tris_, thrice, _gyn[=e]_, a woman.]

TRIHEDRAL, tr[=i]-h[=e]'dral, _adj._ having three equal sides.--_n._
TRIH[=E]'DRON, a figure having three equal bases or sides. [Gr. _treis_,
three, _hedra_, a seat.]

TRIJUGATE, tr[=i]'j[=oo]-g[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having three pairs of
leaflets or pinnæ.--Also TR[=I]'JUGOUS.

TRILABE, tr[=i]'l[=a]b, _n._ a three-pronged surgical instrument for
removing calculi from the bladder. [Gr. _treis_, three, _lab[=e]_, a hold.]

TRILABIATE, tr[=i]-l[=a]'bi-[=a]t, _adj._ three-lipped.

TRILAMINAR, tr[=i]-lam'i-nar, _adj._ having three laminæ, lamellæ, or
layers.--Also TR[=I]LAM'INATE.

TRILATERAL, tr[=i]-lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ having three sides.--_adv._
TRILAT'ERALLY.--_n._ TRILAT'ERALNESS. [L. _tres_, three, _latus_, side.]

TRILD, trild (_Spens._)=_Trilled_, flowed.

TRILEMMA, tr[=i]-lem'a, _n._ a dilemmatic syllogism with three alternative
propositions.

TRILINEAR, tr[=i]-lin'[=e]-ar, _adj._ consisting of three lines.

TRILINGUAL, tr[=i]-ling'gwal, _adj._ consisting of three tongues or
languages.--Also TRILING'UAR. [L. _tres_, three, _lingua_, tongue.]

TRILITERAL, tr[=i]-lit'[.e]r-al, _adj._ consisting of three letters.--_n._
TRILIT'ERALISM. [L. _tres_, three, _litera_, a letter.]

TRILITH, tr[=i]'lith, _n._ a form of megalithic monument consisting of two
upright stones supporting another lying crosswise--also
TR[=I]'LITHON.--_adj._ TRILITH'IC. [Gr. _treis_, three, _lithos_, stone.]

TRILL, tril, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to shake: to utter with a tremulous
vibration, to quaver: to pronounce with a quick vibration of the
tongue.--_n._ a quaver or tremulous vibration, warbling. [It. _trillare_,
to shake; imit.]

TRILL, tril, _v.i._ to trickle: (_obs._) to twirl. [Scand., Sw. _trilla_,
to roll.]

TRILLING, tril'ing, _n._ a compound threefold crystal: any one child of a
triplet.

TRILLION, tril'yun, _n._ a million raised to the third power, or multiplied
twice by itself: in France, a thousand multiplied by itself three times, a
million million.--_adj._ TRILL'IONTH. [Fr.,--L. _tres_, three, Low L.
_millio_, a million.]

TRILLIUM, tril'i-um, _n._ a North American genus of low perennial herbs of
the lily family--including _wake-robin_, _three-leaved nightshade_, &c.

TRILOBATE, -D, tr[=i]-l[=o]'b[=a]t, or tr[=i]'l[=o]-b[=a]t, -ed, _adj._
having three lobes.--Also TR[=I]'LOBED.

TRILOBITE, tr[=i]'l[=o]-b[=i]t, _n._ one of an order of fossil crustacea
entirely confined to the Paleozoic rocks.--_adj._ TRILOBIT'IC.

TRILOCULAR, tr[=i]-lok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ three-celled.

TRILOGY, tril'[=o]-ji, _n._ the name given by the Greeks to a group of
three tragedies, either connected by a common subject or each representing
a distinct story--the _Oresteia_ of Æschylus, which embraces the
_Agamemnon_, the _Choephoroe_, and the _Eumenides_. [Gr. _trilogia_--_tri_,
_tris_, thrice, _logia_, speech--_legein_, to say.]

TRIM, trim, _adj._ in good order: nice.--_v.t._ to make trim: to put in due
order: to dress: to decorate: to clip: to reduce to proper form: to arrange
for sailing: to rebuke sharply, to thrash.--_v.i._ to balance or fluctuate
between parties:--_pr.p._ trim'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ trimmed.--_n._
dress: ornaments: state of a ship as to sailing qualities:
arrangement.--_adv._ TRIM'LY.--_ns._ TRIM'MER, one who trims: one who
fluctuates between parties, a time-server: a scold: a small horizontal beam
on a floor into which the ends of joists are framed: a float bearing a
baited hook and line, used in fishing for pike; TRIM'MING, that which
trims: ornamental parts, esp. of a garment, dish, &c.: (_pl._)
fittings.--_adv._ TRIM'MINGLY.--_n._ TRIM'NESS. [A.S. _trymian_, to
strengthen, set in order--_trum_, firm.]

TRIMEMBRAL, tr[=i]-mem'bral, _adj._ having three members.

TRIMENSUAL, tr[=i]-men's[=u]-al, _adj._ happening every three months--also
TRIMES'TRAL, TRIMES'TRIAL.--_n._ TRIMES'TER, a period of three months.

TRIMERA, trim'e-ra, _n.pl._ a division of beetles with tarsi
three-jointed.--_adj._ TRIM'EROUS. [Gr. _treis_, three, _meros_, part.]

TRIMETER, trim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a division of a verse consisting of three
measures.--_adjs._ TRIM'ETER, TRIMET'RIC, -AL, consisting of three
measures, esp. iambic. [Gr. _trimetros_--_treis_, three, _metron_,
measure.]

TRIMETHYL, tr[=i]-meth'il, _adj._ containing three methyl radicals in
combination.--_n._ TRIMETH'YLAMINE, an organic base resembling ammonia in
some of its properties, and having a strong herring-brine
odour--incorrectly called _propylamine_.

TRIMONTHLY, tr[=i]'munth-li, _adj._ every three months.

TRIMORPHISM, tr[=i]-mor'fizm, _n._ (_biol._) the existence of an organism
in three distinct forms, as in certain butterflies, in the common flower
_Lythrum salicaria_, &c.--_adjs._ TRIMOR'PHIC, TRIMOR'PHOUS.

TRIMURTI, tri-m[=oo]r'ti, _n._ the name of the Hindu triad, or the gods
Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva when thought of as an inseparable unity, though
three in form.

TRINAL, tr[=i]'nal, _adj._ threefold.--_adjs._ TR[=I]'NARY, ternary; TRINE,
threefold: of three.--_n._ a triad: the aspect of two planets, as seen from
the earth, distant from each other one-third of the zodiac or 120°. [L.
_trinus_--_tres_, _tria_, three.]

TRINDLE, trin'dl, _n._ a piece of wood, &c., laid between the cords and
boards of a book to flatten before cutting: a wheel of a barrow.--_v.i._ to
roll, to trot.--_v.t._ to trundle. [A variant of _trendle_.]

TRINERVATE, tr[=i]-n[.e]r'v[=a]t, _adj._ three-nerved.--Also TR[=I]'NERVED.

TRINGA, tring'gä, _n._ a genus of sandpipers, of family
_Scolopacidæ_--containing the knot, &c.--_adjs._ TRIN'GINE, TRIN'GOID.

TRINGLE, tring'gl, _n._ a rod on which the rings of a curtain run: a small
moulding of rectangular cross-section, in a Doric triglyph, &c.: a strip of
wood at the edge of a gun-platform to turn the recoil of the truck. [Fr.]

TRINITY, trin'i-ti, _n._ the union of three in one Godhead: the persons of
the Godhead: any symbolical representation of the persons of the
Trinity.--_adj._ TRINIT[=A]'RIAN, pertaining to the Trinity, or to the
doctrine of the Trinity.--_n._ one who holds the doctrine of the Trinity: a
member of the Trinitarian order.--_n._ TRINIT[=A]'RIANISM, the tenets of
Trinitarians.--_n.pl._ TRINIT[=A]'RIANS, a religious order founded at Rome
in 1198 to redeem Christian captives from the infidels--also _Mathurins_
and _Redemptionists_.--_ns._ TRIN'ITY-HOUSE, a corporation entrusted with
the regulation and management of the lighthouses and buoys of the shores
and rivers of England, and with the licensing and appointing of pilots for
the English coast, founded at Deptford in 1518; TRIN'ITY-SUN'DAY, the
Sunday next after Whitsunday, the Festival of the Holy Trinity;
TRIN'ITY-TERM, formerly one of the fixed terms of the English law-courts
that commenced on Friday next after Trinity Sunday. [L. _trinitas_,
three--_trini_, three each--_tres_, three.]

TRINKET, tring'ket, _n._ a small ornament for the person: anything of
little value.--_v.i._ to deal in a mean and underhand way: to
intrigue.--_ns._ TRINK'ETER, a mean intriguer; TRINK'ETRY, trinkets
collectively. [Skeat suggests that M. E. _trenket_, _trynket_, may be from
an O. Fr. _trenquer_, to cut, a by-form of _trencher_, to cut.]

TRINKET, tring'ket, _n._ a vessel to drink out of. [Prob. conn. somehow
with preceding.]

TRINKET, tring'ket, _n._ a topsail. [O. Fr. _trinquet_--L. _triquetrus_,
three-cornered.]

TRINKLE, tringk'l, a Scotch form of _trickle_: also a form of _tinkle_.

TRINOCTIAL, tr[=i]-nok'shal, _adj._ comprising three nights.

TRINODAL, tr[=i]-n[=o]'dal, _adj._ having three nodes or joints.

TRINOMIAL, tr[=i]-n[=o]'mi-al, _adj._ (_math._) consisting of three names
or terms connected by the sign plus or minus.--_n._ a trinomial
quantity.--_ns._ TRIN[=O]'MIALISM; TRIN[=O]'MIALIST; TRINOMIAL'ITY.--_adj._
TRIN[=O]'MIALLY. [L. _tres_, three, _nomen_, name.]

TRIO, tr[=e]'o, or tr[=i]'o, _n._ three united: (_mus._) a composition for
three performers. [It.,--L. _tres_, three.]

TRIODION, tr[=i]-[=o]'di-on, _n._ a book of Greek offices for the services
from the Sunday before Septuagesima to Easter. [Gr. _treis_, three,
_hodos_, a way.]

TRIOLET, tr[=e]'[=o]-let, _n._ a stanza of eight lines on two rhymes--the
1st, 3d, 4th, and 5th lines rhyming, as also the 2d and 6th. Again, the
words of the 1st, 4th, and 7th lines are the same, while the 7th and 8th
repeat the first two. [Fr.]

TRIONES, tr[=i]-[=o]'n[=e]z, _n.pl._ a name applied to the seven principal
stars in the constellation Ursa Major. [L.]

TRIONYM, tr[=i]'[=o]-nim, _n._ a name consisting of three terms.--_adj._
TRION'YMAL.

TRIP, trip, _v.i._ to move with short, light steps: to stumble and fall: to
err, to go wrong, to make a slip in chastity: to fail.--_v.t._ to cause to
stumble by striking one's feet from under him (with _up_): to overthrow by
taking away support: to catch: to catch in a fault: to loosen, as an
anchor, from the bottom, by a long rope: to turn, as a yard, from a
horizontal to a vertical position: to fold in the middle, as a deep
stage-drop: to strike against:--_pr.p._ trip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
tripped.--_n._ a light, short step: a catch by which an antagonist is
thrown: one of the points in coursing, when the hare is thrown off its
legs: a false step: a mistake: a short voyage or journey, a jaunt.--_ns._
TRIP'-BOOK, a book in which the records and accounts of the trip of a
fishing-boat are made up and kept: TRIP'-HAMM'ER, a large hammer used in
forges, a tilt-hammer; TRIP'PER, a cheap excursionist, a tourist doing a
certain round: one who stumbles or who makes another stumble; TRIP'-SLIP
(_U.S._), a strip of paper on which a car-conductor must punch a hole when
a fare is taken. [M. E. _trippen_; cog. with Dut. _trippen_, _trappen_, to
tread upon, _trippelen_, to trip, Sw. _trippa_, to trip.]

TRIPARTITE, trip'ar-t[=i]t, or tr[=i]-pär't[=i]t, _adj._ divided into three
parts: having three corresponding parts: relating to three parties.--_adv._
TRIP'ARTITELY.--_n._ TRIPARTI'TION, a division into three. [L. _ter_,
thrice, _partitus_, pa.p. of _part[=i]ri_, to divide--_pars_, a part.]

TRIPE, tr[=i]p, _n._ entrails: parts of the compound stomach of a ruminant,
esp. of sheep or horned cattle, prepared as food--the parts used being the
paunch or rumen (yielding _plain tripe_), and the smaller reticulum
(yielding _honeycomb tripe_).--_ns._ TRIPE'MAN, one who prepares tripe or
who hawks it about; TR[=I]'PERY, a place for the preparation or sale of
tripe.--TRIPE DE ROCHE, a name originally given to various species of
lichens of the genera _Gyrophora_ and _Umbilicaria_, nutritious though
bitter, nauseous, and purgative. [Celt.; Ir., _triopas_, W. _tripa_.]

TRIPEDAL, trip'e-dal, or tr[=i]'ped-al, _adj._ having three feet. [L.
_tres_, three, _pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

TRIPENNATE, tr[=i]-pen'[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) three-winged. [L. _tri_,
_tris_, thrice, _penna_, a wing.]

TRIPERSONAL, tr[=i]-p[.e]r'sun-al, _adj._ consisting of three
persons.--_ns._ TRIPER'SONALIST, a believer in the Trinity;
TRIPERSONAL'ITY.

TRIPETALOUS, tr[=i]-pet'al-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having three petals or
flower-leaves. [Gr. _treis_, three, _petalon_, a leaf.]

TRIPHANE, tr[=i]'f[=a]n, _n._ spodumene.

TRIPHTHONG, trif'thong, _n._ a combination of three vowels to form one
sound.--_adj._ TRIPHTHONG'AL. [Gr. _treis_, three, _phthongos_, sound.]

TRIPHYLLOUS, tr[=i]-fil'us, _adj._ (_bot._) three-leaved. [Gr. _tri_,
_tris_, thrice, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

TRIPHYSITE, trif'i-s[=i]t, _n._ one of a Spanish sect of the 7th century
who maintained the existence of three natures in Christ--the human, the
divine, and a third resulting from the union of the other two. [Gr.
_treis_, three, _physis_, nature.]

TRIPINNATE, tr[=i]-pin'[=a]t, _adj._ trebly pinnate.

TRIPITAKA, tri-pit'a-ka, _n._ the whole body of the northern Buddhist
canonical writings, comprising the three divisions of _Sutras_, or
discourses of the Buddha for the laity; _Vinaya_, or discipline for the
order; and _Abhidharma_, or metaphysics. [Sans. _tri_, three, _pitaka_,
basket.]

TRIPLE, trip'l, _adj._ consisting of three united: three times repeated:
(_Shak._) third.--_v.t._ to treble.--_adjs._ TRIP'LE-CROWNED, having three
crowns: wearing the triple crown, as the pope; TRIP'LE-HEAD'ED, having
three heads.--_n._ TRIP'LET, three of a kind, or three united: three lines
rhyming together: (_mus._) a group of three notes occupying the time of
two, indicated by a slur and the figure 3: (_coll._) one of three children
born at one birth.--_adj._ TRIP'LE-TURNED (_Shak._), three times
faithless.--_n._ TR[=I]'PLEX, triple time in music.--_adj._ TRIP'LICATE,
threefold: made thrice as much.--_n._ a third copy or thing corresponding
to two others of the same kind.--_v.t._ to make threefold.--_ns._
TRIPLIC[=A]'TION, act of making threefold or adding three together;
TRIPLIC'ITY, the state of being threefold: tripleness: (_Spens._) a triad:
(_astrol._) the division of the signs according to the number of the
elements.--_adv._ TRIP'LY.--TRIPLE ALLIANCE, the league of England, Sweden,
and the Netherlands formed against France in 1668: the alliance of Britain,
France, and Holland against Spain in 1717: the alliance between Germany,
Austria, and Italy, formed in 1883, and directed to check French or Russian
aggression; TRIPLE CROWN (_her._), see TIARA; TRIPLE TIME (_mus._), time or
rhythm of three beats, or of three times three beats, in a bar.--THE TRIPLE
EVENT, winning the Oaks, St Leger, and Derby. [Fr.,--L. _tri-plus_--_tri-_,
_tres_, three, _-plus_, akin to Eng. _-fold_.]

TRIPOD, tr[=i]'pod, _n._ anything on three feet or legs, as a stool,
&c.--_adj._ having three legs or supports.--_adj._ TRIP'ODAL. [Gr.
_tripous_, _tripodos_--_tri_, _treis_, three, _pous_, foot.]

TRIPOLI, trip'[=o]-li, _n._ a mineral substance employed in polishing
metals, marble, glass, &c. [Orig. brought from _Tripoli_ in Africa.]

TRIPOS, tr[=i]'pos, _n._ a university examination for honours at Cambridge:
the list of successful candidates in an honours examination at Cambridge: a
tripod. [Prob. traceable to the custom by which a B.A., known as Mr
_Tripos_, sat on a three-legged stool and disputed in the Philosophy School
at Cambridge on Ash Wednesday, his speech being called the Tripos speech.]

TRIPPANT, trip'ant, _adj._ (_her._) represented as walking or trotting.

TRIPPING, trip'ing, _n._ the act of tripping: a light kind of
dance.--_adv._ TRIPP'INGLY, in a tripping manner: with a light, quick
step.--_n._ TRIPP'INGNESS.

TRIPSACUM, trip'sa-kum, _n._ a genus of American grasses, including the
gama-grass.

TRIPSIS, trip'sis, _n._ pulverisation: the process of shampooing.
[Gr.,--_tribein_, to rub.]

TRIPTOTE, trip't[=o]t, _n._ a noun used in three cases only. [Fr.,--Gr.
_tript[=o]ton_--_treis_, three, _pt[=o]tos_, falling,--_piptein_, to fall.]

TRIPTYCH, trip'tik, _n._ a set of tablets consisting of three leaves, each
painted with a distinct subject, but joined together by hinges, and capable
of being folded so as to present a new face. [Gr. _tri_, thrice, _ptyx_,
_ptychos_, a fold, a leaf--_ptyssein_, to fold.]

TRIPUDIUM, tr[=i]-p[=u]'di-um, _n._ among the Romans, a religious dance,
also a mode of divination based on observation of the action of birds
feeding.--_adj._ TRIP[=U]'DIARY.--_n._ TRIPUDI[=A]'TION, dancing. [L.,
prob. from _tres_, three, _pes_, _pedis_, foot.]

TRIQUETROUS, tr[=i]-kwet'rus, _adj._ three-sided: triangular--also
TRIQUET'RAL.--_n._ TRIQUET'RA, an ornament consisting of three interlaced
arcs, common in early art in northern Europe.--_adv._ TRIQUET'ROUSLY.--_n._
TRIQUET'RUM, one of the triangular Wormian bones in the lambdoid suture of
the skull. [L. _tres_, three, _-quetrus_, prob. a mere formative.]

TRIRADIATE, tr[=i]-r[=a]'di-[=a]t, _adj._ radiating in three
directions.--_adv._ TRIR[=A]'DIALLY.

TRIREME, tr[=i]'r[=e]m, _n._ an ancient galley--esp. a war-galley--having
three banks or rows of oars. [Fr.,--L. _triremis_--_tri_, _tres_, three,
_remus_, an oar.]

TRISAGION, tri-s[=a]'gi-on, _n._ a hymn used in the early and Oriental
Churches, and in the Greek Church, consisting of the words 'O Holy God,
holy and mighty, holy and immortal, have mercy on us.' The name is often
applied erroneously to the Tersanctus. [Gr. _tris_, thrice, _hagios_,
holy.]

TRISECT, tr[=i]-sekt', _v.t._ to cut or divide into three equal
parts.--_n._ TRISEC'TION, the division of anything, as an angle, into three
equal parts. [L. _tri_, thrice, _sec[=a]re_, _sectum_, to cut.]

TRISEME, tr[=i]'s[=e]m, _adj._ and _n._ consisting of three semeia, equal
to three short syllables, as the tribrach, iambic, and trochee.--Also
TRIS[=E]'MIC. [Gr. _treis_, three, _s[=e]ma_, a sign.]

TRISEPALOUS, tr[=i]-sep'al-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having three sepals.

TRISERIAL, tr[=i]-s[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ in three rows or series--also
TRIS[=E]'RIATE.--_advs._ TRIS[=E]'RIALLY, in three series; TRISERI[=A]'TIM,
in three rows, triserially.

TRISETUM, tr[=i]-s[=e]'tum, _n._ a genus of grasses, of the tribe _Aveneæ_,
mostly perennial tufted grasses with flat leaves and shining spikelets. [L.
_tres_, three, _setum_, a bristle.]

TRISINUATE, tr[=i]-sin'[=u]-[=a]t, _adj._ having three sinuses, as a
margin.

TRISKELE, tris'k[=e]l, _n._ a three-armed cross, the fylfot. [Gr. _treis_,
three, _skelos_, a leg.]

TRISMEGISTUS, tris-me-gis'tus, _adj._ thrice greatest, an epithet used only
in 'Hermes Trismegistus,' the Greek name of the Egyptian god Thoth,
originator of Egyptian culture, the god of writing, of religion, and of the
arts and sciences.

TRISMUS, tris'mus, _n._ tetanic spasm of the muscles of mastication,
lockjaw. [Gr.,--_trizein_, to gnash.]

TRISOCTAHEDRON, tris-ok'ta-h[=e]-dron, _n._ a solid bounded by twenty-four
equal faces, three corresponding to each face of an octahedron.

TRISPERMOUS, tr[=i]-sper'mus, _adj._ three-seeded.--_n._ TRISPER'MUM, a
poultice made of the crushed seeds of cummin, bay, and smallage.

TRISPLANCHNIC, tr[=i]-splangk'nik, _adj._ pertaining to the viscera of the
three great cavities of the body, the cranial, thoracic, and abdominal.
[Gr. _treis_, three, _splangchna_, viscera.]

TRISPORIC, tr[=i]-spor'ik, _adj._ having three spores.--Also
TRISP[=O]'ROUS.

TRISTESSE, tris-tes', _n._ (_arch._) sadness.--_adjs._ TRIST, TRIST'FUL.
(_Shak._), sad, sorrowful, gloomy.--_adv._ TRIST'FULLY. [Fr. _triste_--L.
_tristis_, sad.]

TRISTICHOUS, tris'ti-kus, _adj._ (_bot._) grouped in three rows. [Gr.
_treis_, three, _stichos_, a row.]

TRISTIGMATIC, tr[=i]-stig-mat'ik, _adj._ having three stigmas.--Also
TRISTIG'MAT[=O]SE.

TRISTYLOUS, tr[=i]-st[=i]'lus, _adj._ (_bot._) having three styles.

TRISULA, tri-s[=oo]'la, _n._ the trident of Siva.--Also TRISUL'.

TRISULCATE, tr[=i]-sul'k[=a]t, _adj._ having three forks or prongs:
(_bot._) having three furrows. [L. _trisulcus_--_tri_, _tris_, thrice,
_sulcus_, a furrow.]

TRISYLLABLE, tr[=i]-, or tri-sil'a-bl, _n._ a word of three
syllables.--_adjs._ TRISYLLAB'IC, -AL, pertaining to a trisyllable:
consisting of three syllables.--_adv._ TRISYLLAB'ICALLY. [Gr. _treis_,
three, _syllab[=e]_, syllable.]

TRITAGONIST, tri-tag'on-ist, _n._ the third actor in the Greek drama. [Gr.
_tritos_, third, _agonist[=e]s_, an actor.]

TRITE, tr[=i]t, _adj._ worn out by use: used till its novelty and interest
are lost: hackneyed.--_adv._ TRITE'LY.--_n._ TRITE'NESS. [It. _trito_--L.
_tritus_, rubbed, pa.p. of _ter[)e]re_, to rub.]

TRITERNATE, tr[=i]-ter'n[=a]t, _adj._ thrice ternate--of a ternate leaf in
which each division is divided into three parts, and each of these into
three leaflets, thus making twenty-seven, as in some _Umbelliferæ_:--Also
TRIP'LICATE-TER'NATE.

TRITHEISM, tr[=i]'th[=e]-izm, _n._ the doctrine of three Gods: the opinion
that the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are actually different beings.--_n._
TR[=I]'THEIST, one who maintains the doctrine of tritheism.--_adjs._
TRITHEIS'TIC, -AL. [Gr. _treis_, three, _theos_, a god.]

TRITHIONIC, tr[=i]-th[=i]-on'ik, _adj._ containing three sulphur
atoms.--_n._ TRITH[=I]'[=O]N[=A]TE, a salt of trithionic acid. [Gr.
_treis_, three, _theion_, sulphur.]

TRITICAL, trit'i-kal, _adj._ trite, common.--_adv._ TRIT'ICALLY.--_n._
TRIT'ICALNESS. [Formed from _trite_, in imitation of _critical_.]

TRITICUM, trit'i-kum, _n._ a genus of grasses including the varieties of
wheat.--_adj._ TRITIC'EOUS. [L. 'wheat'--_ter[)e]re_, _tritum_, to rub.]

TRITOMA, tri-t[=o]'ma, _n._ a genus of tufted herbaceous plants belonging
to the natural order _Liliaceæ_.

TRITON, tr[=i]'ton, _n._ (_myth._) a marine demi-god, one of the trumpeters
of Poseidon (Neptune), his trumpet being a wreathed univalve shell: a genus
of molluscs with a wreathed univalve shell. [Gr. _Tr[=i]t[=o]n_.]

TRITONE, tr[=i]'t[=o]n, _n._ an interval in music composed of three whole
steps or tones.

TRITORIUM, tr[=i]-t[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a vessel for separating liquids of
different densities.--Also TRIT[=U]'RIUM.

TRITUBERCULAR, tr[=i]-t[=u]-ber'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ having three tubercles or
cusps--also TRITUBER'CULATE.--_n._ TRITUBER'CULISM.

TRITURATE, trit'[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to rub or grind to a fine
powder.--_adj._ TRIT'URABLE, that may be reduced to a fine powder by
grinding.--_ns._ TRITUR[=A]'TION; TRITUR[=A]'TOR; TRIT'UR[=A]TURE. [Late L.
_tritur[=a]re, -[=a]tum_--L. _ter[)e]re_, to rub.]

TRIUMPH, tr[=i]'umf, _n._ in ancient Rome, a solemn procession in honour of
a victorious general: joy for success: victory: (_Shak._) a trump
card.--_v.i._ to celebrate a victory with pomp: to rejoice for victory: to
obtain victory: to be prosperous: to boast, exult (with _over_): (_Shak._)
to shine brightly.--_v.t._ (_Milt._) to boast over.--_adj._ TRIUM'PHAL,
pertaining to triumph: used in celebrating victory.--_n._ (_Milt._) a token
of victory.--_adj._ TRIUM'PHANT, celebrating or rejoicing for a triumph:
expressing joy for success: victorious.--_adv._ TRIUM'PHANTLY.--_n._
TR[=I]'UMPHER.--_adv._ TR[=I]'UMPHINGLY, in a triumphing manner: with
triumph or exultation.--TRIUMPHAL ARCH, an arch erected in connection with
the triumph of a Roman general, any decorative arch in public rejoicings,
&c.--CHURCH TRIUMPHANT (see CHURCH). [L. _triumphus_; akin to Gr.
_thriambos_, a hymn to Bacchus.]

TRIUMVIR, tr[=i]-um'vir, _n._ one of three men in the same office or
government:--_pl._ TRIUM'VIR[=I], TRIUM'VIRS.--_adj._ TRIUM'VIRAL.--_n._
TRIUM'VIRATE (_Shak._ TRIUM'VIRY), an association of three men in office or
government, or for any political ends--esp. that of Pompey, Crassus, and
Cæsar (60 B.C.), and that of Octavian (Augustus), Mark Antony, and Lepidus
(43 B.C.): any trio or triad. [L. _trium-_, from _tres_, three, _vir_, a
man.]

TRIUNE, tr[=i]'[=u]n, _adj._ being three in one.--_n._ TRI[=U]'NITY.
[Coined from L. _tri-_, root of _tres_, three, _unus_, one.]

TRIVALENT, tr[=i]'v[=a]-lent, or triv'-, _adj._ equivalent in combining or
displacing power to three monad atoms.--_n._ TR[=I]'VALENCE (or triv'-).
[L. _tres_, three, _valens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _val[)e]re_, to be strong.]

TRIVALVE, tr[=i]'valv, _adj._ having three valves.--Also TR[=I]'VALVED,
TRIVAL'VULAR.

TRIVERTEBRAL, tr[=i]-ver't[=e]-bral, _adj._ composed of three vertebræ.

TRIVET, triv'et, _n._ a stool or other thing supported on three feet: a
movable iron frame in a kitchen fire-grate for supporting kettles,
&c.--RIGHT AS A TRIVET (_coll._), standing steadily like a tripod:
perfectly right. [O. Fr. _trepied_--L. _tripes_, _tripedis_--_tres_, three,
_pes_, a foot.]

TRIVIAL, triv'i-al, _adj._ that may be found anywhere, of little
importance; trifling: common, vernacular.--_v.i._ TRIV'IALISE, to render
paltry.--_ns._ TRIV'IALISM, a trivial matter or remark; TRIVIAL'ITY, the
state or quality of being trivial: that which is trivial, a trifle.--_adv._
TRIV'IALLY.--_ns._ TRIV'IALNESS; TRIV'IUM, in medieval schools the name
given to the first three liberal arts--viz. grammar, rhetoric, and logic.
[L. _trivialis_, (lit.) 'at the cross-roads or public streets'--_trivium_,
a place where three ways meet--_tres_, three, _via_, a way.]

TRI-WEEKLY, tr[=i]'-w[=e]k'li, _adj._ once every three weeks: three times a
week.

TROAD, tr[=o]d, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as TRODE.

TROCAR, tr[=o]'kar, _n._ a surgical instrument used for withdrawing
superfluous fluid from the body. [Fr.,--_trois_, three, _carre_, side.]

TROCHANTER, tr[=o]-kan't[.e]r, _n._ a rough eminence on the outer aspect of
the upper part of the thigh-bone for the insertion of various muscles which
rotate the thigh outwards: the second joint of an insect's leg.--_adjs._
TROCHANT[=E]'RIAN, TROCHANTER'IC.--_n._ TROCHAN'TIN, the lesser trochanter
of the femur.--_adj._ TROCHANTIN'IAN. [Gr.,--_trechein_, to run.]

TROCHE, tr[=o]'k[=e] (better tr[=o]ch or tr[=o]k), _n._ a lozenge, usually
round, of some medicinal ingredients mixed into a paste with sugar and
mucilage.--Also TROCHISK (tr[=o]'kisk), TROCHIS'CUS. [Gr. _trochos_, a
pill.]

TROCHEE, tr[=o]'k[=e], _n._ a metrical foot of two syllables, so called
from its tripping or joyous character: in Latin verse, consisting of a long
and a short, as _n[=u]m[)e]n_; in English verse, of an accented and
unaccented syllable, as _tri'pod_.--_n._ TROCH[=A]'IC, a trochaic verse or
measure.--_adjs._ TROCH[=A]'IC, -AL, consisting of trochees. [Gr.,
_trochaios_ (_pous_, foot), running, tripping--_trochos_, a
running--_trechein_, to run.]

TROCHIDÆ, trok'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a genus of gasteropodous molluscs, the
top-shells--the typical genus TR[=O]'CHUS.--_adj._ TR[=O]'CHIFORM.

TROCHILIC, tr[=o]-kil'ik, _adj._ pertaining to rotary motion.

TROCHILUS, trok'i-lus, _n._ a genus of humming-birds. [Gr. _trochilos_.]

TROCHITE, tr[=o]'k[=i]t, _n._ one of the wheel-like joints of the stem of
an encrinite.--_adj._ TROCHIT'IC.

TROCHITER, trok'i-t[.e]r, _n._ the greater tuberosity of the humerus,
admitting several of the muscles of the shoulders.--_adj._
TROCHIT[=E]'RIAN.

TROCHLEA, trok'l[=e]-a, _n._ a pulley-like cartilage through which the
superior oblique muscle of the eye-ball passes: in the elbow-joint, the
articular surface of the lower extremity of the humerus, grasped by the
greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna.--_adjs._ TROCH'L[=E]AR, shaped like a
pulley; TROCH'L[=E]ARY, relating to the trochlea. [L. _trochlea_--Gr.
_trochalia_, a pulley.]

TROCHOID, tr[=o]'koid, _n._ the curve traced by a fixed point in a wheel
which rolls in a right line.--_adjs._ TR[=O]'CHOID, -AL. [Gr.
_trochæid[=e]s_, round like a wheel--_trochos_, wheel, _eidos_, form.]

TROCTOLITE, trok't[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a variety of Gabbro composed of white
feldspar and dark olivine.

TROD, trod, _n._ (_obs._) tramp, track.--HOT TROD (_Scott_), the pursuit of
moss-troopers. [_Tread_.]

TROD, TROD'DEN, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _tread_.

TRODE, tr[=o]d, _n._ (_Spens._) tread, footing. [_Tread_.]

TROGGS, trogz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) clothes.--_n._ TROG'GIN, peddlers' goods.

TROGLODYTE, trog'l[=o]-d[=i]t, _n._ a cave-dweller.--_adjs._ TROG'LODYTE,
TROGLODYT'IC, -AL, cave-dwelling.--_n._ TROG'LODYTISM. [Fr.,--Gr.
_tr[=o]glodyt[=e]s_--_tr[=o]gl[=e]_, a cave, _dyein_, to enter.]

TROGON, tr[=o]'gon, _n._ one of a family of tropical and esp. South
American birds of the order _Picariæ_, with brilliant plumage--the most
celebrated species the Quetzal or Resplendent Trogon of Guatemala.--_adj._
TR[=O]'GONOID.

TROIC, tr[=o]'ik, _adj._ Trojan.

TROIKA, troi'ka, _n._ a Russian vehicle having three horses abreast. [Russ.
_troe_, _troi_, three.]

TROJAN, tr[=o]'jan, _adj._ pertaining to ancient _Troy_.--_n._ an
inhabitant of ancient Troy: (_coll._) a plucky fellow: (_Shak._) a boon
companion.

TROKE, tr[=o]k, _n._ (_Scot._) exchange: small wares: familiar
intercourse.--_v.i._ to exchange, deal.--_n._ TR[=O]'KING, dealing, making
petty bargains, familiar intercourse with. [_Truck_.]

TROLL, tr[=o]l, _n._ in Scandinavian mythology, a supernatural being of
small size, dwelling in a cave, hill, &c. [Ice. _troll_ (Ger. _droll_). Cf.
_Droll_.]

TROLL, tr[=o]l, _v.t._ to move circularly: to sing the parts of in
succession, as of a catch or round: to angle or fish for in a certain way:
to fish for.--_v.i._ to roll: to move or run about: to sing a catch: to
stroll, ramble: to fish, esp. for pike, with rod and line, using revolving
lure, artificial or natural, such as spoon-bait, minnow, &c.--_n._ a moving
round, repetition: a round song.--_ns._ TROLL'ER; TROLL'EY, TROLL'Y, a
costermonger's cart: a metallic roller or pulley used in many electric
street-railways in connection with an overhead electric conductor: a small
truck running in a furnace, or in mines: lace whose pattern is outlined
with a thicker thread or a flat border made up of several such threads;
TROLL'ING; TROLL'ING-BAIT, -SPOON, a metallic revolving lure used in
trolling. [O. Fr. _troller_, _trauler_ (Fr. _trôler_), to stroll; Old High
Ger. _trollen_, to run.]

TROLL-MY-DAME, trol'-mi-d[=a]m, _n._ (_Shak._) an old game.--Also
_Nine-holes_, _Pigeon-holes_, and _Trunks_.

TROLLOL, trol'lol', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to sing, to troll.

TROLLOP, trol'op, _n._ (_Scot._) a loitering, slatternly woman: a woman
negligently dressed: a draggle-tail: a strumpet.--_v.i._ to draggle: to
work in a slovenly way.--_adjs._ TROLL'OPING, TROLL'OPISH, TROLL'OPY. [From
troll, in the sense of running about.]

TROMBONE, trom'b[=o]n, _n._ a deep-toned brass musical wind instrument of
the trumpet kind, consisting of a tube bent twice on itself.--_n._
TROM'BONIST. [It.; augm. of _tromba_, a trumpet.]

TROMMEL, trom'el, _n._ a revolving cylindrical sieve for cleaning or sizing
ore. [Ger. _trommel_, a drum.]

TROMOMETER, tr[=o]-mom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring slight
earthquake shocks.--_adj._ TROMOMET'RIC. [Gr. _tromos_, a trembling,
_metron_, a measure.]

TROMPE, tromp, _n._ the apparatus by which the blast is produced in the
Catalan forge.--Also TROMP.

TRON, tron, or tr[=o]n, _n._ the most ancient system of weight used in
Scotland, the _Tron_ or _Trone_ being a heavy beam or balance set up in the
market-place, and employed for the weighing of heavy wares.--_n._ TRON'AGE,
a royal tax on wool. [O. Fr. _trone_--L. _trutina_, a pair of scales.]

TRONA, tr[=o]'na, _n._ the native soda of Egypt, a grayish hydrous sodium
carbonate. [_Natron_.]

TRONCHEON, tron'shun, _n._ (_Spens._) a headless spear.--_adj._ TRONÇONNÉE
(_her._), shivered, as a tilting-spear, dismembered. [_Truncheon_.]

TRONE, tr[=o]n, _n._ (_prov._) a small drain.

TROOP, tr[=oo]p, _n._ a crowd or collection of people: a company: soldiers
taken collectively, an army, usually in _pl._: a small body of cavalry,
forming the unit of formation, consisting usually of sixty men,
corresponding to a company of infantry: the command of a troop of
horse.--_v.i._ to collect in numbers: to march in a company, or in
haste.--_ns._ TROOP'ER, a private cavalry soldier: a cavalry horse: a
troop'-ship; TROOP'-HORSE, a cavalry horse; TROOP'-SHIP, a vessel for
conveying soldiers.--TROOPING THE COLOURS, a ceremony performed at the
public mounting of garrison guards.--HOUSEHOLD TROOPS (see HOUSE). [Fr.
_troupe_, prob. through Low L. forms, from L. _turba_, a crowd.]

TROPÆOLUM, tr[=o]-p[=e]'[=o]-lum, _n._ a genus of plants, natives of South
America, annual or perennial herbs of trailing or climbing
habits--Nasturtium, &c. [Gr. _tropaios_, pertaining to turning.]

TROPARION, tr[=o]-p[=a]'ri-on, _n._ in the offices of the Greek Church, a
short hymn or a stanza of a hymn:--_pl._ TROP[=A]'RIA. [Gr. _tropos_, a
musical mode.]

TROPE, tr[=o]p, _n._ (_rhet._) a word or expression changed from its proper
sense for emphasis, a figure of speech---metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche,
and irony: a short cadence peculiar to Gregorian melodies--also
_Differentia_ and _Distinctio_: formerly, a phrase occasionally
interpolated in different parts of the mass: (_geom._) the reciprocal of a
node.--_adj._ TR[=O]'PICAL, figurative.--_adv._ TR[=O]'PICALLY.--_n._
TR[=O]'PIST, one who uses tropes or who explains Scripture by
them.--_adjs._ TR[=O]POLOG'IC, -AL, expressed or varied by tropes or
figures.--_adv._ TR[=O]POLOG'ICALLY.--_v.t._ TROPOL'OGISE, to use as a
trope.--_n._ TR[=O]POL'OGY, a tropical or figurative mode of speech: a
treatise on tropes: that interpretation of Scripture which reads moral
meanings into any and every passage. [Fr.,--L. _tropus_--Gr.
_tropos_--_trepein_, to turn.]

TROPHIC, -AL, trof'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to nutrition and its
processes.--_adj._ TROPH[=E]'SIAL.--_n._ TROPH'ESY, deranged nutrition
owing to disorder of the motor nerve force pertaining to the nutritive
function.--_n.pl._ TR[=O]'PHI, the mouth-parts of an insect--labium,
labrum, maxillæ, mandibles, lingua: the teeth of the pharynx of a rotifer.
[Gr. _troph[=e]_, food.]

TROPHONIAN, tr[=o]-f[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Trophonius_, the
mythical builder of the temple of Apollo at Delphi and the treasury of King
Hyrieus in Boeotia.

TROPHOTROPISM, trof'[=o]-tr[=o]-pizm, _n._ the movements of the organs in a
growing plant, as towards nutrient substances, induced by the chemical
nature of its surroundings.--_adj._ TROPHOTROP'IC. [Gr. _troph[=e]_, food,
_trepein_, to turn.]

TROPHY, tr[=o]'fi, _n._ a memorial of a victory, consisting of a pile of
arms erected on the field of battle: anything taken from an enemy and
preserved as a memorial of victory: something that is evidence of victory:
an ornamental group of weapons, flags, memorials of the chase, &c.--_v.t._
to adorn with trophies.--_adj._ TR[=O]'PHIED, adorned with trophies. [Fr.
_trophée_--L. _tropæum_--Gr. _tropaion_--_trop[=e]_, a turning--_trepein_,
to turn.]

TROPIC, trop'ik, _n._ one of the two circles on the celestial sphere, 23°
28' on each side of the equator, where the sun turns, as it were, after
reaching its greatest declination north or south: one of two circles on the
terrestrial globe corresponding to these: (_pl._) the regions lying between
the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.--_adjs._ TROP'IC, -AL, pertaining to
the tropics: being within or near the tropics.--_adv._ TROP'ICALLY.--_n._
TROP'IC-BIRD, a genus of bird the family _Phaëthontidæ_, usually seen in
tropical regions. [Through L. _tropicus_, from Gr. _tropikos_, relating to
a turning--_tropos_, a turning.]

TROPPO, trop'p[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) too much: excessively. [It.; cf. Fr.
_trop_, too much.]

TROSSERS, tros'[.e]rz, _n._ (_Shak._) a form of _trousers_.

TROT, trot, _v.i._ to go, lifting the feet quicker and higher than in
walking: to walk or move fast: to run.--_v.t._ to ride at a trot:--_pr.p._
trot'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ trot'ted.--_n._ the pace of a horse or other
quadruped when trotting: a toddling child: (_slang_) a crib,
translation.--_ns._ TROT'TER, one that trots: a trotting-horse: the foot of
an animal, as a sheep: (_slang_) the human foot; TROTTOIR (trot-wor'), a
footway at the side of a street.--TROT OUT, to exhibit the paces of: to
show. [O. Fr. _trotter_, _troter_--Low L. _trot[=a]re_, to go; prob. from
Old High Ger. _trott[=o]n_, freq. of _tretan_, to tread.]

TROT, trot, _n._ (_Shak._) an old woman.

TROT-COSY, trot'-k[=o]'zi, _n._ (_Scot._) a covering to keep the neck and
head warm in travelling, drawn over the head and hat, and buttoned beneath
the chin.

TROTH, troth, or tr[=o]th, _n._ truth, confidence: faith: fidelity.--_v.t._
to plight.--_adj._ TROTH'-PLIGHT (_Shak._), betrothed, affianced.--_n._
betrothal.--_n._ TROTH'-RING, a betrothal ring. [A.S. _treówth_.]

TROUBADOUR, tr[=oo]'ba-d[=oo]r, _n._ one of a class of poets of chivalric
love, who first appeared in Provence, and flourished from the 11th to the
13th century (see LANGUE D'OC). [Fr., from Prov. _trobador_--_trobar_ (Fr.
_trouver_), to find--L. _turb[=a]re_, to move.]

TROUBLE, trub'l, _v.t._ to put into a confused state: to agitate: to
disturb: to annoy: to busy or engage overmuch: to put to
inconvenience.--_v.i._ to take pains.--_n._ disturbance: affliction:
disease: uneasiness: that which disturbs or afflicts.--_ns._
TROUB'LE-MIRTH, a kill-joy; TROUB'LER.--_adj._ TROUB'LESOME, causing or
giving trouble or inconvenience: vexatious: importunate: troublous.--_adv._
TROUB'LESOMELY.--_n._ TROUB'LESOMENESS.--_adj._ TROUB'LOUS, full of trouble
or disorder: agitated: tumultuous: disturbing.--CAST OIL ON TROUBLED WATERS
(_fig._), to appease, calm, quieten. [O. Fr. _tourbler_--Low L.
_turbul[=a]re_--L. _turb[=a]re_, to disturb--_turba_, a crowd.]

TROUGH, trof, _n._ a long, hollow vessel for water or other liquid: a long
tray: a long narrow channel: a concavity or hollow. [A.S. _trog_; Ger.
_trog_.]

TROUNCE, trowns, _v.t._ to punish or beat severely. [O. Fr. _troncer_, to
cut--L. _truncus_, a trunk.]

TROUPE, tr[=oo]p, _n._ a company, esp. of actors, dancers, or acrobats.
[Fr. See TROOP.]

TROUPIAL, TROOPIAL, tr[=oo]'pi-al, _n._ a bird of the family _Icteridæ_,
the Hang-nests, famed for its exquisite song. [From their going in flocks,
Fr. _troupe_, a troop.]

TROUS-DE-LOUP, tr[=oo]-de-l[=oo], _n.pl._ conical pits dug in the ground,
each with a vertical stake in the middle--a defence against cavalry. [Fr.]

TROUSERS, trow'z[.e]rz, _n.pl._ long breeches: a garment worn by males on
the lower limbs and trussed or fastened up at the waist by braces or
belt.--_adj._ TROU'SERED, wearing trousers.--_n._ TROU'SERING, material for
making trousers. [O. Fr. _trousses_, breeches worn by pages.]

TROUSSE, tr[=oo]s, _n._ a collection of small implements in a case, esp. of
surgical instruments. [Fr.]

TROUSSEAU, tr[=oo]-s[=o]', _n._ the lighter articles of a bride's outfit:
(_rare_) a bundle:--_pl._ TROUSSEAUX (-s[=o]z'). [Fr., a dim. of _trousse_,
a bundle.]

TROUT, trowt, _n._ a common name for fresh-water fish of the genus _Salmo_:
the _Salmo Fario_, _Trutta_, or Common Trout, much sought after by
anglers.--_n._ TROUT'-BAS'KET, an osier or willow creel for carrying
trout.--_adj._ TROUT'-COL'OURED, speckled like a trout: white, with spots
of black, bay, or sorrel.--_ns._ TROUT'-FARM, a place where trout are
reared artificially; TROUT'LET, TROUT'LING, a little trout; TROUT'-ROD, a
fishing-rod for trout; TROUT'-SPOON, a small revolving spoon used as a lure
for trout; TROUT'-STREAM, a stream in which trout are caught. [A.S.
_truht_--L. _tructa_, _tructus_--Gr. _tr[=o]kt[=e]s_, a sea-fish with sharp
teeth--_tr[=o]gein_, to gnaw.]

TROUVÈRE, tr[=oo]-v[=a]r', _n._ one of the medieval narrative or epic poets
of northern France. For their language, the _langue d'oui_, see under
LANGUE D'OC.

TROVER, tr[=o]'v[.e]r, _n._ the gaining possession of goods: an action
brought to recover goods from a person to whom they do not belong, but who
has in some way obtained possession of them. [O. Fr. _trover_, to find (Fr.
_trouver_)--Low L. _trop[=a]re_, to compose.]

TROW, tr[=o], _v.i._ to hold as true: (_B._) to trust: to believe: to
think. [A.S. _treów-ian_, to trust; cf. Ice. _trúa_, Ger. _trauen_.]

TROWEL, trow'el, _n._ a tool used in spreading mortar, paint, &c., and in
gardening.--_v.t._ to dress with a trowel.-LAY ON WITH A TROWEL, to spread
thickly: to flatter grossly. [O. Fr. _truelle_--L. _trulla_, dim. of
_trua_, a ladle.]

TROWSERS. Same as TROUSERS.

TROY-WEIGHT, troi'-w[=a]t, _n._ the system of weights used in England for
gold, silver, and precious stones. The troy pound contains 5760 grains, and
is to the avoirdupois pound as 144 to 175, while the troy ounce is to the
avoirdupois ounce as 192 to 175. [From _Troyes_, in France, the pound
weight of which was adopted in England in the 14th century.]

TRUANT, tr[=oo]'ant, _n._ an idler: a boy who, idly or without excuse,
absents himself from school.--_adj._ wandering from duty: loitering:
idle.--_v.i._ to play truant.--_ns._ TRU'ANCY, TRU'ANTSHIP.--PLAY TRUANT,
to stay from school without leave. [O. Fr. _truand_--Celt.; W. _truan_,
wretched, Bret. _truek_, a beggar.]

TRUCE, tr[=oo]s, _n._ a suspension of hostilities between two armies or
states for a period specially agreed upon: cessation.--_n._
TRUCE'-BREAK'ER, one who violates a truce or engagement.--_adj._
TRUCE'LESS, without truce: relentless.--TRUCE OF GOD, in the 11th and 12th
centuries, a cessation of private feuds observed in France, Italy, England,
&c. from Wednesday evening to Monday morning in each week during Advent and
Lent, and on certain of the principal saints' days and holy days of the
Church.--FLAG OF TRUCE (see FLAG). [M. E. _trewes_, _treowes_, pl. of
_trewe_, a truce; cf. _True_.]

TRUCK, truk, _v.t._ to exchange or barter.--_v.i._ to traffic by
exchange.--_n._ exchange of goods: barter: (_coll._) small goods:
rubbish.--_ns._ TRUCK'AGE, the practice of exchanging or bartering goods;
TRUCK'ER; TRUCK'-FARMER (_U.S._), a market-gardener; TRUCK'-HOUSE,
TRUCK'ING-HOUSE, a house for storing goods.--_v.i._ TRUCK'LE, to yield
meanly to the demands of another.--_ns._ TRUCK'LER; TRUCK'LING.--_adj._
fawning, slavish.--_n._ TRUCK'-SYS'TEM, the practice of paying workmen in
goods instead of money.--TRUCK ACT, a statute of 1831, extended in 1887,
requiring workmen's wages to be paid in money instead of goods. [O. Fr.
_troquer_, to truck; Sp. _trocar_, to barter, It. _truccare_, to truck.]

TRUCK, truk, _n._ a wheel: a railway-wagon for heavy articles: a platform
running on wheels: a small wooden cap at the top of a mast or flag-staff: a
circular piece of wood or metal for moving ordnance.--_v.t._ to convey by
truck.--_ns._ TRUCK'AGE, conveyance by trucks: charge for carrying articles
on a truck; TRUCK'-BOL'STER, a beam in the middle of a railway-truck
supporting the body of the car; TRUCK'LE, a small wheel or castor: a
truckle-bed.--_v.t._ to move on rollers.--_v.i._ to sleep in a
truckle-bed.--_n._ TRUCK'LE-BED, a low bed on wheels that may be pushed
under another. [L. _trochus_, a wheel--Gr. _trochos_--_trechein_, to run.]

TRUCULENT, truk'[=u]-lent (tr[=oo]'k[=u]-lent, according to some), _adj._
very fierce: barbarous: cruel: inspiring terror.--_ns._ TRUC'ULENCE,
TRUC'ULENCY.--_adv._ TRUC'ULENTLY. [L. _truculentus_--_trux_, wild,
fierce.]

TRUDGE, truj, _v.i._ to travel on foot: to travel with labour or effort: to
march heavily on.--_n._ a weary walk. [Skeat suggests that the word is
orig. to walk in heavy shoes, from Sw. dial. _truga_, _trudja_, a
snow-shoe, Norw. _truga_, Ice. _thrúga_, a snow-shoe.]

TRUE, tr[=oo], _adj._ agreeing with fact: worthy of belief or confidence:
certain: trusty: genuine: normal: (_anat._) complete: exact: straight:
right: rightful: honest.--_v.t._ to make straight in position, &c.--_n._
(_obs._) truth, a pledge: a truce.--_n._ TRUE'-BLUE, a faithful
partisan.--_adjs._ TRUE'-BORN, of true or genuine birth: having a right by
birth; TRUE'-BRED, of a true or genuine birth: of good breeding or manners;
TRUE'-DERIVED' (_Shak._), legitimate; TRUE'-DEVOT'ED (_Shak._), full of
honest zeal; TRUE'-DISPOS'ING (_Shak._), just; TRUE'-HEART'ED,
sincere.--_ns._ TRUE'-HEART'EDNESS; TRUE'-LOVE, one truly or really
beloved: a sweetheart: the herb-Paris (see HERB).--_adj._
affectionate.--_ns._ TRUE'-LOVE'-KNOT, TRUE'-LOV'ER'S-KNOT, lines
interwoven with many involutions, fancifully held as an emblem of
interwoven affection; TRUE'NESS; TRUE'-PENN'Y (_Shak._), an honest
fellow.--_adv._ TRU'LY.--TRUE BILL, a bill of indictment endorsed, after
investigation, by a grand jury, as containing a well-founded charge; TRUE
RIB, a rib attached to spine and sternum--opp. to _Floating rib_. [A.S.
_treówe_; Ice. _tryggr_, Ger. _treu_.]

TRUFFLE, truf'l, _n._ a globose underground edible fungus, used for its
agreeable flavour in the preparation of many dishes.--_adj._ TRUFF'LED,
cooked with truffles. [O. Fr. _truffle_ (Fr. _truffe_), prob. from L.
_tuber_.]

TRUG, trug, _n._ (_prov._) a gardener's wooden basket.

TRUISM, tr[=oo]'izm, _n._ a plain or self-evident truth.--_adj._
TRUISMAT'IC.

TRUITE, trw[=e]-t[=a]', _adj._ having a delicately crackled surface, of
porcelain, &c. [Fr.]

TRULL, trul, _n._ a drab: a vagrant woman of loose habits. [Allied to Ger.
_trolle_.]

TRULLAN, trul'an, _adj._ pertaining to the _trullus_ or dome-roofed hall in
the imperial palace at Constantinople, and esp. to the Quinisext Council
held therein in 691. [Low L. _trullus_, a dome--L. _trulla_, a ladle.]

TRUMEAU, tr[=oo]-m[=o]', _n._ any piece of wall between two
openings:--_pl._ TRUMEAUX' (-m[=o]z'). [Fr.]

TRUMP, trump, _v.t._ to deceive; to introduce unfairly.--_adj._
TRUMPED'-UP, forged, worthless.--_n._ TRUM'PERY, something showy but
worthless: rubbish: nonsense, idle talk.--_adj._ showy and
worthless.--TRUMP UP, to forge: collect from any quarter. [Fr. _tromper_,
to deceive, orig. to play on the trump.]

TRUMP, trump, _n._ a trumpet: a Jew's-harp. [O. Fr. _trompe_ (It.
_tromba_); cf. Old High Ger. _trumba_, Ger. _tromme_, Eng. _drum_, which is
thus a doublet of _trump_.]

TRUMP, trump, _n._ a card of the leading suit that triumphs or wins: one of
the suit of cards which takes any other: an old game of cards: (_coll._) a
good, trusty fellow.--_v.i._ to play a trump card.--_v.t._ to play a trump
card upon.--CALL, SIGNAL, FOR TRUMPS, in whist, a conventional signal
indicating that the player wishes his partner to lead trumps. [From
_triumph_, confused with _trump_, to deceive.]

TRUMPET, trum'pet, _n._ the most ancient of wind instruments, formed of a
long, narrow, straight tube, bent twice on itself, the last fifteen inches
tapering into a bell, and sounded by means of a cupped mouthpiece--much
used in military signalling: in organs, a powerful reed-stop having a
trumpet-like sound: a cry resembling a trumpet-sound: (_fig._) one who
praises.--_v.t._ to publish by trumpet: to proclaim: to sound the praises
of.--_v.i._ to sound a trumpet.--_ns._ TRUM'PET-CALL, a call or summons on
the trumpet, any call to action; TRUM'PETER, one who sounds on the trumpet
the regimental calls and signals: one who proclaims, praises, or denounces:
a genus of crane-like birds of British Guiana, &c.: one of the whistling
swans: a kind of domestic pigeon: a large New Zealand food-fish;
TRUM'PET-FISH, also _Snipe-fish_, a sea-fish so named from its trumpet-like
or tubular muzzle; TRUM'PET-FLOW'ER, the popular name of various plants
which produce large trumpet-shaped flowers--as the genera Bignonia and
Tecoma (_Bignoniaceæ_), and Solandra (_Solonaceæ_); TRUM'PET-M[=A]'JOR, a
head-trumpeter in a band or regiment.--_adj._ TRUM'PET-SHAPED, formed like
a trumpet.--_ns._ TRUM'PET-SHELL, a shell of the genus _Triton_;
TRUM'PET-TONE, the sound of a trumpet: a loud voice.--_adj._
TRUM'PET-TONGUED, having a voice or tongue loud as a trumpet.--_n._
SPEAK'ING-TRUM'PET (see SPEAK).--BLOW ONE'S OWN TRUMPET, to sound one's own
praises; FEAST OF TRUMPETS, a Jewish feast in which trumpets played an
important part; FLOURISH OF TRUMPETS (see FLOURISH). [O. Fr. _trompette_,
dim. of _trompe_.]

TRUNCAL. See TRUNK.

TRUNCATE, trung'k[=a]t, _v.t._ to cut off: to lop: to maim.--_adjs._
TRUNC'ATE, -D, appearing as if cut off at the tip: ending in a transverse
line.--_adv._ TRUN'CATELY.--_n._ TRUNC[=A]'TION.--TRUNCATED CONE, PYRAMID,
a cone, pyramid, having the vertex cut off by a line parallel to the base.
[L. _trunc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_truncus_.]

TRUNCHEON, trun'shun, _n._ a short staff: a cudgel: a baton or staff of
authority.--_v.t._ to beat with a truncheon: to cudgel.--_adj._
TRUN'CHEONED, furnished with a truncheon: armed with a lance.--_ns._
TRUN'CHEONEER, TRUN'CHEONER, one armed with a truncheon. [O. Fr.
_tronçon_--_tronc_.]

TRUNDLE, trun'dl, _n._ anything round: a wheel: a truck: a trundle-bed:
(_her._) a. spool of golden thread.--v.t to roll, as on wheels.--_v.i._ to
roll: twirl: bowl along.--_ns._ TRUN'DLE-BED, a bed moving on trundles or
low wheels: a truckle-bed; TRUN'DLE-TAIL (_Shak._), a round tail, a dog
with a tail curled up. [A.S. _trendel_, a circle, wheel.]

TRUNK, trungk, _n._ the stem of a tree: the body of an animal apart from
the limbs: the main body of anything: anything long and hollow: the
proboscis of an elephant: the shaft of a column, the dado or body of a
pedestal: a water-course of planks leading from the race to the
water-wheel: a large hollow piston in which a connecting-rod plays: a
portable box or chest for clothes, &c., esp. on a journey: a flume,
penstock.--_adjs._ TRUNC'AL, pertaining to the trunk, principal; TRUNKED,
having a trunk: (_Spens._) beheaded.--_ns._ TRUNK'-FISH, the coffer-fish;
TRUNK'FUL, as much as will fill a trunk; TRUNK'-HOSE, -BREECH'ES, large
hose or breeches formerly worn over the lower part of the body and the
upper part of the legs; TRUNK'-LINE, the main-line of a railway, canal,
&c.; TRUNK'-ROAD, a main-road; TRUNK'-SLEEVE (_Shak._), a sleeve with the
upper part puffed; TRUNK'-WORK, work involving secrecy as by means of a
trunk. [O. Fr. _tronc_--L. _truncus_, a stock--_truncus_, maimed.]

TRUNNION, trun'yun, _n._ one of the knobs on each side of a gun, on which
it rests on the carriage: in steam-engines, a hollow gudgeon on each side
of an oscillating cylinder, serving as a support to it.--_adj._
TRUNN'IONED, provided with trunnions.--_n._ TRUNN'ION-PLATE, a raised rim
forming a shoulder around the trunnion of a gun. [Fr. _trognon_, a
stalk--_tronc_, a stump--L. _truncus_.]

TRUSS, trus, _n._ a bundle: timbers fastened together for binding a beam or
supporting a roof: in ships, the rope or iron for keeping the lower yard to
the mast: a tuft of flowers at the top of the main stalk or stem: a bandage
or apparatus used in hernia to retain reduced parts, or to hinder
protusion.--_v.t._ to bind up: to pack close: to furnish with a truss: to
draw tight and tie: to skewer in cooking.--_n._ TRUSS'-BEAM, a wooden beam
strengthened by a tie-rod.--_adj._ TRUSSED.--_n._ TRUSS'ING, in
ship-building, diagonal timbers or iron plates crossing the ribs
internally, and consolidating the whole together. [O. Fr. _trosser_, orig.
_torser_, to bind together--L. _tortus_, pa.p. of _torqu[=e]re_, to twist.]

TRUST, trust, _n._ trustworthiness: confidence in the truth of anything:
confident expectation: a resting on the integrity, friendship, &c. of
another: faith: hope: credit (esp. sale on credit or on promise to pay): he
who, or that which, is the ground of confidence: that which is given or
received in confidence: charge: an arrangement by which property is handed
to or vested in a person, in the trust or confidence that he will use and
dispose of it for the benefit of another, also the estate so managed for
another: in modern commerce, an arrangement for the control of several
companies under one direction, to cheapen expenses, regulate production,
beat down competition, and so obtain a maximum return.--_adj._ held in
trust.--_v.t._ to place trust in: to believe: to give credit to: to sell
upon credit: to commit to the care of: to expect confidently.--_v.i._ to be
confident or confiding.--_ns._ TRUST'-DEED, a deed conveying property to a
trustee; TRUSTEE', one to whom anything is entrusted: one to whom the
management of a property is committed in trust for the benefit of others;
TRUSTEE'SHIP; TRUST'ER; TRUST-ESTATE', an estate held by trustees.--_adj._
TRUST'FUL, trusting: worthy of trust.--_adv._ TRUST'FULLY.--_n._
TRUST'FULNESS.--_adv._ TRUST'ILY.--_n._ TRUST'INESS.--_adj._ TRUST'ING,
confiding.--_adv._ TRUST'INGLY.--_adj._ TRUST'LESS, treacherous,
unfaithful.--_ns._ TRUST'LESSNESS; TRUST'WORTHINESS.--_adjs._ TRUST'WORTHY,
worthy of trust or confidence: trusty; TRUST'Y (_comp._ TRUST'IER,
_superl._ TRUST'IEST), that may be trusted: deserving confidence: honest:
strong: firm: (_Shak._) involving trust.--ACTIVE, or SPECIAL, TRUST, a
trust in which the trustee's power of management depends upon his having
the right of actual possession; BREACH OF TRUST, a violation of duty by a
trustee, executor, &c.; IN TRUST, as a charge, for safe-keeping; ON TRUST,
on credit. [Scand., Ice. _traust_, trust; Ger. _trost_, consolation.]

TRUTH, tr[=oo]th, _n._ that which is true or according to the facts of the
case: agreement with reality: true state of things, or facts: practice of
speaking or disposition to speak the truth: fidelity: genuineness:
righteous conduct: a true statement: an established principle: in the fine
arts, a faithful adherence to nature.--_adj._ TRUTH'FUL, full of truth:
according to, or adhering to, truth: reliable.--_adv._ TRUTH'FULLY.--_ns._
TRUTH'FULNESS; TRUTH'INESS.--_adj._ TRUTH'LESS.--_ns._ TRUTH'LESSNESS;
TRUTH'-LOV'ER; TRUTH'-TELL'ER, one who speaks the truth.--_adjs._
TRUTH'-WRIT, truthfully written; TRUTH'Y, truthful.--GOD'S TRUTH, a thing
or statement absolutely true; IN TRUTH, truly, in fact; OF A TRUTH (_B._),
truly. [A.S. _treówthu_--_treówe_, true.]

TRUTINATE, tr[=oo]'ti-n[=a]t, _v.t._ (_obs._) to weigh.--_n._
TRUTIN[=A]'TION. [L. _trutin[=a]ri_--Gr. _trytan[=e]_, a balance.]

TRUTTACEOUS, tru-t[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ pertaining to, or like, a trout.
[_Trout_.]

TRY, tr[=i], _v.t._ to put to the test or proof: to sift: to prove by
experiment: to purify: to examine judiciously: to determine, settle: to
examine carefully or experimentally: to experience: to attempt: to use as
means: to put to severe trial, cause suffering to: to bring to a decision,
to settle.--_v.i._ to endeavour: to make an effort: (_Shak._) to prove by
experience: (_obs._) to keep a ship's bows to the sea during a
gale:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ tried (tr[=i]d).--_n._ a trial: effort: in Rugby
football, the score of three points gained by a player who succeeds in
placing the ball with his hand over the enemy's line.--_adj._ TRIED,
proved, experienced.--_n._ TR[=I]'ER.--_adjs._ TRY'ABLE, TR[=I]'ABLE,
capable of being tried; TRYE (_Spens._), proved excellent.--_n._
TRY'-HOUSE, a place in which oil is extracted from blubber, &c.--_adj._
TRY'ING, making trial or proof of: adapted to try: searching: severe.--TRY
ON, to put on for trial, as a garment: to attempt; TRY BACK, to revert,
hark back. [O. Fr. _trier_, to pick out, to cull (the grain from the
straw), from an assumed L. _tritare_--_ter[)e]re_, _tritum_, to rub.]

TRYGON, tr[=i]'gon, _n._ a genus of cartilaginous fishes, of the order of
Rays and family _Trygonidæ_--the sting-ray. [Gr. _tryg[=o]n_, a sting-ray.]

TRYMA, tr[=i]'ma, _n._ a drupe with fleshy exocarp, dehiscent. [Gr.
_tryma_, a hole.]

TRYPETA, tr[=i]-p[=e]'ta, _n._ a genus of flies, family _Trypetidæ_, of
greenish-yellow colour, forming gall-like deformations in the flower-heads
of composite plants. [Gr. _tryp[=e]t[=e]s_, a borer--_trypan_, to bore.]

TRYPOGRAPHIC, trip-[=o]-graf'ik, _adj._ pertaining to a method of printing
by the use of paper stencils. [Gr. _trypan_, to bore, _graphein_, to
write.]

TRYPSIN, trip'sin, _n._ a ferment which occurs in the secretion of the
pancreas, and may be isolated from the pancreatic juice, as pepsin from the
gastric.--_adj._ TRYP'TIC.--_n._ TRYP'T[=O]NE, a substance formed from
proteids by pancreatic juice. [Gr., from _tribein_, to rub, the substance
having been first found on rubbing down the pancreas with glycerine.]

TRYSAIL, tr[=i]'s[=a]l, or tr[=i]'sl, _n._ a reduced sail used by small
craft, instead of their mainsail, in a storm: a small fore-and-aft sail set
with a boom and gaff.

TRYST, tr[=i]st, _n._ an appointment to meet: appointed place of meeting: a
market.--_v.t._ to make an appointment with.--_v.i._ to agree to
meet.--_ns._ TRYS'TER; TRYS'TING-DAY, a fixed day of meeting;
TRYS'TING-PLACE, an arranged meeting-place.--BIDE TRYST, to wait for a
person at the appointed place and time. [A variant of _trust_.]

TSABIAN. See SABIAN.

TSAMBA, tsam'ba, _n._ ground black barley, the chief food of Tibet.

TSAR, tsär, _n._ better form of _Czar_.

TSETSE, tset's[=e], _n._ a dipterous insect of South Africa (_Glossina
morsitans_), not much larger than the common house-fly, brownish, with four
yellow bars across the abdomen, strangely limited within sharply defined
areas or 'fly-belts.' Its bite is fatal to the ox, horse, and dog.

TSUBA, ts[=oo]'ba, _n._ the guard of a Japanese sword.

TSUN, tsun, _n._ a Chinese inch, 1/10th of the _chih_.

TSUNG-TUH, tsung'-tu', _n._ a Chinese viceroy, the highest provincial
governor.

TUATH, t[=u]'ath, _n._ an ancient Irish territorial division.

TUB, tub, _n._ a two-handed open wooden vessel: a vessel made of staves and
hoops: a small cask: anything like a tub: the quantity a tub holds:
(_slang_) a pulpit: a clumsy boat: a receptacle for bathing water: the act
of bathing in a tub.--_v.t._ to set, to bathe, in a tub.--_v.i._ to take a
bath in a tub.--_n._ TUB'BING, the art of, or the material for, making
tubs: in mining, a method of keeping out the water in sinking a shaft in
watery ground: a tub-bath: rowing in clumsy boats.--_adjs._ TUB'BISH, round
and fat; TUB'BY, sounding like an empty tub: dull: wanting elasticity of
sound: round like a tub.--_ns._ TUB'-FAST (_Shak._) a process of treating
venereal disease by sweating in a hot tub; TUB'FUL, as much as a tub will
hold; TUB'-GIG, a Welsh car; TUB'-THUMP'ER (_slang_), a ranting preacher;
TUB'-WHEEL, a kind of bowl-shaped water-wheel like the turbine, with spiral
flanges at the exterior. [Low Ger. _tubbe_; Dut. _tobbe_.]

TUBA, t[=u]'ba, _n._ a large, low-pitched trumpet-shaped instrument: in
organs, a reed-stop of large scale: (_anat._) a tube, or tubular
organ:--_pl._ T[=U]'BÆ, T[=U]'BAS (-b[=e], -bas). [L.]

TUBE, t[=u]b, _n._ a pipe: a long hollow cylinder for the conveyance of
fluids, &c.: a canal: the body of a musical instrument: a telescope: a
cylindrical receptacle for holding semi-fluid substances, as
pigments.--_v.t._ to furnish with, enclose in, a tube.--_n._ T[=U]'BAGE,
the act or process of lining a heavy gun by insertion of a tube of
wrought-iron, &c.: (_med._) the insertion of a tube into the larynx,
&c.--_adjs._ T[=U]'BAL, T[=U]'BAR.--_n._ TUBE'-WELL, a pipe used to obtain
water from beneath the ground, having a sharp point and a number of
perforations just above the point.--_adjs._ TUBIC'OLAR, T[=U]'BICOLE,
TUBIC'OLOUS, inhabiting a tube: spinning a tubular web; T[=U]'BIFLOROUS,
having tubular flowers; T[=U]'BIFORM, shaped like a tube.--_n._ T[=U]'BING,
the act of making tubes: tubes collectively: material for tubes.--_adjs._
T[=U]'B[=U]LAR, having the form of a tube: having a sound like that made by
the passage of air through a tube; T[=U]B[=U]L[=A]'RIAN, hydriform in
tubular shape with wide disc; T[=U]'B[=U]LATE, -D, T[=U]'B[=U]LOUS,
T[=U]'B[=U]LOSE, formed like a tube: formed of tubes.--_n._ T[=U]'B[=U]LE,
a small tube.--_adj._ T[=U]'B[=U]LIFORM, having the form of a small tube.
[Fr.,--L. _tubus_, a pipe.]

TUBER, t[=u]'b[.e]r, _n._ a knob in roots: a rounded, fleshy underground
stem, as in the potato, formed by a part of the stem becoming thick and
fleshy: a swelling.--_ns._ TUBER'CULUM, T[=U]'BERCULE, a little tuber: a
small rounded elevation on a bodily organ.--_adjs._ TUBERIF'EROUS, bearing
tubers; T[=U]'BERIFORM.--_ns._ TUBEROS'ITY, T[=U]'BEROUSNESS.--_adjs._
T[=U]'BEROUS, T[=U]'BER[=O]SE, having, or consisting of, tubers: knobbed.
[L. _tuber_, a swelling, from root of L. _tum[=e]re_, to swell.]

TUBERCLE, t[=u]'b[.e]r-kl, _n._ a small tuber or swelling: a pimple: a
small knob on leaves: the characteristic product of a specific
micro-organism, the _Bacillus tuberculosis_--a new formation belonging to
the group of Granulomata or granulative growths, which, in virtue of their
recognised infectiveness, have been classed as Infective
Granulomata.--_adjs._ T[=U]'BERCLED, having tubercles; TUBER'CULAR;
TUBER'CULATE, -D, TUBER'CULOSE, TUBER'CULOUS, pertaining to tubercles:
pimpled: affected with, or caused by, tubercles.--_ns._ TUBER'CULIN, -E, a
liquid prepared by Koch in 1890, a forty to fifty per cent. glycerine
solution of a pure cultivation of the tubercle bacillus, injected into the
subcutaneous tissues of persons affected with tuberculosis;
TUBERCULIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ TUBER'CULISE.--_adjs._ TUBER'CULOID;
TUBER'CUL[=O]SED.--_ns._ TUBERCUL[=O]'SIS, a specific infective disease
induced by the invasion of the _Bacillus tuberculosis_, and characterised
by the presence of tubercle or other tubercular formations--consumption or
phthisis; TUBER'CULUM, a tubercle. [L. _tuberculum_, dim. of _tuber_.]

TUBEROSE, t[=u]'be-r[=o]s, or t[=u]b'r[=o]z, _n._ a genus of
_Liliaceæ_--the Common Tuberose, a garden and greenhouse bulb, having
creamy-white, fragrant flowers. [From L. _tuberosa_, tuberous, used in the
botanical name _Polianthes tuberosa_; the second pronunciation shows
popular confusion with rose.]

TUBISEN, t[=u]'bi-sen, _n._ a trumpeter.--_v.i._ TUBIC'INATE, to blow a
trumpet. [L.]

TUCAN, t[=oo]'kan, _n._ the Mexican pocket-gopher.

TUCK, tuk, n, a rapier: a blow, tap: a blast, flourish. [O. Fr. _estoc_;
perh. cog. with Ger. _stock_, a stock.]

TUCK, tuk, _v.t._ to draw or press in or together: to stuff, cram: to fold
under: to gather up: to enclose by pressing clothes closely around:
(_slang_) to eat (with _in_).--_n._ a horizontal fold in a garment:
(_naut._) the afterpart of a ship, immediately under the stern or counter,
where the ends of the bottom planks are collected and terminate by the
_tuck-rail_: (_slang_) eatables, pastry.--_n._ TUCK'ER, a piece of cloth
tucked or drawn over the bosom, worn by women and children: (_slang_) food,
also work that scarcely yields a living wage.--_v.t._ (_Amer. slang_) to
tire exceedingly.--_ns._ TUCK'-IN (_slang_), a hearty meal--also TUCK'-OUT;
TUCK'-SHOP (_slang_), a confectioner's or a pastry-cook's shop.--TUCK UP,
to gather up: to contract: to make tucks: (_slang_) to hang. [A.S.
_tucian_, to pull; cog. with Low Ger. _tukken_, Ger. _zucken_; also with
A.S. _teón_, Ger. _ziehen_, to draw.]

TUCKAHOE, tuk'a-h[=o], _n._ an edible but tasteless underground fungus
growing as a saprophyte on the roots of the trees in the southern United
States--also called _Indian bread_.

TUCKET, tuk'et, _n._ (_Shak._) a flourish on a trumpet.--_n._
TUCK'ET-S[=O]'NANCE (_Shak._), the sound or signal of the tucket. [It.
_toccata_, a touch--_toccare_, to touch.]

TUDOR, t[=u]'dor, _adj._ pertaining to the royal line of the _Tudors_
(1485-1603): pertaining to the Tudor style of architecture.--TUDOR FLOWER,
a trefoil ornament frequent in Tudor architecture; TUDOR ROSE, the
conventional five-lobed flower adopted as a badge by Henry VII.; TUDOR
STYLE (_archit._), a rather indefinite term applied to the Late
Perpendicular, and the transition from that to Elizabethan--it is
characterised by a flat arch, shallow mouldings, and a profusion of
panelling on the walls.

TUESDAY, t[=u]z'd[=a], _n._ the third day of the week. [A.S. _Tíwes dæg_,
the day of Tíw (the god of war)=Ger. _die(n)s-tag_; cf. L. _dies Martis_.
_Tíw_ (Ice. _Týr_, Old High Ger. _Zío_) is cog. with Gr. _Zeus_, _Dios_,
and L. _Ju-piter_, _Jovis_.]

TUFA, t[=u]'fa, _n._ a variety of calcium carbonate usually deposited from
springs--calcareous tufa; the word was formerly used as synonymous with
_tuff_.--_adj._ TUF[=A]'CEOUS. [It. _tufa_--L. _tofus_, a soft stone.]

TUFF, tuf, _n._ generally _volcanic tuff_, the name given to the comminuted
rock-débris ejected from a volcanic orifice. [Fr. _tuf_, _tuffe_--It.
_tufo_, _tufa_--L. _tofus_.]

TUFT, tuft, _n._ a green knoll: a grove, clump. [A.S _toft_--Ice. _topt_,
_tupt_, a piece of ground.]

TUFT, tuft, _n._ a number of small things in a knot: a cluster: a dense
head of flowers: (_university slang_) a titled undergraduate, from the tuft
or tassel in the cap: an imperial.--_v.t._ to separate into tufts: to adorn
with tufts.--_adjs._ TUFT'ED, TUFT'Y.--_ns._ TUFT'-HUNT'ER, one over-eager
to form acquaintance with persons of rank or consequence: a mean hanger-on
of the great; TUFT'-HUNT'ING, the practice of a tuft-hunter. [O. Fr.
_tuffe_ (Fr. _touffe_), from the Teut., as Low Ger. _topp_, Ger. _zopf_.]

TUG, tug, _v.t._ to pull with effort: to drag along.--_v.i._ to pull with
great effort: to struggle:--_pr.p._ tug'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
tugged.--_n._ a strong pull: a steam-vessel for towing ships: a strong
rope.--_ns._ TUG'-BOAT, a strongly-built steamship for towing vessels;
TUG'GER, one who tugs.--_adv._ TUG'GINGLY.--_n._ TUG'-OF-WAR, a laborious
contest: a contest in which opposing teams tug at the end of a rope, in
their efforts to pull one another over a line marked on the ground between
them. [Closely conn. with _tuck_ and _tow_ (v.).]

TUILLE, tw[=e]l, _n._ in armour, a steel plate hanging below the
tassets.--_n._ TUILLETTE' (_dim._). [Fr.,--L. _tegula_, a tile.]

TUILYIE, TUILZIE, t[=oo]l'yi, _n._ (_Scot._) a struggle.

TUISM, t[=u]'izm, _n._ the theory that all thought is directed to a second
person or to one's future self as such.

TUITION, t[=u]-ish'un, _n._ care over a young person: teaching, the fee
paid for such.--_adj._ TUI'TIONARY. [L. _tuitio_--_tu[=e]ri_, _tuitus_, to
see.]

TULA-WORK, t[=oo]'la-wurk, _n._ niello-work, a kind of decorative work,
done chiefly on silver, executed largely at _Tula_ in Russia.

TULCHAN, tul'kan, _n._ a calf's skin stuffed with straw, and set beside a
cow, to make her give her milk freely.--TULCHAN BISHOPS, the titular
bishops of the Scottish Church, who in 1572 agreed to hold office, letting
all the revenues of their charge, except a miserable pittance, be absorbed
by the nobles as lay patrons. [Orig. unknown.]

TULIP, t[=u]'lip, _n._ a genus of bulbous plants of the order _Liliaceæ_,
with over forty species, having highly-coloured bell-shaped
flowers.--_adj._ T[=U]'LIP-EARED, prick-eared, as a dog.--_ns._
TULIPOM[=A]'NIA, a craze for the cultivation of tulips; T[=U]'LIP-TREE, a
large North American tree, having tulip-like flowers; T[=U]'LIP-WOOD, the
soft, fine, straight-grained wood of the tulip-tree. [O. Fr. _tulipe_,
_tulippe_, _tulipan_--Turk. _tulbend_, a turban.]

TULLE, t[=oo]l, _n._ a delicate kind of thin silk network fabric of a very
open structure used for the trimmings of ladies' dresses, and also for caps
and veils. [Fr.: from _Tulle_, in the department of Corrèze.]

TULLIAN, tul'i-an, _adj._ relating to, or resembling, Marcus _Tullius_
Cicero, the Roman orator.

TULWAR, tul'wär, _n._ a Sikh form of sabre.

TUMBLE, tum'bl, _v.i._ to fall: to come down suddenly and violently: to
roll: to twist the body, as a mountebank: to fall rapidly, as prices: to go
hastily: (_slang_) to understand, twig.--_v.t._ to throw headlong: to turn
over: to throw about while examining: to disorder, rumple.--_n._ act of
tumbling: a fall: a rolling over, a somersault: confusion.--_ns._
TUM'BLE-BUG, one of several kinds of scarabæoid beetles, which roll up
balls of dung to protect their eggs; TUM'BLE-CAR, a one-horse car.--_adj._
TUM'BLE-DOWN, dilapidated.--_ns._ TUM'BLER, one who tumbles: one who plays
any of the feats or tricks of the acrobat or contortionist: a large
drinking-glass, so called because formerly, having a pointed base, it could
not be set down without tumbling: a kind of domestic pigeon, so called from
its tumbling on the wing: a kind of greyhound: a kind of spring-latch in a
lock, preventing the bolt being shot in either direction: a piece attached
to the hammer of a firearm lock, receiving the thrust of the mainspring and
forcing the hammer forward so as to strike and explode the charge: a
porpoise: one of a gang of London street ruffians early in the 18th
century, whose favourite frolic was to set women on their heads: a tumbril:
one of a set of levers from which hang the heddles in some looms;
TUM'BLERFUL, as much as will fill a tumbler; TUM'BLER-STAND, a tray for
tumblers, as in connection with a soda-water fountain; TUM'BLER-TANK, in
plumbing, a flush-tank in which water gathers in one chamber before being
tilted over so as to discharge its contents; TUM'BLER-WASH'ER, a revolving
stand fitted with projecting pipes on which tumblers are hung to be washed
automatically; TUM'BLE-WEED, a name given to several plants whose globular
flowering heads are detached in autumn and rolled about, scattering their
seed; TUM'BLING, the act of falling.--_adj._ TUM'BLY, uneven.--TUMBLE IN,
or HOME, to incline in above the extreme breadth, of a ship's sides: to
fit, as a piece of timber into other work: to go to bed; TUMBLE OVER, to
toss about carelessly, to upset: to fall over; TUMBLE TO (_slang_), to
comprehend; TUMBLE UP, to get out of bed: to throw into confusion. [A.S.
_tumbian_; cf. Old High Ger. _t[=u]mil[=o]n_ (Ger. _taumeln_), Ice.
_tumba_, to dance.]

TUMBREL, tum'brel, TUMBRIL, tum'bril, _n._ a cart with two wheels for
conveying the tools of pioneers, artillery stores, &c.: a dung-cart: the
name given to the carts which conveyed victims to the guillotine during the
French Revolution. [O. Fr. _tomberel_ (Fr. _tombereau_)--_tomber_, to fall,
because the body of the cart could be tumbled without unyoking.]

TUMEFY, t[=u]'me-f[=i], _v.t._ to cause to swell.--_v.i._ to swell: to rise
in a tumour:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ t[=u]'mef[=i]ed.--_n._ TUMEFAC'TION,
tumour: swelling. [L. _tumefac[)e]re_--_tum[=e]re_, to swell, _fac[)e]re_,
to make.]

TUMID, t[=u]'mid, _adj._ swollen or enlarged: inflated: falsely sublime:
bombastic.--_n._ TUMES'CENCE.--_adj._ TUMES'CENT.--_n._ TUMID'ITY.--_adv._
T[=U]'MIDLY.--_n._ T[=U]'MIDNESS. [L. _tumidus_--_tum[=e]re_, to swell.]

TUMOUR, t[=u]'mor, _n._ a morbid swelling on any of the cutaneous, mucous,
or serous surfaces in any part of the body, of independent growth. [L.
_tumor_--_tum[=e]re_, to swell.]

TUMP, tump, _n._ (_prov._) a hillock.--_v.t._ to gather a mass of earth
round a plant.--_adj._ TUMP'Y, uneven.

TUMP-LINE, tump'-l[=i]n, _n._ a strap across the forehead or breast by
means of which a burden is carried through the Canadian forests.
[_Temple-line_.]

TUM-TUM, tum'-tum, _n._ a West Indian dish of boiled plantains.

TUMULT, t[=u]'mult, _n._ uproar of a multitude: violent agitation with
confused sounds: high excitement.--_adv._ TUMULT'[=U]ARILY.--_n._
TUMULT'[=U]ARINESS.--_adjs._ TUMULT'[=U]ARY, TUMULT'[=U]OUS, full of
tumult: disorderly: agitated: noisy.--_v.i._ TUMULT'[=U]ATE, to make a
tumult.--_n._ TUMULT[=U][=A]'TION.--_adv._ TUMULT'[=U]OUSLY.--_ns._
TUMULT'[=U]OUSNESS; TUMULT'US, commotion. [L. _tumultus_--_tum[=e]re_, to
swell.]

TUMULUS, t[=u]'m[=u]-lus, _n._ a mound of earth over a grave: a
barrow:--_pl._ T[=U]'M[=U]L[=I].--_adjs._ T[=U]'M[=U]LAR, -Y,
T[=U]'M[=U]LOUS.--_v.t._ T[=U]'M[=U]LATE, to cover with a mound.--_n._
T[=U]M[=U]LOS'ITY. [L.,--_tum[=e]re_, to swell.]

TUN, tun, _n._ a large cask: an obsolete liquid measure of capacity--in old
ale and beer measure, 216 gallons; in old wine measure, 252
gallons.--_v.t._ to store in a tun.--_ns._ TUN'-BELL'Y, a big pot-belly;
TUN'-DISH (_Shak._), a wooden funnel; TUN'NAGE, a tax on imported wines;
TUN'NING, the act of brewing, the amount brewed at one time. [A.S.
_tunne_.]

TUNA, t[=u]'na, _n._ a prickly pear, also its fruit.

TUNDRA, t[=oo]n'dra, _n._ one of the level treeless plains of northern
Russia, both in Europe and Asia. [Russ.]

TUNDUN, tun'dun, _n._ a bull-roarer.

TUNE, t[=u]n, _n._ a melodious succession of notes or chords in a
particular key: the relation of notes and intervals to each other causing
melody: state of giving the proper sound: harmony: a melody or air: frame
of mind, temper.--_v.t._ to adjust the tones, as of a musical instrument:
to play upon, celebrate in music: to give a certain character to.--_adj._
T[=U]'NABLE.--_n._ T[=U]'NABLENESS.--_adv._ T[=U]'NABLY.--_adj._ TUNE'FUL,
full of tune or harmony: melodious: musical.--_adv._ TUNE'FULLY.--_n._
TUNE'FULNESS.--_adj._ TUNE'LESS, without tune or melody: silent.--_ns._
T[=U]'NER, one who tunes or adjusts the sounds of musical instruments: one
who makes music, or sings: in organs, an adjustable flap for altering the
pitch of the tone; T[=U]'NING, the art of bringing musical instruments into
tune; T[=U]'NING-FORK, a steel two-pronged instrument, designed when set in
vibration to give a musical sound of a certain pitch; T[=U]'NING-HAMM'ER, a
tuning-wrench with hammer attachment for regulating tension in stringed
instruments.--TUNE UP, to begin to sing or play.--CHANGE ONE'S TUNE, SING
ANOTHER TUNE, to alter one's attitude, or one's way of talking; IN TUNE,
harmonious; OUT OF TUNE, inharmonious; TO THE TUNE OF, to the amount of. [A
doublet of tone.]

TUNGSTEN, tung'sten, _n._ a rare metal, chiefly derived from wolfram, which
is a tungstate of iron and manganese, and likewise found in scheelite,
which is a tungstate of lime.--_n._ TUNG'STATE, a salt of tungstic
acid.--_adjs._ TUNGSTEN'IC; TUNGSTENIF'EROUS; TUNG'STIC.--_n._ TUNG'STITE,
native oxide of tungsten. [Sw.,--tung, heavy, sten, stone.]

TUNGUSIC, tun-g[=oo]'sik, _adj._ pertaining to the _Tunguses_, an
ethnographic group of the Ural-Altaic family.--_n._ TUN'GUS, one of this
people or their language.--_adj._ TUNGU'SIAN.

TUNIC, t[=u]'nik, _n._ a loose frock worn by females and boys: an
ecclesiastical short-sleeved vestment, worn over the alb at mass by the
sub-deacon, very similar to the dalmatic, but smaller: a military surcoat:
the ordinary fatigue-coat of a private soldier, also the coat of an
officer: (_anat._) a membrane that covers some organ: (_bot._) a covering,
as of a seed.--_n._ TUNIC[=A]'TA, a class of remarkable animals, many of
which are popularly known as Ascidians or sea-squirts--now regarded as
occupying a lowly place among vertebrate or chordate animals.--_adjs._
T[=U]'NICATE, -D (_bot._), covered with a tunic or with layers.--_n._
T[=U]'NICLE, a little tunic: as an ecclesiastical vestment, the same as
tunic. [Fr. _tunique_--L. _tunica_, an under-garment of both sexes.]

TUNKER, tungk'[.e]r, _n._ Same as Dunker (q.v.).

TUN-MOOT, tun'-m[=oo]t, _n._ an assembly of the town or village. [A.S.
_tún_, town, _gemót_, meeting.]

TUNNEL, tun'el, _n._ an arched passage cut through a hill or under a river,
&c.: the long underground burrow of certain animals, as the mole: any
mine-level open at one end: (_Spens._) a flue, chimney.--_v.t._ to make a
passage through: to hollow out:--_pr.p._ tunn'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
tunn'elled.--_n._ TUNN'EL-NET, a net wide at the mouth and narrow at the
other end. [O. Fr. _tonnel_ (Fr. _tonneau_), a cask; also O. Fr.
_tonnelle_, an arched vault, dim. of tonne, a cask.]

TUNNY, tun'i, _n._ a very large fish of the mackerel family (Scombridæ),
fished chiefly on the Mediterranean coasts. [L. _thunnus_--Gr.
_thynnos_--_thynein_, to dart along.]

TUP, tup, _n._ a ram: the striking-face of a steam-hammer, &c.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to cover with (of a ram): to butt. [Conn. with Low Ger. _tuppen_,
_toppen_, to pull by the hair; Ger. _tupfen_, to touch.]

TUPAIA, t[=u]-p[=a]'ya, _n._ the genus of squirrel-shrews found in the
Malay Peninsula, &c.

TUPELO, t[=u]'pe-l[=o], _n._ a genus of trees, natives chiefly of the
southern parts of the United States, including the Black Gum Tree, the
Ogeechee Lime or Sour Gum Tree, &c.

TUQUE, t[=u]k, _n._ a Canadian cap made by tucking in one tapered end of a
long cylindrical bag, closed at both ends. [Fr. _toque_.]

TURAKOO, t[=oo]'ra-k[=oo], _n._ one of the plantain-eaters, a large bird
found in Africa, light green, with carmine wing-feathers.--_n._ TU'RACIN,
the red colouring matter of its feathers. [African.]

TURANIAN, t[=u]-r[=a]'ni-an, _adj._ a philological term which came to be
used for the non-Aryan languages of the Ural-Altaic or Finno-Tartar
group--sometimes extended so as to include the Dravidian tongues of India,
also of the agglutinative type, thus erroneously suggesting affinity
between non-Aryan and non-Semitic groups of languages which are probably
quite unconnected. [From _Turan_=_not-Iran_, a term used by the Sassanian
kings of Persia for those parts of their empire outside of Iran, and still
the name for Turkestan among the Persians.]

TURBAN, tur'ban, _n._ a head-covering worn by Eastern nations, consisting
of a cap with a sash wound round it: a circular head-dress worn by ladies:
the whole whorls of a shell.--_n._ TUR'BAND (_Shak._), a turban.--_adj._
TUR'BANED, wearing a turban. [Earlier forms _turbant_, _tulipant_ (Fr.
_turban_, Port. _turbante_), from Pers. _dulband_.]

TURBARY, tur'ba-ri, _n._ the right to go upon the soil of another and dig
turf, and carry off the same: a place where peat is dug. [L. _turba_,
turf.]

TURBELLARIA, tur-be-l[=a]'ri-a, _n.pl._ a class of flat-worms with ciliated
skin--the same as _Planaria_ (q.v.).--_adjs._ TURBELL[=A]'RIAN;
TURBELLAR'IFORM.

TURBID, tur'bid, _adj._ disordered: having the sediment disturbed: muddy:
thick.--_adv._ TUR'BIDLY.--_ns._ TUR'BIDNESS, TURBID'ITY. [L.
_turbidus_--_turba_, tumult.]

TURBILLION, tur-bil'yun, _n._ a whirl, vortex. [Fr. _tourbillon_--L.
_turbo_, a whirl.]

TURBINACEOUS, tur-bi-n[=a]'shus, _adj._ turfy, peaty.

TURBINE, tur'bin, _n._ a horizontal water-wheel with vertical axis,
receiving and discharging water in various directions round the
circumference--by parallel, outward, or inward flow.--_adj._ TUR'BINAL,
turbinate.--_n._ (_anat._) a scroll-like bone.--_adjs._ TUR'BINATE, -D,
shaped like a top or inverted cone: spiral: (_anat._) whorled in shape:
whirling like a top.--_ns._ TURBIN[=A]'TION; TUR'BINE-PUMP, a pump in which
water is raised by the inverted action of a turbine-wheel;
TURB'INE-STEAM'ER, a vessel impelled by a steam-turbine.--_adjs._
TUR'BINIFORM, TUR'BINOID, top-shaped. [Fr.,--L. _turbo_, _turbinis_, a
whirl--_turb[=a]re_, to disturb--_turba_, disorder.]

TURBIT, tur'bit, _n._ a domestic pigeon having white body, coloured wings,
and short beak.

TURBO, tur'b[=o], _n._ the typical genus of the family of scutibranchiate
gasteropods, _Turbinidæ_.--_n._ TUR'BINITE, a fossil shell of this family.
[L. _turbo_, a top.]

TURBOT, tur'bot, _n._ a highly esteemed food-fish of the genus _Rhombus_
and family _Pleuronectidæ_ or Flat-fishes, abundant in the North Sea. [O.
Fr., _turbot_, prob. formed from L. _turbo_, a spinning-top.]

TURBULENT, tur'b[=u]-lent, _adj._ tumultuous, disturbed: in violent
commotion: disposed to disorder: restless: producing commotion.--_ns._
TUR'BULENCE, TUR'BULENCY.--_adv._ TUR'BULENTLY. [Fr.,--L.
_turbulentus_--_turba_, a crowd.]

TURCISM, tur'sizm, _n._ customs of Turks.

TURCO, tur'k[=o], _n._ a popular name for one of the Tirailleurs Algériens,
a body of native Algerian troops recruited for the French service.

TURCOMAN=_Turkoman_.

TURCOPHILE, tur'k[=o]-fil, _n._ one who favours the Ottoman Turks.--_n._
TUR'COPHILISM. [Low L. _Turcus_, Turk, Gr. _philein_, to love.]

TURCOPOLIER, tur'k[=o]-po-l[=e]r, _n._ the commander of the light infantry
of the Knights of St John of Jerusalem--always an Englishman. [O. Fr.,--Low
L. _Turcopuli_--Late Gr. _tyrcopouloi_, light-armed soldiers--_Tourcos_,
Turk, _poulos_, a child.]

TURD, turd, _n._ a ball of dung. [A.S. _tord_.]

TURDUS, tur'dus, _n._ a genus of Passerine birds of the _Turdidæ_ family,
the thrushes.--_adjs._ TUR'DIFORM, TUR'DINE, TUR'DOID, like a thrush.

TUREEN, t[=u]-r[=e]n', tu-r[=e]n', _n._ a large dish for holding soup at
table. [Fr. _terrine_--L. _terra_, earth.]

TURF, turf, _n._ the surface of land matted with the roots of grass, &c.: a
cake of turf cut off: sod: peat: race-ground: horse-racing, the
race-course:--_pl._ TURFS--(_obs._) TURVES.--_v.t._ to cover with peat or
sod.--_adj._ TURF'-CLAD, covered with turf.--_n._ TURF'-DRAIN, a drain in
which turf is used for a covering.--_adj._ TUR'FEN, made or covered with
turf.--_ns._ TURF'-HEDGE, a combination of turf and hedge-plants, forming a
fence; TUR'FINESS; TUR'FITE (_slang_), one devoted to horse-racing;
TURF'-SPADE, a long narrow spade for digging turf.--_adj._ TUR'FY,
resembling or abounding in turf: pertaining to horse-racing. [A.S. _turf_;
Ice. _torf_.]

TURGENT, tur'jent, _adj._ swelling: rising into a tumour: inflated:
bombastic.--_adv._ TUR'GENTLY.--_ns._ TURGES'CENCE, TURGES'CENCY.--_adjs._
TURGES'CENT, swelling: growing big; TUR'GID, swollen: extended beyond the
natural size: pompous: bombastic.--_ns._ TURGID'ITY, TUR'GIDNESS.--_adv._
TUR'GIDLY.--_n._ TURGOR (tur'gor), state of being full, the normal
condition of the capillaries. [L. _turg-ens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_turg[=e]re_, to swell.]

TURION, t[=u]'ri-on, _n._ a shoot from an underground bud, growing upward
into a new stem.--_adj._ TURIONIF'EROUS. [L. _turio_, a shoot.]

TURK, turk, _n._ a native of _Turkey_, an Ottoman--more widely, a member of
a race formerly classed among the 'Turanian' peoples, now more usual to
say, of the Mongolo-Tartar ethnological group, and speaking languages of
the Ural-Altaic family: a savage fellow: a Mohammedan: a Turkish horse: the
plum-weevil or curculio.--_ns._ TURK'EY-CAR'PET, a soft thick kind of
carpet; TURK'EY-HONE, -STONE, a kind of oilstone brought from Turkey, and
used for hones; TURK'EY-MER'CHANT, one whose trade is with Turkey or the
Turkish East; TURK'EY-RED, a fine durable red dye, obtained from madder,
but now mostly prepared chemically, first produced in Turkey;
TURK'EY-STONE, the turquoise.--_adj._ TURK'ISH, pertaining to the Turks or
to Turkey.--_n._ the language of the Turks.--_ns._ TURK'ISH-BATH, a kind of
hot-air bath in which the patient, after being sweated, is rubbed down, and
conducted through a series of cooling-chambers until he regains his normal
temperature; TURK'S'-HEAD, a kind of knot: a long broom with spherical
head: a kind of cooking-pan, having a tin core in the centre.--TURN TURK,
to become a Mohammedan: to go to the bad: to become hopelessly obstinate.

TURKEY, turk'i, _n._ a large gallinaceous bird, a native of America--not
_Turkey_.--_ns._ TURK'EY-BUZZ'ARD, a vulture found largely in North and
South America; TURK'EY-COCK, the male of the turkey: a foolishly proud
person.

TURKIS, turk'is, _n._ an older spelling of _turquoise_.--Also TURK'OIS.

TURKOMAN, tur'k[=o]-man, _n._ a member of a branch of the Turkish race,
found in Central Asia to the north of Persia.

TURLOUGH, tur'loh, _n._ a shallow pond in Ireland, dry in summer. [Ir.
_turloch_.]

TURM, turm, _n._ (_Milt._) a troop. [L. _turma_.]

TURMERIC, tur'm[.e]r-ik, _n._ the rhizome or root-stock of _Curcuma longa_,
a handsome herbaceous plant cultivated all over India, its yellowish tubers
yielding a deep-yellow powder used as a chemical test for the presence of
alkalies. [Cf. Fr. _terre-mérite_--as if from L. _terra_, earth, and
_merita_, deserved; both prob. corr. from an Oriental name.]

TURMOIL, tur'moil, _n._ harassing labour: disturbance.--_v.t._ to harass
with commotion: to weary.--_v.i._ to be disquieted or in commotion. [Perh.
L. _trem[)e]re_, to shake.]

TURN, turn, _v.i._ to whirl round: to hinge: to depend: to issue: to take a
different direction or tendency: to become by a change, hence to rebel: to
return: to be fickle: to result: to be shaped on the lathe: to sour: to
become giddy: to be nauseated: to change from ebb to flow or from flow to
ebb: to become inclined in the other direction.--_v.t._ to cause to
revolve: to reverse: to pass round: to direct, apply: to send, drive: to
fold, remake: to translate: to make sour: to change the position or the
direction of: to nauseate, to make giddy: to direct the mind to: to
infatuate or make mad: to cause to return with profit: to transfer: to
convert: to form in a lathe: to shape: to round: to adapt: to blunt.--_n._
act of turning: new direction or tendency, disposition: a walk to and fro:
chance: a turning-point, crisis: (_mus._) a melodic embellishment,
consisting of a principal tone with two auxiliary tones lying respectively
next above and below it: a spell of work, a job: (_coll._) a nervous shock:
change: a winding: a bend: form: manner: opportunity, convenience: act of
kindness or malice: a type turned upside down, owing to a temporary want of
the proper letter.--_ns._ TURN'ABOUT, a merry-go-round; TURN'BACK, the
strap from the hames to the hip-strap; TURN'BUCKLE, a form of coupling so
arranged as to regulate the length or tension of the connected parts;
TURN'-CAP, a chimney-cowl rotating on a vertical axis; TURN'COAT, one who
turns his coat--that is, abandons his principles or party; TURN'COCK, one
who turns on the water for the mains, regulates the fire-plugs, &c., of a
water company.--_adj._ TURN'-DOWN, folded down.--_ns._ TURN'ER, one who, or
that which, turns: a tumbler, gymnast, esp. a member of the German
_Turnvereine_ or gymnastic bodies, instituted by F. L. Jahn in 1811;
TURN'ERY, art of turning or of shaping by a lathe: things made by a turner,
also the place where these are made: ornamentation by means of the lathe;
TURN'ING, a winding: deviation from the proper course: turnery, the art of
shaping wood, metal, ivory, or other hard substances into forms having a
curved (generally circular or oval) transverse section, and also of
engraving figures composed of curved lines upon a smooth surface, by means
of a turning-lathe: (_mil._) a manoeuvre for turning an enemy's position:
in pottery, the shaping of a vase: (_pl._) chips; TURN'ING-LATHE, a lathe
used by turners; TURN'ING-POINT, the point on which a question turns, and
which decides the case: a grave and critical period; TURN'ING-REST, a
support on a lathe serving as a fulcrum for a hand turning-tool;
TURN'ING-SAW, a thin-bladed saw contrived for cutting curved wood for
chair-backs, &c.--also _Sweep-saw_, _Frame-saw_, _Scroll-saw_;
TURN'ING-STEEL, a piece of hard bar-steel for turning the edge of a tool,
&c.; TURN'ING-TOOL, a tool for shaping the cutting edges of the tools used
in seal-engraving; TURN'KEY, one who turns the keys in a prison: a warder;
TURN'-OUT, the act of coming forth: a strike: a striker: a crowd of
spectators: a carriage and its horses: quantity of produce yielded.--_adj._
TURN'OVER, made to be turned over or reversed.--_n._ act of turning over,
upset, overthrow: a small pie made by turning half of the circular crust
over the other which has been covered with fruit, &c.: an apprentice turned
over to a new master to complete his apprenticeship: the total amount of
the sales in a business for a specified time.--_ns._ TURN'PIKE, a gate set
across a road to stop those liable to toll: a turnpike-road--originally a
frame consisting of two cross-bars armed with pikes, and turning on a post;
TURN'PIKE-MAN, a man who collects tolls at a tollgate; TURN'PIKE-ROAD, a
road on which turnpikes or tollgates are established; TURN'-SCREW, a
screw-driver; TURN'SKIN, a werewolf; TURN'SPIT, one who turns a spit: a
person engaged in some menial occupation: a long-bodied, short-legged dog
employed to drive a wheel by which roasting-spits were turned--closely
allied to the _Dachshund_ (q.v.); TURN'STILE, a revolving frame in a
footpath which prevents the passage of cattle, but allows the passage of
one person at a time; TURN'STILE-REG'ISTER, a device for recording the
number of persons passing through a turnstile; TURN'STONE, a small
grallatorial bird, intermediate between the true plovers and sandpipers, so
called from its habit of turning over pebbles on the beach in search of
food; TURN'-TA'BLE (same as TRAVERSE-TABLE); TURN'-UP, a disturbance:
something that appears unexpectedly.--TURN ABOUT, to move the face or front
to another quarter; TURN ABOUT, TURN AND TURN ABOUT, alternately; TURN A,
or THE, CORNER (see CORNER); TURN A DEAF EAR TO, to ignore; TURN ADRIFT, to
unmoor and let float away: to cast off; TURN AGAIN, to return: to make a
stand; TURN AGAINST, to use to the injury of: to render hostile: to rebel
against; TURN AN ENEMY'S FLANK, LINE, or POSITION, to manoeuvre so as to
attack an enemy in the rear: to outwit; TURN A PENNY (see PENNY); TURN
AROUND ONE'S FINGER, to make any one subservient to one's will; TURN ASIDE,
to avert; to deviate: to avert the face; TURN AWAY, to dismiss from
service, to discharge: to avert, to look in another direction: to deviate,
to depart from; TURN BACK, to cause to retreat: to return; TURN DOWN, to
double or fold down: to hide the face of: to lessen or lower; TURN FORTH,
to expel; TURN IN, to bend inward: to enter: (_coll._) to go to bed; TURN
INTO, to become by a process of change; TURN OFF, to deviate: to dismiss:
to divert: to complete, achieve by labour: to shut off: (_slang_) to hang;
TURN ON, to set running (as water): to depend on: to confront in fight;
TURN ONE'S HAND TO, to apply one's self; TURN ONE'S HEAD, or BRAIN, to make
one giddy: to fill with pride or conceit; TURN OUT, to drive out, to expel:
to put to pasture (as cattle): to make for market or for use: to project:
to prove in the result: to muster: to leave one's work to take part in a
strike: (_coll._) to get out of bed; TURN OVER, to roll over: to change
sides: to sell goods to the amount of: to examine by turning the leaves;
TURN ROUND, to reverse one's position or party; TURN THE BACK, to flee, to
retreat; TURN THE BACK UPON, to quit with contempt, to forsake; TURN THE
EDGE OF, to blunt; TURN THE SCALE, to decide, determine; TURN THE STOMACH,
to nauseate; TURN TO, to have recourse to: to point to: to result in; TURN
TURTLE (see TURTLE); TURN UP, to point upwards: to appear, happen: place
with face up: to bring the point uppermost: to refer to in a book; TURN
UPON, to cast back upon, retort; TURN UPSIDE DOWN, to throw into complete
confusion.--BE TURNED OF, to have advanced beyond--of age; BY TURNS, one
after another: at intervals; ILL TURN, an injurious act: a change for the
worse; IN TURN, in order of succession; NOT TO TURN A HAIR, to be quite
undisturbed or unaffected; ON THE TURN, at the turning-point, changing;
SERVE A TURN, to answer the purpose; TAKE ONE'S TURN, to occupy one's
allotted place; TAKE TURNS, to take each the other's place alternately; TO
A TURN, exactly, perfectly. [A.S. _tyrnan_; Ger. _turnen_; Fr. _tourner_;
all from L. _torn[=a]re_, to turn in a lathe--_tornus_, a turner's
wheel--Gr. _tornos_.]

TURNAGRA, tur'n[=a]-gra, _n._ a New Zealand genus of thrush-like birds.

TURNER, tur'n[.e]r, _n._ a Scotch copper coin worth 2d., issued by James
VI. [Prob. _turney_.]

TURNEY, tur'ni, _n._ a copper coin current in Ireland under Edward
III.--coined at _Tours_.

TURNEY, tur'ni, _n._ (_Milt._)=_Tourney_.

TURNIP, tur'nip, _n._ a biennial plant, with lyrate hispid leaves, the
upper part of the root becoming, esp. in cultivation, swollen and
fleshy--cultivated as a culinary esculent, and for feeding cattle and
sheep.--_n._ TUR'NIP-FLY, a muscid fly whose maggots burrow in
turnip-roots. [Perh. orig. _turn-nep_--_turn_, implying something round,
and _nep_--A.S. _n['æ]p_, a turnip.]

TURNSOLE, turn's[=o]l, _n._ a name sometimes given to the Heliotrope and
other plants, esp. to the euphorbiaceous _Chrozophora tinctoria_, from
which a deep-purple dye is obtained. [Fr.,--_tourner_--_sol_, for
_soleil_--L. _sol_, the sun.]

TURNUS, tur'nus, _n._ the tiger-swallowtail, a black-striped United States
butterfly.

TURPENTINE, tur'pen-t[=i]n, _n._ a semi-solid resinous substance secreted
by various coniferous trees (the name turpentine is commonly understood to
mean the product of the Scotch pine, the swamp pine of America, and the
_Pinus maritima_ of France; _Venice turpentine_ is obtained from the larch,
and _Chian turpentine_ from the 'Turpentine-tree'--see PISTACHIO): the oil
or spirit of turpentine.--_ns._ TUR'PENTINE-MOTH, a moth whose larvæ bore
into the twigs of pine and fir, causing exudation of resin and destroying
the twig; TUR'PENTINE-TREE, the terebinth-tree--_Pistachia
terebinthus_.--_adj._ TUR'PENTIN'IC.--_n._ TURPS, oil or spirits of
turpentine. [O. Fr. _turbentine_--L. _terebinthina_ (_resina_), (the resin)
of the terebinth--Gr. _terebinthos_.]

TURPETH, tur'peth, _n._ the root of _Ipomoea_ (_Convolvulus_) _Turpethum_,
a Ceylon plant of cathartic properties.--TURPETH MINERAL, an old name for
the yellow basic mercury sulphate.

TURPITUDE, tur'pi-t[=u]d, _n._ baseness: extreme depravity or wickedness:
vileness of principles and actions. [L. _turpitudo_--_turpis_, base.]

TURQUET, turk'et, _n._ (_Bacon_) a figure of a Turk.

TURQUOISE, tur-koiz', or tur-k[=e]z', _n._ an opaque greenish-blue mineral
from Persia, valued as a gem, essentially a phosphate of alumina, harder
than feldspar but softer than quartz, occurring as thin veins in slate
rock.--_n._ TURQUOISE'-GREEN, a pale colour between green and blue--also
_adj._ [O. Fr.; because first brought through _Turkey_ from Persia.]

TURRET, tur'et, _n._ a small tower on a building and rising above it: a
movable building containing soldiers, engines, &c., used in medieval
sieges: a tower, often revolving, for offensive purposes, on land and
water: the raised portion above an American railroad car, for ventilation,
&c.--_adj._ TURR'ETED, furnished with turrets: formed like a tower.--_ns._
TURR'ET-GUN, a gun designed for use in a revolving turret; TURR'ET-SHIP, an
ironclad ship-of-war, whose guns are placed in one or more revolving
turrets placed on deck.--_adjs._ TURRIC'ULATE, -D, having small turrets.
[O. Fr. _touret_ (Fr. _tourelle_).]

TURRIBANT, tur'i-bant, _n._ (_Spens._) a turban.

TURTLE, tur'tl, TURTLE-DOVE, tur'tl-duv, _n._ a genus of _Columbidæ_, of
graceful build, with small head and slender bill, long wings, and long
rounded tail, flying swiftly and noiselessly, noted for their beauty of
form and colour, their soft cooing, and their affection towards each other
and their young. [A.S. _turtle_; Ger. _turtel_, Fr. _tourtereau_,
_tourterelle_; all from the L. name _turtur_.]

TURTLE, tur'tl, _n._ any tortoise, but esp. the edible Green Turtle, prized
for the soup made from its flesh, chief glory of aldermanic
banquets--_Calipash_ is the part of the animal that belongs to the upper
shield, a fatty, gelatinous substance of a dull-greenish colour; _Calipee_,
the yellowish meat of the lower shield.--_v.t._ to pursue turtles.--_ns._
TUR'TLEBACK, a turtle-shaped projection on the bows or stern of a ship for
the purpose of keeping off heavy seas; TUR'TLER, a hunter of turtles;
TUR'TLE-SHELL, tortoise-shell: a turtle-cowry; TUR'TLE-SOUP, a soup the
chief ingredient of which is turtle meat; TURT'LING, the catching of
turtles.--GREEN TURTLE, a species of turtle which attains great size and is
the source of real turtle-soup--its eggs also are much prized; MOCK TURTLE,
a soup made of calf's head in lieu of turtle meat; TURN TURTLE, to capsize,
as a boat. [A corr. of _tortoise_, or of Sp. _tortuga_, or Port.
_tartaruga_, a tortoise.]

TUSCAN, tus'kan, _adj._ of or belonging to _Tuscany_ in Italy: denoting the
simplest of the five classic orders of architecture, being a Roman
modification of the Doric style, with unfluted columns, and without
triglyphs. [L. _Tuscanus_.]

TUSH, tush, _n._ (_Shak._) a tusk.

TUSH, tush, _interj._ pshaw! be silent! an exclamation of impatience,
&c.--_v.i._ to express contempt, &c.

TUSK, tusk, _n._ a long, protruding tooth on either side of the mouth of
certain animals: a sharp point: the share of a plough.--_v.t._ to gore with
the tusks.--_adjs._ TUSKED, TUSK'Y.--_n._ TUSK'ER, an elephant whose tusks
are grown. [A.S. _tusc_, _tux_; Ice. _toskr_.]

TUSKAR, tus'kar, _n._ an iron implement with wooden shaft, for cutting
peat. [Ice. _torfskeri_--_torf_, turf, _skera_, to cut.]

TUSSER-SILK, tus'[.e]r-silk, _n._ a kind of dark fawn-coloured silk,
generally made without brocading or patterns. [Hind. _tassar_--Sans.
_tassara_, shuttle.]

TUSSILAGO, tus-i-l[=a]'g[=o], _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Compositæ_, suborder _Corymbiferæ_--the only British species, _Tussilago
farfara_, sometimes called Colt's-foot. [L.]

TUSSIS, tus'is, _n._ a cough.--_adj._ TUSSIC'ULAR. [L.]

TUSSLE, tus'el, _n._ a struggle.--_v.i._ to struggle. [_Tousle_.]

TUSSOCK, tus'ok, _n._ a tuft of grass or twigs.--_ns._ TUSS'OCK-GRASS, a
large grass of the same genus with the Cock's-foot Grass of Britain, native
to the Falkland Islands, remarkable for forming great tufts--also
TUSS'AC-GRASS; TUSS'OCK-MOTH, a grayish-white moth about an inch long, the
caterpillars of which do great mischief in hop-grounds, and are known as
_Hop-dogs_.--_adj._ TUSS'OCKY, abounding in tufts. [Perh. conn. with obs.
_tusk_, a tuft; cf. Dan. _dusk_.]

TUSSORE. Same as TUSSER-SILK.

TUT, tut, _interj._ an exclamation of rebuke, or impatience, &c.--_v.i._ to
express impatience by such.

TUT, tut, _n._ (_prov._) a hassock--also TOTE.--_v.i._ to project.

TUT, tut, _n._ a piece of work.--_v.i._ to work by the piece.--_ns._
TUT'WORK; TUT'WORKER; TUT'WORKMAN.

TUTAMEN, t[=u]-t[=a]'men, _n._ a defence or protection. [L.]

TUTANIA, t[=u]-t[=a]'ni-a, _n._ a kind of Britannia metal. [_Tutty_.]

TUTELAGE, t[=u]'te-l[=a]j, _n._ guardianship: state of being under a
guardian.--_adjs._ T[=U]'TELAR, T[=U]'TELARY, protecting: having the charge
of a person or place. [L. _tutela_--_tut[=a]ri_, to guard--_tu[=e]ri_, to
see.]

TUTENAG, t[=u]'te-nag, _n._ the zinc imported into Europe from China and
the East Indies during the 18th century. [Fr. _tutenague_, prob. from Pers.
and Ar. _t[=u]tiya_, an oxide of zinc, and _-n[=a]k_, a suffix, or perh.
Hind. _n[=a]ga_, lead.]

TUTIORISM, t[=u]'ti-or-izm, _n._ in R. C. moral theology, the doctrine that
in a case of doubt between right and wrong one should take the safer
course, i.e. the one in verbal accordance with the law--the same as
_Rigorism_, and the opposite of _Probabilism_.--_n._ TU'TIORIST, a rigorist
in foregoing sense. [L. _tutior_, safer, comp. of _tutus_, safe.]

TUTOR, t[=u]'tor, _n._ one who looks to or takes care of: one who has
charge of the education of another: one who hears the lessons of and
examines students: a teacher: (_Scots law_) a guardian of the person as
well as of the estate of a boy under fourteen, or girl under
twelve:--_fem._ T[=U]'TORESS.--v.t to instruct: to treat with authority or
sternness.--_n._ T[=U]'TORAGE, the office or authority of a tutor:
education, as by a tutor.--_adj._ TUT[=O]'RIAL, belonging to, or exercised
by, a tutor.--_adv._ TUT[=O]'RIALLY.--_ns._ T[=U]'TORING; T[=U]'TORISM,
T[=U]'TORSHIP; T[=U]'TRIX, a female guardian. [L. _tutor_, a
guardian--_tu[=e]ri_, _tuitus_, to look to.]

TUTSAN, tut'san, _n._ a species of St John's wort, once regarded as a
panacea--also called _Park-leaves_. [O. Fr. _toutesaine_, _tout_--L.
_totus_, all, _sain_--L. _sanus_, sound.]

TUTTI, t[=oo]t'ti, _adj._ (_mus._) all together, as opposed to solo.--_n._
a concerted movement, rendered by all the voices or instruments together.
[It., _pl._ of _tutto_, all--L. _totus_, all.]

TUTTI-FRUTTI, t[=oo]t'ti-fr[=oo]t'ti, _n._ a confection, esp. ice-cream,
flavoured with different kinds of fruit. [It.]

TUTTY, tut'i, _n._ impure zinc protoxide. [O. Fr. _tutie_--Late L.
_tutia_--Ar. _t[=u]tiya_. Cf. _Tutenag_.]

TUTU, t[=oo]'t[=oo], _n._ a New Zealand shrub whose black fruit makes a
light wine resembling claret, while the seeds yield a poison like
strychnine, and the bark, tannin--also called _Tupa-kihi_,
_Wineberry-shrub_, and _Toot-plant_. [Maori.]

TUTULUS, t[=u]'t[=u]-lus, _n._ a conical Etruscan female headdress:--_pl._
T[=U]'TUL[=I]. [L.]

TUUM, t[=u]'um, _adj._ thine.--_n._ that which is thine. [L.]

TU-WHIT, t[=u]-hwit', TU-WHOO, t[=u]-hw[=oo]', _n._ an imitation of the
note of the owl.--_v.i._ TU-WHOO', to cry tu-whoo.

TUYÈRE. Same as _Twyer_ (q.v.).

TUZA, t[=oo]'za, _n._ Same as _Tucan_ (q.v.).

TUZZ, tuz, _n._ (_prov._) a tuft of wool, &c.--_n._ TUZ'ZI-MUZZY, a posy:
the feather hyacinth.--_adj._ shaggy.--_n._ TUZ'ZY (_dim._), a tuft,
cluster. [_Tussock_.]

TWADDLE, twod'l, _v.i._ to talk in a silly manner.--_n._ silly talk: a
senseless talker.--_ns._ TWADD'LER; TWADD'LING, twaddle or silly
talk.--_adj._ TWADD'LY, consisting of twaddle. [Earlier form _twattle_, a
variant of _tattle_.]

TWAIN, tw[=a]n, _n._ two, a couple, pair.--IN TWAIN, asunder. [A.S.
_twégen_ (masc.), two.]

TWAL, twäl, a Scotch form of _twelve_.

TWA-LOFTED, twä'-lof'ted, _adj._ (_Scot._) having two lofts or stories.

TWANG, twang, _n._ (_prov._) a sharp flavour, an aftertaste. [Tang.]

TWANG, twang, _n._ (_Scot._) a twinge.

TWANG, twang, _n._ a sharp, quick sound, as of a tight string when pulled
and let go: a nasal tone of voice.--_v.i._ to sound as a tight string
pulled and let go: to sound with a quick, sharp noise: to have a nasal
sound.--_v.t._ to make to sound with a twang.--_v.i._ TWANG'LE, to twang
frequently.--_v.t._ to cause to twangle. [_Tang_.]

TWANK, twangk, _v.i._ to emit a twang.

'TWAS, twoz, contraction of _it was_.

TWAT, twot, _n._ pudendum muliebre.

TWATTLE, twot'l, _v.i._ to twaddle.--_v.t._ to repeat idly.--_n._ chatter:
a dwarf.--_ns._ TWATT'LER, a chatterer; TWATT'LING, a chattering.--_adj._
gabbling: trifling. [Prob. related to Ice. _thwætta_, chatter.]

TWAY, tw[=a], _adj._ and _n._ (_Spens._) twain, two.

TWAYBLADE, tw[=a]'bl[=a]d, _n._ a European orchid, a plant a foot high
bearing a raceme of green flowers and a pair of broad ovate leaves--hence
the name.

TWEAK, tw[=e]k, _v.t._ to twitch, to pull: to pull with sudden jerks.--_n._
a sharp pinch or twitch: any perplexity. [A by-form of _twitch_.]

TWEED, tw[=e]d, _n._ a kind of woollen twilled cloth of various patterns,
much used for men's suits.--_adj._ made of tweed. [From a mistaken reading
of '_tweels_' upon an invoice; not, as supposed, from the _Tweed_ valley.]

TWEEDLE, tw[=e]'dl, _v.t._ to handle lightly: (_obs._) to wheedle.--_v.i._
to wriggle.--_n._ a sound such as is made by a fiddle--hence the humorous
formations TWEEDLEDUM, TWEEDLEDEE, used to indicate distinctions that are
the slightest possible. [Perh. a variant of _twiddle_; also confused with
_wheedle_.]

TWEEL, Scotch variant of _twill_.

'TWEEN, a contraction of _between_.--_adj._ 'TWEEN'-DECK, lodging between
decks.--_n._ and _adv._ 'TWEEN'-DECKS.

TWEEZERS, tw[=e]z'[.e]rz, _n.sing._ nippers: small pincers for pulling out
hairs, &c.--_n._ TWEEZ'ER-CASE, a case for carrying tweezers. [Perh.
traceable to A.S. _twisel_, a fork; some confusion is possible with obs.
_tweeze_, a surgeon's case of instruments.]

TWELFTH, twelfth, _adj._ the last of twelve.--_n._ one of twelve equal
parts: (_mus._) a tone twelve diatonic degrees above or below a given
tone.--_ns._ TWELFTH'-CAKE, an ornamental cake partaken of on
Twelfth-night; TWELFTH'-DAY, -TIDE, the twelfth day after Christmas, the
Epiphany; TWELFTH'-NIGHT, the eve of Twelfth-day or evening before
Epiphany. [A.S. _twelfta_--_twelf_.]

TWELVE, twelv, _adj._ ten and two.--_n._ the number next after eleven: the
figures representing twelve: (_pl._) same as duodecimo.--_ns._ TWELVE'-MO,
same as duodecimo, written 12mo; TWELVE'-MONTH, twelve months: a
year.--_adjs._ TWELVE'-PENN'Y, worth a shilling: trifling, insignificant;
TWELVE'SCORE, twelve times twenty, or two hundred and forty.--_n._
twelvescore yards, a common range in archery, used also in
measurements.--TWELVE-DAY WRIT, a writ in actions on bills, &c., warning
defendant to appear within twelve days, otherwise judgment would go against
him; TWELVE TABLES, the name given to the earliest code of Roman law,
civil, criminal, and religious, made by the decemvirs in 451-449
B.C.--TESTAMENTS OF THE TWELVE PATRIARCHS, a work of the 2d century after
Christ, in which, on the model of Jacob's blessing of the tribes in Genesis
xlix., discourses and prophecies of Christ are put into the mouths of the
fathers of Israel; THE TWELVE, the twelve apostles. [A.S. _twelf_ (Ger.
_zwölf_, and Goth. _twa-lif_), that is 'two and ten' (for _twá-_, cf.
_Two_; and for _-lif_, cf. _Eleven_).]

TWENTY, twen'ti, _adj._ twice ten: nineteen and one: an indefinite
number.--_n._ the number next after nineteen: the figures representing
twenty: an old English division of infantry.--_adj._ TWEN'TIETH, next after
the nineteenth.--_n._ one of twenty equal parts of anything.--_adv._
TWEN'TYFOLD, twenty times as many.--_adj._ TWEN'TY-FOUR, twenty and
four.--_n._ the number made up of four and twenty: (_pl._, _print._) a form
of composed type or plates containing twenty-four leaves or forty-eight
pages, properly arranged for printing and folding: a book made up of
sections of twenty-four pages.--_n._ TWEN'TY-FOUR'-MO, written 24mo, a leaf
from a sheet of paper folded for a book in twenty-four equal parts: a book
made up of leaves folded in twenty-four equal parts. [A.S. _twentig_, from
_twén_=_twegen_, twain, two--_tig_ (Goth. _tigjus_), ten; Ger. _zwanzig_.]

'TWERE, contraction of _it were_.

TWIBILL, tw[=i]'bil, _n._ a double-headed battle-axe. [A.S. _twi-_, two,
_bill_, a bill.]

TWICE, tw[=i]s, _adv._ two times: once and again: doubly.--_n._ TW[=I]'CER,
one who is both compositor and pressman.--_adj._ TWICE'-TOLD, told twice:
hackneyed.--AT TWICE, at two distinct times. [A.S.
_twíges_--_twíwa_--_twá_, two.]

TWIDDLE, twid'l, _v.t._ to twirl idly, to play with.--_v.i._ to revolve: to
trifle with something.--_n._ a twirl of the fingers.--_ns._ TWIDD'LER;
TWIDD'LING-LINE, formerly a piece of small rope for steadying the
steering-wheel: a string attached to a compass-gimbal, by which the
compass-card may be started so as to play freely.--TWIDDLE ONE'S FINGERS,
to be idle. [Ety. dub.]

TWIFOLD, tw[=i]'f[=o]ld, _adj._ (_Spens._) twofold.

TWIG, twig, _n._ a small shoot or branch of a tree: a divining-rod.--_v.i._
to be active.--_adjs._ TWIG'GEN (_Shak._), covered with osier; TWIG'GY,
abounding in twigs or shoots; TWIG'SOME, full of twigs. [A.S.
_twíg_--_twí-_, double; Ger. _zweig_.]

TWIG, twig, _v.t._ (_slang_) to observe narrowly: to understand.--_v.i._ to
understand, see. [Prob. Ir. _tuigim_, discern; cf. Gael. _tuig_,
understand.]

TWIGHT, tw[=i]t, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to twit.

TWILIGHT, tw[=i]'l[=i]t, _n._ the faint light after sunset and before
sunrise: an uncertain view: partial darkness.--_adj._ of twilight: faintly
illuminated: obscure.--_v.t._ to illuminate faintly.--TWILIGHT OF THE GODS,
the same as _Ragnarök_ (q.v.). [Lit. '_'tween light_,' A.S. _twí-_, from
_twá_, two, and _light_.]

'TWILL, contraction of _it will_.

TWILL, twil, or TWEEL, tw[=e]l, _n._ a woven fabric, in which the warp is
raised one thread, and depressed two or more threads for the passage of the
weft--thus giving a curious appearance of diagonal lines: a fabric with a
twill.--_v.t._ to weave with a twill. [Low Ger. _twillen_, to make double,
_twill_, a forked branch; cf. Sw. _tvilling_, twin, Ger. _zwillich_,
twill.]

TWILLED, twild, _adj._ (_Shak._, _Tempest_, iv. 64) a dubious word, either
'hedged,' from _twill_, to weave with a twill, or more probably 'covered
with reeds or sedges,' from obsolete _twill_, a reed.

TWILLY, twil'i, _n._ a cotton-cleaning machine: willowing-machine.
[_Willow_.]

TWILT, twilt, _n._ (_Scot._) a quilt.

TWIN, twin, _v.i._ (_obs._) to be parted in twain.--_v.t._ to part in
twain: to deprive. [See next word.]

TWIN, twin, _n._ a pair: one of two born at a birth: one very like another:
a union of two similar crystals, or of two halves of one crystal holding a
reversed position to each other, as if one had been turned half round about
an axis (the _twinning axis_), perpendicular to a plane (the _twinning
plane_), which is not for either a plane of symmetry.--_adj._ twofold,
double: being one of two born at a birth: very like another: consisting of
two parts nearly alike.--_v.t._ to couple, mate.--_v.i._ to be born at the
same birth: to bring forth two at once: to be paired or suited:--_pr.p._
twin'ning; _pa.p._ twinned.--_adj._ TWIN'-BORN, born at the same
birth.--_ns._ TWIN'-BROTH'ER, one of two brothers who are twins;
TWIN'-FLOWER, a slender, creeping evergreen--_Linnæa borealis_;
TWIN'LING.--_adj._ TWINNED, produced at one birth: united.--_ns._
TWIN'NING; TWIN'-SCREW, a steam-vessel with two propellers on separate
shafts; TWIN'SHIP; TWIN'-SIS'TER, one of two sisters who are twins.--THE
TWINS, the constellation Gemini. [A.S. _getwinn_, _twinn_, double--_twí_,
two.]

TWINE, tw[=i]n, _n._ a cord composed of two or more threads twisted
together: a twist: an intertwining.--_v.t._ to wind, as two threads
together: to twist together: to wind about: to encircle: to blend,
intermingle.--_v.i._ to unite closely: to bend: to make turns: to ascend
spirally round a support.--_ns._ TWINE'-HOLD'ER, a case for holding a ball
of twine to be unwinded as required; TW[=I]'NER, one who, or that which,
twines.--_adj._ TW[=I]'NING, twisting, winding.--_adv._ TW[=I]'NINGLY.
[A.S. _twín_, double-thread (Dut. _twijn_)--_twí-_, double.]

TWINE, tw[=i]n, a variant of _twin_, to separate.

TWINGE, twinj, _v.t._ to twitch or pinch: to affect with a sharp, sudden
pain.--_v.i._ to have or suffer a sudden, sharp pain, like a twitch.--_n._
a twitch, a pinch: a sudden, sharp pain. [M. E. _twingen_, cog. with Ger.
_zwingen_, to constrain; also with Ger. _zwangen_, to press.]

TWINK, twingk, _n._ (_Shak._) a twinkle, a wink.

TWINK, twingk, _v.t._ to twitter, chirp.

TWINKLE, twing'kl, _v.i._ to blink: to shine with a trembling, sparkling
light: to sparkle: to open and shut the eyes rapidly: to quiver.--_ns._
TWINK'LE, TWINK'LING, a quick motion of the eye: the time occupied by a
wink: an instant: the scintillation of the fixed stars; TWINK'LER. [A.S.
_twinclian_.]

TWINTER, twin't[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a beast two years old.

TWIRE, tw[=i]r, _v.i._ (_obs._) to glance obliquely: (_Shak._) to twinkle,
to gleam--also TWEER.--_n._ a shy look. [Cf. Bavarian _zwiren_, to spy,
glance. Cf. _Queer_ and _Thwart_.]

TWIRE, tw[=i]r, _v.t._ (_obs._) to twist, twirl. [Perh. conn. with A.S.
_thweran_, to stir, churn; cf. Old High Ger. _dweran_, to stir.]

TWIRK, twirk, _n._ (_Scot._) a twitch.

TWIRL, tw[.e]rl, _v.t._ to turn round rapidly, esp. with the
fingers.--_v.i._ to turn round rapidly: to be whirled round.--_n._ a whirl:
a rapid circular motion.--_n._ TWIRL'ER.--TWIRL ONE'S THUMBS, to do
nothing, be idle. [A.S. _thwirel_, a whisk for whipping milk--_thweran_, to
churn, stir; Ger. _quirl_, _querl_, a stirring-spoon; cf. Ice. _thvara_, a
stick for stirring, Gr. _toryne_, L. _trua_.]

TWISSEL, twis'l, _adj._ (_obs._) double.--_n._ anything double.--_adj._
TWISS'EL-TONGUED, double-tongued.

TWIST, twist, _v.t._ to twine: to unite or form by winding together: to
form from several threads: to encircle with something: to wreathe: to wind
spirally: to turn from the true form or meaning: to fabricate, compose: to
cause to move spirally, to bend: to wrest, wrench: to insinuate.--_v.i._ to
be united by winding: to be bent, to move spirally: to revolve: to
writhe.--_n._ that which is twisted: a cord: a single thread: manner of
twisting: a contortion: a small roll of tobacco: a strong silk thread:
(_obs._) coarse cloth: a wrench, strain: a peculiar bent, perversion:
(_slang_) a mixed drink, also an appetite for food.--_adjs._ TWIST'ABLE;
TWIST'ED.--_n._ TW[=I]ST'ER, one who, or that which, twists: a whirling
wind, a tornado: the inner part, of the thigh of a rider on horseback: a
ball, as in cricket, billiards, &c., sent with a twist.--_v.t._ TWIST'LE
(_Scot._), to twist.--_n._ a wrench.--TWIST OF THE WRIST, the turning
movement of the wrist in any work requiring dexterity, any quick action.
[A.S. _twist_, a rope--_twí-_, two; Ger. _zwist_, discord.]

TWIT, twit, _v.t._ to remind of some fault, &c.:--_pr.p._ twit'ting;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ twit'ted.--_n._ a reproach.--_n._ TWIT'TER.--_adj._
TWIT'TING.--_adv._ TWIT'TINGLY, in a twitting manner. [A.S. _æt-witan_, to
reproach--_æt_, against, _witan_ (Scot. _wyte_, Ger. _ver-weisen_), to
blame.]

TWITCH, twich, _v.t._ to pull with a sudden jerk: to pluck: to
snatch.--_v.i._ to be suddenly jerked: to move spasmodically: to carp,
sneer.--_n._ a sudden, quick pull: a spasmodic contraction of the muscles:
a loop fixed to a stick for fixing on the upper lip of a refractory horse
during shoeing, &c.: the sudden narrowing almost to nothing of a vein of
ore.--_ns._ TWITCH'ER; TWITCH'ING. [A.S. _twiccian_, to pluck; Ger.
_zwicken_.]

TWITCH-GRASS=_Couch-grass_.

TWITTER, twit'[.e]r, _n._ a chirp, as of a bird: a tremulous broken sound:
a slight trembling of the nerves.--_v.i._ to make a succession of small
tremulous noises: to feel a slight trembling of the nerves, to
palpitate.--_v.t._ to chirp out.--_ns._ TWITTER[=A]'TION, a flutter;
TWITT'ERING, act of twittering: the sound of twittering: nervous
excitement.--_adv._ TWITT'ERINGLY. [A freq. of _twit_, allied to _titter_,
&c.; cf. Ger. _zwitschern_, Sw. _qvittra_.]

TWITTER-BONE, twit'[.e]r-b[=o]n, _n._ an excrescence on a horse's
hoof.--_adj._ TWITT'ER-BONED, shaky.

TWIT-TWAT, twit'-twot, _n._ the house sparrow.

'TWIXT. Abbreviation for _betwixt_.

TWIZZLE, twiz'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to roll and twist.

TWO, t[=oo], _adj._ one and one.--_n._ the sum of one and one: a figure
representing two: a pair.--_n._ TWO'-DECK'ER, a vessel of war carrying guns
on two decks.--_adjs._ TWO'-EDGED, having two edges; TWO'-FACED, having two
faces, hence double-dealing, false; TWO'FOLD, folded twice: multiplied by
two: double.--_adv._ doubly.--_adjs._ TWO'-FORKED, TW[=I]'-FORKED,
double-pronged, bifurcate; TWO'-FRONT'ED, having fronts on opposite sides;
TWO'-HAND'ED, having, or used with, two hands: ambidexterous, handy: to be
used by two persons; TWO'-HEAD'ED, having two heads: directed by two
authorities; TWO'-LEAVED, having two distinct leaves; TWO'-LEGGED,
furnished with two legs; TWO'-LINE (_print._), having a depth of body equal
to double that of the size specified, as _two-line_ nonpareil or pica;
TWO'-LIPPED, having two lips: divided so as to resemble two lips;
TWO'-MAST'ED, having two masts; TWO'-NEE'DLE, perforated with two
needles.--_n._ TWO'NESS, the state of being two, doubleness.--_adj._
TWO'-PART'ED, bipartite, divided into two nearly to the base.--_n._
TWOPENCE (tup'ens, or t[=oo]'pens), the sum of two pennies: (_Shak._) a
gilt coin worth two pence.--_adj._ TWOPENNY (tup'en-i, or t[=oo]'pen-i), of
the value of twopence: cheap, worthless.--_n._ ale sold at twopence a
quart.--_adjs._ TWO'-PLY, consisting of two thicknesses: woven double;
TWO'-RANKED, alternately arranged in two exactly opposite rows, distichous,
bifarious; TWO'-SID'ED, having two surfaces, or two aspects or phases:
facing two ways, turned in two directions, often with implied sense of
double-dealing or deceit; TWO'SOME, two, twofold; TWO'-TONGUED,
double-tongued, deceitful; TWO'-WAY, arranged so as to permit a fluid to be
turned into either of two channels: (_math._) having a double mode of
variation; TW[=I]'-N[=A]'TURED, TWY'-N[=A]'TURED, double natured--human and
animal in one.--BE TWO, to be at variance; IN TWO, asunder. [A.S. _twá_
(_fem._), _twégen_ (masc.), _twa_, _tú_ (neut.); Ger. _zwei_, Goth. _twai_;
also Gr. _dyo_, L. _duo_, Sans. _dva_, Gael. _da_, _do_.]

TWYER, tw[=i]'[.e]r, _n._ a tube through which the blast of air enters a
blast-furnace.--Also TUY'ERE, TWEER, TUY'ER, TWI'ER. [Fr. _tuyère_, a
nozzle.]

TYBURN, t[=i]'burn, _n._ the historic place of execution in London.--_ns._
TY'BURN-TICK'ET, a certificate of exemption from certain parochial offices
formerly granted to the prosecutor of a felon to conviction;
TY'BURN-TIPP'ET, a halter; TY'BURN-TREE, the gallows.

TYCHE, t[=i]'k[=e], _n._ (_Gr. myth._) the goddess of fortune.

TYCHONIC, t[=i]-kon'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the Danish astronomer, _Tycho_
Brahe (1546-1601), or his system.

TYCOON, t[=i]-k[=oo]n', _n._ the title by which the Shoguns of Japan were
known to foreigners from 1854 to 1868.--_n._ TYCOON'[=A]TE, the shogunate.
[Jap. _taikun_, great prince--Chin. _ta_, great, _kiun_, prince.]

TYE, t[=i], _v.t._ to wash ore in a tye.--_n._ a narrow buddle or inclined
hutch for washing ore. [Prob. A.S. _thweán_, to wash.]

TYE, t[=i], _n._ an old form of _tie_: a runner of thick rope or chain,
which forms part of the purchase used for hoisting the topsail and
top-gallant yards.--_ns._ TYE'-BLOCK, the block on the yard through which
the tye is rove, and passes on to be secured at the masthead; TY'ING, the
act of fastening, a fastening.

TYKE. See TIKE.

TYLARUS, til'a-rus, _n._ one of the fleshy pads of the toe:--_pl._
TYL'AR[=I]. [Gr. _tylos_, a knot.]

TYLE-BERRY, t[=i]l'-ber'i, _n._ the coral-plant.

TYLER=_Tiler_ (q.v.).

TYLOPOD, t[=i]'l[=o]-pod, _adj._ having padded digits, as the camel.--_n._
one of the _Tylopoda_. [Gr. _tylos_, a knot, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

TYLOSIS, t[=i]-l[=o]'sis, _n._ (_bot._) a growth formed in the cavity of a
duct by intrusion from a contiguous growing cell: an inflammation of the
eyelids: callosity:--_pl._ TYL[=O]'SES.--_adj._ TYLOT'IC. [Gr.]

TYLOTE, t[=i]'l[=o]t, _n._ a cylindrical spicule, knobbed at both
ends.--_adj._ TY'L[=O]T[=A]TE. [Gr. _tyl[=o]tos_--_tylos_, a knot.]

TYMBAL=_Timbal_ (q.v.).

TYMP, timp, _n._ the crown of the opening in front of the hearth in a
blast-furnace.

TYMPAN, tim'pan, _n._ an ancient Irish musical instrument: a frame covered
with parchment or cloth, on which the blank sheets are placed to be
impressed. [Fr.,--L. _tympanum_, a drum.]

TYMPANUM, tim'pan-um, _n._ (_anat._) the membrane which separates the
external from the internal ear, often called the drum of the ear: in
certain birds, the labyrinth at the bottom of the windpipe: (_archit._) the
triangular space between sloping and horizontal cornices, or in the corners
or sides of an arch: the panel of a door: a water-raising current wheel,
originally drum-shaped.--_adjs._ TYM'PANAL, TYMPAN'IC, like a drum:
pertaining to the tympanum.--_n._ a bone of the ear, supporting the
drum-membrane.--_adj._ TYM'PANIFORM, like a tympanum.--_ns._ TYM'PANIST,
one who plays a drum; TYMPAN[=I]'T[=E]S, flatulent distension of the
belly.--_adj._ TYMPANIT'IC.--_ns._ TYMPAN[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
membrane of the ear; TYM'PANY, any swelling, turgidity:
tympanites.--TYMPANIC MEMBRANE, the drum-membrane of the ear; TYMPANIC
RESONANCE, the peculiar high-pitched quality of sound produced by
percussion over the intestines, &c., when they contain air; TYMPANIC RING,
an annular tympanic bone, to which the tympanic membrane is attached.
[L.,--Gr. _tympanon_, _typanon_, a kettledrum--_typtein_, to strike.]

TYNDE, t[=i]nd, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ (_Spens._) kindled.

TYNE, t[=i]n, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to become lost, to perish.

TYNE, t[=i]n, _n._ (_Spens._) anxiety.

TYNEWALD, TINEWALD, tin'wold, _n._ the parliament of the Isle of Man. [Cf.
Shetland _tingwall_--Ice. _thing-völlr_--_ting_, a parliament, _völlr_, a
wood.]

TYPE, t[=i]p, _n._ a mark or figure struck or stamped upon something: an
emblem or figure of something to come, esp. the foreshadowing in the Old
Testament of something realised in the New (the _antitype_): an exemplar,
pattern: a representative style, model: the principal device on a coin or
medal: a model in nature made the subject of a copy: (_nat. hist._) that
which combines best the characteristics of a group: the order in which the
symptoms of a disease exhibit themselves: a chemical compound which
represents the composition and structure of many more complex compounds,
esp. Gerhardt's four types--hydrochloric acid, water, ammonia, and
marsh-gas: a piece of metal, wood, or other material, on one end of which
is cast or engraved a character, sign, &c. used in printing (the sizes are
designated by different names in respect of their _body_--i.e. the depths
of the _face_ which comes in contact with the ink plus the _bevel_ and
_beard_.[Illustration] Again, differences in width render the type _fat_ or
_lean_, or, if strongly marked, _extended_ or _condensed_; differences in
style or face are endless--_Roman_ and _Italic_ compose the text of all
books in English; _Antique_ (1), _Gothic_ (2), _Clarendon_ (3), and
_Black-letter_ (4) are approved styles for display. In America types are
designated according to the number of 'points' of which the body consists.
The point is 1/12 of a Pica; Nonpareil would accordingly be called six
points. On the Continent the point is 1/12 of a Cicero, a body between Pica
and English): the whole types used in printing.--_v.t._ to constitute a
type of: to reproduce in type: to typify.--_adj._ TY'PAL.--_ns._ TYPE'-BAR,
a line of type cast in one piece, as in a linotype or typograph;
TYPE'-BLOCK, a body of metal or wood on which a type is cut or cast;
TYPE'-CAST'ING, the act of founding type in moulds; TYPE'-CUT'TER, one who
engraves dies for printing-types; TYPE'-CYL'INDER, the cylinder of a rotary
printing-machine on which types or plates are fastened for printing;
TYPE'-FOUND'ER, one who founds or casts printers' type; TYPE'-FOUND'ING;
TYPE'-FOUND'RY, a place where type is founded or manufactured; TYPE'-GAUGE,
a type-measure: a gauge for estimating the size of type.--_adj._
TYPE'-HIGH, of the standard height of type--of a woodcut, &c.--_ns._
TYPE'-HOLD'ER, a bookbinder's pallet or holder for use in hand-stamping;
TYPEM'BRYO, an embryo at the stage when it first exhibits the type of
structure of the phylum or sub-kingdom to which it belongs; TYPE'-MET'AL,
metal used for making types, a compound of tin, antimony, copper, and lead;
TYPE'-SCALE, a measuring-rod for type; TYPE'-SET'TER, a compositor: a
machine which combines types in proper order for printing;
TYPE'-SET'TING.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ TYPE'WRITE, to produce by means of a
typewriter: to practise typewriting.--_ns._ TYPE'WRITER, a machine for
producing legible characters on paper by mechanical means without the use
of a pen: an operator on a typewriting machine; TYPE'WRITING.--_adjs._
TYP'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or constituting, a type: emblematic:
figurative: (_nat. hist._) combining the characteristics of a group:
connotative, indicative.--_n._ TYPICAL'ITY.--_adv._ TYP'ICALLY.--_ns._
TYP'ICALNESS; TYPIFIC[=A]'TION; TYPIF[=I]'ER.--_v.t._ TYP'IFY, to make a
type of: to represent by an image or resemblance: to prefigure:--_pa.p._
and _pa.t._ typ'if[=i]ed.--_ns._ TY'PIST, one who uses a typewriter; TYPO
(t[=i]'p[=o]), a compositor; TY'POCOSMY (_Bacon_), universal terminology;
TY'POGRAPH, a machine for making and setting type; TYPOG'RAPHER, a printer;
TYPOGRAPH'IA (_pl._), miscellany relating to printers and printing:
(_sing._) a book of instruction in printing.--_adjs._ TYPOGRAPH'IC, -AL,
pertaining to typography or printing.--_adv._ TYPOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_ns._
TYPOG'RAPHIST, a student of typography; TYPOG'RAPHY, the art of printing:
(_orig._) the art of representing by types or symbols: the general
appearance of printed matter.--_adj._ TYPOLOG'ICAL, pertaining to
typology.--_ns._ TYPOL'OGY, the doctrine of Scripture types or figures;
TYPOM[=A]'NIA, a craze for printing one's lucubrations.--TYPE GENUS
(_biol._), a generic type; TYPE SPECIES (_biol._), a specific type.--UNITY
OF TYPE, the fundamental agreement in structure seen in organic beings of
the same class or order. [Fr. _type_--L. _typus_--Gr. _typos_--_typtein_,
to strike.]

[Illustration]

    The above specimen lines show the usual bodies used in the texts of
    books and newspapers; (1) being set in Great Primer, (2) in English,
    (3) in Pica, (4) in Small Pica, (5) in Long Primer, (6) in Bourgeois,
    (7) in Brevier, (8) in Minion, (9) in Nonpareil, (10) in Pearl, and
    (11) in Diamond.

    The black squares represent the square of the body of the type, one of
    the units of measurement, and is called an _em_, the letter M being
    exactly square.

    The following is a list of the number of lines to the foot of the
    respective bodies as made in actual metal types:

      Great Primer        51¼      Brevier            111
      English             64          Minion             122
      Pica                72          Nonpareil          144
      Small Pica          83          Pearl              179
      Long Primer         89          Diamond            204
      Bourgeois          102

    A 'font' of type is an indefinite quantity having all the proper
    proportions of 'sorts,' including capitals and small capitals,
    lower-case, spaces, points and references, figures, accents, hyphens,
    ligatures ([Ligatures for fi fl and ffi]), &c. The proportion of
    letters ranges from 200 z's to 12,000 e's. The smaller letters are
    called _lower-case_, from the case in which the compositor has them
    arranged; the capitals and small capitals being in a different or
    _upper_ case.

TYPHA, t[=i]'fa, _n._ one of two distinct reed-like plants called Bulrush.
[Gr. _typh[=e]_, cat-tail.]

TYPHLITIS, tif-l[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the cæcum and vermiform
appendix--also TYPHLOËNTER[=I]'TIS.--_adj._ TYPHLIT'IC. [Gr. _typhlos_,
blind.]

TYPHOËAN, t[=i]-f[=o]'[=e]-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Typhoëus_, a monster
of Greek mythology, buried under Etna.

TYPHOID, t[=i]'foid, _adj._ pertaining to a widely-spread form of enteric
or intestinal fever, long confounded with typhus, on account of the
characteristic rash of rose-coloured spots--now proved to depend on
defective hygienic conditions, and particularly on imperfect disposal of
excreta--also TYPHOID FEVER.--_adjs._ TY'PHOIDAL; TYPHOMAL[=A]'RIAL, having
both typhoid and malarial characteristics.--_n._ TYPHOM[=A]'NIA, a form of
sleepless stupor and delirium in some cases of typhus fever--also
TYPH[=O]'NIA. [Gr. _typh[=o]d[=e]s_--_typhos_, smoke, _eidos_, likeness.
Cf. _Typhus_.]

TYPHOON, t[=i]-f[=oo]n', _n._ a violent hurricane which occurs in the
Chinese seas.--_adj._ TYPHON'IC. [Port. _tufão_--Ar., Pers., Hind.
_t[=u]f[=a]n_, a hurricane, perh. traceable to Gr. _typh[=o]n_, whence obs.
Eng. _typhon_, a whirlwind. The Chinese _t'ai fung_, a great wind, _pao
fung_, fierce wind, are prob. independent.]

TYPHUS, t[=i]'fus, _n._ an extremely contagious and very fatal kind of
continued fever, specially associated with filth and overcrowding, often
occurring as an epidemic--_Jail-fever_, _Camp-fever_, &c.--_adj._ TY'PHOUS,
relating to typhus. [Through Late L. from Gr. _typhos_, smoke, hence stupor
arising from fever--_typhein_, to smoke.]

TYPOLITE, tip'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a stone or fossil imprinted with the
impression of a plant or animal. [Gr. _typos_, impression, _lithos_,
stone.]

TYPONYM, t[=i]'p[=o]-nim, _n._ a name based upon a type, as a specimen or
species.--_adjs._ TYPON'YMAL, TYPONYM'IC. [Gr. _typos_, type, _onyma_,
name.]

TYPORAMA, tip-[=o]-rä'ma, _n._ a model or representation in fac-simile.
[Gr. _typos_, type, _horama_, view.]

TYPTOLOGY, tip-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the so-called science or theory of
spirit-rapping.--_adj._ TYPTOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ TYPTOL'OGIST, one by whose
means spirit-rappings are alleged to be induced: one who professes to
believe in the genuineness of these. [Gr. _typtein_, to strike,
_logia_--_legein_, to say.]

TYR, tir, _n._ the name of a war-god in the old Norse mythology, a son of
Odin. [Ice. _Týr_.]

TYRANT, t[=i]'rant, _n._ one who uses his power arbitrarily and
oppressively: (_orig._) an absolute monarch or irresponsible magistrate
with unlimited powers or an overruling influence.--_v.t._ to tyrannise
over.--_n._ TY'RAN (_Spens._), a tyrant.--_v.t._ to play the tyrant
over.--_n._ TYR'ANNESS (_Spens._), a female tyrant.--_adjs._ TYRAN'NIC,
-AL, TYR'ANNOUS, pertaining to or suiting a tyrant: unjustly severe:
imperious: despotic.--_advs._ TYRAN'NICALLY, TYR'ANNOUSLY.--_n._
TYRAN'NICALNESS.--_adj._ TYRAN'NICIDAL.--_n._ TYRAN'NICIDE, the act of
killing a tyrant: one who kills a tyrant.--_n.pl._ TYRAN'NIDÆ, a family of
Passerine birds, the typical genus TYRAN'NUS, the tyrant-birds or
tyrant-flycatchers.--_v.i._ TYR'ANNISE, to act as a tyrant: to rule with
oppressive severity.--_v.t._ to act the tyrant to.--_adj._
TYR'ANNISH.--_n._ TYR'ANNY, the government or authority of a tyrant:
absolute monarchy cruelly administered: oppression: cruelty: harshness. [O.
Fr. _tirant_ (Fr. _tyran_)--L. _tyrannns_--Gr. _tyrannos_ (Doric
_koiranos_).]

TYRE. See TIRE.

TYRE, t[=i]r, _n._ (_Spens._) attire, dress.--_v.t._ to adorn.

TYRIAN, tir'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Tyre_: deep-purple, like the dye
formerly prepared at Tyre.--_n._ a native of Tyre.--TYRIAN CYNOSURE, the
constellation Ursa Minor, a familiar guide to Tyrian mariners.

TYRIASIS, ti-r[=i]'a-sis, _n._ elephantiasis Arabum: the falling out of the
hair.--Also TYR[=O]'MA. [Gr. _tyros_, cheese.]

TYRO, TIRO, t[=i]'r[=o], _n._ one learning any art: one not yet well
acquainted with a subject:--_pl._ TY'ROS.--_ns._ TYROC'INY, pupilage (see
TIROCINIUM); TY'RONISM, state of being a tyro. [L. _tiro_, a young
recruit.]

TYROLESE, tir-ol-[=e]z', _adj._ relating to _Tyrol_, or to its
people.--_n._ a native of Tyrol.--_n._ TYROLIENNE', a Tyrolese peasants'
dance, or its music.

TYROTOXICON, t[=i]-r[=o]-tok'si-kon, _n._ a ptomaine in milk or cheese.
[Gr. _tyros_, cheese, _toxicon_, poison.]

TYRRHENIAN, ti-r[=e]'ni-an, _adj._ Etruscan--also TYRRH[=E]NE'.--_n._ an
Etruscan.--TYRRHENIAN SEA, that part of the Mediterranean between Tuscany
and Sardinia and Corsica. [Gr. _Tyrrh[=e]nia_, Etruria.]

TYRTÆAN, tir-t[=e]'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Tyrtæus_, a Greek
martial poet of the 7th century B.C.

TYTHE, t[=i]_th_, _n._ a form of _tithe_.

TZAR, TZARINA=_Czar_, _Czarina_.

TZIGANY, tsig'a-ni, _n._ a Hungarian gipsy.--_adj._ [Hung. _Cigany_, Gipsy;
cf. It. _Zingano_, _Zingaro_, Ger. _Zigeuner_.]

       *       *       *       *       *

U the twenty-first letter and the fifth vowel in our alphabet--evolving
amongst the Greeks as _V_, with the value of _u_. From V, the lapidary and
capital form, the uncial and cursive forms U and _u_ were developed,
gradually V becoming appropriated as the symbol for the consonant, and the
medial form _u_ as the symbol for the vowel.

UBEROUS, [=u]'ber-us, _adj._ (_Browning_) yielding abundance,
fruitful.--_n._ U'BERTY, fruitfulness. [L. _uber_.]

UBIQUITY, [=u]-bik'wi-ti, _n._ existence everywhere at the same time:
omnipresence.--_ns._ UB[=I]'ETY, the state of being in a definite place,
whereness: omnipresence; UBIQUIT[=A]'RIAN, one who believes in the relative
omnipresence of the human nature of Christ, and accordingly in His actual
necessary bodily presence in the Eucharist.--_adj._ omnipresent--also
_adj._ and _n._ UBIQU[=A]'RIAN (_rare_).--_adjs._ UBIQ'UITOUS, UBIQ'UITARY,
being everywhere.--_adv._ UBIQ'UITOUSLY. [Fr. _ubiquité_, formed from L.
_ubique_, everywhere.]

UDAL, [=u]'dal, _adj._ applied to land held solely by uninterrupted
succession, under no feudal superior.--_n._ a freehold estate.--_n._
U'DALLER, a holder of such. [Ice. _ódhal_, a homestead.]

UDDER, ud'[.e]r, _n._ the mammary glands of various animals, esp. cows,
&c.--_adjs._ UDD'ERED; UDD'ERFUL; UDD'ERLESS. [A.S. _úder_; cog. with Ger.
_euter_; also conn. with L. _uber_, Gr. _outhar_.]

UDOMETER, [=u]-dom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a rain-gauge.--_adj._ UDOMET'RIC. [L.
_udus_, wet, Gr. _metron_, a measure.]

UG, ug, _n._ (_prov._) a surfeit.--_v.i._ to feel a loathing.--_v.t._  to
give a surfeit to. [Ice. _uggr_, fear.]

UGH, uh, _interj._ an exclamation of repugnance.

UGLY, ug'li, _adj._ offensive to the eye: deformed: hateful: ill-natured:
very severe, dangerous, as an ugly wound.--_n._ (_coll._) an ugly person: a
hood formerly worn by ladies as a shade for the eyes.--_v.t._ (rare) to
make ugly.--_n._ UGLIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ UG'LIFY, to make ugly.--_adv._
UG'LILY, in an ugly manner.--_n._ UG'LINESS.--_adj._ UG'SOME,
hideous.--_n._ UG'SOMENESS.--UGLY CUSTOMER, a dangerous antagonist; UGLY
MAN, the actual person who garrottes the victim in a confederacy of three,
the others, the fore-stall and back-stall, covering his escape. [Ice.
_uggligr_, frightful, _uggr_, fear; akin to Goth. _ogan_, A.S. _oge_,
fear.]

UGRIAN, [=oo]'gri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Ugrians_, a name used by
Castrén for Ostiaks, Voguls, and Magyars belonging to the Ugro-Finnic
division of the Ural-Altaic peoples.--Also UG'RIC.

UHLAN, [=u]'lan, _n._ one of a kind of light cavalry for outpost duty, &c.,
armed with a lance, famous esp. in the Prussian army. [Polish _ulan_, orig.
a light Tartar horseman--Turk, _ogl[=a]n_, a young man.]

UITLANDER, the Dutch form of _Outlander_. See under OUTLAND.

UKASE, [=u]-k[=a]s', _n._ a Russian decree having the force of law,
emanating from the Czar directly or from the senate: any official
proclamation. [Russ. _ukaz[)u]_, an edict--_y-_, prefix, _kazat[)i]_,
show.]

ULCER, ul's[.e]r, _n._ a dangerous sore, discharging matter: (_fig._) a
sore, a strain.--_v.i._ UL'CERATE, to be formed into an ulcer.--v.t to
affect with an ulcer or ulcers.--_n._ ULCER[=A]'TION, that part or effect
of an inflammatory process in which the materials of inflamed tissues,
liquefied or degenerate, are cast off, in solution or very minute
particles, from free surfaces, or, more rarely, are absorbed from the
substance of the body: an ulcer.--_adjs._ UL'CERED, affected with an ulcer;
UL'CEROUS, of the nature of an ulcer: affected with an ulcer.--_adv._
UL'CEROUSLY, in an ulcerous manner.--_n._ UL'CEROUSNESS. [Fr. _ulcère_--L.
_ulcus_, _ulc[)e]ris_; Gr. _helkos_, a wound.]

ULEMA, [=oo]'le-ma, _n._ the collective name (which can not be used as a
singular) of the body of professional theologians and doctors of divinity,
and therefore of law, in any Mohammedan country. [Ar., plur. of _`âlim_,
learned.]

ULEX, [=u]'leks, _n._ a genus of shrubs of the Bean family, including the
furze, gorse, or whin. [L.]

ULIGINOSE, [=u]-lij'i-n[=o]s, _adj._ growing in swampy places.--Also
ULIG'INOUS. [L. _uliginosus_--_uligo_--_uv[=e]re_, to be wet.]

ULITIS, [=u]-l[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the gums.--_ns._ ULON'CUS,
swelling of the gums; ULORRH[=A]'GIA, bleeding from the gums. [Gr. _oula_,
gums.]

ULLAGE, ul'[=a]j, _n._ the quantity a cask lacks of being full.--_n._
ULL'ING. [O. Fr. _eullage_--_oeiller_, to fill up, prob. from L. _ova_, the
brim.]

ULLA-LULLA, ul'a-lul'a, _n._ an Irish word for a lament for the dead.

ULMACEOUS, ul-m[=a]'shus, _adj._ relating to an order of trees of which the
elm is the type.--_adjs._ UL'MIC, UL'MOUS, pertaining to ulmin.--_ns._
UL'MIN, a dark-brown gummy substance exuded from excrescences in the elm,
oak, &c., and present in peat, vegetable mould, &c.; UL'MUS, the genus of
the elms. [L. _ulmus_, an elm.]

ULNA, ul'na, _n._ the inner and larger of the two bones of the
forearm:--_pl._ UL'NÆ.--_adv._ UL'NAD, toward the ulna.--_adj._
UL'NAR.--_n._ ULN[=A]'RE, an element of the primitive carpus situated on
the ulnar side--represented in man by the cuneiform bone:--_pl._
ULN[=A]'RIA. [L. _ulna_; Eng. _ell_.]

ULODENDRON, [=u]-l[=o]-den'dron, _n._ a genus of fossil trees with
lepidodendroid cortical scars.

ULOSIS, [=u]-l[=o]'sis, _n._ the process by which a scar is formed,
cicatrisation. [Gr. _oul[=e]_, a scar.]

ULOTRICHOUS, [=u]-lot'ri-kus, _adj._ having crisp woolly hair.--_adj._ and
_n._ ULOT'RICHAN:--_ns.pl._ ULOT'RICHI, ULOT'RICHES. [Gr. _oulos_, woolly,
_thrix_, _trichos_, hair.]

ULSTER, ul'st[.e]r, _n._ a long and loose kind of overcoat worn by men and
women, usually having a hood and belt.--_n._ UL'STER-CUS'TOM, the form of
tenant-right long customary in _Ulster_, and legalised by statute in 1870
and 1881 (see TENANT-RIGHT).--_adj._ UL'STERED, wearing an ulster.

ULTERIOR, ul-t[=e]'ri-or, _adj._ on the further side: beyond: in the
future: remoter, beyond what is seen or avowed.--_adv._ ULT[=E]'RIORLY, in
an ulterior or remote manner. [L. _ulterior_ (comp. of _ulter_), that is
beyond or on the other side.]

ULTIMATE, ul'ti-m[=a]t, _adj._ furthest: last: incapable of further
division.--_adv._ UL'TIMATELY.--_n._ ULTIM[=A]'TUM, the final proposition
or terms for a treaty:--_pl._ ULTIM[=A]'TA.--_adj._ UL'TIMO, in the last
(month).--_n._ UL'TIMO-GEN'ITURE, the same as _Borough-English_
(q.v.)--opp. to _Primogeniture_.--ULTIMUS HÆRES (_law_), the crown or the
state, which succeeds to the property of those who die intestate, without
leaving next of kin, or who, being bastards, have no next of kin. [L.
_ultimus_, the last, superl. of _ulter_.]

ULTION, ul'shun, _n._ revenge. [L.]

ULTRA, ul'tra, _adj._ going beyond, extreme--in composition, as in
_Ultra-classical_, _Ultra-fashionable_, _Ultra-conservative_,
_Ultra-critical_, &c.--_n._ an ultraist: a fanatic.--_ns._ UL'TRAISM, the
principles of ultraists; UL'TRAIST, one who carries to extremes the
opinions or principles of his party.--ULTRA V[=I]'RES, beyond one's power
or rights. [L. _ultra_, beyond, _vires_, pl. of _vis_, strength.]

ULTRAMARINE, ul-tra-ma-r[=e]n', _adj._ situated beyond the sea.--_n._ the
most beautiful and durable sky-blue colour, so called either from its
intense blue, or from the _lapis lazuli_, from which it is made, being
brought from Asia, beyond the sea.

ULTRAMONTANE, ul-tra-mon't[=a]n, _adj._ being beyond the mountains (i.e.
the Alps): originally used in Italy of the French, Germans, &c.; afterwards
applied by the northern nations to the Italians, hence its present
meaning--viz. holding or denoting extreme views as to the Pope's rights and
supremacy.--_ns._ ULTRAMON'TANISM, ultramontane or extreme views as to the
Pope's rights; ULTRAMON'TANIST, one who holds to ultramontanism. [L.
_ultra_, beyond, _montanus_--_mons_, _montis_, a mountain.]

ULTRAMUNDANE, ul-tra-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ being beyond the world, or beyond
the limits of our system.

ULTRA-PROTESTANT, ul'tra-prot'es-tant, _n._ a supporter of extreme
Protestant views.--Also _adj._

ULTRA-RELIGIOUS, ul'tra-re-lij'us, _adj._ excessively religious.

ULTRA-SENSUAL, ul'tra-sen's[=u]-al, _adj._ beyond the range or reach of the
senses.

ULTRA-TROPICAL, ul'tra-trop'ik-al, _adj._ situated beyond the tropics:
warmer than the tropics.

ULTRA-VIRTUOUS, ul'tra-v[.e]r't[=u]-us, _adj._ prudish.

ULTRONEOUS, ul-tr[=o]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ spontaneous, voluntary.--_adv._
ULTR[=O]'NEOUSLY.--_n._ ULTR[=O]'NEOUSNESS. [L. _ultro_, spontaneously.]

ULULANT, ul'[=u]-lant, _adj._ howling.--_v.i._ UL'UL[=A]TE, to hoot or
screech.--_n._ ULUL[=A]'TION, howling, wailing. [L. _ulul[=a]re_, to hoot.]

UMBEL, um'bel, _n._ a form of flower in which a number of stalks, each
bearing a flower, radiate from one centre.--_adjs._ UM'BELLATE, -D, bearing
umbels.--_n._ UMBELL'IFER, any plant of the parsley family.--_adj._
UMBELLIF'EROUS, bearing or producing umbels.--_n._ UM'BELLULE, a secondary
umbel. [L. _umbella_, dim. of _umbra_, a shade.]

UMBER, um'b[.e]r, _n._ a brown earthy mineral used as a pigment.--_adjs._
UM'BERED, tinged with umber; UM'BERY, relating to, or like, umber.
[_Umbria_.]

UMBILIC, -AL, um-bil'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the navel.--_adjs._
UMBIL'ICATE, -D, navel-shaped.--_n._ UMBIL'ICUS, the navel: a depression at
the axial base of a spiral shell, as in many gasteropods.--UMBILICAL CORD,
the navel-string; UMBILICAL DUCT, the passage connecting the umbilical
vesicle with the primitive intestine; UMBILICAL HERNIA, the protrusion of a
part through or near the umbilicus; UMBILICAL REGION, the middle portion of
the abdomen. [L. _umbil[=i]cus_, the navel; Gr. _omphalos_.]

UMBLES, um'blz, _n.pl._ the entrails of a deer.--_n._ UM'BLE-PIE (see
HUMBLE-PIE). [O. Fr. _nombles_ (with initial _n_ for _l_), from
_lomble_--_le_, the article, _omble_--L. _umbilicus_, the navel. The Eng.
form _numbles_, by loss of initial _n_, as in _numpire_, &c., became
_umbles_, sometimes written _humbles_, whence _humble-pie_, now associated
in popular etymology and meaning with _humble_=low.]

UMBO, um'b[=o], _n._ the boss of a shield: a knob: the point of a bivalve
shell immediately above the hinge:--_pl._ UMB[=O]'NES, UM'BOS.--_adjs._
UM'B[=O]NAL, protuberant; UM'B[=O]N[=A]TE, -D (_bot._), having a central
umbo, boss, or low rounded projection.--_n._ UMBON[=A]'TION.--_adjs._
UMBON'IC; UMBON'ULATE. [L.]

UMBRA, um'bra, _n._ a shadow: (_astron._) the dark cone projected from a
planet or satellite on the side opposite to the sun: an uninvited guest
whom an invited one brings with him: one of the _Umbridæ_, the mud-minnows:
a sciænoid fish, the umbrine.--_adjs._ UM'BRAL, pertaining to an umbra;
UM'BR[=A]TED (_her._), shadowed; (_obs._) UMBRAT'IC, -AL, UM'BRATILE,
shadowy, secluded.--_ns._ UMBR[=A]'TION, adumbration; UM'BRERE, UM'BRIERE
(_Spens._), the visor of a helmet.--_adj._ UMBRIF'EROUS, casting a shade.
[L.]

UMBRACULUM, um-brak'[=u]-lum, _n._ (_bot._) any umbrella-shaped appendage,
as the cap borne on the seta of _Marchantia_.--_adjs._ UMBRAC'ULATE, nearly
covered by a projecting process, as the face of some _Orthoptera_;
UMBRACULIF'EROUS, bearing an umbraculum; UMBRAC'ULIFORM, having the general
form of an umbrella, as a mushroom.

UMBRAGE, um'br[=a]j, _n._ suspicion of injury: offence: a shade of foliage:
a slight appearance.--_v.t._ to shade.--_adj._ UMBR[=A]'GEOUS, shady or
forming a shade.--_adv._ UMBR[=A]'GEOUSLY.--_n._ UMBR[=A]'GEOUSNESS. [Fr.
_ombrage_--L. _umbra_, a shadow.]

UMBRELLA, um-brel'a, _n._ a familiar covered sliding frame carried in the
hand, as a screen from rain or sunshine.--_n._ UMBRELL'A-BIRD, a fruit-crow
of South America, so called from its radiating crest.--_adj._ UMBRELLAED
(um-brel'äd), provided with an umbrella.--_ns._ UMBRELL'A-GRASS, an
Australian grass with millet-like seeds; UMBRELL'A-STAND, a stand in the
hall of a house for holding umbrellas; UMBRELL'A-TREE, a small magnolia of
the United States. [It. _ombrella_, dim. of _ombra_, a shade--L. _umbra_.]

UMBRETTE, um-bret', _n._ the umber-bird, found in Africa and Madagascar,
remarkable for the enormous domed nest which it builds.

UMBRIAN, um'bri-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Umbria_, in central Italy.--_n._
a native thereof: the old language, akin to Latin, Sabine, and Oscan, to
some extent preserved in the Eugubine tablets.

UMBRIL, um'bril, _n._ the visor or face-defence of a helmet, the
shade.--Also UM'BREL.

UMBRINE, um'brin, _n._ a sciænoid fish, genus _Umbrina_.

UMBROSE, um'br[=o]z, _adj._ shady: dark-coloured.--_n._ UMBROS'ITY.

UMIAK, [=oo]m'yak, _n._ the large skin boat of the Eskimo, capable of
carrying from 1½ to 3 tons.

UMLAUT, [=oo]m'lowt, _n._ Grimm's word for a vowel-change in the Teutonic
languages brought about on a preceding vowel by the vowel _i_ (or _e_)
modifying the first in the direction of _e_ or _i_--German _gänse_, the
plural of _gans_, &c.

UMPIRE, um'p[=i]r, _n._ a third person called in to decide a dispute: an
arbitrator.--_v.i._ to act as umpire.--_v.t._ to decide as umpire.--_ns._
UM'PIRAGE, UM'PIRESHIP. [For _numpire_; M. E. _nompere_--O. Fr.
_nompair_--_non_, not, _pair_, a peer. From the sense of 'unequal,' 'odd,'
the meaning passes to an odd man, an arbitrator, a third party, who gives
his casting vote.]

UMQUHILE, um'hw[=i]l, _adv._ and _adj._ a Scotch form of UM'WHILE,
formerly, late, whilom.

UNABASHED, un-a-basht', _adj._ not abashed.

UNABATED, un-a-b[=a]'ted, _adj._ not diminished or lowered.

UNABLE, un-[=a]'bl, _adj._ not able: not having sufficient strength, power,
or skill: weak: impotent.

UNABOLISHED, un-a-bol'isht, _adj._ not abolished.

UNABRIDGED, un'a-brijd, _adj._ not abridged.

UNACADEMIC, un-ak-a-dem'ik, _adj._ not scholarly or classical.

UNACCENTED, un-ak-sent'ed, _adj._ without accent or stress in
pronunciation: not marked with an accent.

UNACCEPTABLE, un-ak-sept'a-bl, _adj._ not acceptable, not pleasing or
welcome.--_n._ UNACCEPT'ABLENESS.

UNACCOMMODATED, un-a-kom'[=o]-d[=a]t-ed, _adj._ not accommodated,
unfurnished with accommodation.--_adj._ UNACCOMM'ODATING, not compliant.

UNACCOMPANIED, un-a-kum'pa-nid, _adj._ not accompanied, escorted, or
attended: not connected: (_mus._) having no instrumental accompaniment.

UNACCOMPLISHED, un-ak-kum'plisht, _adj._ unfinished: lacking
accomplishments or acquirements.--_n._ UNACCOM'PLISHMENT.

UNACCOUNTABLE, un-ak-kownt'a-bl, _adj._ not accountable or to be accounted
for: not responsible.--_ns._ UNACCOUNTABIL'ITY, UNACCOUNT'ABLENESS, the
state or quality of being unaccountable.--_adv._ UNACCOUNT'ABLY,
inexplicably.

UNACCREDITED, un-a-kred'i-ted, _adj._ not accredited or authorised.

UNACCUSABLY, un-a-k[=u]'za-bli, _adv._ so as to be beyond accusation.

UNACCUSTOMED, un-a-kus'tomd, _adj._ not accustomed or used.--_n._
UNACCUS'TOMEDNESS.

UNACHIEVABLE, un-a-ch[=e]v'a-bl, _adj._ not achievable.

UNACHING, un-[=a]'king, _adj._ (_Shak._) not giving pain.

UNACKNOWLEDGED, un-ak-nol'ejd, _adj._ not acknowledged or recognised: not
confessed: not noticed.--_adj._ UNACKNOWL'EDGING, unthankful.

UNACQUAINTANCE, un-ak-kw[=a]nt'ans, _n._ want of acquaintance:
ignorance.--_adj._ UNACQUAINT'ED, not acquainted: (_Spens._) unusual.--_n._
UNACQUAINT'EDNESS.

UNACQUIRED, un-a-kw[=i]rd', _adj._ not acquired or gained.--_adj._
UNACQUIR'ABLE, not acquirable.--_n._ UNACQUIR'ABLENESS.

UNACTED, un-ak'ted, _adj._ not acted or performed.--_adj._ UNAC'TIVE,
inactive: without efficacy.

UNADAPTED, un-a-dapt'ed, _adj._ not adapted.

UNADMIRE, un-ad-m[=i]r', _v.t._ not to admire.--_adj._ UNADMIRED', not
admired.

UNADORNED, un-a-dornd', _adj._ not adorned.

UNADULTERATE, -D, un-a-dul'te-r[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ unmixed, pure, genuine.

UNADVENTUROUS, un-ad-ven't[=u]r-us, _adj._ not adventurous or bold.

UNADVISED, un-ad-v[=i]zd', _adj._ not advised: not prudent or discreet:
rash.--_n._ UNADV[=I]SABIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNADV[=I]S'ABLE, not
advisable.--_n._ UNADV[=I]S'ABLENESS.--_advs._ UNADV[=I]S'ABLY;
UNADV[=I]S'EDLY.--_n._ UNADV[=I]S'EDNESS, imprudence: rashness.

UNAFFECTED, un-af-fekt'ed, _adj._ not affected or moved: without
affectation: not affected or artificial: plain: real: sincere.--_adv._
UNAFFECT'EDLY, in an unaffected manner: without affectation.--_n._
UNAFFECT'EDNESS, the state of being unaffected.

UNAFFIED, un-a-f[=i]d', _adj._ not allied.

UNAFRAID, un-a-fr[=a]d', _adj._ not afraid.

UNAGREEABLE, un-a-gr[=e]'a-bl, _adj._ not agreeable.--_n._
UNAGREE'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNAGREE'ABLY.

UNAIDED, un-[=a]'ded, _adj._ not aided.

UNAIMING, un-[=a]'ming, _adj._ having no definite aim.

UNALIENABLE, un-[=a]l'yen-a-bl, _adj._ inalienable.--_adv._
UN[=A]L'IENABLY.

UNALIST, [=u]'nal-ist, _n._ one who holds only one benefice--opp. to
_Pluralist_. [L. _unus_, one.]

UNALLIED, un-a-l[=i]d', _adj._ having no alliance or connection.--_adj._
UNALL[=I]'ABLE, incapable of such.

UNALLOWABLE, un-al-low'a-bl, _adj._ not allowable.

UNALLOYED, un-al-loid', _adj._ not alloyed or mixed: pure.--Also
UNALLAYED'.

UNALTERABLE, un-awl't[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ not capable of alteration or
change.--_ns._ UNALTERABIL'ITY, UNAL'TERABLENESS.--_adv._
UNAL'TERABLY.--_adj._ UNAL'TERED, not altered or changed.

UNAMBIGUOUS, un-am-big'[=u]-us, _adj._ not ambiguous, clear.--_adv._
UNAMBIG'UOUSLY.--_n._ UNAMBIG'UOUSNESS.

UNAMBITIOUS, un-am-bish'us, _adj._ not ambitious.--_adv._ UNAMBI'TIOUSLY.

UNAMENDABLE, un-a-men'da-bl, _adj._ not capable of being amended or
corrected.

UN-AMERICAN, un-a-mer'i-kan, _adj._ not in accordance with American ideas
or feeling,--_v.t._ UN-AMER'ICANISE, to make un-American.

UNAMIABLE, un-[=a]'mi-a-bl, _adj._ not amiable, ill-natured.-_ns._
UNAMIABIL'ITY, UN[=A]'MIABLENESS.

UNAMUSED, un-a-m[=u]zd', _adj._ not amused.--_adj._ UNAM[=U]'SING.--_adv._
UNAM[=U]'SINGLY.--_adj._ UNAM[=U]'SIVE, not giving amusement.

UNANCESTRIED, un-an'ses-trid, _adj._ having no distinguished ancestors.

UNANCHOR, un-ang'kor, _v.t._ to loose from anchorage.--_v.i._ to become
loose or unattached.

UNANEALED, UNANELED, un-a-n[=e]ld', _adj._ (_Shak._) not having received
extreme unction.

UNANGULAR, un-ang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ not angular.

UNANIMITY, [=u]-na-nim'i-ti, _n._ state of being unanimous.--_adj._
UNAN'IMOUS, of one mind: agreeing in opinion or will: done with the
agreement of all.--_adv._ UNAN'IMOUSLY.--_n._ UNAN'IMOUSNESS, unanimity.
[L. _unus_, one, _animus_, mind.]

UNANNOUNCED, un-an-nownst', _adj._ not announced.

UNANSWERABLE, un-an's[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ not answerable or capable of
refutation.--_ns._ UNANSWERABIL'ITY, UNAN'SWERABLENESS, the state of being
unanswerable.--_adv._ UNAN'SWERABLY, in an unanswerable manner.--_adj._
UNAN'SWERED, not answered: unrequited.

UNANXIOUS, un-angk'shus, _adj._ without anxiety.

UNAPOSTOLIC, -AL, un-ap-os-tol'ik, -al, _adj._ not in accordance with
apostolic usage or authority.

UNAPPALLED, un-a-pawld', _adj._ not appalled or dismayed.

UNAPPAREL, un-a-par'el, _v.t._ to uncover, unclothe.--_adj._ UNAPPAR'ELLED,
not wearing clothes.

UNAPPARENT, un-a-p[=a]r'ent, _adj._ not apparent, dark, invisible.

UNAPPEALABLE, un-a-p[=e]l'a-bl, _adj._ not admitting of an appeal to a
higher court, conclusive, final.

UNAPPEASABLE, un-a-p[=e]'za-bl, _adj._ incapable of being appeased,
implacable.--_adj._ UNAPPEASED', not appeased or pacified.

UNAPPLAUSIVE, un-a-plaw'siv, _adj._ not applauding.

UNAPPLIABLE, un-a-pl[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ inapplicable.--_adj._ UNAPPLIED', not
put to any special purpose.

UNAPPRECIABLE, un-a-pr[=e]'shi-a-bl, _adj._ inappreciable.--_adjs._
UNAPPR[=E]'CIATED, not appreciated; UNAPPR[=E]'CI[=A]TIVE, inappreciative.

UNAPPREHENDED, un-a-pr[=e]-hen'ded, _adj._ not apprehended or
understood.--_adjs._ UNAPPREHEN'SIBLE, inapprehensible; UNAPPREHEN'SIVE,
not apprehensive or fearful: not intelligent.--_n._ UNAPPREHEN'SIVENESS.

UNAPPRISED, un-a-pr[=i]zd', _adj._ not apprised, not previously informed.

UNAPPROACHABLE, un-a-pr[=o]ch'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be approached or
attained.--_n._ UNAPPROACH'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNAPPROACH'ABLY.--_adj._
UNAPPROACHED', not approached, impossible to be approached.

UNAPPROPRIATE, un-a-pr[=o]'pri-[=a]t, _adj._ inappropriate:
unappropriated.--_v.t._ to take from the possession of individuals and make
common to all.--_adj._ UNAPPR[=O]'PRI[=A]TED, not appropriated: not applied
to any other purpose: not granted to any person, corporation, &c.

UNAPPROVED, un-a-pr[=oo]vd', _adj._ not approved: not proved.

UNAPT, un-apt', _adj._ not suitable or qualified for: dull, inapt.--_adv._
UNAPT'LY.--_n._ UNAPT'NESS.

UNARGUED, un-är'g[=u]d, _adj._ not argued or disputed.

UNARM, un-ärm', _v.t._ to deprive of arms, to disarm: to make
harmless.--_v.i._ to take off one's armour.--_adjs._ UNARMED', without
weapons, defenceless: unprotected by any covering--scales, prickles, &c.:
unaided, as by a glass; UNAR'MOURED, not armoured, not plated with armour,
of ships.

UNARRAYED, un-a-r[=a]d', _adj._ not arrayed or dressed: not arranged.

UNARTFUL, un-ärt'f[=oo]l, _adj._ artless, genuine: inartistic.--_n._
UNART'FULLY.

UNARTIFICIAL, un-är-ti-fish'al, _adj._ inartificial.--_adv._
UNARTIFI'CIALLY.

UNARTISTIC, un-är-tis'tik, _adj._ inartistic.

UNASCENDABLE, un-a-sen'da-bl, _adj._ that cannot be ascended.--_adj._
UNASCEN'DED, not having been ascended.

UNASCERTAINABLE, un-as-[.e]r-t[=a]n'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be ascertained
or known certainly.--_adj._ UNASCERTAINED', not certainly known.

UNASHAMED, un-a-sh[=a]md', _adj._ not ashamed.

UNASKED, un-askt', _adj._ not asked.

UNASPIRATED, un-as'pi-r[=a]-ted, _adj._ pronounced or written without an
aspirate.

UNASPIRING, un-as-p[=i]r'ing, _adj._ not aspiring, unambitious.--_adv._
UNASPIR'INGLY.

UNASSAILABLE, un-a-s[=a]'la-bl, _adj._ not assailable:
incontestable.--_adj._ UNASSAILED', not assailed or attacked.

UNASSAYED, un-a-s[=a]d', _adj._ not essayed or attempted: untested.

UNASSIMILATED, un-a-sim'i-l[=a]-ted, _adj._ not assimilated, not absorbed
into the system as nutriment: not brought into conformity with something.

UNASSISTED, un-a-sis'ted, _adj._ not assisted or helped.

UNASSUETUDE, un-as'w[=e]-t[=u]d, _n._ unaccustomedness.

UNASSUMING, un-a-s[=u]m'ing, _adj._ not assuming: not forward or arrogant:
modest.

UNASSURED, un-a-sh[=oo]rd', _adj._ not assured: not insured against loss.

UNATONED, un-a-t[=o]nd', _adj._ not atoned for.

UNATTACHED, un-a-tacht', _adj._ not attached, as of a student not living in
college but in outside lodgings, at Oxford and elsewhere: not seized for
debt: not assigned to a particular regiment or company, on half-pay.

UNATTAINABLE, un-a-t[=a]n'a-bl, _adj._ beyond one's reach.--_n._
UNATTAIN'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNATTAIN'ABLY.

UNATTAINTED, un-a-t[=a]n'ted, _adj._ not attainted or corrupted: impartial.

UNATTEMPTED, un-a-temp'ted, _adj._ not attempted.

UNATTENDED, un-a-tend'ed, _adj._ not accompanied or attended: not attended
to.--_adjs._ UNATTEND'ING, not attending; UNATTENT'IVE, inattentive.

UNATTESTED, un-a-test'ed, _adj._ not attested.

UNATTIRE, un-a-t[=i]r', _v.i._ to undress, esp. of robes of ceremony.

UNATTRACTIVE, un-a-trakt'iv, _adj._ not attractive.--_adv._
UNATTRACT'IVELY.--_n._ UNATTRACT'IVENESS.

UNAUSPICIOUS, un-aw-spish'us, _adj._ inauspicious.

UNAUTHENTIC, un-aw-then'tik, _adj._ not authentic.--_adj._
UNAUTHEN'TIC[=A]TED, not attested.--_n._ UNAUTHENTIC'ITY.

UNAUTHORISED, un-aw'thor-[=i]zd, _adj._ not sanctioned by proper
authority.--_adj._ UNAUTHOR'IT[=A]TIVE.

UNAVAILING, un-a-v[=a]l'ing, _adj._ not availing, or of no avail or effect:
useless.--_n._ UNAVAILABIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNAVAIL'ABLE, not
available.--_adv._ UNAVAIL'INGLY.

UNAVENGED, un-a-venjd', _adj._ not avenged.

UNAVOIDABLE, un-a-void'a-bl, _adj._ not avoidable: that may not be rendered
null or void: inevitable.--_n._ UNAVOID'ABLENESS.--_adv._
UNAVOID'ABLY.--_adj._ UNAVOID'ED, not avoided: (_Shak._) unavoidable,
inevitable.

UNAVOWED, un-a-vowd', _adj._ not avowed or openly acknowledged.

UNAWARE, un-a-w[=a]r', _adv._ without being or making aware: suddenly:
unexpectedly--also UNAWARES'.--AT UNAWARES, unexpectedly, at a sudden
disadvantage.

UNBACKED, un-bakt', _adj._ never yet ridden: without any to help or
encourage: not supported by bets, of a racehorse, &c.

UNBAG, un-bag', _v.t._ to let out of a bag.

UNBAILABLE, un-b[=a]'la-bl, _adj._ incapable of being bailed.

UNBAIZED, un-b[=a]zd', _adj._ not covered with baize.

UNBAKED, un-b[=a]kt', _adj._ not baked, immature.

UNBALANCED, un-bal'anst, _adj._ not in a state of equipoise: without mental
balance, unsteady: (_book-k._) not adjusted so as to show debtor and
creditor balance.--_n._ UNBAL'ANCE, want of balance, derangement.--_v.t._
to throw out of balance.

UNBALLAST, un-bal'ast, _v.t._ to discharge the ballast from.--_adj._
UNBALL'ASTED, not provided with ballast: unsteady.

UNBANDED, un-band'ed, _adj._ without a band, esp. if stripped of it.

UNBANK, un-bangk', _v.t._ to take a bank from: to make a fire burn up by
raking off the ashes from the top, opening draughts, &c.--_adj._
UNBANK'ABLE, not bankable.

UNBAPTISED, un-bap't[=i]zd, _adj._ not having received baptism,
unchristian: unholy.

UNBAR, un-bär', _v.t._ to remove a bar or hinderance from: to unfasten: to
open.

UNBARBED, un-bärbd', _adj._ (_Shak._) not shaven, untrimmed: without barbs
or plumes.

UNBARBERED, un-bär'b[.e]rd, _adj._ unshaven.

UNBARRICADE, un-bar'i-k[=a]d, _v.t._ to throw open.--_adj._
UNBARRIC[=A]DOED (-k[=a]'d[=o]d), unobstructed.

UNBASHFUL, un-bash'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not bashful, bold, shameless.

UNBATED, un-b[=a]t'ed, _adj._ (_Shak._) unblunted: undiminished.

UNBATHED, un-b[=a]thd', _adj._ not bathed.

UNBATTERED, un-bat'[.e]rd, _adj._ not battered.

UNBAY, un-b[=a]', _v.t._ to open up.

UNBE, un-b[=e]', _v.t._ to cause not to be.

UNBEAR, un-b[=a]r', _v.t._ to take off a horse's bearing-rein.

UNBEARABLE, un-b[=a]r'a-bl, _adj._ intolerable.--_n._
UNBEAR'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNBEAR'ABLY.

UNBEARDED, un-b[=e]r'ded, _adj._ having no beard.

UNBEARING, un-b[=a]r'ing, _adj._ bearing no fruit.

UNBEATEN, un-b[=e]'tn, _adj._ not beaten with blows: untrodden:
unconquered.

UNBEAUTEOUS, un-b[=u]'t[=e]-us, _adj._ not beautiful.--_adj._ UNBEAU'TIFUL,
ugly.

UNBEAVERED, un-b[=e]'v[.e]rd, _adj._ without a beaver or hat: having the
beaver of the helmet open.

UNBECOMING, un-b[=e]-kum'ing, _adj._ not becoming: unsuited to the wearer,
the place, &c.: not befitting, indecorous, improper.--_adv._
UNBECOM'INGLY.--_n._ UNBECOM'INGNESS.

UNBECOMING, un-b[=e]-kum'ing, _n._ the transition from existence to
non-existence.

UNBED, un-bed', _v.t._ to rouse from bed.--_adj._ UNBED'DED, not yet having
had the marriage consummated--of a bride.

UNBEDINNED, un-b[=e]-dind', _adj._ not made noisy.

UNBEFITTING, un-b[=e]-fit'ing, _adj._ not befitting, unbecoming.

UNBEFOOL, un-b[=e]-f[=oo]l', _v.t._ to change from the condition of a fool:
to undeceive.

UNBEFRIEND, un-b[=e]-frend', _v.t._ to fail to befriend.--_adj._
UNBEFRIEN'DED, not supported by friends.

UNBEGET, un-b[=e]-get', _v.t._ to cancel the begetting of.

UNBEGINNING, un-b[=e]-gin'ing, _adj._ having no beginning.

UNBEGOTTEN, un-b[=e]-got'n, _adj._ not yet begotten: existing independent
of any generating cause.--Also UNBEGOT'.

UNBEGUILE, un-b[=e]-g[=i]l', _v.t._ to undeceive.--_adj._ UNBEGUILED'.

UNBEGUN, un-b[=e]-gun', _adj._ not yet begun.

UNBEHOLDEN, un-b[=e]-h[=o]l'dn, _adj._ unseen.

UNBEHOVING, un-b[=e]-h[=oo]v'ing, _n._ the state of not deserving.

UNBEJUGGLED, un-b[=e]-jug'ld, _adj._ not deceived by any trick.

UNBEKNOWN, un-b[=e]-n[=o]n', _adj._ (_prov._) unknown.--Also UNBEKNOWNST'.

UNBELIEF, un-b[=e]-l[=e]f', _n._ want of belief: disbelief, esp. in divine
revelation.--_n._ UNBELIEVABIL'ITY, incapability of being
believed.--_adjs._ UNBELIEV'ABLE; UNBELIEVED'.--_n._ UNBELIEV'ER, one who
does not believe, esp. in divine revelation: an incredulous person.--_adj._
UNBELIEV'ING, not believing, esp. divine revelation.--_adv._
UNBELIEV'INGLY, in an unbelieving manner.

UNBELOVED, un-b[=e]-luvd', _adj._ not loved.

UNBELT, un-belt', _v.t._ to ungird.

UNBEND, un-bend', _v.t._ to free from being in a bent state: to make
straight: to free from strain or exertion: to set at ease.--_v.i._ to
become relaxed: to behave with freedom from stiffness, to be
affable.--_adj._ UNBEND'ING, not bending: unyielding: resolute.--_n._ a
relaxing.--_adv._ UNBEND'INGLY.--_n._ UNBEND'INGNESS.

UNBENEFICED, un-ben'e-fist, _adj._ not having a benefice.

UNBENEFICIAL, un-ben-e-fish'al, _adj._ not advantageous.--_adj._
UNBEN'EFITED, having received no benefit.

UNBENIGHTED, un-b[=e]-n[=i]'ted, _adj._ not involved in darkness,
intellectual or moral.

UNBENIGN, un-b[=e]-n[=i]n', _adj._ not favourable: malignant.

UNBEREFT, un-b[=e]-reft', _adj._ not bereaved.--Also UNBERE[=A]'VEN.

UNBESEEM, un-b[=e]-s[=e]m', _v.t._ to be unworthy.--_adj._ UNBESEEM'ING,
unbecoming.--_adv._ UNBESEEM'INGLY.

UNBESOUGHT, un-b[=e]-sawt', _adj._ not besought.

UNBESPEAK, un-b[=e]-sp[=e]k', _v.t._ to revoke.

UNBESTOWED, un-b[=e]-st[=o]d', _adj._ not bestowed or conferred.

UNBETTERED, un-bet'[.e]rd, _adj._ unmitigated.

UNBIAS, un-b[=i]'as, _v.t._ to free from bias or prejudice.--_adj._
UNB[=I]'ASSED, free from bias or prejudice: impartial.--_adv._
UNB[=I]'ASSEDLY.--_n._ UNB[=I]'ASSEDNESS.

UNBID, un-bid', _adj._ (_Spens._) not bid or prayed for.--_adjs._ UNBID',
UNBID'DEN, not bid or commanded: spontaneous: uninvited.

UNBIND, un-b[=i]nd', _v.t._ to remove a band from: to loose: to set free.

UNBISHOP, un-bish'op, _v.t._ to deprive of the rank of bishop.

UNBITT, un-bit', _v.t._ (_naut._) to take off the turns of a cable from
around the bitts.

UNBITTED, un-bit'ed, _adj._ unbridled.

UNBLAMABLE, un-bl[=a]'ma-bl, _adj._ not deserving of blame:
faultless.--_adv._ UNBL[=A]'MABLY.--_adj._ UNBLAMED'.

UNBLEACHED, un-bl[=e]cht', _adj._ not having been bleached.--_adj._
UNBLEACH'ING.

UNBLEMISHED, un-blem'isht, _adj._ not blemished or stained: free from
reproach or deformity: pure.--_adj._ UNBLEM'ISHABLE.

UNBLENCHED, un-blensht', _adj._ (_Milt._) not startled or
confounded.--_adj._ UNBLENCH'ING, not flinching.

UNBLESS, un-bles', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to make unhappy.--_adjs._ UNBLESSED',
UNBLEST'.--_n._ UNBLESS'EDNESS.--_adj._ UNBLISS'FUL, not blest: unhappy.

UNBLEST, un-blest', _adj._ (_Spens._) not wounded.

UNBLIND, un-bl[=i]nd', _adj._ free from blindness.

UNBLOCK, un-blok', _v.i._ at whist, to throw away a high card so as not to
interrupt one's partner's long suit.

UNBLOODY, un-blud'i, _adj._ not stained by blood, not cruel.--_adjs._
UNBLOOD'ED, not thoroughbred; UNBLOOD'IED, not made bloody.--_adv._
UNBLOOD'ILY.

UNBLOTTED, un-blot'ed, _adj._ not erased or blotted out.

UNBLOWN, un-bl[=o]n', _adj._ not sounded: yet in the bud, not yet having
bloomed.

UNBLUSHING, un-blush'ing, _adj._ not blushing: without shame:
impudent.--_adv._ UNBLUSH'INGLY, in an unblushing or impudent manner.

UNBOASTFUL, un-b[=o]st'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not boastful, modest.

UNBODIED, un-bod'id, _adj._ freed from the body.

UNBODING, un-b[=o]'ding, _adj._ not expecting.

UNBODKINED, un-bod'kind, _adj._ not fastened with a bodkin.

UNBOILED, un-boild', _adj._ not boiled.

UNBOLT, un-b[=o]lt', _v.t._ to remove a bolt from: to open.--_v.i._ to
disclose.--_adj._ UNBOLT'ED, not fastened by bolts: not separated by
bolting or sifting: coarse.

UNBONE, un-b[=o]n', _v.t._ to take the bones from.

UNBONNET, un-bon'et, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to uncover the head.--_adj._
UNBONN'ETED, with no bonnet on: (_Shak._) without taking off the cap, on
equal terms.

UNBOOKISH, un-book'ish, _adj._ not given to reading, ignorant.--Also
UNBOOKED' (rare).

UNBOOT, un-b[=oo]t', _v.t._ to take the boots off.

UNBORN, un-bawrn', _adj._ not yet born: non-existent.

UNBOSOM, un-b[=oo]z'um, _v.t._ to disclose what is in the bosom or mind: to
tell freely.--_n._ UNBOS'OMER, one who blabs or discloses secrets.

UNBOTTOMED, un-bot'umd, _adj._ bottomless.

UNBOUGHT, un-bawt', _adj._ not bought or sold, obtained without buying: not
bribed.

UNBOUND, un-bownd', _adj._ not bound: loose: wanting a cover.--_adj._
UNBOUND'ED, not bounded or limited: boundless: having no check or
control.--_adv._ UNBOUND'EDLY.--_n._ UNBOUND'EDNESS.

UNBOWED, un-bowd', _adj._ not bent: unconquered.

UNBRACE, un-br[=a]s', _v.t._ to undo the braces or bands of: to loose or
relax.--_adj._ UNBRACED'.--_n._ UNBR[=A]'CEDNESS.

UNBREATHED, un-br[=e]thd', _adj._ (_Shak._) not breathed, not exercised or
practised.--_adjs._ UNBREATH'ABLE, not respirable; UNBREATH'ING, not
breathing.

UNBRED, un-bred', _adj._ not well-bred: unpolished: rude: (_Shak._) not yet
born.

UNBREECH, un-br[=e]ch', _v.t._ to free the breech of, as a cannon from its
fastenings.

UNBREECHED, un-br[=e]chd', _adj._ wearing no breeches.

UNBREWED, un-br[=oo]d', _adj._ not mixed, pure.

UNBRIBABLE, un-br[=i]'ba-bl, _adj._ incapable of being bribed.

UNBRIDLE, un-br[=i]'dl, _v.t._ to free from the bridle, to let
loose.--_adj._ UNBR[=I]'DLED, unrestrained: licentious.--_n._
UNBR[=I]'DLEDNESS.

UNBROKEN, un-br[=o]'kn, _adj._ entire: unsubdued: undisturbed--also
UNBROKE' (_Shak._).--_adv._ UNBR[=O]'KENLY.--_n._ UNBR[=O]'KENNESS.

UNBROTHERLY, un-bruth'[.e]r-li, _adj._ not becoming a brother.--_n._
UNBROTH'ERLINESS.

UNBRUTE, un-br[=oo]t', _v.t._ to free from the qualities of the brute.

UNBUCKLE, un-buk'l, _v.t._ to loose from buckles: to unfasten.

UNBUCKRAMED, un-buk'ramd, _adj._ not stiffened with buckram, not stiff,
easy.

UNBUDDED, un-bud'ed, _adj._ not yet in bud.

UNBUILD, un-bild', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to destroy.

UNBUNDLE, un-bun'dl, _v.t._ to unpack, open up, declare.

UNBURDEN, un-bur'dn, _v.t._ to take a burden off: to free the mind from any
weight or anxiety: to disclose--also UNBUR'THEN.--_adj._ UNBUR'DENED.

UNBURIABLE, un-ber'i-a-bl, _adj._ unfit to be buried.--_adj._ UNBUR'IED,
not buried.--_v.t._ UNBUR'Y, to disinter: to reveal.

UNBURNED, un-burnd', _adj._ not burned, scorched, or baked.--Also UNBURNT'.

UNBURROW, un-bur'[=o], _v.t._ to unearth.

UNBUSINESS-LIKE, un-biz'nes-l[=i]k, _adj._ not business-like.

UNBUTTON, un-but'n, _v.t._ to loose the buttons of.

UNCABLED, un-k[=a]'bld, _adj._ not fixed by a cable.

UNCAGE, un-k[=a]j', _v.t._ to set free from a cage.

UNCALLED, un-kawld', _adj._ not called, uninvited.--UNCALLED FOR, quite
unnecessary or superfluous.

UNCALM, un-käm', _v.t._ to disturb.

UNCAMP, un-kamp', _v.t._ to break up the camp of: to dislodge.

UNCANDID, un-kan'did, _adj._ not candid.--_adv._ UNCAN'DIDLY.--_ns._
UNCAN'DIDNESS; UNCAN'DOUR.

UNCANNY, un-kan'i, _adj._ weird: unearthly: supposed to possess
supernatural powers: dangerous, severe.--_adv._ UNCANN'ILY.--_n._
UNCANN'INESS.

UNCANONIC, -AL, un-ka-non'ik, -al, _adj._ not agreeable to the canons, not
according to the canon of Scripture.--_n._ UNCANON'ICALNESS.--_v.t._
UNCAN'ONISE, to deprive of canonical authority.--_adj._ UNCAN'ONISED, not
canonised.

UNCAP, un-kap', _v.t._ to remove a cap from.--_v.i._ to take off one's cap
or hat.

UNCAPE, un-k[=a]p', _v.t._ (_Shak._) either to uncouple hounds, to let out
of a bag, as a fox, or to throw off the dogs so as to commence the hunt: to
unhood, in hawking.

UNCARED, un-k[=a]rd', _adj._ not regarded (with _for_).--_adj._ UNCARE'FUL,
not careful or cautious.

UNCART, un-kärt', _v.t._ to unload from a cart.

UNCASE, un-k[=a]s', _v.t._ to take out of a case: to free from a covering:
to flay.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to undress.

UNCATE, ung'k[=a]t, _adj._ hooked.

UNCAUSED, un-kawzd', _adj._ without any precedent cause, self-existent.

UNCEASING, un-s[=e]'sing, _adj._ not ceasing, continual.--_adv._
UNCEA'SINGLY.

UNCEREMONIOUS, un-ser-[=e]-m[=o]'ni-us, _adj._ not ceremonious,
informal.--_adv._ UNCEREM[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_n._ UNCEREM[=O]'NIOUSNESS.

UNCERTAIN, un-s[.e]r't[=a]n, _adj._ not certain, doubtful: not to be
depended upon: not sure of the result.--_adv._ UNCER'TAINLY.--_ns._
UNCER'TAINNESS; UNCER'TAINTY, state of being uncertain or doubtful: want of
certainty: that which is uncertain.

UNCHAIN, un-ch[=a]n', _v.t._ to free from chains or slavery.

UNCHALLENGED, un-chal'enjd, _adj._ not challenged or called in
question.--_adj._ UNCHALL'ENGEABLE.--_adv._ UNCHALL'ENGEABLY.

UNCHANCY, un-chan'si, _adj._ (_Scot._) unlucky, uncanny: dangerous,
inconvenient.--_n._ UNCHANCE', misfortune.

UNCHANGEABLE, un-ch[=a]n'ja-bl, _adj._ not capable of change.--_ns._
UNCHANGEABIL'ITY, UNCHANGE'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNCHANGE'ABLY.--_adjs._
UNCHANGED'; UNCHAN'GING.--_adv._ UNCHAN'GINGLY.

UNCHARGE, un-chärj', _v.t._ to free from a charge or burden: to
acquit.--_adj._ UNCHARGED'.

UNCHARIOT, un-char'i-ot, _v.t._ to thrust out of a chariot.

UNCHARITABLE, un-char'i-ta-bl, _adj._ not charitable, harsh in
judgment.--_n._ UNCHAR'ITABLENESS.--_adv._ UNCHAR'ITABLY.--_n._ UNCHAR'ITY,
want of charity.

UNCHARM, un-chärm', _v.t._ to free from the power of some charm.--_adj._
UNCHAR'MING, not charming.

UNCHARNEL, un-chär'nel, _v.t._ to dig up from a grave.

UNCHARTERED, un-chär't[.e]rd, _adj._ not chartered, unrestricted.

UNCHARY, un-ch[=a]r'i, _adj._ not chary, heedless.

UNCHASTE, un-ch[=a]st', _adj._ not chaste, lewd.--_adv._
UNCH[=A]STE'LY.--_n._ UNCHAS'TITY, lewdness, incontinence.

UNCHECKED, un-chekt', _adj._ not checked or hindered, unrestrained:
uncontradicted.--_adj._ UNCHECK'ABLE.

UNCHEERFUL, un-ch[=e]r'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not cheerful, gloomy:
grudging.--_n._ UNCHEER'FULNESS.

UNCHILD, un-ch[=i]ld', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to make childless.

UNCHIVALROUS, un-shiv'al-rus, _adj._ not chivalrous or honourable.--Also
UNCHIV'ALRIC.

UNCHRISTEN, un-kris'n, _v.t._ to deprive of baptism: to make unchristian.

UNCHRISTIAN, un-kris'tyan, _adj._ not CHRISTIAN, not converted to
Christianity: contrary to the character of CHRISTIANITY, cruel, harsh:
(_coll._) improper, unusual.--_v.t._ to make unchristian.--_v.t._
UNCHRIS'TIANISE, to cause to change from the Christian faith.--_adv._
UNCHRIS'TIANLY.--_n._ UNCHRIS'TIANNESS.

UNCHURCH, un-church', _v.t._ to deprive of the rights of a church: to
refuse the name of church to.

[Illustration]

UNCIAL, un'shal, _adj._ applied to that variety of majuscule writing, with
large round characters, used in ancient MSS.--_n._ an uncial letter, uncial
writing: a MS. written in uncials.--_v.t._ UN'CIALISE, to shape like
uncials. [Lit. 'an inch long'--L., from _uncia_, a twelfth part, an inch.]

UNCIATIM, un-si-[=a]'tim, _adv._ ounce by ounce. [L., 'by twelfths.']

UNCIFORM, un'si-form, _adj._ hook-shaped.--_adjs._ UNCIF'EROUS, having a
hook, as an ovipositor; UN'CINAL, UN'CINATE, hooked at the end.--_n.pl._
UNCIN[=A]'TA, a division of marine chætopod worms--serpulas and other
tubicolous worms.--_ns._ UNCIN[=A]'TUM, the unciform bone of the carpus;
UNC[=I]'NUS, a hooklet, hamulus, one of the uncial teeth of the
radula:--_pl._ UNC[=I]'NI ([=i]).--_adj._ UNCIROS'TR[=A]TE, having a hooked
beak. [L. _uncus_, a hook.]

UNCIRCUMCISION, un-s[.e]r-kum-sizh'un, _n._ want of circumcision: (_B._)
those who are not circumcised.--_adj._ UNCIR'CUMCISED, not circumcised.

UNCIRCUMSCRIBED, un-s[.e]r-kum-skr[=i]bd', _adj._ not shut in.

UNCIVIL, un-siv'il, _adj._ not civil or courteous, rude: (_Spens._) not
civilised, wild.--_adj._ UNCIV'ILISED, barbarous.--_adv._ UNCIV'ILLY, not
civilly or politely.

UNCLAD, un-klad', _adj._ not clothed.

UNCLAIMED, un-kl[=a]md', _adj._ not claimed.

UNCLASP, un-klasp', _v.t._ to loose the clasp of.

UNCLASSABLE, un-klas'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being classed or classified.

UNCLE, ung'kl, _n._ the brother of one's father or mother: an old man
generally: a pawnbroker.--_n._ UN'CLESHIP, the state of being an
uncle.--UNCLE SAM, the United States or its people.--TALK LIKE A DUTCH
UNCLE (see DUTCH). [O. Fr. (Fr. _oncle_)--L. _avunculus_, extension of
_avus_, a grandfather.]

UNCLEAN, un-kl[=e]n', _adj._ not clean: foul: (_B._) ceremonially impure:
sinful: lewd.--_n._ UNCLEAN'LINESS.--_adj._ UNCLEAN'LY.--_n._ UNCLEAN'NESS,
the state or quality of being unclean: dirtiness: (_B._) want of ceremonial
purity: moral impurity: sinfulness.

UNCLEAR, un-kl[=e]r', _adj._ not clear.

UNCLERICAL, un-kl[.e]r'i-kal, _adj._ not befitting the clerical character.

UNCLEW, un-kl[=oo]', _v.t._ to unwind, unfold, undo.

UNCLINCH, un-klinsh', _v.t._ to cause to be no longer clinched: to open or
set straight, as the closed hand.--Also UNCLENCH'.

UNCLING, un-kling', _v.i._ to cease from clinging.

UNCLOAK, un-kl[=o]k', _v.t._ to take the cloak off any one.--_v.i._ to take
the cloak off.

UNCLOG, un-klog', _v.t._ to remove a clog from: to free.

UNCLOISTER, un-kloi'st[.e]r, _v.t._ to free from the cloister.

UNCLOSE, un-kl[=o]z', _v.t._ to make not close, to open.--_adjs._ UNCLOSE
(un-kl[=o]s'), open, babbling; UNCLOSED (un-kl[=o]zd'), open, unenclosed.

UNCLOTHE, un-kl[=o]th', _v.t._ to take the clothes off: to make
naked.--_adj._ UNCLOTHED'.

UNCLOUD, un-klowd', _v.t._ to free from clouds.--_adj._ UNCLOUD'ED, free
from clouds, clear.--_n._ UNCLOUD'EDNESS.--_adj._ UNCLOUD'Y.

UNCLUBABLE, un-klub'a-bl, _adj._ not clubable, unsocial.

UNCLUTCH, un-kluch', _v.t._ to force open anything shut.

UNCO, ung'k[=o], _adj._ (_Scot._) strange, unusual.--_n._ any strange
person or thing: (_pl._) news.--_adv._ remarkably, very. [_Uncouth_.]

UNCOCK, un-kok', _v.t._ to release and let down the hammer of a firearm
without exploding the charge: to open up a hay-cock, &c., spreading the hay
out.

UNCOFFINED, un-kof'ind, _adj._ not put into a coffin.

UNCOGITABLE, un-koj'i-ta-bl, _adj._ not capable of being thought.

UNCOIF, un-koif', _v.t._ to take the head-covering from.--_adj._ UNCOIFED',
without a coif.

UNCOIL, un-koil', _v.t._ to open out from being coiled: to unwind.

UNCOIN, un-koin', _v.t._ to deprive metallic money of its character as
coin.--_adj._ UNCOINED', not coined: (_Shak._) unalloyed, unfeigned.

UNCOLLECTED, un-kol-ek'ted, _adj._ not collected or gathered: absent in
mind, not having one's thoughts collected.

UNCOLOURED, un-kul'urd, _adj._ not coloured, undyed, white: truthful, not
exaggerated.

UNCOLT, un-k[=o]lt', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to unhorse, to deprive of a colt or
horse.

UNCOMBINE, un-kom-b[=i]n', _v.t._ to separate.--_v.i._ to become separated.

UNCOMEATABLE, un-kum-at'a-bl, _adj._ not accessible, out of one's reach.

UNCOMELY, un-kum'li, _adj._ not comely: indecent.--_n._ UNCOME'LINESS, want
of comeliness: unseemliness.

UNCOMFORTABLE, un-kum'fur-ta-bl, _adj._ not comfortable, causing discomfort
or disquiet: awkwardly situated.--_n._ UNCOM'FORTABLENESS.--_adv._
UNCOM'FORTABLY.

UNCOMMENDABLE, un-kom-en'da-bl, _adj._ not to be commended.

UNCOMMERCIABLE, un-kom-er'shi-a-bl, _adj._ not capable of being made
material for commerce.--_adj._ UNCOMMER'CIAL, not engaged in commerce: not
in the spirit of commerce.

UNCOMMITTED, un-ko-mit'ed, _adj._ not committed or done: not entrusted: not
bound by any pledge or promise: not referred to a committee.

UNCOMMON, un-kom'un, _adj._ not common, strange.--_adv._ (_coll._)
very.--_adv._ UNCOMM'ONLY.--_n._ UNCOMM'ONNESS.

UNCOMMUNICATIVE, un-ko-m[=u]'ni-k[=a]-tiv, _adj._ not communicative,
reserved.--_adjs._ UNCOMM[=U]'NICABLE; UNCOMM[=U]'NICATED.--_n._
UNCOMM[=U]'NICATIVENESS.

UNCOMPACT, un-kom-pakt', _adj._ incompact.--_adj._ UNCOMPACT'ED, not
compact or firm.

UNCOMPANIED, un-kum'pa-nid, _adj._ unaccompanied.--_adjs._
UNCOMPAN'IONABLE, not companionable or sociable; UNCOMPAN'IONED, without a
companion, or an equal, alone.

UNCOMPASSIONATE, un-kom-pash'un-[=a]t, _adj._ not compassionate.

UNCOMPELLABLE, un-kom-pel'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be compelled.

UNCOMPLAINING, un-kom-pl[=a]'ning, _adj._ not complaining.--_adv._
UNCOMPLAIN'INGLY.

UNCOMPLAISANT, un-kom'pl[=a]-zant, _adj._ not complaisant or civil.--_adv._
UNCOM'PLAISANTLY.

UNCOMPLIABLE, un-kom-pl[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ unwilling to comply.--_adj._
UNCOMPL[=I]'ANT, incompliant.

UNCOMPOSABLE, un-kom-p[=o]'za-bl, _adj._ incapable of being composed or
reconciled.

UNCOMPOUNDED, un-kom-pown'ded, _adj._ not compounded, simple.

UNCOMPREHENSIVE, un-kom-pr[=e]-hen'siv, _adj._ not comprehensive:
incomprehensive: (_Shak._) incomprehensible.

UNCOMPROMISING, un-kom'pr[=o]-m[=i]-zing, _adj._ not admitting of
compromise or adjustment: unyielding: obstinate.--_adv._
UNCOM'PROMISINGLY.--_n._ UNCOM'PROMISINGNESS.

UNCONCEALED, un-kon-s[=e]ld', _adj._ not concealed.

UNCONCEIVABLE, un-kon-s[=e]'va-bl, _adj._ inconceivable.--_n._
UNCONCEI'VABLENESS.--_adv._ UNCONCEI'VABLY.

UNCONCERN, un-kon-sern', _n._ want of concern, anxiety, or
solicitude.--_adj._ UNCONCERNED', not concerned: carelessly secure.--_adv._
UNCONCER'NEDLY, in an unconcerned manner: without anxiety.--_ns._
UNCONCER'NEDNESS, UNCONCERN'MENT.

UNCONCLUSIVE, un-kon-kl[=oo]'siv, _adj._ inconclusive.--_adjs._
UNCONCLU'DENT (_obs._), not decisive; UNCONCLU'DIBLE, not to be concluded;
UNCONCLU'DING, inconclusive.--_n._ UNCONCLU'DINGNESS.

UNCONCOCTED, un-kon-kok'ted, _adj._ not concocted, not digested.

UNCONCURRENT, un-kon-kur'ent, _adj._ not concurring.

UNCONDEMNED, un-kon-demd', _adj._ not condemned.

UNCONDITIONED, un-kon-dish'und, _adj._ not subject to conditions or
limitations: infinite: inconceivable.--_adj._ UNCONDI'TIONAL, not
conditional, absolute, unreserved.--_n._ UNCONDITIONAL'ITY.--_adv._
UNCONDI'TIONALLY.--_n._ UNCONDI'TIONALNESS.

UNCONFINABLE, un-kon-f[=i]'na-bl, _adj._ not to be confined: (_Shak._)
unbounded.--_adj._ UNCONFINED', not confined, unrestrained: broad.--_adv._
UNCONF[=I]'NEDLY.

UNCONFIRMED, un-kon-firmd', _adj._ not confirmed: not verified by further
testimony: not yet having received the rite of confirmation: not yet having
election as bishop confirmed by an archbishop: weak.

UNCONFORM, un-kon-form', _adj._ (_Milt._) not conformed, unlike.--_n._
UNCONFORMABIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNCONFOR'MABLE.--_n._
UNCONFOR'MABLENESS.--_adv._ UNCONFOR'MABLY.--_n._ UNCONFOR'MITY.

UNCONFUSED, un-kon-f[=u]zd', _adj._ not confused, free from
confusion.--_adv._ UNCONF[=U]'SEDLY.

UNCONGEAL, un-kon-j[=e]l', _v.i._ to thaw, melt.

UNCONGENIAL, un-kon-j[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ not congenial.

UNCONJUNCTIVE, un-kon-jungk'tiv, _adj._ impossible to be joined.

UNCONNECTED, un-kon-ek'ted, _adj._ not connected, separate: not coherent,
rambling, vague: without connections of family, &c.

UNCONQUERABLE, un-kong'k[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be conquered or
brought under control.--_n._ UNCON'QUERABLENESS.--_adv._
UNCON'QUERABLY.--_adj._ UNCON'QUERED.

UNCONSCIONABLE, un-kon'shun-a-bl, _adj._ not conformable to conscience:
unreasonable: inordinate.--_n._ UNCON'SCIONABLENESS.--_adv._
UNCON'SCIONABLY.

UNCONSCIOUS, un-kon'shus, _adj._ not conscious: not self-conscious, not
perceiving.--_adv._ UNCON'SCIOUSLY.--_n._ UNCON'SCIOUSNESS.

UNCONSECRATED, un-kon's[=e]-kr[=a]-ted, _adj._ not formally
consecrated.--_v.t._ UNCON'SECRATE, to deprive of consecrated character.

UNCONSENTING, un-kon-sen'ting, _n._ not consenting.

UNCONSIDERED, un-kon-sid'[.e]rd, _adj._ not considered, esteemed, or
attended to.--_adj._ UNCONSID'ER[=A]TE, inconsiderate.--_n._
UNCONSID'ER[=A]TENESS, inconsiderateness.--_adj._ UNCONSID'ERING, not
considering.

UNCONSTANT, un-kon'stant, _adj._ (_Shak._) inconstant.--_adv._
UNCON'STANTLY.

UNCONSTITUTIONAL, un-kon-sti-t[=u]'shun-al, _adj._ not constitutional:
contrary to the constitution.--_n._ UNCONSTITUTIONAL'ITY.--_adv._
UNCONSTIT[=U]'TIONALLY.

UNCONSTRAINED, un-kon-str[=a]nd', _adj._ not under constraint, voluntary:
not embarrassed.--_adv._ UNCONSTRAIN'EDLY.--_n._ UNCONSTRAINT'.

UNCONSULTING, un-kon-sul'ting, _adj._ not consulting any one, rash.

UNCONSUMMATE, un-kon-sum'[=a]t, _adj._ not consummated.

UNCONTEMNED, un-kon-temd', _adj._ not contemned.

UNCONTEMPORANEOUS, un-kon-tem-po-r[=a]'ne-us, _adj._ not contemporary:
original.

UNCONTENDED, un-kon-ten'ded, _adj._ not contested.

UNCONTENTED, un-kon-ten'ted, _adj._ discontented.--_ns._ UNCONTEN'TEDNESS;
UNCONTEN'TINGNESS.

UNCONTESTED, un-kon-tes'ted, _adj._ not contested, indisputable.--_adj._
UNCONTES'TABLE, incontestable.

UNCONTRADICTED, un-kon-tra-dik'ted, _adj._ not contradicted or
denied.--_adj._ UNCONTRADIC'TABLE, incapable of being contradicted.

UNCONTRIVING, un-kon-tr[=i]'ving, _adj._ not contriving, with little
ability to contrive.

UNCONTROLLABLE, un-kon-tr[=o]'la-bl, _adj._ not capable of being
controlled: indisputable.--_n._ UNCONTROLL'ABLENESS.--_adv._
UNCONTROLL'ABLY.--_adj._ UNCONTROLLED'.--_adv._ UNCONTROLL'EDLY.

UNCONTROVERTED, un-kon'tr[=o]-ver-ted, _adj._ not controverted or disputed.

UNCONVENTIONAL, un-kon-ven'shun-al, _adj._ not conventional, free in one's
ways.--_n._ UNCONVENTIONAL'ITY.

UNCONVERSABLE, un-kon-ver'sa-bl, _adj._ not disposed to converse freely,
reserved.

UNCONVERSANT, un-kon'ver-sant, _adj._ not conversant (with and in).

UNCONVERTED, un-kon-ver'ted, _adj._ not converted, not having experienced a
quickening change of heart.--_n._ UNCONVER'SION, impenitence.--_adj._
UNCONVER'TIBLE, not convertible.

UNCORD, un-kord', _v.t._ to free from cords.

UNCORK, un-kork, _v.t._ to draw the cork from.

UNCORROBORATED, un-kor-ob'o-r[=a]-ted, _adj._ not corroborated.

UNCORRUPT, un-kor-upt', _adj._ not corrupt.--_adj._ UNCORRUPT'ED, not made
corrupt.--_ns._ UNCORRUPT'EDNESS; UNCORRUPTIBIL'ITY.--_adj._
UNCORRUPT'IBLE, incorruptible.--_n._ UNCORRUP'TION, incorruption.--_adj._
UNCORRUPT'IVE, incorruptible.--_adv._ UNCORRUPT'LY, truly.--_n._
UNCORRUPT'NESS, integrity.

UNCOSTLY, un-kost'li, _adj._ not high-priced.

UNCOUNSELLED, un-kown'seld, _adj._ not advised: wrongly advised.

UNCOUNTABLE, un-kown'ta-bl, _adj._ innumerable.--_adj._ UNCOUNT'ED, not
counted or numbered.

UNCOUPLE, un-kup'l, _v.t._ to loose from being coupled: to disjoin: to set
loose.--_adj._ UNCOUP'LED, not coupled: not married: (_her._) _découplé_.

UNCOURTEOUS, un-kurt'yus, _adj._ not courteous.--_adv._ UNCOURT'EOUSLY.

UNCOURTLY, un-k[=o]rt'li, _adj._ not courtly, unpleasing, uncivil.--_n._
UNCOURT'LINESS.

UNCOUTH, un-k[=oo]th', _adj._ awkward, ungraceful, esp. in manners or
language, grotesque, odd.--_adv._ UNCOUTH'LY.--_n._ UNCOUTH'NESS. [A.S.
_uncúdh_--_un-_, not, _cúdh_, _gecúdh_, known--_cunnan_, to know.]

UNCOVENANTED, un-kuv'e-nan-ted, _adj._ not promised by covenant: not bound
by a covenant, esp. not subscribing to the famous Solemn League and
Covenant of 1643.--UNCOVENANTED CIVIL SERVICE, a branch of the East Indian
civil service whose members pass no entrance examination, and may resign
their offices at pleasure--opp. to _Covenanted service_; UNCOVENANTED
MERCIES, such mercies as God may bestow on those not embraced within the
covenant of grace--that is, those outside the ordinary channels of grace.

UNCOVER, un-kuv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to remove the cover of: to lay open: to
expose successively lines of formation of troops by the wheeling to right
or left of the lines in front.--_v.i._ to take off the hat.--_adj._
UNCOV'ERED, having no covering, naked, esp. having no covering on the head.

UNCOWL, un-kowl', _v.t._ to deprive of a cowl, esp. of a monk: to uncover
by taking off anything that veils or hides.

UNCREATE, un-kre-[=a]t', _v.t._ to deprive of existence.--_adj._
UNCRE[=A]'TED, not yet created: not produced by creation.--_n._
UNCRE[=A]'TEDNESS.

UNCREDIBLE, un-kred'i-bl, _adj._ (_obs._) incredible.

UNCREDITABLE, un-kred'i-ta-bl, _adj._ (_obs._) discreditable.--_n._
UNCRED'ITABLENESS (_obs._).

UNCRITICAL, un-krit'i-kal, _adj._ not critical, without appetite or ability
for critical analysis: not in accordance with the rules of
criticism.--_adv._ UNCRIT'ICALLY.

UNCROPPED, un-kropt', _adj._ not cropped.

UNCROSS, un-kros', _v.t._ to change from a crossed position.--_adj._
UNCROSSED', not crossed: not limited as regards negotiability by being
crossed, of a cheque, &c.

UNCROWN, un-krown', _v.t._ to deprive of a crown, to dethrone.--_adj._
UNCROWNED', not yet wearing a crown, not yet formally crowned: possessing
kingly power without the actual title and dignity.

UNCTION, ungk'shun, _n._ an anointing: that which is used for anointing:
ointment: that quality in language which raises emotion or devotion: warmth
of address: divine or sanctifying grace.--_n._ UNCT[=U]OS'ITY, state or
quality of being unctuous: oiliness: greasiness.--_adj._ UNC'T[=U]OUS,
oily: greasy.--_adv._ UNC'T[=U]OUSLY.--_n._ UNC'T[=U]OUSNESS,
unctuosity.--EXTREME UNCTION (_R.C. Church_), the sacrament of anointing
persons with consecrated oil in their last hours. [L.
_unctio_--_ungu[)e]re_, _unctum_, to anoint.]

UNCUCKOLDED, un-kuk'ol-ded, _adj._ not made a cuckold of.

UNCULAR, ung'k[=u]-lär, _adj._ pertaining to an uncle.

UNCULLED, un-kuld', _adj._ not gathered.

UNCULTIVABLE, un-kul'ti-va-bl, _adj._ not capable of being
cultivated.--_adjs._ UNCULT' (_obs._), rude; UNCUL'TIV[=A]TED, not
cultivated; UNCUL'T[=U]RED, not cultured.

UNCUMBERED, un-kum'b[.e]rd, _adj._ unencumbered.

UNCURBABLE, un-kur'ba-bl, _adj._ not able to be curbed.--_adj._ UNCURBED',
not curbed.

UNCURIOUS, un-k[=u]'ri-us, _adj._ not curious or inquisitive: not strange.

UNCURL, un-kurl', _v.t._ to loose from curls or ringlets.--_v.i._ to relax
from a curled state.

UNCURTAIN, un-kur'tin, _v.t._ to remove a curtain from.

UNCUS, ung'kus, _n._ a hook or claw, or a hook-like process: the head of
the malleolus or lateral tooth of the mastax of a wheel-animalcule:--_pl._
UN'CI (s[=i]). [L. _uncus_, a hook.]

UNCUSTOMED, un-kus'tomd, _adj._ not liable to payment of customs or duty,
or having evaded it, smuggled.--_adj._ UNCUS'TOMABLE, not subject to
customs.

UNCUT, un-kut', _adj._ not cut, untrimmed, as the edges of the leaves of a
book.

UNDAM, un-dam', _v.t._ to free from a dam or obstacle.

UNDAMAGED, un-dam'[=a]jd, _adj._ not damaged.

UNDASHED, un-dasht', _adj._ not frightened.

UNDATE, -D, un'd[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ waved or wavy: rising and falling in
waves.--_adj._ UNDÉ (_her._), wavy, undulating. [L. _undatus_, _pa.p._ of
und[=a]re, to rise in waves--unda, a wave.]

UNDATED, un-d[=a]'ted, _adj._ having no date.

UNDAUNTED, un-dän'ted, _adj._ not daunted: bold: intrepid.--_adv._
UNDAUN'TEDLY, in an undaunted or bold manner.--_n._ UNDAUN'TEDNESS, the
state or quality of being undaunted or fearless: boldness.

UNDAWNING, un-dawn'ing, _adj._ not yet dawning or showing light.

UNDAZZLE, un-daz'l, _v.i._ to recover from a dazed condition.

UNDEAF, un-def', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to free from deafness.

UNDEAN, un-d[=e]n', _v.t._ to deprive of the office of a dean.

UNDECAGON, un-dek'a-gon, _n._ (_geom._) a figure having eleven angles. [L.
_undecim_, eleven, Gr. _g[=o]nia_, an angle.]

UNDECEIVE, un-d[=e]-sev', _v.t._ to free from deception or mistake.--_adj._
UNDECEIV'ABLE.

UNDECENCY, un-d[=e]'sen-si, _n._ (_obs._) indecency.--_adj._ UND[=E]'CENT
(_obs._), indecent.--_adv._ UND[=E]'CENTLY (_obs._).

UNDECENNIAL, un-d[=e]-sen'i-al, _adj._ pertaining to a period of eleven
years, occurring on the eleventh year, or every eleven years.--Also
UNDECENN'ARY. [L. _undecim_, eleven.]

UNDECIDED, un-d[=e]-s[=i]'ded, _adj._ not having the mind made up,
irresolute.--_adj._ UNDEC[=I]'DABLE, that cannot be decided.--_adv._
UNDEC[=I]'DEDLY.--_n._ UNDEC[=I]'DEDNESS.

UNDECIMOLE, un-des'i-m[=o]l, _n._ (_mus._) a group of eleven notes to be
taken in the time of eight.

UNDECIPHERABLE, un-d[=e]-s[=i]'f[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ indecipherable.

UNDECISIVE, un-d[=e]-s[=i]'siv, _adj._ indecisive.

UNDECK, un-dek', _v.t._ to divest of ornaments.--_adj._ UNDECKED', not
adorned: having no deck, as a vessel.

UNDECLINABLE, un-d[=e]-kl[=i]'na-bl, _adj._ indeclinable: that cannot be
avoided.--_adj._ UNDECLINED', not having cases with different terminations.

UNDECOMPOSABLE, un-d[=e]-kom-p[=o]'za-bl, _adj._ that cannot be decomposed.

UNDEEDED, un-d[=e]d'ed, _adj._ (_Shak._) not signalised by any great
action.

UNDEFACED, un-d[=e]-f[=a]sd', _adj._ not defaced or disfigured.

UNDEFECATED, un-def'[=e]-k[=a]-ted, _adj._ not defecated, unrefined.

UNDEFENDED, un-de-fen'ded, _adj._ not defended.

UNDEFILED, un-d[=e]-f[=i]ld', _adj._ not made unclean, unpolluted,
spotless, innocent.

UNDEFINED, un-d[=e]-f[=i]nd', _adj._ not defined or explained precisely:
indefinite.--_v.i._ UNDEFINE', to make indefinite.--_adj._ UNDEF[=I]'NABLE,
not capable of being defined.

UNDEIFY, un-d[=e]'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to deprive of the nature of a god: to
deprive a god of his due honour.

UNDELECTABLE, un-d[=e]-lek'ta-bl, _adj._ not delectable or pleasant.

UNDELEGATED, un-del'[=e]-g[=a]-ted, _adj._ not delegated or deputed.

UNDELIBERATE, un-d[=e]-lib'[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ not deliberate.

UNDELIGHTED, un-d[=e]-l[=i]'ted, _adj._ not delighted.--_adj._
UNDELIGHT'FUL, not affording delight.

UNDEMOCRATISE, un-d[=e]-mok'ra-t[=i]z, _v.t._ to undemocratic.

UNDEMONSTRATIVE, un-d[=e]-mon'stra-tiv, _adj._ not showing feeling openly,
reserved, quiet.--_adj._ UNDEMON'STRABLE, indemonstrable.--_n._
UNDEMON'STRATIVENESS.

UNDENIABLE, un-d[=e]-n[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ not deniable or able to be denied:
true.--_n._ UNDEN[=I]'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNDEN[=I]'ABLY.

UNDENOMINATIONAL, un-d[=e]-nom-i-n[=a]'shun-al, _adj._ free from
denominationalism, not sectarian.--_n._ UNDENOMIN[=A]'TIONALISM, the
absence of denominationalism, as in the education of children.

UNDEPENDABLE, un-d[=e]-pen'da-bl, _adj._ not to be depended upon.--_n._
UNDEPEN'DABLENESS.--_adj._ UNDEPEN'DING (_obs._), independent.

UNDEPRAVED, un-d[=e]-pr[=a]vd', _adj._ not depraved.

UNDEPRECIATED, un-d[=e]-pr[=e]'shi-[=a]-ted, _adj._ not depreciated.

UNDEPRESSED, un-d[=e]-prest', _adj._ not pressed down or sunk: not dejected
or cast down.

UNDEPRIVED, un-d[=e]-pr[=i]vd', _adj._ not deprived of anything, not
dispossessed.

UNDER, un'd[.e]r, _prep._ in a lower position than: beneath: below: less
than, falling short of: in subjection, subordination, oppression,
liability, &c.: during the time of: undergoing: in accordance with: in, in
course of.--_adv._ in a lower degree or condition: in subjection: below:
less.--_adj._ lower in position, rank, or degree: subject:
subordinate.--UNDER ARMS, in readiness to use arms or weapons; UNDER FIRE,
exposed to the fire or shot of any enemy; UNDER ONE'S HAND (see HAND);
UNDER ONE'S NOSE, under one's close observation; UNDER SAIL, moved by
sails: in motion; UNDER THE BREATH, with low voice, very softly; UNDER THE
LEE, to the leeward; UNDER THE ROSE (see ROSE); UNDER WATER, below the
surface of the water; UNDER WAY, moving: having commenced a voyage. [A.S.
_under_; Goth. _undar_, Ice. _undir_, Ger. _unter_, L. _inter_.]

UNDERACT, un-d[.e]r-akt', _v.t._ to act a part inefficiently.--_n._
UNDERAC'TION, subordinate action: inefficient action.

UNDERAGENT, un-d[.e]r-[=a]'jent, _n._ a subordinate agent.

UNDERAID, un-d[.e]r-[=a]d', _v.t._ to aid secretly.

UNDERBEAR, un-d[.e]r-b[=a]r', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to support, to endure, to
line.--_n._ UN'DERBEARER.

UNDERBID, un-d[.e]r-bid', _v.t._ to bid or offer less than, as at an
auction.

UNDERBILL, un-d[.e]r-bil', _v.t._ to bill under the actual measure or
weight.

UNDERBIND, un-d[.e]r-b[=i]nd', _v.t._ to bind underneath.

UNDERBITTEN, un'd[.e]r-bit'n, _adj._ not bitten in by a corrosive acid deep
enough to print from--of copperplates, &c.

UNDER-BOARD, un'd[.e]r-b[=o]rd, _adv._ (_obs._) secretly--opp. to
_Above-board_.

UNDERBRACE, un-d[.e]r-br[=a]s', _v.t._ to fasten or fix underneath.

UNDERBRANCH, un'd[.e]r-bransh, _n._ a small branch.

UNDERBRED, un'd[.e]r-bred, _adj._ of inferior breeding or manners, vulgar:
not pure-bred.

UNDERBRUSH, un'd[.e]r-brush, _n._ brushwood or shrubs in a forest growing
beneath large trees: undergrowth.--_v.t._ to clear away such--also
UN'DERBUSH.--_vs.i._ UN'DERBRUSH, UN'DERBUSH, to work amongst underbrush.

UNDERBUD, un'd[.e]r-bud, _n._ (_coll._) a young girl who has not yet come
out in society.

UNDERBUY, un-d[.e]r-b[=i], _v.t._ to buy a thing at a price lower than that
paid by another: to pay less than the value for.

UNDERCAST, un'd[.e]r-kast, _n._ an air-passage crossing a road in a mine by
means of an air-tight box or channel beneath it.

UNDERCHARGE, un-d[.e]r-chärj', _v.t._ to charge less than the proper
sum.--_n._ a charge less than the proper sum.

UNDERCLAY, un'd[.e]r-kl[=a], _n._ the bed of clay almost always found under
coal-seams, considered as the soil in which grew the plants that formed the
coal.

UNDER-CLERK, un'd[.e]r-klärk, _n._ a subordinate clerk.--_n._
UN'DER-CLERK'SHIP.

UNDERCLIFF, un'd[.e]r-klif, _n._ a subordinate or lower cliff on a shore,
composed of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above.

UNDERCLOTHES, un'd[.e]r-kl[=o]thz, _n.pl._ clothes worn under others--also
UN'DERCLOTHING.--_adj._ UNDERCLOTHED'.

UNDERCOAT, un'd[.e]r-k[=o]t, _n._ a coat for wearing in the house, one worn
under an overcoat: the under-fur of a long-haired animal.

UNDER-COLOUR, un'd[.e]r-kul'ur, _n._ a colour below another, a subdued
colour.--_adj._ UN'DER-COL'OURED, not coloured sufficiently.

UNDER-CRAFT, un'd[.e]r-kraft, _n._ (_Sterne_) a sly trick.

UNDER-CREST, un'd[.e]r-krest, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to support, as a crest.

UNDERCROFT, un'd[.e]r-kroft, _n._ a vault under the choir or chancel of a
church: a vault or secret walk underground.

UNDERCURRENT, un'd[.e]r-kur-ent, _n._ a current under the surface of the
water: any influence or feeling not apparent on the surface.--_adj._
running below or unseen.

UNDERCURVED, un-d[.e]r-kurvd', _adj._ curved so as to pass below the
body--of parts of the upper surface of an insect.

UNDERCUT, un-d[.e]r-kut', _v.t._ to cut under, as a mass of coal: to strike
a heavy blow upward: to go to the foundation of.--_adj._ made so as to cut
from the under side: effected by undercutting: having the parts in relief
cut under.--_n._ UN'DERCUT, the act or effect of cutting under: a blow
dealt upward: the tenderloin.

UNDERDITCH, un-d[.e]r-dich', _v.t._ to make a deep ditch so as to drain the
surface of.--_n._ UN'DERDITCH, a drain under the surface of the ground.

UNDERDO, un-d[.e]r-d[=oo]', _v.t._ to do less than is requisite, esp. to
cook insufficiently.--_n._ UNDERDO'ER, one who does less than is
necessary.--_adj._ UNDERDONE', done less than is requisite: insufficiently
cooked.

UNDERDRAIN, un-d[.e]r-dr[=a]n', _v.t._ same as UNDERDITCH.--Also _n._
UN'DERDRAIN.

UNDERDRAW, un-d[.e]r-draw', _v.t._ to represent inadequately in art, or by
words.

UNDER-DRESSED, un-d[.e]r-drest', _adj._ inadequately dressed.

UNDER-DRIVEN, un-d[.e]r-driv'n, _adj._ driven from beneath.

UNDERESTIMATE, un-d[.e]r-es'ti-m[=a]t, _v.t._ to estimate at too low a
rate: to set too low a value on.--_n._ an insufficiently high opinion.

UNDER-EXPOSED, un-d[.e]r-eks-p[=o]zd', _adj._ (_phot._) not exposed to the
light long enough to make a good negative.

UNDERFANG, un-d[.e]r-fang', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to undertake, to circumvent,
to entrap. [A.S. _underfangen_, _underfón_--_under_, under, _fón_, to
take.]

UNDERFEED, un-d[.e]r-f[=e]d', _v.t._ to feed inadequately.--_adjs._
UNDERFED'; UNDERFEED'ING.

UNDERFIRED, un-d[.e]r-f[=i]rd', _adj._ insufficiently baked.

UNDERFLOW, un'd[.e]r-fl[=o], _n._ a current flowing below the surface.

UNDERFOOT, un-d[.e]r-f[=oo]t', _adj._ downtrodden, abject.--_v.t._ to shore
up, to underpin.--_adv._ under the feet, below.

UNDERFURROW, un-d[.e]r-fur'[=o], _v.t._ to cover with a furrow, as manure,
to plough in.--_adv._ under a furrow.

UNDERGARMENT, un'd[.e]r-gär-ment, _n._ any article of clothing worn under
another.

UNDERGEAR, un'd[.e]r-g[=e]r, _n._ undergarments generally.

UNDERGIRD, un-d[.e]r-gird', _v.t._ to gird or bind under or below: to gird
round the bottom.

UNDERGLAZE, un-d[.e]r-gl[=a]z', _adj._ suitable for underglaze painting, of
a pigment.--UNDERGLAZE PAINTING, in ceramics, painting in a vitrifiable
pigment before the glaze is applied.

UNDERGO, un-d[.e]r-g[=o]', _v.t._ to go under or be subjected to: to endure
or suffer: to pass through: to sustain without sinking: to partake
of.--_adj._ UNDERG[=O]'ING, suffering.

UNDER-GOWN, un'd[.e]r-gown, _n._ a, gown worn under another.

UNDER-GRADE, un'd[.e]r-gr[=a]d, _adj._ in bridge-building, having the truss
below the roadway, as in a deck-bridge.

UNDERGRADUATE, un-d[.e]r-grad'[=u]-[=a]t, _n._ a student who has not taken
his first degree.--_adj._ pertaining to such.--_n._ UNDERGRAD'UATESHIP.

UNDERGROUND, un'd[.e]r-grownd, _adj._ under the surface of the
ground.--_n._ that which is underground.--_v.t._ to place
underground.--_adv._ UNDERGROUND', beneath the surface of the earth.

UNDERGROVE, un'd[.e]r-gr[=o]v, _n._ a grove of low trees under taller
trees.

UNDERGROW, un-d[.e]r-gr[=o], _v.t._ to grow beneath the normal size.--_n._
UN'DERGROWTH, shrubs or low woody plants growing among trees: copsewood.

UNDERGROWL, un'd[.e]r-growl, _n._ a subdued growling or grumbling.

UNDERHAND, un-d[.e]r-hand', _adj._ and _adv._ secretly: by secret means: by
fraud: in cricket, delivered with the hand underneath--opp. to _Over-arm_
and _Round-arm_.--_adj._ UNDERHAN'DED, clandestinely carried on:
short-handed.--_adv._ UNDERHAN'DEDLY.--_n._ UNDERHAN'DEDNESS.

UNDERHEW, un-d[.e]r-h[=u]', _v.t._ to hew less than is proper, esp. to hew
unfairly timber which should be square, so that it appears to contain more
cubic feet than it really does.

UNDERHOLD, un'd[.e]r-h[=o]ld, _n._ in wrestling, an unfair seizing of the
opponent under the arms.

UNDER-HONEST, un-d[.e]r-on'est, _adj._ (_Shak._) not quite honest.

UNDERHUNG, un-d[.e]r-hung', _adj._ hanging over, protruding from beneath:
running on rollers on a rail below it--of a sliding-door--opp. to
_Overhung_.

UNDERJAWED, un'd[.e]r-jawd, _adj._ having a heavy underjaw.

UNDERKEEP, un-d[.e]r-k[=e]p', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to keep under or in
subjection.

UNDERKING, un'd[.e]r-king, _n._ a subordinate king.--_n._ UN'DERKINGDOM.

UNDERLAP, un-d[.e]r-lap', _v.t._ to be folded under, to extend beneath the
edge of.

UNDERLAY, un-d[.e]r-l[=a]', _v.t._ to lay under or to support by something
laid under.--_v.i._ to incline from the perpendicular.--_n._ UN'DERLAY, a
piece of paper pasted under woodcuts, stereotype plates, &c. in a form, to
bring them up to the necessary level for printing.--_n._ UNDERLAY'ER, one
who underlays.

UNDERLEASE, un'd[.e]r-l[=e]s, _n._ a lease granted by a lessee for a
shorter period than that covered by his own lease.

UNDERLET, un-d[.e]r-let', _v.t._ to let below the proper value: to
sublet.--_ns._ UNDERLET'TER; UNDERLET'TING.

UNDERLIE, un-d[.e]r-l[=i]', _v.t._ to lie under or beneath: to be liable
to.--_adj._ UNDERLY'ING, lying under or lower in position: supporting,
fundamental.

UNDERLINE, un-d[.e]r-l[=i]n', _v.t._ to draw a line under or below, as a
word.--_n._ UN'DERLINE, an announcement of a theatrical performance to
follow placed in an advertisement of the present one.

UNDERLINEN, un-d[.e]r-lin'en, _n._ linen underwear--loosely applied to
cotton or even woollen underclothing generally.

UNDERLING, un'd[.e]r-ling, _n._ an inferior person or agent: a sorry, mean
fellow.

UNDERMAN, un-d[.e]r-man', _v.t._ to provide with an insufficient number of
men.--_adj._ UNDERMANNED'.

UNDERMASTED, un-d[.e]r-mas'ted, _adj._ not having sufficient masts.

UNDERMENTIONED, un'd[.e]r-men-shund, _adj._ mentioned underneath or
hereafter.

UNDERMINE, un-d[.e]r-m[=i]n', _v.t._ to form mines under, in order to
destroy: to destroy secretly the foundation or support of anything.--_n._
UNDERM[=I]'NER, one who undermines, a secret enemy.

UNDERMOST, un'd[.e]r-m[=o]st, _adj._ lowest in place or condition.

UNDERN, un'dern, _n._ nine o'clock in the morning, the third hour, the
period from that till noon.

UNDERNEATH, un-d[.e]r-n[=e]th', _adv._ beneath: below: in a lower
place.--_prep._ under: beneath.

UNDERNICENESS, un-d[.e]r-n[=i]s'nes, _n._ want of niceness or delicacy.

UNDERNOTE, un'd[.e]r-n[=o]t, _n._ a subdued note, an undertone.--_adj._
UNDERN[=O]'TED, noted below.

UNDERPAY, un-d[.e]r-p[=a]', _v.t._ to pay insufficiently.--_p.adj._
UNDERPAID'.--_n._ UNDERPAY'MENT.

UNDERPEEP, un-d[.e]r-p[=e]p', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to peep under.

UNDERPEOPLED, un'd[.e]r-p[=e]-pld, _adj._ not fully peopled.

UNDERPIN, un-d[.e]r-pin', _v.t._ to pin or support underneath: to support
or prop: to lay stones under, as the sills of a building, for it to rest
on.--_n._ UN'DERPINNING, the act of underpinning or supporting by
introducing a new structure as foundation, the act or practice of placing
stones under the sills of a building: the stones so placed, an additional
foundation wall: a method of well-sinking where a wall is laid in sections.

UNDERPLAY, un-d[.e]r-pl[=a]', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to play a low card at whist
while keeping up a higher one of the same suit.--_n._ UN'DERPLAY, the act
of so doing.

UNDERPLOT, un'd[.e]r-plot, _n._ a plot under or subordinate to the main
plot in a play or tale: a secret scheme, a trick.

UNDERPRAISE, un-d[.e]r-pr[=a]z', _v.t._ to praise below desert.

UNDERPRIZE, un-d[.e]r-pr[=i]z', _v.t._ to value too little.

UNDERPROOF, un-d[.e]r-pr[=oo]f', _adj._ lower or weaker than proof, of
alcohol.

UNDERPROP, un-d[.e]r-prop', _v.t._ to prop from under or beneath: to
support.

UNDERQUOTE, un-d[.e]r-kw[=o]t', _v.t._ to offer at a lower price than
another.

UNDERRATE, un-d[.e]r-r[=a]t', _v.t._ to rate under the value.--_n._
UN'DERRATE, a price less than the worth.

UNDER-RIPE, un'd[.e]r-r[=i]p, _adj._ not quite ripe.

UNDER-ROOF, un'd[.e]r-r[=oo]f, _n._ a roof under another.

UNDERRUN, un-d[.e]r-run', _v.t._ to run beneath: (_naut._) to haul along
underneath it, as a boat, to clear it, if any part happens to be
foul.--_v.i._ to move under.--_n._ UNDERRUN'NING, a method of trawling in
which the hooks are cleared and again baited in the same operation.

UNDERSAY, un-d[.e]r-s[=a]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to say by way of derogation
or contradiction.

UNDERSCORE, un-d[.e]r-sk[=o]r', _v.t._ to draw a score or line under, as
for emphasis.

UNDERSECRETARY, un'd[.e]r-sek-r[=e]-t[=a]-ri, _n._ a secretary subordinate
to the principal secretary.--_n._ UNDERSEC'RETARYSHIP.

UNDERSELL, un-d[.e]r-sel', _v.t._ to sell under or cheaper than another: to
defeat fair trade, by selling for too small a price.--_n._ UNDERSELL'ER.

UNDERSENSE, un'd[.e]r-sens, _n._ a deeper sense.

UNDERSET, un-d[.e]r-set', _v.t._ to set under: to prop: to sublet.--_ns._
UN'DERSET, a current of water below the surface; UN'DERSETTER (_B._), prop,
support; UN'DERSETTING, underpinning: the pedestal.

UNDERSHAPEN, un-d[.e]r-sh[=a]'pn, _adj._ (_Tenn._) under the usual shape or
size.

UNDERSHERIFF, un'd[.e]r-sher-if, _n._ a deputy sheriff.--_n._
UN'DER-SHER'IFFRY.

UNDERSHIRT, un'd[.e]r-sh[.e]rt, _n._ a shirt worn under another next the
skin.

UNDERSHOT, un'd[.e]r-shot, _adj._ moved by water passing under the wheel.

UNDERSHRUB, un'd[.e]r-shrub, _n._ a shrubby plant, but hardly to be called
a shrub, a small shrub.

UNDERSIGN, un-d[.e]r-s[=i]n', _v.t._ to sign or write one's name under or
at the foot of.--THE UNDERSIGNED, the person or persons subscribing.

UNDERSIZED, un'd[.e]r-s[=i]zd, _adj._ below the usual size.

UNDERSKINKER, un-d[.e]r-skingk'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) an inferior tapster.

UNDERSKIRT, un'd[.e]r-skirt, _n._ a petticoat, the foundation skirt of a
draped gown.

UNDERSKY, un'd[.e]r-sk[=i], _n._ a lower sky.

UNDERSLEEP, un-d[.e]r-sl[=e]p', _v.i._ to sleep less than is necessary.

UNDERSLEEVE, un'd[.e]r-sl[=e]v, _n._ a sleeve worn under another and
generally separable.

UNDERSOIL, un'd[.e]r-soil, _n._ subsoil or soil beneath the surface.

UNDERSONG, un'd[.e]r-song, _n._ the burden or chorus of a song: an
underlying meaning.

UNDER-SPARRED, un'd[.e]r-spärd, _adj._ not having enough spars--of a ship.

UNDERSPREAD, un-d[.e]r-spred', _adj._ spread under or beneath.

UNDERSTAND, un-d[.e]r-stand', _v.t._ to comprehend: to have just ideas of:
to know thoroughly: to be informed of: to learn: to suppose to mean: to
mean without expressing: to imply.--_v.i._ to have the use of the
intellectual faculties: to be informed: to learn.--_adj._
UNDERSTAN'DABLE.--_p.adj._ UNDERSTAN'DED (_obs._), understood (with
_of_).--_n._ UNDERSTAN'DING, the act of comprehending: the faculty or the
act of the mind by which it understands or thinks: the power to understand:
knowledge: exact comprehension: agreement of minds: harmony.--_adj._
knowing, skilful.--_adv._ UNDERSTAN'DINGLY.--UNDERSTANDS', in Scotch
Version of PSALMS, used for UNDERSTANDEST. [A.S. _understandan_, to stand
under or in the midst of a thing.]

UNDERSTATE, un-d[.e]r-st[=a]t', _v.t._ to state or represent under or below
the truth.--_n._ UNDERSTATEMENT.

UNDERSTOCK, un-d[.e]r-stok', _v.t._ to supply with an insufficient amount
of stock.

UNDERSTOOD, un-d[.e]r-stood', _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _understand_.

UNDERSTRAPPER, un'd[.e]r-strap-[.e]r, _n._ an inferior agent, an underling,
a subordinate, a petty fellow.--_adj._ UN'DERSTRAPPING, subservient.

UNDERSTRATUM, un'd[.e]r-str[=a]-tum, _n._ a substratum:--_pl._
UN'DERSTR[=A]TA.

UNDERSTROKE, un-d[.e]r-str[=o]k', _v.i._ to underline.

UNDERSTUDY, un'd[.e]r-stud-i, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to study a dramatic part so
as to be able to take the place of the actor playing it, if
necessary.--_n._ an actor who prepares a part in this way.

UNDERTAKE, un-d[.e]r-t[=a]k', _v.t._ to take under one's management: to
take upon one's self: to attempt: to answer for, warrant: to take in,
understand: to assume, to have charge of.--_v.i._ to take upon one's self:
to be bound: to manage all the arrangements of a burial.--_adj._
UNDERT[=A]'KABLE, capable of being undertaken.--_ns._ UNDERT[=A]'KER, one
who undertakes, a projector, a contractor: one who is surety or guarantee
for another: one who manages funerals: formerly a contractor for the royal
revenue in ENGLAND, one of those who undertook to manage the House of
Commons for the king in the 'Addled Parliament' of 1614: one of the English
and Scotch settlers in Ireland on forfeited lands in the 16th century;
UNDERT[=A]'KING, that which is undertaken: any business or project engaged
in.

UNDERTENANT, un'd[.e]r-ten-ant, _n._ one who sublets a farm, house, &c.
from the actual tenant.--_n._ UN'DERTENANCY.

UNDERTIDE, un'd[.e]r-t[=i]d, UNDERTIME, un'd[.e]r-t[=i]m, _n._ (_Spens._)
the after-part of the day.--_adj._ UN'DERTIMED, under-exposed--of a
photograph.

UNDERTINT, un'd[.e]r-tint, _n._ a subdued tint.

UNDERTONE, un'd[.e]r-t[=o]n, _n._ a low tone: a low state of the physical
faculties: a low, subdued colour.--_adj._ UN'DERT[=O]NED.

UNDERTOOK, un-d[.e]r-t[=oo]k', _pa.t._ of undertake.

UNDERTOW, un'd[.e]r-t[=o], _n._ an undercurrent in a different direction
from that at the surface--seen esp. at the mouths of great rivers, or where
tide and half-tides prevail.

UNDERVALUE, un-d[.e]r-val'[=u], _v.t._ to value below the real worth: to
esteem lightly.--_n._ a value or price under the real worth: low rate or
price.--_ns._ UNDERVALU[=A]'TION, an undervaluing: rate below the worth;
UNDERVAL'UER.

UNDERVERSE, un'd[.e]r-v[.e]rs, _n._ (_Spens._) the following or second
verse.

UNDERVEST, un'd[.e]r-vest, _n._ an undershirt.

UNDERVIEWER, un'd[.e]r-v[=u]-[.e]r, _n._ the person who has charge of the
underground workings of a coal-mine.

UNDERWEAR, un'd[.e]r-w[=a]r, _n._ garments worn under others,
underclothing.

UNDERWENT, un-d[.e]r-went', _pa.t._ of _undergo_.

UNDERWING, un'd[.e]r-wing, _n._ a moth with conspicuous underwings, esp.
one of genus _Catocala_.--_adj._ UN'DERWINGED.

UNDERWOOD, un'd[.e]r-w[=oo]d, _n._ low wood or trees growing under large
ones: coppice.

UNDERWORK, un-d[.e]r-wurk', _v.t._ to work for a less price than: to
undermine or destroy clandestinely.--_v.i._ to do less work than is
requisite.--_n._ UN'DERWORK, subordinate work.--_ns._ UN'DERWORKER;
UN'DER-WORKMAN.

UNDER-WORLD, un'd[.e]r-wurld, _n._ the lower or inferior world, HADES, the
place of departed souls: the portion of the world below the horizon: the
opposite side of the world.

UNDERWRITE, un-d[.e]r-r[=i]t', _v.t._ to write under something else: to
subscribe: to subscribe one's name to for insurance: (_Shak._) to submit
to.--_v.i._ to practise insuring.--_ns._ UN'DERWRITER, one who insures, as
shipping, so called because he underwrites his name for a certain amount to
the conditions of the policy; UN'DERWRITING.

UNDERWROUGHT, un-d[.e]r-rawt', _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _underwork_.

UNDESCENDIBLE, un-d[=e]-sen'di-bl, _adj._ not descendible, unfathomable:
not capable of descending to heirs.--Also UNDESCEN'DABLE.

UNDESCRIBABLE, un-des-kr[=i]'ba-bl, _adj._ indescribable.--_adj._
UNDESCRIBED', not described.

UNDESCRIED, un-des-kr[=i]d', _adj._ not descried.

UNDESERVER, un-de-z[.e]r'v[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) one who is not deserving or
worthy.--_adj._ UNDESERVED', not deserved.--_adv._ UNDESER'VEDLY.--_n._
UNDESER'VEDNESS.--_adj._ UNDESER'VING.--_adv._ UNDESER'VINGLY.

UNDESIGNING, un-de-z[=i]'ning, _adj._ not designing: artless:
straightforward: sincere.--_adj._ UNDESIGNED'.--_adv._ UNDESIGN'EDLY.--_n._
UNDESIGN'EDNESS.

UNDESIRABLE, un-d[=e]-z[=i]'ra-bl, _adj._ not to be wished for.--_ns._
UNDESIRABIL'ITY; UNDESIR'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNDESIR'ABLY.--_adjs._
UNDESIRED'; UNDESIR'ING; UNDESIR'OUS.

UNDESPAIRING, un-des-p[=a]r'-ing, _adj._ not yielding to despair.--_adv._
UNDESPAIR'INGLY.

UNDESPONDENT, un-des-pon'dent, _adj._ not despondent.--_adv._
UNDESPOND'ENTLY.

UNDESTINED, un-des'tind, _adj._ not destined.

UNDETERMINED, un-de-t[.e]r'mind, _adj._ not determined or settled: not
defined.--_adjs._ UNDETER'MINABLE, indeterminable; UNDETER'MINATE,
indeterminate.--_ns._ UNDETER'MINATENESS; UNDETERMIN[=A]'TION.

UNDETESTING, un-d[=e]-tes'ting, _adj._ not detesting.

UNDEVELOPED, un-d[=e]-vel'opt, _adj._ not developed.

UNDEVIATING, un-d[=e]'vi-[=a]-ting, _adj._ not deviating: steady:
regular.--_adv._ UND[=E]'VIATINGLY.

UNDEVOUT, un-d[=e]-vowt', _adj._ not devout.--_adv._ UNDEVOUT'LY.--_n._
UNDEVOUT'NESS.

UNDIADEMED, un-d[=i]'a-demd, _adj._ not wearing a diadem or crown.

UNDIAPHANOUS, un-d[=i]-af'a-nus, _adj._ not diaphanous.

UNDID, un-did', _pa.t._ of undo.

UNDIFFERENCING, un-dif'e-ren-sing, _adj._ not making any difference.

UNDIFFERENTIATED, un-dif-e-ren'shi-[=a]-ted, _adj._ not differentiated.

UNDIGENOUS, un-dij'e-nus, _adj._ originated by water. [L. _unda_, a wave,
_gign[)e]re_, to produce.]

UNDIGESTED, un-di-jes'ted, _adj._ not digested--_adj._ UNDIGES'TIBLE,
indigestible.

UNDIGHT, un-d[=i]t', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to put off, as ornaments or apparel.

UNDIGNIFIED, un-dig'ni-f[=i]d, _adj._ not dignified, not consistent with
dignity.--_v.t._ UNDIG'NIFY, to make undignified.

UNDILUTION, un-dil-[=u]'shun, _n._ the quality of being undiluted.--_adj._
UNDIL[=U]'TED.

UNDIMINISHED, un-di-min'isht, _adj._ not lessened.

UNDINE, un-d[=e]n', _n._ a spirit of the waters, a water-nymph, without a
soul--they marry readily with men, and an undine herself receives a soul on
bearing a child. [L. _unda_, a wave.]

UNDINTED, un-din'ted, _adj._ not bearing the marks of blows.

UNDIOCESED, un-d[=i]'[=o]-s[=e]st, _adj._ not having a diocese.

UNDISCERNIBLE, un-di-zer'ni-bl, _adj._ indiscernible--also
UNDISCER'NABLE.--_adv._ UNDISCER'NEDLY.--_n._ UNDISCER'NIBLENESS.--_adv._
UNDISCER'NIBLY.--_adj._ UNDISCER'NING.

UNDISCHARGED, un-dis-chärjd', _adj._ not discharged: not carried out.

UNDISCIPLINED, un-dis'i-plind, _adj._ not disciplined, not properly trained
and exercised.--_adj._ UNDIS'CIPLINABLE.

UNDISCOMFITED, un-dis-kum'fi-ted, _adj._ not discomfited.

UNDISCORDING, un-dis-kor'ding, _adj._ (_Milt._) not discording or making
discord.

UNDISCOURSED, un-dis-k[=o]rst', _adj._ not discussed or talked about.

UNDISCOVERABLE, un-dis-kuv'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be
discovered.--_adv._ UNDISCOV'ERABLY.--_adj._ UNDISCOV'ERED, not discovered
or found out, unseen, hid.

UNDISCRIMINATING, un-dis-krim'i-n[=a]-ting, _adj._ not discriminating, not
quick to detect differences.

UNDISCUSSED, un-dis-kust', _adj._ not discussed.

UNDISGUISED, un-dis-g[=i]zd', _adj._ not disguised, frank, open,
plain.--_adj._ UNDISGUIS'ABLE.--_adv._ UNDISGUIS'EDLY.

UNDISHONOURED, un-dis-on'ord, _adj._ not dishonoured or disgraced.

UNDISJOINED, un-dis-joind', _adj._ not disjoined or separated.

UNDISMAYED, un-dis-m[=a]d', _adj._ not dismayed.

UNDISPENSED, un-dis-penst', _adj._ not dispensed.--_adjs._ UNDISPEN'SABLE;
UNDISPEN'SING.

UNDISPOSED, un-dis-p[=o]zd', _adj._ not sold, allocated, or otherwise
arranged.

UNDISPRIVACIED, un-dis-pr[=i]'va-sid, _adj._ not deprived of privacy.

UNDISPUTABLE, un-dis'p[=u]-ta-bl, _adj._ indisputable.--_n._
UNDIS'PUTABLENESS.--_adv._ UNDIS'PUTABLY.--_adj._ UNDISP[=U]'TED, not
disputed, not called in question.--_adv._ UNDISP[=U]'TEDLY.

UNDISSEMBLED, un-di-sem'bld, _adj._ not dissembled, open: unfeigned.

UNDISSIPATED, un-dis'i-p[=a]-ted, _adj._ not dissipated.

UNDISSOLVED, un-di-zolvd', _adj._ not dissolved, not broken.--_adjs._
UNDISSOL'VABLE, not to be loosened or broken; UNDISSOL'VING, not
dissolving.

UNDISTEMPERED, un-dis-tem'p[.e]rd, _adj._ free from distemper.

UNDISTINCTIVE, un-dis-tingk'tiv, _adj._ making no distinctions.

UNDISTINGUISHED, un-dis-ting'gwisht, _adj._ not distinguished: not marked
out by conspicuous qualities, not famous: not having an air or appearance
of distinction.--_adj._ UNDISTING'UISHABLE, indistinguishable.--_n._
UNDISTING'UISHABLENESS.--_adv._ UNDISTING'UISHABLY.--_adj._
UNDISTING'UISHING, not discriminating.

UNDISTRACTED, un-dis-trak'ted, _adj._ not distracted, not having the
attention drawn away from.--_adv._ UNDISTRAC'TEDLY.--_n._
UNDISTRAC'TEDNESS.--_adj._ UNDISTRAC'TING.

UNDISTURBED, un-dis-turbd', _adj._ not disturbed.--_adv._
UNDISTUR'BEDLY.--_n._ UNDISTUR'BEDNESS.

UNDIVERSIFIED, un-div-er'si-f[=i]d, _adj._ not diversified or varied.

UNDIVERTED, un-di-ver'ted, _adj._ not diverted or turned away from: not
amused.

UNDIVESTEDLY, un-di-ves'ted-li, _adv._ with the absence of.

UNDIVIDED, un-di-v[=i]'ded, _adj._ not divided or disunited.--_adj._
UNDIV[=I]'DABLE.--_adv._ UNDIV[=I]'DEDLY.--_n._ UNDIV[=I]'DEDNESS.

UNDIVINE, un-di-v[=i]n', _adj._ not divine.

UNDIVORCED, un'di-v[=o]rst, _adj._ not divorced or separated.

UNDIVULGED, un-di-vuljd', _adj._ not divulged, secret.

UNDO, un-d[=oo]', _v.t._ to reverse what has been done: to bring to naught:
to loose: to open: to unravel: to impoverish: to ruin, as in reputation:
(_Shak._) to leave undone.--_ns._ UNDO'ER; UNDO'ING, the reversal of what
has been done: ruin.--_adj._ UNDONE', not done: ruined: untied, unfastened.

UNDOCK, un-dok', _v.t._ to take out of dock, as a ship.

UNDOCTOR, un-dok'tor, _v.t._ (_Carlyle_) to divest of the character of a
doctor.

UNDOGMATIC, un-dog-mat'ik, _adj._ not dogmatic.

UNDOMESTICATE, un-d[=o]-mes'ti-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to make unfit for home life:
to untame.--_adj._ UNDOMES'TIC[=A]TED, not domesticated, not tamed.--_n._
UNDOMESTIC[=A]'TION.

UNDOSE, un'd[=o]s, _adj._ wavy, undulated.

UNDOUBLE, un-dub'l, _v.t._ to make single, to unfold.

UNDOUBTED, un-dowt'ed, _adj._ indubitable: unsuspected.--_adj._
UNDOUBT'ABLE, indubitable.--_advs._ UNDOUBT'ABLY; UNDOUBT'EDLY.--_adjs._
UNDOUBT'FUL, not doubtful: unsuspicious; UNDOUBT'ING, not doubting.--_adv._
UNDOUBT'INGLY.

UNDRAINABLE, un-dr[=a]'na-bl, _adj._ that cannot be drained.

UNDRAPE, un-dr[=a]p', _v.t._ to strip of clothing, to uncover.--_adj._
UNDRAPED', not covered with artistic drapery, not clothed, nude.

UNDRAW, un-draw', _v.t._ to draw aside.--_adj._ UNDRAWN', not drawn or
dragged away: not delineated: not drawn from a cask.

UNDREADED, un-dred'ed, _adj._ not dreaded.

UNDREAMED, un-dr[=e]md', _adj._ not dreamed, not thought of--also UNDREAMT,
un-dremt' (with _of_).--_adj._ UNDREAM'ING, not dreaming.

UNDRESS, un-dres', _v.t._ to take off the dress or clothes: to strip: to
take the dressing from a wound.--_v.i._ to take off one's clothes.--_n._
(also UN'DRESS) a loose dress: the plain dress worn by soldiers when off
duty.--_adj._ pertaining to ordinary dress, as opposed to uniform,
&c.--_adj._ UNDRESSED', not dressed.

UNDROSSY, un-dros'i, _adj._ not drossy, not impure.

UNDUBITABLE, un-d[=u]'bi-ta-bl, _adj._ (_obs._) indubitable.

UNDUE, un-d[=u]', _adj._ not due or owing: improper: immoderate:
excessive.--_n._ UNDUE'NESS.

UNDUKE, un-d[=u]k', _v.t._ to deprive of the rank of duke.

UNDULATE, un'd[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to wave, or to move like waves: to cause
to vibrate.--_v.i._ to wave: to vibrate.--_adj._ wavy.--_adj._ UN'DULANT,
undulating.--_adv._ UN'DUL[=A]TELY.--_adj._ UN'DUL[=A]TING.--_adv._
UN'DUL[=A]TINGLY.--_ns._ UNDUL[=A]'TION, an undulating: a waving motion or
vibration: waviness, a set of waved lines: a feeling as if of an undulatory
motion about the heart: the peculiar motion of the matter within an abscess
on being pressed when it is ripe for opening; UNDUL[=A]'TIONIST, one who
holds an undulatory theory.--_adjs._ UN'DUL[=A]TIVE, undulatory;
UN'DUL[=A]TORY, moving like waves: relating to the theory of light which
considers its transmission as wave-motion in a medium filling space;
UN'DULOSE, UN'DULOUS, undulating. [Low L. _undul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--L.
_unda_, a wave.]

UNDULL, un-dul', _v.t._ to remove the dullness from.

UNDULY, un-d[=u]'li, _adv._ not according to duty or propriety: improperly.

UNDURABLE, un-d[=u]'ra-bl, _adj._ not durable.--_adv._ UND[=U]'RABLY.

UNDUTIFUL, un-d[=u]'ti-f[=oo]l, _adj._ not dutiful--also
UND[=U]'TEOUS.--_adv._ UND[=U]'TIFULLY.--_n._ UND[=U]'TIFULNESS.

UNDYING, un-d[=i]'ing, _adj._ not dying, unceasing.--_adv._
UNDY'INGLY.--_n._ UNDY'INGNESS.

UNEARED, un-[=e]rd', _adj._ (_Shak._) not eared, untilled.

UNEARNED, un-ernd', _adj._ not gained by labour.--UNEARNED INCREMENT (see
INCREMENT).

UNEARTH, un-[.e]rth', _v.t._ to take out of, drive, or draw from the earth
or a burrow, as a fox or badger: to uncover, to disclose.--_n._
UNEARTH'LINESS, quality of being unearthly.--_adj._ UNEARTH'LY,
supernatural.

UNEASY, un-[=e]'zi, _adj._ not at ease: restless: feeling pain:
constrained: not easy to be done.--_ns._ UNEASE' (_arch._), UNEAS'INESS,
state of being uneasy or not at ease: want of ease: disquiet.--_adv._
UNEAS'ILY.

UNEATABLE, un-[=e]'ta-bl, _adj._ not fit to be eaten.--_n._
UNEAT'ABLENESS.--_adj._ UNEAT'EN, not eaten.

UNEATH, un-[=e]th', _adv._ (_Spens._) not easily, hardly. [A.S.
_uneáthe_--_un-_, not, _eáthe_, easy.]

UNEATH, un-[=e]th', _adv._ (_Spens._) underneath, beneath, below.
[_Underneath_.]

UNEBRIATE, un-[=e]'bri-[=a]t, _adj._ not intoxicating.

UNEDGE, un-ej', _v.t._ to deprive of the edge, to blunt.

UNEDIBLE, un-ed'i-bl, _adj._ inedible.

UNEDIFYING, un-ed'i-f[=i]-ing, _adj._ not edifying.

UNEDUCATED, un-ed'[=u]-k[=a]t-ed, _adj._ not educated.--_v.t._ UNED'UCATE,
to deprive of the results of education.

UNEFFECTUAL, un-e-fek't[=u]-al, _adj._ ineffectual.

UNELASTIC, un-[=e]-las'tik, _adj._ inelastic.

UNELECTED, un-[=e]-lek'ted, _adj._ not elected.

UNELEGANT, un-el'e-gant, _adj._ inelegant.--_adv._ UNEL'EGANTLY.

UNEMBARRASSED, un-em-bar'ast, _adj._ not embarrassed.

UNEMBODIED, un-em-bod'id, _adj._ disembodied, incorporate: not collected
into a body.

UNEMOTIONAL, un-[=e]-m[=o]'shun-al, _adj._ not emotional, not readily
giving way to feeling or causing emotion.--_adv._
UNEM[=O]'TIONALLY.--_adj._ UNEM[=O]'TIONED, impassive.

UNEMPLOYED, un-em-ploid', _adj._ out of work: not put to use or
profit.--_n._ UNEMPLOY'MENT.

UNEMPTIABLE, un-emp'ti-a-bl, _adj._ not able to be emptied.

UNENCHANTED, un-en-chan'ted, _adj._ not enchanted.

UNENCLOSED, un-en-kl[=o]zd', _adj._ not enclosed.--Also UNINCLOSED'.

UNENCUMBERED, UNINCUMBERED, un-en-, un-in-kum'b[.e]rd, _adj._ not
encumbered, esp. in law, free from encumbrance by lien, claim, lease, or
charge of any kind.--_v.t._ UNENCUM'BER, to disencumber.--_n._
UNENCUM'BEREDNESS.

UNENDEARED, un-en-d[=e]rd', _adj._ without endearments.

UNENDING, un-en'ding, _adj._ having no end, everlasting, eternal.--_adj._
UNEN'DED, infinite.--_adv._ UNEN'DINGLY.--_n._ UNEN'DINGNESS.

UNENDOWED, un-en-dowd', _adj._ not endowed.

UNENDURABLE, un-en-d[=u]r'a-bl, _adj._ intolerable.--_adv._
UNEND[=U]R'ABLY.

UNENFRANCHISED, un-en-fran'chizd, _adj._ not having the franchise.

UNENGAGED, un-en-g[=a]jd', _adj._ not engaged.

UN-ENGLISH, un-ing'glish, _adj._ not English in character.--_adj._
UN-ENG'LISHED, not translated into English.

UNENLIGHTENED, un-en-l[=i]t'nd, _adj._ not enlightened.

UNENTANGLE, un-en-tang'gl, _v.t._ to disentangle.--_adj._ UNENTANG'LED.

UNENTERING, un-en't[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not entering.

UNENTERPRISING, un-en't[.e]r-pr[=i]-zing, _adj._ not enterprising.

UNENTERTAINING, un-en-t[.e]r-t[=a]'ning, _adj._ not entertaining or
amusing.--_n._ UNENTERTAIN'INGNESS.

UNENTHRALLED, un-en-thrawld', _adj._ not reduced to slavery.

UNENTOMBED, un-en-t[=oo]md', _adj._ not buried.

UNENTRANCED, un-en-transt', _adj._ not entranced.

UNENVIABLE, un-en'vi-a-bl, _adj._ not to be envied.--_adv._
UNEN'VIABLY.--_adjs._ UNEN'VIED, not envied; UNEN'VIOUS, not envious.

UNEQUABLE, un-[=e]'kwa-bl, _adj._ not equable.

UNEQUAL, un-[=e]'kwal, _adj._ not equal or alike in any quality, extent,
duration, &c.: insufficient: varying, not uniform.--_adj._ UN[=E]'QUALLED,
not to be equalled.--_adv._ UN[=E]'QUALLY.--_n._ UN[=E]'QUALNESS.

UNEQUITABLE, un-ek'wi-ta-bl, _adj._ inequitable.--_adv._ UNEQ'UITABLY.

UNEQUIVOCAL, un-[=e]-kwiv'[=o]-kal, _adj._ not equivocal.--_adv._
UNEQUIV'OCALLY.--_n._ UNEQUIV'OCALNESS.

UNERRING, un-er'ing, making no error, infallible: not missing the
mark.--_adv._ UNERR'INGLY.--_n._ UNERR'INGNESS.

UNESCAPABLE, un-es-k[=a]'pa-bl, _adj._ that cannot be escaped.

UNESPIED, un-es-p[=i]d', _adj._ not espied or discovered.

UNESSAYED, un-e-s[=a]d', _adj._ not essayed or attempted.

UNESSENTIAL, un-es-sen'shal, _adj._ not essential: unnecessary:
unimportant: (_Milt._) void of real being.--_v.t._ UNESS'ENCE (_Lamb_), to
deprive of essence.

UNESTABLISH, un-es-tab'lish, _v.t._ to disestablish.

UNEVANGELICAL, un-[=e]-van-jel'i-kal, _adj._ not evangelical.

UNEVEN, un-[=e]'vn, _adj._ not even, smooth, straight, uniform, or just:
odd, not divisible by two without remainder: ill-matched:
difficult.--_adv._ UN[=E]'VENLY.--_n._ UN[=E]'VENESS, quality of not being
even: want of an even surface: want of smoothness or uniformity.

UNEVENTFUL, un-[=e]-vent'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not eventful, without striking
events.--_adv._ UNEVENT'FULLY.

UNEVIDENT, un-ev'i-dent, _adj._ not evident.

UNEXACT, un-eg-zakt', _adj._ inexact.

UNEXAMINABLE, un-eg-zam'i-na-bl, _adj._ incapable of being
examined.--_adj._ UNEXAM'INED, not examined.

UNEXAMPLED, un-eg-zam'pld, _adj._ having no example or precedent.

UNEXCELLED, un-ek-seld', _adj._ not excelled.

UNEXCEPTIONABLE, un-ek-sep'shun-a-bl, _adj._ not liable to exception:
unobjectionable: faultless.--_n._ UNEXCEP'TIONABLENESS.--_adv._
UNEXCEP'TIONABLY.--_adj._ UNEXCEP'TIONAL, not forming an exception,
usual.--_adv._ UNEXCEP'TIONALLY.--_adj._ UNEXCEP'TIVE, not exceptive.

UNEXCISED, un-ek-s[=i]zd', _adj._ not liable to the payment of excise duty.

UNEXCLUSIVE, un-eks-kl[=oo]'siv, _adj._ not exclusive,
comprehensive.--_adv._ UNEXCLU'SIVELY.

UNEXCOGITABLE, un-eks-koj'i-ta-bl, _adj._ not conceivable.

UNEXCUSABLE, un-eks-k[=u]'za-bl, _adj._ inexcusable.--_n._
UNEXC[=U]'SABLENESS.

UNEXECUTED, un-ek's[=e]-k[=u]-ted, _adj._ not executed: (_Shak._) unused.

UNEXERCISED, un-ek's[.e]r-s[=i]zd, _adj._ not exercised.

UNEXHAUSTED, un-eg-zawst'ed, _adj._ not exhausted.

UNEXPECTED, un-eks-pek'ted, _adj._ not expected, coming without warning,
sudden.--_adj._ UNEXPEC'TANT, not expectant.--_adv._ UNEXPECT'EDLY.--_n._
UNEXPEC'TEDNESS.

UNEXPEDIENT, un-eks-p[=e]'di-ent, _adj._ inexpedient.

UNEXPENSIVE, un-eks-pen'siv, _adj._ inexpensive.

UNEXPERIENCED, un-eks-p[=e]'ri-enst, _adj._ inexperienced: untried.--_n._
UNEXP[=E]'RIENCE (_obs._), inexperience.--_adj._ UNEXP[=E]'RIENT (_Shak._),
inexperienced.

UNEXPERT, un-eks-pert', _adj._ inexpert, ignorant.--_adv._ UNEXPERT'LY.

UNEXPIRED, un-eks-p[=i]rd', _adj._ not expired.

UNEXPLORED, un-eks-pl[=o]rd', _adj._ not explored.

UNEXPOSED, un-eks-p[=o]zd', _adj._ not exposed.

UNEXPRESSIVE, un-eks-pres'iv, _adj._ not expressive: incapable of being
expressed.--_adj._ UNEXPRESS'IBLE, inexpressible.--_adv._ UNEXPRESS'IBLY.

UNEXTENDED, un-eks-ten'ded, _adj._ not extended, occupying no space.

UNEXTINGUISHABLE, un-eks-ting'gwish-a-bl, _adj._ inextinguishable.--_adv._
UNEXTING'UISHABLY.

UNEXTRICABLE, un-eks'tri-ka-bl, _adj._ inextricable.

UNEYED, un-[=i]d', _adj._ unnoticed.

UNFABLED, un-f[=a]'bld, _adj._ not fabled, real.

UNFACE, un-f[=a]s', _v.t._ to expose.

UNFADABLE, un-f[=a]'da-bl, _adj._ not able to fade or perish.--_adj._
UNF[=A]'DING, not losing strength, not subject to decay.--_adv._
UNF[=A]'DINGLY.--_n._ UNF[=A]'DINGNESS.

UNFAILING, un-f[=a]'ling, _adj._ not failing or liable to fail.--_adj._
UNFAIL'ABLE (_obs._), infallible.--_n._ UNFAIL'ABLENESS.--_adv._
UNFAIL'INGLY.--_n._ UNFAIL'INGNESS.

UNFAINTING, un-f[=a]n'ting, _adj._ not fainting.

UNFAIR, un-f[=a]r', _adj._ not fair: dishonest: unequal.--_v.t._ (_Shak._)
to deprive of beauty.--_adv._ UNFAIR'LY.--_n._ UNFAIR'NESS, the state of
being unfair, dishonest, or unjust.

UNFAITH, un-f[=a]th', _n._ want of faith: faithlessness.--_adj._
UNFAITH'FUL, not faithful: violating trust: not having faith, infidel: not
trustworthy.--_adv._ UNFAITH'FULLY, in an unfaithful manner: negligently:
imperfectly.--_n._ UNFAITH'FULNESS, the quality of being unfaithful:
violation of promise, duty, &c.: treacherous.

UNFALCATED, un-fal'k[=a]-ted, _adj._ not hooked: (_obs._) not curtailed.

UNFALLIBLE, un-fal'i-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) infallible.

UNFALLOWED, un-fal'[=o]d, _adj._ not fallowed.

UNFALTERING, un-fawl't[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not faltering.--_adv._
UNFAL'TERINGLY.

UNFAMED, un-f[=a]md', _adj._ not made famous.

UNFAMILIAR, un-fa-mil'yar, _adj._ not familiar.--_n._
UNFAMILIAR'ITY.--_adv._ UNFAMIL'IARLY.

UNFARROWED, un-far'[=o]d, _adj._ without a farrow or litter.

UNFASHIONABLE, un-fash'un-a-bl, _adj._ not fashionable: incapable of being
fashioned: shapeless.--_n._ UNFASH'IONABLENESS.--_adv._
UNFASH'IONABLY.--_adj._ UNFASH'IONED, shapeless, without regular form.

UNFASTEN, un-fas'n, _v.t._ to loose, as from a fastening: to unfix. _v.i._
to become untied.--_n._ UNFAS'TENER.

UNFATHERED, un-fä'th[.e]rd, _adj._ having no father, fatherless: not
acknowledged by its father.--_adj._ UNFÄ'THERLY, not like a father.

UNFATHOMABLE, un-fath'om-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be fathomed, too deep to
be measured or to be understood.--_n._ UNFATH'OMABLENESS.--_adv._
UNFATH'OMABLY.--_adj._ UNFATH'OMED, not sounded.

UNFAULTY, un-fawl'ti, _adj._ without fault.

UNFAVOURABLE, un-f[=a]'vur-a-bl, _adj._ not favourable or propitious.--_n._
UNF[=A]'VOURABLENESS.--_adv._ UNF[=A]'VOURABLY.

UNFEARED, un-f[=e]rd', _adj._ not feared.--_adj._ UNFEAR'FUL, not
fearful.--_adv._ UNFEAR'FULLY.

UNFEASIBLE, un-f[=e]'zi-bl, _adj._ not feasible or practicable.

UNFEATHER, un-feth'[.e]r, _v.t._ to strip of feathers.--_adj._
UNFEATH'ERED.

UNFEATURED, un-f[=e]'t[=u]rd, _adj._ without regular features, shapeless.

UNFED, un-fed', _adj._ not fed.

UNFEED, un-f[=e]d', _adj._ not feed or paid.

UNFEELING, un-f[=e]'ling, _adj._ without feeling: without kind feelings:
hard-hearted.--_adv._ UNFEEL'INGLY.--_n._ UNFEEL'INGNESS.

UNFEIGNED, un-f[=a]nd', _adj._ not feigned: real: sincere.--_adv._
UNFEIGN'EDLY.--_n._ UNFEIGN'EDNESS.--_adj._ UNFEIGN'ING.

UNFELLOW, un-fel'[=o], _v.t._ to separate as fellows, to
dissociate.--_adj._ UNFELL'OWED, unmatched.

UNFELT, un-felt', _adj._ not felt.

UNFEMININE, un-fem'in-[=i]n, _adj._ not feminine.

UNFENCED, un-fenst', _adj._ not fenced round, defenceless.--_v.t._
UNFENCE', to deprive of a fence.

UNFERMENTED, un-f[.e]r-ment'ed, _adj._ not having undergone fermentation:
not leavened.

UNFETTER, un-fet'[.e]r, _v.t._ to take the fetters from: to set at
liberty.--_adj._ UNFETT'ERED, unrestrained.

UNFEUDALISE, un-f[=u]'dal-[=i]z, _v.t._ to free from feudal rights or
character.

UNFIGURED, un-fig'[=u]rd, _adj._ not figured, not marked with figures of
any kind: literal.

UNFILE, un-f[=i]l', _v.t._ to remove from a file or record.

UNFILED, un-f[=i]ld', _adj._ not rubbed with a file.

UNFILED, un-f[=i]ld', _adj._ not soiled or polluted.

UNFILIAL, un-fil'yal, _adj._ not filial or becoming a child:
undutiful.--_adv._ UNFIL'IALLY.

UNFILLETED, un-fil'et-ed, _adj._ not bound up with, or as with, a fillet.

UNFINE, un-f[=i]n', _adj._ not fine, shabby.

UNFINISHED, un-fin'isht, _adj._ not finished.--_n._ UNFIN'ISH, lack of
finish.--_adj._ UNFIN'ISHABLE, that cannot be finished.--_n._ UNFIN'ISHING,
the act of leaving unfinished.

UNFIRM, un-f[.e]rm', _adj._ infirm.--_n._ UNFIRM'NESS.

UNFIRMAMENTED, un-f[.e]r'ma-men-ted, _adj._ not having a bounding
firmament, limitless.

UNFIST, un-fist', _v.t._ to release.

UNFIT, un-fit', _adj._ unsuitable, improper.--_v.t._ to disqualify.--_adv._
UNFIT'LY.--_n._ UNFIT'NESS.--_adj._ UNFIT'TING, unsuitable.--_adv._
UNFIT'TINGLY.

UNFIX, un-fiks', _v.t._ to make not fixed: to loose the fixing of: to
unsettle.--_adj._ UNFIXED'.--_ns._ UNFIX'EDNESS; UNFIX'ITY.

UNFLAGGING, un-flag'ing, _adj._ not flagging or drooping: maintaining
strength or spirit.

UNFLAME, un-fl[=a]m', _v.t._ to cool.

UNFLATED, un-fl[=a]'ted, _adj._ not blown.

UNFLATTERING, un-flat'[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not flattering.--_adv._
UNFLATT'ERINGLY.

UNFLEDGED, un-flejd', _adj._ not yet fledged, immature.

UNFLESH, un-flesh', _v.t._ to remove the flesh from.--_adjs._ UNFLESHED',
deprived of flesh, reduced to a skeleton: not having tasted blood;
UNFLESH'LY, ethereal, spiritual; UNFLESH'Y, fleshless.

UNFLINCHING, un-flin'shing, _adj._ doing without flinching or shrinking,
brave, steadfast.--_adv._ UNFLIN'CHINGLY.--_n._ UNFLIN'CHINGNESS.

UNFLOWER, un-flow'[.e]r, _v.t._ to strip of flowers.

UNFLUENT, un-fl[=oo]'ent, _adj._ not fluent.

UNFLUSH, un-flush', _v.t._ to lose a flush of colour.

UNFOILED, un-foild', _adj._ not foiled or baffled.

UNFOLD, un-f[=o]ld', _v.t._ to open the folds of: to release from a fold:
to spread out: to tell.--_v.i._ to spread open, expand, develop.--_ns._
UNFOLD'ER; UNFOLD'ING; UNFOLD'MENT.

UNFOLIATED, un-f[=o]'li-[=a]-ted, _adj._ not foliated.

UNFOOL, un-f[=oo]l', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to restore from folly, or from being
a fool.

UNFOOTED, un-f[=oo]t'ed, _adj._ not trodden by the foot of man.

UNFORBIDDEN, un-for-bid'n, _adj._ not forbidden, permitted.--_n._
UNFORBIDD'ENNESS.

UNFORCED, un-f[=o]rst', _adj._ not forced.--_adv._ UNFOR'CEDLY.--_adj._
UNFOR'CIBLE, without strength.

UNFOREBODING, un-f[=o]r-b[=o]'ding, _adj._ not foretelling, giving no omen.

UNFOREKNOWN, un-f[=o]r-n[=o]n', _adj._ not previously known or
foreseen.--_adj._ UNFOREKNOW'ABLE, incapable of being known beforehand.

UNFORESEE, un-f[=o]r-s[=e]', _v.t._ not to foresee.--_adjs._
UNFORESEE'ABLE, incapable of being foreseen; UNFORESEE'ING, not looking
forward or provident; UNFORESEEN', not foreseen.

UNFORESKINNED, un-f[=o]r'skind, _adj._ (_Milt._) circumcised.

UNFORETOLD, un-f[=o]r-t[=o]ld', _adj._ not foretold.

UNFOREWARNED, un-f[=o]r-wawrnd', _adj._ not forewarned.

UNFORFEITED, un-for'fit-ed, _adj._ not forfeited or lost.

UNFORGED, un-forjd', _adj._ not forged or made.

UNFORGIVEABLE, un-for-giv'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being forgiven.--_adj._
UNFORGIV'EN, not forgiven.--_n._ UNFORGIV'ER.--_adj._ UNFORGIV'ING, not
forgiving, implacable.--_n._ UNFORGIV'INGNESS.

UNFORGOTTEN, un-for-got'en, _adj._ not forgotten or neglected--also
UNFORGOT'.--_adj._ UNFORGET'TABLE, that cannot be forgotten.

UNFORM, un-form', _v.t._ to unmake.--_adjs._ UNFOR'MAL, informal;
UNFOR'MALISED, not made formal; UNFORMED', not formed or arranged into
order: having the form destroyed: structureless, amorphous: immature, not
yet formed.

UNFORTIFIED, un-for'ti-f[=i]d, _adj._ not fortified.

UNFORTUNATE, un-for't[=u]-n[=a]t, _adj._ not fortunate, prosperous, or
successful.--_n._ one who is unfortunate, esp. a fallen woman.--_adv._
UNFOR'TUNATELY.--_n._ UNFOR'TUNATENESS.

UNFOSSILISED, un-fos'il-[=i]zd, _adj._ not fossilised.--_adj._
UNFOSSILIF'EROUS, destitute of fossils.

UNFOSTERED, un-fos't[.e]rd, _adj._ not fostered: not patronised.

UNFOUGHT, un-fawt', _adj._ not fought.

UNFOUNDED, un-fown'ded, _adj._ not founded or established: having no
foundation, baseless: (_Milt._) without bottom, bottomless.--_adv._
UNFOUN'DEDLY.

UNFRAMED, un-fr[=a]md', _adj._ not formed or fashioned: not furnished with
a frame.

UNFRANCHISED, un-fran'chizd, _adj._ not franchised.

UNFRANKABLE, un-frang'ka-bl, _adj._ incapable of being franked or sent by
post free of expense.

UNFRAUGHT, un-frawt', _adj._ not fraught or filled with.

UNFREE, un-fr[=e]', _adj._ not free.

UNFREQUENT, un-fr[=e]'kwent, _adj._ infrequent.--_n._ UNFRE'QUENCY,
infrequency.--_v.t._ UNFREQUENT', to cease to frequent.--_adj._
UNFREQUEN'TED, not frequented: rarely visited.--_adv._ UNFRE'QUENTLY,
infrequently.

UNFRETTED, un-fret'ed, _adj._ not fretted or rubbed.

UNFRIENDLY, un-frend'li, _adj._ not friendly, kind, or favourable.--_adv._
in an unkind manner.--_n._ UNFRIEND', one who is not a friend.--_adj._
UNFRIEN'DED, not supported by friends.--_ns._ UNFRIEN'DEDNESS, the state of
being unfriended; UNFRIEN'DLINESS, unkindness; UNFRIEND'SHIP,
unfriendliness.

UNFRIGHTFUL, un-fr[=i]t'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not frightful or
terrifying.--_adj._ UNFRIGHT'ED, not frighted or terrified.

UNFROCK, un-frok', _v.t._ to strip of a frock or gown, esp. a monk, &c.

UNFRUITFUL, un-fr[=oo]t'f[=oo]l, _adj._ yielding no fruit, barren.--_adv._
UNFRUIT'FULLY.--_n._ UNFRUIT'FULNESS.

UNFUELED, UNFUELLED, un-f[=u]'eld, _adj._ not furnished with fuel.

UNFULFILLED, un-f[=oo]l-fild', _adj._ not fulfilled.

UNFUMED, un-f[=u]md', _adj._ not fumigated: (_obs._) undistilled.

UNFUNDED, un-fun'ded, _adj._ not funded, floating, as a public debt.

UNFURL, un-furl', _v.t._ to loose from being furled: to unfold, display: to
spread.--_v.i._ to be spread out.

UNFURNISHED, un-fur'nisht, _adj._ not furnished with furniture, &c.,
unsupplied generally.--_v.t._ UNFUR'NISH, to deprive of furniture, &c.

UNFURNITURED, un-fur'ni-t[=u]rd, _adj._ without furniture, unfurnished.

UNFUSED, un-f[=u]zd', _adj._ not fused or melted: not supplied with a
fuse.--_adj._ UNF[=U]'SIBLE, infusible.

UNGAIN, un-g[=a]n', _adj._ (_obs._) ungainly, clumsy: perilous.

UNGAINLY, un-g[=a]n'li, _adj._ awkward: clumsy: uncouth.--_adv._ in an
awkward manner.--_n._ UNGAIN'LINESS. [M. E. _un-gein_, inconvenient--A.S.
_un-_, not, Ice. _gegn_, ready, serviceable.]

UNGALLANT, un-gal'ant, _adj._ not gallant or courteous to women.--_adv._
UNGALL'ANTLY.

UNGALLED, un-gawld', _adj._ not galled or hurt.

UNGARMENT, un-gär'ment, _v.t._ to unclothe.--_adj._ UNGAR'MENTED, unclad.

UNGARNISHED, un-gär'nisht, _adj._ not garnished or adorned.

UNGARTERED, un-gär't[.e]rd, _adj._ not held in place by garters: not
wearing garters.

UNGATHERED, un-ga_th_'[.e]rd, _adj._ not gathered or picked: pertaining to
printed sheets folded but not yet gathered in regular order for binding.

UNGEAR, un-g[=e]r', _v.t._ to deprive of gear: to put out of gear.

UNGENERALLED, un-jen'e-rald, _adj._ made not general or universal.

UNGENERATED, un-jen'e-r[=a]-ted, _adj._ not generated.

UNGENEROUS, un-jen'e-rus, _adj._ not generous or liberal.--_adv._
UNGEN'EROUSLY.

UNGENIAL, un-j[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ not genial or kindly: not congenial: not
favourable to natural growth.

UNGENITURED, un-jen'i-t[=u]rd, _adj._ (_Shak._) without genitals, impotent.

UNGENTEEL, un-jen-t[=e]l, _adj._ not genteel or polite.--_adv._
UNGENTEEL'LY.

UNGENTLE, un-jen'tl, _adj._ (_Spens._) not gentle, uncourteous.--_adj._
UNGEN'TLEMANLIKE, not like a gentleman.--n, UNGEN'TLEMANLINESS.--_adj._
UNGEN'TLEMANLY, acting in a manner unbecoming a gentleman.--_adv._ in
manner unlike a gentleman.--_n._ UNGEN'TLENESS, want of gentleness,
rudeness, incivility.--_adv._ UNGENT'LY, harshly.

UNGENUINE, un-jen'[=u]-in, _adj._ not genuine.--_n._ UNGEN'UINENESS.

UNGET, un-get', _v.t._ to treat one as if he had not been begotten, to
disinherit.

UNGIFTED, un-gif'ted, _adj._ not gifted, not having received a gift.

UNGILD, un-gild', _v.t._ to deprive of gilding.--_adjs._ UNGIL'DED,
UNGILT', not gilt.--_n._ UNGIL'DING, the act of taking off gilding or any
decoration.

UNGILL, un-gil', _v.t._ to remove from a gill-net, as fish.

UNGIRD, un-g[.e]rd', _v.t._ to free from a girdle or band: to unbind.

UNGIVING, un-giv'ing, _adj._ not bringing gifts.

UNGLADDEN, un-glad'n, _v.t._ to take the gladness from.

UNGLAZE, un-gl[=a]z', _v.t._ to take the glass from.--_adj._ UNGLAZED', not
provided with glass: not coated over with a vitreous substance, as
earthenware.

UNGLOOMED, un-gl[=oo]md', _adj._ not darkened over.

UNGLORIFIED, un-gl[=o]'ri-f[=i]d, _adj._ not glorified or honoured.--_v.t._
UNGL[=O]'RIFY, to deprive of glory.--_adj._ UNGL[=O]'RIOUS, inglorious.

UNGLOVE, un-gluv', _v.t._ to take the glove from.

UNGLUE, un-gl[=oo]', _v.t._ to separate anything glued, cemented, or fixed
in any way.

UNGLUTTED, un-glut'ed, _adj._ not glutted or satiated.

UNGODLY, un-god'li, _adj._ not godly, neglecting God: sinful, polluted by
sin: (_slang_) outrageous, vexatious.--_v.t._ UNGOD', to divest of
divinity: to make godless.--_adv._ UNGOD'LILY, in an ungodly manner.--_n._
UNGOD'LINESS, the quality of being ungodly: disregard of God and His
commands: wickedness: an act of disobedience or irreverence.

UNGORED, un-g[=o]rd', _adj._ not stained with gore.

UNGORED, un-g[=o]rd', _adj._ not gored or wounded.

UNGORGED, un-gorjd', _adj._ not gorged or sated.

UNGORGEOUS, un-gor'jus, _adj._ not gorgeous or splendid.

UNGOTTEN, un-got'n, _adj._ not gained--also UNGOT': (_Shak._) not begotten.

UNGOVERNABLE, un-guv'[.e]r-na-bl, _adj._ that cannot be governed,
refractory, unruly.--_n._ UNGOV'ERNABLENESS.--_adv._ UNGOV'ERNABLY.--_adj._
UNGOV'ERNED, without government: unbridled.

UNGOWN, un-gown', _v.t._ to degrade from the position of priest.

UNGRACIOUS, un-gr[=a]'shus, _adj._ without graciousness of manner, rude:
(_obs._) wicked, hateful.--_adjs._ UNGRACED', not graced or honoured;
UNGRACE'FUL, not graceful.--_adv._ UNGRACE'FULLY.--_n._
UNGRACE'FULNESS.--_adv._ UNGR[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ UNGR[=A]'CIOUSNESS.

UNGRAMMATICAL, un-gra-mat'i-kal, _adj._ not according to the rules of
grammar.--_adv._ UNGRAMMAT'ICALLY.

UNGRATEFUL, un-gr[=a]t'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not feeling or manifesting
gratitude: disagreeable, irksome: not repaying one's labour,
thankless.--_n._ UNGRATE', an ungrateful person.--_adj._
ungrateful.--_adv._ UNGRATE'FULLY.--_n._ UNGRATE'FULNESS.

UNGRATIFIED, un-grat'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ not gratified.

UNGROUNDED, un-grown'ded, _adj._ without ground or basis, unreal,
false.--_adv._ UNGROUN'DEDLY.--_n._ UNGROUN'DEDNESS.

UNGRUDGING, un-gruj'ing, _adj._ not grudging, liberal.--_adj._
UNGRUDGED'.--_adv._ UNGRUDG'INGLY.

UNGUAL, ung'gwal, _adj._ relating to, like, or having a nail, claw, or
hoof.--_adj._ UNG'UICAL.--_n._ UNG'UICORN, the horny nail at the tip of a
bird's mandible.--_adj._ UNGUIC'[=U]LAR, relating to a nail or
claw.--_n.pl._ UNGUIC[=U]L[=A]'TA, a superordinal division of mammals with
claws.--_adjs._ UNGUIC'[=U]LATE, -D, having claws: furnished with a claw or
narrow base, as the petal in some flowers.--_n._ UNGUIC'[=U]LUS, a
diminutive claw or similar appendage at the end of an insect's
foot.--_adjs._ UNGUIF'EROUS, bearing an unguis of one kind or other;
UNG'UIFORM, shaped like a claw; UNG'UINAL, pertaining to the unguis or
nail; UNGUIROS'TRAL, with a nail at the end of the bill.--_ns._ UNG'UIS, a
nail, claw, hoof, or any structure resembling such: the narrow part of the
base of a petal, acting as a footstalk: a measure equal to the length of
the nail of the little finger, ½-inch; UNGULA (ung'g[=u]-la), a surgical
instrument for use in removing a dead foetus: a hoof-shaped section of a
cylinder, cone, or other solid of revolution, cut off by a plane oblique to
the base.--_adj._ UNGULAR (ung'g[=u]-lar), like an ungula, ungual.--_n.pl._
UNGULATA (ung-g[=u]-l[=a]'ta), an order of mammals, including (1) the
_Artiodactyla_ (with an even number of toes)--e.g. pig, hippopotamus,
peccary, camel, and ruminants like cattle, sheep, and deer; (2) the
_Perissodactyla_ (with an odd number of toes)--e.g. tapir, rhinoceros, and
horse.--_adj._ UNGULATE (ung'g[=u]-l[=a]t), hoof-shaped: hoofed, having the
digits enclosed in hoofs. [L. _unguis_, a nail.]

UNGUARDED, un-gär'ded, _adj._ without guard or protection:
careless.--_adv._ UNGUAR'DEDLY.--_n._ UNGUAR'DEDNESS.

UNGUENT, ung'gwent, _n._ ointment.--_n._ UNGUENT[=A]'RIUM, a vessel for
holding unguents.--_adjs._ UNG'UENTARY, pertaining to unguents;
UNGUEN'TOUS, of the nature of an unguent; UNG'UINOUS, oily, unctuous. [L.
_unguentum_--_ungu[)e]re_, to anoint.]

UNGUESSED, un-gest', _adj._ not guessed at or suspected.

UNGUIDED, un-g[=i]'ded, _adj._ not guided.--_adj._ UNGUID'ABLE, incapable
of being guided.--_adv._ UNGUID'ABLY.

UNGUILTY, un-gil'ti, _adj._ (_Spens._) not conscious of guilt.--_adv._
UNGUIL'TILY.--_n._ UNGUIL'TINESS.

UNGUM, un-gum', _v.t._ to remove gum from.

UNGYVE, un-j[=i]v', _v.t._ to free from handcuffs, &c.

UNHABITABLE, un-hab'i-ta-bl, _adj._ uninhabitable.

UNHABLE, un-h[=a]'bl, _adj._ (_Spens._) not able, incapable.

UNHACKED, un-hakt', _adj._ not hacked.

UNHACKNEYED, un-hak'nid, _adj._ not hackneyed, stale, or trite.

UNHAIR, un-h[=a]r', _v.t._ to deprive of hair.--_v.i._ to become free from
hair.

UNHALLOWED, un-hal'[=o]d, _adj._ unholy: profane: very wicked.--_n._
UNHALL'OWING.

UNHAMPERED, un-ham'p[.e]rd, _adj._ not hampered or hindered.

UNHAND, un-hand', _v.t._ to take the hands off: to let go.--_adv._
UNHAND'ILY, awkwardly.--_n._ UNHAND'INESS.--_adjs._ UNHAN'DLED, not handled
or managed: not broken-in; UNHAND'Y, not handy: awkward: not convenient.

UNHANDSELED, un-hand'seld, _adj._ not hitherto used, untilled.

UNHANDSOME, un-han'sum, _adj._ not handsome, ill-made: unbecoming in
action, ungracious: clumsy, inconvenient.--_adv._ UNHAND'SOMELY.--_n._
UNHAND'SOMENESS.

UNHANG, un-hang', _v.t._ to remove from a hanging position, from its
hinges, &c.--_adjs._ UNHANGED', UNHUNG', not hanged, not put to death by
hanging.

UNHAPPY, un-hap'i, _adj._ not happy or fortunate: miserable: marked by
evil: (_Shak._) mischievous, wicked.--_adj._ UNHAPP'IED (_Shak._), made
unhappy.--_adv._ UNHAPP'ILY, in an unhappy or unfortunate manner: (_Shak._)
censoriously.--_n._ UNHAPP'INESS, the state of being unhappy: misfortune:
misery: (_Shak._) a mischievous prank.

UNHARBOUR, un-här'bur, _v.t._ to drive out of shelter, to dislodge.

UNHARDENED, un-här'dnd, _adj._ not hardened.

UNHARDY, un-här'di, _adj._ not hardy or capable of enduring hardship, not
resolute.

UNHARMED, un-härmd', _adj._ not harmed.--_adj._ UNHARM'FUL,
harmless.--_adv._ UNHARM'FULLY.

UNHARMONIOUS, un-här-m[=o]'ni-us, _adj._ inharmonious.

UNHARNESS, un-här'nes, _v.t._ to take the harness off: to disarm.

UNHASP, un-hasp', _v.t._ to loose from a hasp.

UNHASTY, un-h[=a]s'ti, _adj._ (_Spens._) not hasty, slow.

UNHAT, un-hat', _v.t._ to remove the hat from.--_v.i._ to take off the hat
from respect.--_n._ UNHAT'TING.

UNHATCHED, un-hacht', _adj._ not hatched, undisclosed.

UNHAUNTED, un-hawn'ted, _adj._ not haunted, unvisited.

UNHAZARDED, un-haz'ar-ded, _adj._ not exposed to any risk.--_adj._
UNHAZ'ARDOUS, not hazardous or risky.

UNHEAD, un-hed', _v.t._ to take the head from.

UNHEAL. See UNHELE.

UNHEALTHY, un-hel'thi, _adj._ not healthy: wanting health or soundness of
body: unfavourable to health: not indicating health.--_n._ UNHEALTH',
unhealthiness.--_adj._ UNHEALTH'FUL.--_adv._ UNHEALTH'FULLY.--_n._
UNHEALTH'FULNESS.--_adv._ UNHEAL'THILY.--_n._ UNHEAL'THINESS, state or
quality of being unhealthy or unfavourable to health: unsoundness.

UNHEARD, un-herd', _adj._ not heard: not granted a hearing: not known,
obscure (often with _of_).

UNHEART, un-härt', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to discourage.

UNHEAVENLY, un-hev'n-li, _adj._ not heavenly.

UNHEDGED, un-hejd', _adj._ not hedged.

UNHEEDED, un-h[=e]'ded, _adj._ not heeded, unnoticed.--_adv._
UNHEED'EDLY.--_adj._ UNHEED'FUL, not heedful, rash.--_advs._ UNHEED'FULLY,
UNHEED'ILY (_Spens._).--_adj._ UNHEED'ING, heedless, careless.--_adv._
UNHEED'INGLY.--_adj._ UNHEED'Y, careless: precipitate.

UNHEIRED, un-[=a]rd', _adj._ without an heir.

UNHELE, UNHEAL, un-h[=e]l', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to uncover.

UNHELM, un-helm', _v.t._ to deprive of a helmet.

UNHEPPEN, un-hep'en, _adj._ (_prov._) clumsy.

UNHEROISM, un-her'[=o]-izm, _n._ unheroic conduct.--_adj._ UNHER[=O]'IC.

UNHESITATING, un-hez'i-t[=a]-ting, _adj._ not hesitating or doubting:
prompt: ready.--_adv._ UNHES'ITATINGLY, without hesitation.

UNHINGE, un-hinj', _v.t._ to take from the hinges: to render unstable, to
unsettle: to deprive of support.--_n._ UNHINGE'MENT.

UNHIRED, un-h[=i]rd', _adj._ not hired.

UNHISTORIC, -AL, un-his-tor'ik, -al, _adj._ not historic, not mentioned in
history: not in accordance with history.

UNHITCH, un-hich', _v.t._ to unfasten.

UNHIVE, un-h[=i]v', _v.t._ to drive from a hive or from any shelter.

UNHOARD, un-h[=o]rd', _v.t._ to dissipate what has been hoarded up.

UNHOLD, un-h[=o]ld', _v.t._ to let go the hold of.

UNHOLY, un-h[=o]'li, _adj._ not sacred or hallowed, wicked, sinful.--_adv._
UNH[=O]'LILY.--_n._ UNH[=O]'LINESS.

UNHOMOGENEOUS, un-h[=o]-m[=o]-j[=e]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ not homogeneous.--_n._
UNHOMOG[=E]'NEOUSNESS.

UNHONEST, un-on'est, _adj._ (_obs._) dishonest, unchaste.--_n._ UNHON'ESTY.

UNHONOURED, un-on'urd, _adj._ not honoured.

UNHOODED, un-hood'ed, _adj._ not having a hood.

UNHOOK, un-hook', _v.t._ to loose from a hook.

UNHOOP, un-h[=oo]p', _v.t._ to remove the hoops of, as a barrel: to remove
the stiff hoops of, as a woman.

UNHOPED, un-h[=o]pt', _adj._ not hoped for or expected.--_adj._
UNHOPE'FUL.--_adv._ UNHOPE'FULLY.

UNHORSE, un-hors', _v.t._ to cause to come off or to throw from a horse.

UNHOSPITABLE, un-hos'pi-ta-bl, _adj._ inhospitable.

UNHOSTILE, un-hos'til, _adj._ not hostile: not caused by an enemy.

UNHOUSE, un-howz', _v.t._ to deprive of or drive from a house or
shelter.--_adj._ UNHOUSED', unsheltered, deprived of shelter.

UNHOUSELED, un-howz'ld, _adj._ (_Shak._) not having received the sacrament.

UNHUMAN, un-h[=u]'man, _adj._ not having the qualities of a human
being.--_v.t._ UNH[=U]'MANISE.

UNHUNG, un-hung', _adj._ Same as UNHANGED.

UNHURT, un-hurt', _adj._ not hurt.--_adj._ UNHURT'FUL.--_adv._
UNHURT'FULLY.--_n._ UNHURT'FULNESS.

UNHUSBANDED, un-huz'ban-ded, _adj._ unprovided with a husband: widowed.

UNHUSK, un-husk', _v.t._ to strip the husk from.

UNIAT, [=u]'ni-at, _n._ a member of any community of Oriental Christians
that acknowledges the papal supremacy, all else--clerical matrimony,
communion in both kinds, church discipline, rites, and liturgy--being
allowed to remain Greek.--Also U'NI[=A]TE. The Uniats are also called
_United Greeks_.

UNIAURICULATE, [=u]-ni-aw-rik'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ having a single ear-like
process, as a bivalve-shell.

UNIAXIAL, [=u]-ni-ak'si-al, _adj._ having a single axis or line of
growth--also UNIAX'AL.--_adv._ UNIAX'IALLY.

UNIBASAL, [=u]-ni-b[=a]'sal, _adj._ having but one basal.

UNIBLE, [=u]'ni-bl, _adj._ capable of being unified.

UNIBRANCHIATE, [=u]-ni-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having only one gill.

UNICAMERAL, [=u]-ni-kam'e-ral, _adj._ consisting of but one chamber, of a
legislative body.

UNICAMERATE, [=u]-ni-kam'e-r[=a]t, _adj._ having one chamber or loculus,
unilocular.

UNICAPSULAR, [=u]-ni-kap's[=u]-lar, _adj._ having but one capsule to each
flower.

UNICARINATE, -D, [=u]-ni-kar'i-n[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ with but one keel.

UNICELLULAR, [=u]-ni-sel'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having but one cell.

UNICENTRAL, [=u]-ni-sen'tral, _adj._ having a single centre of growth.

UNICILIATE, [=u]-ni-sil'i-[=a]t, _adj._ with one cilium.

UNICITY, [=u]-nis'i-ti, _n._ state of being unique, sameness.

UNICLINAL, [=u]-ni-kl[=i]'nal, _adj._ monoclinal.

UNICOLOUR, [=u]-ni-kul'ur, _adj._ having but one colour.--_adjs._
UNICOL'OURATE, UNICOL'OURED.

UNICORN, [=u]'ni-korn, _n._ a fabulous animal mentioned by ancient Greek
and Roman authors as a native of INDIA, with a body like that of a horse
and one straight horn on the forehead: (_B._) an unfortunate translation of
the Hebrew _reêm_, Assyr. _rímu_, anticipated by the _monoker[=o]s_ of the
Septuagint--variously understood as the rhinoceros, the urus, the wild ox,
ox-antelope. [L. _unus_, one, _cornu_, a horn.]

UNICOSTATE, [=u]-ni-kos't[=a]t, _adj._ one-ribbed, having but one principal
costa, rib, or nervure.

UNICOTYLEDONOUS, [=u]-ni-kot-i-l[=e]'don-us, _adj._ monocotyledonous.

UNICURSAL, [=u]-ni-kur'sal, _adj._ on one path of a moving element.

UNICUSPID, [=u]-ni-kus'pid, _adj._ having but one cusp, as an incisor or
canine tooth.--Also UNICUS'PIDATE.

UNICYCLE, [=u]-ni-s[=i]'kl, _n._ an acrobat's cycle having but one wheel.

UNIDEAED, un-[=i]-d[=e]'ad, _adj._ without ideas, thoughtless.

UNIDEAL, un-[=i]-d[=e]'al, _adj._ not ideal, realistic, prosaic.--_n._
UNID[=E]'ALISM.

UNIDENTATE, [=u]-ni-den't[=a]t, _adj._ having but one tooth.--_adj._
UNIDENTIC'ULATE, having but one denticle.

UNIDIGITATE, [=u]-ni-dij'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ having a single functional digit.

UNIDIOMATIC, un-id-i-o-mat'ik, _adj._ not according to the idiom of a
language.

UNIFACIAL, [=u]-ni-f[=a]'shal, _adj._ having but one face or front surface,
as a coral.

UNIFARIOUS, [=u]-ni-f[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ with the parts arranged in one
rank, uniserial.

UNIFLOROUS, [=u]-ni-fl[=o]'rus, _adj._ one-flowered.

UNIFOIL, [=u]'ni-foil, _adj._ bearing only a single leaf.--_n._ a single
leaf.--_adjs._ UNIF[=O]'LIATE, having a single leaflet, unifoliar;
UNIF[=O]'LIAR, UNIF[=O]'LIOL[=A]TE, having a single leaflet, but compound
in structure.

UNIFORM, [=u]'ni-form, _adj._ having one or the same form: having always
the same manner or character: consistent with itself: agreeing with
another.--_n._ a dress or livery of the same kind for persons who belong to
the same body, as of a soldier.--_v.t._ U'NIFORMISE, to make
uniform.--_adj._ UNIFORMIT[=A]'RIAN.--_ns._ UNIFORMIT[=A]'RIANISM, the
doctrine in geology of Sir Charles Lyell (1797-1875), that the present is
the type of all preceding ages, so far as these are revealed by the
fossiliferous strata; UNIFORM'ITY, state of being uniform: agreement with a
pattern or rule: sameness: likeness between the parts of a whole.--_adv._
U'NIFORMLY.--_n._ U'NIFORMNESS.--ACT OF UNIFORMITY, an intolerant measure
passed in 1662, by which a number of clergymen, variously stated at from
800 to 2000, were driven out of the English national church.

UNIFY, [=u]'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ to make into one.--_adjs._ U'NIF[=I]ABLE,
capable of being made one; UNIF'IC, making one.--_ns._ UNIFIC[=A]'TION;
U'NIF[=I]ER. [L. _unus_, one, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

UNIGENITAL, [=u]-ni-jen'i-tal, _adj._ only-begotten.--_ns._ UNIGEN'ITURE,
the state of being the only begotten; UNIGEN'ITUS, the name of the famous
obscurantist bull issued by Clement XI. in 1713, at the instance of the
JESUITS, in condemnation of the Jansenist Quesnel's admirable annotations
on the New Testament.

UNIGENOUS, [=u]-nij'e-nus, _adj._ homogeneous.

UNIGLOBULAR, [=u]-ni-glob'[=u]-lar, _adj._ consisting of a single globe or
globular part.

UNIJUGATE, [=u]-ni-j[=oo]'g[=a]t, _adj._ having one pair of leaflets--of a
pinnate leaf.

UNILABIATE, [=u]-ni-l[=a]'bi-[=a]t, _adj._ having one lip or labium.

UNILAMINAR, [=u]-ni-lam'i-nar, _adj._ having one lamina.

UNILATERAL, [=u]-ni-lat'e-ral, _adj._ one-sided.--_n._
UNILATERAL'ITY.--_adv._ UNILAT'ERALLY.

UNILITERAL, [=u]-ni-lit'e-ral, _adj._ consisting of one letter only.

UNILLUMED, un-i-l[=u]md', _adj._ not illumed.--_adj._ UNILL[=U]'MINATED.

UNILLUSORY, un-i-l[=u]'s[=o]-ri, _adj._ not producing an illusion.

UNILOBED, [=u]'ni-l[=o]bd, _adj._ having but one lobe.--Also U'NILOBAR.

UNILOCULAR, [=u]-ni-lok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having but one loculus or cavity,
as the heart of an amphioxus.

UNIMAGINABLE, un-i-maj'i-na-bl, _adj._ not imaginable, inconceivable.--_n._
UNIMAG'INABLENESS.--_adv._ UNIMAG'INABLY.--_adj._ UNIMAG'IN[=A]TIVE, not
imaginative, prosaic.--_n._ UNIMAG'IN[=A]TIVENESS.--_adj._ UNIMAG'INED, not
imagined.

UNIMPAIRED, un-im-p[=a]rd', _adj._ not impaired.

UNIMPASSIONED, un-im-pash'und, _adj._ not impassioned, calm, tranquil.

UNIMPEACHABLE, un-im-p[=e]'cha-bl, _adj._ not to be impeached: not liable
to be accused: free from fault: blameless.--_ns._ UNIMPEACHABIL'ITY,
UNIMPEACH'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNIMPEACH'ABLY.--_adj._ UNIMPEACHED', not
impeached.

UNIMPLORED, un-im-pl[=o]rd', _adj._ not implored or besought.

UNIMPORTANCE, un-im-p[=o]r'tans, _n._ want of importance.--_adj._
UNIMPOR'TANT, not important, trivial.

UNIMPOSED, un-im-p[=o]zd', _adj._ not imposed or exacted.--_adj._
UNIMP[=O]'SING, not imposing or commanding respect: voluntary.

UNIMPRESSIBLE, un-im-pres'i-bl, _adj._ not capable of being impressed, not
readily impressed.--_n._ UNIMPRESSIBIL'ITY.

UNIMPRISON, un-im-priz'n, _v.t._ to set free from prison.

UNIMPROVED, un-im-pr[=oo]vd', _adj._ not improved, made better, or
cultivated, cleared, or built upon: not used, unemployed, inactive.

UNIMPUGNABLE, un-im-p[=u]'na-bl, _adj._ that cannot be impugned.

UNINCENSED, un-in-senst', _adj._ not incensed or provoked.

UNINCIDENTAL, un-in-si-den'tal, _adj._ unmarked by incidents, uneventful.

UNINCLOSED, un-in-kl[=o]zd', UNENCLOSED, un-en-, _adj._ not inclosed.

UNINCORPORATED, un-in-kor'p[=o]-r[=a]-ted, _adj._ not incorporated.

UNINDENTED, un-in-den'ted, _adj._ not indented.

UNINDIVIDUALISED, un-in-di-vid'[=u]-al-[=i]zd, _adj._ not separated into
individual parts--of certain eruptive rocks.

UNINFLAMMABLE, un-in-flam'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being set on
fire.--_n._ UNINFLAMMABIL'ITY.

UNINFLUENCED, un-in'fl[=oo]-enst, _adj._ not subject to, or acted upon by,
influence: not biassed or prejudiced.

UNINFORMED, un-in-formd', _adj._ not having received information, untaught:
not imbued with life or activity.

UNINGENIOUS, un-in-j[=e]'ni-us, _adj._ not ingenious, stupid.

UNINGENUOUS, un-in-jen'[=u]-us, _adj._ not ingenuous, disingenuous.--_n._
UNINGEN'UOUSNESS.

UNINHABITABLE, un-in-hab'i-ta-bl, _adj._ not inhabitable.--_ns._
UNINHABITABIL'ITY, UNINHAB'ITABLENESS.--_adj._ UNINHAB'ITED, not inhabited.

UNINJURED, un-in'j[=oo]rd, _adj._ not injured.

UNINOMINAL, [=u]-ni-nom'i-nal, _adj._ consisting of a single word or term
in a scientific nomenclature.--Also UNIN[=O]'MIAL.

UNINQUISITIVE, un-in-kwiz'i-tiv, _adj._ not inquisitive or curious.

UNINSCRIBED, un-in-skr[=i]bd', _adj._ without inscription.

UNINSPIRED, un-in-sp[=i]rd', _adj._ not inspired.

UNINSTRUCTED, un-in-struk'ted, _adj._ not instructed or taught.--_adj._
UNINSTRUC'TIVE, not serving to instruct.--_adv._ UNINSTRUC'TIVELY.

UNINTEGRATED, un-in't[=e]-gr[=a]-ted, _adj._ not integrated.

UNINTELLIGENT, un-in-tel'i-jent, _adj._ not intelligent.--_n._
UNINTELL'IGENCE.--_adv._ UNINTELL'IGENTLY.--_n._
UNINTELLIGIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNINTELL'IGIBLE, not capable of being
understood.--_n._ UNINTELL'IGIBLENESS.--_adv._ UNINTELL'IGIBLY.

UNINTENTIONAL, un-in-ten'shun-al, _adj._ done or happening without
intention or design, involuntary.--_n._ UNINTENTIONAL'ITY.--_adv._
UNINTEN'TIONALLY.

UNINTERESTED, un-in't[.e]r-es-ted, _adj._ not interested or personally
concerned in, not engaging the attention of.--_adj._ UNIN'TERESTING, not
interesting.--_adv._ UNIN'TERESTINGLY.--_n._ UNIN'TERESTINGNESS.

UNINTERMITTED, un-in-t[.e]r-mit'ed, _adj._ not intermitted or
interrupted.--_adv._ UNINTERMITT'EDLY.--_adj._ UNINTERMITT'ING, not
intermitting.--_adv._ UNINTERMITT'INGLY.

UNINTERPRETABLE, un-in-t[.e]r'pre-ta-bl, _adj._ incapable of being
interpreted.

UNINTERRUPTED, un-in-t[.e]r-rup'ted, _adj._ not interrupted,
incessant.--_adv._ UNINTERRUP'TEDLY.

UNINTRODUCED, un-in-tr[=o]-d[=u]st', _adj._ not introduced.

UNINUCLEAR, [=u]-ni-n[=u]'kl[=e]-ar, _adj._ with a single nucleus.--Also
UNIN[=U]'CLEATE.

UNINVENTED, un-in-ven'ted, _adj._ not invented.--_adj._ UNINVEN'TIVE, not
inventive or apt at inventing.--_adv._ UNINVEN'TIVELY.

UNINVITE, un-in-v[=i]t', _v.t._ to cancel the invitation of.

UNIOLA, [=u]-n[=i]'[=o]-la, _n._ a genus of perennial American grasses with
creeping root-stocks, broad leaves, and large compressed spikelets in an
open or spiked panicle--_Spike-grass_, _Union-grass_, _Seaside oat_.

UNION, [=u]n'yun, _n._ a uniting: that which is united or made one:
something formed by the combination of parts or individual things or
persons: concord: harmony in colour: agreement between parts: the state of
wedlock: a device emblematic of union borne in the canton of a flag, the
canton used separately as a flag, the union-jack: a combination as among
workmen for class protection: several parishes united for joint support and
management of their poor, also the workhouse for such: (_pl._) textile
fabrics made up of more than one kind of fibre, as of wool and
cotton.--_adj._ [=U]N'IONED, showing evidence of union.--_n.pl._
[=U]NION'IDÆ, a family of lamellibranchiate molluscs represented in Britain
by two genera, [=U]'NIO and _Anodonta_.--_ns._ [=U]NIONIST, one who
advocates or supports union, esp. an upholder of the Union and opponent of
secession before the American Civil War, also one opposed to granting Home
Rule to Ireland, whether a natural Conservative or one of the Liberals who
fell away from Mr Gladstone on this question in 1886; [=U]NION-JACK, the
national flag adopted by Great Britain and Ireland, consisting of a union
of the crosses of St GEORGE, St ANDREW, and St PATRICK.--THE UNION, the
legislative incorporation of England and Scotland in 1707, or of Ireland
with both in 1801. [Fr. _union_--L. _unio_, _-onis_--_unus_, one.]

UNIPAROUS, [=u]-nip'a-rus, _adj._ producing one at a birth: (_bot._) having
but one axis or stem. [L. _unus_, one, _par[)e]re_, to bring forth.]

UNIPARTITE, [=u]-ni-pär't[=i]t, _adj._ not divided into parts.

UNIPED, [=u]'ni-ped, _adj._ having only one foot.--_n._ one having but one
foot.

UNIPELTATE, [=u]-ni-pel't[=a]t, _adj._ with a carapace of one piece, as a
crustacean.--_n._ one of the UNIPELT[=A]'TA, the adult _Squillidæ_, as a
division of stomatopods.

UNIPERSONAL, [=u]-ni-p[.e]r'son-al, _adj._ existing as only one person:
(_gram._) used in only one person.--_ns._ UNIPER'SONALIST; UNIPERSONAL'ITY.

UNIPETALOUS, [=u]-ni-pet'a-lus, _adj._ having but one petal.

UNIPHONOUS, [=u]'ni-f[=o]-nus, _adj._ giving out only one sound.

UNIPLANAR, [=u]-ni-pl[=a]'nar, _adj._ lying in one plane.

UNIPLICATE, [=u]-nip'li-k[=a]t, _adj._ once folded.

UNIPOLAR, [=u]-ni-p[=o]'lar, _adj._ (_elect._) showing only one kind of
polarity: (_biol._) having one process only.--_n._ UNIPOLAR'ITY.

UNIQUE, [=u]-n[=e]k', _adj._ single or alone in any quality: without a like
or equal.--_adv._ UNIQUE'LY.--_ns._ UNIQUE'NESS; UNIQ'UITY. [Fr.,--L.
_unicus_--_unus_.]

UNIRADIATE, -D, [=u]'ni-r[=a]'di-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ having only one ray.

UNIRAMOUS, [=u]-ni-r[=a]'mus, _adj._ one-branched.

UNISEPALOUS, [=u]-ni-sep'a-lus, _adj._ having but one sepal.

UNISEPTATE, [=u]-ni-sep't[=a]t, _adj._ having but one septum or partition.

UNISERIAL, [=u]-ni-s[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ placed in one series.--_adv._
UNIS[=E]'RIALLY.--_adj._ UNIS[=E]'RIATE.--_adv._ UNIS[=E]'RIATELY.

UNISERRATE, [=u]-ni-ser'[=a]t, _adj._ having one row of teeth or
serrations.--_adj._ UNISER'R[=U]LATE, having one row of small serrations.

UNISEXUAL, [=u]-ni-sek's[=u]-al, _adj._ of one sex only, as a plant.--_n._
UNISEXUAL'ITY.--_adv._ UNISEX'UALLY.

UNISON, [=u]'ni-son, _n._ oneness or agreement of sound: concord:
harmony--_adj._ U'NIS[=O]NAL.--_adv._ U'NIS[=O]NALLY.--_n._ U'NIS[=O]NANCE,
state of being unisonant: accordance of sounds.--_adjs._ U'NIS[=O]NANT,
U'NIS[=O]NOUS, being in unison. [L. _unus_, one, _sonus_ a sound,
_son[=a]re_, to sound.]

UNIT, [=u]'nit, _n._ one: a single thing or person: the least whole number:
anything taken as one: any known determinate quantity by constant
application of which any other quantity is measured.--_adj._ U'NITAL.--_n._
UNIT[=A]'RIAN, one who asserts the unity of the Godhead as opposed to the
TRINITY, and ascribes divinity to God the Father only.--_adj._ pertaining
to Unitarians or their doctrine.--_n._ UNIT[=A]'RIANISM, the doctrines or
principles of a UNITARIAN.--_adj._ U'NITARY, pertaining to unity or to a
unit: (_biol._) monistic, as opposed to dualistic: whole, integral.--_n._
U'NIT[=A]TE, the remainder after dividing a number by any digit.--_v.t._ to
obtain the unitate of.--_n._ UNIT[=A]'TION. [L. _unitum_, pa.p. of
_un[=i]re_, to unite--unus, one.]

UNITE, [=u]-n[=i]t', _v.t._ to make one: to join two or more into one: to
join: to make to agree or adhere.--_v.i._ to become one: to grow or act
together.--_adj._ UN[=I]'TED, joined, made one: harmonious.--_adj._
UN[=I]'TEDLY, in union: together.--_ns._ UN[=I]'TER, one who unites;
UNI'TION, act of uniting, conjunction; U'NITISM, monism.--_adj._ U'NITIVE,
harmonising, uniting.--_adv._ UN[=I]'TIVELY.--UNITAS FRATRUM, or UNITED
BRETHREN (see MORAVIAN); UNITED GREEKS (see UNIAT); UNITED IRISHMEN, an
organisation originally formed to help Grattan in carrying his reforms, but
which quickly became a rebel organisation, and caused the rising of 1798;
UNITED PRESBYTERIAN (see PRESBYTER); UNITED PROVINCES, the seven northern
provinces of Holland--Holland, Zealand, Utrecht, Gelderland, Groningen,
Friesland, and Overyssel, united in 1579 under the Union of Utrecht; UNITED
STATES, a federal union of states, esp. that of North AMERICA.

UNITY, [=u]'ni-ti, _n._ oneness: state of being one or at one: agreement:
the arrangement of all the parts to one purpose or effect: harmony:
(_math._) any quantity taken as one.--THE UNITIES (of _place_, _time_, and
_action_), the three canons of the classical drama--that the scenes should
be at the same place, that all the events should be such as might happen
within a single day, and that nothing should be admitted not directly
relevant to the development of the plot.

UNIVALENT, [=u]-niv'a-lent, _adj._ having a valence of one.--_ns._
UNIV'ALENCE, UNIV'ALENCY.

UNIVALVE, [=u]'ni-valv, _adj._ having one valve or shell only.--_n._ a
shell of one valve only: a mollusc whose shell is composed of a single
piece.--_adj._ UNIVAL'VULAR.

UNIVERSAL, [=u]-ni-v[.e]r'sal, _adj._ comprehending, affecting, or
extending to the whole: comprising all the particulars: applied to a great
variety of uses.--_n._ a universal proposition, a general term, a universal
concept.--_n._ UNIVERSALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ UNIVER'SALISE.--_ns._
UNIVER'SALISM, the doctrine or belief of universal salvation, or the
ultimate salvation of all mankind, and even of the fallen angels;
UNIVER'SALIST, a believer in universalism.--_adj._ pertaining to such
beliefs.--_adj._ UNIVERSALIST'IC.--_n._ UNIVERSAL'ITY, state or quality of
being universal.--_adv._ UNIVER'SALLY.--_n._ UNIVER'SALNESS.--_adj._
UNIVERSAN'IMOUS, of one mind. [L. _universalis_--_universus_.]

UNIVERSE, [=u]'ni-v[.e]rs, _n._ the whole system of created things: all
created things viewed as one whole: the world.--_adj._
UNIVERSOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ UNIVERSOL'OGIST; UNIVERSOL'OGY, the science of the
universe, or of all forms of human activity. [L. _universum_, neut. sing.
of _universus_, whole, _unus_, one, _versus_, _vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

UNIVERSITY, [=u]-ni-v[.e]r'si-ti, _n._ a corporation of teachers or
assemblage of colleges for teaching the higher branches of learning, and
having power to confer degrees. [L. _universitas_, a
corporation--_universus_.]

UNIVOCAL, [=u]-niv'[=o]-kal, _adj._ having one meaning only: having unison
of sounds.--_n._ a word with but one meaning.--_n._ UNIV'OCACY.--_adv._
UNIV'OCALLY.--_n._ UNIVOC[=A]'TION, agreement of name and meaning. [L.
_univocus_--_unus_, one, _vox_, _vocis_, a voice.]

UNJAUNDICED, un-jän'dist, _adj._ not jaundiced, not affected by jealousy.

UNJEALOUS, un-jel'us, _adj._ not jealous.

UNJOINTED, un-join'ted, _adj._ having no joint or articulation.

UNJOYFUL, un-joi'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not joyful.--_adj._ UNJOY'OUS, not joyous
or cheerful.--_adv._ UNJOY'OUSLY.

UNJUST, un-just', _adj._ not just or controlled by justice: contrary to
justice: dishonest, faithless.--_adj._ UNJUS'TIF[=I]ABLE, not
justifiable.--_n._ UNJUS'TIF[=I]ABLENESS.--_advs._ UNJUS'TIF[=I]ABLY;
UNJUST'LY.--_n._ UNJUST'NESS.

UNKED, ung'ked, _adj._ (_prov._) strange, ugly, inconvenient.--Also UNK'ID,
UNK'ETH, UNK'ARD. [_Uncouth_.]

UNKEMPT, un'kemt, _adj._ uncombed: unpolished, rough. [Pfx. _un-_, not,
A.S. _cemban_, to comb--_camb_, a comb.]

UNKENNED, un-kend', _adj._ not known.--Also UNKENT'.

UNKENNEL, un-ken'el, _v.t._ to drive from a kennel or hole: to rouse from
secrecy or retreat.

UNKEPT, un-kept', _adj._ not kept or sustained.

UNKIND, un-k[=i]nd', _adj._ contrary to kind or nature: wanting in
kindness: cruel.--_n._ UNK[=I]ND'LINESS, want of kindliness.--_adj._
UNK[=I]ND'LY, contrary to kind or nature: malignant: not kind.--_adv._
(_Milt._) in a manner contrary to kind or nature: in an unkindly manner:
cruelly.--_n._ UNK[=I]ND'NESS, want of kindness or affection:
cruelty.--_adj._ UNKIN'DRED (_obs._), not related.--_adv._ UNKIN'DREDLY.

UNKING, un-king', _v.t._ to strip of royal power.--_adv._ UNKING'LY,
unbecoming a king.

UNKISS, un-kis', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to annul by kissing.

UNKNELLED, un-neld', _adj._ untolled.

UNKNIGHTLY, un-n[=i]t'li, _adj._ contrary to the rules of chivalry,
unbecoming a knight.--_n._ UNKNIGHT'LINESS.

UNKNIT, un-nit', _v.t._ to separate or loose what is knit or knotted: to
open.

UNKNOT, un-not', _v.t._ to free from knots: to untie.

UNKNOWABLE, un-n[=o]'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being known.--_n._ that
which cannot be known, the first or original cause: that which is
cognisable only in its relations.--_n._ UNKNOW'ABLENESS.--_adv._
UNKNOW'ABLY.--_adj._ UNKNOW'ING, ignorant, obtuse.--_adv._
UNKNOW'INGLY.--_n._ UNKNOW'INGNESS.--_adj._ UNKNOWN', not known, mentally
apprehended, recognised, or made know.--_n._ UNKNOWN'NESS.

UNLABOURED, un-l[=a]'burd, _adj._ showing no traces of labour, unwrought:
unrestrained, easy.--_adj._ UNLAB[=O]'RIOUS, not toilsome.--_adv._
UNLAB[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_adj._ UNL[=A]'BOURING, not labouring.

UNLACE, un-l[=a]s', _v.t._ to loose from being laced: to loose the dress
of.--_adj._ UNLAST' (_Spens._), unlaced.

UNLADE, un-l[=a]d', _v.i._ to unload: to take out the cargo of.

UNLAID, un-l[=a]d', _adj._ not laid or fixed: not having parallel
water-marked lines, as paper: untwisted: not allayed or pacified.

UNLAMENTED, un-la-men'ted, _adj._ not lamented.

UNLAP, un-lap', _v.t._ to unfold.

UNLARDED, un-lär'ded, _adj._ not larded or mixed with lard, unadulterated.

UNLASH, un-lash', _v.t._ (_naut._) to loose the lashings of.

UNLATCH, un-lach', _v.t._ to open by lifting the latch.

UNLAWFUL, un-law'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not lawful or permitted by law.--_n._
UNLAW', lawlessness, any breach of law: an injury, injustice: a fine
exacted from a transgressor of the law.--_adv._ UNLAW'FULLY.--_n._
UNLAW'FULNESS.

UNLAY, un-l[=a]', _v.t._ (_naut._) to untwist, as the strands of a rope.

UNLEAD, un-led', _v.t._ (_print._) to take out the leads from matter set
up.

UNLEAL, un-l[=e]l', _adj._ not leal or loyal.

UNLEARN, un-l[.e]rn', _v.t._ to forget or lose what has been
learned.--_v.i._ to become ignorant.--_adj._ UNLEAR'NED, not learned:
ignorant.--_adv._ UNLEAR'NEDLY.--_n._ UNLEAR'NEDNESS.

UNLEASH, un-l[=e]sh', _v.t._ to free from a leash, to let go.

UNLEAVE, un-l[=e]v', _v.t._ (_obs._) to strip of leaves.--_v.i._ to lose
leaves.

UNLEAVENED, un-lev'nd, _adj._ not leavened.

UNLECTURED, un-lek't[=u]rd, _adj._ not taught in lectures, not subjected to
instruction or admonition in lectures.

UNLED, un-led', _adj._ not led, without guidance.

UNLEISURED, un-l[=e]'zh[=oo]rd, _adj._ not having leisure.--_n._
UNLEI'SUREDNESS.

UNLESS, un-les', _conj._ at or for less: if not: supposing that not: save,
except. [Formerly _on les_, _on lesse_, in phrase _on lesse that_, in less
than.]

UNLESSONED, un-les'nd, _adj._ not instructed, not taught.

UNLETTERED, un-let'[.e]rd, _adj._ unlearned, illiterate.--_n._
UNLETT'EREDNESS.

UNLEVEL, un-lev'l, _adj._ not level, uneven.--_v.t._ to make uneven.

UNLICENSED, un-l[=i]'senst, _adj._ having no license, done without a
license.

UNLICH, un-lik', _adj._ (_Spens._) unlike.

UNLICKED, un-likt', _adj._ not licked into shape, shapeless, not
smooth--from the old notion that the she-bear licks her cubs into shape,
hence ungainly, awkward.

UNLIKE, un-l[=i]k', _adj._ not like or similar: having no
resemblance.--_adv._ in another manner to.--_ns._ UNLIKE'LIHOOD,
UNLIKE'LINESS, improbability.--_adj._ UNLIKE'LY, not likely: improbable:
likely to fail.--_adv._ in an unlikely manner, improbably.--_n._
UNLIKE'NESS, want of resemblance.

UNLIMBER, un-lim'b[.e]r, _v.t._ to remove the limbers from, to take off the
limbers of.--_v.i._ to detach the limbers from the guns.

UNLIMBER, un-lim'b[.e]r, _adj._ (_obs._) not flexible.

UNLIME, un-l[=i]m', _v.t._ to remove the lime from.

UNLIMITED, un-lim'i-ted, _adj._ not limited, bounded, defined, or
restrained.--_adj._ UNLIM'ITABLE (_obs._), illimitable.--_adv._
UNLIM'ITEDLY.--_n._ UNLIM'ITEDNESS.

UNLINE, un-l[=i]n', _v.t._ to remove the lining from, to empty.

UNLINEAL, un-lin'[=e]-al, _adj._ not lineal.

UNLINK, un-lingk', _v.t._ to separate the links of, to untwist.--_adj._
UNLINKED', not joined by links.

UNLIQUEFIED, un-lik'w[=e]-f[=i]d, _adj._ unmelted.

UNLIQUIDATED, un-lik'wi-d[=a]-ted, _adj._ not determined, settled, or
adjusted.

UNLIQUORED, un-lik'urd, _adj._ not moistened with liquor: not in liquor,
sober.

UNLISTENING, un-lis'ning, _adj._ not listening or giving heed to.

UNLITURGISE, un-lit'ur-j[=i]z, _v.t._ to deprive of a liturgy.

UNLIVE, un-liv', _v.t._ to undo by living: (_obs._) to deprive of
life.--_adj._ UNLIVED' (_Shak._), bereft of life.--_n._ UNL[=I]VE'LINESS,
want of liveliness.

UNLOAD, un-l[=o]d', _v.t._ to take the load from: to discharge: to
disburden: (_U.S. slang_) to sell in great quantity, as risky stock,
&c.--_v.i._ to discharge freight.--_ns._ UNLOAD'ER; UNLOAD'ING.

UNLOCATED, un-l[=o]-k[=a]'ted, _adj._ not located: (_U.S._) not surveyed or
marked off.

UNLOCK, un-lok', _v.t._ to unfasten what is locked: to open.

UNLODGE, un-loj', _v.t._ to dislodge.

UNLOGICAL, un-loj'i-kal, _adj._ illogical.

UNLOOKED, un-l[=oo]kt', _adj._ not anticipated (generally with _for_).

UNLOOSE, un-l[=oo]s', _v.t._ to make loose: to set free.--_v.t._ UNLOOS'EN,
to unloose.

UNLORD, un-lord', _v.t._ to strip of the dignity of a lord.--_adjs._
UNLORD'ED, not raised to the rank of lord; UNLORD'LY, not lordly.

UNLOSABLE, un-l[=oo]'za-bl, _adj._ that cannot be lost.--_adj._ UNLOST',
not lost.

UNLOVE, un-luv', _v.t._ to cease to love.--_n._ the absence of
love.--_adjs._ UNLOV'ABLE, not deserving to be loved, unlikely to be loved;
UNLOVED', not loved.--_n._ UNLOVE'LINESS, want of loveliness, amiability,
or beauty.--_adjs._ UNLOVE'LY, not lovely; UNLOV'ING, not loving.--_adv._
UNLOV'INGLY.--_n._ UNLOV'INGNESS.

UNLUCKY, un-luk'i, _adj._ not lucky or fortunate: ill-omened.--_adv._
UNLUCK'ILY, in an unlucky or unfortunate manner.--_n._ UNLUCK'INESS, the
state or quality of being unlucky or unfortunate.

UNLUSTROUS, un-lus'trus, _adj._ not lustrous.

UNLUTE, un-l[=oo]t', _v.t._ to separate the lute or clay from.

UNMAGISTRATE, un-maj'is-tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to degrade from the position of
magistrate.

UNMAIDENLY, un-m[=a]'dn-li, _adj._ unbecoming a maiden.--_v.t._ UNMAID'EN,
to deflower.

UNMAILABLE, un-m[=a]'la-bl, _adj._ incapable of being mailed or sent to its
proper destination by post.

UNMAIMED, un-m[=a]md', _adj._ not maimed, entire.

UNMAKE, un-m[=a]k', _v.t._ to destroy the make or form and qualities
of.--_adjs._ UNMADE', not made: reduced to its original form;
UNM[=A]'KABLE, that cannot be made.--_n._ UNM[=A]'KING, act of
destroying.--UNMADE UP, not worked up into form.

UNMALLEABLE, un-mal'[=e]-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be hammered, stubborn,
unyielding.--_n._ UNMALLEABIL'ITY.

UNMAN, un-man', _v.t._ to deprive of the powers of a man, as courage,
virility, &c.: to deprive of men.--_adj._ UNMAN'LIKE, not manlike.--_n._
UNMAN'LINESS, effeminacy.--_adjs._ UNMAN'LY, not becoming a man: unworthy
of a noble mind: base: cowardly; UNMANNED', not manned or furnished with
men: (_Shak._) not tamed or made subject to man, maiden, virgin.

UNMANACLE, un-man'a-kl, _adj._ to release from manacles, to set free.

UNMANAGEABLE, un-man'[=a]j-a-bl, _adj._ not manageable, not easily
controlled or directed.--_n._ UNMAN'AGEABLENESS.--_adv._
UNMAN'AGEABLY.--_adj._ UNMAN'AGED, not controlled: not broken in.

UNMANNERLY, un-man'[.e]r-li, _adj._ not mannerly: ill-bred.--_adv._ in an
unmannerly manner.--_adj._ UNMANN'ERED, wanting in good manners: uncivil:
rude.--_n._ UNMANN'ERLINESS, state or quality of being unmannerly: want of
good manners: rudeness.

UNMANTLE, un-man'tl, _v.t._ to divest of a mantle.

UNMANUFACTURED, un-man-[=u]-fak't[=u]rd, _adj._ not manufactured or worked
up from its natural state: not simulated or put on.

UNMANURED, un-ma-n[=u]rd', _adj._ not manured: (_obs._) untilled.

UNMARKED, un-märkt', _adj._ bearing no distinctive mark: not noticed.

UNMARKETABLE, un-mär'ket-a-bl, _adj._ not suitable for the market, not
saleable.

UNMARRED, un-märd', _adj._ not marred.

UNMARRIED, un-mar'id, _adj._ not married.--_adjs._ UNMARR'IABLE (_obs._),
not marriageable; UNMARR'IAGEABLE, not fit to marry, not yet old enough to
be married.--_n._ UNMARR'IAGEABLENESS.--_v.t._ UNMARR'Y, to dissolve the
marriage of.

UNMARTYR, un-mär't[.e]r, _v.t._ to degrade from the dignity of a martyr.

UNMASCULINE, un-mas'k[=u]-lin, _adj._ not masculine.

UNMASK, un-mask', _v.t._ to take a mask or any disguise off: to
expose.--_v.i._ to put off a mask.--_adj._ UNMASKED'.

UNMASTERED, un-mas't[.e]rd, _adj._ not subdued, not conquerable.--_adj._
UNMAS'TERABLE, that cannot be mastered.

UNMATCHED, un-macht', _adj._ matchless, without an equal.--_adj._
UNMATCH'ABLE, not to be equalled.--_n._ UNMATCH'EDNESS.

UNMATED, un-m[=a]'ted, _adj._ not mated.

UNMATERIAL, un-ma-t[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ not material.--_adj._
UNMAT[=E]'RIAL[=I]SED, not in bodily shape: not yet having become actual or
taken shape.

UNMEANING, un-m[=e]'ning, _adj._ having no meaning: without
intelligence.--_adv._ UNMEAN'INGLY.--_n._ UNMEAN'INGNESS.--_adj._ UNMEANT
(un-ment'), not meant.

UNMEASURED, un-mezh'[=u]rd, _adj._ not measured, boundless:
irregular.--_adj._ UNMEAS'URABLE, immeasurable.--_n._
UNMEAS'URABLENESS.--_adv._ UNMEAS'URABLY.

UNMECHANISE, un-mek'a-n[=i]z, _v.t._ to destroy the mechanism of, to throw
out of order.

UNMEDDLE, un-med'l, _v.i._ to repair the effects of meddling.--_adj._
UNMEDD'LING, not meddling.--_n._ UNMEDD'LINGNESS.

UNMEDICINABLE, un-m[=e]-dis'in-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be cured: unable to
cure.

UNMEDITATED, un-med'i-t[=a]-ted, _adj._ not meditated, unpremeditated.

UNMEET, un-m[=e]t', _adj._ not meet, unfit.--_adv._ UNMEET'LY.--_n._
UNMEET'NESS.

UNMELLOWED, un-mel'[=o]d, _adj._ not mellowed or softened.

UNMELODIOUS, un-m[=e]-l[=o]'di-us, _adj._ not melodious, harsh.--_n._
UNMEL[=O]'DIOUSNESS.

UNMENSEFUL, un-mens'f[=oo]l, _adj._ (_Scot._) unmannerly.

UNMENTIONABLE, un-men'shun-a-bl, _adj._ unworthy of being mentioned.--_n._
UNMEN'TIONABLENESS.--_n.pl._ UNMEN'TIONABLES, otherwise _inexpressibles_, a
would-be humorous name for trousers.

UNMERCENARY, un-mer'se-na-ri, _adj._ not mercenary.

UNMERCHANTABLE, un-mer'chant-a-bl, _adj._ not merchantable, unsaleable.

UNMERCIFUL, un-mer'si-f[=oo]l, _adj._ showing no mercy: exorbitant.--_adv._
UNMER'CIFULLY.--_n._ UNMER'CIFULNESS.

UNMERITED, un-mer'i-ted, _adj._ not merited, undeserved: obtained without
service.--_adj._ UNMER'ITABLE (_Shak._), without merit.--_n._
UNMER'ITEDNESS.--_adj._ UNMER'ITING, not deserving.

UNMETED, un-m[=e]'ted, _adj._ not meted or measured.

UNMETHODICAL, un-me-thod'i-kal, _adj._ not methodical.--_adj._
UNMETH'ODISED, not regulated by method.

UNMEW, un-m[=u]', _v.t._ to release, as from a mew, to set free.

UNMILITARY, un-mil'i-ta-ri, _adj._ not in accordance with military methods,
without military spirit.

UNMINDED, un-m[=i]n'ded, _adj._ not heeded, forgotten.--_adj._ UNMIND'FUL,
not keeping in mind, regardless.--_adv._ UNMIND'FULLY.--_n._
UNMIND'FULNESS.

UNMINGLE, un-ming'gl, _v.t._ to separate things mixed.

UNMIRACULOUS, un-mi-rak'[=u]-lus, _adj._ not miraculous.--_adv._
UNMIRAC'ULOUSLY.

UNMIRY, un-m[=i]r'i, _adj._ not miry or muddy.

UNMISTAKABLE, un-mis-t[=a]'ka-bl, _adj._ incapable of being mistaken:
clear: distinct.--_n._ UNMIST[=A]'KABLENESS.--_adv._ UNMIST[=A]'KABLY.

UNMITIGABLE, un-mit'i-ga-bl, _adj._ that cannot be mitigated or
alleviated.--_advs._ UNMIT'IGABLY, UNMIT'IG[=A]TEDLY.--_adj._
UNMIT'IG[=A]TED, not mitigated or abated, having full force.

UNMITRE, un-m[=i]'t[.e]r, _v.t._ to deprive of a mitre, to degrade from the
dignity of bishop.

UNMIXED, un-mikst', _adj._ free from any foreign admixture,
unadulterated.--_adv._ UNMIX'EDLY.

UNMOANED, un-m[=o]nd', _adj._ not lamented.

UNMODERNISE, un-mod'[.e]r-n[=i]z, _v.t._ to give an old-fashioned form or
manner to.

UNMODIFIED, un-mod'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ not modified, qualified, or
limited.--_adj._ UNMOD'IF[=I]ABLE, that cannot be modified.--_n._
UNMOD'IF[=I]ABLENESS.

UNMODISH, un-m[=o]'dish, _adj._ not modish or fashionable.

UNMOISTENED, un-moi'snd, _adj._ not moistened or wetted.

UNMOLESTED, un-m[=o]-les'ted, _adj._ not molested.

UNMOMENTARY, un-m[=o]'men-ta-ri, _adj._ without a moment's interval.

UNMONEYED, un-mun'id, _adj._ without money.--Also UNMON'IED.

UNMONOPOLISE, un-m[=o]-nop'[=o]'-l[=i]z, _v.t._ to free from
monopoly.--_adj._ UNMONOP'OLISING, not including in a monopoly.

UNMOOR, un-m[=oo]r', _v.t._ to loose from being moored or anchored.--_v.i._
to weigh anchor.

UNMORAL, un-mor'al, _adj._ not moral.--_adjs._ UNMOR'AL[=I]SED, not
moralised upon, having no moral attached; UNMORAL[=I]S'ING, not given to
making moral reflections.--_n._ UNMORAL'ITY.

UNMORTISE, un-mor'tis, _v.t._ to loosen the mortises or joints of.

UN-MOSAIC, un-m[=o]-z[=a]'ik, _adj._ not according to _Moses_ or his law.

UNMOTHERLY, un-muth'[.e]r-li, _adj._ not like a mother.

UNMOTIVED, un-m[=o]'tivd, _adj._ uninfluenced by a motive.

UNMOULD, un-m[=o]ld', _v.t._ to change the form of.

UNMOUNTED, un-mown'ted, _adj._ not mounted: not placed on horseback: not
set or arranged with any suitable background, &c., for display or
protection, as a precious stone, a drawing or photograph for framing, a
lantern or microscopic slide, &c.

UNMOURNED, un-m[=o]rnd', _adj._ not mourned.

UNMOVED, un-m[=oo]vd', _adj._ not moved, firm: not touched by emotion,
calm.--_adjs._ UNMOV'ABLE, UNMOVE'ABLE, immovable.--_advs._ UNMOV'ABLY,
immovably; UNMOV'EDLY.--_adj._ UNMOV'ING, not moving: unaffecting.

UNMUDDLE, un-mud'l, _v.t._ to free from muddle.

UNMUFFLE, un-muf'l, _v.t._ to take a muffle or covering from.--_v.i._ to
throw off concealments.

UNMULTIPLY, un-mul'ti-pl[=i], _v.t._ to reverse the process of
multiplication, to find the factors of.

UNMUNITIONED, un-m[=u]-nish'und, _adj._ not provided with war materials.

UNMURMURING, un-mur'mur-ing, _adj._ not murmuring.--_adv._ UNMUR'MURINGLY.

UNMUSCULAR, un-mus'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ not muscular or physically
strong.--_adj._ UNMUSCLED (un-mus'ld), with the muscles relaxed.

UNMUSICAL, un-m[=u]'zi-kal, _adj._ not musical or harmonious: not skilled
in music.--_n._ UNMUSICAL'ITY.--_adv._ UNM[=U]'SICALLY.

UNMUTILATED, un-m[=u]'ti-l[=a]-ted, _adj._ not mutilated.

UNMUZZLE, un-muz'l, _v.t._ to take a muzzle off.

UNNAIL, un-n[=a]l', _v.t._ to take the nails from.

UNNAMABLE, un-n[=a]'ma-bl, _adj._ not to be named.--_adj._ UNNAMED', not
named.

UNNAPPED, un-napt', _adj._ without a nap, as cloth: deprived of nap.

UNNATIVE, un-n[=a]'tiv, _adj._ not native or natural.

UNNATURAL, un-nat'[=u]-ral, _adj._ not natural or according to nature:
without natural affection.--_v.t._ UNNAT'URALISE.--_adj._ UNNAT'URALISED,
not naturalised.--_ns._ UNNAT'URALISM, UNNATURAL'ITY.--_adv._
UNNAT'URALLY.--_n._ UNNAT'URALNESS.

UNNAVIGABLE, un-nav'i-ga-bl, _adj._ not navigable.--_n._
UNNAVIGABIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNNAV'IGATED, not sailed on or over.

UNNECESSARY, un-nes'e-sa-ri, _adj._ not necessary: useless:
needless.--_adv._ UNNEC'ESSARILY, without necessity.--_n._
UNNEC'ESSARINESS.

UNNEEDFUL, un-n[=e]d'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not needful.--_adv._ UNNEED'FULLY.

UNNEIGHBOURED, un-n[=a]'burd, _adj._ having no neighbours.--_n._
UNNEIGH'BOURLINESS.--_adj._ UNNEIGH'BOURLY, not neighbourly, friendly, or
social.--_adv._ in an unneighbourly manner.

UNNERVE, un-n[.e]rv', _v.t._ to deprive of nerve, strength, or vigour: to
weaken.--_adj._ UNNER'VATE (_obs._), enervated.

UNNEST, un-nest', _v.t._ to turn out of a nest.

UNNETH. See UNEATH.

UNNETTED, un-net'ed, _adj._ not enclosed in a net.

UNNIGGARDLY, un-nig'ard-li, _adj._ not niggardly or miserly.--_adj._
UNNIGG'ARD, not niggard, liberal.

UNNIMBED, un-nimd', _adj._ without a nimbus.

UNNOBLE, un-n[=o]'bl, _adj._ (_Spens._) ignoble.--_v.t._ to deprive of
nobility.

UNNOOKED, un-n[=oo]kt', _adj._ with no nooks, simple, open, guileless.

UNNOTED, un-n[=o]'ted, _adj._ not noted or marked.

UNNOTICED, un-n[=o]'tisd, _adj._ not noticed or observed.

UNNOTIFY, un-n[=o]'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to negative something previously told.

UNNUMBERED, un-num'b[.e]rd, _adj._ (_Milt._) not to be numbered,
innumerable.--_adj._ UNNUM'BERABLE, innumerable.

UNNUN, un-nun', _v.t._ to divest of the character of a nun.

UNNURTURED, un-nur't[=u]rd, _adj._ not nurtured or educated, rough.

UNOBJECTIONABLE, un-ob-jek'shun-a-bl, _adj._ not liable to
objection.--_adv._ UNOBJEC'TIONABLY.

UNOBNOXIOUS, un-ob-nok'shus, _adj._ not liable or subject to.

UNOBSERVANCE, un-ob-zer'vans, _n._ state of being unobservant, inattention:
lack of observance of some law.--_adjs._ UNOBSER'VABLE, not to be observed;
UNOBSER'VANT, not observant or attentive; UNOBSERVED', not
observed.--_adv._ UNOBSER'VEDLY.-_adj._ UNOBSER'VING, not observing.

UNOBSTRUCTED, un-ob-struk'ted, _adj._ not obstructed or hindered,
clear.--_adj._ UNOBSTRUC'TIVE, offering no obstacle.

UNOBTRUSIVE, un-ob-tr[=oo]'siv, _adj._ not obtrusive or forward.--_adv._
UNOBTRU'SIVELY, in an unobtrusive or modest manner.--_n._ UNOBTRU'SIVENESS,
state of being unobtrusive: modesty.

UNOBVIOUS, un-ob'vi-us, _adj._ not obvious, evident, or manifest.

UNOCCUPIED, un-ok'[=u]-p[=i]d, _adj._ not occupied: not used.

UNODE, [=u]'n[=o]d, _n._ (_geom._) a limiting case of a conical point, in
which the tangent cone has become a pair of coincident planes.

UNOFFENDING, un-o-fen'ding, _adj._ not offending, blameless.--_adj._
UNOFFEN'SIVE, inoffensive.

UNOFFICIAL, un-o-fish'al, _adj._ not official.

UNOFFICIOUS, un-o-fish'us, _adj._ not officious.

UNOFTEN, un-of'n, _adv._ not often.

UNOIL, un-oil', _v.t._ to free from oil.

UNOPERATIVE, un-op'e-r[=a]-tiv, _adj._ inoperative.

UNOPPOSED, un-o-p[=o]zd', _adj._ not opposed.

UNOPPRESSIVE, un-o-pres'iv, _adj._ not oppressive.

UNORDAINED, un-or-d[=a]nd', _adj._ not appointed or established: not having
received ordination.

UNORDER, un-or'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to cancel an order.--_adjs._ UNOR'DERED,
disordered: not ordered or commanded: UNOR'DERLY, not orderly.

UNORDINARY, un-or'di-na-ri, _adj._ not ordinary.

UNORGANISED, un-or'gan-[=i]zd, _adj._ not organised or having organic
structure.

UNORIGINAL, un-[=o]-rij'in-al, _adj._ not original: (_Milt._) without
origin, birth, or source.--_adjs._ UNORIG'IN[=A]TE, -D.--_n._
UNORIG'IN[=A]TEDNESS.--_adv._ UNORIG'IN[=A]TELY.

UNORNAMENTAL, un-or-na-men'tal, _adj._ not ornamental.--_adj._
UNOR'NAMENTED, not ornamented.

UNORTHODOX, un-or'th[=o]-doks, _adj._ not orthodox.--_n._ UNOR'THODOXY,
heterodoxy, heresy.

UNOSSIFIED, un-os'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ not yet formed into bone.

UNOSTENTATIOUS, un-os-ten-t[=a]'shus, _adj._ not ostentatious or
showy.--_adv._ UNOSTENT[=A]'TIOUSLY.--_n._ UNOSTENT[=A]'TIOUSNESS.

UNOWED, un-[=o]d', _adj._ not owed or due: (_Shak._) unowned.

UNOWNED, un-[=o]nd', _adj._ not owned, without an owner.

UNOWNED, un-[=o]nd', _adj._ not avowed or acknowledged as one's own
property or one's own work.

UNPACK, un-pak', _v.t._ to take out of a pack: to open.--_n._ UNPACK'ER.

UNPAID, un-p[=a]d', _adj._ not discharged: receiving no pay.

UNPAINFUL, un-p[=a]n'f[=oo]l, _adj._ not painful.--_adj._ UNPAINED', not
pained.

UNPAINT, un-p[=a]nt', _v.t._ to efface the painting of.

UNPAIRED, un-p[=a]rd', _adj._ not paired.

UNPALATABLE, un-pal'[=a]-ta-bl, _adj._ not agreeable.--_adv._ UNPAL'ATABLY.

UNPANEL, un-pan'el, _v.t._ to unsaddle.

UNPANGED, un-pangd', _adj._ not affected with pangs.

UNPARADISE, un-par'a-d[=i]s, _v.t._ to deprive of any supreme delight.

UNPARAGONED, un-par'a-gond, _adj._ unmatched.

UNPARALLELED, un-par'a-leld, _adj._ without parallel or equal.--_adj._
UNPAR'ALLELABLE, incapable of being paralleled.

UNPARCHED, un-pärcht', _adj._ not parched.

UNPARDONABLE, un-pär'don-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be pardoned or
forgiven.--_n._ UNPAR'DONABLENESS.--_adv._ UNPAR'DONABLY.

UNPARLIAMENTARY, un-pär-li-men'tar-i, _adj._ contrary to the usages of
proceeding in Parliament: not such as can be spoken in PARLIAMENT.

UNPASSABLE, un-pas'a-bl, _adj._ impassable: not current.--_n._
UNPASS'ABLENESS.

UNPASSIONATE, un-pash'un-[=a]t, _adj._ dispassionate.--_adv._
UNPAS'SIONATELY.--_adj._ UNPAS'SIONED, free from passion.

UNPATHED, un-pätht', _adj._ pathless.--_adj._ UNPATH'WAYED, without
pathway.

UNPATRIOTIC, un-p[=a]-tri-ot'ik, _adj._ not patriotic.

UNPATRONISED, un-p[=a]'tron-izd, _adj._ without the support of patrons: not
traded with usually.

UNPATTERNED, un-pat'[.e]rnd, _adj._ having no pattern.

UNPAVED, un-p[=a]vd', _adj._ having no pavement: (_Shak._) gelded.

UNPAY, un-p[=a]', _v.t._ to annul by payment, to make undone.

UNPEACEABLE, un-p[=e]'sa-bl, _adj._ not peaceable.--_n._
UNPEACE'ABLENESS.--_adj._ UNPEACE'FUL.--_adv._ UNPEACE'FULLY.

UNPEDIGREED, un-ped'i-gr[=e]d, _adj._ not having a pedigree.

UNPEELED, un-p[=e]ld', _adj._ not peeled.

UNPEERABLE, un-p[=e]r'a-bl, _adj._ not to be matched.--_adj._ UNPEERED',
unequalled.

UNPEG, un-peg', _v.t._ to take the pegs from.

UNPEN, un-pen', _v.t._ to free from captivity.

UNPENSIONED, un-pen'shund, _adj._ not rewarded by a pension: not kept in
one's pay.

UNPEOPLE, un-p[=e]'pl, v. t. to deprive of people.

UNPEPPERED, un-pep'[.e]rd, _adj._ unseasoned.

UNPERCEIVABLE, un-per-s[=e]'va-bl, _adj._ not to be perceived.--_adv._
UNPERCEI'VABLY.--_adj._ UNPERCEIVED', not perceived.--_adv._
UNPERCEI'VEDLY, so as not to be perceived.

UNPERCH, un-perch', _v.t._ to drive from a perch.

UNPERFECT, un-p[.e]r'fekt, _adj._ imperfect.

UNPERFORMED, un-per-formd', _adj._ not performed or fulfilled: not
represented on the stage.

UNPERISHING, un-per'ish-ing, _adj._ not perishing.--_adj._
UNPER'ISHABLE.--_adv._ UNPER'ISHABLY.

UNPERJURED, un-per'j[=oo]rd, _adj._ not perjured.

UNPERPLEXED, un-per-plekst', _adj._ not perplexed.--_v.t._ UNPERPLEX', to
separate.

UNPERSECUTED, un-per's[=e]-k[=u]-ted, _adj._ not persecuted.

UNPERSONABLE, un-per'sun-a-bl, _adj._ not personable.--_adj._ UNPER'SONAL,
not personal.--_n._ UNPERSONAL'ITY.

UNPERSUADABLE, un-per-sw[=a]'da-bl, _adj._ not to be persuaded.--_ns._
UNPERSU[=A]'DABLENESS, UNPERSU[=A]'SIBLENESS; UNPERSU[=A]'SION.--_adj._
UNPERSU[=A]'SIVE, not persuasive.

UNPERTURBED, un-per-turbd', _adj._ not perturbed.--_n._ UNPERTUR'BEDNESS.

UNPERVERT, un-per-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to reconvert.--_adj._ UNPERVERT'ED, not
perverted.

UNPETRIFIED, un-pet'ri-f[=i]d, _adj._ not petrified.

UNPHILOSOPHICAL, un-fil-[=o]-sof'i-kal, _adj._ not philosophical--also
UNPHILOSOPH'IC.--_adv._ UNPHILOSOPH'ICALLY.--_n._
UNPHILOSOPH'ICALNESS.--_v.t._ UNPHILOS'OPHISE, to divest of the character
of philosopher.

UNPICK, un-pik', _v.t._ to take out by picking: to unfasten, undo.--_adjs._
UNPICK'ABLE, that cannot be picked; UNPICKED', not picked.

UNPIERCED, un-p[=e]rst', _adj._ not pierced.--_adj._ UNPIERCE'ABLE, not to
be pierced.

UNPILLARED, un-pil'ard, _adj._ stripped of pillars.

UNPILLOWED, un-pil'[=o]d, _adj._ without a pillow or support for the head.

UNPILOTED, un-p[=i]'lot-ed, _adj._ without pilot or guide.

UNPIN, un-pin', _v.t._ to loose what is pinned.

UNPINION, un-pin'yun, _v.t._ to set free from restraint.

UNPINKED, un-pingkt', _adj._ not pinked, not pierced with eyelet-holes.

UNPITEOUS, un-pit'e-us, _adj._ merciless, cruel.--_adv._
UNPIT'EOUSLY.--_n._ UNPIT'EOUSNESS.--_adjs._ UNPIT'IED, not pitied;
UNPIT'IFUL, having no pity.--_adv._ UNPIT'IFULLY.--_n._
UNPIT'IFULNESS.--_adj._ UNPIT'YING, showing no pity.--_adv._ UNPIT'YINGLY.

UNPLACED, un-pl[=a]st', _adj._ not arranged in proper places,
confused.--_v.t._ UNPLACE', to displace.

UNPLAGUED, un-pl[=a]gd', _p.adj._ not plagued or afflicted.

UNPLAINED, un-pl[=a]nd', _adj._ not lamented.

UNPLAIT, un-pl[=a]t', _v.t._ to loosen, undo.

UNPLANTED, un-plan'ted, _adj._ not planted or cultivated.--_v.t._ UNPLANT',
to strip of plants.

UNPLASTIC, un-plas'tik, _adj._ not plastic, not suitable for sculpture.

UNPLAUSIBLE, un-plaw'zi-bl, _adj._ not plausible.--_adv._ UNPLAU'SIBLY, not
plausibly.--_adj._ UNPLAU'SIVE, not approving.

UNPLEADED, un-pl[=e]'ded, _adj._ not pleaded.--_adj._ UNPLEA'DABLE,
incapable of being pleaded.

UNPLEASANT, un-plez'ant, _adj._ not pleasant: disagreeable.--_adj._
UNPLEASABLE (-pl[=e]'), not to be pleased.--_n._ UNPLEAS'ANCE.--_adv._
UNPLEAS'ANTLY, in an unpleasant manner: disagreeably.--_ns._
UNPLEAS'ANTNESS, state or quality of being unpleasant: disagreeableness;
UNPLEAS'ANTRY, want of pleasantness: any unpleasant occurrence, any
particular discomfort.--_adjs._ UNPLEASED (-pl[=e]zd'), displeased;
UNPLEASING (-pl[=e]'), displeasing, disgusting.--_adv._ UNPLEASINGLY
(-pl[=e]').--_n._ UNPLEASINGNESS (-pl[=e]').--_adj._ UNPLEAS'URABLE, not
giving pleasure.--_adv._ UNPLEAS'URABLY.

UNPLIANT, un-pl[=i]'ant, _adj._ not pliant, stiff, stubborn.--_adj._
UNPL[=I]'ABLE, not pliable.--_advs._ UNPL[=I]'ABLY; UNPL[=I]'ANTLY.

UNPLUCKED, un-plukt', _adj._ not plucked.

UNPLUGGED, un-plugd', _adj._ free from plugs: not short-circuited by a
plug.--_v.t._ UNPLUG', to remove a plug from.

UNPLUMB, un-plum', _v.t._ to remove the lead from.--_adj._ not plumb or
vertical.--_adj._ UNPLUMBED', not measured by a plumb-line: unfathomed.

UNPLUME, un-pl[=oo]m', _v.t._ to strip of feathers.

UNPOETICAL, un-p[=o]-et'i-kal, _adj._ not poetical, prosaic--also
UNPOET'IC.--_adv._ UNPOET'ICALLY.--_n._ UNPOET'ICALNESS.

UNPOINTED, un-poin'ted, _adj._ not pointed, blunt: having no vowel points,
as in Hebrew: with the joints uncemented, of a wall.

UNPOISED, un-poizd', _adj._ not poised.

UNPOISON, un-poi'zn, _v.t._ to expel the poison from.

UNPOLICIED, un-pol'i-sid, _adj._ without organised civil polity:
impolitic.--_adj._ UNPOL'ITIC, impolitic.

UNPOLISH, un-pol'ish, _v.t._ to take the polish from, to make
rough.--_adj._ UNPOL'ISHED.

UNPOLITE, un-p[=o]-l[=i]t', _adj._ not polite, rude.--_adv._
UNPOLITE'LY.--_n._ UNPOLITE'NESS.

UNPOLLED, un-p[=o]ld', _adj._ not polled.

UNPOLLUTED, un-po-l[=u]'ted, _adj._ not polluted.

UNPOPE, un-p[=o]p', _v.t._ to divest of papal authority.

UNPOPULAR, un-pop'[=u]-lar, _adj._ not popular: disliked by the
people.--_n._ UNPOPULAR'ITY, the state of being unpopular.--_adv._
UNPOP'ULARLY, in an unpopular manner: not popularly.

UNPORTIONED, un-p[=o]r'shund, _adj._ not provided with a portion.

UNPORTUOUS, un-por't[=u]-us, _adj._ without harbours.

UNPOSITIVE, un-poz'i-tiv, _adj._ not assertive.

UNPOSSESSED, un-po-zest', _adj._ not possessed, not in possession (with
of).--_adj._ UNPOSSESS'ING (_Shak._), having no possessions.

UNPOSSIBILITY, un-pos-i-bil'i-ti, _n._ impossibility.--_adj._ UNPOSS'IBLE,
impossible.

UNPOSTED, un-p[=o]s'ted, _adj._ not having a fixed post: not posted up for
public information: (_coll._) not posted or informed about anything.

UNPOWERFUL, un-pow'[.e]r-f[=oo]l, _adj._ not powerful.

UNPRACTICAL, un-prak'ti-kal, _adj._ not practical, disinclined to give
attention to things immediately useful or profitable: not workable in
detail.--_n._ UNPRACTICAL'ITY.--_adv._ UNPRAC'TICALLY.

UNPRACTISED, un-prak'tist, _adj._ having no practice or experience: not
carried out in practice, not usually done: not yet familiar through
practice.--_n._ UNPRAC'TISEDNESS.

UNPRAISE, un-pr[=a]z', _v.t._ to deprive of praise.

UNPRAY, un-pr[=a]', _v.t._ to revoke a prayer.

UNPREACH, un-pr[=e]ch', _v.t._ to recant something already preached.

UNPRECEDENTED, un-pres'[=e]-den-ted, _adj._ having no precedent:
novel.--_adv._ UNPREC'EDENTEDLY.

UNPREDICT, un-pr[=e]-dikt', _v.i._ (_Milt._) to recall what has been
predicted or foretold.

UNPREGNANT, un-preg'nant, _adj._ (_Shak._) stupid, unapt for business:
indifferent to (with _of_).

UNPREJUDICATE, un-pr[=e]-j[=oo]'di-k[=a]t, _adj._ unprejudiced.--_n._
UNPREJUD'ICATENESS.

UNPREJUDICED, un-prej'[=oo]-dist, _adj._ not prejudiced: impartial.--_n._
UNPREJ'UDICE, absence of prejudice.--_adv._ UNPREJ'UDICEDLY.--_n._
UNPREJ'UDICEDNESS.

UNPRELATE, un-prel'[=a]t, _v.t._ to deprive of the dignity of
prelate.--_adj._ UNPRELAT'ICAL.

UNPREMEDITATED, un-pr[=e]-med'i-t[=a]-ted, _adj._ not planned beforehand,
not previously thought of.--_adj._ UNPREMED'ITABLE, not to be foreseen,
unforeseen.--_adv._ UNPREMED'ITATEDLY.--_ns._ UNPREMED'ITATEDNESS;
UNPREMEDIT[=A]'TION.

UNPREPARED, un-pr[=e]-p[=a]rd', _adj._ without preparation, done without
such.--_n._ UNPREPAR[=A]'TION, unpreparedness.--_adv._
UNPREP[=A]R'EDLY.--_n._ UNPREP[=A]R'EDNESS.

UNPREPOSSESSING, un-pr[=e]-po-zes'ing, _adj._ not predisposing in one's
favour, unpleasing.--_adj._ UNPREPOSSESSED', not prepossessed or
prejudiced.

UNPRESCRIBED, un-pr[=e]-skr[=i]bd', _adj._ not prescribed or laid down
beforehand.

UNPRESENTABLE, un-pr[=e]-zen'ta-bl, _adj._ not presentable, not fit to be
seen.

UNPRESSED, un-prest', _adj._ not pressed.

UNPRESUMING, un-pr[=e]-z[=u]'ming, _adj._ not presuming, unpretentious.

UNPRESUMPTUOUS, un-pr[=e]-zump't[=u]-us, _adj._ not presumptuous, modest.

UNPRETENDING, un-pr[=e]-ten'ding, _adj._ not pretending or making pretence:
modest.--_adv._ UNPRETEN'DINGLY.--_adj._ UNPRETEN'TIOUS, not
pretentious.--_n._ UNPRETEN'TIOUSNESS.

UNPRETTY, un-prit'i, _adj._ not pretty.--_n._ UNPRETT'INESS.

UNPREVAILING, un-pr[=e]-v[=a]'ling, _adj._ having no force, unavailing.

UNPREVENTED, un-pr[=e]-ven'ted, _adj._ not hindered or prevented: (_obs._)
not preceded by anything.--_adj._ UNPREVEN'TABLE, impossible to be
prevented.--_n._ UNPREVEN'TABLENESS.

UNPRICED, un-pr[=i]st', _adj._ having no fixed price: beyond price,
priceless.

UNPRIEST, un-pr[=e]st', _v.t._ to strip of the rank of priest.--_adj._
UNPRIEST'LY, unbecoming a priest.

UNPRINCE, un-prins', _v.t._ to deprive of princely dignity.--_adj._
UNPRINCE'LY, unbecoming a prince.

UNPRINCIPLED, un-prin'si-pld, _adj._ without settled principles: not
restrained by conscience: profligate.--_v.t._ UNPRIN'CIPLE, to destroy the
moral principles of.--_n._ UNPRIN'CIPLEDNESS.

UNPRISON, un-priz'n, _v.t._ to release from prison.

UNPRIVILEGED, un-priv'i-lejd, _adj._ not privileged.

UNPRIZABLE, un-pr[=i]'za-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) incapable of being valued,
either as so far above or below price.

UNPROCLAIMED, un-pr[=o]-kl[=a]md', _adj._ not proclaimed.

UNPRODUCTIVE, un-pr[=o]-duk'tiv, _adj._ not productive, profitable, or
efficient, not effecting some particular result (with _of_).--_adv._
UNPRODUC'TIVELY.--_ns._ UNPRODUC'TIVENESS; UNPRODUCTIV'ITY.

UNPROFANED, un-pr[=o]-f[=a]nd', _adj._ not profaned or desecrated.

UNPROFESSIONAL, un-pr[=o]-fesh'un-al, _adj._ having no profession: beyond
the limits of one's profession: contrary to the rules or the usual
etiquette of a particular profession.--_adv._ UNPROFES'SIONALLY.

UNPROFITABLE, un-prof'i-ta-bl, _adj._ not profitable: bringing no profit:
serving no purpose.--_n._ UNPROF'ITABLENESS.--_adv._
UNPROF'ITABLY.--_adjs._ UNPROF'ITED, profitless; UNPROF'ITING,
unprofitable.

UNPROGRESSIVE, un-pr[=o]-gres'iv, _adj._ not progressive.--_n._
UNPROGRESS'IVENESS.

UNPROHIBITED, un-pr[=o]-hib'i-ted, _adj._ not prohibited.

UNPROJECTED, un-pr[=o]-jek'ted, _adj._ not projected or planned.

UNPROLIFIC, un-pr[=o]-lif'ik, _adj._ not prolific.

UNPROMISING, un-prom'i-sing, _adj._ not promising or affording a good
prospect of success, &c.--_v.t._ UNPROM'ISE, to revoke a promise.--_adj._
UNPROM'ISED, not promised.

UNPROMPTED, un-promp'ted, _adj._ not prompted.

UNPRONOUNCEABLE, un-pr[=o]-nown'sa-bl, _adj._ difficult to pronounce: not
fit to be mentioned.--_adj._ UNPRONOUNCED', not pronounced.

UNPROP, un-prop', _v.t._ to remove a prop or support from.

UNPROPER, un-prop'[.e]r, _adj._ improper: (_Shak._) common to all.--_adv._
UNPROP'ERLY.

UNPROPHETIC, -AL, un-pr[=o]-fet'ik, -al, _adj._ not prophetic.

UNPROPITIOUS, un-pr[=o]-pish'us, _adj._ not propitious,
inauspicious.--_adj._ UNPROPI'TIABLE, incapable of being
propitiated.--_adv._ UNPROPI'TIOUSLY.--_n._ UNPROPI'TIOUSNESS.

UNPROPORTIONABLE, un-pr[=o]-p[=o]r'shun-a-bl, _adj._
disproportionable.--_n._ UNPROPOR'TIONABLENESS.--_adjs._ UNPROPOR'TIONATE,
not proportionate; UNPROPOR'TIONED, not proportioned.

UNPROPOSED, un-pr[=o]-p[=o]zd', _adj._ not proposed.

UNPROPPED, un-propt', _adj._ not propped or supported.

UNPROPRIETY, un-pr[=o]-pr[=i]'e-ti, _n._ impropriety.

UNPROSELYTE, un-pros'[=e]-l[=i]t, _v.t._ to prevent from being made a
proselyte.

UNPROSPEROUS, un-pros'p[.e]r-us, _adj._ not prosperous or
fortunate.--_adv._ UNPROS'PEROUSLY.--_n._ UNPROS'PEROUSNESS.

UNPROPECTED, un-pr[=o]-tek'ted, _adj._ not protected.--_n._
UNPROTEC'TEDNESS.

UNPROTESTANTISE, un-prot'es-tan-t[=i]z, _v.t._ to pervert from
PROTESTANTISM, to strip of Protestant features.

UNPROVED, un-pr[=oo]vd', _adj._ not proved.--_adjs._ UNPROV'ABLE,
UNPROVE'ABLE, incapable of being proved.--_n._ UNPROVED'NESS.

UNPROVIDED, un-pr[=o]-v[=i]'ded, _adj._ not furnished or provided for,
unprepared.--_v.t._ UNPROVIDE', to unfurnish, to deprive of what is
necessary.--_adv._ UNPROV[=I]'DEDLY.--_adj._ UNPROV'IDENT, improvident.

UNPROVOKED, un-pr[=o]-v[=o]kt', _adj._ not having received provocation,
uncalled for.--_adv._ UNPROV[=O]'KEDLY.

UNPRUDENT, un-pr[=oo]'dent, _adj._ imprudent--also UNPRUDEN'TIAL.--_n._
UNPRU'DENCE, imprudence.

UNPRUNED, un-pr[=oo]nd', _adj._ not pruned.

UNPUBLISHED, un-pub'lisht, _adj._ not made public, esp. still in MS. or
privately printed form: secret.--_adj._ UNPUB'LIC, not public.

UNPUCKER, un-puk'[.e]r, _v.t._ to smooth out the puckers or creases of, to
relax.

UNPUNCTUAL, un-pungk't[=u]-al, _adj._ not punctual.--_n._
UNPUNCTUAL'ITY.--_adv._ UNPUNC'TUALLY.

UNPUNISHABLE, un-pun'ish-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be punished.--_adv._
UNPUN'ISHABLY.--_adj._ UNPUN'ISHED, not punished.

UNPURE, un-p[=u]r', _adj._ impure.--_adv._ UNPURE'LY.--_n._ UNPURE'NESS.

UNPURGED, un-purjd', _adj._ not purged.

UNPURPOSED, un-pur'post, _adj._ not purposed or intended.

UNQUALIFIED, un-kwol'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ not possessing the proper
qualifications for anything, incompetent: given without restrictions,
absolute.--_adv._ UNQUAL'IFIEDLY.--_n._ UNQUAL'IFIEDNESS.--_v.t._
UNQUAL'IFY, to disqualify.

UNQUEEN, un-kw[=e]n', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to divest of the dignity of queen.

UNQUENCHABLE, un-kwen'sha-bl, _adj._ that cannot be quenched or
extinguished.--_n._ UNQUEN'CHABLENESS.--_adv._ UNQUEN'CHABLY.

UNQUESTIONABLE, un-kwes'tyun-a-bl, _adj._ not questionable or to be
questioned: (_Shak._) not questioning or inquisitive.--_ns._
UNQUESTIONABIL'ITY, UNQUES'TIONABLENESS, the quality of being
unquestionable: that which cannot be questioned.--_adv._ UNQUEST'IONABLY,
without question or doubt.--_adj._ UNQUES'TIONED, not called in question,
undoubted, not examined, indisputable.--_n._ UNQUES'TIONINGNESS.

UNQUIET, un-kw[=i]'et, _adj._ not at rest, disturbed: causing
restlessness.--_v.t._ to disquiet.--_n._ UNQUIES'CENCE, inquietude.--_adv._
UNQU[=I]'ETLY.--_ns._ UNQU[=I]'ETNESS, state of disturbance, restlessness;
UNQU[=I]'ETUDE, inquietude.

UNQUIT, un-kwit', _adj._ not discharged.

UNQUIZZABLE, un-kwiz'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being quizzed or ridiculed.

UNRACKED, un-rakt', _adj._ not drawn off from the lees, as wine.

UNRAISED, un-r[=a]zd', _adj._ not raised.

UNRAKED, un-r[=a]kt', _adj._ not gone over with the rake: not cleared out.

UNRANSACKED, un-ran'sakt, _adj._ not ransacked.

UNRAPTURED, un-rap't[=u]rd, _adj._ not enraptured.

UNRAVEL, un-rav'el, _v.t._ to take out of a ravelled state: to unfold or
explain: to separate.--_v.i._ to be disentangled.--adj UNRAV'ELABLE.--_ns._
UNRAV'ELLER; UNRAV'ELMENT.

UNRAZORED, un-r[=a]'zord, _adj._ unshaved.

UNREACHED, un-r[=e]cht', _adj._ not reached.

UNREAD, un-red', _adj._ not informed by reading, ignorant: not
perused.--_adj._ UNREADABLE (un-r[=e]'da-bl), indecipherable, too dull to
be read.--_n._ UNREA'DABLENESS.

UNREADY, un-red'i, _adj._ not ready or prepared: slow: awkward: (_Shak._)
not dressed.--_adv._ UNREAD'ILY.--_n._ UNREAD'INESS.

UNREAL, un-r[=e]'al, _adj._ not real: having appearance only,
illusive.--_v.t._ UNR[=E]'AL[=I]SE, to divest of reality.--_ns._
UNR[=E]'ALISM, UNREAL'ITY, want of reality or existence.--_adv._
UNR[=E]'ALLY.

UNREASONABLE, un-r[=e]'zn-a-bl, _adj._ not agreeable to reason: exceeding
the bounds of reason, immoderate: not influenced by reason.--_ns._
UNREA'SON, lack of reason; UNREA'SONABLENESS, the state or quality of being
unreasonable: exorbitance.--_adv._ UNREA'SONABLY, in an unreasonable
manner: excessively.--_adjs._ UNREA'SONED, not argued out; UNREA'SONING,
not reasoning.--_adv._ UNREA'SONINGLY.--ABBOT OF UNREASON (see MISRULE).

UNREAVE, un-r[=e]v' _v.t._ (_Spens._) to unwind.

UNREBATED, un-r[=e]-b[=a]'ted, _adj._ unbated.

UNREBUKABLE, un-r[=e]-b[=u]'ka-bl, _adj._ not deserving rebuke.

UNRECALLING, un-r[=e]-kawl'ing, _adj._ not to be recalled.--_adj._
UNRECALL'ABLE, that cannot be recalled.

UNRECEIVED, un-r[=e]-s[=e]vd', _adj._ not received.

UNRECKONED, un-rek'nd, _adj._ not reckoned.--_adj._ UNRECK'ONABLE, that
cannot be reckoned, immeasurable.

UNRECLAIMED, un-r[=e]-kl[=a]md', _adj._ not reclaimed.--_adj._
UNRECLAIM'ABLE, irreclaimable.--_adv._ UNRECLAIM'ABLY.

UNRECOGNISED, un-rek'og-n[=i]zd, _adj._ not recognised.--_adj._
UNREC'OGNISABLE.--_adv._ UNREC'OGNISABLY.

UNRECOMMENDED, un-rek-o-men'ded, _adj._ not recommended.

UNRECOMPENSED, un-rek'om-penst, _adj._ not recompensed.

UNRECONCILED, un-rek'on-s[=i]ld, _adj._ not reconciled, restored to
friendship, or made consistent.--_adj._ UNREC'ONCILABLE,
irreconcilable.--_n._ UNRECONCIL'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNREC'ONCILABLY.

UNRECONSTRUCTED, un-r[=e]-kon-struk'ted, _adj._ not reconstructed: (_U.S._)
not yet admitted as a state of the Union.

UNRECORDED, un-r[=e]-kord'ed, _adj._ not recorded, not kept in remembrance.

UNRECOUNTED, un-r[=e]-kownt'ed, _adj._ not recounted or related.

UNRECOVERABLE, un-r[=e]-kuv'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be recovered:
sick beyond hope of recovery.--_adv._ UNRECOV'ERABLY.--_adj._ UNRECOV'ERED.

UNRECRUITABLE, un-r[=e]-kr[=oo]t'a-bl, _adj._ not able to be recruited.

UNRECUMBENT, un-r[=e]-kum'bent, _adj._ not recumbent or reclining.

UNRECURING, un-r[=e]-k[=u]r'ing, _adj._ (_Shak._) incurable.

UNRECURRING, un-r[=e]-kur'ing, _adj._ not recurring.

UNRED, un-red', _adj._ (_Spens._) untold.

UNREDEEMED, un-r[=e]-d[=e]md', _adj._ not redeemed or ransomed: not
fulfilled: unmitigated: not recalled into the treasury by payment of the
value in money: not taken out of pawn.--_adj._ UNREDEEM'ABLE, that cannot
be redeemed.

UNREDRESSED, UNREDREST, un-r[=e]-drest', _adj._ without redress: (_Spens._)
unrescued.

UNREEL, un-r[=e]l', _v.t._ to unwind from a reel.

UNREEVE, un-r[=e]v', _v.t._ (_naut._) to withdraw a rope from any block,
thimble, dead-eye, &c. through which it had formerly passed.

UNREFINED, un-r[=e]-f[=i]nd', _adj._ not refined, unpolished.

UNREFORMABLE, un-r[=e]-for'ma-bl, _adj._ not reformable.--_ns._
UNREFORM[=A]'TION; UNREFOR'MEDNESS.

UNREGARDED, un-r[=e]-gär'ded, _adj._ not regarded.

UNREGENERATE, un-r[=e]-jen'e-r[=a]t, _adj._ not renewed in heart through
regeneration, unreconciled to God.--_ns._ UNREGEN'ERACY,
UNREGENER[=A]'TION.

UNREGISTERED, un-rej'is-t[.e]rd, _adj._ not registered.

UNREGRETFUL, un-r[=e]-gret'f[=oo]l, _adj._ without having any
regrets.--_n._ UNREGRET'FULNESS.

UNREIN, un-r[=a]n', _v.t._ to loosen the rein of.--_adj._ UNREINED',
unchecked.

UNREJOICING, un-r[=e]-joi'sing, _adj._ not rejoicing.

UNRELATED, un-r[=e]-l[=a]'ted, _adj._ not related.--_adj._ UNREL'ATIVE, not
relative.

UNRELAXED, un-r[=e]-lakst', _adj._ not relaxed, strained.

UNRELENTING, un-r[=e]-len'ting, _adj._ not relenting: inflexible:
cruel.--_adv._ UNRELEN'TINGLY.--_n._ UNRELEN'TINGNESS.

UNRELIABLE, un-r[=e]-l[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be relied upon,
untrustworthy.--_ns._ UNRELIABIL'ITY, UNREL[=I]'ABLENESS.

UNRELIEVABLE, un-r[=e]-l[=e]'va-bl, _adj._ that cannot be relieved.--_adj._
UNRELIEVED', not relieved.--_adv._ UNRELIE'VEDLY.

UNREMEDIABLE, un-r[=e]-m[=e]'di-a-bl, _adj._ irremediable.

UNREMEMBERED, un-r[=e]-mem'b[.e]rd, _adj._ not remembered.--_adj._
UNREMEM'BERING, not remembering.--_n._ UNREMEM'BRANCE.

UNREMITTING, un-r[=e]-mit'ting, _adj._ not remitting or relaxing:
continued: incessant.--_adj._ UNREMIT'TED, not remitted or forgiven:
without remission.--_advs._ UNREMIT'TEDLY; UNREMIT'TINGLY.--_n._
UNREMIT'TINGNESS.

UNREMORSEFUL, un-r[=e]-mors'f[=oo]l, _adj._ feeling no remorse.--_adv._
UNREMORSE'FULLY.--_adj._ UNREMORSE'LESS, having no remorse or pity.--_adv._
UNREMORSE'LESSLY.

UNREMOVED, un-r[=e]-m[=oo]vd', _adj._ not removed, unshaken.--_adj._
UNREMOV'ABLE.--_n._ UNREMOV'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNREMOV'ABLY.

UNRENEWED, un-r[=e]-n[=u]d', _adj._ not renewed, not regenerated.

UNRENT, un-rent', _adj._ not rent.

UNREPAID, un-r[=e]-p[=a]d', _adj._ not repaid.

UNREPAIR, un-r[=e]-p[=a]r', _n._ an unsound state.--_adj._ UNREPAIR'ABLE,
irreparable.

UNREPEALED, un-r[=e]-p[=e]ld', _adj._ not repealed.--_adj._ UNREPEAL'ABLE,
incapable of being repealed.

UNREPENTANT, un-r[=e]-pen'tant, _adj._ not repentant or penitent.--_n._
UNREPEN'TANCE, impenitence.--_adjs._ UNREPEN'TED, not repented of;
UNREPEN'TING, not repenting.--_adv._ UNREPEN'TINGLY.

UNREPINING, un-r[=e]-p[=i]'ning, _adj._ not repining.--_adv._
UNREP[=I]'NINGLY.

UNREPLENISHED, un-r[=e]-plen'isht, _adj._ not replenished.

UNREPOSING, un-r[=e]-p[=o]'zing, _adj._ not reposing or resting.

UNREPRESENTED, un-rep-r[=e]-zen'ted, _adj._ not represented.

UNREPRIEVABLE, un-r[=e]-pr[=e]'va-bl, _adj._ that cannot be
reprieved.--_adj._ UNREPRIEVED', not reprieved.

UNREPROACHABLE, un-r[=e]-pr[=o]'cha-bl, _adj._ irreproachable.--_n._
UNREPROA'CHABLENESS.--_adv._ UNREPROA'CHABLY.

UNREPROVED, un-r[=e]-pr[=oo]vd', _adj._ not reproved: (_Milt._) not liable
to reproof, blameless.--_adj._ UNREPROV'ABLE, incapable of being
reproved.--_adv._ UNREPROV'EDLY.--_n._ UNREPROV'EDNESS.

UNREPULSABLE, un-r[=e]-pul'sa-bl, _adj._ that cannot be repulsed.

UNREPUTABLE, un-rep'[=u]-ta-bl, _adj._ not reputable.

UNREQUESTED, un-r[=e]-kwes'ted, _adj._ not requested.

UNREQUISITE, un-rek'wi-zit, _adj._ not requisite.

UNREQUITED, un-r[=e]-kw[=i]'ted, _adj._ not requited.--_adj._
UNREQU[=I]'TABLE, not requitable.--_adv._ UNREQU[=I]'TEDLY.

UNRESERVED, un-r[=e]-z[.e]rvd', _adj._ not reserved or restrained:
withholding nothing.--_n._ UNRESERVE', absence of reserve.--_adv._
UNRESER'VEDLY, without reservation: frankly.--_n._ UNRESER'VEDNESS.

UNRESISTED, un-r[=e]-zis'ted, _adj._ not resisted.--_n._
UNRESIS'TANCE.--_adv._ UNRESIS'TEDLY.--_adjs._ UNRESIS'TIBLE, irresistible;
UNRESIS'TING, not making resistance.--_adv._ UNRESIS'TINGLY.

UNRESOLVED, un-r[=e]-zolvd', _adj._ not resolved: not separated into its
constituent parts.--_adj._ UNRESOL'VABLE, incapable of being
resolved.--_v.i._ UNRESOLVE', to change a resolution.--_n._
UNRESOL'VEDNESS, state of being unresolved or undetermined.--_adj._
UNRESOL'VING.

UNRESPECTABLE, un-r[=e]-spek'ta-bl, _adj._ not respectable.

UNRESPECTIVE, un-r[=e]-spek'tiv, _adj._ (_Shak._) devoid of respect and
consideration, regardless, unthinking: not attended with regard, used at
random.

UNRESPITED, un-res'pi-ted, _adj._ not delayed: not having received a
respite from sentence.

UNRESPONSIBLE, un-r[=e]-spon'si-bl, _adj._ irresponsible.--_n._
UNRESPON'SIBLENESS.--_adj._ UNRESPON'SIVE, not responsive.--_n._
UNRESPON'SIVENESS.

UNREST, un-rest', _n._ want of rest: disquiet of mind or body.--_adj._
UNREST'FUL.--_n._ UNREST'FULNESS.--_adj._ UNREST'ING, not resting.--_adv._
UNREST'INGLY.--_n._ UNREST'INGNESS.

UNRESTORED, un-r[=e]-st[=o]rd', _adj._ not restored, esp. to a former or
better state: of a work of art, remaining in its original condition.

UNRESTRAINED, un-r[=e]-str[=a]nd', _adj._ not restrained,
licentious.--_adv._ UNRESTRAIN'EDLY.--_ns._ UNRESTRAIN'EDNESS;
UNRESTRAINT'.

UNRESTRICTED, un-r[=e]-strik'ted, _adj._ not restricted.--_adv._
UNRESTRIC'TEDLY.

UNRETARDED, un-r[=e]-tär'ded, _adj._ not retarded.

UNRETENTIVE, un-r[=e]-ten'tiv, _adj._ not retentive.

UNRETURNABLE, un-r[=e]-tur'na-bl, _adj._ incapable of being
returned.--_adj._ UNRETUR'NING, not returning.

UNREVEALED, un-r[=e]-v[=e]ld', _adj._ not revealed.--_n._ UNREVEAL'EDNESS.

UNREVENGED, un-r[=e]-venjd', _adj._ not revenged.--_adj._ UNREVENGE'FUL.

UNREVEREND, un-rev'[.e]r-end, _adj._ not reverend: (_Shak._) irreverent,
disrespectful.--_n._ UNREV'ERENCE, want of reverence.--_adj._ UNREV'ERENT,
not reverent.--_adv._ UNREV'ERENTLY.

UNREVERSED, un-r[=e]-verst', _adj._ not reversed.

UNREVERTED, un-r[=e]-ver'ted, _adj._ not reverted.

UNREVOKED, un-r[=e]-v[=o]kt', _adj._ not revoked.

UNREWARDED, un-r[=e]-wawr'ded, _adj._ not rewarded.--_adv._
UNREWAR'DEDLY.--_adj._ UNREWAR'DING.

UNRHYTHMICAL, un-rith'mi-kal, _adj._ not rhythmical.

UNRIDDLE, un-rid'l, _v.t._ to read the riddle of: to solve.--_adj._
UNRIDD'LEABLE.--_n._ UNRIDD'LER.

UNRIFLED, un-r[=i]'fld, _adj._ not rifled.

UNRIG, un-rig', _v.t._ to strip of rigging.--_adj._ UNRIGGED', without
rigging.

UNRIGHTEOUS, un-r[=i]'tyus, _adj._ not righteous: wicked: unjust.--_n._
UNRIGHT', injustice.--_adv._ UNRIGH'TEOUSLY.--_n._
UNRIGH'TEOUSNESS.--_adj._ UNRIGHT'FUL.--_adv._ UNRIGHT'FULLY.--_n._
UNRIGHT'FULNESS.

UNRING, un-ring', _v.t._ to take a ring from.--_adj._ UNRINGED', having no
ring.

UNRIP, un-rip', _v.t._ to rip up or open.

UNRIPE, un-r[=i]p', _adj._ not ripe.--_adj._ UNR[=I]'PENED.--_n._
UNRIPE'NESS.

UNRIVALLED, un-r[=i]'vald, _adj._ without a rival or competitor.--_adj._
UNR[=I]'VALABLE, that cannot be rivalled.

UNRIVET, un-riv'et, _v.t._ to loosen the rivets of.

UNROBE, un-r[=o]b', _v.t._ to strip of a robe, to undress.--_v.i._ to take
off a robe, esp. a robe of state.

UNROLL, un-r[=o]l', _v.t._ to roll down: to open out.--_v.i._ to become
uncoiled or opened out.--_n._ UNROLL'MENT.

UNROMANISED, un-r[=o]'man-[=i]zd, _adj._ not subjected to Roman laws or
customs: freed from subjection to the Roman see.

UNROMANTIC, un-r[=o]-man'tik, _adj._ not romantic.--_adv._ UNROMAN'TICALLY.

UNROOF, un-r[=oo]f, _v.t._ to strip the roof off.--_adj._ UNROOFED'.

UNROOST, un-r[=oo]st' _v.t._ to drive out of a roost.

UNROOT, un-r[=oo]t', _v.t._ to tear up by the roots.

UNROPE, un-r[=o]p', _v.t._ to loosen from ropes, to unharness.

UNROUGH, un-ruf', _adj._ not rough.

UNROYAL, un-roi'al, _adj._ not royal.--_n._ UNROY'ALIST, one not of royal
blood.--_adv._ UNROY'ALLY.

UNRUDE, un-r[=oo]d', _adj._ not rude.

UNRUFFLED, un-ruf'ld, _adj._ not ruffled: calm.--_v.i._ UNRUFF'LE, to
settle into calmness.

UNRUINED, un-r[=oo]'ind, _adj._ not ruined.--_adjs._ UNRU'INABLE, not to be
ruined; UNRU'IN[=A]TE (_obs._), not in ruins.

UNRULED, un-r[=oo]ld', _adj._ not ruled.--_ns._ UNRUL'IMENT (_Spens._),
UNRUL'INESS, state of being unruly.--_adj._ UNRUL'Y, regardless of
restraint or law.

UNRUMPLE, un-rum'pl, _v.t._ to free from rumples.

UNSADDLE, un-sad'l, _v.t._ to take the saddle off: to throw from the
saddle.

UNSAFE, un-s[=a]f, _adj._ not safe.--_adv._ UNSAFE'LY.--_ns._ UNSAFE'NESS,
UNSAFE'TY.

UNSAID, un-sed', _adj._ not said.

UNSAINT, un-s[=a]nt', _v.t._ to divest of saintliness.--_adj._ UNSAINT'LY.

UNSALABLE, un-s[=a]'la-bl, _adj._ that cannot be sold, not in demand--also
UNSALE'ABLE.--_ns._ UNSALABIL'ITY, UNS[=A]'LABLENESS.

UNSALARIED, un-sal'a-rid, _adj._ not receiving a salary.

UNSALTED, un-sawl'ted, _adj._ not salted, fresh.

UNSALUTED, un-sa-l[=u]'ted, _adj._ not saluted.

UNSALVABLE, un-sal'va-bl, _adj._ not capable of being saved.

UNSANCTIFIED, un-sangk'ti-f[=i]d, _adj._ not sanctified, unholy.--_n._
UNSANCTIFIC[=A]'TION.

UNSANGUINE, un-sang'gwin, _adj._ not sanguine.

UNSANITARY, un-san'i-ta-ri, _adj._ not sanitary, unhealthy.

UNSAPPED, un-sapt', _adj._ not sapped.

UNSATIABLE, un-s[=a]'shi-a-bl, _adj._ not to be satiated or appeased.--_n._
UNS[=A]'TIABLENESS.--_adv._ UNS[=A]'TIABLY.

UNSATISFACTORY, un-sat-is-fak't[=o]-ri, _adj._ not satisfying.--_adv._
UNSATISFAC'TORILY.--_n._ UNSATISFAC'TORINESS.--_adjs._ UNSATISF[=I]'ABLE,
not to be satisfied; UNSAT'ISFIED, not satisfied, not content: not fully
informed about anything: not paid.--_n._ UNSAT'ISFIEDNESS.--_adj._
UNSAT'ISFYING.--_n._ UNSAT'ISFYINGNESS.

UNSATURATED, un-sat'[=u]-r[=a]-ted, _adj._ not saturated.

UNSAVOURY, un-s[=a]'vor-i, _adj._ not savoury, tasteless: unpleasing,
disgusting.--_adv._ UNS[=A]'VOURILY.--_n._ UNS[=A]'VOURINESS.

UNSAY, un-s[=a]', _v.t._ to recall what has been said: to retract.--_adj._
UNSAID'.

UNSCALABLE, un-sk[=a]'la-bl, _adj._ that cannot be scaled or climbed.--Also
UNSCALE'ABLE.

UNSCALE, un-sk[=a]l', _v.t._ to remove the scales from.--_adj._
UNSC[=A]'LY.

UNSCANNED, un-skand', _adj._ not scanned or measured.

UNSCARRED, un-skärd', _adj._ not marked with scars.

UNSCATHED, un-sk[=a]_th_t', _adj._ not harmed or injured.

UNSCEPTERED, un-sep't[.e]rd, _adj._ deprived of kingly authority.

UNSCHOOLED, un-sk[=oo]ld', _adj._ not taught or trained in anything.

UNSCISSORED, un-siz'ord, _adj._ not cut with scissors.

UNSCOTTIFY, un-skot'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to deprive of Scotch qualities or
characteristics.

UNSCOURED, un-skowrd', _adj._ not scoured or rubbed clean.

UNSCRATCHED, un-skracht', _adj._ not scratched.

UNSCREENED, un-skr[=e]nd', _adj._ not screened: unsifted.

UNSCREW, un-skr[=oo]', _v.t._ to loose from screws: to unfasten.

UNSCRIPTURAL, un-skrip't[=u]-ral, _adj._ not in with Scripture.--_adv._
UNSCRIP'TURALLY.

UNSCRUPULOUS, un-skr[=oo]'p[=u]-lus, _adj._ not scrupulous,
unprincipled.--_adv._ UNSCRU'P[=U]LOUSLY.--_n._ UNSCRU'P[=U]LOUSNESS.

UNSCRUTABLE, un-skr[=oo]'ta-bl, _adj._ inscrutable.

UNSCULPTURED, un-skulp't[=u]rd, _adj._ not sculptured, without inscription.

UNSCUTCHEONED, un-skuch'ond, _adj._ having no escutcheon or claim to such.

UNSEAL, un-s[=e]l, _v.t._ to remove the seal of: to open what is
sealed.--_adj._ UNSEALED'.

UNSEAM, un-s[=e]m, _v.t._ to undo a piece of sewing, to split.

UNSEARCHABLE, un-s[.e]r'cha-bl, _adj._ not capable of being found out by
searching: mysterious.--_n._ UNSEAR'CHABLENESS.--_adv._
UNSEAR'CHABLY.--_adj._ UNSEARCHED'.

UNSEASONABLE, un-s[=e]'zn-a-bl, _adj._ not in the proper season or time:
late: ill-timed: not suited to the time of the year.--_v.t._ UNSEA'SON
(_Spens._), to strike unseasonably, as the ear.--_n._ UNSEA'SONABLENESS,
state or quality of being unseasonable or ill-timed.--_adv._ UNSEA'SONABLY,
in an unseasonable manner: not in due time.--_adj._ UNSEA'SONED, not
seasoned or ripened by time: not experienced, unripe: not sprinkled with
seasoning: (_obs._) unseasonable: (_obs._) inordinate.

UNSEAT, un-s[=e]t', _v.t._ to throw from or deprive of a seat.

UNSEAWORTHY, un-s[=e]-wurth'i _adj._ unfit for a sea voyage.--_n._
UNSEAWORTH'INESS.

UNSECONDED, un-sek'un-ded, _adj._ not seconded, supported, or assisted.

UNSECTARIAN, un-sek-t[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ not sectarian, free from the narrow
qualities or prejudices of sect.--_n._ UNSECT[=A]'RIANISM.

UNSECULAR, un-sek'[=u]-lar, _adj._ not secular or worldly.

UNSEDUCED, un-s[=e]-d[=u]st', _adj._ not seduced.

UNSEEDED, un-s[=e]d'ed, _adj._ not seeded.

UNSEEL, un-s[=e]l', _v.t._ to open the eyes, as of a hawk which has been
seeled, to enlighten.

UNSEEMLINESS, un-s[=e]m'li-nes, _n._ state or quality of being unseemly or
unbecoming.--_v.i._ UNSEEM' (_Shak._), not to seem.--_adj._ UNSEEM'LY, not
seemly, becoming, or decent.--_adv._ in an unseemly manner.

UNSEEN, un-s[=e]n', _adj._ not seen: invisible.--_adj._ UNSEE'ING, not
seeing, blind.

UNSEIZED, un-s[=e]zd', _adj._ not seized: not taken or put in possession.

UNSELDOM, un-sel'dum, _adv._ not seldom.

UNSELF, un-self', _v.t._ to deprive of individuality.--_n._ absence of weak
self-consciousness.--_n._ UNSELF-CON'SCIOUSNESS, absence of
self-consciousness.--_adj._ UNSEL'FISH, not selfish.--_adv._
UNSEL'FISHLY.--_ns._ UNSEL'FISHNESS, UNSELF'NESS (_rare_).

UNSEMINARED, un-sem'i-närd, _adj._ (_Shak._) deprived of seminal energy or
virility.

UNSENSE, un-sens', _v.t._ to free from the dominion of the senses--also
UNSEN'S[=U]ALISE.--_adj._ UNSENSED'.

UNSENT, un-sent', _adj._ not sent.

UNSENTENCED, un-sen'tenst, _adj._ not having received sentence: (_obs._)
not decreed.

UNSENTIMENTAL, un-sen-ti-men'tal, _adj._ not sentimental, prosaic,
matter-of-fact.

UNSEPULCHRED, un-sep'ul-k[.e]rd, _adj._ unburied.

UNSEQUESTERED, un-s[=e]-kwes't[.e]rd, _adj._ not sequestered, unreserved.

UNSERVICE, un-ser'vis, _n._ neglect of service or duty.--_adj._
UNSER'VICEABLE, not serviceable.

UNSET, un-set', _adj._ not set or placed: unplanted: not mounted or placed
in a setting: not set, as a broken limb.

UNSETTLE, un-set'l, _v.t._ to move from being settled: to make
uncertain.--_v.i._ to become unfixed.--_adj._ UNSETT'LED, not settled,
fixed, or determined: changeable; not having the dregs deposited: not yet
inhabited and cultivated: turbulent, lawless.--_adv._ UNSETT'LEDLY.--_ns._
UNSETT'LEDNESS; UNSETT'LEMENT.--_adj._ UNSETT'LING.

UNSEVERED, un-sev'[.e]rd, _adj._ not severed, inseparable.

UNSEX, un-seks', _v.t._ to deprive of sex: to make unmanly or
unwomanly.--_adj._ UNSEX'UAL.

UNSHACKLE, un-shak'l, _v.t._ to loose from shackles: to set free.

UNSHADED, un-sh[=a]'ded, _adj._ not shaded: without gradations of light or
colour.

UNSHADOWED, un-shad'[=o]d, _adj._ not clouded, free from gloom.

UNSHAKABLE, un-sh[=a]'ka-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) not to be shaken.--_adjs._
UNSHAKED' (_Shak._), not shaken; UNSH[=A]'KEN, not shaken, firm,
steady.--_adv._ UNSH[=A]'KENLY.

UNSHALE, un-sh[=a]l', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to strip the shale or husk from, to
expose.

UNSHAMED, un-sh[=a]md', _adj._ not shamed.

UNSHAPE, un-sh[=a]p', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to deprive of shape, to derange, to
confound.--_adjs._ UNSHAPE'LY, not shapely; UNSH[=A]'PEN, shapeless.

UNSHAVEN, un-sh[=a]v'n, _adj._ not shaven.

UNSHEATHE, un-sh[=e]th', _v.t._ to draw from the sheath or scabbard, as a
sword.

UNSHED, un-shed', _adj._ (_Spens._) unparted.

UNSHELL, un-shel', _v.t._ to strip of the shell, to release.

UNSHELVE, un-shelv', _v.t._ to remove the shelves from.

UNSHENT, un-shent', _adj._ not disgraced.

UNSHIFTINESS, un-shif'ti-nes, _n._ shiftlessness.--_adj._ UNSHIF'TABLE,
shiftless.

UNSHIP, un-ship', _v.t._ to take out of a ship or other vessel: to remove
from the place where it is fixed or fitted.--_n._ UNSHIP'MENT.

UNSHOD, un-shod', _adj._ without shoes, barefoot.

UNSHOE, un-sh[=oo]', _v.t._ to strip of a shoe.

UNSHORN, un-shorn', _adj._ not shorn, unclipped, unshaven.

UNSHOT, un-shot', _v.t._ to take the shot out of.

UNSHOUT, un-showt', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to retract, as a shout.

UNSHOWERED, un-show'[.e]rd, _adj._ not watered by showers.

UNSHOWN, un-sh[=o]n', _adj._ not shown.

UNSHRINED, un-shr[=i]nd', _adj._ not placed in a shrine.

UNSHRINKING, un-shring'king, _adj._ not shrinking.--_adv._ UNSHRINK'INGLY.

UNSHRIVEN, un-shriv'n, _adj._ not shriven.

UNSHROUD, un-shrowd', _v.t._ to remove the shroud from, to disclose.

UNSHRUBBED, un-shrubd', _adj._ not furnished with shrubs.

UNSHUNNABLE, un-shun'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be shunned.--_adj._
UNSHUNNED', not shunned or avoided.

UNSHUTTER, un-shut'[.e]r, _v.t._ to take the shutters off.

UNSIFTED, un-sif'ted, _adj._ not sifted, untried.

UNSIGHTED, un-s[=i]'ted, _adj._ not seen--earlier UNSIGHT': not furnished
with a sight.--_adj._ UNSIGHT'ABLE, invisible.--_n._ UNSIGHT'LINESS, the
quality of being unsightly: ugliness.--_adj._ UNSIGHT'LY, not sightly or
pleasing to the eye: ugly.

UNSIGNIFICANT, un-sig-nif'i-kant, _adj._ without signification.

UNSIMPLICITY, un-sim-plis'i-ti, _n._ want of simplicity.

UNSINCERE, un-sin-s[=e]r', _adj._ not sincere, insincere: not genuine,
alloyed.

UNSINEW, un-sin'[=u], _v.t._ to take the strength from.

UNSING, un-sing', _v.t._ to take back what has been sung.

UNSINGLED, un-sing'gld, _adj._ not singled.

UNSINNING, un-sin'ing, _adj._ not sinning, untouched by sin.

UNSISTERED, un-sis't[.e]rd, _adj._ being without a sister.--_n._
UNSIS'TERLINESS.--_adj._ UNSIS'TERLY.

UNSISTING, un-sis'ting, _adj._ not resisting or opposing.

UNSIZED, un-s[=i]zd', _adj._ not sized or stiffened.

UNSKILFUL, un-skil'fool, _adj._ not skilful: wanting skill or experience:
awkward.--_adv._ UNSKIL'FULLY, in an unskilful or awkward manner.--_n._
UNSKIL'FULNESS, want of skill or experience: awkwardness.--_adj._
UNSKILLED', without special skill, untrained, unacquainted with.

UNSLAIN, un-sl[=a]n', _adj._ not slain.

UNSLAKED, un-sl[=a]kt', _adj._ not slaked.

UNSLEEPING, un-sl[=e]'ping; _adj._ not sleeping.

UNSLING, un-sling', _v.t._ to release from slings, to take the slings off.

UNSLIPPING, un-slip'ing, _adj._ not slipping.

UNSLUICE, un-sl[=oo]s', _v.t._ to open the sluice of.

UNSLUMBERING, un-slum'b[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not slumbering.--_adj._
UNSLUM'BROUS, not slumbrous.

UMSMIRCHED, un-smircht', _adj._ not smirched or stained, clean.

UNSMITTEN, un-smit'n, _adj._ not smitten.

UNSMOOTH, un-sm[=oo]th', _adj._ not smooth, rough.

UNSMOTE, un-sm[=o]t', _adj._ unsmitten.

UNSMOTHERABLE, un-smuth'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ unable to be smothered.

UNSNARE, un-sn[=a]r', _v.t._ to set free from a snare.

UNSNARL, un-snarl', _v.t._ to disentangle.

UNSNECK, un-snek', _v.t._ to draw the sneck or bar of a door.

UNSOAPED, un-s[=o]pt', _adj._ not soaped, unwashed.

UNSOCIABLE, un-s[=o]'sha-bl, _adj._ not sociable or inclined to society:
reserved.--_ns._ UNSOCIABIL'ITY; UNS[=O]'CIABLENESS.--_adv._
UNS[=O]'CIABLY.--_adj._ UNS[=O]'CIAL, not social.--_ns._ UNS[=O]'CIALISM,
UNSOCIAL'ITY.

UNSOFT, un-soft', _adv._ (_Spens._) not softly.

UNSOLDER, un-sod'[.e]r, _v.t._ to separate, as what has been soldered, to
sunder.

UNSOLDIERLIKE, un-s[=o]l'j[.e]r-l[=i]k, _adj._ not characteristic of or
becoming a soldier.

UNSOLEMN, un-sol'em, _adj._ not solemn, sacred, or formal.--_v.t._
UNSOL'EMNISE, to strip of solemnity.

UNSOLICITED, un-s[=o]-lis'it-ed, _adj._ not solicited.--_adj._
UNSOLIC'ITOUS, not solicitous.

UNSOLID, un-sol'id, _adj._ not solid, not sound, empty.--_n._ UNSOLID'ITY.

UNSOLVED, un-solvd', _adj._ not solved.

UNSON, un-sun', _v.t._ to make unworthy of sonship.

UNSONSIE, UNSONCIE, un-son'si, _adj._ (_Scot._) unlucky.

UNSOOT, un-s[=oo]t', _adj._ (_Spens._) unsweet.

UNSOPHISTICATED, un-s[=o]-fis'ti-k[=a]-ted, _adj._ genuine, unadulterated:
free from artificiality, simple, inexperienced--also
UNSOPHIS'TICATE.--_ns._ UNSOPHIS'TICATEDNESS; UNSOPHISTIC[=A]'TION.

UNSORROWED, un-sor'[=o]d, _adj._ not sorrowed or regretted.

UNSORTED, un-sor'ted, _adj._ not sorted or arranged: ill-chosen.

UNSOUGHT, un-sawt', _adj._ not sought or solicited.

UNSOUL, un-s[=o]l', _v.t._ to deprive of soul or spirit.

UNSOUND, un-sownd', _adj._ not sound or perfect: not honest: erroneous:
defective: (_Spens._) not substantial, not to be depended upon.--_adv._
UNSOUND'LY.--_n._ UNSOUND'NESS.

UNSOUNDABLE, un-sown'da-bl, _adj._ that cannot be sounded or fathomed.

UNSPAR, un-spär', _v.t._ to take the spars or bars from.

UNSPARING, un-sp[=a]r'ing, _adj._ not sparing, liberal, profuse:
unmerciful.--_adj._ UNSPARED', not spared: not saved from ruin.--_adv._
UNSPAR'INGLY.--_n._ UNSPAR'INGNESS.

UNSPATIAL, un-sp[=a]'shal, _adj._ not extending into space.--_n._
UNSPATIAL'ITY.

UNSPEAKABLE, un-sp[=e]'ka-bl, _adj._ incapable of being spoken, uttered, or
described.--_v.t._ UNSPEAK' (_Shak._), to retract, as what has been
spoken.--_adv._ UNSPEA'KABLY, in an unspeakable or inexpressible
manner.--_adj._ UNSPEA'KING, not being able to speak.

UNSPECIALISED, un-spesh'a-l[=i]zd, _adj._ not specialised in the biological
sense: generalised.

UNSPECIFIED, un-spes'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ not specified.

UNSPED, un-sped', _adj._ not performed.

UNSPEEDY, un-sp[=e]'di, _adj._ not speedy.

UNSPELL, un-spel', _v.t._ to free from the power of a spell.

UNSPENT, un-spent', _adj._ not spent or exhausted: not having lost its
force of motion.

UNSPHERE, un-sf[=e]r', _v.t._ to take out of its sphere.

UNSPIED, un-sp[=i]d', _adj._ (_Spens._) not spied, unseen.

UNSPIKE, un-sp[=i]k', _v.t._ to remove a spike from.

UNSPILT, un-spilt', _adj._ not spilt or shed.--Also UNSPILLED'.

UNSPIN, un-spin', _v.t._ to undo what has been spun.

UNSPIRITUAL, un-spir'i-t[=u]-al, _adj._ not spiritual.--_v.t._
UNSPIR'ITUALISE, to deprive of spirituality.--_adv._ UNSPIR'ITUALLY.

UNSPLEENED, un-spl[=e]nd', _adj._ free from spleen.

UNSPOIL, un-spoil', _v.t._ to undo the ill effects of spoiling.--_adj._
UNSPOILED'.

UNSPOKEN, un-sp[=o]'kn, _adj._ not spoken, unconfessed.

UNSPONTANEOUS, un-spon-t[=a]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ not spontaneous.

UNSPORTFUL, un-sp[=o]rt'fool, _adj._ not sportful, melancholy.

UNSPOTTED, un-spot'ed, _adj._ free from spot: not tainted with guilt.--_n._
UNSPOTT'EDNESS.

UNSQUARED, un-skw[=a]rd', _adj._ not made square: undressed: irregular,
unbalanced.

UNSQUIRE, un-skw[=i]r', _v.t._ to strip of the dignity of squire.

UNSTABLE, un-st[=a]'bl, _adj._ not stable, unreliable, infirm, inconstant:
in such a physical state that the slightest change induces further change
of form or composition.--_ns._ UNSTABIL'ITY, UNST[=A]'BLENESS.

UNSTABLISHED, un-stab'lisht, _adj._ not firmly fixed.

UNSTACK, un-stak', _v.t._ to remove from a stack.

UNSTAID, un-st[=a]d', _adj._ not staid or steady.--_n._ UNSTAID'NESS.

UNSTAINED, un-st[=a]nd', _adj._ not stained or tarnished.

UNSTAMPED, un-stampt', _adj._ not stamped, not having a stamp affixed.

UNSTANCHED, un-stäncht', _adj._ not stanched: incontinent.--_adj._
UNSTANCH'ABLE.

UNSTARCH, un-stärch' _v.t._ to take the starch from.

UNSTATE, un-st[=a]t', _v.t._ to deprive of state or dignity.

UNSTATUTABLE, un-stat'[=u]-ta-bl, _adj._ unwarranted by statute.--_adv._
UNSTAT'UTABLY.

UNSTAYED, un-st[=a]d', _adj._ not stayed or restrained.

UNSTEADY, un-sted'i, _adj._ not steady: changeable.--_v.t._ to make
unsteady.--_adj._ UNSTEAD'FAST, not steadfast or resolute:
insecure.--_adv._ UNSTEAD'FASTLY.--_n._ UNSTEAD'FASTNESS.--_adv._
UNSTEAD'ILY, in an unsteady manner.--_n._ UNSTEAD'INESS, the state or
quality of being unsteady: want of firmness: irresolution.

UNSTEEL, un-st[=e]l, _v.t._ to soften, to disarm.

UNSTEP, un-step', _v.t._ to remove, as a mast, from its place.

UNSTERCORATED, un-ster'k[=o]-r[=a]-ted, _adj._ not stercorated or manured.

UNSTICK, un-stik', _v.t._ to tear something free.

UNSTING, un-sting', _v.t._ to disarm of a sting.

UNSTINTED, un-stint'ed, _adj._ not stinted, profuse.

UNSTITCH, un-stich', _v.t._ to take out the stitches of.

UNSTOCK, un-stok', _v.t._ to deplete of stock: to remove from the stock:
(_obs._) to launch.

UNSTOCKINGED, un-stok'ingd, _adj._ not wearing stockings.

UNSTOOPING, un-st[=oo]p'ing, _adj._ not stooping.

UNSTOP, un-stop', _v.t._ to free from a stopper; to free from hinderance:
to draw out the stops of an organ.

UNSTOPPER, un-stop'[.e]r, _v.t._ to open, as a bottle, by taking out the
stopper.

UNSTOPPLE, un-stop'l, _v.t._ to remove a stopple from.

UNSTOW, un-st[=o]', _v.t._ to empty of its contents.--_adj._ UNSTOWED', not
stowed or packed.

UNSTRAINED, un-str[=a]nd', _adj._ not strained or purified by straining:
not forced, natural.--_v.t._ UNSTRAIN', to relieve from a strain.

UNSTRATIFIED, un-strat'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ not stratified, as rocks.

UNSTRESSED, un-strest', _adj._ not pronounced with stress, unaccented.

UNSTRETCH, un-strech', _v.i._ to become unstretched or relaxed.

UNSTRIATED, un-str[=i]'[=a]-ted, _adj._ not striated or striped.

UNSTRING, un-string', _v.t._ to take the strings off: to relax or
loosen.--_adjs._ UNSTRINGED'; UNSTRUNG'.

UNSTRUCK, un-struk', _adj._ not struck.

UNSTUDIED, un-stud'id, _adj._ done without premeditation, natural, easy:
not acquainted with through study.

UNSTUFFED, un-stuft', _adj._ not stuffed.

UNSUBDUED, un-sub-d[=u]d', _adj._ not subdued.--_adj._ UNSUBD[=U]'ABLE,
incapable of being subdued.

UNSUBJECT, un-sub'jekt, _adj._ not subject.

UNSUBMISSIVE, un-sub-mis'iv, _adj._ not submissive.--_n._
UNSUBMIS'SION.--_adv._ UNSUBMISS'IVELY.--_n._ UNSUBMISS'IVENESS.--_adj._
UNSUBMIT'TING, not submitting.

UNSUBORDINATE, un-sub-or'di-n[=a]t, _adj._ not subordinate.

UNSUBSTANTIAL, un-sub-stan'shal, _adj._ not substantial, not real, not
solid or strong.--_v.t._ UNSUBSTAN'TIALISE.--_ns._ UNSUBSTANTIAL'ITY;
UNSUBSTANTI[=A]'TION.

UNSUCCEEDED, un-suk-s[=e]d'ed, _adj._ not succeeded.--_adjs._
UNSUCCEED'ABLE (_obs._); UNSUCCESS'IVE, without succession.

UNSUCCESS, un-suk-ses', _n._ want of success: failure.--_adj._
UNSUCCESS'FUL, not successful or fortunate.--_adv._ UNSUCCESS'FULLY, in an
unsuccessful or unfortunate manner.--_n._ UNSUCCESS'FULNESS.

UNSUCCOURABLE, un-suk'ur-a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being succoured.

UNSUCKED, un-sukt', _adj._ not sucked.

UNSUFFERABLE, un-suf'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ (_obs._) insufferable.--_adv._
UNSUFF'ERABLY (_obs._).

UNSUFFICIENT, un-su-fish'ent, _adj._ (_obs._) insufficient.--_n._
UNSUFFI'CIENCE (_obs._).--_adv._ UNSUFFI'CIENTLY (_obs._).

UNSUITABLE, un-s[=u]'ta-bl, _adj._ not suitable, fitting, or adequate:
unbecoming.--_v.t._ UNSUIT', to be unsuitable for.--_ns._ UNSUITABIL'ITY,
UNSUIT'ABLENESS.--_adv._ UNSUIT'ABLY.--_adjs._ UNSUIT'ED, not suited or
adapted to; UNSUIT'ING, not suiting.

UNSULLIED, un-sul'id, _adj._ not sullied, not disgraced.

UNSUMMERED, un-sum'[.e]rd, _adj._ not possessing the characteristics of
summer.

UNSUNG, un-sung', _adj._ not celebrated in song, forgotten: not yet sung.

UNSUNNED, un-sund', _adj._ not exposed to the sun, not lighted.--_adj._
UNSUN'NY, not sunny or bright.

UNSUPPLIABLE, un-su-pl[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be supplied.

UNSUPPORTABLE, un-su-p[=o]r'ta-bl, _adj._ insupportable.--_n._
UNSUPPOR'TABLENESS.--_adv._ UNSUPPOR'TABLY.--_adj._ UNSUPPOR'TED, not
supported.--_adv._ UNSUPPOR'TEDLY.

UNSUPPRESSED, un-su-prest', _adj._ not suppressed.

UNSURE, un-sh[=oo]r', _adj._ not sure.--_adj._ UNSURED', not made
sure.--_adv._ UNSURE'LY.

UNSURMOUNTABLE, un-sur-mown'ta-bl, _adj._ insurmountable.

UNSURPASSABLE, un-sur-pas'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being
surpassed.--_adv._ UNSURPASS'ABLY.--_adj._ UNSURPASSED'.

UNSURRENDERED, un-su-ren'd[.e]rd, _adj._ not surrendered.

UNSUSCEPTIBLE, un-su-sep'ti-bl, _adj._ not susceptible.--_n._
UNSUSCEPTIBIL'ITY.

UNSUSPECTED, un-sus-pek'ted, _adj._ not suspected: not known or supposed to
exist--(_Milt._) UNSUSPECT'.--_adv._ UNSUSPEC'TEDLY.--_n._
UNSUSPEC'TEDNESS.--_adj._ UNSUSPEC'TING.--_adv._ UNSUSPEC'TINGLY.--_n._
UNSUSPEC'TINGNESS.

UNSUSPICIOUS, un-sus-pish'us; _adj._ not suspicious, unsuspecting: free
from suspicion.--_n._ UNSUSPI'CION, absence of suspicion.--_adv._
UNSUSPI'CIOUSLY.--_n._ UNSUSPI'CIOUSNESS.

UNSUSTAINED, un-sus-t[=a]nd', _adj._ not sustained.

UNSWADDLE, un-swod'l, _v.t._ to remove swaddling-bands from, to unswathe.

UNSWATHE, un-sw[=a]th', _v.t._ to take swathings or bandages from.

UNSWAYABLE, un-sw[=a]'a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) not to be swayed.--_adj._
UNSWAYED', not swayed.--_n._ UNSWAYED'NESS.

UNSWEAR, un-sw[=a]r', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to recall an oath.

UNSWEATING, un-swet'ing, _adj._ not sweating.

UNSWEET, un-sw[=e]t', _adj._ not sweet.--_v.t._ UNSWEET'EN, to make
unsweet.

UNSWEPT, un-swept', _adj._ not swept or cleaned, not swept over.

UNSWERVING, un-swer'ving, _adj._ not swerving, firm.--_adv._ UNSWER'VINGLY.

UNSWORN, un-sw[=o]rn', _adj._ not sworn, not solemnly pronounced.

UNSYLLABLED, un-sil'a-bld, _adj._ not syllabled, not articulated.

UNSYMMETRICAL, un-si-met'ri-kal, _adj._ not symmetrical--also
UNSYMMET'RIC.--_adv._ UNSYMMET'RICALLY.--_n._ UNSYMM'ETRY, want of
symmetry.

UNSYMPATHY, un-sim'pa-thi, _n._ want of sympathy.--_n._
UNSYMPATH[=I]SABIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNSYM'PATH[=I]SABLE.

UNSYSTEMATIC, -AL, un-sis-te-mat'ik, -al, _adj._ not systematic.--_adv._
UNSYSTEMAT'ICALLY.

UNTACK, un-tak', _v.t._ to undo what is tacked or fastened.

UNTACKLE, un-tak'l, _v.t._ to unhitch.

UNTAINTED, un-t[=a]n'ted, _adj._ not tainted or stained, not made unfit for
eating by putrescence.--_adv._ UNTAIN'TEDLY.--_n._ UNTAIN'TEDNESS.

UNTAINTED, un-t[=a]n'ted, _adj._ not attainted.

UNTAKEN, un-t[=a]'kn, _adj._ not taken.

UNTALENTED, un-tal'en-ted, _adj._ not talented.

UNTALKED, un-tawkt', _adj._ not talked or spoken (with of).

UNTAMED, un-t[=a]md', _adj._ not tamed, not domesticated.--_adj._
UNT[=A]'MABLE, incapable of being tamed.--_n._ UNT[=A]'MABLENESS.--_adj._
UNTAME', not tame.--_n._ UNTAMED'NESS.

UNTANGLE, un-tang'gl, _v.t._ to disentangle.

UNTAPPICE, un-tap'is, _v.i._ (_obs._) to come out of concealment.--_v.t._
to drive out of such.

UNTARNISHED, un-tär'nisht, _adj._ not tarnished or soiled.

UNTASTED, un-t[=a]s'ted, _adj._ not tasted, not enjoyed.

UNTAUGHT, un-tawt', _adj._ not taught, illiterate: not communicated by
teaching: ignorant.

UNTAX, un-taks', _v.t._ to take a tax from.--_adj._ UNTAXED', not taxed:
not charged with any fault.

UNTEACH, un-t[=e]ch', _v.t._ to cause to forget, as what has been
taught.--_adj._ UNTEACH'ABLE, not teachable.--_n._ UNTEACH'ABLENESS.

UNTEAM, un-t[=e]m', _v.t._ to unyoke a team from.

UNTELL, un-tel', _v.t._ to recall what has been told.

UNTEMPERING, un-tem'p[.e]r-ing, _adj._ (_Shak._) not softening.--_v.t._
UNTEM'PER, to remove the temper from, to soften.--_adj._ UNTEM'PERED, not
tempered: not regulated.

UNTEMPTIBLE, un-temt'i-bl, _adj._ incapable of being tempted.--_adv._
UNTEMPT'IBLY.

UNTENABLE, un-ten'a-bl, _adj._ not tenable, not defensible.--_ns._
UNTENABIL'ITY, UNTEN'ABLENESS.

UNTENANT, un-ten'ant, _v.t._ to deprive of a tenant, to evict.--_adjs._
UNTEN'ANTABLE, not fit to be tenanted or inhabited; UNTEN'ANTED, not
occupied.

UNTENDER, un-ten'd[.e]r, _adj._ not tender, not affectionate.--_adv._
UNTEN'DERLY.

UNTENDERED, un-ten'd[.e]rd, _adj._ not offered.

UNTENT, un-tent', _v.t._ to bring out of a tent.--_adj._ UNTEN'TED, having
no tents.

UNTENTED, un-ten'ted, _adj._ (_Scot._) uncared for.--_adj._ UNTEN'TY,
careless.

UNTERMINATED, un-ter'mi-n[=a]-ted, _adj._ without termination.

UNTETHER, un-te_th_'[.e]r, _v.t._ to release from a tether.

UNTHANKFUL, un-thank'fool, _adj._ not thankful.--_v.t._ UNTHANK' (_obs._),
to take back one's thanks.--_adj._ UNTHANKED', not thanked.--_adv._
UNTHANK'FULLY.--_n._ UNTHANK'FULNESS.

UNTHINK, un-thingk', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to dismiss from the mind, as a
thought.--_n._ UNTHINKABIL'ITY.--_adj._ UNTHINK'ABLE, that cannot be
thought.--_n._ UNTHINK'ER, one who does not think.--_adj._ UNTHINK'ING, not
thinking: thoughtless.--_adv._ UNTHINK'INGLY.--_n._ UNTHINK'INGNESS.

UNTHOUGHT, un-thawt', _adj._ not thought (with of).--_n._
UNTHOUGHT'FULNESS, thoughtlessness.

UNTHREAD, un-thred', _v.t._ to take a thread from: to loosen: to find one's
way through.

UNTHRIFTY, un-thrif'ti, _adj._ not thrifty: without thriftiness.--_ns._
UNTHRIFT', UNTHRIF'TINESS--(_Spens._) UNTHRIF'TIHEAD.--_adv._ UNTHRIF'TILY.

UNTHRONE, un-thr[=o]n', _v.t._ to dethrone.

UNTIDY, un-t[=i]'di, _adj._ not tidy or neat.--_adv._ UNT[=I]'DILY.--_n._
UNT[=I]'DINESS.

UNTIE, un-t[=i]', _v.t._ to loose from being tied: to unbind: to
loosen.--_adj._ UNTIED'.

UNTIL, un-til', _prep._ till: to: as far as (used mostly with respect to
time).--_adv._ till: up to the time that.

UNTILE, un-t[=i]l', _v.t._ to take the tiles from.

UNTILLED, un-tild', _adj._ not tilled.--_adj._ UNTILL'ABLE, incapable of
being tilled.

UNTIMBERED, un-tim'b[.e]rd, _adj._ not provided with timber.

UNTIMELY, un-t[=i]m'li, _adj._ not timely: before the time, premature:
unseasonable, ill-timed.--_adv._ (_Shak._) before the time: prematurely,
unseasonably.--_n._ UNTIME'LINESS.--_adj._ UNTIME'OUS, untimely,
unseasonable.--_adv._ UNTIME'OUSLY.

UNTIN, un-tin', _v.t._ to take the tin from.

UNTINCTURED, un-tingk't[=u]rd, _adj._ not tinctured.

UNTINGED, un-tinjd', _adj._ not tinged, not infected.

UNTIRING, un-t[=i]r'ing, _adj._ unwearied.--_adjs._ UNTIR'ABLE, incapable
of being wearied; UNTIRED', not tired.--_adv._ UNTIR'INGLY.

UNTITLED, un-t[=i]'tld, _adj._ having no title.

UNTO, un't[=oo], _prep._ to.

UNTOILING, un-toi'ling, _adj._ without toil.

UNTOLD, un-t[=o]ld', _adj._ not told or related: not counted or capable of
being counted.

UNTOMB, un-t[=oo]m', _v.t._ to take out of the tomb.

UNTONGUE, un-tung', _v.t._ (_obs._) to silence.

UNTOOTH, un-t[=oo]th', _v.t._ to deprive of teeth.--_adj._ UNTOOTH'SOME,
unpalatable.--_n._ UNTOOTH'SOMENESS.

UNTORMENTED, un-tor-men'ted, _adj._ not tormented.

UNTORN, un-torn', _adj._ not torn.

UNTOUCHED, un-tucht', _adj._ not touched, not mentioned, not moved or
affected emotionally.--_adj._ UNTOUCH'ABLE, incapable of being touched.

UNTOWARD, un-t[=o]'ard, _adj._ not easily guided: froward: awkward:
inconvenient--also UNT[=O]'WARDLY.--_n._ UNT[=O]'WARDLINESS.--_adv._
UNT[=O]'WARDLY.--_n._ UNT[=O]'WARDNESS.

UNTOWERED, un-tow'[.e]rd, _adj._ not having towers.

UNTRACE, un-tr[=a]s', _v.t._ to loose from traces.

UNTRACED, un-tr[=a]sd', _adj._ not traced or tracked.--_adj._ UNTRACE'ABLE,
that cannot be traced.

UNTRACKED, un-trakt', _adj._ not tracked.

UNTRACTABLE, un-trak'ta-bl, _adj._ not tractable, difficult, rough.--_ns._
UNTRACTABIL'ITY, UNTRAC'TABLENESS.--_adv._ UNTRAC'TABLY.

UNTRADED, un-tr[=a]'ded, _adj._ (_Shak._) unused, uncommon,
inexperienced.--_adj._ UNTR[=A]'DING, not accustomed.

UNTRAINED, un-tr[=a]nd', _adj._ not trained or disciplined.

UNTRAMMELLED, un-tram'eld, _adj._ not trammelled.

UNTRAMPLED, un-tramp'ld, _adj._ not trod upon.

UNTRANSFERABLE, un-trans-fer'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be transferred.

UNTRANSFORMED, un-trans-formd', _adj._ not transformed.

UNTRANSLATED, un-trans-l[=a]'ted, _adj._ not translated from one tongue
into another.--_ns._ UNTRANSL[=A]TABIL'ITY, UNTRANSL[=A]'TABLENESS.--_adj._
UNTRANSL[=A]'TABLE.--_adv._ UNTRANSL[=A]'TABLY.

UNTRANSMUTABLE, un-trans-m[=u]'ta-bl, _adj._ that cannot be transmuted.

UNTRANSPARENT, un-trans-p[=a]r'ent, _adj._ not transparent.

UNTRAVELLED, un-trav'eld, _adj._ not passed over: not having learned
through travel: narrow-minded.

UNTREAD, un-tred', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to tread back, to retrace.

UNTREASURE, un-trezh'[=u]r, _v.t._ to despoil of treasure: to display or
set forth.

UNTREATABLE, un-tr[=e]'ta-bl, _adj._ that cannot be treated.

UNTREMBLING, un-trem'bling, _adj._ not trembling.--_adv._ UNTREM'BLINGLY.

UNTRESPASSING, un-tres'pas-ing, _adj._ not trespassing.

UNTRESSED, un-trest', _adj._ not having the hair dressed in tresses.

UNTRICKED, un-trikt', _adj._ not adorned.

UNTRIED, un-tr[=i]d', _adj._ not tried, not yet experienced, not yet having
passed trial: unnoticed.

UNTRIFLING, un-tr[=i]'fling, _adj._ not trifling.

UNTRIM, un-trim', _v.t._ to deprive of trimming, to put out of
order.--_adj._ UNTRIMMED', not adorned with trimmings: not made neat by
clipping, &c.--_n._ UNTRIMMED'NESS.

UNTRODDEN, un-trod'n, _adj._ not trodden upon, unfrequented.--Also UNTROD'.

UNTROUBLED, un-trub'ld, _adj._ not troubled or disturbed: not rising in
waves: not turbid.--_n._ UNTROUB'LEDNESS.

UNTRUCED, un-tr[=oo]st', _adj._ without truce.

UNTRUE, un-tr[=oo]', _adj._ not true: false: not faithful: disloyal: not in
accordance with a standard.--_ns._ UNTRUE'NESS, state of being untrue;
UNTRU'ISM, something palpably untrue.--_adv._ UNTRU'LY, not truly,
falsely.--_n._ UNTRUTH, falsehood: a lie.--_adj._ UNTRUTH'FUL.--_adv._
UNTRUTH'FULLY.--_n._ UNTRUTH'FULNESS.

UNTRUSS, un-trus', _v.t._ to loosen or free from a truss: to unfasten, let
down the breeches by undoing the points that kept them up, to
undress.--_adj._ UNTRUSSED', not trussed.--_n._ UNTRUSS'ER (_obs._), one
who untrusses persons for whipping.

UNTRUSTFUL, un-trust'fool, _adj._ not trusting: not trustworthy.--_adv._
UNTRUST'WORTHILY.--_n._ UNTRUST'WORTHINESS.--_adjs._ UNTRUST'WORTHY, not
worthy of trust; UNTRUST'Y, not trusty, not deserving trust.

UNTUCK, un-tuk', _v.t._ to undo, as a tuck: to loose from a tuck.

UNTUCKERED, un-tuk'[.e]rd, _adj._ not having a tucker on.

UNTUFTED, un-tuf'ted, _adj._ without tufts, of scales, hairs, &c.

UNTUNE, un-t[=u]n', _v.t._ to put out of tune: to disorder or
confuse.--_adj._ UNT[=U]'NABLE, inharmonious.--_n._
UNT[=U]'NABLENESS.--_adv._ UNT[=U]'NABLY.--_adj._ UNTUNED'.

UNTURF, un-turf', _v.t._ to strip the turf from.

UNTURN, un-turn', _v.t._ to turn the opposite way.--_adj._ UNTURNED', not
turned.

UNTUTORED, un-t[=u]'tord, _adj._ having had no tutor, uninstructed, raw.

UNTWINE, un-tw[=i]n', _v.t._ to untwist: to open.--_v.i._ to become
untwined.

UNTWIST, un-twist', _v.t._ to open what is twisted, to unravel.--_v.i._ to
become loosened out.--_n._ a twist in the opposite direction.

UNUNDERSTANDABLE, un-un-d[.e]r-stan'da-bl, _adj._ not to be understood.

UNUNIFORM, un-[=u]'ni-form, _adj._ not uniform.--_n._ UN[=U]'NIFORMNESS.

UNURGED, un-urjd', _adj._ not urged.

UNUSED, un-[=u]zd', _adj._ not used, not accustomed.--_ns._ UN[=U]'SAGE
(_obs._); UNUSED'NESS.--_adj._ UNUSE'FUL, useless.--_adv._
UNUSE'FULLY.--_n._ UNUSE'FULNESS.

UNUSUAL, un-[=u]'zh[=u]-al, _adj._ not usual or common.--_n._ UNUSUAL'ITY,
rarity.--_adv._ UN[=U]'SUALLY.--_n._ UN[=U]'SUALNESS.

UNUTTERABLE, un-ut'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being uttered or
expressed.--_ns._ UNUTTERABIL'ITY, UNUTT'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ UNUTT'ERABLY.

UNVACCINATED, un-vak'si-n[=a]-ted, _adj._ not vaccinated.

UNVALUED, un-val'[=u]d, _adj._ not valued; not yet having the value set:
invaluable.--_adj._ UNVAL'UABLE, priceless.

UNVANQUISHED, un-vang'kwisht, _adj._ not conquered.--_adj._
UNVANQ'UISHABLE, that cannot be conquered.

UNVARIED, un-v[=a]'rid, _adj._ not varied.--_adjs._ UNV[=A]'RIABLE,
invariable; UNV[=A]'RYING, not varying.

UNVARIEGATED, un-v[=a]'ri-e-g[=a]-ted, _adj._ not variegated.

UNVARNISHED, un-vär'nisht, _adj._ not varnished: not artfully embellished:
plain.

UNVASCULAR, un-vas'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ non-vascular, devoid of vessels.

UNVASSAL, un-vas'al, _v.t._ to free from vassalage.

UNVEIL, un-v[=a]l', _v.t._ to remove a veil from: to disclose,
reveal.--_v.i._ to become unveiled, to reveal one's self.--_adv._
UNVEIL'EDLY.--_n._ UNVEIL'ER.

UNVENERABLE, un-ven'e-ra-bl, _adj._ not venerable.

UNVENOMED, un-ven'umd, _adj._ not venomous.--Also UNVEN'OMOUS.

UNVENTED, un-ven'ted, _adj._ not vented.

UNVENTILATED, un-ven'ti-l[=a]-ted, _adj._ not ventilated.

UNVERACIOUS, un-ve-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ not veracious or truthful.--_n._
UNVERAC'ITY.

UNVERDANT, un-ver'dant, _adj._ not verdant.

UNVERSED, un-verst', _adj._ not skilled: not put in verse.

UNVEXED, un-vekst', _adj._ not vexed or troubled.

UNVICAR, un-vik'ar, _v.t._ to deprive of the office of vicar.

UNVIOLABLE, un-v[=i]'[=o]-la-bl, _adj._ not to be violated.--_adj._
UNV[=I]'OL[=A]TED, not violated.

UNVIRTUE, un-v[.e]r't[=u], _n._ lack of virtue.--_adj._
UNVIR'TUOUS.--_adv._ UNVIR'TUOUSLY.

UNVITAL, un-v[=i]'tal, _adj._ not vital.

UNVITIATED, un-vish'i-[=a]-ted, _adj._ not vitiated.

UNVIZARD, un-viz'ard, _v.t._ to divest of a vizard.

UNVOICED, un-voist', _adj._ not spoken.

UNVOIDABLE, un-voi'da-bl, _adj._ that cannot be made void.

UNVOLUNTARY, un-vol'un-ta-ri, _adj._ (_obs._) involuntary.

UNVOLUPTUOUS, un-v[=o]-lupt'[=u]-us, _adj._ not voluptuous.

UNVOTE, un-v[=o]t, _v.t._ to cancel by vote.

UNVOWED, un-vowd', _adj._ not vowed.

UNVOYAGEABLE, un-voi'[=a]j-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be navigated,
impassable.

UNVULGAR, un-vul'gar, _adj._ not vulgar.--_v.t._ UNVUL'GARISE, to divest of
vulgarity.

UNWAITED, un-w[=a]'ted, _adj._ not attended (with _on_).

UNWAKEFUL, un-w[=a]k'fool, _adj._ not waking easily, sleeping
soundly.--_n._ UNWAKE'FULNESS.--_adj._ UNW[=A]K'ENED.

UNWALLET, un-wol'et, _v.t._ to take from a wallet.

UNWANDERING, un-won'd[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not wandering.

UNWARLIKE, un-wawr'l[=i]k, _adj._ not warlike.

UNWARM, un-wawrm', _adj._ not warm.--_v.i._ to lose warmth.

UNWARNED, un-wawrnd', _adj._ not warned.--_adv._ UNWARN'EDLY.

UNWARP, un-wawrp', _v.t._ to change from being warped.--_adj._ UNWARPED'.

UNWARRANTABLE, un-wor'an-ta-bl, _adj._ not warrantable or justifiable:
improper.--_ns._ UNWARRANTABIL'ITY, UNWARR'ANTABLENESS.--_adv._
UNWARR'ANTABLY, in an unwarrantable manner: improperly.--_adj._
UNWARR'ANTED, without warrant or authorisation: not guaranteed as to
quality, &c.--_adv._ UNWARR'ANTEDLY.

UNWARY, un-w[=a]'ri, _adj._ not wary or cautious (_Spens._)
unexpected.--_adv._ UNW[=A]'RILY, in an unwary or heedless manner.--_n._
UNW[=A]'RINESS, the state of being unwary, careless, or heedless.

UNWASHED, un-wosht', _adj._ not washed, filthy: untouched by the waves.

UNWASTED, un-w[=a]s'ted, _adj._ not wasted, not devastated.

UNWATCHFUL, un-woch'fool, _adj._ not watchful.--UNWATCH'FULLY.--_n._
UNWATCH'FULNESS.

UNWATER, un-waw't[.e]r, _v.t._ to free, as a mine, by pumping out the
water.--_adj._ UNWA'TERED, freed from water, not wetted or moistened: not
supplied with water.

UNWAVERING, un-w[=a]'v[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not wavering.--_adv._
UNW[=A]'VERINGLY.

UNWAYED, un-w[=a]d', _adj._ not used to the road: having no roads or paths.

UNWEAKENED, un-w[=e]k'nd, _adj._ not weakened.

UNWEANED, un-w[=e]nd', _adj._ not weaned.

UNWEARIED, un-w[=e]'rid, _adj._ not tiring: indefatigable.--_adj._
UNWEA'RIABLE, that cannot be wearied out.--_advs._ UNWEA'RIABLY;
UNWEA'RIEDLY.--_n._ UNWEA'RIEDNESS.--_adj._ UNWEA'RY, not weary.--_v.t._ to
refresh after weariness.

UNWEAVE, un-w[=e]v', _v.t._ to undo what is woven.

UNWEB, un-web', _v.t._ to undo the web of.--_adj._ UNWEBBED', not
web-footed.

UNWED, un-wed', _adj._ unmarried.

UNWEDGABLE, un-wej'a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) unable to be split with wedges.

UNWEEDED, un-w[=e]'ded, _adj._ not weeded.

UNWEEPING, un-w[=e]'ping, _adj._ not weeping.

UNWEETING, un-w[=e]'ting, _adj._ unwitting, not knowing, ignorant.--_adv._
UNWEE'TINGLY, ignorantly.

UNWEIGHED, un-w[=a]d', _adj._ not weighed: not pondered: unguarded.

UNWELCOME, un-wel'kum, _adj._ not welcome, causing grief.--_v.t._ to treat
as unwelcome.--_adv._ UNWEL'COMELY.--_n._ UNWEL'COMENESS.

UNWELL, un-wel', _adj._ not well: not in good health.--_n._ UNWELL'NESS.

UNWEPT, un-wept', _adj._ not mourned.

UNWHIPPED, un-whipt', _adj._ not whipped.

UNWHOLESOME, un-h[=o]l'sum, _adj._ not wholesome: unfavourable to health:
repulsive.--_adv._ UNWHOLE'SOMELY.--_n._ UNWHOLE'SOMENESS.

UNWIELDY, un-w[=e]l'di, _adj._ not easily moved or handled.--_adv._
UNWIEL'DILY.--_n._ UNWIEL'DINESS, the state or quality of being unwieldy:
difficulty of being moved.

UNWILFUL, un-wil'fool, _adj._ not wilful.

UNWILLING, un-wil'ing, _adj._ not willing: disinclined: reluctant.--_v.t._
UNWILL', to will the opposite of.--_adj._ UNWILLED', spontaneous.--_adv._
UNWILL'INGLY.--_n._ UNWILL'INGNESS.

UNWILY, un-w[=i]'li, _adj._ not wily.

UNWIND, un-w[=i]nd', _v.t._ to wind down or off.--_v.i._ to become unwound.

UNWINKING, un-wing'king, _adj._ not winking, not ceasing to keep watch.

UNWINNING, un-win'ing, _adj._ not winning, not conciliatory.

UNWIPED, un-w[=i]pt', _adj._ not wiped.

UNWIRE, un-w[=i]r, _v.t._ to take out the wire from.

UNWISE, un-w[=i]z', _adj._ not wise: injudicious: foolish.--_n._ UNWIS'DOM,
want of wisdom: ignorance: foolishness.--_adv._ UNWISE'LY, not wisely or
prudently.

UNWISH, un-wish', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to wish not to be.--_adj._ UNWISHED',
not wished for.

UNWIST, un-wist', _adj._ (_Spens._) not known.

UNWITCH, un-wich', _v.t._ to set free from the power of witchcraft.

UNWITHDRAWING, un-with-draw'ing, _adj._ not withdrawing.

UNWITHERED, un-with'[.e]rd, _adj._ not withered.--_adj._ UNWITH'ERING, not
withering or fading.

UNWITHHELD, un-with-held', _adj._ not withheld.

UNWITHSTOOD, un-with-st[=oo]d', _adj._ not opposed or resisted.

UNWITNESSED, un-wit'nest, _adj._ not witnessed.

UNWITTILY, un-wit'i-li, _adv._ not wittily, without wit.

UNWITTING, un-wit'ing, _adj._ without knowledge: ignorant.--_adv._
UNWITT'INGLY.

UNWIVED, un-w[=i]vd, _adj._ not having a wife.

UNWOMAN, un-w[=oo]m'an, _v.t._ to make unwomanly.--_n._
UNWOM'ANLINESS.--_adj._ UNWOM'ANLY, not befitting or becoming a
woman.--_adv._ in a manner unbecoming a woman.

UNWONDERING, un-wun'd[.e]r-ing, _adj._ not wondering.

UNWONTED, un-wun'ted, _adj._ not wonted or accustomed: uncommon--(_Spens._)
UNWONT'.--_adv._ UNWON'TEDLY.--_n._ UNWON'TEDNESS.

UNWOOED, un-w[=oo]d', _adj._ not wooed.

UNWOOF, un-w[=oo]f', _v.t._ to remove the woof from.

UNWORDED, un-wur'ded, _adj._ not worded, silent.

UNWORK, un-wurk', _v.t._ to undo.--_adjs._ UNWOR'KABLE, not workable:
difficult to manage; UNWOR'KING, living without labour; UNWORK'MANLIKE, not
like a good workman.

UNWORLDLY, un-wurld'li, _adj._ above worldly or self-interested motives,
spiritual.--_n._ UNWORLD'LINESS.

UNWORMED, un-wurmd', _adj._ not wormed, not having had the worm or lytta
under the tongue cut out--of a dog.

UNWORN, un-w[=o]rn', _adj._ not worn.

UNWORSHIPPED, un-wur'shipt, _adj._ not worshipped.

UNWORTHY, un-wur'_th_i, _adj._ not worthy: worthless: unbecoming.--_n._
UNWORTH (-worth'), unworthiness.--_adv._ UNWOR'THILY, in an unworthy
manner: without due regard to worth or merit.--_n._ UNWOR'THINESS.

UNWOUNDED, un-w[=oo]n'ded, _adj._ not wounded: not offended.

UNWRAP, un-rap', _v.t._ to open what is wrapped or folded.--_v.i._ to
become unwrapped.

UNWREAKED, un-r[=e]kt', _adj._ (_Spens._) unrevenged.

UNWREATHE, un-r[=e]th', _v.t._ to untwist, as anything wreathed.

UNWRECKED, un-rekt', _adj._ not wrecked.

UNWRINKLE, un-ring'kl, _v.t._ to smooth out from a wrinkled state.--_adj._
UNWRINK'LED, not wrinkled, smooth.

UNWRITTEN, un-rit'n, _adj._ not written or reduced to writing, oral:
containing no writing.--_v.t._ UNWRITE', to cancel what is written.--_adj._
UNWR[=I]T'ING, not writing.

UNWROUGHT, un-rawt', _adj._ not laboured or manufactured.

UNWRUNG, un-rung', _adj._ not galled.

UNYIELDING, un-y[=e]l'ding, _adj._ not yielding or bending: stiff:
obstinate.--_adv._ UNYIEL'DINGLY.--_n._ UNYIEL'DINGNESS.

UNYOKE, un-y[=o]k', _v.t._ to loose from a yoke: to disjoin.--_v.i._ to be
loosed from a yoke, to cease work.--_adj._ UNYOKED', not yoked: not having
worn the yoke: (_Shak._) unrestrained, licentious.

UNZEALOUS, un-zel'us, _adj._ not zealous, devoid of zeal or fervour.

UNZONED, un-z[=o]nd', _adj._ having no zone or girdle.

UP, up, _adv._ toward a higher place: aloft: on high: from a lower to a
higher position, as out of bed, above the horizon, &c.: in a higher
position: in a condition of elevation, advance, excitement, &c.: as far as,
abreast of: completely: at an end, over.--_prep._ from a lower to a higher
place on or along.--_adj._ inclining up, upward.--_n._ in phrase '_ups_ and
downs,' rises and falls, vicissitudes.--_adv._ UP'-AND-DOWN', upright: here
and there.--_adj._ plain, downright.--UP STICK, to pack up; UP TO
(_coll._), about, engaged in doing; UP TO ANYTHING, capable of and ready
for any mischief; UP TO DATE, to the present time: containing all recent
facts, statistics, &c.: knowing the latest developments of fashion, usage,
&c.; UP TO SNUFF (see SNUFF); UP TO THE KNOCKER (_slang_), up to the
required standard, excellent; UP TOWN (_coll._), pertaining to the upper
part of a town: towards the upper part of a town. [A.S. _up_, _upp_; Ger.
_auf_; L. _sub_, Gr. _hypo_.]

UPANISHAD, [=oo]-pan'i-shad, _n._ in Sanskrit literature, a name given to a
class of treatises of theosophic and philosophical character, more or less
closely connected with the Brâhmanas, which are theological prose-works
attached to each of the four collections (_Samhitâ_) forming the Veda.
[Sans.]

UPAS, [=u]'pas, _n._ the juice of the Antjar or Anchar tree of the
Philippine Islands, a powerful vegetable poison. [Malay, _[=u]pas_,
poison.]

UPBAR, up-bär', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to lift up the bar of, to unbar.

UPBEAR, up-b[=a]r', _v.t._ to bear up: to raise aloft: to sustain.

UPBIND, up-b[=i]nd'. _v.t._ to bind up.

UPBLAZE, up-bl[=a]z, _v.i._ to blaze or shoot up.

UPBLOW, up-bl[=o]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to blow up.

UPBRAID, up-br[=a]d', _v.t._ to charge with something wrong or disgraceful:
to reproach: to reprove severely.--_v.i._ to utter reproaches.--_n._
UPBRAID'ING, a charging with something wrong: act of reproaching.--_adv._
UPBRAID'INGLY. [A.S. _up_, up, on, _bregdan_, to braid.]

UPBRAST, up-brast', _v.pa.t._ (_Spens._) burst open.

UPBRAY, up-br[=a]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to upbraid.--_n._ an upbraiding.

UPBREAK, up'br[=a]k, _n._ a breaking up or bursting forth.

UPBRINGING, up'bring-ing, _n._ the process of nourishing and training.

UPBROUGHT, up-brawt', _adj._ (_Spens._) brought up, educated.

UPBUILDING, up-bil'ding, _n._ the act of building up, edification.

UPBUOYANCE, up-boi'ans, _n._ the act of buoying up.

UPBURST, up'burst, _n._ a bursting up.

UPBY, up'b[=i], _adv._ (_Scot._) up the way, a little farther on or up.

UPCAST, up'kast, _n._ a cast or throw in bowling: a shaft for the upward
passage of air from a mine, a current of air passing along such: (_Scot._)
state of being thrown into confusion, a taunt or gibe.--_adj._ thrown or
turned upward.

UPCAUGHT, up-kawt', _adj._ caught up.

UPCHEER, up-ch[=e]r', _v.t._ to cheer up, to brighten.

UPCLIMB, up-kl[=i]m', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to climb up, to ascend.

UPCOIL, up-koil', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to coil.

UPCOMING, up'kum-ing, _n._ act of coming up.

UP-COUNTRY, up'kun-tri, _adv._ toward the interior.--_n._ the interior of a
country.--_adj._ away from the seaboard.

UPFILL, up-fil', _v.t._ to fill up.

UPFLOW, up-fl[=o]', _v.i._ to stream up.--_n._ UP'FLOW, a flowing up.

UPGATHER, up-gath'[.e]r, _v.t._ to gather up: (_Spens._) to contract.

UPGAZE, up-g[=a]z', _v.i._ to gaze or look steadily upward.

UPGROWTH, up'gr[=o]th, _n._ process of growing up, development: that which
grows up.--_v.i._ UPGROW', to grow up.

UPGUSH, up-gush', _v.i._ to gush upward.--_n._ UP'GUSH, a gushing upward.

UPHAND, up'hand, _adj._ lifted by hand.

UPHEAP, up-h[=e]p', _v.t._ to heap up.--_n._ UPHEAP'ING.

UPHEAVE, up-h[=e]v', _v.t._ to heave or lift up.--_n._ UPHEAV'AL, the
raising of surface formations by the action of internal forces, believed to
be due to the sinking in of the crust upon the cooling and contracting
nucleus.

UPHELD, up-held', _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _uphold_.

UPHILL, up'hil, _adj._ ascending: difficult.--_adv._ up a hill, against
difficulties.

UPHOARD, up-h[=o]rd', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to hoard up.

UPHOLD, up-h[=o]ld', _v.t._ to hold up: to sustain: to countenance: to
defend: to continue without failing.--_n._ UPH[=O]L'DER.--_v.t._
UPH[=O]L'STER, to furnish furniture with stuffing, springs, &c., to provide
with curtains, &c.--_ns._ UPH[=O]L'STERER, one who supplies or who sells
furniture, beds, curtains, &c.; UPH[=O]L'STERY, furniture, &c., supplied by
upholsterers.

UPHROE, [=u]'fr[=o], _n._ (_naut._) the circular piece of wood, with holes
in it, by which the legs of a crowfoot are extended for suspending an
awning.--Also U'VROU. [Dut. _juffrouw_, a young woman.]

UPKEEP, up'k[=e]p, _n._ maintenance, means of support.

UPLAND, up'land, _n._ upper or high land, as opposed to meadows,
river-sides, &c.--_adj._ high in situation: pertaining to uplands.--_n._
UP'LANDER.--_adj._ UP'LANDISH (_obs._).

UPLAY, up-l[=a]', _v.t._ to lay up, to hoard.

UPLEAN, up-l[=e]n', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to lean upon anything.

UPLIFT, up-lift', _v.t._ to lift up or raise aloft.--_n._ a raising or
upheaval of strata.

UPLOCK, up-lok', _v.t._ to lock up.

UPLOOK, up-look', _v.i._ (_Shak._) to look up.

UPLYING, up'l[=i]-ing, _adj._ upland, elevated.

UPMAKING, up'm[=a]-king, _n._ (_naut._) pieces of plank or timber piled on
each other as filling up in building, esp. between the bilge-ways and
ship's bottom, preparatory to launching: (_print._) arrangement of lines
into columns or pages.

UPMOST. See UPPER.

UPON, up-on', _prep._ on, in an elevated position.--_adv._ on.

UPPER, up'[.e]r, _adj._ (comp. of _up_) farther up: higher in position,
dignity, &c.: superior:--_superl._ UP'PERMOST, UP'MOST.--_ns._ UP'PER, the
part of a boot or shoe above the sole and welt; UP'PERHAND, superiority:
advantage.--_adj._ UP'PERMOST, highest in place, rank, &c.: first to come
into the mind.--_adv._ in the highest place, first.--_n._ UP'PER-ST[=O]'RY,
a story above the ground-floor: the brain.--_n.pl._ UP'PER-TEN, the
wealthier or leading class in a community.--_adj._ UP'PISH, assuming,
pretentious, snobbish.--_adv._ UP'PISHLY.--_n._ UP'PISHNESS. [For affix
_-most_, cf. _Aftermost_, _Foremost_.]

UP-PILE, up-p[=i]l', _v.t._ to pile up.

UPPING, up'ing, _n._ the same as _swan-upping_ or _-marking_.

UP-PLOUGH, up-plow', _v.t._ to plough up.

UP-PLUCK, up-pluk', _v.t._ to pluck or pull up.

UP-PRICKED, up-prikt', _adj._ pricked up, erected.

UP-PROP, up-prop', _v.t._ to prop up.

UP-PUTTING, up'-poot'ing, _n._ (_Scot._) lodging and entertainment.

UPRAISE, up-r[=a]z', _v.t._ to raise or lift up.--_n._ UPRAIS'ING
(_Scot._), nurture.

UPREAR, up-r[=e]r', _v.t._ to rear or raise.

UPRIDGED, up-rijd', _adj._ raised up in ridges.--_v.t._ UPRIDGE', to raise
up in ridges.

UPRIGHT, up'r[=i]t, _adj._ right or straight up: in an erect position:
adhering to rectitude: honest: just.--_adv._ vertically.--_advs._
UPRIGH'TEOUSLY (_obs._), in an upright or just manner; UP'RIGHTLY, in an
upright manner: honestly.--_n._ UP'RIGHTNESS.

UPRISE, up-r[=i]z', _v.i._ to rise up.--_ns._ UP'RISE (_Shak._), the act of
rising: appearance above the horizon; UPR[=I]'SING, the act of rising up,
ascent: any strong outburst of popular excitement, insurrection: (_Shak._)
an ascent, a steep place.--_v.pa.t._ UPRIST' (_Coleridge_), uprose.

UPROAR, up'r[=o]r, _n._ noise and tumult: bustle and clamour.--_v.t._
UPROAR' (_Shak._), to throw into uproar or confusion.--_v.i._ to make an
uproar.--_adj._ UPROAR'IOUS, making or accompanied by great uproar.--_adv._
UPROAR'IOUSLY.--_n._ UPROAR'IOUSNESS, the state of being uproarious, noisy,
or riotous. [Dut. _oproer_, from _op_, up, and _roeren_ (Ger. _rühren_,
A.S. _hréran_), to stir; the form due to confusion with _roar_.]

UPROLL, up-r[=o]l', _v.t._ to roll up.

UPROOT, up-r[=oo]t', _v.t._ to tear up by the roots.--_n._ UPROOT'AL, act
of uprooting.

UPROSE, up-r[=o]z', _pa.t._ of _uprise_.

UPROUSE, up-rowz', _v.t._ to rouse up.

UPRUN, up-run', _v.t._ to run up, ascend.

UPRUSH., up-rush', _v.i._ to rush upward.--_n._ UP'RUSH, a rush upward.

UPSEE, up's[=e], _adv._ after the manner of, as 'to drink upsee
Dutch'--(Scott) UP'SEES. [Dut, _op zijn Duitsch_, in the Dutch, i.e.
German, fashion.]

UPSEEK, up-s[=e]k', _v.i._ to seek upward.

UPSEND, up-send', _v.t._ to send or throw up.

UPSET, up-set', _v.t._ to turn upside down: to overthrow.--_v.i._ to be
upset.--_n._ UP'SET, an overturn.--_adj._ relating to what is set up for
sale, in phrase UPSET PRICE, the sum at which anything is started at a
public sale.--_ns._ UPSET'MENT; UPSET'TER.--_adj._ UPSET'TING discomposing:
(_Scot._) conceited, assuming.

UPSHOOT, up-sh[=oo]t', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to shoot upward.

UPSHOT, up'shot, _n._ final issue: end.

UPSIDE, up's[=i]d, _n._ the upper side.--_adv._ on the upper side.--_adv._
UP'SIDE-DOWN, with the upper part undermost: in complete confusion.--BE
UPSIDES WITH (_coll._), to be even with, to be revenged upon.

UPSITTING, up'sit-ing, _n._ (_obs._) the sitting up of a woman after
confinement, the feast held on such occasion.

UPSNATCH, up-snach', _v.t._ to snatch up.

UPSOAR, up-s[=o]r', _v.i._ to soar upward.

UPSPEAR, up-sp[=e]r', _v.i._ to shoot up straight like a spear.

UPSPRING, up'spring, _n._ (_Shak._) an upstart.--_v.i._ UPSPRING', to
spring up, rise:--_pa.t._ upsprung'.

UPSTAIRS, up-st[=a]rz', _adv._ in or toward the upper story.--_adj._
UP'STAIRS, pertaining to an upper story or flat.--_n._ an upper story.

UPSTAND, up-stand', _v.i._ (_Milt._) to stand up:--_pa.t._ upstood'.

UPSTARE, up-st[=a]r', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to stare upward, to stand up erect.

UPSTART, up'stärt, _adj._ (_Milt._) suddenly raised to prominence or
consequence, characteristic of such, pretentious and vulgar.--_n._ one who
has suddenly risen from poverty or obscurity to wealth or power.--_v.i._
UPSTART', to start up suddenly.

UPSTAY, up-st[=a]', _v.t._ to stay, sustain, support.

UPSTREAM, up'str[=e]m, _adv._ towards the upper part of a stream.--_v.i._
UPSTREAM', to stream up.

UP-STROKE, up'-str[=o]k, _n._ an upward line made by the pen in writing.

UPSURGE, up-surj', _v.i._ to surge up.

UPSWARM, up-swawrm', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to raise in a swarm.

UPSWAY, up-sw[=a]', _v.t._ to swing up.

UPSWEEP, up-sw[=e]p', _n._ a sweeping upward.

UPSWELL, up-swel', _v.i._ to swell or surge up.

UPTAKE, up't[=a]k, _n._ the act of lifting up: (_prov._) mental
apprehension: the upcast pipe from the smoke-box of a steam-boiler towards
the chimney.--_v.t._ UPTAKE', to take up.

UPTEAR, up-t[=a]r', _v.t._ to tear up.

UPTHROW, up-thr[=o]', _v.t._ to throw up.--_n._ UP'THROW, an upheaval, an
uplift.

UPTHRUST, up'thrust, _n._ a thrust upward, an upheaval of a mass of rock.

UPTHUNDER, up-thun'd[.e]r, _v.i._ to send up a noise like thunder.

UPTIE, up-t[=i]', _v.t._ to tie up: (_Spens._) to twist.

UPTILT, up-tilt', _v.t._ to tilt up.--_adj._ UPTILT'ED.

UPTOSS, up-tos', _v.t._ to toss up.--_adj._ UPTOSSED', tossed upward,
greatly agitated.

UPTOWN, up'town, _adj._ situated in the upper part of a town.--_adv._ to or
in the upper part of a town.

UPTRACE, up-tr[=a]s', _v.i._ to trace up.

UPTRAIN, up-tr[=a]n', _v.t._ to train up.

UPTRILL, up-tril', _v.t._ to trill in a high voice.

UPTURN, up-turn', _v.t._ to turn up or upward: to throw up.--_v.i._ to turn
up.--_n._ UPTUR'NING, the act of throwing up.

UPWAFTED, up-waf'ted, _adj._ borne or wafted upward.

UPWARD, up'ward, _adj._ directed up or to a higher place.--_advs._ UP'WARD,
UP'WARDLY, UP'WARDS, toward a higher direction; UP'WAYS, upward.--UPWARD
OF, more than, about.

UPWELL, up-wel', _v.i._ to upspring.

UPWHIRL, up-hw[.e]rl', _v.i._ to whirl upward.--_v.t._ to raise upward in a
whirling course.

UPWIND, up-w[=i]nd', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to wind up:--_pa.t._ upwound'.

UPWREATHE, up-r[=e]_th_', _v.i._ to rise with a wreathing or curling
motion.

UPWROUGHT, up-rawt', _p.adj._ wrought upward.

UR, er, _interj._ a meaningless utterance between the words of hesitating
speakers.

URACHUS, [=u]'ra-kus, _n._ one of the ligaments of the bladder formed by
the remaining constricted portion of the allantois of the foetus. [Gr.
_ourachos_--_ouron_, urine.]

URÆMIA, [=u]-r[=e]'mi-a, _n._ a morbid condition of the blood due to the
retention of urea or other waste materials ordinarily excreted from the
body by the kidneys--also UR[=E]'MIA.--_adjs._ URÆ'MIC, UR[=E]'MIC,
relating to the peculiar symptoms associated with defective excretion of
waste products by the kidneys.

URÆUM, [=u]-r[=e]'um, _n._ the posterior half of a bird--opp. to
_Stethiæum_:--_pl._ URÆ'A. [Gr. _oura_, a tail.]

URÆUS, [=u]-r[=e]'us, _n._ the serpent emblem of ancient Egyptian
divinities and kings, placed on the headdress. [Gr. _ouraios_, of the
tail.]

URAL-ALTAIC, [=u]-ral-al-t[=a]'ik, _adj._ pertaining to a racial and
linguistic group of peoples, one of the four great branches of the Mongolic
stock.

URALITE, [=u]'ral-[=i]t, _n._ a mineral with the crystalline form of augite
and the cleavage and specific gravity of hornblende.--_adj._
URALIT'IC.--_n._ URALITIS[=A]'TION, the paramorphic change of augite to
hornblende.--_v.t._ U'RALITISE.

URANIA, [=u]-r[=a]'ni-a, _n._ the Muse of astronomy, represented with a
celestial globe in her hand, to which she points with a little
staff.--_adj._ UR[=A]'NIAN. [L.,--Gr. _ouranios_, heavenly--_ouranos_,
heaven.]

URANISCUS, [=u]-ra-nis'kus, _n._ the vault or roof of the mouth. [Gr.
_ouraniskos_, dim. of _ouranos_, the vault of heaven.]

URANITE, [=u]'ra-n[=i]t, _n._ a greenish ore of uranium.--_adj._ URANIT'IC.

URANIUM, [=u]-r[=a]'ni-um, _n._ a very hard but moderately malleable metal,
resembling nickel or iron in its lustre and colour, but in a finely
comminuted state occurring as a black powder.--_adj._ UR[=A]'NIC. [Gr.
_ouranos_, heaven.]

URANOGRAPHY, [=u]-ra-nog'ra-fi, _n._ descriptive astronomy, esp. of the
constellations.--_adjs._ URAN'IC; URANOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ URANOG'RAPHIST.

URANOMETRY, [=u]-ra-nom'e-tri, _n._ the measurement of the heavens: a
description of the groups of constellations.

URANOSCOPY, [=u]'ra-nos-k[=o]-pi, _n._ observation of the heavenly bodies.

URANUS, [=u]'ra-nus, _n._ the name of one of the primary planets. [L.,--Gr.
_ouranos_, heaven.]

URAO, [=oo]-rä'[=o], _n._ the natron found in the dried-up beds of South
American lakes and streams.

URATE, [=u]'r[=a]t, _n._ a salt of uric acid.--_adj._ URAT'IC, pertaining
to the urates.--_ns._ URAT[=O]'MA, a deposit of urates in the tissues;
URAT[=O]'SIS, a morbid condition in which this takes place.

URBAN, ur'ban, _adj._ of or belonging to a city.--_adj._ URB[=A]NE',
pertaining to, or influenced by, a city: civilised: refined:
courteous.--_adv._ URB[=A]NE'LY.--_n._ URBAN'ITY, the quality of being
urbane: refinement: politeness.--URBI ET ORBI='to the city and to the
world,' a form used in the publication of papal bulls, for the purpose of
signifying their formal promulgation to the entire Catholic world, as well
as to the city of Rome. [L. _urbanus_--_urbs_, a city.]

URCEOLUS, ur-s[=e]'[=o]-lus, _n._ a monopetalous corolla with a contracted
orifice: the external case or sheath of a rotifer.--_n._
URC[=E][=O]L[=A]'RIA, a genus of gymnocarpous lichens with urceolate
apothecia.--_adjs._ URCEOL[=A]'RIAN; UR'CEOL[=A]TE, pitcher-shaped: having
an urceolus, as a rotifer.--_n._ UR'CEUS, a ewer for holding water for
washing. [L. _urceolus_, dim. of _urceus_, a pitcher.]

URCHIN, ur'chin, _n._ a hedgehog: a mischievous child, an elf,
fairy.--_adj._ elfish, mischievous. [O. Fr. _eriçon_ (Fr. _hérisson_)--L.
_ericius_, a hedgehog.]

URDÉ, ur-d[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) pointed, as a cross, or having a point
projected, as a bend: varriated. [Fr.,--Old High Ger. _ort_, a point.]

URDÚ, [=oo]r'd[=oo], _n._ Hindustani, a peculiar and important form of
Hindi--now a kind of _lingua franca_ for the whole of India.

URE, [=u]r, _n._ (_obs._) practice, operation.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to work,
exercise.

UREA, [=u]'r[=e]-a, _n._ a readily soluble colourless crystalline compound
formed in the tissues during the disintegration of proteid material, and
carried by the blood to the kidneys, which separate it and pass it off in
the urine.--_adj._ U'R[=E]AL, pertaining to urea.--_ns._ UREAM'ETER, an
instrument for measuring the amount of urea in in urine; UREAM'ETRY. [Gr.
_ouron_, urine.]

UREDO, [=u]-r[=e]'d[=o], _n._ a form-genus or stage of fungi of order
_Uredineæ_.--_adjs._ UREDIN'EOUS, URED'INOUS; UR[=E]'DOFORM.--_n._
UR[=E]'DOSPORE.--_adj._ UREDOSPOR'IC.

URENA, [=u]-r[=e]'na, _n._ a genus of _Malvaceæ_--the Indian mallow.

URETER, [=u]-r[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ the duct which conveys the urine from the
kidneys to the bladder.--_adjs._ UR[=E]'TAL, UR[=E]'TERAL,
UR[=E]TER'IC.--_n._ UR[=E]TER[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the ureter.
[Gr.,--_ouron_, urine.]

URETHRA, [=u]-r[=e]'thra, _n._ the canal by which the urine is discharged
from the bladder:--_pl._ UR[=E]'THRÆ.--_adjs._ UR[=E]'THRAL; UR[=E]THRIT'IC
affected with urethritis.--_n._ UR[=E]THR[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
urethra. [Gr.,--_ouron_, urine.]

URF, urf, _n._ (_Scot._) a stunted child.

URGE, urj, _v.t._ to press in any way: to drive: to press earnestly: to
solicit earnestly: to provoke.--_v.i._ to incite: to insist: to make
allegations.--_n._ act of urging.--_n._ UR'GENCY, quality of being urgent:
earnest asking: pressing necessity.--_adj._ UR'GENT, urging: pressing with
importunity: calling for immediate attention: earnest.--_adv._
UR'GENTLY.--_n._ UR'GER. [L. _urg[=e]re_, to press.]

URIA, [=u]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of _Alcidæ_--the guillemots and murres.

URICONIAN, [=u]-ri-k[=o]'ni-an, _n._ the name applied to a series of
volcanic rocks of which the Wrekin is composed. [_Uriconium_, a Roman
station on the site of which Wroxeter in Shropshire stands.]

URILE, [=u]'ril, _n._ a kind of cormorant.

URIM, [=u]'rim, THUMMIM, thum'im, _ns.pl._ first mentioned in Exod. xxviii.
30, in connection with the High-priest's breastplate, apparently a pair of
objects used at critical junctures as a kind of traditional oracle, but
which could not always be counted on for an answer (1 Sam. xxviii. 6).

URINE, [=u]'rin, _n._ the fluid which is secreted or separated by the
kidneys from the blood and conveyed to the bladder--the principal means of
removing the worn-out tissues, esp. the nitrogenous and saline matters,
from the system.--_n._ UR[=E]'SIS, a frequent desire to make water.--_adj._
U'RIC, pertaining to, or obtained from, urine.--_ns._ URICÆ'MIA, lithemia;
URIDR[=O]'SIS, the excretion of urea in the sweat; URINÆ'MIA, the
contamination of the blood with urinary deposits; U'RINAL, a vessel for
urine: a convenience for discharging urine.--_adjs._ U'RINANT (_her._)
diving; U'RINARY, pertaining to, or like, urine.--_n._ a reservoir for
keeping urine.--_v.i._ U'RINATE, to discharge urine.--_n._
URIN[=A]'TION.--_adj._ U'RIN[=A]TIVE.--_n._ U'RIN[=A]TOR, a diver.--_adjs._
URINAT[=O]'RIAL; URINIF'EROUS, conveying urine; URINIF'IC, secreting urine;
URINIP'AROUS, producing urine.--_ns._ URINOL'OGY, the scientific knowledge
of urine; URINOM'ETER, an instrument for weighing urine.--_adj._
URINOMET'RIC.--_n._ URINOM'ETRY.--_adj._ URINOSCOP'IC.--_n._ U'RINOSCOPY,
inspection of urine.--_adjs._ U'RINOSE, U'RINOUS, relating to urine:
partaking of the qualities of urine: like urine.--_ns._ U'ROCHROME, a
yellow pigment of the urine; URODIAL'YSIS, a partial suppression of urine;
UROGAS'TER, the urinary passages collectively.--_adjs._ UROGEN'ITAL,
pertaining to the urinary and genital organs--also URINOGEN'ITAL,
URINOGEN'ITARY, _Genito-urinary_; UROG'ENOUS, producing urine.--_ns._
UROLITH[=I]'ASIS, lithiasis; UROL'OGY, urinology; U'ROMANCY, divination by
urine; UROPL[=A]'NIA, the abnormal presence of urine in any part of the
body; UROPOI[=E]'SIS, the formation of urine.--_adj._ UROPOIET'IC.--_ns._
URORRH[=A]'GIA, excessive micturation; URORRH[=E]'A, URORRHOE'A,
involuntary passage of urine.--_adj._ UROSCOP'IC (same as
URINOSCOPIC).--_ns._ U'ROSC[=O]PIST, one skilled in urinoscopy; U'ROSCOPY
(same as urinoscopy); UR[=O]'SIS, any disease of the urinary organs.
[Fr.,--L. _urina_; cog. with Gr. _ouron_, Sans. _v[=a]ri_, water.]

URITE, [=u]'r[=i]t, _n._ the sternite of an abdominal segment of an insect.
[Gr. _oura_, a tail.]

URMAN, ur'man, _n._ a large tract of swampy coniferous forest in Siberia.
[Tatar.]

URN, urn, _n._ a rounded or angular vase having a foot, a water vessel, an
electoral vase, a tea-urn, &c.: a vessel in which the ashes of the dead
were anciently deposited, hence the grave.--_v.t._ to enclose in an
urn.--_adj._ URN'AL.--_n._ URN'FUL, as much as an urn will hold.--_adj._
URN'-SHAPED, having the shape of an urn. [L. _urna_, an urn--_ur[)e]re_, to
burn.]

UROCARDIAC, [=u]-r[=o]-kar'di-ak, _adj._ pertaining to the posterior part
of the cardiac division of the stomach of the crayfish and some other
crustaceans.

UROCHORD, [=u]'r[=o]-kord, _n._ the caudal chord of an ascidian or
tunicate.--_adjs._ UROCHOR'DAL, UROCHOR'D[=A]TE.

UROCHROA, [=u]-rok'r[=o]-a, _n._ a genus of humming-birds in Ecuador. [Gr.
_oura_, tail, _chroa_, colour.]

UROCISSA, [=u]-r[=o]-sis'a, _n._ a genus of Asiatic _Corvidæ_, with very
long tail. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _kissa_, magpie.]

UROCYON, [=u]-ros'i-on, _n._ a genus of canine quadrupeds, the type of
which is the common gray fox of the United States. [Gr. _oura_, tail,
_ky[=o]n_, dog.]

UROCYST, [=u]'r[=o]-sist, _n._ the urinary bladder.--_adj._ UROCYST'IC.
[Gr. _ouron_, urine, _kystis_, bladder.]

URODELE, [=u]'r[=o]-d[=e]l, _adj._ tailed, as an amphibian.--Also
UROD[=E]'LAN, UROD[=E]'LIAN, UROD[=E]'LOUS. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _d[=e]los_,
plain.]

UROGASTRIC, [=u]-r[=o]-gas'trik, _adj._ pertaining to the posterior pair of
divisions of the gastric lobe of the dorsal surface of the carapace of a
crab: pertaining to the urogaster (see under URINE). [Gr. _ouron_, urine,
_gast[=e]r_, the stomach.]

UROHYAL, [=u]-r[=o]-h[=i]'al, _n._ the tail-piece of the composite hyoid
bone.--_adj._ pertaining to this.

UROMERE, [=u]'r[=o]-m[=e]r, _n._ a caudal segment of an arthropod.--_adj._
UROMER'IC. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _meros_, part.]

UROPOD, [=u]'r[=o]-pod, _n._ any abdominal limb of an arthropod.--_adj._
UROP'ODAL. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _pous_, _podos_, foot.]

UROPYGIUM, [=u]-r[=o]-pij'i-um, _n._ the rump in birds.--_adj._ UROPYG'IAL.
[Gr. _orrhos_, rump, _pyg[=e]_, buttocks.]

UROPYLORIC, [=u]-r[=o]-p[=i]-lor'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the posterior
part of the pyloric division of the stomach of the crayfish and some other
crustaceans.

UROSACRAL, [=u]-r[=o]-s[=a]'kral, _adj._ pertaining to the sacrum and to
the coccyx.--_n._ UROS[=A]'CRUM.

UROSOME, [=u]'r[=o]-s[=o]m, _n._ the terminal somatome of a vertebrate: the
post-thoracic region of the body of an arthropod.--_n._ UROS[=O]'MITE, one
of the somites of the urosome.--_adj._ UROSOMIT'IC. [Gr. _oura_, tail,
_s[=o]ma_, body.]

UROSTEGE, [=u]'r[=o]-st[=e]j, _n._ one of the special scales on the under
side of a snake's tail--also U'ROSTEGITE.--_adj._ U'ROST[=E]GAL. [Gr.
_oura_, tail, _steg[=e]_, a roof.]

UROSTEON, [=u]-ros't[=e]-on, _n._ a median posterior ossification of the
sternum of some birds. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _osteon_, bone.]

UROSTERNITE, [=u]-r[=o]-ster'n[=i]t, _n._ the sternite of any somite of the
urosome of an arthropod.

UROSTHENE, [=u]'r[=o]-sth[=e]n, _n._ an animal whose strength rests mainly
in its tail.--_adj._ UROSTHEN'IC. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _sthenos_, strength.]

UROSTYLE, [=u]'r[=o]-st[=i]l, _n._ a prolongation backward of the last
vertebra.--_adj._ UROSTY'LAR. [Gr. _oura_, tail, _stylos_, column.]

UROTOXIC, [=u]-ro-tok'sik, _adj._ pertaining to poisons eliminated in the
urine. [Gr. _ouron_. urine, _toxikon_, poison.]

URRY, ur'i, _n._ a dark clay near a bed of coal. [Prob. Gael.
_uirlach_--_uir_, earth.]

URSINE, ur'sin, _adj._ of or resembling a bear: thickly clothed with
bristles, as certain caterpillars.--_n._ a bear.--_n._ UR'SA, the name of
two constellations, _Ursa-Major_ and _Ursa-Minor_, the Great and the Little
Bear.--_adj._ UR'SIFORM, in appearance like a bear.--_n.pl._ UR'SINÆ, the
bears proper. [L.,--_ursus_, a bear.]

URSON, ur'sun, _n._ a rodent nearly allied to the porcupine, and often
called the Canada Porcupine.

URSULINE, ur's[=u]-lin, _adj._ of or pertaining to _St Ursula_, esp.
pertaining to the female teaching order founded by St Angela Merici of
Brescia in 1537.

URTICA, ur'ti-ka, _n._ the genus of nettles, order _Urticaceæ_.--_adjs._
URTIC[=A]'CEOUS, relating to nettles; UR'TICAL, pertaining to the
nettles.--_n._ URTIC[=A]'RIA, nettle-rash, hives.--_adjs._ URTIC[=A]'RIAL,
URTIC[=A]'RIOUS.--_v.t._ UR'TICATE, to sting, as with nettles.--_n._
URTIC[=A]'TION. [L. _urtica_, a nettle.]

URUBU, [=oo]'r[=oo]-b[=oo], _n._ an American vulture. [Braz.]

URUS, [=u]'rus, _n._ the Latin name of the wild ox, which in the time of
Julius Cæsar was abundant in European forests--the _Aurochs_ of the
Germans, and the ancestor of the European domesticated cattle. [L.]

URVA, ur'va, _n._ the ichneumon of northern India.

URVED, urvd, _adj._ (_her._) turned upward.--Also UR'VANT.

US, us, _pron._ the objective case of _we_.--_adv._ US'WARD, toward us.
[A.S.]

USAGE, [=u]'z[=a]j, _n._ act or mode of using: treatment: practice:
custom.--_ns._ U'SAGER, one of the non-jurors who maintained 'the
usages'--mixed chalices, oblation in prayer of consecration, and prayer for
the dead. [Fr.,--Low L.,--L. _usus_.]

USE, [=u]z, _v.t._ to put to some purpose: to avail one's self of: to
habituate: to treat or behave toward.--_v.i._ to be accustomed.--_adj._
U'SABLE, that may be used.--_ns._ U'SABLENESS; U'SEE, one for whose use a
suit is brought in another's name; U'SER.--USE ONE'S SELF (_Shak._), to
behave; USE UP, to consume, to exhaust, to tire out. [Fr. _user_--L. _uti_,
_usus_, to use.]

USE, [=u]s, _n._ act of using or putting to a purpose: convenience:
employment: need: advantage: practice: common occurrence: a distinctive
form of public worship or service peculiar to a church, diocese, &c.:
custom: interest for money.--_n._ US'ANCE (_obs._), use, usage, employment:
(_Shak._) usury, interest for money: the time allowed by usage for the
payment of a bill of exchange.--_adj._ USE'FUL, full of use or advantage:
able to do good: serviceable.--_adv._ USE'FULLY.--_n._ USE'FULNESS.--_adj._
USE'LESS, having no use: answering no good purpose or the end
proposed.--_adv._ USE'LESSLY.--_n._ USE'LESSNESS.--_n.pl._ US'ES, a form of
equitable ownership peculiar to English law by which one person enjoys the
profits of lands, &c., the legal title to which is vested in another in
trust.--USE AND WONT, the customary practice.--HAVE NO USE FOR (_U.S._), to
have no liking for; IN USE, in employment or practice; MADE USE OF, to use,
to employ; OF NO USE, useless; OF USE, useful; OUT OF USE, not used or
employed. [L. _usus_--_uti_.]

USHER, ush'[.e]r, _n._ one who meets people at the door of a hall, &c., and
conducts them to seats, an officer whose business it is to introduce
strangers or to walk before a person of rank: an under-teacher or
assistant.--_v.t._ to introduce: to forerun.--_ns._ USH'ERANCE; USH'ERDOM,
USH'ERSHIP.--_adjs._ USH[=E]'RIAN; USH'ERLESS. [O. Fr. _ussier_ (Fr.
_huissier_)--L. _ostiarius_, a door-keeper--_ostium_, a door.]

USITATE, [=u]'zi-t[=a]t, _adj._ according to custom.--_adj._ USIT[=A]'TIVE,
expressing usual action.

USQUEBAUGH, us'kw[=e]-baw, _n._ whisky. [Ir. and Gael. _uisgebeatha_,
_uisge_, water, _beatha_, life.]

USTILAGO, us-ti-l[=a]'g[=o], _n._ a genus of parasitic fungi, causing
_smut_.--_adj._ USTILAGIN'EOUS.

USTION, us'ti-on, _n._ the act of burning, cauterisation by
burning.--_adjs._ UST[=O]'RIOUS, burning; US'TULATE, coloured by
burning.--_n._ USTUL[=A]'TION, burning.

USUAL, [=u]'zh[=u]-al, _adj._ in use: occurring in ordinary use:
common.--_adv._ U'SUALLY.--_n._ U'SUALNESS. [L. _usualis_.]

USUCAPTION, [=u]-z[=u]-kap'shun, _n._ (_law_) the acquisition of property
in anything by possession and enjoyment for a certain term of years.--_n._
USUC[=A]'PIENT, one who has acquired rights by usucaption.--_v.t._
U'SUCAPT, to acquire so.--_adj._ USUCAPT'IBLE. [L. _usus_, use,
_cap[)e]re_, _captum_, to take.]

USUFRUCT, [=u]'z[=u]-frukt; _n._ the use and profit, but not the property,
of a thing: liferent.--_v.t._ to hold in usufruct.--_adj._
USUFRUC'TUARY.--_n._ one who holds property for use by usufruct. [L.
_usus-fructus_--_usus_, use, _fructus_, fruit.]

USURP, [=u]-zurp', _v.t._ to take possession of by force without
right.--_n._ USURP[=A]'TION, act of usurping: unlawful seizure and
possession: intrusion into an office.--_adj._ USUR'PATORY.--_ns._
USUR'P[=A]TRIX, a female usurper; USUR'PATURE, usurpation.--_adv._
USUR'PEDLY.--_n._ USUR'PER.--_adj._ USUR'PING.--_adv._ USUR'PINGLY.
[Fr.,--L. _usurp[=a]re_, perh. contr. from _usu-rap[)e]re_, to seize to
one's own use--_usus_, use, _rap[)e]re_, to seize; or from _usum
rump[)e]re_, to break a use.]

USURY, [=u]'zh[=u]-ri, _n._ the taking of iniquitous or illegal interest on
a loan, formerly interest of any kind on money lent.--_v.i._ U'SURE
(_Shak._), to practise usury.--_n._ U'SURER (_orig._, and in _B._), any
money-lender for interest: one who practises usury.--_adj._
US[=U]'RIOUS.--_adv._ US[=U]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ US[=U]'RIOUSNESS. [L.
_usura_--_uti_, _usus_, to use.]

UTA, [=u]'ta, _n._ a genus of small American lizards. [From _Utah_.]

UTAS, [=u]'tas, _n._ (_obs._) the time between a festival and the eighth
day after it: festivity, stir.--Also U'TIS. [Through O. Fr. from L. _octo_,
eight.]

UTENSIL, [=u]-ten'sil, _n._ an instrument or vessel used in common life.
[Fr. _utensile_--L. _utensilis_, fit for use--_uti_, to use.]

UTERINE, [=u]'te-rin, _adj._ pertaining to the womb: born of the same
mother by a different father.--_ns._ UTER[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
womb; U'TEROGEST[=A]'TION, the progressive development of the embryo within
the womb; UTEROM[=A]'NIA, nymphomania; U'TERUS, the womb. [Fr. _uterin_--L.
_uterinis_--_uterus_, the womb.]

UTGARD, ut'gard, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) the abode of the giant _Utgard-_Loki
on the other side of the great sea which surrounds Midgard, the earth.

UTILISE, [=u]'ti-l[=i]z, _v.t._ to make useful: to put to profitable
use.--_adj._ U'TIL[=I]SABLE.--_ns._ UTILIS[=A]'TION; U'TILISER; UTIL'ITY,
usefulness: profit: a useful thing; UTIL'ITY-MAN, an actor of one of the
least important parts in a play. [Fr. _utiliser_--L. _uti_.]

UTILITARIAN, [=u]-til-i-t[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ consisting in, or pertaining
to, utility or to utilitarianism.--_n._ one who holds
utilitarianism.--_v.t._ UTILIT[=A]'RIANISE, to make to serve a utilitarian
purpose.--_ns._ UTILIT[=A]'RIANISM, the ethical theory which finds the
basis of moral distinctions in the utility of actions, i.e. their fitness
to produce happiness.

UTMOST, ut'm[=o]st, _adj._ outmost: farthest out: most distant: last: in
the greatest degree: highest.--_n._ the greatest that can be: the greatest
effort. [A.S. _útemest_, formed with double superlative suffix _-m-est_
from _úte_, out.]

UTOPIAN, [=u]-t[=o]'pi-an, _adj._ imaginary: fanciful: chimerical.--_n._
one who advocates impracticable reforms or who expects an impossible state
of perfection in society.--_ns._ UT[=O]'PIANISER; UT[=O]'PIANISM;
UT[=O]'PIAST.--_adj._ UTOP'ICAL (_obs._).--_ns._ U'T[=O]PISM, utopianism;
U'T[=O]PIST, a utopian. [From _Utopia_, lit. 'nowhere'--Gr. _ou_, not,
_topos_, place, an imaginary island represented by Sir T. More in his
famous political romance, or rather satire (Lat. 1516, Eng. 1551), as
enjoying perfection in politics, laws, &c., community of goods, freedom of
creed, &c.]

UTRAQUISM, [=u]'tra-kwizm, _n._ the doctrine of the U'TRAQUISTS or
Calixtines, who asserted the right to communicate in both kinds--_sub
utraque specie_.

UTRICLE, [=u]'tri-kl, _n._ a little bag, bladder, or cell.--_adjs._
UTRIC'[=U]LAR, UTRIC'[=U]LATE, containing or furnished with utricles;
UTRIC[=U]LIF'EROUS, producing utricles; UTRIC'[=U]LIFORM, shaped like a
utricle; UTRIC'[=U]LOID; UTRIC'[=U]LOSE.--_n._ UTRIC'[=U]LUS, any small
pear-shaped sac. [L. _utriculus_, dim. of _uter_, _utris_, a bag.]

UTRICULARIA, [=u]-trik-[=u]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ the genus of bladderworts. [L.
_utriculus_, a bag.]

UTRIFORM, [=u]'tri-form, _adj._ having the shape of a leather bottle. [L.
_uter_, a leather bottle, _forma_, form.]

UTTER, ut'[.e]r, _adj._ farthest out: extreme: total: perfect.--_adv._
UTT'ERLY.--_n._ UTT'ERNESS, quality of being extreme. [A.S. _útor_,
outer--_út_, out.]

UTTER, ut'[.e]r, _v.t._ to circulate: to publish abroad: to speak.--_adj._
UTT'ERABLE, that may be uttered or expressed.--_ns._ UTT'ERABLENESS;
UTT'ERANCE, act of uttering: manner of speaking: pronunciation: expression;
UTT'ERER; UTT'ERING, circulation.--_adj._ UTT'ERLESS, that cannot be
uttered in words. [A.S. _útian_, to put out--_út_, out.]

UTTERANCE, ut'[.e]r-ans, _n._ (_Shak._) extremity, deadly contention. [Fr.
_outrance_--_outre_, beyond--L. _ultra_, beyond.]

UTTERMOST, ut'[.e]r-m[=o]st, _adj._ farthest out: utmost.--_n._ the
greatest degree. [Same as _utmost_, the _r_ being intrusive, and _t_ being
doubled on the analogy of _utter_.]

UVA, [=u]'va, _n._ a name for such succulent indehiscent fruits as have a
central placenta. [L. _uva_, a cluster of grapes.]

UVEA, [=u]'v[=e]-a, _n._ the vascular tunic of the eye--iris, ciliary body,
and choroid.--_adjs._ U'VEAL, U'VEOUS. [L. _uva_, a bunch of grapes.]

UVEOUS, [=u]'v[=e]-us, _adj._ resembling a grape. [From L. _uva_, a grape.]

UVULA, [=u]'v[=u]-la, _n._ the fleshy conical body suspended from the
palate over the back part of the tongue.--_adj._ U'V[=U]LAR.--_adv._
U'V[=U]LARLY, with thick utterance. [L. _uva_, a bunch of grapes.]

UXORIOUS, uk-s[=o]'ri-us, _adj._ excessively or submissively fond of a
wife.--_adjs._ UX[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a wife; UX[=O]'RICIDAL,
pertaining to uxoricide.--_n._ UX[=O]'RICIDE, one who kills his wife: the
killing of a wife.--_adv._ UX[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ UX[=O]'RIOUSNESS. [L.
_uxorius_--_uxor_, a wife.]

UZBEG, uz'beg, _n._ a member of the Turkish family of Tartars in Turkestan,
their blood in some places mixed with a Tajik (or Aryan) strain, elsewhere
with Kiptchak, Kalmuck, and Kirghiz elements.

       *       *       *       *       *

V the twenty-second letter of our alphabet, a differentiated form of
_U_--in sound it is a labio-dental and closely related to _F_. As a Roman
numeral V=5; [=V]=5000.

VACANT, v[=a]'kant, _adj._ empty: free: not occupied by an incumbent or
possessor: not occupied with study, &c.: thoughtless, inane.--_n._
V[=A]'CANCY, emptiness: idleness: empty space, void or gap between bodies:
a situation unoccupied: (_Shak._) unoccupied or leisure time.--_adv._
V[=A]'CANTLY.--_v.t._ VAC[=A]TE', to leave empty: to quit possession of:
(_obs._) to annul, to make useless.--_ns._ VAC[=A]'TION, a vacating or
making void or invalid: freedom from, duty, &c.: recess: break in the
sittings of law-courts: school and college holidays; VAC[=A]'TIONIST, one
travelling for pleasure.--_adj._ VAC[=A]'TIONLESS.--_n._ VAC[=A]'TUR, the
act of annulling in law. [Fr.,--L. _vacans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_vac[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to be empty.]

VACCINATE, vak'si-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to inoculate with the cowpox as a
preventive against smallpox.--_adjs._ VACCIG'ENOUS, producing vaccine;
VAC'CINAL, pertaining to vaccine or to vaccination.--_ns._ VACCIN[=A]'TION;
VAC'CIN[=A]TOR, one who vaccinates.--_adj._ VAC'CINE, pertaining to or
derived from cows: of or relating to vaccinia or vaccination.--_n._ the
virus of cowpox or vaccinia used in the process of vaccination.--_n._
VACCIN'IA, an eruptive disease occurring in cattle--also VACC[=I]'NA. [L.
_vacc[=i]nus_--_vacca_, a cow.]

VACHERY, vash'[.e]r-i, _n._ a dairy.

VACILLATE, vas'i-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to sway to and fro: to waver: to be
unsteady.--_adjs._ VAC'ILLANT, vacillating; VAC'ILL[=A]TING, inclined to
fluctuate: wavering: unsteady.--_adv._ VAC'ILL[=A]TINGLY.--_n._
VACILL[=A]'TION, act of vacillating.--_adj._ VAC'ILL[=A]TORY, wavering. [L.
_vacill[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

VACUOUS, vak'[=u]-us, _adj._ empty, void: without intelligence,
unexpressive.--_v.t._ VAC'U[=A]TE, to make empty.--_ns._ VACU[=A]'TION;
VAC'UIST, one who thinks there are empty spaces in nature; VAC[=U]'ITY,
emptiness: space unoccupied: idleness, listlessness; VAC'U[=O]LE, a very
small cavity in the tissue of organisms; VAC'UOUSNESS; VAC'[=U]UM, vacant
or empty space: a space empty or devoid of all matter:--_pl._ VAC'[=U]A;
VAC'[=U]UM-BRAKE, a brake working on the principle of keeping up a vacuum
in a continuous pipe or pipes extending under the train, and in
brake-cylinders connected to them under each vehicle, the air being sucked
out by ejectors or pumps on the locomotive; VAC'[=U]UM-GAUGE, a gauge for
indicating to what extent a vacuum is produced; VAC'[=U]UM-PAN, a vessel
for boiling saccharine juices in a partial vacuum in sugar-making;
VAC'[=U]UM-TUBE, a sealed glass tube in which a vacuum has been made,
employed to examine the effects of a discharge of electricity through air
or gas rarefied or exhausted. [L. _vacuus_, empty.]

VADE, v[=a]d, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to fade. [_Fade_.]

VADE-MECUM, v[=a]'d[=e]-m[=e]'kum, _n._ a hand-book, pocket-companion. [L.,
'go with me'--_vad[)e]re_, to go, _me_, abl. of _ego_, I, _cum_, with.]

VADIUM, v[=a]'di-um, _n._ (_Scots law_) a wad or surety. [L. _vas_,
_vadis_.]

VAG, vag, _n._ (_prov._) turf for fuel.

VAGABOND, vag'a-bond, _adj._ wandering: having no settled home: driven to
and fro: unsettled.--_n._ one who wanders without any settled habitation: a
wandering, idle fellow: a scamp, a rascal.--_n._ VAG'ABONDAGE.--_v.t._
VAG'ABONDISE, to wander like a vagabond.--_adj._ VAG'ABONDISH.--_n._
VAG'ABONDISM. [Fr.,--Low L.,--_vag[=a]ri_, to wander--_vagus_, wandering.]

VAGARY, va-g[=a]'ri, _n._ a wandering of the thoughts: a wild freak: a
whim:--_pl._ VAG[=A]'RIES.--_n._ VAG[=A]'RIAN, a person with
vagaries.--_adjs._ VAG[=A]'RIOUS; VAG[=A]'RISH.--_n._ VAGAR'ITY,
irregularity, capriciousness.

VAGINA, v[=a]-j[=i]'na, _n._ (_anat._) the canal or passage which leads
from the external orifice to the uterus, a sheath, case: the upper part of
the pedestal of a terminus: (_bot._) a leaf-stalk when it becomes thin and
rolls round the stem to which it then forms a stalk, as in
grasses.--_adjs._ VAG'INAL; VAG'INANT (_bot._), investing as a sheath;
VAG'IN[=A]TE, -D (_bot._), invested by the tubular base of a leaf or
leaf-stalk, as a stem: denoting a certain order of sheathed polypes;
VAGINIC'OLINE, VAGINIC'OLOUS, living in a vagina; VAGINIF'EROUS, bearing a
vagina; VAGINIPENN'ATE, VAGINOPENN'OUS, sheath-winged.--_ns._ VAGINIS'MUS,
spasmodic contraction of the vagina; VAGIN[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
vagina; VAGINOT'OMY, cutting of the vagina; VAGIN'[=U]LA, VAG'INULE, a
diminutive vagina.--_adj._ VAGIN'ULATE, having a vaginula, sheathed. [L.,
'a sheath.']

VAGITUS, v[=a]-j[=i]'tus, _n._ the cry of a new-born child.
[L.,--_vag[=i]re_, to cry.]

VAGOUS, v[=a]'gus, _adj._ wandering.

VAGRANT, v[=a]'grant, _adj._ wandering without any settled dwelling:
unsettled: uncertain, erratic: (_med._) wandering.--_n._ one who has no
settled home: an idle or disorderly person: a beggar.--_ns._ V[=A]'GRANCY,
V[=A]'GRANTNESS (_rare_), the state of being a vagrant: life and habits of
a vagrant.--_adv._ V[=A]'GRANTLY. [L. _vagans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_vag[=a]ri_, to wander; with _r_ intruded.]

VAGROM, v[=a]'grom, (_Shak._) Dogberry's perverted spelling and
pronunciation of _vagrant_.

VAGUE, v[=a]g, _adj._ unsettled: indefinite: uncertain: of doubtful origin:
not thinking clearly.--_v.i._ (_obs._) to wander.--_n._ indefinite
expanse.--_adv._ VAGUE'LY.--_n._ VAGUE'NESS. [Fr.,--L. _vagus_, wandering.]

VAGUS, v[=a]'gus, _n._ the tenth cranial nerve or wandering nerve, the
longest and most widely extended of the nerves of the brain:--_pl._
V[=A]'G[=I].

VAIDIC, v[=a]'dik, _adj._ Same as VEDIC.

VAIL, v[=a]l. Same as VEIL.

VAIL, v[=a]l, _v.t._ to let fall.--_v.i._ to yield: to drop, move
down.--_n._ (_Shak._) submission, decline.--_n._ VAIL'ER. [Contr. from
_avale_; cf. _Avalanche_.]

VAIL, v[=a]l', _v.i._ (_poet._) to profit, avail.--_n.pl._ VAILS, money
given to servants by a visitor--also VALES. [Contr. from _avail_.]

VAIN, v[=a]n, _adj._ unsatisfying: fruitless: unreal: silly: conceited:
showy: (_B._) vacant, worthless.--_adv._ VAIN'LY.--_ns._ VAIN'NESS,
fruitlessness: (_Shak._) empty pride, folly; VAN'ITY, worthlessness,
futility: empty pride or ostentation: ambitious display: idle show: empty
pleasure: fruitless desire, a trifle: (_Shak._) a personified vice in the
old moralities and puppet-shows: (_B._) a heathen deity.--VANITY FAIR, the
world as the scene of vanity or empty folly, the world of fashion, so named
from the fair described in Bunyan's _Pilgrim's Progress_.--IN VAIN, FOR
VAIN (_Shak._), ineffectually: to no end: with levity or profanity.
[Fr.,--L. _vanus_, empty.]

VAINGLORY, v[=a]n-gl[=o]'ri, _n._ vain or empty glory in one's own
performances: pride above desert.--_v.i._ to boast vainly.--_adj._
VAINGL[=O]'RIOUS, given to vainglory: proceeding from vanity.--_adv._
VAINGL[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ VAINGL[=O]'RIOUSNESS.

VAIR, v[=a]r, _n._ (_her._) a kind of fur, the skin of the squirrel,
bluish-gray on the back and white on the belly, represented by blue and
white shields or bells in horizontal rows.--_adjs._ VAIRÉ, VAIRY
(v[=a]'ri), charged or variegated with vair. [O. Fr.,--L. _varius_,
variegated.]

VAISHNAVA, v[=i]sh'na-va, _n._ a worshipper of _Vishnu_, the Vaishnavas
forming one of the great sects of Brahmanism. [Sans.,--_Vishnu_, Vishnu.]

VAISYA, v[=i]s'ya, _n._ a member of the third caste among the Hindus.
[Sans. _vaiçya_--_viç_, settler.]

VAIVODE, WAYWODE=_Voivode_.

VAKASS, va-kas', _n._ a semicircular eucharistic vestment in Armenian
use--also called _Ephod_.

VAKE, v[=a]k, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to be vacant.

VAKEEL, VAKIL, va-k[=e]l', _n._ a native attorney or agent in the East
Indies. [Hind.,--Ar. _vak[=i]l_.]

VALANCE, val'ans, _n._ hanging drapery for a bed, &c.--also
VAL'ENCE.--_v.t._ to decorate with such. [From _Valence_--L. _Valentia_, in
France.]

VALDENSES=_Waldenses_.

VALE, v[=a]l, _n._ a tract of low ground, esp. between hills: a valley.
[Fr. _val_--L. _vallis_, a vale.]

VALEDICTION, val-[=e]-dik'shun, _n._ a farewell.--_adj._ VALEDIC'TORY,
saying farewell: farewell: taking leave.--_n._ a farewell oration spoken at
American graduations by the graduating person of highest rank, often called
the VALEDICT[=O]'RIAN. [L. _valedic[)e]re_, _-dictum_--_vale_, farewell,
_dic[)e]re_, to say.]

VALENCE, v[=a]'lens, _n._ (_chem._) the combining power of an element, or
the proportion in which it forms a combination with another.--Also
V[=A]'LENCY. [From L. _val[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VALENCIENNES, va-long-si-enz', _n._ a kind of lace made at _Valenciennes_
in France.

VALENTINE, val'en-t[=i]n, _n._ a lover or sweetheart chosen on St
Valentine's Day, 14th February: a love-letter or other amatory print sent
on that day. [O. Fr. _valentin_, a young person betrothed on the first
Sunday in Lent, perh. from a form _valant_, equiv. to _galant_, gallant,
but commonly identified with the name of St _Valentine_, on whose day the
choice of valentines came to be made, because birds on that day were
supposed to choose their mates.]

VALENTINIAN, val-en-tin'i-an, _n._ one of a Gnostic sect founded by
_Valentinus_ (died c. 160 A.D.).--_adj._ belonging to the foregoing.--_n._
VALENTIN'IANISM.

VALERIAN, va-l[=e]'ri-an, _n._ the plant all-heal, the root of which is
used in medicine.--_adj._ VAL'ERIC, pertaining to or obtained from the root
of valerian. [O. Fr.,--L. _val[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VALET, val'et, or val'[=a], _n._ a man-servant, esp. one who attends on a
gentleman's person.--_v.t._ to act as valet to.--_n._ VALET DE PLACE, in
France, one who offers his services as guide, messenger, &c. for hire, esp.
to strangers. [O. Fr.,--_vaslet_, later also _varlet_--Low L.
_vassalettus_, dim. of _vassalis_, a vassal.]

VALETUDINARIAN, val-[=e]-t[=u]-di-n[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to
ill-health: sickly: weak--also VALET[=U]'DINARY.--_n._ a person of weak
health.--_ns._ VALET[=U]'DINARINESS, VALET[=U]DIN[=A]'RIANISM, the
condition of a valetudinarian: weak health; VALETUDIN[=A]'RIUM, an ancient
Roman hospital. [L. _valetudinarius_--_valetudo_, state of
health--_val[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VALGUS, val'gus, _n._ a bow-legged man: a form of club-foot--_talipes
valgus_:--_pl._ VAL'GI (-j[=i]). [L.]

VALHALLA, val-hal'la, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) the palace of immortality for
the souls of heroes slain in battle: an edifice forming the final
resting-place of the heroes of a nation. [Ice. _valhöll_, 'the hall of the
slain'--_valr_, the slain, conn. with A.S. _wæl_, slaughter, Ice. _höll_,
hall.]

VALIANT, val'yant, _adj._ strong: brave: intrepid in danger: heroic.--_n._
(_obs._) a valiant person.--_ns._ VAL'IANCE, VAL'IANCY.--_adv._ VAL'IANTLY,
bravely.--_n._ VAL'IANTNESS, courage. [Fr. _vaillant_--L. _valens_,
_valentis_, pr.p. of _val[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VALID, val'id, _adj._ strong: having sufficient strength or force: founded
in truth: sound: conclusive: (_law_) executed with the proper formalities:
legal: rightful.--_v.t._ VAL'IDATE, to confirm, give legal force to: test
the validity of.--_ns._ VALID[=A]'TION; VALID'ITY.--_adv._ VAL'IDLY.--_n._
VAL'IDNESS. [Fr.,--L. _validus_--_val[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VALISE, va-l[=e]s', _n._ a travelling bag, generally of leather, opening at
the side: a portmanteau. [Fr.,--L. _valise_ (It. _valigia_, Sp. _balija_),
orig. unknown.]

VALKYR, val'kir, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) one of the nine handmaidens of Odin,
serving at the banquet of Valhalla--also VALKYR'IA, WAL'KYR.--_adjs._
VALKYR'IAN, WALKYR'IAN. [Ice. _valkyrja_--_valr_, the slain,
_kyrja_--_kjósa_, to choose. Ger. _Walküre_.]

VALLAR, val'ar, _adj._ pertaining to a rampart.--Also VALL'ARY. [L.
_vallum_.]

VALLATE, val'[=a]t, _adj._ cup-shaped: circumvallate.--Also VALL'ATED.

VALLECULA, va-lek'[=u]-la, _n._ a groove or furrow.--_adjs._ VALLEC'ULAR,
VALLEC'ULATE.

VALLEY, val'i, _n._ a vale or low land between hills or mountains: a low,
extended plain, usually watered by a river:--_pl._ VALL'EYS. [O. Fr.
_valee_ (Fr. _vallée_)--_val_, a vale.]

VALLISNERIA, val-is-n[=e]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of the natural order of plants
_Hydrocharideæ_. [Named after Antonio _Vallisneri_ (1661-1730), an Italian
naturalist.]

VALLUM, val'um, _n._ a rampart, entrenchment: (_anat._) the eyebrow. [L.,
'a rampart.']

VALONIA, va-l[=o]'ni-a, _n._ the large acorn-cup of a species of oak which
grows round the Levant, used in tanning. [It. _vallonia_--Gr. _balanos_, an
acorn.]

VALOUR, val'ur, _n._ intrepidity: courage: bravery.--_adj._ VAL'OROUS,
intrepid: courageous.--_adv._ VAL'OROUSLY. [O. Fr. _valour_--Low L.
_valor_--L. _val[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VALUE, val'[=u], _n._ worth: that which renders anything useful or
estimable: the degree of this quality: esteem, regard: efficacy:
importance: excellence: price: precise meaning: (_mus._) the relative
length of a tone signified by a note: (_paint._) relation of one part of a
picture to the others with reference to light and shade and without
reference to hue: (_math._) the special determination of a
quantity.--_v.t._ to estimate the worth of: to rate at a price: to esteem:
to prize.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to be worth.--_adj._ VAL'UABLE, having value or
worth: costly: deserving esteem.--_n._ a thing of value, a choice
article--often in _pl._--_ns._ VAL'UABLENESS; VALU[=A]'TION, the act of
valuing: value set upon a thing: estimated worth; VALU[=A]'TOR, one who
sets a value upon: an appraiser.--_adjs._ VAL'UED; VAL'UELESS.--_n._
VAL'UER, one who values.--VALUE IN EXCHANGE, exchange value: (_pol. econ._)
economic value (i.e. the amount of other commodities for which a thing can
be exchanged in open market) as distinguished from its more general meaning
of utility; VALUE RECEIVED, a phrase indicating that a bill of exchange,
&c., has been accepted for a valuable consideration.--GOOD VALUE, full
worth in exchange. [O. Fr. _value_, prop. the fem. of Fr. _valu_, pa.p. of
_valoir_, to be worth--L. _val[=e]re_.]

VALVE, valv, _n._ one of the leaves of a folding-door: a cover to an
aperture which opens in one direction and not in the other: one of the
pieces or divisions forming a shell: (_anat._) a membraneous fold
resembling a valve or serving as a valve in connection with the flow of
blood, lymph, or other fluid--also VAL'VA.--_adjs._ VAL'VAL, pertaining to
a valve; VAL'V[=A]TE, having or resembling a valve or valves: (_bot._)
meeting at the edges without overlapping, as the petals of flowers; VALVED,
having or composed of valves.--_ns._ VALVE'-GEAR, the mechanism for working
a valve; VALVE'LET, VAL'V[=U]LA, VAL'V[=U]LE, a little valve: (_bot._)
formerly used of the pieces which compose the outer covering of a
pericarp.--_adj._ VAL'V[=U]LAR.--_n._ VALV[=U]L[=I]'TIS, inflammation of
one of the valves of the heart. [Fr.,--L. _valva_, a folding-door.]

VAMBRACE, vam'br[=a]s, _n._ a piece of plate-armour to protect the
forearm.--_adj._ VAM'BR[=A]CED (_her._), having armour on the forearm.
[Also _vantbrace_, _vantbrass_--Fr. _avant-bras_--_avant_, before, _bras_,
arm.]

VAMOSE, va-m[=o]s', _v.i._ (_slang_) to be off, to be gone. [Sp. _vamos_,
1st pers. pl. pres. indic.--L. _vadimus_, we go--_vad[)e]re_, to go.]

VAMP, vamp, _n._ the upper leather of a boot or shoe.--_v.t._ to repair
with a new vamp: to patch old with new: give a new face to: (_mus._) to
improvise an accompaniment to (_coll._).--_v.i._ to improvise
accompaniments, to travel, proceed.--_n._ VAM'PER, one who vamps or cobbles
up anything old to pass for new.--VAMP UP, to patch up, to improvise, to
cook up.--IN VAMP, in pawn. [Corr. of Fr. _avant-pied_, the forepart of the
foot--_avant_, before, _pied_--L. _pes_, _pedis_, foot.]

VAMPIRE, vam'p[=i]r, _n._ in eastern Europe, an accursed body which cannot
rest in the kindly earth, but nightly leaves its grave to suck the blood of
sleeping men: an extortioner.--_n._ VAM'PIRE-BAT, the name of several
species of bats all supposed to suck blood--the real blood-suckers only in
Central and South America, attacking cattle, horses, and sometimes human
beings asleep.--_adj._ VAMPIR'IC.--_n._ VAM'PIRISM, the actions of a
vampire or the practice of blood-sucking: extortion. [Fr.,--Servian
_vampir_; the word is common in the Slavonic tongues.]

VAMPLATE, vam'pl[=a]t, _n._ the iron plate through which the lance passed,
serving as a protection to the hand when the lance was couched. [Fr.
_avant-plat_--_avant_, before, _plat_, plate.]

VAN, van, _n._ the front: the front of an army or a fleet: the leaders of
any movement. [Abbrev. of _vanguard_.]

VAN, van, _n._ a fan for grain, &c.: a vane, wing: a test for ascertaining
the value of an ore by washing a small quantity on a shovel.--_v.t._ to
separate ore in this way.--_ns._ VAN'NER, an ore-separator; VAN'NING.
[Fr.,--L. _vannus_.]

VAN, van, _n._ a large covered wagon for goods, &c.: a light vehicle,
covered or not, used by tradesmen in delivering goods: a carriage in a
railway-train for carrying luggage, for the use of the guard, &c. [Short
for _caravan_.]

VANADIUM, van-[=a]'di-um, _n._ a rare metal somewhat resembling silver in
appearance, very brittle and infusible, and unoxidisible either by air or
water.--_ns._ VAN'AD[=A]TE, VAN[=A]'DI[=A]TE, a salt formed by vanadic acid
combined with a base.--_adjs._ VANAD'IC, VAN[=A]'DIOUS, VAN'ADOUS,
pertaining to or obtained from vanadium; VANADIF'EROUS, yielding
vanadium.--_n._ VAN'ADINITE, a compound of lead vanadate and lead chloride.
[Named from _Vanadis_, a Scandinavian goddess.]

VANCOURIER, van'k[=oo]-ri-er, _n._ a precursor. [Fr.
_avant-courier_--_avant_, before.]

VANDAL, van'dal, _n._ one of a fierce race from north-eastern Germany who
entered Gaul about the beginning of the 5th century, crossed the Pyrenees
into Spain (leaving their name in _Andalusia_=_Vandalitia_), next under
Genseric crossed the Strait of Gibraltar, and carried devastation and ruin
from the shores of the Atlantic to the frontiers of Cyrene: any one hostile
to arts or literature, a barbarian.--_adjs._ VAN'DAL, VANDAL'IC, barbarous,
rude.--_n._ VAN'DALISM, hostility to arts or literature. [Low L. _Vandali_,
_Vinduli_--the Teut. name seen in Dut. _Wenden_, the Wends.]

VANDYKE, van-d[=i]k', _n._ one of the points forming an edge or border, as
of lace, ribbon, &c.: a painting by _Vandyke_: a small round cape, the
border ornamented with points and indentations, as seen in paintings by
Vandyke of the time of Charles I.--_adj._ pertaining to the style of dress
represented in portraits by Vandyke.--_v.t._ to cut the edge off in
points.--_n._ VANDYKE'-BROWN, a reddish-brown pigment, a species of peat or
lignite.--_adj._ VANDYKED', notched with large points like a Vandyke
collar. [Anthony _Van Dyck_ (1599-1641), a great Flemish painter.]

VANE, v[=a]n, _n._ a flag or banner: a thin slip of wood or metal at the
top of a spire, &c., to show which way the wind blows: a weather-cock: the
thin web of a feather: one of the blades of a windmill.--_adjs._ VANED,
furnished with vanes; VANE'LESS. [Older form _fane_--A.S. _fana_; Goth.
_fana_, cloth, Ger. _fahne_; akin to L. _pannus_, Gr. _penos_, a cloth.]

VANESSA, va-nes'a, _n._ a genus of butterflies, e.g. the _Vanessa atalanta_
or Red Admiral, _Vanessa antiope_ or Camberwell Beauty. [Perh. intended for
_Phanessa_--Gr. _Phan[=e]s_, a mystic divinity.]

VANG, vang, _n._ (_naut._) one of two guy-ropes from the end of a gaff to
the deck to steady the peak. [Dut.]

VANGUARD, van'gärd, _n._ the guard in the van of an army: the part of an
army preceding the main body: the front line. [Formerly _vantgard_--Fr.
_avant-garde_--_avant_, before, _garde_, guard.]

VANILLA, va-nil'a, _n._ the dried aromatic sheath-like pod or fruit of a
tropical epiphytal orchid, a favourite confection.--_adj._ VANILL'IC.
[Latinised from Fr. _vanille_--Sp. _vainilla_--_vaina_--L. _vagina_, a
sheath.]

VANISH, van'ish, _v.i._ to pass away from a place, leaving it vacant or
empty: to disappear: to be annihilated or lost: (_math._) to become zero:
(_Shak._) to exhale.--_n._ VAN'ISHER.--_adv._ VAN'ISHINGLY.--_n._
VAN'ISHMENT.--VANISHING POINT, the point of disappearance of anything.
[Through Fr. from L. _vanesc[)e]re_, to pass away--_vanus_, empty.]

VANITY. See VAIN.

VANNER. See VAN (2).

VANQUISH, vangk'wish, _v.t._ to conquer: to defeat in any contest: to
confute.--_adj._ VANQ'UISHABLE, capable of being vanquished.--_ns._
VANQ'UISHER; VANQ'UISHMENT. [Fr. _vaincre_ (pa.t. _vainquis_)--L.
_vinc[)e]re_, to conquer.]

VANTAGE, van't[=a]j, _n._ advantage: in lawn-tennis, same as advantage:
(_Shak._) opportunity, convenience, excess, addition.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to
benefit, profit.--_ns._ VAN'TAGE-GROUND, -POINT, superiority of place,
opportunity, &c.

VANTBRACE, VANTBRASS, _n._ See VAMBRACE.

VANWARD, van'wawrd, _adj._ (_rare_) situated in or pertaining to the van or
front.--_n._ the advance-guard of an army on the march. [_Van_ and _ward_.]

VAPID, vap'id, _adj._ having the spirit evaporated: spiritless:
insipid.--_adv._ VAP'IDLY.--_ns._ VAP'IDNESS, VAPID'ITY. [L. _vapidus_.]

VAPOROLE, v[=a]'p[=o]-r[=o]l, _n._ a thin glass capsule, containing a
volatile drug wrapped in cotton-wool and enclosed in a silk bag, to be
crushed in the fingers so as to permit inhalation.

VAPOUR, VAPOR, v[=a]'pur, _n._ the gas into which most liquids and solids
are convertible by heat: the condition of a body when it becomes gas by
heat: water in the atmosphere: anything vain or transitory: (_pl._) a
disease of nervous weakness in which a variety of strange images float
before the mind, temporary depression of spirits, dejection.--_v.i._ to
pass off in vapour: to evaporate: to boast: to brag.--_v.t._ to make to
pass into vapour: to cause to dissolve into gas, thin air, or other
unsubstantial thing: (_rare_) to depress, dispirit: (_obs._) to
bully.--_adjs._ V[=A]'PORABLE, V[=A]'PORISABLE, capable of being converted
into vapour.--_n._ VAPOR[=A]'RIUM, a Russian bath.--_adjs._ VAPORIF'EROUS,
producing vapour; VAPORIF'IC, converting into steam or other vapour;
V[=A]'PORIFORM, existing in the form of vapour.--_n._
VAPORIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ V[=A]'PORISE, to convert into vapour.--_v.i._ to
pass off in vapour.--_adj._ V[=A]'PORISH, full of vapours: hypochondriacal:
peevish.--_n._ VAPOROM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the pressure of a
vapour.--_adjs._ V[=A]'POROUS, V[=A]'POROSE, full of or like vapour: vain:
affected with the vapours: unsubstantial, vainly imaginative.--_adv._
V[=A]'POROUSLY.--_ns._ V[=A]'POROUSNESS, VAPOROS'ITY; V[=A]'POUR-BATH, an
apparatus for bathing the body in vapour of water.--_adj._ V[=A]'POURED,
full of vapours: affected with the vapours.--_ns._ V[=A]'POURER, one who
vapours, a boaster; V[=A]'POURING, windy or ostentatious talk.--_adv._
V[=A]'POURINGLY.--_adj._ V[=A]'POURY, full of vapour: affected with the
vapours: peevish. [Fr.,--L. _vapor_.]

VAPULATION, vap-[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ (_rare_) a flogging.--_adj._
VAP'UL[=A]T[=O]RY. [L. _vapul[=a]re_, to be flogged.]

VAQUERO, va-k[=a]'r[=o], _n._ a herdsman.--_n._ VACQUERIA (vak-e-r[=e]'a),
a farm for grazing cattle. [Sp.,--Fr. _vacher_, a cowherd--L. _vacca_, a
cow.]

VARA, vä'ra, _n._ a Spanish-American linear measure, about thirty-three
inches. [_Vare_.]

VARANGIAN, va-ran'ji-an, _n._ the name given by the Slavic Russians and the
Greeks to one of those Northmen or Värings who made settlements on the east
side of the Baltic in the second half of the 9th century, and laid the
foundations under Rurik of the kingdom of Gardarike out of which grew the
subsequent Russia.--VARANGIAN GUARD, a trusted bodyguard of the emperors of
Constantinople from the end of the 10th century down to the close in 1453.

VARANUS, var'a-nus, _n._ the typical genus of _Varanidæ_, a family of
eriglossate lacertilians, a monitor.--_n._ VAR'AN, a varanoid
lizard.--_adj._ VAR'ANOID.

VARE, v[=a]r, _n._ a wand of authority. [Sp. _vara_, a pole--L. _vara_, a
trestle, forked stick--_varus_, crooked.]

VAREC, var'ek, _n._ a Breton impure sodium carbonate. [Fr.,--Ice. _vágrek_,
_vágr_, a wave, _rek_, drift.]

VAREUSE, va-r[.e]z', _n._ a kind of loose jacket. [Fr.]

VARGUENO, var-g[=a]'n[=o], _n._ a form of cabinet made at _Vargas_ in
Spain, having a box-shaped body with lid, resting on columns, and opening
at the bottom so as to serve as a writing-desk.

VARIABLE, v[=a]'ri-a-bl, _adj._ that may be varied: changeable: liable to
change: unsteady: (_bot._, _zool._) of a species embracing many individuals
and groups departing more or less from the strict type: (_math._)
quantitatively indeterminate: (_astron._) changing in brightness.--_n._
(_math._) a quantity subject to continual increase or decrease: a quantity
which may have an infinite number of values in the same expression: a
shifting wind.--_ns._ VARIABIL'ITY (_biol._), tendency to depart in any
direction from the mean character of the species; V[=A]'RIABLENESS.--_adv._
V[=A]'RIABLY.--_v.t._ V[=A]'RIATE, to vary.--_v.i._ to change.--_adj._
V[=A]'RIATED, varied, diversified: varriated.--_n._ VARI[=A]'TION, a
varying: a change: change from one to another: successive change: the
extent to which a thing varies: (_gram._) change of termination: (_mus._) a
manner of singing or playing the same air with various changes in time,
rhythm, or key: (_astron._) deviation from the mean orbit of a heavenly
body: (_biol._) departure from the mean character of a species.--_adjs._
VARI[=A]'TIONAL, pertaining to variation; V[=A]'RIATIVE, tending to
variation.--VARIABLE SPECIES, any species with marked rate of variability.
[Fr.,--L. _variabilis_.]

VARIANCE, v[=a]'ri-ans, _n._ state of being varied: an alteration: a change
of condition: (_law_) a discrepancy: difference that arises from, or
produces, dispute.--_n._ V[=A]'RIANT, a different form of the same original
word: a different reading, e.g. in a manuscript.--_adj._ diverse, variable,
inconstant.--AT VARIANCE, in disagreement.

VARICELLA, var-i-sel'a, _n._ chicken-pox--applied also loosely to various
eruptive diseases, as swine-pox, hives, or varioloid.--_adjs._ VARICELL'AR,
pertaining to varicella; VARICELL'OID, resembling varicella.

VARICOCELE, var'i-k[=o]-s[=e]l, _n._ an enlargement of the veins of the
spermatic cord, or sometimes of the veins of the scrotum. [L. _varix_, a
dilated vein, Gr. _k[=e]l[=e]_, a tumour.]

VARICOLOURED, v[=a]'ri-kul-urd, _adj._ diversified in colour.--Also
VARICOL'OROUS. [L. _varius_, various, _color_, colour.]

VARICORN, v[=a]'ri-korn, _adj._ having diversiform antennæ.--_n._ a
varicorn beetle. [L. _varius_, various, _cornu_, a horn.]

VARICOSE, var'i-k[=o]s, _adj._ permanently dilated or enlarged, as a vein,
the actual dilatation being called a varix--most often in the sub-mucous
veins of the rectum (constituting _hæmorrhoids_ or _piles_), in the
spermatic veins (giving rise to _varicocele_), and in the veins of the
lower extremities--also VAR'ICOUS.--_adjs._ VAR'IC[=A]TED, marked by
varicose formations (said of shells); VAR'ICOSED.--_n._ VARICOS'ITY, state
of being varicose.--VARICOSE VEINS, a condition in which the superficial
veins, usually of the leg, are swollen for no apparent physiological
reason. [L. _varicosus_, full of dilated veins--_varix_, a dilated
vein--_varus_, bent, crooked.]

VARIEGATE, v[=a]'ri-e-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to mark with different colours.--_ns._
VARIEG[=A]'TION, in plants, a condition in which other colours are
exhibited in parts where green is the normal colour; V[=A]'RIEG[=A]TOR. [L.
_variegatus_--_varius_, various, _ag[)e]re_, to make.]

VARIETY, va-r[=i]'e-ti, _n._ the quality of bring various: difference:
many-sidedness, versatility: a collection of different things: one of a
number of things nearly allied to each other: one or more individuals of a
species, which, owing to accidental causes, differ from the normal form in
minor points:--_pl._ VAR[=I]'ETIES.--_adj._ V[=A]R[=I]'ETAL (_biol._),
having the character of a zoological or botanical variety.--_adv._
VAR[=I]'ETALLY.--_ns._ VAR[=I]'ETY-SHOW, a mixed entertainment comprising
dances, songs, negro-minstrelsy, farces, short sketches, &c.;
VAR[=I]'ETY-TH[=E]'ATRE, a theatre devoted to variety-shows.--_adj._
V[=A]'RIFORM, varied in form.--_v.t._ V[=A]'RIFY, to variegate. [L.
_varietas_--_varius_, various.]

VARIOLA, v[=a]-r[=i]'[=o]-la, _n._ smallpox.--_adjs._ VAR[=I]'OLAR,
VARIOL'IC, VAR[=I]'OLOUS.--_ns._ VARIOL[=A]'TION, inoculation with the
virus of smallpox; V[=A]'RIOLE, a shallow pit or pitted marking, a foveole;
VAR[=I]'OLITE, a rock covered with pea-like pustular forms, held in India
as a preventive of smallpox and worn sometimes as an amulet round the
neck.--_adjs._ VARIOLIT'IC, pertaining to variolite; V[=A]'RIOLOID,
resembling smallpox: resembling measles.--_n._ modified smallpox. [Low
L.,--L. _varius_, various, spotted.]

VARIOMETER, v[=a]-ri-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument used in measuring
magnetic intensity. [L. _varius_, various, Gr. _metron_, measure.]

VARIORUM, v[=a]-r[=i]-[=o]'rum, _adj._ a term applied to an edition of some
work in which the notes of various commentators are inserted. [From the
full Latin 'editio cum notis _variorum_.']

VARIOUS, v[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ varied, different: several: unlike each other:
changeable: uncertain: variegated.--_adv._ V[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_n._
V[=A]'RIOUSNESS. [L. _varius_.]

VARISCITE, var'i-s[=i]t, _n._ a mineral very like a greenish turquoise
found in Brittany. [From L. _Variscia_, Voigtland, part of Saxony.]

VARIX, v[=a]'riks, _n._ abnormal dilatation or tortuosity of a vein:--_pl._
VAR'IC[=E]S. [L.,--_varus_, bent.]

VARLET, vär'let, _n._ a footman: a low fellow: a scoundrel.--_n._ VAR'LETRY
(_Shak._), the rabble, the crowd. [O. Fr. _varlet_, formerly _vaslet_, from
a dim. of Low L. _vassalis_.]

VARMIN, VARMINT, var'min, var'mint, dialectal variants for _vermin_.

VARNISH, vär'nish, _v.t._ to cover with a liquid so as to give a glossy
surface to: to give a fair appearance to.--_n._ a sticky liquid which dries
and forms a hard, lustrous coating: a glossy, lustrous appearance: any
gloss or palliation.--_ns._ VAR'NISHER; VAR'NISHING; VAR'NISHING-DAY, a day
before the opening of a picture exhibition when exhibitors may varnish or
retouch their pictures after they have been hung; VAR'NISH-TREE, a name
given to trees of several distinct natural orders, the resinous juice of
which is used for varnishing or for lacquering. [Fr. _vernis_--Low L.
_vitrinus_, glassy--L. _vitrum_, glass.]

VARRIATED, var'i-[=a]-ted, _adj._ (_her._) battlemented with solid
projections and crenelles, both pointed bluntly, but in the latter case
reversed. [So named from the resemblance to _vair_.]

VARSAL, var'sal, _adj._ (_coll._) universal.

VARSITY, var'si-ti, _n._ (_coll._) university.

VARSOVIENNE, var-s[=o]-vi-en', _n._ a dance imitated from the Polish
mazurka, the music for such. [Fr., fem. of _Varsovien_--_Varsovie_,
Warsaw.]

VARTABED, vär'ta-bed, _n._ one of an order of Armenian clergy devoted to
teaching.--Also VAR'TABET.

VARUNA, var'[=oo]-na, _n._ an ancient Indian Vedic god of heaven and
day--latterly, rather the deity that rules over the waters.

VARUS, v[=a]'rus, _n._ the same as _talipes varus_: a knock-kneed person.
[L.]

VARUS, v[=a]'rus, _n._ acne. [L.]

VARVELS, värv'elz, _n._ same as VERVELS.--_adj._ VAR'VELED (_her._),
provided with vervels or rings.

VARY, v[=a]'ri, _v.t._ to make different: to diversify, modify: (_mus._) to
alter or embellish a melody, preserving its identity: (_Shak._) to express
variously: to change to something else: to make of different kinds.--_v.i._
to alter or be altered: to be or become different: to change in succession:
to deviate (with _from_): to disagree: (_math._) to be subject to continual
increase or decrease:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ v[=a]'ried.--_n._ (_Shak._)
change.--_adj._ V[=A]'RIED.--_adv._ V[=A]'RIEDLY.--_n._ V[=A]'RIER, one who
varies. [Fr. _varier_--L. _vari[=a]re_--_varius_.]

VAS, vas, _n._ (_anat._, _zool._) a vessel containing blood, &c.:--_pl._
V[=A]'SA.--_adjs._ V[=A]'SAL, pertaining to a vas; VAS'IFORM, having the
form of a duct; VASOM[=O]'TOR, serving to regulate the tension of
blood-vessels, as nerves; VASOM[=O]'TORY, VASOMOT[=O]'RIAL. [L.]

VASALIUM, va-s[=a]'li-um, _n._ vascular tissue proper.

VASCULAR, vas'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ of or relating to the vessels of animal and
vegetable bodies.--_n.pl._ VASCUL[=A]'RES, a division of the vegetable
kingdom embracing plants with vessels or ducts.--_v.t._ VAS'CULARISE.--_n._
VASCULAR'ITY.--_adv._ VAS'CULARLY.--_adjs._ VASCULIF'EROUS;
VAS'CULIFORM.--_ns._ VAS'CULOSE, the substance, closely allied to
cellulose, that makes up the greater part of the vessels of plants;
VAS'CULUM, a botanist's specimen-box. [Fr. _vasculaire_--L. _vasculum_,
dim. of _vas_, a vessel.]

VASE, v[=a]z, or v[ä]z, _n._ a vessel of stone, metal, glass, or
earthenware, anciently used for domestic purposes and in offering
sacrifices: an ornamental vessel generally of an antique pattern: a
sculptured, vaselike ornament: (_archit._) the body of the Corinthian
capital.--_n._ VASE'-PAINT'ING, the decoration of vases with pigments, esp.
the decoration of the pottery of the ancient Greeks.--_adj._
V[=A]'SIFORM.--ETRUSCAN VASES, Greek vases so called mistakenly because
found in Etruscan tombs; PORTLAND VASE, a famous Græco-Roman cameo-glass
with reliefs in opaque white glass on a dark-blue ground, 9¾ inches high,
now preserved in the British Museum. [Fr.,--L. _vasum_ or _vas_.]

VASELINE, vas'e-lin, _n._ a yellowish, almost tasteless and inodorous,
translucent substance obtained from petroleum, used as a salve, liniment,
lubricant, &c. [Formed from Ger. _wasser_, water, and Gr. _elaion_, oil.]

VASIFORM, VASOMOTOR. See VAS.

VASSAL, vas'al, _n._ one who holds land from, and renders homage to, a
superior: a dependant, retainer: a bondman, slave: (_Shak._) a low
wretch.--_adj._ (_Shak._) servile.--_v.t._ to enslave, to dominate.--_ns._
VASS'AL[=A]GE, state of being a vassal: dependence: subjection: a fee,
fief: (_Shak._) vassals collectively; VASS'ALESS (_Spens._), a female
vassal; VASS'ALRY, vassals collectively. [Fr.,--Low L. _vassalis_--Bret.
_gwaz_, a servant; cf. W. _gwas_, a youth.]

VAST, vast, _adj._ of great extent: very great in amount: very great in
degree, mighty: (_Shak._) vacant, desolate.--_n._ immensity: (_coll._) a
large quantity: (_Shak._) the darkness of night.--_ns._ VASTID'ITY
(_Shak._), immensity, desolation; VAS'TITUDE.--_adv._ VAST'LY.--_ns._
VAST'NESS; VAS'TUS, one of the great muscles upon the front of the
thigh.--_adj._ VAS'TY, large, enormously great. [Fr. _vaste_--L. _vastus_,
waste, vast; cf. A.S. _wéste_, waste.]

VAT, vat, _n._ a large vessel or tank, esp. one for holding
liquors.--_v.t._ to put in a vat.--_n._ VAT'FUL, the contents of a vat.
[Older form _fat_--A.S. _fæt_; Dut. _vat_, Ice. _fat_, Ger. _fass_.]

VATICAN, vat'i-kan, _n._ an assemblage of buildings on the Vatican hill in
Rome, including one of the pope's palaces: the papal authority.--_ns._
VAT'ICANISM, the system of theology and ecclesiastical government based on
absolute papal authority, ultramontanism; VAT'ICANIST, one who upholds such
a system.--VATICAN CODEX, a famous uncial MS. of the Greek Testament, of
the 4th century, in the Vatican library at Rome; VATICAN COUNCIL, the
Twentieth Ecumenical Council, according to popish reckoning, which met 8th
December 1869 and proclaimed the Infallibility of the Pope. [Fr.,--It.
_Vaticano_--L. _Mons Vaticanus_, a hill in Rome.]

VATICIDE, vat'i-s[=i]d, _n._ the killing of a prophet: one who kills a
prophet. [L. _vates_, _vatis_, a prophet, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

VATICINATE, va-tis'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to prophesy.--_adj._ VAT'IC, prophetic,
oracular, inspired--also VATIC'INAL.--_ns._ VATICIN[=A]'TION, prophecy:
prediction; VATIC'INATOR, a prophet. [L. _vaticin[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to
prophesy--_vates_, a seer.]

VAUDEVILLE, v[=o]d'vil, _n._ originally a popular song with topical
allusions: a play interspersed with dances and songs incidentally
introduced and usually comic.--_n._ VAUDE'VILLIST, a composer of these.
[From _vau_ (_val_) _de Vire_, the valley of the VIRE, in Normandy, where
they were first composed about 1400 A.D.]

VAUDOIS, v[=o]-dwo', _n._ a native of _Vaud_: the dialect spoken in
Vaud.--_adj._ pertaining to Vaud or its people.

VAUDOIS, v[=o]-dwo', _n._ one of the Waldenses (q.v.).--_adj._ Waldensian.

VAUDOO. See VOODOO.

VAULT, vawlt, _n._ an arched roof: a chamber with an arched roof, esp. one
underground: a cellar: anything vault-like: a leap or spring by means of a
pole or by resting the hands on something: the bound of a horse: a
jump.--_v.t._ to shape as a vault: to arch: to roof with an arch: to form
vaults in.--_v.i._ to curvet or leap, as a horse: to leap: to exhibit feats
of leaping or tumbling.--_n._ VAUL'TAGE (_Shak._), an arched cellar:
vaulted work.--_adj._ VAUL'TED, arched: concave overhead: covered with an
arch or vault.--_ns._ VAUL'TER, one who vaults or leaps; VAUL'TING
(_archit._), vaulted work; VAUL'TING-HORSE, a wooden horse used in
gymnasiums for vaulting over.--_adj._ VAUL'TY (_Shak._), arched, concave.
[O. Fr. _volte_ (Fr. _voûte_)--L. _volv[)e]re_, _volutum_, to roll.]

VAUNCE, väns, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to advance.

VAUNT, vawnt', or vänt, _v.i._ to make a vain display: to boast.--_v.t._ to
make a vain display of: to boast of.--_n._ vain display: boast.--_ns._
VAUN'TER; VAUN'TERY, vaunting.--_adj._ VAUNT'FUL.--_n._ VAUN'TING.--_adv._
VAUN'TINGLY. [O. Fr. _vanter_--Low L. _vanit[=a]re_--L. _vanitas_,
vanity--_vanus_, vain.]

VAUNT, vänt, _n._ (_Shak._) the first part. [_Van_.]

VAUNT-COURIER, vänt'-k[=oo]'-ri-[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as VANCOURIER.

VAUT, vawt, _v.i._ (_Spens._) same as VAULT.--_adj._ VAU'TY, vaulted.

VAVASOUR, vav'a-s[=oo]r, _n._ in feudal times, one who held his lands not
directly of the crown but of one of the higher nobility.--_n._
VAV'AS[=O]RY, the tenure or lands of a vavasour. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _vassus
vassorum_, vassal of vassals--_vassus_, vassal.]

VAWARD, v[=a]'wawrd, _n._ and _adj._ Same as VANWARD.

VEADAR, v[=e]'a-dar, _n._ the name of the intercalary or thirteenth month
of the Jewish year, which must have been inserted about every third year.
[Heb., 'the additional _adar_,' from _ve_, and, and _adar_, so called
because it was introduced in the calendar after the month Adar.]

VEAL, v[=e]l, _n._ the flesh of a calf.--_n._ VEAL'-SKIN, a skin-disease
marked by white shiny tubercles on the ears and neck.--_adj._ VEAL'Y, like
veal or like a calf: immature. [O. Fr. _veël_ (Prov. _vedel_)--L.
_vitellus_, dim. of _vitulus_; Gr. _italos_, a calf.]

VECTOR, vek'tor, _n._ (_math._) any directed quantity, as a straight line
in space, involving both its direction and magnitude.--_n._
VECTIT[=A]'TION, a carrying.--_adj._ VECT[=O]'RIAL. [L.,--_veh[)e]re_,
_vectum_, to convey.]

VEDA, v[=a]'dä, _n._ the four holy books of the Hindus--_Rigveda_, or Veda
of praises or hymns; _Sâmaveda_, or Veda of chants or tunes; _Yajurveda_,
or Veda of prayers; and _Atharvaveda_, or Veda of the Atharvans:--_pl._
VEDAS (v[=a]'däz).--_n._ VEDAN'TA, a system of Hindu philosophy based on
the VEDAS.--_adjs._ VEDAN'TIC, VE'DIC. [Sans. _veda_, knowledge--_vid_, to
know; cf. _Wit_.]

VEDETTE, ve-det', _n._ a mounted sentry stationed at the outposts of an
army to watch an enemy. [Fr.,--It. _vedetta_--_vedere_, to see--L.
_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VEER, v[=e]r, _v.i._ to change direction, as the wind: to alter, of the
course of a ship: to change one's mind.--_v.t._ to turn, shift: to change a
ship's course by turning her head away from the wind.--_n._ and _adj._
VEER'ING.--_adv._ VEER'INGLY. [Fr. _virer_ (Prov. _virar_)--Low L.
_vir[=a]re_, to turn--L. _viriæ_, armlets.]

VEERY, v[=e]r'i, _n._ the tawny thrush of North America.

VEGA, v[=a]'ga, _n._ a tract of flat land, a tobacco-field in Cuba. [Sp.]

VEGETABLE, vej'e-ta-bl, _n._ an organised body without sensation and
voluntary motion, nourished by roots fixed in the ground: a plant for the
table.--_adj._ belonging to plants: consisting of or having the nature of
plants: derived from vegetables.--_adj._ VEG'ETAL, of the nature of a
vegetable: pertaining to the vital functions of plants and animals, as
growth, reproduction, &c.--_ns._ VEG'ETALINE, a substitute for ivory, &c.,
made by treating woody fibre with sulphuric acid, mixing with various
ingredients, and pressing into any required form; VEGETAL'ITY, vegetable
character, the vegetal functions collectively.--_adj._ VEGET[=A]'RIAN,
pertaining to those who abstain from animal food: consisting of
vegetables.--_n._ one who holds that vegetables are the only proper food
for man.--_n._ VEGET[=A]'RIANISM, the theory and practice of a
vegetarian.--_v.i._ VEG'ET[=A]TE, to grow by roots and leaves: to sprout:
to lead an idle, aimless life.--_n._ VEGET[=A]'TION, process of growing, as
a plant: vegetable growth: plants in general.--_adj._ VEG'ET[=A]TIVE,
growing, as plants: producing growth in plants: pertaining to unconscious
or involuntary bodily functions as resembling the processes of vegetable
growth: without intellectual activity, unprogressive.--_adv._
VEG'ET[=A]TIVELY.--_n._ VEG'ET[=A]TIVENESS.--_adj._ VEGETE (vej'[=e]t),
vigorous.--_n._ VEG'ETIVE (_Shak._), a vegetable.--VEGETABLE KINGDOM, that
division of natural objects which embraces vegetables or plants; VEGETABLE
MARROW, the fruit of a species of gourd, so called from its marrow-like
appearance; VEGETABLE MOULD, mould consisting mostly of humus; VEGETABLE
PHYSIOLOGY, that department of botany which treats of the growth and
functions of plants. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _vegetabilis_, animating--L.
_veget[=a]re_, to quicken--_veg[=e]re_, to be lively; akin to _vig[=e]re_,
to be vigorous. Cf. _Vigour_.]

VEHEMENT, v[=e]'he-ment, _adj._ passionate: furious: very eager or
urgent.--_ns._ V[=E]'HEMENCE, V[=E]'HEMENCY, the quality of being vehement:
violence: great ardour or fervour.--_adv._ V[=E]'HEMENTLY. [O. Fr.,--L.
_vehemens_, from _ve_, out of, _mens_, mind; acc. to Vanicek, from
_veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

VEHICLE, v[=e]'hi-kl, _n._ any kind of carriage or conveyance: that which
is used to convey: (_med._) a substance in which a medicine is taken:
(_paint._) a liquid used to render colours, varnishes, &c. fit for
use.--_adjs._ VEHIC'[=U]LAR, -Y, pertaining to or serving as a
vehicle.--_v.t._ VEHIC'[=U]LATE (_rare_), to ride in a vehicle.--_n._
VEHIC[=U]L[=A]'TION.--_adj._ VEHIC'[=U]L[=A]T[=O]RY. [L.
_vehiculum_--_veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

VEHMGERICHT, f[=a]m'ge-richt, _n._ one of the dread medieval German
tribunals, empowered by the emperors to try cases in which the penalty was
death and to execute the punishment on the guilty--also FEM'GERICHTE, or
simply VEHME, FEHME:--_pl._ VEHMGERICHTE (f[=a]m'ge-rich-te).--_adj._
VEHM'IC. [Ger.,--fehme, _fehm_, a criminal tribunal, _gericht_, judgment.]

VEIL, v[=a]l, _n._ a curtain: anything that hides an object: a piece of
muslin or thin cloth worn by ladies to shade or hide the face: a cover: a
disguise: an obscuration of the clearness of the tones in pronunciation: in
fungi, the partial covering of the stem or margin of the cap--applied also
to the indusium of ferns.--_v.t._ to cover with a veil: to cover: to
conceal.--_n._ VEIL'ING, the act of concealing with a veil: a veil:
material for making veils.--_adjs._ VEIL'LESS, wanting a veil: uncovered;
V[=E]'LAR (_philol._), denoting sounds (_gw_, _kw_, &c.) produced by the
veil of the palate or soft palate; V[=E]'LARY, pertaining to a sail.--_n._
V[=E]L[=A]'TION, a veiling: concealment, mystery.--EUCHARISTIC or
SACRAMENTAL VEILS, the linen or silk cloths used to cover the eucharistic
vessels and the elements during the celebration of Mass or Holy
Communion.--TAKE THE VEIL, to become a nun. [O. Fr. _veile_ (Fr.
_voile_)--L. _velum_, a curtain--_veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

VEILLEUSE, v[=a]-ly[.e]z', _n._ a shaded night-lamp.

VEIN, v[=a]n, _n._ one of the vessels or tubes which convey the blood back
to the heart: one of the horny tubes forming the framework of an insect's
wings: (_bot._) one of the small branching ribs in a leaf: a seam of a
different mineral through a rock: a fissure or cavity: a streak in wood or
stone: a train of thought: a course: tendency or turn of mind: mood or
humour.--_v.t._ to form veins or the appearance of veins in.--_n._
VEIN'AGE, veins collectively.--_adj._ VEINED, full of veins: streaked,
variegated: (_bot._) having vessels branching over the surface, as a
leaf.--_n._ VEIN'ING, formation or disposition of veins: streaking.--_adj._
VEIN'LESS, having no veins.--_n._ VEIN'LET (_bot._), a little vein or
vessel branching out from a larger one.--_adjs._ VEIN'OUS, VEIN'Y, full of
veins.--_ns._ VEIN'STONE, the earthy part of a lode; VEIN'[=U]LE, a very
small vein. [Fr. _veine_--L. _vena_, perh. from _veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

VELAMENTUM, vel-a-men'tum, _n._ a membrane or membraneous envelope--also
VEL[=A]'MEN.--_adj._ VELAMEN'TOUS, veil-like.

VELARIUM, v[=e]-l[=a]'ri-um, _n._ an awning which could be drawn over the
Roman amphitheatre: the marginal membrane of certain hydrozoans:--_pl._
VEL[=A]'RIA.

VELATURA, vel-a-t[=oo]'ra, _n._ a method of glazing a painting by rubbing
on colour with the hand. [It.]

VELDT, velt, _n._ in South Africa, the name given to unforested or
thinly-forested grass country.--Also VELD. [Dut. _veld_, field.]

VELE, v[=e]l, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as VEIL.

VELIA, v[=e]'li-a, _n._ a genus of semi-aquatic water-bugs.

VELITATION, vel-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a slight skirmish.

VELITE, v[=e]'l[=i]t, _n._ a light-armed Roman soldier. [L. _veles_,
_velitis_.]

VELL, vel, _v.t._ (_prov._) to cut the turf from.

VELL, vel, _n._ (_prov._) rennet.

VELLEITY, ve-l[=e]'i-ti, _n._ (rare) volition in its lowest form: mere
inclination. [Low L. _velleitas_, irregularly formed from L. _velle_, to
wish.]

VELLENAGE, vel'en-[=a]j, _n._ (_Spens._) slavery--the same as VILLEINAGE.
[_Villain_.]

VELLET, vel'et, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as VELVET.

VELLICATE, vel'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to twitch.--_n._
VELLIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ VELL'IC[=A]TIVE. [L. _vellic[=a]re_,-_[=a]tum_, to
pluck.]

VELLON, ve-ly[=o]n', _n._ a Spanish money of account.

VELLOPED, vel'opt, _adj._ (_her._) having pendant wattles. [Prob.
_jelloped_ for _dewlapped_.]

VELLOZIA, ve-l[=o]'zi-a, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Hæmodoraceæ_, found in Brazil, Madagascar, &c. [_Vellozo_, Brazilian
botanist.]

VELLUM, vel'um, _n._ a finer kind of parchment prepared by lime-baths and
burnishing from the skins of calves, kids, or lambs. [O. Fr. _velin_--Low
L. (_charta_, paper), _vitulina_, of a calf--L. _vitulus_.]

VELOCE, ve-l[=o]'che, _adv._ (_mus._) with great rapidity.

VELOCIPEDE, v[=e]-los'i-p[=e]d, _n._ a light vehicle originally moved by
striking the toes on the road, now with a treadle--its developments are the
bicycle and tricycle.--_ns._ VELOC'IMAN, a velocipede driven by hand;
VELOCIP[=E]'DEAN, VELOC'IP[=E]DIST, one who rides on a velocipede.
[Fr.,--L. _velox_, _velocis_, swift, _pes_, _pedis_, foot.]

VELOCITY, v[=e]-los'i-ti, _n._ swiftness: speed: rate of change of position
of a point per unit of time.--_n._ VELOCIM'ETER, an apparatus for measuring
velocity.--INITIAL VELOCITY, the rate of movement of a body at starting,
esp. of a projectile. [L. _velocitas_--_velox_, swift.]

VELUM, v[=e]'lum, _n._ a velarium: the ciliated disc-like fold of the
integument with which some embryo molluscs are provided:--_pl._
V[=E]'LA.--_adj._ V[=E]'L[=A]TE, having a velum.--_n._ V[=E]L[=A]'TION,
formation of a velum.--_adjs._ V[=E]LIF'EROUS, V[=E]LIG'EROUS, having a
velum.

VELURE, vel'[=u]r, _n._ velvet: a silk or plush pad for smoothing or giving
lustre to silk hats--also VELOURS (ve-loor').--_v.t._ to dress with a
velure.--_n._ VELOUTINE', a corded fabric of merino and fancy wool.--_adj._
VEL[=U]'TINOUS, velvety. [O. Fr. _velours_, _velous_ (Fr. _velours_)--Low
L. _villosus_, velvet--L. _villosus_, shaggy.]

VELVET, vel'vet, _n._ a cloth made from silk, with a close shaggy pile: a
similar cloth made of cotton: the velvet-like covering of a growing antler:
(_slang_) money gained by gambling.--_adj._ made of velvet: soft like
velvet.--_ns._ VEL'VERET, a poor quality of velvet, the web of cotton, the
pile of silk; VELVETEEN', a fustian made of twilled cotton with a pile of
the same material: a kind of velvet made of silk and cotton mixed
throughout; VEL'VET-FLOWER, the love-lies-bleeding.--_n.pl._ VEL'VET-GUARDS
(_Shak._), velvet trimmings, applied metaphorically to the citizens who
wore them.--_ns._ VEL'VETING, the nap of velvet: (_pl._) velvet goods
collectively; VEL'VET-LEAF, the Indian mallow; VEL'VET-P[=A]'PER, flock
paper; VEL'VET-PILE, any material with a long, soft nap;
VEL'VET-SC[=O]'TER, a kind of black duck with large white spot on the
wings; VEL'VET-WORK, embroidery on velvet.--_adj._ VEL'VETY, made of or
like velvet: soft: soft in taste or touch.--STAND ON VELVET, to place one's
bets in such a way as not to loose in any event. [From Low L.
_velluetum_--Low L. _villutus_--L. _villus_, shaggy hair.]

VENA, v[=e]'na, _n._ a vein.--VENA CAVA, the largest vein in the body,
entering the right auricle of the heart.

VENAL, v[=e]'nal, _adj._ that may be sold or got for a price: held for
sale: mercenary.--_n._ VENAL'ITY, quality of being venal: prostitution of
talents or services for a reward.--_adv._ V[=E]'NALLY. [Fr.,--L.
_venalis_--_venus_, sale; Gr. _[=o]n[=e]_, purchase.]

VENAL, v[=e]'nal, _adj._ pertaining to a vein or veins: contained in the
veins. [L. _vena_, a vein.]

VENATIC, -AL, v[=e]-nat'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to hunting.--_adv._
VENAT'ICALLY.--_adj._ VENAT[=O]'RIAL. [_Venery_.]

VENATION, ve-n[=a]'shun, _n._ the way in which the leaves of plants are
arranged: in insects, the distribution of the veins of the wings. [_Vein_.]

VEND, vend, _v.t._ to give for sale, to sell: to give for money: to make an
object of trade.--_ns._ VENDEE', the person to whom a thing is sold;
VEN'DER, -DOR, one who sells; VENDIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ VEND'IBLE, that may be
sold: that may be disposed of as an object of trade.--_n._ something
salable.--_n._ VEN'DIBLENESS.--_adv._ VEN'DIBLY.--_n._ VENDUE' (_rare_), a
public auction. [Fr. _vendre_--L. _vend[)e]re_--_venus_, sale, _d[)a]re_,
to give.]

VENDACE, ven'd[=a]s, _n._ a variety of the whitefish, found in Great
Britain only in the Castle Loch at Lochmaben. [O. Fr. _vendese_, _vandoise_
(Fr. _vandoise_); orig. unknown.]

VENDÉMIAIRE, vong-d[=a]-mi-[=a]r', _n._ the first month in the French
Revolutionary Calendar, from 22d September to 21st October. ['The
vintage-month,' Fr.,--L. _vindemia_, vintage--_vinum_, wine, _dem[)e]re_,
to take off--_de_, off, _em[)e]re_, to take.]

VENDETTA, ven-det'ta, _n._ the practice--not yet entirely extinct in
Calabria and Corsica--of individuals taking private vengeance on those who
have shed the blood of their relatives. [It.,--L. _vindicta_,
revenge--_vindic[=a]re_, to claim.]

VENEER, ve-n[=e]r', _v.t._ to overlay or face with another and superior
wood: to cover with a thin coating of any substance other than wood: to
disguise with artificial attractiveness.--_n._ a thin coating, as of wood:
false show or charm.--_ns._ VENEER'-CUT'TER, a machine for cutting veneers
from the block of wood; VENEER'ING, the act or art of overlaying an
inferior wood with thin leaves of a more valuable kind: the thin leaf thus
laid on. [Formerly _fineer_; corr. from Ger. _furniren_--O. Fr. _fornir_
(Fr. _fournir_), It. _fornire_, to furnish.]

VENEFICAL, v[=e]-nef'i-kal, _adj._ poisonous, using sorcery--also
VENEFI'CIAL, VENEFI'CIOUS.--_v.t._ VEN'EN[=A]TE, to poison.--_adj._
poisoned.--_n._ VENEN[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ VENENIF'LUOUS; VEN'ENOUS. [L.
_veneficium_, a poisoning--_venenum_, poison, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

VENERABLE, ven'e-ra-bl, _adj._ that may be venerated: worthy of veneration,
reverence, or honour: rendered sacred by religious or other associations:
aged.--_n._ VEN'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ VEN'ERABLY. [L.
_venerabilis_--_vener[=a]ri_, to venerate.]

VENERATE, ven'e-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to honour or reverence with religious awe:
to reverence: to regard with the greatest respect.--_adjs._ VEN'ERANT
(_rare_), VEN'ER[=A]TIVE, reverent.--_ns._ VENER[=A]'TION, the act of
venerating: the state of being venerated: the highest degree of respect and
reverence: respect mingled with reverence and awe: awe; VEN'ER[=A]TOR, one
who venerates. [L. _vener[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_.]

VENEREAL, v[=e]-n[=e]'r[=e]-al, _adj._ pertaining to or arising from sexual
intercourse: exciting desire for sexual intercourse: curing venereal
diseases.--_adj._ VEN[=E]'REOUS, lascivious: stimulating sexual desire,
aphrodisiac.--_n._ VEN'ERY, sexual intercourse. [L. _venereus_--_Venus_,
_Ven[)e]ris_, the goddess of love; conn. with L. _vener[=a]ri_.]

VENERY, ven'[.e]r-i, _n._ the act or exercise of hunting: the sports of the
chase.--_ns._ VEN'ERER, a gamekeeper, hunter; VENEUR (ve-n[.e]r'), a person
having an oversight of the chase. [O. Fr. _venerie_--_vener_--L.
_ven[=a]ri_, to hunt.]

VENESECTION, v[=e]-n[=e]-sek'shun, _n._ the section or cutting open of a
vein for letting blood: blood-letting. [L. _vena_, a vein, _sectio_,
cutting.]

VENETIAN, v[=e]-n[=e]'shan, _adj._ of or belonging to _Venice_.--_n._ a
native or inhabitant of Venice: a strong tape for Venetian-blinds: a
domino.--_n._ VEN[=E]'TIAN-BLIND, a blind for windows formed of thin slips
of wood, so hung as to admit of being set either edgewise or
overlapping.--_adj._ VEN[=E]'TIANED, furnished with Venetian-blinds.--_ns._
VEN[=E]'TIAN-GLASS, a delicate and beautiful glass made by the craftsmen of
Venice into mirrors, cups, goblets, &c., its forms reflecting its Oriental
origin, famous since the middle ages; VEN[=E]'TIAN-STYLE, the type of the
Renaissance architecture developed in VENICE, highly decorative and
original.

VENEW, ven'[=u], VENEY, ven'i, _n._ (_Shak._) a bout at fencing, a thrust,
a hit. [_Venue_.]

VENGE, venj, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to avenge, to punish.--_adj._ VENGE'ABLE
(_Spens._), revengeful: deserving to be revenged.--_n._ VENGE'ANCE, the
infliction of punishment upon another in return for an injury or offence:
retribution: (_Shak._) harm, mischief.--_adv._ (_Shak._) extremely,
exceedingly.--_adj._ VENGE'FUL, vindictive, retributive:
revengeful.--_adv._ VENGE'FULLY.--_ns._ VENGE'FULNESS; VENGE'MENT
(_Spens._), vengeance, penal retribution; VEN'GER (_Spens._), an
avenger.--WITH A VENGEANCE (_coll._), violently: exceedingly. [O. Fr.
_venger_--L. _vindic[=a]re_.]

VENIAL, v[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ pardonable: excusable: allowed.--_adv._
V[=E]'NIALLY.--_ns._ V[=E]'NIALNESS, VENIAL'ITY.--VENIAL SIN (see MORTAL).
[Fr.,--L. _venialis_, pardonable--_venia_, pardon.]

VENI CREATOR, v[=e]'n[=i] kr[=e]-[=a]'tor, _n._--more fully, 'Veni Creator
Spiritus'--a hymn of the Roman Breviary, used at Whitsuntide, ordinations,
&c.--not to be confounded with the _Veni Sancte Spiritus, Et emitte
coelitus_, the 'Golden Sequence.'

VENISON, ven'i-zn, or ven'zn, _n._ the flesh of animals taken in hunting,
esp. the deer. [Fr. _venaison_--L. _venatio_, a hunting, game--_ven[=a]ri_,
to hunt.]

VENITE, v[=e]-n[=i]'t[=e], _n._ in liturgics, the 95th Psalm. [From its
opening words, 'Venite exultemus.']

VENNEL, ven'el, _n._ (_Scot._) an alley, a narrow street. [Fr. _venelle_, a
small street.]

VENOM, ven'um, _n._ any drink, juice, or liquid injurious or fatal to life:
poison: spite: malice.--_adj._ (_Shak._) venomous, poisonous.--_v.t._ to
infect with poison.--_n._ VEN'OM-DUCT, in a poisonous animal, the duct
conveying venom from the sac or gland where it is secreted to the tooth or
_venom-fang_ whence it is discharged.--_adjs._ VEN'OM-MOUTHED, having a
venomous mouth: (_Shak._) slanderous; VEN'OMOUS, poisonous: spiteful:
mischievous.--_adv._ VEN'OMOUSLY.--_n._ VEN'OMOUSNESS. [Fr. _venin_ (It.
_veneno_)--L. _venenum_.]

VENOSE, v[=e]'n[=o]s, _adj._ (_bot._) having well-marked veins,
veined.--_n._ V[=E]NOS'ITY, the state or quality of being venous: (_med._)
a condition of the blood in which the venous blood is unnaturally
abundant.--_adj._ V[=E]'NOUS, pertaining to or contained in veins:
veined.--_adv._ V[=E]'NOUSLY. [_Vein._]

VENT, vent, _n._ a small opening to let air, &c., escape: the flue of a
chimney: the opening in the top of a barrel allowing air to pass in as the
liquid is drawn out: a gimlet used to extract a little liquid from a barrel
for sampling purposes: discharge: escape: passage into notice: publication,
utterance, voice: the anus of birds and fishes: (_mil._) the opening at the
breech of a firearm through which fire is conveyed to the charge, the
touch-hole.--_v.t._ to give a vent or opening to: to let out, as at a vent:
to allow to escape: to publish: to pour forth.--_ns._ VENT'[=A]GE
(_Shak._), a vent, a small hole; VEN'TAIL (_Spens._), same as AVENTAIL;
VENT'-BUSH'ING, -PIECE, a copper cylinder inserted through the walls of a
cannon over the seat of the charge and preventing the escaping gases from
injuring the metal near the vent; VENT'ER, one who vents or
publishes.--_adj._ VENTIC'[=U]LAR.--_ns._ VENT'-PEG, -PLUG, a plug for
stopping the vent of a barrel; VENT'-PIPE, an escape-pipe.--GIVE VENT TO,
to allow to escape or break out. [Altered form of _fent_, M. E. _fente_--O.
Fr. _fente_, a slit.]

VENT, vent, _n._ scent: (_hunting_) the act of taking breath.--_v.i._ to
sniff, snort: to take breath: (_Scot._) of a chimney, to draw.--VENT UP
(_Spens._), to lift so as to give air. [O. Fr.,--L. _ventus_, wind.]

VENT, vent, _n._ the act of selling, sale: market. [O. Fr. _vente_--Low L.
_vendita_, a sale--L. _vend[)e]re_, _-d[)i]tum_, to sell.]

VENTANNA, ven-tan'a, _n._ a window. [Sp.]

VENTER, ven't[.e]r, _n._ the belly, abdomen. [L.]

VENTILATE, ven'ti-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to fan with wind: to open to the free
passage of air: to cause fresh air to pass through: to expose to
examination and discussion: to make public.--_adj._ VEN'TILABLE.--_ns._
VENTIL[=A]'BRUM, flabellum; VENTIL[=A]'TION, act or art of ventilating:
state of being ventilated: free exposure to air: supply of air: act of
examining and making public: public exposure.--_adj._
VEN'TIL[=A]TIVE.--_n._ VEN'TIL[=A]TOR, that which ventilates: a contrivance
for introducing fresh air. [L. _ventil[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ventulus_, dim.
of _ventus_, the wind.]

VENTOSE, ven't[=o]s, _adj._ windy.--_n._ the sixth month of the French
Revolutionary Calendar, 19th February to 20th March.--_n._ VENTOS'ITY,
windiness: empty pride. [L. _ventosus_--_ventus_, wind.]

VENTRAL, ven'tral, _adj._ belonging to the belly: (_bot._) denoting the
anterior or inferior surface: in the body, situated opposite the dorsal or
back aspect.--_n._ in fishes, one of the posterior fins.--_advs._ VEN'TRAD
(_zool._, _anat._), to or toward the belly, or ventral surface or aspect of
the body; VEN'TRALLY.--_adj._ VEN'TRIC.--_n._ VEN'TRICLE, a small cavity
within an animal body, as in the heart or brain: (_Shak._) the
womb.--_adjs._ VEN'TRIC[=O]SE, VEN'TRICOUS, swelling out in the middle:
bellied; VENTRIC'[=U]LAR. [L. _ventralis_--_venter_, the belly.]

VENTRICULITE, ven-trik'[=u]-l[=i]t, _n._ one of a genus of fossil sponges
found in the cretaceous system, and often giving their shape to flint
nodules.

VENTRILOQUISM, ven-tril'[=o]-kwizm, _n._ the act or art of producing tones
and words without any motion of the mouth, so that the hearer is induced to
refer the sound to some other place--also VENTRILOC[=U]'TION,
VENTRIL'OQUY.--_adv._ VENTRIL[=O]'QUIALLY.--_v.i._ VENTRIL'OQUISE, to
practise ventriloquism.--_n._ VENTRIL'OQUIST, one who practises
ventriloquism.--_adjs._ VENTRILOQUIS'TIC, VENTRIL[=O]'QUIAL,
VENTRIL'OQUOUS. [L. _ventriloquus_, speaking from the belly--_venter_, the
belly, _loqui_, to speak.]

VENTRIPOTENT, ven-trip'[=o]-tent, _adj._ (_rare_) of great gastronomic
capacity. [L. _venter_, belly, _potens_--_posse_, to have power.]

VENTROSITY, ven-tros'i-ti, _n._ the state of having a pot-belly.

VENTURE, ven't[=u]r, _n._ chance, luck, hazard: that which is put to hazard
(esp. goods sent by sea at the sender's risk): an undertaking whose issue
is uncertain or dangerous.--_v.t._ to send on a venture: to expose to
hazard: to risk.--_v.i._ to make a venture: to run a risk: to dare.--_n._
VEN'T[=U]RER.--_adjs._ VEN'T[=U]ROUS, VEN'T[=U]RESOME.--_advs._
VEN'T[=U]ROUSLY, VEN'T[=U]RESOMELY.--_ns._ VEN'T[=U]ROUSNESS,
VEN'T[=U]RESOMENESS.--VENTURE ON, UPON, to dare to engage in.--AT A
VENTURE, at hazard, random. [Short for _adventure_.]

VENUE, ven'[=u], _n._ (_Shak._) a hit in fencing: a bout or match: a lunge,
thrust. [O. Fr.,--L. _ven[=i]re_, to come.]

VENUE, ven'[=u], _n._ (_law_) the place where an action is laid: the
district from which a jury comes to try a question of fact: in England,
usually the county where a crime is alleged to have been committed.--CHANGE
OF VENUE, change of place of trial; LAY THE VENUE, to specify the place
where the trial is to be held. [A particular use of preceding word, but
confused with O. Fr. _visne_, neighbourhood--L. _vicinia_, neighbourhood.]

VENUS, v[=e]'nus, _n._ (_Roman myth._) the goddess of love, originally of
spring, patron of flower-gardens, but identified with the Greek Aphrodite:
beauty and love deified: sexual commerce, venery: the most brilliant of the
planets, second in order from the sun.--VENUS'S FLOWER-BASKET, a beautiful
glass sponge; VENUS'S FLY-TRAP (see DIONÆA); VENUS'S GIRDLE, a tæniate
ctenophoran.--MOUNT OF VENUS (_palm._), the elevation at the base of the
thumb. [L., orig. personified from _venus_, desire; akin to _vener[=a]ri_,
to worship.]

VERACIOUS, ve-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ truthful: true.--_adv._
VER[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ VERAC'ITY, the quality of being veracious: habitual
truthfulness: truth. [L. _verax_, _veracis_--_verus_, true.]

VERANDA, VERANDAH, ve-ran'da, _n._ a kind of covered balcony or open
portico, with a roof sloping beyond the main building, supported by light
pillars. [Hind. _varand[=a]_, perh. from Pers. _bar[=a]madah_, a
porch--_bar_, up, _[=a]madan_, to come; by others derived from Old Port,
_varanda_, a balcony--_vara_, a rod--L. _vara_, a rod.]

VERATRUM, v[=e]-r[=a]'trum, _n._ hellebore.--_adj._ VER[=A]'TRIC.--_ns._
VER[=A]'TRIN, -E, a poisonous ointment used to relieve neuralgia.--_v.t._
VER[=A]'TRISE, to poison with veratrin. [L.]

VERB, verb, _n._ (_gram._) the part of speech which asserts or predicates
something.--_adj._ VER'BAL, relating to or consisting in words: spoken (as
opposed to _written_): exact in words: attending to words only: literal,
word for word: derived directly from a verb.--_n._ a part of speech, a noun
derived from a verb.--_n._ VERBALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ VER'BALISE, to turn
into a verb.--_ns._ VER'BALISM, something expressed in words or orally;
VER'BALIST, one skilled in words: a literalist; VERBAL'ITY.--_adv._
VER'BALLY.--_ns._ VERB[=A]'RIAN, a coiner of words; VERB[=A]'RIUM, a game
played with the letters of the alphabet.--_adv._ VERB[=A]'TIM, word for
word: (_Shak._) orally, verbally.--_ns._ VER'BI[=A]GE, abundance of words:
wordiness: verbosity; VER'BICIDE, the perversion of a word, as if the
killing of its natural meaning: one who so mangles words, a punster;
VER'BICULTURE, the deliberate cultivation or production of words;
VERBIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of verbifying.--_v.t._ VER'BIFY, to
verbalise.--_ns._ VERBIGER[=A]'TION, the morbid and purposeless repetition
of certain words and phrases at short intervals; VER'BO-M[=A]'NIAC, one
crazy about words and their study, a dictionary-maker.--_adj._ VERB[=O]SE',
containing more words than are necessary: wordy: diffuse.--_adv._
VERB[=O]SE'LY.--_ns._ VERB[=O]SE'NESS, VERBOS'ITY.--VERBAL DEFINITION, a
definition intended to state the meaning of a word, apart from the essence
of the thing signified; VERBAL INSPIRATION, that view which regards Holy
Scripture as _literally_ inspired; VERBAL NOTE, in diplomacy, an unsigned
memorandum calling attention to a neglected, though perhaps not urgent,
matter. [Fr. _verbe_--L. _verbum_.]

VERBENA, ver-b[=e]'na, _n._ a genus of plants of natural order
_Verbenaceæ_, cultivated for their fragrance or beauty: vervain.--_adj._
VERBEN[=A]'CEOUS. [L. _verbenæ_, leaves, twigs, &c.]

VERBERATE, ver'b[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to strike.--_n._ VERBER[=A]'TION. [L.
_verber[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to scourge.]

VERDANT, v[.e]r'dant, _adj._ green: fresh (as grass or foliage):
flourishing: inexperienced: ignorant.--_n._ VER'DANCY.--_adv._
VER'DANTLY.--_ns._ VER'DERER, -OR, an officer in the old English royal
forests who had charge of the vert (q.v.); VER'D[=U]RE, greenness:
freshness of growth.--_v.t._ to cover with verdure.--_adjs._ VER'D[=U]RED;
VER'D[=U]RELESS; VER'D[=U]ROUS. [Fr. _verdoyant_--L. _viridans_, _-antis_,
pr.p. of _virid[=a]re_, to grow green--_viridis_, green--_vir[=e]re_, to be
green.]

VERDE-ANTIQUE, verd-an-t[=e]k', _n._ a beautiful stone of a dark-green
colour with patches of white, and sometimes black and red--a mixture of
serpentine with limestone dolomite or magnesite, much prized by the ancient
Romans. [O. Fr.]

VERDICT, ver'dikt, _n._ the finding of a jury on a trial: decision: opinion
pronounced.--OPEN VERDICT, a verdict upon an inquest which finds that a
crime has been committed without specifying the criminal; SPECIAL VERDICT,
a verdict in which specific facts are found and put on the record. [O. Fr.
_verdit_--Low L. _veredictum_--L. _vere_, truly, _dictum_, a saying.]

VERDIGRIS, ver'di-gris, _n._ a basic acetate of copper, the greenish rust
of copper, brass, or bronze: a bluish-green paint got artificially from
copper-plates.--_v.t._ to coat with verdigris.--Also VER'DEGRIS. [M. E.
_verdegrese_, _verte grece_--O. Fr. _verd (vert) de gris_--_verd_, green,
_de_, of, _Gris_, Greeks--L. _Græcus_, Greek. _Vert de gris_ has been
wrongly explained as 'green of gray'--_gris_, gray, or as 'green of
copper'--L. _æs_, _æris_, copper.]

VERDITER, ver'di-t[.e]r, _n._ a light-blue pigment, essentially a hydrated
cupric carbonate--_Green verditer_ is the blue pigment changed to green by
boiling. [A corr. of Fr. _verd-de-terre_=earth green.]

VERDOY, ver'doi, _adj._ (_her._) charged with flowers, leaves, or vegetable
charges, as a bordure. [Fr. _verd_, green.]

VERDUN, ver-dun', _n._ a 16th-cent. form of rapier. [From the French town
_Verdun_.]

VERECUND, ver'[=e]-kund, _adj._ (_obs._) modest.--_adj._
VERECUN'DIOUS.--_n._ VERECUN'DITY.

VERETILLIFORM, ver-e-til'i-form, _adj._ rod-like, virgate.--Also
VERETILL'EOUS.

VERGE, verj, _n._ a slender green branch, a twig: a rod, staff, or mace, or
anything like them, used as an emblem of authority: extent of jurisdiction
(esp. of the lord-steward of the royal household): the brink, extreme edge:
the horizon: a boundary, limit: scope, opportunity: in gardening, the grass
edging of a bed or border.--_ns._ VER'GER, one who carries a verge or
emblem of authority: the beadle of a cathedral church: a pew-opener or
attendant in church; VER'GERSHIP; VERGETTE' (_her._), a pallet. [L.
_virga_, a slender branch.]

VERGE, verj, _v.i._ to bend or incline: to tend downward: to slope: to
tend: to border upon.--_n._ VER'GENCY.--_adj._ VER'GENT. [L. _verg[)e]re_,
to bend, incline; cf. _valgus_, wry.]

VERIDICAL, v[=e]-rid'i-kal, _adj._ truthful, truth-telling: true.--_adv._
VERID'ICALLY.--_adj._ VERID'ICOUS, truthful. [L. _verus_, true,
_dic[)e]re_, to say.]

VERIEST. See VERY.

VERIFY, ver'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to make out or show to be true: to establish
the truth of by evidence: to fulfil: to confirm the truth or authenticity
of: (_Shak._) to affirm, support, strengthen:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
ver'if[=i]ed.--_n._ VERIF[=I]ABIL'ITY.--_adj._ VER'IF[=I]ABLE, that may be
verified, proved, or confirmed.--_ns._ VERIFIC[=A]'TION, a verifying or
proving to be true: the state of being verified; VER'IF[=I]ER. [L. _verus_,
true, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

VERILY, ver'i-li, _adv._ truly: certainly: really.

VERISIMILAR, ver-i-sim'i-lar, _adj._ truth-like: likely: probable.--_adv._
VERISIM'ILARLY.--_ns._ VERISIMIL'ITUDE, similitude or likeness to truth:
likelihood; VERISIMIL'ITY (_obs._).--_adj._ VERISIM'ILOUS. [L.
_verisimilis_--_verus_, true, _similis_, like.]

VERITY, ver'i-ti, _n._ the quality of being true or real: truth: a true
assertion or tenet: (_Shak._) honesty:--_pl._ VER'ITIES.--_adj._
VER'ITABLE, true: according to fact: real: actual.--_adv._ VER'ITABLY.--OF
A VERITY, certainly. [L. _veritas_--_verus_, true.]

VERJUICE, ver'j[=oo]s, _n._ the expressed juice of green or unripe fruit:
sourness of temper.--_v.t._ to make sour or acid. [Fr. _verjus_--_vert_,
green (cf. _Verdant_), and Fr. _jus_, juice.]

VERMEIL, VERMIL, ver'mil, _n._ (_Spens._) same as VERMILION:
silver-gilt.--_adj._ VER'MEIL-TINC'TURED (_Milt._), tinged bright-red.

[Illustration]

VERMES, ver'm[=e]z, _n.pl._ worms: the name given by Linnæus to one of the
classes in his zoological system, in which he included all the invertebrate
animals, other than Insecta, whether of worm-like form or not.--_ns._
VERMEOL'OGIST, one skilled in vermeology; VERMEOL'OGY, the knowledge of
worms, helminthology.--_adjs._ VER'MIAN, VERMI'CEOUS, worm-like;
VER'MICIDAL, destroying worms.--_n._ VER'MICIDE, a worm-killer.--_adjs._
VERMIC'[=U]LAR, VERMIC'[=U]LATE, -D, pertaining to or like a worm (esp. in
its motion): inlaid or formed so as to imitate the track of worms: crawling
like a worm.--_v.t._ VERMIC'[=U]LATE, to form inlaid work which resembles
the motion or track of worms.--_ns._ VERMICUL[=A]'TION; VER'MICULE, a
little worm.--_adjs._ VERMIC'ULOSE, VERMIC'ULOUS, wormy; VER'MIFORM, having
the form of a worm; VERMIF'UGAL, expelling worms.--_n._ VER'MIFUGE
(_med._), a substance that destroys intestinal worms or expels them from
the digestive canal.--_adjs._ VER'MIGRADE, wriggling like a worm;
VERMIV'OROUS, devouring worms, feeding on grubs. [L. _vermis_, a worm.]

VERMICELLI, ver-mi-chel'i, or -sel'i, _n._ the stiff paste or dough of fine
wheat-flour made into small worm-like or thread-like rolls. [It., pl. of
_vermicello_--L. _vermiculus_, dim. of _vermis_, worm.]

VERMILION, ver-mil'yun, _n._ a bright-red pigment obtained from cinnabar,
but generally made artificially from mercury and sulphur: any beautiful red
colour: (_obs._) the kermes or cochineal insect, also the product of
cochineal.--_adj._ of the colour of vermilion.--_v.t._ to dye vermilion: to
colour a delicate red.--_n._ VER'MILY (_Spens._), same as VERMILION. [O.
Fr. _vermillon_--_vermeil_--L. _vermiculus_, a little worm, hence (in the
Vulgate) the 'scarlet' worm, dim. of _vermis_, a worm.]

VERMIN, ver'min, _n.sing._ and _pl._ a worm: a name for all obnoxious
insects, as bugs, fleas, and lice; troublesome animals, such as mice, rats;
animals destructive to game, such as weasels, polecats, also hawks and
owls: any contemptible person, or such collectively.--_v.i._ VER'MIN[=A]TE,
to breed vermin.--_ns._ VERMIN[=A]'TION; VER'MIN-KILL'ER.--_adj._
VER'MINOUS, infested with worms: like vermin.--_adv._ VER'MINOUSLY. [Fr.
_vermine_--L. _vermis_, a worm.]

VERMUTH, VERMOUTH, ver'mooth, _n._ a mild cordial consisting of white wine
flavoured with wormwood, used as a stimulant for the appetite. [Ger.
_wermuth_, wormwood; cf. A.S. _werm[=o]d_.]

VERNACULAR, ver-nak'[=u]-lar, _adj._ native: belonging to the country of
one's birth.--_n._ one's mother-tongue.--_n._ VERNACULARIS[=A]'TION, the
act of making vernacular.--_v.t._ VERNAC'ULARISE, to make
vernacular.--_ns._ VERNAC'ULARISM, a vernacular word or idiom, the use of
such; VERNACULAR'ITY, an idiom.--_adv._ VERNAC'ULARLY.--_v.t._
VERNAC'ULATE, to express in a vernacular idiom.--_adj._ VERNAC'ULOUS,
scurrilous. [L. _vernaculus_--_verna_, a home-born slave.]

VERNAL, ver'nal, _adj._ belonging to the spring: appearing in spring:
belonging to youth.--_adv._ VER'NALLY.--_adj._ VER'NANT (_Milt._),
flourishing as in spring.--_v.i._ VER'N[=A]TE, to flourish.--_n._
VERN[=A]'TION, the particular manner of arrangement of leaves in the
bud.--VERNAL EQUINOX, the equinox on or about 21st March (see EQUINOX);
VERNAL GRASS, a common British meadow grass about a foot high, and sown
among hay for its flavour and agreeable odour. [L. _vernalis_--_ver_,
spring.]

VERNER'S LAW. See LAW.

VERNIER, ver'ni-[.e]r, _n._ a contrivance for measuring very small
intervals, consisting of a short scale made to slide along a graduated
instrument. [So called from Pierre _Vernier_ (1580-1637) of Brussels, its
inventor.]

VERONESE, ver-[=o]-n[=e]s', or -n[=e]z', _n._ of or pertaining to _Verona_
in Italy.--_n._ an inhabitant of VERONA.

VERONICA, v[=e]-ron'i-ka, _n._ a portrait of our Saviour's face on a
handkerchief--from the legend that St Veronica wiped the sweat from the
face of Jesus, on His way to Calvary, with her handkerchief, whereupon His
features were impressed on the cloth: a genus of plants, popularly known as
Speedwell. [_Veronica_, not L. _vera_, true, Gr. _eik[=o]n_, image, but
identical with _Beren[=i]c[=e]_, the traditional name of the woman cured of
the issue of blood--a corr. of Gr. _pherenik[=e]_, victorious--_pherein_,
to bear, _nik[=e]_, victory.]

VERRÉ, VERREY, ve-r[=a]', _adj._ Same as VAIRÉ.

VERREL, ver'el, _n._ a corruption of _ferrule_.

VERRICULE, ver'i-k[=u]l, _n._ a tuft of upright hairs. [L. _verriculum_, a
net.]

VERRUCA, ve-r[=u]'ka, _n._ a wart, a glandular elevation: one of the
wart-like sessile apothecia of some lichens.--_adjs._ VERR[=U]'CIFORM,
warty; VER'R[=U]COSE, VER'R[=U]COUS, covered with little knobs or wart-like
prominences: warty; VERR[=U]'CULOSE, minutely verrucose. [L. _verruca_, a
wart.]

VERRUGAS, ve-r[=oo]'gas, _n._ an endemic disease of Peru, characterised by
warty tumours on the skin. [Sp.,--L. _verruca_, a wart.]

VERSABILITY, ver-sa-bil'i-ti, _n._ aptness to be turned round.--_adj._
VER'SABLE.--_n._ VER'SABLENESS. [L. _vers[=a]re_, to whirl about.]

VERSAL, ver'sal, _adj._ (_Shak._) abbrev. of _universal_.

VERSANT, ver'sant, _adj._ familiar, conversant: (_her._) with wings erect
and open.--_n._ the general slope of surface of a country. [Fr.,--L.
_vers[=a]re_, to whirl about.]

VERSATILE, ver'sa-til, _adj._ capable of being moved or turned round:
changeable: unsteady: turning easily from one thing to another: (_bot._)
swinging freely on a support: (_ornith._) reversible, of toes.--_adv._
VER'SATILELY.--_ns._ VER'SATILENESS, VERSATIL'ITY, the quality of being
versatile: changeableness: the faculty of turning easily to new tasks or
subjects. [Fr.,--L. _versatilis_--_vers[=a]re_, freq. of _vert[)e]re_, to
turn.]

VERSE, vers, _n._ a line of poetry: metrical arrangement and language:
poetry: a stanza: a short division of any composition, esp. of the chapters
of the Bible, originally confined to the metrical books, applied first to
whole Bible in 1528: (_mus._) a portion of an anthem to be performed by a
single voice to each part.--_v.t._ to relate in verse.--_ns._
VERS-DE-SOCIÉTÉ (same as SOCIETY-VERSE; see under SOCIABLE); VERSE'LET;
VERSE-M[=A]'KER; VERSE-M[=A]'KING; VERSE'-MAN, a writer of verses;
VERSE'-MONG'ER, a scribbler of verses; VERSE'-MONG'ERING, verse-writing,
esp. of poor verses; VER'SER, a versifier; VER'SET (_mus._), a very short
organ interlude or prelude; VER'SICLE, a little verse: in liturgy, the
verse said by the officiant.--_adj._ VERSIC'[=U]LAR, pertaining to
verses.--_ns._ VERSIFIC[=A]'TION, the act, art, or practice of composing
metrical verses; VER'SIFIC[=A]TOR, VER'SIFIC[=A]TRIX, a male, female, maker
of verses; VER'SIF[=I]ER.--_v.i._ VER'SIFY, to make verses.--_v.t._ to
relate in verse: to turn into verse:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
ver'sif[=i]ed.--_n._ VER'SION, the act of translating or turning from one
language into another: that which is translated from one language into
another: account: statement: a school exercise, generally of composition in
a foreign language.--_adj._ VER'SIONAL, pertaining to a version or
translation.--_n._ VER'SIONIST, a translator.--_adj._ VER'S[=U]AL, of the
character of a verse, pertaining to verses or short paragraphs. [A.S.
_fers_--L. _versus_, _vorsus_, a line, furrow, turning--_vert[)e]re_, to
turn; influenced by O. Fr. _vers_.]

VERSED, verst, _adj._ thoroughly acquainted, skilled (fol. by _in_):
(_math._) reversed.--_adj._ VERSÉ (_her._), reversed or turned in an
unusual direction.--Also RENVERSE. [Fr. _versé_--L. _versatus_, pa.p. of
_vers[=a]ri_, to turn round.]

VERSICOLOUR, ver'si-kul-ur, _adj._ having diverse or having changeable
colours.--Also VERSICOL'OURED. [L. _vers[=a]re_, to change, and colour.]

VERSIFORM, ver'si-form, _adj._ varying in form.

VERSO, ver's[=o], _n._ a left-hand page: the reverse of a coin or medal.

VERST, verst, _n._ a Russian mile, 3500 feet in length, or almost
two-thirds of an English mile. [Russ. _versta_, a verst; perh.
_vertiet[)i]_, to turn, cog. with L. _vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

VERSUS, ver'sus, _prep._ against, in legal phraseology--abbreviated _v._
and _vs._ [L.]

VERSUTE, ver-s[=u]t, _adj._ crafty, wily.

VERT, vert, _n._ in forest law, every green leaf or plant having green
leaves which may serve as a covert for deer: a power to cut green trees or
wood: (_her._) a green colour represented by parallel lines sloping
diagonally from the dexter chief to the sinister base. [Fr. _vert_--L.
_viridis_, green.]

VERT, vert, _n._ a familiar word for _convert_ or _pervert_.--_v.i._ to
become such.

VERTEBRA, ver't[=e]-bra, _n._ one of the segmented portions of the spinal
column:--_pl._ VERTEBRÆ (ver'te-br[=e]).--_adj._ VER'TEBRAL.--_adv._
VER'TEBRALLY.--_n.pl._ VERTEBR[=A]'TA, a division of the animal kingdom
containing all animals having a backbone or its equivalent.--_n._
VER'TEBR[=A]TE, an animal having an internal skeleton with a
backbone.--_adjs._ VER'TEBR[=A]TE, -D, furnished with joints: having a
backbone.--_n._ VERTEBR[=A]'TION, the formation of vertebræ;.
[L.,--_vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

VERTEX, v[.e]r'teks, _n._ the top or summit: the point of a cone, pyramid,
or angle; (_astron._) the zenith: (_anat._) the crown of the head:--_pl._
VER'TICES.--_adj._ VER'TICAL, pertaining to the vertex: placed in the
zenith: perpendicular to the plane of the horizon.--_n._ a vertical
line.--_adv._ VER'TICALLY.--_n._ VER'TICALNESS.--VERTICAL ANGLES, opposite
angles formed by intersecting lines; VERTICAL CIRCLE, a great circle of the
heavens passing through the zenith and the nadir. [L., eddy,
summit--_vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

VERTICILLATE, ver-ti-sil'[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) arranged round the stalk in
a ring or whorl, as leaves or flowers, whorled.--_n._ VER'TICIL, a whorl.
[Low L. _verticillatus_--_verticillus_, dim. of _vertex_.]

VERTIGO, ver'ti-g[=o], or ver-t[=i]'g[=o], _n._ a sensation of giddiness:
dizziness.--_adjs._ VERTIGINATE (ver-tij'-), VERTIG'INOUS, turning round:
affected with vertigo: giddy.--_adv._ VERTIG'INOUSLY.--_n._
VERTIG'INOUSNESS. [L.,--_vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

VERTU, old spelling of virtue.--_adj._ VER'TUOUS (_Spens._), possessing
virtue or power.

VERTUMNUS, ver-tum'nus, _n._ an ancient Roman divinity of gardens and
orchards, a spring god.

VERULAMIAN, v[.e]r-[=u]-l[=a]'mi-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to St Albans,
or Francis Bacon, Baron _Verulam_, Viscount St Albans (1561-1626). [L.
_Verulamium_, an ancient British city near the site of St Albans.]

VERULED, ver'[=oo]ld, _adj._ (_her._) ringed, as a horn, in a different
tincture.--_n._ VER'ULES (_her._), a bearing consisting of a series of
concentric rings, one within another. [_Virole_.]

VERVAIN, ver'v[=a]n, _n._ a plant of the genus _Verbena_--credited with
efficacy in love-philtres, good against witches, &c. [O. Fr. _verveine_--L.
_verb[=e]na_.]

VERVE, verv, _n._ the enthusiasm which animates a poet or artist:
animation: energy. [Fr.]

VERVELLE, ver-vel', _n._ the loop that secured the camail in medieval
armour. [Fr.]

VERVELS, verv'elz, _n.pl._ small rings attached to the ends of the jesses
of a hawk, through which the leash is passed that fastens the hawk to its
block.--_adj._ VERV'ELLED. [Fr. _vervelle_.]

VERVET, ver'vet, _n._ a South African monkey.

VERY, ver'i, _adj._ true (now used chiefly in an intensive sense): real (so
in _B._): actual--sometimes used in superlative form VER'IEST.--_adv._ in a
high degree.--IN VERY DEED, of a truth, certainly. [Older form _veray_--O.
Fr. _verai_ (Fr. _vrai_), from L. _verax_, _veracis_, speaking
truly--_verus_, true; cf. Ger. _wahr_.]

VESALIAN, v[=e]-s[=a]'li-an, _adj._ connected with the name of the
anatomist Andreas _Vesalius_ (1514-64).

VESANIA, v[=e]-s[=a]'ni-a, _n._ insanity.

VESICA, v[=e]-s[=i]'ka, _n._ (_anat._) a bladder, sac, esp. the urinary
bladder:--_pl._ VESICÆ (v[=e]-s[=i]'s[=e]).--_adjs._ VES'ICAL, of or
pertaining to a vesica; VES'ICANT, blistering.--_n._ a substance that
vesicates or raises blisters.--_v.t._ VES'IC[=A]TE, to raise blisters
on:--_pr.p._ ves'ic[=a]ting; _pa.p._ ves'ic[=a]ted.--_ns._ VESIC[=A]'TION,
the act or process of raising blisters on the skin; VES'IC[=A]TORY (same as
VESICANT); VES'ICLE, a small bladder or blister: a small cavity in an
animal body; (_bot._) a bladder-like cell; V[=E]SIC'[=U]LA, a
vesicle.--_adj._ V[=E]SIC'ULAR.--_adv._ V[=E]SIC'[=U]LARLY.--_n._
V[=E]SIC[=U]L[=A]'TION, formation of vesicles.--_adjs._
V[=E]SIC[=U]LIF'EROUS, bearing vesicles; V[=E]SIC'[=U]LIFORM;
V[=E]SIC'[=U]LOSE, V[=E]SIC'[=U]LOUS, V[=E]SIC'[=U]L[=A]TE, pertaining to
or full of vesicles: full of interstices: having little glands on the
surface.--VESICA PISCIS (a fish's bladder), a symbol of Christ, an oval
aureole surrounding the entire upright figure, supposed to contain an
allusion to the sacred Christian emblem, the _ichthys_. [L., bladder.]

VESPER, ves'p[.e]r, _n._ the evening star, Venus: the evening: (_pl._) the
last but one of the seven canonical hours: evensong, evening service
generally.--_adj._ VES'PERAL, pertaining to the evening or to
vespers.--_n._ VES'PER-BELL, the bell that summons to vespers.--_adjs._
VES'PERTINE, VES'PERTINAL, of or pertaining to the evening: (_bot._)
opening in the evening: (_zool._) active in the evening.--SICILIAN VESPERS
(see SICILIAN). [Fr.,--L.; Gr. _hesperos_.]

VESPERTILIO, ves-p[.e]r-til'i-[=o], _n._ a Linnæan genus of mammals, of
order _Primates_--the modern order _Chiroptera_.--_adj._ VESPERTIL'IONINE.

VESPIARY, ves'pi-a-ri, _n._ a hornet's nest.--_adj._ VES'PIFORM, VES'PINE,
wasp-like.

VESSEL, ves'el, _n._ a vase or utensil for holding something: a hollow
structure made to float on water, used for conveyance, &c.: a tube in which
fluids, as blood, &c., are contained: a person considered as an agent of
God.--THE WEAKER VESSEL, a phrase colloquially applied to a woman, in
allusion to 1 Pet. iii. 7. [O. Fr. _vessel_ (Fr. _vaisseau_)--L.
_vascellum_, dim. of _vas_, a vase.]

VEST, vest, _n._ that which is put on as dress: a garment: a waistcoat:
formerly a cassock-like garment: a kind of close jacket worn by women, an
extra piece or trimming on the front of the bodice of a woman's gown, often
V-shaped: a knitted or woven undergarment: (_arch._) a vestment.--_v.t._ to
clothe: to invest: (_law_) to give fixed right of possession.-_v.i._ to
descend or to take effect, as a right.--_adj._ VES'TED, clothed, wearing
robes of ceremony: not contingent or suspended, hence (_law_) already
acquired: denoting a present absolute right.--_n._ VES'TIARY (_obs._), a
wardrobe: (_rare_) garb, clothing:--_pl._ VES'TIARIES.--_n._ VES'TING,
cloth for men's waistcoats.--VEST IN INTEREST, to devolve as matter of
right without reference to immediate right of possession. [Fr. _veste_--L.
_vestis_.]

VESTA, ves'ta, _n._ among the Romans, the chaste goddess that presided over
the family, in whose temple the sacred fire was continually kept burning:
the fourth planetoid discovered in 1807: a match or waxlight:--_pl._
VES'TAS.--_adj._ VES'TAL, pertaining to or consecrated to the service of
Vesta: chaste: pure.--_n._ in the ancient Roman religion, one of the six
patrician virgins consecrated to Vesta: a virgin, a nun, a woman of
spotless chastity.

VESTIBULE, ves'ti-b[=u]l, _n._ an open court or porch before a house: a
hall next the entrance to a house: (_anat._) a small bony cavity forming
part of the ear--also VESTIB'-[=U]LUM.--_v.t._ to furnish with a
vestibule.--_adjs._ VESTIB'[=U]LAR, VESTIB'[=U]L[=A]TE. [Fr.,--L.
_vestibulum_--traced by some to _ve_, apart, _stabulum_, abode; by others
to _vestis_, garment, as being the place where the outer clothing is put on
or off in entering or leaving a house.]

VESTIGE, ves'tij, _n._ a track or footprint: traces or remains of
something: (_biol._) an organ or tissue which still survives but has lost
the utility it possessed, but corresponding to a useful part in an organism
of lower type.--_adjs._ VESTI'GIAL, VESTI'GIARY.--_n._ VESTI'GIUM (_anat._,
_biol._), a vestige. [Fr.,--L. _vestigium_--_vestig[=a]re_, to track.]

VESTIMENT, ves'ti-ment, _n._ (_Spens._)=_Vestment_.

VESTITURE, ves'ti-t[=u]r, _n._ the hairs, scales, &c. covering a surface.

VESTLET, vest'let, _n._ a tubicolous sea-anemone of genus _Cerianthus_.

VESTMENT, vest'ment, _n._ something put on, a garment: a long outer robe:
(_pl._) articles of dress worn by the clergy during divine service and the
administration of the sacraments--_amice_, _alb_, _girdle_, _maniple_,
_stole_, _chasuble_, &c.: covering of the altar. [L.
_vestimentum_--_vest[=i]re_, to clothe--_vestis_, a garment.]

VESTRY, ves'tri, _n._ a room adjoining a church in which the vestments are
kept and parochial meetings held, any small room attached to a church: in
English parishes, a meeting of the ratepayers to elect parish officers, to
assess church-rates, and to manage the property of the parish, the
incumbent acting as chairman.--_adj._ VES'TRAL.--_ns._ VES'TRY-CLERK, an
officer chosen by the vestry who keeps the parish accounts and books;
VES'TRYMAN, a member of a vestry.--SELECT VESTRY, a board consisting of
representatives of the ratepayers, as opposed to the _common vestry_ or
assembly of all the ratepayers. [Fr.,--L. _vestiarium_--_vestiarius_,
belonging to clothes--_vestis_, a garment.]

VESTURE, ves't[=u]r, _n._ clothing: dress: a robe: integument.--_v.t._ to
clothe, robe.--_adjs._ VES'T[=U]RAL; VES'T[=U]RED.--_n._ VES'T[=U]RER, one
who has charge of ecclesiastical vestments.

VESUVIAN, v[=e]-s[=u]'vi-an, _adj._ pertaining or relating to _Vesuvius_, a
volcano near Naples.--_n._ a kind of match used in lighting cigars,
&c.--_n._ VES[=U]'VIAN[=I]TE, a mineral allied to garnet, sometimes called
pyramidal garnet, found in volcanic and primitive rocks, and so called
because frequent in masses ejected from Vesuvius--also Idocrase.--_v.t._
VES[=U]'VIATE, to burst forth like an eruption.

VET., vet, _n._ (_coll._) an abbreviation from _veterinary_ (_surgeon_).

VETCH, vech, _n._ a genus of plants, mostly climbing, some cultivated for
fodder, esp. the tare.--_n._ VETCH'LING, a name of various vetch-like
plants.--_adj._ VETCH'Y, abounding with vetches: (_Spens._) consisting of
vetches. [O.Fr. _veche_ (Fr. _vesce_)--L. _vicia_, akin to _vinc[=i]re_, to
bind.]

VETERAN, vet'e-ran, _adj._ old, experienced: long exercised, esp. in
military life.--_n._ one long exercised in any service, esp. in
war.--_v.t._ VET'ERANISE, to make veteran.--_v.i._ (_U.S._) to re-enlist
for military service. [L. _veteranus_--_vetus_, _veteris_, old.]

VETERINARY, vet'e-ri-na-ri, _adj._ pertaining to the art of treating the
diseases of domestic animals: professing or practising this art.--_n._ one
skilled in the diseases of domestic animals.--Also VETERIN[=A]'RIAN. [L.
_veterinarius_--_veterina_ (_bestia_), a beast of burden.]

VETIVER, vet'i-v[.e]r, _n._ the dried roots of the cuscus-grass, with an
odour like sandalwood--making baskets, fans, and mats,

VETO, v[=e]'t[=o], _n._ any authoritative prohibition: the power of
rejecting or forbidding:--_pl._ VETOES (v[=e]'t[=o]z).--_v.t._ to reject by
a veto: to withhold assent to.--ABSOLUTE VETO, a veto without restriction.
[L. _vet[=a]re_, to forbid.]

VETTURA, vet-t[=oo]'ra, _n._ an Italian four-wheeled carriage.--_n._
VETTURINO (vet-t[=oo]-r[=e]'n[=o]), one who drives or lends for hire a
vettura:--_pl._ VETTURI'NI. [It.,--L. _vectura_, a carrying--_veh[)e]re_,
to convey.]

VETUST, v[=e]-tust', _adj._ old. [L. _vetustus_--_vetus_, old.]

VEX, veks, _v.t._ to harass: to torment: to irritate by small provocations:
to agitate: to contest.--_v.i._ (_obs._) to be vexed.--_n._ (_Scot._) a
trouble.--_n._ VEX[=A]'TION, a vexing: state of being vexed: trouble: a
teasing annoyance: uneasiness.--_adj._ VEX[=A]'TIOUS, causing vexation or
annoyance: harassing: full of trouble.--_adv._ VEX[=A]'TIOUSLY.--_n._
VEX[=A]'TIOUSNESS.--_adj._ VEXED, amazed.--_n._ VEX'ER.--_adj._
VEX'ING.--_adv._ VEX'INGLY, so as to vex or annoy.--_n._
VEX'INGNESS.--VEXATIOUS SUIT (_law_), a suit begun without justifiable
cause. [Fr. _vexer_--L. _vex[=a]re_, to shake, annoy--_veh[)e]re_. to
carry.]

VEXILLUM, vek-sil'um, _n._ in the ancient Roman army, a standard, the troop
serving under such a standard: (_eccles._) a processional banner: (_bot._)
the large posterior petal of a papilionaceous flower--also VEX'IL; the web
or vane of a feather:--_pl._ VEXILL'A.--_adjs._ VEX'ILLAR,
VEX'ILLARY.--_ns._ VEX'ILLARY, VEX'ILL[=A]TOR, a standard-bearer.--_adj._
VEX'ILLATE, having vexilla.--_n._ VEXILL[=A]'TION, a company under one
vexillum. [L., 'an ensign'--_veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

VIA, v[=i]'a, or v[=e]'a, _n._ a highway, a road, a route--_via London_=by
way of London: a natural passage of the body.--_n._ VIAM'ETER, an
odometer.--_adj._ VIAT'IC.--_n.pl._ VIAT'ICALS, military baggage.--VIA
DOLOROSA, the Way of Calvary (see STATION); VIA LACTEA, the Milky-Way or
Galaxy; VIA MEDIA, the midway course or mean between popular Protestantism
and Roman Catholicism which Newman almost down to 1845 succeeded in
believing that the Anglican divines of the 17th century had taken
up.--PRIMÆ VIÆ, the first or main passages, the alimentary canal, the
bowels; SECUNDÆ VIÆ, the lacteal or chyliferous vessels.

VIA, v[=e]'a, _interj._ away! off! either in command or defiance. [It.,--L.
_via_, way.]

VIABLE, v[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ capable of living.--_n._ VIABIL'ITY. [Fr.,
through Low L.--L. _vita_, life.]

VIADUCT, v[=i]'a-dukt, _n._ a road or railway carried by a structure over a
valley, river, &c. [L. _via_, a way, _duc[)e]re_, _ductum_, to lead,
bring.]

VIAL, v[=i]'al, _n._ same as PHIAL, _v.t._ to keep in a vial.--_n._
V[=I]'ALFUL.--POUR OUT VIALS OF WRATH, to inflict judgment (Rev. xvi. 1):
to storm, rage.

VIAND, v[=i]'and, _n._ food, articles for food--usually in _pl._ [Fr.
_viande_--Low L. _vivanda_ (for _vivenda_), food necessary for life--L.
_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIATICUM, v[=i]-at'ik-um, _n._ (_orig._) provisions for the way: (_R.C.
Church_) the eucharist given to persons in danger of death: a portable
altar.--_n._ VI[=A]'TOR, a traveller, wayfarer: a summoner, apparitor.
[L.,--_via_, a way.]

VIBEX, v[=i]'beks, _n._ a purple spot under the skin in certain
fevers:--_pl._ VIB[=I]'CES. [L.]

VIBRACULUM, v[=i]-brak'[=u]-lum, _n._ one of the long whip-like appendages
of the cells of some Polyzoa:--_pl._ VIBRAC'[=U]LA.--Also
VIBRAC[=U]L[=A]'RIUM.

VIBRATE, v[=i]'br[=a]t, _v.i._ to shake: to tremble: to move backwards and
forwards: to swing: to pass from one state to another.--_v.t._ to cause to
shake: to move to and fro: to measure by moving to and fro: to affect with
vibratory motion.--_adjs._ V[=I]'BRANT, vibrating: sonorous; V[=I]'BRATILE,
having a vibratory motion: (_zool._) adapted to or used in vibratory
motion.--_ns._ V[=I]BRATIL'ITY; V[=I]BR[=A]'TION, a vibrating: state of
being vibrated: tremulousness, quivering motion.--_adj._
V[=I]BR[=A]'TIONAL.--_n._ V[=I]BR[=A]'TIUNCLE, a small vibration.--_adjs._
V[=I]'BR[=A]TIVE, V[=I]'BR[=A]TORY, vibrating: consisting in vibrations:
causing vibrations.--_ns._ V[=I]'BR[=A]TOR (_elect._), a vibrating reed
used to open and close the electric current: (_print._) a vibrating reed
used for distributing the ink; VI'BROSCOPE, an instrument for registering
vibrations. [L. _vibr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to tremble.]

VIBRATO, v[=e]-brä't[=o], _n._ a pulsating effect in vocal music, caused by
rapid variation of emphasis on the same tone. [It.]

VIBRIO, vib'r[=i]-[=o], _n._ a name given with much laxity to various kinds
of more or less screw-shaped Bacteria--also to small nematoid worms, such
as cause ear-cockles in wheat.--_n._ VIB'RION, a motile bacterium. [L.
_vibr[=a]re_.]

VIBRISSA, v[=i]-bris'a, _n._ a whisker, as of a cat: a rictal bristle in
birds: bristle, hair, as in the nostril:--_pl._ VIBRISS'Æ (-[=e]). [L., 'a
hair in the nostril.']

VIBROGEN, vib'r[=o]-jen, _n._ (_bot._) active cellular tissue arranged in
layers in the cortex of certain tendrils, causing circumnutation.

VIBURNUM, v[=i]-bur'num, _n._ a genus of plants of the order
_Caprifoliaceæ_, the species being shrubs with simple leaves, natives
chiefly of the northern parts of the world.--_Viburnum opulus_ is the
Guelder Rose or Snowball Tree; _Viburnum tinus_, the Laurustinus. [L., 'the
wayfaring tree.']

VICAR, vik'ar, _n._ one who holds authority as the delegate or substitute
of another: a parson of a parish where the tithes are impropriate to a
layman or to a chapter, he receiving only the smaller tithes or a salary:
(_R.C. Church_) a bishop's assistant who exercises jurisdiction in his
name.--_ns._ VIC'AR[=A]GE, the benefice or residence of a vicar;
VIC'AR-APOSTOL'IC (formerly one to whom the pope delegated some remote
portion of his jurisdiction), now usually a titular bishop appointed to a
country where either no sees have been formed or the episcopal succession
has been broken; VIC'AR-CH[=O]'RAL, an assistant, cleric or lay, at an
English cathedral, esp. in connection with the music; VIC'AR-FOR[=A]NE', an
ecclesiastic to whom a bishop gives a limited jurisdiction in a town or
district of his diocese--in effect, a rural dean; VIC'AR-GEN'ERAL, an
official performing the work of an archdeacon under the bishop: in the
English Church, an officer assisting the bishop, the chancellor of the
diocese.--_adjs._ V[=I]C[=A]'RIAL, pertaining to a vicar: substituted;
V[=I]C[=A]'RI[=A]TE, having vicarious or delegated power.--_n._ (also
VIC'AR[=A]TE) vicarship, delegated power.--_adj._ V[=I]C[=A]'RIOUS, filling
the place of another: performed or suffered in place of or for the sake of
another.--_adv._ V[=I]C[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_ns._ V[=I]C[=A]'RIOUSNESS;
V[=I]C[=A]'RIUS, a vicar; VIC'ARSHIP, the office of a vicar; VIC'ARY, a
vicarage.--VICARIOUS SACRIFICE (_theol._), the suffering of Christ accepted
by God in lieu of the punishment to which guilty man is
liable.--VICAR-OF-BRAY, one who turns his coat without difficulty to suit
the times--from Simon Aleyn, who kept the vicarage of _Bray_ from 1540 to
1588, during the reigns of Henry VIII., Edward VI., Mary, and Elizabeth;
VICAR OF CHRIST, a title assumed by the pope, who claims to be the
representative of Christ on earth as the head of His Church. [L.
_vicarius_, supplying the place of another--_vicis_, change, alternation.]

VICE, VISE, v[=i]s, _n._ an iron or wooden screw-press, fixed to the edge
of a workboard, for holding anything tightly while being filed, &c.:
(_Shak._) a grip, grasp.--_v.t._ to screw. [Fr. _vis_ (It. _vite_,
screw)--L. _vitis_, tendril of a vine, anything spiral.]

VICE, v[=i]s, _n._ a blemish or fault: immoral conduct: depravity of
manners: a bad trick or habit in a horse: mischievousness: the stock
buffoon in the old English Moralities or moral plays.--_n._
VICIOS'ITY.--_adj._ VICIOUS (vish'us).--_adv._ VIC'IOUSLY.--_n._
VIC'IOUSNESS.--VICIOUS CIRCLE, syllogism, circular or erroneous reasoning;
VICIOUS INTROMISSION (see INTROMIT). [Fr.,--L. _vitium_, a blemish.]

VICE, v[=i]s, _prep._ in the place of: also a prefix denoting in the
compound word one who acts in place of or is second in rank to
another.--_n._ a vice-chairman, &c.: one who acts in place of a
superior.--_ns._ VICE'-AD'MIRAL, one acting in the place of, or second in
command to, an admiral; VICE'-AD'MIRALTY, the office of a
vice-admiral--(VICE'-AD'MIRALTY COURTS, tribunals in the British colonies,
having jurisdiction over maritime causes); VICE'-CHAIR'MAN, an alternate
chairman; VICE'-CHAIR'MANSHIP; VICE'-CHAN'CELLOR, one acting for a
chancellor: a lower judge of Chancery; (_R.C. Church_) the cardinal whose
duty it is to draft and despatch papal bulls and briefs;
VICE'-CHAN'CELLORSHIP; VICE'-CON'SUL, one who acts in a consul's place: a
consul in a less important district; VICE'-CON'SULSHIP; VICE-DEAN', a canon
chosen to represent an absent dean; VICEG[=E]'RENCY, the office of a
vicegerent, deputed power.--_adj._ VICEG[=E]'RENT, acting in place of
another, having delegated authority.--_n._ one acting in place of a
superior.--_ns._ VICE'-GOV'ERNOR, deputy governor; VICE'-KING, one who acts
in place of a king; VICE'-PRES'IDENCY, -PRES'IDENTSHIP; VICE'-PRES'IDENT,
an officer next in rank below the president; VICE'-PRIN'CIPAL, assistant
principal.--_adj._ VICER[=E]'GAL.--_ns._ VICER[=E]'GENCY; VICE'ROY,
VICER[=E]'GENT, one representing the royal authority in a dependency, as in
India; VICEROY'ALTY, VICE'ROYSHIP. [L., 'in the place of,' abl. of _vicis_
(gen.), change.]

VICENARY, vis'e-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ of or belonging to the number twenty:
twentieth.--_adj._ V[=I]CEN'NIAL, continuing or comprising twenty years:
occurring once every twenty years. [L. _vicenarius_--_viceni_--_viginti_,
twenty.]

VICINAGE, vis'i-n[=a]j, _n._ neighbourhood: the places near:
neighbourliness.--_adj._ VIC'INAL, neighbouring.--_n._ VICIN'ITY,
neighbourhood: nearness: that which is near. [O. Fr.
_veisinage_--_veisin_--L. _vicinus_, neighbouring--_vicus_, a row of
houses; cf. Gr. _oikos_, a dwelling.]

VICISSITUDE, vi-sis'i-t[=u]d, _n._ change from one thing to another:
change: revolution.--_adjs._ VICISSIT[=U]'DINARY, VICISSIT[=U]'DINOUS,
changeful, changeable. [L. _vicissitudo_--_vicis_, change.]

VICTIM, vik'tim, _n._ a living being offered as a sacrifice: some thing or
person destroyed in the pursuit of an object: a person suffering injury: a
dupe.--_n._ VICTIM[=I]S[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ VIC'TIM[=I]SE, to make a victim
of: to cheat.--_n._ VIC'TIM[=I]SER, a swindler. [Fr.,--L. _victima_, a
beast for sacrifice, adorned with the fillet--_vinc[=i]re_, to bind.]

VICTOR, vik'tor, _n._ one who conquers on any particular occasion: one who
defeats in battle: a winner:--_fem._ VIC'TRESS, VIC'TORESS,
VIC'TRIX.--_adjs._ VIC'TOR, VICT[=O]'RIOUS, relating to victory: superior
in contest: having overcome an enemy: producing or indicating
victory.--_adv._ VICT[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_ns._ VICT[=O]'RIOUSNESS; VIC'TORY, a
conquering: success in any contest: a battle gained: a female deity of the
Greeks personifying success in battle.--CADMEAN VICTORY, one as fatal to
the victors as to the vanquished--from the armed men who grew up from the
dragon's teeth sown by _Cadmus_, and slew one another all but five, who
became the ancestors of the Thebans; MORAL VICTORY (see MORAL); PYRRHIC
VICTORY (see PYRRHIC). [L.,--_vinc[)e]re_, _victum_, to conquer.]

VICTORIA, vik-t[=o]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of gigantic aquatic plants of the
water-lily family, native to South America, its one species, _Victoria
regia_, named after Queen _Victoria_: a low, light, four-wheeled carriage,
seating two, having a calash top.--_adj._ VICT[=O]'RIAN, relating to the
reign of Queen Victoria, which began in 1837: relating to the colony of
Victoria in Australia.--VICTORIA CROSS, a decoration, consisting of a
bronze Maltese cross, founded by Queen Victoria in 1856, and awarded for
conspicuous bravery on the field.

VICTORINE, vik-t[=o]-r[=e]n', _n._ a kind of fur tippet worn by ladies: a
variety of peach.

VICTUAL, v[=i]t'l, _n._ provision of food, that which is necessary for
living, food for human beings (gener. in _pl._).--_v.t._ to supply with
victuals or food: to store with provisions:--_pr.p._ VICTUALLING
(vit'l-ing); _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ VICTUALLED (vit'ld).--_ns._ VICT'UALLAGE,
provisions; VICTUALLER (v[=i]t'l-[.e]r), one who supplies
provisions.--_adj._ VICT'UALLESS.--_ns._ VICT'UALLING-BILL, a customs
document warranting the captain of an outward-bound vessel to ship bonded
stores for the voyage; VICT'UALLING-OFF'ICE, -SHIP, an office supplying, a
ship conveying, provisions to the navy; VICT'UALLING-YARD, a public
establishment for the collection and supply of provisions to the
navy.--LICENSED VICTUALLER, an innkeeper who is allowed to sell spirits,
wines, &c. [O. Fr. _vitaille_--Low L. _victualia_--L. _victualis_, relating
to living--_viv[)e]re_, _victum_, to live.]

VICUGNA, VICUÑA, vi-k[=oo]'nya, or vi-k[=u]'na, _n._ a species or variety
of the South American genus _Auchenia_ (allied to the camels), which also
includes the llama, alpaca, and the guanaco.--_n._ VICU'NA-CLOTH, a trade
name for a mixture of wool and cotton. [Peruv.]

VIDAME, v[=e]-dam', _n._ in French feudal jurisprudence, the deputy of a
bishop in temporal affairs: a minor noble. [Low L. _vice_, in place of,
_dominus_, lord.]

VIDE, v[=i]'d[=e], see, imper. of L. _vid[=e]re_, to see.--_Vide antea_=see
before; _Vide infra_=see below; _Vide post_=see after; _Vide supra_=see
above; _Quod vide_, or _q.v._=which see.

VIDELICET, vi-del'i-set, _adv._ to wit, that is, namely--generally VIZ.,
and rendered 'namely.' [L., for _vid[=e]re licet_, it is permitted to see.]

VIDENDUM, v[=i]-den'dum, _n._ a thing to be seen:--_pl._ V[=I]DEN'DA. [L.,
ger. of _vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VIDETTE. Same as VEDETTE.

VIDIMUS, vid'i-mus, _n._ an inspection, as of accounts, &c. [L., 'we have
seen'--_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VIDUOUS, vid'[=u]-us, _adj._ widowed.--_ns._ VID'[=U]AGE, widowhood;
VID'U[=A]TE, the position or order of widows; VIDU[=A]'TION, the state of
being widowed; VID[=U]'ITY, widowhood. [L. _vidua_, a widow.]

VIE, v[=i], _v.i._ to strive for superiority.--_v.t._ to contend about:
(_Shak._) to offer as a stake or wager:--_pr.p._ vy'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ v[=i]ed.--_n._ (_obs._) a contest. [M. E. _vien_, by aphæresis from
_envien_, to vie, through Fr. from L. _invit[=a]re_, to invite.]

VIELLE, vi-el', _n._ an old form of _viol_. [Fr.]

VIENNESE, vi-e-n[=e]s', or -n[=e]z', _adj._ pertaining to _Vienna_.--_n._
an inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of VIENNA.

VIEW, v[=u], _n._ a seeing: sight: reach of the sight: whole extent seen:
that which is seen: inspection, as by a jury, of the place of a crime, of
the corpse, &c.: direction in which a thing is seen: the picture of a
scene: a sketch: mental survey: mode of looking at or receiving: opinion:
intention: (_Shak._) show, appearance.--_v.t._ to see: to look at
attentively: to examine intellectually.--_adj._ VIEW'ABLE, that can be
viewed.--_ns._ VIEW'ER; VIEW'-HALLOO', the huntsman's cry when the fox
breaks cover; VIEW'INESS, character of being viewy or visionary.--_adj._
VIEW'LESS, not to be viewed: invisible.--_adv._ VIEW'LESSLY.--_adj._
VIEW'LY (_prov._), pleasing to look at.--_n._ VIEW'-POINT, point of
view.--_adjs._ VIEW'SOME (_prov._), viewly; VIEW'Y (_coll._), holding
opinions vague or purely speculative.--DISSOLVING VIEWS, pictures thrown on
a screen and made to pass one into the other; FIELD OF VIEW, the compass of
visual power; IN VIEW OF, having regard to; ON VIEW, open to public
inspection; TO THE VIEW (_Shak._), in public. [Fr. _vue_--_vu_, pa.p. of
_voir_--L. _vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VIFDA, vif'da, _n._ in Shetland, meat hung and dried without salt.--Also
VIV'DA.

VIGESIMAL, v[=i]-jes'i-mal, _adj._ twentieth.--_n._ VIGESIM[=A]'TION, the
putting to death of every twentieth man.--_adj._ VIGES'IMO-QUAR'TO, formed
of sheets folded so as to make twenty-four leaves. [L.
_vigesimus_--_viginti_, twenty.]

VIGIA, vi-j[=e]'a, _n._ a hydrographical warning on a chart, of a rock, &c.
[Sp.]

VIGIL, vij'il, _n._ watching: keeping awake for religious exercises: the
eve before a feast or fast day, originally kept by watching through the
night.--_n._ VIG'ILANCE, wakefulness: watchfulness: circumspection:
(_obs._) a guard, watch.--_adj._ VIG'ILANT, watchful: on the lookout for
danger: circumspect.--_n._ VIGILAN'TE, a member of a vigilance
committee.--_adv._ VIG'ILANTLY.--VIGILANCE COMMITTEE (_U.S._), an
unauthorised body which, in the absence or inefficiency of regular courts,
exercises legal powers of arrest, punishment, &c. in cases of gross crime:
also any self-appointed association for the compulsory improvement of local
morals. [Fr.,--L. _vigilia_--_vigil_, awake, watchful--_vig[=e]re_, to be
lively.]

VIGNERON, v[=e]n-ye-rong, _n._ a vine-grower. [Fr.]

VIGNETTE, vin-yet', _n._ any small ornamental engraving, design, or
photograph not enclosed by a definite border: (_orig._) an ornamental
flourish of vine leaves and tendrils on manuscripts and books.--_v.t._ to
treat or produce in such a style.--_ns._ VIGNETT'ER; VIGNETT'ING-GLASS,
-P[=A]'PER, a glass frame, mask, used in printing vignette pictures;
VIGNETT'IST, one who makes vignettes. [Fr.,--_vigne_--L. _vinea_, a vine.]

VIGOUR, vig'ur, _n._ active strength: physical force: vital strength in
animals or plants: strength of mind: energy.--_adj._ VIG'OROUS, strong
either in mind or body.--_adv._ VIG'OROUSLY.--_n._ VIG'OROUSNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_vigor_--_vig[=e]re_, to be strong.]

VIKING, v[=i]'king, _n._ one of the piratical Northmen who in the 8th, 9th,
and 10th centuries ravaged the coasts of western Europe.--_n._
V[=I]'KINGISM, characteristics, acts, &c. of VIKINGS. [Ice. _víkingr_,
(lit.) 'a creeker'--_víkr_ (Swed. _vik_, Eng. _wick_), a bay, and
_-ingr_=Eng. _-ing_.]

VILAYET, vil-a-yet', _n._ the name given to the great provinces into which
the Ottoman empire is divided.

VILD, v[=i]ld, _adj._ (_Spens._) vile, wicked.--_adv._ VILD'LY.

VILE, v[=i]l, _adj._ worthless: mean: morally impure: wicked: (_B._) poor,
cheap.--_adv._ VILE'LY.--_n._ VILE'NESS.--_ns._ VILIFIC[=A]'TION, act of
vilifying: defamatory speech: abuse; VIL'IF[=I]ER.--_v.t._ VIL'IFY, to make
vile: to attempt to degrade by slander: to defame:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
vil'if[=i]ed.--_v.t._ VIL'IPEND, to slander, vilify.--_v.i._ to use
vilification. [Fr.,--L. _vilis_.]

VILLA, vil'a, _n._ a country residence or seat: a suburban mansion--also
VILL.--_ns._ VILL'ADOM, villas collectively, people living in them;
VILL'[=A]GE, any small assemblage of houses, less than a town: (_orig._) a
number of houses inhabited by persons near the residence of a proprietor or
farmer: (_law_) a manor, a parish or the outlying part of a parish;
VILL'AGE-COMM[=U]'NITY, a clan of settlers who built their huts on a tract
of land and laid out common fields which they cultivated in common as one
family, the land being divided out every few years into family lots, but
the whole continuing to be cultivated by the community subject to the
established customs as interpreted in the village-council by the sense of
the village elders--the so-called _Mark system_ of Sir Henry Maine;
VILL'[=A]GER, an inhabitant of a village; VILL'[=A]GERY (_Shak._), a
district of villages; VILL'AKIN, VILLANETTE', a little villa.--_adj._
VILLAT'IC (_Milt._), pertaining to a farm. [O. Fr. _ville_ (Fr.
_ville_)--L. _villa_, a country-house, prob. reduced from _vicla_, dim. of
_vicus_, a village; Gr. _oikos_, a house.]

VILLAIN, vil'[=a]n, or vil'in, _n._ a wicked wretch: a man extremely
degraded: in feudal times, a member of the lowest class of unfree
persons.--_ns._ VILL'AIN[=A]GE, VILL'AN[=A]GE, VILL'EIN[=A]GE,
VILL'EN[=A]GE, in feudal times, the tenure of land by villein, i.e. base or
menial services.--_adj._ VILL'AINOUS, like or suited to a villain:
depraved: proceeding from extreme depravity: very bad, mean, vile.--_adv._
VILL'AINOUSLY.--_ns._ VILL'AINOUSNESS; VILL'AINY, the act of a villain:
extreme depravity: an atrocious crime. [Orig. 'a serf attached to a farm,'
O. Fr. _villain_--Low L. _villanus_--L. _villa_.]

VILLANELLE, vil-a-nel', _n._ a poem, of a form borrowed from the French,
consisting of nineteen lines on two rhymes, arranged in six stanzas, the
first five having three, the last four lines. [It. _villanella_--_villano_,
rustic.]

VILLARSIA, vi-l[=a]r'si-a, _n._ a genus of widely distributed aquatic or
marsh plants, of order _Gentianaceæ_--named from the French botanist
Dominique _Villars_ (1745-1814).

VILLEGIATURA, vi-l[.e]j-a-t[=oo]'ra, _n._ country retirement.
[It.,--_villegiare_, to stay at a country-seat--_villa_, a country-seat.]

VILLEIN, another spelling of _villain_ (only in its original meaning).

VILLI, vil'[=i], _n.pl._ (_anat._) fine small fibres covering certain
membranes: (_bot._) fine soft hairs on fruits, flowers, and other parts of
plants:--_sing._ VILL'US.--_adjs._ VILL'IFORM, having the form or
appearance of villi; VILL'[=O]SE, VILL'OUS, covered with long, soft hairs:
formed of minute villi, resembling the pile of velvet.--_n._ VILLOS'ITY,
state of being villous. [L., pl. of _villus_, hair, wool.]

VIM, vim, _n._ (_slang_) energy, force. [Accus. of L. _vis_, strength.]

VIMEN, v[=i]'men, _n._ a long flexible shoot of a plant.--_adjs._ VIM'INAL;
VIMIN'EOUS. [L.]

VINA, v[=e]'na, _n._ an East Indian musical instrument having five or seven
steel strings stretched on a long fretted finger-board over two gourds.

VINAIGRETTE, vin-[=a]-gret', _n._ a small box of silver or gold for holding
aromatic vinegar, used as a smelling-bottle. [Fr.,--_vinaigre_.]

VINASSE, vi-nas', _n._ a residual product containing potash salts, obtained
from the wine-press, &c. [Fr.]

VINAYA PITAKA, vin'a-ya pit'a-ka, _n._ one of the three parts of the
Tripitaka (q.v.).

VINCA, ving'ka, _n._ a genus of woody herbaceous plants of the dogbane
family, the periwinkles.

VINCENTIAN, vin-sen'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to St _Vincent_ de Paul
(1576-1660) or to the charitable associations founded by him.

VINCIBLE, vin'si-bl, _adj._ that may be conquered.--_ns._ VINCIBIL'ITY,
VIN'CIBLENESS. [L. _vincibilis_--_vinc[)e]re_, to conquer.]

VINCULUM, ving'k[=u]-lum, _n._ a band: a bond: (_math._) a horizontal line
placed over several quantities to show that they are to be treated as one:
(_anat._) a ligamentous band.--_v.t._ VIN'CUL[=A]TE, to bind.
[L.,--_vinc[=i]re_, to bind.]

VINDEMIAL, vin-d[=e]'mi-al, _adj._ pertaining to the vintage.--_v.i._
VIND[=E]'MIATE, to gather the vintage.

VINDICATE, vin'di-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to lay claim to: to defend: to maintain by
force.--_n._ VINDICABIL'ITY.--_adj._ VIN'DICABLE, that may be vindicated or
defended.--_n._ VINDIC[=A]'TION, act of vindicating: defence:
justification: support.--_adj._ VIN'DIC[=A]TIVE, vindicating: tending to
vindicate: (_Shak._) revengeful, vindictive.--_ns._ VIN'DIC[=A]TIVENESS,
vindictiveness; VIN'DIC[=A]TOR, one who vindicates:--_fem._
VIN'DIC[=A]TRESS.--_adjs._ VIN'DIC[=A]TORY, tending to vindicate:
inflicting punishment; VINDIC'TIVE, revengeful.--_adv._
VINDIC'TIVELY.--_n._ VINDIC'TIVENESS. [L. _vindic[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_vis_, _vim_, power, _dic[=a]re_, to proclaim, _dic[)e]re_, to
say; others trace to the root of _venia_, favour.]

VINE, v[=i]n, _n._ the plant from which wine is made: the woody climbing
plant that produces grapes: (_hort._) a climbing or trailing plant, or its
stem.--_adj._ V[=I]N[=A]'CEOUS, belonging to wine or grapes:
wine-coloured.--_ns._ V[=I]'N[=A]GE, the addition of spirit to wine to
enable it to stand transportation; V[=I]N[=A]'LIA, a wine festival in
honour of Jupiter, celebrated on 23d April.--_adjs._ V[=I]N[=A]'RIAN,
relating to wine; VINE'-CLAD, covered with vines.--_ns._ VINE'-CUL'TURE
(same as VITICULTURE); VINE'-CURCU'LIO, a small reddish curculio producing
galls on the stems of grape-vines; VINE'-DISEASE', a disease affecting the
vine; VINE'-DRESS'ER, one who dresses or trims and cultivates vines;
VINE'-FRET'TER, a small insect that infests vines; VINE'-GALL, a gall made
on the stem of the vine by a vine-curculio; VINE'-LAND, land on which vines
are grown; V[=I]'NERY, a hot-house for rearing vines; VINEYARD (vin'yard),
a plantation of grape vines.--_adj._ V[=I]'NIC, pertaining to, or derived
from, wine.--_ns._ VIN'ICULTURE, the cultivation of the vine;
VIN'ICULT[=U]RIST; VIN'-ORDINAIRE', common wine: cheap wine mixed with
water, commonly drunk in France and the south of Europe.--_adjs._
V[=I]'NOSE, V[=I]'NOUS, pertaining to wine: wine-coloured: caused by
wine.--_n._ VINOS'ITY, state or quality of being vinous.--_adj._ V[=I]'NY,
pertaining to or producing vines.--DWELL UNDER ONE'S VINE AND FIG-TREE, to
live at peace on one's own land. [O. Fr.,--L. _vinea_, a vine--_vinum_; Gr.
_oinos_, wine.]

VINEGAR, vin'e-gar, _n._ the form of acetic acid generally preferred for
culinary purposes--made by the fermentation of vegetable substances, from
malt, or from inferior wines: sourness of temper.--_v.t._ to apply vinegar
to.--_adj._ VIN'AIGROUS, sour like vinegar, ill-tempered.--_ns._
VIN'EGAR-CRU'ET, a glass bottle for holding vinegar; VINEGARETTE', a
vinaigrette; VIN'EGAR-PLANT, the microscopic fungus which produces acetous
fermentation--found in two forms known as _mother of vinegar_ and _flowers
of vinegar_.--_adjs._ VIN'EGARY, VIN'EGARISH, sour. [Fr. _vinaigre_--_vin_
(L. _vinum_, wine), _aigre_--L. _acer_, sour.]

VINEWED, vin'[=u]d, _adj._ (_Shak._) mouldy: musty.

VINGT-ET-UN, vangt-[=a]-ung', _n._ a game of cards, the aim in which is to
get as near as possible to the value of twenty-one (hence the name) without
exceeding it. The game is played with the whole pack, the ordinary cards
being reckoned according to the number of pips on them, while the court
cards are ten, and the ace is one or eleven, as the holder may elect.

VINT, vint, _v.t._ to make or prepare, as wine. [Formed from _vintage_.]

VINTAGE, vin't[=a]j, _n._ the gathering of grapes: the yearly produce of
grapes: the time of grape-gathering: wine.--_n._ VIN'T[=A]GER. [Fr.
_vendange_--L. _vindemia_--_vinum_, wine, grapes, _dem[)e]re_, to
remove--_de_, out of or away, _em[)e]re_, to take.]

VINTNER, vint'n[.e]r, _n._ a wine-seller.--_ns._ VINT'NERY, the trade of a
vintner; VINT'RY, a store for wine. [O. Fr. _vinetier_, through Low L.--L.
_vinetum_, a vineyard--_vinum_, wine.]

VIOL, v[=i]'ol, _n._ a musical instrument which was the immediate precursor
of the violin, having from three to six strings, and played by means of a
bow.--_ns._ VIOLA (v[=e]-[=o]'la, or v[=i]'[=o]-la), a larger description
of violin having four strings tuned in fifths, to which the part between
the second violin and bass is generally assigned--also called _Alto viola_
or _Tenor violin_; V[=I]'OL-BLOCK (_naut._), a large single block big
enough to reeve a small hawser; V[=I]'OLIST, a player on the viol or the
viola.--BASS VIOL, a large medieval viol: the modern violoncello. [O. Fr.
_viole_--Low L. _vidula_, from L. _vitul[=a]ri_, to skip like a calf, to
make merry--L. _vitulus_, a calf.]

VIOLATE, v[=i]'[=o]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to injure: to abuse: to ravish: to
profane: to break forcibly: to transgress.--_adj._ V[=I]'OLABLE, that may
be violated, injured, or broken.--_adv._ VI'OLABLY.--_ns._
V[=I]OL[=A]'TION, the act of violating or injuring: infringement:
non-observance: profanation: rape; V[=I]'OL[=A]TOR. [L. _viol[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_vis_, strength; cf. Gr. _is_, strength, force.]

VIOLENT, v[=i]'[=o]-lent, _adj._ acting with physical force or strength:
moved by strong feeling: passionate: vehement: outrageous: produced by
force: intense: compulsory: unnatural.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to be
violent.--_n._ V[=I]'OLENCE, the state or quality of being violent: force,
physical or moral: unjust force: outrage: profanation: injury:
rape.--_adv._ V[=I]'OLENTLY.--DO VIOLENCE ON (_Shak._), to attack, murder;
DO VIOLENCE TO, to outrage, injure. [Fr.,--L. _violentus_--_vis_, force.]

VIOLET, v[=i]'[=o]-let, _n._ any plant of genus _Viola_, of many species,
with a flower generally of some shade of blue, but also white and yellow,
and most often fragrant: the colour of the violet, a bluish or light
purple.--_adj._ of the colour of the violet, bluish or light
purple.--_adjs._ VIOL[=A]'CEOUS, of a violet colour, purple; VIOLES'CENT,
tending to a violet colour. [Fr. _violette_, dim. of O. Fr. _viole_--L.
_viola_; cf. Gr. _ion_.]

VIOLIN, v[=i]-[=o]-lin', _n._ a musical instrument of four strings placed
with a bow: a fiddle: a player on the violin.--_ns._ VIOLIN'-BOW, a bow for
sounding the violin; V[=I]'OLINIST, a player on the violin. [It.
_violino_--_viola_.]

VIOLONCELLO, v[=e]-[=o]-lon-chel'[=o], or v[=i]-[=o]-lon-sel'[=o], _n._ a
large four-stringed musical instrument of the violin class, the quality of
its tone even more sympathetic than that of the violin, held between the
knees in playing--it superseded the _Viol da gamba_ in the early part of
the 18th century:--_pl._ VIOLONCELL'OS.--_n._ VIOLONCELL'IST, a player on
the violoncello. [It., dim. of _violone_, a bass violin; see next word.]

VIOLONE, v[=e]-[=o]-l[=o]'n[=a], _n._ the largest kind of bass viol, having
strings tuned an octave lower than the violoncello. [It.,--_viola_.]

VIPER, v[=i]'p[.e]r, _n._ a genus of venomous snakes, representative of
family _Viperidæ_--the Common Viper or adder being the only poisonous snake
indigenous to Britain: loosely, any venomous serpent except a rattlesnake,
any cobriform serpent: any base, malicious person.--_adjs._ V[=I]'PERINE,
related to or resembling the viper; V[=I]'PERISH, like a viper;
V[=I]'PEROUS, having the qualities of a viper: venomous: malignant.--_adv._
V[=I]'PEROUSLY.--VIPER'S BUGLOSS, the blue weed or blue thistle; VIPER'S
GRASS, a European perennial of the aster family. [Fr.,--L. _vipera_ (contr.
of _vivipara_)--_vivus_, living, _par[)e]re_, to bring forth.]

VIRAGO, vi-r[=a]'go, or v[=i]-r[=a]'g[=o], _n._ a masculine woman: a bold,
impudent woman: a termagant.--_adjs._ VIRAGIN'IAN, VIRAGINOUS
(viraj'-).--_n._ VIRAGIN'ITY. [L.,--_vir_, a man.]

VIRE, v[=e]r, _n._ a crossbow-bolt: (_her._) an annulet. [Fr.]

VIRELAY, vir'e-l[=a], _n._ an ancient kind of French poem in short lines,
and consisting of only two rhymes, their order as well as the length of the
verses being arbitrary. [Fr. _virelai_--_virer_, to turn, _lai_, a song.]

VIREO, vir'[=e]-[=o], _n._ a genus of American singing birds, the
greenlets. [L.]

VIRESCENT, v[=i]-res'ent, _adj._ growing green, greenish.--_n._
VIRES'CENCE, greenness: (_bot._) the turning green of organs properly
bright-coloured. [L., pr.p. of _vir[=e]re_, to be green.]

VIRGATE, v[.e]r'g[=a]t, _adj._ like a wand or rod: slender, straight.--_n._
an old English measure of surface. [L. _virga_, a rod.]

VIRGILIAN, v[.e]r-jil'i-an, _adj._ relating to or resembling the style of
_Virgil_, the Roman poet (70-21 B.C.).

VIRGIN, v[.e]r'jin, _n._ a maiden: a woman who has had no sexual
intercourse with man: one devoted to virginity: a madonna, a figure of the
Virgin: a person of either sex who has not known sexual intercourse: any
female animal that has not copulated: a parthenogenetic insect: (_astron._)
Virgo, one of the signs of the zodiac.--_adj._ becoming a maiden: maidenly:
pure: chaste: undefiled: fresh, new: parthenogenetic.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to
continue chaste.--_adj._ VIR'GINAL, maidenly: (_zool._)
parthenogenetic.--_n._ VIRGIN[=A]'LE, a book of prayers and hymns to the
Virgin Mary.--_adj._ VIR'GIN-BORN, born of the VIRGIN, of Jesus Christ:
(_zool._) born by internal gemmation without impregnation.--_ns._
VIRGIN'ITY, VIR'GINHOOD, the state of a virgin; VIR'GIN-KNOT (_Shak._),
maidenly chastity, in reference to the unloosing of the girdles of Greek
and Roman maidens on marriage.--_adj._ VIR'GINLY, pure.--_adv._
chastely.--_ns._ VIR'GIN'S-BOW'ER, a species of clematis, hedge-vine;
VIR'GIN-WOR'SHIP, adoration of the Virgin Mary; VIR'GO, the Virgin, in the
zodiac.--VIRGIN BIRTH, GENERATION, parthenogenesis; VIRGIN CLAY, in
pottery, &c., clay which has never been fired.--THE VIRGIN, THE BLESSED
VIRGIN, the Virgin Mary, the mother of Christ. [O, Fr.,--L. _virgo_,
_virginis_.]

VIRGINAL, v[.e]r'jin-al, _n._ an old keyed musical instrument, oblong in
shape, one of the three forms of the harpsichord.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to
finger, as on a virginal.

VIRGINIA, v[.e]r-jin'i-a, _n._ a well-known brand of tobacco, grown and
manufactured in _Virginia_.--_n._ VIRGIN'IA-CREEP'ER, an American climbing
vine, common in the south of England, remarkable for the bright-red colour
it assumes in autumn.--_adj._ VIRGIN'IAN, pertaining to Virginia.--_n._ a
native of Virginia.

VIRGULE, v[.e]r'g[=u]l, _n._ a little rod: a mark of punctuation, a
comma.--_adj._ VIR'G[=U]L[=A]TE, rod-shaped.--_n._ VIRGUL'TUM, a twig. [L.
_virgula_--_virga_, a twig.]

VIRID, vir'id, _adj._ green.--_n._ VIRID'IAN, a deep and pure bluish-green
pigment, being a hydrated sesquioxide of chromium.--_adj._ VIRIDIGENOUS
(-ij'-), producing a green tint.--_ns._ VIRID'ITY, VIR'IDNESS, verdure:
greenness. [L., _viridis_, green--_vir[=e]re_, to be green.]

VIRIDESCENT, vir-i-des'ent, _adj._ slightly green: greenish.--_n._
VIRIDES'CENCE. [L. _viridis_, green.]

VIRILE, vir'il, or v[=i]'ril, _adj._ of or belonging to a man or to the
male sex: masculine: manly.--_n._ VIRIL'ITY, the state or quality of being
a man: the power of a full-grown male: the power of procreation: manhood.
[L. _virilis_--_vir_, a man; cog. with Gr. _h[=e]r[=o]s_, a hero, Old High
Ger. _wer_, a man.]

VIROLE, vi-r[=o]l', _n._ a ferrule: (_her._) a hoop or ring. [O. Fr.; a
doublet of _ferrule_.]

VIRTU, v[.e]r't[=oo], or -t[=oo]', _n._ a love of the fine arts: taste for
curiosities: objects of art or antiquity.--_adjs._ VIRTUOSE',
VIRTU[=O]'SIC, exhibiting the qualities and skill of a virtuoso.--_ns._
VIRTUOS'ITY, lovers of the elegant arts as a class: exceptional skill in
some of the fine arts; VIRTU[=O]'S[=O], one skilled in the fine arts, in
antiquities, curiosities, and the like: a skilful musician, painter, &c.
(_pl._ VIRTU[=O]'S[=O]S, VIRTU[=O]'SI):--_fem._ VIRTU[=O]'SA (_pl._
VIRTU[=O]'SE, -se); VIRTU[=O]'S[=O]SHIP. [It.; a doublet of _virtue_.]

VIRTUE, v[.e]r'tu, _n._ excellence: worth: moral excellence: the practice
of duty: a moral excellence: sexual purity, esp. female chastity: purity:
(_B._) strength: force: inherent power, efficacy: one of the orders of the
celestial hierarchy.--_adj._ VIR'TUAL, having virtue or efficacy: having
the efficacy without the material part: in effect though not in fact:
(_mech._) possible and infinitesimal.--_adv._ VIR'TUALLY.--_adjs._
VIR'TUELESS, wanting virtue: without efficacy; VIR'TUE-PROOF (_Milt._),
impregnable in virtue; VIR'TUOUS, having virtue or moral goodness:
blameless: righteous: practising duty: being according to the moral law:
chaste (of a woman).--_adv._ VIR'TUOUSLY.--_n._ VIR'TUOUSNESS.--BY, IN,
VIRTUE OF, through the power, force, or efficacy of; MAKE A VIRTUE OF
NECESSITY, to do as if from inclination or sense of duty something one must
needs do; SEVEN PRINCIPAL VIRTUES, faith, hope, charity, justice, prudence,
temperance, and fortitude--the first three the _theological_, the last four
the _moral_ virtues; THE CARDINAL VIRTUES (see CARDINAL). [O. Fr.,--L.
_virtus_, bravery, moral excellence--_vir_, a man; cf. Gr. _h[=e]r[=o]s_,
Sans. _vira_, a hero.]

VIRULENT, vir'[=u]-lent, _adj._ full of poison: very active in injury:
bitter in enmity: malignant.--_ns._ VIR'ULENCE, VIR'ULENCY.--_adv._
VIR'ULENTLY. [L. _virulentus_--_virus_, poison.]

VIRUS, v[=i]'rus, _n._ contagious or poisonous matter (as of ulcers, &c.):
the poison which causes infection: any foul, hurtful matter.--_adjs._
V[=I]'ROSE, V[=I]'ROUS; VIR[=U]LIF'EROUS, bearing a specific virus. [L.;
cog. with Gr. _ios_, Sans. _visha_, poison.]

VIS, vis, _n._ force: power:--_pl._ V[=I]'RES.--VIS INERTIÆ, inertia:
sluggishness; VIS MORTUA, force of pressure, dead force; VIS VIVA, living
force, equal to the mass of a moving body multiplied by the square of its
velocity. [L.]

VISAGE, viz'[=a]j, _n._ the face or look.--_adj._ VIS'AGED. [Fr., through
an assumed form _visaticum_, from L. _visus_, seen--_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VIS-À-VIS, v[=e]z'-a-v[=e]', _adv._ facing one another.--_n._ one who
faces, or is opposite to, another: a light carriage with seats facing each
other: a kind of couch. [Fr. _vis_, face (--L. _visus_, look), _à_, to,
_vis_, face.]

VISCACHA, vis-kach'a, _n._ a South American rodent of the Chinchilla
family, inhabiting the South American Pampas, of stout form and about
twenty inches in length, a gregarious burrower and nocturnal in
habits--also _Bizcacha_.--_n._ VISCACHERA (vis-ka-ch[=a]'ra), a settlement
of viscachas. [Sp.; prob. of Peruv. origin.]

VISCERA, vis'e-ra, _n.pl._ the inner parts of the animal body: the
entrails:--_sing._ VIS'CUS.--_adj._ VIS'CERAL, pertaining to the viscera:
abdominal.--_v.t._ VIS'CER[=A]TE, to disembowel. [L. _viscus_ (pl.
_viscera_).]

[Illustration]

VISCOUNT, v[=i]'kownt, _n._ an officer who formerly acted as deputy to the
earl, the _vice-comes_: a title of nobility next below an earl:--_fem._
V[=I]'SCOUNTESS.--_ns._ V[=I]'SCOUNTCY, V[=I]'SCOUNTSHIP, V[=I]'SCOUNTY,
the rank or dignity of a viscount. [O. Fr. _viscomte_ (Fr. _vicomte_)--Low
L. _vice-comes_--L. _vice_, in place of, _comes_, a companion.]

VISCOUS, vis'kus, _adj._ sticky: tenacious--also VIS'CID.--_ns._
VISCID'ITY, VIS'COUSNESS; VISCOS'ITY, the property of being viscous:
(_phys._) that property of matter which is seen when the relative motion of
parts of any body or substance decays on its being left to itself. [Low L.
_viscosus_, sticky--L. _viscum_, bird-lime, mistletoe; cog. with Gr.
_ixos_, mistletoe.]

VISCUM, vis'kum, _n._ a genus of parasitic plants, including the mistletoe.
[L.]

VISE. See VICE (1).

VISÉ, v[=e]-z[=a]', _n._ an indorsement on a passport denoting that it has
been officially examined, and that the bearer may proceed on his
journey.--_v.t._ to indorse a passport.--Also VISA (v[=e]'za). [Fr.,--Low
L. _vis[=a]re_, freq. of L. _vid[=e]re_, _visum_, to see.]

VISHNU, vish'n[=oo], _n._ the second god of the Hindu triad, now the most
worshipped of all Hindu gods. He became specially the benefactor of man in
his _avatars_ or incarnations, ten in number--according to others,
twenty-two. [Sans., 'the preserver.']

VISIBLE, viz'i-bl, _adj._ that may be seen: obvious.--_ns._ VISIBIL'ITY,
state or quality of being visible, or perceivable by the eye;
VIS'IBLENESS.--_adv._ VIS'IBLY.--VISIBLE CHURCH, the body of professing
Christians, as opposed to the _Invisible Church_, which consists of those
spiritual persons who fulfil the notion of the ideal Church, together with
the body of the departed saints in heaven; VISIBLE MEANS, means or
resources which are apparent to or ascertainable by others; VISIBLE SPEECH,
a system of alphabetic characters, each of which represents the
configuration of the mouth that produces the sound.

VISIGOTH, viz'i-goth, _n._ one of the Western Goths, as distinguished from
the Ostrogoths or Eastern Goths. They formed settlements in the south of
France and in Spain, and their kingdom in the latter lasted into the 8th
century.--_adj._ VISIGOTH'IC. [Low L. _Visegothæ_--Teut. _west_, west,
_Gothæ_, Goths.]

VISION, vizh'un, _n._ the act or sense of seeing: sight: anything seen:
anything imagined to be seen: a divine revelation: an apparition: anything
imaginary.--_v.t._ to see as a vision: to present as in a vision.--_n._
(_Scot._) VISIE (viz'i), a close look at anything.--_adj._ VIS'IONAL,
pertaining to a vision, not real.--_adv._ VIS'IONALLY.--_n._
VIS'IONARINESS.--_adj._ VIS'IONARY, affected by visions: apt to see
visions, imaginative: existing in imagination only: not real.--_n._ one who
sees visions: one who forms impracticable schemes.--_adj._ VIS'IONED
(_rare_), inspired so as to see visions: seen in a vision, spectral.--_n._
VIS'IONIST, a visionary person, one who believes in visions.--_adj._
VIS'IONLESS, destitute of vision.--BEATIFIC VISION (see BEATIFY); CENTRE,
POINT, OF VISION, the position from which anything is observed, or
represented as being seen. [Fr.,--L. _visio_, _visionis_--_vid[=e]re_,
_visum_, to see; cf. Gr. _idein_, Eng. _wit_.]

VISIT, viz'it, _v.t._ to go to see or inspect: to attend: enter, appear in:
to call on: (_B._) to reward or punish.--_v.i._ to be in the habit of
seeing or meeting each other: to keep up acquaintance.--_n._ act of
visiting or going to see.--_adjs._ VIS'ITABLE, subject to visitation:
attractive to visitors; VIS'ITANT, paying visits, visiting.--_n._ one who
visits: one who is a guest in the house of another: a migratory bird: one
of an order of nuns founded by St Francis de Sales in 1610, also called
_Salesians_, _Order_ (also _Nuns_) _of the Visitation_--the order has done
much in the education of young girls.--_n._ VISIT[=A]'TION, act of
visiting: examination by authority: a dispensation, whether of divine
favour or retribution: (_rare_) the object of a visit: the act of a naval
commander in boarding the vessel of another state to ascertain her
character and object: a visit of a herald to a district for the examination
of its arms, pedigrees, &c.: an unusual and extensive irruption of a
species of animals into another region: (_eccles._) a festival to
commemorate the visit of the Virgin Mary to Elizabeth, observed by the
Roman and Greek Churches on 2d July.--_adjs._ VISIT[=A]T[=O]'RIAL,
VISIT[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ VIS'ITING, the act of paying visits: prompting,
influence.--_adj._ that which visits.--_ns._ VIS'ITING-BOOK, a book
recording the names of persons who have called or are to be called on;
VIS'ITING-CARD, a small card, on which the name, address, or title, may be
printed, to be left in making calls or paying visits, and sometimes sent as
an act of courtesy or in token of sympathy; VIS'ITING-DAY, a day on which
one is at home or ready to receive callers; VIS'ITOR, -ER, one who visits,
calls on, or makes a stay with a person: a person authorised to visit an
institution to see that it is managed properly:--_fem._
VIS'ITRESS.--VISITATION OF THE SICK, an office in the Anglican Church, used
for the spiritual benefit of the sick, provision being also made for
special confession and absolution. [Fr. _visiter_--L. _visit[=a]re_, freq.
of _vis[)e]re_, to go to see, visit--_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VISITE, vi-z[=e]t', _n._ a woman's close-fitting outer garment worn early
in the 19th century. [Fr.]

VISIVE, v[=i]'siv, _adj._ visual.

VISNOMY, viz'no-mi, _n._ (_Spens._), physiognomy.

VISON, v[=i]'son, _n._ the American mink.

VISOR, viz'ur, _n._ a part of a helmet covering the face, movable, and
perforated to see through (see ARMOUR): a mask.--_adj._ VIS'ORED, wearing a
visor: masked. [Fr. _visière_--_vis_, countenance.]

VISTA, vis'ta, _n._ a view or prospect through or as through an avenue: the
trees, &c., that form the avenue. [It. _vista_, sight, view--L.
_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VISUAL, viz'[=u]-al, _adj._ belonging to vision or sight: visible: produced
by sight: used in sight: used for seeing.--_n._ VISUALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
VIS'UAL[=I]SE, to make visible or visual, externalise to the eye.--_v.i._
to call up a clear mental image.--_ns._ VIS'UAL[=I]SER; VISUAL'ITY.--_adv._
VIS'UALLY.

VITAL, v[=i]'tal, _adj._ belonging or contributing to life: containing or
necessary to life: important as life: essential.--_n._
V[=I]TALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ V[=I]'TALISE, to make vital or alive: to give
life to or furnish with the vital principle.--_ns._ V[=I]'TALISM, the
doctrine that there is a vital principle distinct from the organisation of
living bodies, which directs all their actions and functions; V[=I]'TALIST,
one who holds this doctrine.--_adj._ V[=I]TALIS'TIC.--_n._ V[=I]TAL'ITY,
quality of being vital: principle or power of life: capacity to endure and
flourish.--_adv._ V[=I]'TALLY.--_n.pl._ V[=I]'TALS, the interior organs
essential for life: the part of any whole necessary for its
existence.--_n._ V[=I]T[=A]'TIVENESS (_phrenol._), the love of life, a
faculty assigned to a protuberance under the ear.--VITAL FORCE, the
principle of life in animals and plants; VITAL FUNCTIONS, power, ability to
continue living; VITAL PRINCIPLE, that principle on which the life of an
organism is thought to depend; VITAL STATISTICS, a division of statistics
dealing with the facts and problems concerning population. [L.
_vitalis_--_vita_, life--_viv[)e]re_, to live; cog. with Gr. _bios_, life.]

VITELLUS, v[=i]-tel'us, _n._ the yolk of an egg.--_adjs._ VIT'ELLARY,
VITELL'INE, pertaining to the vitellus, or forming such.--_n._ VITELL'ICLE,
a yolk-sac.--_adj._ VITELLIGENOUS (-ij'-), producing yolk. [L., 'a yolk,' a
transferred use of _vitellus_--_vitulus_, a calf.]

VITEX, v[=i]'teks, _n._ a genus of trees or shrubs of the natural order
_Verbenaceæ_. [L.]

VITIATE, vish'i-[=a]t, _v.t._ to render faulty or defective: to make less
pure: to deprave: to taint--earlier VI'CIATE.--_ns._ VITI[=A]'TION;
VI'TI[=A]TOR; VITIOS'ITY, state or quality of being vicious. [L.
_viti[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_vitium_. See VICE (2).]

VITILITIGATION, vit-i-lit-i-g[=a]'shun, _n._ vexatious litigation.--_v.i._
VITILIT'IGATE.

VITIS, v[=i]'tis, _n._ a genus of plants, including the grape.--_n._
VIT'ICIDE, a vine-destroyer, vine-pest.--_adj._ VITIC'OLOUS, inhabiting, or
produced upon, the vine.--_ns._ VIT'ICULTURE, cultivation of the vine;
VITICUL'T[=U]RIST. [L. _vitis_, a vine--_vi[=e]re_, to twist.]

VITREOUS, vit'r[=e]-us, _adj._ glassy: pertaining to, consisting of, or
like glass.--_ns._ VITREOS'ITY, VIT'REOUSNESS; VITRES'CENCE.--_adj._
VITRES'CENT, tending to become glass.--_n._ VIT'REUM, the vitreous humour
of the eye.--_adj._ VIT'RIC.--_ns._ VIT'RICS, glassy materials: the history
of glass and its manufacture; VITRIFAC'TION, VITRIFIC[=A]'TION, act,
process, or operation of vitrifying, or converting into glass;
VITRIFAC'TURE, the manufacture of glass.--_adjs._ VIT'RIFIABLE, that may be
vitrified or turned into glass; VIT'RIFIED.--_ns.pl._ VIT'RIFIED-FORTS,
-WALLS, certain ancient Scottish, French, &c. forts or walls in which the
silicious stone has been vitrified by fire, whether by intention or
accident is uncertain.--_adj._ VIT'RIFORM, having the form of
glass.--_v.t._ VIT'RIFY, to make into glass.--_v.i._ to become
glass.--_ns._ VITR[=I]'NA, a genus of land molluscs forming a
connecting-link between the slugs and true snails--the glass-snail;
VIT'RINE, a show-case made of glass and used to protect delicate articles.
[L. _vitrum_, glass--_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

VITRIOL, vit'ri-ol, _n._ the popular name of sulphuric acid: a soluble
sulphate of a metal--_green vitriol_=sulphate of iron, _blue
vitriol_=sulphate of copper, _white vitriol_=sulphate of zinc.--_v.t._
VIT'RIOL[=A]TE, to convert into vitriol.--_n._ VITRIOL[=A]'TION, the act or
process of converting into vitriol.--_adjs._ VITRIOL'IC, pertaining to or
having the qualities of vitriol: biting, very severe;
VIT'RIOL[=I]SABLE.--_n._ VITRIOLIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ VIT'RIOLISE, to
vitriolate: to poison with vitriol.--ELIXIR OF VITRIOL, old name for the
aromatic sulphuric acid of the Pharmacopoeia; OIL OF VITRIOL, concentrated
sulphuric acid. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _vitriolum_--_vitriolus_--L. _vitreus_, of
glass.]

VITRO-DI-TRINA, vit'r[=o]-di-tr[=e]'na, _n._ lacework glass. [It., 'glass
of lace.']

VITROPHYRE, vit'r[=o]-f[=i]r, _n._ a porphyritic variety of volcanic
glass.--_adj._ VITROPHYR'IC. [L. _vitrum_, glass, _porphyrites_, porphyry.]

[Illustration]

VITRUVIAN, vi-tr[=oo]'vi-an, _adj._ denoting a peculiar kind of convoluted
scrollwork, so named from _Vitruvius_, a Roman architect under Augustus.

VITTA, vit'a, _n._ a fillet, or garland for the head:--_pl._ VITT'Æ
(-[=e]). [L.]

VITULAR, vit'[=u]-lar, VITULINE, vit'[=u]-l[=i]n, _adj._ relating to a calf
or to veal. [From L. _vitulus_, a calf.]

VITUPERATE, v[=i]-t[=u]'pe-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to find fault with: to address
with abuse: to rate soundly.--_adj._ VIT[=U]'PERABLE, deserving
vituperation.--_n._ VIT[=U]PER[=A]'TION, act of vituperating: censure:
abuse.--_adj._ VIT[=U]'PER[=A]TIVE, containing vituperation or
censure.--_adv._ VIT[=U]'PER[=A]TIVELY.--_n._ VIT[=U]'PER[=A]TOR, one who
vituperates. [L. _vituper[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_vitium_, a fault,
_par[=a]re_, to set out.]

VIURE, v[=e]'[=u]r, _n._ (_her._) a thin ribbon crossing the field in any
direction. [Fr.]

VIVA, v[=e]'va, _interj._ long live.--_n._ the exclamation _Viva_! [It.,
'Let him live'--L. _viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIVACE, v[=e]-vä'che, _adj._ (_mus._) lively:--_superl._ VIVACIS'SIMO.
[It.]

VIVACIOUS, v[=i]-v[=a]'shus, (or vi-), _adj._ lively or long-lived: active:
sportive.--_adv._ VIV[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ VIV[=A]'CIOUSNESS; VIVAC'ITY,
state of being vivacious: life: animation: liveliness or sprightliness of
temper or behaviour: (_rare_) a vivacious act or saying. [L. _vivax_,
_vivacis_--_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIVANDIÈRE, v[=e]-vong-di-[=a]r', _n._ in the French and some other
Continental armies, a female attendant in a regiment, who sells spirits and
other comforts, marching with the corps. [Fr., _fem._ of _vivandier_--It.
_vivandière_, a sutler--_vivanda_, food.]

VIVARIUM, v[=i]-v[=a]'ri-um, _n._ an artificial enclosure for keeping or
raising living animals, as a park, fish-pond, &c.--Also V[=I]'VARY. [L.
_vivarium_--_vivus_, alive--_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIVAT, v[=i]'vat, _n._ an exclamation of applause. [L., 'let him live.']

VIVA VOCE, v[=i]'va v[=o]'s[=e], by word of mouth. [L., 'with living
voice,'--_vivus_, living, _vox_, _vocis_, voice.]

VIVE, v[=e]v, _interj._ long live. [Fr., 'let him live.']

VIVE, v[=i]v, _adj._ (_Bacon_) lively, forcible. [Fr.,--L.
_vivus_--_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIVERRINE, v[=i]-ver'in, _adj._ pertaining to the _Viverridæ_, one of the
four families of the _Æluroidea_ section of Carnivora.--_n._ one of the
_Viverridæ_, and esp. of the division of _Viverrinæ_, including the civets,
genets, &c.

VIVERS, v[=e]'v[.e]rz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) food, eatables. [Fr. _vivres_--L.
_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIVES, v[=i]vz, _n.pl._ a disease of horses, &c., seated in the glands
under the ear. [O. Fr. _avives_, _vives_--Sp. _avivas_--Ar.
_addh[=i]ba_--_al_, the, _dh[=i]ba_, she-wolf.]

VIVID, viv'id, _adj._ lively or life-like: having the appearance of life:
forming brilliant images in the mind: striking.--_adv._ VIV'IDLY.--_ns._
VIV'IDNESS, VIVID'ITY.--_adj._ VIVIF'IC, vivifying.--_ns._
VIVIFIC[=A]'TION; VIV'IFIER.--_v.t._ VIV'IFY, to make vivid, endue with
life. [L. _vividus_--_viv[)e]re_, to live.]

VIVIPAROUS, v[=i]-vip'a-rus, _adj._ producing young alive: (_bot._)
germinating from a seed still on the parent plant.--_ns._ V[=I]VIPAR'ITY,
V[=I]VIP'AROUSNESS.--_adv._ V[=I]VIP'AROUSLY. [L., from _vivus_, alive,
_par[)e]re_, to produce.]

VIVISECTION, viv-i-sek'shun, _n._ the practice of making operations or
painful experiments on living animals, for the purposes of physiological
research or demonstration.--_v.t._ VIVISECT', to practise vivisection
on.--_adj._ VIVISEC'TIONAL.--_ns._ VIVISEC'TIONIST, one who practises or
defends vivisection; VIVISEC'TOR, one who practises vivisection;
VIVISECT[=O]'RIUM, a place for vivisection. [L. _vivus_, alive,
_sectio_--_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

VIVISEPULTURE, viv-i-sep'ul-t[=u]r, _n._ burial alive.

VIXEN, vik'sn, _n._ a she-fox: an ill-tempered woman.--_adjs._ VIX'EN,
VIX'ENISH, VIX'ENLY, ill-tempered, snarling. [Formerly also _vixon_; a form
of _fixen_--A.S. _fyxen_, a she-fox.]

VIZ. See VIDELICET.

VIZAMENT, viz'a-ment, _n._ (_Shak._) advisement.

VIZARD, viz'ard, VIZOR, viz'ur. Same as VISOR.

VIZIR, VIZIER, vi-z[=e]r', _n._ a minister or councillor of state in the
Ottoman Empire and other Mohammedan states--also VISIER', VEZIR',
WIZIER'.--_ns._ VIZIR'ATE, VIZIER'ATE, VIZIR'SHIP, VIZIER'SHIP, the office
of a vizir.--_adjs._ VIZIR'IAL, VIZIER'IAL.--GRAND VIZIR, in Turkey, the
prime-minister, and formerly also commander of the army. [Ar. _waz[=i]r_, a
porter--_wazara_, to bear a burden.]

VLY, vl[=i], or fl[=i], _n._ a swamp, a shallow pond which is sometimes
dry.--Also VLEIJ, VLEI. [A word of Dutch origin used in South Africa, prob.
derived from Dut. _vallei_, a valley.]

VOCABLE, v[=o]'ka-bl, _n._ that which is sounded with the voice: a word: a
name.--_ns._ VOCAB'[=U]LARY, a list of vocables or words explained in
alphabetical order: the words of a language: a dictionary: any list of
words; VOCAB'[=U]LIST, a lexicographer, the harmless drudge who compiles a
dictionary.--_adjs._ V[=O]'CAL, having a voice: uttered or changed by the
voice: (_phon._) voiced, uttered with voice: having a vowel function;
VOCAL'IC, containing vowels.--_n._ VOCALIS[=A]'TION, act of
vocalising.--_v.t._ V[=O]'CALISE, to make vocal: to form into voice: to
insert the vowel points, as in Hebrew.--_v.i._ to speak, sing.--_ns._
V[=O]'CALIST, a vocal musician, a singer; VOCAL'ITY, V[=O]'CALNESS,
utterableness: vowel character.--_adv._ V[=O]'CALLY.--_adj._ VOC'ULAR
(_rare_), vocal.--VOCAL CHORDS, two elastic membraneous folds of the larynx
capable of being stretched or relaxed; VOCAL MUSIC, music produced by the
human voice alone, as opposed to _Instrumental music_. [L.
_vocabulum_--_voc[=a]re_, to call.]

VOCATION, v[=o]-k[=a]'shun, _n._ call or act of calling: calling:
occupation.--_adj._ VOC[=A]'TIONAL.--_adv._ VOC[=A]'TIONALLY. [L.
_vocatio_--_voc[=a]re_.]

VOCATIVE, vok'a-tiv, _adj._ pertaining to the act of calling, applied to
the grammatical case used in personal address.--_n._ the case of a word
when a person or thing is addressed. [L. _vocativus_--_voc[=a]re_.]

VOCIFERATE, v[=o]-sif'e-r[=a]t, _v.i._ to cry with a loud voice.--_v.t._ to
utter with a loud voice.--_n._ VOCIF'ERANCE, clamour.--_adj._ VOCIF'ERANT,
clamorous.--_ns._ VOCIFER[=A]'TION, act of vociferating: a violent or loud
outcry; VOCIF'ER[=A]TOR.--_v.t._ VOCIF'ERISE, to vociferate.--_n._
VOCIFEROS'ITY.--_adj._ VOCIF'EROUS, making a loud outcry: noisy.--_adv._
VOCIF'EROUSLY.--_n._ VOCIF'EROUSNESS. [L.--_vox_, _vocis_, voice, _ferre_,
to carry.]

VOCULAR, vok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ vocal.--_n._ VOC'ULE, a slight sound of the
voice.

VODKA, v[=o]d'ka, _n._ a Russian spirit, properly distilled from rye, but
sometimes from potatoes. [Russ., 'brandy,' dim. of _voda_, water.]

VOE, v[=o], _n._ in Shetland, a bay, creek.--Also VO, VAE. [Ice. _vágr_,
_vogr_, a creek.]

VOGIE, v[=o]'gi, _adj._ (_Scot._) vain: merry.

VOGUE, v[=o]g, _n._ mode or fashion at any particular time: practice:
popular reception. [Fr. _vogue_, course of a ship--_voguer_, to row, from
Old High Ger. _wag[=o]n_ (Ger. _wogen_, to fluctuate, float)--_waga_, a
waving, akin to _w[=a]g_, a wave.]

VOICE, vois, _n._ sound from the mouth: sound given out by anything:
utterance or mode of utterance: language: expression: expressed opinion:
one who speaks: (_Shak._) reputation: sound uttered with resonance of the
vocal chords: vote: (_gram._) mode of inflecting verbs, as being active or
passive.--_v.t._ to give utterance to, declare, announce: to fit for
sounding: to regulate the tone of: to utter with voice or tone, as
distinguished from breath.--_adjs._ VOICED, furnished with a voice;
VOICE'FUL, having a voice: vocal.--_n._ VOICE'FULNESS.--_adj._ VOICE'LESS,
having no voice or vote.--_ns._ VOICE'LESSNESS; VOIC'ER; VOIC'ING, the
regulating of the tone of organ pipes, ensuring proper power, pitch, and
quality.--IN MY VOICE (_Shak._), in my name; INNER VOICE, PART, in music, a
voice-part intermediate between the highest and the lowest; IN VOICE, in
good condition for singing or speaking.--WITH ONE VOICE, unanimously. [O.
Fr. _voix_--L. _vox_, _vocis_; akin to Gr. _epos_, a word.]

VOID, void, _adj._ unoccupied: empty: destitute (with _of_): having no
binding force: wanting: unsubstantial.--_n._ an empty space.--_v.t._ to
make vacant: to quit: to send out, emit, empty out: to render of no effect,
to nullify: (_Spens._) to lay aside, divest one's self of.--_adj._
VOID'ABLE, that may be voided or evacuated.--_n._ VOID'ANCE, act of voiding
or emptying: state of being void: ejection.--_p.adj._ VOID'ED (_her._),
having the inner part cut away or left vacant--said of a charge or
ordinary.--_ns._ VOID'ER, one who empties: a contrivance in armour for
covering an unprotected part of the body: a tray for carrying away crumbs,
&c.; VOID'ING, the act of voiding: a remnant; VOID'NESS, emptiness:
nullity. [O. Fr. _voide_, _void_, empty--L. _viduus_, bereft; others trace
to Low L. form, akin to L. _vac[=a]re_, to be empty.]

VOIVODE, VAIVODE, voi'v[=o]d, v[=a]'v[=o]d, _n._ the leader of an army: in
Poland the title of the head of an administrative division, in Moldavia and
Wallachia the former title of the princes, in Turkey an inferior
administrative official--also VAY'VODE, WAI'WODE, WAY'WODE.--_ns._
VOI'VODESHIP, VAI'VODESHIP. [Russ. _voevoda_ (Serv. _vojvoda_, Pol.
_wojewoda_), a general.]

VOL, vol, _n._ (_her._) two wings displayed and conjoined in base. [Fr.]

VOLABLE, vol'a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) nimble--willed. [L. _vol[=a]re_, to
fly.]

VOLANT, v[=o]'lant, _adj._ flying: nimble: (_her._) represented as flying,
or as in the air unsupported, or creeping.--_n._ V[=O]'LANT-PIECE, a part
of the helmet which could be removed at will.--_adj._ VOL'ATILE,
evaporating very quickly: flighty: apt to change.--_ns._ VOL'ATILENESS,
VOLATIL'ITY, quality of being volatile: disposition to evaporate rapidly:
sprightliness: fickleness.--_adj._ VOL'ATILISABLE.--_ns._
VOLATILIS[=A]'TION, act or process of making volatile or
evaporating.--_v.t._ VOL'ATILISE, to make volatile: to cause to
evaporate.--_n._ VOL'ERY, a large enclosure for birds in which they have
room to fly.--_adj._ VOL'ITANT, flying.--_n._ VOLIT[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L.
_volans_, _antis_, pr.p. of _vol[=a]re_, to fly.]

VOLANTE, v[=o]-lan'te, _n._ a two-wheeled covered vehicle with long shafts,
with a chaise-body hung before the axle, driven by a postillion. [Sp.]

VOLAPÜK, v[=o]-la-pük', _n._ a name given to a universal language invented
in 1879 by Johann Schleyer of Constance, Baden, the vocabulary being mainly
based on English, and the grammar being simplified to the utmost.--_n._
VOLAPÜK'IST, one versed in Volapük: one who advocates the adoption of
Volapük. [Lit. 'world-speech'--_vol_, shortened from Eng. _world_, _pük_,
for Eng. _speak_.]

VOLAR, v[=o]'lar, _adj._ pertaining to the palm, palmar.--_n._ V[=O]'LA,
the hollow of the hand or foot:--_pl._ V[=O]'LÆ. [L.]

VOLCANO, vol-k[=a]'no, _n._ a more or less conical hill or mountain,
usually truncated, and communicating with the interior of the earth by a
pipe or funnel, through which issue hot vapours and gases, and frequently
loose fragmentary materials and streams of molten rock: a form of
firework.--_adj._ VOLCAN'IC, pertaining to, produced, or affected by a
volcano.--_adv._ VOLCAN'ICALLY.--_n._ VOLCANIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
VOL'CANISE, to subject to the action of volcanic heat.--_ns._ VOL'CANISM,
VOLCANIC'ITY, phenomena connected with volcanoes; VOL'CANIST, a student of
volcanic phenomena; VOLCAN'ITY, state of being volcanic; VOLC[=A]'NOISM
(_rare_), violent eruptiveness.--_adj._ VOLCANOLOG'ICAL.--_n._
VOLCANOL'OGY.--VOLCANIC ROCKS, those formed by volcanic agency. [It.
_volcano_--L. _Volcanus_, _Vulcanus_, god of fire.]

VOLE, v[=o]l, _n._ in card-playing, the winning of all the tricks in one
deal.--_v.i._ to win such. [Fr.,--L. _vol[=a]re_, to fly.]

VOLE, v[=o]l, _n._ a genus of rodent quadrupeds of the subfamily
_Arvicolinæ_, which also includes the lemmings, the musk-rats, &c., the
Field-vole, the Water-vole, popularly called the water-rat, and the
Bank-vole.

VOLERY. See under VOLANT.

VOLET, vol'[=a], _n._ a veil: one of the wings of a triptych picture. [O.
Fr., 'a shutter'--L. _vol[=a]re_, to fly.]

VOLITANT, vol'i-tant, _adj._ having the power of flight.--_n._
VOLIT[=A]'TION, act of flying.

VOLITION, v[=o]-lish'un, _n._ act of willing or choosing: the exercise of
the will: the power of determining.--_adjs._ VOLI'TIENT (_rare_), willing;
VOLI'TIONAL, VOLI'TIONARY.--_adv._ VOLI'TIONALLY.--_adjs._ VOLI'TIONLESS;
VOL'ITIVE, having power to will: expressing a wish. [Low L. _volitio_--L.
_volo_, _velle_, to will, be willing.]

VOLKSLIED, f[=o]lks'l[=e]t, _n._ a folk-song. [Ger.]

VOLKSRAAD, f[=o]lks'rät, _n._ the name of the legislative assembly of the
Orange Free State before its final annexation by England in 1900.

VOLLEY, vol'i, _n._ a flight of shot: the discharge of many small-arms at
once: an outburst of many at once: in tennis and lawn-tennis, a hard return
of the ball before it reaches the ground--_half-volley_ is a return by
striking the ball just as it touches or rises from the ground:--_pl._
VOLL'EYS.--_v.t._ to discharge in a volley.--_v.i._ to fly together, as
missiles: to sound together: in lawn-tennis, to use the stroke so called.
[Fr. _volée_, a flight--_voler_--L. _vol[=a]re_, to fly.]

VOLSUNGS, vol'sungz, _n.pl._ a famous heroic race in old German legend, its
founder _Volsung_ or Wolsung, the grandson of Odin, and its brightest
ornament Volsung's son, Siegmund.

VOLT, v[=o]lt, _n._ a turn or bound: a sudden movement or leap to avoid a
thrust: a gait of two treads made by a horse going sideways round a
centre.--_n._ VOL'TAGE. [Fr. _volte_--It. _volta_--L. _volv[)e]re_,
_volutum_, to turn.]

VOLT, v[=o]lt, _n._ the unit of electro-motive force now in universal use
among electricians, defined legally in terms of the ohm and ampere.--_adj._
VOL'TA-ELEC'TRIC, of or pertaining to galvanism.--_n._
VOL'TA-ELECTROM'ETER, an instrument for measuring electric
currents.--_adj._ VOL'TA-ELECTROM[=O]'TIVE.--_n._ V[=O]L'TAGE,
electro-motive force reckoned in volts.--_adj._ VOLT[=A]'IC, pertaining to
Alessandro _Volta_, an Italian scientist (1745-1826), who mainly developed
the theory of current electricity along purely physical lines, discovered
the electric decomposition of water, and invented a new electric battery,
the electrophorus, and the electroscope.--_ns._ VOL'TAISM, that branch of
electric science which treats of the production of an electric current from
the chemical interaction of two immersed dissimilar metals (same as
GALVANISM); VOLTAM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the decomposition
produced by an electric current; V[=O]LT'-AM'PERE, the rate of activity in
an electric circuit when the electro-motive force is one volt and the
current one ampere; VOLT'ATYPE, an electrotype; V[=O]LT'METER, an
instrument for measuring voltage.--VOLTAIC PILE, a galvanic battery.

VOLTA, v[=o]l'ta, _n._ an old dance: (_mus._) turn, time:--_pl._ VOL'TE
(-te). [It.]

VOLTAIRIAN, vol-t[=a]r'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Voltaire_, a famous
French poet, dramatist, historian, and sceptic (1694-1778).--_n._ one who
advocates the views and principles of VOLTAIRE.--_ns._ VOLTAIR'IANISM, the
spirit of Voltaire--i.e. a sceptical, incredulous, and sarcastic attitude,
especially towards Christianity; VOLTAIR'ISM, incredulity, scepticism.

VOLTIGEUR, vol-ti-zh[.e]r', _n._ a vaulter or tumbler: formerly in the
French army, one of a light-armed company of picked men placed on the left
of a battalion: under the Second Empire, a member of several special
infantry regiments. [Fr.]

VOLUBLE, vol'[=u]-bl, _adj._ easy to roll or move: flowing smoothly: fluent
in speech.--_adj._ VOL'UBILE (_Milt._), rolling: revolving.--_ns._
VOLUBIL'ITY, VOL'UBLENESS, state or quality of being voluble: fluency of
speech.--_adv._ VOL'UBLY. [L. _volubilis_--_volv[)e]re_, _volutum_, to
roll.]

VOLUCRINE, vol'[=u]-krin, _adj._ pertaining to birds, bird-like. [L.
_volucris_, a bird--_vol[=a]re_, to fly.]

VOLUME, vol'[=u]m, _n._ a roll or scroll, which was the form of ancient
books: a book, whether complete in itself or part of a work: a rounded
mass, convolution: cubical content: a quantity: dimensions: fullness of
voice.--_v.i._ to swell.--_adj._ VOL'UMED, having the form of a volume or
roll: of volume or bulk.--_ns._ VOLUMENOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring
the volume of a solid body by the quantity of fluid it displaces;
VOL'UM[=E]TER, an instrument for measuring the volumes of gases.--_adjs._
VOLUMET'RIC, -AL.--_adv._ VOLUMET'RICALLY.--_adjs._ VOL[=U]'MINAL,
pertaining to cubical content; VOL[=U]'MINOUS, consisting of many volumes
or books, or of many coils: of great bulk: having written much, as an
author: in many volumes, capable of filling many volumes.--_adv._
VOL[=U]'MINOUSLY.--_ns._ VOL[=U]'MINOUSNESS, VOLUMINOS'ITY; VOL'[=U]MIST
(_rare_), an author.--VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS, the analysis of a compound by
determining the quantity of a standard solution required to satisfy a
reaction in a known quantity of the compound.--SPEAK, TELL, VOLUMES, to
mean much, to be very significant. [Fr.,--L. _volumen_, a
roll--_volv[)e]re_, _volutum_, to roll.]

VOLUNTARY, vol'un-ta-ri, _adj._ willing: acting by choice: free: proceeding
from the will: subject to the will: done by design or without compulsion:
of or pertaining to voluntaryism.--_n._ one who does anything of his own
free-will: a piece of music played at will: an upholder of
voluntaryism.--_adv._ VOL'UNTARILY.--_ns._ VOL'UNTARINESS; VOL'UNTARYISM,
the system of maintaining the Church by voluntary offerings, instead of by
the aid of the State, as alone consistent with true religious liberty,
involving freedom from State support, patronage, or control;
VOL'UNTARYIST.--_adj._ VOL'UNT[=A]TIVE, voluntary.--VOLUNTARY SCHOOL, in
England, one of a number of elementary schools supported by voluntary
subscriptions, and in many cases controlled by religious bodies. [L.
_voluntarius_--_voluntas_, choice--_volo_, _velle_, to will.]

VOLUNTEER, vol-un-t[=e]r', _n._ one who enters any service, esp. military,
voluntarily or of his own free choice: a soldier belonging to any body
other than the regular army.--_adj._ entering into service
voluntarily.--_v.t._ to offer voluntarily.--_v.i._ to enter into any
service of one's own free-will or without being asked. [Fr.
_volontaire_--L. _voluntarius_.]

VOLUPTUARY, v[=o]-lup't[=u]-a-ri, _n._ a voluptuous person, or one
excessively given to bodily enjoyments or luxury: a sensualist.--_adj._
promoting sensual pleasure. [L. _voluptuarius_--_voluptas_, pleasure.]

VOLUPTUOUS, v[=o]-lup't[=u]-us, _adj._ full of pleasure: given to excess of
pleasure, esp. sensual: contributing to sensual pleasure.--_adv._
VOLUP'TUOUSLY.--_n._ VOLUP'TUOUSNESS. [L. _voluptuosus_--_voluptas_,
pleasure.]

VOLUSPA, vol-us-pä', _n._ one of the poems of the Elder Edda: a sibyl or
prophetess--a wrong use, though found in Scott's _Pirate_. [Ice. _Völuspá_,
the song of the sibyl, _völu_, gen. of _völva_, a prophetess, _spá_,
prophecy.]

VOLUTE, v[=o]-l[=u]t', _n._ a spiral scroll used in the Ionic and
Corinthian capitals: a kind of spiral shell, chiefly tropical: whorl of a
spiral shell.--_adj._ (_bot._) rolled up in any direction.--_adj._
VOL[=U]'TED, having a volute.--_n._ VOL[=U]'TION, a convolution: a
whorl.--_adj._ VOL'[=U]TOID, like a volute. [Fr.,--L. _volv[)e]re_,
_volutum_, to roll.]

VOLVE, volv, _v.t._ (_obs._) to turn over, ponder. [L. _volv[)e]re_, to
turn.]

VOLVOX, vol'voks, _n._ a genus of simple organisms found in ponds, canals,
&c., being fresh-water algæ, consisting of green flagellate cells, united
by protoplasmic bridges in a hollow spherical colony. [Formed from L.
_volv[)e]re_, to roll.]

VOLVULUS, vol'v[=u]-lus; _n._ occlusion of the intestine through twisting.

VOMER, v[=o]'m[.e]r, _n._ the thin flat bone forming part of the middle
partition of the nose, separating the nostrils. [L., 'a ploughshare.']

VOMIT, vom'it, _v.i._ to throw up the contents of the stomach by the mouth,
to spew.--_v.t._ to throw out with violence.--_n._ matter ejected from the
stomach: something that excites vomiting.--_adj._ VOM'IC, purulent.--_n._
VOM'ICA, a cavity in the lung containing pus; VOM'ITING, act of one who
vomits: matter vomited.--_adjs._ VOM'ITIVE, VOM'ITORY, causing to
vomit.--_n._ a vomit or emetic.--_ns._ VOM'ITO, the worst form of yellow
fever, usually attended with the black vomit; VOM'ITORY, a door of a large
building by which the crowd is let out; VOMITURI'TION, violent retching.
[L. _vom[)e]re_, _-[)i]tum_, to throw up; Gr. _emein_.]

VOODOO, VOUDOU, v[=oo]-d[=oo], _n._ the name given in the southern United
States to any practiser of witchcraft, or of any charm, incantation, &c.,
especially when tinctured with African rites or superstitions: the supreme
evil spirit of the voodoos.--_adj._ pertaining to the rites or practices of
the voodoo.--_v.t._ to affect by voodoo charms.--_n._ VOODOO'ISM, voodoo
superstitions. [Creole Fr. _vaudoux_, a negro sorcerer, prob. a form of Fr.
_Vaudois_, a Waldensian--a heretic being capable of any kind of
wickedness.]

VORACIOUS, v[=o]-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ eager to devour: greedy: very
hungry.--_adv._ VOR[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ VORAC'ITY, VOR[=A]'CIOUSNESS,
quality of being voracious. [L. _vorax_, _voracis_--_vor[=a]re_, to
devour.]

VORAGINOUS, v[=o]-raj'i-nus, _adj._ pertaining to a whirlpool.--_n._
VOR[=A]'GO (-g[=o]), a gulf. [L. _vorago_.]

VORANT, v[=o]'rant, _adj._ (_her._) devouring. [L. _vorans_, pr.p. of
_vorare_, to devour.]

VORTEX, vor'teks, _n._ a whirling motion of a fluid forming a cavity in the
centre: a whirlpool: an eddy having a rotational motion of the smallest
visible portion in the centre:--_pl._ VOR'TICES, VOR'TEXES.--_ns._
VOR'TEX-RING (_phys._), a vortical molecular filament or column forming a
ring composed of a number of small rotating circles, placed side by
side--e.g. the smoke-rings emitted by a skilful cigarette-smoker;
VOR'TEX-TH[=E]'ORY, the theory that matter is ultimately composed of
vortices in a fluid--a conception due to Lord Kelvin.--_adj._ VOR'TICAL,
whirling.--_adv._ VOR'TICALLY.--_adjs._ VOR'TICOSE, VORTIC'[=U]LAR,
VORTIGINAL (-ij'-), VORTIGINOUS (-ij'-). [L. _vortex_,
_vertex_--_vort[)e]re_, _vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

VORTICELLA, vor-ti-sel'a, _n._ a genus of ciliated Infusorians belonging to
the order _Peritricha_, in which the cilia are restricted to a fringe round
the mouth. [From L. _vortex_, a whirl.]

VOTARY, v[=o]'ta-ri, _adj._ bound or consecrated by a vow.--_n._ one
devoted as by a vow to some service, worship, or way of life:--_fem._
V[=O]'TARESS.--_n._ V[=O]'TARIST, a votary. [Low L. _votarius_--L. _votum_,
to vow.]

VOTE, v[=o]t, _n._ expression of a wish or opinion, as to a matter in which
one has interest: that by which a choice is expressed, as a ballot:
decision by a majority: something granted by the will of the
majority.--_v.i._ to express the choice by a vote.--_v.t._ to choose by a
vote: to grant by a vote: (_coll._) to declare by general consent.--_adjs._
V[=O]'TABLE, capable of voting; VOTE'LESS.--_ns._ V[=O]'TER;
V[=O]'TING-P[=A]'PER, a balloting-paper, used in the election of members to
Parliament.--VOTE DOWN, to put an end to by a vote, or otherwise; VOTE
STRAIGHT, to give one's vote honestly.--CUMULATIVE VOTING, that system of
voting in which the voter has a right to as many votes as there are members
to be elected, and may give all his votes or as many as he pleases to one
candidate.--SPLIT ONE'S VOTES, to divide one's votes judiciously among
several candidates so as to strengthen those one favours. [L. _votum_, a
wish--_vov[=e]re_, _votum_, to vow.]

VOTIVE, v[=o]'tiv, _adj._ given by vow: vowed.--_adv._
V[=O]'TIVELY.--VOTIVE OFFERING, a tablet, picture, &c. dedicated in
fulfilment of a vow. [L. _votivus_--_votum_, a vow.]

VOUCH, vowch, _v.t._ to call upon to witness: to maintain by repeated
affirmations: to warrant: to attest: to produce vouchers for: (_Milt._) to
second, support.--_v.i._ to bear witness: to give testimony.--_n._
confirmation, attestation.--_ns._ VOUCHEE', the person vouched or summoned
in a writ of right; VOUCH'ER, one who vouches or gives witness: a paper
which vouches or confirms the truth of anything, as accounts: a mechanical
contrivance used in shops for automatically registering the amount of money
drawn; VOUCH'MENT, a solemn declaration. [O. Fr. _voucher_, _vocher_, to
call to defend--L. _voc[=a]re_, to call.]

VOUCHSAFE, vowch-s[=a]f, _v.t._ to vouch or warrant safe: to sanction or
allow without danger: to condescend to grant.--_v.i._ to condescend.--_n._
VOUCHSAFE'MENT.

VOULGE, v[=oo]zh, _n._ a weapon carried by foot-soldiers in the 14th
century, having a blade fixed on a long staff. [Fr.]

VOUSSOIR, v[=oo]-swär', _n._ one of the wedge-like stones which form part
of an arch.--_v.t._ to form with such. [Fr., through Low L., from L.
_volutus_--_volv[)e]re_, to roll.]

VOW, vow, _n._ a voluntary promise made to God, and, as such, carrying with
it the most stringent obligation to its fulfilment: a solemn or formal
promise of fidelity or affection: (_Shak._) a positive assertion.--_v.t._
to give by solemn promise: to devote: to threaten, to maintain
solemnly.--_v.i._ to make vows.--_n._ VOW'-FELL'OW (_Shak._), one bound by
the same vow.--BAPTISMAL VOWS, the promises made at baptism by the person
baptised, or by the sponsors or parents in his name; MONASTIC VOWS (see
MONASTERY); SOLEMN, as opposed to SIMPLE VOWS, such vows as the Church
takes under her special charge, or is said in a solemn manner to accept, as
those of poverty, obedience, and chastity, involving complete and
irrevocable surrender. [O. Fr. _vou_ (Fr. _voeu_)--L. _votum_--_vov[=e]re_,
to vow.]

VOWEL, vow'el, _n._ a sound or tone produced by the unimpeded passage of
the breath, when modified by the glottis into _voice_, through the tube of
the mouth, which is made to assume different shapes by altering the form
and position of the tongue and the lips--the letters _a_, _e_, _i_, _o_,
_u_ are called vowels, as being able to be sounded by themselves, with a
continuous passage of the breath; but there are thirteen simple vowel
sounds in English.--_adj._ vocal: pertaining to a vowel.--_vs.t._ VOW'EL,
VOW'ELISE, to insert vowel signs in words written primarily with consonants
only.--_ns._ VOW'ELISM, the use of vowels; VOW'ELIST, one given to
vowelism.--_adjs._ VOW'ELLED, furnished with vowels; VOW'ELLESS, without
vowels; VOW'ELLY, full of vowels.--VOWEL POINTS, marks inserted in
consonantal word to indicate vowels. [Fr. _voyelle_--L. _vocalis_--_vox_,
_vocis_, the voice.]

VOX, voks, _n._ voice: a voice or song part.--VOX ANGELICA, or CÆLESTIS, in
organ-building, a stop producing a wavy effect; VOX HUMANA, in
organ-building, a reed-stop producing tones resembling those of the human
voice. [L.]

VOYAGE, voi'[=a]j, _n._ passage by water: (_Shak._) an enterprise.--_v.i._
to make a voyage, or to pass by water.--_v.t._ to traverse, pass
over.--_adj._ VOY'AGE-ABLE, navigable.--_n._ VOY'AGER, one who
voyages.--_n.pl._ VOYAGEURS (vwo-ya-zher'), name given in Canada to the men
who in their bark canoes kept up communication between the stations, and
effected transportation of men and supplies, in the North-west and Hudson's
Bay territory. [Fr.,--L. _viaticum_, travelling-money--L. _via_, a way.]

VRAISEMBLANCE, vr[=a]-song-blongs', _n._ verisimilitude. [Fr., _vrai_,
true, _semblance_, appearance.]

VUG, vug, _n._ a Cornish miner's name for a cavity in a rock.--_adj._
VUG'GY.

VULCAN, vul'kan, _n._ (_Roman myth._) the god of fire.--_n._
VULCAN[=A]'LIA, an ancient Roman, festival in honour of VULCAN, held on 23d
August.--_adjs._ VULC[=A]'NIAN, pertaining to VULCAN, or to one who works
in iron; VULCAN'IC (same as VOLCANIC).--_n._ VULCANIC'ITY,
volcanicity.--_adj._ VULCAN[=I]'SABLE.--_n._ VULCANIS[=A]'-TION.--_v.t._
VUL'CANISE, to combine with sulphur by heat, as caoutchouc--_v.i._ to admit
of such treatment.--_ns._ VUL'CANISM, volcanism; VUL'CANIST, a supporter of
the Huttonian theory in geology which asserted the igneous origin of such
rocks as basalt; VUL'CANITE, the harder of the two kinds of vulcanised
india-rubber or caoutchouc, the softer kind being called _soft-rubber_. [L.
_Vulcanus_.]

VULGAR, vul'gar, _adj._ pertaining to or used by the common people, native:
public: common; national, vernacular: mean or low: rude.--_n._ the common
people: the common language of a country.--_ns._ VULG[=A]'RIAN, a vulgar
person: a rich unrefined person; VULGARIS[=A]'TION, a making widely known:
a making coarse or common.--_v.t._ VUL'GARISE, to make vulgar or
rude.--_ns._ VUL'GARISM, a vulgar phrase: coarseness; VULGAR'ITY,
VUL'GARNESS, quality of being vulgar: mean condition of life: rudeness of
manners.--_adv._ VUL'GARLY.--_n._ VUL'GATE, an ancient Latin version of the
Scriptures, so called from its common use in the R.C. Church, prepared by
Jerome in the fourth century, and pronounced 'authentic' by the Council of
Trent.--VULGAR FRACTION, a fraction written in the common way.--THE VULGAR,
the common people. [L. _vulgaris_--_vulgus_, the people.]

VULNERABLE, vul'ne-ra-bl, _adj._ capable of being wounded: liable to
injury.--_v.t._ VULN (_her._), to wound.--_adj._ VULNED (_her._).--_ns._
VULNERABIL'ITY, VUL'NERABLENESS.--_adj._ VUL'NERARY, pertaining to wounds:
useful in healing wounds.--_n._ anything useful in curing wounds.--_adj._
VUL'NEROSE, with many wounds. [L. _vulnerabilis_--_vulner[=a]re_, to
wound--_vulnus_, _vulneris_, a wound.]

VULPINE, vul'pin, _adj._ relating to or like the fox: cunning.--_adj._
VULPEC'[=U]LAR, vulpine.--_ns._ VUL'PICIDE, the killing of a fox: a
fox-killer; VUL'PINISM, craftiness. [L.,--_vulpes_, a fox.]

VULSELLA, vul-sel'a, _n._ a forceps with toothed or clawed blades:--_pl._
VULSELL'Æ (-[=e]). [L.]

VULTURE, vul't[=u]r, _n._ a large rapacious bird of prey, feeding largely
on carrion: one who or that which resembles a vulture.--_adjs._
VUL'T[=U]RINE, VUL'T[=U]RISH, VUL'T[=U]ROUS, like the vulture:
rapacious.--_ns._ VUL'TURISM, rapacity; VUL'TURN, the Australian
brush-turkey. [O. Fr. _voutour_ (Fr. _vautour_)--L. _vultur_; perh. from
_vell[)e]re_, to pluck, to tear.]

VULVA, vul'va, _n._ the orifice of the external organs of generation of the
female.--_adjs._ VUL'VAR, VUL'VATE; VUL'VIFORM, oval.--_ns._ VULVIS'MUS,
vaginismus; VULV[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the vulva.--_adjs._
VULVO-[=U]'TERINE, pertaining to the vulva and the uterus; VULVOVAG'INAL,
pertaining to the vulva and the vagina.--_n._ VULVOVAGIN[=I]'TIS,
inflammation of both the vulva and the vagina.

VUM, vum, _v.i._ (_U.S._) a corruption of _vow_, in phrase 'I vum.'

VYING, v[=i]'ing, _pr.p._ of _vie_.

       *       *       *       *       *

W the twenty-third letter of our alphabet, like _æ_, a ligature rather than
a letter, with a double value, as consonant and as vowel--when the sound is
voiced we have _w_, as in 'we' or 'wen,' the corresponding unvoiced sound
being _wh_, as in 'when,' 'what.' A final _w_ is vocalic, as in 'few.' The
A.S. _hw_ has become _wh_; _cw_ has become _qu_ as in _queen_, from A.S.
_cwén_; while _w_ is occasionally intrusive, as in _whole_, from A.S.
_hál_.

WABBLE, WOBBLE, wob'l, _v.i._ to incline alternately to one side and the
other: to rock, to vacillate.--_n._ a hobbling, unequal motion.--_ns._
WABB'LER, WOBB'LER, one who or that which wabbles: a boiled leg of
mutton.--_adjs._ WABB'LY, WOBB'LY, shaky, given to wabbling.--_adj._ and
_n._ WOBB'LING, vacillating. [Low Ger. _wabbeln_, to wabble; cog. with Eng.
_waver_.]

WABSTER, wab'st[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a webster, weaver.

WACKE, wak'e, _n._ German miners' term for a soft, grayish kind of
trap-rock.

WAD, wod, _n._ a mass of loose matter thrust close together for packing,
&c., as hay, tow, &c.: a little mass of paper, tow, or the like to keep the
charge in a gun.--_v.t._ to form into a mass: to pad, stuff out: to stuff a
wad into:--_pr.p._ wad'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wad'ded.--_n._ WAD'DING, a
wad, or the materials for wads: a soft stuff, also sheets of carded cotton
for stuffing garments, &c. [Skeat refers to Scand., Sw. _vadd_, wadding;
cf. Ger. _watte_, wadding, _wat_, cloth (whence Fr. _ouate_); ult. allied
to _weed_.]

WAD, wad, a Scotch form of _wed_, also of _would_.

WAD, WADD, wod, _n._ an earthy ore of manganese.

WADDLE, wod'l, _v.i._ to take short steps and move from side to side in
walking.--_n._ a clumsy, rocking gait.--_n._ WADD'LER.--_adv._ WADD'LINGLY,
with a waddling gait. [Perh. _wade_.]

WADDY, wad'i, _n._ a native Australian wooden war-club, a
walking-stick--also WADD'IE.--_v.t._ to strike with a waddy.

WADE, w[=a]d, _v.i._ to walk through any substance that yields to the feet,
as water: to pass with difficulty or labour.--_n._ (_coll._) a ford.--_n._
W[=A]'DER, one who wades: a bird that wades, e.g, the heron: (_pl._) high
waterproof boots used by fishermen for wading. [A.S. _wadan_, to move; Ger.
_waten_.]

WADI, WADY, wod'i, _n._ the dry bed of a torrent: a river-valley. [Ar.
_wad[=i]_, a ravine (Sp. _guad-_, first syllable of many river-names).]

WADMAL, wod'mal, _n._ (_Scot._) a thick woollen cloth.--Also WAD'MOLL.
[Ice. _vadhmál_--_vadhr_, cloth, _mál_, a measure.]

WADSET, wod'set, _n._ a mortgage--also WAD'SETT.--_n._ WAD'SETTER, a
mortgagee. [_Wad_=_wed_, _set_.]

WAE, w[=a], _n._ (_Spens._) woe.--_adj._ (_Scot._) sorrowful.--_adjs._
WAE'FUL, WAE'SOME, woeful, pitiful.--_n._ WAE'NESS, sadness.--_interj._
WAE'SUCKS, alas!

WAFER, w[=a]'f[.e]r, _n._ a thin round cake of unleavened bread, usually
stamped with a cross, an Agnus Dei, the letters I.H.S., &c., used in the
Eucharist in the R.C. Church: a thin leaf of coloured paste for sealing
letters, &c.: a thin cake of paste used to facilitate the swallowing of
powders.--_v.t._ to close with a wafer.--_n._ W[=A]'FER-CAKE.--_adj._
W[=A]'FERY, like a wafer. [O. Fr. _waufre_ (Fr. _gaufre_)--Old Dut.
_waefel_, a cake of wax; Ger. _wabe_, a honeycomb.]

WAFF, waf, _adj._ (_Scot._) weak, worthless, paltry.--_n._ a worthless
person. [_Waif_.]

WAFF, waf, _n._ (_Scot._) a slight hasty motion: a quick light blow: a
sudden ailment: a faint but disagreeable odour: a ghost.

WAFF, waf, _n._ an obsolete form of _wave_.

WAFF, waf, _v.i._ (_prov._) to bark.--Also WAUGH.

WAFFLE, wof'l, _n._ a kind of batter-cake, baked over the fire in an iron
utensil of hinged halves called a WAFF'LE-[=I]'RON. [Dut. _wafel_, wafer.]

WAFFLE, wof'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to wave. [_Waff_ (3).]

WAFT, waft, _v.t._ to bear through a fluid medium, as air or water:
(_Shak._) to wave the hand, beckon, to turn.--_v.i._ to float.--_n._ a
floating body: a signal made by moving something in the air, esp. an
ensign, stopped together at the head and middle portions, slightly rolled
up lengthwise, and hoisted at different positions at the after-part of a
ship: a breath, puff, slight odour.--_ns._ WAF'T[=A]GE, act of wafting,
transportation in air or water; WAF'TER, one who or that which wafts;
WAF'T[=U]RE (_Shak._), act of wafting or of waving, waving motion,
beckoning. [_Wave_.]

WAG, wag, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to move from side to side: to shake to and fro:
(_coll._) to depart: (_Shak._) to move on, make progress:--_pr.p._
wag'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wagged.--_n._ a shaking, moving to and fro.
[Referred by Skeat to Old Sw. _wagga_, to wag (Ice. _vagga_, a cradle);
allied to A.S. _wagian_, to wag, Old High Ger. _wag[=o]n_, to shake, A.S.
_wegan_, to carry, move.]

WAG, wag, _n._ a droll, mischievous fellow: a man full of sport and humour:
a wit: a fellow generally.--_n._ WAG'GERY, mischievous merriment.--_adjs._
WAG'GISH--(_rare_) WAG'SOME.--_adv._ WAG'GISHLY.--_ns._ WAG'GISHNESS;
WAG'-WIT, a would-be wit. [Prob. _waghalter_, one who deserves hanging.]

WAGE, w[=a]j, _v.t._ to pledge: to engage in as if by pledge: to carry on,
esp. of war: to venture: (_prov._) to hire for pay: (_Shak._) to pay wages
to: (_Spens._) to let out for pay.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to be equal in value,
to contend, battle (_with_).--_n._ a gage or stake: that for which one
labours: wages.--_ns._ WAGE'-EARN'ER, one receiving pay for work done;
WAGE'-FUND, W[=A]'GES-FUND THEORY, the theory that there is at any given
time in a country a determinate amount of capital available for the payment
of labour, therefore the average wage depends on the proportion of this
fund to the number of persons who have to share in it; W[=A]'GER, that
which is waged or pledged: something staked on the issue of anything: a
bet: that on which bets are laid: (_law_) an offer to make oath.--_v.t._ to
hazard on the issue of anything.--_v.i._ to lay a wager.--_n._
W[=A]'GERER.--_n.pl._ W[=A]'GES (used as _sing._), wage: that which is paid
for services.--_n._ WAGE'-WORK, work done for wages.--WAGER OF BATTLE,
trial by combat, an ancient usage which permitted the accused and accuser,
in defect of sufficient direct evidence, to challenge each other to mortal
combat, for issue of the dispute.--LIVING WAGE (see LIVING). [O. Fr.
_wager_ (Fr. _gager_), to pledge.]

WAGGLE, wag'l, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to wag or move from side to side. [Freq.
of _wag_ (1).]

WAGMOIRE, wag'moir, _n._ (_Spens._) a quagmire.

WAGNERIAN, vag-n[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to or characterised by the
ideas or style of Richard _Wagner_ (1813-83), a famous German composer of
music-dramas: pertaining to Rudolf _Wagner_ (1805-64), a famous
physiologist.--_ns._ WAG'NERISM, WAGNE'RIANISM, the art theory of Richard
Wagner, its main object being the freeing of opera from traditional and
conventional forms, and its one canon, dramatic fitness; WAG'NERIST, an
adherent of Wagner's musical methods.

WAGON, WAGGON, wag'un, _n._ a four-wheeled vehicle for carrying heavy
goods: (_Shak._) a chariot.--_v.t._ to transport by wagon.--_ns._
WAG'ONAGE, money, paid for conveyance by wagon; WAG'ON-BOX, -BED, the
carrying part of a wagon; WAG'ONER, WAG'GONER, one who conducts a wagon:
(_Shak._) a charioteer: (_Spens._) the constellation Auriga; WAGONETTE', a
kind of open carriage built to carry six or eight persons, with one or two
seats crosswise in front, and two back seats arranged lengthwise and facing
inwards; WAG'ONFUL, as much as a wagon will hold; WAG'ON-LOAD, the load
carried by a wagon: a great amount; WAG'ON-LOCK, a kind of iron shoe which
is placed on the rear-wheel of a wagon to retard motion in going downhill;
WAG'ON-TRAIN, the machines used by an army for the conveyance of
ammunition, provisions, sick, &c.; WAG'ON-WRIGHT, a maker of wagons. [Dut.
_wagen_; A.S. _wægn_, Eng., _wain_.] WAGTAIL, wag't[=a]l, _n._ any bird of
the family _Motacillidæ_, so named from their constant wagging of the
tail--the pipits or titlarks, &c.: (_Shak._) a pert person.

WAHABEE, WAHABAI, wä-hä'b[=e], _n._ one of a sect of Puritan Moslems
founded in Central Arabia about 1760 by Abd-el-_Wahhab_ (1691-1787), whose
aim was to restore primitive Mohammedanism--also WAHÄ'BITE.--_n._
WAHÄ'BIISM, the doctrine and practices of the Wahabis.

WAHOO, wa-h[=oo]', _n._ the burning bush, a richly ornamental shrub: the
bear-berry, which yields cascara sagrada: the winged elm, with valuable
hard-grained wood.

WAID, WAIDE. Old spellings of _weighed_.

WAIF, w[=a]f, _n._ a stray article: anything found astray without an owner:
a worthless wanderer.--_adj._ vagabond, worthless. [O. Fr. _waif_,
_wef_--Ice. _veif_, any flapping or waving thing.]

WAIFT, w[=a]ft, _n._ (_Spens._) a waif.

WAIL, w[=a]l, _v.i._ to lament or sorrow audibly.--_v.t._ to bemoan: to
grieve over.--_n._ a cry of woe: loud weeping.--_n._ WAIL'ER.--_adj._
WAIL'FUL, sorrowful, mournful.--_n._ WAIL'ING.--_adv._ WAIL'INGLY. [M. E.
_weilen_--Ice. _vaela_, _vála_, to wail--_væ_, _vei_, woe.]

WAIN, w[=a]n, _n._ a wagon.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to carry.--_ns._ WAIN'AGE, the
team and implements necessary for the cultivation of land; WAIN'-ROPE, a
rope for binding a load on a wain or wagon; WAIN'WRIGHT, a
wagon-maker.--THE LESSER WAIN, the constellation Ursa Minor. [A.S. _wægen_,
_wæn_--_wegen_, to carry; cf. Ger. _wagen_, L. _veh[)e]re_.]

WAINSCOT, w[=a]n'skot, _n._ the panelled boards on the walls of apartments:
a collector's name for certain noctuoid moths.--_v.t._ to line with, or as
if with, boards or panels.--_ns._ WAIN'SCOTING, WAIN'SCOTTING, the act of
lining with boards or panels: materials for making a wainscot. [Orig. perh.
wood used for a partition in a wagon--Dut. _wagenschot_, oakwood,
beechwood--_wagen_, wagon, _schot_, partition. Skeat explains as a corr. of
Old Dut. _waegheschot_, wall-hoarding, from Old Dut. _waeg_, a wall,
_schot_, a partition.]

WAIST, w[=a]st, _n._ the smallest part of the human trunk, between the ribs
and the hips: the bodice of a woman's dress: the middle part, as of a ship,
of a musical instrument--(_Shak._) of a period of time; (_Shak._) something
that surrounds.--_ns._ WAIST'-ANCHOR, an anchor stowed in the waist of a
ship; WAIST'BAND, the band or part of a garment which encircles the waist;
WAIST'BELT, a belt for the waist; WAIST'BOAT, a boat carried in the waist
of a vessel; WAIST'CLOTH, a piece of cloth worn around the waist, and
hanging below it, in India; WAIST'COAT, a short coat worn immediately under
the coat, and fitting the waist tightly; WAISTCOATEER' (_obs._), a
strumpet; WAIST'COATING, material for men's waistcoats, usually of a fancy
pattern and containing silk.--_adjs._ WAIST'-DEEP, -HIGH, as deep, high, as
to reach up to the waist.--_n._ WAIST'ER, a green-hand on a whaler: an old
man-of-war's-man who has not risen. [A.S. _wæxt_, growth (Ice. _vöxtr_);
conn, with _wæstme_, growth, _weaxen_, to grow.]

WAIT, w[=a]t, _v.i._ to stay in expectation (with _for_): to remain: to
attend (with _on_): to follow: to lie in ambush.--_v.t._ to stay for: to
await: (_coll._) to defer: (_obs._) to accompany.--_n._ ambush, now used
only in such phrases as 'to lie in wait,' 'to lay wait:' the: act of
waiting or expecting: delay: (_pl._) itinerant musicians, originally
watchmen, who welcome-in Christmas.--_ns._ WAIT'ER, one who waits: an
attending servant: a salver or tray: a custom-house officer: (_obs._) a
watchman; WAIT'ERAGE, service; WAIT'ERING, the employment of a waiter;
WAIT'ING, act of waiting: attendance.--_adv._ WAIT'INGLY.--_ns._
WAIT'ING-MAID, -WOM'AN, a female attendant; WAIT'ING-ROOM, a room for the
convenience of persons waiting; WAIT'ING-VASS'AL (_Shak._), an attendant;
WAIT'RESS, a female waiter.--WAIT ATTENDANCE (_Shak._), to remain in
attendance; WAIT UPON, ON, to call upon, visit: to accompany, to be in the
service of: (_B._) to look toward, to attend to, do the bidding of.--LIE IN
WAIT, to be in hiding ready for attack or surprise.--LORDS, or GROOMS, IN
WAITING, certain officers in the Lord Chamberlain's department of the royal
household; MINORITY WAITER, a waiter out of employment, as a political
minority is out of office. [O. Fr. _waiter_ (Fr. _guetter_), to watch,
attend--_waite_, a sentinel--Old High Ger. _wahta_ (Ger. _wacht_), a
watchman; cog. with A.S. _wacan_, to watch.]

WAIVE, w[=a]v, _v.t._ to relinquish for the present: to give up claim to:
not to insist on a right or claim.--_n._ WAI'VER, the act of waiving:
renouncement of a claim: process by which a woman was outlawed. [O. Fr.
_guever_, to refuse, resign--perh. Ice. _veifa_, to move to and fro; cf. L.
_vibr[=a]re_.]

WAIVODE, WAIWODE, WAIWODESHIP. Same as VOIVODE, &c.

WAKE, w[=a]k, _v.i._ to cease from sleep: to lie awake: (_B._) to watch: to
be roused up, active, or vigilant: to return to life: (_Shak._) to hold a
late revel: to keep vigil.--_v.t._ to rouse from sleep: to keep vigil over:
to excite, disturb: to reanimate:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ waked or woke.--_n._
act of waking: feast of the dedication of a church, formerly kept by
watching all night: sitting up of persons with a corpse.--_adj._ WAKE'FUL,
being awake: indisposed to sleep: vigilant.--_adv._ WAKE'FULLY.--_n._
WAKE'FULNESS.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ W[=A]'KEN, to wake or awake: to be
awake.--_ns._ WAKE'NER, one who or that which wakens; WAKE'NING, act of one
who wakens; (Scots law) revival of an action; W[=A]'KER, one who
wakes.--_adj._ WAKE'RIFE (_Scot._), wakeful.--_ns._ WAKE'-TIME, time during
which one is awake; W[=A]'KING.--_adj._ being awake: rousing from sleep:
passed in the waking state. [A.S. _wacan_, to be born, also _wacian_, to
waken (cf. _weccan_, Ger. _wecken_). Cf. _Wait_, _Watch_.]

WAKE, w[=a]k, _n._ the streak of smooth water left in the track of a ship:
hence (_fig._) 'in the wake of,' in the train of, immediately after. [Ice.
_vök_, a hole in the ice, _vökr_, moist. The root is seen in L.
_hum[=e]re_, to be moist, Gr. _hugros_, moist.]

WAKE-ROBIN, w[=a]k'-rob'in, _n._ the cuckoo-pint, _Arum maculatum_: in
America, any species of trillium.

WALDENSES, wol-den's[=e]z, _n.pl._ a famous Christian community of austere
morality and devotion to the simplicity of the Gospel, which originally
grew out of an anti-sacerdotal movement originated by Peter _Waldo_ of
Lyons in the second half of the 12th century--long cruelly persecuted, but
still flourishing in the valleys of the Cottian Alps.--_adj._ and _n._
WALDEN'SIAN.

WALDGRAVE, wold'gr[=a]v, _n._ an old German title of nobility, originally a
head forest-ranger. [Ger. _waldgraf_.]

WALDHORN, wold'horn, _n._ a hunting-horn, a French horn without valves.
[Ger.]

WALE, w[=a]l, _n._ a raised streak left by a stripe: a ridge on the surface
of cloth: a plank all along the outer timbers on a ship's side.--_v.t._ to
mark with wales.--_n._ W[=A]'LER, one who chastises severely. [A.S. _walu_,
the mark of a stripe or blow; Ice. _völr_, a rod.]

WALE, w[=a]l, _n._ (_Scot._) the choice or pick of anything.--_v.t._ to
choose. [Ice. _val_, choice; Ger. _wahl_, choice; from the root of _will_.]

WALER, w[=a]'l[.e]r, _n._ in India, a horse imported from New South
_Wales_, or from Australia generally.

WALHALLA, wal-hal'la, _n._ Same as VALHALLA.

WALK, wawk, _v.i._ to move along leisurely on foot with alternate steps: to
pace: to travel on foot: to conduct one's self: to act or behave: to live:
to be guided by: (_coll._) to move off, depart: to be stirring, move about,
go restlessly about (as of a ghost).--_v.t._ to pass through or upon: to
cause to walk.--_n._ act or manner of walking: gait: that in or through
which one walks: distance walked over: place for walking, promenade: place
for animals to exercise: path: high pasture-ground: conduct: course of
life, sphere of action, a hawker's district or round: (_obs._) a
hunting-ground: (_pl._) grounds, park (_obs._).--_adj._ WALK'ABLE, fit for
walking.--_ns._ WALK'-AROUND', a dancing performance by negroes in which a
large circle is described, also the music for such; WALK'ER, one who walks:
(_law_) a forester: one who trains and walks young hounds: a gressorial
bird; WALK'ING, the verbal noun of walk: pedestrianism; WALK'ING-BEAM, in a
vertical engine, a horizontal beam, usually trussed, that transmits power
to the crankshaft through the connecting-rod; WALK'ING DRESS, a dress for
the street or for walking; WALK'ING-FAN, a large fan used out of doors to
protect the face from the sun; WALK'ING-LEAF, a leaf-insect;
WALK'ING-STICK, -CANE, -STAFF, a stick, cane, or staff used in walking;
WALK'ING-STICK, also a sort of long, slender-bodied bug; WALK'ING-TOAD, a
natterjack; WALK'-[=O]'VER, a race where one competitor appears, who has to
cover the course to be entitled to the prize: an easy victory.--WALK ABOUT,
a former order of an officer to a sentry, waiving the customary salute;
WALK AWAY FROM, to distance easily; WALK'ER! a slang interjection of
incredulity (also HOOKEY WALKER!); WALKING GENTLEMAN, LADY, a gentleman,
lady, who plays ornamental but unimportant parts on the stage; WALK INTO
(_coll._), to beat: to storm at: to eat heartily of; WALK ONE'S CHALKS, to
quit, go away without ceremony; WALK TALL, to behave haughtily; WALK THE
CHALK, CHALK-MARK, to keep a correct course in manners or morals; WALK THE
HOSPITALS, to be a student under clinical instruction at a general hospital
or infirmary; WALK WITH, to attend as a sweetheart.--HEEL-AND-TOE WALK, a
mode of walking in which the heel of one foot is put on the ground before
the toe of the other leaves it. [A.S. _wealcan_, to roll, turn; cog. with
Ger. _walken_, to full cloth.]

WALKING, wawk'ing, _n._ the act or process of fulling cloth.--_n._
WALK'MILL, a fulling-mill.

WALKYR, wol'kir. Same as VALKYR.

WALL, wawl, _n._ an erection of brick, stone, &c. for a fence or security:
the side of a building: (_fig._) defence, means of security: in mining, one
of the surfaces of rock enclosing the lode: (_anat._) a paries or
containing structure or part of the body: (_pl._) fortifications.--_v.t._
to enclose with, or as with, a wall: to defend with walls: to hinder as by
a wall.--_n._ WALL'-CLOCK, a clock hung on a walk.--_adj._ WALLED,
fortified.--_ns._ WALL'ER, one who builds walls; WALL'-FLOWER, a plant with
fragrant yellow flowers, found on old walls: a woman at a ball who keeps
her seat, presumably for want of a partner--applied sometimes to men;
WALL'-FRUIT, fruit growing on a wall; WALL'ING, walls collectively:
materials for walls; WALL'-KNOT, a nautical method of tying the end of a
rope.--_adj._ WALL'-LESS.--_ns._ WALL'-LIZ'ARD, -NEWT, a gecko; WALL'-MOSS,
the yellow wall-lichen: the stone-crop; WALL'-PAINT'ING, the decoration of
walls with ornamental painted designs; WALL'-P[=A]'PER, paper usually
coloured and decorated, for pasting on the walls of a room; WALL'-PIECE, a
gun mounted on a wall; WALL'-PLATE, a horizontal piece of timber on a wall,
under the ends of joists, &c.; WALL'-SPACE (_archit._), a plain expanse of
wall; WALL'-SPRING, a spring of water running between stratified rocks;
WALL'-TOW'ER, a tower built into and forming part of a line of
fortification or a fortified city-wall; WALL'-TREE, a tree trained against
a wall; WALL'-WORT, the European dwarf elder; HANG'ING-WALL, that wall of
the vein which is over the miner's head while working, the opposite wall
being called the FOOT'-WALL.--WALL A ROPE, to make a wall-knot on the end
of a rope.--DRIVE TO THE WALL, to push to extremities; GO TO THE WALL, to
be hard pressed: to be pushed to extremes; HANG BY THE WALL, to hang up
neglected: to remain unused; PUSH, or THRUST, TO THE WALL, to force to give
place; THE WALL, the right of taking the side of the road near the wall
when encountering another person, as in the phrase to GIVE, or TAKE, THE
WALL. [A.S. _weall_, _wall_; Ger. _wall_, both from L. _vallum_, a
rampart--_vallus_, a stake.]

WALLA, WALLAH, wol'a, _n._ a worker, agent: fellow.--COMPETITION WALLAH, a
term applied in Anglo-Indian colloquial speech to a member of the Civil
Service who obtained appointment by the competitive system instituted in
1856. [Yule explains _w[=a]l[=a]_ as a Hindi adjectival affix,
corresponding in a general way to the Latin _-arius_. Its usual employment
as affix to a substantive makes it frequently denote agent, doer, keeper,
owner, &c.]

WALLABA, wol'a-ba, _n._ a Guiana tree with winged leaves and streaked
reddish wood.

WALLABY, wol'ab-i, _n._ a small kangaroo.--ON THE WALLABY, ON THE WALLABY
TRACK, out of employment, a slang Australian phrase derived from the shy
habits of the kangaroo.

WALLACHIAN, wäl-[=a]'ki-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Wallachia_, a
Danubian principality, since 1878 forming with Moldavia the kingdom of
Roumania.--_ns._ WALL'ACH, WALL'ACK, a native or inhabitant of WALLACHIA.
[From a Slavonic term represented by Pol. _Wloch_, an Italian, _Woloch_, a
Wallach; all from Old High Ger. _walh_ (A.S. _wealh_), a foreigner.]

WALLET, wol'et, _n._ a bag for carrying necessaries on a journey: a
knapsack: a pocket-book: a bag for tools: (_Shak._) anything protuberant.
[M. E. _walet_, possibly from _watel_, a bag.]

WALL-EYE, wawl'-[=i], _n._ an eye in which the white part is very large:
the popular name for the disease of the eye called glaucoma.--_adj._
WALL'-EYED, very light gray in the eyes, esp. of horses: (_Shak._) glaring,
fierce. [The adj. is the earlier, prob. from Ice. _vald-eygthr_--_vagl_, a
disease of the eye, and _eygthr_, eyed--_auga_, an eye.]

WALLOON, wal'[=oo]n, _adj._ of or pertaining to a population of mixed
Celtic and Romanic stock akin to the French, occupying the tract along the
frontiers of the Teutonic-speaking territory in the South Netherlands, from
Dunkirk to Malmedy.--_n._ a native or inhabitant of that part of Flanders:
the language of the Walloons, a patois or popular dialect of northern
French, with a considerable infusion both of Old Celtic and Low German
elements. [O. Fr. _Wallon_--Late L. _Wallus_--L. _Gallus_, a Gaul; cog.
with _Gael_, _Welsh_, _Wallachian_, A.S. _wealh_, a foreigner.]

WALLOP, wol'op, _v.i._ (_dial._) to boil and bubble: to move clumsily, to
waddle about, to kick about as one does for a little when hung up by the
neck--also _n._ [O. Fr. _galoper_, to boil, gallop--Old Flem. _walop_, a
gallop; perh. traceable to Old. Flem. _wallen_ (A.S. _weallan_), to boil.]

WALLOP, wol'op, _v.t._ (_slang_) to beat, flog.--_n._ a blow.--_ns._
WALL'OPER, one that wallops; WALL'OPING, a thrashing.--_adj._ (_slang_)
great, bouncing. [Orig. dubious; most prob. a particular use of preceding
word.]

WALLOW, wol'[=o], _v.i._ to roll about, as in mire: to live in filth or
gross vice.--_n._ the place an animal wallows in.--_n._ WALL'OWER. [A.S.
_wealwian_--L. _volv[)e]re_.]

WALLOW, wol'[=o], _v.i._ (_prov._) to fade away.

WALLSEND, wawlz'end, _n._ a kind of coal originally dug at _Wallsend_ on
the Tyne.

WALNUT, wawl'nut, _n._ a genus (_Juglans_) comprising seven or eight
species of beautiful trees of natural order _Juglandaceæ_--the wood of the
common walnut is much used for furniture and gunstocks; its ripe fruit is
one of the best of nuts, and yields an oil used by artists, &c.--BLACK
WALNUT, a North American walnut, the timber of which is more valuable than
that of common walnut, though the fruit is inferior. [A.S. _wealh_,
foreign, _hnut_, a nut; Ger. _wallnuss_.]

WALPURGIS NIGHT, val-p[=oo]r'gis n[=i]t, the night before the first of May,
during which German witches rode on broomsticks and he-goats to hold revel
with their master the devil at the ancient places of sacrifice, esp. the
Brocken in the Harz Mountains. [So called with reference to the day of St
_Walpurga_, abbess of Heidenheim, who died about 778.]

WALRUS, wol'rus, _n._ a genus of aquatic, web-footed (pinniped) Carnivores,
representative of a family (_Trichechidæ_) intermediate between the
sea-lions and the seals--the upper canine teeth developed into enormous
tusks--also called the _Morse_ or the Seahorse. [Dut.,--Sw. _vallross_
(Ice. _hross-hvalr_)--_vall_, a whale, Ice. _hross_, a horse.]

WALTY, wol'ti, _adj._ (_naut._) inclined to lean or roll over.

WALTZ, wawlts, _n._ a German national dance performed by two persons with a
rapid whirling motion, introduced into England in 1813: the music for
such.--_v.i._ to dance a waltz: (_slang_) to move trippingly.--_ns._
WALTZ'ER; WALTZ'ING. [Ger. _walzer_--_walzen_, to roll.]

WALY, WALIE, wä'li, _adj._ (_Scot._) beautiful: strong, large. [Conn. with
_wale_, choice, and perh. influenced by A. S. _welig_, rich--_wel_, well.]

WALY, w[=a]'li, _interj._ (_Scot._) alas! [_Wellaway_.]

WAMBLE, wom'bl, _v.i._ (_prov._) to rumble, of the stomach.--_n._ a
rumbling, a feeling of nausea.--_adj._ WAM'BLE-CROPPED, sick at stomach.

WAME, w[=a]m, _n._ a provincial form of womb.--_n._ WAME'-TOW, a
belly-band, girth.

WAMMUS, wam'us, _n._ (_U.S._) a warm knitted jacket.

WAMPISH, wom'pish, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to brandish, flourish.

WAMPUM, wom'pum, _n._ the North American Indian name for shells or beads
used as money.--WAMPUM PEAG (wom'pum p[=e]g), lit. 'white strung beads,'
strings of wampum.

WAN, won, _adj._ faint: wanting colour: pale and sickly: languid: gloomy,
dark.--_v.i._ to become wan.--_adv._ WAN'LY.--_n._ WAN'NESS.--_adj._
WAN'NISH, somewhat wan. [A.S. _wann_, dark, lurid; but perh. conn, with
A.S. _wan_, deficient.]

WAN, wan, old _pa.t._ of _win_.

WANCHANCY, won-chan'si, _adj._ (_Scot._) unlucky, wicked. [Old pfx. _wan-_,
still Seen in _wanton_ (q.v.).]

WAND, wond, _n._ a long slender rod: a rod of authority, or of
conjurers.--_adj._ WAND'Y, long and flexible. [Ice. _vöndr_, a shoot of a
tree; Dan. _vaand_.]

WANDER, won'd[.e]r, _v.i._ to ramble with no definite object: (_lit._ or
_fig._) to go astray: to leave home; to depart from the subject: to be
delirious: (_coll._) to lose one's way.--_v.t._ to traverse: (_coll._) to
lead astray.--_n._ WAN'DERER.--_adj._ WAN'DERING.--_adv._ WAN'DERINGLY, in
a wandering, uncertain, or unsteady manner.--WANDERING JEW, a legendary Jew
in the folklore of north-western Europe who cannot die but must wander till
the Day of Judgment, for an insult offered to Christ on the way to the
Crucifixion--various names given him are _Cartaphilus_, _Isaac Laquedom_,
and _Buttadeus_. [A.S. _wandrian_; Ger. _wandern_; allied to _wend_, and to
_wind_, to turn round.]

WANDEROO, won-de-r[=oo]', _n._ a catarrhine monkey, a native of the Malabar
coast of India. [Cingalese.]

WANDLE, won'dl, _adj._ (_prov._) supple, pliant, nimble.

WANDOO, won'd[=oo], _n._ the white-gum of Western Australia.

WANE, w[=a]n, _v.i._ to decrease, esp. of the moon--opp. to _Wax_: to
decline, to fail.--_n._ decline: decrease. [A.S. _wanian_ (Ice. _vana_), to
decrease--_wan_, deficient, lacking.]

WANG, wang, _n._ (_obs._) the jaw.--_n._ WANG'-TOOTH, a grinder. [A.S.
_wange_, cheek.]

WANHOPE, won'h[=o]p, _n._ (_obs._) despair.

WANION, wan'yon, _n._ (_obs._ or _Scot._) found only in phrases--e.g. WITH
A WANION, bad luck to you: with a vengeance, vehemently. [Prob. conn. with
_wane_, to decline.]

WANKLE, wang'kl, _adj._ (_prov._) unstable, not to be depended on.

WANNISH, won'ish, _adj._ See WAN.

WANRESTFUL, won-rest'fool, _adj._ (_Scot._) restless. [_Wan-_, negative
pfx., and _restful_.]

WANT, wont, _n._ state of being without anything: absence of what is
needful or desired: poverty: scarcity: need.--_v.t._ to be destitute of: to
need: to dispense with: to feel need of: to fall short: to wish
for.--_v.i._ to be deficient: to fall short: to be in need.--_n._ WAN'TAGE,
deficiency.--_adj._ WAN'TED, sought after, being searched for.--_n._
WAN'TER, one who wants.--_adj._ WAN'TING, absent: deficient: (_obs._)
poor.--_prep._ except.--_n._ WANT'-WIT (_Shak._), a fool. [Scand., Ice.
_vant_, neut. of _vanr_, lacking; cog. with _wane_.]

WANTHRIVEN, won-thriv'n, _adj._ (_Scot._) decayed.

WANTON, won'tun, _adj._ moving or playing loosely: roving in sport: frisky:
wandering from rectitude: licentious: running to excess: unrestrained:
irregular.--_n._ a wanton or lewd person, esp. a female: a trifler.--_v.i._
to ramble without restraint: to frolic: to play lasciviously.--_adv._
WAN'TONLY.--_n._ WAN'TONNESS. [M. E. _wantowen_, from pfx. _wan-_, sig.
want, A.S. _togen_, educated, pa.p. of _teón_, to draw, lead; cf. Ger.
_ungezogen_, rude.]

WANTY, won'ti, _n._ (_prov._) a leather strap, wagon-rope.

WAP, wop, _v.t._ (_coll._) to strike, drub: to flap.--_n._ a smart blow.
[_Whop_.]

WAP, wop, _v.t._ (_obs._) to wrap, bind.--_n._ a bundle.

WAPACUT, wop'a-kut, _n._ a large white American owl.

WAPENSHAW, wap'n-shaw, _n._=_Wapinschaw_.

WAPENTAKE, wap'n-t[=a]k, _n._ a name given in Yorkshire to the territorial
divisions of the county, similar to the _hundreds_ of southern counties and
the _wards_ of more northern counties, so called from the inhabitants being
formerly taught the use of arms. [A.S. _wæpen-getæc_, lit.
'weapon-taking.']

WAPINSCHAW, wap'n-shaw, _n._ in ancient Scottish usage, a periodical
gathering of the people within various areas for the purpose of seeing that
each man was armed in accordance with his rank, and ready to take the field
when required. The name is sometimes revived for volunteer meetings and
shooting competitions.--_v.i._ to hold a wapinschaw.--_ns._ WAP'INSCHAWING,
WAP'ENSHAWING. [Lit., 'weapon-show.']

WAPITI, wop'i-ti, _n._ a species of deer of large size, native to North
America--often called _elk_ and _gray moose_, though very different from
the true elk or moose-deer.

WAPPENED, wop'nd, _adj._ (_Shak._) a word of doubtful meaning--perh. a
misprint for _weeping_.

WAPPER, wap'[.e]r, _n._ a gudgeon.

WAPPER, wap'[.e]r, _v.i._ to move tremulously.--_adj._ WAPP'ER-EYED,
blinking.

WAPPER-JAW, wap'[.e]r-jaw, _n._ a projecting under-jaw.--_adj._
WAPP'ER-JAWED.

WAPPET, wap'et, _n._ a yelping cur.

WAR, wawr, _n._ a state of opposition or contest: a contest between states
carried on by arms: open hostility: the profession of arms: (_rare_) army,
warlike preparations, warlike outfit.--_v.i._ to make war: to contend: to
fight:--_pr.p._ war'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ warred.--_ns._ WAR'-CRY, a
cry or signal used in war; WAR'-DANCE, a dance engaged in by some savage
tribes before going to war; WAR'F[=A]RE, armed contest, military life;
WAR'F[=A]RER; WAR'F[=A]RING; WAR'-HORSE, a charger, a horse used in
battle.--_adj._ WAR'LIKE, fond of war, pertaining to or threatening war:
martial, military.--_ns._ WAR'LIKENESS; WAR'MAN (_rare_), a
warrior.--_adj._ WAR'-MARKED (_Shak._), experienced in war.--_ns._
WAR'-MONG'ER (_Spens._), a mercenary soldier; WAR'-OFF'ICE, the English
military bureau or department; WAR'-PAINT, paint applied to the face and
person by savages, indicating that they are going to war: (_slang_)
full-dress, equipment; WAR'-PATH, among the Red Indians, the path followed
on a military expedition, the expedition itself; WAR'-PROOF (_rare_),
fitness to be a soldier; WAR'RIOR, a soldier, a veteran:--_fem._
WAR'RIORESS (_rare_); WAR'-SHIP, a vessel for war; WAR'-SONG, a song sung
by men about to fight: a song celebrating brave deeds in war; WAR'-TAX, a
tax levied for purposes of war; WAR'-THOUGHT (_Shak._), martial
deliberation.--_adjs._ WAR'-WAST'ED, laid waste or ravaged by war;
WAR'-WEA'RIED, -WORN, wearied, worn, with military service--of a
veteran.--_ns._ WAR'-WHOOP, a cry uttered by savages on going into battle;
WAR'-WOLF, a medieval military engine used in defending fortresses;
MAN'-OF-WAR (see MAN).--WAR DEPARTMENT, in Great Britain, a department of
the state under a Cabinet Minister, the Secretary of State for War,
assisted by a permanent and a parliamentary under-secretary, having control
of everything connected with the army; WAR OF LIBERATION, the war of
independence carried on by Prussia, with the help of Russia and Great
Britain, against Napoleon in 1813.--DECLARATION OF WAR, that public
announcement of war by a duly organised state or kingdom which is necessary
to constitute an enemy; DECLARE WAR, to announce war publicly; HOLY WAR
(see HOLY); MAKE WAR, to carry on hostilities; NAPOLEONIC WARS, a general
name for the wars of France dating from the campaigns of Napoleon in Italy
(1796) to his overthrow in 1815; PRIVATE WAR, warfare waged between persons
in their individual capacity, as by duelling, family feuds, &c.; SACRED
WARS, in ancient Greek history, wars against states judged guilty of
sacrilege by the Amphictyonic Council; SEVEN WEEKS' WAR, or SEVEN DAYS'
WAR, the Austro-Prussian war of 1866. [A.S. _werre_, influenced by O. Fr.
_werre_ (Fr. _guerre_), which is from Old High Ger. _werra_, quarrel.]

WAR, wawr, _adj._ (_Spens._) worse.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to defeat.

WARBLE, wawr'bl, _v.i._ to sing in a quavering way, or with variations: to
chirp as birds do.--_v.t._ to sing in a vibratory manner: to utter
musically: to carol.--_n._ a quavering modulation of the voice: a
song.--_n._ WAR'BLER, one that warbles: a songster: a singing-bird: any
bird of the family _Sylviidæ_, the _Fauvettes_--nightingale, redbreast,
stonechat, wheatear, whitethroat, &c., also the reed-warbler, &c.: in
bagpipe music an ornamental group of grace-notes, introduced to glide from
one passage to the other; WAR'BLING.--_adv._ WAR'BLINGLY. [O. Fr.
_werbler_, to warble, make turns with the voice--Old High Ger. _werban_;
cf. A.S. _hweorfan_, to turn (Ger. _wirbeln_), to make a turn.]

WARBLE, wawr'bl, _n._ a small hard swelling on a horse's back, caused by
the galling of the saddle: a tumour caused by the gadfly, &c.--_n._
WAR'BLE-FLY, a fly causing warbles. [Other forms are _wormil_, _wornal_;
ety. dub.]

WARD, wawrd, _v.t._ to guard or take care of: to keep in safety: to keep
away, fend off (with _off_).--_v.i._ to act on the defensive.--_n._ act of
warding, watch: those whose business is to ward or defend: state of being
guarded: means of guarding: one who is under a guardian: a division of a
city, hospital, county, (_B._) army, &c.: that which guards a lock or
hinders any but the right key from opening it: (_B._) guard, prison: a
defensive movement in fencing.--_ns._ WARD'EN, one who wards or guards: a
keeper, especially a public officer appointed for the naval or military
protection of some particular district of country: the head of a school,
college, &c.; WARD'ENRY (_rare_), the district in charge of a warden;
WARD'ENSHIP, the office of a warden; WARD'ER, one who wards or keeps: a
staff of authority; WARD'-MOTE, a meeting of a ward, or of a court of a
ward, which has power to inquire into and present defaults in matters
relating to watch, police, &c.; WARD'ROBE, a room or portable closet for
robes or clothes: wearing apparel; WARD'-ROOM, a room used as a messroom by
the officers of a war-ship; WARD'SHIP, the office of a ward or guardian:
state of being under a guardian: in English feudal law, the guardianship
which the feudal lord had of the land of his vassal while the latter was an
infant or minor.--WARD IN CHANCERY, a minor under the protection of the
Court of Chancery.--WARDEN OF THE CINQUE PORTS, the governor of the Cinque
Ports, having the authority of an admiral and the power to hold a court of
admiralty; WARDEN OF THE MARCHES, officers formerly appointed to keep the
districts of England adjoining Scotland and Wales in a state of defence;
WARDEN OF THE MINT, formerly the official of the English Mint next in rank
to the Master.--PORT WARDEN, the chief officer in a port. [A.S. _weardian_;
Ger. _warten_, to watch in order to protect.]

WARDEN, wawr'dn, _n._ a kind of pear.--WARDEN PIE, a pie made of warden
pears. [Prob. 'a pear which may be _kept long_,' from the preceding word.]

WARDIAN, wawr'di-an, _adj._ denoting a kind of close-fitting glass case for
transporting delicate ferns and other such plants, or for keeping them
indoors--so named from Nathaniel Bagshaw _Ward_ (1791-1868), the inventor.

WARE, w[=a]r, _n._ (used generally in _pl._) merchandise: commodities:
goods.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to expend, lay out.--_n._ WARE'HOUSE, a house or
store for wares or goods.--_v.t._ to deposit in a warehouse.--_ns._
WARE'HOUSEMAN, a man who keeps, or is employed in, a warehouse or wholesale
store; WARE'HOUSING, the act of depositing goods in a warehouse; WARE'ROOM,
a room where goods are exposed for sale.--WAREHOUSING SYSTEM, the plan of
allowing importers of dutiable goods to store them in a government
warehouse without payment of duties until ready to bring the goods into
market.--BENARES WARE, a fine ornamental metal-work made at _Benares_ and
other places in India; DELFT WARE (see DELF); SMALL WARE, WARES, textile
articles of a small kind--e.g. tape, bindings and braids of cotton, silk,
&c.; buttons, hooks, &c.: trifles; TUNBRIDGE WARE, inlaid or mosaic
wood-work manufactured at _Tunbridge_; WEDGWOOD WARE, a superior kind of
pottery invented by Josiah _Wedgwood_ (1730-1795), ornamented by white
cameo reliefs on a blue ground and the like; WELSH WARE, a yellowish-brown
earthenware with a transparent glaze. [A.S. _waru_, wares; Ger. _waare_.]

WARE, w[=a]r, _adj._ aware.--_v.t._ to take care of. [_Wary_.]

WARE, w[=a]r, in _B._ _pa.t._ of wear.

WARELESS, w[=a]r'les, _adj._ (_Spens._) unwary, incautious: unperceived.

WARELY, w[=a]r'li, _adv._ (_Spens._) warily.

WARHABLE, wawr'a-bl, _adj._ (_Spens._) fit for war.

WARIATED, w[=a]'ri-[=a]-ted, _adj._ (_her._) varriated.

WARILY, WARINESS, WAREFUL, &c. See WARY.

WARIMENT, w[=a]r'i-ment, _n._ (_Spens._) wariness.

WARISON, WARRISON, war'i-son, _n._ (_obs._) healing: reward--used by Scott
erroneously for a note of assault. [O. Fr.,--_warir_, to guard.]

WARK, wawrk, _n._ (_Spens._) work.

WARLOCK, wawr'lok, _n._ a sorcerer, a wizard.--_n._ WAR'LOCKRY, sorcery.
[A.S. _w['æ]rloga_, a breaker of an agreement--_w['æ]r_, a compact,
_leógan_, to lie.]

WARM, wawrm, _adj._ having moderate heat, hot: subject to heat: zealous:
easily excited: violent: enthusiastic: intimate, close: fresh, of a scent:
(_coll._) comfortable, well-off: (_coll._) indelicate.--_v.t._ to make
warm: to interest: to excite: (_coll._) to beat.--_v.i._ to become warm or
ardent.--_n._ (_coll._) a heating.--_adj._ WARM'-BLOOD'ED, having warm
blood: generous, passionate.--_n._ WAR'MER.--_adj._ WARM'-HEART'ED, having
warm affections: affectionate: hearty.--_ns._ WARM'-HEART'EDNESS; WAR'MING,
act of warming: (_slang_) a beating; WAR'MING-PAN, a covered pan, with a
long handle, for holding live-coals to warm a bed: a person put into a
situation to hold it till another is able to take it.--_adv._
WARM'LY.--_ns._ WARM'NESS; WARMTH, moderate heat: geniality: earnestness,
moderate or growing anger: the bright effect of warm colours.--WARM COLOURS
(_paint._), colours of which the basis is yellow or red. [A.S. _wearm_;
Ger. _warm_.]

WARN, wawrn, _v.t._ to make wary or aware: to put on ward or guard: to give
notice of danger: to caution against: to admonish: (_Spens._) to
defend.--_ns._ WAR'NER; WAR'NING, caution against danger, &c.: admonition:
previous notice: notice to quit, notice of the termination of an
engagement, &c.: summons, call.--_adj._ of threatening aspect.--_adv._
WAR'NINGLY. [A.S. _warnian_; cf. Ice. _varna_, to warn, forbid, Ger.
_warnen_; allied to _ward_, _beware_, _wary_.]

WARP, wawrp, _v.t._ to turn: to twist out of shape: to turn from the right
course: to pervert: to move a vessel by hauling on warps or ropes attached
to buoys, other ships, anchors, &c.: to improve land by distributing on it,
by means of embankments, canals, flood-gates, &c., the alluvial mud brought
down by rivers: (_rare_) to change.--_v.i._ to be twisted out of a straight
direction: to bend: to swerve: to move with a bending motion.--_n._
alluvial sediment: the threads stretched out lengthwise in a loom to be
crossed by a woof: a rope used in towing.--_adj._ WARPED, twisted by
shrinking: perverted.--_ns._ WAR'PER; WAR'PING; WAR'PING-BANK, a bank to
retain water in the process of warping land; WAR'PING-HOOK, a ropemakers'
hook used in twisting rope-yarns; WAR'PING-POST, a post in a rope-walk,
used in warping rope-yarn. [A.S. _weorpan_, _werpan_; Ger. _werfen_, to
cast; conn. with Ice. _varpa_, to throw--_varp_, a casting, a throw with a
net.]

WARRAGAL, war'a-gal, _n._ the Australian dingo: an Australian horse run
wild.--Also WAR'RI-GAL.

WARRANT, wor'ant, _v.t._ to guarantee or make secure: to give assurance
against harm to: to authorise: to maintain: to assure.--_n._ that which
warrants or authorises: a commission giving authority: a writ for arresting
a person or for carrying a judgment into execution: security: in the army
and navy, a writ or authority inferior to a commission: in coal-mining,
under-clay.--_n._ WARR'ANDICE (_Scot._), warranty, a clause in a deed by
which the grantor binds himself to make good to the grantee the right
conveyed.--_adj._ WARR'ANTABLE, authorised by warrant or right:
justifiable: of sufficient age to be hunted.--_n._
WARR'ANTABLENESS.--_adv._ WARR'ANTABLY.--_adj._ WARR'ANTED.--_ns._
WARR'ANTEE, one to whom warrant is given; WARR'ANTER, -OR, one who
warrants; WARR'ANTING; WARR'ANTISE (_Shak._), warrant, authority: promise;
WARR'ANT-OFF'ICER, in the army and navy, an officer holding a warrant,
being the highest rank open to seamen and ordinary soldiers under ordinary
circumstances; WARR'ANTY, a legal warrant or deed of security: a guarantee:
authority.--WARRANT OF ARREST, ATTACHMENT, a writ authorising the arrest of
a person or the seizure of property.--DISTRESS WARRANT, warrant authorising
distraining of goods; GENERAL WARRANT, a warrant directed against suspected
persons generally; GENERAL WARRANTY, a warranty against the claims of all
and every person; JUSTICE'S WARRANT, warrant of a justice of the peace to
arrest a suspected criminal; SPECIAL WARRANTY, warrant against the claims
of a particular person. [O. Fr. _warantir_ (Fr. _garantir_), perh. conn.
with _warir_, to defend--Old High Ger. _warjan_, _werjan_.]

WARRAY, wawr'[=a], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to make war upon.

WARRE, wor, _adj._ (_Spens._) worse.

WARREN, wor'en, _n._ a piece of ground kept for breeding game or rabbits:
(_law_) a right of enclosure (extending to hares, rabbits, partridges, &c.)
by prescription or grant from the Crown.--_n._ WARR'ENER, the keeper of a
warren. [O. Fr. _warenne_ (Fr. _garenne_)--_warir_, to defend.]

WART, wawrt, _n._ a small, hard excrescence on the skin: a protuberance on
trees.--_adj._ WART'ED.--_n._ WART'-HOG, a kind of hog found in Africa,
having a very large head and the cheeks furnished with large wart-like
excrescences.--_adj._ WART'LESS.--_ns._ WART'WEED, the sun-spurge;
WART'WORT, a common name for certain lichens having a warty thallus: the
wart-cress or swine-cress, the cud-weed.--_adj._ WART'Y, like a wart:
overgrown with warts. [A.S. _wearte_; Ger. _warze_; prob. allied to L.
_verruca_.]

WARTH, wawrth, _n._ (_prov._) a ford.

WARY, w[=a]'ri, _adj._ warding or guarding against deception, &c.:
cautious.--_adj._ WARE'FUL, careful.--_n._ WARE'FULNESS.--_adv._
W[=A]'RILY.--_n._ W[=A]'RINESS. [Longer form of _ware_ (2). See AWARE.]

WAS, woz, used as _pa.t._ of _be_. [A.S. _wæs_, _w['æ]re_--_wesan_, to
remain, be; Goth. _wisan_, pa.t. _was_, to remain; Ice. _vera_, pa.t.
_var_.]

WASE, w[=a]z, _n._ (_prov._) a wisp of hay, straw, &c.: a pad on the head
to ease the pressure of a burden.

WASE-GOOSE. See WAYGOOSE.

WASH, wosh, _v.t._ to cleanse with water: to overflow: to waste away by the
action of water: to cover with a thin coat of metal or paint: in mining, to
separate from earth by means of water.--_v.i._ to cleanse one's self, to
cleanse clothes with water: to stand water, of clothes: (_coll._) to stand
the test.--_n._ a washing: the break of waves on the shore: the rough water
left behind by a moving vessel: the shallow part of a river or arm of the
sea: a marsh or fen: alluvial matter: waste liquor, refuse of food, &c.:
that with which anything is washed: a lotion: a thin coat of paint, metal,
&c.: (_slang_) a fictitious kind of sale of stock or other securities
between parties of one interest, or by a broker who is at once the buyer
and the seller, and who minds his own interest rather than that of his
clients.--_adj._ WASH'ABLE.--_ns._ WASH'-BALL, a ball of toilet-soap;
WASH'-B[=A]'SIN, -BOWL, WASH'HAND B[=A]'SIN, a bowl in which to wash face
and hands; WASH'-BOARD, a corrugated board for rubbing clothes on in
washing: a thin plank placed on a boat's gunwale to prevent the sea from
breaking over: a board round the bottom of the walls of a room;
WASH'-BOTT'LE, a bottle used by chemists for washing chemical preparations
and instruments; WASH'-CLOTH, a piece of cloth used in washing; WASH'-DIRT,
earth rich enough in metal to pay for washing; WASH'ER, one who washes: a
flat ring of iron or leather between the nave of a wheel and the linch-pin,
under the head of a screw, &c.--v.t to lift with washers; WASH'ERMAN, a man
who washes clothes, esp. for hire:--_fem._ WASH'ERWOMAN; WASH'-GILD'ING, a
gilding made with an amalgam of gold from which the mercury is driven off
by heat, leaving a coating of gold; WASH'-HOUSE, WASH'ING-HOUSE, a house
for washing clothes in; WASH'INESS, state of being watery, weakness,
worthlessness; WASH'ING, the act of cleansing by water: the clothes washed,
esp. at one time: what is washed; WAS'HING-MACHINE', a machine for washing
clothes; WASH'ING-POW'DER, a powdered preparation used in washing clothes;
WASH'ING-UP, WASH'-UP, cleaning up; WASH'-LEATH'ER, split sheepskin
prepared with oil in imitation of chamois, and used for household purposes:
buff leather for regimental belts.--_adj._ WASH'-OFF, that will not stand
washing.--_ns._ WASH'-OUT, an erosion of earth by the action of water, the
hole made by such; WASH'-POT, a vessel for washing; WASH'-STAND, WASH'HAND
STAND, a piece of furniture for holding ewer, basin, and other requisites
for washing a person; WASH'-TUB, a tub for washing clothes.--_adj._ WASH'Y,
watery, moist: thin, feeble.--_n._ RAIN'-WASH, a washing away by the force
of rain: a deposit formed by rain. [A.S. _wascan_; Ice. _vaska_, Ger.
_waschen_.]

WASHINGTONIA, wosh-ing-t[=o]'ni-a, _n._ a Californian genus of palms,
valued for ornament in lawns--from George _Washington_ (1732-99).

WASP, wosp, _n._ a popular name for Hymenopterous insects belonging to the
family _Vespidæ_, or to closely related families--(Wasps are generally more
slender and much less hairy than bees, and their stinging organ--an
ovipositor--resembles that of bees in structure and mode of action): a
petulant and spiteful person.--_adjs._ WAS'PISH, like a wasp: having a
slender waist like a wasp: quick to resent an affront; WAS'PISH-HEAD'ED
(_Shak._), passionate.--_adv._ WAS'PISHLY.--_n._ WAS'PISHNESS.--_adjs._
WASP'-TONGUED (_Shak._), biting in tongue, shrewish; WASP'-WAIST'ED, very
slender waisted, laced tightly; WAS'PY, waspish. [A.S. _wæsp_, _wæps_; Ger.
_wespe_, L. _vespa_.]

WASSAIL, wos'[=a]l, _n._ the salutation uttered in drinking a person's
health, a festive occasion: a drunken bout: a liquor consisting of ale with
roasted apples, sugar, nutmeg, and toast, once much used on festive
occasions.--_v.i._ to hold a wassail or merry drinking-meeting: to drink to
the health of.--_ns._ WASS'AIL-BOUT, a carouse; WASS'AIL-BOWL, -CUP, a cup
from which healths were drunk; WASS'AILER, one who wassails or drinks
wassail: a reveller. [A.S. _wes hál_, 'may you be in health,' the
salutation used in pledging another, which the Normans transferred to mean
'a carousal.']

WASSERMAN, wos'[.e]r-man, _n._ (_Spens._) a sea-monster, shaped like a man.
[Ger. _wasser_, water, _mann_, man.]

WAST, wost, _pa.t._ 2d pers. sing. of the verb _be_.

WASTE, w[=a]st, _adj._ empty, desert: desolate: useless, vain: stripped:
lying unused: unproductive.--_v.t._ to lay waste or make desolate: to
destroy: to wear out gradually: to squander: to diminish: to
impair.--_v.i._ to be diminished: to dwindle: to be consumed.--_n._ act of
wasting: useless expenditure: superfluous material, stuff left over: loss:
destruction: that which is wasted or waste: uncultivated country: desert:
refuse, as of coal, &c.: decay, decline: (_law_) natural but permanent
injury to the inheritance.--_ns._ W[=A]S'TAGE, loss by use, natural decay;
WASTE'-BAS'KET, WASTE'PAPER-BAS'KET, a basket for holding useless scraps of
paper; WASTE'-BOOK, a book in which merchants make entries of transactions
in order as they occur, and for a temporary purpose.--_adj._ WASTE'FUL,
full of waste: destructive: lavish: (_Spens._) desolate.--_adv._
WASTE'FULLY.--_ns._ WASTE'FULNESS; WASTE'-GATE, a gate for discharging
surplus water from a dam, &c.; W[=A]S'TEN (_Spens._), a desert; WASTE'NESS
(_B._), devastation; WASTE'-PIPE, a pipe for carrying off waste or surplus
water; W[=A]S'TER, one who or that which wastes: a spendthrift: a
destroyer: an article spoilt in the making.--_adj._ W[=A]S'TING,
devastating: enfeebling--(WASTING INVESTMENTS, stocks redeemable on a
certain date at a fixed price, for which a premium above the redemption
price is paid).--_ns._ W[=A]S'TING, devastation; W[=A]S'TREL, refuse:
anything neglected, a neglected child: (_dial._) a profligate; W[=A]S'TRY
(_Scot._), prodigality.--_adj._ improvident.--WASTE LANDS, uncultivated and
unprofitable tracts in populous and cultivated countries; WASTE TIME, to
employ time unprofitably or not at all.--RUN TO WASTE, to become incapable
or useless.--UTILISATION OF WASTE PRODUCTS, the putting to other use of
such material as is rendered either wholly or partially useless in the
manufacture of articles and products--e.g. _waste-silk_ is now a valuable
raw material for a large spun-silk industry. [O. Fr. _wast_, _gaste_--L.
_vastus_, waste; cf. A.S. _wéste_, Ger. _wüst_, desolate.]

WASTEL-BREAD, w[=a]s'tel-bred, _n._ bread made from the finest of the
flour. [O. Fr. _wastel_, pastry--Old High Ger. _wastel_, a cake, and
_bread_.]

WASTER, w[=a]s't[.e]r, _n._ a wooden sword for practising fencing with:
(_Scot._) a leister.--PLAY AT WASTERS, to practise fencing. [Ety. dub.]

WAT, wot, _n._ (_Shak._) a hare.

WAT, wot, _adj._ (_Scot._) drunken. [_Wet_.]

WATCH, woch, _n._ act of looking out: close observation: guard: one who
watches or those who watch: a sentry: a pocket timepiece: the place where a
guard is kept: a division of the night: time of watching, esp. in a ship, a
division of a ship's crew into two or three sections, so that one set of
men may have charge of the vessel while the others rest. (The day and night
are divided into watches of four hours each, except the period from 4 to 8
P.M., which is divided into two _dog-watches_ of two hours' duration
each).--_v.i._ to look with attention: to keep guard: to look out: to
attend the sick by night: to inspect, keep guard over (with
_over_).--_v.t._ to keep in view: to give heed to: to have in keeping: to
guard: to wait for, detect by lying in wait: (_Shak._) to keep from
sleep.--_ns._ WATCH'-BILL, a list of the officers and crew of a ship, as
divided into watches, with their several stations; WATCH'-BOX, a
sentry-box; WATCH'CASE, the outer case of a watch: (_Shak._) a sentry-box;
WATCH'-CLOCK, a watchman's clock; WATCH'-DOG, a dog kept to guard premises
and property; WATCH'ER, one who watches; WATCH'-FIRE, a night-fire acting
as a signal: a fire for the use of a watching-party, sentinels, scouts,
&c.--_adj._ WATCH'FUL, careful to watch or observe: attentive: circumspect:
cautious.--_adv._ WATCH'FULLY.--_ns._ WATCH'FULNESS; WATCH'-GLASS, a
sand-glass: the glass covering of the face of a watch; WATCH'-GUARD, a
watch-chain of any material; WATCH'-GUN, a gun fired at the changing of the
watch, as on a ship; WATCH'-HOUSE, a house in which a guard is placed: a
lock-up, detaining office; WATCH'-JEW'EL, a jewel used in the works of a
watch for lessening friction; WATCH'-KEY, a key for winding a watch;
WATCH'-LIGHT, a light used for watching or sitting up in the night;
WATCH'-M[=A]K'ER, one who makes and repairs watches; WATCH'-M[=A]K'ING;
WATCH'MAN, a man who watches or guards, esp. the streets of a city at
night; WATCH'-MEET'ING, a religious meeting to welcome in the New Year,
held on the night before, called the WATCH'-NIGHT; WATCH'-OFF'ICER, the
officer in charge of the ship during a watch, also called OFFICER OF THE
WATCH; WATCH'-P[=A]'PER, a round piece of paper, often decorated, put
inside the outer case of a watch to prevent rubbing; WATCH'-POCK'ET, a
small pocket for holding a watch; WATCH'-SPRING, the mainspring of a watch;
WATCH'-TOW'ER, a tower on which a sentinel is placed to watch or keep guard
against the approach of an enemy; WATCH'WORD, the password to be given to a
watch or sentry: any signal: a maxim, rallying-cry.--WATCH AND WARD, the
old custom of watching by night and by day in towns and cities:
uninterrupted vigilance.--THE BLACK WATCH, the 42d and 73d Regiments, now
the 1st and 2d Battalions of the Black Watch or Royal Highlanders. [A.S.
_wæcce_--_wacan_, wake.]

WATCHET, woch'et, _adj._ (_Spens._) pale-blue. [M. E. _wachet_, perh. conn.
ultimately with _woad_.]

WATER, waw't[.e]r, _n._ in a state of purity, at ordinary temperatures, a
clear transparent liquid, perfectly neutral in its reaction, and devoid of
taste or smell: any collection of such, as the ocean, a lake, river, &c.:
mineral water: tears: saliva: eye-water: urine: transparency, lustre, as of
a diamond: (_pl._) waves.--_v.t._ to wet, overflow, or supply with water:
to wet and press so as to give a wavy appearance to: to increase the
nominal capital of a company by the issue of new shares without a
corresponding increase of actual capital.--_v.i._ to shed water: to gather
saliva, noting strong craving: to take in water.--_ns._ WA'TERAGE, money
paid for a journey by water; WA'TER-BAG, the bag-like compartment in which
the camel stores water; WA'TER-BAIL'IFF, a custom-house officer who
inspects ships on reaching or leaving a port: a person appointed to guard
the fish in a protected piece of water; WA'TER-BAROM'ETER, a barometer in
which water is substituted for mercury; WA'TER-BARR'EL, -CASK, a barrel,
cask, for holding water; WA'TER-BATH, a bath composed of water: a vessel
containing warm water used for chemical purposes; WA'TER-BATT'ERY, a
voltaic battery in which the electrolyte is water: (_fort._) a battery
nearly on a level with the water; WA'TER-BEAR'ER, one who carries water:
(_astron._) a sign of the zodiac; WA'TER-BED, an india-rubber mattress
filled with water, used by invalids to prevent bed-sores; WA'TER-BELL'OWS,
a form of blower used in gas-machines, and formerly to supply a blast for
furnaces; WA'TER-BIRD, a bird that frequents the water; WA'TER-BIS'CUIT, a
biscuit made of flour and water; WA'TER-BLINK, a spot of cloud hanging over
open water in arctic regions; WA'TER-BOAT, a boat carrying water in bulk to
supply ships; WA'TER-BOAT'MAN, a kind of aquatic bug.--_adj._ WA'TER-BORNE,
conveyed in a boat.--_ns._ WA'TER-BOTT'LE, a glass, rubber, &c. bottle for
carrying water; WA'TER-BRASH, an affection consisting of a hot sensation in
the stomach with eructations of an acrid burning liquid; WA'TER-BREAK, a
ripple; WA'TER-BROSE (_Scot._), brose made of meal and water alone;
WA'TER-BUCK, an African water-antelope; WA'TER-BUG, a species of
hemipterous insects found in ponds and still water; WA'TER-BUTT, a large
barrel for rain-water, usually kept out of doors; WA'TER-CARR'IAGE,
carriage or conveyance by water; WA'TER-CART, a cart for conveying water,
esp. for the purpose of watering streets or roads; WA'TER-CELL, one of
several small paunches in a camel used for storing water: a voltaic cell
containing pure water; WA'TER-CEMENT', hydraulic cement; WA'TER-CHEST'NUT
(_Marron d'eau_), the name given in France to the edible seeds of the
_Trapa natans_; WA'TER-CLOCK, a clock which is made to go by the fall of
water; WA'TER-CLOS'ET, a closet used as a privy, in which the discharges
are carried off by water; WA'TER-COCK, the kora, a large East Indian
gallinule; WA'TER-COL'OUR, a colour or pigment diluted with water and gum,
instead of oil: a painting in such a colour or colours; WA'TER-COL'OURIST,
a painter in water-colours; WA'TER-COOL'ER, a machine for cooling water or
for keeping water cool; WA'TER-CORE, an apple with watery-looking core: in
founding, a hollow core through which water may be passed; WA'TERCOURSE, a
course or channel for water; WA'TER-CRAFT, boats plying on the water;
WA'TER-CRANE, a crane for turning water from a railway-tank into a
locomotive tender; WA'TER-CRESS, a small plant growing in watery places,
much esteemed as a salad, and used as a preventive of scurvy; WA'TER-CURE,
medical treatment by means of water; WA'TER-DECK, a decorated canvas cover
for a dragoon's saddle; WA'TER-DEER, a small Chinese musk-deer of aquatic
habits: in Africa, one of the chevrotains; WA'TER-DOC'TOR, a hydropathist:
one who divines diseases from the urine; WA'TER-DOG, a dog accustomed to
the water: a variety of the common dog valuable to sportsmen in hunting
water-fowl on account of its aquatic habits: (_coll._) an experienced
sailor: (_pl._) small irregular floating clouds supposed to indicate rain;
WA'TER-DRAIN, a channel through which water runs; WA'TER-DRAIN'AGE;
WA'TER-DRINK'ER, a drinker of water: a teetotaler; WA'TER-DROP, a drop of
water: a tear; WA'TER-DROP'WORT, a genus of umbelliferous plants.--_adj._
WA'TERED, marked with wavy lines like those made by water--(WATERED STOCKS,
a term applied to securities whose nominal amount has been increased
without any corresponding payment in cash).--_ns._ WA'TER-EL'EVATOR, a
device for raising water to a level: a lift that works by water;
WA'TER-EN'GINE, an engine for raising water: an engine for extinguishing
fires; WA'TERER, one who waters: a vessel for watering with; WA'TERFALL, a
fall or perpendicular descent of a body of water: a cataract or cascade:
(_coll._) a neck-tie, a chignon; WA'TER-FLAG, the yellow iris; WA'TER-FLEA,
the common name for minute aquatic crustaceans; WA'TER-FLOOD, an
inundation; WA'TER-FLOW, current of water.--_adj._ WA'TER-FLOW'ING,
streaming.--_ns._ WA'TER-FLY, an aquatic insect: (_Shak._) an
insignificant, troublesome person; WA'TER-FOWL, a fowl that frequents
water; WA'TER-FRAME, Arkwright's spinning-frame, which was driven by water;
WA'TER-GALL, a watery appearance in the sky accompanying the rainbow: a pit
or cavity made by a torrent of water; WA'TER-GAS, a gas partly derived from
the decomposition of steam; WA'TER-GATE, a flood-gate: a gate admitting to
a river or other body of water; WA'TER-GAUGE, -GAGE, an instrument for
gauging or measuring the quantity or height of water;
WA'TER-GILDING=_Wash-gilding_; WA'TER-GLASS, a water-clock: an instrument
for making observations beneath the surface of water: soluble glass;
WA'TER-GOD, a deity presiding over some tract of water; WA'TER-GRU'EL,
gruel made of water and meal, &c., eaten without milk; WA'TER-GUARD, river,
harbour, or coast police; WA'TER-HAMM'ER, the noise made by the sudden
stoppage of moving water in a pipe: an air vacuum containing some water:
(_med._) a metal hammer heated in water and applied to the skin as a
counter-irritant; WA'TER-HEN, the moorhen; WA'TER-HOLE, a reservoir for
water, a water-pool; WA'TERINESS; WA'TERING, act of one who waters: the art
or process of giving a wavy, ornamental appearance; WA'TERING-CALL, a
cavalry trumpet-signal to water horses; WA'TERING-CAN, -POT, a vessel used
for watering plants; WA'TERING-HOUSE, a place where cab-horses are watered;
WA'TERING-PLACE, a place where water may be obtained: a place to which
people resort to drink mineral water, for bathing, &c.; WA'TERING-TROUGH, a
trough in which horses and cattle drink.--_adj._ WA'TERISH, resembling,
abounding in, water: somewhat watery: thin.--_ns._ WA'TERISHNESS;
WA'TER-JACK'ET, a casing containing water placed around anything to keep it
cool--also WA'TER-BOX and WA'TER-MAN'TLE; WA'TER-KEL'PIE, a malignant
water-spirit, generally in the form of a horse, which delights to drown
unwary travellers; WA'TER-LEM'ON, a species of passion-flower; WA'TER-LENS,
a simple lens formed by placing a few drops of water in a small brass cell
with blackened sides and a glass bottom.--_adj._ WA'TERLESS, lacking
water.--_ns._ WA'TER-LEV'EL, the level formed by the surface of still
water: a levelling instrument in which water is used; WA'TER-LIL'Y, a name
commonly given to the different species of _Nymphæa_ and _Nuphar_, and also
of _Nelumbium_, all genera of the natural order _Nymphæaceæ_, and indeed
often extended to all the plants of that order--of the three British
species all have heart-shaped leaves, floating on the water; WA'TER-LINE,
the line on a ship to which the water rises: a water-mark.--_adj._
WA'TER-LOGGED, rendered log-like or unmanageable from being filled with
water.--_ns._ WA'TER-LOT, a lot of ground which is under water;
WA'TER-MAIN, a great subterranean pipe supplying water in cities;
WA'TERMAN, a man who plies a boat on water for hire: a boatman: a ferryman:
a neat oarsman; WA'TERMANSHIP, oarsmanship; WA'TERMARK, a mark showing the
height to which water has risen: a tide-mark: a mark wrought into paper,
denoting its size or its manufacturer.--_v.t._ to mark with
water-marks.--_ns._ WA'TER-MEAD'OW, a meadow periodically overflowed by a
stream; WA'TER-MEL'ON, a plant having a spherical, pulpy, pleasantly
flavoured fruit, the fruit itself; WA'TER-ME'TER, an instrument measuring
the quantity of water passing through it: an instrument for measuring
evaporation; WA'TER-MILL, a mill driven by water; WA'TER-MOLE, the desman:
a duck-mole or duck-billed platypus; WA'TER-MONK'EY, an earthenware jar for
keeping drinking-water in hot climates, round, with narrow neck--also
_Monkey-jar_; WA'TER-M[=O]'TOR, any water-wheel or turbine, esp. any small
motor driven by water under pressure; WA'TER-NIX'Y, a spirit inhabiting
water; WA'TER-NYMPH, a Naiad; WA'TER-OU'SEL, the dipper; WA'TER-PARS'NIP, a
plant of the aquatic genus _Sium_--the skirret; WA'TER-PART'ING (same as
WATERSHED); WA'TER-PHONE, an instrument for detecting leaks in pipes;
WA'TER-PIPE, a pipe for conveying water; WA'TER-PLANE, a plane passing
through a vessel when afloat; WA'TER-PLANT, a plant which grows in water;
WA'TER-PLATE, a plate having a double bottom and a space for hot water,
used to keep food warm; WA'TER-P[=O]'LO, an aquatic game played by swimmers
in swimming-baths, at piers, &c., the sides numbering seven each--a
goal-keeper, two backs, one half-back, and three forwards; WA'TER-POT, a
pot or vessel for holding water; WA'TER-POW'ER, the power of water,
employed to move machinery, &c.; WA'TER-POX, varicella; WA'TER-PRIV'ILEGE,
the right to the use of water, esp. for machinery.--_adj._ WA'TERPROOF,
proof against water: not permitting water to enter.--_n._ anything with
such qualities: a garment of some waterproof substance, like
india-rubber.--_ns._ WA'TERPROOFING, the act of making any substance
impervious to water: the material with which a thing is made waterproof, as
caoutchouc; WA'TER-PUMP, a pump for water, used humorously of the eyes;
WA'TER-PUR'PIE (_Scot._), brook-lime, a species of _Veronica_; WA'TER-RAIL,
the common rail of Europe; WA'TER-RAM, a hydraulic ram; WA'TER-RAT, the
popular name of the water-vole: the American musk-rat; WA'TER-RATE, a rate
or tax for the supply of water; WA'TER-ROUTE, a stream, lake, &c. used as a
means of travel; WA'TER-RUG (_Shak._), a kind of dog; WA'TERSHED, the line
which separates two river-basins: a district from which several rivers
rise; WA'TER-SIDE, the brink of water: the sea-shore; WA'TER-SMOKE, water
evaporating as visible mist; WA'TER-SNAKE, a snake frequenting the water;
WA'TER-SOL'DIER, an aquatic plant (_Stratiotes aloïdes_) common in lakes
and ditches in the east of England; WA'TER-SPAN'IEL (see SPANIEL);
WA'TER-SP[=I]'DER, an aquatic spider; WA'TERSPOUT, a pipe from which water
spouts: a moving spout or column of water, often seen at sea, and sometimes
on land; WA'TER-SPRIN'KLE (_Spens._), a water-pot; WA'TER-SPRITE, a spirit
inhabiting the water.--_adj._ WA'TER-STAND'ING (_Shak._), containing water,
tearful.--_ns._ WA'TER-STRID'ER, any aquatic heteropterous insect of the
family _Hydrobatidæ_; WA'TER-SUPPLY', the obtaining and distribution of
sufficient water to the inhabitants of a town: the amount of water thus
distributed; WA'TER-T[=A]'BLE, a moulding or other projection in the wall
of a building to throw off the water; WA'TER-TANK, a tank or cistern for
holding water; WA'TER-TAP, a tap or cock used for letting out water;
WA'TER-THERMOM'ETER, a thermometer filled with water instead of mercury,
and used for showing the point at which water acquires its greatest
density; WA'TER-THIEF (_Shak._), a pirate.--_adj._ WA'TER-TIGHT, so tight
as not to admit water nor let it escape--(WATER-TIGHT COMPARTMENT, a
division of a ship's hull or other sub-aqueous structure so formed that
water cannot enter it from any other part; see BULKHEAD).--_ns._
WA'TER-TUBE, a pipe for rain-water; WA'TER-TWIST, a kind of cotton-twist,
first made by the water-frame; WA'TER-V[=I]'OLET, a plant of the genus
_Hottonia_; WA'TER-VOLE, the common European water-rat; WA'TER-WAG'TAIL, a
wagtail, the pied wagtail; WA'TER-WAY (_naut._) a series of pieces of
timber, extending round a ship at the junction of the decks with the sides,
pierced by scuppers to carry off the water: a water-route; WA'TERWHEEL, a
wheel moved by water: an engine for raising water; WA'TERWORK (mostly in
_pl._) any work or engine by which water is furnished, as to a town, &c.: a
textile fabric, used like tapestry: (_slang_) used humorously of shedding
tears.--_adj._ WA'TER-WORN, worn by the action of water.--_n._
WA'TER-WRAITH, a water-spirit supposed to portend death.--_adj._ WA'TERY,
pertaining to or like water: thin or transparent: tasteless: weak, vapid:
affecting water (of the moon, as governing the tide): (_Shak._)
eager.--_ns._ HIGH'-WA'TER, HIGH'-WA'TER-MARK (see HIGH); LOW'-WA'TER (see
LOW); LOW'-WA'TER-MARK, the limit of water at low tide: the lowest point of
anything.--WATER OF LIFE, spiritual refreshment: (_Scot._) whisky; WATER ON
THE BRAIN, knee, an accumulation of serous fluid in the cranial cavity,
knee-joint; WATERED SILK, silk on which a changeable pattern has been
worked by means of pressing and moistening.--ABOVE WATER, out of trouble;
AERATED WATER (see AERATE); APOLLINARIS WATER, an agreeable table-water,
obtained in Rhenish Prussia; BAG OF WATERS, the foetal membranes, filled
with _liquor amnii_, which dilate the mouth of the womb; CAST A PERSON'S
WATER, to examine urine to aid in the diagnosis of disease; DEEP WATER, or
WATERS, water too deep for safety, sore trouble, distress; FIRST WATER, the
highest degree of fineness in a diamond, &c., hence the highest rank
generally; HOLD WATER, to be correct or well-grounded, to stand
investigation; HOLY WATER, water used symbolically as a means of
purification; LIKE WATER, with the quick, full flow of water:
extravagantly, recklessly; MAKE THE MOUTH WATER, to arouse in any one a
strong desire for a thing--from the gathering of saliva in the mouth at the
prospect of a savoury morsel; MAKE WATER, to micturate; MINERAL WATER (see
MINERAL); OIL ON TROUBLED WATERS, anything that allays or assuages, from
the effect of pouring oil on rough water; TREAD WATER, to keep the head
above water by an up-and-down movement of the feet; UNDER WATER, below the
surface; WHITE WATER, breakers, foaming water. [A.S. _wæter_; Dut. _water_,
Ger. _wasser_; Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, L. _udus_, wet, _unda_, a wave, Sans.
_udan_, water.]

WATLING STREET, wat'ling strët, _n._ one of the great Roman highways of
Britain, commencing at Dover, passing through Canterbury and Rochester to
London, and thence to Chester and York, and northwards in two branches to
Carlisle and the Wall in the neighbourhood of Newcastle.

WATT, wot, _n._ the practical unit of electrical activity or power--from
James _Watt_ (1736-1819).

WATTEAU BODICE, wat'[=o] bod'is, _n._ a bodice with a square opening at the
neck resembling the costumes in the paintings of the French artist Antoine
_Watteau_ (1684-1721).

WATTLE, wot'l, _n._ a twig or flexible rod: a hurdle: the fleshy
excrescence under the throat of a cock or a turkey: one of various
Australian acacias.--_v.t._ to bind with wattles or twigs: to form by
plaiting twigs.--_n._ WATT'LE-BIRD, a wattled honey-eater of
Australia.--_adj._ WATT'LED, having wattles like a bird.--_n._ WATT'LING, a
construction made by interweaving twigs. [A.S. _watel_, _watul_, a hurdle.]

WAUGHT, WAUCHT, w[=a]ht, _n._ (_Scot._) a large draught. [Gael. _cuach_, a
cup.]

WAUKRIFE. See WAKE.

WAUL, WAWL, wawl, _v.t._ to cry as a cat. [Imit.]

WAVE, w[=a]v, _n._ a ridge on the surface of water swaying or moving
backwards and forwards: (_poet._) the sea: a state of vibration propagated
through a system of particles: inequality of surface: a line or streak like
a wave: an undulation: a rush of anything: a gesture.--_v.i._ to move like
a wave: to play loosely: to be moved, as a signal: to fluctuate.--_v.t._ to
move backwards and forwards: to brandish: to waft or beckon: to raise into
inequalities of surface.--_p.adj._ WAVED, showing a wavelike form or
outline: undulating: (_her._) indented: (_nat. hist._) having on the margin
a succession of curved segments or incisions.--_n._ WAVE'-LENGTH, the
distance between the crests of adjacent waves.--_adj._ WAVE'LESS, free from
waves: undisturbed.--_n._ WAVE'LET, a little wave.--_adj._
WAVE'LIKE.--_ns._ WAVE'-LINE, the outline, path, of a wave: the surface of
the waves: the line made by a wave on the shore; WAVE'-LOAF, a loaf for a
wave-offering; WAVE'-M[=O]'TION, undulatory movement; WAVE'-MOULD'ING
(_archit._), undulating moulding; WAVE'-OFF'ERING, an ancient Jewish custom
of moving the hands in succession towards the four points of the compass in
presenting certain offerings--opposed to the _Heave-offering_, in which the
hands were only lifted up and lowered.--_v.t._ W[=A]'VER, to move to and
fro: to shake: to falter: to be unsteady or undetermined: to be in danger
of falling.--_ns._ W[=A]'VERER; W[=A]'VERING.--_adv._ W[=A]'VERINGLY, in a
wavering or irresolute manner.--_n._ W[=A]'VERINGNESS.--_adjs._
W[=A]'VEROUS, W[=A]'VERY, unsteady.--_n._ WAVE'SON, goods floating on the
sea after a shipwreck.--_adj._ WAVE'-WORN, worn or washed away by the
waves.--_ns._ W[=A]'VINESS, the state or quality of being wavy;
W[=A]'VING.--_adj._ W[=A]'VY, full of or rising in waves: playing to and
fro: undulating.--HOT WAVE, WARM WAVE, a movement of heat or warmth
onwards, generally eastward. [A.S. _wafian_, to wave; cf. Ice. _vafra_, to
waver.]

WAVEY, WAVY, waw'vi, _n._ the snow-goose.

WAWE, waw, _n._ (_Spens._) a wave.

WAX, waks, _n._ the name given to some animal and vegetable substances, and
even to one or two mineral bodies (e.g. _ozokerite_), which more or less
resemble beeswax both in their appearance and in their physical properties:
the fat-like yellow substance produced by bees, and used by them in making
their cells: any substance like it, as that in the ear: the substance used
to seal letters: that used by shoemakers to rub their thread: in
coal-mining, puddled clay: a thick sugary substance made by boiling down
the sap of the sugar-maple, and cooling by exposure to the air: (_coll._) a
passion.--_v.t._ to smear or rub with wax.--_ns._ WAX'-BILL, one of various
small spermestine seed-eating birds with bills like sealing-wax;
WAX'-CHAND'LER, a maker or dealer in wax candles; WAX'-CLOTH, cloth covered
with a coating of wax, used for table-covers, &c., a popular name for all
oil floorcloths; WAX'-DOLL, a child's doll having the head and bust made of
hardened beeswax.--_adj._ WAX'EN, made of wax, like wax, easily
effaced.--_ns._ WAX'-END, better WAXED END, a strong thread having its end
stiffened by shoemakers' wax, so as to go easily through the hole made by
the awl; WAX'ER, one who or that which waxes; WAX'-FLOW'ER, a flower made
of wax; WAX'INESS, waxy appearance; WAX'ING, a method of putting a finish
on dressed leather: the process of stopping out colours in calico-printing;
WAX'-IN'SECT, an insect which secretes wax; WAX'-LIGHT, a candle or taper
made of wax; WAX'-MOD'ELLING, the process of forming figures in wax;
WAX'-MOTH, a bee-moth; WAX'-MYR'TLE, the candle-berry tree; WAX'-PAINT'ING,
a kind of painting, the pigments for which are ground with wax and diluted
with oil of turpentine; WAX'-PALM, either of two South American palms
yielding wax; WAX'-P[=A]'PER, paper prepared by spreading over its surface
a thin coating made of white wax and other materials.--_adj._ WAX'-RED
(_Shak._), bright-red like sealing-wax.--_ns._ WAX'TREE, a genus of plants
of natural order _Hypericaceæ_, all whose species yield a yellow resinous
juice when wounded, forming when dried the so-called American gamboge;
WAX'-WING, a genus of small Passerine birds, so named from most of the
species having small red horny appendages, resembling red sealing-wax, on
their wings; WAX'WORK, work made of wax, esp. figures or models formed of
wax: (_pl._) an exhibition of wax figures; WAX'WORKER.--_adj._ WAX'Y,
resembling wax: soft: pallid, pasty: adhesive: (_slang_) irate,
incensed.--WAXY DEGENERATION, a morbid process in which the healthy tissue
of various organs is transformed into a peculiar waxy albuminous
substance--also _amyloid_ or _lardaceous degeneration_. [A.S. _weax_; Ice.
_vax_, Dut. _was_, Ger. _wachs_.]

WAX, waks, _v.i._ to grow or increase, esp. of the moon, as opposed to
_Wane_: to pass into another state.--_pa.p._ WAX'EN (_B._), grown. [A.S.
_weaxan_; Ice. _vaxa_, Ger. _wachsen_, L. _aug[=e]re_, to increase, Gr.
_auxanein_.]

WAY, w[=a], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to weigh, esteem.

WAY, w[=a], _n._ passage: road: length of space: distance: direction:
manner of life: condition, state: advance in life: general manner of
acting: means: manner: will: (_naut._) progress or motion through the
water, headway.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to journey.--_ns._ WAY'-BAG'GAGE
(_U.S._), baggage to be laid down at a way-station; WAY'-BILL, list of
passengers and goods carried by a coach; WAY'-BOARD, WEIGH'-BOARD, a thin
stratum or seam separating thicker strata; WAY'BREAD, the common
plantain.--_v.i._ WAY'F[=A]RE, to travel on foot.--_n._ WAY'F[=A]RER, a
traveller or passenger.--_adj._ WAY'F[=A]RING, travelling or passing.--_n._
WAY'F[=A]RING-TREE, the _Viburnum lantana_, a large shrub common in British
hedges.--_adjs._ WAY'-G[=O]'ING, departing; WAY'GONE, exhausted by
travelling.--_v.t._ WAY'LAY, to lie in the way for: to watch or lie in
ambush for.--_n._ WAYLAY'ER.--_adj._ WAY'LESS, without a path.--_ns._
WAY'-M[=A]K'ER, a pioneer, path-finder; WAY'-MARK, -POST, guide-post;
WAY'-PASS'ENGER, one taken up or set down by the way; WAY'-SIDE, the side
of a way, path, or highway.--_adj._ growing or lying near the
way-side.--_ns._ WAY'-SLID'ING (_rare_), a wandering from the right way;
WAY'-ST[=A]'TION, an intermediate station between principal stations on a
railway; WAY'-THIS'TLE, the Canada thistle; WAY'-TRAFF'IC, local traffic,
as distinguished from through or express traffic; WAY'-TRAIN (_U.S._), a
train stopping at most of the stations on a line.--_adj._ WAY'WARD,
froward: wilful: irregular.--_n._ WAY'-WAR'DEN, a keeper of roads.--_adv._
WAY'WARDLY.--_n._ WAY'WARDNESS.--_adj._ WAY'WORN, worn-out by travel.--_n._
RIGHT'-OF-WAY (see RIGHT).--WAY OF THE CROSS, a series of pictorial
representations representing the stages of Christ's progress to Calvary:
devotions used in connection with these stages; WAYS AND MEANS, resources:
methods of raising money for the carrying on of government.--BE UNDER WAY,
HAVE WAY (_naut._), to be in progress, as a vessel; BY THE WAY, as we go
on; BY WAY OF, as for the purpose of: in character of; COME ONE'S WAY, to
come in one's direction; COMMITTEE OF WAYS AND MEANS, the House of Commons
in its capacity of raising the supplies; GIVE WAY (see GIVE); GO ONE'S WAY
(see GO); GO THE WAY OF ALL THE EARTH, to die; HAVE ONE'S WAY, to carry
one's point or wish; IN A SMALL WAY, on a petty scale; IN THE FAMILY WAY
(see FAMILY); IN THE WAY, on the way: impeding, obstructing; IN THE WAY OF,
in a good position for effecting something: in respect of; LEAD THE WAY, to
act as a guide in any movement; MAKE ONE'S WAY, to push one's self forward;
MAKE WAY, to give room: to advance; ON THE WAY, in progress; OUT OF THE
WAY, so as not to hinder or obstruct: away from the ordinary course:
unusual: (_Shak._) lost, hidden; PUT ONE'S SELF OUT OF THE WAY, to give
one's self trouble; TAKE ONE'S WAY, to set out: to follow one's own
inclination or plan; THE WAY, the Christian Religion (Acts ix. 2, &c.).
[A.S. _weg_; Ger. _weg_, L. _via_, Sans. _vaha_, akin to _veh[)e]re_, to
carry.]

WAYGOOSE, w[=a]'g[=oo]s, _n._ a printers' annual dinner or picnic, formerly
one given by an apprentice to his fellow-workmen, at which a _wase-_goose
or stubble-goose was the great dish.--Also WASE'-GOOSE, WAYZ'-GOOSE.

WAYMENT, w[=a]-ment', _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Spens._) to lament, grieve.--_n._
(_Spens._) lamentation, grief. [O. Fr. _waimenter_--L. _lament[=a]ri_, to
lament.]

WE, w[=e], _pron.pl._ of I: I and others. [A.S. _wé_; cog. with Goth.
_weis_, Ger. _wir_.]

WEAK, w[=e]k, _adj._ soft: wanting strength and vigour: not able to sustain
a great weight: wanting health: easily overcome: feeble of mind: wanting
moral or mental force: frail: unsteady: slight or incomplete: having little
of the chief ingredient: impressible: inconclusive: (_Shak._)
inconsiderable: (_gram._) of a verb inflected by regular syllabic addition
instead of by change of the main vowel: tending downward in price.--_adj._
WEAK'-BUILT (_Shak._), ill-founded.--_v.t._ WEAK'EN, to make weak: to
reduce in strength or spirit.--_v.i._ to grow weak or weaker.--_n._
WEAK'ENER, one who or that which weakens.--_adjs._ WEAK'-EYED, having weak
eyes or sight; WEAK'-HAND'ED, powerless; WEAK'-HEAD'ED, having a feeble
intellect; WEAK'-HEART'ED (_Shak._), of weak or feeble heart or spirit;
WEAK'-HINGED, ill-balanced; WEAK'-KNEED, having weak knees: weak in
will.--_n._ WEAK'LING, a weak or feeble creature.--_adv._ WEAK'LY.--_adj._
WEAK'-MIND'ED, of feeble powers of mind.--_ns._ WEAK'-MIND'EDNESS;
WEAK'NESS.--_adjs._ WEAK'-SIGHT'ED, having feeble eyesight;
WEAK'-SPIR'ITED, bearing wrong tamely, cowardly.--WEAKER SEX, women; WEAKER
VESSEL (see VESSEL).--WEAK SIDE, POINT, that side or point in which a
person is most easily influenced or most liable to temptation. [A.S. _wác_,
pliant--_wican_, to yield; Dut. _week_, Ice. _veikr_, Ger. _weich_.]

WEAL, w[=e]l, _n._ state of being well: a sound or prosperous state:
welfare.--_adj._ WEAL'-BAL'ANCED (_Shak._), explained by Schmidt as kept in
a state of just proportion by reasons of state.--_n._ WEALS'MAN (_Shak._),
a statesman.--THE PUBLIC, GENERAL, or COMMON WEAL, the well-being,
interest, and prosperity of the country. [A.S. _wela_, wealth, bliss; Ger.
_wohl_.]

WEAL, w[=e]l, _n._ a form of _wale_.

WEALD, w[=e]ld, _n._ any open country.--_adj._ WEALD'EN, pertaining to the
_Weald_.--_n._ a geological formation seen in the Weald--viz. the upper
oolitic series of rocks.--THE WEALD, a district comprising portions of Kent
and Sussex, extending from Folkestone Hill near the Straits of Dover to
Beachy Head. [From the root of _wild_; not directly conn. with A.S.
_weald_, a forest, wold.]

WEALTH, welth, _n._ large possessions of any kind: riches.--_adv._
WEALTH'ILY.--_n._ WEALTH'INESS.--_adj._ WEALTH'Y, rich: prosperous:
well-fed. [An extension of _weal_.]

WEAN, w[=e]n, _v.t._ to accustom to nourishment other than the mother's
milk: to reconcile to the want of anything: to estrange the affections from
any object or habit.--_n._ (w[=a]n) an infant, a child (_Scot._).--_ns._
WEAN'EL (_Spens._), a weanling; WEAN'ING-BRASH, a severe form of diarrhoea,
which supervenes, at times, on weaning.--_adj._ WEAN'LING, newly
weaned.--_n._ a child or animal newly weaned. [A.S. _wenian_; Ice. _venja_,
Ger. _gewöhnen_, to accustom, _ent-wöhnen_, to disuse, to wean.]

WEAPON, wep'un, _n._ any instrument or organ of offence or
defence.--_adjs._ WEAP'ONED; WEAP'ONLESS, having no weapons.--_n._
WEAP'ON-SALVE, a salve supposed to cure a wound by being applied to the
weapon that made it. [A.S. _w['æ]pen_; Goth. _wepna_, arms, Ger. _waffen_
and _wappen_.]

WEAPON-SCHAW=_Wapinschaw_ (q.v.).

WEAR, w[=a]r, _v.t._ to carry on the body: to have the appearance of: to
consume by use, time, or exposure: to waste by rubbing: to do by degrees:
to exhaust, efface: (_naut._) to veer.--_v.i._ to be wasted by use or time:
to be spent tediously: to consume slowly: to last under use: (_Shak._) to
be in fashion, to become accustomed: (_naut._) to come round away from the
wind: (_obs._) to become:--_pa.t._ w[=o]re; _pa.p._ w[=o]rn.--_n._ act of
wearing: lessening or injury by use or friction: article worn.--_adj._
WEAR'ABLE, fit to be worn.--_n._ WEAR'ER.--_p.adj._ WEAR'ING, made or
designed for wear: consuming, exhausting.--_n._ the process of wasting by
attrition or time: that which is worn, clothes.--_ns._ WEAR'ING-APPAR'EL,
dress; WEAR'-[=I]'RON, a friction-guard.--WEAR AND TEAR, loss by wear or
use; WEAR AWAY, to impair, consume; WEAR OFF, to rub off by friction: to
diminish by decay: to pass away by degrees; WEAR OUT, to impair by use: to
render useless by decay: to consume tediously: to harass. [A.S. _werian_,
to wear; Ice. _verja_, to cover, Goth. _wasjan_.]

WEAR, w[=e]r, _n._ another spelling of _weir_.

WEAR, w[=e]r, _v.t._ (_obs._) to guard, ward off: to guide. [A.S. _werian_,
to guard, from root of _wary_.]

WEARISH, w[=e]r'ish, _adj._ (_Spens._) withered, shrunk.

WEARY, w[=e]'ri, _adj._ worn-out: having the strength or patience
exhausted: tired: causing weariness: (_prov._) puny.--_v.t._ to wear out or
make weary: to reduce the strength or patience of: to harass.--_v.i._ to
become weary or impatient: to long for.--_adjs._ WEA'RIED, tired;
WEA'RIFUL, wearisome.--_adv._ WEA'RIFULLY.--_adj._ WEA'RILESS,
incessant.--_adv._ WEA'RILY.--_n._ WEA'RINESS.--_adj._ WEA'RISOME, making
weary: tedious.--_adv._ WEA'RISOMELY.--_n._ WEA'RISOMENESS.--WEARY OUT, to
exhaust. [A.S. _wérig_, weary.]

WEARY, w[=e]'ri, _n._ (_Scot._) a curse, as in 'weary on you.'

WEASAND, w[=e]'zand, _n._ the windpipe: the throat. [A.S. _wásend_; not to
be traced to A.S. _hwésan_ (Ice. _hvæsa_), to wheeze.]

WEASEL, w[=e]'zl, _n._ a common carnivore belonging to the same genus as
the polecat and stoat--the body long and slender--eating rats, frogs,
birds, mice, &c.: (_Shak._) a lean, hungry fellow.--_n._ WEA'SEL-COOT, the
red-headed smew.--_adj._ WEA'SEL-FACED, having a lean sharp face. [A.S.
_wesle_; Ger. _wiesel_.]

WEATHER, weth'[.e]r, _n._ state of the air as to heat or cold, dryness,
wetness, cloudiness, &c.--_v.t._ to affect by exposing to the air: to sail
to the windward of: to gain or pass, as a promontory or cape: to hold out
stoutly against difficulties.--_v.i._ to become discoloured by
exposure.--_adj._ (_naut._) toward the wind, windward.--_adjs._
WEATH'ER-BEAT'EN, distressed or seasoned by the weather; WEATH'ER-BIT'TEN,
worn or defaced by exposure to the winds.--_n._ WEATH'ER-BOARD, the
windward side of a ship: a plank in the port of a laid-up vessel placed so
as to keep off rain, without preventing air to circulate.--_v.t._ to fit
with such planks.--_n._ WEATH'ER-BOARD'ING, thin boards placed overlapping
to keep out rain: exterior covering of a wall or roof.--_adj._
WEATH'ER-BOUND, delayed by bad weather.--_ns._ WEATH'ER-BOX, -HOUSE, a toy
constructed on the principle of a barometer, consisting of a house with the
figures of a man and wife who come out alternately as the weather is
respectively bad or good; WEATH'ER-CLOTH, a tarpaulin protecting boats,
hammocks, &c.; WEATH'ERCOCK, a vane (often in the form of a cock) to show
the direction of the wind: anything turning easily and often.--_v.t._ to
act as a weathercock for.--_p.adj._ WEATH'ER-DRIV'EN, driven by winds or
storms.--_adj._ WEATH'ERED (_archit._), made slightly sloping, so as to
throw off water: (_geol._) having the surface altered in colour, form,
texture, or composition by the action of the elements.--_n._ WEATH'ER-EYE,
the eye considered as the means by which one forecasts the weather.--_v.t._
WEATH'ER-FEND (_Shak._), to defend from the weather, to shelter.--_ns._
WEATH'ER-GAGE, the position of a ship to the windward of another: advantage
of position; WEATH'ER-GLASS, a glass or instrument that indicates the
changes of the weather: a barometer; WEATH'ER-GLEAM (_prov._), a bright
aspect of the sky at the horizon; WEATH'ER-HELM, a keeping of the helm
somewhat a-weather when a vessel shows a tendency to come into the wind
while sailing; WEATH'ERING (_archit._), a slight inclination given to the
top of a cornice or moulding, to prevent water from lodging on it:
(_geol._) the action of the elements in altering the form, colour, texture,
or composition of rocks.--_adj._ WEATH'ERLY (_naut._), making little leeway
when close-hauled.--_n._ WEATH'ER-MAP, a map indicating meteorological
conditions over a large tract of country.--_adj._ WEATH'ERMOST, farthest to
windward.--_n._ WEATH'ER-NOT[=A]'TION, a system of abbreviation for
meteorological phenomena.--_adj._ WEATH'ER-PROOF, proof against rough
weather.--_ns._ WEATH'ER-PROPH'ET, one who foretells weather: a device for
foretelling the weather; WEATH'ER-ROLL, the lurch of a vessel to windward
when in the trough of the sea; WEATH'ER-SER'VICE, an institution for
superintending and utilising observed meteorological phenomena;
WEATH'ER-SIDE, the windward side; WEATH'ER-SIGN, a phenomenon indicating
change of weather: any prognostic; WEATH'ER-STAIN, discolouration produced
by exposure; WEATH'ER-ST[=A]'TION, a station where phenomena of weather are
observed; WEATH'ER-STRIP, a thin piece of some material used to keep out
wind and cold; WEATH'ER-SYM'BOL, a conventional sign indicating some
meteorological phenomenon.--_adjs._ WEATH'ER-WISE, wise or skilful in
foreseeing the changes or state of the weather; WEATH'ER-WORN, worn by
exposure to the weather.--WEATHER ANCHOR, the anchor lying to windward;
WEATHER A POINT, to gain an advantage or accomplish a purpose against
opposition; WEATHER OUT (_obs._), to hold out against till the end.--KEEP
ONE'S WEATHER EYE OPEN, to be on one's guard, to have one's wits in
readiness; MAKE FAIR WEATHER (_Shak._), to conciliate: to flatter; STRESS
OF WEATHER, violent and especially unfavourable winds, force of tempests.
[A.S. _weder_; Ice. _vedhr_, Ger. _wetter_.]

WEAVE, w[=e]v, _v.t._ to twine threads together: to unite threads in a loom
to form cloth: to work into a fabric: to unite by intermixture: to
construct, contrive.--_v.i._ to practise weaving:--_pa.t._ w[=o]ve,
(rarely) weaved; _pa.p._ w[=o]v'en.--_ns._ WEAV'ER; WEAV'ER-BIRD, a family
of Passerine birds resembling the finches, so called from their remarkably
woven nests; WEAV'ING, the act or art of forming a web or cloth by the
intersecting of two distinct sets of fibres, threads, or yarns--those
passing longitudinally from end to end of the web forming the warp, those
crossing and intersecting the warp at right angles forming the weft. [A.S.
_wefan_; Ice. _vefa_, Ger. _weben_; cog. with Gr. _hupp[=e]_, a web,
_huphainein_, to weave.]

WEAVE, w[=e]v, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Spens._) waved, floated.

WEAZAND, w[=e]'zand, _n._ Same as WEASAND.

WEAZEN, w[=e]'zn, _adj._ thin, sharp. [_Wizen_.]

WEB, web, _n._ that which is woven: anything resembling a web, as a roll of
cloth, paper, &c.: a plot, scheme: in birds, the blade of a feather:
(_anat._) any connective tissue: the fine texture spun by the spider as a
snare for flies: a film over the eye: the skin between the toes of
water-fowls.--_v.t._ to envelop, to connect with a web.--_adj._ WEBBED,
having the toes united by a web or skin.--_n._ WEB'BING, a narrow woven
fabric of hemp, used for chairs, &c.: (_zool._) the webs of the digits:
(_print._) tapes conducting webs of paper in a printing machine.--_adj._
WEB'BY.--_n._ WEB'-EYE, a film spreading over the eye.--_adjs._ WEB'-EYED;
WEB'-FING'ERED.--_n._ WEB'-FOOT, a foot the toes of which are united with a
web or membrane.--_adjs._ WEB'-FOOT'ED; WEB'-TOED.--WEB AND PIN (_Shak._),
or PIN AND WEB, cataract on the eye. [A.S. _webb_; Ice. _vefr_, Ger.
_gewebe_; from root of _weave_.]

WEBSTER, web'st[.e]r, _n._ (_obs._) a weaver. [A.S. _webbestre_, a female
weaver--_webban_, to weave.]

WECHT, weht, _n._ (_Scot._) an instrument for lifting grain. [Perh. conn.
with _weigh_.]

WED, wed, _v.t._ to marry: to join in marriage: to unite closely.--_v.i._
to marry:--_pr.p._ wed'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wed'ded or wed.--_adj._
WED'DED, married: belonging to marriage: clasped together.--_ns._ WED'DING,
marriage: marriage ceremony; WED'DING-BED, the bridal bed; WED'DING-CAKE, a
highly decorated cake served at a wedding, and also divided among absent
friends.--_n.pl._ WED'DING-CARDS, complimentary cards of a newly married
pair, sent to friends.--_ns._ WED'DING-DAY, day of marriage;
WED'DING-DOWER, marriage portion; WED'DING-DRESS, a bride's dress;
WED'DING-F[=A]VOUR, white rosette worn by men at a wedding;
WED'DING-GAR'MENT, garment worn at a wedding; WED'DING-RING, a plain ring
given by the groom to the bride at a wedding.--PENNY WEDDING, a wedding
where the guests paid for the entertainment, and sometimes contributed to
the outfit; SILVER, GOLDEN, DIAMOND WEDDING, the celebrations of the 25th,
50th, and 60th anniversaries of a wedding. [A.S. _weddian_, to engage, to
marry (Ger. _wetten_, to wager)--_wed_, a pledge; Goth. _wadi_, Ger.
_wette_, a bet.]

WED, wed, _n._ a pledge, security--(_Scot._) WAD.--_v.t._ to wager. [A.S.
_wed_, a pledge.]

WEDGE, wej, _n._ a piece of wood or metal, thick at one end and sloping to
a thin edge at the other, used in splitting: anything shaped like a wedge:
a mass of metal: at Cambridge, the man lowest on the list of the classical
tripos.--_v.t._ to cleave with a wedge: to force or drive with a wedge: to
press closely: to fasten with a wedge: to make into a wedge.--_v.i._ to
force one's way like a wedge.--_adjs._ WEDGED, cuneiform or wedge-shaped;
WEDGE'-SHAPED, having the shape of a wedge; WEDGE'-TAILED, having the tail
wedge-shaped or cuneate.--_adv._ WEDGE'WISE, in the manner of a
wedge.--_n._ WEDG'ING, a method of joining timbers.--WEDGE OF LEAST
RESISTANCE, the form in which a substance yields to pressure.--THE THIN, or
SMALL, END OF THE WEDGE, the insignificant-looking beginning of a principle
or practice which will yet lead to something great and important. [A.S.
_wecg_; Ice. _veggr_, Ger. _weck_, a wedge; prob. from the root of
_weigh_.]

WEDGWOOD WARE. See WARE.

WEDLOCK, wed'lok, _n._ marriage: matrimony.--BREAK WEDLOCK, to commit
adultery. [A.S. _wedlác_--_wed_, _-lác_, a gift.]

WEDNESDAY, wenz'd[=a], _n._ fourth day of the week. [A.S. _Wódenes dæg_,
the day of _Woden_ or _Odin_, the chief Teutonic deity.]

WEE, w[=e], _n._ a short distance, a short time.--_adj._ tiny. [Scand. form
of _way_; Dan. _vei_, Ice. _vegr_; not conn. with Ger. _wenig_, little.]

WEED, w[=e]d, _n._ any useless plant of small growth: anything useless or
troublesome; a sorry animal, a worthless fellow: (_coll._) a cigar.--_v.t._
to free from weeds: to remove anything hurtful or offensive.--_adjs._
WEED'ED, WEED'-GROWN, overgrown with weeds.--_n._ WEED'ER.--_n.pl._
WEED'ER-CLIPS (_Scot._), shears for weeding.--_ns._ WEED'ERY, a place full
of weeds; WEED'INESS; WEED'ING-CHIS'EL, -FOR'CEPS, -FORK, -HOOK, -TONGS
(_pl._) garden implements of varying forms for destroying weeds.--_adjs._
WEED'LESS; WEED'Y, weed-like, consisting of weeds; worthless. [A.S. _wéod_,
an herb.]

WEED, w[=e]d, _n._ a garment, esp. in _pl._ a widow's mourning
apparel.--_adj._ WEED'Y, clad in widow's mourning. [A.S. _w['æ]d_,
clothing; Old High Ger. _w[=a]t_, cloth; cf. _leinwand_.]

WEED, w[=e]d, _n._ (_Scot._) a popular name for any sudden illness, cold,
or relapse with febrile symptoms in women after confinement or nursing:
lymphangitis in the horse.--Also WEID.

WEEK, w[=e]k, _n._ the space of seven days, esp. from Sunday to Sunday: the
six working days of the week.--_n._ WEEK'DAY, any day of the week except
Sunday.--_adj._ WEEK'LY, coming, happening, or done once a week.--_adv._
once a week.--_n._ a publication appearing once a week.--WEEK ABOUT, in
alternate periods of seven days.--A PROPHETIC WEEK (_B._), seven years; A
WEEK OF SUNDAYS (_coll._), seven weeks: a long time; FEAST OF WEEKS, a
Jewish festival lasting seven weeks; GREAT WEEK, HOLY WEEK, PASSION WEEK,
the week preceding Easter Sunday; THIS DAY WEEK, a week from to-day. [A.S.
_wice_; Dut. _week_, Ger. _woche_.]

WEEK, w[=e]k, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as WICK.

WEEL, w[=e]l, _n._ a whirlpool. [A.S. _w['æ]l_.]

WEEL, w[=e]l, _n._ (_prov._) a trap or snare for fish: (_her._) a bearing
resembling such.

WEEL, w[=e]l, _adv._ (_Scot._) well.

WEEM, w[=e]m, _n._ (_Scot._) a subterranean dwelling.

WEEN, w[=e]n, _v.i._ to think or fancy. [A.S. _wénan_--_wén_ (Ger. _wahn_),
expectation, hope.]

WEEP, w[=e]p, _v.i._ to express grief by shedding tears: to wail or lament:
to drip, rain: to be pendent, as a _weeping_ willow.--_v.t._ to lament: to
pour forth:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wept.--_n._ WEEP'ER, one who weeps: a
white border round the sleeve of a mourning dress: a crape hat-band: a
widow's crape-veil: anything pendent.--_adj._ WEEP'ING, drooping the
branches (as it were through grief).--_ns._ WEEP'ING-ASH, a variety of the
common European ash, with drooping branches; WEEP'ING-BIRCH, a variety of
the white birch, with drooping branches.--_adv._ WEEP'INGLY.--_adj._
WEEP'ING-RIPE (_Shak._), ripe or ready for tears.--_ns._ WEEP'ING-ROCK, a
rock through which water percolates slowly; WEEP'ING-SPRING, a spring from
which water escapes slowly; WEEP'ING-TREE, a tree with long pendulous
branches; WEEP'ING-WILL'OW (see WILLOW).--_adj._ WEEP'Y, oozy. [A.S.
_wépan_--_wóp_, clamour; allied to Goth. _wópjan_.]

WEET, WEET'ING, WEET'INGLY, WEET'LESS, obsolete form of wit, &c.

WEET, dialectal form of _wet_.

WEEVER, w[=e]'v[.e]r, _n._ a genus of fishes (_Trachinus_) of which two
species are British, with sharp dorsal and opercular spines capable of
inflicting serious wounds.--Also _Sting-fish_. [Perh. conn. with L.
_vipera_.]

WEEVIL, w[=e]v'il, _n._ a popular name for a large number of beetles, with
the anterior part of the head prolonged into a beak or proboscis, feeding
upon plants: any insect injurious to stored grain.--_adjs._ WEEV'ILED,
WEEV'ILLED, WEEV'ILY, WEEV'ILLY, infested by weevils. [A.S. _wifel_; Ger.
_wiebel_.]

WEFT, weft, _n._ the threads woven into and crossing the warp--also
WOOF.--_n._ WEFT'AGE, texture. [A.S. _weft_--_wefan_, to weave.]

WEFT, weft, _n._ (_Spens._) a waif, a castaway.

WEFTE, weft, _v.pa.t._ (_Spens._) was wafted, avoided.

WEIGH. w[=a], _v.t._ to compare by the balance: to find the heaviness of:
to be equal to in heaviness: to bear up, to raise, esp. a ship's anchor: to
ponder in the mind: to consider worthy of notice.--_v.i._ to have weight:
to be considered of importance: to press heavily: to weigh anchor, get
under sail.--_adj._ WEIGH'ABLE, capable of being weighed.--_ns._ WEIGH'AGE,
rate paid for the weighing of goods; WEIGH'-BAUK (_Scot._), the beam of a
balance: (_pl._) a pair of scales; WEIGH'-BOARD (same as WAY-BOARD);
WEIGH'-BRIDGE, a machine for weighing carts with their loads.--_p.adj._
WEIGHED (_Bacon_), experienced.--_ns._ WEIGH'ER, an officer who weighs
articles or tests weights; WEIGH'-HOUSE, a public building for weighing
goods, ascertaining the tonnage of boats, &c.; WEIGH'ING; WEIGH'ING-CAGE, a
cage in which live animals are weighed; WEIGH'ING-MACHINE', a machine or
apparatus for weighing heavy goods; WEIGHT, the heaviness of a thing when
weighed, or the amount which anything weighs: the force with which a body
is attracted to the earth, measured by the mass into the acceleration: a
mass of metal adjusted to a standard and used for finding weight: anything
heavy: a ponderous mass: pressure: importance: power: impressiveness: in
mining, subsidence of the roof due to overhead pressure, also called
WEIGH'TING.--_v.t._ to make more heavy.--_adv._ WEIGH'TILY.--_n._
WEIGH'TINESS.--_adjs._ WEIGHT'LESS; WEIGH'TY.--WEIGH DOWN, to depress:
(_Shak._) to preponderate over; WEIGH IN, to ascertain one's weight before
a contest, as a horse-race; WEIGHT OF METAL, total weight of iron thrown at
one discharge from a ship's guns.--DEAD WEIGHT (see DEAD). [A.S. _wegan_,
to carry; Ger. _wiegen_; L. _veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

WEIGH, w[=a], _n._ a very common misspelling of _way_ in the phrase 'Under
way,' through confusion with the phrase 'To weigh anchor.'

WEIR, WEAR, w[=e]r, _n._ a dam across a river: a fence of stakes set in a
stream for catching fish. [A.S. _wer_, an enclosure, allied to _werian_, to
protect; cf. Ger. _wehr_, a dam, _wehren_, to ward.]

WEIRD, w[=e]rd, _n._ fate: that which comes to pass: a spell or
charm.--_adj._ skilled in witchcraft: unearthly, uncanny.--_v.t._ to
destine, doom, adjure.--_adv._ WEIRD'LY.--_n._ WEIRD'NESS.--DREE ONE'S
WEIRD (see DREE).--THE WEIRD SISTERS, the Fates. [A.S. _wyrd_,
fate--_weorthan_, to become; Ger. _werden_.]

WEISM, w[=e]'izm, _n._ inordinate use of the pronoun _we_.

WEISMANNISM, v[=i]s'man-izm, _n._ the doctrine in biology of August
_Weismann_ (born 1834)--that acquired characters are not transmitted,
function and environment affecting the individual only, not the species,
the sole source of evolutionary change being the intermingling of
germ-plasma which occurs in fertilisation, and the condition of progress
being found in the action of natural selection on the germinal variations
which thus arise.

WELAWAY. Same as WELLAWAY.

WELCOME, wel'kum, _adj._ received with gladness: admitted willingly:
causing gladness: free to enjoy.--_n._ kindly reception.--_v.t._ to receive
with kindness: to entertain hospitably.--_ns._ WEL'COMENESS; WEL'COMER, one
who welcomes.--BID A WELCOME, to receive with professions of kindness.
[Scand., Ice. _velkominn_--_vel_, well, _kominn_, pa.p. of _koma_, to
come.]

WELD, weld, _n._ a scentless species of mignonette, yielding a yellow
dye--(_Scot._) WALD. [Cf. Ger. _wau_.]

WELD, weld, _v.t._ to join together as iron or steel by hammering, when
softened by heat: to join closely.--_v.i._ to undergo welding.--_n._ a
welded joint.--_n._ WELDABIL'ITY.--_adj._ WEL'DABLE.--_ns._ WEL'DER;
WEL'DING; WELD'-[=I]'RON, wrought-iron.--_adj._ WELD'LESS, having no
welds.--_n._ WELD'-STEEL, puddled steel. [Scand., Sw. _välla_, orig. to
well up, and so cog. with A.S. _weallan_, to boil; Ger. _wallen_.]

WELD, weld, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to wield.

WELDER, wel'd[.e]r, _n._ a land-tenant holding under the farmer or
middleman. [Ir.]

WELFARE, wel'f[=a]r, _n._ state of faring or doing well: freedom from any
calamity, &c.: enjoyment of health, &c.: prosperity.

WELK, welk, _v.i._ (_obs._) to wither, to shrivel or shrink: to
decline.--_v.t._ to contract, shorten, or impair: to form into wrinkles or
ridges. [From a root seen in Old High Ger. _welc_ (Ger. _welk_), moist.]

WELKIN, wel'kin, _n._ the sky or region of clouds.--_adj._ (_Shak._)
sky-blue. [A.S. _wolcnu_, pl. of _wolcen_, cloud, air, sky; Ger. _wolke_,
cloud.]

WELL, wel, _n._ a rise of water from the earth: a spring: a pit in the
earth whence a supply of water is obtained: an enclosure in a ship's hold
round the pumps: the open space in the middle of a staircase: a cavity: an
eddy.--_v.i._ to issue forth, as water from the earth: to spring.--_ns._
WELL'-BOAT, -SMACK, a fishing-boat having a well; WELL'-BOR'ING, sinking
wells by drilling through rock; WELL'-BUCK'ET, a vessel for drawing up
water from a well; WELL'-CURB, the stone ring built round the mouth of a
well; WELL'-DECK, an enclosed space on the deck of a ship; WELL'-DRAIN, a
pit drawing the water from wet land; WELL'-DRESS'ING, the festal decoration
of wells and springs, as at Tissington in Derbyshire on Ascension-day, &c.;
WELL'-HEAD, the source of a spring; WELL'-HOLE, the pit or shaft of a well;
WELL'-HOUSE, a room built over a well; WELL'ING, an outpouring; WELL'-ROOM,
a room enclosing a mineral well: a cavity in a boat for collecting leakage
and rain-water; WELL'-SINK'ER, one who digs wells; WELL'-SINK'ING, the act
of boring for water; WELL'-SPRING, a fountain.--THE WELLS, any place where
mineral wells are situated. [A.S. _wella_--_weallan_, to boil; cf. Ice.
_vella_, to boil.]

WELL, wel, _adj._ good in condition: fortunate: comfortable: in
health.--_n._ (_Spens._) good health, fortune.--_adv._ in a proper manner:
rightly: thoroughly: favourably: conveniently: to a considerable extent:
conscientiously: so be it (as a sign of assent).--_adjs._
WELL'-ACQUAINT'ED, having intimate personal knowledge; WELL'-ADVISED',
prudent.--_adv._ WELL'-ANEAR' (_Shak._), very soon.--_adj._
WELL'-APPOINT'ED, in good trim.--_n._ WELL'-APPOINT'EDNESS'.--_adjs._
WELL'-BAL'ANCED, properly adjusted; WELL'-BEH[=A]VED', becoming in
manner.--_n._ WELL'-B[=E]'ING, state of being well, welfare.--_adjs._
WELL'-BELOVED', very dear; WELL'-BESEEM'ING, properly becoming;
WELL'-BESEEN' (_Spens._), showy in appearance; WELL'-BORN, born of a good
or respectable family: not of mean birth; WELL'-BREATHED, strong of lung;
WELL'-BRED, educated to polished manners: of good stock;
WELL'-CONDI'TIONED, in a desirable condition; WELL'-CONDUCT'ED, properly
led: acting properly; WELL'-DISPOSED', favourable.--_ns._ WELL'-DO'ER, a
benefactor; WELL'-DO'ING, a doing of what is right or good.--_adjs._
WELL'-EARNED, thoroughly deserved; WELL'-ED'UCATED, having a good
education; WELL'-FAMED, famous; WELL-F[=A]'VOURED, good-looking; WELL'-FED,
fat; WELL'-FOUND, commendable; WELL'-FOUND'ED, highly probable;
WELL'-GRACED, popular; WELL'-GROUND'ED, very likely; WELL'-INFORMED', full
of varied information; WELL'-INTEN'TIONED, of upright intentions or
purpose; WELL'-JUDGED, correctly calculated; WELL'-KNIT, strongly framed;
WELL'-KNOWN, fully known: celebrated: notorious; WELL'-LIK'ING (_Shak._),
in good condition: clever, smart; WELL'-LOOK'ING, good-looking;
WELL'-MANN'ERED, polite: obedient; WELL'-MARKED, obvious, decided;
WELL'-MEAN'ING, well-intentioned; WELL'-MEANT, rightly intended;
WELL'-MIND'ED, favourably inclined.--_adv._ WELL'-NIGH, nearly:
almost.--_adjs._ WELL'-OR'DERED, correctly governed; WELL'-PLEAS'ING,
acceptable; WELL'-PLIGHT'ED (_Spens._), well folded; WELL'-PROPOR'TIONED,
having correct proportions; WELL'-READ, of extensive reading;
WELL'-REG'ULATED, well-ordered; WELL'-RESPECT'ED, highly esteemed;
WELL-ROUND'ED, symmetrical; WELL'-SEEN (_Shak._), experienced, skilful;
WELL'-SET, properly arranged: fitly put together; WELL'-SP[=O]'KEN, spoken
properly: graceful in speech; WELL'-TEM'PERED (_mus._), tuned in equal
temperament; WELL'-THEWED (_Spens._), well-educated, well-mannered, of good
disposition; WELL'-TIM'BERED, furnished with much timber; WELL'-TIMED,
opportune: keeping accurate time; WELL'-TO-DO, prosperous; WELL'-TURNED,
accurately rounded or fashioned; WELL'-WARR'ANTED, having good
credit.--_ns._ WELL'-WILL'ER, -WISH'ER, one who wills or wishes
well.--_adjs._ WELL'-WISHED (_Shak._), held in good-will; WELL'-WON,
honestly gained; WELL'-WORN, worn threadbare: (_rare_) becomingly
worn.--_adv._ WELL'Y (_prov._), well-nigh.--WELL DONE, a word of praise,
bravely! nobly! WELL ENOUGH, in a moderate but sufficient degree; WELL MET
(see MEET); WELL OFF, in good circumstances; WELL SAID, well done! WELL UP
(_coll._), well versed in, well acquainted with (with _in_).--AS WELL AS
(see AS); JUST AS WELL, all the same: so much the better. [A.S. _wel_; cog.
with Goth. _vaila_, Ger. _wohl_, from the root of _will_.]

WELLADAY, wel'a-d[=a], WELLAWAY, wel'a-w[=a], _interjs._ alas! [Corr. from
M. E. _weylaway_--A.S. _wá_, _lá_, _wá_, 'woe, lo! woe.']

WELLINGTONIA, wel-ing-t[=o]'ni-a, _n._ the largest of existing trees, a
native of California--the same as SEQUOIA (q.v.).

WELLINGTONS, wel'ing-tonz, _n._ a kind of riding-boots covering the knee in
front, but cut away behind: a shorter closely-fitting boot, worn under the
trousers. [Named after the great Duke of _Wellington_.]

WELSH, welsh, _adj._ pertaining to _Wales_ or its inhabitants.--_n.pl._ the
inhabitants of Wales:--_sing._ their language.--_ns._ WELSH'-HARP, a large
instrument, furnished with three rows of strings, two tuned in unison and
in the diatonic scale, the third in the sharps and flats of the chromatic;
WELSH'-HOOK, an old weapon, like the bill; WELSH'MAN, a native of WALES;
WELSH'-ON'ION, the cibol, a perennial plant with a garlic taste;
WELSH'-RABB'IT (see RABBIT). [A.S. _welisc_, foreign--_wealh_ (pl.
_wealas_), a foreigner, esp. the Celts or Welshmen.]

WELSH, welsh, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to run off from a race-course without
settling or paying one's bets--also WELCH.--_ns._ WELSH'ER, WELCH'ER.
[Perh. in allusion to the alleged bad faith of Welshmen.]

WELT, welt, _n._ a kind of hem or edging round a shoe: (_coll._) a
weal.--_v.t._ to furnish with a welt: to flog severely.--_adj._
WELT'ED.--_n._ WELT'ING. [W. _gwald_, a hem.]

WELT, welt, _v.i._ (_prov._) to decay: to become stringy. [_Wilt_.]

WELTER, wel't[.e]r, _v.i._ to roll or tumble about, to wallow about, esp.
in dirt: to lie in some floating substance.--_v.t._ to make way in a
weltering manner.--_n._ a tossing about, a state of turmoil.--_adj._
WEL'TERING. [M. E. _walten_, to roll over--A.S. _wealtan_, to roll.]

WELTER-WEIGHT, wel't[.e]r-w[=a]t, _n._ an unusually heavy weight, carried
mostly in steeple-chases and hurdle-races.--_n._ WEL'TER-RACE, a race in
which such weights are carried.--_n.pl._ WEL'TER-STAKES, the stakes in a
welter-race. [Perh. from _welter_, in allusion to the less free motion;
others trace to _swelter_, from the heating of the heavily weighted
horses.]

WELWITSCHIA, wel-wich'i-a, _n._ a genus of African Gymnosperms belonging to
the _Gnetaceæ_, and containing only one species, its flower consisting of a
panicle of brilliant overlapping scarlet scales. [Friedrich _Welwitsch_
(1806-72), an Austrian traveller.]

WEN, wen, _n._ a sebaceous cyst, most commonly on the scalp, consisting of
obstructed sebaceous glands, which enlarge by the internal pressure of
their accumulated secretions.--_adjs._ WEN'NISH, WEN'NY, wen-like. [A.S.
_wen_, a swelling, a wart; Dut. _wen_.]

WENCH, wensh, _n._ a maid, damsel: a working-girl, a maid-servant: a lewd
woman, a mistress, a whore.--_v.i._ to frequent the company of
whores.--_n._ WENCH'ER, one who indulges in lewdness. [Perh. from the sing.
of A.S. _winclo_, children, prob. _wencel_, weak, _wancol_, unstable.]

WEND, wend, _v.i._ to go: to wind or turn. [A.S. _wendan_, the causative of
_windan_, to turn round.]

WEND, wend, _n._ the name given by the Germans to a branch of the Slavs
which, as early as the 6th century, occupied the north and east of Germany
from the Elbe along the coast of the Baltic to the Vistula, and as far
south as Bohemia: one of the Slavic population of Lusatia who still speak
the Wendish tongue.--_adjs._ WEN'DIC, WEN'DISH. [Prob. ultimately cog. with
_wander_.]

WENLOCK, wen'lok, _adj._ (_geol._) denoting a group or series of rocks of
the Upper Silurian period, consisting of limestone and shale, and largely
developed in the neighbourhood of _Wenlock_ in Shropshire.

WENT, went, properly _pa.t._ of _wend_, but now used as _pa.t._ of
_go_.--_n._ (_Spens._) a turning: a path.

WENTLE-TRAP, wen'tl-trap, _n._ a genus of gasteropodous molluscs, having a
spiral shell with many deep whorls, crossed by elevated ribs, and the
aperture round and narrow. [Ger. _wendel-treppe_, a winding staircase.]

WEPT, wept, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _weep_.

WERE, wer, _v.i._ the _pl._ of _was_, used as _pa.t._ of _be_. [A.S.
_w['æ]re_; Ger. _war_, Ice. _vera_, to be. Cf. _Was_.]

WEREWOLF, WERWOLF, w[=e]r'woolf, _n._ a person supposed to be able by
natural gift or magic art to change himself for a time into a
wolf.--_adjs._ WERE'WOLFISH, WER'WOLFISH.--_n._ WERE'WOLFISM, lycanthropy.
[A.S. _werwulf_--_wer_, man (Goth. _vair_, L. _vir_), _wulf_, a wolf. The
modern Ger. _Währwolf_ is the Mid. High Ger. _Werwolf_, Latinised as
_garulphus_ or _gerulphus_, whence the O. Fr. _garoul_, the modern French
name being pleonastically _loup-garou_.]

WEREGILD, WERGILD, w[=e]r'gild, _n._ a composition by which, by the custom
of Anglo-Saxons, Franks, and other Teutonic peoples, homicide and other
heinous crimes against the person were expiated. [A.S. _wergield_, from
_wer_, man, _gield_--_gieldan_, to pay.]

WERNERIAN, w[.e]r-n[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining or according to the
opinions or system of A. G. _Werner_, a German mineralogist and geologist
(1750-1817), who classified minerals according to their external
characters, and advocated that all geological phenomena are due to the
action of water.--_n._ an upholder of this theory.--_n._ WER'NERITE, a
variety of scapolite.

WERSH, wersh, _adj._ (_Scot._) tasteless, unsalted. [_Wearish_.]

WERT, wert, the 2d pers. sing. of _were_, used as the _pa.t._ subjunctive
of _be_.

WERTHERIAN, ver-t[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to or resembling the
character of _Werther_ in Goethe's romance, 'The Sorrows of Young
Werther.'--_n._ WER'THERISM, sentimentality like that of WERTHER.

WESAND, w[=e]'zand, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as WEASAND.

WESLEYAN, wes'le-an, _adj._ pertaining to Wesleyanism.--_n._ one who adopts
Wesleyanism.--_n._ WES'LEYANISM, the system of doctrine and church polity
of the Wesleyan Methodists: Arminian Methodism. [Named from John _Wesley_
(1703-91).]

WEST, west, _n._ the quarter where the sun sets: one of the four chief
points of the compass: the direction faced when one stands with his back to
the high altar of a church: the countries to the west of Europe.--_adj._
situated towards or coming from the west: opposite the high altar of a
church.--_adv._ towards the west.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to move towards the
west.--_adv._ WEST'-ABOUT', towards the west.--_v.i._ WES'TER (_obs._), to
turn westward.--_adjs._ WES'TERING (_Milt._), passing to the west;
WES'TERLY, lying or moving towards west: from the west.--_adv._ towards the
west.--_adj._ WES'TERN, situated in the west: belonging to the west: moving
towards, or coming from, the west.--_n._ an inhabitant of a western region
or country.--_ns._ WES'TERNER, a person belonging to the west; WES'TERNISM,
an idiom or other characteristic of western people.--_adj._ WES'TERNMOST,
furthest to the west.--_n._ WES'TING, space or distance westward: departure
westward: time of setting or reaching the west.--_adv._ WEST'LING, towards
the west.--_adj._ WEST'MOST, most westerly.--_adj._ and _adv._ WEST'WARD,
towards the west.--_advs._ WEST'WARDLY, WEST'WARDS, towards the
west.--WESTERN CHURCH, the Latin Church, as distinguished from the Eastern
or Greek Church; WESTERN EMPIRE, the western division of the later Roman
Empire; WESTERN STATES, the states of the American Union lying west of the
Alleghanies.--WESTWARD HO! to the west! an old cry of London watermen
plying westwards. [A.S. _west_ (Fr. _ouest_, Ice. _vestr_); prob. conn.
with Ice. _vist_, abode, L. _vesper_, Gr. _hespera_.]

WESTPHALIAN, west-f[=a]'li-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Westphalia_, a duchy,
a kingdom, and now a province of Prussia.--_n._ a native of Westphalia.

WET, wet, _adj._ containing water: having water on the surface: rainy:
(_slang_) given to drinking, tipsy: (_U.S._) allowing the sale of
intoxicating liquors, as opposed to prohibition.--_n._ water or wetness:
moisture: act of wetting, a dram, a debauch.--_v.t._ to make wet: to soak
with water: to sprinkle: (_slang_) to celebrate by drinking:--_pr.p._
wet'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wet, (rarely) wet'ted.--_ns._ WET'-CUP'PING,
the simultaneous application of a cupping-glass and the making an incision
on the skin; WET'-DOCK, a dock or basin for floating vessels at all states
of the tide; WET'NESS; WET'-NURSE, a nurse who suckles a child for its
mother.--_adj._ WET'-SHOD, having shoes or feet wet.--_n._
WET'TING-MACHINE', a machine used to damp paper for printing.--_adj._
WET'TISH, somewhat wet.--WET BOB (_slang_), a boy at school who goes in for
rowing in preference to cricket or football; WET BULB THERMOMETER (see
PSYCHROMETER); WET GOODS, liquors; WET METER, a gas-meter in which the gas
to be measured passes through water; WET PLATE (_phot._), a plate coated
with collodion and sensitised with a salt of silver.--A WET BLANKET, a
damper, kill-joy. [A.S. _w['æ]t_; Ice. _vátr_; from root of water.]

WETHER, weth'[.e]r, _n._ a castrated ram. [A.S. _wither_; Ger. _widder_.]

WEY, w[=a], _n._ a measure or weight differing with different articles=182
lb. wool, 40 bushels salt or corn, 48 bushels oats, &c. [_Weigh_.]

WHACK, hwak, _v.t._ to thwack: (_slang_) to parcel out, share.--_v.i._ to
keep on striking: (_slang_) to settle accounts.--_n._ a blow: a stroke,
share.--_n._ WHACK'ER (_slang_), something big.--_adj._ WHACK'ING, very
large, astounding. [_Thwack_.]

WHAISLE, WHAIZLE, hw[=a]'zl, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to wheeze. [A form of
_wheeze_.]

WHALE, hw[=a]l, _n._ the common name of a cetaceous mammal, the largest of
sea-animals, including the _toothed_ whales, such as Sperm Whale and
Dolphin, and the _whalebone_ whales, such as Right Whale and Rorqual, in
which the teeth are only embryonic.--_v.i._ to take whales.--_ns._
WHALE'-BACK, a boat whose maindecks are covered in and rounded, for rough
seas; WHALE'-BOAT, a long, narrow boat used in the pursuit of whales;
WHALE'BONE, a light flexible substance consisting of the baleen plates of
the Arctic and allied whales.--_adj._ made of whalebone.--_ns._
WHALE'-CALF, a young whale--also CALF WHALE; WHALE'-FISH'ER, one engaged in
whale-fishery or the hunting of whales; WHALE'-FISH'ERY; WHALE'-FISH'ING;
WHALE'-LINE, strong rope used for harpoon-lines in the whale-fishery;
WHALE'-LOUSE, a genus of Crustacea, parasitic on the skin of Cetaceans;
WHALE'-MAN, WH[=A]L'ER, a person employed in whale-fishing; WHALE'-OIL, oil
obtained from the blubber of a whale; WH[=A]L'ER, WHALE'SHIP, a ship
employed in the whale-fishing; WH[=A]L'ERY, whaling.--_adj._ WH[=A]L'ING,
connected with whale-catching.--_n._ the business of catching
whales.--_ns._ WH[=A]L'ING-GUN, a contrivance for killing whales by means
of a projectile; WH[=A]L'ING-MAS'TER, the captain of a whaler;
WH[=A]L'ING-PORT, a port where whalers are registered.--WHALE'S BONE,
ivory.--BULL WHALE, an adult male whale. [A.S. _hwæl_ (Ice. _hvalr_, Ger.
_walfisch_); orig. unknown.]

WHALE, hw[=a]l, _v.t._ (_slang_) to thrash. [Form of _wale_.]

WHALLY, hw[=a]l'i, _adj._ wall-eyed.--_n._ WHALL, wall-eye.

WHANG, hwang, _n._ a leathern thong. [Form of _thwang_, _thong_.]

WHANG, hwang, _v.t._ to flog: (_Scot._) to cut in great slices.--_n._ a
blow, bang: a large slice. [Prob. a variant of _whack_.]

WHANGAM, hwang'gam, _n._ a feigned name of some animal, invented by
Goldsmith.

WHARF, hworf, _n._ a bank of timber or stone on the shore of a harbour or
river for lading and unlading vessels: (_Shak._) the bank of a
river:--_pl._ WHARFS, WHARVES.--_v.t._ to secure by a wharf: to place on a
wharf.--_ns._ WHARF'AGE, the dues paid for using a wharf: accommodation at
a wharf; WHARF'ING, material for making a wharf: wharfs; WHARFINGER
(hworf'in-j[.e]r), one who has the care of, or owns, a wharf; WHARF'-RAT,
the common brown rat: a fellow who loafs about a wharf in the hope of
picking up a chance job. [A.S. _hwerf_, a dam; prob. conn. with _hweorfan_
(Ice. _hverfa_), to turn.]

WHAT, hwot, _interrog. pron._ applied both to persons and things--also used
elliptically and as an interjection: (_Shak._) used to express a summons,
or as a mere expletive.--_interrog. adj._ of what sort, how much, how
great--also used in an intensive manner.--_rel. pron._ that which, such ...
as: (_Shak._) any, who, which.--_indef. pron._ something: (_Spens._) a
portion, bit.--_adv._ (_obs._) why? to what degree?--_conj._ so much as:
that, as in _but what_, that ... not.--_ns._ WHAT'ABOUTS, the things one is
occupied about; WHAT'-D'YE-CALL (-IT, -'EM), a word substituted for the
name of a thing (or person) because of forgetfulness, or in
contempt.--_adjs._ WHAT'EN, WHAT'TEN (_Scot._), what kind of.--_prons._
WHATEV'ER, WHATE'ER', anything which: (_coll._) what?--_adj._ any or all
that, no matter what.--_adjs._ WHAT'-LIKE (_coll._), of what kind; WHAT'NA
(_Scot._), same as WHATEN.--_pron._ WHAT'NOT, whatever or whoever.--_adj._
WHAT'SO, of whatever kind.--_pron._ whosoever.--_adjs._ WHATSOEV'ER,
WHATSOE'ER', of whatever kind; WHATSOMEV'ER (_coll._), whatsoever.--WHAT AN
IF (_Shak._), what of; WHAT ELSE, could anything else be the case? WHAT ...
FOR (_Shak._), what kind of; WHAT HO! a loud summons; WHAT IF, what would
happen if? WHAT NOT, elliptical for 'what may I not say?' implying the
presence or existence of many other things; WHAT OF, what comes of? what do
you think of? WHAT'S WHAT, the real or genuine thing; WHAT THOUGH, what
matters it though, notwithstanding; WHAT TIME, at the very time when; WHAT
WITH, by reason of. [A.S. _hwæt_, neut. of _hwa_, who; Ger. _was_, L.
_quid_.]

WHATNOT, hwot'not, _n._ a piece of furniture with shelves for books, &c.,
so called because used to hold anything: anything, no matter what.

WHAUP, hwawp, _n._ (_Scot._) a curlew--sometimes _Great Whaup_ as opposed
to _Little Whaup_, the whimbrel.

WHEAL, hw[=e]l, _n._ a wale, weal.--_v.t._ to cause weals upon. [Prob.
conn. with A.S. _hwelan_, to pine.]

WHEAL, hw[=e]l, _n._ a Cornish name for a mine.

WHEAT, hw[=e]t, _n._ the most valuable of all the cereal grasses, the grain
furnishing a white flour for bread--known as _bearded_, _beardless_, or
_bald_, according to the presence or the absence of the awns or beard; as
_white_, _red_, or _amber_, according to colour; and as _spring_, _summer_,
_autumn_, or _winter_, according to the time of sowing.--_ns._ WHEAT'-BIRD,
the chaffinch; WHEAT'-EAR, an ear of wheat; WHEAT'-EEL, a disease in
wheat--also _Ear-cockle_.--_adj._ WHEAT'EN, made of wheat.--_ns._
WHEAT'-FIELD, a field of wheat; WHEAT'-FLY, name of several flies which
destroy wheat--e.g. the Hessian fly; WHEAT'-MIDGE, a dipterous insect which
lays its eggs in the flowers of wheat-heads, and whose reddish larvæ devour
the kernels; WHEAT'-MIL'DEW, the rust which gathers on wheat and oats;
WHEAT'-MOTH, one of several small moths whose larvæ devour stored
wheat.--WHEAT-EAR STITCH, a fancy stitch in embroidery. [A.S.
_hw['æ]te_--_hwit_, white; Ger. _weizen_; allied to _white_, and named from
its colour.]

WHEAT-EAR, hw[=e]t'-[=e]r, _n._ a bird of the genus Chat, a common summer
visitant of Britain, abounding on downs and fallow fields. [Corr. from
_White-arse_.]

WHEEDLE, hw[=e]d'l, _v.t._ to entice by soft words: to flatter.--_n._ a
coaxing person.--_n._ WHEED'LER.--_adj._ WHEED'LESOME, coaxing.--_n._
WHEED'LING. [Perh. from Ger. _wedeln_, to wag the tail, as a dog--_wedel_,
a fan, brush--Old High Ger. _wehan_, to blow.]

WHEEL, hw[=e]l, _n._ a circular frame turning on an axle: an old instrument
of torture: a steering-wheel: (_fig._) the course of events, from the
wheel, one of the attributes of Fortune, the emblem of mutability:
(_coll._) a bicycle or tricycle: circular motion: principle of life or
motion: (_Shak._) a refrain: (_pl._) chariot: (_slang_) a dollar.--_v.t._
to cause to whirl: to convey on wheels: to turn.--_v.i._ to turn round or
on an axis: to roll forward: to change direction: to move in a circle: to
change about: (_coll._) to ride a bicycle or tricycle.--_ns._
WHEEL'-AN'IMAL, -ANIMAL'CULE, a rotifer; WHEEL'-BARROW, a barrow supported
on one wheel and two handles, and driven forward by one man; WHEEL'-BOAT, a
boat having wheels, for use on water or on inclined planes;
WHEEL'-CARR'IAGE, any kind of carriage moved on wheels; WHEEL'-CHAIR, a
chair moving on wheels.--_adj._ WHEEL'-CUT, cut, or ground and polished, on
a wheel--of glass.--_n._ WHEEL'-CUT'TER, a machine for cutting the teeth on
watch and clock wheels.--_p.adj._ WHEELED, having wheels.--_ns._ WHEEL'ER,
one who wheels: the horse nearest the wheels of a carriage: a maker of
wheels; WHEEL'-HORSE, one of the horses next the wheels in a team;
WHEEL'-HOUSE, a box or small house erected over the steering-wheel in
ships: a paddle-box; WHEEL'ING, the act of moving or conveying on wheels: a
turning or circular movement of troops; WHEEL'-LOCK, a lock for firing a
gun by means of a small steel wheel; WHEEL'MAN, a steersman: a cyclist;
WHEEL'-PLOUGH, a plough the depth of whose furrow is regulated by a wheel;
WHEEL'-RACE, the part of a race in which the water-wheel is fixed;
WHEEL'-TAX, a tax on carriages; WHEEL'-WIN'DOW, a circular window with
radiating tracery; WHEEL'-WORK, a combination of wheels and their
connection in machinery; WHEEL'WRIGHT, a wright who makes wheels and
wheel-carriages.--_adj._ WHEEL'Y, like a wheel.--WHEEL AND AXLE, one of the
mechanical powers, in its primitive form a cylindrical axle, on which a
wheel, concentric with the axle, is firmly fastened, the power being
applied to the wheel, and the weight attached to the axis; WHEEL OF LIFE
(see ZOETROPE); WHEELS WITHIN WHEELS, a complication of
circumstances.--BREAK A BUTTERFLY (FLY, &c.) UPON THE WHEEL, to inflict a
punishment out of all proportion to the offence: to employ great exertions
for insignificant ends. [A.S. _hwéol_; Ice. _hjól_.]

WHEEN, hw[=e]n, _n._ (_Scot._) a small quantity: a quantity. [A.S.
_hw['æ]ne_--_hwón_, _adv._, a little.]

WHEEZE, hw[=e]z, _v.i._ to breathe with a hissing sound: to breathe audibly
or with difficulty.--_n._ WHEEZE--also WHEEZ'ING.--_adv._
WHEEZ'ILY.--_v.i._ WHEEZ'LE, to make wheezy sounds.--_adj._ WHEEZ'Y. [A.S.
_hwésan_; Ice. _hvæsa_, to wheeze, to hiss.]

WHELK, hwelk, _n._ a popular name for a number of marine Gasteropods,
especially applied to species of _Buccinum_ common on the coasts of
northern seas.--_adjs._ WHELKED, ridged like a whelk; WHEL'KY, knobby,
rounded. [Wrong form of _welk_--A.S. _wiloc_, _weoluc_, prob. from
_wealcan_, to roll.]

WHELK, hwelk, _n._ (_Shak._) the mark of a stripe on the body, a wrinkle,
an inequality or protuberance. [_Weal_, _wheal_.]

WHELM, hwelm, _v.t._ to cover completely: to plunge deep: to overburden: to
ruin, destroy.--_v.i._ to pass over in such a way as to submerge. [M. E.
_whelmen_, _whelven_, to overturn (Ice. _hválfa_, Ger. _wölben_); allied to
A.S. _hwealf_, arched; cf. Gr. _kolpos_, a gulf.]

WHELP, hwelp, _n._ the young of the dog kind and of lions, &c.: a puppy: a
cub: a young man (in contempt).--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to bring forth young.
[A.S. _hwelp_; Ice. _hvelpr_.]

WHEMMLE, hwem'l, WHUMMLE, hwum'l, _n._ an overthrow: (_Scot._)
confusion.--_v.t._ to whelm, overthrow. [Freq. form of _whelm_.]

WHEN, hwen, _adv._ and _conj._ at what time? at which time: at or after the
time that: while.--_interj._ (_Shak._) an exclamation of impatience, like
_what!_--_conj._ WHEN'AS (_Shak._), when: whereas.--_adv._ and _conj._
WHENCE (also FROM WHENCE), from what place: from which things:
wherefore.--_adv._ WHENCEFORTH' (_Spens._), whence.--_conjs._
WHENCESOEV'ER, from what place, cause, or source soever; WHENEV'ER,
WHENE'ER', at every time when; WHENSOEV'ER, at what time soever: whenever.
[A.S. _hwænne_, _hwonne_ (Ger. _wann_, _wenn_); orig. accus. of interrog.
pron. _hwá_, who.]

WHERE, hw[=a]r, _adv._ and _conj._ at which place, at what place? to what
place, to which place? (_Shak._) whence, whereas: wherever.--_n._ (_Shak._)
situation, place.--_adv._ and _conj._ WHEREABOUT', about which, about
where: near what?--also WHERE'ABOUTS.--_n._ WHERE'ABOUTS, one's present
place.--_conjs._ WHEREAGAINST' (_Shak._), against which; WHEREAS', as or on
account of which: since: when in fact: where.--_advs._ and _conjs._
WHEREAT', at which: at what? WHEREBY', by which; WHERE'FORE, for which
reason: for what reason? why?--_n._ the cause.--_advs._ and _conjs._
WHEREFROM', whence; WHEREIN', in which respect: in what? WHEREINSOEV'ER, in
whatever place or respect; WHEREINTO (hw[=a]r-in't[=oo], -in-t[=oo]'), into
what? into which.--_n._ WHERE'NESS, state of having place or
position.--_advs._ and _conjs._ WHEREOF', of which: of what? WHEREON', on
which: on what? WHEREOUT', out of which; WHERE'SO, WHERESOE'ER',
WHERESOEV'ER, in what place soever: (_Shak._) whencesoever; WHERETHROUGH',
through which; WHERETO', to which: to what? WHEREUN'DER, under which;
WHEREUNTIL' (_Shak._), whereunto; WHEREUNTO', WHEREUN'TO, whereto: for what
purpose? WHEREUPON', upon or in consequence of which; WHERE'ER', WHEREV'ER,
at whatever place; WHEREWITH', WHEREWITHAL', with which? with what.--WHERE
AWAY? (_naut._), a query uttered by the officer of the deck as to the
direction of an object sighted by the lookout.--THE WHEREWITH, WHEREWITHAL,
means. [A.S. _hw['æ]r_, _hwár_; from stem of who. Cf. _There_.]

WHERRY, hwer'i, _n._ a shallow, light boat, sharp at both ends for
speed:--_pl._ WHERR'IES.--_n._ WHERR'Y-MAN, one who rows a wherry. [Ety.
dub.; perh. conn. with Ice. _hverfr_, crank--_hverfa_, to turn.]

WHERRY, hwer'i, _n._ a liquor made from the pulp of crab-apples.

WHET, hwet, _v.t._ to sharpen by rubbing: to make keen: to excite: (_obs._)
to preen:--_pr.p._ whet'ting: _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ whet'ted.--_n._ act of
sharpening: something that sharpens the appetite.--_ns._ WHET'-STONE, a
stone for sharpening edged instruments: a stimulant; WHET'TER.--WHET ON, or
FORWARD (_Shak._), to urge on. [A.S. _hwettan_--_hwæt_, sharp; Ger.
_wetzen_.]

WHETHER, hweth'[.e]r, _interrog._ and _rel. pron._ signifying which of
two.--_conj._ which of two alternatives.--_interrog. adv._ introducing the
first of two questions, the second being introduced by or--also
_conj._--WHETHER OR NO (_coll._), in any case, surely. [A.S. _hwæther_,
from _hwá_, who, with the old comp. suffix _-ther_; cog. with Goth.
_hwathar_, Ger. _weder_; also with L. _uter_, Gr. _koteros_, Sans.
_katara_. Cf. _Other_ and _Alter_.]

WHETHERING, hweth'[.e]r-ing, _n._ (_prov._) the retention of the afterbirth
in cows.

WHEW, WHEUGH, hw[=u], _interj._ expressing wonder or dismay.--_n._ a
whistling sound noting astonishment.--_v.i._ to utter such a sound.

WHEW, hw[=u], _v.i._ (_prov._) to bustle about.

WHEY, hw[=a], _n._ the watery part of milk, separated from the curd, esp.
in making cheese.--_adjs._ WHEY'EY, WHEY'ISH, of whey: like whey.--_n._
WHEY'-FACE, a pale or white face, caused by fright.--_adj._
WHEY'-FACED.--_ns._ WHEY'ISHNESS; WHEY'-TUB. [A.S, _hw['æ]g_; Low Ger.
_wey_.]

WHICH, hwich, _interrog. pron._ what one of a number?--also used
adjectively.--_rel. pron._ (_obs._) who, whom: now used of things
only.--_prons._ WHICHEV'ER, WHICHSOEV'ER, every one which: whether one or
other.--(_obs._) WHICH...HE, who; WHICH...HIS, whose--surviving in the
vulgar use of _which_ as a mere introductory word; WHICH IS WHICH? which is
the one, which is the other? a common phrase denoting inability to decide
between two or more things.--THE WHICH (_obs._), which. [A.S. _hwilc_,
_hwelc_, from _hwí_, instrumental case of _hwá_, who, and _líc_, like;
Goth. _hwei-leiks_, Ger. _welch_, _welcher_; L. _qualis_. Cf. _Such_ and
_Each_.]

WHID, hwid, _n._ (_Scot._) a rapid movement.--_v.i._ to move quickly, to
whisk.--_v.i._ WHID'DER, to whiz. [Prob. conn. with W. _chwid_, a jerk; or
perh. A.S. _hwitha_, a breeze.]

WHID, hwid, _n._ (_Scot._) a lie: (_obs._) a word: (_prov._) a
quarrel.--_v.i._ to lie.--CUT BOON WHIDS, to speak good words. [Perh. A.S.
_cwide_, a word--_cwethan_, to say.]

WHIDAH-BIRD. See WHYDAH.

WHIFF, hwif, _n._ a sudden puff of air or smoke from the mouth: a slight
blast: a light kind of outrigger boat: (_prov._) a glimpse.--_v.t._ to
throw out in whiffs: to puff.--_v.i._ to go out or off in a whiff.--_ns._
WHIFF'ER; WHIFF'ET, a whipper-snapper.--_v.i._ WHIFF'LE, to veer about,
blow in gusts: to be fickle: to prevaricate: to talk idly.--_n._ a fickle,
light-headed person.--_ns._ WHIFF'LER, a fickle person: a herald, usher,
piper, leading the way in a procession; WHIFF'LERY, levity; WHIFT, a
breath, snatch. [W. _chwiff_, a puff; imit.]

WHIFF, hwif, _v.i._ to fish with a hand-line.--_n._ WHIFF'ING. [_Whip_.]

WHIFFLETREE, hwif'l-tr[=e], _n._ a swingletree.--Also WHIP'PLETREE. [From
whifle, to turn. Cf. _Whiff_.]

WHIG, hwig, _n._ the name, since 1830 almost superseded by 'Liberal,' of
one of the great English political parties: a Scotch Presbyterian, first so
called in the middle of the 17th century: (_U.S._) one of those who in the
colonial period were opposed to British rule: one of the survivors of the
old National Republican party, first so called in 1834--it died in
1852.--_adj._ composed of Whigs--also WHIG'GISH.--_n._ WHIG'GARCHY,
government by WHIGS.--_adv._ WHIG'GISHLY.--_ns._ WHIG'GISM, WHIG'GERY,
WHIG'GISHNESS, WHIG'SHIP, Whig principles. [Prob. short for _whiggamore_.]

WHIG, hwig, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to jog along.

WHIG, hwig, _n._ (_prov._) sour whey, buttermilk.

WHIGGAMORE, hwig'a-m[=o]r, _n._ originally a person who came from the west
and south-west of Scotland to Leith to buy corn: one of the 7000 Western
Covenanters who marched on Edinburgh in 1648, sealing the doom of Charles
I.: a Scotch Presbyterian, a WHIG. [Traced by some to _whiggam_, a sound
used by the peasantry of the western Lowlands in driving their horses;
others derive from _whig_, sour whey. Not derivable from _whig_ (1) and
Gael. _mor_, great.]

WHIGMALEERIE, hwig-ma-l[=e]'ri, _n._ (_Scot._) a trinket, knick-knack: a
whim. [Orig. uncertain.]

WHILE, hw[=i]l, _n._ a space of time: trouble spent.--_adv._ during the
time that: at the same time that, as long as.--_v.t._ to cause to pass
without irksomeness (with _away_).--_conjs._ WHILE, WHILST, as long as: at
the same time that: (_Shak._) until; WHILES (_B._), while, at the same time
that.--_adv._ (_Scot._) at times (orig. gen. of A.S. _hwíl_).--_advs._
WH[=I]'LOM, WH[=I]'LOME (_Milt._), formerly, once (orig. dat. pl. of A.S.
_hwíl_, time).--EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE, now and then; THE WHILE (_Shak._),
in the meantime; THE WHILST (_Shak._), while: in the meantime; WORTH WHILE,
worth the trouble and time taken. [A.S. _hwíl_; Goth. _hweila_, Ger.
_weile_.]

WHILK, hwilk, _pron._ an obsolete form of _which_.

WHILLY, hwil'i, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to cajole.--_v.i._ WHILL'Y-WHAW, to make
wheedling speeches.--_n._ cajolery.--_adv._ smooth-tongued, wheedling.
[Prob. a mixture of _wile_ and _wheedle_.]

WHIM, hwim, _n._ a caprice: a fancy: a machine for raising ore, a
mine.--_v.i._ to turn round, to be seized with a whim.--_v.t._ to cause to
turn.--_adjs._ WHIM'MY, WHIM'SICAL, full of whims, odd, fantastical.--_ns._
WHIMSICAL'ITY, WHIM'SICALNESS.--_adv._ WHIM'SICALLY.--_ns._ WHIM'SY,
WHIM'SEY, a whim, freak.--_adj._ full of whims, changeable.--_n._
WHIM'-WHAM, a ridiculous notion or thing, a freak, an odd device. [Ice.
_hvima_, to have the eyes wandering.]

WHIMBREL, hwim'brel, _n._ a bird of the family _Scolopacidæ_, allied to the
curlew and like it in form, plumage, and habits, but smaller, and having a
shorter bill.--Also WIM'BREL. [Prob. imit.]

WHIMPER, hwim'p[.e]r, _v.i._ to cry with a low, whining voice.--_n._ a
peevish cry.--_ns._ WHIM'PERER, one who whimpers; WHIM'PERING, peevish
crying.--_adv._ WHIM'PERINGLY.--BE ON THE WHIMPER, to be peevish and ready
to cry. [Scot. _whimmer_; Ger. _wimmern_; perh. from the root of _whine_.]

WHIMPLE, hwim'pl (_Spens._). Same as WIMPLE.

WHIN, hwin, _n._ gorse, furze.--_n._ WHIN'-CHAT, a bird very similar in
appearance, esp. when it assumes its duller autumn plumage, to the
Stone-chat, a summer visitant of Britain.--_adj._ WHIN'NY, abounding in
whins. [W. _chwyn_, weeds.]

WHIN, hwin, _n._ See WHINSTONE.

WHINE, hw[=i]n, _v.i._ to utter a plaintive, shrill cry: to complain in an
unmanly way.--_n._ a plaintive cry: an affected nasal tone of
complaint.--_ns._ WH[=I]'NER; WH[=I]'NING.--_adv._ WH[=I]'NINGLY. [A.S.
_hwínan_, to whine; Ice. _hvína_.]

WHINGE, hwinj, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to whine. [_Whine_.]

WHINGER, hwing'[.e]r, _n._ a dirk.--Also WHIN'IARD and WHIN'YARD. [Prob. a
corr. of _hanger_.]

WHINNOCK, hwin'ok, _n._ (_prov._) the smallest pig in a litter: a
milk-pail.

WHINNY, hwin'i, v.i, to neigh:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ whinn'ied.--_n._ a
neigh. [Freq. of _whine_.]

WHINSTONE, hwin'st[=o]n, _n._ a popular name in Scotland for any hard and
compact kind of stone, as distinguished from sandstone or freestone and
rocks of slaty structure.--Also WHIN. [Perh. corr. from _whernstone_,
_quernstone_, stone suitable for querns.]

WHINYARD. See WHINGER.

WHIP, hwip, _n._ that which whips: a lash with a handle for punishing or
driving: a driver, coachman: one who enforces the attendance of a political
party: a whipper-in, the person who manages the hounds: a call made on
members of parliament to be in their places against important divisions: a
simple form of hoisting apparatus, a small tackle consisting of a single
rope and block.--_v.t._ to strike with a lash: to drive or punish with
lashes: to lash with sarcasm: (_coll._) to beat, outdo: to beat into a
froth, as eggs, cream, &c.: to keep together, as a party: to fish with fly:
to overlay, as one cord with another, to enwrap, lay regularly on: to sew
lightly: to overcast, as a seam: to move quickly, snatch (with _up_,
_away_, _out_).--_v.i._ to move nimbly: to make a cast in fishing with
fly:--_pr.p._ whip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ whipped, whipt.--_ns._
WHIP'-AND-DER'RY, a hoisting apparatus--same as _whip_ above; WHIP'CAT, a
tailor; WHIP'CORD, cord for making whips.--_adj._ WHIP'CORDY, tough like
whipcord.--_v.t._ WHIP'-GRAFT, to graft by fitting a tongue cut on the
scion to a slit cut slopingly in the stock.--_ns._ WHIP'-HAND, the hand
that holds the whip: advantage over; WHIP'-HAND'LE, the handle or stock of
a whip: an advantage; WHIP'JACK, a poor whining seaman who never was at
sea; WHIP'LASH, the lash of a whip; WHIP'PER, one who whips: an officer who
inflicts the penalty of whipping; WHIP'PER-IN, one who keeps the hounds
from wandering, and whips them in to the line of chase: one who enforces
the discipline of a party; WHIP'PER-SNAP'PER, a pretentious but
insignificant person; WHIP'PING, act of whipping: punishment with the whip
or lash: a defeat: a binding of twine, as at the end of a rope: in
bookbinding, the sewing of the edges of single leaves in sections by
overcasting the thread--also WHIP'-STITCH'ING; WHIP'PING-BOY, a boy
formerly educated along with a prince and bearing his punishments for him;
WHIP'PING-CHEER (_Shak._), chastisement; WHIP'PING-POST, a post to which
offenders are tied to be whipped: the punishment itself; WHIP'-SAW, a saw
usually set in a frame, for dividing timber lengthwise, and commonly worked
by two persons.--_v.t._ to cut with a whip-saw: to have the advantage of a
person at every point.--_ns._ WHIP'-SNAKE, a name given in North America to
various species of the genus _Masticophis_ (esp. _M. flagelliformis_, the
coach-whip snake, four to five feet long, slender, and harmless), as also
to species of _Philodryas_, of _Passerita_, &c.; WHIP'-SOCK'ET, a socket to
hold the butt of a whip; WHIP'-STAFF, the handle of a whip; WHIP'STER
(_Shak._), same as WHIPPER-SNAPPER; WHIP'-STITCH, a kind of
half-ploughing--_raftering_: a hasty composition: a tailor; WHIP'-STOCK,
the rod or handle of a whip.--_adjs._ WHIP'-TAIL, -TAILED, having a long,
slender tail.--WHIP AND SPUR, with great haste; WHIP THE CAT, to practise
small economies: to work by the day as a dressmaker going from house to
house. [M. E. _whippen_; prob. a form of _wippen_--Old Dut. _wippen_, to
shake, conn. with Old High Ger. _wipph_, swinging motion (Ger. _weifen_, to
move), and akin to L. _vibr[=a]re_, to tremble.]

WHIPPET, hwip'et, _n._ (_obs._) a kind of dog, a cross between a greyhound
and spaniel.

WHIPPLETREE. See WHIFFLETREE.

WHIP-POOR-WILL, hwip'-p[=oo]r-wil', _n._ a species of goat-sucker, a native
of North America. [So named from the fancied resemblance of its notes to
the words _whip poor Will_.]

WHIPPY, hwip'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) active, nimble.--_n._ a pert young woman.

WHIR, hw[.e]r, _n._ a sound from rapid whirling.--_v.i._ to whirl round
with a noise.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to hurry away with a whizzing
sound:--_pr.p._ whir'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ whirred.--_n._ WHIR'RING.
[Dan. _hvirre_, to whirl; ult. imit.]

WHIRL, hw[.e]rl, _n._ a turning with rapidity: anything that turns with
velocity.--_v.i._ to revolve rapidly.--_v.t._ to turn round rapidly: to
carry away rapidly, as on wheels.--_ns._ WHIRL'-ABOUT', anything that turns
round rapidly; WHIRL'-BAT (_obs._), the ancient cestus; WHIRL'-BLAST, a
whirling blast of wind; WHIRL'-BONE, the knee-cap; WHIRL'ER; WHIRL'IGIG, a
child's toy which is spun or whirled rapidly round: a merry-go-round:
anything that revolves rapidly: the water-beetle (_Gyrinus_): an ancient
instrument of punishment, consisting of a pivoted wooden cage in which the
prisoner was spun round; WHIRL'ING; WHIRL'ING-DER'VISH, one of an order of
Mohammedan devotees who dance or spin round--the Mevlevis or dancing
dervishes, founded in 1273; WHIRL'ING-T[=A]'BLE, -MACHINE', a machine
exhibiting the effects of centripetal and centrifugal forces: an instrument
used by potters; WHIRL'POOL, a circular current in a river or sea, produced
by opposing tides, winds, or currents: an eddy; WHIRL'WIND, a violent
aerial current, with a whirling, rotary, or spiral motion and wild circling
rush. [Skeat explains M. E. _whirlen_ as a contraction for an assumed
_whirf-le_, a freq. of Ice. _hvirfla_, to whirl, freq. of _hverfa_ (pa.t.
_hvarf_), to turn round; Ger. _wirbeln_, to whirl.]

WHIRRET, hwir'et, _n._ (_obs._) a blow.--_v.t._ to give a box on the ear
to: to vex.--Also WHIRR'ICK.

WHIRRY, hw[.e]r'i, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to fly rapidly.

WHISH, hwish, _v.i._ to move with the whizzing sound of rapid motion.
[Imit.]

WHISH, hwish, _interj._ hush!--also WHISHT.--_adj._ (_obs._) silent.

WHISK, hwisk, _v.t._ to move with a quick motion: to sweep or stir
rapidly.--_v.i._ to move nimbly and rapidly.--_n._ a rapid sweeping motion:
a small bunch of anything used for a brush: a small instrument for beating
or whisking, esp. eggs.--_ns._ WHIS'KER, he who, or that which, whisks: the
hair on the sides of a man's face (esp. in _pl._): the bristle on the face
of a cat, &c.; WHISKERAN'DO, a whiskered person, in allusion to Don Ferolo
_Whiskerandos_ in Sheridan's _Critic_.--_adjs._ WHISKERAN'DOED, WHIS'KERED,
WHIS'KERY, having whiskers; WHIS'KING, moving briskly; WHIS'KY-FRIS'KY,
flighty. [Scand., Ice. _visk_, a wisp of hay; Sw. _viska_, to wipe, Ger.
_wischen_; prob. conn. with _wash_.]

WHISK, hwisk, _n._ whist. [So called from the rapid action of sweeping the
cards off the table after a trick has been won.]

WHISKET, hwis'ket, _n._ (_prov._) a basket.

WHISKY, WHISKEY, hwis'ki, _n._ a spirit made by the distillation of the
fermented extract from malted and unmalted cereals, potatoes, or any
starch-yielding material--the best qualities made either from malted barley
alone, or from a mixed grist of barley-malt and dried barley and
oats.--_adjs._ WHIS'KIFIED, WHIS'KEYFIED, intoxicated.--_n._
WHIS'KY-LIV'ER, cirrhosis of the liver, from too much whisky.--WHISKY
INSURRECTION, an outbreak against the excise regulations which occurred in
Western Pennsylvania in 1794; WHISKY TODDY, toddy having whisky for its
chief ingredient. [Gael. _uisge beatha_--_uisge_, water, _beatha_, life;
cf. L. _vita_, Gr. _bios_, life.]

WHISKY, WHISKEY, hwis'ki, _n._ a light gig.

WHISKY-JACK, hwis'ki-jak, _n._ the gray or Canada jay.--Also WHIS'KY-JOHN.
[Amer. Ind. _wiss-ka-tjan_.]

WHISPER, hwis'p[.e]r, _v.i._ to speak with a low sound: to speak very
softly: to plot secretly.--_v.t._ to utter in a low voice or under the
breath.--_n._ a low, hissing voice or sound: cautious or timorous speaking:
a secret hint: a low rustling sound.--_ns._ WHIS'PERER, one who whispers:
(_B._) a secret informer; WHIS'PERING, whispered talk: insinuation.--_adj._
like a whisper.--_n._ WHIS'PERING-GALL'ERY, a gallery or dome so
constructed that a whisper or slight sound is carried to an unusual
distance.--_advs._ WHIS'PERINGLY, in a whisper or low voice; WHIS'PEROUSLY,
in a whisper. [A.S. _hwisprian_; Ger. _wispern_, Ice. _hvískra_; allied to
_whistle_.]

WHIST, hwist, _adj._ hushed: silent.--_v.i._ to become silent.--_v.t._
(_Spens._) to hush or silence.--_interj._ hush! silence! be still! [Akin to
_hist!_]

WHIST, hwist, _n._ a well-known game at cards, played with the whole pack,
by two against two.--_ns._ WHIST'-PLAY, play in the game of whist;
WHIST'-PLAY'ER.--DUMMY WHIST (see Dummy); FIVE POINT WHIST, whist played
without counting honours; LONG WHIST, a game of ten points with honours
counting; SHORT WHIST, the game of five points, without honours. [Orig.
_whisk_. Cf. _Whisk_.]

WHISTLE, hwis'l, _v.i._ to make a shrill sound by forcing the breath
through the lips contracted: to make a like sound with an instrument: to
sound shrill: to inform by whistling, to become informer.--_v.t._ to form
or utter by whistling: to call by a whistle.--_n._ the sound made in
whistling: a small wind instrument: an instrument sounded by escaping
steam, used for signalling on railway-engines, steamships, &c.--_adj._
WHIS'TLE-DRUNK (_obs._), too drunk to whistle.--_ns._ WHIS'TLE-FISH, a
rockling; WHIS'TLER, one who, or that which, whistles: a kind of marmot: a
broken-winded horse; WHIS'TLING.--_adv._ WHIS'TLINGLY.--_n._
WHIS'TLING-SHOP (_slang_), a shebeen, the keeper being called a
_whistler_.--WHISTLE DOWN THE WIND, to talk to no purpose; WHISTLE FOR, to
summon by whistling; WHISTLE FOR A WIND, a superstitious practice of old
sailors during a calm; WHISTLE OFF, to send off by a whistle: (_Shak._)
turn loose.--GO WHISTLE (_Shak._), to go to the deuce; PAY FOR ONE'S
WHISTLE, to pay highly for one's caprice; PIGS AND WHISTLES, an exclamation
equivalent to 'The deuce!' or the like--also in phrase, 'To make pigs and
whistles of anything'=to make a sad mess of it; WET ONE'S WHISTLE
(_coll._), to take a drink of liquor; WORTH THE WHISTLE, worth the trouble
of calling for. [A.S. _hwistlian_; Sw. _hvissla_; cf. _Whisper_.]

WHIT, hwit, _n._ the smallest particle imaginable: a bit. [By-form of
_wight_, a creature.]

WHITE, hw[=i]t, _adj._ of the colour of pure snow: pale, pallid:
colourless: pure: unblemished: purified from sin: bright: burnished without
ornament: transparent and colourless, as of wine: pertaining to the
Carmelite monks: gracious, favourable: (_U.S._) reliable, honest.--_n._ the
colour of snow: anything white, as a white man, the mark at which an arrow
is shot, the albuminous part of an egg.--_v.t._ to make white.--_ns._
WHITE'-ALLOY', a cheap alloy used to imitate silver; WHITE'-ANT, a
termite.--_adj._ WHITE'-BACKED, having the back white or marked with
white.--_ns._ WHITE'BAIT, the name by which the fry of the herring and
sprat are known in the market, and when served for the table, esp. in
London; WHITE'-BASS, a silvery serranoid fish of the American Great Lake
region.--_adj._ WHITE'-BEAKED, having a white beak.--_ns._ WHITE'-BEAR, the
polar bear; WHITE'-BEARD, an old man.-_adjs._ WHITE'-BEARD'ED;
WHITE'-BELL'IED; WHITE'-BILLED.--_ns._ WHITE'BOY, a member of an
association of Irish peasants first formed in County Tipperary about
1761--wearing white shirts--long noted for agrarian outrages; WHITE'BOYISM,
the principles of the Whiteboys; WHITE'-BRASS, an alloy of copper and
zinc.--_adj._ WHITE'-BREAST'ED.--_n.pl._ WHITE'CAPS (_U.S._), the name
given to a self-constituted committee of persons who generally commit
outrageous acts under the guise of serving the community.--_ns._
WHITE'CHAPEL-CART, a light two-wheeled spring-cart much used by London
butchers, grocers, &c.; WHITE'-COPP'ER, a light-coloured alloy of
copper.--_adjs._ WHITE'-CREST'ED, -CROWNED, having the crest or crown
white--of birds.--_n.pl._ WHITE'-CROPS, grain, as barley, rye,
wheat.--_ns._ WHITE'-DAMP, carbonic oxide, a poisonous but not inflammable
gas found in coal-mines in the after-damp; WHITE'-EL'EPHANT (see
ELEPHANT).--_adjs._ WHITE'-FACED, having a face pale with fear or from
illness: with white front, forehead--also WHITE'-FRONT'ED;
WHITE'-F[=A]'VOURED, wearing white favours.--_ns._ WHITE'-FEATH'ER (see
FEATHER); WHITE'FISH, a general name for such fish as the whiting, haddock,
menhaden, &c.: the largest of all the _Coregoni_ or American lake
whitefish; WHITE'FRIAR, one of the Carmelite order of friars, so called
from their white dress.--_adj._ WHITE'-HAND'ED, having white hands
unstained with guilt.--_ns._ WHITE'-HASS (_Scot._), an oatmeal and suet
pudding; WHITE'HEAD, the blue-winged snow-goose: a breed of domestic
pigeons, a white-tailed monk; WHITE'-HEAT, the degree of heat at which
bodies become white; WHITE'-HERR'ING, a fresh or uncured herring;
WHITE'-HON'EYSUCKLE, the clammy azalea; WHITE'-HORSE, the name applied to a
figure of a horse on a hillside, formed by removing the turf so as to show
the underlying chalk--the most famous in Berkshire, at Uffington,
traditionally supposed to commemorate Alfred the Great's victory of Ashdown
(871)--periodically 'scoured' or cleaned from turf, &c.--_adj._
WHITE'-HOT.--_ns._ WHITE'-[=I]RON, pig-iron in which the carbon is almost
entirely in chemical combination with the iron; WHITE'-L[=A]'DY, a spectral
figure which appears in many of the castles of Germany, as at Ansbach,
Baireuth, Altenburg, &c., by night as well as by day, particularly when the
death of any member of the family is imminent; WHITE'-LAND, land with a
stiff clayey soil white when dry; WHITE'LEAD, a carbonate of lead used in
painting white; WHITE'-LEATH'ER (see LEATHER); WHITE'-LEG, an ailment of
women after parturition--also _Milk-leg_; WHITE'-LIE (see LIE);
WHITE'-LIGHT, ordinary sunlight; WHITE'-LIME, whitewash.--_adjs._
WHITE'-LIMED, whitewashed; WHITE'-LIST'ED, having white lists or stripes on
a darker ground; WHITE'-LIV'ERED, having a pale look, so called because
thought to be caused by a white liver: cowardly: malicious; WHITE'LY
(_Shak._), coming near to white, white-faced.--_ns._ WHITE'-MEAT, food made
of milk, butter, eggs, &c.: the flesh of poultry, rabbits, veal, &c.;
WHITE'-MET'AL, a general name for alloys of light colour.--_v.t._
WH[=I]'TEN, to make white: to bleach.--_v.i._ to become or turn
white.--_ns._ WH[=I]T'ENER; WHITE'NESS; WHITE'-POT, a Devonshire dish of
sliced rolls, milk, eggs, sugar, &c. baked; WHITE'-PRECIP'ITATE, a white
mercurial preparation used externally; WHITE'-PYR[=I]'TES, marcasite;
WHITE'-RENT, the tinner's poll-tax of eightpence to the Duke of Cornwall:
rent paid in silver.--_adj._ WHITE'-RUMPED.--_ns._ WHITES (see
LEUCORRHOEA); WHITE'-SALT, salt dried and calcined; WHITE'SMITH, a worker
in tinned or white iron: a tinsmith; WHITE'-SQUALL (see SQUALL);
WHITE'STONE, granulite; WHITE'-SWELL'ING, a disease of the joints, esp. the
knee, in which the synovial membrane passes into pulpy degeneration;
WHITE'THORN, the common hawthorn; WHITE'THROAT, a bird of the same genus as
the Blackcap, having the breast and belly of a brownish-white;
WHITE'-VIT'RIOL, sulphate of zinc; WHITE'WASH, slaked quicklime, reduced to
the consistency of milk by means of water, used for colouring walls and as
a disinfectant: a wash for the skin: false colouring.--_v.t._ to cover with
whitewash: to give a fair appearance to.--_ns._ WHITE'WASHER, one who
whitewashes; WHITE'-WA'TER, shoal water near the shore, breakers: the
foaming water in rapids, &c.; WHITE'-WAX, bleached beeswax: Chinese wax, or
pela; WHITE'-WINE, any wine of clear transparent colour, as hock, &c.;
WHITE'WING, the velvet scoter, scurf-duck: the chaffinch.--_adj._
WHITE'-WINGED.--_ns._ WHITE'WOOD, a name applied to a large number of trees
or their timber--the American tulip-tree, white-wood cedar, cheesewood,
&c.; WH[=I]'TING, a small sea-fish allied to the cod, so called from its
white colour: ground chalk free from stony matter and other impurities,
extensively used as a size-colour, &c.--also WHITE'NING, and SPANISH WHITE,
PARIS WHITE (the finest); WH[=I]'TING-TIME (_Shak._),
bleaching-time.--_adj._ WH[=I]'TISH, somewhat white.--_ns._
WH[=I]'TISHNESS; WH[=I]T'STER (_Shak._), a bleacher of cloth or
clothes.--_adjs._ WH[=I]'TY, whitish; WH[=I]'TY-BROWN, white with a tinge
of brown.--WHITE-HEADED EAGLE, the North American bald eagle; WHITE HORSE,
a white-topped wave; WHITE HOUSE, a popular name of the official residence
of the President of the United States at Washington; WHITE OF AN EGG, the
albumen, the pellucid viscous fluid surrounding the yolk; WHITE OF THE EYE,
that part of the ball of the eye which surrounds the iris or coloured
part.--CHINA WHITE, a very pure variety of whitelead--also SILVER WHITE and
FRENCH WHITE; PEARL WHITE, the basic nitrate of bismuth used as a cosmetic;
ZINC WHITE, impure oxide of zinc.--MARK WITH A WHITE STONE (see STONE);
SHOW THE WHITE FEATHER (see FEATHER). [A.S. _hwít_; Ice. _hvitr_, Ger.
_weiss_.]

WHITHER, hwith'[.e]r, _adv._ to what place? to which place: to what:
whithersoever.--_adv._ WHITHERSOEV'ER, to whatever place.--NO WHITHER, to
no place. [A.S. _hwider_, from the stem of _who_. Cf. _Thither_, _There_.]

WHITLEATHER, hwit'leth-[.e]r, _n._ leather dressed with alum, white
leather: the paxwax or nuchal ligament of the ox.

WHITLOW, hwit'l[=o], _n._ a painful inflammatory affection of the fingers,
almost always proceeding to suppuration, paronychia.--_n._ WHIT'LOW-GRASS,
a small British saxifrage: the small _Draba verna_ of America. [A corr. of
_whick-flaw_=quick-flaw. Cf. _Quick_ and _Flaw_.]

WHIT-MONDAY, hwit'-mun'd[=a], _n._ the Monday following Whitsunday.

WHITSOUR, hwit'sowr, _n._ a kind of summer apple.

WHITSUN, hwit'sun, _adj._ pertaining to, or observed at,
_Whitsuntide_.--_ns._ WHIT'SUN-ALE, a festival formerly held at
WHITSUNTIDE; WHIT'SUNDAY, WHIT'SUNTIDE, the seventh Sunday after Easter,
commemorating the day of Pentecost, when the converts in the primitive
Church wore white robes: in Scotland, one of the term-days (May 15) on
which rents, annuities, &c. are payable, the Whitsunday removal terms in
towns being fixed as May 28; WHIT'SUNTIDE, the season of Pentecost,
comprising the week following Pentecost Sunday; WHIT'SUN-WEEK, the week
beginning with Whitsunday.

WHITTAW, hwit'aw, _n._ (_prov._) a saddler.--Also WHITT'AWER.

WHITTIE-WHATTIE, hwit'i-hwot'i, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to mutter, whisper.--_n._
language intended to deceive.

WHITTLE, hwit'l, _v.t._ to pare or cut with a knife: to cut to an
edge.--_v.i._ to cut wood aimlessly: (_obs. slang_) to confess at the
gallows.--_n._ a small pocket-knife. [M. E. _thwitel_--A.S. _thwítan_, to
cut.]

WHITTLE, hwit'l, _n._ (_prov._) a woollen shawl: a blanket. [A.S. _hwítel_,
a white mantle--_hwít_, white.]

WHIZ, hwiz, _v.i._ to make a hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying
through the air:--_pr.p._ whiz'zing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ whizzed.--_n._ a
hissing sound.--_ns._ WHIZ'ZER; WHIZ'ZING.--_adv._ WHIZ'ZINGLY. [Imit.; cf.
_Wheeze_, _Whist_, and _Hiss_.]

WHO, h[=oo], _pron._ (both _rel._ and _interrog._) what person? which
person.--_pron._ WHOEV'ER, every one who: whatever person.--WHO BUT HE, who
else? he only.--AS WHO SHOULD SAY, as if one should say.--THE WHO
(_Shak._), who. [A.S. _hwá_; cog. with Goth. _hwas_, Ice. _hver_, Ger.
_wer_; also with Sans. _kas_, Gr. _pos_, L. _quis_.]

WHOA, hw[=o], _interj._ stop!

WHOLE, h[=o]l, _adj._ sound, as in health (so in _B._): unimpaired:
containing the total amount, number, &c.: all: not defective: complete: in
mining, as yet unworked.--_n._ the entire thing: a system or combination of
parts.--_adv._ wholly.--_adjs._ WHOLE'-COL'OURED, all of one colour;
WHOLE'-FOOT'ED (_coll._) unreserved; WHOLE'-HEART'ED, -SOULED, noble:
hearty, generous; WHOLE'-HOOFED, having undivided hoof; WHOLE'-LENGTH,
giving the whole figure, as a portrait: full-length.--_n._ a portrait or
statue giving the whole figure.--_ns._ WHOLE'NESS; WHOLE'S[=A]LE, sale of
goods by the whole piece or large quantity.--_adj._ buying and selling in
large quantities: extensive.--_n._ WHOLE'S[=A]LER, one who sells by
wholesale.--_adjs._ WHOLE'-SKINNED, having an unbroken skin: unhurt: safe
in reputation; WHOLE'SOME, healthy: sound: salutary: (_Shak._)
prosperous.--_adv._ WHOLE'SOMELY.--_ns._ WHOLE'SOMENESS; WHOLE'-STITCH, a
lace-making stitch used in filling.--_adv._ WHOLLY (h[=o]'li), completely,
altogether.--_n._ WHOLTH, wholeness, soundness.--WHOLE NUMBER, a unit, or a
number composed of units, an integral number.--UPON, ON, THE WHOLE,
generally speaking, to sum up.--WITH WHOLE SKIN, safe, unscathed. [A.S.
_hál_, healthy; Ice. _heill_, Ger. _heil_. By-form _hale_ (1).]

WHOM, h[=oo]m, _pron._ objective case of _who_.--_prons._ WHOMEV'ER,
WHOMSOEV'ER, objective case of _whoever_, _whosoever_. [A.S. _hwám_, which
was orig. dat. of _hwá_, who, and replaced in the 12th and 13th centuries
the older accus. _hwone_.]

WHOMMLE, hwom'l, WHOMBLE, hwomb'l, _v.t._ (_prov._). Same as WHEMMLE.

WHOOBUB, h[=oo]'bub, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as HUBBUB.

WHOOP, hw[=oo]p, or h[=oo]p, _n._ a loud eager cry.--_v.i._ to give a
clear, sharp cry: to shout in scorn, eagerness, &c.--_v.t._ to insult with
shouts.--_interj._ (_Shak._) ho!--_ns._ WHOOP'ER, one who whoops: a species
of swan; WHOOP'ING-COUGH, HOOPING-COUGH, an infectious and epidemic
disease, mostly attacking children under ten, esp. in spring and autumn,
its characteristic sign a cough occurring in paroxysms consisting of a
series of short expiratory puffs followed by a deep inspiration of air
through the contracted cleft of the glottis. [O. Fr. _houper_, to shout;
cf. _Houp!_ _Houp-la!_ Perh. of Teut. origin, cog. with Goth. _w[=o]pjan_,
to crow.]

WHOOT. See HOOT.

WHOP, WHAP, hwop, _v.t._ (_coll._) to whip.--_v.i._ to flop on the
ground.--_n._ WHOP'PER, one who whops: anything very large, esp. a
monstrous lie.--_adj._ WHOP'PING (_slang_), very large. [_Whip_.]

WHORE, h[=o]r, _n._ a woman who prostitutes her body for hire, a
prostitute, harlot, strumpet, hence any unchaste woman.--_v.i._ to practise
lewdness.--_v.t._ to corrupt by lewd commerce.--_ns._ WHORE'DOM, unlawful
sexual intercourse: idolatry; WHORE'HOUSE, a brothel; WHORE'MASTER
(_Shak._), a pimp.--_adj._ WHORE'MASTERLY, libidinous.--_ns._ WHORE'MONGER,
a lecher: a pander; WHORE'SON (_Shak._), a bastard.--_adj._ mean,
scurvy.--_adj._ WH[=O]'RISH.--_adv._ WH[=O]'RISHLY.--_n._ WH[=O]'RISHNESS.
[Ice. _hóra_, an adulteress, fem. of _hórr_, an adulterer. The word was
confused with A.S. _horu_ (Old High Ger. _horo_), dirt. There is no
connection with _hire_.]

WHORL, hworl, _n._ a number of leaves in a circle round the stem: a turn in
a spiral shell: a volution--e.g. in the ear: the fly of a
spindle.--_p.adj._ WHORLED, having whorls: arranged in the form of a whorl
or whorls. [By-form of _whirl_.]

WHORTLEBERRY, hwor'tl-ber-i, _n._ a widely-spread health plant with a
purple edible berry, called also the _Bilberry_--in Scotland,
_Blaeberry_--sometimes abbrev. WHORT. [A.S. _wyrtil_, a shrub (Ger.
_wurzel_, root), dim. of _wyrt_, root, and _berie_, berry; confused rather
than conn. with A.S. _heort berge_, berry of the buckthorn.]

WHOSE, h[=oo]z, _pron._ the possessive case of _who_ or _which_.--_pron._
WHOSESOEV'ER (_B._), of whomsoever. [M. E. _hwas_--A.S. _hwæs_, gen. of
_hwá_, who.]

WHOSO, h[=oo]'so, WHOSOEVER, h[=oo]-so-ev'[.e]r, _indef. rel. pron._ every
one who: whoever.

WHOT, hwot, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as HOT.

WHUMMLE, a form of _whemmle_.

WHUNSTANE, a form of _whinstone_.

WHY, hw[=i], _adv._ and _conj._ for what cause or reason? on which account:
wherefore.--_interj._ used us an expletive or exclamation.--_n._ WHY'-NOT
(_obs._), a dilemma.--WHY, SO (_Shak._), an expression of unwilling
consent.--THE CAUSE WHY, THE REASON WHY, the reason why a thing is, or is
to be done; THE WHY AND WHEREFORE, the whole reason. [A.S. _hwí_, _hwý_,
instrumental case of _hwá_, who.]

WHYDAH, WHIDAH, hwid'a, _n._ a genus of birds of the Weaver family, natives
of the tropical parts of Africa, often brought to Britain as cage-birds.
[From the country of _Whydah_ in Dahomey.]

WICK, wik, _n._ a creek. [Ice. _vík_, a bay. Cf. _Viking_.]

WICK, wik, _v.t._ in curling, to strike a stone in an oblique direction.
[Prob. A.S. _wícan_, to bend.]

WICK, wik, _n._ the twisted threads of cotton or other substance in a
candle or lamp which draw up the inflammable liquid to a flame. [A.S.
_weoca_; allied to _weak_--A.S. _wác_.]

WICK, wik, _adj._ (_prov._) quick, alive.--_n._ a lively person.

WICK, wik, _n._ a village or town, as in Ber_wick_, Green_wich_. [A.S.
_wíc_--L. _vicus_, a village.]

WICKED, wik'ed, _adj._ evil in principle or practice: deviating from
morality: sinful: ungodly: mischievous: (_prov._) active, brisk.--_n._
(_B._) a wicked person, (_pl._) wicked persons collectively.--_adv._
WICK'EDLY.--_n._ WICK'EDNESS.--WICKED BIBLE, an edition printed in 1632 in
which the word 'not' was omitted in Exodus xx. 14.--THE WICKED ONE, the
devil. [Orig. a pa.p. with the sense 'rendered evil' from _wikken_, to make
evil, _wikke_, bad; A.S. _wicca_, wizard.]

WICKEN, wik'n, _n._ the mountain-ash or rowan-tree.--Also WICK'Y.

WICKER, wik'[.e]r, _n._ a small pliant twig or osier: wickerwork.--_adj._
made of twigs or osiers.--_adj._ WICK'ERED, made of wicker: covered with
wickerwork.--_n._ WICK'ERWORK, basketwork of any kind. [M. E. _wiker_--A.S.
_wicen_, pa.p. of _wícan_, to bend.]

WICKET, wik'et, _n._ a small gate: one of three upright rods bowled at in
cricket: a batsman's stay at the wicket: the ground where the wickets are
placed.--_ns._ WICK'ET-DOOR, -GATE, a wicket; WICK'ET-KEEP'ER, in cricket,
the fieldsman who stands immediately behind the wicket. [O. Fr. _wiket_
(Fr. _guichet_), a dim. form, prob. from Ice. _vik-inn_, pa.p. of _víkja_,
to move; cf. A.S. _wícan_, to bend.]

WIDDERSHINS, WIDERSHINS, &c. See WITHERSHINS.

WIDDY, wid'i, provincial form of _widow_ and of _withy_ (see WITHE).

WIDE, w[=i]d, _adj._ extended far: having a considerable distance between:
broad: distant: bulging, expanded: deviating, errant, wild.--_n._ wideness:
in cricket, a ball that goes wide of the wicket, counting one to the
batting side.--_advs._ W[=I]DE, W[=I]DE'LY.--_adj._ W[=I]DE'-AWAKE', fully
awake: on the alert: ready.--_n._ a kind of soft felt hat.--_n._
W[=I]DE'AWAKENESS.--_adj._ W[=I]DE'-CHAPPED, wide-mouthed.--_v.t._ and v.i,
W[=I]'DEN, to make or grow wide or wider: (_Shak._) to throw open.--_ns._
W[=I]DE'NER, one who, or that which, widens: a kind of tool; W[=I]DE'NESS,
width.--_adjs._ W[=I]DE'-SPREAD, diffused; W[=I]DE'-STRETCHED (_Shak._),
large; W[=I]DE'-WA'TERED, bordered or covered by wide waters.--_n._ WIDTH,
wideness, breadth. [A.S. _wíd_; Ice. _víthr_, Ger. _weit_.]

WIDGEON, WIGEON, wij'on, _n._ a genus of Ducks having the bill shorter than
the head, the legs short, the feet rather small, the wings long and
pointed, and the tail wedge-shaped: a fool. [O. Fr. _vigeon_--L. _vipio_,
_vipionis_, a small crane.]

WIDOW, wid'[=o], _n._ a woman who has lost her husband by death.--_v.t._ to
bereave of a husband: to strip of anything valued: (_Shak._) to endow with
a widow's right: to be widow to.--_ns._ WID'OW-BENCH, a widow's share of
her husband's estate besides her jointure; WID'OW-BEWITCHED', a
grass-widow; WID'OW-BIRD, a corruption of WHYDAH-BIRD; WID'OWER, a man
whose wife is dead; WID'OWERHOOD; WID'OWHOOD, state of being a widow, or
(rarely) of being a widower: (_Shak._) a widow's right; WID'OW-HUN'TER, one
who seeks to marry a widow for her money; WID'OW-M[=A]'KER, one who
bereaves women of their husbands; WID'OW'S-CHAM'BER, the apparel and
bedroom furniture of the widow of a London freeman, to which she was
entitled; WID'OW-WAIL, a dwarf shrub with pink, sweet-scented flowers,
native to Spain and southern France.--WIDOW'S LAWN, a fine thin muslin;
WIDOW'S MAN, a fictitious person; WIDOW'S SILK, a silk fabric with dull
surface, for mournings; WIDOW'S WEEDS, the mourning dress of a widow. [A.S.
_widwe_, _wuduwe_; Ger. _wittwe_, L. _vidua_, bereft of a husband, Sans.
_vidhav[=a]_.]

WIELD, w[=e]ld, _v.t._ to use with full command: to manage: to use.--_adj._
WIEL'DABLE, capable of being wielded.--_ns._ WIEL'DER;
WIEL'DINESS.--_adjs._ WIELD'LESS (_Spens._), not capable of being wielded,
unmanageable; WIEL'DY, capable of being wielded: manageable: dexterous,
active.--WIELD THE SCEPTRE, to have supreme command or control. [A.S.
_geweldan_--_wealdan_; Goth. _waldan_, Ger. _walten_.]

WIERY, w[=e]'ri, _adj._ (_obs._) wet, marshy, moist. [A.S. _wær_, a pond.]

WIFE, w[=i]f, _n._ a woman: a married woman: the mistress of a house, a
hostess--often in this sense 'goodwife.'--_n._ WIFE'HOOD, the state of
being a wife.--_adjs._ WIFE'LESS, without a wife; WIFE'-LIKE, WIFE'LY.
[A.S. _wíf_; Ice. _víf_, Ger. _weib_; not conn. with weave.]

WIG, wig, _n._ an artificial covering of hair for the head, worn to conceal
baldness, formerly for fashion's sake, as in the full-dress _full-bottomed_
form of Queen Anne's time, still worn by the Speaker and by judges, and the
smaller _tie-wig_, still represented by the judge's undress wig and the
barrister's or advocate's frizzed wig: a judge. (For BAG-WIG, see
BAG.)--_n._ WIG'-BLOCK, a block or shaped piece of wood for fitting a wig
on.--_adj._ WIGGED, wearing a wig.--_n._ WIG'GERY, false hair: excess of
formality.--_adj._ WIG'LESS, without a wig.--_n._ WIG'-M[=A]'KER, a maker
of wigs. [Short for _periwig_.]

WIG, wig, _v.t._ (_coll._) to scold.--_n._ WIG'GING, a scolding. [Prob.
derived from 'to snatch at one's wig,' to handle roughly.]

WIGAN, wig'an, _n._ a stiff canvas-like fabric for stiffening shirts,
borders, &c. [_Wigan_, the town.]

WIGEON. See WIDGEON.

WIGGLE, wig'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to waggle, wriggle.--_n._ a wiggling
motion.--_n._ WIGG'LER, one who wriggles.

WIGHT, w[=i]t, _n._ a creature or a person--used chiefly in sport or irony.
[A.S. _wiht_, a creature, prob. from _wegan_, to move, carry; Ger. _wicht_.
Cf. _Whit_.]

WIGHT, w[=i]t, _adj._ swift, nimble: courageous, strong.--_adv._ WIGHT'LY,
swiftly, nimbly. [Ice. _vígr_, warlike--_víg_, war (A.S. _wíg_).]

WIGWAG, wig'wag, _v.i._ to twist about, to signal by means of
flags.--_adj._ twisting.--_adv._ to and fro.

WIGWAM, wig'wam, _n._ an Indian hut. [Eng. corr. of Algonkin word.]

WILD, w[=i]ld, _adj._ frolicsome, light-hearted: being in a state of
nature: not tamed or cultivated: uncivilised: desert: unsheltered: violent:
eager, keen: licentious: fantastic: wide of the mark.--_n._ an uncultivated
region: a forest or desert.--_ns._ W[=I]LD'-ASS, an Asiatic or African ass
living naturally in a wild state; W[=I]LD'-BOAR, a wild swine or animal of
the hog kind.--_adj._ W[=I]LD'-BORN, born in a wild state.--_n._
W[=I]LD'-CAT, the undomesticated cat.--_adj._ (_U.S._) haphazard, reckless,
unsound financially.--_ns._ W[=I]LD'-CHERR'Y, any uncultivated tree bearing
cherries, or its fruit; W[=I]LD'-DUCK, any duck excepting the domesticated
duck.--_v.t._ WILDER (wil'd[.e]r), to bewilder.--_v.i._ to wander widely or
wildly.--_adv._ WIL'DEREDLY, in a wildered manner.--_ns._ WIL'DERING, any
plant growing wild, esp. one that has escaped from a state of cultivation;
WIL'DERMENT, confusion; WIL'DERNESS, a wild or waste place: an uncultivated
region: a confused mass: (_Shak._) wildness; W[=I]LD'-FIRE, a composition
of inflammable materials: a kind of lightning flitting at intervals: a
disease of sheep; W[=I]LD'-FOWL, the birds of the duck tribe: game-birds;
W[=I]LD'-FOWL'ING, the pursuit of wild-fowl; W[=I]LD'-GOOSE, a bird of the
goose kind which is wild or feral; W[=I]LD'-GOOSE-CHASE (see CHASE);
W[=I]LD-HON'EY, the honey of wild bees; W[=I]LD'ING, that which grows wild
or without cultivation: a wild crab-apple.--_adj._ uncultivated.--_adj._
W[=I]LD'ISH, somewhat wild.--_n._ W[=I]LD'-LAND, land completely
uncultivated.--_adv._ W[=I]LD'LY.--_ns._ W[=I]LD'NESS; W[=I]LD'-OAT, a tall
perennial Old World grass.--_adj._ W[=I]LD'-WOOD, belonging to wild
uncultivated wood.--_n._ a forest.--WILD ANIMALS, undomesticated animals;
WILD BIRDS, birds not domesticated, esp. those protected at certain seasons
under the Act of 1880; WILD HUNT, the name given in Germany to a noise
sometimes heard in the air at night, mostly between Christmas and Epiphany,
as of a host of spirits rushing along, accompanied by the shouting of
huntsmen and the baying of dogs--the 'Seven Whistlers' and 'Gabriel's
Hounds' of our own north country; WILD SHOT, a chance shot.--_Run wild_, to
take to loose living: to revert to the wild or uncultivated state; SOW WILD
OATS (see OAT). [A.S. _wild_; prob. orig. 'self-willed,' from the root of
_will_; Ger. _wild_.]

WILD, w[=i]ld, a variety of _weald_.

WILDGRAVE, w[=i]ld'gr[=a]v, _n._ a German noble, whose office was connected
with hunting. [Ger. _wild_, game, _graf_, count.]

WILE, w[=i]l, _n._ a trick: a sly artifice.--_v.t._ to beguile, inveigle:
coax, cajole: to make to pass easily or pleasantly (confused with
_while_).--_adj._ WILE'FUL, full of wiles. [A.S. _wíl_, _wíle_; Ice. _vél_,
_væl_, a trick. Doublet _guile_.]

WILL, wil, _n._ power of choosing or determining: volition: choice or
determination: pleasure: command: arbitrary disposal: feeling towards, as
in good or ill will: disposition of one's effects at death, the written
document containing such.--_v.i._ to have a wish, desire: to resolve, be
resolved: to be accustomed, certain, ready, or sure (to do, &c.)--used as
an auxiliary, esp. in future constructions: to exercise the will: to
decree: (_B._) to be willing.--_v.t._ to wish, desire: to determine: to be
resolved to do: to command: to dispose of by will: to subject to another's
will, as in hypnotism:--_pa.t._ would.--_adj._ WIL'FUL, governed only by
one's will: done or suffered by design: obstinate: (_Shak._)
willing.--_adv._ WIL'FULLY.--_n._ WIL'FULNESS.--_adj._ WILLED, having a
will: brought under another's will.--_n._ WILL'ER, one who wishes, one who
wills.--_adjs._ WILL'ING, having the will inclined to a thing: desirous:
disposed: chosen; WILL'ING-HEART'ED, heartily consenting.--_adv._
WILL'INGLY.--_n._ WILL'INGNESS.--_adj._ WILL'YARD (_Scot._), wilful:
shy.--_ns._ GOOD'-WILL (see GOOD); ILL'-WILL (see ILL).--AT WILL, at
pleasure; CONJOINT, JOINT, WILL, a testamentary act by two persons jointly
in the same instrument; HAVE ONE'S WILL, to obtain what one desires; TENANT
AT WILL, one who holds lands at the will of the owner; WITH A WILL, with
all one's heart; WORK ONE'S WILL, to do exactly what one wants. [A.S.
_willa_, will--_willan_, _wyllan_, to wish; Goth. _wiljan_, Ger. _wollen_,
L. _velle_.]

WILLET, wil'et, _n._ a North American bird of the snipe family, belonging
to the tattler group--also _Stone-curlew_.

WILLIEWAUGHT, wil'i-wäht, _n._ (_Scot._), for _gude-willie waught_. [See
WAUGHT.]

WILL-O'-THE-WISP, wil'-o-the-wisp', _n._ the ignis-fatuus: any deluding
person or thing.

WILLOW, wil'[=o], _n._ any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, having
slender, pliant branches: the wood of the willow: a cricket-bat.--_v.t._ to
beat with willow rods, as in cleaning cotton, &c.--_adj._ WILL'OWED,
abounding with, or containing, willows.--_n._ WILL'OW-HERB, a perennial
herb (_Epilobium_) of the evening primrose family--also _Rose-bay_,
_Bay-willow_, _French_ or _Persian willow_.--_adj._ WILL'OWISH, like a
willow, slender and supple.--_ns._ WILL'OW-MACHINE', a machine for
extracting dirt from hemp, cotton, &c.--also WILL'OW; WILL'OW-MOTH, a
common British night-moth; WILL'OW-WAR'BLER, -WREN, a small European
sylviine bird; WILL'OW-WEED, one of various species of _Polygonum_ or
knot-weed: the purple loose-strife.--_adj._ WILL'OWY, abounding in willows:
flexible, graceful.--_n._ WEEP'ING-WILL'OW, a very ornamental species, a
native of the East, much planted in Britain on account of its beautiful
pendent twigs.--BEDFORD WILLOW, a species whose bark is especially rich in
salicin and in tannin; WHITE, or HUNTINGDON, WILLOW, the largest of British
species, reaching a height of eighty feet. [A.S. _welig_; Low Ger. _wilge_,
Dut. _wilg_.]

WILL-WORSHIP, wil'-wur'ship, _n._ (_B._) worship that is self-invented,
superstitious observance without divine authority.

WILLY, wil'i, _n._ (_prov._) a willow basket.

WILLY-NILLY, wil'i-nil'i, _adv._ willing or unwilling.--_adj._ vacillating.
[_Will_ and _nill_.]

WILT, wilt, _v.i._ to droop, lose energy.--_v.t._ to render limp or
pithless. [Cf. _Welk_; cf. Ger. _welk_, withered.]

WILT, wilt, 2d pers. sing. of _will_.

WILY, w[=i]'li, _adj._ full of wiles or tricks: using craft or stratagem:
artful: sly.--_adv._ W[=I]'LILY.--_n._ W[=I]'LINESS, cunning.

WIMBLE, wim'bl, _n._ an instrument for boring holes, turned by a
handle.--_v.t._ to bore through with such. [Scand., Dan. _vimmel_, auger;
conn. with Old Dut. _weme_, a wimble, and _wemelen_, to whirl.]

WIMBLE, wim'bl, _adj._ (_Spens._) active, nimble. [Sw. _vimmel_,
giddy--_vima_, to be giddy; allied to _whim_.]

WIMPLE, wim'pl, _n._ a hood or veil folded round the neck and face (still a
part of a nun's dress): a flag.--_v.t._ to hide with a wimple: (_Shak._) to
hoodwink: to lay in folds.--_v.i._ to ripple: (_Spens._) to lie in folds.
[A.S. _wimpel_, a neck-covering; cf. Ger. _wimpel_, a pennon, Fr. _guimpe_,
a nun's veil, Eng. _gimp_, a thin cloth for trimming.]

WIN, win, _v.t._ to get by labour: to gain in contest: to allure to
kindness, to gain: to achieve, effect: to attain: to induce: in mining, to
sink down to a bed of coal: to obtain the favour of.--_v.i._ to gain the
victory: to gain favour: (_prov._) to make one's way, to succeed in
getting:--_pr.p._ win'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ won (wun).--_n._ a victory,
success.--_ns._ WIN'NER; WIN'NING, the act of one who wins: that which is
won (usually in _pl._): a shaft or pit to open a bed of coal.--_adj._
influencing: attractive.--_adv._ WIN'NINGLY.--_ns._ WIN'NINGNESS;
WIN'NING-POST, the goal of a race-course.--WIN BY A HEAD, to win very
narrowly; WIN IN A CANTER, to win easily, as it were at an easy gallop; WIN
ON, UPON, to gain upon, to obtain favour with; WIN, or GAIN, ONE'S SPURS,
to earn one's knighthood by valour on the field, hence to gain recognition
or reputation by merit of any kind. [A.S. _winnan_, to suffer, to struggle;
Ice. _vinna_, to accomplish, Ger. _gewinnen_, to win.]

WIN, win, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to dry by exposure to the wind. [_Wind_.]

WINCE, wins, _v.i._ to shrink or start back: to be affected acutely, as by
a sarcasm: to be restive, as a horse uneasy at its rider.--_n._ WIN'CER,
one who winces. [O. Fr. _guinchir_, _ganchir_, to wince--Old High Ger.
_wenkan_ (Ger. _wanken_), to wince. Allied to Eng. _wink_, and Ger.
_winken_, to nod.]

WINCEY, WINSEY, win'si, _n._ a cloth, plain or twilled, usually with a
cotton warp and woollen filling--same as linsey-woolsey (q.v.).

WINCH, winsh, _n._ the crank of a wheel or axle: a kind of hoisting
machine: a dyer's reel suspended horizontally by the ends of its axis over
the vat, so as to allow the cloth to descend into either compartment of the
bath according as it is turned on the right or left.--Also WINCE. [A.S.
_wince_, prob. orig. 'a bent handle,' and so akin to Eng. _wink_.]

WIND, wind (_poet._ w[=i]nd), _n._ air in motion: breath: flatulence:
anything insignificant: the wind instruments in an orchestra: air
impregnated with scent: a hint or suggestion of something secret,
publicity: (_slang_) a part of the body near the stomach: a disease of
sheep in which the inflamed intestines are distended by gases.--_v.t._
(w[=i]nd) to sound or signal by blowing: to scent: (wind) to expose to the
wind: to drive hard, so as to put out of breath: to allow to recover
wind:--_pr.p._ w[=i]nd'ing and wind'ing; _pa.p._ wind'ed and wound.--_ns._
WIND'AGE, the difference between the size of the bore of a gun and that of
the ball or shell: the influence of the wind in deflecting a missile;
WIND'BAG, a person of mere words.--_adjs._ WIND'-BOUND, hindered from
sailing by a contrary wind; WIND'-BR[=O]'KEN, affected with convulsive
breathing--of a horse; WIND'-CHANG'ING, fickle.--_ns._ WIND'-CHART, a chart
showing the direction of the wind; WIND'-CHEST, the box or reservoir that
supplies compressed air to the pipes or reeds of an organ; WIND'-DROP'SY,
tympanites; WIND'-EGG, an addle-egg, one soft-shelled or imperfectly
formed; W[=I]ND'ER, one who sounds a horn: one who, or that which, winds or
rolls; WIND'FALL, fruit blown off a tree by the wind: any unexpected money
or other advantage.--_adj._ WINDFALL'EN, blown down by wind.--_ns._
WIND'-FLOW'ER, the wood-anemone; WIND'-FUR'NACE, any form of furnace using
the natural draught of a chimney without aid of a bellows; WIND'-GALL, a
puffy swelling about the fetlock joints of a horse; WIND'-GAUGE, an
instrument for gauging or measuring the velocity of the wind: an appliance
fixed to a gun by means of which the force of the wind is ascertained so
that allowance may be made for it in sighting; WIND'-GUN, air-gun;
WIND'-H[=O]'VER, the kestrel.--_adv._ WIND'ILY.--_ns._ WIND'INESS;
WIND'-IN'STRUMENT, a musical instrument sounded by means of wind or by the
breath.--_adj._ WIND'LESS, without wind.--_ns._ WIND'MILL, a mill for
performing any class of work in which fixed machinery can be employed, and
in which the motive-power is the force of the wind acting on a set of
sails; WIND'PIPE, the passage for the breath between the mouth and lungs,
the trachea.--_adj._ WIND'-RODE (_naut._), riding at anchor with head to
the wind.--_ns._ WIND'ROSE, a graphic representation of the relative
frequency of winds from different directions drawn with reference to a
centre; WIND'ROW, a row of hay raked together to be made into cocks, a row
of peats, &c., set up for drying; WIND'-SAIL (_naut._), a wide funnel of
canvas used to convey a stream of air below deck.--_adj._ WIND'-SH[=A]'KEN,
agitated by the wind.--_ns._ WIND'SIDE, the side next the wind;
WIND'-SUCK'ER, the kestrel: a critic ready to fasten on any weak spot,
however small or unimportant.--_adjs._ WIND'-SWIFT, swift as the wind;
WIND'-TIGHT, air-tight.--_adv._ WIND'WARD, toward where the wind blows
from.--_adj._ toward the wind.--_n._ the point from which the wind
blows.--_adj._ WIND'Y.--A CAPFUL OF WIND, a slight breeze; BEFORE THE WIND,
carried along by the wind; BETWEEN WIND AND WATER, that part of a ship's
side which is now in, now out of, the water owing to the fluctuation of the
waves: any vulnerable point; BROKEN WIND, a form of paroxysmal dyspnoea;
CAST, or LAY, AN ANCHOR TO WINDWARD, to make prudent provision for the
future; DOWN THE WIND, moving with the wind; FIGHT WINDMILLS, to struggle
with imaginary opposition, as Don Quixote tilted at the windmill; GET ONE'S
WIND, to recover one's breath; GET THE WIND OF, to get on the windward side
of; GET TO WINDWARD OF, to secure an advantage over; GET WIND OF, to learn
about, to be informed of; HAVE THE WIND OF, to be on the trail of; HOW THE
WIND BLOWS, or LIES, the state of the wind: the position of affairs; IN THE
WIND, astir, afoot; IN THE WIND'S EYE, IN THE TEETH OF THE WIND, right
against the wind; SAIL CLOSE TO THE WIND, to keep the boat's head near
enough to wind as to fill but not shake the sails: to be almost indecent;
SECOND WIND, new powers of respiration succeeding to the first
breathlessness; SOW THE WIND AND REAP THE WHIRLWIND, to act wrongly and
receive a crushing retribution. [A.S. _wind_; Ice. _vindr_, Ger. _wind_, L.
_ventus_, Gr. _a[=e]t[=e]s_, Sans. _v[=a]ta_, wind.]

WIND, w[=i]nd, _v.t._ to turn: to twist: to coil: to haul or hoist, as by a
winch: to encircle: to change: (_Spens._) to weave.--_v.i._ to turn
completely or often: to turn round something: to twist: to move spirally:
to meander: to beat about the bush:--_pr.p._ w[=i]nd'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ wound.--_n._ W[=I]ND'ER, one who winds: an instrument for winding:
a twisting plant.--_adj._ W[=I]ND'ING, curving, full of bends:
twisted.--_n._ a turning: a twist.--_n._ W[=I]ND'ING-EN'GINE, a machine for
hoisting.--_adv._ W[=I]ND'INGLY.--_ns._ W[=I]ND'ING-MACHINE', a twisting or
warping machine; W[=I]ND'ING-SHEET, a sheet enwrapping a corpse: the
dripping grease which clings to the side of a candle; W[=I]ND'-UP, the
close.--WIND A SHIP, to turn her about end for end; WIND UP, to come to a
conclusion: to tighten, to excite very much: to give new life to: to adjust
for final settlement: (_Shak._) to restore to harmony. [A.S. _windan_; Ger.
_winden_, Ice. _vinda_, Goth. _windan_. Cf. _Wend_, _Wander_.]

WINDLASS, wind'las, _n._ a modification of the wheel and axle, used for
raising weights, consisting of a revolving cylinder.--_v.i._ to use a
windlass.--_v.t._ to hoist by means of such. [Skeat explains as a
corruption, due to confusion with the succeeding word, of M. E. _windas_, a
windlass--Ice. _vindáss_--_vinda_, to wind; Dut. _windas_.]

WINDLASS, wind'las, _n._ (_Shak._) indirect, crafty action.--_v.i._ to take
a round-about course. [For _wind-lace_, a winding course; from _wind_ (n.)
and _lace_, a twist.]

WINDLE, win'dl, _n._ an engine for turning: a dry measure. [A.S.
_windel_--_windan_, to turn.]

WINDLESTRAW, win'dl-straw, _n._ the stalk of various grasses. [A.S.
_windel_, a woven basket, _streów_, straw.]

WINDOW, win'd[=o], _n._ an opening in the wall of a building for air and
light: the frame in the opening: a cover, lid.--_v.t._ to furnish with
windows: (_Shak._) to make rents in: (_Shak._) to place in a window.--_ns._
WIND'OW-BAR, a wooden or iron bar fitted into a window for security:
(_Shak._) lattice-work across a woman's stomacher; WIN'DOW-BLIND, a blind
or screen for a window; WIN'DOW-BOLE (same as BOLE, 3); WIN'DOW-CUR'TAIN, a
curtain hung over a window, inside a room.--_adj._ WIN'DOWED, having a
window or windows.--_ns._ WIN'DOW-FRAME, a frame or case which surrounds a
window; WIN'DOW-GAR'DENING, the cultivation of plants indoors before a
window, or in boxes fitted on the outside sill; WIN'DOW-GLASS, glass
suitable for windows.--_adj._ WIN'DOWLESS, having no windows.--_ns._
WIN'DOW-PANE, a square of glass set in a window; WIN'DOW-SASH, a light
frame in which panes of glass are set; WIN'DOW-SCREEN, any device for
filling the opening of a window; WIN'DOW-SEAT, a seat in the recess of a
window; WIN'DOW-SHADE, a sheet covering the window when pulled out;
WIN'DOW-SILL, the flat piece of wood at the bottom of a
window-frame.--WINDOW TAX, till 1851 a tax in Great Britain levied on
windows of houses.--BLIND WINDOW, a window space blocked up with masonry.
[M. E. _windowe_--Ice. _vindauga_--_vindr_, wind, _auga_, eye.]

WINDRING, w[=i]nd'ring, _adj._ (_Shak._) winding.

WINDSOR, win'zor, _adj._ pertaining to _Windsor_, as in WIND'SOR-CHAIR, a
kind of strong, plain, polished chair, made entirely of wood;
WIND'SOR-SOAP, a kind of perfumed brown toilet-soap.

WINE, w[=i]n, _n._ the fermented juice of the grape: a liquor made from
other fruits: (_fig._) intoxication: a wine-drinking, a wine-party.--_ns._
WINE'-BAG, a wine-skin: a tippler; WINE'-BIBB'ER, a bibber or drinker of
wine: a drunkard; WINE'-BIBB'ING; WINE'-BIS'CUIT, a sweet biscuit intended
to be served with wine; WINE'-CASK, a cask for holding wine; WINE'-CELL'AR,
a cellar for storing wine.--_adj._ WINE'-COL'OURED, of the colour of red
wine.--_ns._ WINE'-COOL'ER, a receptacle for cooling wine in bottles about
to be served at table; WINE'-FAT, the vat receiving the liquor from a
wine-press; WINE'-GLASS, a small glass used in drinking wine;
WINE'-GLASS'FUL; WINE'-GROW'ER, one who cultivates a vineyard and makes
wine; WINE'-MEAS'URE, an old English liquid measure, its gallon 5/6 of the
gallon in beer-measure, containing 231 cubic inches--the standard United
States gallon; WINE'-MER'CHANT, a merchant who deals in wine, esp. at
wholesale; WINE'-PAR'TY, a drinking-party; WINE'-PRESS, a machine in which
grapes are pressed in the manufacture of wine; WINE'-SKIN, a skin for
holding wine; WINE'-STONE, crude argol; WINE'-T[=A]ST'ER, one whose
business it is to sample wines; WINE'-VAULT, a vaulted wine-cellar: (_pl._)
a place where wine is tasted or drunk.--ADAM'S WINE, water; RHINE, RHENISH,
WINE, wine produced on the banks of the _Rhine_, esp. hock; SPIRIT OF WINE,
alcohol; WHITE WINE, Chablis, Sauterne, the wines of Germany--formerly
Madeira and sherry. [A.S. _wín_; Goth, _wein_, Ger. _wein_; all from L.
_vinum_; cog. with Gr. _oinos_.]

WING, wing, _n._ the organ of a bird, or other animal or insect, by which
it flies: flight, means of flying: anything resembling a wing, any
side-piece, the side of a building, &c.: one of the longer sides of
crown-works or horn-works in fortification: the flank corps or division of
an army on either side: the ships on either extremity of a fleet ranged in
line: (_fig._) protection.--_v.t._ to furnish or transport with wings: to
lend speed to: to supply with side-pieces: to bear in flight, to traverse
by flying: to wound on the wing, to wound a person in arm or
shoulder.--_v.i._ to soar on the wing.--_adv._ WING'-AND-WING', the
condition of a ship sailing before the wind with studding sails on both
sides.--_n._ WING'-CASE, the horny case or cover over the wings of some
insects, as the beetle.--_adj._ WINGED, furnished with wings: swift:
wounded in the wing: lofty, sublime: alate, abounding in wings.--_adv._
WING'EDLY, on or by wings.--_adjs._ WING'-FOOT'ED, having wings on the
feet, aliped; WING'LESS, without wings.--_ns._ WING'LET, the bastard wing
or alula of a bird: the pterygium of a weevil; WING'-SHELL, a stromb: an
aviculoid bivalve, a hammer-oyster: a wing-snail; WING'-SHOOT'ING, the act
or practice of shooting flying birds; WING'-SHOT, a shot at a bird on the
wing: one who shoots flying birds.--_adj._ shot in the wing, or while on
the wing.--_adj._ WING'Y, having wings: soaring on wings.--WINGED BULL, a
common form in Assyrian sculpture, symbolic of domination.--MAKE, TAKE,
WING, to depart; ON, UPON, THE WING, flying, in motion: departing; ON THE
WINGS OF THE WIND, with the highest speed; UNDER ONE'S WING, under one's
protection. [Ice. _vængr_, a wing; Sw. _vinge_.]

WINK, wingk, _v.i._ to move the eyelids quickly: to give a hint by winking:
to seem not to see, connive at (gener. with _at_): to flicker, twinkle,
sparkle.--_v.t._ to close and open quickly.--_n._ act of winking: a hint
given by winking.--_ns._ WINK'-A-PEEP, the scarlet pimpernel; WINK'ER, one
who winks: a horse's blinkers: (_Shak._) an eye: the winking membrane of a
bird's eye, the winking muscle: a small bellows in an organ, regulated by a
spring, controlling variations of wind-pressure; WINK'ING, the act of
winking.--_adv._ WINK'INGLY.--FORTY WINKS (_coll._), a short nap; LIKE
WINKING (_slang_), very rapidly; TIP ONE THE WINK, to wink to one as a sign
of caution, or of mutual understanding, &c. [A.S. _wincian_ (Ger.
_winken_); akin to A.S. _wancol_, wavering.]

WINKLE=_Periwinkle_ (q.v.).

WINNA, win'a, a Scotch form for _will not_.

WINNING, win'ing, _adj._ and _n._--_n._ WIN'NER.--_adv._ WIN'NINGLY.
[_Win_.]

WINNOCK, win'ok, _n._ (_Scot._) a window.--Also WIN'DOCK.

WINNOW, win'[=o], _v.i._ to separate the chaff from the grain by wind: to
fan: to examine: to sift: to blow upon: (_Milt._) to set in motion:
(_rare_) to flap, flutter.--_v.i._ to separate chaff from grain.--_n._ a
fan for winnowing.--_ns._ WINN'OWER; WINN'OWING; WINN'OWING-FAN, -MACHINE',
a fan, machine, for winnowing. [A.S. _windwian_, to winnow.]

WINSEY=_Wincey_ (q.v.).

WINSOME, win'sum, _adj._ cheerful: pleasant: attractive.--_adv._
WIN'SOMELY.--_n._ WIN'SOMENESS. [A.S. _wyn-sum_, pleasant--_wyn_, joy (Ger.
_wonne_).]

WINTER, win't[.e]r, _n._ the cold season of the year: a year: any season of
cheerlessness: the last corn of the harvest, a harvest festival.--_adj._
wintry.--_v.i._ to pass the winter.--_v.t._ to feed, or to detain, during
winter.--_ns._ WIN'TER-APP'LE, an apple that keeps well in winter, or that
does not ripen till winter; WIN'TER-BAR'LEY, a kind of barley which is sown
in autumn.--_adj._ WIN'TER-BEAT'EN (_Spens._), beaten or injured by the
cold of winter.--_ns._ WIN'TER-BERR'Y, a name given to several shrubs of
the genus _Ilex_, growing in the eastern parts of North America;
WIN'TER-BLOOM, the witch-hazel; WIN'TER-BOURNE, an intermittent spring in
the chalk-districts; WIN'TER-CHERR'Y, one of the _Solanaceæ_, a plant with
edible red berries--also called in the United States _Strawberry-tomatoes_:
the Balloon-vine, having large triangular, inflated fruit.--_adj._
WIN'TER-CLAD, warmly clad.--_ns._ WIN'TER-CLOV'ER, the partridge-berry;
WIN'TER-CRESS, a cruciferous plant, cultivated for winter salad;
WIN'TER-CROP, a crop that will endure the winter, or that yields fodder in
winter-time.--_adj._ WIN'TERED, having seen many winters: exposed to
winter: (_Shak._) worn in winter.--_ns._ WIN'TER-FALL'OW, a fallow made in
the winter; WIN'TER-GAR'DEN, an ornamental garden for winter;
WIN'TER-GREEN, a plant of genus _Pyrola_, also of _Chimaphila_: a plant of
genus _Gualtheria_, whose oil is an aromatic stimulant, used chiefly in
flavouring confectionery and syrups.--_v.t._ WIN'TER-GROUND (_Shak._), to
protect, as a plant, from the inclemency of winter.--_ns._ WIN'TER-LODGE,
-LODG'MENT, the hibernacle of a plant.--_adj._ WIN'TERLY,
cheerless.--_n.pl._ WIN'TER-QUAR'TERS, the quarters of an army during
winter: a winter residence.--_ns._ WIN'TER-SETT'LE, an old word for a
winter dwelling; WIN'TER-TIDE, winter: WIN'TER-WHEAT, wheat sown in autumn;
WIN'TRINESS.--_adjs._ WIN'TRY, WIN'TERY, resembling, or suitable to,
winter: stormy. [A.S. _winter_; Ger. _winter_; of uncertain origin; not
conn. with _wind_.]

WINTER, win't[.e]r, _n._ an appliance for fixing on the front of a grate,
to keep warm a tea-kettle or the like.

WINTER'S-BARK, win't[.e]rs-bärk, _n._ a stimulant, aromatic, and tonic
bark, named from Captain _Winter_, who first brought it from the Strait of
Magellan in 1579.

WINTLE, win'tl _v.i._ (_Scot._) to stagger.--_n._ a stagger.

WINY, w[=i]'ni, _adj._ having the qualities of, or resembling, wine:
influenced by wine.

WINZE, winz, _n._ (_Scot._) a curse. [_Wish_.]

WINZE, winz, _n._ in mining, a small ventilating shaft between two levels.
[Prob. related to _winnow_.]

WIPE, w[=i]p, _v.t._ to clean by rubbing (with _away_, _off_, _out_):
cleanse, clear away: to apply solder to with a piece of cloth or leather:
(_coll._) to beat.--_n._ act of cleaning by rubbing: a blow: a scar:
(_slang_) handkerchief.--_ns._ W[=I]'PER; W[=I]'PING, the act of wiping: a
thrashing. [A.S. _wípian_; cf. Low Ger. _wiep_, a wisp.]

WIRE, w[=i]r, _n._ a thread of metal: the metal thread used in telegraphy,
&c.: the string of an instrument: the slender shaft of the plumage of
certain birds: a telegram: (_slang_) a clever pickpocket: (_Shak._) the
lash, scourge.--_adj._ formed of wire.--_v.t._ to bind, snare, or supply
with wire: to keep the ends of a broken bone together with wire: to send by
telegraph.--_v.i._ to telegraph.--_n._ WIRE'-BRIDGE, a
suspension-bridge.--_adj._ WIRED, having wiry feathers.--_n._
WIRE'-DAN'CER, a performer on a tight wire.--_v.t._ WIRE'-DRAW, to draw
into wire: to draw or spin out to a great length: to strain or stretch the
meaning of anything.--_ns._ WIRE'DRAWER; WIRE'DRAWING.--_adj._ WIRE'DRAWN,
spun out into needless fine distinctions.--_ns._ WIRE'-GAUZE, a kind of
stiff close fabric made of fine wire; WIRE'-GRASS, a kind of fine
meadow-grass; WIRE'-GUARD, wire-netting placed in front of a fire;
WIRE'-HEEL, a defect or disease of the foot; WIRE'-MAN, one who puts up or
takes care of wires; WIRE'-NET'TING, WIRE'WORK, a texture of wire woven in
the form of a net; WIRE'-PULL'ER, one who exercises an influence felt but
not seen, as if the actors were his puppets and he pulled the wires that
move them: an intriguer; WIRE'-PULL'ING; W[=I]'RER, a snarer; WIRE'-ROPE, a
rope of twisted iron or steel.--_adj._ WIRE'-SEWED, -STITCHED, sewed with
wire instead of thread.--_ns._ WIRE'WAY, transportation by means of wires;
WIRE'WORK, articles made of wire; WIRE'WORKER; WIRE'WORKING; WIRE'-WORM, a
name given to the larvæ of click-beetles, from their slenderness and
uncommon hardness, very injurious to root, grain, and fodder crops.--_adj._
WIRE'WOVE, denoting a fine glazed quality of writing-paper.--_adv._
W[=I]'RILY.--_n._ W[=I]'RINESS, the state of being wiry.--_adj._ W[=I]'RY,
made of, or like, wire: flexible and strong.--WIRE AWAY, or IN, to act with
vigour.--PULL THE WIRES (see WIRE-PULLER above). [A.S. _wír_; Ice. _vírr_;
perh. conn. with L. _viriæ_, bracelets.]

WIS, wis, v. (in the form _I wis_) erroneously used as 'I know.' [I wis is
the M. E. adv. _i-wis_--A.S. _ge-wis_, certainly; cf. Ger. _ge-wiss_.]

WISARD, wiz'ard, _n._ Same as WIZARD.

WISDOM, wiz'dum, _n._ quality of being wise: judgment: right use of
knowledge: learning: (_B._) skilfulness, speculation, spiritual perception:
the apocryphal Book of the Wisdom of Solomon (see APOCRYPHA).--_n._
WIS'DOM-TOOTH, a large double back-tooth, so called because it appears
late, when people are supposed to have arrived at the age of wisdom. [A.S.
_wísdóm_, wisdom. Cf. _Wise_.]

WISE, w[=i]z, _adj._ having wit or knowledge: able to make use of knowledge
well: judging rightly: discreet: learned: skilful: dictated by wisdom:
containing wisdom: pious, godly.--_adjs._ WISE'-HEART'ED, having wisdom:
prudent; WISE'-LIKE (_Scot._), sensible, judicious: looking as if capable
of playing one's part well.--_n._ WISE'LING, one who pretends to be
wise.--_adv._ WISE'LY.--_n._ WISE'NESS.--WISE WOMAN, a witch: (_Scot._) a
midwife.--NEVER THE WISER, still in ignorance. [A.S. _wís_; Ger. _weise_;
from root of _wit_.]

WISE, w[=i]z, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to guide in a certain direction, to incline.

WISE, w[=i]z, _n._ way, manner.--IN ANY WISE, IN NO WISE, in any way, in no
way; ON THIS WISE, in this way. [A.S. _wíse_, orig. wiseness; Ger. _weise_;
akin to _wise_ (1) and _wit_. Doublet _guise_.]

WISEACRE, w[=i]'z[=a]-k[.e]r, _n._ one who pretends to wisdom without
grounds, a simpleton quite unconscious of being such. [Perh. through the
medium of Dutch from Ger. _weissager_, a soothsayer, _weissagen_, to
foretell--Old High Ger. _w[=i]zago_, a prophet.]

WISH, wish, _v.i._ to have a desire: to long (so in B.): to be
inclined.--_v.t._ to desire or long for: to ask: to invoke: (_Shak._) to
recommend.--_n._ desire, longing: thing desired: expression of
desire.--_n._ WISH'ER.--_adj._ WISH'FUL, having a wish or desire:
eager.--_adv._ WISH'FULLY.--_ns._ WISH'FULNESS; WISH'ING-BONE, WISH'-BONE,
the furcula or merrythought of a fowl; WISH'ING-CAP, a cap by wearing which
one obtains everything he wishes. [A.S. _wýscan_--_wúsc_, a wish; Ger.
_wünschen_, Sw. _önska_.]

WISHTONWISH, wish'ton-wish, _n._ the North American prairie-dog. [Amer.
Ind.]

WISH-WASH, wish'-wosh, _n._ (_coll._) anything wishy-washy.--_adj._
WISH'Y-WASH'Y, thin and weak, diluted, feeble. [Formed from _wash_.]

WISKET, wis'ket, _n._ (_prov._) a basket.

WISP, wisp, _n._ a small bundle of straw or hay: a small broom:
will-o'-the-wisp: a disease affecting the feet of cattle.--_v.t._ to rub
down with a wisp.--_adj._ WIS'PY, like a wisp. [M. E. _wisp_, _wips_, conn.
with _wipe_; cf. Low Ger. _wiep_, Norw. _vippa_, a wisp.]

WIST, wist, _v.pa.t._ (_B._) knew. [A.S. _wiste_, _pa.t._ of _witan_, 3d
pers. sing. pr.t. _wát_, to know. Cf. _Wit_.]

WISTARIA, wis-t[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants, some of the
species amongst the most magnificent ornamental climbers known in English
gardens, named from the American anatomist, Caspar _Wistar_ (1761-1818).

WISTFUL, wist'f[=oo]l, _adj._ hushed: full of thought: thoughtful: earnest:
eager, wishful, longing.--_adv._ WIST'FULLY.--_n._ WIST'FULNESS.--_adv._
WIST'LY (_Shak._), silently, earnestly. [Most prob. for _whistful_,
_whistly_--i.e. silently; and not conn. with _wish_. Skeat, however, makes
it a substitution for _wishful_, confused with _wisly_=certainly--Ice.
_viss_, certain (distinct from, yet allied to, _víss_, wise).]

WISTITI=_Ouistiti_ (q.v.)--WIS'TIT (_obs._).

WIT, wit, _v.i._ to know:--_pr.t._ 1st pers. sing. WOT; 2d, WOST
(erroneously WOT'TEST); 3d, WOT (erroneously WOT'TETH):--_pl._ 1st, 2d, 3d,
WOT; _pa.t._ WIST (erroneously WOT'TED); _pr.p._ WIT'TING, WEET'ING
(erroneously WOT'TING); _pa.p._ WIST.--TO DO TO WIT, to cause to know; TO
WIT, that is to say--the A.S. gerund _tó witanne_. [A.S. _witan_, to know
(pr.t. ic _wát_, þu _wást_, he _wát_, pl. _witon_; pa.t. _wiste_--also
_wisse_, pl. _wiston_, pa.p. _wist_); Goth. _witan_, Ger. _wissen_; cf. L.
_vid[=e]re_, Gr. _idein_.]

WIT, wit, _n._ understanding: a mental faculty (chiefly in _pl._): the
power of combining ideas with a ludicrous effect, the result of this power:
ingenuity: (_rare_) imagination: (_obs._) information.--_adj._ WIT'LESS,
wanting wit or understanding: thoughtless.--_adv._ WIT'LESSLY.--_ns._
WIT'LESSNESS; WIT'LING, one who has little wit: a pretender to wit;
WIT'-MONG'ER, a poor would-be wit; WIT'-SNAP'PER (_Shak._), one who affects
wit or repartee.--_adj._ WIT'TED, having wit or understanding.--_n._
WITTICISM (wit'i-sizm), a witty remark: a sentence or phrase affectedly
witty.--_adv._ WIT'TILY.--_n._ WIT'TINESS.--_adv._ WIT'TINGLY, knowingly:
by design.--_adj._ WIT'TY, possessed of wit: amusing: droll: sarcastic:
(_B._) ingenious: (_Shak._) wise, discreet.--_v.i._ WIT'WANTON, to indulge
in irreverent wit.--AT ONE'S WITS' END, utterly perplexed; LIVE BY ONE'S
WITS, to live in a haphazard manner by any shift; THE FIVE WITS, the five
senses. [A.S. _wit_, from the verb above.]

WIT, wit, _n._ a person of understanding or judgment, esp. a person who has
a keen perception of the ludicrous and can express it neatly. [Perh. a use
of the preceding word; others trace through A.S. _wita_, _gewita_, a
counsellor--_witan_, to know.]

WITAN, wit'an, _n.pl._ members of the _Witenagemot_. [Pl. of A.S. _wita_, a
man of knowledge. See preceding words.]

WITCH, wich, _n._ a woman regarded as having supernatural or magical power
and knowledge through compact with the devil or some minor evil spirit: a
hag, crone: (_coll._) a fascinating young girl: (_Shak._) a wizard.--_v.t._
to bewitch, to effect by means of witchcraft.--_ns._ WITCH'CRAFT, the craft
or practice of witches: the black art, sorcery: supernatural power;
WITCH'-DOC'TOR, a medicine-man; WITCH'ERY, witchcraft: fascination;
WITCH'ES'-BROOM, a popular name for the broom-like tufts of branches
developed on the silver-fir, birch, cherry, &c. by means of an uredineous
fungus; WITCH'ES'-BUT'TER, a dark-brown fungus (see NOSTOC);
WITCH'ES'-THIM'BLE, the sea-campion; WITCH'-FIND'ER, one whose business was
to detect witches.--_adj._ WITCH'ING, weird: fascinating.--_adv._
WITCH'INGLY.--_ns._ WITCH'-KNOT, a knot, esp. in the hair, tied by means of
witchcraft; WITCH'-MEAL, the inflammable pollen of the club-moss.--_adj._
WITCH'-RIDD'EN, ridden by witches.--_n._ WITCH'-WIFE, a woman who practises
witchcraft. [M. E. _wicche_ (both masc. and fem.)--A.S. _wicca_ (masc.),
wicce (fem.), wizard, witch; prob. reduced from _wítega_, _wítiga_,
_witga_, a seer (Old High Ger. _w[=i]zago_)--a supposed adj. _wítig_,
seeing--_wítan_, to see, allied to _witan_, to know. For the change, cf.
_Orchard_--A.S. _ortgeard_. Cf. _Wit_ and _Wicked_.]

WITCH, WITCH-ELM, wich, wich'-elm, _n._ the common wild elm--also
WITCH'-H[=A]'ZEL.--_n._ WITCH'EN, the mountain-ash or rowan. [A.S. _wice_,
the service-tree--_wícan_, to bend.]

WIT-CRACKER, wit'-krak'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a joker, jester.

WITE, w[=i]t, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to blame, to reproach.--_n._ (_Spens._)
blame, reproach.--_adj._ WITE'LESS (_Spens._), blameless. [A.S. _wítan_, to
punish, fine (Ice. _víta_); ult. conn. with _witan_, to know.]

WITENAGEMOT, wit'e-na-ge-m[=o]t', _n._ the supreme council of England in
Anglo-Saxon times, composed of the bishops, the ealdormen of shires, and a
number of the king's friends and dependents, the king's thanes. It was thus
purely a council of royal officers and territorial magnates, not at all
resembling the representative House of Commons. [A.S. _witena
gemót_--_wita_, a wise man, _gemót_, a meeting.]

WITH, _n._ Same as WITHE.

WITH, wi_th_, _prep._ denoting nearness, agreement, or connection: by: in
competition or contrast: on the side of: immediately after: among:
possessing: in respect of, in the regard of: like: by, by means of,
through: showing, using: from.--_adv._ WITHAL', with all or the rest:
likewise: moreover.--_prep._ an emphatic form of with.--WITH THAT,
thereupon. [A.S. _wið_; Ice. _við_, Ger. _wider_. It absorbed the A.S.
_mid_, with (Ger. _mit_).]

WITHDRAW, with-draw', _v.t._ to draw back or away: to take back: to
recall.--_v.i._ to retire: to go away.--_ns._ WITHDRAW'AL, WITHDRAW'MENT;
WITHDRAW'ER; WITHDRAW'ING-ROOM, a room used to retire into: a drawing-room.
[Pfx. _with-_, against, and _draw_.]

WITHE, with, or w[=i]_th_, WITHY, with'y, _n._ a flexible twig, esp. of
willow: a band of twisted twigs: an elastic handle to a tool to save the
hand from the shock of blows: a boom-iron.--_adj._ WITHY (with'i or
w[=i]'_th_i), made of withes: like withes, flexible. [A.S. _withthe_, a
form of _withig_, a withy; Ice. _vidhir_, Ger. _weide_, willow.]

WITHER, with'[.e]r, _v.i._ to fade or become dry: to lose freshness: to
shrink: waste.--_v.t._ to cause to dry up: to cause to decay, perish,
waste.--_adj._ WITH'ERED, dried up.--_n._ WITH'EREDNESS.--_adj._
WITH'ERING, blasting, blighting, scorching.--_n._ WITH'ERING-FLOOR, the
drying-floor of a malt-house.--_adv._ WITH'ERINGLY. [A.S. _wedrian_, to
expose to weather.]

WITHERS, wi_th_'[.e]rz, _n.pl._ the ridge between the shoulder-bones of a
horse and behind the root of the neck.--_adj._ WITH'ER-WRUNG, injured in
the withers. [A.S. _wither_, against, an extension of _with_, against.]

WITHERSHINS, WIDDERSHINS, with'-, wid'[.e]r-shinz, _adv._ (_Scot._) in the
contrary direction--to the left, contrary to the course of the sun, in the
wrong way.--Also WIDD'ERSINS, WIDD'ERSINNIS. Cf. the Gaelic _deiseil_, to
the right, going round in the way of the sun. [_Widder-_ is the Ice.
_vithra_, against (A.S. _wither_, Ger. _wieder_, Dut. _weder_); _Sins_ is
the adverbial genitive, from Ice. _sinni_, walk, movement, originally
journey, cog. with A.S. _síth_, Goth. _sinths_, journey, Old High Ger.
_sind_.]

WITHHOLD, with-h[=o]ld', _v.t._ to hold back: to keep back.--_v.i._ to stay
back:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ WITHHELD' (_arch. pa.p._ WITHHOL'DEN).--_ns._
WITHHOL'DER; WITHHOLD'MENT. [Pfx. _with-_, against, and _hold_.]

WITHIN, with-in', _prep._ in the inner part: inside: in the reach of: not
going outside of.--_adv._ in the inner part: inwardly: at home.--WITHIN
CALL, HAIL, not too far to hear a call, hail. [A.S. _wiðinnan_--_wið_,
against, with, _innan_, in.]

WITHOUT, with-owt', _prep._ outside or out of: beyond: not with: in absence
of: not having: except: all but.--_adv._ on the outside: out of
doors.--_conj._ except.--_adj._ WITHOUT'-DOOR (_Shak._), being out of
doors.--_prep._ WITHOUT'EN (_Spens._), without.--WITHOUT BOOK, on no
authority; WITHOUT DISTINCTION, indiscriminately.--FROM WITHOUT, from the
outside. [A.S. _wiðútan_--_wið_, against, _útan_, outside.]

WITHSTAND, with-stand', _v.t._ to stand against: to oppose or
resist:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ WITHSTOOD'.--_n._ WITHSTAND'ER.

WITHWIND, with'w[=i]nd, _n._ the bindweed.

WITLOOF, wit'l[=o]f, _n._ a kind of chicory with large roots. [Dut.]

WITNESS, wit'nes, _n._ knowledge brought in proof: testimony of a fact:
that which furnishes proof: one who sees or has personal knowledge of a
thing: one who attests.--_v.t._ to have direct knowledge of: to see: to
give testimony to: to show: (_Shak._) to foretell.--_v.i._ to give
evidence.--_ns._ WIT'NESS-BOX, the enclosure in which a witness stands when
giving evidence in a court of law; WIT'NESSER.--WITH A WITNESS (_Shak._),
to a great degree. [A.S. _witnes_, testimony--_witan_, to know.]

WITTOL, wit'ol, _n._ one who knows his wife's faithlessness, and submits to
it.--_adj._ WITT'OLLY (_Shak._), like a wittol or contented cuckold.
[Formerly also _wittal_, _wittold_, a particular use of _witwal_, the
popinjay; cf. the similar allusions to the _cuckoo_, from which grew the
word _cuckold_.]

WITWAL, wit'wawl, _n._ the popinjay, or green woodpecker, the greater
spotted woodpecker. [Var. of _woodwale_, a woodpecker.]

WIVE, w[=i]v, _v.t._ to take for a wife: to provide with a wife.--_v.i._ to
marry.--_n._ WIVE'HOOD (_Spens._), wifehood. [A.S. _wífian_--_wíf_, wife.]

WIVERN, w[=i]'vern, _n._ Same as WYVERN.

WIVES, w[=i]vz, _pl._ of _wife_.

WIZARD, wiz'ard, _n._ one who practises witchcraft or magic: (_obs._) a
wise man.--_adj._ with magical powers.--_adv._ WIZ'ARDLY, like a
wizard.--_n._ WIZ'ARDRY, sorcery. [O. Fr. _guiscart_--Ice. _vizkr_ (for
_vitskr_), from _vita_, to know.]

WIZEN, wiz'n, WIZENED, wiz'nd, _adj._ dried up: thin: shrivelled.--_v.i._
and _v.t._ to become dry, to make dry.--_adj._ WIZ'EN-FACED, having a thin,
shrivelled face. [A.S. _wisnian_, to wither; cog. with Ice. _visinn_,
wizened, _visna_, to wither.]

WIZIER=_Vizir_.

WO. Same as WOE.

WOAD, w[=o]d, _n._ a genus of cruciferous plants, whose few species are
mostly natives of the countries around the Mediterranean--DYER'S WOAD
yields a good and very permanent dye, but is now largely superseded by
indigo.--_adj._ WOAD'ED, dyed blue with woad. [A.S. _wád_; Ger. _waid_; L.
_vitrum_.]

WOBBLE, WOBBLER, WOBBLING. See WABBLE.

WODEN, w[=o]'den, _n._ the Anglo-Saxon form of the Norse Odin.--_n._
W[=O]'DENISM, the worship of Woden.

WOE, WO, w[=o], _n._ grief: misery: a heavy calamity: a curse: an
exclamation of grief.--_adj._ sad, wretched.--_adjs._ WOE'BEGONE,
W[=O]'BEGONE, beset with woe (see BEGONE); WOE'FUL, W[=O]'FUL, WOE'SOME
(_Scot._ WAE'SOME), sorrowful: bringing calamity: wretched.--_advs._
WOE'FULLY, W[=O]'FULLY.--_ns._ WOE'FULNESS, W[=O]'FULNESS.--_adjs._
WOE'-WEA'RIED, -WORN, wearied, worn, with woe.--WOE WORTH THE DAY (see
WORTH).--IN WEAL AND WOE, in prosperity and adversity. [A.S. (interj.)
_wá_; Ger. _weh_; L. _væ_, Gr. _ouai_. Cf. _Wail_.]

WOIWODE. See VOIVODE.

WOLD, w[=o]ld, _n._ an open tract of country. [A.S. _weald_, _wald_, a
wood, perh. ultimately conn. with _wealdan_, to possess, wield.]

WOLF, woolf, _n._ the common name of certain species of the genus
_Canis_--including the ravenous Common Wolf, the Abyssinian Wolf, the
Antarctic Wolf, the Maned Wolf, and the Prairie Wolf or Coyote: anything
very ravenous: a greedy and cunning person: (_obs._) a tuberculous
excrescence: (_mus._) a harsh discord heard in the organ, &c.:--_pl._
WOLVES.--_v.i._ to hunt for wolves.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to devour
ravenously.--_ns._ WOLF'-DOG, a dog of large breed kept to guard sheep,
esp. against wolves; WOL'FER, one who hunts wolves; WOLF'-FISH, a fierce
and voracious salt-water fish--called also _Sea-wolf_ and _Cat-fish_;
WOLF'-HOUND (see BORZOI); WOL'FING, the hunting of wolves for their
skins.--_adjs._ WOL'FISH, WOL'VISH, like a wolf either in form or quality:
rapacious.--_adv._ WOL'FISHLY.--_ns._ WOLF'KIN, WOLF'LING, a young wolf;
WOLF'S'-BANE, aconite; WOLF'S'-FOOT, -CLAW, the club-moss _Lycopodium_;
WOLF'-SKIN, the skin or pelt of a wolf; WOLF'S'-PEACH, the tomato;
WOLF'-SP[=I]'DER, the tarantula; WOLF'-TOOTH, a small supernumerary
premolar in a horse.--CRY WOLF, to give a false alarm--from the story of
the boy who cried 'Wolf' when there was none, and was not believed when
there was one; HAVE A WOLF BY THE EARS, to be in a very difficult
situation; HAVE A WOLF IN THE STOMACH, to be ravenously hungry; KEEP THE
WOLF FROM THE DOOR, to keep out hunger; SEE A WOLF, to lose one's voice, in
allusion to an old superstition. [A.S. _wulf_; Ger. _wolf_; L. _lupus_; Gr.
_lykos_.]

WOLFFIAN, w[=oo]l'fi-an, _adj._ pertaining to, or associated with, the name
of the German embryologist K. F. _Wolff_ (1733-94)--applied to the
primordial renal organs in the embryo of the higher vertebrates, performing
the function of kidneys till superseded by the true or permanent kidneys.

WOLFIAN, w[=oo]l'fi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the philosophy of Johann
Christian von _Wolf_ (1679-1754). He systematised and popularised the
philosophy of Leibnitz, and gave a strong impulse to that development of
natural theology and rationalism which soon almost drove out revelation by
rendering it unnecessary--also WOLFF'IAN.--_n._ WOLF'IANISM.

WOLFIAN, w[=oo]l'fi-an, _adj._ pertaining to, or associated with, the name
of Friedrich August _Wolf_ (1759-1824), the most gifted classical scholar
and first critic of his age--applied esp. to his theory that the _Odyssey_
and _Iliad_ are composed of numerous ballads by different minstrels, strung
together in a kind of unity by subsequent editors.

WOLFRAM, wol'fram, _n._ a native compound of tungstate of iron and
manganese. [Ger.]

WOLVERENE, WOLVERINE, wool-ve-r[=e]n', _n._ a name given to the American
glutton or carcajou, from its rapacity. [Extension of _wolf_.]

WOMAN, woom'an, _n._ the female of man, an adult female of the human race:
the female sex, women collectively: a female attendant:--_pl._ WOMEN
(wim'en).--_v.t._ to cause to act like a woman, to unite to a woman (both
Shak.): to call a person 'woman' abusively.--_n._ WOM'AN-BOD'Y (_Scot._), a
woman, used disparagingly.--_adjs._ WOM'AN-BORN, born of woman;
WOM'AN-BUILT, built by women.--_adv._ WOM'ANFULLY, like a woman.--_adj._
WOM'AN-GROWN, grown to womanhood.--_ns._ WOM'AN-H[=A]T'ER, a misogynist;
WOM'ANHOOD, the state, character, or qualities of a woman.--_adj._
WOM'ANISH, having the qualities of a woman: feminine.--_adv._
WOM'ANISHLY.--_ns._ WOM'ANISHNESS; WOM'ANKIND, WOM'ENKIND, women taken
together: the female sex.--_adj._ WOM'AN-LIKE, like a woman.--_n._
WOM'ANLINESS.--_adj._ WOM'ANLY, like or becoming a woman: feminine.--_adv._
in the manner of a woman.--_ns._ WOM'AN-POST (_Shak._), a female messenger;
WOM'AN-QUELL'ER, a killer of women; WOM'AN-SUFF'RAGE, the exercise of the
electoral franchise by women.--_adjs._ WOM'AN-TIRED (_Shak._), hen-pecked;
WOM'AN-VEST'ED, wearing women's clothes.--WOMAN OF THE TOWN, a whore; WOMAN
OF THE WORLD, a woman of fashion.--WOMEN'S RIGHTS, the movement of women
towards personal and proprietary independence.--PLAY THE WOMAN, to give way
to weakness. [A.S. _wimman_, _wífman_, a compound of _wíf_, a woman, _man_,
man.]

WOMB, w[=oo]m, _n._ the uterus, the organ in which the young of mammals are
developed and kept till birth: (_Shak._) the stomach: the place where
anything is produced: any deep cavity.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
contain.--_adj._ WOMB'Y (_Shak._), capacious. [A.S. _wamb_; Ger. _wamme_,
paunch.]

WOMBAT, wom'bat, _n._ an Australian marsupial mammal of the opossum family.
[Native name.]

WON, wun, _v.i._ to dwell: to abide: to be accustomed.--_n._ a dwelling: an
abode.--_n._ WON'ING, dwelling. [A.S. _wunian_, Dut. _wonen_, Ger.
_wohnen_, to dwell.]

WON, wun, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _win_.

WONDER, wun'd[.e]r, _n._ the state of mind produced by something new,
unexpected, or extraordinary: a strange thing: a prodigy: a sweet fried
cake--also _Cruller_.--_v.i._ to feel wonder: to be amazed (with at): to
speculate expectantly.--_p.adj._ WON'DERED (_Shak._), having performed, or
able to perform, wonders.--_n._ WON'DERER.--_adj._ WON'DERFUL, full of
wonder: exciting wonder: strange: (_B._) wonderfully.--_adv._
WON'DERFULLY.--_ns._ WON'DERFULNESS; WON'DERING.--_adv._ WON'DERINGLY, with
wonder.--_ns._ WON'DERLAND, a land of wonders; WON'DERMENT,
surprise.--_adjs._ WON'DEROUS (same as WONDROUS); WON'DER-STRUCK,
-STRICK'EN, struck with wonder or astonishment.--_ns._ WON'DER-WORK, a
prodigy, miracle: thaumaturgy; WON'DER-WORK'ER; WON'DER-WORK'ING.--_adjs._
WON'DER-WOUND'ED (_Shak._), wonder-stricken; WON'DROUS, such as may excite
wonder: strange.--_adv._ WON'DROUSLY.--_ns._ WON'DROUSNESS.--BIRD OF
WONDER, the phoenix; NINE DAYS' WONDER, something that astonishes everybody
for the moment; SEVEN WONDERS OF THE WORLD (see SEVEN). [A.S. _wundor_;
Ger. _wunder_, Ice. _undr_.]

WONGA-WONGA, wong'ga-wong'ga, _n._ the large Australian white-faced
pigeon--a table delicacy.

WONT, wunt, _adj._ used or accustomed.--_n._ habit.--_v.i._ to be
accustomed.--_adj._ WON'TED, accustomed: usual.--_n._ WON'TEDNESS.--_adj._
WONT'LESS (_Spens._), unaccustomed. [Orig. pa.p. of _won_, to dwell--A.S.
_wunian_; Ger. _wohnen_.]

WON'T, w[=o]nt, will not. [Contr. of M. E. _wol not_.]

WOO, w[=oo], _v.t._ to ask in order to marriage: to court: to solicit
eagerly, to seek.--_v.i._ to court or make love: to ask.--_ns._ WOO'ER;
WOO'ING. [A.S. _wógian_, to woo--_wóg_, _wóh_, bent.]

WOOD, wood, _n._ the solid part of trees: trees cut or sawed: timber: a
collection of growing trees: the cask or barrel, as distinguished from the
bottle: (_print._) a woodblock.--_v.t._ to supply with wood.--_ns._
WOOD'-AC'ID, wood-vinegar, impure acetic acid from wood-distillation;
WOOD'-ANEM'ONE, the wind-flower, a little woodland plant, blooming in early
spring, with a single white flower purplish outside; WOOD'-ANT, a large
forest-dwelling ant: a white ant infesting the wood of old
buildings.--_n.pl._ WOOD'-ASH'ES, ashes obtained by burning wood or
plants--the source of many potassium salts.--_ns._ WOOD'BINE, WOOD'BIND,
the honeysuckle, applied also to other climbers, such as some kinds of ivy,
the Virginia-creeper, &c.; WOOD'-BIRD, a bird that lives in the woods;
WOOD'BLOCK, a die cut in relief on wood and ready to furnish ink
impressions: a woodcut.--_adjs._ WOOD'-B[=O]'RING; WOOD'-BORN, born in the
woods.--_ns._ WOOD'-CAR'VING, the process of carving in wood; WOOD'CHAT, a
bird which, notwithstanding its name, is not a species of Chat, but of
Shrike; WOOD'CHUCK, the green woodpecker; WOOD'-COAL, coal like wood in
texture: charcoal: lignite or brown coal; WOOD'COCK, a genus of birds
allied to the snipes, but of a more bulky body, and with shorter and
stronger legs; WOOD'COCK'S-HEAD, a tobacco-pipe; WOOD'CRAFT, skill in the
chase or anything pertaining to forests, forestry generally; WOOD'CUT, an
engraving cut on wood: an impression from it; WOOD'-CUT'TER, one who cuts
wood: a wood-engraver; WOOD'-CUT'TING, the act or employment of cutting
wood: wood-engraving.--_adjs._ WOOD'ED, supplied with wood: covered with
wood; WOOD'EN, made of wood: hard: dull, insensible: heavy, stupid: clumsy,
without grace or spirit--of literary style, &c.--_ns._ WOOD'-ENGR[=A]'VER;
WOOD'-ENGR[=A]VING, the art of engraving designs on wood, differing from
copper and steel plate engraving by having the parts intended to print on
the paper in relief: an engraving on or taken from wood; WOOD'EN-HEAD, a
blockhead, stupid person.--_adj._ WOOD'EN-HEAD'ED, stupid.--_n._
WOOD'EN-HEAD'EDNESS.--_adv._ WOOD'ENLY.--_ns._ WOODENNESS, wooden quality:
want of spirit or expression, clumsiness; WOOD'-[=E]'VIL, red-water: severe
constipation in cattle, often occurring after eating freely of
hedge-cuttings or shoots of trees; WOOD'-F[=I]'BRE, fibre derived from
wood; WOOD'-FRET'TER, a wood-borer or wood-eater; WOOD'-GOD, a deity of the
woods; WOOD'-GROUSE, the capercailzie; WOOD'-HOLE, a place where wood is
stored; WOOD'-HON'EY, wild honey; WOOD'-HORSE, a saw-horse; WOOD'-HOUSE, a
house or shed in which wood for fuel is deposited; WOOD'-[=I]'BIS (see
TANTALUS); WOOD'INESS, the state or quality of being woody; WOOD'LAND, land
covered with wood; WOOD'LANDER, an inhabitant of the woods; WOOD'LARK, a
species of lark, found in or near woods, singing chiefly on the wing;
WOOD'-LAY'ER, a young oak, &c., laid down in a hedge.--_adj._ WOOD'LESS,
without wood.--_ns._ WOOD'LESSNESS; WOOD'-LOUSE, any terrestrial isopod of
the family _Oniscidæ_--the Scotch _slater_, common under stones, &c.: a
termite or white ant: any one of the pseudo-neuropterous family _Psocidæ_,
found in the woodwork of houses; WOOD'MAN, a man who cuts down trees: a
forest officer: a huntsman; WOOD'-MITE, a beetle-mite; WOOD'-NAPH'THA, the
mixture of light hydrocarbons distilled from wood (see PYROXYLIC);
WOOD'-NIGHT'SHADE, bitter-sweet, or woody nightshade; WOOD'-NOTE (_Milt._),
a wild musical note, like that of a song-bird; WOOD'-NYMPH, a nymph or
goddess of the woods; WOOD'-OFF'ERING (_B._), wood burned on the altar;
WOOD'-[=O]'PAL, silicified wood; WOOD'-OWL, the European brown owl;
WOOD'-P[=A]'PER, paper prepared from wood; WOOD'PECKER, one of a family
(_Picidæ_) of birds in the order _Picariæ_, remarkable for the structural
modification of the skull in adaptation to its use as an axe, and for the
long flexible tongue, which is used for extracting insects from holes and
crevices of trees; WOOD'-PIG'EON, the cushat or ringdove; WOOD'-PULP,
wood-fibre reduced to a pulp, used in making paper; WOOD'-REEVE, the
overseer of a wood; WOOD'RUFF, a genus of rubiaceous plants with whorled
leaves and a funnel-shaped corolla--_Sweet Woodruff_ has a creeping
root-stock sending up erect stems, and small white flowers; when dried it
has a very agreeable fragrance like vernal-grass--(_obs._) WOOD'-ROOF;
WOOD'-SAGE, the wood germander; WOOD'-SAND'PIPER, a common European
tattler, allied to the redshank; WOOD'-SCREW, a screw for fastening pieces
of wood or wood and metal; WOOD'SHED, a shed for storing firewood;
WOOD'-SHOOK, the pekan, fisher, or Pennant's marten--also _Black-cat_ and
_Black-fox_; WOOD'-SKIN, a Guiana Indian's canoe, made of the bark of the
purple heart-tree; WOODS'MAN, a woodman; WOOD'-SOOT, soot from burnt wood;
WOOD'-SORR'EL, a plant of the genus Oxalis; WOOD'-SPIR'IT (same as
PYROXYLIC SPIRIT); WOOD'-SPITE, the green woodpecker or yaffle;
WOOD'-STAMP, a stamp made of wood, as for stamping fabrics in colours;
WOOD'-STONE, petrified wood; WOOD'-SWALL'OW, an Australian name for any of
the fly-catching _Artamidæ_, also called _Swallow-shrike_--the resemblance
to shrikes being considerably closer than to swallows either in appearance
or habits.--_adj._ WOOD'SY, pertaining to, or characteristic of,
woods.--_ns._ WOOD'-TAR, tar obtained from the dry distillation of wood;
WOOD'THRUSH, a singing-thrush common in the woods of the eastern United
States, reddish-brown above, olive on the rump, white spotted with black on
breast; WOOD'-TICK, any tick of the family _Ixonidæ_: a small insect which
makes a ticking sound in the woodwork of a house, the death-watch;
WOOD'-TIN, a nodular variety of cassiterite, or tin-stone; WOOD'-VIN'EGAR
(see WOOD-ACID); WOOD'WALE, a woodpecker, esp. the green woodpecker,
_Yaffle_ or _Rainbird_; WOOD'-WARB'LER, the yellow willow-warbler or
woodwren: an American warbler, esp. of the beautiful genus _Dendroeca_;
WOOD'WARD, an officer to guard the woods; WOOD'WORK, a part of any
structure made of wood; WOOD'WORM, a worm or larva infesting wood;
WOOD'WREN, the willow-warbler or willow-wren (_Phylloscopus trochilus_):
the true wood-warbler or yellow willow-wren (_Phylloscopus
sibilatrix_)--neither being properly wrens.--_adj._ WOOD'Y, abounding with
woods: pertaining to woods: consisting of wood.--_n._ WOOD'Y-NIGHT'SHADE
(see WOOD-NIGHTSHADE).--WOODEN HORSE, or _Timber-mare_ (see HORSE); WOODEN
LEG, an artificial leg made of wood; WOODEN SPOON, a spoon of wood
presented to the person who stands lowest for the year in the mathematical
tripos list at Cambridge; WOODEN TYPE, large type cut in
wood.--COMMISSIONERS OF WOODS AND FORESTS, a department of government
having charge of the Crown woods and forests. [A.S. _wudu_; cog. with Ice.
_vidhr_, wood; akin to Ir. _fiodh_, timber.]

WOOD, wood, _adj._ (_Shak._) mad, furious.--_n._ WOOD'NESS. [A.S. _wód_;
Ice. _ódhr_, Goth. _wods_, frantic, Ger. _wuth_, madness.]

WOODBURYTYPE, wood'ber-i-t[=i]p, _n._ a method of photograph printing in
which a sensitised gelatine film, developed under a negative to an extra
relief, is impressed on soft metal by hydraulic pressure. This in turn can
be printed by special ink in a press, and as it gives all the gradations of
tint, it may be said to be a perfect photo-mechanical printing process.
[Named from the inventor.]

WOODCHUCK, wood'chuk, _n._ the marmot. [Corr. from an Amer. Ind. name.]

WOODIE, wood'i, _n._ (_Scot._) the gallows. [A form of _widdy_, _withy_,]

WOOF, woof, _n._ same as _Weft_ (q.v.).--_adj._ WOOF'Y, dense. [A.S.
_ówef_, _áweb_--_áwefan_, to weave--_á-_, prefix, _wefan_, to weave.]

WOOINGLY, w[=oo]'ing-li, _adv._ in a wooing or persuasive manner. [_Woo_.]

WOOL, wool, _n._ the soft, curly hair of sheep and other animals: short,
thick hair: any light, fleecy substance resembling wool.--_n._ WOOL'BALL, a
ball of wool, such as is sometimes found in a sheep's stomach.--_adj._
WOOL'-BEAR'ING, bearing or yielding wool.--_ns._ WOOL'-CARD'ING, the
process of separating the fibres of wool preparatory to spinning;
WOOL'-COMB'ER, one whose occupation is to comb wool in order to disentangle
and straighten out the fibres; WOOL'-COMB'ING; WOOL'-DR[=I]'VER, one who
buys up wool for a market.--_adj._ WOOL'-DYED, dyed before spinning or
weaving.--_ns._ WOOL'FAT, lanolin; WOOL'FELL, the skin with the wool still
on it; WOOL'-GATH'ERING, indulgence of idle fancies.--_adj._ dreamy:
listless.--_n._ WOOL'-GROW'ER, one who raises sheep for the production of
wool.--_adj._ WOOL'LEN, made of, or pertaining to, wool: clad in wool,
rustic.--_n._ cloth made of wool.--_ns._ WOOL'LEN-CORD, a ribbed stuff, the
face all of wool; WOOL'LEN-DR[=A]'PER, one who deals in woollen goods;
WOOL'LINESS.--_adjs._ WOOL'LY, consisting of, or like, wool: clothed with
wool; WOOL'LY-HAIRED, -HEAD'ED, having the hair like wool.--_ns._
WOOL'LY-PAS'TINUM, a kind of red orpiment; WOOL'MAN, a dealer in wool;
WOOL'-MILL, a building for the spinning of wool and the weaving of woollen
cloth; WOOL'PACK, the package in which wool was formerly done up for sale:
a bundle weighing 240 lb.: cirro-cumulus cloud; WOOL'-PACK'ER;
WOOL'-PICK'ER, a machine for cleaning wool; WOOL'SACK, the seat of the Lord
Chancellor in the House of Lords, being a large square sack of wool covered
with scarlet; WOOL'SEY, a material made of cotton and wool.--_n.pl._
WOOL'-SHEARS, shears used in shearing sheep.--_ns._ WOOL'-SORT'ER, one who
sorts wool according to quality, &c.; WOOL'-ST[=A]'PLE, the fibre or pile
of wool; WOOL'-ST[=A]'PLER, a wool-factor: a wool-sorter.--_adv._ WOOL'WARD
(_Shak._), in wool, as a penance.--_ns._ WOOL'-WIND'ER, one who bundles
wool for packing; WOOL'WORK, needlework imitative of
tapestry.--WOOL-SORTERS' DISEASE (see ANTHRAX).--ANGORA WOOL, the wool of
the Angora goat; BERLIN-WOOL, a kind of fine-dyed wool used for worsted
work. [A.S. _wull_; Goth. _wulla_, Ger. _wolle_, L. _villus_.]

WOOLD, w[=oo]ld, _v.t._ to wind about.--_adj._ WOOL'DED.--_ns._ WOOL'DER, a
stick used in woolding a mast or yard, or a pin in a rope-maker's top;
WOOL'DING.

WOOM, w[=oo]m, _n._ beaver fur.

WOOMERA, w[=oo]m'[.e]r-a, _n._ a stick for spear-throwing (Austral.).

WOON, w[=oo]n, _n._ a governor of a province. [Burmese.]

WOON, w[=oo]n, _v.i._ (_Spens._). Same as WON (1).

WOORALI, woo'ra-li, _n._ a S. American poison for arrows.--Also WOO'RARA,
WOU'RALI, same as _Curari_ (q.v.).

WOOTZ, woots, _n._ steel made by fusing iron with carbonaceous matter.
[Perh. the Canarese _ukku_, steel.]

WOP, wop, _v.t._ See WHOP.

WORD, wurd, _n._ an oral or written sign expressing an idea or notion:
talk, discourse: signal or sign: message: promise: declaration: a
pass-word, a watch-word, a war-cry: the Holy Scripture, or a part of it:
(_pl._) verbal contention.--_v.t._ to express in words: (_Shak._) to
flatter.--_v.i._ to speak, talk.--_ns._ WORD'-BLIND'NESS, loss of ability
to read; WORD'-BOOK, a book with a collection of words: a
vocabulary.--_adj._ WORD'-BOUND, unable to find expression in words.--_n._
WORD'-BUILD'ING, the formation or composition of words.--_adj._ WOR'DED,
expressed in words.--_adv._ WOR'DILY.--_ns._ WOR'DINESS; WOR'DING, act,
manner, or style of expressing in words.--_adj._ WOR'DISH (_obs._),
verbose.--_n._ WOR'DISHNESS.--_adj._ WORD'LESS (_Shak._), without words,
silent.--_ns._ WORD'-MEM'ORY, the power of recalling words to the mind;
WORD'-PAINT'ER, one who describes vividly; WORD'-PAINT'ING, the act of
describing anything clearly and fully by words only; WORD'-PIC'TURE, a
description in words which presents an object to the mind as if in a
picture.--_adj._ WOR'DY, full of words: using or containing many
words.--WORD FOR WORD, literally, verbatim.--BREAK ONE'S WORD, to fail to
fulfil a promise; BY WORD OF MOUTH, orally; GOOD WORD, favourable mention,
praise; HARD WORDS, angry, hot words; HAVE A WORD WITH, to have some
conversation with; HAVE WORDS WITH, to quarrel, dispute with; IN A WORD, IN
ONE WORD, in short, to sum up; IN WORD, in speech only, in profession only;
PASS ONE'S WORD, to make a promise; THE WORD, the Scripture: (_theol._) the
second person in the Trinity, the Logos. [A.S. _word_; Goth. _waurd_, Ice.
_orth_, Ger. _wort_; also conn. with L. _verbum_, a word, Gr. _eirein_, to
speak.]

WORDSWORTHIAN, wurds-wur'thi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the style of the
sovereign poet of nature, William _Wordsworth_ (1770-1850).--_n._ an
admirer of WORDSWORTH.

WORE, w[=o]r, _pa.t._ of _wear_.

WORK, wurk, _n._ effort directed to an end: employment: the result of work:
that on which one works: anything made or done: embroidery: deed: effect: a
literary composition: a book: management: an establishment for any
manufacture, a factory (gener. in _pl._): (_physics_) the product of a
force by the component displacement of its point and application in the
direction of the force: (_pl._), (_fort._) walls, trenches, &c.: (_theol._)
acts performed in obedience to the Divine law: a manufactory, workshop,
place of work (esp. in _pl._): mechanism--e.g. of a watch.--_v.i._ to make
efforts to attain anything: to perform: to be in action: to be occupied in
business or labour: to produce effects, to make progress with difficulty,
to strain or labour: to ferment: to be agitated, to seethe: to
embroider.--_v.t._ to make by labour: to bring into any state by action: to
effect: to carry on operations in: to put in motion: to purge: to
influence: to manage: to solve: to achieve: to cause to ferment: to
provoke, agitate: to keep employed: to embroider:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
worked or wrought (rawt).--_ns._ WORKABIL'ITY, WORK'ABLENESS.--_adjs._
WORK'ABLE, that may be worked; WORK'ADAY, work-day, toiling,
plodding.--_ns._ WORK'-BAG, -BAS'KET, a bag, basket, for holding materials
for work, esp. needlework; WORK'-BOX, a lady's box for holding materials
for work; WORK'-DAY, a day for work: a week-day.--_adj._ pertaining to a
work-day.--_ns._ WORK'ER, a toiler, performer: among insects, the neuter or
undeveloped female; WORK'-FELL'OW, one who is engaged in the same work with
another.--_ns.pl._ WORK'FOLK, WORK'FOLKS, persons engaged in manual
labour.--_adj._ WORK'FUL, industrious.--_ns._ WORK'GIRL, a girl or young
woman employed in some manual labour; WORK'HOUSE, a house where any work or
manufacture is carried on: a house of shelter for the poor, who are made to
work; WORK'ING, action, operation: fermentation: (_pl._) the parts of a
mine, &c., where actual operations are in hand.--_adj._ active: labouring:
connected with labour.--_ns._ WORK'ING-BEAM, the oscillating lever of a
steam-engine connecting the piston-rod and the crank-shaft, a walking-beam;
WORK'ING-CLASS, manual labourers (often in _pl._); WOR'KING-DAY, a day on
which work is done, as distinguished from the Sabbath and holidays: the
period of actual work each day.--_adj._ laborious: plodding.--_ns._
WORK'ING-DRAW'ING, a drawing of the details of a building by which the
builders are guided in their work; WORK'ING-HOUSE (_Shak._), workshop;
WORK'ING-PAR'TY, a group of persons who do some work in common, or who meet
periodically for such a purpose; WORK'MAN, WORK'ING-MAN, a man who works or
labours, esp. manually: a skilful artificer.--_adjs._ WORK'MAN-LIKE, like a
workman: becoming a skilful workman: well performed; WORK'MANLY, becoming a
skilful workman.--_adv._ in a manner becoming a skilful workman.--_ns._
WORK'MANSHIP, the skill of a workman: manner of making: work done;
WORK'-MAS'TER, a skilled or directing workman, esp. in some great
undertaking.--_n.pl._ WORK'-PEO'PLE, people engaged in labour.--_ns._
WORK'ROOM, a room for working in; WORK'SHOP, a shop where work is
done.--_adj._ WORK'SOME, industrious.--_ns._ WORK'-T[=A]'BLE, a small table
used by ladies at their needlework; WORK'-WOMAN, a woman who makes her
living by some manual labour.--WORK OF ART, a production in one of the fine
arts; WORK DOUBLE TIDES, to work through continuous tides, night and day;
WORK IN, to intermix, to make to penetrate; WORK INTO, to make way
gradually into: to change, alter; WORK OFF, to separate and throw off, to
get rid of, circulate: to produce as by work, esp. to print; WORK ON, or
UPON, to act or operate upon, to influence; WORK ONE'S PASSAGE, to give
one's work on board in place of passage-money; WORK OUT, to effect by
continued labour: to expiate: to exhaust: to solve or study anything fully
out; WORK UP, to excite, rouse: to create by slow degrees, to expand,
elaborate: to use up, as material: (_naut._) to set at an irksome or
needless task; WORK WITH, to strive to influence by appeals, &c.--BOARD OF
WORKS, the body which has the management and control of public works and
buildings, of which the expenses are defrayed from the crown revenues or
parliamentary grants; HAVE ONE'S WORK CUT OUT, to have one's work
prescribed: to have a difficult task before one; MAKE SHORT WORK OF (see
SHORT); OUT OF WORK, out of working order: without employment; SET TO WORK,
to employ in some work: to engage in some work; SEVEN WORKS OF CORPORAL
MERCY, to feed the hungry, give drink to the thirsty, to clothe the naked,
visit prisoners, visit the sick, harbour strangers, bury the dead--OF
SPIRITUAL MERCY, to convert sinners, instruct the ignorant, counsel the
doubtful, console the afflicted, bear wrongs patiently, forgive injuries,
pray for the living and the dead. [A.S. _weorc_; Ice. _verk_, Ger. _werk_;
further conn. with Gr. _ergon_.]

WORLD, wurld, _n._ the earth and its inhabitants: the system of things:
present state of existence: any planet or heavenly body: public life or
society: an organic whole: business: the public: a secular life: course of
life: a very large extent of country, as the 'New World:' very much or a
great deal, as 'a world of good:' time, as in the phrase 'world without
end'=eternally: possibility, as in 'nothing in the world:' (_B._) the
ungodly.--_adjs._ WORL'DED, containing worlds; WORLD'-HAR'DENED, hardened
by the love of worldly things.--_ns._ WORLD'-LANG'UAGE, a universal
language; WORLD'LINESS; WORLD'LING, one who is devoted to worldly or
temporal possessions.--_adjs._ WORLD'LY, pertaining to the world, esp. as
distinguished from the world to come: devoted to this life and its
enjoyments: bent on gain--also _adv._; WORLD'LY-MIND'ED, having the mind
set on the present world.--_n._ WORLD'LY-MIND'EDNESS.--_adjs._
WORLD'LY-WISE, wise in this world's affairs; WORLD'-OLD, exceedingly
ancient; WORLD'-WEA'RIED, -WEA'RY, tired of the world; WORLD'WIDE, wide or
extensive as the world.--ALL THE WORLD, everybody: everything; ALL THE
WORLD AND HIS WIFE (_coll._), everybody: also, an ill-assorted mass; A
WORLD, a great deal; CARRY THE WORLD BEFORE ONE, to pass to success through
every obstacle; FOR ALL THE WORLD, precisely, entirely; GO TO THE WORLD
(_Shak._), to get married; IN THE WORLD, an intensive phrase, usually
following an interrogative pronoun or adverb.--THE NEW WORLD, the western
hemisphere, the Americas; THE OLD WORLD, the eastern hemisphere, comprising
Europe, Africa, and Asia; THE OTHER WORLD, the non-material sphere, the
spiritual world; THE WHOLE WORLD, the sum of what is contained in the
world; THE WORLD'S END, the most distant point possible. [A.S. _woruld_,
_world_, _weorold_, (lit.) 'a generation of men,' from _wer_, a man, and
_yldo_, sig. an age; Ice. _veröld_, Old High Ger. _weralt_ (Ger. _welt_).]

WORM, wurm, _n._ a term destitute of scientific precision, but often
applied to any one of the members of numerous classes of invertebrate
animals which are more or less earthworm-like in appearance, the earthworm,
a grub, a maggot: anything spiral: the thread of a screw: the lytta or
vermiform cartilage of a dog's tongue: the instrument used to withdraw the
charge of a gun: a spiral pipe surrounded by cold water into which steam or
vapours pass for condensation in distilling: anything that corrupts, gnaws,
or torments: remorse: a debased being, a groveller: (_pl._) any intestinal
disease arising from the presence of parasitic worms.--_v.i._ to move like
a worm, to squirm: to work slowly or secretly.--_v.t._ to effect by slow
and secret means: to elicit by underhand means: to remove the lytta or
vermiform cartilage of a dog's tongue.--_n._ WORM'-CAST, the earth voided
by the earthworm.--_adjs._ WORM'-EAT'EN, eaten by worms: old: worn-out;
WORM'-EAT'ING, living habitually on worms; WORMED, bored by worms: injured
by worms.--_ns._ WORM'-FENCE, a zigzag fence formed of stakes;
WORM'-F[=E]'VER, a feverish condition in children ascribed to intestinal
worms; WORM'-GEAR, a gear-wheel having teeth shaped so as to mesh with a
worm or shaft on which a spiral is turned, an endless screw;
WORM'-GEAR'ING; WORM'-GRASS, pink-root: a kind of stonecrop; WORM'-HOLE,
the hole made by a worm.--_adj._ WORM'-HOLED, perforated by
worm-holes.--_ns._ WORM'-POW'DER, a vermifuge; WORM'-SEED, santonica: the
treacle mustard; WORM'-WHEEL, a wheel gearing with an endless screw or
worm, receiving or imparting motion.--_adj._ WOR'MY, like a worm:
grovelling: containing a worm: abounding with worms: gloomy, dismal, like
the grave. [A.S. _wyrm_, dragon, snake, creeping animal; cog. with Goth.
_waurms_, a serpent, Ice. _ormr_, Ger. _wurm_; also with L. _vermis_.]

WORMIAN, wurm'i-an, _adj._ associated with the name of the Danish anatomist
Olaus _Worm_ (1588-1654), applied esp. to the supernumerary bones developed
in the sutures of the skull.

WORMWOOD, wurm'wood, _n._ the bitter plant _Artemisia absinthium_:
bitterness. [A.S. _wermod_ (Ger. _wermuth_), wormwood; perh. lit.
'keep-mind,' in allusion to its medicinal (anthelmintic and tonic)
properties--_werian_, to protect (Ger. _wehren_), _mód_, mind.]

WORN, w[=o]rn, _pa.p._ of _wear_.

WORN-OUT, w[=o]rn'-owt, _adj._ much injured or rendered useless by wear:
wearied: past, gone.

WORRICOW, wur'i-kow, _n._ (_Scot._) a hobgoblin: the devil: anything
frightful or even only grotesque.

WORRY, wur'i, _v.t._ to tear with the teeth: to harass: to tease: (_Scot._)
to choke.--_v.i._ to trouble one's self: to be unduly anxious: to
fret:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ worr'ied.--_n._ act of worrying: trouble,
perplexity, vexation.--_ns._ WORR'IER, one who worries himself or others;
WORR'IMENT (_coll._), anxiety.--_adj._ WORR'ISOME, causing trouble.--v.
WORR'IT (_slang_), to worry.--_n._ (_slang_) annoyance.--_adj._ WORR'YING,
harassing.--_adv._ WORR'YINGLY.--WORRY DOWN, to swallow with a strong
effort. [A.S. _wyrgan_, found in compound _áwyrgan_, to harm; cf. Dut.
_worgen_, Ger. _würgen_, to choke; A.S. _wearg_, _werg_, a wolf.]

WORSE, wurs, _adj._ (used as _comp._ of _bad_) bad or evil in a greater
degree: more sick.--_adv._ bad in a higher degree: less: (_Shak._) with
more severity.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to worst.--_v.i._ WOR'SEN, to grow
worse.--_v.t._ to make worse.--_adv._ WOR'SER, a redundant comparative of
_worse_.--THE WORSE, defeat, disadvantage. [A.S. _wyrsa_, from _wiers-sa_
from _wirsiza_ (Goth. _wairsiza_), formed with comp. suffix _-iz_ from a
Teut. root _wers_, found in Ger. _ver-wirren_, to confuse.]

WORSHIP, wur'ship, _n._ religious service: fervent esteem: adoration paid
to God: a title of honour in addressing certain magistrates, &c.:
submissive respect.--_v.t._ to respect highly: to treat with civil
reverence: to pay divine honours to: to adore or idolise.--_v.i._ to
perform acts of adoration: to perform religious service:--_pr.p._
wor'shipping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wor'shipped.--_adjs._ WOR'SHIPABLE,
WOR'SHIPFUL, worthy of worship or honour, used as a term of
respect.--_adv._ WOR'SHIPFULLY.--_n._ WOR'SHIPFULNESS.--_adj._
WOR'SHIPLESS, destitute of worship or worshippers.--_n._
WOR'SHIPPER.--HOUSE, or PLACE, OF WORSHIP, a church or chapel. [A.S.
_weorthscipe_--_weorth_, WURTH, worth, affix _-scipe_, _-ship_.]

WORST, wurst, _adj._ bad or evil in the highest degree.--_adv._ to a very
bad or very evil degree.--_n._ the highest degree of badness: the most evil
state.--_v.t._ to get the advantage over in a contest: to defeat.--_v.i._
(_obs._) to grow worse. [A.S. _wyrst_, _wyrrest_, _wyrresta_, from the same
source as _worse_.]

WORSTED, woost'ed, or woorst'ed, _n._ twisted thread or yarn spun out of
long, combed wool: woollen yarn for ornamental needlework.--_adj._ made of
worsted yarn.--_n._ WORST'ED-WORK, needlework done with worsted. [From
_Worstead_, a village near Norwich in England.]

WORT, wurt, _n._ a plant of the cabbage kind. [A.S. _wyrt_; Ger. _wurz_,
_wurzel_, a root.]

WORT, wurt, _n._ new beer unfermented or in the act of fermentation: the
sweet infusion of malt. [A.S. _wyrte_, new beer (Ice. _virtr_)--_wyrt_,
root. See preceding word.]

WORTH, wurth, _n._ value: possessions: that quality which renders a thing
valuable: price: moral excellence: importance.--_adj._ equal in value to:
having a certain moral value: deserving of.--_adj._ WORTH'FUL.--_adv._
WORTH'ILY (_th_), in a worthy manner: justly: truly.--_n._ WORTH'INESS
(_th_).--_adj._ WORTH'LESS, of no worth or value: having no value, virtue,
excellence, &c.: useless.--_adv._ WORTH'LESSLY.--_n._
WORTH'LESSNESS.--_adj._ WORTHY (wur'_th_i), having worth: valuable:
deserving: suited to: (_B._) deserving (either of good or bad).--_n._ a man
of eminent worth: a local celebrity: (_Shak._) anything of value:--_pl._
WOR'THIES.--_v.t._ to make worthy.--WORTHIEST OF BLOOD, male, as opposed to
female--of inheritance.--NINE WORTHIES, Hector, Alexander the Great, Julius
Cæsar; Joshua, David, Judas Maccabæus; Arthur, Charlemagne, Godfrey of
Bouillon. [A.S. _weorth_, _wurth_ (Ger. _wert_), value.]

WORTH, wurth, _v.i._ to be, happen, as in the phrase WOE WORTH=_woe be to_
(with the noun in the dative). [A.S. _weorthan_, to become; cf. Ger.
_werden_.]

WOT, wot, WOTTETH, wot'eth, _v.t._ (_B._) _pr.t._ of obsolete _wit_, to
know. [_Wit_.]

WOULD, wood, _pa.t._ of _will_.--_adj._ WOULD'-BE, aspiring, trying, or
merely professing to be.--_n._ a vain pretender. [A.S. _wolde_, pa.t. of
_willan_.]

WOULFE-BOTTLE, woolf'-bot'l, _n._ a form of three-necked bottle, generally
arranged in a series known as _Woulfe's apparatus_, used for the purpose of
purifying gases, or of dissolving them in suitable solvents--from the name
of the London chemist, Peter _Woulfe_ (1727-1806).

WOUND, wownd, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _wind_.

WOUND, w[=oo]nd, _n._ any division of soft parts, including the skin,
produced by external mechanical force--whether incised, punctured,
contused, lacerated, or poisoned: any cut, bruise, hurt, or injury.--_v.t._
to make a wound in: to injure.--_adj._ WOUN'DABLE, capable of being
wounded.--_n._ WOUN'DER.--_adv._ WOUN'DILY (_coll._), excessively.--_n._
WOUN'DING.--_adj._ WOUND'LESS, exempt from being wounded, invulnerable:
harmless.--_n._ WOUND'WORT, a name applied to several plants of popular
repute as vulneraries, as the kidney-vetch, &c.: a plant of genus
_Stachys_, the marsh or clown's woundwort.--_adj._ WOUN'DY, causing wounds:
(_coll._) excessive. [A.S. _wund_ (Ger. _wunde_, Ice. _und_)--A.S. _wund_,
wounded; prob. orig. pa.p. of A.S. _winnan_, to fight, strive.]

WOURALI. See WOORALI.

WOVE, WOVEN, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _weave_.

WOW, wow, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to woo.

WOW, wow, _interj._ an exclamation of wonder.

WOWF, wowf, _adj._ (_Scot._) crazy.

WOW-WOW, wow'-wow, _n._ the gibbon of Sumatra.

WOX, WOXEN. (_Spens._), _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _wax_.

WRACK, RACK, rak, _n._ a term loosely given to various seaweeds, esp. to
the _Fucaceæ_, common on British shores, long valuable as a source of kelp,
and utilised as manure: shipwreck: ruin.--_adj._ WRACK'FUL, destructive.
[Lit. 'something cast ashore,' A.S. _wræc_, exile, misery--_wrecan_, to
drive, urge. _Wrack_ is a doublet of _wreck_.]

WRACK, rak, by-form of _wreck_.

WRAITH, r[=a]th, _n._ a spectre: an apparition in the exact likeness of a
person seen before or soon after his death. [Cf. dial. form _warth_, an
apparition; prob. orig. having the sense of 'guardian spirit'--Ice.
_vörthr_, a guardian.]

WRANGLE, rang'gl, _v.i._ to make a disturbance: to dispute: to dispute
noisily or peevishly.--_n._ a noisy dispute.--_ns._ WRANG'LER, one who
wrangles or disputes angrily: (_Shak._) a stubborn foe: in the University
of Cambridge, one of those who have attained the first class in the public
mathematical honour examinations; WRANG'LERSHIP.--_adj._ WRANG'LESOME,
given to wrangling.--_n._ WRANG'LING.--SENIOR WRANGLER, the student taking
the first place in the class mentioned, the second being called SECOND
WRANGLER, and so on in the same way. [A freq. of _wring_.]

WRAP, rap, _v.t._ to roll or fold together: to enfold: hide: to cover by
winding something round (often with up):--_pr.p._ wrap'ping; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ wrapped.--_n._ a wrapper, as a shawl, &c.--_ns._ WRAP'PAGE, act of
wrapping: things used as wrappers; WRAP'PER, one who, or that which, wraps:
a loose outer garment of a woman; WRAP'PING; WRAP'-RAS'CAL, a loose
greatcoat worn about 1740 (a humorous term).--WRAPPED UP IN, bound up in:
engrossed with: comprised in. [A form of _warp_--M. E. _wrappen_, also
_wlappen_. Cf. _Lap_ (v.t. to wrap) and _Envelop_.]

WRAP. Same as RAP.

WRASSE, ras, _n._ a genus of bony fishes representative of the large family
_Labridæ_, and including many species on European and North African coasts.
Common British species are the _ballan-wrasse_, the _red wrasse_, and the
_gibbous wrasse_. [Perh. the W. _gwrachen_.]

WRATH, räth, _n._ violent anger: holy indignation: heat.--_adj._ violently
angry.--_adj._ WRATH'FUL, full of wrath: very angry: springing from, or
expressing, wrath.--_adv._ WRATH'FULLY.--_n._ WRATH'FULNESS.--_adv._
WRATH'ILY.--_adjs._ WRATH'LESS; WRATH'Y, apt to wrath. [Old Northumbrian
_wr['æ]ððo_--A.S. _wráð_, adj. wroth; Ice. _reithi_.]

WRAWL, rawl, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to cry as a cat, to caterwaul. [Imit.]

WRAXLING, raks'ling, _n._ wrestling.

WREAK, r[=e]k, _v.t._ to inflict: avenge.--_n._ WREAK'ER.--_adjs._
WREAK'FUL, revengeful: angry; WREAK'LESS, unpunished. [A.S. _wrecan_, orig.
to drive, and so to punish, avenge; Ice. _reka_, to drive, pursue, Ger.
_rächen_; conn. with L. _urg[=e]re_.]

WREAK, r[=e]k, _v.i._ (_Shak._). Same as RECK.

WREATH, r[=e]th, _n._ a chaplet: a garland: anything long and circular: a
defect in glass.--_v.t._ WREATHE (r[=e]_th_), to form by twisting: to form
into a wreath: to twine about or encircle.--_v.i._ to be
interwoven.--_adj._ WREATH'EN (_th_), wreathed.--_n._ WREATH'ER
(_th_).--_adjs._ WREATH'LESS; WREATH'Y. [A.S. _wrædh_, 'a twisted
band'--_wríthan_, to writhe.]

WRECK, rek, _n._ destruction: destruction of a ship: ruins of a destroyed
ship: remains of anything ruined: shipwrecked property.--_v.t._ to destroy
or disable: to ruin.--_v.i._ to suffer wreck or ruin.--_ns._ WRECK'AGE, the
act of wrecking: wrecked material; WRECK'ER, a person who purposely causes
a wreck or who plunders wreckage: one who lures a ship on to the rocks for
purposes of plunder: one who criminally ruins anything: a person employed
by the owners in recovering disabled vessels or their cargo.--_adj._
WRECK'FUL, causing ruin.--_n._ WRECK'-MAS'TER, a person taking charge of a
disabled ship and its cargo.--WRECK COMMISSIONERS, a tribunal which
inquires into shipping disasters.--RECEIVERS OF WRECKS, wreck-masters.
[A.S. _wræc_, expulsion--_wrecan_, to drive, Low Ger. _wrak_, Dut. _wrak_,
Ice. _reki_, a thing drifted ashore; a doublet of _wrack_.]

WRECK, rek, _n._ (_Spens._) same as WREAK.--_v.t._ (_Milt._) to wreak.

WREN, ren, _n._ a genus (_Troglodytes_) and family (_Troglodytidæ_) of
birds, having a slender, slightly curved and pointed bill, the wings very
short and rounded, the tail short and carried erect, the legs slender and
rather long.--_ns._ WREN'NING, the stoning of a wren to death on St
Stephen's Day, December 26th--WRENNING DAY--once practised in the North
Country; WREN'-TIT, a Californian bird (_Chamæa fasciata_), of dubious
relations, at once resembling the wren and the titmouse. [A.S. _wrenna_,
_wr['æ]nna_--_wr['æ]ne_, lascivious.]

WRENCH, rensh, _v.t._ to wring or pull with a twist: to force by violence:
to sprain.--_v.i._ to undergo a violent wrenching.--_n._ a violent twist: a
sprain: an instrument for turning bolts, &c.: in coursing, bringing the
hare round at less than a right angle--half a point in the recognised code
of points for judging. [A.S. _wrencan_ (Ger. _renken_)--_wrenc_, fraud;
root of _wring_.]

WREST, rest, v.t, to twist from by force: to twist from truth or from its
natural meaning.--_n._ violent pulling and twisting: distortion: an
instrument, like a wrench, for tuning the piano, &c.--_n._ WREST'ER. [A.S.
_wr['æ]stan_--_wr['æ]st_, firm, from _wráth_, pa.t. of _wríthan_, to
writhe; Dan. _vriste_.]

WRESTLE, res'l, _v.i._ to contend by grappling and trying to throw the
other down: to struggle: to apply one's self keenly to: (_Scot._) to pray
earnestly.--_v.t._ to contend with in wrestling.--_n._ a bout at wrestling:
a struggle between two to throw each other down.--_ns._ WREST'LER;
WREST'LING, the sport or exercise of two persons struggling to throw each
other to the ground in an athletic contest governed by certain fixed
rules--_catch-hold_, _ground-wrestling_, _catch-as-catch-can_, _back-hold_,
&c. [A.S. _wr['æ]stlian_; a freq. of _wr['æ]stan_, to wrest.]

WRETCH, rech, _n._ a most miserable person: one sunk in vice: a worthless
person: body, creature (in pity, sometimes admiration).--_adj._ WRETCH'ED,
very miserable: distressingly bad: despicable: worthless.--_adv._
WRETCH'EDLY.--_n._ WRETCH'EDNESS. [A.S. _wrecca_, an outcast--_wræc_, pa.t.
of _wrecan_, to drive.]

WRETHE, r[=e]th, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Spens._). Same as WREATHE.

WRICK, rik, _v.t._ (_prov._) to twist, turn. [Low Ger. _wrikken_, to turn.]

WRIGGLE, rig'l, _v.i._ to twist to and fro: to move sinuously: to use
crooked means.--_v.t._ to cause to wriggle.--_n._ the motion of
wriggling.--_ns._ WRIGG'LER, one who wriggles: one who uses trickery;
WRIGG'LING;. [A freq. of obs. _wrig_, to move about, itself a variant of
_wrick_, M. E. _wrikken_, to twist; cf. Dut. _wriggelen_, to wriggle.]

WRIGHT, r[=i]t, _n._ a maker (chiefly used in compounds, as ship-_wright_,
&c.). [A.S. _wyrhta_--_wyrht_, a work--_wyrcan_, to work.]

WRING, ring, _v.t._ to twist: to force, or force out, by twisting: to force
or compress: to pain: to extort: to bend out of its position.--_v.i._ to
writhe: to twist:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ wrung, (_B._) wringed.--_ns._
WRING'-BOLT, a bolt with a ring or eye, used to secure a ship's planks
against the frame till they are permanently fixed in place; WRING'ER, one
who wrings: a machine for forcing water from wet clothes--also
WRING'ING-MACHINE'.--_adj._ WRING'ING-WET, so wet that water can be wrung
out.--_n.pl._ WRING'-STAVES, strong pieces of wood used in applying
wring-bolts.--WRING FROM, to extort; WRING OFF, to force off by wringing;
WRING OUT, to squeeze out by twisting; WRING THE HANDS, to manifest grief
by convulsive clasping of the hands. [A.S. _wringan_, to twist; Dut.
_wringen_, Ger. _ringen_. Cf. _Wreak_, _Wry_.]

WRINKLE, ring'kl, _n._ (_coll._) a tip, valuable hint. [Perh. from A.S.
_wrenc_, a trick. Cf. _Wrench_.]

WRINKLE, ring'kl, _n._ a small ridge on a surface caused by twisting or
shrinking: unevenness.--_v.t._ to contract into wrinkles or furrows: to
make rough.--_v.i._ to shrink into ridges.--_adj._ WRINK'LY, full of
wrinkles: liable to be wrinkled. [M. E. _wrinkel_, conn. with A.S.
_wringan_, to twist; prob. related to Sw. _rynka_, Dan. _rynke_, a
wrinkle.]

WRIST, rist, _n._ the joint by which the hand is united to the arm: a stud
or pin projecting from the side of a crank.--_ns._ WRIST'BAND, the band or
part of a sleeve which covers the wrist; WRIST'-DROP, inability to extend
the hand, often caused by lead-poisoning; WRIST'LET, an elastic band used
to confine the upper part of a glove to the wrist: a bracelet: (_slang_) a
handcuff; WRIST'-PLATE, an oscillating plate bearing wrist-pins for the
connection of rods or pitmans, as on the cut-off gear of an engine;
WRIST'-PIN, any pin connecting a pitman to a cross-head; WRIST'-SHOT, in
golf, a short stroke usually played with an iron, from the wrist, without
swinging the club over the shoulder. [A.S. _wrist_--_wríthan_, to twist;
Ger. _rist_.]

WRIT, rit, obsolete _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _write_.

WRIT, rit, _n._ a writing: (_law_) a written document by which one is
summoned or required to do something: a formal document, any writing.--HOLY
WRIT, the Scriptures.--SERVE A WRIT ON, to deliver a summons to.

WRITE, r[=i]t, _v.t._ to form letters with a pen or pencil: to express in
writing: to compose: to engrave: to record: to communicate by
letter.--_v.i._ to perform the act of writing: to be employed as a clerk:
to compose books: to send letters: to practise the art of writing: to work
as an author: to compose a letter:--_pr.p._ wr[=i]'ting; _pa.t._ wr[=o]te;
_pa.p._ writ'ten.--_ns._ WR[=I]'TER, one who writes: a professional scribe
or clerk: an ordinary legal practitioner in Scotch country towns: an
author: a petty officer in the United States navy who keeps the
watch-muster and other books of the ship--usually _Ship-writer_:--_fem._
WR[=I]'TERESS (_rare_); WR[=I]'TER'S-CRAMP (see CRAMP); WR[=I]'TERSHIP, the
office of a writer; WR[=I]'TING, the forming letters with a pen or pencil:
that which is written: literary production; WR[=I]'TING-BOOK, a book of
paper for practising penmanship; WR[=I]'TING-CASE, a portable case
containing materials for writing; WR[=I]'TING-CHAM'BER, a room fitted for
writing: a law office; WR[=I]'TING-DESK, a desk with a sloping top for
writing upon: a portable writing-case; WR[=I]'TING-INK, ink suited for
writing with; WR[=I]'TING-MAS'TER, a master who teaches the art of
penmanship: the yellow-bunting; WR[=I]TING-P[=A]'PER, paper finished with a
smooth surface, for writing upon; WR[=I]'TING-SCHOOL, a school for
penmanship; WR[=I]'TING-T[=A]'BLE, a table fitted or used for writing
upon.--_adj._ WRIT'TEN, reduced to writing--opposed to _Oral_.--WRITERS TO
THE SIGNET, an ancient society of solicitors in Scotland who formerly had
the exclusive right to prepare all summonses and other writs pertaining to
the supreme court of justice, and still have the exclusive privilege of
preparing crown writs, which include all charters, precepts, and writs from
the sovereign or prince of Scotland.--WRITE DOWN, to put down in written
characters: to condemn in writing; WRITE OFF, to cancel by an entry on the
opposite side of the account; WRITE OUT, to transcribe: to exhaust one's
mental capacity by too much writing; WRITE UP, to put a full description of
in writing: to praise something in writing above its merits. [A.S.
_wrítan_; Ice. _ríta_; the original meaning being 'to scratch' (cf. the
cog. Ger. _reissen_, to tear).]

WRITHE, r[=i]th, _v.t._ to turn to and fro: to twist violently: to wrest:
(_obs._) to extort.--_v.i._ to twist.--_n._ (_rare_) a contortion.--_adv._
WR[=I]'THINGLY. [A.S. _wríthan_, to twist; Ice. _rítha_. Cf. _Wreath_,
_Wrest_, _Wrist_.]

WRITHLE, rith'l, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to wrinkle: (_Shak._) to shrivel.

WRIZZLED, riz'ld, _adj._ (_Spens._) wrinkled.

WROKE, r[=o]k, WROKEN, r[=o]k'n, obsolete _pa.p._ of _wreak_.

WRONG, rong, _adj._ not according to rule or right, deviating from what is
correct or suitable: perverse: not fit or suitable: incorrect: not right or
true.--_n._ whatever is not right or just: any injury done to another: an
erroneous view.--_adv._ not rightly.--_v.t._ to do wrong to: to deprive of
some right: to injure.--_ns._ WRONG'-DO'ER, one who does wrong: one who
injures another; WRONG'-DO'ING, evil or wicked action or conduct; WRONG'ER,
one who wrongs.--_adj._ WRONG'FUL, wrong: unjust: injurious.--_adv._
WRONG'FULLY.--_n._ WRONG'FULNESS.--_adj._ WRONG'-HEAD'ED, obstinately and
perversely stubborn.--_adv._ WRONG'-HEAD'EDLY.--_n._
WRONG'-HEAD'EDNESS.--_adv._ WRONG'LY, in a wrong manner.--_adj._
WRONG'-MIND'ED, having erroneous views.--_n._ WRONG'NESS.--_adj._
WRONG'OUS, unjust, illegal.--_adv._ WRONG'OUSLY.--_adj._ WRONG'-TIMED,
inopportune.--GO WRONG, to fail to work properly: to stray from virtue;
HAVE WRONG, to be wrong: to suffer injustice; IN THE WRONG, holding an
erroneous view or unjust position; PRIVATE WRONG, a violation of the civil
or personal rights of an individual in his private capacity; PUT IN THE
WRONG, to cause to appear in error. [A.S. _wrang_, a wrong; most prob.
Scand., Ice. _rangr_, unjust, Dan. _vrang_, wrong. Skeat explains A.S.
_wrang_ as from _wrang_, pa.t. of _wringan_, to wring, like Fr. _tort_,
from L. _tortus_, twisted.]

WROTE, r[=o]t. _pa.t._ of _write_.

WROTH, r[=o]th, _adj._ wrathful. [A.S. _wráth_, angry--_wráth_, pa.t. of
_wríthan_, to writhe; cf. Ice. _reithr_.]

WROUGHT, rawt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _work_.--_n._ WROUGHT'-[=I]'RON,
malleable iron. [A.S. _worhte_, _geworht_, pa.t. and pa.p. of _wyrcan_,
_wircan_, to work.]

WRUNG, rung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _wring_.

WRY, r[=i], _adj._ twisted or turned to one side: not in the right
direction.--_n._ (_prov._) distortion.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to go
astray.--_v.t._ to give a twist to, pervert.--_n._ WRY'BILL, a New Zealand
plover with bill bent sideways.--_adv._ WRY'LY.--_adj._ WRY'-MOUTHED,
having a crooked mouth, unflattering.--_n._ WRY'-NECK, a twisted or
distorted neck: a small bird allied to the woodpecker, which twists round
its head strangely when surprised.--_adj._ WRY'-NECKED.--_n._
WRY'NESS.--MAKE A WRY FACE, or MOUTH, to pucker up the face, or mouth, in
sign of disgust or pain. [A.S. _wrigian_, to drive, bend. Ult. conn. with
_wriggle_ and _writhe_.]

WULL, wul, _v.i._ (_Spens._). Same as WILL.

WUTHER, wuth'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_prov._) to roar sullenly.--_n._ a low roaring.
[Perh. traceable to A.S. _wóth_, a cry.]

WUZZENT, wuz'ent, _adj._ (_Scot._) wizened.

WUZZLE, wuz'l, _v.t._ (_U.S._) to jumble.

WYCH-ELM, _n._ See WITCH-ELM.

WYCLIFITE, WYCLIFFITE, wik'lif-[=i]t, _adj._ pertaining to the English
reformer and translator of the Bible, John _Wycliffe_ (1325-84).--_n._ a
follower of WYCLIFFE; a Lollard.

WYKEHAMIST, wik'am-ist, _n._ a student, or former student, of Winchester
College, founded by William of _Wykeham_, Bishop of Winchester (died 1404).

WYLIE-COAT, w[=i]'li-k[=o]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a flannel undervest or
petticoat.

WYND, w[=i]nd, _n._ (_Scot._) a lane: narrow alley in a town. [Same as
_Wind_ (2).]

WYVERN, w[=i]'vrn, _n._ (_her._) a fictitious monster allied to the dragon
and the griffin, and having its two legs and feet like those of the eagle.
[O. Fr. _wivre_, a viper--L. _vipera_.]

       *       *       *       *       *

X the twenty-fourth letter in our alphabet, having in modern English the
value of _ks_, which it had in Anglo-Saxon--except at the beginning of a
word, where it is pronounced like _z_. As a numeral X stands for ten, [X on
its side] for a thousand, [=X] for ten thousand; X as an abbreviation
represents the word Christ--Xian, Xmas; _x_ in algebra is the first of the
unknown quantities; and the use of X, XX, and XXX on barrels of stout is a
well-known way of indicating the quality.--X-RAYS, the name given by
Röntgen of Würzburg in 1895 to those dark or invisible rays emitted, under
the influence of an electric current, from a glass-bulb highly exhausted of
air through an aluminium window into a close box, and which when passed
through the hand or other part of the body imprint a shadow-picture of the
bones on a sensitive photographic plate--a discovery of high value in
surgery, enabling a bullet, &c., embedded in the flesh to be carefully
localised.

XANTHEINE, zan'the-in, _n._ the yellow colouring matter of flowers. [From
Gr. _xanthos_, yellow.]

XANTHIAN, zan'thi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Xanthus_, the capital of
ancient Lycia, in Asia Minor.

XANTHIN, zan'thin, _n._ a name given to the yellow colouring matter of
various flowers, to a principle in madder, and to a deposit of urine.--_n._
XAN'THATE, a salt of xanthic acid.--_adj._ XAN'THIC. [Gr. _xanthos_,
yellow.]

XANTHIUM, zan'thi-um, _n._ a weedy plant of the aster family.--Also
_Cockle-bur_, _Clot-bur_.

XANTHOCHROI, zan-thok'roi, _n.pl._ one of the five groups of men, according
to Huxley and other ethnologists, comprising the fair whites.--_n._
XANTHOCHROI'A, a yellow discolouration of the skin.--_adjs._
XANTHOCHR[=O]'IC, XANTHOCH'R[=O]OUS. [Formed through L. from Gr. _xanthos_,
yellow, _chroa_, skin.]

XANTHOMA, zan-th[=o]'ma, _n._ a skin disease consisting of a growth of flat
or tuberculated yellowish patches, often on the eyelids.--_adj._
XANTHOMA'ATOUS. [Gr. _xanthos_, yellow.]

XANTHOMELANOUS, zan-th[=o]-mel'a-nus, _adj._ applied to a type of men with
black hair and yellow or olive skins. [Gr. _xanthos_, yellow, _melas_,
_-anos_, black.]

XANTHOPHYLL, zan'th[=o]-fil, _n._ any one of certain yellow pigments
contained in leaves.

XANTHOPSY, zan'thop-si, _n._ a kind of colour-blindness in which everything
looks yellowish.

XANTHOSIS, zan-th[=o]'sis, _n._ the formation of a yellowish pigment in the
areolar or muscular tissue, discolouring the skin--esp. in cancerous
tumours.

XANTHOUS, zan'thus, _adj._ yellow. [Gr. _xanthos_, yellow.]

XANTHOXYLUM, zan-thok'si-lum, _n._ a genus of the _Rutaceæ_, comprising
over one hundred species, of which many are found in Brazil and the West
Indies--the Prickly Ash or Toothache-tree. [Formed from Gr. _xanthos_,
yellow, _xylon_, wood.]

XANTHURA, zan-th[=u]'ra, _n._ a genus of American jays, with yellow tail.
[Gr. _xanthos_, yellow, _oura_, tail.]

XANTIPPE, zan-tip'e, _n._ a scold, shrew. [Wife of Socrates.]

XEBEC, z[=e]'bek, _n._ a small three-masted vessel much used by the former
corsairs of Algiers. [Sp.,--Turk. _sumbak[=i]_.]

XEMA, z[=e]'ma, _n._ the genus of fork-tailed gulls.

XENARTHRAL, zen-arth'ral, _adj._ peculiarly jointed, as dorso-lumbar
vertebræ. [Gr. _xenos_, strange, _arthron_, a joint.]

XENIAL, z[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ of or belonging to hospitality. [Gr. _xenos_, a
guest.]

XENIUM, z[=e]'ni-um, _n._ a present made to a guest, stranger, or
ambassador. [Gr.]

XENODOCHY, z[=e]-nod'[=o]-ki, _n._ reception of strangers.--_n._
XENODOCH[=E]'UM, a building for the reception of strangers: an inn in
modern Greece.

XENOGAMY, zen-og'a-mi, _n._ (_bot._) cross-fertilisation. [Gr. _xenos_,
strange, _gamos_, marriage.]

XENOGENESIS, zen-[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ the generation of something
altogether and permanently unlike the parent.--_adj._ XENOGENET'IC. [Gr.
_xenos_, a stranger, _genesis_, birth.]

XENOMANIA, zen-[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ an inordinate attachment to things
foreign. [Gr. _xenos_, foreign, _mania_, madness.]

XENOMENIA, zen-[=o]-m[=e]'n[=i]-a, _n._ vicarious or supplementary
menstruation. [Gr. _xenos_, strange, _m[=e]niaia_, menses.]

XENOMORPHIC, zen-[=o]-mor'fik, _adj._ not having its own proper form, but
an irregular shape impressed by adjacent minerals. [Gr. _xenos_, strange,
_morph[=e]_, form.]

XENOPS, z[=e]'nops, _n._ a genus of South American tree-creepers, with
short turned-up bills. [Gr. _xenos_, strange, _[=o]ps_, face.]

XENURUS, z[=e]-n[=u]'rus, _n._ a genus of armadillos.--_adj._ XEN[=U]'RINE.
[Gr. _xenos_, strange, _oura_, tail.]

XERANSIS, z[=e]-ran'sis, _n._ siccation.--Also XER[=O]'SIS.

XERANTIC, z[=e]-ran'tik, _adj._ drying up, exsiccant.

XERASIA, z[=e]-r[=a]'si-a, _n._ a morbid dryness of the hair.--Also
XER[=O]'SIS. [Gr. _x[=e]ros_, dry.]

XERODERMA, z[=e]-r[=o]-der'ma, _n._ a morbid state of dryness of the skin
due to diminished secretion of the sebaceous glands.

XERODES, z[=e]-r[=o]'d[=e]s, _n._ any tumour attended with dryness.

XEROMYRUM, z[=e]-rom'i-rum, _n._ a dry ointment.

XEROPHAGY, z[=e]-rof'a-ji, _n._ the habit of living on dry food. [Gr.
_x[=e]ros_, dry, _phagein_, to eat.]

XEROPHILOUS, z[=e]-rof'i-lus, _adj._ (_bot._) loving dryness.

XEROPHTHALMIA, z[=e]-rof-thal'mi-a, _n._ a dry form of conjunctivis.

XEROSTOMIA, z[=e]-r[=o]-st[=o]'mi-a, _n._ abnormal dryness of the mouth.

XEROTES, z[=e]'r[=o]-t[=e]z, _n._ a dry habit of body.--_adj._ XEROT'IC.

XEROTRIBIA, z[=e]-r[=o]-trib'i-a, _n._ dry friction.--Also XEROTRIP'SIS.

XIPHOID, zif'oid, _adj._ resembling the sword-fish.

XOANON, z[=o]'a-non, _n._ a primitive statue, fallen from heaven,
originally of wood, later overlaid with ivory and gold. [Gr.]

X-RAYS. See under X.

XYLANTHRAX, z[=i]-lan'thraks, _n._ wood-coal.

XYLEM, z[=i]'lem, _n._ the woody part of vegetable tissue--opposed to the
_phloëm_, or bast part.

XYLOBALSAMUM, z[=i]-l[=o]-bal'sa-mum, _n._ the dried twigs of the
balm-of-Gilead tree.

XYLOCARP, z[=i]'l[=o]-kärp, _n._ a hard and woody fruit.--_adj._
XYLOCAR'POUS.

XYLOGRAPHY, zi-log'ra-fi, _n._ the art of engraving on wood.--_ns._
XYL'OGRAPH, an impression or print from a wood block: an impression of the
grain of wood for surface decoration; XYLOG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ XYLOGRAPH'IC,
-AL. [Gr. _xylon_, wood, _graphein_, to write.]

XYLOID, z[=i]'loid, _adj._ woody, ligneous.

XYLOIDINE, z[=i]-loi'din, _n._ an explosive like gun-cotton, prepared by
the action of strong nitric acid on starch or woody fibre. [Gr. _xylon_,
wood, _eidos_, form, appearance.]

XYLOL, z[=i]'lol, _n._ any of the metameric dimethyl benzenes. [Gr.
_xylon_, wood, L. _oleum_, oil.]

XYLONITE, z[=i]'-l[=o]-n[=i]t, _n._ a kind of celluloid (q.v.). [Gr.
_xylon_, wood.]

XYLOPHAGAN, z[=i]-lof'a-gan, _n._ one of the XYLOPH'AGA, a genus of boring
bivalves.

XYLOPHAGOUS, z[=i]-lof'a-gus, _adj._ wood-eating.

XYLOPHILOUS, z[=i]-lof'i-lus, _adj._ fond of wood, living upon wood.

XYLOPHONE, z[=i]'l[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ a musical instrument consisting of a
graduated series of wooden bars, which are rested on straw, and are struck
by wooden hammers. [Gr. _xylon_, wood, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, a voice.]

XYLOPIA, z[=i]-l[=o]'p[=i]-a, _n._ a genus of plants, natives of the
tropics, chiefly in America. [Gr. _xylon_, wood, _pikros_, bitter.]

XYLOPYROGRAPHY, z[=i]-l[=o]-p[=i]-rog'ra-fi, _n._ poker-painting.

XYST, zist, _n._ a covered portico used by athletes for their
exercises.--Also XYST'OS, XYST'US.

XYSTER, zis't[.e]r, _n._ a surgeon's instrument for scraping bones.

       *       *       *       *       *

Y the twenty-fifth letter of our alphabet.--Y=150; [=Y]=150,000.--_ns._
Y'-LEVEL, an engineers' spirit-level, so called because of the telescope
formerly resting on 'Y's,' capable of being rotated at will--now
substituted by the 'dumpy-level'--also _Wye-level_; Y'-MOTH, the gamma, a
destructive noctuid moth, with a silvery Y-shaped mark on the upper wings;
Y'-TRACK, a short track laid at right angles to a railway-line, connected
with it by two switches resembling a Y, used instead of a turn-table for
reversing engines.

YACCA, yak'a, _n._ a kind of evergreen in the West Indies.

YACHT, yot, _n._ a sailing or steam vessel, elegantly fitted up for
pleasure-trips or racing, or as a vessel of state.--_v.i._ to sail in a
yacht.--_adj._ YACHT'-BUILT, built on the model of a yacht.--_ns._
YACHT'-CLUB, a club of yachtsmen; YACHT'ER, one engaged in sailing a yacht;
YACHT'ING, sailing in a yacht; YACHTS'MAN, one who keeps or sails a yacht;
YACHTS'MANSHIP, the art of sailing a yacht. [Dut. _jagt_ (formerly
_jacht_), from _jagen_, to chase=Old High Ger. _jag[=o]n_, Ger. _jagen_, to
hunt.]

YAFF, yaf, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to bark like a snarling dog.

YAFFINGALE, yaf'ing-g[=a]l, _n._ (_Tenn._) the green woodpecker. [From
Prov. Eng. _yaffle_ (and under the influence of _nightingale_), from the
sound.]

YAGER, y[=a]'g[.e]r, _n._ formerly one of various bodies of light infantry
in German armies, largely recruited from foresters, now one of various
corps of infantry or cavalry, generally riflemen.--Also JÄ'GER. [Ger.
_jäger_, a huntsman.]

YAGGER, yag'[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a peddler, a stroller. [Dut. _jager_, a
huntsman--_jagen_, to hunt.]

YAHOO, ya-h[=oo]', _n._ a name given by Swift in _Gulliver's Travels_ to a
class of animals which have the forms of men but the understanding and
passions of the lowest brutes: a despicable character.

YAHVEH, yä-v[=a]'=_Jehovah_.--_n._ YAH'VIST=_Jehovist_.

YAK, yak, _n._ a species of ox found in Tibet, and domesticated there,
covered all over with a thick coat of long silky hair, that of the lower
parts hanging down almost to the ground. [Tibetan.]

YAKUT, ya-k[=oo]t', _n._ a member of a mixed Turkish race in Siberia, in
the Lena district.

YALD, YAULD, yäld, _adj._ (_Scot._) active, supple.

YAM, yam, _n._ a large root like the potato growing in tropical countries.
[Port. _inhame_.]

YAMA, yam'a, _n._ in Hindu mythology, the first mortal progenitor of the
human race. [Sans.]

YAMADOU, yam'a-d[=oo], _n._ an oil from the yellow-nutmeg.

YAMMER, yam'[.e]r, _v.i._ to lament, wail: to whine.--_n._ YAMM'ERING.
[A.S. _geómerian_--_geómor_, sad.]

YAMUN, yä'mun, _n._ the office and residence of a mandarin. [Chin.]

YANK, yangk, _v.t._ to carry, move with a jerk (with out, over).--_n._
(_Scot._) a blow, buffet.--_n._ YANK'ER (_Scot._), a rap: a big
lie.--_adj._ YANK'ING (_Scot._), active: (_U.S._) pulling, jerking.--_n._
YANK'IE (_Scot._), a scold: an impudent woman. [Scand., Sw. prov. _jakka_,
to rove about, Ice. _jaga_, to move about.]

YANKEE, yang'k[=e], _n._ a citizen of the New England States in America: an
inhabitant of the United States--also YANK (_coll._).--_ns._ YANK'EEDOM,
the country inhabited by Yankees: Yankees generally; YANK'EE-DOO'DLE, a
Yankee, from a popular air--also _adj._--_adj._ YANK'EEFIED.--_n._
YANK'EEISM, Yankee characteristics. [Perh. a corr. of _English_, or of Fr.
_Anglais_, by the North American Indians.]

YAP, yap, _v.i._ (_prov._) to yelp, bark constantly.--_n._ a yelp: a
cur.--_n._ YAP'STER, a dog.

YAPOK, YAPOCK, yap'ok, _n._ the S. Amer. water-opossum. [From the river
_Oyapok_, in French Guiana.]

YAPON, yä'pon, _n._ a bushy evergreen shrub of the holly family, native to
the S.E. coasts of the U.S., its leaves yielding the medicinal 'black
drink' of the Indians.--Also YAU'PON, YU'PON. [Most prob. Amer. Ind.]

YAPP, yap, _n._ a kind of limp leather binding in which the cover overlaps
the edge of the book.

YARD, yärd, _n._ an English measure of 3 feet or 36 inches: a long beam on
a mast for spreading square sails: the penis.--_ns._ YARD'-ARM, either half
of a ship's yard (right or left) from the centre to the end; YARD'STICK, a
stick 3 feet long, any standard of measurement--also YARD'WAND. [A.S.
_gyrd_, _gierd_, a rod, measure; Dut. _garde_, Ger. _gerte_; further conn.
with Goth. _gazds_, a stick, L. _hasta_, a spear.]

YARD, yärd, _n._ an enclosed place, esp. near a building, as 'prison-yard,'
or where any special work is carried on, as 'brick-yard,' 'wood-yard,'
'dock-yard,' 'navy-yard:' a garden.--_v.t._ to enclose in a yard.--_ns._
YARD'AGE, the use of a yard, or the charge made for such: the cutting of
coal at so much per yard; YARD'-LAND, the amount of land held by a tenant
in villeinage, in older English usage, varying from 15 to 40 acres;
YARD'MAN, the person having special charge of a farm-yard: one employed in
a railway-yard in making up trains, &c.; YARD'-MAS'TER, one who has the
special oversight of a railway-yard. [A.S. _geard_, hedge, enclosure; Ger.
_garten_; conn. with L. _hortus_, Gr. _chortos_.]

YARE, y[=a]r, _adj._ ready: dexterous: quick: easily handled,
manageable.--_adv._ YARE'LY (_Shak._), promptly: dexterously: skilfully.
[A.S. _gearu_, _gearo_, ready, prompt; Dut. _gaar_, dressed, Ger. _gar_,
wholly.]

YARN, yärn, _n._ spun thread: one of the threads of a rope: a sailor's
story (spun out to some length), a story generally.--_v.i._ to tell
stories. [A.S. _gearn_, thread; Ice. and Ger. _garn_.]

YARPHA, yär'fa, _n._ peaty soil in Shetland.

YARR, yär, _n._ (_prov._) the corn spurry.

YARRISH, yär'ish, _adj._ (_prov._) having a rough, dry taste.

YARROW, yar'[=o], _n._ the plant milfoil. [A.S. _gearuwe_; Ger. _garbe_.]

YASHMAK, yash'mak, _n._ the double veil worn by Moslem women in public, the
eyes only being uncovered. [Ar.]

YASHT, yäsht, _n._ in the Zend-Avesta, one of a collection of hymns and
prayers.

YATAGHAN, yat'a-gan, _n._ a long Turkish dagger, without guard, usually
curved. [Turk.]

YATE, y[=a]t, _n._ (_Spens._) a gate.

YAUD, yäd, _n._ Scotch form of _jade_.

YAUP, yäp, _n._ (_prov._) the blue titmouse.

YAUP, yäp, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to be hungry.--_adj._ hungry.

YAW, yaw, _v.i._ to move unsteadily: (_naut._) to deviate temporarily or to
turn out of the line of her course, as a ship.--_n._ a deviation from the
course. [Scand., cf. Norw. _gaga_, to bend back, Ice. _gagr_, bent back.]

YAWL, yawl, _v.i._ to howl. [Cf. _Gowl_.]

YAWL, yawl, _n._ a ship's small boat, generally with four or six oars: a
small fishing-boat: a small sailing-boat with jigger and curtailed
mainboom. [Dut. _jol_. Cf. _Jollyboat_.]

YAWN, yawn, _v.i._ to open the jaws involuntarily from drowsiness: to gape:
to gape with astonishment.--_n._ the opening of the mouth from
drowsiness.--_adj._ YAWN'ING, gaping: opening wide: drowsy.--_n._ act of
opening wide or gaping: a modification of the ordinary movements of
respiration, in which the inspiration is deeper than usual, accompanied by
a kind of spasmodic contraction of the muscles which depress the lower jaw,
and by a great elevation of the ribs and to some degree of the
shoulder-blades.--_adv._ YAWN'INGLY. [A.S. _gánian_, to yawn--_gínan_,
pa.t. _gán_, to gape widely; Ice. _gína_, to gape, Gr. _chainein_, to
gape.]

YAWS, yaws, _n._ a tropical epidemic and contagious disease of the
skin--also _Framboesia_, _Button scurvy_, _Verruga Peruviana_, _Buba_ or
_Boba_, _Patta_, _Tetia_, &c.--_adj._ YAW'EY, pertaining to the yaws.
[African _yaw_, a raspberry.]

Y-CLAD, i-klad', an obsolete form of _clad_, _pa.p._ of _clothe_.

YCLEPT, or YCLEPED, i-klept', _pa.p._ (_obs._) called. [_Clepe_.]

YE, y[=e], _pron._ the nom. pl. of the 2d person--in old English _ye_ was
always used as a nominative, and _you_ as a dative or accusative, as in the
English Bible. [M. E. _ye_, _[gh]e_, nom.; _your_, _[gh]our_, gen.; _you_,
_[gh]ou_, _yow_, dat. and accus. pl. A.S. _ge_, nom. ye; _eówer_, gen. of
you; _eów_, to you, you, dat. and accus.]

YEA, y[=a], _adv._ yes: verily.--_adj._ (_B._) true.--_n._ an affirmative
vote. [A.S. _geá_; Dut. and Ger. _ja_, Ice. _já_. Cf. _Yes_.]

YEAD, YEDE, y[=e]d, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to go: to march:--_pr.p._ yead'ing;
_pa.p._ y[=o]de. [A.S. _eode_, went, pa.t. of _gán_, to go.]

YEAN, y[=e]n, _v.t._ to bring forth young.--_n._ YEAN'LING (_Shak._), the
young of a sheep: a lamb. [A.S. _éanian_, to bring forth--_eacen_,
pregnant.]

YEAR, y[=e]r, _n._ a period of time determined by the revolution of the
earth in its orbit, and embracing the four seasons, popularly a period
beginning with 1st January and ending with 31st December, consisting of 365
days (excepting every fourth year, called 'bissextile' or 'leap-year,' in
which one day is added to February, making the number 366)--the CALENDAR,
CIVIL, or LEGAL YEAR: a space of twelve calendar months: (_pl._) period of
life, esp. age or old age.--_ns._ YEAR'-BOOK, a book published annually,
containing reports of judicial cases, or of discoveries, events, &c.;
YEAR'LING, an animal a year old.--_adj._ a year old.--_adjs._ YEAR'LONG,
lasting a year; YEAR'LY, happening every year: lasting a year.--_adv._ once
a year: from year to year.--YEAR OF GRACE, or OF OUR LORD, date of the
Christian era.--ANOMALISTIC YEAR (see ANOMALY); ASTRONOMICAL YEAR, the
interval between one vernal equinox and the next, or one complete mean
apparent circuit of the ecliptic by the sun, or mean motion through 360° of
longitude--365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 49.7 seconds--called also the
EQUINOCTIAL, SOLAR, or TROPICAL YEAR; CANICULAR YEAR--the ancient
Egyptian--counted from one heliacal rising of Sirius to the next--(the
_Canicular Cycle_ was the cycle of 1461 years of 365 days each, or 1460
Julian years, also called the _Sothiac period_); ECCLESIASTICAL YEAR, the
year as arranged in the ecclesiastical calendar, with saints' days,
festivals, &c.; EMBOLISMIC YEAR, a year of thirteen lunar months or 384
days, occurring in a lunisolar calendar like that of the Jews; HEBREW YEAR,
a lunisolar year, of 12 or 13 months of 29 or 30 days--in every cycle of
nineteen years the 3d, 6th, 8th, 11th, 14th, 17th, and 19th having thirteen
months instead of twelve; JULIAN YEAR, a period of 365¼ days, thus causing
an annual error of about 11 minutes--corrected by dropping 10 days in 1582
under Pope Gregory XIII.--not adopted in England till 3d September 1752,
which became September 14 (see STYLE); LEGAL YEAR, the year by which dates
were reckoned, which till 1752 began in England on 25th March, that date
being originally chosen by Dionysius Exiguus as being the
Annunciation--exactly nine months before Christmas. In Scotland the year
began on 1st January since 1600.--The most common New Year's Days were
these four--(a) 25th December; (b) 25th March; (c) Easter; (d) 1st January.
Thus England used both the first and second from the 6th century to 1066;
the fourth till 1155; then the second till the day after 31st December
1751, which was called 1st January 1752. Scotland used the second till
1599, when the day after 31st December 1599 was called 1st January 1600.
France under Charlemagne used the first, and afterwards also the third and
second till 1563; LUNAR YEAR, a period of twelve lunar months or 354 days,
PLATONIC YEAR, a cycle of years at the end of which the heavenly bodies are
in the same place as at the Creation--also GREAT, or PERFECT, YEAR;
SABBATIC, -AL, YEAR (see SABBATH); SIDEREAL YEAR, the period required by
the sun to move from a given star to the same star again--affected by
Nutation only, one of the most invariable quantities which nature affords
us, having a mean value of 365 days, 6 hours, 9 minutes, 9.6 seconds.--IN
YEARS, advanced in age. [A.S. _geár_, _gér_; Ger. _jahr_, Ice. _ár_, Gr.
_h[=o]ra_, season.]

YEARN, y[.e]rn, _v.i._ to feel earnest desire: to feel uneasiness, as from
longing or pity.--_n._ YEARN'ING, earnest desire, tenderness, or
pity.--_adj._ longing.--_adv._ YEARN'INGLY. [A.S. _giernan_, _giernian_, to
desire--_georn_, desirous, eager; cf. Ger. _begehren_. to long for.]

YEARN, y[.e]rn, _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_Shak._) to grieve. [M. E. _ermen_--A.S.
_yrman_, to vex--_earm_, poor.]

YEARN, y[.e]rn, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to earn.

YEARN, y[.e]rn, _v.i._ to curdle, as milk--also Earn.--_n._ YEARN'ING,
rennet.

YEAST, y[=e]st, _n._ the froth of malt liquors in fermentation: the
vegetable growth to which fermentation is due, of value in brewing, baking,
&c.: (_Shak._) spume or foam of water.--_v.i._ to ferment.--_ns._
YEAST'INESS, the state of being yeasty or frothy; YEAST'-PLANT, a small
plant causing alcoholic fermentation in saccharine liquids; YEAST'-POW'DER,
a baking powder.--_adj._ YEAST'Y, like yeast: frothy, foamy: unsubstantial.
[A.S. _gist_, _gyst_; Ger. _gäscht_, _gischt_.]

YELD, yeld, _adj._ (_Scot._) barren, not giving milk. [A variant of
_geld_.]

YELDRING, yel'dring, _n._ the same as YOWLEY.--Also YEL'DROCK.

YELK. Same as YOLK.

YELL, yel, _v.i._ to howl or cry out with a sharp noise: to scream from
pain or terror.--_v.t._ to utter with a yell.--_n._ a sharp outcry.--_n._
YELL'ING.--_v.i._ YELL'OCH (_Scot._), to yell.--_n._ a yell. [A.S.
_gellan_, _gyllan_; Ger. _gellen_; conn. with A.S. _galan_, to sing.]

YELLOW, yel'[=o], _adj._ of a bright gold colour.--_n._ a bright golden
colour: (_pl._) the peach-yellows (see PEACH): (_Shak._) jaundice in
horses.--_v.t._ to make yellow.--_v.i._ to become yellow.--_adjs._
YELL'OW-BACKED, -BELL'IED, -BILLED, -BREAST'ED, -COV'ERED, -CROWNED, -EYED,
-FOOT'ED, -FRONT'ED, -HEAD'ED, -HORNED, -LEGGED, -NECKED, -POLLED, -RINGED,
-RUMPED, -SHOUL'DERED, -SPOT'TED, &c.--_ns._ YELL'OW-BIRD, one of various
birds of a yellow colour--the golden oriole, summer-warbler, &c.;
YELL'OW-BOY, a gold coin: a mulatto or dark quadroon:--_fem._ YELL'OW-GIRL;
YELL'OW-BUNT'ING, the yellow-hammer; YELL'OW-EARTH, a yellow ochre
sometimes used as a pigment; YELL'OW-F[=E]'VER, a pestilential contagious
fever of a continuous and special type, presenting at least two
well-defined stages, the first occupying 36 to 150 hours, marked by a rapid
circulation and high temperature; the second being characterised by general
depression and black vomit--also known as _Yellow Jack_, _Bronze John_, _El
Vomito_, and _Vomito Prieto_ or _Vomito Amarilli_; YELL'OW-FLAG, a flag of
a yellow colour, displayed by a vessel in quarantine or over a military
hospital or ambulance; YELL'OW-GUM, the melæna or black jaundice of
infants; YELL'OW-HAMM'ER, -AMM'ER, a song-bird, so named from its yellow
colour: the common yellow-bunting.--_adj._ YELL'OWISH, somewhat
yellow.--_ns._ YELL'OWISHNESS; YELL'OW-MET'AL, a brass consisting of sixty
parts copper and forty parts zinc; YELL'OWNESS; YELL'OW-ROOT, an American
herb whose root-stock yields berberine--also _Orange-root_, _Goldenseal_;
YELL'OW-SOAP, common soap composed of tallow, resin, and soda;
YELL'OW-WASH, a lotion consisting of a mixture of mercuric chloride and
lime-water; YELL'OW-WEED, weld; YELL'OW-WOOD, a name given to Fustic and
many other trees--e.g. satin-wood, and various kinds of podocarpus, rhus,
xanthoxylum, &c.; YELL'OW-WORT, an annual of the gentian family--also
YELL'OW-CEN'TAURY.--_adj._ YELL'OWY, yellowish.--_ns._ YELL'OW-YOL'DRING,
-YOR'LING, or -YOW'LEY, the European yellow-hammer.--YELLOW BERRIES,
Persian berries. [A.S. _geolo_; Ger. _gelb_; cog. with L. _heluus_, light
bay.]

YELP, yelp, _v.i._ to utter a sharp bark.--_n._ a sharp, quick cry or
bark.--_n._ YELP'ER. [A.S. _gilpan_, to boast, exult; Ice. _giálpa_, to
yelp.]

YEN, yen, _n._ a Japanese gold or silver coin, used as the monetary unit
since 1871, and now equivalent to about 2s. 0½d. of our money.
[Jap.,--Chin. _yuen_, round, a dollar.]

YEOMAN, y[=o]'man, _n._ in early English history, a common menial
attendant, but after the fifteenth century, one of a class of small
freeholders, forming the next grade below gentlemen: a man of small estate,
any small farmer or countryman above the grade of labourer: an officer of
the royal household: a member of the yeomanry cavalry: (_Shak._) a
journeyman, assistant: a gentleman in a royal or noble household, ranking
between a sergeant and a groom.--_adj._ YEO'MANLY, of yeoman's rank: humble
and honest.--_adv._ staunchly, bravely.--_n._ YEO'MANRY, the collective
body of yeomen or smaller freeholders: a cavalry volunteer force in Great
Britain, formed during the wars of the French Revolution, its organisation
by counties, under the lords-lieutenant, raised and drilled locally, the
men providing their own horses and uniform.--YEOMEN OF THE GUARD, a veteran
company of picked soldiers, employed in conjunction with the
gentlemen-at-arms on grand occasions as the sovereign's
bodyguard--constituted a corps in 1485 by Henry VII., and still wearing the
costume of that period; YEOMAN'S SERVICE, powerful aid, such as came from
the yeomen in the English armies of early times. [M. E. _yoman_, _yemen_,
doubtless from an A.S. _gáman_, not found, but seen in Old Frisian
_g[=a]man_, villager--_g[=a]_, a village (Ger. _gau_, district), _man_,
man.]

YERBA, yer'ba, _n._ the Paraguay tea or maté. [Sp.,--L. _herba_.]

YERK, y[.e]rk, _v.t._ to throw or thrust with a sudden, quick motion, to
jerk: (_obs._) to beat, rouse, excite (_Scot._): to bind or tie with a
jerk. [Akin to _jerk_.]

YES, yes, _adv._ ay: a word of affirmation or consent. [A.S. _gise_,
_gese_--_geá_, yea, _sý_, let it be.]

YESTER, yes't[.e]r, _adj._ relating to yesterday: last.--_n._ YES'TERDAY,
the day last past.--_adv._ on the day last past.--_ns._ YES'TEREVE, -N,
YES'TEREVENING, the evening last past; YES'TERMORN, YES'TERMORNING, the
morning last past; YES'TERNIGHT, the night last past; YES'TERYEAR, last
year.--_adv._ YESTREEN' (_Scot._), last evening, contracted from
_yestereven_. [A.S. _geostran-_, _giestran-_ (only in compounds); Ger.
_gestern_; cf. L. _hesternus_, Gr. _chthes_.]

YET, yet, _adv._ in addition: besides: at the same time: up to the present
time: hitherto: even: however.--_conj._ nevertheless: however. [A.S. _git_,
_gita_; Ger. _jetz_.]

YETT, yet, _n._ (_Scot._) a gate, door--another term of _yate_, itself a
dialectal form of _gate_.

YEVE, y[=e]v, _v.t._ to give:--_pa.p._ (_Spens._) YEV'EN.

YEW, [=u], _n._ a tree of genus _Taxus_--natural order _Taxaceæ_, itself a
suborder of _Coniferæ_--widely diffused over the whole northern parts of
the world, with narrow lanceolate or linear leaves (in Europe long planted
in graveyards), yielding an elastic wood good for bows: its wood.--_adj._
YEW'EN (_Spens._), made of yew.--_n._ YEW'-TREE. [A.S. _íw_, _éow_, _éoh_;
Ger. _eibe_, Ir. _iubhar_.]

YEX, yeks, _v.i._ (_prov._) to hiccup.--_n._ a hiccup.

YGGDRASIL, ig'dra-sil, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) the ash-tree binding together
heaven, earth, and hell, and extending its branches over the whole world
and above the heavens--according to Vigfusson and Powell, not a primitive
Scandinavian idea, but originating after the contact with Christianity, and
so a corruption of the cross [Ice. _Yggdra Syll_; cf. _Yggr_, _Uggr_, a
surname of Odin, _syll_, sill. Magnusson explains as 'Odin's horse,' Ice.
_sleipner_, horse.]

YIDDISH, yid'ish, _n._ a strange compound of very corrupt Hebrew and
ancient or provincial German spoken by the commoner Jews--extensively in
the East End of London.--_ns._ YID, YIDD'ISHER, a Jew. [Ger. _jüdisch_,
Jewish.]

YIELD, y[=e]ld, _v.t._ to resign: to grant: to give out: to produce: to
allow.--_v.i._ to submit: to comply with: to give place.--_n._ amount
yielded: product.--_adj._ YIELD'ABLE, that may be yielded: inclined to
yield.--_ns._ YIELD'ABLENESS; YIELD'ER.--_adj._ YIELD'ING, inclined to give
way or comply: compliant.--_adv._ YIELD'INGLY.--_n._ YIELD'INGNESS.--YIELD
UP THE GHOST (see 'Give up the ghost,' under GIVE). [A.S. _gieldan_,
_gildan_, to pay, _gelten_, Ice. _gjalda_.]

YILL, yil, _n._ (_Scot._) ale. [_Ale_.]

YITE, y[=i]t, _n._ (_prov._) the yellow-bunting.--Also YOIT.

Y-LEVEL, Y-MOTH. See Y.

YO, y[=o], _interj._ expressive of effort, &c.--YO-HO, in order to call
attention.

YODEL, YODLE, y[=o]'dl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to sing, changing frequently from
the ordinary voice to falsetto and back again after the manner of the
mountaineers of the Tyrol.--_n._ a song sung in this fashion--also
J[=O]'DEL.--_ns._ Y[=O]'DELER, Y[=O]'DLER. [Ger. dial. _jodeln_.]

YOGA, y[=o]'ga, _n._ a system of Hindu philosophy showing the means of
emancipation of the soul from further migrations.--_ns._ Y[=O]'GI, a Hindu
ascetic who practises the _yoga_ system, consisting in the withdrawal of
the senses from external objects, long continuance in unnatural postures,
&c.; Y[=O]'GISM. [Hind. _yoga_--Sans. _yoga_, union.]

YOICKS, y[=o]'iks, _interj._ an old fox-hunting cry.--_v.t._ Y[=O]'ICK, to
urge on by this cry.

YOJANA, y[=o]'ja-na, _n._ an Indian measure of distance, usually about five
miles.--Also Y[=O]'JAN.

YOKE, y[=o]k, _n._ that which joins together: the frame of wood joining
oxen for drawing together: any similar frame, as one for carrying pails:
(_prov._) a chain of hills: a stretch of work--e.g. from meal-time to
meal-time: a mark of servitude: slavery: a pair or couple.--_v.t._ to put a
yoke on: to join together: to enslave.--_v.i._ to be joined: to go along
with.--_ns._ YOKE'-DEV'IL (_Shak._), a companion devil; YOKE'-FELL'OW,
-MATE, an associate: a mate or fellow.--_adj._ YOKE'-TOED, pair-toed.--_n._
Y[=O]K'ING, as much work as is done at a stretch. [A.S. _geoc_, _iuc_,
_ioc_; Ger. _joch_; L. _jugum_, Gr. _zygon_.]

YOKEL, y[=o]'kl, _n._ a country bumpkin.--_adj._ Y[=O]'KELISH. [Ety. dub.;
but cf. _Gawk_ and _Gowk_.]

YOLDING, YOLDRING. Same as YOWLEY.

YOLK, y[=o]k, YELK, yelk, _n._ the yellow part of an egg: the vitellus of a
seed: wool-oil.--_adjs._ YOLKED, having a yolk; YOLK'Y, like yolk. [A.S.
_geoloca_, _geoleca_--_geolo_, yellow.]

YON, yon, YONDER, yon'd[.e]r, _adv._ at a distance within view.--_adj._
being at a distance within view. [A.S. _geon_; Goth. _jains_ (masc.),
_jaina_ (fem.), Ger. _jen-er_, that.]

YOND, yond, _adj._ (_Spens._) furious, mad--apparently a mere coinage from
the foregoing.

YONI, y[=o]'n[=e], _n._ the _pudendum muliebre_, the symbol under which
Sakti is worshipped in India.

YONKER=_Younker_ (q.v.).

YOOP, yoop, _n._ a word imitative of a sobbing sound.

YORE, y[=o]r, _n._ in old time. [A.S. _geára_, formerly, gen. pl. of _gár_,
a year.]

YORKER, york'[.e]r, _n._ a term in cricket applied to a ball pitched to a
point directly under the batsman's bat--formerly called _tice_ from
_entice_. [Prob. from _Yorkshire_, but history quite unknown.]

YORKISH, york'ish, _adj._ pertaining to the county or city of _York_:
adhering to the House of York in the Wars of the Roses.--_n._ YORK'IST, one
of this party.--YORKSHIRE GRIT, a grit from Yorkshire used for polishing;
YORKSHIRE PUDDING, a pudding made of unsweetened batter, and baked under
meat so as to catch the drippings.

YOU, [=u], _pron._ 2d pers. pron. pl., but also used as
singular.--_pron.pl._ YOU'-UNS, a provincial form for _you_, _you
ones_.--YOU'RE ANOTHER, the vulgar form of _tu quoque_, effective in
vituperation, but not an argument. [A.S. _eów_, orig. only dat. and accus.
Cf. _Ye_.]

YOUNG, yung, _adj._ not long born: in early life: in the first part of
growth: vigorous: relating to youth: junior, the younger of two persons
having the same name: inexperienced: newly arrived--in Australia.--_n._ the
offspring of animals.--_adjs._ YOUNG'-EYED (_Shak._), with the bright eyes
of youth; YOUNG'ISH, somewhat young.--_n._ YOUNG'LING, a young person or
animal.--_adj._ youthful, young.--_adv._ YOUNG'LY.--_ns._ YOUNG'NESS;
YOUNG'STER, a young person: a lad; YOUNGTH (_Spens._), youth.--_adj._
YOUNGTH'LY (_Spens._), youthful.--YOUNG BLOOD, fresh accession of strength;
YOUNG ENGLAND, the name applied, during the Corn-Law struggle (1842-45), to
a little band of young Tory politicians, who hated Free Trade and
Radicalism, and professed a sentimental attachment to earlier forms of
social life in England; YOUNG ENGLAND, AMERICA, &c., the rising generation
in England, America, &c.; YOUNG IRELAND, a group of Irish politicians who
broke away from O'Connell about 1844, because of his rooted aversion to
physical force; YOUNG ITALY, an association of Italian republican
agitators, active about 1834, under the lead of Mazzini; YOUNG PERSON, Mr
Podsnap's phrase for youth generally, considered as too inexperienced to
hear about some matters within the range of adult human experience--from
Dickens's _Our Mutual Friend_; YOUNG PRETENDER, Prince Charlie, as
distinguished from his father the Pretender or Old Pretender.--WITH YOUNG,
pregnant. [A.S. _geong_; Ger. _jung_; also conn. with L. _juvenis_, Sans.
_yuvan_, young.]

YOUNKER, yung'k[.e]r, _n._ a young person: (_Shak._) a simpleton:
(_Spens._) a young gentleman or knight. [Old Dut. _joncker_ (Dut.
_jonker_), from _jonk-heer_, 'young master' or 'lord;' Ger. _junker_.]

YOUR, [=u]r, _pron._ poss. of _you_: belonging to you: (_Shak._) used to
denote a class or species well known, the use implying something of
contempt.--YOURN (_prov._), yours. [A.S. _eówer_. Cf. _Ye_.]

YOURS, [=u]rz, _pron._ poss. of _you_, not followed by a noun: used in many
idiomatic senses, as e.g. 'you and _yours_,' your family, property,
'_yours_ of yesterday,' your letter, &c.--YOURS FAITHFULLY, SINCERELY,
TRULY, &c., YOURS TO COMMAND, &c., are forms used in letters just before
the signature, as phrases of conventional politeness, for the most part:
also sometimes used by a vulgar speaker in alluding to himself.

YOURSELF, [=u]r-self', _pron._ your own self or person:--_pl._ YOURSELVES'.

YOUTH, y[=oo]th, _n._ state of being young: early life: a young person:
young persons taken together: (_Shak._) recentness, freshness.--_adj._
YOUTH'FUL, pertaining to youth or early life: young: suitable to youth:
fresh: buoyant, vigorous.--_adv._ YOUTH'FULLY.--_ns._ YOUTH'FULNESS;
YOUTH'HEAD, YOUTH'HOOD (_obs._), youth.--_adjs._ YOUTH'LY (_Spens._),
young, youthful; YOUTH'SOME, youthful; YOUTH'Y, young. [A.S.
_geogoth_--_geong_, young; Ger. _jugend_.]

YOWL, yowl, _v.i._ to cry mournfully, as a dog: to yell, bawl.--_n._ a
distressed cry.--_n._ YOWL'ING, a howling. [M. E. _yowlen_--Ice. _gaula_,
to howl; cf. Scot. _gowl_ and Eng. _yell_.]

YOWLEY, yow'li, _n._ the yellow-bunting.--Also YEL'DRING, YEL'DROCK,
YOR'LING, &c. [A.S. _geolu_, yellow.]

Y-POINTING, i-point'ing, _adj._ (_Milt._) pointing, looking up into the
air. [An erroneous formation, as the prefix y- was confined to the past
participle, and then, too, only or nearly always to words of Anglo-Saxon
origin.]

Y-RAVISH, i-rav'ish, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to ravish. [An erroneous formation.
Cf. _Y-pointing_.]

YSLAKED, an obsolete _pa.p._ of _slake_.

Y-TRACK. See Y.

YTTERBIUM, i-ter'bi-um, _n._ an element discovered by Marignac in
gadolinite.

YTTRIUM, it'ri-um, _n._ a rare metal obtained as a blackish-gray powder,
and contained in a few minerals in which there are usually also present
compounds of one or more other rare metals, such as cerium, didymium,
erbium, and lanthanum.--_n._ YTT'RIA, its oxide, a yellowish-white
powder.--_adjs._ YTT'RIC; YTTRIF'EROUS; YTT'RIOUS.--_ns._
YTT'RO-C[=E]'RITE, a violet mineral found embedded in quartz, a fluoride of
yttrium, cerium, and calcium; YTT'RO-COL'UMBITE, -TAN'TALITE, a brownish
mineral found at YTTERBY, a tantalate of yttrium, uranium, and iron, with
calcium. [From _Ytterby_, a town in Sweden, where it was first discovered.]

YUCCA, yuk'a, _n._ a genus of plants of natural order _Liliaceæ_, natives
of Mexico, &c., some cultivated in gardens on account of the singularity
and splendour of their appearance.--YUCCA GLORIOSA, a native of Virginia,
but quite hardy in England, the stem two or three feet high, its upper part
producing a great tuft or crown of large sword-shaped evergreen leaves,
each terminating in a sharp black spine. From the centre of this crown of
leaves rises the flower-stalk, three feet high, branching out into a large
panicle, the flowers white with a purple stripe. [West Indian name.]

YUCK, yuk, _v.i._ (_prov._) to itch.--_n._ the itch.--_adj._ YUCK'Y, itchy.

YUCKER, yuk'[.e]r, _n._ the American flicker or golden-winged woodpecker.

YUFTS, yufts, _n._ Russia leather.

YUGA, y[=oo]'ga, _n._ one of the Hindu ages of the world.--Also YUG.
[Sans.]

YULAN, y[=oo]'lan, _n._ a Chinese magnolia, with large white flowers.
[Chin.]

YULE, yool, _n._ the season or feast of Christmas.--_n._ YULE'TIDE, the
time or season of Yule or Christmas.--YULE LOG, the block of wood cut down
in the forest, then dragged to the house, and set alight in celebration of
Christmas. [A.S. _géol_, yule, _se ['æ]rra géola_, December; Ice. _jól_.
Not conn. either with Ice. _hjól_, wheel, or M. E. _youlen_, _yollen_, to
cry out or yawl.]

YUNX, yungks, _n._ the wry-neck.

Y-WIS, i-wis', _adv._ (_Spens._) certainly, truly. [Cf. _Iwis_.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Z the twenty-sixth and last letter in our alphabet, is derived through the
Greek _zeta_, from _zayin_, the seventh Semitic letter--its sound a voiced
sibilant, either a voiced _s_ as in 'zeal,' or a voiced _sh_ as in
'azure.'--The _cedilla_ (_ç_) is a 'little _zed_,' as is implied by the
Italian name _zediglia_, from _zeticula_.

ZABIAN, z[=a]'bi-an, _adj._ and _n._ the same as SABIAN.--_ns._
Z[=A]'BAISM, Z[=A]'BISM, the doctrines esp. of the Pseudo-ZABIANS, or
Syrian Zabians (in Haurân, Edessa, Bagdad), remnants of the ancient Syrian
but Hellenised heathens, from about the 9th to the 12th century. Under the
name _Zabians_ used to be grouped several peoples distinct in origin and by
no means alike in religion. The medieval Arabic and Jewish writers called
nearly all those heathens or _Sabæans_ who were neither Jews or Christians,
nor Mohammedans or Magians. Now the name _Sabæans_ denotes strictly the
ancient inhabitants of southern Arabia, who were but little modified by
Babylonian influences; the _Zabians_ of the Koran were originally
non-Christian Gnostics--the ancestors of the still existing Mandæans (q.v.)
or Joannes' Christians.

ZABRA, zä'bra, _n._ a small vessel on the Spanish coast. [Sp.]

ZABRUS, z[=a]'brus, _n._ a large genus of caraboid beetles. [Gr. _zabros_,
gluttonous.]

ZADKIEL, zad'ki-el, _n._ the name assumed by Richard James Morrison
(1794-1874), the compiler of a popular astrological almanac, a retired
commander in the royal navy, a Hebraist, mathematician, astronomer, and a
real believer in his pseudo-science.

ZAFFRE, ZAFFER, zaf'[.e]r, _n._ the impure oxide obtained by partially
roasting cobalt ore previously mixed with two or three times its weight of
fine sand. [Fr. _zafre_, of Ar. origin.]

ZALOPHUS, zal'[=o]-fus, _n._ a genus of otaries or eared seals. [Gr. _za-_,
intens., _lophos_, a crest.]

ZAMBOMBA, tham-bom'ba, _n._ a simple Spanish musical instrument made by
stretching a piece of parchment over a wide-mouthed jar and inserting a
stick in it which is rubbed with the fingers.

ZAMIA, z[=a]'mi-a, _n._ a genus of palm-like trees or low shrubs of the
order _Cycadaceæ_--some species yield an edible starchy pith. [L. _zamia_,
a dead fir-cone--Gr. _z[=e]mia_, damage.]

ZAMINDAR=_Zemindar_ (q.v.).

ZAMOUSE, za-moos', _n._ the short-horned buffalo of West Africa.

ZAMPOGNA, tsam-p[=o]'nya, _n._ the Italian bagpipe. [It.]

ZANDER, zan'd[.e]r, _n._ the European pike-perch.--Also SAN'DER and ZANT.
[Ger.]

ZANELLA, z[=a]-nel'a, _n._ a mixed twilled fabric for covering umbrellas.

ZANJE, than'h[=e], _n._ an irrigating canal.--_n._ ZANJ[=E]'RO, one who
superintends the distribution of such water. [Sp. Amer.]

ZANTE, zan'te, _n._ the same as ZAN'TE-WOOD, the wood of the smoke-tree,
from _Zante_, one of the principal Ionian Islands: satin-wood.--_n._
ZAN'TIOTE, a native of Zante.--ZANTE CURRANT, the small seedless fruit of a
Zante grape.

ZANY, z[=a]'ni, _n._ a merry-andrew: a buffoon.--_v.t._ to play the zany
to.--_n._ Z[=A]'NYISM, condition or habits of a buffoon. [Fr. _zani_--It.
_zani_, a corr. of _Giovanni_, John. Cf. the similar use of the names
_John_ and _Jack_.]

ZAPOROGIAN, z[=a]-p[=o]-r[=o]'ji-an, _adj._ pertaining to those Little
Russian or Ukraine Cossacks who dwelt near the _Porogi_ or falls of the
Dnieper.--_n._ one of the foregoing.

ZAPOTILLA, zap-[=o]-til'a, _n._ the same as Sapodilla.

ZAPTIEH, zap'ti-[=a], _n._ a Turkish policeman.--Also ZAB'TIEH.

ZARAPE, za-rä'pe, _n._ the same as SERAPE.

ZARATHUSTRIAN, zar-a-th[=oo]s'tri-an, _adj._ and
_n._=_Zoroastrian_.--ZARATHUS'TRIANISM, ZARATHUS'TRISM=_Zoroastrianism_;
ZARATHUS'TRIC=_Zoroastric_.

ZARATITE, zar'a-t[=i]t, _n._ a hydrous carbonate of nickel, found usually
as an incrustation on chromite. [From _Zarate_, a Spaniard.]

ZAREBA, z[=a]-r[=e]'ba, _n._ in the Soudan, a stockade, thorn-hedge, &c.
against wild animals or enemies, a fortified camp generally.--Also
ZAREE'BA, ZERE'BA, ZERI'BA.

ZARF, zärf, _n._ an ornamental holder for a hot coffee-cup.--Also ZURF.
[Ar. _zarf_, a vessel.]

ZARNICH, zär'nik, _n._ a native sulphide of arsenic, orpiment,
realgar.--Also ZAR'NEC. [Ar. _zernikh_--Gr. _arsenikon_, arsenic.]

ZARZUELA, thär-th[=oo]-[=a]'la, _n._ a kind of operetta or
vaudeville--named from the royal residence of La _Zarzuela_ in Spain.

ZASTRUGA, zas-tr[=oo]'ga, _n._ one of a series of long parallel snow-ridges
on the open wind-swept plains of Russia. [Russian.]

ZATI, zä'ti, _n._ the capped macaque of India and Ceylon.

ZAX, zaks, _n._ a slaters' hammer.--Also _Sax_ (q.v.).

ZEA, z[=e]'a, _n._ a cereal having monoecious flowers. The only species is
_Z. mays_, the well-known maize or Indian corn. [Gr.]

ZEAL, z[=e]l, _n._ boiling or passionate ardour for anything:
enthusiasm.--_n._ ZEAL'ANT (_Bacon_), a zealot or enthusiast.--_adj._
ZEAL'LESS, wanting zeal.--_ns._ ZEALOT (zel'ot), one full of zeal: an
enthusiast: a fanatic: one of a fanatical Jewish party whose restless
opposition to the Roman domination finally brought about the ruin of
Jerusalem in 70 A.D.; ZEALOTISM (zel'-), the character of a zealot;
ZEALOTRY (zel'-).--_adj._ ZEALOUS (zel'-), full of zeal: warmly engaged or
ardent in anything.--_adv._ ZEALOUSLY (zel'-).--_n._ ZEALOUSNESS (zel'-).
[O. Fr. _zele_--L. _zelus_--Gr. _z[=e]los_, _zeein_, to boil. Cf. _Yeast_.]

ZEBEC, ZEBECK=_Xebec_ (q.v.).

ZEBRA, z[=e]'bra, _n._ a generic name given to the group of striped
Equidæ--all of which are peculiar to the African continent--and thus
including the Dauw or Burchell's Zebra, the Quagga, and the true or
Mountain Zebra.--_n._ Z[=E]'BRA-WOOD, the hard and beautifully striped wood
of a Guiana tree.--_adj._ Z[=E]'BRINE, like the zebra. [Of African origin.]

ZEBU, z[=e]'b[=u], _n._ the humped domestic ox of India (or Brahminy bull),
a kind of ox very nearly allied to the common ox, diffused over India,
China, the east coast of Africa, &c. [Fr. _zébu_, the whimsical name taken
by Buffon from the exhibitors of such a beast at a French fair as if
African.]

ZEBUB, z[=e]'bub, _n._ an Abyssinian fly hurtful to cattle, similar to the
tsetse. [Ar. _zub[=a]b_, a fly.]

ZECCHINO, tsek-k[=e]'n[=o], _n._ a Venetian gold coin, the same as the
_sequin_ (q.v.).

ZECHSTEIN, zek'st[=i]n, _n._ a deposit of calcareous rock which covers the
Kupfer-schiefer. [Ger.,--_zeche_, a mine, _stein_, a stone.]

ZED, zed, _n._ the letter Z, also called _zee_ and _izzard_: a bar of metal
of form similar to the letter Z.

ZEDOARY, zed'[=o]-[=a]-ri, _n._ certain species of curcuma, natives of
India, China, &c., whose root-stocks (_rhizomes_) are aromatic, bitter,
pungent, and tonic, and used for similar purposes with ginger--a powerful
sudorific. [Ar. _Jedwar_.]

ZEIN, z[=e]'in, _n._ a proteid found in Indian corn. [_Zea_.]

ZEITGEIST, ts[=i]t'g[=i]st, _n._ the spirit of the age. [Ger.]

ZEL, zel, _n._ a form of Oriental cymbal. [Pers. _zil_.]

ZELOTYPIA, zel-[=o]-tip'i-a, _n._ morbid zeal in the prosecution of any
project or cause. [Gr. _z[=e]lotypia_, jealousy, _z[=e]los_, zeal,
_typtein_, to strike.]

ZEMINDAR, zem-in-dar', _n._ under the Mogul emperors of India, the farmer
of revenue from land held in common by the cultivators, as responsible for
the revenue--now the actual native proprietor paying revenue direct, and
not to any intermediate superior--also ZAMINDAR'.--_n._ ZEM'INDARY, the
jurisdiction of a zemindar, the system of land-tenure and taxation under
such--also ZAM'INDARI, ZEM'INDARI, &c. [Pers. _zem[=i]nd[=a]r_, a
landholder.]

ZEMSTVO, zems'tv[=o], _n._ in Russia, a district and provincial assembly to
which the administration of the economic affairs of the district and the
province was committed in 1866, but whose rights were much curtailed in
1890. [Russ.]

ZENANA, ze-nä'na, _n._ the apartments in which Indian women are secluded,
corresponding to the _harem_ in Arabic-speaking Moslem lands.--ZENANA
MISSION, a mission to Hindu women, necessarily conducted by women. [Pers.
_zan[=a]na_--_zan_, a woman.]

ZEND, zend, _n._ the ancient East-Iranian and purely Aryan language, in
which the Zend-Avesta was long orally preserved and at last
written--closely related to the Vedic Sanskrit.--ZEND-AVESTA, the ancient
sacred writings of the Parsees, including works of widely differing
character and age, collected into their present canon under Shah-puhar II.
(Shah-pur II.; 309-338 A.D.). [A word meaning 'commentary' (_zend_=_zand_,
from Sans. _jñâ_, to know).]

ZENDIK, zen'dik, _n._ an unbeliever in revealed religion in the East, one
who practises magic. [Ar. _zend[=i]q_.]

ZENITH, zen'ith, _n._ that point of the heavens which is exactly
overhead--i.e. in line with the spectator's position and the centre of the
earth (it is thus the upper pole of the spectator's horizon, as the _nadir_
is the under pole): greatest height, summit of ambition, &c.--_adj._
ZEN'ITHAL.--_ns._ ZEN'ITH-DIS'TANCE, the angular distance of a heavenly
body from the zenith; ZEN'ITH-SEC'TOR, an instrument for measuring
zenith-distances. [Fr., through Sp. _zenit_, from Ar. _samt_, short for
_samt-ur-ras_, lit. 'way of the head.']

ZEOLITE, z[=e]'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ the common name of a large group of
minerals often called the Zeolitic family--they are all soluble in acids,
and most of them gelatinise in acids in consequence of silica being set
free.--_adjs._ ZEOLIT'IC; ZEOLIT'IFORM. [Gr. _zeein_, to boil, _lithos_, a
stone.]

ZEPHYR, zef'ir, _n._ the west wind: a soft, gentle breeze: thin light
worsted or woollen yarn, also a close-fitting jersey or undergarment made
of such: anything very light and fine of its kind.--ZEPHYR CLOTH, a thin,
finely spun woollen cloth for women's gowns. [Gr. _zephyros_--_zophos_,
darkness, the dark quarter, the west.]

ZERDA, zer'da, _n._ a small African fox, a fennec.

ZEREBA=_Zareba_ (q.v.).

ZERO, z[=e]'ro, _n._ cipher: nothing: the point from which the reckoning
begins on scales, such as those of the barometer, &c. [Fr.,--Ar. _sifr_.
Doublet _cipher_.]

ZERUMBET, z[=e]-rum'bet, _n._ an East Indian drug, the
cassumunar--sometimes for the round zedoary.

ZEST, zest, _n._ something that gives a relish: relish. [Fr. _zeste_, skin
of an orange or lemon used to give a flavour--L. _schistus_--Gr.
_schistos_, cleft, divided--_schizein_, to cleave.]

ZETA, z[=e]'ta, _n._ a small closet or parlour, the sexton's room over the
porch of a church. [Gr. _diaita_, a dwelling.]

ZETETIC, z[=e]-tet'ik, _adj._ proceeding by inquiry.--_n._ a seeker, the
name taken by some of the Pyrrhonists. [Gr. _z[=e]t[=e]tikos_--_z[=e]tein_,
to seek.]

ZEUGLODON, z[=u]g'l[=o]-don, _n._ a fossil whale-like mammal, so named by
Owen from the yoke-like double-rooted formation of its cheek teeth.--_adj._
and _n._ ZEUG'LODONT.--_n.pl._ ZEUGLODON'TIA, a suborder of _Cetacea_,
represented by the zeuglodonts. [Gr. _zeugl[=e]_, the strap or loop of the
yoke, _odous_, _-ontos_, a tooth.]

ZEUGMA, z[=u]g'ma, _n._ (_gram._) a figure by which an adjective or verb
which agrees with a nearer word is, by way of supplement, referred also to
another more remote, whether grammatically corresponding or not.--_adj._
ZEUGMAT'IC. [Gr.,--_zeugnunai_, to yoke.]

ZEUS, z[=u]s, _n._ the greatest of the national deities of Greece, son of
Cronos (Saturn) and Rhea, brother of Poseidon (Neptune), Hades (Pluto),
Hestia (Vesta), Demeter (Ceres), and Hera (Juno). His consort was Hera; his
supreme seat, Mount Olympus in Thessaly. [Gr.]

ZEUXITE, z[=u]ks'[=i]t, _n._ a ferriferous tourmaline. [Gr.,--_zeuxis_,
joining--_zeugnunai_, to yoke.]

ZIAMET, zi-ä'met, _n._ a large military fief under the Turkish feudal
system. [Turk.]

ZIBELINE, zib'e-lin, _adj._ pertaining to the sable.--_n._ the fur of the
sable. [_Sable_.]

ZIBET, zib'et, _n._ an Asiatic or Indian civet. [_Civet_.]

ZIGANKA, zi-gan'ka, _n._ a Russian country-dance, the music for such,
usually quick, with a drone bass. [Russ.]

ZIGZAG, zig'zag, _n._ a short, sharp turning.--_adj._ having short, sharp
turns, bent from side to side.--_v.t._ to form with short turns:--_pr.p._
zig'zagging; _pa.p._ zig'zagged.--_adv._ with frequent sharp turns--also
ZIG'ZAGGY.--_n._ ZIGZAG'GERY, angular crookedness.--_adj._ ZIG'ZAGGY,
zigzag. [Fr. _zig-zag_--Ger. _zick-zack_, _zacke_, a sharp point.]

ZILLAH, zil'a, _n._ the technical name for the administrative districts
into which British India is divided, each of which has in the older
provinces a Collector (or Collector and Magistrate combined), a Sessions
Judge, &c., and in the newer provinces, such as the Punjab and British
Burma, a Deputy Commissioner. [Properly Ar. (in Indian pronunciation)
_zila_, 'a rib,' thence 'a side,' 'a district.']

ZIMB, zimb, _n._ an Abyssinian dipterous insect, like the tsetse, hurtful
to cattle. [Ar. _zimb_, a fly.]

ZIMBI, zim'bi, _n._ a money-cowry. [East Ind.]

ZIMENT-WATER, zi-ment'-wa't[.e]r, _n._ water found in copper-mines.

ZIMOCCA, zi-mok'a, _n._ a fine quality of bath-sponge.

ZINC, zingk, _n._ a bluish-white metal, breaking with a crystalline
fracture--when chemically pure it is malleable and ductile at ordinary
temperature, but ordinary zinc is so only at temperatures above 212°
Fahr.--_v.t._ to cover with zinc.--_ns._ ZINC'-AM'YL, a colourless
transparent liquid, composed of zinc and amyl; ZINC'-BLENDE, sphalerite,
native sulphide of zinc; ZINC'-BLOOM, hydrozincite; ZINC-COL'IC, a colic
caused by the slow poison of zinc-oxide; ZINC'-[=E]'THYL, a colourless
volatile liquid, composed of zinc and the radical ethyl.--_adjs._
ZINCIF'EROUS, ZINKIF'EROUS, containing or producing zinc.--_ns._ ZINC'ITE,
a native oxide of zinc, brittle, translucent, deep red; ZINCKIFIC[=A]'TION,
ZINKIFIC[=A]'TION, the process of coating or impregnating an object with
zinc.--_vs.t._ ZINCK'IFY, ZINK'IFY, to cover or impregnate with
zinc.--_adjs._ ZINCK'Y, ZINK'Y, pertaining to zinc: looking like
zinc.--_n._ ZINC'-METH'YL, a mobile stinking liquid, spontaneously
inflammable, resembling zinc-ethyl.--_adj._ ZINC'OID, like zinc.--_ns._
ZINCOL'YSIS, a mode of decomposition caused by an electric current;
ZINC'OLYTE, a body decomposable by electricity; ZINC'OTYPE, a
zincograph.--_adj._ ZINC'OUS, pertaining to zinc.--_ns._ ZINC'-WHITE, zinc
oxide used as a pigment; ZINC'-WORK'ER. [Ger. _zink_, prob. allied to
_zinn_, tin.]

ZINCALI, zin'ka-li, _n._ a name in Spain for the Gipsies, akin to _Zingaro_
(q.v.).

ZINCKENITE, zing'ken-[=i]t, _n._ a grayish mineral consisting of the
sulphides of antimony and lead. [Named from the German metallurgist
_Zincken_ (1790-1862).]

ZINCO, zing'k[=o], _n._ a familiar abbreviation for _zincograph_.--_v.i._
to produce a plate for printing by the zincographic process.

ZINCODE, zing'k[=o]d, _n._ the negative pole of a voltaic battery: the
anode of an electrolytic cell.

ZINCOGRAPHY, zing-kog'ra-fi, _n._ a process of etching on zinc (or copper)
by which black and white pictures of all kinds can be reproduced as
surface-blocks for printing by the ordinary letterpress process--in the
etching the _whites_, and not the _black lines_ as in the ordinary etching,
are eaten away.--_ns._ ZINC'OGRAPH, a plate or picture produced by
zincography; ZINCOG'RAPHER, one who makes zincographic plates.--_adjs._
ZINCOGRAPH'IC, -AL. [_Zinc_, Gr. _graphein_, to write.]

ZINGARO, zing'ga-r[=o], _n._ a name in Italy for the Gipsies;--_pl._
ZING'ARI, ZING'ANE.--Also ZING'ANO. [Cf. the Ger. _Zigeuner_, Czech
_Cingán_ or _Cigán_, Magyar _Cigány_.]

ZINGEL, zing'el, _n._ a fish of the perch family, found in the Danube.
[Ger.]

ZINGIBERACEÆ, zin'ji-be-r[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of about
470 species of perennial tropical herbs, with horizontal thickened
root-stock and cone-like inflorescence--the typical genus
ZIN'GIBER.--_adjs._ ZINGIBER[=A]'CEOUS, ZINZIBER[=A]'CEOUS. [L.
_zingiber_--Gr. _zingiberis_, ginger.]

ZINKE, tsing'ke, _n._ an old wind instrument like a cornet, of wood or
horn, with seven finger-holes. [Ger.]

ZION, z[=i]'on, _n._ Jerusalem: the Israelitish theocracy: the Christian
Church: heaven.--_adv._ Z[=I]'ONWARD, heavenward. [Gr. _Zi[=o]n_--Heb.
_ts[=i]y[=o]n_, a hill.]

ZIP, zip, _n._ the ping or sound of a bullet striking anything or whizzing
through the air. [Imit.]

ZIPHIINÆ, zif-i-[=i]'n[=e], _n.pl._ a subfamily of _Physteridæ_, the
ziphioid or ziphiiform cetaceans--the typical genus ZIPH'IUS.--_n.pl._
ZIPHI[=I]'DÆ, the _ziphiinæ_ rated as a family apart from _Physteridæ_, and
divided into _Ziphiinæ_ and _Anarnacinæ_.--_adjs._ ZIPHI[=I]'FORM;
ZIPH'IOID. [Gr. _xiphios_, the sword-fish--_xiphos_, a sword.]

ZIRCONIUM, zir-k[=o]'ni-um, _n._ the metallic constituent of the earth
ZIRC[=O]'NIA, which is found in association with silica in the minerals
ZIR'CON and _hyacinth_, and is obtained only in Ceylon, one district of the
Ural, and southern Norway.--_n._ ZIR'CONITE, a variety of zircon. [Ar.
_zark[=u]n_, vermilion--Pers. _zarg[=u]n_, gold-coloured.]

ZITHER, z[=i]th'[.e]r, _n._ the cithern, the modern representative of the
ancient _cithara_, a popular and common instrument in Tyrol--a flat
stringed instrument, having a wooden frame and flat sounding-board with
from twenty-nine to forty-two strings, placed on a table or on the knees,
the strings played by the right hand, the thumb being armed with a metallic
_plectrum_.--Also ZITH'ERN. [Ger.]

ZIZANIA, z[=i]-z[=a]'ni-a, _n._ a genus of tall aquatic grasses, of tribe
_Oryzeæ_--_wild_, _water_, or _Indian rice_. [Gr. _zizanion_, darnel.]

ZIZEL, ziz'el, _n._ a European ground squirrel, type of a genus mainly
American.--Also _Suslik_.

ZIZYPHUS, ziz'i-fus, _n._ a genus of shrubs or trees of the buckthorn
family, mostly native to tropical Asia and America--the jujube-tree.
[L.,--Gr. _zizyphos_.]

ZOANTHARIA, z[=o]-an-th[=a]'ri-a, _n.pl._ a division of _Actinozoa_,
including the sea-anemones, &c.--_adj._ and _n._ ZOANTH[=A]'RIAN.

ZOANTHROPY, z[=o]-an'thr[=o]-pi, _n._ a form of mental delusion in which a
man believes himself to be a beast--the devout divine, Simon Browne
(1680-1732), under this belief devoted himself to the making of a
dictionary--'I am doing nothing,' he says, 'that requires a reasonable
soul: I am making a dictionary.'--_adj._ Z[=O]ANTHROP'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_,
an animal, _anthr[=o]pos_, a man.]

ZOANTHUS, z[=o]-an'thus, _n._ the typical genus of _Zoanthidæ_, a family of
hexacoralline actinozoans. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _anthos_, a flower.]

ZOARIUM, z[=o]-[=a]'ri-um, _n._ the colony of the polypides of a polyzoan.
[Gr. _z[=o]arion_, dim. of _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

ZOBO, z[=o]'b[=o], _n._ a name used in the semi-Tibetan tracts of the
Himalaya for hybrids between the yak bull and the ordinary hill cow, much
used in transport and agriculture.--Also ZH[=O]'BO, DS[=O]'MO. [Tibetan.]

ZOCCO, zok'[=o], _n._ a socle.--Also ZOCC'OLO. [It.,--L. _soccus_, a sock.]

ZODIAC, z[=o]'di-ak, _n._ an imaginary belt in the heavens, having as its
mesial line the ecliptic or apparent path of the sun, and containing the
twelve constellations, called signs of the zodiac. The constellations, with
the appropriate symbols of the corresponding signs, are as follows: Aries
(_Ram_), [Aries]; Taurus (_Bull_), [Taurus]; Gemini (_Twins_), [Gemini];
Cancer (_Crab_), [Cancer]; Leo (_Lion_), [Leo]; Virgo (_Virgin_), [Virgo];
Libra (_Balance_), [Libra]; Scorpio (_Scorpion_), [Scorpio]; Sagittarius
(_Archer_), [Sagittarius]; Capricornus (_Goat_), [Capricornus]; Aquarius
(_Water-bearer_), [Aquarius]; Pisces (_Fishes_), [Pisces].--_adj._
ZOD[=I]'ACAL.--ZODIACAL LIGHT, a singular appearance seen after sunset or
before sunrise, at all seasons of the year in low latitudes, but rarely in
Great Britain, except in March, April, and May in the evenings, and six
months later in the mornings. [Fr. _zodiaque_--L. _zodiacus_--Gr.
_z[=o]diakos_, belonging to animals--_z[=o]dion_, dim. of _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _zaein_, to live.]

ZOËA, z[=o]-[=e]'a, _n._ a larval stage of certain decapod
crustaceans--also called the _copepod_ stage preceding the _megalopa_
stage--also ZOOE'A:--_pl._ ZOË'Æ.--_adjs._ ZOË'AL, ZOOE'AL; Z[=O]'ËFORM.
[Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

ZOËTIC, z[=o]-et'ik, _adj._ vital. [Gr. _z[=o][=e]_, life.]

ZOETROPE, z[=o]'e-tr[=o]p, _n._ a scientific toy by which several pictures
of objects or persons in various positions are combined into one visual
impression, so as to give the appearance of movement or life--the
_Thaumatrope_ and _Praxinoscope_ are variations.--_adj._ ZOETROP'IC. [Gr.
_z[=o][=e]_, life, _tropos_, a turning--_trepein_, to turn.]

ZOIATRIA, z[=o]-i-at'ri-a, _n._ veterinary surgery. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _iatreia_, healing.]

ZOIC, z[=o]'ik, _adj._ pertaining to animals: containing evidences of life
in fossils--of rocks. [Gr. _z[=o]ikos_, of animals--_z[=o]on_, an animal.]

ZOILISM, z[=o]'i-lizm, _n._ carping and unjust criticism.--_adj._
ZOIL'[=E]AN, characteristic of _Zoilus_, a Greek grammarian who flourished
in the time of Philip of Macedon, and assailed Homer with such asperity
that his name became proverbial for a captious and malignant critic.--_n._
Z[=O]'ILIST, a carping critic.

ZOISITE, zoi's[=i]t, _n._ a mineral closely allied to epidote. [Baron von
_Zois_.]

ZOISM, z[=o]'izm, _n._ the doctrine that life originates from a specific
principle.--_n._ Z[=O]'IST, one who maintains this theory. [Gr.
_z[=o][=e]_, life.]

ZOLAISM, z[=o]'la-izm, _n._ the literary principles and practice of the
industrious French novelist Emile _Zola_ (1840-1902)--an attempt at a
so-called realism claimed to be a proper scientific view of human nature
and human life. In effect Zola's books are dull and dirty, and his realism
is not reality.

ZÖLLNER'S LINES, rows of parallel lines appearing to be not parallel
through the optical effect of oblique intersecting lines.--Also ZÖLLNER'S
PATTERN.

ZOLLVEREIN, zol've-r[=i]n, _n._ a union of the German states, under the
leadership of Prussia, so as to enable them in their commercial relations
with other countries to act as one state. [Ger.,--_zoll_, duty, _verein_,
union.]

ZONDA, zon'da, _n._ a dry, hot, and dusty wind blowing from the Andes in
the vicinity of San Juan, Argentine Republic, during July and August.

ZONE, z[=o]n, _n._ a girdle, a belt, a stripe of different colour or
substance round anything: one of the five great belts into which the
surface of the earth is divided: any continuous tract with particular
characteristics.--_v.t._ to encircle, as with a zone.--_n._ Z[=O]'NA, a
term in anatomy, &c., for a belt: herpes zoster.--_adjs._ Z[=O]'NAL, like a
zone, arranged in zones: pertaining to the somites of an articulate or
annulose animal; Z[=O]'NARY, resembling a belt or girdle; Z[=O]'NATE,
marked with zones, belted; ZONED, wearing a zone, having zones; ZONE'LESS,
wanting a zone or belt.--_n._ Z[=O]'NIC, a girdle.--_adjs._ ZONIF'EROUS,
zoned; Z[=O]'NOID, like a zone.--_n._ Z[=O]'NULA, a small zone.--_adj._
Z[=O]'NULAR, like a zone or zonule.--_ns._ ZON'ULE, ZON'ULET, a little
girdle. [L. _zona_--Gr. _z[=o]n[=e]_, a girdle--_z[=o]nnynai_, to gird;
akin to _join_, _yoke_.]

ZONOTRICHIA, z[=o]-n[=o]-trik'i-a, _n._ a genus of American finches, the
crown-sparrows. [Gr. _z[=o]n[=e]_, a girdle, _thrix_, _trichos_, hair.]

ZONURUS, z[=o]-n[=u]'rus, _n._ the typical genus of _Zonuridæ_, a South
African family of lizards. [Gr. _z[=o]n[=e]_, a belt, _oura_, a tail.]

ZOO, z[=oo], _n._ the Zoological Gardens in London: any similar collection
of animals.

ZOOBLAST, z[=o]'[=o]-blast, _n._ an animal cell. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_blastos_, a germ.]

ZOOCHEMISTRY, z[=o]-[=o]-kem'is-tri, _n._ the chemistry of the constituents
of the animal body.--_adj._ ZOOCHEM'ICAL. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_chemistry_.]

ZOODYNAMICS, z[=o]-[=o]-d[=i]-nam'iks, _n._ the science that treats of the
vital powers of animals, animal physiology. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_dynamics_.]

ZOOECIUM, z[=o]-[=e]'si-um, _n._ one of the cells forming the investment of
polyzoans:--_pl._ ZOOE'CIA. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _oikia_, a house.]

ZOOGAMOUS, z[=o]-og'a-mus, _adj._ pertaining to zoogamy.--_n._ ZOÖG'AMY,
sexual reproduction. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _gamos_, marriage.]

ZOOGENY, z[=o]-oj'e-ni, _n._ the doctrine or the process of the origination
of living beings--also ZOÖG'ONY.--_adj._ ZOOGEN'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _geneia_, production.]

ZOOGEOGRAPHY, z[=o]-[=o]-j[=e]-og'ra-fi, _n._ the science of the
distribution of animals on the surface of the globe, faunal
geography.--_n._ ZOOGEOG'RAPHER, a student of faunal geography.--_adjs._
ZOOGEOGRAPH'IC, -AL. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _geography_.]

ZOOGLOEA, z[=o]-[=o]-gl[=e]'a, _n._ the term applied to the resting,
motionless stage of the Bacteria, in which they are embedded in gelatinous
material.--_adjs._ ZOOGLOE'IC; ZOOGLOE'OID. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_gloios_, a sticky substance.]

ZOOGRAFT, z[=o]'[=o]-graft, _n._ a piece of tissue taken from the living
body of an animal to supply a part wanting in the human body, by being
grafted on it. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _graft_.]

ZOOGRAPHY, z[=o]-og'ra-fi, _n._ descriptive zoology.--_n._
ZOÖG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ ZOOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ ZOÖG'RAPHIST. [Gr. _z[=o]on_,
an animal, _graphein_, to write.]

ZOOGYROSCOPE, z[=o]-[=o]-j[=i]'r[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ a development of the
zoetrope by means of which an appearance of an object in motion is thrown
on a screen. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _gyroscope_.]

ZOOID, z[=o]'oid, _adj._ having the nature of an animal, having organic
life and motion.--_n._ a term applied to each of the individuals which make
up a compound organism. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _eidos_, form.]

ZOOKS, z[=oo]ks, _interj._ a minced oath--same as GADZOOKS.

ZOOLATRY, z[=o]-ol'a-tri, _n._ the worship of animals.--_ns._ ZOÖL'ATER,
one who worships animals; ZOOL[=A]'TRIA, zoolatry.--_adj._ ZOÖL'ATROUS.
[Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _latreia_, worship.]

ZOOLITE, z[=o]'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a fossil animal--also
Z[=O]'OLITH.--_adjs._ ZOOLITH'IC, ZOOLIT'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_lithos_, a stone.]

ZOOLOGY, z[=o]-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of animal life included along
with Botany within the science of Biology. The various departments of
zoological study are the _Morphological_, _Physiological_, _Historical_,
and the _Ætiological_.--_adj._ ZOOLOG'ICAL.--_adv._ ZOOLOG'ICALLY.--_n._
ZOOL'OGIST, one versed in zoology.--ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS, a place where wild
animals are kept for public exhibition. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

ZOOMAGNETISM, z[=o]-[=o]-mag'ne-tizm, _n._ animal magnetism.--_adj._
ZOOMAGNET'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _magnetism_.]

ZOOMANCY, z[=o]'[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by observation of
animals.--_adj._ ZOOMAN'TIC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _manteia_,
divination.]

ZOOMETRY, z[=o]-om'e-tri, _n._ comparative measurement of the parts of
animals.--_adj._ ZOOMET'RIC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _metron_, a
measure.]

ZOOMORPHIC, z[=o]-[=o]-mor'fik, _adj._ pertaining to zoomorphism:
representing animals in art.--_n._ ZOOMOR'PHISM, the representation or the
conception of a god or a man in an animal form, the attributing of human or
of divine qualities to beings of animal form--also ZOOMOR'PHY. [Gr.
_z[=o]on_, an animal, _morph[=e]_, form.]

ZOON, z[=o]'on, _n._ a morphological individual, the total product of a
fertilised ovum:--_pl._ Z[=O]'A, Z[=O]'ONS.--_adjs._ Z[=O]'ONAL, like a
zoon; ZOÖN'IC, relating to animals.--_n._ Z[=O]'ONITE, one of the segments
of an articulated animal.--_adj._ ZOONIT'IC. [Gr.]

ZOONOMY, z[=o]-on'[=o]-mi, _n._ animal physiology--also
ZOON[=O]'MIA.--_adj._ ZOONOM'IC.--_n._ ZOÖN'OMIST. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _nomos_, law.]

ZOONOSIS, z[=o]-on'[=o]-sis, _n._ a disease communicated to man from the
lower animals, as hydrophobia, &c.:--_pl._ ZOÖN'OS[=E]S. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _nosos_, disease.]

ZOOPATHOLOGY, z[=o]-[=o]-pa-thol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the study of disease in
animals. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _pathology_.]

ZOOPATHY, z[=o]-op'a-thi, _n._ animal pathology. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_pathos_, suffering.]

ZOOPHAGA, z[=o]-of'a-ga, _n.pl._ the carnivorous animals
collectively.--_n._ ZOÖPH'AGAN, a carnivorous animal.--_adj._ ZOÖPH'AGOUS.
[Gr. _z[=o]ophagos_, flesh-eating, _z[=o]on_, an animal, _phagein_, to
eat.]

ZOOPHILIST, z[=o]-of'il-ist, _n._ a lover of animals.--_n._ ZOÖPH'ILY, love
of animals. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _philos_, dear.]

ZOOPHORUS, z[=o]-of'[=o]-rus, _n._ a continuous frieze sculptured in relief
with figures of men and animals.--_adj._ ZOOPHOR'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _pherein_, to bear.]

ZOOPHYSICS, z[=o]-[=o]-fiz'iks, _n._ the study of the structure of animal
bodies, comparative anatomy. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _physics_.]

ZOOPHYTE, z[=o]'[=o]-f[=i]t, _n._ a term employed by Cuvier in his earlier
attempts at classification to designate numerous simple animals, sedentary
in habit, often with a superficial resemblance to plants--now restricted to
hydroid colonies.--_adjs._ ZOOPHYT'IC, -AL; ZOÖPH'YTOID;
ZOOPHYTOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ ZOOPHYTOL'OGIST; ZOOPHYTOL'OGY; ZOÖPH'YTON:--_pl._
ZOÖPH'YTA. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _phyton_, a plant.]

ZOOPLASTIC, z[=o]-[=o]-plas'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the operation of
transplanting living tissue from one of the lower animals to man. [Gr.
_z[=o]on_, an animal, _plassein_, to form.]

ZOOPRAXINOSCOPE, z[=o]-[=o]-prak'si-n[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ a mechanical toy by
means of which images of animals are made to go through motions on a
screen. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _praxis_, doing, _skopein_, to view.]

ZOOPSYCHOLOGY, z[=o]-[=o]-s[=i]-kol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the psychology of the
lower animals. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _psychology_.]

ZOOSCOPY, z[=o]'[=o]-sk[=o]-pi, _n._ a form of mental delusion in which one
sees imaginary animals, esp. snakes.--_adj._ ZOOSCOP'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _skopein_, to view.]

ZOOSPERM, z[=o]'[=o]-sperm, _n._ the sperm-cell, or male seed-cell--also
ZOOSPER'MIUM.--_adj._ ZOOSPERMAT'IC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _sperma_,
seed.]

ZOOSPORE, z[=o]'[=o]-sp[=o]r, _n._ a spore capable of moving
about.--_adjs._ ZOOSPOR'IC; ZOOSPORIF'EROUS. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_spora_, a seed.]

ZOOTAXY, z[=o]'[=o]-tak-si, _n._ the science of the classification of
animals, systematic zoology. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _taxis_,
arrangement.]

ZOOTECHNY, z[=o]'[=o]-tek-ni, _n._ the science of the breeding and
domestication of animals.--Also ZOOTECH'NICS. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_techn[=e]_, art.]

ZOOTHAPSIS, z[=o]-[=o]-thap'sis, _n._ premature burial. [Gr. _zoo-_,
living, _thaptein_, to bury.]

ZOOTHECIUM, z[=o]-[=o]-th[=e]'si-um, _n._ the tubular sheath of certain
infusorians.--_adj._ ZOOTH[=E]'CIAL. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal,
_th[=e]kion_, a casket.]

ZOOTHEISM, z[=o]'[=o]-th[=e]-izm, _n._ the attribution of divine qualities
to an animal.--_adj._ ZOOTHEIS'TIC. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _theism_.]

ZOOTHERAPY, z[=o]-[=o]-ther'a-pi, _n._ veterinary therapeutics. [Gr.
_z[=o]on_, an animal, _therapeia_, service.]

ZOOTOCOLOGY, z[=o]-[=o]-t[=o]-kol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the biology of animals.
[Gr. _z[=o]otokos_, viviparous, _legein_, to speak.]

ZOOTOMY, z[=o]-ot'[=o]-mi, _n._ the dissection of animals: comparative
anatomy.--_adjs._ ZOOTOM'IC, -AL.--_adv._ ZOOTOM'ICALLY.--_n._ ZOÖT'OMIST,
one who dissects the bodies of animals: an anatomist. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an
animal, _temnein_, to cut.]

ZOOTROPHIC, z[=o]-[=o]-trof'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the nourishment of
animals. [Gr. _z[=o]on_, an animal, _trophos_, food.]

ZOOZOO, z[=oo]'z[=oo], _n._ (_prov._) the wood-pigeon. [Imit.]

ZOPILOTE, z[=o]-pi-l[=o]'te, _n._ one of the smaller American vultures, the
turkey-buzzard, an urubu.--Also _Tzopilotl_. [Mex.]

ZOPISSA, z[=o]-pis'a, _n._ an old medicinal mixture of pitch and tar
scraped from the sides of ships. [Gr. _z[=o]pissa_.]

ZOPPO, tsop'p[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) alternately with and without
syncopation. [It.]

ZORGITE, zor'g[=i]t, _n._ a metallic copper-lead selenide, found at
_Zorge_, in the Harz Mountains.

ZORIL, ZORILLE, zor'il, _n._ an African skunk-like carnivore: an American
skunk.--_n._ ZORIL'LA, a genus of African skunk-like quadrupeds,
representing the _Zorillinæ_, an African subfamily of _Mustelidæ_. [Fr.
_zorille_--Sp. _zorilla_, dim. of _zorra_, a fox.]

ZOROASTRIANISM, zor-[=o]-as'tri-an-izm, _n._ the ancient religion founded
or reformed by _Zoroaster_--the Greek pronunciation of Zarathushtra--set
forth in the _Zend-Avesta_ (q.v.), and still held by the Guebres and
Parsees in India.--_n._ and _adj._ ZOROAS'TRIAN.

ZORRA, zor'a, _n._ a South American skunk.--Also ZORRINO (zo-r[=e]'n[=o]).
[Sp.]

ZORRO, zor'[=o], _n._ a South American fox-wolf. [Sp.]

ZOSTER, zos't[.e]r, _n._ an ancient Greek waist-belt for men: herpes zoster
or shingles. [Gr. _z[=o]st[=e]r_, a girdle.]

ZOTHECA, z[=o]-th[=e]'ka, _n._ a small living-room, as distinguished from a
sleeping-room: an alcove. [Gr. _z[=o]th[=e]k[=e]_.]

ZOUAVE, zwäv, _n._ one of a body of troop wearing a quasi-Moorish dress in
the French army, which derives its name from the _Zwawa_, a tribe of
Kabyles in the Algerian province of Constantine. These Kabyles had long
been employed as mercenaries by the _deys_ of Algiers; and after the
conquest in 1830 the French took them into their service.

ZOUNDS, zowndz, _interj._ an exclamation of anger and astonishment. [A
corr. of _God's wounds_, referring to Christ's sufferings on the cross.]

ZUCCHETTA, tsuk-ket'ta, _n._ the skull-cap of an ecclesiastic, covering the
tonsure: a form of helmet worn in the 16th century. [It., dim. of _zucca_,
a gourd.]

ZUFOLO, z[=oo]'f[=o]-l[=o], _n._ a small flute or flageolet used in
training singing-birds.--Also ZUF'FOLO. [It.]

ZULU, zoo'loo, _n._ a branch of the great Bantu division of the human
family, belonging to South Africa, conspicuous for physical and
intellectual development.--_adj._ pertaining to the ZULUS, their language,
&c. [South African.]

ZUMBOORUK, zum'b[=oo]-ruk, _n._ a small cannon mounted on a swivel, carried
on the back of a camel.--Also ZUM'BOORUCK, ZOM'BORUK, ZAM'BOORAK. [Hind.
_zamb[=u]rak_--Turk. _zamb[=u]rak_--Ar. _zamb[=u]r_, a hornet.]

ZUÑI, z[=oo]'ny[=e], _n._ one of a tribe of Pueblo Indians living in large
communal houses near the _Zuñi_ river in New Mexico.--_adj._ and _n._
ZU'ÑIAN.

ZUPA, z[=u]'pa, _n._ a confederation of village communities governed by a
ZU'PAN, in the early history of Servia, &c. [Servian.]

ZURF. See ZARF.

ZURLITE, zurl'[=i]t, _n._ a white or green Vesuvian mineral.

ZUZ, z[=oo]z, _n._ a coin or money of account in New Testament times.

ZWANZIGER, tswan'tsi-g[.e]r, _n._ an old Austrian silver coin, equivalent
to twenty kreutzers. [Ger.,--_zwanzig_, twenty.]

ZWIEBACK, zv[=i]'bak, _n._ biscuit rusk, or a sweet spiced bread toasted.
[Ger.]

ZWINGLIAN, zwing'- or tswing'gli-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Swiss
reformer Huldreich _Zwingli_ (1484-1531), or his doctrines, esp. his
divergence from Luther in the doctrine of the Eucharist. Zwingli rejected
every form of local or corporeal presence, whether by transubstantiation,
impanation, or consubstantiation, assailing every form, however subtle, of
the old _Capernaitic_ (John vi. 51-53, 59) conception of a carnal presence
and carnal appropriation.--_n._ a follower of ZWINGLI.

ZYGADITE, zig'a-d[=i]t, _n._ a variety of albite found in thin twin
crystals at Andreasberg, in the Harz Mountains. [Gr. _zygad[=e]n_,
jointly--_zygon_, a yoke.]

ZYGÆNA, z[=i]-j[=e]'na, _n._ a genus of moths, typical of the family
_Zygænidæ_: a genus of sharks, the hammer-heads, now _Sphyrna_.--_adjs._
ZYGÆ'NID, ZYGÆ'NINE, ZYGÆ'NOID. [Gr. _zygaina_, a shark.]

ZYGAL, z[=i]'gal, _n._ pertaining to a zygon, formed like a letter [H
shape]. [_Zygon_.]

ZYGANTRUM, z[=i]-gan'trum, _n._ a fossa on the posterior face of the arches
of each of the vertebræ of the Lacertilia, into which the zygosphene of the
succeeding vertebra fits. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _antron_, a cave.]

ZYGAPOPHYSIS, z[=i]-ga-pof'i-sis, _n._ one of the yoke-pieces or
articulations of the vertebræ: _pl._ ZYGAPOPH'YS[=E]S. [Gr. _zygon_, a
yoke, _apophysis_, process.]

ZYGITE, z[=i]'g[=i]t, _n._ a rower in the second tier of a Greek trireme.
[Gr. _zygit[=e]s_--_zygon_, yoke.]

ZYGOBRANCHIATE, z[=i]-g[=o]-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having paired gills or
ctenidia, as certain molluscs: belonging to the ZYGOBRANCHI[=A]'TA, an
order or suborder of _Gastropoda_.--Also ZY'GOBRANCH. [Gr. _zygon_, yoke,
_brangchia_, gills.]

ZYGOCARDIAC, z[=i]-g[=o]-kär'di-ak, _adj._ yoke-like and cardiac, as an
ossicle of the stomach of some Crustacea. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _kardia_,
the heart.]

ZYGODACTYL, z[=i]-g[=o]-dak'til, _adj._ having the toes arranged in pairs,
two before and two behind, as certain birds--also ZYGODACTYL'IC,
ZYGODAC'TYLOUS.--_n._ ZYGODAC'TYLISM. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _daktylos_, a
finger.]

ZYGODONT, z[=i]'g[=o]-dont, _adj._ pertaining to molar teeth whose cusps
are paired, possessing such molars. [Gr. _zygon_, yoke, _odous_, _odontos_,
a tooth.]

ZYGOMA, z[=i]-g[=o]'ma, _n._ the arch formed by the malar bone and the
zygomatic process of the temporal bone of the skull.--_adj._
ZYGOMAT'IC.--ZYGOMATIC FOSSA, the lower part of the fossa bridged over by
the zygomatic arch; ZYGOMATIC MUSCLES, two muscles (major and minor)
arising from the zygomatic arch. [Gr. _zyg[=o]ma_--_zygon_, a yoke.]

ZYGOMORPHOUS, z[=i]-g[=o]-mor'fus, _adj._ yoke-shaped--of flowers divisible
into similar halves in one plane only--also ZYGOMOR'PHIC.--_ns._
ZYGOMOR'PHISM, ZYGOMOR'PHY. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _morph[=e]_, form.]

ZYGOMYCETES, z[=i]-g[=o]-m[=i]-s[=e]'t[=e]z, _n.pl._ a group of fungi
marked by the production of zygospores--the commonest type _Mucor mucedo_,
the common white mould of dead organic matter, as horse-dung.--_adj._
ZYGOMYC[=E]'TOUS. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _myk[=e]s_, _myk[=e]tos_, a
mushroom.]

ZYGON, z[=i]'gon, _n._ a connecting bar: an [H shape]-shaped fissure of the
brain. [Gr., a yoke.]

ZYGOPHYLLACEÆ, z[=i]-g[=o]-fil-[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order
containing about 100 species of herbaceous plants, shrubs, and trees,
chiefly natives of subtropical countries--the bean-caper family--the
typical genus _Zygophyllum_. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

ZYGOPHYLLUM, z[=i]-g[=o]-fil'um, _n._ a genus of plants, natural order
_Zygophylleæ_, of the bean-caper family.

ZYGOPHYTE, z[=i]'g[=o]-f[=i]t, _n._ a plant in which reproduction takes
place by means of zygospores. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _phyton_, a plant.]

ZYGOPLEURAL, z[=i]-g[=o]-pl[=oo]'ral, _adj._ bilaterally symmetrical. [Gr.
_zygon_, a yoke, _pleura_, the side.]

ZYGOSIS, z[=i]-g[=o]'sis, _n._ (_bot._) conjugation, the coalescence of two
distinct cells: the sexual intercourse of protoplasmic bodies.--_n._
ZY'GO[=I]TE, an organism resulting from zygosis.--_adj._ ZY'GOSE,
pertaining to zygosis. [Gr. _zyg[=o]sis_, a joining.]

ZYGOSPHENE, z[=i]'g[=o]-sf[=e]n, _n._ a process on the anterior face of
each of the vertebral arches in the Lacertilia, which articulates with the
_zygantrum_ of the preceding arch. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke, _sph[=e]n_, a
wedge.]

ZYGOSPORE, z[=i]'g[=o]-sp[=o]r, _n._ a spore produced by the union of buds
from two adjacent hyphaæ in the process of conjugation by which some fungi
multiply--the same as ZY'GOSPERM and ZY'GOTE. [Gr. _zygon_, a yoke,
_spora_, seed.]

ZYLONITE=_Xylonite_ (q.v.).

ZYMASE, z[=i]'m[=a]s, _n._ the same as ENZYM. [See ZYME.]

ZYME, z[=i]m, _n._ a ferment: a disease-germ--the supposed specific cause
of a zymotic disease.--_n._ ZY'MASE, enzym, any of the unorganised
ferments.--_adj._ ZY'MIC, relating to fermentation.--_ns._ ZY'MITE, a
priest using leavened bread in the Eucharist; ZY'MOGEN, a substance capable
of developing by internal change into a ferment.--_adjs._ ZYMOGEN'IC;
ZY'MOID, like a ferment; ZYMOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to zymology.--_ns._
ZYMOL'OGIST, one skilled in zymology; ZYMOL'OGY, the science of
fermentation; ZYMOL'YSIS, ZYM[=O]'SIS, fermentation of any kind;
ZYMOM'ETER, ZYMOSIM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the degree of
fermentation; ZY'MOPHYTE, a bacterioid ferment capable of liberating fatty
acids from neutral fats.--_adjs._ ZYMOTECH'NIC, -AL, producing and
utilising fermentation.--_n._ ZYMOTECH'NICS, the art of managing
fermentation.--_adj._ ZYMOT'IC, pertaining to fermentation.--_adv._
ZYMOT'ICALLY.--ZYMOTIC DISEASE, a term for diseases caused by the
multiplication of a living germ introduced from without into the body. [Gr.
_zym[=e]_, leaven, _zym[=o]sis_, fermentation.]

ZYMOME, z[=i]'m[=o]m, _n._ an old name for the part of gluten insoluble in
alcohol.

ZYMURGY, z[=i]'m[.e]r-ji, _n._ that department of technological chemistry
which treats of wine-making, brewing, distilling, and similar processes
involving fermentation. [Gr. _zym[=e]_, leaven, _ergon_, work.]

ZYTHEPSARY, z[=i]-thep'sa-ri, _n._ (_obs._) a brewery.

ZYTHUM, z[=i]'thum, _n._ a kind of beer made by the ancient Egyptians--much
commended by Diodorus. [Gr. _zythos_.]

ZYXOMMA, zik-som'a, _n._ a genus of Indian dragon-flies, of family
_Libellulidæ_, with large head and eyes and narrow face. [Gr. _zeuxis_, a
joining, _omma_, eye.]

       *       *       *       *       *


PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The best account of these is to be found in Kellner's edition of Dr
    Morris's _Historical Outlines of English Accidence_ (1895), and
    especially in Professor Skeat's _Principles of English
    Etymology_--First Series (2d ed. 1892), chaps. xii.-xiv.; Second Series
    (1891), chap. xviii. To these books the following lists are largely
    indebted.

A- (A.S.) represents:

(1) A.S. _an_, _on_, on, as _a_bed, _a_board, _a_foot, _a_shore, _a_sunder,
now-_a-_days, twice-_a-_week, _a_live, _a_mong, _a_bout, _a-_fishing.

(2) A.S. _and-_, over against, in reply to, to, as _a_long (from A.S.
_and-lang_, i.e. over against in length); appearing also as E- in _e_lope,
as AM- in _am_bassador, and as EM- in _em_bassy; the same as _un-_ in
verbs. See Un- (2). [Cog. with Goth. _and-_, Ger. _ent-_, _ant-_, L.
_ante-_, Gr. _anti-_.]

(3) A.S. _á-_, an intensive prefix to verbs, out, out from, as in _a_rise
(from A.S. _árísan_, to rise out of or up); or sig. 'very,' as in _a_ghast.
Cf. _a_bide, _ac_curse, _af_fright, _a_maze, _a_rise, _a_rouse, _a_go.
[Cog. with Ger. _er-_, Goth. _us-_, _ur-_.]

(4) A.S. _of_, of, from, as in _a_down (from A.S. _of dúne_, 'from the
height'), _a_new, _a_kin; or from _of-_, intensive, as _a_thirst.

(5) A.S. _ge-_, _y-_, as _a_ware (A.S. _ge-w['æ]re_), _a_fford.

(6) _at_, old sign of inf., as _a_do. [A Northern idiom, due to Scand.
influences, as in Ice., Sw., &c.]

A- (L. and Gr.) represents: (1) L. AB-, as in _a_vert; (2) L. AD-, as
_a_chieve; (3) L. E- or EX-, as in _a_bash, _a_mend; (4) Gr. A- (for AN-),
as in _a_byss. See these prefixes.

A-, AB-, ABS-, AS- (L.), away from, as _a_vert, _ab_sent, _ab_solve,
_ab_stract; and also _as_soil and _av_aunt through French. Indeed, this
prefix appears as A-, ADV-, AV-, V-, as in _a_vert, _adv_ance, _av_aunt,
_v_anguard, &c. [L. _a_, _ab_, _abs_ (oldest form _ap_); cog. with Gr.
_apo-_, Sans. _apa_, Ger. _ab_, Eng. _off_.]

AB-. See Ad-.

AC-. See Ad-.

AD- (L.), to, at, as ADhere, ADapt. It appears as A-, AB-, AC-, AD-, AF-,
AG-, AL-, AN-, AP-, AR-, AS-, AT-, as in _a_chieve, _ab_breviate, _ac_cede,
_ad_mire, _af_fix, _ag_gregate, _al_lot, _an_nex, _ap_prove, _ar_rive,
_as_sign, _at_tract. The words _a_chieve, _a_gree, _a_merce, _a_mount,
_a_cquit, _a_cquaint, _a_vow, &c. show the same prefix, derived through the
medium of Old French. [L. _ad_; cog. with Sans. _adhi_, Goth. and Eng.
_at_, Celt. _ar-_.]

AF-. See Ad-.

AFTER- (A.S.), as _after-_growth, _after-_math, _after-_wards. [A.S.
_æfter-_.]

AG-. See Ad-.

AL-. See Ad-.

AL- (Ar.), the--also as A-, AR-, AS-, EL-, L-, as _a_pricot, _ar_tichoke,
_as_sagai, _el_ixir, _l_ute.

ALL- (A.S.), all, as _al_mighty, _all-_wise. In Early English _al-_=quite
is added (1) to past participles, as _al-_brent=quite burnt,
_al-_heled=quite concealed; (2) to verbs preceded by _to_, as
_al-_to-brenne=to burn up entirely. In Elizabethan and later writers
_all-to_=altogether, quite--the original meaning of _to_ having been lost
sight of. Cf. Milton's 'all-to ruffled,' &c. [A.S. _eall-_.]

AM-, (1) the Fr. _em_--L. _im_ for _in_, as _am_bush: see In- (2); (2) the
Gr. _an-_, as in _Am_brosia: see An- (2); (3) the same as An- (1), as in
_am_bassador.

AMBI-, AMB-, AM- (L.), round about, both, as _ambi_dexter, _am_bition,
_am_putate. [L.; cog. with Gr. _amphi-_, Sans. _abhi_, around.]

AMPHI- (Gr.), round about, both, as _amphi_theatre, _amphi_bious. [Cog.
with L. _ambi-_, _amb-_.]

AN- (A.S.), against, in return, as _an_swer. See A- (A.S.) (2), above.
[A.S. _and-_, Ger. _ant-_, Goth. _and-_.]

AN-, A-, AM- (Gr.), not, without, as _an_archy, _a_tom, _am_brosia. [Gr.;
cog. with Sans. _an-_, _a-_, L. _in-_, Eng. _un-_, _in-_, not.]

AN- (Fr. _en_--L. _in_), as in anoint. See In- (2).

AN-, as in _an_cestor; see Ante- (below).

AN-. See Ad-.

ANA-, AN- (Gr.), up, back, as _ana_lyse, _ana_tomy, _an_eurism. [Cog. with
Goth. _ana_, Eng. _on_.]

ANTE-, ANTI-, ANCI-, AN- (L.), before, as _ante_cedent, _anti_cipate,
_anc_ient, _anc_estor (for L. _antecessor_). [L. _ante_, old form _anti_;
conn. with _anti-_; Fr. _anci-_, _an-_.]

ANTI- (Gr.), opposite to, against, as _anti_pathy, _anti_podes; as ANT- in
_ant_agonist, and ANTH- in _anth_em. [Gr.; conn. with L. _ante-_, Sans.
_anti-_, facing, Ger. _ant-_ in _Ant_wort, Eng. _an-_ (for _and-_) in
_answer_ (see Dict.). Cf. _A-_ (A.S.) (2), above.]

AP-. See Ad-.

APO- (Gr.), off, from, away, as APOstle; as APH- in _aph_elion,
_aph_æresis. [Cog. with L. _ab-_.]

AR-. See Ad-.

ARCH-, ARCHI-, ARCHE- (Gr.), first, chief, as _arch_bishop, _archi_tect,
_arche_type.

AS-. See Ad-.

AT-. See Ad-.

AT- (Eng.), denoting nearness, as _at_one; against, as _t_wit (A.S.
_æt-wítan_, to blame). [A.S. _æt_.]

AUTO-, AUTH- (Gr.), self, as _auto_crat, _auto_graph, _auto_psy,
_auth_entic.

AV-. See Ab-.



BE- (A.S.), the most fertile of all English prefixes, is the weak form of
_by_. The original meaning was '_about_.' (1) It forms derivative verbs,
with the sense of 'around,' 'on all sides,' 'in all directions,' as
_be_blear=to blear all over, _be_girdle, _be_jumble, _be_paste, _be_smudge;
(2) it forms intensive verbs, with the sense of 'thoroughly,' 'soundly,' as
_be_breech=to breech soundly, _be_daub, _be_welcome; (3) it renders
intransitive verbs transitive by adding a prepositional relation, as
_be_chatter=to environ with chattering, _be_gaze=to gaze at, _be_smile=to
smile at, _be_speak; (4) it forms transitive verbs of adjectives and
substantives, as _be_foul=to affect with foulness, _be_dim=to make dim,
_be_dew=to cover with dew, _be_friend.

BIS-, BI-, BIN- (L.), twice, double, as _bis_cuit, _bi_ennial, _bin_ocular;
as BA- in balance. [Corr. of _duis_, ablative of _duo_, two.]



CATA-, CATH-, CAT- (Gr.), down, downwards, according to, thoroughly, as
_cata_ract, _cath_olic, _cat_echism. [Gr. _kata_.]

CIRCUM-, CIRCU- (L.), round about, as _circum_scribe, _circu_it. [Properly
accusative of _circus_, a circle. See Circle in Dict.]

CIS- (L.), on this side, as _cis_alpine.

COM-, CON-, CO- (L.), together, with, as _con_nect, _co_here, _col_lect,
_cor_rect, _coun_cil. In _cur_ry, this prefix has been attached to O. Fr.
_roi_, order; often intensive, as _com_motion; _co-_admire, _co-_enjoy,
_co-_actor, _co-_believer. [_Com-_ is the old form of L. _cum_, with; cog.
with Gr. _syn_, Sans. _sam_. The root, originally signifying 'one,' is seen
in L. _sim-ul_, together, Gr. _ham-a_, together, Eng. _sim_ple (which see
in Dict.).]

CONTRA-, CONTRO-, CONTR-, COUNTER- (L.), against, as _contra_dict,
_contro_vert, _contr_alto, _counter_act. [L. _contra_ (whence Fr.
_contre_), from _Con-_, and -_tra_, from root _tar_, to cross, seen also in
_trans_.]



DE- (L., or Fr.--L.), down, from, away, occurs in words derived either
directly from L., as _de_duce; or through the Fr. from L., in which case
DE-, DI-, represents either (1) O. Fr. _des-_ from L. _dis-_, asunder, not,
as in _de_feat (O. Fr. _des-_fait), or (2) Fr.--L. _de-_, as _de_scribe
[lit. 'write _down_'], decompose. This prefix DE- is negative and
oppositive in _destroy_, _desuetude_, _deform_, or intensive in _declare_,
_desolate_, _desiccate_.

DEMI- (Fr.--L.), half, as _demi_god, _demi_quaver. [Fr. _demi_--L.
_dimidium_, half.]

DI- (Gr.), double, as _di_lemma, _di_alogue.

DIA- (Gr.), through, as _dia_meter; shortened to DI- in _di_æresis, and
appearing as DE-, DEA-, in _de_vil, _dea_con. [Gr. _dia_, from _dyo_, two.]

DIF-. See Dis-.

DIS- (Gr.), two, twice, as _dis_syllable, _di_cotyledonous. [From _duis_,
from root of _two_.]

DIS-, DI- (L.; in O. Fr. DES-), in two, asunder, as _dis_part, _dif_fer,
_dis_perse; negative, as _dis_relish; privative, as _dis_lodge. Thus
variously DI-, DIF-, DIS-, DES-, DE-, and even S-, as in _s_pend. [_Dis_
for _duis_, from L. _duo_, Gr. _dyo_, Sans. _dvi_, Goth. and Eng. _two_.]

DYS- (Gr.), ill, difficult, as _dys_entery, _dys_pepsy. [Cog. with Sans.
_dus_, Goth. _tus_, Ger. _zer-_, A.S. _to-_, Eng. _two_.]



E-. See Ex-.

E-=A.S. _ge-_, in enough (A.S. _genóh_, Ger. _genug_).

E-, as in _e_lope. See A- (A.S.) (2), and also An- (A.S.).

E-, a purely phonetic addition, of French origin, as in _e_squire,
_e_state, _e_schew, _e_special, _e_scutcheon.

EC- or EX- (Gr.), out of, from, as _ec_stasy, _ex_odus; also as EL- in
_el_lipse. [Gr. _ex_, cog. with L. _ex_, out.]

EDD-, in _eddy_. [A.S. _ed-_, back.]

EF-. See Ex-.

EL-, in _el_lipse, &c. See Ec- or Ex-.

EMB-, in _emb_er days. [A.S. _ymb-_ryne, a circuit.]

EN- (Gr.), in, on, as _en_ergy, _en_demic, emphasis--sometimes extended to
ENDO-, within, as _endo_gen.

EN-, EM- (Fr.--L.), in, into, as _en_list; to make, as _en_large, _en_act,
_en_dure; before _b_ and _p_, EM-, as _em_bark, _em_bolden. [Fr. _en_--L.
_in_. See In- (L.), in, into.]

ENTER- (Fr.), between, among, as _enter_tain. [Fr. _entre_--L. _inter-_.]

EPI-, EP-, EPH- (Gr.), on, as _epi_taph; during, as _ep_och, _eph_emeral.
[Gr. _epi_; Sans. _api_, L. _ob-_.]

ES- (Fr. or Sp.--L.), out, as _es_cape, _es_planade. [O. Fr. or Sp.
_es_--L. _ex-_.]

ESO- (Gr.), in, into, as _eso_teric. [From Gr. _eis_, into, whose form was
prob. orig. _ens_, a strengthened form of EN- (Gr.).]

EU- (Gr.), well, as _eu_phony, _eu_logy; as EV- in _ev_angelist. [Gr. _eu_,
_eus_, good, for an assumed _es-us_, real.]

EX- or E- (L.), from, out of, as _ex_pel, _e_ject, _ef_flux; by
assimilation, appearing as A-, E-, EF-, ES-, EX-, ISS-, S-, as _a_mend,
_e_normous, _ef_fect, _es_cape, _ex_tend, _iss_ue, _s_ample. It is French
influence which has disguised it in such words as _affray_, _amend_,
_escape_, _escheat_, _essay_, &c.--EX- has a privative sense in
_ex-_emperor, _ex-_mayor. [L. _ex-_, _e-_; O. Fr. _es-_, Fr. _é-_, _ex_.]

EX-, out of, as in _ex_odus.--EXO-, outside, as _exo_tic. [Gr. _ex_, out
of, _ex[=o]_, outside.]

EXTRA- (L.), on the outside, beyond, as _extra_mural, _extra_ordinary,
_extra-_work; as STRA- in _stra_nge. [Contr. of _exter[=a]_ (_parte_ being
understood), abl. fem. of _exterus_, beyond, a comp. form, from _Ex-_
(L.).]



FOR- (A.S.), in place of, as _for_asmuch. [A.S. prep. _for_.]

FOR- (A.S.), through, thorough, away, so as to be non-existent, or to be
destroyed, as _for_swear, _for_bid, _fore_go (better _for_go). [A.S.
_for-_; Ger. _ver-_, Goth. _fra-_, conn. with _far_ and _from_.]

FOR- (Fr.--L.), as in _fore_close, _for_feit. [Fr.--L. _foris_, lit. 'out
of doors,' used in the sense of 'outside,' 'beyond,' 'amiss.']

FORE- (A.S.), before, as _fore_tell, _fore_bode; _fore_dated, _fore_said,
_fore_told; _fore_castle, _fore_father, _fore_sight. [A.S. _fore-_; Ger.
_vor_.]

FORTH- (A.S.), forth, only in _forth_with.

FRO- (A.S.), from, as _fro_ward. [A.S. _fro_--Scand., Ice. _frá_.]



GAIN- (A.S.), against, as _gain_say. [A.S. _gegn_. See _Against_ in Dict.]



HEMI- (Gr.), half, as _hemi_sphere--shortened to ME- in _me_grim. [Gr.;
cog. with L. _semi-_, Sans. _s[=a]mi-_.]

HETERO- (Gr.), other, as _hetero_doxy. [Gr. _heteros_, other.]

HOLO- (Gr.), entire, as _holo_graph. [Gr. _holos_, entire.]

HOMO- (Gr.), same--lengthened to HOMOEO-, as _homoeo_pathy. [Gr. _homos_,
same.]

HYPER- (Gr.), over, above, beyond, as _hyper_borean, _hyper_critical. [Cog.
with _super-_ and _over-_.]

HYPO-, HYPH-, HYP-, (Gr.), under, as _hypo_tenuse, _hyph_en, _hyp_allage.
[Cog. with L. _sub-_, Goth. _uf_, Sans. _upa_.]



I-, in _i_gnoble. See In- (1), negative.

I-, Y-, as in _I-_wis, _y_clept, hand-_y-_work. This prefix appears as A-
in _a_ware, as C- in _c_lutch, and as E- in _e_nough. [A.S. _ge-_, sign of
the past participle passive.]

IL-, as in _il_lude. See In- (2).

IL-, as in _il_legal. See In- (1).

IN-, IM- (L.), not, as _in_convenience, _in_cautious, _in_firm. Before _p_
the _n_ changes to _m_, as _im_pudent; before _l_, _m_, and _r_ it is
assimilated to those consonants, as _il_legal, _im_mature, _ir_regular.
This prefix thus appears as EN-, I-, IL-, IM-, IN-, IR-, as _en_emy,
_ig_noble, _il_legal, _im_mortal, _in_firm, _ir_regular. [L.; cog. with Gr.
_an-_, Eng. _un-_.]

IN- (L.), in, into, as _in_fuse, _il_lumine, _im_pel, _ir_rigate. It
becomes _il-_ before _l_; _im-_ before _b_, _m_, and _p_; _ir_- before _r_.
This prefix thus appears as AM-, AN-, EM-, EN-, IL-, IM-, IN-, IR-, as
_am_bush, _an_oint, _em_brace, _en_close, _il_lude, _im_mure, _in_clude,
_ir_ritate.

IN- (A.S.), in, on, as _in_come, _in_ward, _in_land, _in_sight; to make, as
_im_bitter, lit. to put _into_ a state of bitterness; as _im-_ in _im_bed,
_im_park, &c.

INTER- (L.), in the midst of, between, as _inter_val, _intel_lect,
_inter_marry. [A compar. form; cog. with Eng. _under_, and Sans. _antar_,
within.]

INTRA- (L.), in the inside of, within, as _intra_mural. [Contr. of
_intera_, ablative feminine of _interus_, inward--_Inter-_.]

INTRO- (L.), into, within, as _intro_duce. [Contr. of _intero_, ablative
masculine of _interus_--_Inter-_.]

IR-, as in _ir_ritate. See In- (2).

IR-, as in _ir_regular. See In- (1).

ISS-, as in _iss_ue. See Ex- (1).



JUXTA- (L.), near, as _juxta_position. [Superl. form, from root of L.
_jung[)e]re_, to join.]



L-, as in _l_one; an abbreviation of _all_.

L-, as in _l_ouver. See Al-.

L-, as in _l_ute. See Al-.



MALE-, MALI-, MAL-, MAU- (L.), badly, ill, as _male_factor, _mal_content,
_male_diction, _male_volent; through French, _mau_gre=notwithstanding. [L.
_male_, badly.]

META-, METH-, MET- (Gr.), among, with; after, as _meth_od. (lit. 'way
after'); often implies change, as _meta_morphose, _met_eor, _met_onomy.
[Gr. _meta_; cog. with A.S. _mid_, Goth. _mith_, Ger. _mit_.]

MID- (A.S.), with, as _mid_wife. [A.S. _mid-_, together with.]

MIS- (A.S.), wrong, ill, as _mis_behave, _mis_deed, _mis_lead. [A.S.
_mis-_; Ice. _mis-_, Goth. _missa-_, Ger. _miss-_. Cf. _Mis-_in Dict.]

MIS- (Fr.--L.), as in _mis_chief, _mis_alliance, _mis_chance. [Fr. _mis-_,
for O. Fr. _mes-_, from L. _minus_, less.]

MONO-, MON- (Gr.), single, as _mono_graph, _mono_logue, _mon_k, and
_min_ster. [Gr. _monos_, alone.]

MULTI-, MULT-, many, as in _multi_ply, _mult_eity. [L. _multus_, much,
many.]



N-, as in _n_ewt, _n_ickname, due to the _n_ of the article in _an ewt_,
_an ekename_. In _n_uncle the origin is _mine_ uncle; in 'for the _nonce_,'
M. E. for the nones, miswritten _for then ones_, for the once.

N- (A.S.), no, not, as _n_ever; or L. NE-, as in _n_ull. [A.S. _ne_; cog.
with Goth. _ni_, L. _ne_, Sans. _na_.]

NE- (Gr.), not, as _ne_penthe; NE-, NEG- (L.), not, as _ne_farious,
_ne_uter, _neg_ative, _neg_lect. [L. _ne_, _nec_, a contr. of _neque_, from
_ne_, not, _que_, and.]

NON- (L.), not, as _non_sense, _non_age. It appears as _um-_ in
_um_pire=_num_pire. [From _ne unum_, not one.]



OB- (L., by assimilation, O-, OB-, OC-, OF-, OP-, also OS-), in front of,
against, in the way of, as _ob_struct, _o_mit, _oc_cur, _of_fer, _op_pose,
_os_tentation. [Cog. with Gr. _epi_, Sans. _api_.]

OC-, as in _oc_cur. See Ob-.

OF-, as in _of_fer. See Ob-.

OFF- (A.S.), off, from, away, as _of_fal, _off_shoot, _off_set. [A form of
OF. There is the same relation between _of_ and _off_ as between _be_ and
_by_; A.S. _of_ has been differentiated into the stressless or weak form
_of_, and the stressed or strong form _off_. Cf. A-, Ab-.]

ON- (A.S.), on, as _on_set, _on_looker. [See _On_ in Dict.]

OP-, as in _op_press. See Ob-.

OR- (A.S.), out, in _or_deal. [A.S. _or-_; cog. with Dut. _oor-_, Ger.
_ur-_, Goth, _us-_, away, out of.]

OS-, as in _os_tensible. See Ob-.

OUT- (A.S.), out, beyond, as _out_law, _out_bid, _out_side, _out_cast.
[A.S. _út_.]

OVER- (A.S.), over, above, as _over_arch, _over_seer. [A.S. _ofer_.]



PA-, as in _pa_lsy. See Para-.

PALIN-, PALIM- (Gr.), again, as _palin_genesis, _palim_psest. [Gr. _palin_,
again.]

PAN-, PANTO- (Gr.), all, as _pan_acea, _pan_theism, _panto_mime.

PARA-, PAR- (Gr.), beside, as _para_ble; beyond, wrong, as _para_lyse. It
appears as PA- in _pa_lsy, PAR- in _par_ody. [Gr. _para_.]

PEL-, as in _pel_lucid. See Per-.

PENE- (L.), almost, as _pen_insula.

PER- (L.), through, as _per_mit; thoroughly, as _per_fect; also appearing
as PAR-, PEL-, PIL-, as in _par_son, _par_don, _pel_lucid, _pil_grim. In
_per_jure, _per_ish, it has a destructive force, equivalent to Eng. FOR- in
_for_swear (_for-_, A.S.). [Akin to Gr. _para-_, beside, Eng. _for-_, Ger.
_ver_.]

PERI- (Gr.), round, as _peri_meter, _peri_phrasis. [Gr. _peri_; Sans.
_pari_, also allied to Gr. _para_.]

POL-, POR- (L.), as _pol_lute, _por_tend. [From Old L. _port-_, towards;
cf. Ger. _pros_, Eng. _forth_.]

POLY- (Gr.), many, as _poly_gamy.

POR-, as in _por_trait. See Pro- (2).

POST- (L.), after, backwards, behind, as _post_date, _post_script,
_post_pone.

POUR-, PUR- (Fr.--L.), as _pour_tray, _pur_vey. [Fr.--L. _pro-_.]

PRE-, PRÆ- (L.), before, as _pre_dict, _pre_fer, _pre_arrange, _præ_tor;
also in _pri_son and _pro_vost. [L. _præ_, akin to L. _pro_.]

PRETER- (L.), beyond, as _preter_it, _preter_natural, _preter_mit. [L.
_præter_--_præ_, with comp. suffix -_ter_.]

PRO- (Gr.), before, as prologue, programme, prophet. [Gr. pro; cog. with L.
pro-, Sans. pra, Eng. for (prep.).]

PRO- (L.), forth, forward, before, instead, as _pro_ject; instead of, from
the idea of being before, as _pro_noun, _pro_consul. Appearing also as
POR-, POUR-, PR-, PROF-, PUR-, and as PROD- in _prod_igal.--Of Fr. origin,
_pro_ceed, _pur_chase, _pur_pose, _pur_sue, _pur_vey. [Cog. with _pro-_
(Gr.), which see.]

PROS- (Gr.), towards, as _pros_elyte, _pros_ody.

PROTO-, PROT- (Gr.), first, as _proto_type, _prot_oxide. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_,
first.]

PUR-. See under Pour-.



RE-, RED-, REN- (L.), change of place or condition, as in _re_move,
_re_union (an assemblage of things or persons formerly apart); hence,
change of motion from one direction to the opposite='back,' 'again,'as
_re_tract, _re_sound, _re_deem, _re_dolent. It appears as REN- in _ren_der,
&c.; as R- in _r_ally, _r_ampart; as RA- in _ra_gout. In _re_build,
_re_mind, &c. it has been prefixed to English words.

RETRO- (L.), back, backwards, as _retro_spect, _retro_grade.--Of Fr.
origin, _rere_ward, ar_rear_, &c.



S- for _Se-_, as in _s_ure; for _Dis-_, as in _s_pend; for _Ex-_, as in
_s_ample; for _Sub-_, as in _s_ombre.

SE-, SED- (L.), without, as _se_cure; aside, as _se_duce, _se_cede,
_sed_ition; appearing as S- in _s_ure, _s_ober.

SEMI- (L.), half, as _semi_circle. [L.; cog. with Gr. h[=e]mi.]

SINE- (L.), without, as _sine_cure.

SO-, as in _so_journ. See Sub-.

SO-, as in _so_ber. See Se-.

SOVR-, SOPR-. See Super-.

SU-, as in _su_spect. See Sub-.

SUB- (L.), by assimilation, before _c_, _f_, _g_, _m_, _p_, _r_, _s_--SUC-,
SUF-, SUG-, SUM-, SUP-, SUR-, SUS-; under, from under, after, as _sub_ject,
_sus_pect, _suc_ceed, _suf_fuse, _sug_gest, _sum_mon, _sup_port,
_sur_prise, _sus_pend--also as S- in _s_ombre and SO- in _so_journ.--Of Fr.
origin, _suc_cour, _sum_mon; Eng. formations, _sub_let, _sub-_kingdom,
_sub-_worker. [L. _sub_ (which in O. Fr. became _so-_).]

SUBTER- (L.), under, as _subter_fuge. [From _Sub-_, and compar. suffix
-_ter_, meaning motion.]

SUC-, SUF-, SUG-, SUM-, SUP-. See Sub-.

SUPER- (L.), over, above, beyond, as _super_structure, _super_natural.--Of
Fr. origin, _sur_face, _sur_feit, _sur_pass, _sur_prise;--Eng. compounds,
_super_abundant, _super_cargo, _super_critical. [L.; cog. with Sans.
_upari_, Gr. _hyper_.]

SUPRA- (L.), over, above, as _supra_mundane. [Contr. of ablative fem. of
_superus_, above, from _Super-_.]

SUR- (Fr.), over, as _sur_mount. [Fr., from L. _super_.]

SUR-, as in _sur_rogate. See Sub-.

SUS-, as in _sus_pend. See Sub-.

SYN-, SY-, SYL-, SYM- (Gr.), together, with, as _syn_tax, _sys_tem,
_syl_lable, _sym_bol, _sym_metry. [Cog. with _Com-_.]



T-, in _t_wit, for _at_; in _t_awdry=_Saint Awdry_, the _t_ being the final
letter of saint; in _t_autology, representing the Greek article _to_.

THOROUGH- (A.S.), through, as _thorough_fare. [A.S. _ðurh_, through.]

TO- (A.S.), in _to-_day, _to_gether, _to_ward, here-_to-_fore, is the prep.
_to_. [A.S. _tó_.]

TO- (A.S.), asunder, as in _to-_brake. [A.S. _tó-_; cf. Ger. _zer-_, Gr.
_dys-_.]

TRANS-, TRA-, TRAN-, TRES-, TRE- (L.), beyond, across, as _trans_port,
_tra_verse, _tran_scend, _tres_pass, and _tre_ason (through French).

TRI- (L.), thrice, as in _tri_ple, _tre_ble.

TWI- (A.S.), double, as in _twi_light. [A.S. _twí-_, double, _twá_, two.]



U- (Gr.), no, not, as _U_topia. [Gr. _ou_, not.]

ULTRA- (L.), beyond, as _ultra_marine. The French form _outre_ appears in
_out_rage and in _utter_ance. [From _ulter_ (stem of _ulterior_), _ul-_
being from root of L. _ille_.]

UM-, in _um_pire. See Non-.

UN- (A.S.), negative prefix, not, as _un_happy, _un_truth, _un_couth. [Cog.
with Gr. _an-_ and L. _in_- (negative).]

UN- (A.S.), verbal prefix, signifying the reversal of an action, as
_un_lock, _un_bind, _un_do, _un_wind. [A.S. _on-_, _un-_; cf. Dut. _ont-_,
Ger. _ent-_, Goth. _and-_. See A- (A.S.) (2).]

UN-, UNI- (L.), one, as _un_animous, _uni_form. [L. unus, one.]

UNDER- (A.S.), under, below, as _under_growth, _under_wood, _under_prop,
_under_sell. [See _Under_ in Dict.]

UP- (A.S.), up, as _up_land, _up_start, _up_right, _up_hill, _up_braid,
_up_set. [A.S. _up_, _upp_; Ger. _auf_.]



VE- (L.), apart from, as _ve_stibule. [L. _ue_, apart from; prob. allied to
_bi-_ and _duo_, two.]

VIS-, VICE- (Fr.--L.), in place of, as _vis_count, _vice_roy. [Fr. _vis-_,
from L. _vice_, instead of.]



WAN- (A.S.), wanting, as _wan_ton. [See _Wanton_ in Dict.]

WITH- (A.S.), against, back, as _with_stand, _with_draw; with, near, as
within (this meaning is very rare as prefix). [A.S. _with_--_wither_. See
_With_ in Dict.]



Y-. See under I-.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUFFIXES.

-ABLE, adj. suffix, capable of, as port_able_, laugh_able_; cf. also
come-at_-able_, get-at_-able_. [L., according to the stem-ending,
_-abilis_, _-ebilis_, _-ibilis_, _-ubilis_.]

-AC, adj. suffix, pertaining to, as elegi_ac_; also used as noun suffix, as
mani_ac_. [L. _-acus_, Gr. _-akos_.]

-ACEOUS, having the qualities of, as herb_aceous_. [L. _-aceus_.]

-ACIOUS, full of, as aud_acious_. [L. _-ax_, _-acis_.]

-ADE, noun suffix, the L. _-ata_, which in popular French words appears as
_-ée_, becomes _-ade_ in words borrowed from the Provençal, Spanish,
Portuguese, and even Italian, as in accol_ade_, gascon_ade_. Also we have
ambass_ade_, ambusc_ade_, balustr_ade_, brig_ade_, casc_ade_, &c. from
French, words in _-ade_. Examples of words formed in imitation of these in
English itself are block_ade_, orange_ade_.

-AGE, ending of abstract nouns, as hom_age_; marks place where, as
vicar_age_;--of English formation, bond_age_, brew_age_, parson_age_. [L.
_-aticum_; Fr. _-age_.]

-AIN, -AN, -EN, -ON, noun suffixes, as vill_ain_, pag_an_, ward_en_,
surge_on_. [L. _-anus_.]

-AL, adj. suffix, as annu_al_, leg_al_, mort_al_, cardin_al_;--of English
or French formation, circumstanti_al_, cordi_al_, nation_al_. Noun suffix,
as approv_al_, deni_al_, remov_al_, betroth_al_. Latin nouns in _-alia_
(neut. pl.) which survived into Old French became _-aille_ (fem. sing.),
adopted in Middle English as _-aylle_, _-aille_, later _-aile_, _-al_, as
Latin spons_[=a]lia_, O. Fr. espous_ailles_, M. E. spous_aille_, spous_al_;
L. batt_[=a]lia_, O. Fr. bat_aille_, M. E. bat_aille_, bat_ail_, battle. On
this analogy, _-aille_, _-ail_, _-al_, became a formative of nouns of
action on verbs of French or Latin, and even of Teutonic, origin. [L.
_-alis_; Fr. _-al_, _-el_.]

-AN, -AIN, -ANE, adj. suffix, as hum_an_, cert_ain_, hum_ane_;--of English
formation, Anglic_an_, suburb_an_. Noun suffix [L. _-anus_; Fr. _-ain_,
_-en_], as public_an_, veter_an_. [L. _-anus_; Fr. _-ain_, _-en_.]

-ANA, things belonging to, such as sayings, anecdotes, &c., as
Johnsoni_ana_, Burnsi_ana_. [L. neut. pl. of adjs. in _-anus_. See _-an_.]

-ANCE, -ENCE (L. _-antia_, _-entia_, Fr. _-ance_), noun suffix, as in
arrog_ance_, repent_ance_, experi_ence_, penit_ence_.

-ANCY, -ENCY, a modern English differentiated form of the earlier _-ance_,
expressing more distinctly the sense of quality, state, or condition, often
belonging to Latin substantives in _-ntia_, as in eleg_antia_,
'elegantness,' as distinct from the sense of action or process, regularly
expressed by the French form _-ance_, as in aid_ance_, guid_ance_. The
modern tendency is to confine _-nce_ to action, and to express quality or
state by _-ncy_; cf. compli_ance_, pli_ancy_, annoy_ance_, buoy_ancy_.

-AND, -END, noun suffix, as vi_and_, leg_end_. [L. _-andus_, _-endus_,
gerundial suffix.]

-ANEOUS, belonging to, as extr_aneous_. [L. _-aneus_.]

-ANT, -ENT, adj. suffix, as repent_ant_, pati_ent_. Also noun suffix,
sometimes denoting the agent, as inst_ant_, serge_ant_, stud_ent_,
innoc_ent_. [L. _-ans_, _-ant-is_, or _-ens_, _-ent-is_, suffix of pr.p.]

-AR, adj. suffix, belonging to, as angul_ar_, popul_ar_. [L. _-aris_; Fr.
_-ier_ or _-aire_.]

-AR, -ARD, -ART. See under -er (marking the agent).

-AR, -ER, -OR, noun suffixes, marking place where, as cell_ar_, lard_er_,
man_or_ [L. _-arium_];--denoting the agent, as vic_ar_, treasur_er_,
chancell_or_. [L. _-arius_.]

-ARD, intensive, as drunk_ard_, cow_ard_, slugg_ard_, wiz_ard_. [O. Fr.
_-ard_, _-art_; Ger. _-hard_, strong.]

-ARY, noun suffix, marking place where, as semin_ary_ [L. _-arium_]; the
agent, as secret_ary_, antiqu_ary_ [L. _-arius_]. Adjective suffix [L.
_-arius_, Fr. _-aire_], as contr_ary_, necess_ary_, second_ary_.

-ASM. See under -ism.

-ASS, -ACE, as cuir_ass_, cutl_ass_, men_ace_, pinn_ace_. [L. _-aceus_,
_-acius_; It. _-accio_, Fr. _-as_.]

-ASTER, dim. and freq. (often implying contempt), as poet_aster_. [Fr.
_-artre_ (It. _astro_)--L. _-as-ter_.]

-ATE, -ETE, -ITE, -UTE, -T, forming adjectives--all adapted forms of the
endings of past participles in Latin according to the conjugation of the
verbs from which they are formed, as accur_ate_, desol_ate_; compl_ete_,
repl_ete_; contr_ite_, exquis_ite_; absol_ute_, min_ute_; abjec_t_,
elec_t_.

-ATE, verbal suffix, as navig_ate_, perme_ate_. Adj., as above. Noun, as
leg_ate_, advoc_ate_. [Norm. Fr. _at_--L. _-[=a]tus_, suffix of pa.p.]



-BLE. See -able.

-BLE, -PLE, fold, as dou_ble_, tre_ble_, quadru_ple_. [L. _-plus_, lit.
'full.']

-BUND and -CUND, as mori_bund_, rubi_cund_. [L. _-bundus_ and _-cundus_;
Fr. _-bond_ and _-cond_.]



-CE. See under -s, adverbial suffix.

-CELLI, -CELLO, dim., as vermi_celli_, violon_cello_. [It., from L.
_-culus_.]

-CH, dim., as blot_ch_. [See -ock.]

-CLE, -CULE, dim., as in parti_cle_, animal_cule_, from L. _culus_, which
also gives (through It.) -CELLI, -CELLO, [See under -l.]

-CRAFT, noun suffix, as in book_craft_, priest_craft_. [A.S. _cræft_,
skill.]

-CY, -SY, noun suffix, denoting being, or state of being, condition, rank,
as clemen_cy_, bankrupt_cy_, cura_cy_, minstrel_sy_. [L. _-tia_, as in
constan_tia_, constan_cy_, or _-tio_, as in conspira_tio_, conspira_cy_.]



-D, -T, or -ED, pa.t. suffix, as loved. The _e_ in _-ed_ is the connecting
vowel, omitted when the verb ends in e. [A.S. _-de_, 'did,' from _di-de_,
pa.t. of do.]

-D, pa.p. suffix of weak verbs, as love_d_; in nouns (with passive
meaning), as dee_d_, see_d_; in adjectives formed from nouns, as connoting
the possession of the attribute or thing expressed by the substantive, as
boote_d_, feathere_d_, woode_d_; in the form -TH (or -T), in abstract nouns
from adjectives and, later on, from verbs, as dea_th_, fligh_t_, swif_t_,
(with euphonic _-s_-) du_-s__-t_, bla_-s__-t_. [Orig. _-th_, as in
uncou_th_, and from the root of _the_, _that_; seen also in the L. suffix
_-tu-s_, as in _no-tu-s_, Sans. _jna-ta-s_, and in the Gr. suffix _-to-s_.]

-DOM, noun suffix, denoting dominion, power, as king_dom_; state, as
free_dom_; act, as martyr_dom_. New words, as flunkey_dom_, can be coined.
[A.S. _dóm_, judgment, Ger. _-thum_.]

-DOR, -DORE, noun suffix, as in corri_dor_, mata_dore_, steve_dore_,
battle_door_. [Sp. -DOR, L. _-tor_.]



-ED. See -d.

-EE, noun suffix, one who or that which is (passive), as trust_ee_,
legat_ee_. In such words as absent_ee_, devot_ee_, the old function of
_-ee_ is entirely lost; refug_ee_ is adopted from Fr. _refugié_, grand_ee_
from Sp. _grande_. [Fr. _-é_--L. _-[=a]tus_, suffix of pa.p.]

-EER, -IER, one who, has frequentative meaning, as chariot_eer_; also -ER,
-AR, as in carpent_er_, vic_ar_. [Fr. _-ier_---L. _-arius_.]

-EL, dim., as dams_el_. [See under -l.]

-EN, dim., as chick_en_, maid_en_. [A.S. _-en_.]

-EN, fem. suffix, now found only in vix_en_. [A.S. _-en_, _-n_; Ger. _-in_,
Gr. _-ine_, L. _-ina_.]

-EN, added to noun-stems to form adjectives chiefly indicating the material
of which a thing is composed. From the 16th century onwards there has been
a tendency to discard these adjectives for the attributive use of the
substantive, as in 'a gold watch;' only a few words are still familiarly
used in their literal sense--earth_en_, wheat_en_, wood_en_, wooll_en_.
[A.S. _-en_; Goth. _-en_, _-an_, Ger. _-en_, _-ein_, Sans. _-um_; a
genitive suffix, as in mi_ne_.]

-EN, pa.p., as wov_en_, bor_ne_, swo_rn_. [A.S. _-n_, _-ne_, _-en_; conn.
with _-ant_, _-ent_.]

-EN, pl. suffix, as ox_en_, ki_ne_ (for M. E. _kyen_--A.S. _cý_, pl. of
_cú_, a cow). [A.S. _-an_.]

-EN, to make, as dark_en_, moist_en_, strength_en_, whit_en_.

-EN, -IN, -ENE, belonging to, as ali_en_, verm_in_, terr_ene_. [L. _-enus_,
_-ena_, _-enum_.]

-ENCE, -ENCY. See -nce, -ncy.

-ENT, belonging to, as different. [L. _-ens_, _-entis_. See -ant.]

-EOUS, in right_eous_, corr. of -wise (which see); in court_eous_, from O.
Fr. _-eis_ (from L. _-ensis_.)

-EOUS, same as in -ous, as lign_eous_. [L. _-eus_.]

-ER, freq. and intens., as glimm_er_, flutt_er_.

-ER, infinitive suffix, as cov_er_, encount_er_. [Fr, _-re_, _-ir_, from L.
pres. infin. _-[=a]re_, _-[=e]re_, _-[)e]re_, _-[=i]re_.]

-ER marks the agent, designating persons according to their occupation, as
writ_er_, sing_er_, hatt_er_, lead_er_, sometimes changed to _-ar_, as
li_ar_; with _-i-_ or _-y-_ prefixed, as cloth_-i__-er_, law_-y-er_ (where
the A.S. primitive substantive ends in [gh]); with excrescent _-t_ or _-d_,
as bragg_-ar__-t_. Note that in the words _auger_, _heifer_, _shelter_,
what looks like the suffix _-er_ is really an independent substantive.
[A.S. _-ere_; Goth. _-arja_, Ger. _-er_.]

-ER, more, used in compar. of adjs., as great_er_, mo_re_. [Aryan compar.,
suffix _-ra_.]

-ER, noun suffix, as matt_er_, gutt_er_. [Fr. _-iere_--L. _-eria_.]

-EREL, dim. suffix, as mack_erel_. [See under -l.]

-ERIE, place where, as menag_erie_. [Fr., from L. _-arium_. See -ery.]

-ERLY, direction to or from, as south_erly_. [From _-ern_ and _-ly_.]

-ERN, adj. suffix sig. direction, as south_ern_ [A.S. _-er__-n_]; adj.
suffix, sig. belonging to, as mod_ern_ [L. _-ernus_]; noun suffix, as
cist_ern_ [L. _-erna_].

-ERY, noun suffix, as brew_ery_, witch_ery_, cutl_ery_. [Noun suffix -Y
added to nouns in -ER (marking agent). See -ary, -erie, -ory.]

-ES or -S, pl. suffix, as fox_es_, hat_s_. [A.S. _-as_. -S is a general pl.
suffix, as L. and Gr. _-es_.]

-ESCENT, adj. suffix, denoting growing, becoming, as conval_escent_. [L.
_-esco_, _-isco_, _-asco_, Gr. _-ask[=o]_, suffix, implying becoming,
beginning.]

-ESE, adj. suffix, belonging to, as Japan_ese_. [L. _-ensis_; O. Fr.
_-eis_, mod. Fr. _-ois_, _-ais_.]

-ESQUE, adj. suffix, partaking of the quality of, as pictur_esque_,
grot_esque_, Turner_esque_. [Fr. _-esqe_ (It. _-esco_)--L. _-iscus_, a
by-form of _-icus_ (see -ic), and conn. with -ish, adj. suffix.]

-ESS, fem. suffix of nouns, as lion_ess_, godd_ess_. [Fr. _-esse_, L.
_-issa_.]

-ESS, -ICE, -ISE, as prow_ess_, just_ice_, merchand_ise_. Note that
_riches_ was mistaken for a plural, being really M. E. _richesse_--Fr.
_richesse_. [L. _-itia_, _-ities_, Late L. _-icia_, Fr. _-esse_.]

-EST, as in harv_est_, earn_est_.

-EST, suffix of 2d sing. in verbs, as bring_est_. [A.S. _-ast_, _-est_; L.
_-es_, _-isti_; Gr. _-si_, _-sthon_. -S or -ST = 2d pers. pron., Gr. _sy_
(_su_), L. _tu_, Eng. _thou_.]

-EST, superl. suffix, formed from the compar. by adding _-t_, as
small_est_. [A.S. _-est_ (in adjectives), _-ost_ (in adverbs); L.
_-issimus_, Gr. _-istos_, _-stos_, _-tatos_. Sans. _-ishta_.]

-ET, -ETE, noun suffix, marking the agent, as proph_et_, po_et_, athl_ete_.
[L. _-[=e]ta_, Gr. _-[=e]t[=e]_s.]

-ET, -ETTE, -OT, dim., as cygn_et_, bill_et_, etiqu_ette_, ball_ot_. See
also -let. [Norm. Fr. _-et_, _-ot_; Fr. _-et_, _-ette_.]

-EUR. See under -or.

-EVER, at any time, as who_ever_, every one who. [See _Ever_ in Dict.]



-FARE, way, as in wel_fare_, chaf_fer_. [See _Fare_ in Dict.]

-FAST, adj. suffix, as in stead_fast_, shame_faced_ (A.S. _scamfæst_).
[A.S. _fæst_, firm, fast.]

-FOLD, adj. suffix, as four_fold,_ mani_fold_. [A.S. _-feald_.]

-FUL, full of, as delight_ful_. [A.S. _-full_.]

-FY, a verbal suffix signifying to make, as puri_fy_. [Fr. _-fier_--L.
_-fic-[=a]re_, for _fac-[)e]re_, to make.]



-HEAD, -HOOD, noun suffix, denoting state, nature, as God_head_, man_hood_,
likeli_hood_, hardi_hood_. Note that liveli_hood_ was in A.S.
_líflád_=_líf_, life + _lád_, way; the second part ceased to be understood,
and thus _-lihood_ took its place. [From A.S. _hád_, Ger. _-heit_, state;
changed into Hood.]



-I, pl. suffix of nouns in _-us_, as in literat_i_ [L. _-i_; conn. with
Ger. _-ai_, _-oi_]; also pl. suffix of nouns borrowed from It., as banditti
[It.--L.].

-IAN, adj. suffix, as Arab_ian_, Christ_ian_. See -an. [L. _-ianus_; Fr.
_-ien_.]

-IBLE, adj. suffix, as poss_ible_, flex_ible_. [From L. _-ibilis_, another
form of _-abilis_. See _-able_.]

-IC, adj. suffix, of or belonging to, as gigant_ic_, publ_ic_, volta_ic_.
Also largely used as noun suffix, as fabr_ic_. [L. _-icus_, _-ica_,
_-icum_, Gr. _-ikos_; Fr. _-ic_, _-igne_.]

-ICAL, adj. suffix, belonging to, as cub_ical_, whims_ical_. [_-ic_ and
_-al_.]

-ICE, noun suffix, as chal_ice_ [Fr.--L. _-ex_, _-icis_]; nov_ice_ [Fr.--L.
_-icius_]. [See another -ice under -ess, -ice, -ise.]

-ICISM. See -ism.

-ICS, lit. things that belong to a science, as mathemat_ics_. [In imitation
of Gr. _-ika_, neuter pl. of adjs. in _-ikos_. See -ic.]

-ID, noun suffix, as Nere_id_; also used in coining chemical words, as
chlor_ide_, ox_ide_, brom_ide_ [L. _-id_-, Gr. _-id_-, Fr. _-ide_]. Also
adj. suffix, as tep_id_, ac_id_, morb_id_ [L. _-idus_].

-IE, -Y, dim., as lass_ie_. [From _-ick_, a weakened form of -ock.]

-IER, noun suffix, one who, as caval_ier_, cloth_ier_, braz_ier_, hos_ier_.
[Fr. _-ier_; usually appears in form -eer.]

-IFF. See -ive.

-IL, -ILE, able, as civ_il_, duct_ile_. [L. _-[)i]lis_, from verbal roots,
_-[=i]lis_, from noun-stems; to be distinguished from -ile (below). See
-able.]

-ILE, belonging to, as Gent_ile_. [L. _-ilis_.]

-IM, pl. suffix, as cherub_im_. [Heb. _îm_.]

-INA, fem. suffix, as czar_ina_. [See _-en_, fem.]

-INE, fem. suffix, as hero_ine_. [See _-en_, fem.]

-INE, -IN, noun suffix, as rav_ine_, medic_ine_, cous_in_; much used in
chemical compounds, as iod_ine_, glycer_ine_, brom_ine_. Also adj. suffix,
as adamant_ine_, div_ine_. [L. _-inus_, _-ina_; Fr. _-in_.]

-ING, suffix of present participles (often used as adjectives), as
lov_ing_, charm_ing_. [Corr. of A.S. _-ende_, which, as also _-ande_, it
replaced. See -nd, also -ant, -ent.]

-ING, noun suffix, forming nouns of action from verbs, as liv_ing_,
dwell_ing_; these often acquire a concrete sense, as learn_ing_. [A.S.
_-ung_, _-ing_; Ger. _-ung_.]

-ING, representing Teut. _ingoz_ (masc.), with several functions--(1)
_-ing_ (A.S. _-ing_), patronymic _æðeling_ (the son of a noble), _cyning_
(lit. 'son of a king,' _cyne_ = king), _Elising_ (the son of Elisa). This
suffix is preserved in proper names, as Hard_ing_, Mann_ing_; esp. in
place-names, as Bill_ing_sgate, Read_ing_. (2) -ING is also found in names
of animals, as in herr_ing_, whit_ing_. (3) -ING in names of coins has also
a sense of diminution, as in farth_ing_ (the fourth part, viz., of a
penny), shill_ing_.

-ION, -SION, -TION, -SON, -SOM, being, state of being, as opin_ion_,
rebell_ion_, relig_ion_, ten_sion_, poi_son_, ran_som_, rea_son_, sea_son_,
crea_tion_. [L. _-io_, _-tio_, _-sio_; Fr. _-ion_, _-sion_, _-tion_.]

-IOR, more, term. of comp. degree, as super_ior_. [L. _-ior_. See -er,
more.]

-IQUE, belonging to, as ant_ique_. [Fr.--L. _-iquus_; conn. with _-ic_, L.
_-icus_. See -ac.]

-ISE, -IZE, verbal suffix, signifying to make; as equal_ise_. [L.
_-iz[=a]re_, from Gr. _-izein_; Fr. _-iser_.]

-ISE, noun suffix. See -ice.

-ISH, adj. suffix, ethnic, as Ir_ish_; signifying somewhat, as brown_ish_,
old_ish_; sometimes implying depreciation, as outland_ish_, child_ish_.
[A.S. _-isc_.]

-ISH, verbal suffix, signifying to make, as establ_ish_. [From Fr. pr.p.
suffix _-iss-ant_; chiefly used in words from the Fr. The Fr. _-iss_- is
from L. _-esc_-, inceptive.]

-ISK, dim., as aster_isk_. [Gr. _-iskos_; conn. with _-ish_, little. See
-ock.]

-ISM, -ASM, -ICISM, forming abstract nouns sig. condition, system, as
ego_ism_, de_ism_, Calvin_ism_, lacon_ism_, pleon_asm_; Angl_icism_,
wittic_ism_. [L. _-ismus_, _-asmus_--Gr. _-ismos_, _-asmos_.]

-IST, denoting the person who holds a doctrine or practises an art, as
Calvin_ist_, chem_ist_, novel_ist_, art_ist_, royal_ist_, nihil_ist_. [L.
_-ista_--Gr. _-ist[=e]s_.]

-ITE, -IT, noun suffix, born in, belonging to, as Israel_ite_, Jesu_it_.
[L. _-ita_--Gr. _-it[=e]s_.]

-ITUDE, noun suffix, as fort_itude_, mult_itude_. [L. _-itudo_.]

-IVE (-IFF), forming nouns, orig. an adjectival suffix, as bail_iff,_
capt_ive_, nat_ive_, plaint_iff_; forming adjectives (L. _-ivus_), as
act_ive_, extens_ive_, furt_ive_.

-IX, fem. suffix, as testatr_ix_. [L. _-ix_, _-icis_. Conn. with _-ess_,
fem. suffix.]

-IZE, to make, same as -ise.



-K, a verbal suffix, freq. or intens., as har_k_, lur_k_, tal_k_, wal_k_.

-KIN, dim., as bump_kin_, fir_kin_, lamb_kin_, manni_kin_, nap_kin_; also
in proper names, as Jen_kins_ (_John_), Per_kins_ (_Peterkin_), Wil_kins_
(_William_). [A.S. _-cen_--very rare, the currency of the suffix being due
to words adopted from Dutch or Low German; Ger. _-chen_.]

-KIND, noun suffix, kind, race, as man_kind_, woman_kind_. [See -kin
above.]



-L, -LE, -EL (after _v_, _th_, _ch_, _n_), represents A.S. _-el_, _-ela_,
_-ele_, and serves to form agent-nouns, instrumental substantives, and
diminutives, as nai_l_, sai_l_; bead_le_, fidd_le_, sick_le_, app_le_,
bramb_le_, bund_le_, icic_le_, nett_le_; runn_el_. -AL is sometimes from
A.S. _-els_ from _isli_, as brid_le_, ridd_le_, buri_al_. -L, -LE, as a
verbal suffix, gives to the root the sense of frequency, repetition,
diminution, as knee_l_, drizz_le_, nest_le_, spark_le_.

-LEDGE. See -lock (1).

-LENCE, -LENCY, forming abstract nouns. [L. _-l-entia_, from _-lens_. See
-lent.]

-LENT, adj. suffix, full of, as vio_lent_, viru_lent_. [L. _-lentus_.]

-LESS, adj. suffix, free from, wanting, as guilt_less_, god_less_. [A.S.
_-léas_, Ger. _-los_, Goth. _-laus_.]

-LET, dim., as brace_let_, leaf_let_, stream_let_. [From -L and -ET, dim.
in certain words formed with _-et_ on substantives ending in _-el_.]

-LIKE, like, as god_like_. [See _Like_ in Dict.]

-LING, dim., hence expressing affection, as dar_ling_ (A.S. _déorling_),
duck_ling_, gos_ling_; sometimes implying depreciation, as hire_ling_,
ground_ling_, under_ling_, world_ling_. [A.S. _-ling_.]

-LING, -LONG, adv. suffix, as dark_ling_, side_long_. [A.S. _-lunga_,
_-linga_.]

-LOCK, noun suffix, in wed_lock_ and know_ledge_. It is the A.S. _lác_, the
same as _lác_, sport.

-LOCK, -LICK, noun suffix, being a weakened form of A.S. _leác_, a leek, as
in hem_lock_, gar_lic_, char_lock_.

-LY, adj. and adv. suffix, as man_ly_, on_ly_, wicked_ly_. [The adj. suffix
is from A.S. _líc_, Eng. _like_; adv. is from _líc-e_, dat. of _líc_.]



-M, noun suffix, as blosso_m_ [A.S. _blóstma_]; fatho_m_ [A.S. _-ma_,
_-m_]; as real_m_, regi_me_ [Fr.,--L. _-men_].

-MA, noun suffix, as diora_ma_, ene_ma_. [Gr.]

-MEAL, adv. suffix, as inch_meal_, piece_meal_. [A.S. _-m['æ]lum_.]

-MEN, that which, state, as regi_men_, acu_men_. [Only in words borrowed
from Latin. L. _-men_; Sans. _-man_. See -ment, -mony.]

-MENT, noun suffix, as nourish_ment_, establish_ment_, detri_ment_;--of
Eng. formation, acknowledg_ment_, employ_ment_. [L. _-mentum_, Fr. _-ment_.
See -men.]

-MONY, as testi_mony_, parsi_mony_. [L. _-mon-iu-m_, _-mon-ia_. See -men.]

-MOST, suffix of superl. deg., as end_most_. See _Most_ in Dict. [In most
cases this suffix is not the word _most_, the _m_ being part of the root,
or an old superl. suffix, and _-ost_, the superl. suffix, as in
in_most_=in_-m-ost_. See -est, superl. suffix.]



-N, in participles, as broke_n_, hew_n_; in substantives, as bair_n_,
beaco_n_, burde_n_, chi_n_, cor_n_, heave_n_, maide_n_.

-NCE, -NCY, forming abstract nouns, as dista_nce_, dece_ncy_. [Fr.
_-nce_--L. _-nt-ia_.]

-ND, as fie_nd_ (lit. 'hating'), frie_nd_ (lit. 'loving'). [A.S. pr.p.
suffix.]

-NESS, noun suffix, denoting abstract idea, as tender_ness_, sweet_ness_.
[A.S. _-nis_, _-nes_, cog. with Ger. _-niss_.]



-OCK, dim., as hill_ock_, bull_ock_--also in proper names, as Poll_ock_
(from _Paul_), &c. In stir_k_ we see the simple suffix _-k_, the word being
the diminutive of _steer_, A.S. _stéor_, whence _stýric_, a stirk. [A.S.
_-uca_--Aryan _-ka_. See -ie and -ing, dim.]

-OM, old dative suffix, now used as objective, as wh_om_; in adverbs of
time, as seld_om_. [A.S. _-um_.]

-ON, -EON, -ION, noun suffix, as cap_on_, mas_on_, trunch_eon_, on_ion_,
clar_ion_. [Fr.--L. _-onem_, _ionem_.]

-OON, noun suffix, often augmentative, as ball_oon_, sal_oon_. [Fr. _-on_,
It. _-one_.]

-OR, -OUR, -ER, denoting the agent, sometimes directly from L. (see -tor),
but mostly through O. Fr. _-[)o]r_, _-our_ (mod. Fr. _eur_), as emper_or_
(old spelling emper_our_, Fr. _empereur_--L. _imperatorem_); in others,
Eng. _-er_ has supplanted _-eur_, _-our_, as preach_er_ (Fr. _prêcheur_--L.
_prædicatorem_), while _-or_ is at times affixed to Eng. roots, as
sail_or_. In certain abstract nouns from L. _-or_, Fr. _-eur_ is still
represented by -our, as col_our_, lab_our_, hon_our_, and in a few cases
directly retained, as in grand_eur_. The words demean_our_ and behavi_our_
are English formations with _-our_.

-ORY, belonging to, as prefat_ory_ [L. _-orius_]; place where, as
purgat_ory_. [L. _-orium_.]

-OSE, full of, as bellic_ose_, mor_ose_, verb_ose_. [L. _-osous_. See
-ous.]

-OT, dim., as ball_ot_. [See -et, dim.]

-OUR. See -or.

-OUS, adj. suffix, as religi_ous_, deliri_ous_, curi_ous_ [L. _-osus_];
dubi_ous_, anxi_ous_ [L. _-us_].--In righte_ous_ the _ous_ has replaced
_wís_, A.S. _rihtwís_.

-OW, noun suffix, as shad_ow_ [from A.S. _-u_]; swall_ow_ [from A.S.
_-ewe_]; marr_ow_ [from A.S. _-h_]. Also adj. suffix, as narr_ow_ [from
A.S. _-u_].



-PLE. See _-ble_, fold.



-R, noun suffix, marking the instrument, as stai_r_, timb_er_; adj. suffix,
as bitt_er_.

-RE, place, as he_re_. [A.S. _-r_, _-ra_, orig. a locative suffix.]

-RED, noun suffix, denoting manner, state, as hat_red_, kind_red_ (in A.S.
_cynren_, a shortening of _cynn-ryne_, in M. E. the meaningless _-ren_
being supplanted by _-red_). [A.S. _-r['æ]den_; cog. with Ger. _-rath_. See
_Read_ in Dict.]

-RED, in hundred. This is cog. with Ice. hund_rað_, Ger. hund_ert_, the
suffix implying number, reckoning.

-RIC, noun suffix, formerly an independent word denoting dominion, power,
region, as bishop_ric_. [A.S. _ríce_, power.]

-RIGHT, as up_right_, down_right_. [A.S. _riht_.]

-RY, noun suffix, originally with a collective meaning, as _chevalerie_,
'body of knights;' now expressing action or quality, as bigot_ry_,
pedant_ry_, sorce_ry_; condition, as outlaw_ry_, slave_ry_; trade, as
carpent_ry_, herald_ry_; the place of action or occupation, as laund_ry_,
nurse_ry_; the result or product of action, as poet_ry_, tapest_ry_;
forming collective nouns, as infant_ry_, yeoman_ry_. [Fr. _rie_ = _er_ +
_ie_.]



-S, adverbial suffix, as need_s_, alway_s_, on_ce_, hen_ce_, then_ce_,
whil_-s_-t, betwi_-x_-t. [A.S. _-es_, gen. suffix.]

-'S, is the present genitive suffix. [Short for A.S. _-es_--Aryan _-s_ or
_sya_, orig. a demons. pron. The (') is prob. due to a false notion that
this _-s_ was a relic of _his_.]

-S, -SE, verbal suffix, making transitive verbs from adjectives, as
_cleanse_ (A.S. _cl['æ]nsian_), _rinse_ (Ice. _hreinsa_--_hreinn_, pure).
It also occurs in cla_s_p, gra_s_p, put for clap_-s_, grap_-s_.

-SHIP, -SCAPE, noun suffix, as friend_ship_, steward_ship_, wor_ship_,
land_scape_ (earlier land_skip_, the Dut. land_schap_). [A.S. _scipe_,
shape, form--_scapan_; cog. with Ger. _-schaft_.]

-SIS, action or state, as the_sis_. [Gr.]

-SOME, adj. suffix, full of, as glad_some_, bu_xom_ (orig. 'pliable,'
'good-natured,' A.S. _búhsum_, lissome, from _búgan_, to bow, bend). [A.S.
_-sum_, Ger. _-sam_; a by-form of _same_.]

-SON, son, as John_son_.

-SON, in ar_son_, rea_son_, trea_son_, the same as -tion (q.v.).

-ST. See -est, suffix of 2d sing.

-STER marks the agent, as malt_ster_, and in the personal names (orig.
trade-names) Ba_xter_, Brew_ster_, Web_ster_; often with depreciation, as
game_ster_, pun_ster_. [A.S. _-estre_, a fem. suffix, which now keeps this
sense only in spin_ster_.]

-STRESS, fem. suffix, as song_stress_. [From _-ster_, orig. fem. suffix,
with the addition of L. _-ess_.]

-SY, state, as pleuri_sy_. [Same as _-sis_.]



-T. See -d.

-T, -TE, adj. and noun suffix, as conven_t_, fac_t_, chas_te_, tribu_te_.
[L. _-tus_, pa.p. suffix; cog. with _-d_, pa.p. suffix.]

-TEEN, ten to be added, as four_teen_. [A.S. _-tyne_. Cf. _-ty_, ten to be
multiplied.]

-TER, noun suffix, as charac_ter_. [Gr. _-ter_, L. _-tor_, Sans. _-tri_;
perh. conn. with _-ster_.]

-TER, -THER, as in af_ter_, hi_ther_. [A.S. _-der_, _-ther_, old comp.
suffix.]

-TH, order, as six_th_. [Becomes also _-d_; conn. with L. _-tus_, _-tius_,
as in L. quar_tus_, fourth.]

-TH, suffix of 3d pers. sing. of verbs, now for the most part softened to
_-s_. [A.S. from root _-ta_, which appears in L. _-t_, Gr. _-ti_, _-si_,
_-tai_, _-to_.]

-TH, -T, noun suffix, as in streng_th_, heigh_t_; see under -d (pa.p.
suffix).

-THER, denoting the agent, as fa_ther_, mo_ther_. [Cf. _-tor_.]

-THER. See -ter, -ther.

-TOR, the agent, as conduc_tor_. See -ther, and cf. _-or_, _-our_, _-er_.

-TOR-Y, -SOR-Y, noun suffix, denoting place, as dormi_tory_.

-TUDE forms abstract nouns, as grati_tude_. [L. _-tudo_.]

-TY, being or state of being, as digni_ty_; quality, as hones_ty_. [L.
_-tas_, _-tatem_; O. Fr. _-té_.]

-TY, ten to be multiplied, as six_ty_. [A.S. _-tig_; cog. with Ger. _-zig_.
Cf. _-teen_.]



-ULE, little, dim. [from L. _-ulus_, _-ula_, _-ulum_], as in glob_ule_,
pust_ule_; also -CULE [L. _-culus_, _-cula_, _-culum_], as animal_cule_, or
[through Fr.] -CLE, as arti_cle_. A different Latin suffix _-culum_,
forming substantives from verbs, is represented in the form _-cle_ in
several words adopted through French, as mira_cle_, ora_cle_, specta_cle_.

-UM, neuter term., as medi_um_. [L. _-um_, Gr. _-on_.]

-UNCLE, little, dim., as ped_uncle_. [L. _-un-cu-l_us, A.S. _-incle_; conn.
with _-en_ and _-cule_, diminutives.]

-URE, noun suffix, denoting act of, as capt_ure_; state of being, as
verd_ure_.--In leis_ure_ and pleas_ure_, _-ir_ has been replaced by _-ure_,
O. Fr. leis_ir_, plais_ir_. [L. _-ura_; Fr. _-ure_.]

-URNAL, belonging to, as di_urnal_. [L. _-urn_-us and _-al_; conn. with
_-ern_ (in mod_ern_).]



-WARD, -WARDS, forming adjectives from substantives, adjectives, adverbs,
and prepositions, as east_ward_, home_ward_, home_wards_; down_ward_,
for_ward_, in_ward_, to_ward_. [A.S. _-weard_, gen. _-weardes_, cog. with
Ger. _-wärts_; conn. with A.S. _weorthan_, to be, and L.
_versus_--_vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

-WAY, -WAYS, adv. suffix, sig. manner, direction, as al_way_, al_ways_,
straight_way_. [Cf. _-wise_.]

-WISE, way, manner, as like_wise_, also righteous. [A.S. _-wíse_, manner;
Ger. _-wiss_.]

-WORTH, adj. suffix, as stal_worth_, stal_wart_. [A.S. _weorð_, _wurð_.]



-Y, adj. suffix, as spong_y_ [from L. _-iosus_]; as joll_y_ [Norm. Fr.
_-if_ from L. _-ivus_; cf. _-ive_]; as sill_y_, dirt_y_, an_y_ [A.S. _-ig_;
cog. with Ger. _-ig_, Goth. _-ha_, _-ga_, L. _-cu-s_, Gr. _-ko-s_].

-Y, noun suffix, as stor_y_, famil_y_, Ital_y_ [Fr. _-ie_, L. _-ia_]; as
augur_y_, jo_y_, remed_y_ [from L. _-ium_]; as all_y_, clergy, deput_y_,
treat_y_ [from L. _-[=a]tus_, Fr. _-é_]; as progen_y_ [from L. _-ies_]; as
arm_y_, countr_y_, entr_y_ [from L. _-[=a]ta_, Fr. _ée_]; as bod_y_ [from
A.S. _-ig_]; and perhaps the modern Eng. in forming diminutives or words of
contempt, as pupp_y_, bab_y_, lass_ie_, from _pup_, _babe_, _lass_; Bill_y_
from _Bill_; Bets_y_, Lizz_ie_, &c.

-YER, as in law_yer_. See -er, noun suffix.

       *       *       *       *       *


ETYMOLOGY OF NAMES OF PLACES, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The following are the more important significant syllables or words
    that enter into the composition of the names of rivers, mountains,
    towns, &c. See C. Blackie's _Dictionary of Place-Names_, Dr Joyce's
    _Irish Names of Places_, Isaac Taylor's _Words and Places_, and the
    Rev. James B. Johnston's _Place-Names of Scotland_ (1892).

A (A.S. _eá_, Ice. -_aa_), 'a stream;' as Gret_a_, Roth_a_, Thurs_o_
('Thor's stream'), Lax_ay_ ('salmon stream').

ABAD (Pers. and Sans.), 'a dwelling;' as Hyder_abad_, Allah_abad_.

ABER (Celt.), 'a confluence,' 'an embouchure;' as _Aber_feldy, _Aber_deen,
_Aber_ystwith, _Bar_mouth, _Aber_brothwick or _Ar_broath, Foch_abers_,
Loch_aber_, _Apple_cross for Aber-Crossan. [Synonymous with _Inver_.]

AIN (Heb.), 'a fountain;' as _En_gedi.

AK (Turk.), 'white;' as _Ak_-serai, 'white palace.'

ALL (Gael.), 'white;' AL-IAN, 'white water,' so the rivers _Allen_,
_Ellen_, _Aln_, _Lune_, _Allwen_, _Elwin_.

ALT (Gael.), 'a stream;' as _Alt_rive, _Alt_naharra, Garv_ald_.

AR, ARA, found in many river-names; as _Aire_, _Ayr_, _Aar_, _Aray_,
_Ir_vine, _Arno_, _Arve_. [Perh. conn. with Sans. _ara_, 'swift,'
'flowing.']

ARD (Celt.), 'high;' as _Ard_och, _Aird_rie, _Ard_rossan, _Ard_glass,
_Ard_en, _Ard_ennes.

ATH (Ir. and Gael.), 'a ford;' as _Ath_lone, _Ath_truim (now Trim),
_Ath_ole. The Gael. _abh_, 'water,' appears in _Ab_oyne, _Awe_.

AUCH (Gael.), AGH (Ir.), 'a field;' as _Auch_inleck, _Agh_inver, _Agh_adoe.

AUCHTER (Gael.), 'summit;' as _Auchter_arder, _Auchter_muchty.

AVON (Celt.), 'a river;' as _Avon_, _Aven_, _Aisne_, _Inn_, _Ain_,
_Vienne_; also in _Devon_, _Evan_, Guadi_ana_, Punj_aub_.

AY. See Ea.



BAB (Ar.), 'a gate;' as _Bab_-el-mandeb, _Bab_-el.

BAD (Teut.), 'a bath;' as _Bath_, _Bad_en, Karls_bad_.

BAHR (Ar.), 'a sea,' 'lake,' 'river;' as in _Bahr_ein, _Bahar_-el-azrak.

BALA (Turk.), 'high;' as _Balla_-hissar, _Bal_kan.

BALLOCH (Gael.), 'a pass;' as _Balloch_myle, _Ballagh_more.

BALLY (Ir. and Gael.), 'a village' or 'town;' as _Bally_more, _Bal_briggan,
_Bal_moral, _Ball_antrae, _Bal_quhidder.

BAN (Celt.), 'white;' as _Ban_na, _Ban_on, _Ban_chory; the rivers _Ben_,
_Bann_, _Ban_don, _Ban_ney, &c.

BECK (Scand.), BACH (Ger.), 'a brook;' as Hol_beck_, Lauter_bach_. [See
_Beck_ in Dict.]

BEDD (W.), 'a grave;' as _Bedd_gelert.

BEER (Heb.), 'a well;' as _Beer_sheba, _Beir_out.

BEG, BIHAN (Celt.), 'little;' as Bally_beg_, Mor_bihan_.

BEN (Gael. and Ir.), 'mountain,' PEN (W.), 'headland,' 'hilltop;' as _Ben_
Nevis, _Ben_ Lomond, The Twelve _Pins_, _Ban_gor; _Pen_, _Pen_nigant,
_Pen_zance, _Pen_nine Alps, _Apen_nines, _Pin_dus.

BERG, BOROUGH (A.S. beorh), 'a hill;' as Ingle_borough_, Flam_borough_
Head, Brow_berg_ Hill, Königs_berg_, _Berg_en. [From the same root as
_Burgh_ (below).]

BETH (Heb.), 'a house;' as _Beth_el (house of God).

BETTWS (W.), 'a dwelling;' as _Bettws_-y-coed.

BLAIR (Gael.), 'a plain,' 'a battlefield;' as _Blair_-Athole,
_Blair_gowrie.

BOCA (Sp.), 'a mouth;' as _Boca_-grande.

BOR (Slav.), 'wood;' as _Bor_ovsk, Rati_bor_.

BOTTLE or BATTLE, BÜTTEL (Teut.), 'a dwelling;' as New_battle_, _Buittle_,
More_battle_, Wolfen_büttel_.

BROAD (Eng.), as _Brad_don, _Brad_shaw, _Brad_ford.

BRUNN (Ger.), 'a spring;' as Salz_brunn_, Pader_born_.

BRYN (W.), 'a hill-ridge;' as _Brown_-Willy.

BUEN (Sp.), 'good;' as _Buenos_-Ayres ('good breezes').

BURGH, BOROUGH, BURY (Teut.), 'a fortified place,' 'a town;' as
Edin_burgh_, Peter_borough_, Shrews_bury_, Ham_burg_, Cher_bourg_,
Caris_brook_, _Burg_os. [A.S. _burg_, _burh_ (see _Borough_ in Dict.), Ger.
_burg_.]

BURN (Northern Eng. and Scotch, A.S. _burna_), 'a brook.;' as _Burn_foot,
Black_burn_, Ty_burn_, East_bourne_.

BY (Scand.), 'a dwelling,' 'a town;' as Der_by_, Rug_by_, Whit_by_,
El_boeuf_. [Cf. _Bylaw_ in Dict.]



CAER, CADER (W.), CAHER (Ir.), 'fortified enclosure;' as _Caer_leon,
_Caer_narvon, _Car_digan, _Car_lisle, _Cader_-Idris, San_quhar_,
_Car_lingford.

CAM (Celt.), 'crooked;' as _Cam_, _Cam_beck, _Cam_buskenneth, More_cambe_
Bay, _Cam_brai.

CARRICK (Gael. and Ir. _carraig_), CARREG (W.), 'a sea-cliff,' 'rock;' as
_Carrick_fergus, _Carrick_-on-Suir, _Carrig_afoyle, _Cerrig_-y-Druidion.

CASTER, CHESTER, CESTER (--L. _castra_), 'a camp,' as Don_caster_,
_Chester_, Win_chester_, Lei_cester_.

CEANN (Gael.), 'a head,' 'promontory;' as _Kin_tyre, _King_horn, _Ken_more.

CEFN (Celt.), 'a ridge;' as _Cefn_coed, _Chevin_, _Keyn_ton, _Chevin_gton,
_Cheviot_, _Cevennes_.

CHEAP and CHIPPING (A.S. _ceap_), 'price,' 'a market;' as
_Chipping_-Norton, _Chep_stow, _Cheap_side, _Copen_hagen (Dan.
_Kjöben-havn_, 'merchants' haven'). [See _Cheap_ in Dict.]

CIVITA (It.), CIUDAD (Sp.), 'a city;' as _Civita_ Vecchia ('old city');
_Ciudad_ Rodrigo ('city of Roderick'). [From L. _civitas_.]

CLACH, CLOCH, CLOUGH (Gael.), 'a stone;' as _Clack_mannan, _Clogh_er,
Auchna_cloy_, _Clon_akilty.

CLACHAN (Gael.), 'a village,' often also 'church.' There are perhaps twenty
clachans in Scotland.

CLUAN, CLOON (Gael.), 'a meadow;' as _Clun_ie, _Clon_mel, _Clon_tarf,
_Clyn_der.

CLYD (Celt.), 'warm,' CLYTH (Celt.), 'strong;' as _Clwyd_--most prob. not
_Clyde_.

CNOC (Gael.), 'a knoll,' 'hill,' as _Knock_meledown. Sir Herbert Maxwell
(_Studies in the Topography of Galloway_, 1885) gives 220 _Knocks_ in
Galloway alone.

COED (Celt.), 'a wood;' _Cots_wold Hills, _Chat_moss.

COLN (from L. _colonia_), 'a colony;' as Lin_coln_, _Colne_, _Cologne_
(_Köln_). [See _Colony_ in Dict.]

COMBE (A.S.), CWM or CUM (Celt.), 'a hollow between hills;' as Wy_combe_,
_Comp_ton, The _Coombs_, _Com_o.

CRAIG, CRAG (Celt.), 'a rock;' as _Craig_ie, _Crath_ie, _Carrick_, _Crick_,
_Crick_lade, _Croagh_-Patrick. See _Carrick_ (above).

CROFT (A.S.), 'an enclosed field;' as _Croft_on, Thorny_croft_.



DAGH (Turk.), 'mountain;' as Kara_dagh_.

DAL (Scand.), THAL (Ger.), DAIL and DOL (Celt.), 'a dale,' 'a field;' as
Liddes_dale_, Ry_dal_, Ken_dal_, Arun_del_, Rhein_thal_; (in Celtic names
prefixed) _Dal_ry, _Dal_keith, _Dol_gelly. [See _Dale_ in Dict.]

DAR (Ar.), 'a dwelling,' 'district;' as _Dar_fur, _Diar_bekr.

DEN or DEAN (Teut.), 'a deep wooded valley;' as Tenter_den_, South_dean_,
Hazel_dean_, _Den_holm.

DORF. See THORPE.

DOUR (Celt.), 'water;' as the _Dour_, _Adour_, _Douro_, _Dore_, _Thur_,
_Doro_, _Adder_, _Der_went, _Dar_win, _Dar_ent, _Dar_t, _Dor_chester,
_Dor_dogne.

DRUM AND DROM (Celt.), 'a backbone,' 'a ridge;' as _Drom_ore, _Drum_mond,
Augh_rim_, Leit_rim_.

DU (Celt.), 'black;' as _Dou_glas; the rivers _Du_las, _Dou_las; _Dub_lin
('dark pool').

DUM, DUN (Gael.), DINAS, DIN (W.), 'a hill-fortress;' as _Dun_more,
_Dun_blane, _Dun_keld, _Dum_barton, _Dum_fries, _Dun_stable, _Dun_mow,
_Down_patrick, _Don_egal, Mal_don_, Ver_dun_, Ley_den_, _Din_as-fawr,
_Din_an, _Den_bigh. [See _Down_, a hill, in Dict.]

DYSART (Celt.--L. _desertum_), 'a hermitage;' as _Dysart_, _Dysert_more.

EA, EY (A.S. _íg_, Ice. _ey_, Norw. and Dan. _ö_), 'an island;' as
Swan_sea_, _E_ton, Jers_ey_, Romn_ey_, Shepp_ey_, Rothes_ay_, Staff_a_,
Far_oe_. [See _Island_ in Dict.]

ECCLES, EGLES (like Fr. _église_, through L., from Gr. _ekkl[=e]sia_), 'a
church;' as _Eccle_ston, _Eccle_fechan, _Eccles_machan, _Eccles_iamagirdle,
_Eagles_ham, Terr_egles_.

ELF, ELV (Goth.), 'a river;' as _Elbe_.

ERMAK (Turk.), 'a river;' as Kizil-_ermak_.

ESK (Gael. and Ir. _easg_ [obs.] or _uisge_, W. _wysg_), 'water;' as the
_Esk_, _Usk_, _Ise_, _Oise_, _Ease_burn, _Ash_bourne, _Iz_, _Is_is, _Exe_,
_Ux_, _Ouse_, _Wis_beach, _Wis_, _Isch_ia, _Is_ère, _Ais_ne, _Aus_onne.

ESKI (Turk.), 'old,' as _Eski_-djuma ('old ditch').



FAHR, FUHR (Teut.), 'way,' 'passage;' as _Fahr_enbach, Camp_vere_,
Queens_ferry_, Connel-_Ferry_.

FELD, or VELD (Teut.), 'plain,' 'field;' as Hudders_field_, Lich_field_,
Spital_fields_.

FELL (Old Norse _fjall_, _fell_), 'a mountain;' as Carter_fell_,
Goat_fell_, Snae_fell_.

FIN, FINN (Gael.), 'fair,' 'white;' as _Fin_don, _Fin_try, _Fin_castle,
Knock_fin_.

FIORD, FJORD (Scand.), 'a creek,' 'inlet of the sea;' as Lax_fiord_,
Water_ford_, Wex_ford_.

FLEET (Scand. _fljót_, a stream), 'a small river' or 'channel;' as
Pur_fleet_; found in Normandy as _fleur_, as Har_fleur_, Bar_fleur_.

FOLK (A.S.), 'people;' as Nor_folk_ ('north people'), Suf_folk_ ('south
people').

FORD (A.S.), 'a shallow passage over a river,' as Chelms_ford_, Here_ford_,
Stam_ford_.

FORS, FOSS (Scand.), 'a waterfall;' as High _Force_, Wilber_force_,
_Fos_ton.



GARTH (Scand.), 'yard;' GOROD, GROD, GRADE, GRÄTZ (Slav.), 'enclosure,'
'town;' as Stutt_gart_, Nov_gorod_ (=Newton), _Grod_no, Bel_grade_
(=Whitton), König_grätz_ (=Kingston).

GARW (Celt.), 'rough;' hence _Gar_onne, _Gar_ioch, _Yar_row, _Yair_,
possibly _Garry_.

GATE (Teut.), 'a passage' or 'road;' as Canon_gate_, Harrow_gate_,
Rei_gate_ (=Ridge_gate_), Catte_gat_.

GEBEL, JEBEL (Ar.), 'a mountain;' as _Gib_raltar, _Jebel_-Mukattam.

GILL (Scand.), 'a ravine;' as Butter_gill_, Orms_gill_.

GLEN (Gael.), GLYN (W.), 'a narrow valley;' as _Glen_coe, _Glen_garry,
_Glyn_neath, _Gla_morgan.

GORM (Gael.), 'green' or 'blue;' as Cairn_gorm_.

GUADA, the name given to the rivers in Spain by the Moors, from the Ar.
_wad[=i]_, 'a ravine;' as in _Guada_lquivir (_Wad[=i]-'l-keb[=i]r_, 'the
great river'), _Guad_iana.

GWEN (Celt.), 'white;' as Der_went_, _Vent_nor, Cor_wen_; GWENT (Celt.), 'a
plain;' Latinised into _venta_, as _Venta_ Belgarum (now _Win_chester),
formerly Caer_gwent_.

GWY. See WY.



HALL (Teut.), 'a stone house;' as Eccles_hall_, Wals_all_; (in Germany) a
_salt_-work, as _Halle_, _Hall_stadt. [See _Hall_ in Dict.]

HAM (A.S., Ger. _heim_), 'a home;' as Bucking_ham_, Clap_ham_, Hex_ham_,
Trond_hjem_, Hildes_heim_, Hoch_heim_, Edn_am_, Edr_om_, Houn_am_.

HAR, HAER (Teut.), 'the army;' as _Har_wich, _Hers_tall, _Har_bottle.

HAUGH, HEUGH, a particular Scotch form and use of _Haw_ (A.S. _haga_),
perhaps due to the Ice. form _hagi_, a pasture. The meaning is generally a
low-lying meadow between hills or on the banks of a stream, and it is
noticeable that in Scotch use _How_ and _Hope_ have frequently the same
sense. A _Hope_, however, is properly a hollow, esp. the upper end of a
narrow mountain valley, while a _How_ is a low hill (Ice. _haugr_, 'a
mound'). Cf. _Hob_kirk, _How_wood, _Hu_tton, Fox _How_.

HAY, HAIGH (Teut.), a place surrounded by a '_hedge_;' as Rothwell _Haigh_,
_Hague_.

HISSAR (Turk.), 'a castle;' as Kara-_hissar_.

HITHE (A.S.), 'haven;' as _Hythe_, Lam_beth_=Loam_hithe_ (the 'clayey
haven').

HO (Chin.), 'river;' as Pei_ho_.

HOANG, WHANG (Chin.), 'yellow;' as _Hoang_-ho, _Whang_-Hai.

HOLM (Scand., &c.), 'an island in a lake or river,' 'a plain near a river;'
as Stock_holm_, Flat_holm_, Lang_holm_.

HOLT (Teut.), 'a wood;' as Bags_hot_, Alders_hot_, _Hol_stein. [See _Holt_
in Dict.]

HORN (Teut.), 'a peak;' as Schreck_horn_, Matter_horn_.

HURST (A.S. _hyrst_), 'a wood;' as Lynd_hurst_.



ING (A.S.), a suffix denoting _son_, in pl. 'a family' or 'tribe;' as
Warr_ing_ton ('the town of the Warrings'), Hadd_ing_ton. [See _-ing_ in
list of suffixes.]

INNIS or ENNIS (Celt.), INCH in Scotland, an island; as _Inch_colm ('the
island of St Columba'); _Ennis_killen, _Ennis_more, _Innis_fallen, in
Ireland.

INVER (Gael.), 'the mouth of a river;' as _Inver_ness, _Inver_aray,
_Inner_leithen. This is supposed to be the Gaelic form (_inbhir_)
corresponding to the Brythonic _aber-_; and it is at any rate certain that
in Wales there are scores of _abers-_, but of _invers-_ not a solitary one;
while on the west coast of Scotland and north of Inverness _aber-_ barely
exists.



KALAT, KALAH (Ar.), 'a castle;' as _Khelat_, _Cala_horrah.

KARA (Turk.), 'black;' as _Kara_kum ('black sand'), _Kara_ Hissar ('black
castle').

KENN (Gael.), KIN (Ir.), 'a head;' as _Ken_more, _Can_tire, _Kinn_aird,
_Kin_ross, _Kin_sale, _Ken_t. _Kin_ or _Cin_, older _cind_, is really a
survival of the old dative or locative of Gael. _ceann_ (W. _penn_),
'head,' 'promontory,' as in _Kin_aldie, _Kin_buck, _Kin_glassie, _Kin_loch,
_Kin_gussie, _Kin_noul. See Ceann.

KIL (Gael. _cill_, really a survival of the old dative of _ceall_, a
hermit's cell--L. _cella_, then a church, esp. a parish church--the proper
form is seen in Lochnan-_ceal_, 'loch of the churches,' in Mull); as
_Kil_bride, _Kil_chattan, _Kil_donan, _Kil_marnock; Icolm_kill_, 'the
island (_I_) of Columba of the church.'

KIL (Gael. _coil_), 'a wood,' 'a corner;' as in _Kil_drummy, _Kil_ham.

KIRJATH (Heb.), GADR (Phoenician), 'an enclosure,' 'a fortified place;' as
_Kirjath_-Arba, _Car_thage, _Cad_es or _Cad_iz.

KIRK (North Eng. and Scand.), KIRCHE (Ger.); as Sel_kirk_, _Kirk_wall,
_Kirk_cudbright, _Kirch_heim, Fünf_kirchen_. [See _Church_ in Dict.]

KIZIL (Turk.), 'red.'

KNOCK. See Cnoc.



LAX (Scand.; Ger. _lachs_), 'a salmon'; as Loch _Lax_ford in Sutherland;
the _Lax_ay in the Hebrides and in Man; _Lax_weir on the Shannon.

LEAMHAN (Ir. and Gael.; pron. _lavawn_), 'the elm-tree;' as in _Leven_,
_Lennox_, _Laune_.

LEA, LEE, LEY (A.S. _leáh_), 'a meadow;' Had_leigh_, Water_loo_.

LINN (Celt.), 'a waterfall;' as _Lynn_ Regis in Norfolk; Ros_lin_, 'the
promontory (_ross_) at the fall;' _Lin_lithgow, _Lin_ton.

LIS (Celt.), 'an enclosure,' 'a fort,' 'a garden;' as _Lis_more ('the great
enclosure' or 'garden').

LLAN (W.), 'an enclosure,' 'a church;' as _Llan_daff ('the church on the
Taff').

LLANO (Sp.), 'a plain.'

LOCH, LOUGH (Gael.), 'a lake.'

LOW and LAW (A.S. _hláw_, _hlæw_),'a rising ground;' as Houns_low_,
Lud_low_, and numerous _laws_ in Scotland. [Cog. with Goth. _hlaiw_, a
mound, and perh. allied to L. _clivus_, a slope.]



MAGH (Celt.), 'a plain;' as Ar_magh_, _May_nooth.

MARK (Teut.), 'a boundary;' Den_mark_, _Merc_ia, _Murc_ia.

MARKT (Ger.), 'a market;' as Bibert_markt_.

MEDINA (Ar.), 'city;' as _Medina_, _Medina_-Sidonia.

MERE, MOOR (A.S.), 'a lake' or 'marsh;' as _Mer_sey, Black_more_.

MINSTER (A.S.), MÜNSTER (Ger.), 'a monastic foundation;' as West_minster_,
Neu_münster_.

MOR (Celt.), 'great;' Ben_more_ ('great mountain').

MOR (Celt.), 'the sea;' as _Mor_ay, Ar_mor_ica, _Mor_laix, Gla_mor_gan,
_Mor_bihan.

MULL (Gael.), 'a headland;' as _Mull_ of Galloway.



NAGY (Hungarian), 'great;' as _Nagy_-Koros, _Nagy_-Karoly.

NANT (Celt.), 'a brook,' 'valley;' as _Nant_wich, _Nant_glyn.

NESS or NAZE (Scand.; see Dict.), 'a nose' or 'promontory;' as Caith_ness_,
Sheer_ness_, Cape Gris_nez_; the _Naze_.



OCHTER. See Auchter.

OË. See Ea.

OLD, ELD, ALT (Teut.), 'old;' as _Alt_horp, _Elt_on, _Elt_ham, _Ald_bury,
_A_bury. [See _Old_ in Dict.]



PATAM (Sans.), 'a city;' Seringa_patam_, _Patna_.

PEAK, PIKE (Celt., conn. with Ger. _spitz_, Fr. _pic_ and _puy_) 'point;'
as the _Peak_, the _Pikes_ in Cumberland, _Spitz_bergen, _Pic_ du Midi,
_Puy_ de Dôme.

PEEL (Celt.), 'a stronghold;' as _Peel_ in Man, and numerous _peels_ on the
Border of Scotland.

PEN. See Ben.

POLIS (Gr.), 'a city;' as Greno_ble_, Na_blous_, Na_ples_, Sebasto_pol_.

PONT (L.), 'a bridge;' as _Pont_efract, Negro_pont_.

POOR, PORE, PUR (Sans. _pura_), 'a town;' as Nag_pur_, Cawn_pore_,
Singa_pore_.

PORT (L. _portus_), 'a harbour;' as _Port_patrick, South_port_.



RAS (Ar.), 'a cape;' as _Ras_-al-had.

RATH (Ir.), 'a round earthen fort;' as _Rath_more, _Rath_beg, _Rath_o,
_Ratt_ray.

RHE, REA, RI, a root found in many languages, as L. _rivus_, a stream,
Sans. _r[=i]na_, flowing, A.S. _ríth_, a stream, Sp. and Port. _rio_, a
river, meaning 'to flow;' as _Rh_ine, _Rh_one, _Rh_a, _Re___no, _Rye_,
_Ray_, _Rhee_, _Wrey_, _Roe_, _Rae_; _Rio_ de Janeiro, _Rio_-Negro.

RIDGE, in Scotland RIGG (A.S. _hrycg_, Ger. _rücken_), 'a back;' as
_Rei_gate, _Ruge_ley, Long_ridge_.

RIN (Celt.), 'a point of land;' _Rhinns_ of Galloway; Pen_rhyn_ in Wales,
_Ring_send near Dublin.

ROS, ROSS (Celt.), 'a promontory;' Kin_ross_, _Ros_neath, _Rose_hearty,
_Ross_dhu, _Ros_lin; in S. Ireland, a wood, as _Ros_common, _Ross_keen. The
_-ros_ in Melrose is more probably the equivalent of Cornish _ros_, a moor;
thus Melrose=the Celt. _maol-ros_, 'bare moor.'



SALZ (Ger.), 'salt;' as _Salz_burg.

SCALE (Scand.), 'a hut' (Scot. _shieling_; Ice. _skali_); Portin_scale_,
and possibly _Shields_, Gala_shiels_, _Sel_kirk.

SCAR (Scand.), 'a cliff;' _Scar_borough, the _Skerries_.

SCHLOSS (Ger.), 'a castle;' as Marien_schloss_.

SERAI (Turk.), 'a palace;' as Bosna-_serai_ or _Serai_ëvo.

SET (A.S.), 'a seat,' 'a settlement;' Dor_set_, Somer_set_, Amble_side_,
_Seid_litz.

SEX, 'Saxons;' as Es_sex_ ('East Saxons'), Sus_sex_ ('South Saxons').

SIERRA (Sp.--L. _serra_), 'a saw;' or from Ar. _sehrah_, 'an uncultivated
tract.'

SLIEVH (Ir.; allied to L. _clivus_, a slope), 'a mountain;' as _Slievh_
Beg.

SOUTH, found in _Suf_folk, _Sus_sex, _South_ampton, _Suther_land, _Sut_ton,
_Sud_bury, _Sud_ley.

STADT. See Stead.

STAN (Per.), 'a land;' Hindu_stan_. Afghani_stan_.

STAPLE (A.S.), 'a store;' Dun_stable_, Barn_staple_.

STEAD (A.S.), STADT (Ger.), 'a town;' as Hamp_stead_, Neu_stadt_, Ny_sted_.

STER (Scand. _stadhr_), 'a place;' as Ul_ster_.

STOC, STOKE, and STOW (A.S.), 'a stockaded place;' as Bri_stow_ or
Bri_stol_, Tavi_stock_, _Stock_holm, _Stow_.

STONE (A.S.), STEIN (Ger.), 'a stone,' 'a rock;' as _Stan_ton, _Staines_,
Eddy_stone_, _Stennis_, Franken_stein_.

STRATH (Gael.), 'a broad valley;' as _Strath_more, _Strath_blane,
_Strath_earn.

STREET (L. _stratum_), 'a Roman road;' as _Strat_ford, _Stratt_on,
_Streat_ham. [See _Street_ in Dict.]

SU (Turk.), 'water;' as Kara_su_.



TAIN (Gael.), 'a river;' as the _Tyne_, prob. a form of _Don_.

TAM (Celt.), 'still,' 'smooth;' as the _Tham_esis ('smooth Isis'), the
_Tema_, _Tame_, _Tamar_, _Tay_.

THING (Scand.), 'a legislative assembly,' also 'the place where it is
held;' as in _Ding_wall, _Tin_wald, _Tyn_wald Hill, _Tain_.

THORPE (Norse), DORF (Ger.), DORP (Dut.), 'a village;' as Burnham-_Thorpe_,
Hey_thorpe_, Düssel_dorf_, Middle_dorp_.

THWAITE (Scand.), 'a clearing;' as Cross_thwaite_.

TOBAR (Gael.), 'a fountain;' as _Tober_mory.

TOFT (Dan.), 'an enclosure;' as Lowes_toft_, Ive_tot_.

TON (A.S.), 'enclosure,' 'town;' the most common of English local suffixes.

TOR (Celt.), 'a tower-like rock;' as _Tor_bay, _Tor_phichen, _Turr_iff,
_Tor_bolton, Kin_tore_, _Torr_idon. [From L. _turris_, 'a tower,' and its
derivatives are _Torres_-Novas and _Torres_-Vedras in Portugal, _Trux_illo
in Spain, _Tour_coing in France.]

TRE (W.), 'a dwelling;' as _Tre_town, Coven_try_ ('convent dwelling'),
Oswes_try_, Uchil_tre_.



UCHEL (W.), 'high;' UACHTER (Gael.), 'a height;' as the _Ochil_ Hills,
_Ochil_tree, _Auchter_arder.



VAR, VARAD (Hungarian), 'a fortress;' as Nagy_varad_.

VAROS (Hungarian), 'a town;' as Uj_varos_.

VILLE (Fr.,--L. _villa_), VILLA (It., Sp., Port.), WELL (Eng.), 'an abode;'
as Tanker_ville_, Yeo_vil_, Potts_ville_, Kettle_well_, Brad_well_,
Max_well_town.



WADY (Ar.), 'a river-course,' 'a river.' See Guad.

WALL, found in many names of places on the Roman wall from Newcastle to
Carlisle; as _Wall_send, _Wall_head.

WEALD, WOLD (Ger. wald), 'a wood;' _Walt_ham, _Wald_en, the Cots_wolds_;
Schwarz_wald_ ('Black Forest').

WHANG. See Hoang.

WICK, WICH (A.S. _wíc_), 'a village;' as in Ber_wick_, War_wick_,
Green_wich_, Sand_wich_.

WICK (Scand., Ice. _vík_, 'a creek'); as _Wick_ in Caithness.

WORTH (A.S.), 'a farm' or 'estate;' as Tam_worth_, Kenil_worth_,
Bos_worth_, _Worth_ing, Pol_warth_, Jed_burgh_=Jed_ward_.

WY or GWY (W.), 'water;' as the _Wye_; used as affix to many streams, as
Con_way_, Med_way_.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS,
TOGETHER WITH SIGNS AND SYMBOLS USED IN
MEDICINE AND MUSIC.

A. Amateur; Academician.

A. Accepted; acre; active; afternoon; _annus_, year; _ante_, before.

[=A] or [=A][=A], in prescriptions, of each a like quantity.

A. or ANS. Answer.

A1. First-class (of ships).

A.A.C., _anno ante Christum_=In the year before Christ.

A.A.Q.M.G. Acting Assistant Quartermaster-general.

A.A.S., _Americanæ Antiquarianæ Societatis Socius_, Fellow of the American
Academy.

A.B. Able-bodied seaman.

A.B., _Artium Baccalaureus_=Bachelor of Arts.

ABB. Abbess; Abbot; Abbey.

ABBR. or ABBREV. Abbreviated, or Abbreviation.

ABD. Abdicated.

A.B.F.M. American Board of Foreign Missions.

AB INIT., _ab initio_=From the beginning.

ABL. Ablative.

ABP. Archbishop.

ABR. Abridged; Abridgment.

A.B.S. American Bible Society.

ABS., ABSOL. Absolutely.

ABS., ABSTR. Abstract.

ABS RE., _absente reo_, the defendant being absent.

A.C., _ante Christum_=Before Christ.

ACC. Accusative.

ACC., ACCT. Account (also A/C); Accountant.

A.C.P. Associate of the College of Preceptors.

A.D., _anno Domini_=In the year of our Lord.

A.D. After date; _ante diem_, before the day.

AD. Advertisement.

A.D.C. Aide-de-camp.

AD FIN., _ad finem_=At or to the end.

AD H.L., _ad hunc locum_=At this place.

AD INF., _ad infinitum_=To infinity.

AD INIT., _ad initium_=At or to the beginning.

AD INT., _ad interim_=In the meantime.

ADJ. Adjective.

ADJT. Adjutant;--ADJT.-GEN., Adjutant-general.

AD LIB., _ad libitum_=At pleasure.

AD LOC., _ad locum_=At the place.

ADM. Admiral.

ADOLPH. Adolphus.

ADV. Advent; Advocate.

ADV. Adverb; _adversus_=Against.

AD VAL., _ad valorem_=According to value.

ADVT. Advertisement.

Æ., ÆT., _ætatis_=Aged (so many years).

A.F.A. Associate of the Faculty of Actuaries.

A.F.B.S. American and Foreign Bible Society.

AFF. Affectionate; Affirmative.

A.G. Adjutant-general.

AG., _argentum_=Silver.

AGR., AGRIC. Agriculture.

AGT. Agent.

A.H., _anno Hegiræ_=In the year of Hegira--i.e. from the flight of Mohammed
(622 A.D., 13th Sept.).

A.H.L., _ad hunc locum_=At this place.

A.H.V., _ad hunc vocem_=At this word.

A.H.S., _Anno humanæ salutis_=In the year of human salvation.

A.I.A. Associate of the Institute of Actuaries.

A.I.C.E. Associate of the Institute of Civil Engineers.

A.K.C. Associate of King's College, London.

AL., ALA. Alabama.

ALBAN. Of St Albans.

ALD. Alderman.

ALEX. Alexander.

ALF. Alfred.

ALG. Algebra.

ALGY. Algernon.

ALT. Alternate; Altitude; Alto.

A.M., _Artium Magister_=Master of Arts; _Ante meridiem_=Before noon; _Anno
mundi_=In the year of the world; _Annus mirabilis_=The wonderful year
(1666); _Ave Maria_=Hail Mary.

AM., AMER. America or American.

A.M.A. American Missionary Association.

AMT. Amount.

AN., _anno_=In the year; anonymous; answer; _ante_=before.

ANAL. Analysis; Analogy.

ANAT. Anatomy or Anatomical.

ANC. Ancient, Anciently.

AND. Andrew.

ANG., _Anglicé_=In English.

ANG.-SAX. Anglo-Saxon.

ANON. Anonymous.

ANS. Answer.

ANT., ANTIQ. Antiquities.

A.O.F. Ancient Order of Foresters.

AOR. Aorist.

AP., APL., APR. April.

A.P.D. Army Pay Department.

APO. Apogee.

APOC. Apocalypse; Apocrypha, Apocryphal.

APP. Appendix; Apprentice.

A.P.R.C., _Anno post Romam conditam_=In the year after the building of Rome
(753 B.C.).

AQ., _aqua_=Water.

A.R., _anno regni_=In the year of the reign.

AR., ARAB. Arabic.

AR., ARR. Arrive or Arrives, Arrival.

A.R.A. Associate of the Royal Academy.

ARBOR. Arboriculture.

ARCH. Archibald.

ARCH. Archaic.

ARCHÆOL. Archæology.

ARCH., ARCHIT. Architecture.

ARCHD. Archdeacon; Archibald.

ARG., _argentum_=Silver.

A.R.H.A. Associate of the Royal Hibernian Academy.

ARITH. Arithmetic or Arithmetical.

ARK. Arkansas.

ARM. Armenian; Armoric.

A.R.R., _anno regni regis_ or _reginæ_= In the year of the king's or
queen's reign.

A.R.S.A. Associate of the Royal Scottish Academy; Associate of the Royal
Society of Arts.

A.R.S.L. Associate of the Royal Society of Literature.

A.R.S.M. Associate of the Royal School of Mines.

A.R.S.S., _Antiquariorum Regiæ Societatis Socius_=Fellow of the Royal
Society of Antiquaries.

ART. Article; Artillery.

A.S. Anglo-Saxon; _Anno salutis_=In the year of salvation; Assistant
Secretary.

ASAPH. Of St Asaph.

A.S.E. Amalgamated Society of Engineers.

ASS., ASSOC. Association.

ASST. Assistant.

ASTR., ASTRON. Astronomer; Astronomy.

ASTROL. Astrology.

ATS. At suit of.

ATT., ATTY. Attorney.

ATT.-GEN. Attorney-general.

AT. WT. Atomic weight.

AU (L. _aurum_), gold.

A.U.C., _anno urbis conditæ_, or _ab urbe conditâ_=In the year from the
building of the city--Rome (753 B.C.).

AUG. August.

AUG. Augmentative.

AUTH. VER. Authorised Version.

A.V. Authorised Version; Artillery Volunteers; _Annos vixit_=Lived [so
many] years.

AV. Avenue; Average.

AVE. Avenue.

AVOIR., AVDP. Avoirdupois.

AX. Axiom.



B. born.

B., BK. Book.

B., BRIT. British.

B.A., _Baccalaureus Artium_=Bachelor of Arts; British America; British
Association.

BACH. Bachelor.

B. & F.B.S. British and Foreign Bible Society.

BAL. Balance.

BAP., BAPT. Baptist.

BAP., BAPT. Baptised.

BAR. Barometer; Barrel.

BAR. Barrister.

BART., BT. Baronet.

BAT., BATT. Battalion; Battery.

B.B.C. Baseball Club.

BBL. Barrel.

B.C. Before Christ; Board of Control; British Columbia.

B.C.L. Bachelor of Civil Law.

B.D. Bachelor of Divinity.

BD. Bound.

BDS. Boards.

B.E. Bill of exchange.

BEDS. Bedfordshire.

BEF. Before.

BELG. Belgian, Belgic.

BEN., BENJ. Benjamin.

BERKS. Berkshire.

B. ÈS L., _Bachelier ès Lettres_ (Fr.)=Bachelor of Letters.

BET. Between.

BIB. Bible.

BIBL. Bibliotheca.

BIBLIOG. Bibliographer, Bibliography.

BIOG. Biographer, Biography.

BIOL. Biology, Biological.

BIS. Bissextile.

BK. Book; Bank; Bark.

BKG. Banking.

BKT. Basket.

B.L. Bachelor of Laws.

BL. Barrel; Bale.

B.L. Bill of lading.

BLDG. Building.

B.M. Bachelor of Medicine; _Beatæ Memoriæ_=Of blessed memory; British
Museum.

B.MUS. Bachelor of Music.

BN. Baron.

BN. Battalion.

B.O. Branch Office; Buyer's Option.

B.O.A. British Optical Association.

B.O.A.F.G. British Order of Ancient Free Gardeners.

BOH. Bohemia, Bohemian.

BOL. Bolivia.

BOMB.C.S. Bombay Civil Service.

BOMB.S.C. Bombay Staff Corps.

BOR. Borough.

BOT. Botany, Botanical.

BOUL. Boulevard.

BP. Bishop.

B.P. Bill of parcels; Bills payable; Birthplace (also BPL.); _Bonum
publicum_=The public good.

B.P. British Pharmacopoea.

B.Q., _Bene quiescat_--May he (or she) rest well.

BQUE. Barque.

BR. or BRO. Brother.

BR. Brig.

BR. AM. British America.

BRAZ. Brazil; Brazilian.

B.REC. Bills receivable.

BRET. Breton.

BREV. Brevet, Brevetted.

BRIG. Brigade, Brigadier;--BRIG.-GEN., Brigadier-general.

BRIT. Britain; Britannia; British; Briton.

BRO. Brother;--BROS., Brothers.

B.S. Bill of sale.

B.S.C. Bengal Staff Corps.

B.SC. See SC.B.

B.S.L. Botanical Society of London.

BT. Baronet.

BU., BUS. Bushel, Bushels.

BUCKS. Buckinghamshire.

BULG. Bulgaria; Bulgarian.

BURL. Burlesque.

BUSH. Bushel.

B.V., _Beata Virgo_=Blessed Virgin; also _Bene vale_=Farewell.

B.V.M. The Blessed Virgin Mary.

B.W.T.A. British Women's Temperance Association.

B. & S. Brandy and soda-water.



C. Centigrade; Catholic; Consul; Court; Congress; Church; Chancellor;
Conservative.

C., CAP., _caput_=Chapter.

C. Centime.

C., CT., CENT., _centum_=A hundred.

C.A. Chartered Accountant; Chief Accountant; Commercial Agent; Confederate
Army.

CA. Calcium.

CA. Cases; Centare; _circa_=About.

CA., CAL. California.

CAM., CAMB. Cambridge.

CAN. Canon; Canto.

CANT. Canterbury; Canticles.

CANTAB., _Cantabrigiensis_=Of Cambridge.

CANTUAR., _Cantuaria_=Canterbury; _Cantuariensis_=Of Canterbury.

CAP., _caput_=Capital; Chapter;--_Capitulum_=Head; _Capiat_=Let him (or
her) take.

CAP., CAPT. Captain.

CAPS. Capitals.

CAR. Carat.

CAR., _Carolus_=Charles.

CARD. Cardinal.

CARP. Carpentry.

CASH. Cashier.

CAT. Catechism; Catalogue.

CATH. Catherine; Catholic.

CAV. Cavalry.

C.B. Companion of the [Most Honourable Order of the] Bath; Confined to
barracks.

C.B.S. Confraternity of the Blessed Sacrament.

C.C. Caius College; Circuit Court; County Council; County Clerk; Cricket
Club; Catholic Clergyman.

CC. Chapters.

C.C.C. Corpus Christi College; Christ's College, Cambridge.

C.C.C.S. Colonial and Continental Church Society.

C.D. ACTS. The Contagious Diseases Acts.

C.D.S.O. Companion of the Distinguished Service Order.

C.D.V. Carte-de-visite.

C.E. Civil Engineer; Canada East.

CEL. Celsius (scale of--i.e. Centigrade).

CEL. Celebrated.

CELT. Celtic.

CEN. Central; Century.

CENT., _centum_=A hundred.

CENTIG. Centigrade.

CERT., CERTIF. Certificate; Certify.

CESTR., _Cestrensis_=Of Chester.

CET. PAR., _ceteris paribus_=Other things being equal.

CF., _confer_=Compare; Calf.

C. F. & I. Cost, freight, and insurance.

CG. Centigram.

C.G. Captain-general; Captain of the Guard; Coast-guard;
Commissary-general; Consul-general.

C.G.H. Cape of Good Hope.

C.G.S. Centimetre, Gramme, Second--the units of length, mass, and time.

C.H. Custom-house; Court-house.

CH. Charles; Chief; China; Church.

CH. Chaldron; Chapter; Child.

CHAL. Chaldron.

CHAL., CHALD. Chaldee, Chaldaic.

CHAMB. Chamberlain.

CHANC. Chancellor.

CHAP. Chaplain; Chapter.

CHAS. Charles.

CH.C., CH.CH. Christ Church.

CH. CLK. Chief Clerk.

CHEM. Chemistry; Chemical.

CH. HIST. Church History.

CHIN. China, Chinese.

CH.J. Chief-justice.

CHR. Christ; Christian; Christopher.

CHRON. Chronicles; Chronology.

C.I. [Imperial Order of the] Crown of India (for ladies).

CIC. Cicero.

CICESTR., _Cicestrensis_=Of Chichester.

C.I.E. Companion of the [Most Eminent Order of the] Indian Empire.

CIR., CIRC., _circa_, _circiter_, _circum_=About.

CIT. Citation; Citizen.

CIV. Civil; Civilian.

C.J. Chief-justice.

CL. Clergyman; Chlorine; Claudius.

CLASS. Classical; Classification.

CLK. Clerk.

C.L.S.C. Chautauqua Literary and Scientific Circle.

C.M. Certificated Master; Corresponding Member; Common Metre; _Chirurgiæ
Magister_=Master in Surgery.

CM. Centimetres.

C.M., _causa mortis_=By reason of death.

C.M.G. Companion of the [Most Distinguished] Order of St Michael and St
George.

C.M.S. Church Missionary Society.

C.O. Colonial Office; Commanding Officer; Crown Office; Criminal Office.

CO. Cobalt; Company; County.

C/O. Care of.

COAD. Coadjutor.

COCH., COCHL., _cochlear_=a spoon, spoonful;--COCH. AMP., _cochlear
amplum_=a tablespoonful;--COCH. MAG., _cochlear magnum_=a large
spoonful;--COCH. MED., _cochlear medium_=a dessert-spoonful;--COCH. PARV.,
_cochlear parvum_=a teaspoonful.

COD. Codex.

C.O.D. Cash (or collect) on delivery.

COG. Cognate.

COL. Colonel; Column; Colossians.

COLL. College; Colleague; Collector; Colloquial.

COLLAT. Collateral.

COLLECT. Collective.

COLLOQ. Colloquially.

COM. Commander; Commodore; Committee; Commissioner; Commonwealth.

COM. Common; Comedy; Commerce; Commune.

COMM. Commentary; Commander.

COMMISSR. Commissioner;--COMMY., Commissary.

COMMN. Commission.

COMP. Comparative; Compositor; Compare; Compound or Compounded.

COMPAR. Comparative; Comparison.

COM. VER. Common Version.

CON. Consul.

CON., _contra_=Against; _conjux_=Consort: Conclusion; Conversation.

CONG. Congress; Congregation.

CONJ. Conjunction.

CONN. or CT. Connecticut.

CONS. Consonant.

CON. SEC. Conic Sections.

CONSOLS. Consolidated Funds.

CONTR. Contracted; Contraction.

CONTR. BON. MOR., _contra bonos mores_=Contrary to good manners.

COP., COPT. Coptic.

COR. Corinthians; Coroner.

COR. MEM. Corresponding Member.

CORN. Cornish; Cornwall.

CORR. Corrupted; Corruption.

COR. SEC. Corresponding Secretary.

C.O.S. Charity Organisation Society.

COS. Cosine.

COSMOG. Cosmography.

COSS., _consules_=Consuls.

COT. Cotangent.

CP. Compare.

C.P. Clerk of the Peace; Common Pleas: Carriage Paid.

C.P.C. Clerk of the Privy Council.

C.P.S., _Custos Privati Sigilli_=Keeper of the Privy Seal.

C.R., _Carolus rex_=King Charles; _Civis Romanus_=a Roman citizen; _Custos
Rotulorum_=Keeper of the Rolls.

CR. Credit; Creditor; Crown.

CRANIOL. Craniology.

CRES. Crescendo.

CRIM. CON. Criminal conversation, or adultery.

C.S. Court of Session; Clerk to the Signet; Civil Service; Chemical
Society.

C.S.A. Confederate States of America.

C.S.I. Companion of the [Most Exalted Order of the] Star of India.

C.T. Certificated Teacher; Commercial Traveller.

CT. Cent.

C.T.C. Cyclists' Touring Club.

CU., _cuprum_=Copper.

CU., CUB. Cubic.

CUR., CURT. Current--this month.

C.V. Common Version.

C.V.O. Commander of the Royal Victorian Order.

C.W. Canada West.

C.W.O. Cash with order.

CWT. A hundredweight--c for _centum_, a hundred, and _wt_ for weight.

CYC., CYCLO. Cyclopædia.

CYM. Cymric.



D., _dele_=Delete; Dead or Died; Deserted; Degree; _Denarius_ or
_denarii_=A penny or pence; Duke.

DAN. Daniel; Danish.

DAT. Dative.

DAU. Daughter.

DAV. David.

D.C., _Da Capo_ (It.)=Repeat from the beginning; District of Columbia.

D.C.L. Doctor of Civil Law.

D.C.S. Deputy Clerk of Session.

D.D., _Divinitatis Doctor_=Doctor of Divinity.

D.D., _Deo dedit_=Gave to God.

D.D.D., _dat, dicat, dedicat_=He gives, devotes, and dedicates; _Dono dedit
dedicavit_=He gave and dedicated as a gift.

DEA. Deacon.

DEC. December.

DEC. Declaration; Declension.

DECID. Deciduous.

DECL. Declension.

DEF. Defendant; Definition.

DEFT. Defendant.

DEG. Degree, Degrees.

DEL. Delaware; Delegate.

DEL., DELT., _delineavit_='He drew it,' put after the draftsman's name on
an engraving.

DEMON. Demonstrative.

DENT. Dental, Dentist, Dentistry.

DEP. Department (also DEPT.); Deputy.

DEP. Deposed.

DER. Derivation.

DEUT. Deuteronomy.

D.F. Defender of the Faith; Dean of the Faculty.

DFT. Defendant; Draft.

D.G., _Dei gratiâ_=By the grace of God.

D.H., _das heisst_ (Ger.). That is.

DIAL. Dialect.

DIAM. Diameter.

DICT. Dictator; Dictionary.

DIR. Director.

DISC. Discount; Discoverer.

DISS. Dissertation.

DIST. Distance; Distinguish.

DIV. Divide; Divine.

D.L. Deputy Lieutenant.

D.LIT. or LITT. Doctor of Literature.

D.L.O. Dead-letter Office.

DO., _ditto_=The same.

DOLS. Dollars.

D.O.M., _Deo optimo maximo_=To God, best and greatest.

DOM. Dominion.

DOM. Domestic.

DOR. Doric.

DOZ. Dozen.

D.P.H. Department of Public Health.

D.P.O. Distributing Post-office.

DPT. Department.

DR. Debtor; Doctor.

DR. Dram; Drawer.

D.SC. See SC.D.

D.S.O. Distinguished Service Order; District Staff Officer.

D.S.P., _decessit sine prole_=Died without issue.

D.T. Doctor of Theology.

D.T. Delirium tremens.

DUNELM., _Dunelmensis_=Of Durham.

D.V., _Deo volente_=God willing, If God will.

D.V.P., _decessit vita patris_=Died in his father's life-time.

DWT. Pennyweight--_d_ for _denarius_, penny, and _wt_ for weight.



E. East; English.

EA. Each.

EBEN. Ebenezer.

EBOR., _Eboracum_=York; _Eboracensis_=Of York.

E.C. Eastern Central; Established Church.

ECCL., ECCLES. Ecclesiastes, Ecclesiastical;--Ecclesiol., Ecclesiology.

E.C.U. English Church Union.

ED. Editor.

ED., edit. Edited; Edition.

ED., Edw. Edward.

EDENBURGEN., _Edenburgensis_=Of Edinburgh.

ED., EDIN. Edinburgh.

E.D.S. English Dialect Society.

E.E. Errors excepted.

E.E.T.S. Early English Text Society.

E.G., EX. GR., _exempli gratiâ_=For example.

E.I. East Indies;--E.I.C.S., East India Company's Service.

EJUSD., _ejusdem_=Of the same.

ELIS., ELIZ. Elizabeth.

ELZ. Elzevir.

EMP. Emperor; Empress.

ENCY., ENCYC. Encyclopædia.

E.N.E. East-north-east.

ENG. Engineer; Engraver; Engraving.

ENS. Ensign.

ENT., ENTOM. Entomology.

ENT. STA. HALL Entered at Stationers' Hall.

ENV. EXT. Envoy Extraordinary.

E.O.D. Every other day.

EP. Epistle.

EPH. Ephesians.

EPIPH. Epiphany.

EPIS., EPISC. Episcopal.

EPIT. Epitaph; Epitome.

EQ. Equal; Equivalent.

E.S.E. East-south-east.

ESP., ESPEC. Especially.

ESQ., ESQR. Esquire.

EST. Established.

ET AL., _et alibi_=And elsewhere; or _et alii_ or _alia_=And others.

ETC., &C., _et ceteri_ or _cetera_=And others, and so forth.

ET SEQ., SQ., or SQQ., _et sequentes_ or _sequentia_=And the following.

ETY., ETYM. Etymology.

E.U. Evangelical Union.

EUPH. Euphemia.

EUR. Europe; European.

EX. Examined; Example; Exception; Excursus; Executive; Export.

EX., EXOD. Exodus.

EXC. Excellency.

EXC. Except; Exception.

EX DIV., _extra dividendum_=Without dividend.

EX. G., EX. GR. _exempli gratiâ_=For the sake of example.

EXON., _Exonia_=Exeter; _Exoniensis_=Of Exeter.

EXP. Export.

EXR. Executor.

EZ. Ezra.

EZEK. Ezekiel.

E. & O.E. Errors and Omissions Excepted.



F. Following; Farthing; Feminine; Fathom; Foot; Forte.

F., FAHR. Fahrenheit.

FAM. Familiar; Family.

F.A.M. Free and Accepted Masons.

F.A.S. Fellow of the Society of Arts; Fellow of the Antiquarian Society.

F.B. Fenian Brotherhood.

F.B.S. Fellow of the Botanical Society;--F.B.S.E., Fellow of the Botanical
Society of Edinburgh.

F.C.I.S. Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Secretaries.

F.C.P. Fellow of the College of Preceptors.

FCP., FCAP. Foolscap.

F.C.S. Fellow of the Chemical Society.

F.D., _Fidei Defensor_=Defender of the Faith.

FEB. February.

FEC., _fecit_=He did it.

F.E.I.S. Fellow of the Educational Institute of Scotland.

FEM. Feminine.

F.E.S. Fellow of the Ethnological or of the Entomological Society.

FEUD. Feudal.

FF. The Pandects, prob. by corr. of Greek [Greek: P].

FF., _fecerunt_=They did it or made it; Folios.

F.F.A. Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.

F.F.P.S. Fellow of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons (Glasgow).

F.G.S. Fellow of the Geological Society.

F.I.A. Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.

FICT. Fiction.

FI. FA., _fieri facias_=That you cause to be made (a writ of execution).

FIG. Figure, Figuratively.

FIN., _ad finem_=At the end.

F.K.Q.C.P.I. Fellow of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians in
Ireland.

FL., _floruit_=Flourished; Florin.

FLOR., FLA., FA. Florida.

F.L.S. Fellow of the Linnæan Society.

F.M. Field-marshal.

FM. Fathom.

F.O. Field-officer; Foreign Office; Full Organ.

FO., FOL. Folio.

F.O.B. Free on board.

F.P. Fire-plug.

F.P.S. Fellow of the Philological Society.

FR. France, French; Friar; Friday.

FR. Fragment; Franc; Frequently;--FRCS., Francs.

F.R.A.S. Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society; Fellow of the Royal
Asiatic Society.

F.R.C.P. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.

F.R.C.P.E. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.

F.R.C.S. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons.

F.R.C.S.E. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.

F.R.C.S.I. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland.

F.R.C.S.L. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of London.

FRED. Frederick.

F.R.G.S. Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.

F.R.H.S. Fellow of the Royal Horticultural Society.

F.R.I.B.A. Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects.

F.R.MET.S. Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society.

F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal Society.

P.R.S.E. Fellow of the Royal Society, Edinburgh.

F.R.S.G.S. Fellow of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society.

F.R.S.L. Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.

F.R.S.S.A. Fellow of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts.

F.S.A. Fellow of the Society of Arts; Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries.

F.S.A.SCOT. Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.

F.S.S. Fellow of the Statistical Society.

FT. Foot, Feet; Fort.

F.T.C.D. Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin.

FTH., FTHM. Fathom.

FUR. Furlong.

FUT. Future.

F.W.B. Free-will Baptist.

FZ. Forzando or Forzato.

F.Z.S. Fellow of the Zoological Society.



G. Genitive; Gramme.

G.A. General Assembly.

GA., GEO. Georgia.

GAEL. Gaelic.

GAL. Galatians.

GAL. Gallon;--GALL., gallons.

GAM. Gamut.

GAZ. Gazette.

G.B. Great Britain;--G.B. AND I., Great Britain and Ireland.

G.C.B. [Knight] Grand Cross of the [Most Honourable Order of the] Bath.

G.C.H. [Knight] Grand Cross of Hanover.

G.C.I.E. [Knight] Grand Commander [of the Most Eminent Order] of the Indian
Empire.

G.C.L.H. Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour.

G.C.M. Greatest common measure.

G.C.M.G. [Knight] Grand Cross of [the Most Distinguished Order of] St
Michael and St George.

G.C.S.I. [Knight] Grand Commander of the [Most Exalted Order of the] Star
of India.

G.C.V.O. [Knight] Grand Cross of the [Royal] Victorian Order.

GEN. General; Genesis.

GEN., GENL. General.

GEN. Gender; Genitive; Genus.

GENT. Gentleman, Gentlemen.

GEO. George.

GEOG. Geography.

GEOL. Geology.

GEOM. Geometry.

GER. Gerund.

G.F.S. Girls' Friendly Society.

GK. or GR. Greek.

GM. Gramme.

G.M.T. Greenwich Mean Time.

G.O. General Order; Grand Organ.

G.O.M. Grand Old Man (W. E. Gladstone).

GOV. Government, Governor.

G.P. General Practitioner; Grateful Patient; _Gloria patri_=Glory to the
Father.

G.P.O. General Post-office.

GR. Grain; Grammar; Gross.

GS. Guineas.

G.S.P. Good Service Pension.

GU. Guinea; Gules.

GUIN. Guinea.



H., HR. Hour.

HAB. Habakkuk.

HAB. Habitat.

HAG. Haggai.

HANTS. Hampshire.

HAR. Harold.

H.B.M. His (or Her) Britannic Majesty.

H.C. Heralds' College; House of Commons; Holy Communion.

H.C.M. His (or Her) Catholic Majesty.

H.E., _hic est_=This is; _hoc est_=That is.

HEB. Hebrews.

H.E.I.C.S. Honourable East India Company's Service.

HER. Heraldry; _Heres_=Heir.

HF. Half;--HF.-BD., half-bound;--HF.-CF., half-calf.

H.G. Horse Guards; His Grace.

H.H. His (or Her) Highness.

HHD. Hogshead.

H.I.H. His (or Her) Imperial Highness.

HIST. Historian, History.

H.J., _hic jacet_=Here lies;--H.J.S., _hic jacet sepultus_=Here lies
buried.

H.K. House of Keys (Isle of Man).

H.M. His (or Her) Majesty.

H.M.C. His (or Her) Majesty's Customs.

H.M.I.S. His (or Her) Majesty's Inspector of Schools.

H.M.P., _hoc monumentum posuit_=Erected this monument.

H.M.S. His (or Her) Majesty's Ship or Service.

HO. House.

HON. Honourable, Honorary.

HOR. Horizon; Horology.

HORT., HORTIC. Horticulture, Horticultural.

HOS. Hosea.

H.P. High-priest; Half-pay.

H.P. Horse-power.

H.R. House of Representatives; Home Rule.

HR. Hour.

H.R.E. Holy Roman Emperor or Empire.

H.R.H. His (or Her) Royal Highness.

H.R.I.P., _hic requiescit in pace_=Here rests in peace.

H.S., _hic situs_=Here lies;--H.S.E., _hic sepultus_ (or _situs_)
_est_=Here is buried (or laid).

H.S.H. His (or Her) Serene Highness.

H.S.S., _Historiæ Societatis Socius_=Fellow of the Historical Society.

HY. Henry.



IA. Iowa.

IA., IND. Indiana.

IB., IBID., _ibidem_=In the same place.

I.C.E. Institute of Civil Engineers.

ICH., ICHTH. Ichthyology.

ICON. Iconography, Iconographic.

I.C.S. Indian Civil Service.

ID., _idem_=The same.

I.D.B. Illicit Diamond Buyer (in Cape Colony).

I.D.N., _in Dei nomine_=In the name of God.

I.E., _id est_=That is.

I.H.P. Indicated horse-power.

I.H.S., for the Greek capitals I[=H]C, (the C a form of Greek [Sigma]), the
first three letters of the name Jesus, often misread as _Jesus Hominum
Salvator_=Jesus Saviour of Men.

ILL. Illinois.

ILL. Illustration, Illustrated.

I.L.P. Independent Labour Party.

IMP. Imperial; _Imperator_=Emperor.

IMP. Imperfect; Imperative; _Imprimatur_=Let it be printed.

I.M.S. Indian Medical Service.

IN. Inch, Inches.

INC., INCORP. Incorporated.

INCOG., _incognito_ (It.). Unknown, avoiding publicity.

IND. Indiana.

I.N.D. Same as I.D.N. (q.v.).

IND., INDIC. Indicative.

INDECL. Indeclinable.

INDEF. Indefinite.

IND. TER. Indian Territory.

INF., _infra_=Below; Infantry; Infinitive.

INFRA DIG., _infra dignitatem_=Beneath one's dignity.

INIT., _initio_=In the beginning.

IN LIM., _in limine_=On the threshold, at the outset.

IN LOC., _in loco_=In its place;--IN LOC. CIT., _in loco citato_ =In the
place cited.

IN PR., _in principio_=In the beginning.

I.N.R.I., J_esus Nazarenus Rex Judæorum_=Jesus of Nazareth< King of the
Jews.

INST. Instant--the present month; Institute.

INST. ACT. Institute of Actuaries.

INST.C.E. Institute of Civil Engineers.

INT. Interest; Interior; Interpreter.

INTERROG. Interrogation, Interrogatively.

IN TRANS., _in transitu_=On the passage.

INTRO., INTROD. Introduction.

INV., _invenit_=He designed it; Inventor, Invented; Invoice.

I.O.F. Independent Order of Foresters.

I.O.G.T. Independent Order of Good Templars.

I.O.U. I owe you.

I.P.D., _in præsentiâ Dominorum_=In presence of the Lords (of Session).

I.Q., _idem quod_=The same as.

I.R.B. Irish Republican Brotherhood.

IS., ISA. Isaiah.

IS., ISAB. Isabella.

I.S.C. Indian Staff Corps.

IT. Italian.

I.T. Idaho Territory; Indian Territory.



JAN. January.

JAS. James.

J.C., _Juris Consultus_=Jurisconsult; Jesus Christ; Justice Clerk.

JER. Jeremiah.

J.H.S. The same as I.H.S. (q.v.).

JNO. John.

JO. Joel.

JOS. Josiah; Joseph.

JOSH. Joshua.

JOUR. Journal.

J.P. Justice of the Peace.

JR., JUN., JUNR. Junior.

J.U.D., _Juris Utriusque Doctor_=Doctor both of Canon and of Civil Law.

JUD., JUDG. Judges.

JUL. July.

JUNC. Junction.

JURISP. Jurisprudence.



KAL., _Kalendæ_=Calends.

KAN., also KS. Kansas.

K.B. Knight of the Bath; King's Bench.

K.C. King's Counsel; King's College.

K.C.B. Knight Commander of the [Most Honourable Order of the] Bath.

K.C.H. Knight Commander of [the Order of] Hanover.

K.C.I.E. Knight Commander of the [Most Eminent Order of the] Indian Empire.

K.C.M.G. Knight Commander of [the Most Distinguished Order of] St Michael
and St George.

K.C.S.I. Knight Commander of the [Most Exalted Order of the] Star of India.

K.C.V.O. Knight Commander of the [Royal] Victorian Order.

KG. Kilogram.

K.G. Knight of the [Most Noble Order of the] Garter.

K.G.C. Knight of the Grand Cross.

K.G.C.B. Knight of the Grand Cross of the Bath.

K.G.F. Knight of the Golden Fleece.

K.H. Knight of Hanover.

KILO. Kilogramme.

KIT. Christopher.

K.K., _Kaiserlich_, _Königleich_=Imperial, Royal.

K.K.K. Ku Klux Khan.

K.L.H. Knight of the Legion of Honour.

K.M. Knight of Malta.

KM. Kingdom,

KM. Kilometre.

KNT., KT. Knight.

K. OF L. Knight of Labour.

K.P. Knight of [the Most Illustrious Order of St] Patrick.

KR. Kreutzer.

K.S.I. Knight of the Star of India.

K.T. Knight of [the Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of] the Thistle.

KT. BACH. Knight Bachelor.

K.T.L., _kai ta leipomena_ (Gr.)=And the rest, And so forth.

KY. or KEN. Kentucky.



L. Lake; Latin; Liberal; Libra (pound).

L. Latitude; League; Long.

L.A. Law Agent; Literate in Arts.

L.A.C. Licentiate of the Apothecaries' Company.

LAM. Lamentations.

LANG. Language.

LAT. Latitude; Latin.

LB., _libra_=A pound.

L.C. Lower-case (in printing); _Loco citato_=In the place cited; Left
centre; Letter of credit.

L.C. Lower Canada; Lord Chancellor; Lord Chamberlain.

L.C.B. Lord Chief-baron.

L.C.C. London County Council.

L.C.J. Lord Chief-justice.

L.C.P. Licentiate of the College of Preceptors.

LD. Lord;--LDP., LP., Lordship.

L.D. Lady Day; Light Dragoons.

L.D.S. Licentiate in Dental Surgery.

LECT. Lecture.

LEG. Legal; Legate; Legislature.

LEIP. Leipzig.

LEV., LEVIT. Leviticus.

LEX. Lexicon.

LEYD. Leyden.

L.H. Left hand.

L.I. Long Island; Light Infantry.

LIB., _liber_=Book;--LIB. CAT., Library catalogue.

LIEUT., LT. Lieutenant.

LINN. Linnæan, Linnæus.

LIQ. Liquid.

LIT. Literally; Literature.

LITT. Littérateur.

L.L.A. Lady Literate in Arts.

LL.B., _Legum Baccalaureus_=Bachelor of Laws.

LL.D., _Legum Doctor_=Doctor of Laws.

L.M. Long Metre.

L.M.S. London Missionary Society.

LOC. CIT., _loco citato_=At the place quoted.

LOG. Logarithm.

LON., LONG. Longitude.

LOND. London.

LOQ., _loquitur_=Speaks.

LOU., LA. Louisiana.

L.P. Lord Provost.

L.R.C.P. Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians.

L.R.C.P.E. Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.

L.R.C.S. Licentiate of the Royal College of Surgeons.

L.S. Linnæan Society; _Loco sigilli_=In the place of the Seal.

L.S. Left side.

L.S.A. Licentiate of the Society of Apothecaries.

L.S.D., _libræ_, _solidi_, _denarii_=Pounds, shillings, pence.

LT. Lieutenant.

LXX. Septuagint Version.



M., _mille_=A thousand.

M. Married; Masculine; _Meridiem_=Noon; Metre.

M., MONS., _Monsieur_ (Fr.). Mr or Sir;--MM., _Messieurs_, Gentlemen or
Sirs.

M.A. Master of Arts. See A.M.

M.A.B.Y.S. Metropolitan Association for Befriending Young Servants.

MAC., MACC. Maccabees.

MACH. Machinery.

MAD. Madam.

MAG. Magazine.

MAJ. Major.

MAL. Malachi.

MAR. March.

MARG. Margin, Marginal.

MARG., MRGT. Margaret.

MARQ. Marquis.

MAS., MASC. Masculine.

MASS. Massachusetts.

MATH. Mathematics.

MATT. Matthew.

M.B. Mark of the Beast, as in 'M.B. waistcoat.'

M.B., _Medicinæ Baccalaureus_=Bachelor of Medicine.

M.B., _Musicæ Baccalaureus_=Bachelor of Music.

M.C. Member of Congress; Master of Ceremonies; Member of Council.

M.C.C. Member of the County Council; Marylebone Cricket Club.

M.C.P. Member of the College of Preceptors.

M.C.S. Madras Civil Service.

MD. Maryland.

M.D., _Medicinæ Doctor_=Doctor of Medicine.

MDLLE., MLLE., _Mademoiselle_ (Fr.). Miss.

MDM. Madam.

M.E. Most Excellent; Methodist Episcopal; Middle English; Mining Engineer.

ME. Maine.

M.E.C. Member of the Executive Council.

MED. Medical, Medicine; Mediæval.

MEM. Memorandum; _Memento_=Remember.

MESSRS, _Messieurs_ (Fr.). Sirs, Gentlemen.

MET., METAPH. Metaphysics.

METAL., METALL. Metallurgy.

METEOR. Meteorology.

MFD. Manufactured;--MFRS., Manufacturers.

M.F.H. Master of Foxhounds.

M. FT., _mistura fiat_=Let a mixture be made.

MGR. Monseigneur.

M.H.G. Middle High German.

M.H.R. Member of the House of Representatives.

M.I.C.E. or M.INST.C.E. Member of the Institute of Civil Engineers.

MIC. Micah.

MICH. Michigan.

MIN. Mineralogy.

MINN. Minnesota.

MIS. Missouri.

MISC. Miscellaneous, Miscellany.

MIL., MILIT. Military.

MISS., MIS. Mississippi.

M.L.A. Member of Legislative Assembly.

M.L.C. Member of Legislative Council.

MLLE. Mademoiselle.

M.M. (Their) Majesties; Martyrs.

MME., _Madame_ (Fr.). Madam:--_pl._ MMES.

M.N.S. Member of the Numismatical Society.

MO. Missouri.

MO. Month.

MOD. Modern.

MOL. WT. Molecular weight.

MONS. Monsieur.

MONSIG. Monsignor.

MORN. Morning.

MOS. Months.

M.P. Member of Parliament.

M.P.S. Member of the Philological Society.

M.P.S. Member of the Pharmaceutical Society.

M.R. Master of the Rolls.

MR. Master or Mister.

M.R.A.S. Member of the Royal Asiatic Society.

M.R.A.S. Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences.

M.R.C.C. Member of the Royal College of Chemistry.

M.R.C.P. Member of the Royal College of Preceptors.

M.R.C.S. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons.

M.R.C.V.S. Member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.

M.R.G.S. Member of the Royal Geographical Society.

M.R.I. Member of the Royal Institution.

M.R.I.A. Member of the Royal Irish Academy.

MRS. Mistress.

MS. Manuscript;--MSS., Manuscripts.

M.S. Master in Surgery; _Memoriæ Sacrum_=Sacred to the Memory.

M.S. Months (after) sight.

M.S.C. Madras Staff Corps.

M.S.L. Mean sea-level.

M.S.S. Member of the Statistical Society.

MT. Mount;--MTS., Mountains.

MTH. Month.

MUS. Music; Museum.

MUS.B. Bachelor of Music.

MUS.D., DOC., DOCT. Doctor of Music.

M.V.O. Member of the Royal Victorian Order.

MYST. Mysteries.

MYTH. Mythology.



N. North, Northern; Nitrogen.

N. Name; _Natus_=Born; Neuter; Noon.

N.A. North America.

NA. Nebraska.

NAH. Nahum.

NAP. Napoleon.

NAT. National.

NAT. HIST. Natural History.

NAT. ORD. Natural order.

NAUT. Nautical.

NAV. Naval; Navigation.

N.B. North Britain, North British; New Brunswick.

N.B., _nota bene_=Note well, or take notice.

N.C. North Carolina; New Church.

N.D. No date, Not dated.

N.DAK. North Dakota.

N.E. North-east; New England.

NEB., NEBR. Nebraska.

NEG. Negative.

NEH. Nehemiah.

N.E.I., _non est inventus_=Is not found.

NEM. CON., _nemime contradicente_=No one contradicting.

NEM. DISS., _nemine dissentiente_=No one dissenting.

NEP. Neptune.

NETH. Netherlands.

NEUT. Neuter.

NEV. Nevada.

NEW M. New Mexico.

N.F. Newfoundland; Norman French.

N.H. New Hampshire.

NI. PRI., _nisi prius_. See _Nisi_ in Dict.

N.J. New Jersey.

N.L., _non licet_=It is not permitted; _non liquet_=It is not clear; _non
longe_=Not far.

N.M. New Mexico.

N.N.E. North-north-east.

N.N.W. North-north-west.

N.O. New Orleans; Natural Order.

NO., _numero_=Number;--NOS., Numbers.

NON-CON. Non-content.

NON OBST., _non obstante_=Notwithstanding.

NON PROS., _non prosequitur_=He does not prosecute.

NON SEQ., _non sequitur_=It does not follow.

N.O.P. Not otherwise provided.

NORTHMB. Northumberland.

NORVIC., _Norvicensis_=Of Norwich.

NOS. Numbers.

NOTTS. Nottinghamshire.

NOV. November.

N.P. Notary Public; New Providence.

N.S. New Style.

N.S. Nova Scotia.

N.S. Not specified.

N.S.W. New South Wales.

N.T. New Testament.

N.U. Name unknown.

NUM., NUMB. Numbers.

NUMIS., NUMISM. Numismatics.

N.V. New Version.

N.V.M. Nativity of the Virgin Mary.

N.W. North-west.

N.W.P. North-west Provinces (India).

N.W.T. North-west Territories.

N.Y. New York.

N.Z. New Zealand.

N. & Q. Notes and Queries.



O. Ohio; Oxygen.

O/A. On account of.

OB., _obiit_=Died.

OB., OBAD. Obadiah.

OBDT. Obedient.

OBJ. Object, Objective.

OBL. Oblique; Oblong.

OBS. Observation; Obsolete.

OBSTET. Obstetrics.

OC. Ocean.

O.C.R. Order of Corporate Reunion.

OCT. October.

O.D. Ordnance Data.

O.E. Old English.

O.F. Odd Fellow; Old French.

OFF. Official.

O.H.G. Old High German.

O.H.M.S. On His (or Her) Majesty's Service.

O.K. All correct (prob. a humorous spelling of this).

OLD TEST. Old Testament.

O.M. Old Measurement.

OMN. HOR., _omni hora_=Every year.

ONOMAT. Onomatopoeia.

O/O. Percent.

O.P. Old Price; _Ordinis Prædicatorum_=Of the Order of Preachers (or
Dominicans).

O.P. Out of Print.

OP. Opera.

OP. Opposite; _Opus_=Work.

OP. CIT., _opere citato_=In the work cited.

ORD. Ordained; Order; Ordinary; Ordnance.

OR. Oregon.

O.S. Old Style.

O.S.A., _Ordinis Sancti Augustini_=Of the Order of St Augustine.

O.S.B., _Ordinis Sancti Benedicti_=Of the Order of St Benedict.

O.S.F., _Ordinis Sancti Francisci_=Of the Order of St Francis.

O.T. Old Testament.

OXF. Oxford.

OXON., _Oxonia_=Oxford;--_Oxoniensis_=Of Oxford.

OZ. Ounce.



P. Page; Participle;--P.A., Participial adjective.

PA., also PENN. Pennsylvania.

PAC. OC. Pacific Ocean.

PAINT. Painting.

PAL. Palestine; Palæontology.

PAM. Pamphlet.

PAN. Panama.

PAR. Paragraph; Parallel; Parish.

PAT., PK. Patrick.

PAT. OFF. Patent Office.

P.C., _Patres Conscripti_=Conscript Fathers; Privy Councillor; Police
Constable; Post Commander.

P.C. Postal-card.

P.C.S. Principal Clerk of Session.

PD. Paid.

P.E. Protestant Episcopal.

P.E.I. Prince Edward Island.

PEN. Peninsula.

PENN. Pennsylvania.

PENT. Pentecost.

PER. Period; Person.

PER AN., _per annum_=Per year, By the year.

PER CENT., PER CT., _per centum_=By the hundred.

PERS. Person.

PETRIBURG., _Petriburgensis_=Of Peterborough.

PG. Portugal.

PHAR., PHARM. Pharmaceutical; Pharmacopoeia; Pharmacy.

PH.B., _Philosophiæ Baccalaureus_=Bachelor of Philosophy.

PH.D., _Philosophiæ Doctor_=Doctor of Philosophy.

PHIL. Philippians; Philemon; Philadelphia; Philip.

PHIL. TRANS. Philosophical Transactions.

PHON., PHONET. Phonetics.

PHONOG. Phonography.

PHOT. Photography.

PHR. Phrase.

PHYS. Physiology; Physics; Physician.

PINX., PXT., _pinxit_=He (or she) painted it.

P.M. Past Master; _Post meridiem_=Afternoon; Post-master; _Post mortem_.

PM. Premium.

P.M.G. Postmaster-general.

P.N. Promissory note.

P.O. Post-office; Postal Order.

PO. Pole.

P.O.C. Peninsular and Oriental Company.

P.O.D. Pay on delivery.

P.O.O. Post-office Order.

POP. Population.

POS., POSIT. Positive.

P.P. Parish Priest.

PP. Pages.

P.P.C., _pour prendre congé_ (Fr.)=To take leave.

P.P.S. Postscript additional.

P.R. Prize-ring; Porto Rico.

P.R., _Populus Romanus_=The Roman people.

PR. Pair; Per; Present; Price; Pronoun; Prince; Priest; Provençal.

P.R.A. President of the Royal Academy.

P.R.B. Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.

PREB. Prebend, Prebendary.

PREF. Preface.

PRES., PRESES. President.

P.R.I.B.A. President of the Royal Institute of British Architects.

P.R.N., _pro re nata_=For special business arising.

PRO. Professional.

PROF. Professor.

PROT. Protestant.

PRO TEM., _pro tempore_=For the time being.

PROV. Proverbs.

PROX., _proximo_=Next.

P.R.S. President of the Royal Society.

P.R.S.A. President of the Royal Scottish Academy.

P.R.S.E. President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

P.S., _post scriptum_=Postscript, written after.

PS., PSA. Psalms.

PSEUD. Pseudonym.

P.T. Pupil Teacher.

P.T. Post-town.

P.T.O. Please turn over.

PUB. DOC. Public Document.

P.W.D. Public Works Department.

PWT. Pennyweight.

P. & O. Peninsular and Oriental Company.



Q., _quadrans_=Farthing; Query; Quintal.

Q., QU. Query; Question.

Q.A.B. Queen Anne's Bounty.

Q.B. Queen's Bench.

Q.C. Queen's Counsel; Queen's College.

Q.D., _quasi dicat_=As if he should say.

Q.E., _quod est_=Which is.

Q.E.D., _quod erat demonstrandum_=Which was to be demonstrated.

Q.E.F., _quod erat faciendum_=Which was to be done.

Q.E.I, _quod erat inveniendum_=Which was to be found out.

Q.L., _quantum libet_=As much as you please.

Q.M. Quartermaster.

QM., _quomodo_=In what manner; How.

Q.M.G. Quartermaster-general.

QR. Quarter.

Q.S. Quarter-Sessions.

Q.S., Quantum suff., _quantum sufficit_=A sufficient quantity.

QT. Quantity; Quart;--QTS., Quarts.

QU. Queen; Question,

QU., QUAR. Quart, Quarter, Quarterly,

Q.V., _quod vide_=Which see; _quantum vis_=As much as you will.



R., _rex, regina_=King, Queen.

R., _recipe_=Take.

R., REAU. Réaumur's thermometric scale.

R.A. Royal Academy or Academician; Royal Artillery.

RABB. Rabbinical.

R.A.C. Royal Arch Chapter.

RAD. Radical.

RAD., _radix_=Root.

R.A.M. Royal Academy of Music.

R.A.S. Royal Asiatic Society.

R.C. Right centre.

R.C. Roman Catholic; Red Cross.

R.C.M. Royal College of Music.

R.C.P. Royal College of Preceptors.

R.C.S. Royal College of Surgeons.

R.D. Rural Dean; Royal Dragoons.

R.E. Royal Engineers.

REC. Recipe.

RECD. Received.

RECPT. Receipt.

RECT. Rector; Rectory.

REF. CH. Reformed Church.

REG. PROF. Regius Professor.

REGT. Regiment.

REP. Representative; Republic; Report, Reporter.

REPT. Receipt.

RETD. Returned.

REV. Revise, Revision; Revelation.

REV., REVD. Reverend;--REVS., Reverends.

REV. VER. Revised Version.

R.G.G. Royal Grenadier Guards.

R.G.S. Royal Geographical Society.

R.H. Right hand.

R.H. Royal Highness; Royal Highlanders.

R.H.A. Royal Horse Artillery; Royal Hibernian Academy.

RHET. Rhetoric.

R.H.G. Royal Horse Guards.

R.H.S. Royal Humane Society; Royal Horticultural Society; Royal Historical
Society.

R.I. Rhode Island.

R.I.B.A. Royal Institute of British Architects.

R.I.P., _requiescat in pace_=May he (or she) rest in peace.

R.M. Royal Mail; Royal Marines.

R.M.A. Royal Military Asylum; Royal Marine Artillery.

R.M.L.I. Royal Marine Light Infantry.

R.M.S. Royal Mail Steamer; Royal Microscopical Society.

R.N. Royal Navy.

R.N.R. Royal Naval Reserve.

ROB., ROBT. Robert.

ROFFEN. Of Rochester.

ROM. Romans.

ROM. CATH. Roman Catholic.

R.P. Reformed Presbyterian; Regius Professor.

R.R. Right Reverend.

R.R.C. Royal Red Cross (for ladies).

R.S. Royal Society.

R.S.A. Royal Society of Antiquaries; Royal Scottish Academy or Academician.

R.S.D. Royal Society of Dublin.

R.S.E. Royal Society of Edinburgh.

R.S.L. Royal Society of London.

R.S.M. Royal School of Mines.

R.S.O. Railway Sub-office; Railway Sorting Office.

R.S.S., also S.R.S., _Regiæ Societatis Socius_=Fellow of the Royal Society.

R.S.V.P., _Répondez, s'il vous plait_ (Fr.)=Reply, if you please.

RT. HON. Right Honourable.

RT. REV. Right Reverend.

R.T.S. Religious Tract Society.

RT. W., RT. WPFUL. Right Worshipful.

R.V. Rifle Volunteers; Revised Version.

R.W.D.G.M. Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master.

R.W.G.M. Right Worshipful Grand Master.

R.W.G.R. Right Worthy Grand Representative.

R.W.G.S. Right Worthy Grand Secretary.

R.W.G.T. Right Worthy Grand Templar; Right Worthy Grand Treasurer.

R.W.G.W. Right Worshipful Grand Warden.

R.W.S. Royal Society of Painters in Water Colours.

R.W.S.G.W. Right Worshipful Senior Grand Warden.

RX. Tens of rupees.

RY. Railway.



S. South; Sabbath; Saint; Seconds; Society; Sun.

S.A. South Africa; South America; South Australia.

SA. Saturday.

S.A., _secundum artem_=According to art; _sine anno_=Without date.

S.A.I., _Son Altesse Imperiale_ (Fr.). His Royal Highness.

SAM. Samuel.

SARUM. Of Salisbury.

S.A.S., _Societatis Antiquariorum Socius_=Fellow of the Society of
Antiquaries.

SAT. Saturday.

S.C. South Carolina; _Senatus Consuetum_=A decree of the Roman Senate.

S.C., S. CAPS., SM. CAPS. Small capitals.

SC., SCIL., _scilicet_=To wit, Namely, Being understood.

SC., SCULP., SCULPT., _sculpsit_=He (or she) engraved it.

SC.B., _Scientiæ Baccalaureus_= Bachelor of Science.

SC.D., _Scientiæ Doctor_=Doctor of Science.

SCH., SCHR. Schooner.

SCI. FA., _scire facias_=That you cause to know.

S.C.L. Student of the Civil Law.

SCOT. Scotland, Scotch.

SCRIPT. Scripture.

S.D. South Dakota; Senior Deacon.

S.D., _salutem dicit_=Sends greeting.

S.D., _sine die_=Without day.

S.D.U.K. Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge.

S.E. South-east.

SEC. Second; Section.

SEC., SECY. Secretary.

SEC. LEG., _secundum legem_= According to law.

SEC. REG., _secundum regulam_= According to rule.

SECT. Section.

SEM. Seminary; Semitic.

SEN. Senator; Senior.

SEP., Sept. September; Septuagint.

SEQ., _sequentes_ or _sequentia_=The following.

SER. Series; Sermon.

SERG., SERGT. Sergeant;--SERJ., SERJT., Serjeant.

SESS. Session.

SFZ. Sforzando.

S.G. Solicitor-general.

S.G. Specific gravity.

S.H. School-house.

SH. Shilling.

S.H.V., _sub hoc verbo_ or _sub hac voce_=Under this word.

S.J. Society of Jesus.

S.L. Solicitor at Law.

S.L., S. LAT. South latitude.

SLD. Sailed.

S.L.P., _sine legitima prole_=Without lawful issue.

S.M. Short Metre.

S.M., _Sa Majesté_. His (or Her) Majesty.

SMITH. INST. Smithsonian Institution.

S.M. LOND. SOC., _Societatis Medicæ Londiniensis Socius_=Member of the
London Medical Society.

S.M.M., _Sancta Mater Maria_=Holy Mother Mary.

S.M.P., _sine mascula prole_=Without male issue.

S.N., _secundum naturam_=According to nature.

S.O. Sub-office.

S.O. Seller's option.

SOC. Society.

SOL. Solution.

SOL., SOLR. Solicitor.

SOL.-GEN. Solicitor-general.

SOP. Soprano.

SP. Spelling.

S.P., _sine prole_=Without issue.

S.P.C.A. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

S.P.C.C. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.

S.P.C.K. Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.

S.P.G. Society for the Propagation of the Gospel.

SPORT. Sporting.

S.P.Q.R., _Senatus Populusque Romanus_=The Senate and People of Rome.

S.P.S., _sine prole superstite_=Without surviving issue.

SPT. Seaport.

SQ. Square.

SQ., _sequens_=The following.

SR. Senior; Sir.

S.R.I., _Sacrum Romanum Imperium_=Holy Roman Empire.

S.R.S., _Societatis Regiæ Socius_=Fellow of the Royal Society.

S.S. Sabbath School.

SS. Saints.

S.S. Steamship; Screw steamer.

S.S.C. Solicitor before the Supreme Court (Scotland); _Societas Sancti
Crucis_=Society of the Holy Cross.

SS.D., _Sanctissimus Dominus_=Most holy Lord (the Pope).

S.S.E. South-south-east.

S.S.W. South-south-west.

ST. Saint; Strait; Street.

STDY. Saturday.

STE., _Sainte_ (Fr.). Fem. of _Saint_.

STER., STEREO. Stereotype.

STER., STG. Sterling.

S.T.P., _Sanctæ Theologiæ Professor_=Professor of Theology.

STR. Steamer.

SU. Sunday.

SUB. Subject; Suburb.

SUBJ. Subject; Subjunctive.

SUBST. Substitute.

SUF., SUFF. Suffix.

SUP. Superfine; Superior; Superlative; Supreme.

SUP. CT. Superior Court; Supreme Court.

SUPP. Supplement.

SUPR. Supreme.

SUPT. Superintendent.

SURG. Surgeon, Surgery.

SURV.-GEN. Surveyor-general.

S.V., _Sancta Virgo_=Holy Virgin; _Sanctitas Vestra_=Your Holiness.

S.V., _sub voce_=Under the word or title.

S.W. South-west; Senior Warden.

SYM. Symbol.

SYN. Synonym.

SYNOP. Synopsis.

SYST. System.



TAL. QUAL., _talis qualis_=Just as they come, Average quantity.

TAM. Tamil.

TAN. Tangent.

TC. Tierce.

T.C.D. Trinity College, Dublin.

TE. Tellurium.

TECH. Technically; Technology.

TEL., TELEG. Telegram, Telegraph.

TEMP. Temporal; _tempore_=In the time of.

TEN. Tenor.

TEN., TENN. Tennessee.

TER., TERR. Territory.

TERM. Termination.

TEST. Testament.

TEUT. Teutonic.

TEX. Texas.

TEXT. REC., _Textus receptus_=The Received Text.

T.F. Till forbidden.

THEAT. Theatrical.

THEOL. Theology, theologian.

THEOR. Theorem.

THEOS. Theosophy.

THERAP. Therapeutics.

THESS. Thessalonians.

THO., THOS. Thomas.

T.H.W.M. Trinity High-water Mark.

TIM. Timothy.

TIT. Titus.

T.O. Turn Over; Telegraph-office.

TOM. Tome or Volume.

TP. Township.

TR. Transactions; Translator; Trustee.

TRANS. Transitive.

TRANSF. Transferred.

TREAS. Treasurer.

T.R.H. Their Royal Highnesses.

TRIG. Trigonometry.

TRIN. Trinity.

TROP. Tropic.

TRURON., _Truronensis_=Of Truro.

T.S.O. Town Sub-office.

T.T.L. To take leave.

TU., TUES. Tuesday.

TYP., TYPO. Typographer, Typography.



U.C. Upper Canada.

U.F.C. United Free Church [of Scotland].

U.K. United Kingdom.

U.K.A. United Kingdom Alliance.

ULT., _ultimo_=Last.

UNIT. Unitarian.

UNIV. University; Universalist.

U.P. United Presbyterian.

UP. Upper.

U.S. United States; United Service.

U.S., _ut supra_=As above.

U.S.A. United States of America; United States Army.

U.S.C. United States of Colombia.

U.S.N. United States Navy.

U.S.S. United States Ship or Steamer.

USU. Usually.

U.S.W., _und so weiter_ (Ger.)= And so forth.

UT DICT., _ut dictum_=As said.

UT SUP., _ut supra_=As above.

UX., _uxor_=Wife.



V., _versus_=Against; _vide_=See; Verb; Verse; Volume; Viscount.

V.A. Royal Order of Victoria and Albert (for ladies).

V.A. Vicar Apostolic.

VA. Virginia.

VAL. Value.

VAR. Variant.

VAR. LECT., _varia lectio_= Varying reading.

VAT. Vatican.

VB. Verb.

V.C. Vice-chancellor; Vice-consul; Victoria Cross.

V.D. Volunteer [Officers'] Decoration.

V.D. Various dates.

V.D.M., _Verbi Dei Minister_=Preacher of God's Word.

VEN. Venerable.

VENET. Venetian.

VERT. Vertebrata.

VES. Vessel.

VET., VETER. Veterinary;--VET. SURG., Veterinary Surgeon.

V.G. Vicar-general.

V.G., _verbi gratiâ_=For example.

VIC. Vicar; Vicarage.

VID., _vide_=See.

VIL. Village.

V.IMP. Verb impersonal.

V.IRR. Verb irregular.

VIS., VISC. Viscount.

VIZ., _videlicet_=Namely.

V.N. Verb neuter.

VOC. Vocative.

VOCAB. Vocabulary.

VOL. Volunteer.

VOL. Volume;--VOLS., volumes.

VOLC. Volcano.

V.P. Vice-president.

V.R., _Victoria Regina_=Queen Victoria.

V.R. Verb reflexive.

V.R.I., _Victoria Regina et Imperatrix_=Victoria, Queen and Empress.

V.S. Veterinary Surgeon.

VT. Vermont.

V.T. verb transitive.

VUL. Vulgar.

VUL., VULG. Vulgate.

VV.LL., _variæ lectiones_=Various readings.

V.Y. Various years.



W. West; Warden; Week; Welsh.

W.A. West Africa; West Australia.

WAL. Walloon.

WASH. Washington.

W.B. Water Board; Way-bill.

W.C. Water-closet; Western Central; Wesleyan Chapel.

W.C.T.U. Women's Christian Temperance Union.

WE., WED. Wednesday.

W.F. Wrong font.

W.I. West Indies.

WINTON., _Wintoniensis_=Of Winchester.

WIS. Wisconsin.

WK. Week.

WM. William.

W.M.S. Wesleyan Missionary Society.

W.N.W. West-north-west.

WP., WPFL. Worshipful.

W.R. West Riding.

WR., WLR. Walter.

W.S. Writer to the Signet.

W.S.W. West-south-west.

WT. Weight.



X. or XT. Christ. (_X._=Gr. _Ch._)

XM., XMAS. Christmas.

XN., XTIAN. Christian.



Y., YR. Year.

Y., YD. Yard.

Y^E. The (the _Y_ not being a _Y_, but as representing the Anglo-Saxon þ).

Y.M.C.A. Young Men's Christian Association.

YR. Your; Younger.

Y^T. That (_Y_ as in Y^e).

Y.W.C.A. Young Women's Christian Association.



ZN. Zinc.

ZECH. Zechariah.

ZEPH. Zephaniah.

ZR. Zirconium.



&, _et_=And.

&C., _et cetera_=And so forth.

       *       *       *       *       *


SYMBOLS USED IN MEDICINE AND PHARMACY.

[scruple] Scruple; [scruple]i, one scruple; [scruple]ij, two scruples;
[scruple]ss, half a scruple; [scruple]iss, a scruple and a half.

[drachm] Dram or drachm; [drachm]i, one dram; [drachm]ij, two drams;
[drachm]ss, half a dram; [drachm]iss, a dram and a half.

[ounce] Ounce; [ounce]i, one ounce; [ounce]ij, two ounces; [ounce]ss, half
an ounce; [ounce]iss, an ounce and a half.

[minim] A minim; a drop.

[ana] (Gr. _ana_), of each a like quantity.

[recipe] (L. _recipe_), take.

The above symbols are employed almost always in medical prescriptions. A
prescription consists of the following parts: (1) The _Superscription_; (2)
The _Inscription_; (3) The _Subscription_; (4) The _Signature_. The
_Superscription_, which consists of the letter [recipe], is a relic of the
days of astrology. It originally was used to represent the symbol of the
planet Jupiter. By common consent it is now regarded as representing the
imperative mood of the Latin verb _recipere_, to take. The _Inscription_ is
a statement of the names of the substances to be used, with their
quantities. The _Subscription_ is made up of the directions for the
guidance of the dispenser. The _Signature_ includes the directions to the
patient. This part of the prescription should be written in English; the
other parts are in Latin. Sometimes the signature also is in Latin.

The body or prescription contains the following: the _Basis_, or principal
active ingredient; the _Adjuvant_, or _Auxiliary_, to assist its action;
the _Corrective_, to correct or diminish some undesirable quality; the
_Vehicle_, or _Excipient_, to give a suitable form for administration.

PRESCRIPTION.

  [Recipe]                                            Superscription.
  (Basis)      Pot. Acet. [Drachm]v              }
  (Adjuvant)   Tinct. Digitalis [Drachm]j        }    Inscription.
  (Corrective) Syr. Aurantii [Ounce]j            }
  (Vehicle)    Dec. Scopar. ad [Ounce]viij       }
  Misce, fiat mist.                                   Subscription.
  Cpt. Cochl. mag. ii. 4ta. q.q. hora ex paul. aquæ   Signature.

WITHOUT ABBREVIATIONS OR CONTRACTIONS.

  Recipe.
  Potassii Acetatis drachmas quinque.
  Tincturæ Digitalis drachmam unam.
  Syrupi Aurantii unciam unam.
  Decoctum Scoparii ad uncias octo.
  Misce, fiat mistura.
  Capiat cochlearia duo magna quartâ quâque horâ
      ex paululo aquæ.

ENGLISH TRANSLATION.

  Take thou (the dispenser).
  Five drachms of acetate of potassium.
  One drachm of the tincture of digitalis.
  One ounce of syrup of orange-peel.
  Decoction of broom up to eight ounces.
  Mix, let a mixture be made.
  Let him (the patient) take two large spoonfuls at
      each fourth hour, out of (in) a little water.

LIST OF LATIN PHRASES COMMONLY
USED IN THE WRITING OF PRESCRIPTIONS.

  aa.              Ana                       of each.
  Ad.              Adde                      add.
  Ad lib.          Ad libitum                to the desired amount.
  Ad us.           Ad usum                   according to custom.
  Æq.              Æquales                   equal.
  Aq.              Aqua                      water.
  Aq. bull.        Aqua bulliens             boiling water.
  Aq. dest.        Aqua destillata           distilled water.
  Bib.             Bibe                      drink.
  Bis ind.         Bis indies                twice a day.
  Bis in 7 d.      Bis in septem diebus      twice a week.
  C.               Cum                       with.
  Cap.             Capiat                    let him take.
  C. m.            Cras mane                 to-morrow morning.
  C. m. s.         Cras mane sumendus        to be taken to-morrow morning.
  C. n.            Cras nocte                to-morrow night.
  Cochl.           Cochleare                 spoonful.
  Cochl. ampl.     Cochleare amplum          a table-spoonful.
  Cochl. infant.   Cochleare infantis        a tea-spoonful.
  Cochl. mag.      Cochleare magnum          a table-spoonful.
  Cochl. mod.      Cochleare modicum         a dessert-spoonful.
  Cochl. parv.     Cochleare parvum          a tea-spoonful.
  Contin.          Continuetur               let it be continued.
  Cpt.             Capiat                    let him take.
  Cuj.             Cujus                     of which.
  C. v.            Cras vespere              to-morrow evening.
  Cyath.           Cyathus                   a glassful.
  Cyath. vinos.    Cyathus vinosus           a wine-glassful.
  D.               Dosis                     a dose.
  d.               Da                        give.
  D. d. in d.      De die in diem            from day to day.
  Det.             Detur                     let it be given.
  Dieb. alt.       Diebus alternis           on alternate days.
  Dim.             Dimidius                  one-half.
  Div.             Divide                    divide.
  D. in p. æ.      Divide in partes æquales  divide into equal parts.
  Exhib.           Exhibiatur                let it be given.
  F. or ft.        Fiat                      let it be made.
  F. h.            Fiat haustus              make a draught.
  F. m.            Fiat mistura              make a mixture.
  F. pil.          Fiat pilula               make a pill.
  Gutt.            Gutta or guttæ            drop or drops.
  Habt.            Habeat                    let him have.
  Hor. intermed.   Horis intermediis         at intermediate hours.
  H. s.            Horâ somni                at bedtime.
  Ind.             Indies                    daily.
  Lat. dol.        Lateri dolenti            to the painful side.
  Mit.             Mitte                     send.
  Mod. præscript.  Modo præscripto           in the manner directed.
  O. m.            Omni mane                 every morning.
  Omn. bih.        Omni bihorâ               every two hours.
  Omn. hor.        Omni horâ                 every hour.
  O. n.            Omni nocte                every night.
  P. or pt.        Perstetur                 continue.
  Part. æq.        Partes æquales            equal parts.
  P. r. n.         Pro re natâ               when required.
  Q. l.            Quantum libet             as much as is requisite.
  Q. s.            Quantum sufficit          a sufficient quantity.
  Q. v.            Quantum volueris          at will.
  [Recipe]         Recipe                    take.
  Rep.             Repetatur                 let it be repeated.
  Sing.            Singulorum                of each.
  Sum.             Sumat or sumendum         let him take or
                                             let it be taken.
  T. d.            Ter in die                three times a day.

       *       *       *       *       *


MUSICAL SIGNS AND ABBREVIATIONS.

Signs denoting time or relative value of sound:

[Illustration]

Each of these notes represents twice the duration of sound of that which
comes next in order. The sign to the right of each note indicates a rest or
silence equal to its sound duration.

[Illustration]

In time, the figure above a line drawn thus across the stave denotes the
length of the pause in bars.

_Accel._ Accelerando. Gradually increasing the speed.

_Adg^{_o_}_ or _Ad^{_o_}._ Adagio. Slow; also name given to a slow movement
or piece.

_Ad lib._ Ad libitum. Passages so marked may be rendered at the will of the
performer.

_And._ Andante. Moderately slow: graceful; sometimes used as the name of a
movement or separate piece.

_Anim^{_o_}._ Animato. Animated: with soul.

_A tem._ A tempo. In time.

[Illustration]

_Bar._ A line drawn perpendicularly across the stave, separating the notes
into measures of equal length; also the music comprised within two such
lines.--_Double Bar_. The former of the two signs is used to mark the
larger divisions of a piece or movement; in psalm tunes, hymns, chants,
&c., to mark the end of a verse or sentence. The latter sign denotes the
end of a composition.

[Bind marks]   Bind or Tie. Placed over two or more notes in the same
position on the stave, to show they are to be played as one.

[Breath marks]   Breath-marks. In vocal music, signs used to show where
breath should be taken.

[Illustration]

Denoting common time; the former indicating four crotchets to the bar, the
latter two minims to the bar.

_Cal._ Calando. Gradually slower, and with decreasing volume of tone.

[Illustration]

_Clef._ The sign placed at the beginning of a stave, determining the
absolute pitch of the notes that follow it.

[Crescendo]   Crescendo. Gradual increase of tone.

([Dash]) Dash. When placed over or under a note, implies a very detached
(_staccato_) style.

_D.C._ Da capo. From the beginning; indicating that the performer must
return to the beginning of the movement, and conclude at the double bar
marked _Fine_.

[Decrescendo]   Decrescendo. Gradually softer.

_Dim._ Diminuendo. Gradual decrease of tone.

(·) Dot. When added to a note or rest, lengthens it by one-half. When
placed over or under a note, means that its duration should be cut short.

[Flat]   Flat. The sign which lowers the pitch of a note one semitone.

[Double Flat]   Double Flat. Used before a note already flat, lowering it
another semitone. It is corrected by a flat and a natural.

_f._ Forte. Loudly: strongly.

_ff._ Fortissimo. Very loud.

_fff._ Fortississimo. As loud as possible.

_f.p._ Forte-piano. Loud, then soft.

_Leg._ Legato. In a smooth and gliding manner.

_Lo._ Loco. Indicating to return to the proper pitch after having played an
octave higher.

_mf._ or _mff._ Mezzo-forte. Moderately loud.

_mp._ Mezzo-piano. Moderately soft.

_Manc._ Mancando. Dying away, decreasing.

_Marc._ Marcato. In a marked manner, emphasised.

M.M. Maelzel's metronome.

M.M. [Crotchet]=80. Denoting that the beat of a crotchet is equal to the
pulse of the pendulum of Maelzel's metronome, with the weight set at 80.

[Natural]   Natural. Restores a note, which has been raised by the sharp or
lowered by the flat, to its original pitch.

_Ott._, O^{va}, 8^{va}=Ottava. An octave--as 8^{va} _alta_=_ottava alta_,
(to be played) an octave higher; 8^{va} _bas._ = _ottava bassa_, an octave
lower.

_p._ Piano. Softly.

_P.F._ or _pf._ Piano-forte. Soft, then loud.

_pp._ Pianissimo. Very soft.

_ppp._ Pianississimo. As softly as possible.

[Pause]   Pause or _Corona_. When placed over a note or rest, indicates
that it must be held longer than its natural length. When over a double
bar, indicates where the piece is to be concluded after a repeat.

_Pizz_. Pizzicato. A direction to violinists to twang the string with the
finger instead of using the bow.

[Illustration]

Quintuplet. A group of five notes played in the time of four.

4^{tte} Quartette.

5^{tte} Quintette.

_Raddol._ Raddolcendo. Gradually softer and sweeter.

_Rall._ Rallentando. Becoming gradually slower.

[Illustration]

Repeat. When placed at the beginning and end of a passage or movement,
indicates that the portion so marked is to be played over again.

_Rit._ Ritardando. Retarding, holding back the time.

[Segno]   Segno. The sign--as _Al Segno_, to the sign; _Dal Segno_, from
the sign.

_Sem._, _Semp._ Sempre. Always, throughout--as _sempre legato_, smooth
throughout; _sempre ritardando_, continually slackening the time.

7^{tte} Septet.

6^{tte} Sextet, or Sestet.

[Sforzando]   Sforzando. Denoting emphasis applied to a particular note or
notes. Abbreviated _sf._, _sfz._

[Sforzato-piano.]   Sforzato-piano. A sudden _forte_ followed by a
_diminuendo_ or _piano_. Abbreviated _sfp._, _sfz.p._

[Sharp]   Sharp. The sign which raises the pitch of a note one semitone.

[Double Sharp]   Double Sharp. Used before a note already sharp, raising
the pitch by a semitone. It is contradicted by a natural and a sharp.

[Slur] Slur. Showing that the notes over which it is placed must be played
in a smooth (_legato_) manner.

_Sos._, _Sos^{_t_}._ Sostenuto. Sustained; prolonging the tone for the full
duration of time indicated.

_Spir._ Spiritoso. In a spirited or lively manner.

[Illustration]

Stave or Staff. The horizontal and parallel lines on which the notes are
placed, used to indicate their relative position as regards pitch.

_Trem._ Tremolando. With trembling or wavering; a note or chord played with
great rapidity so as to produce such an effect.

3^o Trio.

[Illustration]

Triplet. A group of three notes performed in the time of two.

_T.S._ Tasto solo. One key alone: a direction to play a part in unison.

       *       *       *       *       *


CORRECT CEREMONIOUS FORMS OF ADDRESS.

    The following are the correct ceremonious modes of addressing and
    beginning letters to persons of title or holding offices:

AMBASSADOR, BRITISH--Address: 'His Excellency [in other respects according
to his rank], H.B.M.'s Ambassador and Plenipotentiary.' Begin: 'Sir,' 'My
Lord,' &c., according to rank. Refer personally to as 'Your Excellency.' An
Ambassador's wife, when resident abroad, is sometimes, but not very
correctly, designated 'Your Excellency.'

ARCHBISHOP--'His Grace the Lord Archbishop of ----.' Begin: 'My Lord
Archbishop.' Refer to as 'Your Grace.' In formal documents the Archbishop
of Canterbury is addressed as 'The Most Reverend Father in God, Frederick,
by Divine Providence Lord Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of all England
and Metropolitan;' the Archbishop of York as 'The Most Reverend Father in
God, William, by Divine permission Lord Archbishop of York, Primate of
England and Metropolitan.' But an Irish Archbishop appointed since 1868 is
only 'The Most Reverend the Archbishop of ----,' unless he happen to be a
temporal peer, in which case he is 'The Right Hon. and Most Rev.'

ARCHDEACON--'The Venerable the Archdeacon of ----.' Begin: 'Venerable Sir.'

BARON--'The Right Hon. Lord ----,' or 'The Lord ----.' Begin: 'My Lord.'
Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

BARON'S DAUGHTER--If unmarried, 'The Hon.' [Christian name and surname]; if
married, 'The Hon. Mrs' [husband's surname]. Begin: 'Madam.' If married to
a Baronet or Knight, 'The Hon. Lady' [husband's surname]. Begin: 'My Lady.'
If the wife of a peer, or of the son of a Duke or Marquess, address as
such.

BARON'S SON--'The Hon.' [Christian name and surname]. Begin: 'Sir.' But the
eldest sons of Barons in the Peerage of Scotland are usually addressed as
'The Hon. the Master of' [peerage title].

BARON'S SON'S WIFE--'The Hon. Mrs' [husband's surname], or, if necessary
for distinction, the husband's Christian name should also be used. Begin:
'Madam.' If the daughter of an Earl, Marquess, or Duke, address as such.

BARONESS, EITHER IN HER OWN RIGHT OR HER HUSBAND'S--'The Right Hon. the
Baroness ----,' 'The Right Hon. Lady ----,' or 'The Lady ----.' Begin: 'My
Lady.' Refer to as 'Your Ladyship.'

BARONET--'Sir [Christian name and surname], Bart.' Commence: 'Sir.'

BARONET'S WIFE--'Lady' [surname]. Begin: 'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your
Ladyship.'

BISHOP, COLONIAL--As Scottish bishop.

BISHOP, ENGLISH--'The Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of London,' or 'The Lord
Bishop of London.' Begin: 'My Lord Bishop.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.' In
formal documents a Bishop is 'The Right Rev. Father in God, John, by Divine
permission Lord Bishop of Salisbury.'

BISHOP, IRISH, CONSECRATED BEFORE 1868--As English Bishop.

BISHOP, IRISH, CONSECRATED SINCE 1868--'The Right Rev. the Bishop of
Ossory,' or in case of the Bishops of Meath and Tuam, 'The Most Rev.'
Begin: 'Right Rev. Sir,' or 'Most Rev. Sir.'

BISHOP, RETIRED--'The Right Rev. Bishop ----,' or 'The Right Rev. ----
----, D.D.' Begin: 'Right Rev. Sir.'

BISHOP, SCOTTISH--'The Right Rev. the Bishop of Edinburgh,' or 'The Right
Rev. Bishop Dowden.' The Bishop who holds the position of Primus is
generally addressed, 'The Most Rev. the Primus.' The use of 'Lord Bishop'
and 'My Lord' is incorrect.

BISHOP SUFFRAGAN--'The Right Rev. the Bishop Suffragan of Bedford.' Begin:
'Right Rev. Sir.'

BISHOPS' WIVES AND CHILDREN have no titles.

CLERGY--'The Rev.' [Christian name and surname]. Begin: 'Rev. Sir.' If son
of a Duke or Marquess, 'The Rev. Lord' [Christian name and surname]. If the
son of an Earl, Viscount, or Baron, 'The Rev. the Hon.' [Christian name and
surname] is beginning to supersede 'The Hon. and Rev.' The Moderator of the
General Assembly of the Church of Scotland during his year of office is
styled 'Right Rev.;' ex-moderators are usually spoken of as 'Very Rev.'

COMPANION OF AN ORDER OF KNIGHTHOOD--The initials, C.B., C.M.G., C.S.I., or
C.I.E., as it may be, are subjoined to the ordinary form of address.

CONSUL, BRITISH--'---- ----, Esq., H.B.M.'s Agent and Consul-General,'
'Consul-General,' 'Consul,' or 'Vice-Consul,' as it may be.

COUNTESS--'The Right Hon. the Countess of ----.' Begin: 'Madam.' Refer to
as 'Your Ladyship.'

DEAN--'The Very Rev. the Dean of ----.' Begin: 'Very Rev. Sir.'

DOCTOR--The initials D.D., M.D., LL.D., Mus.D., are placed after the
ordinary form of address, as 'The Rev. John Davidson, D.D.,' 'David
Patrick, Esq., LL.D.' But 'The Rev. Dr Davidson,' 'Dr David Patrick,' are
also frequently used.

DOWAGER--On the marriage of a peer or Baronet, the widow of the previous
holder of the title becomes 'Dowager,' and is addressed, 'The Right Hon.
the Dowager Countess of ----,' 'The Dowager Lady ----.' As more than one
Dowager may hold the same title, the term is less used than formerly, and
the Christian name is instead coming to be employed as a distinction--e.g.
'The Right Hon. Helen Countess of ----.'

DUCHESS--'Her Grace the Duchess of ----.' Begin: 'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your
Grace.'

DUKE--'His Grace the Duke of ----.' Begin: 'My Lord Duke.' Refer to as
'Your Grace.'

DUKE'S DAUGHTER--'The Right Hon. Lady' [Christian name and surname], or
'The Lady' [Christian name and surname], the surname being that of her
husband if married. Begin: 'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your Ladyship.' If married
to a peer, she is addressed according to her husband's rank only. This,
however, does not hold in the case of peers by courtesy; and a Duke's
daughter married to the eldest son of an Earl, after the prefix 'Lady,'
sometimes takes her own Christian name, followed by her husband's courtesy
title.

DUKE'S ELDEST SON AND HIS CHILDREN--The courtesy title is treated as if it
were an actual peerage; his eldest son taking the grandfather's third
title, and being addressed as if a peer.

DUKE'S ELDEST SON'S WIFE--As if her husband's courtesy title were an actual
peerage.

DUKE'S YOUNGER SON--'The Right Hon. Lord' [Christian name and surname], or
'The Lord' [Christian name and surname]. Begin: 'My Lord.' Refer to as
'Your Lordship.'

DUKE'S YOUNGER SON'S WIFE--'The Right Hon. Lady,' or 'The Lady' [husband's
Christian name and surname]. Begin: 'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your Ladyship.'

EARL--'The Right Hon. the Earl of ----,' or 'The Earl of ----.' Begin: 'My
Lord.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

EARL'S DAUGHTER--As Duke's daughter.

EARL'S ELDEST SON, and EARL'S ELDEST SON'S WIFE--As if the courtesy title
were an actual peerage.

EARL'S YOUNGER SON AND HIS WIFE--As Baron's son and his wife.

GOVERNOR OF COLONY--'His Excellency [ordinary designation], Governor of
----.' Begin according to rank, and refer to as 'Your Excellency.'

JUDGE, ENGLISH OR IRISH--'The Hon. Sir ---- ----,' if a Knight, or 'The
Hon. Mr Justice ----.' Begin: 'Sir.' On the bench only he is addressed as
'My Lord,' and referred to as 'Your Lordship.'

JUDGE OF COUNTY COURT--'His Honour Judge ----.' When on the bench, referred
to as 'Your Honour.'

JUDGES, SCOTTISH--See Lord of Session.

JUSTICE OF PEACE IN ENGLAND (not Scotland)--'The Right Worshipful.'
Referred to when on the bench as 'Your Worship.'

KING--'The King's Most Excellent Majesty.' Begin: 'Sire,' or 'May it please
your Majesty,' or 'Lord ---- presents his duty to your Majesty.' Refer to
as 'Your Majesty.'

KING'S COUNSEL--Append K.C. to ordinary address.

KNIGHT BACHELOR--As Baronet, except that the word 'Bart.' is omitted.

KNIGHT OF THE BATH, OF ST MICHAEL AND ST GEORGE, OR OF THE STAR OF
INDIA--'Sir' [Christian name and surname], with the initials G.C.B.,
K.C.B., K.M.G., or K.S.I. added. Begin: 'Sir.'

KNIGHT OF THE GARTER, OF THE THISTLE, OR OF ST PATRICK--The initials K.G.,
K.T., or K.P., as it may be, are to be added to the address.

KNIGHT'S WIFE, WHETHER WIFE OF KNIGHT BACHELOR, OF THE BATH, OF ST MICHAEL
AND ST GEORGE, OR OF THE STAR OF INDIA--As Baronet's wife.

LORD ADVOCATE OF SCOTLAND--'The Right Hon. the Lord Advocate.' Usual
beginning: 'My Lord,' though 'Sir' is said to be more correct.

LORD CHANCELLOR--'The Right Hon. the Lord Chancellor.' Begin and refer to
according to rank.

LORD CHIEF-JUSTICE--'The Right Hon. the Lord Chief-Justice of England,' or
'The Right Hon. Sir ---- ----, Lord Chief-Justice of England.' Begin, if a
peer, according to his degree; otherwise as under Judge.

LORD HIGH COMMISSIONER TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY--'His Grace the Lord High
Commissioner.' Begin according to rank as a peer. Refer to as 'Your Grace.'

LORD JUSTICE-CLERK--'The Right Hon. the Lord Justice-Clerk.' Begin: 'My
Lord.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

LORD JUSTICE-GENERAL OF SCOTLAND--'The Right Hon. the Lord
Justice-General.' Begin: 'My Lord.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

LORD JUSTICE OF APPEAL--'The Right Hon. the Lord Justice ----,' or 'The
Right Hon. Sir ---- ----.' Begin and refer to as a Judge.

LORD LIEUTENANT OF IRELAND--'His Grace,' if a Duke; otherwise, 'His
Excellency the Lord Lieutenant.' Begin and refer to according to rank as a
peer.

LORD MAYOR OF LONDON, YORK, DUBLIN, &C.--'The Right Hon. the Lord Mayor of
London,' or 'The Right Hon. ---- ----, Lord Mayor of London.' Begin: 'My
Lord.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

LORD MAYOR'S WIFE--'The Right Hon. the Lady Mayoress of ----.' Begin:
'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your Ladyship.'

LORD OF APPEAL IN ORDINARY AND HIS WIFE--As Baron and Baroness. Their
children have no title.

LORD OF SESSION IN SCOTLAND--'The Hon. Lord ----.' Begin: 'My Lord.' Refer
to as 'Your Lordship.' His wife has no title.

LORD PROVOST--'The Right Hon. the Lord Provost of Edinburgh,' 'The Hon. the
Lord Provost of Glasgow,' 'The Lord Provost of Aberdeen' or of 'Perth.'
Begin: 'My Lord Provost,' or 'My Lord.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.' The
Lord Provost's wife has no title.

MAID OF HONOUR--'The Hon. Miss ----.' Begin: 'Madam.'

MARCHIONESS--'The Most Hon. the Marchioness of ----.' Begin: 'Madam.' Refer
to as 'Your Ladyship.'

MARQUESS--'The Most Hon. the Marquess of ----.' Begin: 'My Lord Marquess.'
Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

MARQUESS'S DAUGHTER--Like Duke's daughter.

MARQUESS'S ELDEST SON--Like Duke's eldest son.

MARQUESS'S YOUNGER SON--Like Duke's younger son.

MAYOR--'The Right Worshipful the Mayor of ----.' Begin: 'Sir.' Refer to as
'Your Worship.'

MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT--Add M.P. to the usual form of address.

MINISTER RESIDENT--'---- ----, Esq. [or according to rank], 'H.B.M.'s
Minister Resident, ----.'

OFFICERS IN THE ARMY AND NAVY--The professional is prefixed to any other
rank--e.g. 'Admiral the Right Hon. the Earl of ----,' 'Lieut.-Col. Sir ----
----, K.C.B.' Officers below the rank of Captain in the Army or Commander
in the Navy are more generally addressed by their social, not professional
rank, followed by the name of the regiment, R.A., R.E., or R.N., as may be.

PREMIER--According to his rank.

PRINCE--If a Duke, 'His Royal Highness the Duke of ----.' If not a Duke,
'His Royal Highness Prince' [Christian name]. Begin, in either case, 'Sir.'
Refer to as 'Your Royal Highness.'

PRINCESS--If a Duchess, 'Her Royal Highness the Duchess of ----.' If not a
Duchess, 'Her Royal Highness the Princess' [Christian name]. Begin:
'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your Royal Highness.'

PRINCIPAL OF A SCOTTISH UNIVERSITY--When a clergyman, 'The Very Rev. the
Principal of Aberdeen,' or 'The Very Rev. Principal' [Marshall Lang].

PRIVY COUNCILLOR--'The Right Hon.,' followed by name or title. Begin and
refer to according to rank.

QUEEN--'The Queen's Most excellent Majesty.' Begin: 'Madam,' or 'May it
please your Majesty.' Otherwise, 'Lord ---- presents his duty to your
Majesty.' Refer to as 'Your Majesty.'

QUEEN'S COUNSEL--Append Q.C. to ordinary address.

SECRETARY OF STATE--'Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the
---- Department.'

SERJEANT-AT-LAW--'Serjeant ----,' or 'Mr Serjeant ----.'

SHERIFF OF LONDON--'The Right Worshipful.'

VICE-CHANCELLOR--As a Judge. Begin: 'Sir.' Address on the bench as 'My
Lord.'

VISCOUNT--'The Right Hon. the Lord Viscount ----,' or 'The Lord Viscount
----.' Begin: 'My Lord.' Refer to as 'Your Lordship.'

VISCOUNTESS--'The Right Hon. the Viscountess ----,' or 'The Viscountess
----.' Begin: 'Madam.' Refer to as 'Your Ladyship.'

VISCOUNT'S DAUGHTER, SON, AND SON'S WIFE--As Baron's daughter, son, and
son's wife.

In correspondence with equals or personal friends letters are begun less
formally--e.g., 'My dear Lord,' 'Dear Lord ----,' 'Dear Sir James.' We are
less ceremonious than our ancestors a few generations ago, when letters to
the nearest relatives and most intimate friends were begun and ended in the
most formal manner. Designations like 'Mrs General ----,' 'Mrs Captain
----,' 'Mrs Dr ----,' which were fifty years ago not uncommon, were always
improper. Persons holding offices other than those enumerated are addressed
in the usual form, 'Sir,' 'Dear Sir,' or 'My dear Sir,' according to the
more or less formal terms on which the writer may be with his
correspondent. A firm is addressed 'Gentlemen' or 'Dear Sirs.'

       *       *       *       *       *


PRONOUNCING VOCABULARY OF SCRIPTURE PROPER NAMES.

    [This vocabulary contains all common Scripture Names except
    monosyllables and dissyllables, the latter being always accented on the
    first syllable. _Ch_ has the sound of _k_, and so has _c_, except when
    marked _ç_, to indicate the sound of _s_; _g_ is hard, except when
    marked otherwise.]

  A-bad'don.
  Ab'a-na.
  Ab'a-rim.
  A-bed'ne-g[=o].
  [=A]-bel-Me-h[=o]'lah.
  [=A]-bel-Miz'r[=a]-im (_or_ -r[=a]').
  [=A]-bel-Shit'tim.
  A-b[=i]'a.
  A-b[=i]'a-thar.
  A-bi-[=e]'zer.
  Ab'i-gail.
  A-b[=i]'h[=u].
  A-b[=i]'jah.
  A-b[=i]'jam.
  Ab-i-l[=e]'ne.
  A-bim'e-lech.
  A-bin'a-dab.
  A-b[=i]'ram.
  Ab'i-shag.
  A-bish'[=a]-[=i].
  [=A]'bra-ham.
  Ab'sa-lom.
  A-çel'da-ma.
  A-ch[=a]'ia ('ya, _or_ a-k[=i]'a).
  A-d[=i]'n[=o] (_or_ Ad'i-n[=o])
  A-do-ni-b[=e]'zek.
  Ad-o-n[=i]'jah.
  Ad-o-n[=i]'ram.
  A-do-ni-z[=e]'dek.
  A-dram'me-lech.
  Ad-ra-myt'ti-um.
  A'dri-a.
  [=A]'dri-el.
  A-dul'lam.
  Ag'a-bus (_or_ -g[=a]').
  A-grip'pa.
  A-has-[=u]-[=e]'rus.
  [=A]-ha-z[=i]'ah.
  A-h[=i]'jah.
  A-him'[=a]-az.
  A-him'e-lech.
  A-hin'o-am.
  A-hith'o-phel.
  A-h[=i]'tub.
  A-h[=o]'li-ab.
  A-hol'i-bah.
  Aj'a-lon.
  Al-ex-an'dri-a.
  Al-phæ'us (-f[=e]').
  Al-tas'chith.
  Am'a-lek.
  Am'a-lek-[=i]te (_or_ A-mal').
  Am'a-na, A-m[=a]'na.
  Am'a-sa, A-m[=a]'sa.
  Am-a-z[=i]'ah.
  A-min'a-dab.
  Am'mon-[=i]te.
  Am'o-r[=i]te.
  Am-phip'o-lis.
  Am'ra-phel.
  An'a-kims.
  A-nam'me-lech.
  An-a-n[=i]'as.
  An'a-thoth.
  An-dro-n[=i]'cus.
  An'ti-och.
  An'ti-pas.
  An-tip'a-tris.
  A-pel'l[=e]s ('l[=e]z).
  Ap-ol-l[=o]'ni-a.
  A-pol'los.
  A-pol'ly-on.
  Ap'pi-[=i] F[=o]'rum.
  Aq'ui-la (ak'wi-).
  Ar'a-rat.
  A-rau'nah.
  Ar-che-l[=a]'us.
  Arc-t[=u]'rus.
  Ar-[=e]-op'a-gus.
  Ar'e-tas.
  [=A]'ri-el.
  Ar-i-ma-th[=e]'a.
  A'ri-och.
  Ar-is-tar'chus.
  Ar-is-to-b[=u]'lus.
  Ar-ma-ged'don.
  Ar-m[=e]'ni-a.
  Ar'o-er.
  Ar'te-mas.
  A-ru'mah.
  As'a-hel.
  As'e-nath.
  Ash'ke-naz.
  Ash't[=a]-roth.
  Ash-t[=o]'reth.
  A'si-a ([=a]'zhi-a).
  As'ke-lon.
  As-syr'i-a.
  Ath-a-l[=i]'ah.
  At-ta-l[=i]'a.
  Au-gus'tus.
  Az-a-r[=i]'ah.
  A-z[=o]'tus.

  B[=a]'al-ah.
  B[=a]-al-b[=e]'rith.
  B[=a]'al-gad.
  B[=a]-al-h[=a]'zor.
  B[=a]-al-her'mon.
  B[=a]-al-m[=e]'on.
  B[=a]-al-p[=e]'or.
  B[=a]-al-per'a-zim.
  B[=a]-al-shal'i-sha (_or_ -l[=i]').
  B[=a]-al-t[=a]'mar.
  B[=a]-al-z[=e]'bub.
  B[=a]-al-z[=e]'phon.
  B[=a]'a-sha.
  Bab'y-lon.
  Ba-h[=u]'rim.
  Ba-rab'bas.
  Bar'na-bas.
  Bar'sa-bas.
  Bar-thol'o-mew.
  Bar-ti-mæ'us.
  Bar-zil'l[=a]-[=i].
  Bath-sh[=e]'ba (_or_ Bath').
  B[=e]-el'ze-bub.
  B[=e]-er-la-h[=a]i'roi.
  Be-[=e]'roth.
  B[=e]-er'she-ba (_or_ -sh[=e]').
  B[=e]'he-moth.
  B[=e]'li-al.
  Bel-shaz'zar.
  Bel-te-shaz'zar.
  Be-n[=a]'iah ('ya, _or_ -n[=i]'a).
  Ben-h[=a]'dad.
  Ben'ja-min.
  Be-r[=e]'a.
  Ber-n[=i]'çe.
  Be-r[=o]'dach-bal'a-dan.
  Beth-ab'a-ra.
  Beth'a-ny.
  Beth-ar'bel.
  Beth-[=a]'ven.
  Be-thes'da (-thez').
  Beth-h[=o]'ron.
  Beth'le-hem.
  Beth-m[=a]'a-chah.
  Beth-p[=e]'or (_or_ Beth').
  Beth'pha-g[=e] (-j[=e]).
  Beth-s[=a]'i-da.
  Beth-sh[=e]'mesh (_or_ Beth').
  Be-th[=u]'el (_or_ Beth').
  Be-zal'e-el.
  Bi-thyn'i-a.
  B[=o]-a-ner'g[=e]s ('j[=e]z).

  C[=a]'ia-phas (k[=a]'ya- _or_ k[=i]'a-).
  Cal'va-ry.
  C[=a]'naan-[=i]te.
  Can'da-ç[=e].
  Ca-per'n[=a]-um.
  Cap-pa-d[=o]'ci-a ('shi-).
  Car'che-mish.
  Cen'chre-a (sen').
  C[=e]s-a-r[=e]'a.
  Chal-d[=e]'an.
  Ched-or-l[=a]'o-mer (_or_ -l[=a]-[=o]').
  Chem'a-rims.
  Cher'eth-[=i]tes.
  Chin'ne-reth.
  Cho-r[=a]'zin.
  Ch[=u]-shan-rish-a-th[=a]'im.
  Ci-lic'i-a (si-lish'i-a).
  Cin'ne-roth (sin').
  Clau'di-a.
  Clau'di-us.
  Cl[=e]'o-phas.
  Co-los's[=e].
  Co-n[=i]'ah.
  Cor-n[=e]'li-us.
  Cy-r[=e]'n[=e] (s[=i]-).
  Cy-r[=e]'ni-us (s[=i]-).

  Dal-ma-n[=u]'tha.
  Dal-m[=a]'ti-a ('shi-).
  Dam'a-ris.
  Da-mas'cus.
  Dan'i-el.
  Da-r[=i]'us.
  Deb'o-rah (_or_ -b[=o]').
  De-cap'o-lis.
  Del'i-lah (Heb. De-l[=i]'lah).
  De-m[=e]'tri-us.
  D[=i]-an'a.
  D[=i]-o-nys'i-us (-nish').
  D[=i]-ot're-ph[=e]s (-f[=e]z).
  Dru-sil'la.

  [=E]-bed-m[=e]'lech.
  Eb-en-[=e]'zer.
  [=E]'dom-[=i]te.
  Ed're-[=i].
  El-[=e]'a-leh.
  El-[=e]-[=a]'zar.
  El-e-l[=o]'he-Is'ra-el.
  El-h[=a]'nan.
  E-l[=i]'ab.
  E-l[=i]'a-kim.
  E-l[=i]'a-shib.
  El-i-[=e]'zer.
  E-l[=i]'h[=u].
  E-l[=i]'jah.
  E-lim'e-lech.
  El'i-phaz.
  E-l[=i]'sha.
  E-lish'e-ba (_or_ -sh[=e]').
  El'ka-nah.
  El'la-sar.
  El'n[=a]-than.
  E-l[=o]'[=i].
  El'y-mas.
  [=E]'ne-as.
  Em'ma-us (_or_ Em-m[=a]').
  En-eg-l[=a]'im.
  En'g[=e]-d[=i] (_or_ -ged').
  En-r[=o]'gel.
  Ep'a-phras.
  E-paph-ro-d[=i]'tus.
  Eph'e-sus.
  [=E]'phr[=a]-im.
  Eph'ra-tah.
  Ep-i-c[=u]-r[=e]'ans.
  E-ras'tus.
  [=E]-sar-had'don.
  Es-dra-[=e]'lon.
  Esh't[=a]-ol.
  [=E]-thi-[=o]'pi-a.
  E[=u]-n[=i]'çe.
  E[=u]-[=o]'di-as.
  E[=u]-phr[=a]'t[=e]s ('t[=e]z).
  E[=u]-roc'ly-don.
  E[=u]'ty-chus.
  [=E]-vil-me-r[=o]'dach (or -mer').
  Ex'o-dus.
  E-z[=e]'ki-el.
  [=E]-zi-on-g[=a]'ber.

  For-t[=u]-n[=a]'tus.

  Gab'ba-tha.
  G[=a]'bri-el.
  Gad'a-r[=e]nes.
  Ga-l[=a]'ti-a (-l[=a]'shi-a)
  Gal'e-ed.
  Gal-i-l[=e]'an.
  Gal'i-lee.
  Gal'li-o.
  Ga-m[=a]'li-el.
  Ged-a-l[=i]'ah.
  Ged'e-roth.
  Ge-h[=a]'z[=i].
  Gem-a-r[=i]'ah.
  Gen-nes'a-ret.
  Gen'e-sis (jen').
  Ge-n[=u]'bath.
  Ger'ge-s[=e]nes.
  Ger'i-zim (Heb. Ge-riz'zim).
  Geth-sem'a-ne.
  Gib'be-thon.
  Gib'e-ah.
  Gib'e-on.
  Gid'e-on.
  Gil-b[=o]'a.
  Gil'e-ad.
  Gir'gash-[=i]te.
  Gol'go-tha.
  Go-l[=i]'ath.
  Go-mor'rah.

  Hab'ak-kuk.
  Hach'i-lah.
  Had-ad-[=e]'zer.
  Had-ad-rim'mon.
  H[=a]'gar-[=e]nes.
  Hag'g[=a]-[=i].
  Ha-nan'e-el.
  Ha-n[=a]'n[=i].
  Han-a-n[=i]'ah.
  Har'[=o]-sheth (_or_ -r[=o]').
  Hav'i-lah.
  H[=a]-voth-j[=a]'ir.
  Haz'[=a]-el (or H[=a]').
  Heph'zi-bah.
  Her-mog'e-n[=e]s (-moj'e-n[=e]z).
  He-r[=o]'di-ans.
  He-r[=o]'di-as.
  He-r[=o]'di-on.
  Hez-e-k[=i]'-ah.
  Hid'de-kel (_or_ -dek').
  H[=i]-e-rap'o-lis.
  Hig-g[=a]i'on ('gi- _or_ g[=a]'yon).
  Hil-k[=i]'ah.
  Ho-s[=e]'a (-z[=e]').
  Ho-sh[=e]'a.
  H[=y]-me-næ'us.

  Ich'a-bod.
  I-c[=o]'ni-um.
  Id-[=u]-m[=e]'a.
  Il-lyr'-i-cum.
  Im-man'[=u]-el.
  I-sai'ah ([=i]-z[=i]'a _or_ [=i]-z[=a]'ya).
  Is-car'i-ot.
  Ish'bo-sheth (_or_ -b[=o]').
  Ish'm[=a]-el.
  Ish'm[=a]-el-[=i]te.
  Is'r[=a]-el (iz').
  Is'r[=a]-el-[=i]te (iz').
  Is'sa-char.
  Ith'a-mar.
  It't[=a]-[=i].
  It-[=u]-r[=e]'a.

  J[=a]-besh-gil'e-ad.
  Jab'ne-el.
  J[=a]'ir-us.
  Jeb'[=u]-s[=i]te.
  Jec-o-n[=i]'ah.
  Jed'[=u]-thun.
  J[=e]-gar-s[=a]-ha-d[=u]'tha.
  Je-h[=o]'a-haz.
  Je-h[=o]'ash.
  je-hoi'a-chin.
  Je-hoi'a-da.
  Je-hoi'a'-kim.
  Je-hon'a-dab.
  Je-h[=o]'ram.
  Je-hosh'a-phat.
  Je-hosh'e-ba.
  Je-h[=o]-vah-j[=i]'reh.
  Je-h[=o]-vah-nis's[=i].
  Je-h[=o]-vah-sh[=a]'lom.
  Jer-e-m[=i]'ah.
  Jer'i-ch[=o].
  Jer-o-b[=o]'am.
  Je-rub'ba-al (_or_ -b[=a]').
  Je-ru'sa-lem.
  Jesh'i-mon.
  Jesh'[=u]-run.
  Jez'e-bel.
  Jez're-el.
  Jo-an'na.
  Joch'e-bed (_or_ -eb').
  Jo-h[=a]'nan (_or_ J[=o]').
  Jon'a-dab.
  Jon'a-than.
  Josh'-[=u]-a.
  Jo-s[=i]'ah.
  Joz'a-char.
  J[=u]-d[=e]'a.
  J[=u]'li-us.
  J[=u]'pi-ter.

  Kad'mon-[=i]tes.
  Ked'e-moth.
  Ken'niz-z[=i]tes.
  K[=e]'ri-oth.
  Ke-t[=u]'rah.
  Kib-roth-hat-t[=a]'a-vah.
  Kir-h[=e]'res.
  Kir-jath-[=a]'im.
  Kir-jath-ar'ba.
  Kir-jath-h[=u]'zoth.
  Kir-jath-j[=e]'a-rim.

  La-hai'roi (-h[=i]').
  L[=a]-od-i-ç[=e]'a.
  La-s[=e]'a.
  Laz'a-rus.
  Leb'a-non.
  Leb-b[=e]'us.
  Lem'[=u]-el.
  Le-v[=i]'a-than.
  Lib'er-t[=i]nes.
  Lib'y-a.
  L[=o]-am'm[=i].
  L[=o]-r[=u]'ha-mah (_or_ -h[=a]').
  L[=u]'çi-fer.
  L[=u]'-ci-us (l[=u]'shi-us).
  Lyc-a-[=o]'ni-a.
  Lyc-i-a (lish'i-a).
  Lyd'i-a.
  L[=y]-s[=a]'ni-as.
  Lys-i-as (lish'i-as).

  M[=a]'a-cah.
  Maç-e-d[=o]'ni-a.
  Mach-p[=e]'lah (_or_ Mach').
  Mag'da-la.
  M[=a]'ha-lath.
  M[=a]-ha-n[=a]'im.
  M[=a]-her-shal-al-hash'baz.
  Mak-k[=e]'dah.
  Mal'a-ch[=i].
  Man'[=a]-en.
  Ma-nas'seh.
  Ma-n[=o]'ah.
  Mar-a-nath'a.
  Ma-r[=e]'shah (_or_ Mar').
  Mat-ta-n[=i]'ah.
  Mat-th[=i]'as (Math-th[=i]'as).
  Maz'za-roth.
  Med'e-ba.
  Me-gid'do.
  Mel-chiz'e-dek.
  Mel'i-ta.
  Men'a-hem.
  Me-phib'o-sheth (or Me-phi-b[=o]').
  Mer'a-r[=i].
  Mer-a-th[=a]'im.
  Mer'i-bah.
  Me-r[=o]-dach-bal'a-dan.
  Mes-o-po-t[=a]'mi-a.
  Mes-s[=i]'ah.
  M[=e]-theg-am'mah.
  Me-th[=u]'se-lah.
  M[=i]-cai'ah (-k[=i]'a _or_ -k[=a]'ya).
  M[=i]'cha-el.
  M[=i]-chai'ah (-k[=i]'a or -k[=a]'ya).
  Mid'i-an-[=i]te.
  M[=i]-l[=e]'tus.
  Mir'i-am.
  Mit-y-l[=e]'n[=e].
  Miz'r[=a]-im.
  M[=o]'ab-[=i]te.
  Mor-de-c[=a]'[=i], Mor'-de-cai (-k[=i]).
  Mo-r[=i]'ah.
  Mys-i-a (mizh'i-a).

  N[=a]'a-man.
  Nai'oth (n[=i]' _or_ n[=a]'-yoth).
  N[=a]'o-m[=i] _or_ N[=a]-[=o]'m[=i].
  Naph'ta-l[=i].
  Na-than'[=a]-el.
  Naz'a-r[=e]ne.
  Naz'a-reth.
  Naz'a-r[=i]te.
  Ne-ap'o-lis.
  Ne-bai'oth (-b[=i]', _or_ Ne-b[=a]'yoth).
  Neb-[=u]-chad-nez'zar.
  Neb-[=u]-zar'a-dan.
  Neg'i-noth.
  N[=e]-he-m[=i]'ah.
  N[=e]'hi-loth.
  Ne-hush'tan.
  Neth'i-nims.
  N[=i]-c[=a]'nor.
  Nic-o-d[=e]'mus.
  Nic-o-l[=a]'i-tans.
  Nic'o-las.
  N[=i]-cop'o-lis.
  Nin-e-veh.

  [=O]-ba-d[=i]'ah.
  [=O]-bed-[=e]'dom.
  [=O]'me-ga.
  O-n[=e]'si-mus.
  On-[=e]-siph'o-rus.
  O-r[=i]'on.
  Oth'ni-el.

  P[=a]-dan-[=a]'ram.
  Pal'es-t[=i]ne.
  Pam-phyl'i-a.
  Par'me-nas.
  Par'thi-ans.
  Par-v[=a]'im.
  Pat'a-ra.
  Pek-a-h[=i]'ah.
  Pel-a-t[=i]'ah.
  P[=e]'leth-[=i]tes.
  Pe-n[=i]'el.
  Pe-n[=u]'el.
  Per'a-zim.
  P[=e]-rez-uz'zah.
  Per'ga-mos.
  Per'iz-z[=i]te.
  Per'-si-a (per'shi-a).
  Phal'ti-el.
  Ph[=a]-ra[=o]h-hoph'ra (f[=a]'r[=o]- _or_ f[=a]'ra-[=o]-).
  Ph[=a]-ra[=o]h-n[=e]'choh.
  Ph[=e]-n[=i]'çe.
  Ph[=e]-nic'i-a (-nish').
  Phil-a-del'phi-a.
  Ph[=i]-l[=e]'mon.
  Ph[=i]-l[=e]'tus.
  Phi-lip'pi.
  Phil'is-tine (-tin).
  Phin'e-has.
  Phryg'i-a (frij').
  P[=i]-h[=a]-h[=i]'roth.
  Pir'a-thon.
  Pi-sid'i-a.
  Pl[=e]'ia-d[=e]s ('ya-d[=e]z _or_ pl[=i]'a-).
  Pot'i-phar.
  Po-tiph'e-rah.
  Pris-çil'la.
  Proch'o-rus.
  Ptol-e-m[=a]'is (tol-).
  Pub'li-us.
  Pu-t[=e]'o-l[=i].

  R[=a]'a-mah.
  R[=a]-am's[=e]s ('s[=e]z).
  Rab'sha-keh (-k[=a]).
  Ra-g[=u]'el.
  R[=a]-math-a'im.
  R[=a]-math-l[=e]'h[=i].
  Ra-m[=e]'s[=e]s ('s[=e]z _or_ Ram').
  R[=a]-moth-gil'e-ad.
  Re-bek'ah.
  R[=e]'chab-[=i]tes (_or_ Rech').
  R[=e]-ho-b[=o]'am.
  Re-h[=o]'both.
  Reph'[=a]-im.
  Reph'i-dim.
  Rh[=e]'gi-um (r[=e]'ji-).

  Sa-b[=a]'oth.
  Sa-b[=e]'ans.
  Sal'a-mis.
  Sal-m[=o]'n[=e].
  Sa-l[=o]'m[=e].
  Sa-m[=a]'ri-a.
  Sa-mar'i-tan.
  Sam-o-thr[=a]'ci-a (-thr[=a]'shi-a).
  Sam'[=u]-el.
  San-bal'lat.
  Sap-ph[=i]'ra (saf-f[=i]').
  Sa-rep'ta.
  Scyth'i-an (sith').
  Se-cun'dus.
  Se-leu'ci-a ('shi-a _or_ Se-leu-ç[=i]'a).
  Sen-nach'e-rib.
  Seph'a-rad.
  Seph-ar-v[=a]'im.
  Ser-ai'ah (-[=i]'a _or_ -[=a]'ya).
  Ser'gi-us ('ji-).
  Shal'i-sha.
  Shal-ma-n[=e]'ser ('zer).
  Sha-r[=e]'zer.
  Shem-ai'ah (-[=i]'a).
  Shem'i-nith.
  Sheph-a-t[=i]'ah.
  Shesh-baz'zar.
  Sh[=e]'thar-boz'na-[=i].
  Shig-gai'on (-g[=i]'on).
  Shim'e-[=i].
  Sho-shan'nim.
  Sh[=u]'lam-[=i]te.
  Si-l[=o]'am.
  Sil-v[=a]'nus.
  Sim'e-on.
  Sir'i-on.
  Sis'e-ra.
  Sod'om-[=i]tes.
  Sol'o-mon.
  S[=o]'pa-ter.
  S[=o]-sip'a-ter.
  Sos'the-n[=e]s (-n[=e]z).
  Steph'a-nas.
  Suk'ki-ims.
  Su-san'na (-zan').
  S[=y]-[=e]'n[=e].
  Syn'ty-ch[=e].
  Syr'a-c[=u]se.
  Syr'-i-a.
  S[=y]-ro-phe-nic'i-an (-nish'i-an).

  T[=a]'a-nach.
  Tab'e-rah.
  Tab'i-tha.
  Ta-hap'a-n[=e]s (-n[=e]z).
  Tah'pan-h[=e]s (-h[=e]z).
  Tah'pe-n[=e]s (-n[=e]z).
  Tap-p[=u]'ah.
  Te-haph'ne-h[=e]s (-h[=e]z).
  Te-k[=o]'ah.
  Ter'ti-us ('shi-us).
  Ter-tul'lus.
  Thad-dæ'us.
  The-oph'i-lus.
  Thes-sa-lo-n[=i]'ca.
  Th[=y]-a-t[=i]'ra.
  T[=i]-b[=e]'ri-as.
  T[=i]-b[=e]'ri-us.
  Tig-lath-pi-l[=e]'ser ('zer).
  Tim-nath-h[=e]'r[=e]s ('r[=e]z).
  Tim-nath-s[=e]'rah.
  Tim'o-thy.
  Tir'ha-kah.
  Tir'ha-nah.
  Tir'sha-tha (_or_ -sh[=a]').
  To-b[=i]'ah.
  To-b[=i]'jah.
  To-gar'mah.
  Trach-o-n[=i]'tis.
  Tro-gyl'li-um (-jil').
  Troph'i-mus.
  Tr[=y]-ph[=e]'na.
  Tr[=y]-ph[=o]'sa.
  T[=u]'bal-cain (-k[=a]n).
  Tych'i-cus.
  Ty-ran'nus.

  U-phar'sin ([=u]-).
  U-r[=i]'ah ([=u]-).
  U-r[=i]'jah ([=u]-).
  Uz-z[=i]'ah.

  Zac-chæ'us.
  Zach-a-r[=i]'ah.
  Zach-a-r[=i]'as.
  Zal-mun'na.
  Zam-zum'mims.
  Zar'e-phath.
  Zar'e-tan.
  Zeb'e-dee.
  Ze-boi'im.
  Ze-b[=o]'im.
  Zeb'[=u]-lun.
  Zech-a-r[=i]'ah.
  Zed-e-k[=i]'ah.
  Ze-l[=o]'phe-had.
  Zem-a-r[=a]'im.
  Zeph-a-n[=i]'ah.
  Zeph'a-thah.
  Ze-rub'ba-bel.
  Zer-[=u]-[=i]'ah.
  Zip-p[=o]'rah.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE MORE COMMON ENGLISH CHRISTIAN NAMES,
WITH THEIR ORIGIN AND MEANING.

       *       *       *       *       *

See especially Miss Yonge's _History of Christian Names_ (2 vols. 1863).

       *       *       *       *       *

AARON (Heb.), lofty, mountaineer.--Ar. _Harun_, _Haroun_.

ABEL (Heb.), breath, vanity.

ABIATHAR (Heb.), father of excellence or plenty.

ABIGAIL (Heb.), father of exultation.--Dims. ABBY, NABBY.

ABIHU (Heb.), father [is] he [God].

ABIJAH, ABIA (Heb.), the Lord is a father.

ABNER (Heb.), father of Ner, or light, or the father [is] a lamp.

ABRAHAM, ABRAM (Heb.), father of a multitude, high father.--Dims. ABE, ABY.

ABSALOM (Heb.), father of peace.

ADA. See _Edith_.

ADALBERT (Teut.), nobly bright.

ADAM (Heb.), man, earth, red earth.--Scotch dims. EDIE, YIDDY.

ADELINE, also _Adaline_, _Adela_, _Adelaide_, _Adelia_, _Adelina_ (Teut.),
of noble birth, a princess.--Dim. ADDY.

ADOLPHUS (Teut.), noble wolf.--Fr. _Adolphe_, It. _Adolfo_ or _Udolfo_,
Ger. _Adolf_.

ADRIAN. See _Hadrian_.

ÆNEAS, ENEAS (Gr.), commended.--Fr. _Enée_.

AGATHA (Gr.), good, kind.

AGNES (Gr.), pure, sacred, chaste.--Dims. AGGIE, AGGY.

AILEEN, EILEEN, an Irish form of _Helen_ (q.v.), thus meaning light.

AILIE, a Scotch dim. of _Alison_, also of _Alice_, or of _Helen_.

ALARIC (Teut.), noble ruler.

ALBERT (Teut.), nobly bright.--Dims. BERT, BERTIE.--L. _Albertus_, Fr.
_Albert_, Sp. and It. _Alberto_, Ger. _Adalbert_, _Albert_,
_Albrecht_.--Fem. ALBERTA.

ALETHEA (Gr.), truth.

ALEXANDER (Gr.), a helper of men.--Dims. ALECK, ALICK, ECK, ECKY, SANDERS,
SANDY, SAWNIE.--Fr. _Alexandre_, It. _Alessandro_.--Fem. ALEXANDRA,
ALEXANDRINA.

ALFRED (Teut.), elf in counsel--i.e. good counsellor.--Dim. ALF.--L.
_Alfredus_, _Aluredus_, Fr. _Alfred_, It. and Sp. _Alfredo_.

ALGERNON (O. Fr.), with moustaches--prob. from the usual title, 'William
_als Gernons_,' applied for this cause to William de Albini, the second
husband of Henry I.'s widow, Alix of Louvaine.--Dim. ALGY.

ALICE, ALICIA (Teut.), noble cheer--closely related to _Adeline_
above.--Dims. ALLY or ALLIE, ELSIE.

ALISON, a Scotch form of _Aloyse_, _Elöise_, _Helöise_, from _Hlodovicia_,
a name of Teut. origin meaning holy fame.--Dim. ELSIE.

ALLAN, ALAN, a name first found in early Breton history, referred by Miss
Yonge to Hilarius ('cheerful'), confused with Ælianus; more prob. Celt.,
meaning harmony.

ALPHEUS (Heb.), exchange.

AMABEL (L.), lovable--whence _Mabel_.

AMAZIAH (Heb.), the Lord is strong.

AMBROSE (Gr.), immortal, divine.--L. _Ambrosius_, Fr. _Ambroise_, It.
_Ambrogio_, Sp. _Ambrosio_.

AMELIA (Teut.), toiling, energetic.--Fr. _Amélie_, It. _Amelia_, _Amalia_.

AMOS (Heb.), strong, one who bears a burden.

AMY (L.), beloved.--L. _Amata_, Fr. _Aimée_, It. _Amata_.

ANDREW (Gr.), manly.--Dim. ANDY.--L. _Andreas_, Fr. _André_, It. _Andrea_,
Sp. _Andres_.

ANGELICA (Gr.), angelic, lovely.

ANGELINA (Gr.), angel.

ANGUS (Celt.), excellent virtue.

ANN, ANNA, ANNE (Heb.), grace--the same as _Hannah_.--Dims. ANNIE, NANCY,
NANNY, NINA, NAN, ANNETTE.

ANNABEL, ANNABELLA, ANNAPLE, made up of _Anna_ (Heb.), grace, as above, and
_Bella_ (L.), fair; or probably the early Celtic name _Aine_, meaning joy,
praise, Anglicised. It may be, however, a variant of _Arabella_, earlier
_Arnhilda_ (Teut.), eagle heroine.

ANSELM (Teut.), divine helmet.--Fr. _Anselme_, It. and Sp. _Anselmo_.

ANTHONY, ANTONY (L.), worthy of praise.--Dim. TONY.--L. _Antonius_, Fr.
_Antoine_, It. and Sp. _Antonio_, Ger. _Antonius_, _Anton_.--Fem. ANTONIA.

ANTOINETTE, the French form of _Antonia_, _Antonina_, the fem. of
_Anthony_.--Dim. NET, NETTY.

ARABELLA (L.), a fair altar, or an Arabian woman--perh. Teut., meaning
eagle heroine.--Dims. BELLA, BEL, BELLE. See _Annabel_ above.

ARCHIBALD (Teut.), very bold, or holy prince.--Dims. ARCHY, BALDIE.--L.
_Archibaldus_, Fr. _Archambault_, It. _Arcibaldo_.

ARNOLD (Teut.), strong as an eagle.

ARTHUR (Celt.), high, noble.--L. _Arthurus_, Fr. _Artur_, _Artus_, It.
_Arturo_.

ASA (Heb.), [the Lord is] a healer.

ATHANASIUS (Gr.), immortal.--Fr. _Athanase_, It. _Atanasio_.

ATHELSTAN (Teut.). noble stone.

AUBREY (Teut.), elf-ruler, ruler of spirits.

AUGUSTIN, AUGUSTINE, AUSTIN (L.), belonging to Augustus.--L. _Augustinus_,
Fr. _Augustin_, It. _Agostino_, Ger. _Augustin_.

AUGUSTUS (L.), exalted.--Dims. GUS, GUSSIE, GUSTUS.--Fr. _Auguste_, Ger.
_August_.--Fem. AUGUSTA.

AURELIUS (L.), golden.--Fem. AURELIA.

ASAPH (Heb.), a collector, [God] gathereth.



BALDWIN (Teut.), prince-friend.--L. _Balduinus_, Fr. _Baudouin_, It.
_Baldovino_, _Balduino_, Ger. _Balduin_.

BAPTIST (Gr.), a baptiser.--Fr. _Baptiste_, _Batiste_, It. _Battista_, Ger.
_Baptist_.

BARBARA (Gr.), foreign.--Dims. BAB, BABBIE.

BARDOLPH (Teut.), bright wolf or distinguished helper.--Fr. _Bardolphe_,
It. _Bardolfo_.

BARNABAS, BARNABY (Heb.), son of exhortation.

BARTHOLOMEW (Heb.), son of one's own brother (i.e. friend).--Dims. BART,
BAT.--L. _Bartholomæus_, Fr. _Bartolomée_, _Barthélemi_, It. _Bartolomeo_,
Ger. _Bartholomäus_, _Barthel_.

BARUCH (Heb.), blessed [by God].

BASIL (Gr.), kingly.--L. _Basilius_, Fr. _Basile_, It. and Sp. _Basilio_.

BATHSHEBA (Heb.), prob. daughter of the seven, or of an oath.

BEATRICE, BEATRIX (L.), making happy.

BENEDICT (L.), blessed.--Dim. BENNET.--L. _Benedictus_, Fr. _Benoît_, It.
_Benedetto_, _Bettino_, Sp. _Benedicto_, _Benito_, Ger. _Benedict_.--Fem.
BENEDICTA.

BENJAMIN (Heb.), son of the right hand (i.e. of good fortune).--Dims. BEN,
BENNY.--It. _Beniamino_.

BERNARD (Teut.), bold as a bear.--Dim. BARNEY.--L. _Bernardus_, Fr.
_Bernard_, _Bernardin_, It. _Bernardo_, _Bernardino_, Sp. _Bernardo_,
_Bernal_, Ger. _Bernhard_, _Barend_, _Berend_.

BERTHA (Teut.), bright.--Dims. BERTIE, BERTY.--Fr. _Berthe_, It. and Sp.
_Berta_.

BERTRAM (Teut.), bright raven.--Dim. BERT.--Fr. _Bertrand_, It.
_Bertrando_, Sp. _Beltran_.

BESSIE, BETSY, a dim. of _Elisabeth_ (q.v.).

BLANCHE (Teut.), white.--Fr. _Blanche_, It. _Bianca_, Sp. _Blanca_.

BONIFACE (L.), a benefactor.--L. _Bonifacius_, It. _Bonifacio_,
_Bonifazio_, Sp. _Bonifacio_.

BRIAN (Celt.), strong.--It. _Briano_.

BRIDGET (Celt.), strength.--Dim. BIDDY.--Fr. _Brigitte_, It. and Sp.
_Brigida_, Ger. _Brigitta_.



CADWALLADER (W.), arranger of battle.

CÆSAR (L.), hairy, or blue-eyed, or born under the Cæsarean operation.--Fr.
_César_, It. _Cesare_, Ger. _Cäsar_.

CAIN (Heb.), artificer, smith.

CALEB (Heb.), a dog.

CALVIN (L.), bald.--L. _Calvinus_, Fr. _Calvin_, _Cauvin_, Sp. _Calvo_.

CAMILLA (L.), an attendant at a sacrifice.--Fr. _Camille_.

CAROLINE, a French form of the fem. of _Carolus_, the Latin of
Charles.--Dims. CARRIE, CADDIE.

CASIMIR (Slav.), show forth peace.--Dim. CASSIE.

CASSANDRA (Gr.), she who inflames with love.

CATHERINE, also _Catherina_, _Catharine_, _Katharine_, _Katherine_ (Gr.),
pure.--Dims. CASY, KATE, KATHLEEN, KATIE, CATHIE, KATHIE, KATRINE, KIT,
KITTY.--Fr. _Catherine_, It. _Caterina_, Sp. _Catalina_, Ger. _Katharine_.

CECIL (L.), blind.

CECILIA, CECILY, fem. of _Cecil_.--Dims. SISELY, SIS, CIS, CISSY.--Fr.
_Cécile_, It. _Cecilia_.

CHARLES (Teut.), strong, manly.--Dims. CHARLEY, CHARLIE.--L. _Carolus_, Fr.
_Charles_, It. _Carlo_, Sp. _Carlos_, Ger. _Carl_, _Karl_.--Fem. CAROLINE,
CHARLOTTE.

CHRISTIAN (L.), belonging to Christ.--Dims. CHRISTIE, CHRISTY.--L.
_Christianus_, Fr. _Chrestien_, _Chrétien_, It. and Sp. _Cristiano_.--Fem.
CHRISTIANA, CHRISTINA.

CHRISTINA, fem. of _Christian_.--Dims. CHRISSIE, TEENIE, TINA, XINA.

CHRISTOPHER (Gr.), bearing Christ.--Dims. KESTER, KIT, CHRIS.--L.
_Christophorus_, Fr. _Christophe_, It. _Cristoforo_, Sp. _Cristoval_, Ger.
_Christoph_.

CICELY, a form of _Cecilia_ (q.v.).

CLARA (L.), bright.--Dim. CLARE.--Fr. _Claire_, It. _Chiara_, Sp. _Clara_.

CLARENCE (L.), illustrious.

CLARIBEL (L.), brightly fair.

CLARICE, CLARISSA, derivatives from _Clara_.

CLAUD, CLAUDIUS (L.), lame.

CLAUDIA, fem. of _Claudius_.

CLEMENT (L.), mild, merciful.--L. _Clemens_, It. and Sp. _Clemente_, Fr.
_Clément_, Ger. _Clemens_.--Fem. and dim. forms are CLEMENTINA, CLEMENTINE.

CONRAD (Teut.), bold in counsel, resolute.--L. _Conradus_, Fr. _Conrade_,
It. _Conrado_, _Corrado_, Ger. _Konrad_.

CONSTANCE, a fem. form of _Constant_.--Dim. CONNIE.--L. _Constantia_, Fr.
_Constance_, It. _Costanza_.

CONSTANT (L.), firm, faithful.--L. _Constans_, _Constantius_, It.
_Costante_, _Costanzo_, Sp. _Constancio_, Ger. _Constanz_.

CONSTANTINE (L.), firm.--L. _Constantinus_, It. _Costantino_, Sp.
_Constantino_, Ger. _Constantin_.

CORA, CORINNA (Gr.), maiden.--Fr. _Corinne_.

CORDELIA (L.), warm-hearted.--Fr. _Cordélie_.

CORNELIUS, prob. related to L. _cornu_, a horn.--Fr. _Cornélius_ (fem.
_Cornélie_), It. and Sp. _Cornelio_.--Fem. CORNELIA.

CRISPIN, CRISPIAN, CRISPUS (L.), curly-haired.--L. _Crispinus_,
_Crispianus_, Fr. _Crispin_, _Crépin_, It. _Crispino_, _Crispo_, Ger.
_Crispus_.

CUTHBERT (A.S.), well-known splendour.

CYNTHIA (Gr.), of or from Mount Cynthus.

CYPRIAN (Gr.), of Cyprus.--L. _Cyprianus_.

CYRIL (Gr.), lordly.--L. _Cyrillus_, Fr. _Cyrille_, Sp. _Cirilo_, Ger.
_Cyrill_.

CYRUS (Pers.), the sun.



DANIEL (Heb.), God is judge.--Dims. DAN, DANNY.

DARIUS (Pers.), preserver.

DAVID (Heb.), beloved.--Dims. DAVY, DAVE.--Fr. _David_, It. _Davide_,
_Davidde_, Ger. _David_.--Fem. DAVIDA, VIDA.

DEBORAH (Heb.), a bee.

DELIA (Gr.), of Delos.

DEMETRIUS (Gr.), belonging to Demeter or Ceres.--Fr. _Demétrius_, It.
_Demetrio_.

DENIS, DENNIS, DENYS, a French form of _Dionysius_.

DERRICK, a corruption of _Theodoric_.

DIANA (L.), goddess.--Dims. DI, DIE.

DINAH (Heb.), judged.

DIONYSIUS (Gr.), belonging to Dionysos or Bacchus.--Fr. _Denys_, _Denis_,
It. _Dionigio_, _Dionigi_, _Dionisio_, Ger. _Dionysius_, _Dionys_.

DOMINIC (L.), Sunday child.--L. _Dominicus_, Fr. _Dominique_, It.
_Domenico_, Sp. _Domingo_.

DONALD (Celt.), proud chief.

DORA, a dim. of _Dorothea_ (q.v.).

DORCAS (Gr.), a gazelle.

DOROTHEA, DOROTHY (Gr.), the gift of God.--Dims. DOL, DOLLY.--Fr.
_Dorothée_, _Dorette_, It. and Sp. _Dorotea_.

DOUGAL (Celt.), black stranger.

DRUSILLA (L.), strong.

DUNCAN (Celt.), brown chief.



EBENEZER (Heb.), the stone of help.

EDGAR (A.S.), rich spear.--L. _Edgarus_, It. _Edgaro_.

EDITH (A.S.), rich gift.--L. _Editha_, It. _Edita_.

EDMUND (A.S.), rich protection.--Dims. ED, NED.--L. _Edmundus_, Fr.
_Edmond_, It. _Edmondo_, Sp. _Edmundo_.

EDNA (Heb.) pleasure.

EDWARD (A.S.), rich guard.--Dims. ED, EDDY, NED, NEDDY, TED, TEDDY.--L.
_Edvardus_, Fr. _Edouard_, It. _Eduardo_, _Edoardo_, Sp. _Eduardo_, Ger.
_Eduard_.

EDWIN (A.S.), rich friend.--Dims. ED, EDDY.--L. _Edvinus_, It. _Eduino_.

EFFIE, a dim. of _Euphemia_ (q.v.).

EGBERT (A.S.), terribly bright.--L. _Egbertus_, It. _Egberto_, Ger.
_Eckbert_, _Egbert_.

ELDRED (A.S.), terrible.

ELEANOR, ELINOR (Gr.), light--the same as _Helen_.--Dims. ELLA, ELLEN,
NELL, NELLIE, NORA.--It. _Eleonora_, Ger. _Eleonore_, Fr. _Aliénor_.

ELEAZER (Heb.), God is a help.

ELI (Heb.), going up, or my God.

ELIAB (Heb.), God is his father.

ELIAS, the same as _Elijah_ (q.v.).

ELIHU (Heb.), God the Lord.

ELIJAH (Heb.), God is the Lord.--L. _Elija_, Fr. _Élie_, It. _Elia_, Ger.
_Elias_, _Elia_.

ELISABETH, ELIZABETH, ELIZA (Heb.), God of the oath.--Dims. BESS, BESSIE,
BESSY, BETH, BETSY, BETTY, ELSIE, LIZ, LIZZIE, LIBBY, LISA, LIZA.--Fr.
_Elisabeth_, _Élise_, It. _Elisabetta_, _Elisa_, Ger. _Elisabeth_, _Elise_.

ELISHA (Heb.), God of salvation.--L. _Eliseus_, Fr. _Élisée_, It. and Sp.
_Eliseo_.

ELLA, ELLEN, dims. of _Eleanor_.

ELSPETH (Heb.), God of the oath--a Scotch form of _Elisabeth_.--Dims.
ELSPIE, ELSIE.

EMELINE, EMMELINE, EMILY (Teut.), industrious, energetic.--Fr. _Émilie_,
It. and Sp. _Emilia_, Ger. _Emilie_.

EMMA, the same as _Emeline_.--Dims. EMM, EMMIE.--Fr. _Emma_, It. _Emma_,
Sp. _Ema_.

EMMANUEL, IMMANUEL (Gr. from Heb.), God with us.--Fr. _Emmanuel_, It.
_Emmanuele_, Sp. _Manuel_, Ger. _Emanuel_.

ENOCH (Heb.), consecrated.

EPHRAIM (Heb.), fruitful.

ERASMUS (Gr.), lovely, deserving love.--Fr. _Erasme_, It. and Sp. Erasmo.

ERASTUS (Gr.), lovely.--Fr. _Eraste_.

ERIC (A.S.), rich, powerful.--L. _Ericus_.

ERNEST (Ger.), earnest.--Fr. _Ernest_, It. and Sp. _Ernesto_, Ger.
_Ernst_.--Fem. ERNESTINE.

ERNESTINE, fem. and dim. of _Ernest_.

ESAU (Heb.), hairy.

ESTHER (Pers.), a star, good fortune.--Dim. ESSIE.--Fr. _Esther_, It.
_Ester_, _Esterre_, Sp. _Ester_, Ger. _Esther_.

ETHEL (A.S.), noble.

ETHELINDA (Teut.), noble snake.

EUDORA (Gr.), good gift.--Fr. _Eudore_.

EUGENE (Gr.), well born, noble.--L. _Eugenius_, Fr. _Eugène_, It.
_Eugenio_, Sp. _Eugenio_, Ger. _Eugenius_, _Eugen_.--Fem. EUGENIA.

EUGENIA, fem. of _Eugene_.--Dim. GENIE.--Fr. _Eugénie_, It. and Sp.
_Eugenia_.

EULALIA (Gr.), fair speech.--Fr. _Eulalie_, It. _Eulalia_.

EUNICE (Gr.), happy victory.

EUPHEMIA (Gr.), of good report.--Dims. EFFIE, EUPHIE, PHEMIE, PHAMIE.--Fr.
_Euphémie_, It. and Sp. _Eufemia_.

EUSEBIUS (Gr.), pious.--Fr. _Eusèbe_, It. and Sp. _Eusebio_.

EUSTACE (Gr.), healthy, firm.--L. _Eustachius_, _Eustathius_, Fr.
_Eustach_, _Eustathe_, It. _Eustazio_, _Eustachio_, Ger. _Eustathius_.

EVA, EVE (Heb.), life.--Dims. EVELINA, EVELINE, EVELYN.--Fr. _Eve_, It. and
Sp. _Eva_, Ger. _Eva_.

EVAN (W.), young warrior.

EVANGELINE (Gr.), bringing glad news.

EVERARD (Teut.), strong as a wild boar.--Fr. _Evraud_, It. _Everardo_,
_Eberardo_, Ger. _Eberhard_, _Ebert_.

EZEKIEL (Heb.), God will strengthen.--Dim. ZEKE.--Fr. _Ezéchiel_.

EZRA (Heb.), help.--L. _Ezra_, _Ezdras_, Fr. _Esdras_.



FAITH (L.), faith.

FAUSTINA, FAUSTINE (L.), fortunate.--Fr. _Faustine_, It. _Faustina_.

FELICIA (L.), happiness.--Fr. _Félicie_, _Félicite_, It. _Felicia_, Sp.
_Felicidad_.

FELIX (L.), happy.--Fr. _Félix_, It. _Felice_, Sp. _Felix_, Port. _Feliz_,
Ger. _Felix_.--Fem. FELICIA.

FERDINAND (Teut.), brave.--Fr. _Ferdinand_, _Ferrand_, It. _Ferdinando_,
_Ferrando_, Sp. _Hernando_, _Fernando_, Ger. _Ferdinand_.

FESTUS (L.) joyful.

FIDELIA (L.), faithful.

FLORA (L.), flowers.--Fr. _Flore_, It. _Flora_.

FLORENCE (L.), blooming.--Dims. FLO, FLOSSIE, FLOY.--L. _Florentia_.

FRANCES, fem. of _Francis_.--Dim. FANNY.--L. _Francisca_, Fr. _Françoise_,
_Francisque_, It. _Francesca_, Sp. _Francisca_, Ger. _Franziske_.

FRANCIS (Fr.), free--dim. FRANK--L. _Franciscus_, Fr. _François_, It.
_Francesco_, _Franco_, Sp. _Francisco_, Ger. _Franciscus_, _Franz_.--Fem.
FRANCES--dim. FANNY.

FREDERIC, FREDERICK (Teut.), peace ruler.--Dims. FRED, FREDDY.--L.
_Fredericus_, Fr. _Frédéric_, It, _Frederigo_, _Frederico_, Sp. _Federico_,
Ger. _Friedrich_, _Fritz_.--Fem. FREDERICA.

FREDERICA, fem. of _Frederic_.--Dim. FREDDIE.--Fr. _Frédérique_, It.
_Frederica_, Sp. _Federica_, Ger. _Friederike_.



GABRIEL (Heb.), hero of God.--Dim. GABE.--Fr. _Gabriel_, It. _Gabriello_.

GAMALIEL (Heb.), God is a recompenser.

GEOFFREY, the same as _Godfrey_.

GEORGE (Gr.), a husbandman--dims. GEORGIE, GEORDIE--L. _Georgius_, Fr.
_Georges_, It. _Giorgio_, Sp. _Jorge_, Ger. _Georg_.--Fem. GEORGIANA,
GEORGINA--dim. GEORGIE.

GERALD, GERARD (Teut.), spear-power.--L. _Geraldus_, _Gerardus_, Fr.
_Gérard_, _Géraud_, _Giraud_, _Girauld_, It. _Gerardo_, _Giraldo_, Ger.
_Gerhard_.--Fem. GERALDINE.

GERMAN, GERMAINE (L.), German.--L. _Germanus_, Fr. _Germain_, It.
_Germano_.

GERTRUDE (Teut.), spear-maid.--Dims. GERTIE, TRUDY.--Fr. _Gertrude_, It.
_Gertrude_, _Geltruda_, Sp. _Gertrudes_, Ger. _Gertraud_, _Gertrud_.

GIDEON (Heb.), a hewer down.

GILBERT (Teut.), bright pledge.--Dim. GIL.--L. _Gilbertus_, Fr. _Guilbert_,
_Gilbert_, It. and Sp. _Gilberto_, Ger. _Gilbert_, _Giselbert_.

GILES (Gr.), with the ægis, or a kid.--L. _Ægidius_, Fr. _Gilles_, _Égide_,
It. _Egidio_, Ger. _Egidius_.

GODFREY (Teut.), God's peace.--L. _Godefridus_, _Galfridus_, Fr.
_Godefroi_, _Geoffroi_, It. _Godofredo_, _Goffredo_, _Giotto_, Sp.
_Godofredo_, _Gofredo_, Ger. _Gottfried_.

GODWIN (A.S.), divine friend.

GRACE (L.), grace.

GREGORY (Gr.), watchman.--L. _Gregorius_, Fr. _Grégoire_, It. and Sp.
_Gregoiro_, Ger. _Gregorius_, _Gregor_.

GRIFFITH (W.), ruddy.

GRISELDA (Teut.), stone heroine.--Dim. GRISSEL.

GUSTAVUS (Teut.), Goth's staff--Fr. _Gustave_, It. and Sp. _Gustavo_, Ger.
_Gustav_.

GUY (Fr.), a leader, or Celt., meaning sense.--L. _Guido_, Fr. _Guy_, It.
and Sp. _Guido_.



HADRIAN, ADRIAN (L.), of Adria, a town in Picenum, whence also _Adriatic_
Sea.--L. _Hadrianus_.

HANNAH (Heb.), grace, the same as _Anna_ (q.v.).

HANNIBAL (Punic), grace of Baal.--So L., Fr. _Hannibal_, _Annibal_, It.
_Annibale_, Sp. _Anibal_.

HAROLD (A.S.), warrior power.--Fr. _Harold_, It. _Araldo_, _Aroldo_.

HARRIET, HARRIOT, fem. and dim. forms of _Harry_, _Henry_.--Dim. HATTY.

HELEN, HELENA (Gr.), light.--Dims. NELL, NELLIE.--L. _Helena_, Fr.
_Hélène_, It. _Elena_, Sp. _Helena_, _Elena_, Ger. _Helene_.

HENRIETTA, a French dim. form of _Henry_.--Dims. ETTA, HETTY, NETTIE.--Fr.
_Henriette_, It. _Enrighetta_, Sp. _Enriqueta_, Ger. _Henriette_.

HENRY (Teut.), home ruler.--Dims. HARRY, HAL, HEN, HENNY.--L. _Henricus_,
_Enricus_, Fr. _Henri_, It. _Enrico_, Sp. _Enrique_, Ger. _Heinrich_, Dut.
_Hendrik_.--Fem. HENRIETTA, HARRIET.

HERBERT (A.S.), glory of the army.--L. _Herbertus_, Fr. _Herbert_, It.
_Erberto_, Sp. _Heberto_, Ger. _Herbert_.

HERCULES (Gr.), lordly fame.--So L., Fr. _Hercule_, It. _Ercole_.

HERMAN (Teut.), a warrior.--L. _Arminius_, It. _Ermanno_, Ger. _Hermann_.

HESTER, HESTHER, the same as _Esther_.

HEZEKIAH (Heb.), the Lord is strength.--Fr. _Ezéchias_, It. _Ezechia_, Sp.
_Ezequias_, Ger. _Hiskia_.

HILARY (L.), cheerful.--L. _Hilarius_, Fr. _Hilaire_, It. _Ilario_, Sp.
_Hilario_, Ger. _Hilarius_.--Fem. HILARIA.

HILDA (Teut.), battle maid.

HIRAM (Heb.), noble.

HOMER (Gr.), a pledge.--L. _Homerus_, Fr. _Homère_, It. _Omero_, Ger.
_Homerus_.

HONORA, HONORIA (L.), honourable.--Dims. NORAH, NORA.

HOPE (Eng.), hope.

HORACE, HORATIO (L.).--L. _Horatius_, Fr. _Horace_, It. _Orazio_, Sp.
_Horacio_, Ger. _Horatius_, _Horazo_.--Fem. HORATIA.

HORTENSIA (L.), a gardener.--Fr. _Hortense_, It. _Ortensia_, Ger.
_Hortensia_.

HOSEA (Heb.), help, deliverance.

HUBERT (Teut.), mind bright.--L. _Hubertus_, Fr. _Hubert_, It. _Uberto_,
Sp. _Huberto_, Ger. _Hubert_, _Hugibert_.

HUGH, HUGO (Teut.), mind, soul.--Dims. HUGHIE, HUGHOC, HUGGIN.--L. _Hugo_,
Fr. _Hugues_, It. _Ugo_, _Ugolino_, Sp. _Hugo_, Ger. _Hugo_.

HULDAH (Heb.), a mole, a weasel.

HUMPHRY, HUMPHREY (A.S.), support of peace.--Dim. HUMPH.--L. _Humphredus_
or _Humfridus_, Fr. _Onfroi_, It. _Onofredo_, _Omfredo_, Sp. _Hunfredo_,
Ger. _Humfried_.



IAN, the Gaelic form of _John_.

ICHABOD (Heb.), inglorious, the glory has departed.

IDA (Teut.), happy.

IGNATIUS (Gr.), fiery.--Fr. _Ignace_, It. _Ignazio_, Sp. _Ignacio_ and
_Inigo_, Ger. _Ignaz_.

INCREASE (Eng.), increase (of faith).

INEZ, the Portuguese form of _Agnes_.

INGRAM (Teut.), a raven.

INIGO. See _Ignatius_.

IRA (Heb.), a watcher.

IRENE (Gr.), peace.--Fr. _Irène_, It. _Irene_.

ISAAC, IZAAK (Heb.), he laugheth.--Dims. IK, IKE.--L. _Isacus_, Fr.
_Isaac_, It. _Isacco_, Ger. _Isaak_.

ISABELLA, ISABEL, ISOBEL, ISABEAU, the same as _Elisabeth_.--Dims. ISA,
BEL, BELLA, TIB, TIBBIE.--Fr. _Isabeau_, _Isabelle_, It. _Isabella_, Sp.
_Isabel_, Ger. _Isabelle_.

ISAIAH (Heb.), the Lord is salvation.--L. _Isaias_.

ISRAEL (Heb.), God fighteth.

IVAN, the Russian form of _John_.



JABEZ (Heb.), sorrow.

JACOB (Heb.), he taketh hold of the heel, or followeth after, a
supplanter.--Dim. JAKE.--L. _Jacobus_, Fr. _Jacob_, It. _Giacobbe_, Sp.
_Jacobo_, Ger. _Jakob_.

JAMES, the same as _Jacob_.--Dims. JEAMES, JEM, JIM, JEMMY, JIMMY.--L.
_Jacobus_, Fr. _Jacques_, It. _Jacopo_, _Jachimo_, _Giacomo_, Sp. _Jacobo_,
_Diego_, _Jago_, _Jaime_, Port. _Javme_, _Diogo_, Ger. _Jakob_.--Fem.
JAMESINA, JAQUELINE.

JANE, the fem. of _John_ (q.v.).--Dims. JANET, JEAN, JEANIE, JEANNIE.

JANET, a dim. of _Jane_ (q.v.), hence 'grace of the Lord.'--Dims. JEN,
JENNIE, JENNY.

JAPHETH (Heb.), He extendeth widely.

JAQUELINE, the French form of the fem. of _James_.

JARED (Heb.), descent.

JASON (Gr.), a healer.

JASPER (Pers.), prob. treasure-master.--Fr. _Gaspard_, It. _Gasparo_,
_Gasparro_, Sp. _Gaspar_.

JAVAN (Heb.), clay.

JEAN, JEANNE, JEANNETTE, French forms of _Jane_ or _Joan_.

JEDEDIAH (Heb.), beloved of the Lord.

JEMIMA (Heb.), a dove.

JEREMIAH, JEREMIAS, JEREMY (Heb.), the Lord layeth the foundation.--L.
_Jeremias_, Fr. _Jérémie_, It. _Geremia_, Sp. _Jeremias_, Ger. _Jeremias_.

JEROME (Gr.), holy name.--L. _Hieronymus_, Fr. _Jérôme_, It. _Geronimo_,
_Girolamo_, Sp. _Jeronimo_, _Jeromo_, Ger. _Hieronymus_.

JESSIE, a Scotch form of _Janet_, hence 'grace of the Lord.'--Dim. JESS.

JOAB (Heb.), the Lord is a father.

JOAN, JOANNA, JOHANNA, fem. forms of _John_.--L. _Johanna_, Fr. _Jeanne_,
_Jeannette_, It. _Giovanna_, Sp. _Juana_, Ger. _Johanna_.

JOB (Heb.), repentant, or one persecuted.

JOEL (Heb), the Lord is God.

JOHN (Heb.), the Lord graciously gave, the gracious gift of God.--Dims.
JOHNNY, JACK, JOCK.--L. _Johannes_, _Joannes_, Fr. _Jean_, It. _Giovanni_,
_Gian_, _Gianni_, Sp. _Juan_, Port. _João_, Ger. _Johann_, _Johannes_,
_Hans_, Dut. _Jan_, Russ. _Ivan_.--Fem. JOANNA, JOAN, JANE.

JONAS, JONAH (Heb.), a dove.

JONATHAN (Heb.), the Lord hath given.

JOSEPH (Heb.), may he add (children)! he shall add--dims. JOE, JOEY--L.
_Josephus_, Fr. _Joseph_, It. _Giuseppe_, Sp. _José_, _Josef_, Port.
_José_, _Joze_, Ger. _Joseph_.--Fem. JOSEPHINE--dims. JO, JOZY, PHENY--Fr.
_Joséphine_, It. _Giuseppina_, Sp. _Josefina_, Port. _Josephina_, Ger.
_Josephine_.

JOSHUA (Heb.), the Lord is welfare.--Dim. JOSH.--L. _Josua_, Fr. _Josué_,
Ger. _Josua_.

JOSIAH, JOSIAS (Heb.), the Lord healeth.

JOYCE (L.), sportive.

JUDAH (Heb.), praised.

JUDITH (Heb.), praised.--Dim. JUDY.--Fr. _Judith_, It. _Giuditta_, Ger.
_Judith_.

JULIAN (L.), sprung from _Julius_.--Dim. JULE.--Fem. JULIANA.--L.
_Julianus_, Fr. _Julien_, It. _Giuliano_, Sp. _Julian_, Port. _Julião_,
Ger. _Julianus_, _Julian_.

JULIUS (Gr.), downy-bearded--dim. JULE--Fr. _Jules_ It. _Giulio_, Sp.
_Julio_, Ger. _Julius_.--Fem. JULIA, JULIET--Fr. _Julie_, It. _Giulia_, Sp.
_Julia_, Ger. _Julie_.

JUSTIN (L.), just.--L. _Justinus_, Fr. _Justin_, It. _Giustino_, Sp.
_Justino_, Ger. _Justin_.--Fem. JUSTINA--Fr. _Justine_, It. _Giustina_, Sp.
_Justina_, Ger. _Justine_.

JUSTUS (L.), just.--Fr. _Juste_, It. _Giusto_, Sp. _Justo_, Ger. _Justus_,
_Just_.



KATE, dim. of _Catherine_.

KATHARINE, KATHERINE, the same as _Catherine_.

KENELM (A.S.), defender of his kindred.

KENNETH (Celt.), comely, or a leader.

KETURAH (Heb.), incense.

KEZIA (Heb.), cassia.



LABAN (Heb.), white.

LAMBERT (Teut.), country's brightness.--Fr. _Lambert_, _Lanbert_, It.
_Lamberto_, Ger. _Lambert_, _Landbert_.

LANCELOT, LAUNCELOT (Fr.), servant, or a little lance.--Fr. _Lancelot_, It.
_Lancilotto_.

LAURA (L.), a laurel--also _Laurinda_.--Fr. _Laure_, It. _Laura_.

LAURENCE, LAWRENCE (L.), crowned with laurel.--Dim. LARRY.--L.
_Laurentius_, Fr. _Laurent_. It. _Lorenzo_, Sp. _Lorenzo_, Ger. _Lorenz_.

LAVINIA (L.), of Latium.

LAZARUS (Heb.), God helpeth.--Fr. _Lazare_, It. _Lazaro_, Sp. _Lazaro_,
_Lazarillo_, Ger. _Lazarus_.

LEANDER (Gr.), lion-man.--Fr. _Léandre_, It. _Leandro_.

LEBBEUS (Heb.), a man of heart or courage.

LEMUEL (Heb.), unto God.

LENA, dim. of _Helena_ or _Magdalene_.

LEONARD (Teut.), strong as a lion.--L. _Leondardus_, Fr. _Léonard_, It.
_Lionardo_, Sp. _Leonardo_, Ger. _Leonhard_.

LEONIDAS (Gr.), lion-like.

LEONORA, the same as _Eleanor_.--Ger. _Lenore_.

LEOPOLD (Teut.), people's prince.--Fr. _Léopold_, It. and Sp. _Leopoldo_,
Ger. _Luitpold_, _Leupold_, _Leopold_.

LETITIA, LETTICE (L.), happiness.--Dim. LETTIE.--L. _Lætitia_, It.
_Letizia_.

LEVI (Heb.), wreathing or adhesion.

LEWIS (Teut.), famous warrior.--Dims. LEWIE, LOUIE, LEW.--L. _Ludovicus_,
Fr. _Louis_, It. _Lodovico_, _Luigi_, Sp. _Clodoveo_, _Luis_, Port. _Luiz_,
Ger. _Ludwig_.--Fem. LOUISA, LOUISE.

LILIAN, LILLY, LILY (L.), a lily.

LIONEL (L.), young lion.--It. _Lionello_.

LLEWELLYN (W.), lightning.

LOIS (Gr.), good.

LORENZO, the Italian form of _Laurence_.

LORINDA, a variant of _Laurinda_.

LOUIS, the French form of _Lewis_.

LOUISA, LOUISE, fem. of _Louis_.--Dims. LOU, LOUIE.--Fr. LOUISE, _Lisette_,
_Héloïse_, It. _Luisa_, _Eloïsa_, Sp. _Luisa_, Port. _Luiza_, Ger. _Luise_,
_Ludovica_.

LUCAS. See _Luke_.

LUCIA, the Italian form of _Lucy_;--LUCINDA (L.), the same as _Lucy_.

LUCIAN (L.), pertaining to _Lucius_.--L. _Lucianus_, Fr. _Lucien_, It.
_Luciano_.

LUCIFER (L.), light-bringer.

LUCIUS (L.), born at daybreak.--Fr. _Luce_, It. _Lucio_, Sp.
_Lucio_.--Fems. LUCIA, LUCY.

LUCRETIA, Lucrece (L.), gain, or light.--L. _Lucretia_, Fr. _Lucrèce_, It.
_Lucrezia_.

LUCY, fem. of _Lucius_.--Fr. _Lucie_, It. _Lucia_, Sp. _Lucia_.

LUDOVIC, LODOWIC, the same as _Lewis_ (q.v.).

LUKE.--L. _Lucas_, Fr. _Luc_, It. _Luca_, Sp. _Lucas_, Ger. _Lukas_.

LUTHER (Teut.), famous warrior.--L. _Lutherus_, Fr. _Lothaire_, It.
_Lotario_, Sp. _Clotario_, Ger. _Luther_.

LYCURGUS (Gr.), wolf-driver.

LYDIA (Gr.), a native of Lydia.



MABEL (L.), lovable, worthy of love, inspiring love--a contraction of
_Amabel_ (q.v.).

MADELINE, the French form of _Magdalene_ (Heb.), belonging to
Magdala.--Dims. MAUD, MAUDLIN.--Fr. _Magdelaine_, _Madeleine_, _Madelon_,
It. _Maddalena_, Sp. _Magdalena_, _Madelena_, Ger. _Magdalene_.

MADOC (W.), beneficent.

MALACHI (Heb.), messenger of the Lord, or my messenger.

MANASSEH (Heb.), forgetting, one who forgets.--L. _Manasses_.

MARCELLUS, dim. of _Marcus_.--Fem. MARCELLA.

MARCUS, MARCIUS, MARK (L.), a hammer, or sprung from Mars--L. _Marcus_, Fr.
_Marc_, It. _Marco_, Sp. _Marcos_, Ger. _Markus_.--Fem. MARCIA--Fr.
_Marcie_, It. _Marcia_, _Marzia_.

MARGARET (Gr.), a pearl.--Dims. MARGIE, MARGERY, MARJORY, MADGE, MAG,
MAGGIE, MEG, MEGGY, PEG, PEGGY, META, GRITTY.--Fr. _Marguérite_, It.
_Margherita_, Sp. _Margarita_, Port. _Margarida_, Ger. _Margarethe_,
_Gretchen_.

MARIA, the Latin form of _Mary_.

MARIANNE, a compound of _Mary_ and _Anne_--so MARIAN, MARYANN.--Fr.
_Mariane_, _Marianne_, It. _Marianna_, Sp. _Mariana_, Ger. _Marianne_.

MARION, a French form of _Mary_.--Dim. MAMIE.

MARMADUKE (prob. Celt., last syllable L.), sea-leader, or mighty leader.

MARTHA (Heb.), lady.--Dims. MAT, MATTY, PAT, PATTY.--Fr. _Marthe_, It. and
Sp. _Marta_, Ger. _Martha_.

MARTIN (L.), of Mars, warlike.--L. _Martinus_, Fr. _Martin_, _Mertin_, It.
and Sp. _Martino_, Port. _Martinho_, Ger. _Martin_.

MARY (Heb.), prob. related to _Mara_, _Marah_, bitter.--Dims. MAY, MOLL,
MOLLY, MAMIE, POL, POLLY.--L. _Maria_, Fr. _Marie_, _Marion_, It. and Sp.
_Maria_, Pol. _Marya_.

MATILDA, MATHILDA (Teut.), mighty battle maid.--Dims. MAT, MATTY, MAUD,
PATTY, TILDA.--Fr. _Mathilde_, It. _Matilda_, Ger. _Matilde_.

MATTHEW (Heb.), gift of the Lord.--Dim. MAT.--L. _Matthæus_, Fr. _Mathieu_,
It. _Matteo_, Sp. _Mateo_, Ger. _Matthæus_.

MATTHIAS, the Greek form of _Matthew_.

MAUD, a contraction of _Matilda_ or of _Magdalene_.

MAURICE (L.), Moorish, dark-coloured.--L. _Mauritius_, Fr. _Maurice_, It.
_Maurizio_, Sp. _Mauricio_, Ger. _Moritz_.

MAXIMILIAN (L.), the greatest Æmilianus.--L. _Maximilianus_, Fr.
_Maximilien_, Port. _Maximiliãs_, Ger. _Maximilian_.

MAY, the month of May, or a contraction of _Mary_.

MELICENT, MILICENT (L.), sweet singer, or (Teut.) strength.--Sp.
_Melisenda_.

MELISSA (Gr.), a bee.--Fr. _Mélisse_, _Mélite_, It. _Melissa_.

MERCY (Eng.), Mercy.

MICAH (Heb.), who is like the Lord?

MICHAEL (Heb.), who is like God?--Dims. MIKE, MICKY.--Fr. _Michel_, It.
_Michele_, Sp. and Port. _Miguel_, Ger. _Michael_.

MILDRED (Teut.), mild threatener.--L. _Mildreda_.

MILES (L.), soldier.

MINNIE (Teut.), remembrance--sometimes for _Mina_, a contraction of
_Wilhelmina_; sometimes put for _Mary_.

MIRANDA (L.), admirable.

MIRIAM (Heb.), the same as _Mary_.

MORGAN (W.), seaman.

MOSES (Heb.), he that draws out, but more probably an Egyptian name.--Dims.
MOSE, MOSEY.--So L., Fr. _Moïse_, It. _Moise_, Sp. _Moises_, Ger.
_Moses_.--Fem. MOSINA.

MYRA (Gr.), she who laments.



NAAMAN (Heb.), pleasant.

NAHUM (Heb.), consolation, a consoler.

NANCY, a familiar form of _Anne_, not properly of Agnes.--Dims. NAN, NANCE,
NINA.

NAOMI (Heb.), pleasant.

NAPOLEON (Gr.), of the new city.--Fr. _Napoléon_, It. _Napoleone_.

NATHAN (Heb.), he hath given;--NATHANAEL, NATHANIEL, gift of God.

NEHEMIAH (Heb.), the Lord comforteth.

NEIL, NEAL (Celt.), chief.

NELLIE, NELLY, a dim. of _Ellen_, _Helen_, or _Eleanor_.

NICHOLAS, NICOLAS (Gr.), victory of the people.--Dim. NICK.--L. _Nicolaus_,
Fr. _Nicolas_, _Nicole_, It. _Nicolo_, _Nicola_, Sp. _Nicolas_, Port.
_Nicolao_, Ger. _Nikolaus_.

NOAH (Heb.), rest.

NOEL (Fr.--L.), Christmas, born on that day.--Fr. _Noël_, It. _Natale_, Sp.
and Port. _Natal_.

NORA, NORAH, a contraction of _Honora_, _Leonora_, and _Eleanor_.

NORMAN (Teut.), Northman.



OBADIAH (Heb.), servant or worshipper of the Lord.--L. _Obadias_.

OBED (Heb.), a worshipper (of the Lord).

OCTAVIUS, OCTAVUS (L.), the eighth born--dims. TAVY, TAVE--L. _Octavius_,
_Octavianus_, Fr. _Octavien_, It. _Ottaviano_, _Ottavio_.--Fem.
OCTAVIA--Fr. _Octavie_, _Octave_, It. _Ottavia_, Sp. _Octavia_, Ger.
_Octavia_.

OLIVER (L.), an olive-tree.--Dims. NOL, NOLLY.--L. _Oliverus_, Fr.
_Olivier_, It. _Oliviero_, _Uliviero_, Sp. _Oliverio_, Port. _Oliveiro_,
Ger. _Oliver_.--Fem. OLIVE, OLIVIA.

OLYMPIA (Gr.), heavenly.--Fr. _Olympe_, It. _Olimpia_, Ger. _Olympie_.

OPHELIA (Gr.), serpent.--Fr. _Ophélie_.

ORLANDO, the Italian form of _Roland_.

OSCAR (Celt.), bounding warrior.--L. _Oscarus_.

OSMOND, OSMUND (Teut.), divine protection.--Fr. _Osmont_.

OSWALD, OSWOLD (Teut.), divine power.

OWEN (Celt.), lamb, or young warrior.

OZIAS (Heb.), the Lord is strength=_Uzziah_.



PATIENCE (L.), patience.

PATRICK, PATRICIUS (L.), noble.--Dims. PAT, PADDY.--L. _Patricius_, Fr.
_Patrice_, It. _Patrizio_, Sp. _Patricio_, Ger. _Patrizius_.--Fem.
PATRICIA.

PAUL, PAULUS, PAULINUS (L.), little--L. _Paulus_, Fr. _Paul_, It. _Paola_,
Sp. _Pablo_, Port. _Paulo_, Ger. _Paul_.--Fem. PAULA, PAULINA, PAULINE--Fr.
_Paule_, _Paulìne_, It. _Paola_, _Paolìna_, Sp. _Paula_, Ger. _Pauline_.

PENELOPE (Gr.), weaver.

PEREGRINE (L.), a stranger.--L. _Peregrinus_, Fr. _Pérégrin_, It.
_Pellegrino_, Sp. _Peregrino_, Ger. _Piligrim_.

PERSIS (Gr.), a Persian woman.--Fr. _Perside_, It. _Persida_, Sp.
_Perside_, Ger. _Persis_.

PETER (Gr.), a rock.--Dims. PETE, PETERKIN.--L. _Petrus_, Fr. _Pierre_, It.
_Pietro_, Sp. and Port. _Pedro_, Ger. _Peter_, _Petrus_.

PHEBE See _Phoebe_.

PHILANDER (Gr.), a lover of men.

PHILEMON (Gr.), loving.

PHILIP (Gr.), a lover of horses.--Dims. PHIL, PIP.--L. _Philippus_, Fr.
_Philippe_, It. _Filippo_, Sp. _Felipe_, Ger. _Philipp_.--Fem. PHILIPPA.

PHILIPPA, fem. of _Philip_ above.--Fr. _Philippine_, It. _Filippa_,
_Filippina_, Sp. _Felipa_, Ger. _Philippine_.

PHINEAS, PHINEHAS (Heb.), oracle--more probably an Egyptian word meaning
negro.

PHOEBE, PHEBE (Gr.), shining.--It. _Febe_.

PHILLIS. See _Phyllis_.

PHYLLIS, PHILLIS (Gr.), a green bough.

PIUS (L.), pious, dutiful.--Fr. _Pie_, It. _Pio_.

PLINY, PLINIUS (L.), the meaning doubtful.

POLLY, a familiar dim. of _Mary_.

POLYCARP (Gr.), much fruit.

PRISCILLA (L.), somewhat old.

PRUDENCE (L.), prudence.--Dims. PRUE, PRUDY.

PTOLEMY (Gr.), mighty in war.



QUINTIN, Quentin (L.), the fifth.--L. _Quintus_, _Quintianus_.



RACHEL (Heb.), a ewe.--Fr. _Rachel_, It. _Rachele_, Sp. _Raquel_, Ger.
_Rahel_.

RALPH (pron. r[=a]f). See _Rodolph_.

RANDAL (Teut.), house wolf.

RAPHAEL (Heb. _rephael_), God hath healed.--Fr. _Raphael_, It. _Raffaello_,
_Raffaele_, Ger. _Raphael_.

RAYMOND, RAYMUND (Teut.), wise protection.--Fr. _Raymond_, It. _Raimondo_,
Sp. _Raimundo_, Ger. _Raimund_.

REBECCA, REBEKAH (Heb.), a noose.--Dims. BECK, BEX, BECKY.--L. _Rebecca_,
Fr. _Rebecca_, Ger. _Rebekka_.

REGINALD (Teut.), powerful judgment.--L. _Reginaldus_, Fr. _Regnauld_,
_Renaud_, _Regnault_, It. _Rinaldo_, Sp. _Reynaldos_, Ger. _Reinwald_,
_Reinald_.

REUBEN (Heb.), behold, a son!

REYNOLD, the same as _Reginald_.

RHODA (Gr.), a rose.

RICHARD (Teut.), stern king.--Dims. DICK, DICKY, DICKEN, DICKON.--L.
_Ricardus_, Fr. _Richard_, It. _Riccardo_, Sp. _Ricardo_, Ger. _Richard_.

ROBERT (Teut.), bright in fame.--Dims. BOB, BOBBY, DOB, DOBBIN, ROB,
ROBBIE, ROBIN.--L. _Robertus_, Fr. _Robert_, It. _Roberto_, _Ruberto_,
_Ruperto_, Ger. _Robert_, _Rupert_, _Rudbert_, _Ruprecht_.

RODERICK, RODERIC (Teut.), famous king, or rich in fame.--Fr. _Rodrigue_,
It. _Rodrigo_, Sp. _Rodrigo_, _Ruy_, Ger. _Roderich_, Russ. _Rurik_.

RODOLPH, RODOLPHUS (Teut.), wolf of fame.--L. _Rodolphus_, Fr. _Rodolphe_,
_Raoul_, It. _Rodolfo_, _Ridolfo_, Sp. _Rodolfo_, Ger. _Rudolf_.

ROGER (Teut.), spear of fame.--Dims. HODGE, HODGKIN.--L. _Rogerus_, Fr.
_Roger_, It. _Ruggiero_, _Rogero_, Sp. _Rogerio_, Ger. _Rüdiger_.

ROLAND, ROWLAND (Teut.), fame of the land.--L. _Rotlandus_, _Rolandus_, Fr.
_Roland_, It. _Orlando_, Sp. _Roldan_, Port. _Rolando_, _Roldão_, Ger.
_Roland_.

ROSA (L.), a rose;--ROSABEL, ROSABELLA, a fair rose;--ROSALIA, ROSALIE, a
little rose;--ROSALIND, beautiful as a rose.--Dim. ROSIE.

ROSAMOND (Teut.), horse-protection, or famous protection.--Fr. _Rosemonde_,
It. _Rosmonda_, Sp. _Rosamunda_.

ROXANA (Pers.), dawn of day--Dim. ROXY.--Fr. _Roxane_.

RUDOLPH, RUDOLPHUS, the same as _Rodolph_, _Rodolphus_ above.

RUFUS (L.), red, red-haired.

RUPERT, the same as _Robert_.--L. _Rupertus_.

RUTH (Heb.), friend.



SABINA (L.), a Sabine woman.--Fr. _Sabine_, Ger. _Sabine_.

SABRINA (L.), the river Severn.

SALOME (Heb.), peaceful.--Fr. _Salomé_, Ger. _Salome_.

SAMSON, SAMPSON (Heb.), of the sun, solar.--Fr. _Samson_, Sp. _Sanson_,
Port. _Sansão_.

SAMUEL (Heb.), heard of God, name of God.--Dims. SAM, SAMMY.--Fr. _Samuel_,
It. _Samuele_, Ger. _Samuel_.

SARAH, SARA (Heb.), princess, queen.--Dim. SAL, SALLY.--Fr. _Sara_, It. and
Sp. _Sara_, Ger. _Sara_.

SAUL (Heb.), asked for.

SEBASTIAN (Gr.), venerable.--L. _Sebastianus_, Fr. _Sébastien_, It.
_Sebastiano_.--Sp. _Sebastian_, Port. _Sebastião_, Ger. _Sebastian_.

SELINA (Gr.), the moon.

SERENO, SERENUS (L.), peaceful.--Fem. SERENA.

SETH (Heb.), set, placed.

SHADRACH, Aramaic name of Hananiah (Heb.), the Lord is gracious.

SIBYL, SIBYLLA (Gr.), a prophetess.--Fr. _Sibylle_, Ger. _Sibylle_.

SIGISMUND (Teut.), conquering protection.--Fr. _Sigismond_, It.
_Sigismondo_, _Sismondo_, Sp. _Sigismundo_, Ger. _Sigismund_, _Sigmund_.

SILAS, SILVANUS (L.), living in a wood.--Fr. _Silvain_, It. _Silvano_,
_Silvio_, Ger. _Silvanus_, _Silvan_.--Fem. SYLVIA.

SILVESTER, SYLVESTER (L.), rustic.--Dims. VESTER, VEST.--Fr. _Silvestre_,
Ger. _Silvester_.

SIMEON, SIMON (Heb.), famous, that hears.--Dim. SIM.--Fr. _Siméon_, It.
_Simone_, Sp. _Simon_, Port. _Simão_, _Simeão_, Ger. _Simeon_, _Simon_.

SOPHIA (Gr.), wisdom.--Dim. SOPHY.--Fr. _Sophie_, It. _Sofia_, Ger.
_Sophia_.

SOPHRONIA (Gr.), of sound mind.

SOLOMON (Heb.), peaceable.--Dim. SOL.--Fr. _Salomon_, It. _Salomone_, Ger.
_Salomo_.

STELLA (L.), a star.--Fr. _Estelle_, Sp. _Estella_.

STEPHEN (Gr.), a crown.--Dims. STEENIE, STEVE, STEVIE.--L. _Stephanus_, Fr.
_Étienne_, It. _Stefano_, Sp. _Estevan_, _Esteban_, Port. _Estevão_, Ger.
_Stephan_.

STEPHANA, fem., of _Stephen_.--Fr. _Stéphanie_, Ger. _Stephanie_.

SWITHIN (A.S.), strong friend.

SUSAN, SUSANNA, SUSANNAH (Heb.), a lily.--Dims. SUE, SUKE, SUKY, SUSIE,
SUSY.--Fr. _Susanne_, It. _Susanna_, Sp. _Susana_, Ger. _Susanne_.

SYLVESTER, same as SILVESTER.

SYLVIA, fem. of _Silvanus_.



TABITHA (Aramaic), a gazelle.

THADDEUS (Aramaic), strong.--L. _Thaddæus_, It. _Taddeo_, Sp. _Tadeo_, Ger.
_Thaddäus_.

THEOBALD (Teut.), people's prince.--Fr. _Thibaut_, It. _Teobaldo_, Sp.
_Theudebaldo_, Ger. _Dietbold_.

THEODORA, fem. of _Theodore_.--Dim. DORA.--It. _Teodora_, Ger. _Theodora_.

THEODORE (Gr.), gift of God.--L. _Theodorus_, Fr. _Théodore_, It.
_Teodoro_, Ger. _Theodor_, Russ. _Feodor_.

THEODORIC (Teut.), people's rule.--L. _Theodoricus_.

THEODOSIUS (Gr.), divinely given.--It. _Teodosia_, Ger. _Theodosia_.--Fem.
THEODOSIA.

THEOPHILUS (Gr.), a lover of God.--Fr. _Théophile_, It. _Teofilo_, Ger.
_Theophilus_, _Gottlieb_.

THERESA (Gr.), carrying ears of corn.--Dims. TERRY, TRACIE.--Fr. _Thérèse_,
It. and Sp. _Teresa_, Ger. _Therese_, _Theresia_.

THOMAS (Heb.), a twin.--Dims. TOM, TOMMY, TAM, TAMMIE.--Fr. _Thomas_, It.
_Tomaso_, Sp. _Tomas_, Ger. _Thomas_.--Fem. THOMASA, THOMASINA, THOMASINE,
TOMINA.

TIB, TIBBIE, a Scotch dim. of _Isabella_ (q.v.).

TIMOTHY (Gr.), honoured of God.--Dim. TIM.--L. _Timotheus_, Fr. _Timothée_,
It. _Timoteo_, Sp. _Timoteo_, Ger. _Timotheus_.

TITUS (prob. L. _tutus_), safe.--Fr. _Tite_, It. and Sp. _Tito_.

TOBIAH, TOBIAS (Heb.), the Lord is good.--Dim. TOBY.--L. _Tobias_, Fr.
_Tobie_, It. _Tobia_, Sp. _Tobias_, Ger. _Tobias_.

TRISTAM, TRISTRAM (Celt.), a herald.

TRYPHON (Gr.), dainty.--Fem. TRYPHENA.

TRYPHOSA (Gr.), dainty.

TYBALT, a form of _Theobald_.



ULRICA (Teut.), noble ruler.--Fr. _Ulrique_, It. _Ulrica_, Ger. _Ulrike_.

ULYSSES (Gr.), a hater.

URANIA (Gr.), heavenly.--Fr. _Uranie_.

URBAN (L.), of the town, courteous.--L. _Urbanus_, Fr. _Urbain_, It.
_Urbano_, Ger. _Urbanus_, _Urban_.

URIAH (Heb.), the Lord is light.

URIEL (Heb.), God is light.

URSULA (L.), a she-bear.--Fr. _Ursule_, It. _Orsola_, Sp. _Ursola_.



VALENTINE (L.), strong.--L. _Valentinus_, Fr. _Valentin_, It. _Valentino_,
Sp. _Valentin_, Ger. _Valentin_.

VALERIA, fem. of _Valerius_ (L.), healthy.--Fr. _Valérie_, It. _Valeria_,
Ger. _Valerie_.

VICTOR (L.), a conqueror.--Fr. _Victor_, Ger. _Victor_.

VICTORIA, fem. of _Victor_.--Fr. _Victoire_, It. _Vittoria_, Ger.
_Victoria_.

VIDA, a fem. form of _David_.

VINCENT (L.), conquering.--L. _Vincens_, Fr. _Vincent_, It. _Vincenzio_,
Sp. _Vincente_, Port. _Vicente_, Ger. _Vincenz_.

VIOLA (L.), a violet.--Fr. _Violette_, It. _Viola_, Sp. _Violante_, Ger.
_Viola_, _Viole_.

VIRGINIA (L.), virgin.--Fr. _Virginie_, It. _Virginia_, Ger. _Virginia_.

VIVIAN (L.), lively.--Fr. _Vivien_, Ger. _Vivian_.



WALTER (Teut.), powerful warrior.--Dims. WAT, WATTY.--L. _Gualterus_, Fr.
_Gauthier_, _Gautier_, It. _Gualtiero_, Sp. _Gualterio_, Ger. _Walther_.

WILFRED (A.S.), resolute peace.

WILHELMINA, fem. of _Wilhelm_, the German form of _William_ (q.v.).--Dims.
WILMETT, WILMOT, MINA, MINNIE, MINELLA.--Fr. _Guillelmine_, _Guillemette_,
It. _Guglielma_, Sp. _Guillelmina_, Ger. _Wilhelmine_.

WILLIAM (Teut.), helmet of resolution.--Dims. WILL, WILLY, BILL, BILLY.--L.
_Guilielmus_, _Gulielmus_, Fr. _Guillaume_, It. _Guglielmo_, Sp.
_Guillermo_, Port. _Guilherme_, Ger. _Wilhelm_.--Fem. WILHELMINA.

WINIFRED, WINFRED (Teut.), friend of peace.--Dim. WINNIE.



ZABDIEL (Heb.), God endoweth.

ZACCHEUS (Heb.), pure.

ZACHARIAH, ZECHARIAH (Heb.), the Lord hath remembered.--Dims. ZACH, ZECHY.

ZADOK (Heb.), just.

ZEBADIAH, Zebedee (Heb.), the Lord has bestowed.

ZEDEKIAH (Heb.), the Lord is righteousness.

ZENOBIA (Gr.), having life from Zeus.--Fr. _Zénobie_.

ZEPHANIAH (Heb.), the Lord hideth.

ZOE (Gr.), life.

       *       *       *       *       *


WORDS AND PHRASES IN MORE OR LESS CURRENT
USE FROM LATIN, GREEK, AND MODERN
FOREIGN LANGUAGES.

       *       *       *       *       *

See especially the _Stanford Dictionary of Anglicised Words and Phrases_,
edited by Dr C. A. M. FENNELL (Cambridge, 1892).

       *       *       *       *       *

AASVOGEL (Ger.), a carrion-bird.

AB ABSURDO (L.), from absurdity.

AB ÆTERNO (L.), from eternity.

AB ANTE (L.), from before.

À BAS (Fr.), down, down with!

À BÂTONS ROMPUS (Fr.), by fits and starts.

ABATTU, fem. ABATTUE (Fr.), cast down, dejected.

A BENE PLACITO (It.), at pleasure.

AB EXTRA (L.), from without.

ABIIT, EXCESSIT, EVASIT, ERUPIT (L.), he is gone, he is off, he has
escaped, he has broken away (Cicero, _In Catilinam_, II. i. 1).

AB IMO PECTORE (L.), from the bottom of the heart.

AB INCUNABULIS (L.), from the cradle.

AB INITIO (L.), from the beginning.

AB INTRA (L.), from within.

AB OFFICIO ET BENEFICIO (Late L.), from office and benefice--of a clergyman
suspended.

À BON CHAT, BON RAT (Fr.), to a good cat, a good rat--tit for tat.

À BON DROIT (Fr.), with justice.

À BON MARCHÉ (Fr.), at a good bargain, cheap.

ABONNEMENT (Fr.), subscription.

AB ORIGINE (L.), from the origin or beginning.

ABORT (Ger.), a privy, water-closet.

AB OVO (L.), from the egg: from the beginning.

AB OVO USQUE AD MALA (L.), from the egg to the apples--of a Roman banquet:
from the beginning to the end.

À BRAS OUVERTS (Fr.), with open arms.

ABRÉGÉ (Fr.), abridgment.

ABSENCE D'ESPRIT (Fr.), absence of mind.

ABSENS HERES NON ERIT (L.), the absent one will not be the heir--out of
sight, out of mind.

ABSENTE REO (L.), the defendant being absent.

ABSIT (L.), lit. 'let him be absent'--leave to pass one night away from
college.

ABSIT DICTO INVIDIA (L.), to be said without boasting.

ABSIT OMEN (L.), may there be no ill omen (as in a word just used)!

ABSOLVI MEAM ANIMAM (L.), I have relieved my mind.

ABUNA, the primate of the Abyssinian Church: a Nestorian priest.

AB UNO DISCE OMNES (L.), from one learn all: from one example you may know
the rest.

AB URBE CONDITÂ (L.), from the founding of the city--i.e. Rome, 753 B.C.

ABUSUS NON TOLLIT USUM (L.), abuse does not do away with use--i.e. an abuse
does not forfeit the legitimate use of a thing.

A CAPITE AD CALCEM (L.), from head to heel.

ACCABLÉ (Fr.), depressed, overwhelmed.

ACCESSIT (L.), he came near.

ACCUEIL (Fr.), reception, welcome.

ACEDIA (Late L.), sloth, indifference.

AC ETIAM (L.), 'and also'--the name of a clause added to a complaint of
trespass in the Court of King's Bench.

À CHAQUE SAINT SA CHANDELLE (Fr.), to every saint his candle: to every
patron his meed of service.

ACHARNÉ (Fr.), furious, desperate (esp. of battles).

ACHERONTIS PABULUM (L.), food for Acheron--of a bad person.

À CHEVAL (Fr.), on horseback.

À COMPTE (Fr.), on account: in part-payment.

À CONTRECOEUR (Fr.), reluctantly.

À CORPS PERDU (Fr.), desperately, with might and main.

À COUVERT (Fr.), under cover: protected.

ACROAMA, ACROASIS (Gr.), oral teaching, anything rhetorical or otherwise
pleasant to listen to.

ACTÆON (Gr.), the hunter who surprised Artemis bathing, and so, being
changed into a stag, was torn in pieces by his own hounds: a cuckold.

ACTIONNAIRE (Fr.), shareholder.

ACTUALITÉ (Fr.), real existence: appropriateness.

ACTUM EST DE REPUBLICA (L.), it is all over with the republic.

ACTUM NE AGAS (L.), do not do over again what is done--i.e. do a thing and
have done with it.

ACUSHLA (Irish), darling.

AD APERTURAM [LIBRI] (L.), as [the book] opens.

AD ARBITRIUM (L.), at pleasure.

AD ASTRA (L.), to the stars.

A DATO (L.), from date.

AD CALENDAS GRÆCAS (L.), at the Greek Calends--i.e. never, as the Greeks
had no Calends.

AD CAPTANDUM VULGUS (L.), to catch the rabble.

AD CLERUM (L.), to the clergy.

AD CRUMENAM (L.), to the purse.

ADELANTADO (Sp.), a grandee of high rank, the governor of a province.

À DEMI (Fr.), by halves, half.

A DEO ET REGE (L.), from God and the king.

À DESSEIN (Fr.), on purpose.

AD EUNDEM [GRADUM] (L.), to the same [degree]--of the admission of a
graduate of one university to the same degree at another without
examination.

À DEUX (Fr.), of two, between two, two-handed.

À DEUX MAINS (Fr.), with both hands.

AD EXTRA (Late L.), in an outward direction--opposite of _ad intra_.

AD EXTREMUM (L.), to the extreme.

AD FINEM (L.), to the end, toward the end.

AD GUSTUM (L.), to taste.

AD HOC (L.), for this [object].

AD HOMINEM (L.), to the man, personal.

ADHUC SUB JUDICE LIS EST (L.), the dispute is still undecided.

AD HUNC LOCUM (L.), on this passage.

AD IDEM (L.), to the same [point].

A DIE (L.), from that day.

ADIEU PANIERS, VENDANGES SONT FAITES (Fr.), farewell hampers, the vintage
is over--good-bye to our hopes! all is over.

AD INFINITUM (L.), to infinity.

AD INQUIRENDUM (Late L.), for making inquiry--name of a writ.

AD INTERIM (Late L.), for the meantime.

AD INTERNECIONEM (L.), to extermination.

A DIO (It.), to God;--addio! adieu!

À DISCRÉTION (Fr.), at discretion: without restriction.

AD LIBITUM (L.), at pleasure.

AD LITEM (L.), for a suit.

AD MAJOREM DEI GLORIAM (L.), for the greater glory of God--the Jesuit
motto.

AD MANUM (L.), at hand, ready.

AD MISERICORDIAM (L.), to pity--of an argument, &c.--Also used adjectively.

AD MODUM (L.), after the manner of.

ADMONITUS LOCORUM (L.), local associations.

AD NAUSEAM (L.), to the pitch of producing disgust.

ADONAI (Heb.), the Lord--the name substituted for _Jahveh_ or _Jehovah_ in
reading the Old Testament; lit. 'my lords.'

AD PATRES (L.), gathered to his fathers, dead.

AD REFERENDUM (L.), to be further considered.

AD REM (L.), to the point: to the purpose.

À DROITE (Fr.), to the right;--À DROITE ET À GAUCHE (Fr.), right and left.

ADSCRIPTUS GLEBÆ (L.), bound to the soil--of serfs.

ADSUM! (L.), I am present, here!

AD SUMMUM (L.), to the highest point.

AD UNGUEM (L.), to the nail: nicely.

AD UNUM OMNES (L.), all to a man.

AD UTRUMQUE PARATUS (L.), prepared for either case.

AD VALOREM (L.), according to value.

AD VERBUM (L.), to a word, verbally.

AD VITAM AUT CULPAM (L.), for life or till fault--i.e. till some misconduct
be proved.

AD VIVUM (L.), to the life, like-life.

ADVOCATUS DIABOLI (L.), devil's advocate, a person appointed to contest
before the papal court the claims of a candidate for canonisation; hence
any adverse critic.

ÆGRESCITQUE MEDENDO (L.), and he becomes worse from the very remedies used.

ÆGRI SOMNIA (L.), a sick man's dreams.

A.E.I.O.U. (AUSTRIÆ EST IMPERARE ORBI UNIVERSO), it is Austria's part to
command the whole globe.

ÆOLUS, EOLUS (L.), the god of the winds: a kind of ventilator.

ÆQUABILITER ET DILIGENTER (L.), equably and diligently.

ÆQUAM MEMENTO REBUS IN ARDUIS SERVARE MENTEM (L.), remember to keep a calm
mind in difficulties.

ÆQUANIMITER (L.), composedly.

ÆQUITAS SEQUITUR LEGEM (L.), equity follows law.

ÆQUO ANIMO (L.), with an equable mind.

ÆRARIUM (L.), the public treasury of ancient Rome under the charge of the
_Ærarii_.

ÆS ALIENUM (L.), debt, lit. 'copper money belonging to another.'

ÆSCULAPIUS, ESCULAPIUS (L.), the god of the healing art, representative of
physicians.

ÆS TRIPLEX (L.), triple brass, a strong defence.

ÆSTUARIUM (L.), an estuary: a vapour-bath.

ÆSTUS (L.), efflux, passionate glow.

ÆTATIS SUÆ (L.), of his [or her] age.

ÆVUM (L.), the same as _Æon_ (q.v. in Dict.).

AFER (L.), the south-west wind, lit. 'the African.'

AFFAIRE D'AMOUR (Fr.), a love affair.

AFFAIRE DE COEUR (Fr.), an affair of the heart.

AFFAIRE D'HONNEUR (Fr.), an affair of honour.

AFFENTHALER (Ger.), a kind of hock.

AFFICHE (Fr.), a notice, placard, advertisement,--AFFICHÉ, posted up,
published.

AFFREUX (Fr.), frightful.

AFIN DE (Fr.), in order to.

AFIN QUE (Fr.), to the end that.

À FOND (Fr.), to the bottom: thoroughly.

À FORFAIT (Fr.), by contract, by the job.

A FORTIORI (L.), with stronger reason.

AGAÇANT, fem. AGAÇANTE (Fr.), provoking, alluring;--AGAÇERIE, allurement.

AGALLOCHUM (L.). See under _Aloe_ in Dict.

AGAMEMNON (Gr.), the leader of the Greeks in the Trojan war, king of
Mycenæ: a generic name for a king.

AGANIPPE (Gr.), a fountain on Mount Helicon sacred to the Muses, supplying
poetic inspiration: poetic genius generally.

AGAR-AGAR (Malay), an edible seaweed, used in the East for jelly and glue
and for dressing silks.

AGATHODÆMON (Gr.), a good genius or minor divinity.

À GAUCHE (Fr.), to the left.

À GENOUX (Fr.), on the knees.

AGE QUID AGAS (L.), do what you are doing--i.e. with all your powers.

AGERASIA (Gr.), a hearty and healthy old age.

AGGER (L.), a mound, rampart.

A GIORNO (It.), like daylight.

AGNUS CASTUS (L.), the chaste-tree or Abraham's balm, a species of _vitex_.

AGONOTHETES (Gr.), one who managed public games in ancient Greece.

À GRANDS FRAIS (Fr.), at great expense.

AGRÉMENTS (Fr.), graceful courtesies, charms, blandishments.

À HAUTE VOIX (Fr.), aloud.

AHRIMAN, the principle of evil and darkness in the Old Persian
mythology--the opposite of _Ormuzd_ (q.v. in Dict.).

À HUIS CLOS (Fr.), with closed doors.

AIDE (Fr.), an assistant, a helper, a mate.

AIDE DE CAMP (Fr.), an aide-de-camp (q.v. in Dict.).

AIDE-MÉMOIRE (Fr.), an aid to the memory, a reminder, a memorandum-book.

AIDE TOI, LE CIEL T'AIDERA (Fr.), help yourself and Heaven will help you.

AID[=O]S (Gr.), shame, modesty.

AIGRE-DOUX, fem. -DOUCE (Fr.), sourish, rather bitter;--aigreur,
sourness;--aigri, soured, embittered.

AILES DE PIGEON (Fr.), pigeon's wings--powdered side-curls (of hair).

AÎNÉ, fem. AÎNÉE (Fr.), elder, senior--opposed to _puîné_ or
_cadet_=younger.

AIR NOBLE (Fr.), an air of distinction.

À JAMAIS (Fr.), for ever.

AJAX (L.,--Gr.), the Greek hero next to Achilles in the Trojan war: a
privy, by a pun on a _jakes_.

À L'ABANDON (Fr.), at random, left uncared for.

À LA BELLE ÉTOILE (Fr.), in the open air.

À LA BONNE HEURE (Fr.), in good or favourable time--well and good, very
good, that is right.

À LA BRAISE (Fr.), braised, half-baked and half-stewed.

À L'ABRI (Fr.), under shelter.

À LA CAMPAGNE (Fr.), in the country.

À LA CARTE (Fr.), according to the bill of fare.

À LA DÉROBÉE (Fr.), by stealth.

À LA FRANÇAISE (Fr.), after the French mode;--À LA PARISIENNE (Fr.), in the
Parisian style.

À LA GRECQUE (Fr.), in the Greek style.

À LA HAUTEUR (Fr.), on a level with, abreast of.

ALALAGMOS (Gr.), war-cry, cry of alala.

À LA LANTERNE (Fr.), to the lamp(-chain)--of the murders by the mob in the
French Revolution, when the victims were seized and hanged on the chains
from which hung the street lamps.

À LA MAIN (Fr.), in hand, ready: by hand.

À LA MAÎTRE D'HÔTEL (Fr.), in the style of a house-steward, of a
hotel-keeper: in major-domo fashion.

ALAMBIQUÉ (Fr.), over-elaborated, hyper-refined.

À LA MILITAIRE (Fr.), in military style.

À LA MODE (Fr.), according to the custom: in fashion.

À LA MORT (Fr.), to the death.

À L'ANGLAISE (Fr.), in the English style.

À L'ANTIQUE (Fr.), in antique style.

À LA ROMAINE (Fr.), in Roman style.

À LA RUSSE (Fr.), in Russian fashion--of dinners the courses of which are
served from side-tables.

À LA TARTUFFE (Fr.), like Tartuffe, hypocritically.

A LATERE, AB LATERE (L.), lit. 'from the side,' in intimate association
with, confidential--of legates sent by the Pope.

ALATERNUS (Late L.), a species of blackthorn (_Rhamnus_).

À LA VICTIME (Fr.), in the fashion of a victim.

À LA VOLÉE (Fr.), on the flight--of any quick return.

ALBERGO, ALBERGE (It.), an inn, auberge.

ALBION (L.), an old name of Great Britain--usually said to be from the
white (L. _albus_) cliffs of Kent.

ALBRICIAS (Sp.), a reward to the bearer of good news.

ALBUM GRÆCUM (Late L.), the dried dung of dogs, once used for inflammation
of the throat.

ALCAICERIA (Sp.), a bazaar.

ALCARRAZA (Sp.), a porous earthen vessel for cooling water by evaporation.

ALCAZAR (Sp.), a palace, fortress, bazaar.

ALCIDES (L.,--Gr.), a patronymic of Hercules, from Alcæus, the name of the
father of his mother's husband.

AL CONTO (It.), à la carte. See _à la carte_ above.

ALCORZA (Sp.), a kind of sweetmeat.

ALDEA, ALDEE (Sp.), a village, hamlet.

ALEA BELLI INCERTA (L.), the hazard of war is uncertain.

ALEA JACTA EST, or rather _jacta est alea_ (L.), the die is cast (said by
Cæsar on crossing the Rubicon).

ALECT[=O] (Gr.), one of the Furies or Eumenides or Erinyes.

ALECTRY[=O]N (Gr.), a cock.

À L'ENVI (Fr.), emulously.

ALEPINE, ALAPEEN, a mixed stuff of wool and silk or of cotton and
mohair--named from Aleppo.

ALERE FLAMMAM (L.), to feed the flame.

ALEXIPHARMACON (Gr.), an antidote, counter-poison.

À L'EXTÉRIEUR (Fr.), on the outside, abroad.

À L'EXTRÉMITÉ (Fr.), to the end of one's resources, to extremes, at the
point of death.

ALFAQUI (Sp.), a lawyer.

ALFERES, ALFEREZ (Sp.), standard-bearer.

ALFORJA (Sp.), a saddle-bag: the cheek-pouch of a baboon.

ALGARROBA (Sp.), the carob tree and bean: a South American mimosa.

À L'IMPROVISTE (Fr.), on a sudden, unawares.

À L'INTÉRIEUR (Fr.), in the inside, at home.

ALIQUANDO BONUS DORMITAT HOMERUS (L.), sometimes the good Homer nods--the
brightest genius is sometimes dull.

ALIQUID HÆRET (L.), something sticks.

ALIUNDE (L.), from another place.

ALLA FRANCA (It.), in the French style.

ALLAH IL ALLAH, a corr. of Ar. _l[=a] il[=a]ha ill[=a] 'll[=a]h_=there is
no God but the God--the Moslem war-cry.

ALLA VOSTRA SALUTE (It.), to your health.

ALLÉE (Fr.), an avenue, a walk or garden-path.

ALLEZ VOUS EN! (Fr.), away with you! begone!

ALLIUM (L.), the genus to which the leek and onion belong.

ALLOEOSTROPHA (Gr.), arranged in irregular strophes.

ALLONS (Fr.), let us go: come on: come.

ALLURE (Fr.), mien, gait, air.

ALMA (It.), soul, essence.

ALMA MATER (L.), benign mother--applied by old students to their
university.

ALNASCHAR, a figure in Galland's _Arabian Nights_ who, having no basis but
a basket of glass-ware for sale, dreams of making a fortune and marrying a
princess, but in his pride kicks the princess of his dream, and so destroys
the real foundation of his fortune--hence any one whose illusions of good
fortune are disastrously dispelled.

ALOPECIA (L.,--Gr.), fox mange: a skin disease, which destroys the hair.

À L'OUTRANCE (Fr.), erroneously written for _à outrance_ (q.v.).

ALPARCA, ALPARGATE (Port., prob. from Basque), a hempen shoe or sandal.

AL PASTO (It.), according to a fixed rate--of meals in a restaurant.

ALPEEN (Ir.), a cudgel.

AL PIU (It.), at most.

AL SEGNO (It.), to the sign--a direction to the performer to go back to and
repeat from the place marked thus--[Segno]

ALSIRAT (Ar.), the bridge across mid-hell to the Mohammedan paradise.

ALTER EGO (L.), one's second self: a friend, a representative.

ALTER IDEM (L.), another precisely similar.

ALTER IPSE AMICUS (L.), a friend is another self.

ALTERNIS VICIBUS (L.), in alternative turns.

ALTERNUM TANTUM (L.), as much more.

ALTESSE (Fr.), highness;--ALTEZA (Sp.);--ALTEZZA (It.).

ALTHING (Norse), the former supreme court of Iceland.

ALTUM SILENTIUM, (L.), profound silence.

AMABILIS INSANIA (L.), a pleasing delusion.

AMADAVAT, AVADAVAT (Anglo-Ind.), an Indian songbird, of family
_Fringillidæ_.

À MAIN ARMÉE (Fr.), by force of arms, with mailed fist.

A MAJORI [AD MINUS] (L.), from the greater [to the less].

AMALTHÆA (Gr.), the goat which suckled Zeus. See _Cornucopia_ in Dict.

AMANT, fem. AMANTE (Fr.), a lover.

AMANTES: AMENTES (L.), lovers: lunatics.

AMANTIUM IRÆ AMORIS INTEGRATIO EST (L.), lovers' quarrels are a renewal of
love.

AMARE SIMUL ET SAPERE IPSI JOVI NON DATUR (L.), to be in love and to be
wise at the same time is not granted even to Jupiter.

AMARI ALIQUID (L.), somewhat bitter.

AMATA BENE (L.), well loved (fem.).

A MAXIMIS AD MINIMA (L.), from the greatest to the least.

AMAZONE (Fr.), a lady's riding-habit.

ÂME DAMNÉE (Fr.), lit. 'damned soul,' any one's tool or agent blindly
devoted to one's will.

ÂME DE BOUE (Fr.), a soul of mud, a low-minded person.

A MENSÂ ET TORO (L.), from bed and board.

ÂME PERDUE (Fr.), lit. 'lost soul,' a desperate character.

Â MERVEILLE (Fr.), wonderfully, perfectly.

AMICIZIA (It.), friendship, an intrigue.

AMICUS CURIÆ (L.), a friend of the court: a disinterested adviser, not a
party to the case (wrongly, a friend in high quarters).

AMICUS HUMANI GENERIS (L.), a friend of the human race.

AMICUS PLATO, AMICUS SOCRATES, SED MAGIS AMICA VERITAS (L.), Plato is dear
to me, Socrates is dear, but truth is dearer still.

AMICUS USQUE AD ARAS (L.), a friend even to the altar--i.e. to the last
extremity.

AMI DE COUR (Fr.), a court friend.

AMIE (Fr.), a mistress--fem. of AMI, a friend.

A MINORI [AD MAJUS] (L.), from the less [to the greater].

AMITIÉ (Fr.), friendship.

À MOITIÉ (Fr.), half, by halves.

AMOMUM (L.,--Gr.), an aromatic plant, once loosely used, now applied to a
genus of _Zingiberaceæ_.

À MON AVIS (Fr.), in my opinion.

AMORINO (It.), a cupid.

AMOROSA, pl. AMOROSI, fem. of AMOROSO (It.), a mistress.

AMOR PATRIÆ (L.), love of country.

AMOR SCELERATUS HABENDI (L.), the accursed love of possessing.

AMORTISSEMENT (Fr.), amortisation. See _Amortise_ in Dict.

AMOR VINCIT OMNIA (L.), love conquers all things.

AMPHIGOURI (Fr.), any nonsensical rigmarole.

AMPOULÉ, fem. AMPOULÉE (Fr.), bombastic.

AMTMAN, AMPTMAN, also AMMAN (Eng.,--Ger.), a district magistrate, a civil
officer in charge of an _amt_, a steward or bailiff.

ANA, written [=a][=a], [=a] (Low L.,--Gr.), used in recipes to mean
throughout, in equal quantity or proportion (of each ingredient); hence
sometimes as noun, 'an equal quantity' or 'number.'

ANAK, pl. ANAKIM (Heb.), a race of giants.

ANANK[=E] (Gr.), necessity.

ANATHEMA SIT, let him be accursed (1 Cor. xvi. 22).

A NATURA REI (L.), from the nature of the case.

ANAX (Gr.), a prince.

'ANCH' IO SON PITTORE' (It.), 'I, too, am a painter' [said by Correggio
with pride on looking at Raphael's picture of St Cecilia].

ANCIEN RÉGIME (Fr.), the old order of things [esp. before the French
Revolution];--ANCIENNE NOBLESSE, the nobility of the foregoing.

ANCILE, pl. ANCILIA (L.), the shield which fell from heaven in the reign of
Numa Pompilius, on the safety of which the prosperity of Rome depended.

ANGEKOK, an Eskimo conjurer.

ANGLICÈ (L.), in English.

ANGUIS IN HERBA (L.), snake in the grass.

ANICUT, ANNICUT, a Tamil name for a dam or weir across a river.

ANIMAL BIPES (L.), the two-footed animal, man;--ANIMAL IMPLUME,
featherless;--ANIMAL RATIONALE, rational;--ANIMAL RISIBILE, able to laugh.

ANIMA MUNDI (L.), the soul of the world--a Platonic conception.

ANIMO ET FIDE (L.), by courage and faith.

ANIMULA VAGULA (L.), little soul flitting away--beginning of a poem
ascribed to the dying Hadrian, translated or paraphrased by Prior, Pope,
Byron, and Dean Merivale.

ANNO ÆTATIS SUÆ (L.), in the year of his [or her] age.

ANNO CHRISTI (L.), in the year of Christ.

ANNO DOMINI (L.), in the year of our Lord.

ANNO MUNDI (L.), in the year of the world.

ANNO SALUTIS (L.), in the year of redemption.

ANNO URBIS CONDITÆ (L.), in the year the city [Rome] was built (753 B.C.).

ANNUS MIRABILIS (L.), year of wonders.

ANONYMA (Gr.), a showy woman of light fame whom one is not supposed to
know.

ANTAR, the hero of an Arabian romance based on the exploits of Antara ben
Shadd[=a]d;--`ANTER[=I] (pl. `AN[=A]TIRA), a reciter of romances in Egypt.

ANTE AGAMEMNONA. See _vixere fortes_.

ANTE BELLUM (L.), before the war.

ANTE LUCEM (L.), before light.

ANTE MERIDIEM (L.), before noon.

ANTEROS (Gr.), a deity capable of resisting Eros or love.

ANTIBARBARUS (Late L.), a name applied to a collection of words and
locutions to be avoided in the classical usage of a language.

ANTICHTHON (Gr.), a counter-earth, placed by Pythagoreans on the opposite
side of the sun--its inhabitants the ANTICHTHONES, hence antipodeans
generally.

ANTICYRA (Gr.), a town of Phocis in ancient Greece, abounding in hellebore,
reported a cure for insanity--hence _naviget Anticyram_=let him sail to
Anticyra (i.e. he is mad).

ANTIPASTO (It.), a whet before a meal.

ANTIQUARIUM (L.), a collection of antiquities.

ANZÌANO, pl. ANZÌANI (It.), an elder, magistrate.

À OUTRANCE (Fr.), to excess, furiously, with a vengeance, to the bitter
end: rapturously, to the echo [of applause]: furious, desperate.

APAGE, SATANA, get thee behind me, Satan (Matt. iv. 10).

A PARIBUS (L.), from equals.

A PARTE ANTE (L.), on the side before--opp. to _a parte post_, on the side
after.

À PAS DE GÉANT (Fr.), with a giant's stride.

À PERTE DE VUE (Fr.), till beyond one's view.

À PEU PRÈS (Fr.), nearly.

ÄPFEL-STRUDEL (Ger.), a wafery paste made of flour, butter, and warm water,
covered with buttered bread-crumbs, raisins, sugar, allspice, and apples,
and rolled up.

A PIACÉRE (It.), at pleasure.

À PIED (Fr.), on foot.

À PIEDS JOINTS (Fr.), with feet joined.

À PLAISIR (Fr.), at pleasure.

À POINT (Fr.), to a point: exactly right.

APOLLINARIS, an alkaline mineral water containing carbonate of soda,
derived from the Apollinaris Spring in the valley of the Ahr, in the Rhine
province.

APOLLO, the Greek sun-god, a representative of youthful manly beauty.

APOLOGIA (Gr.), an apologetic writing.

APOPHYGE, APOPHYGIS (Gr.), the curving out of the top or bottom of a column
from the capital or base.

APOPHYSIS, pl. APOPHYSES, a process of a bone.

APOPRO[=E]GMENA (Gr.), things rejected--opp. to _proegmena_, things
preferred.

ÀPORIA (Gr.), in rhetoric, a professed doubt of what to say or to choose.

APORRH[=E]TA (Gr.), esoteric doctrines.

À PORTÉE (Fr.), within reach or range.

A POSSE AD ESSE (L.), from the possible to the actual.

APOSTOLICON (Gr.), apostles' ointment, a sovereign salve.

APPALTO (It.), farm: monopoly.

APPARTEMENT (Fr.), a set of rooms in a house for an individual or a family.

APPEL AU PEUPLE (Fr.), a plebiscite.

APPEL NOMINAL (Fr.), call of the names--call of the House.

APPUI (Fr.), prop, support.

APRÈS (Fr.), after;--APRÈS COUP, too late.

APRÈS MOI LE DÉLUGE (Fr.), after me the deluge: then the deluge may come
when it likes.

A PRIMA VISTA (It.), at first sight.

À PROPOS DE BOTTES (Fr.), apropos of boots--i.e. without real relevancy.

À PROPOS DE RIEN (Fr.), apropos of nothing.

AQUA (L.), water;--AQUA CÆLESTIS, a sovereign cordial;--AQUA FONTANA,
spring water.

À QUATRE (Fr.), of or between four: four together.

À QUATRE ÉPINGLES (Fr.), lit. 'with four pins,' with the most careful
neatness.

À QUATRE MAINS (Fr.), for four hands.

A QUATR' OCCHI (It.), lit. 'to four eyes,' face to face, tête-à-tête.

AQUA VITÆ (L.), water of life.

AQUILA NON CAPIT MUSCAS (L.), an eagle does not catch flies.

À QUOI BON? (Fr.), what's the good of it?

À RAVIR (Fr.), in ravishing style.

ARBITER ELEGANTIARUM (L.), a judge in matters of taste.

ARBITRIUM (L.), power of decision.

ARCADES AMBO (L.), Arcadians both, both alike.

ARCANA CÆLESTIA (L.), celestial mysteries.

ARCANA IMPERII (L.), state secrets.

ARC DE TRIOMPHE (Fr.), triumphal arch.

ARC-EN-CIEL (Fr.), rainbow.

ARCHÆUS (Late L. from Gr.), a personification by Paracelsus of animal and
vegetable life.

ARDENTIA VERBA (L.), words that burn, glowing language.

AREB (Hind. _arb_), a sum of 10 crore, or 100,000,000.

ARGALA (Hind. _harg[=i]l[=a]_), the Indian adjutant-bird or gigantic crane.

ARGENT COMPTANT (Fr.), ready money.

ARGUMENTI CAUSÂ (L.), for the sake of argument.

ARGUMENTUM AB INCONVENIENTI (L.), argument from the inconvenient.

ARGUMENTUM AD CRUMENAM (L.), argument to the purse.

ARGUMENTUM AD REM (L.), argument to the purpose.

ARGUMENTUM BACULINUM (L.), the argument of the stick, club-law--the
ultimate appeal.

ARISTIDES (Gr.), an embodiment of justice, from the figure in ancient Greek
history.

ARISTIPPUS (Gr.), an embodiment of self-indulgence, from the founder of the
Cyrenaic school of philosophy.

ARISTON MEN HYDOR (Gr.), nothing like water.

ARISTON METRON (Gr.), the middle course is the best: the golden mean.

ARRECTIS AURIBUS (L.), with ears pricked up.

ARRIÈRE-GARDE (Fr.), rear-guard.

ARRIÈRE PENSÉE (Fr.), a mental reservation.

ARS EST CELARE ARTEM (L.), true art is to conceal art.

ARS LONGA, VITA BREVIS (L.), art is long, life short.

ARTIUM BACCALAUREUS (L.), Bachelor of Arts.

ARTIUM MAGISTER or MAGISTER ARTIUM (L.), Master of Arts.

A SALTI (It.), by fits and starts.

ASBESTOS GEL[=O]S (Gr.), inextinguishable laughter.

ASHERAH, the sacred tree erected beside Canaanite altars, wrongly
translated in the A.V. as 'grove.' See _Grove_ in Dict.

ASHTAROTH (pl.), ASHTORETH (pl.), ASTARTE, the chief Canaanite goddess,
female counterpart to Baal, corresponding to the Assyrian _Ishtar_.

ASINUS AD LYRAM (L.), an ass at the lyre, one ignorant of music.

ASKESIS, ASCESIS (Late L.--Gr.); training: the monastic life, asceticism.

ASMODEUS, ASMODAY, an evil spirit of Semitic mythology, whose functions are
seen in Le Sage's story, _Le Diable Boiteux_.

ASPASIA, a gifted Athenian courtesan, mistress of Pericles--any charming
and accomplished woman of easy morals.

ASSEZ BIEN (Fr.), pretty well.

ASSIETTE (Fr.), plate, course of meat.

ASSONANCIA, ASSONANCY (Sp.), assonance.

ASSORA (Ar. _al-s[=u]ra_), a chapter or section of the Koran.

ASTATKI (Turk.), refuse petroleum.

ASTOLFO, ASTOLPHO, the name of one of Charlemagne's paladins.

ASTRA CASTRA, NUMEN LUMEN (L.), the stars my camp, God my lamp.

ASTRÆA, the goddess of justice in Greek mythology who lived on earth during
the Golden Age, but fled from man's impiety.

ATABEK, an ancient Turkish title of honour.

ATALANTA, a fleet-footed Arcadian maiden who raced her suitors--defeated by
Hippomedon by means of the stratagem of letting fall three golden apples.

ATALANTIS, ATLANTIS. See under _Atlantean_ in Dict.

ATALAYA (Sp.--Ar.), a watch-tower.

ATARAXIA (Gr.), the indifference to circumstances aimed at by the Stoic.

À TÂTONS (Fr.), groping.

ATHANASIUS CONTRA MUNDUM (L.), Athanasius against the world: one resolute
man facing universal opposition.

ATH[=E]N[=E], ATH[=E]NA, the Greek goddess of wisdom, the Roman Minerva.

ATHET[=E]SIS (Gr.), rejection of words, &c., as spurious.

ATMAIDAN (Turk.), a hippodrome.

À TORT ET À TRAVERS (Fr.), at random.

À TOUTE FORCE (Fr.), by all means, absolutely.

À TOUT HASARD (Fr.), at all hazards.

À TOUT PRIX (Fr.), at any price.

ATRA CURA (L.), black care.

À TRAVERS (Fr.), across, through.

ATREUS, son of Pelops, who served up the flesh of Thyestes' children to
their father.

ATROPOS, one of the Fates of Greek mythology, who cut the destined thread
of life.

AT SPES NON FRACTA (L.), but hope is not yet crushed.

ATTAP, ATAP, palm-fronds used for thatch by the Javanese.

ATTAR-GUL (Ar.,--Pers.), essence of roses.

ATTELAGE (Fr.), team.

ATTENTAT (Fr.), attempt.

ATTIRAIL (Fr.), apparatus.

AU BOUT DE SON LATIN (Fr.), at the end of his Latin, at the end of his
knowledge, at his wits' end.

AU CINQUIÈME (Fr.), on the fifth [story], in the attics.

AU CONTRAIRE (Fr.), on the contrary.

AU COURANT (Fr.), fully acquainted with matters.

AUCTOR PRETIOSA FACIT (L.), the giver adds value to the gift.

AUDACE (Fr.), daring.

AUDACES FORTUNA JUVAT (L.), fortune favours the daring.

AUDACTER ET SINCERE (L.), boldly and sincerely.

AUDAX ET CAUTUS (L.), bold and cautious.

AU DÉSESPOIR (Fr.), in despair.

AUDI ALTERAM PARTEM (L.), hear the other side.

AUDIENCIA (Sp.), court of justice.

AUDIENZA (It.), audience.

AUDITA QUERELA (L.), the suit having been heard--name of a writ.

AUDITQUE VOCATUS APOLLO (L.), and Apollo listens when invoked.

AU FAIT (Fr.), well acquainted with a matter: expert.

AUFGESCHOBEN IST NICHT AUFGEHOBEN (Ger.), put off is not given up.

AU FOND (Fr.), at the bottom.

AUF WIEDERSEHEN! (Ger.), till we meet again, good-bye!

AU GRAND SÉRIEUX (Fr.), in all seriousness.

AU GRATIN (Fr.), after the style of _gratin_, i.e. brown--fish cooked in
this way being covered with bread-crumbs and browned in an oven, &c.

AUJOURD'HUI ROI, DEMAIN RIEN (Fr.), to-day king, to-morrow nothing.

AU JOUR LE JOUR (Fr.), from day to day, from hand to mouth.

AU LEVANT (Fr.), towards the east.

AU MIEUX (Fr.), on the best of terms.

AUMÔNIÈRE (Fr.), a purse carried at the girdle.

AU NATUREL (Fr.), in the natural state: cooked plainly.

AU PIED DE LA LETTRE (Fr.), close to the letter, quite literally.

AU PIS ALLER (Fr.), at the worst.

AU PLAISIR DE VOUS REVOIR (Fr.), till I have the pleasure of seeing you
again.

AU POIDS DE L'OR (Fr.), at the weight of gold, very dear.

AU PREMIER (Fr.), on the first [floor].

AU QUATRIÈME (Fr.), on the fourth [floor].

AURA POPULARIS (L.), the breeze of popular favour.

AUREA MEDIOCRITAS (L.), the golden or happy mean.

AU RESTE (Fr.), as for the rest.

AUREUS [NUMMUS] (L.), golden [coin]--the standard gold coin of ancient
Rome, equal to 100 sesterces, worth about £1, 1s.: a weight of 1½ drachms.

AU REVOIR (Fr.), adieu until we meet again.

AURIBUS TENEO LUPUM (L.), I am holding a wolf by the ears.

AURIGA (L.), a charioteer.

AURI SACRA FAMES (L.), accursed hunger for gold.

AU ROYAUME DES AVEUGLES LES BORGNES SONT ROIS (Fr.), in the kingdom of the
blind the one-eyed are kings.

AURUM FULMINANS (Late L.), an explosive precipitate of chloride of gold.

AURUM OMNES, VICTÂ JAM PIETATE, COLUNT (L.), all worship gold, piety being
overthrown.

AURUM POTABILE (L.), potable gold.

AU SECOND (Fr.), on the second [floor].

AU SECRET (Fr.), in close custody or confinement.

AU SÉRIEUX (Fr.), seriously.

AUSPEX, pl. AUSPICES (L.), an augur in ancient Rome;--auspicium, pl.
auspicia, an observation made by an augur.

AUSPICIUM MELIORIS ÆVI (L.), augury of a better age.

AUSSITÔT DIT, AUSSITÔT FAIT (Fr.), no sooner said than done.

AUT AMAT AUT ODIT MULIER, NIHIL EST TERTIUM (L.), a woman either loves or
she hates, there is no third course for her.

AUTANT D'HOMMES (or DE TÊTES), AUTANT D'AVIS (Fr.), so many men, so many
minds.

AUT CÆSAR AUT NULLUS (L.), either Cæsar or nobody.

AUT INSANIT HOMO AUT VERSUS FACIT (L.), either the man is mad or he is
making verses.

AUT INVENIAM VIAM AUT FACIAM (L.), I shall either find a way or make one.

AUT NON TENTARIS AUT PERFICE (L.), either do not attempt or else achieve.

AUTO (Sp.), an act: a drama: an auto-da-fé.

AUT PRODESSE VOLUNT AUT DELECTARE POETÆ (L.), poets seek either to profit
or to please.

AUTREFOIS ACQUIT (law French), previously acquitted.

AUTREFOIS CONVICT (law French), previously convicted.

AUT RAGEM AUT FATUUM NASCI OPORTET (L.), it behoves one to be born either
king or fool.

AUTRES TEMPS, AUTRES MOEURS (Fr.), other times, other manners.

AU TROISIÈME (Fr.), on the third [floor].

AUT VINCERE AUT MORI (L.), either to conquer or to die.

AUX ABSENTS LES OS (Fr.), to the absent the bones.

AUX ARMES! (Fr.), to arms!

AUX GRANDS MAUX LES GRANDS REMÈDES (Fr.), to desperate evils desperate
remedies.

AUXILIUM AB ALTO (L.), help from on high.

AVANIA, AVARIA, AVENIA (It.), an extortionate Turkish impost.

AVANT-COUREUR (Fr.), a forerunner.

AVANT-GOÛT (Fr.), a foretaste.

AVANT PROPOS (Fr.), preliminary matter: preface.

AVEC PERMISSION (Fr.), by consent.

AVE, IMPERATOR, MORITURI TE SALUTANT! (L.), hail, emperor, men doomed to
die salute thee! [said by gladiators].

AVENIR (Fr.), future, prospects.

AVENTURIER, fem. AVENTURIÈRE (Fr.), an adventurer or adventuress.

A VERBIS AD VERBERA (L.), from words to blows.

AVERNUS (L.), the infernal regions, any abyss--from Lake Avernus in
Campania.

À VIEUX COMPTES NOUVELLES DISPUTES (Fr.), old accounts breed new disputes.

A VINCULO MATRIMONII (L.), from the bond of matrimony.

AVI NUMERANTUR AVORUM (L.), ancestors of ancestors are counted [to me].

AVISE LA FIN (Fr.), weigh well the end.

AVITO VIRET HONORE (L.), he flourishes upon ancestral honours.

AVOCAT CONSULTANT (Fr.), consulting lawyer, chamber counsel.

AVOIRA, AWARA, a South American palm, also its fruit.

AVOIR LA LANGUE DÉLIÉE (Fr.), to have the tongue unbound, to be glib of
speech.

À VOLONTÉ (Fr.), at pleasure.

A VOSTRO BENEPLACITO (It.), at your pleasure, at your will.

À VOTRE SANTÉ (Fr.), to your health.

AVOUÉ (Fr.), attorney, solicitor.

AVOYER (Fr.), formerly the chief magistrate in some Swiss cantons.

A VUESTRA SALUD! (Sp.), to your health!

AVVOCATO, AVVOCADO (It.), an advocate, barrister;--AVVOCATO DEL DIABOLO
(see _advocatus diaboli_).

AVVOGADORE (It.), an official criminal prosecutor in Venice.

AXIOMA MEDIUM (L.), a generalisation from experience.

AYMEZ LOYAULTÉ (O. Fr.), love loyalty.

AYUNTAMIENTO (Sp.), municipal council.



BACALLAO (Sp.), cod-fish.

BACCAH (Ir.), a cripple.

BACCHIUS (L.--Gr.), a metrical foot consisting of two long syllables
preceded or followed by a short syllable.

BACCHUS (L.--Gr.), the god of wine.

BADAUD (Fr.), a lounger, a simpleton.

BADMASH, BUDMASH (Hind.), a rascal.

BAEL, BEL (Anglo-Ind.), the Bengal quince, also its fruit.

BAGASSE, BAGASS (Fr.), refuse products of sugar manufacture.

BAGNE (Fr.), a bagnio.

BAHAR, BHAR (Ar.), a measure for heavy weight in India, &c., varying from
two cwt. upwards.

BAHI (Gipsy), fortune.

BAHUT (Fr.), a trunk, chest.

BAILLI (Fr.), a magistrate;--BAILLIAGE, the jurisdiction of such.

BAIN-MARIE (Fr.), a flat vessel containing boiling water.

BAJOCCHO, pl. BAJOCCHI (It.), copper coin worth ½d.

BAJRA, BAJRI (Hind.), a kind of Indian millet.

BAKAL, BAKHAL (Ar.), a storekeeper.

BALACHONG, BLACHONG (Malay), a condiment of prawns, shrimps, &c.,
fermented, salted, and spiced.

BALADIÈRE (Fr.), a ballad singer.

BALADIN, BALADINE (Fr.), a public dancer: a mountebank.

BALAGAN (Tartar), a booth of branches, &c.

BALA-KHANAH (Pers.), an upper room.

BALALAIKA (Russ.), a popular musical instrument.

BALLET D'ACTION (Fr.), a ballet combining action with dancing;--BALLET
DIVERTISSEMENT, a ballet entertainment.

BALLIADERA, BALLIADERE, the same as _Bayadère_ (q.v. in Dict.).

BALLON D'ESSAI (Fr.), an experimental balloon sent up: a 'feeler' of any
kind.

BALNEUM (L.), bath;--BALNEUM MARIÆ, the same as _bain-marie_ above.

BAL PARÉ (Fr.), a dress ball.

BALZORINE, BALZERINE (Fr.), a light stuff of wool and cotton mixed.

BANALITÉ; (Fr.), triviality.

BANCO REGIS (L.), on the king's bench.

BANDALERO (Sp.), a robber.

BANDERILLA (Sp.), a dart with which the BANDERILLERO annoys the bull in a
bull-fight.

BANDY (Telegu), a carriage, cart.

BANGY, BANGHY (Hind.), a shoulder-yoke with its suspended load.

BANQUETTE (Fr.), the front bench of a diligence.

BÁNSULI (Hind.), a flute.

BARATARIA, the island government committed to Sancho Panza in _Don
Quixote_.

BARATHRUM (L.--Gr.), an abyss: an insatiable extortioner.

BARBÂ TENUS SAPIENTES (L.), sages as far as the beard--i.e. with an
appearance of wisdom only.

BARCA (It.), a boat, barge;--BARCA-LONGA, a large Spanish fishing-boat.

BARCELONA (Sp.), a coloured neckerchief.

BARRANCA, BARRANCO (Sp.), the bed of a torrent.

BAS-BLEU (Fr.), a blue-stocking: a literary woman.

BASILICON (Gr.), lit. 'royal,' a title applied to various ointments of
repute--also _basilicum_.

BASISTAN, BAZESTAN (Turk.), a market.

BASOCHE (Fr.), a tribunal for disputes between the clerks of the French
parliament.

BASSO PROFONDO (It.), a deep bass voice, or a person possessing such.

BASTA! (It.), enough! no more!

BASTIDE (Fr.), a French country-house.

BASTO (Sp.), the ace of clubs in quadrille and ombre.

BÂT (Fr.), a pack-saddle--only in composition, as in bathorse, batman,
batmoney, &c.

BÂTON FERRÉ (Fr.), a staff shod with iron, an alpenstock.

BATTANT, pl. BATTANS (Fr.), the leaf of a table or door.

BATTERIE DE CUISINE (Fr.), set of utensils for cooking.

BATTRE LA CAMPAGNE (Fr.), to scour the country, to beat about the bush.

BATTUTA (It.), beating [time].

BAVARDAGE (Fr.), idle talk.

BAYARD, a gentleman of perfect courage and spotless honour, from the
Chevalier Bayard (1476-1524), _sans peur et sans reproche_.

BAYER AUX CORNEILLES (Fr.), to gape at the crows, to stare vacantly.

BEATÆ MEMORIÆ (L.), of blessed memory.

BEATI PACIFICI (L.), blessed are the peacemakers.

BEATUS ILLE QUI PROCUL NEGOTIIS ... PATERNA RURA BOBUS EXERCET SUIS (L.),
happy he who, far removed from city cares, ... tills with his own oxen the
fields that were his father's.

BEAU GARÇON (Fr.), a handsome man.

BEAU JOUR (Fr.), fine day, good times.

BEAU SABREUR (Fr.), a dashing cavalry soldier.

BEAUTÉ DU DIABLE (Fr.), that overpowering beauty for the sake of which men
fling everything away.

BEAUX YEUX (Fr.), fine eyes: a pretty woman.

BÉCASSE (Fr.), a woodcock, an idiot.

BECCACCIA (It.), a woodcock.

BÉCHAMEL (Fr.), a kind of sauce made with a little flour in cream.

BEEGAH, BEGAH, BEEGHA (Hind.), a Hindoo square measure, varying from 1/3 to
2/3 acre.

BEL AIR (Fr.), fine deportment.

BEL ESPRIT (Fr.), a fine genius: a person of wit or genius;--pl. BEAUX
ESPRITS, men of wit: gay spirits.

BEL ÉTAGE (Fr.), the best story, the first floor.

BELLA GERANT ALII, TU, FELIX AUSTRIA, NUBE (L.), let others wage wars; do
thou, lucky Austria, make marriages.

BELLA, HORRIDA BELLA! (L.), wars, horrid wars!

BELLAQUE MATRIBUS DETESTATA (L.), and wars abhorred by mothers.

BELLE AMIE (Fr.), a female friend, a mistress.

BELLE ASSEMBLÉE (Fr.), a fashionable gathering.

BELLE-MÈRE (Fr.), mother-in-law.

BELLE PASSION (Fr.), tender passion.

BELLE VUE (Fr.), fine prospect.

BELLUM INTERNECINUM (L.), a war of extermination.

BELLUM LETHALE (L.), deadly war.

BELLUM NEC TIMENDUM NEC PROVOCANDUM (L.), war is neither to be feared nor
provoked.

BEL SANGUE (It.), gentle blood.

BELTÀ E FOLLIA VANNO SPESSO IN COMPAGNIA (It.), beauty and folly often go
together.

BELUA MULTORUM CAPITUM (L.), monster with many heads--the irrational mob.

BENE DECESSIT (Late L.), he has left well--a leaving certificate given to a
schoolboy, curate, &c.

BÉNÉFICIAIRE (Fr.), the person receiving a benefit.

BENEFICIUM ACCIPERE LIBERTATEM EST VENDERE (L.), to accept a favour is to
sell one's liberty.

BENE MERENTIBUS (L.), to the well-deserving;--BENE MERITI (acc. -TOS),
having well deserved.

BENE ORÂSSE EST BENE STUDUISSE (L.), to have prayed well is to have
endeavoured well.

BENEPLACITO (L.), by your leave.

BENE QUI LATUIT BENE VIXIT (L.), he has lived well who has lived obscure.

BENE VOBIS! (L.), health to you!

BENIGNO NUMINE (L.), with favouring providence.

BENJ, the same as _Bhang_ (q.v. in Dict.).

BEN TROVATO (It.), cleverly invented.

BEN VENUTO (It.), welcome.

BERCEAU (Fr.), a cradle: a covered walk;--BERCEAUNETTE (pseudo-French), a
bassinette.

BERENICE'S HAIR. See _Coma Berenices_.

BERGÈRE (Fr.), a kind of easy-chair.

BESOIN (Fr.), need, want, desire.

BESO LAS MANOS (Sp.), I kiss your hands.

BÊTE (Fr.), brute, stupid person;--BÊTE NOIRE, a black beast: a
bugbear;--BÊTISE, stupidity.

BETHESDA (Heb.), a healing pool at Jerusalem--often applied to a
Nonconformist church.

BEULAH (Heb.), a land of rest--a name for Israel in its future condition,
in Isa. lxii. 4.

BÉVUE (Fr.), an oversight, a blunder.

BHAT, BHAUT, BAWT (Hind.), a professional bard.

BHEESTY, BHISTI (Pers. _bihist[=i]_), a water-carrier.

BIBELOT (Fr.), a trinket.

BIBERE VENENUM IN AURO (L.), to drink poison from a cup of gold.

BIBLIOTHECA (L.,--Gr.), a library: a bibliographer's catalogue: a series of
books.

BIDET (Fr.), a nag, a cob.

BIEN (Fr.), well;--BIEN-AIMÉ, well beloved;--BIEN CHAUSSE (fem. CHAUSSÉE),
well shod, with neat boots;--BIEN ENTENDU, of course, to be sure;--BIEN
GANTÉ, with neat gloves.

BIENNIUM (L.), a period of two years.

BIEN PERDU, BIEN CONNU (Fr.), blessing flown is blessing known.

BIENSÉANCE (Fr.), propriety--in pl. the proprieties.

BIFFÉ (Fr.), erased, cancelled.

BIGA (L.), a chariot-and-pair.

BIJOUTERIE (Fr.), jewellery.

BILLET D'AMOUR (Fr.), love-letter.

BIONDO, fem. BIONDA (It.), blonde.

BIS (L.), twice: repeated: encore.

BIS DAT QUI CITO DAT (L.), he gives twice who gives promptly.

BIS PECCARE IN BELLO NON LICET (L.), in war one may not blunder twice.

BIS PUERI SENES (L.), old men are twice boys.

BLAGUEUR (Fr.), one given to blague (see _Blague_ in Dict.).

BLANCHISSEUSE (Fr.), a laundress.

BLANDÆ MENDACIA LINGUÆ (L.), falsehoods of a smooth tongue.

BLANQUETTE (Fr.), a variety of pear.

BLEUÂTRE (Fr.), bluish.

BLUETTE (Fr.), a production of bright and witty character.

BLUT UND EISEN. See _Eisen und Blut_, the correct form.

BOCCA (It.), one of the mouths of a glass-furnace.

BOCK (Fr.), a strong kind of German beer, drunk in May--from
_Eimbockbier_--Einbeck in Prussia: now often a glass or mug of any beer.

BONA (L.), goods;--BONA MOBILIA, movable goods;--BONA PERITURA, perishable
goods;--BONA VACANTIA, unclaimed goods.

BON ACCUEIL (Fr.), good reception, due honour;--BON AMI, good friend;--BON
CAMARADE, good comrade;--BON DIABLE, good-natured fellow;--BON ENFANT, good
fellow, pleasant companion;--BON GOÛT, good taste.

BONA FIDES (L.), good faith.

BONAGH, BONOUGH (Ir.), a regular soldier;--BONAGHT, a subsidy to Irish
chiefs for a supply of soldiers.

BONA SI SUA NÔRINT (L.), if only they knew their own blessings.

BONASUS (L.), a bison or aurochs.

BON AVOCAT, MAUVAIS VOISIN (Fr.), a good lawyer is a bad neighbour.

BON-CHRÉTIEN (Fr.), 'good Christian'--a kind of pear, the William.

BON GRÉ, MAL GRÉ (Fr.), willing or unwilling.

BONHOMIE (Fr.), good nature.

BONHOMME (Fr.), a French peasant.

BONIS AVIBUS (L.), under good auspices.

BONJOUR (Fr.), good-day: good-morning.

BON JOUR, BONNE OEUVRE (Fr.), the better day the better the deed.

BON MARCHÉ (Fr.), 'good bargain:' cheapness: cheap: a large ready-money
drapery shop.

BON MOT, pl. BONS MOTS (Fr.), a witty saying.

BONNE BOUCHE (Fr.), a choice morsel.

BONNE COMPAGNIE (Fr.), good society.

BONNE ET BELLE (Fr.), good and fair.

BONNE FOI (Fr.), good faith.

BONNE FORTUNE (Fr.), good luck, success in an intrigue.

BONNE GRÂCE (Fr.), good grace, gracefulness.

BONNE MINE (Fr.), good appearance, pleasant looks.

BONNES NOUVELLES ADOUCISSENT LE SANG (Fr.), good news sweetens the blood.

BONSOIR (Fr.), good-evening.

BON TON (Fr.), the height of fashion.

BON VIVANT (Fr.), a jovial companion: one who lives too well [BONNE VIVANTE
is _not_ according to French usage]; BON VIVEUR, a free or fast liver.

BON VOYAGE! (Fr.), a good journey to you!

BOOZA (Ar.), a drink made in Turkey and Egypt by fermenting millet or
barley.

BORDEREAU (Fr.), a memorandum.

BOREEN (Ir.), a narrow road.

BORGEN MACHT SORGEN (Ger.), borrowing makes sorrowing.

BORGHETTO (It.), a big village.

BORNÉ (Fr.), limited, narrow-minded.

BOTTE (Fr.), a pass or thrust in fencing.

BOUCHE (Fr.), the staff of cooks in a large house.

BOUDERIE (Fr.), pouting, sulking.

BOUFFÉE (Fr.), puff, whiff.

BOUILLON (Fr.), soup;--BOUILLI, boiled or stewed beef.

BOUILLONNÉ (Fr.), provided with puffs.

BOUILLOTTE (Fr.), a game at cards for five players.

BOULE (Fr.), anything round like a ball.

BOULEVERSÉ (Fr.), upset;--BOULEVERSEMENT, an overturning.

BOUQUETIÈRE (Fr.), a flower-girl.

BOURGEOIS, fem. BOURGEOISE (Fr.), a townsman, trader--(adj.) of the middle
class, commercial;--BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME, the tradesman-gentleman.

BOURSIER (Fr.), a foundation-scholar: a speculator on 'Change.

BOUTEZ EN AVANT (Fr.), push forward.

BOUTIQUE (Fr.), a shop, tradesman's stock.

BOUTONNIÈRE (Fr.), a flower made up for the buttonhole, &c.

BOWERY (Dut.), a farm, plantation.

BRACHIUM CIVILE (L.), the civil arm;--BRACHIUM SECULARE, the secular arm.

BRAVA! (It.), well done!

BREVET D'INVENTION (Fr.), a patent.

BREVETÉ (Fr.), patented.

BREVI MANU (L.), with a short hand, off-hand.

BREVIS ESSE LABORO, OBSCURUS FIO (L.), in labouring to be brief I become
obscure.

BRIAL (Sp.), a rich skirt.

BRIDE (Fr.), the string of a woman's bonnet.

BRILLANT (Fr.), brilliancy.

BRILLER PAR SON ABSENCE (Fr.), to be conspicuous by its absence.

BRINDISI (It.), a rhymed toast.

BRINJAUL (Port. _beringela_), the egg-plant.

BRIOCHE (Fr.), a bun: a blunder, mistake.

BROCHETTE (Fr.), a small spit or skewer.

BRODSTUDIEN (Ger.), bread studies, those by means of which one earns his
living.

BROUILLERIE (Fr.), disagreement.

BRÛLER LA CHANDELLE PAR LES DEUX BOUTS (Fr.), to burn the candle at both
ends.

BRÛLOT (Fr.), an incendiary.

BRUNE (Fr.), fem. of _brun_, brown, a dark girl or woman.

BRUTUM FULMEN (L.), an ineffectual thunderbolt.

BUCELLAS (Port.), a Portuguese white wine.

BUDGEROW (Hind.), a heavy keelless barge.

BUEN PRINCIPIO, LA MITAD ES HECHA (Sp.), well begun is half-done.

BULSE (Port. _bolsa_), a package of diamonds or gold-dust.

BUND (Hind.), an artificial embankment.

BUNDESRATH (Ger.), the Federal Council in the German Empire.

BUNEEYA, BUNYA (Hind.), a grain-dealer.

BUONA MANO (Sp.), small gratuity.

BUONO STATO (It.), good state [of affairs].

BUONTEMPO (It.), good time, pleasure.

BURGO (It.), a market-town.

BURSCH, pl. BURSCHEN (Ger.), a comrade, a student;--BURSCHENSCHAFT, an
association of German students.

BUVETTE (Fr.), a taproom.

BUXEE, BUXIE (Hind.), a military paymaster.



CABANA (Sp.), an exporting house: a kind of cigar.

CABAYA (Malay), a long tunic of cotton, &c.

CABOCEER (Port.), a West African chief.

CACAFUEGO, CACAFOGO (Sp.), a spitfire.

CACHINNUS (L.), a loud laugh.

CACHOT (Fr.), dungeon.

CACO[=E]THES LOQUENDI (L.), a mania for speaking.

CACO[=E]THES SCRIBENDI (L.), a mania for scribbling.

CADEAU (Fr.), a gift, present.

CADIT QUÆSTIO (L.), the question drops.

CADRE (Fr.), a frame, scheme: a list of officers.

CÆCA EST INVIDIA (L.), envy is blind.

CÆLUM NON ANIMUM MUTANT QUI TRANS MARE CURRANT (L.), they change their sky,
not their mind, who scour across the sea.

CAFÉ AU LAIT (Fr.), coffee with [hot] milk;--CAFÉ NOIR, black coffee
[without milk].

CAFILA, CAFFILA (Ar.), a caravan.

CAILLIACH (Gael.), a hag.

ÇA IRA (Fr.), 'that shall go'-the opening words of a famous song of the
French Revolution.

CAJAVA, CADJOWA (Ar.), a pannier slung across a camel.

CALDARIUM (L.), a hot bath.

CALDERA (Sp.), the crater of a volcano.

CALEAN, CALEEOON (Pers.), a water-pipe, a hookah.

CALEMBOUR, CALEMBOURG (Fr.), a pun.

CALLIDA JUNCTURA (L.), a skilful connection.

CAMISCIA, CAMICIA (It.), a shirt.

CAMPO SANTO (It.), a burying-ground.

CAMPUS MARTIUS (L.), field of Mars, used by the ancient Romans for games,
military drill, &c.

CANAILLE (Fr.), a pack of hounds, the rabble.

CANAUT (Hind.), a canvas enclosure.

CANDIDA PAX (L.), white-robed Peace.

CANDY, CANDIL (Tamil), a South Indian weight, generally containing 20
_maunds_, about 500 pounds English.

CANOPUS (L.--Gr.), a bright star in the southern constellation _Argo
navis_: an Egyptian vase for holding the entrails of the body embalmed.

CANTABILE (It.), fit for singing.

CANTABIT VACUUS CORAM LATRONE VIATOR (L.), the empty traveller will sing
before a robber.

CANTAMBANCO (It.), a mountebank--sometimes CANTABANK.

CANTATE (L.), Psalm xcviii. as a canticle in the Anglican evening
service;--CANTATE DOMINO, sing to the Lord.

CANTHUS, pl. CANTHI (L.), a corner of the eye.

CANTILENA (L.), the plain-song or _canto-fermo_: a ballad.

CANTINIÈRE (Fr.), a female canteen-keeper.

CAPUCINEX (Ger.), coffee with a little milk.

CAPUT (L.), head: chapter.

CAPUT MORTUUM (L.), worthless residue.

CARA SPOSA (It.), dear wife.

CARENT QUIA VATE SACRO (L.), because they lack a sacred bard.

CARPE DIEM, QUAM MINIMUM CREDULA POSTERO (L.), enjoy the present day,
trusting the least possible to the future;--often CARPE DIEM alone, meaning
'seize the opportunity.'

CARVIOL (Ger.), cauliflower.

CASSARE (L.), to quash, make null.

CASUS BELLI (L.), whatever involves or justifies war.

CASUS CONSCIENTIÆ (L.), a case of conscience.

CATALOGUE RAISONNÉ (Fr.), a descriptive catalogue of books, &c., arranged
according to their subjects.

CAUSA SINE QUÂ NON (L.), an indispensable cause.

CAUSE CÉLÈBRE (Fr.), a peculiarly notable trial.

CAVEAT ACTOR (L.). let the doer beware.

CAVEAT EMPTOR (L.), let the buyer beware.

CAVE CANEM (L.), beware of the dog, a frequent inscription on Roman
thresholds.

CAVENDO TUTUS (L.), safe through taking care.

CAVE QUID DICIS, QUANDO, ET CUI (L.), beware what you say, when, and to
whom.

CEDANT ARMA TOGÆ (L.), let arms yield to the gown: let military authority
yield to civil.

CEINTURE (Fr.), a girdle, belt.

CELA VA SANS DIRE (Fr.), that goes without saying: it is a matter of
course: agreed!

CELA VIENDRA (Fr.), that will come.

CELUI QUI VEUT, CELUI-LÀ PEUT (Fr.), who has the will, he has the skill.

CE MONDE EST PLEIN DE FOUS (Fr.), this world is full of fools.

C'EN EST FAIT DE LUI (Fr.), it is all over with him.

C'EN EST QUE LE PREMIER PAS QUI COÛTE (Fr.), it is only the first step that
is difficult.

CENSOR MORUM (L.), censor of morals.

CENTUM (L.), a hundred.

CERTUM EST QUIA IMPOSSIBILE EST (L.), it is certain because it is
impossible.

C'EST-À-DIRE (Fr.), that is to say.

C'EST ÉGAL (Fr.), it's all one [to me]: it makes no odds.

C'EST LE COMMENCEMENT DE LA FIN (Fr.), it is the beginning of the end.

C'EST MAGNIFIQUE, MAIS CE N'EST PAS LA GUERRE (Fr.), that is magnificent,
but it is not war [said at Balaklava by a French general watching the
charge of the Light Brigade].

C'EST PIRE [PLUS] QU'UN CRIME, C'EST UNE FAUTE (Fr.), it is worse than a
crime, it is a blunder.

C'EST SELON (Fr.), that is according to circumstances.

C'EST UNE AUTRE CHOSE (Fr.), that is quite another thing.

CETERA DESUNT (L.), the rest is awanting.

CETERIS PARIBUS (L.), other things being equal.

CETERUM CENSEO (L.), but I think [said of persistent obstruction, like that
of Cato].

CHACUN SON GOÛT, À CHACUN SON GOÛT (Fr.), every one to his taste [CHACUN À
SON GOÛT is _not_ French].

CHAMADE (Fr.), during war, the sounding of a trumpet or drum to ask a
parley.

CHAMBRE À COUCHER (Fr.), a bedroom.

CHAMPS ELYSÉES (Fr.), Elysian fields--name of a park in Paris.

CHAPEAU BRAS, CHAPEAU DE BRAS, a crush-hat [coined English-French, not
_real_ French].

CHAPEAUX BAS! (Fr.), hats off!

CHAPELLE ARDENTE (Fr.), a chapel or chamber in which a corpse lies in state
before burial, surrounded by lighted candles.

CHAPELLE EXPIATOIRE (Fr.), a chapel built in expiation, generally on the
site of one's sin.

CHARMANTE (Fr.), charming woman.

CHÂTEAUX EN ESPAGNE (Fr.), castles in Spain, castles in the air.

CHEF DE CUISINE, or merely CHEF (Fr.), male head-cook.

CHEMIN DE FER (Fr.), the iron way, railway.

CHER AMI (Fr.), a dear male friend;--CHÈRE AMIE, a dear female
friend.--CHÉRI, fem. CHÉRIE, beloved.

CHERCHEZ LA FEMME! (Fr.), seek for the woman! there's a woman at the bottom
of it! [the phrase is due to Dumas _père_].

CHE SARÀ SARÀ (It.), what will be will be.

CHEVAL DE BATAILLE (Fr.), war-horse.

CHEVALIER D'INDUSTRIE (Fr.), lit. a knight of industry: one who lives by
persevering fraud.

CHIESA LIBERA IN LIBERO STATO (It.), a free church in a free state
[Cavour's recipe for Italy].

CHI TACE CONFESSA (It.), he who keeps silence confesses.

CHRONIQUE SCANDALEUSE (Fr.), a record of scandals.

CI-DEVANT (Fr.), before this, former, heretofore.

CI-GÎT (Fr.), here lies.

CINGULUM VENERIS (L.), the girdle of Venus.

CIRCUITUS VERBORUM (L.), a circumlocution.

CIRCULUS IN PROBANDO (L.), arguing in a circle, using the conclusion as one
of the arguments.

CITO (L.), quickly.

CLARIOR E TENEBRIS (L.), the brighter from the darkness.

CLARUM ET VENERABILE NOMEN (L.), an illustrious and venerable name.

CLASSES AISÉES (Fr.), the well-off classes.

COELEBS QUID AGAM (L.), being a bachelor, what am I to do?

COENA DOMINI (L.), the Lord's Supper.

COGITO, ERGO SUM (L.) I think, therefore I am [Descartes' fundamental basis
of philosophy].

COIFFEUR (Fr.), a hairdresser.

COLLECTANEA (L.), passages collected from authors.

COMA BERENICES (L.), an asterism between Boötes and Leo, representing the
amber hair of Berenice, wife of Ptolemy Euergetes.

COMÉDIE FRANÇAISE, LA (Fr.), the official name of the subsidised Théâtre
Français.

COMÉDIE HUMAINE (Fr.), the name applied to the collection of Balzac's
novels, planned to form a complete picture of contemporary society.

COMITAS INTER GENTES (L.), international comity.

COMME IL FAUT (Fr.), as it should be: correct: approved by the fashionable
world, genteel.

COMMUNE BONUM (L.), common good.

COMMUNIBUS ANNIS (L.), on the annual average.

COMMUNI CONSENSU (L.), by common consent.

COMPAGNON DE VOYAGE (Fr.), travelling companion.

COMPOS MENTIS (L.), of sound mind, sane.

COMPTE RENDU (Fr.), an account rendered: report.

COMPTOIR (Fr.), counter: counting-room.

CON AMORE (It.), with love: very earnestly.

CONCIO AD CLERUM (L.), discourse to the clergy.

CONCOURS (Fr.), contest, competition.

CON DILIGENZA (It.), with diligence.

CONDITIO SINE QUÂ NON (L.), an indispensable condition.

CON DOLORE (It.), with grief.

CONFER (L.), compare.

CONJUNCTIS VIRIBUS (L.), with united powers.

CONQUIESCAT IN PACE (L.), may he [or she] rest in peace.

CONSCIA MENS RECTI (L.), a mind conscious of rectitude.

CONSEIL D'ÉTAT (Fr.), a council of state.

CONSEIL DE FAMILLE (Fr.), a family consultation.

CONSENSUS FACIT LEGEM (L.), consent makes law or rule.

CONSILIO ET ANIMIS (L.), by wisdom and courage.

CONSILIO ET PRUDENTIÂ (L.), by wisdom and prudence.

CON SPIRITO (It.), with spirit.

CONSTANTIÂ ET VIRTUTE (L.), by constancy and virtue.

CONSUETUDO PRO LEGE SERVATUR (L.), custom is held as a law.

CONSULE PLANCO (L.), when Plancus was consul, when I was a young man.

CONTRA BONOS MORES (L.), against good manners or morals.

COPIA VERBORUM (L.), plenty of words, fluency.

CORAM DOMINO REGE (L.), before our lord the king.

CORAM NOBIS (L.), before us, in our presence.

CORAM POPULO (L.), in the presence of the public.

CORDON SANITAIRE (Fr.), a sanitary cordon, a line of sentries posted so as
to keep contagious disease within a certain area.

CORPUS DELICTI (L.), the substance of the offence.

CORPUS JURIS CANONICI (L.), body of the canon law; corpus juris civilis
(L.), body of the civil law.

CORRUPTIO OPTIMI PESSIMA (L.), the corruption of the best is the worst of
all.

CORSETIÈRE (Fr.), a maker of corsets.

COSI FAN TUTTE (It.), so do they all: they're all like that [of women].

CÔTELETTE (Fr.), a cutlet, a chop.

COUP DE BONHEUR (Fr.), stroke of good luck.

COUP DE CHAPEAU (Fr.), a touching of the hat.

COUP DE HASARD (Fr.), lucky chance.

COUP DE SOLEIL (Fr.), sunstroke.

COUP DE VENT (Fr.), a gust of wind, a gale.

COUPE-JARRET (Fr.), a cut-throat, ruffian.

COUP MANQUÉ (Fr.), an abortive stroke, a failure.

COÛTE QUE COÛTE (Fr.), cost what it may.

COUTURIÈRE (Fr.), a dressmaker.

COUVRE-PIED (Fr.), a coverlet or rug for the feet.

CRAMBE REPETITA (L.), cauld kail het again--cold cabbage-broth warmed up.

CREDAT JUDÆUS APELLA! (L.), let the Jew Apella believe that [if he likes]!

CREDO QUIA ABSURDUM (L.), I believe it because it is absurd.

CRÊME DE LA CRÊME (Fr.), cream of the cream: the very best.

CRÊPÉ (Fr.), frizzed.

CRESCIT EUNDO (L.), it grows as it goes.

CRÈVE-COEUR (Fr.), deep sorrow, heart-break.

CRIARD, fem. CRIARDE (Fr.), crying, discordant.

CRIMEN FALSI (L.), crime of perjury.

CRIMEN LÆSÆ MAJESTATIS (L.), high treason.

CROQUIS (Fr.), an outline or rough sketch.

CROUSTADE (Fr.), a kind of rissole with hard crust.

CRUX CRITICORUM (L.), a puzzle for the critics.

CUCULLUS NON FACIT MONACHUM (L.), the cowl does not make the monk.

CUI BONO? (L.), for whose benefit is it? who is the gainer?

CUILIBET IN ARTE SUÂ CREDENDUM EST (L.), every person is to be trusted in
his own art.

CULPA LEVIS (L.), a slight fault.

CUM BONÂ VENIÂ (L.), with your kind indulgence.

CUM GRANO SALIS (L.), with a grain of salt--i.e. with some allowance.

CUM MULTIS ALIIS (L.), with many other things.

CUM NOTIS VARIORUM (L.), with the notes of various [critics].

CUM PRIVILEGIO (L.), with privilege.

CURIOSA FELICITAS (L.), nice felicity of expression that is the fruit of
pains.

CURRENTE CALAMO (L.), with a running pen, with the pen of a ready writer.

CUSTOS ROTULORUM (L.), keeper of the rolls.



D'ACCORD (Fr.), agreed, in tune.

DA DEXTRAM MISERO (L.), give the right hand to one unhappy.

DA LOCUM MELIORIBUS (L.), give place to your betters.

DAME D'HONNEUR (Fr.), maid of honour.

DAMES DE LA HALLE (Fr.), market-women.

DAMNUM ABSQUE INJURIÂ (L.), loss without injury.

DARDANARIUS (L.), a speculator in grain.

DAS EWIG-WEIBLICHE (Ger.), the eternal feminine.

DAS HEISST, or simply D.H. (Ger.), that is.

DATA ET ACCEPTA (L.), expenditures and receipts.

DATE OBOLUM BELISARIO (L.), give a penny to Belisarius [the appeal ascribed
to the great general when reduced to mendicancy].

DAVUS SUM, NON OEDIPUS (L.), I am only Davus, not Oedipus--a plain man, and
no prophet.

DEBITO JUSTITIÆ (L.), by debt of justice.

DE BON AUGURE (Fr.), of good omen.

DE BONNE GRÂCE (Fr.), with good grace: willingly.

DÉCHÉANCE (Fr.), forfeiture.

DE DIE IN DIEM (L.), from day to day.

DE FACTO (L.), from the fact: really: actual.

DÉGAGÉ, fem. DÉGAGÉE (Fr.), easy and unconstrained.

DÉGOÛT (Fr.), distaste.

DE GUSTIBUS NON EST DISPUTANDUM (L.), there is no disputing about tastes.

DE HAUT EN BAS (Fr.), from top to bottom: contemptuously.

DEI GRATIÂ (L.), by the grace of God.

DE INTEGRO (L.), anew.

DÉJEUNER (Fr.), in France, a late breakfast, a midday meal with meat and
wine; in England, luncheon--more specifically, DÉJEUNER À LA FOURCHETTE, a
breakfast with meat.

DE JURE (L.), in law: by right: rightful.

DÉLASSEMENT (Fr.), relaxation.

DE L'AUDACE, ENCORE DE L'AUDACE, ET TOUJOURS DE L'AUDACE (Fr.), to dare,
still to dare, and ever to dare [Danton's famous phrase].

DELENDA EST CARTHAGO (L.), Carthage must be destroyed [a saying constantly
repeated by Cato].

DE MAL EN PIS (Fr.), from bad to worse.

DEMEURE (Fr.), dwelling.

DEMI-JOUR (Fr.), half-light, twilight, subdued light.

DE MINIMIS NON CURAT LEX (L.), the law does not concern itself about very
small matters.

DE MORTUIS NIL NISI BONUM (L.), say nothing but good of the dead.

DE NIHILO NIHILUM, IN NIHILUM NIL POSSE REVERTI (L.), from nothing nothing,
into nothing nothing can return.

DE NOVO (L.), anew.

DEO DATE (L.), give ye to God.

DEO FAVENTE (L.), with God's favour.

DEO GRATIAS (L.), thanks to God.

DE OMNI RE SCIBILI ET QUIBUSDAM ALIIS (L.), about all things knowable, and
some others.

DEO VOLENTE, or D.V. (L.), God willing: by God's will.

DÉPÊCHE (Fr.), despatch, message.

DE PIS EN PIS (Fr.), worse and worse.

DE PROFUNDIS (L.), out of the depths, a dirge.

DE RETOUR (Fr.), back again, returned.

DER GROSSE HEIDE (Ger.), the great heathen or Pagan [Heine's name for
Goethe].

DE RIGUEUR (Fr.), strictly required: indispensable: obligatory: compulsory:
latest.

DERNIER RESSORT (Fr.), last resort, last resource.

DÉSAGRÉMENT (Fr.), something disagreeable.

DESIPERE IN LOCO (L.), to jest at the proper time.

DÉSOBLIGEANTE (Fr.), a carriage for two.

DÉSORIENTÉ (Fr.), having lost one's bearings, confused, bemuddled.

DESUETUDO (L.), disuse.

DESUNT CETERA (L.), the remainder is wanting.

DE TE FABULA NARRATUR (L.), the parable is told about you yourself; thou
art the man.

DÉTENU, fem. DÉTENUE (Fr.), a prisoner.

DE TROP (Fr.), too much, or too many, superfluous, intrusive.

DETUR DIGNIORI (L.), let it be given to the more worthy;--DETUR PULCHRIORI
(L.), let it be given to the fairer.

DEUS AVERTAT! (L.), God forbid!

DEUS DET! (L.), God grant!

DEUS EX MACHINA (L.), a god [let down] out of the machine [in theatrical
apparatus]: a too obvious device in an author's plot.

DEUS NOBIS HÆC OTIA FECIT (L.), it is a god that hath given us this ease.

DEUS VOBISCUM! (L.), God be with you!

DEUS VULT! (L.), God wills it! [the Crusaders' cry].

DEXTRO TEMPORE (L.), at a lucky moment.

DICAMUS BONA VERBA (L.), let us speak words of good omen.

DICHTUNG UND WAHRHEIT (Ger.), fiction and truth.

DICTA PROBANTIA (L.), proof texts.

DICTUM DE DICTO (L.), hearsay report.

DICTUM SAPIENTI SAT EST (L.), a word to the wise is enough.

DIEM PERDIDI (L.), I have lost a day [said by the emperor Titus].

DIES FASTI or PROFESTI (L.), days on which judgment could be pronounced, on
which courts could be held in ancient Rome, lawful days.

DIES FAUSTUS (L.), lucky day.

DIES FESTI or FERIÆ (L.), days of actual festival.

DIES INFAUSTUS (L.), unlucky day.

DIES IRÆ (L.), day of wrath: the day of judgment.

DIES NEFASTI (L.), days on which judgment could not be pronounced or
assemblies of the people be held, in ancient Rome.

DIES NON (L.), a day on which judges do not sit.

DIEU AVEC NOUS (Fr.), God with us.

DIEU DÉFEND LE DROIT (Fr.), God defends the right.

DIEU ET MON DROIT (Fr.), God and my right.

DIEU VOUS GARDE! (Fr.), God guard you!

DIGITO MONSTRARI (L.), to be pointed out with the finger: to be famous.

DI GRADO IN GRADO (It.), by degrees.

DI MAJORUM GENTIUM (L.), the divinities of superior rank--i.e. the twelve
greater gods of classical mythology.

DI PENATES (L.), household gods.

DIS ALITER VISUM (L.), the gods have adjudged otherwise.

DI SALTO (It.), at a leap.

DISJECTA MEMBRA (L.), the scattered members.

DISTINGUÉ, fem. DISTINGUÉE (Fr.), distinguished: striking.

DISTRAIT, fem. DISTRAITE (Fr.), absent-minded.

DIT (Fr.), called.

DIVERTISSEMENT (Fr.), amusement: sport.

DIVIDE ET IMPERA (L.), divide [your opponents], and so rule them.

DIVISIM (L.), separately.

DOCENDO DISCITUR (L.), one learns in teaching.

DOLCE FAR NIENTE (It.), sweet doing-nothing: pleasant idleness.

DOLI CAPAX (L.), capable of committing a wrong--opp. of _doli incapax_.

DOMINE, DIRIGE NOS! (L.), Lord, direct us!--the motto of London.

DOMINUS ILLUMINATIO MEA (L.), the Lord is my enlightening.

DOMUS ET PLACENS UXOR (L.), a home and a pleasing wife.

DONNA È MOBILE (It.), woman is changeable.

DONNERWETTER! (Ger.), thunderstorms! [as an ejaculation].

DORER LA PILULE (Fr.), to gild the pill.

DORMITAT HOMERUS (L.), Homer nods.

DOS MOI POU ST[=O] KAI T[=E]N G[=E]N KIN[=E]S[=O] (Gr.), give me where to
stand, and I will move the earth [attributed to Archimedes].

DOUBLE ENTENTE (Fr.), double meaning, equivocal sense.

DO UT DES (L.), I give that you may give.

DRAMATIS PERSONÆ (L.), characters of a drama.

DROIT AU TRAVAIL (Fr.), right to labour.

DROIT DES GENS (Fr.), international law.

DRÔLE (Fr.), a rogue, a knave.

DULCE EST DESIPERE IN LOCO (L.), it is pleasant to play the fool on
occasion.

DULCE ET DECORUM EST PRO PATRIÂ MORI (L.), it is sweet and glorious to die
for one's country.

DULCE, 'DOMUM!' (L.), sweet strain, 'Homeward!' from a Winchester school
song sung before holidays.

DUM SPIRO, SPERO (L.), while I breathe, I hope.

DUM VIVIMUS, VIVAMUS (L.), while we live, let us live.

D'UN SEUL JET (Fr.), at one effort.

DURANTE BENE PLACITO (Late L.), during good pleasure.

DURANTE VITA (Late L.), during life.

DUX FEMINA FACTI (L.), a woman was leader of the deed.



EAU BÉNITE (Fr.), holy water.

EAU SUCRÉE (Fr.), sugared water.

ÉBAUCHE (Fr.), a sketch, drawing in outline.

ÉBOULEMENT (Fr.), a landslip.

ECCE! (L.), behold!

ECCE SIGNUM! (L.), behold the sign or the proof!

ECCO! (It.), here is! there! look there!

ÉCLAIRCISSEMENT (Fr.), an explanation.

ÉCOLE (Fr.), school;--ÉCOLE DE DROIT, law school;--ÉCOLE DE MÉDECINE,
school of medicine;--ÉCOLE MILITAIRE, military school;--ÉCOLE
POLYTECHNIQUE, polytechnic school.

E CONTRA (Late L.), contrariwise, conversely.

E CONTRARIO (Late L.), on the contrary.

E CONVERSO (Late L.), conversely, by logical conversion.

ÉCRASÉ (Fr.), crushed;--ÉCRASER, to crush;--ÉCRASEZ L'INFÂME! crush the
abominable [superstition] out of existence! [motto of Voltaire--against the
Roman Catholic Church of his time].

ÉCREVISSE (Fr.), crayfish.

ÉCRIN (Fr.), casket, jewel-case.

ÉCRU (Fr.), unbleached, raw.

EDAX RERUM (L.), devourer of [all] things.

EDITION DE LUXE (Fr.), a splendid and expensive edition of a book.

EDITIO PRINCEPS (L.), original edition [especially of a work till then only
known in MS.].

ÉGALITÉ (Fr.), equality.

ÉGAREMENT (Fr.), confusion, bewilderment.

EGERIA, the nymph who instructed the ancient Roman king Numa Pompilius,
hence any woman who gives a man his inspiration.

EGESTA (Late L.), excrements, fæces.

EGO ET REX MEUS (L.), I and my king [Cardinal Wolsey].

EHEU FUGACES ... LABUNTUR ANNI! (L.), alas! the fleeting years slip away.

EILE MIT WEILE (Ger.), speed with heed, make haste leisurely. Cf. _festina
lente_.

EIN MAL, KEIN MAL (Ger.), just once counts nothing.

EISEN UND BLUT (Ger.), iron and blood--a famous phrase of Bismarck's.

EJUSDEM GENERIS (L.), of the same kind.

EK PARERGOU (Gr.), as a by-work.

ÉLAN (Fr.), dash, eagerness to advance.

ÉLÉGANT, fem. ÉLÉGANTE (Fr.), a person of fashion.

ÉLÈVE (Fr.), pupil.

ÉLITE (Fr.), choice, pick.

EMBARRAS DE (DU) CHOIX (Fr.), embarrassment in choice, a perplexing number
of objects from which to choose.

EMBARRAS DE(S) RICHESSES (Fr.), a perplexing amount of wealth or abundance
of any kind.

ÉMEUTE (Fr.), a riot;--ÉMEUTIER, a rioter.

ÉMIGRÉ, fem. ÉMIGRÉE (Fr.), an emigrant, esp. one of those royalists who
fled from France during the great Revolution.

EMIR-EL-HAJJ (Ar.), chief of the great caravan of pilgrims to Mecca.

EMPRESSÉ, fem. EMPRESSÉE (Fr.), eager to show goodwill or
civility;--EMPRESSEMENT, warmth of manner, cordiality.

EN AMI (Fr.), as a friend.

EN ARRIÈRE (Fr.), behind, in the rear.

EN ATTENDANT (Fr.), in the meantime, while waiting for.

EN AVANT! (Fr.), forward!

EN BADINANT (Fr.), roguishly, with badinage.

EN BARBETTE (Fr.), on a breastwork or platform for ordnance which is fired
over a parapet and not through embrasures--also of a ship's guns fired over
the bulwarks and not through ports.

EN BEAU (Fr.), as fair or handsome, in flattering style.

EN CABALLO (Sp.), on horseback.

EN CAVALIER (Fr.), in a cavalier manner.

EN CHEMISE [DE NUIT] (Fr.), in night-dress.

ENCOMIENDA (Sp.), a commandery;--ENCOMENDERO, its commander.

EN CROUPE (Fr.), on the crupper, on a pillion.

EN CUERPO (Sp.), in close-fitting dress; sometimes erroneously for 'stark
naked,' the Spanish for which is _en cueros_.

EN DÉSHABILLÉ (Fr.), in undress, in careless costume.

EN EFFET (Fr.), in effect.

EN ÉVIDENCE (Fr.), conspicuously, conspicuous, before the public view.

EN FAMILLE (Fr.), amongst the family, as at a family gathering, at home.

ENFANS PERDUS, ENFANTS PERDUS (Fr.), lit. 'lost children:' forlorn hope.

ENFANT DE LA MAISON (Fr.), child of the house, quite at home.

ENFANT GÂTÉ, fem. GÂTÉE (Fr.), spoilt child.

ENFANT TERRIBLE (Fr.), lit. 'terrible child,' a precocious child whose
indiscreet prattle puts his elders to the blush.

ENFANT TROUVÉ (Fr.), foundling.

EN FÊTE (Fr.), in festivity, keeping holiday.

EN GARÇON (Fr.), like a bachelor, in bachelor's style.

EN GRANDE TENUE (Fr.), in full dress.

EN L'AIR (Fr.), in the air, being discussed or expected.

ENLEVÉ (Fr.), carried away, kidnapped.

EN MASSE (Fr.), in a body, universally.

EN MILITAIRE (Fr.), as a military man.

EN PASSANT (Fr.), in passing: by the way.

EN PLEIN JOUR (Fr.), in broad day.

EN PRINCE (Fr.), in princely style.

EN PURE PERTE (Fr.), to mere loss, to no purpose.

EN QUEUE (Fr.), like a tail, in a string or line.

ENRAGÉ, fem. ENRAGEÉ (Fr.), desperate: a lunatic.

EN RAPPORT (Fr.), in direct relation: in sympathy with.

EN RÈGLE (Fr.), in due order: according to rules.

EN RETRAITE (Fr.), in retirement, on half-pay.

EN REVANCHE (Fr.), in revenge.

EN ROUTE (Fr.), on the road: let us go! march!

EN SPECTACLE (Fr.), as a spectacle.

ENS PER ACCIDENS (Late L.), that which exists only as an accident of _ens
per se_--i.e. a substance.

ENS RATIONIS (Late L.), an entity of reason--opposed to ENS REALE.

EN SUITE (Fr.), in succession [the sense 'to match' is _not_ French].

ENTAMÉ, fem. ENTAMÉE (Fr.), broached, entered upon.

ENTENTE (Fr.), understanding;--ENTENTE CORDIALE, cordial understanding
between nations.

ENTÊTÉ, fem. ENTÊTÉE (Fr.), infatuated.

EN TOUT (Fr.), in all: wholly.

EN TOUT CAS (Fr.), in any case or emergency.

ENTRAIN (Fr.), heartiness;--ENTRAÎNEMENT (Fr.), enthusiasm.

EN TRAIN (Fr.), in progress.

ENTRECHAT (Fr.), caper.

ENTRECÔTE (Fr.), meat between the ribs, a kind of steak.

ENTRE NOUS (Fr.), between ourselves.

ENTREPRENEUR (Fr.), contractor: builder.

ENTREZ (Fr.), come in.

EN VILLE (Fr.), in town, 'not at home.'

EO NOMINE (L.), by that name, on that claim.

EPEA PTEROENTA (Gr.), winged words.

ÉPERDU, fem. ÉPERDUE (Fr.), distracted;--ÉPERDUMENT AMOUREUX, desperately
in love.

EPHPHATHA (Aramaic), be thou opened.

ÉPICIER (Fr.), a grocer.

E PLURIBUS UNUM (Late L.), one out of many--motto of the United States.

ÉPOUSE (Fr.), wife, bride.

E PUR SI MUOVE! (It.), but it does move, though! [attributed to Galileo,
after recanting his doctrine that the earth goes round the sun].

ÉPRIS, fem. ÉPRISE (Fr.), captivated, smitten.

ÉPUISÉ, fem. ÉPUISÉE (Fr.), worn out.

ÉQUESTRIENNE (an English-coined word in imitation French), a horsewoman, a
female circus-rider.

ERD GEIST (Ger.), earth-spirit.

E RE NATÂ (Late L.), from the circumstance arisen, according to the
exigencies of the case.

ERGO BIBAMUS! (L.), therefore let us drink!

ERGON (Gr.), work, business.

ERIN(N)YS, pl. ERIN(N)YES (Gr.), the Furies.

EROS (Gr.), the Greek god of sensual passion, miscalled love.

ERRARE EST HUMANUM (L.), to err is human.

ESCALIER (Fr.), staircase;--ESCALIER DÉROBÉ, private staircase.

ESCAMOTAGE (Fr.), juggling.

ESCHSCHOLTZIA (Latinised from name of German botanist Eschscholtz), a
Californian poppy with showy yellow flowers.

ESCRIBANO (Sp.), a notary.

ESCROC (Fr.), a swindler.

ESPADA (Sp.), a sword: a matador.

ESPRIT FOLLET (Fr.), a mischievous goblin.

ESSE QUAM VIDERI (L.), to be, rather than to seem.

ESTANCIA (Sp.), a mansion: in Spanish America, a large grazing farm or
landed estate;--ESTANCIERO, the owner or overseer of such.

EST MODUS IN REBUS (L.), there is a proper mean in [all] things.

ESTO PERPETUA! (L.), may she be lasting!

EST QUÆDAM FLERE VOLUPTAS (L.), there is in weeping a certain pleasure.

ESTRO (It.), enthusiasm, height of poetic inspiration.

ÉTAGE (Fr.), floor, story [BEL ÉTAGE, best story, first floor, is _not_ a
French usage].

ÉTAGÈRE (Fr.), an ornamental stand of shelves for flowers, articles of
virtu, &c.

ÉTANG (Fr.), pond.

ÉTAPE (Fr.), a storehouse: a halting-place: a day's march: rations: forage.

ÉTAT (Fr.), state, rank;--ÉTAT-MAJOR, the staff of an army, regiment, &c.

ÉTATS GÉNÉRAUX (Fr.), the States-General.

ET EGO IN ARCADIA (L.), I, too, was in Arcadia: I know as much about it as
anybody.

ET HOC GENUS OMNE, ET ID GENUS OMNE (L.), and everything of this, or of
that, sort.

ETHOS (Gr.), permanent character: in literature and art, the chief
characteristics of a work as affecting the intellectual and moral
faculties, as opposed to pathos, which appeals to the emotions.

ÉTOILE (Fr.), star.

ÉTOURDERIE (Fr.), heedlessness, stupid blundering.

ÉTOURDI, fem. ÉTOURDIE (Fr.), giddy, foolish, light-headed.

ÉTRANGER, fem. ÉTRANGÈRE (Fr.), strange: a foreigner.

ÉTRENNES (Fr.), New Year's gift or gifts.

ET SEQUENTES (L.), and those that follow.

ET SEQUENTIA (L.), and what follows.

ET SIC DE CETERIS (Late L.), and so about the rest.

ET SIC DE SIMILIBUS (L.), and so of the like.

ET TU, BRUTE! (L.), you too, Brutus! [Cæsar's exclamation when he saw his
much-loved Brutus amongst his murderers.]

EUGE! (L.--Gr.), well done!

EUREKA [HEUREKA]! (Gr.), I have found it!

EURIPUS (L.--Gr.), a strait, channel.

EVENTUS STULTORUM MAGISTER (L.), the result is the schoolmaster of fools.

EX ABUNDANTI (L.), superfluously;--ex abundanti cautela, from excessive
caution.

EX ABUSU NON ARGUITUR AD USUM (L.), from the abuse no argument is drawn
against the use.

EX ACCIDENTI (Late L.), accidentally, as opposed to _essentially_.

EX ÆQUO (Late L.), equally, equitably.

EXAMEN (L.), examination.

EX ANIMO (L.), from the mind, earnestly.

EX AUCTORITATE MIHI COMMISSÂ (L.), by the authority entrusted to me.

EX CATHEDRÂ (Late L.), from the chair of office, esp. the pope's throne in
the Consistory, or a professor's chair, hence authoritatively, judicially.

EXCELSIOR (L.), higher: [erroneously] upwards!

EXCEPTIO CONFIRMAT [PROBAT] REGULAM (L.), the exception proves the rule.

EXCEPTIS EXCIPIENDIS (Late L.), excepting what is to be excepted, with
proper exceptions.

EXCERPTA (L., pl. of _excerptum_), extracts, selections.

EX CONCESSIS, EX CONCESSO (Late L.), from what has been conceded.

EX CONSEQUENTI (Late L.), by way of consequence.

EX CONVERSO. See _e converso_.

EXCREMENTA (L., pl. of _excrementum_), refuse matter.

EX CURIÂ (L.), out of court.

EX DEBITO JUSTITIÆ (Late L.), from what is due to justice.

EX DELICTO (Late L.), owing to a crime.

EX DONO (Late L.), by gift, as a present from.

EXEAT (L.), let him go out--formal leave, as for a student to be out of
college for more than one night.

EXEGI MONUMENTUM ÆRE PERENNIUS (L.), I have reared a monument more lasting
than brass.

EXEMPLA SUNT ODIOSA (L.), examples are hateful.

EXEMPLI GRATIÂ (L.), by way of example, for instance--often abbreviated
e.g.

EXEUNT OMNES (L.), all go out, or retire.

EX HYPOTHESI (Late L.), from the hypothesis.

EX IMPROVISO (Late L.), in an unforeseen manner, suddenly.

EXITUS ACTA PROBAT (L.), the issue or event proves the acts.

EX LIBRIS (Late L.), from the books--followed by the owner's name in the
genitive--written in the volumes or on the bookplates of a library.

EX MERO MOTU (L.), from his own impulse.

EX NATURÂ REI (Late L.), from the nature of the case;--EX NATURÂ RERUM,
from the nature of things.

EX NIHILO [NILO] NIHIL [NIL] FIT (L.), out of nothing nothing comes.

EX OFFICIO (L.), by virtue of his office.

EX OPERE OPERATO (Late L.), by virtue of a work done. See _Opus_ in Dict.

EX PARTE (L.), on one side, as a partisan.

EX PEDE HERCULEM (L.), [we recognise] Hercules from his foot.

EXPERIENTIA DOCET STULTOS (L.), experience teaches fools.

EXPERIMENTUM CRUCIS (L.), the experiment of the cross, a crucial test.

EXPERTO CREDE (L.), trust one who has tried, or had experience.

EXPERTUS METUIT (L.), having had experience, he fears.

EX POST FACTO (L.), retrospective.

EXPRESSIS VERBIS (L.), in express terms.

EX PROFESSO (L.), avowedly.

EX PROPRIIS (L.), from one's own resources.

EX PROPRIO MOTU (Late L.), of his own accord.

EX QUOCUNQUE CAPITE (L.), from whatever source.

EX RE NATÂ (Late L.), according to a circumstance that has arisen.

EX TACITO (L.), silently.

EXTINCTUS AMABITUR IDEM (L.), the same man [maligned living], when dead,
will be loved.

EXTRAIT (Fr.), an extract.

EXTRA JUDICIUM (Late L.), out of court, extra-judicially.

EXTRA MODUM (L.), beyond measure, extravagant.

EXTRA MUROS (L.), beyond the walls.

EX UNGUE LEONEM (L.), [judge] the lion from his claws.

EX UNO DISCE OMNES (L.), from one example learn what they all are.

EX UTRAQUE PARTE (L.), on either side.

EX VOTO (L.), according to one's prayer, by reason of a vow: votive: a
votive offering.



FABER EST QUISQUE FORTUNÆ SUÆ (L.), every man is the fashioner of his own
fortune.

FABLE CONVENUE (Fr.), fable agreed upon--Voltaire's name for history.

FACILE EST INVENTIS ADDERE (L.), it is easy to add to things invented
already.

FACILE PRINCEPS (L.), obviously pre-eminent: an easy first.

FACILIS DESCENSUS AVERNO (or AVERNI) (L.), descent to Avernus (hell) is
easy: the road to evil is easy.

FACINUS MAJORIS ABOLLÆ (L.), the crime of a larger cloak, i.e. of a deep
philosopher.

FACIT INDIGNATIO VERSUM (L.), indignation inspires verse.

FAÇON DE PARLER (Fr.), way of speaking, a mere form of words.

FACTA NON VERBA (L.), deeds, not words.

FACTUM EST (L.), it is done.

FADAISE (Fr.), silliness, nonsense.

FADE (Fr.), insipid, colourless;--FADEUR, dullness.

FÆX POPULI (L.), dregs of the people.

FAIRE BONNE MINE (Fr.), to put a good face upon the matter.

FAIRE DE LA PROSE SANS LE SAVOIR (Fr.), to produce prose without knowing
it--which Molière's M. Jourdain was surprised to find he had been doing all
his days in conversation.

FAIRE L'HOMME D'IMPORTANCE (Fr.), to assume the air of importance.

FAIRE MON DEVOIR (Fr.), to do my duty.

FAIRE SANS DIRE (Fr.), to act without talking.

FAIT ACCOMPLI (Fr.), a thing already done.

FALSI CRIMEN (Late L.), the crime of falsity, fraudulent concealment,
forgery.

FALSUS IN UNO, FALSUS IN OMNIBUS (L.), false in one point, false in all.

FAMA CLAMOSA (L.), a current scandal.

FAMA NIHIL EST CELERIUS (L.), nothing is swifter than rumour.

FAMA SEMPER VIVAT! (L.), may his [or her] fame live for ever!

FAMILLE DE ROBE (Fr.), a legal family.

FANTOCCINI (It.), puppets made to move by strings or wires, a puppet-show.

FAR NIENTE (It.), doing nothing.

FARCEUR (Fr.), a wag, a joker.

FAROUCHE (Fr.), sullen, savage.

FARRAGO LIBELLI (L.), a medley of miscellaneous topics for a little book
[of satire].

FAS EST ET AB HOSTE DOCERI (L.), it is right to be taught even by an enemy.

FATA OBSTANT (L.), the Fates oppose it.

FATA VIAM INVENIENT (L.), the Fates will find out a way.

FAUTE DE MIEUX (Fr.), for want of better.

FAUX PAS (Fr.), a false step: a mistake.

FAVETE LINGUIS (L.), favour me with your tongues--keep a discreet silence.

FAX MENTIS INCENDIUM GLORIÆ (L.), the passion for glory is a torch to the
mind.

FECIT (L.), [T. D.] made or executed [this].

FECUNDI CALICES, QUEM NON FECERE DISERTUM? (L.), full cups, whom have they
not made eloquent?

FÉE (Fr.), a fairy;--FÉERIE, fairyland.

FELICITAS MULTOS HABET AMICOS (L.), prosperity has many friends.

FELICITER (L.), happily: successfully.

FELO DE SE (L.), a suicide, lit. 'felon of himself.'

FEMME (Fr.), woman, wife;--FEMME COUVERTE (old law French), a married
woman, as under her husband's protection;--FEMME GALANTE, a gay
woman;--FEMME INCOMPRISE, a woman misunderstood or unappreciated;--FEMME
SAVANTE, a learned woman, a blue-stocking;--FEMME SOLE (law French), a
single woman, a woman legally independent.

FEMME DE CHAMBRE (Fr.), a lady's maid.

FENDRE UN CHEVEU EN QUATRE (Fr.), to split a hair in quarters, to make
over-subtle distinctions.

FERMIER GÉNÉRAL (Fr.), farmer-general, one who farmed certain taxes under
the old French monarchy.

FESTINA LENTE (L.), hasten gently.

FÊTE CHAMPÊTRE (Fr.), a rural festival, garden party.

FÊTE-DIEU (Fr.), Corpus Christi.

FEU (pl. FEUX) D'ARTIFICE (Fr.), fireworks.

FEU DE JOIE (Fr.), a bonfire: in English (_not_ in French), a firing of
guns in token of joy.

FEUILLETONISTE (Fr.), one who writes for feuilletons. See _Feuilleton_ in
Dict.

FIAT EXPERIMENTUM IN CORPORE VILI (L.), let experiment be made on a
worthless body.

FIAT JUSTITIA, RUAT COELUM (L.), let justice be done, though the heavens
should fall.

FIAT LUX (L.), let there be light.

FICHU (Fr.), a triangular kerchief or wrap worn on a woman's neck and
shoulders.

FIDE ET AMORE (L.), by faith and love.

FIDE ET FIDUCIÂ (L.), by faith and confidence.

FIDE ET FORTITUDINE (L.), by faith and fortitude.

FIDEI DEFENSOR (L.), defender of the faith.

FIDE NON ARMIS (L.), by faith, not by arms.

FIDE, SED CUI VIDE (L.), trust, but in whom take care.

FIDES ET JUSTITIA (L.), fidelity and justice.

FIDES PUNICA (L.), Punic faith: treachery.

FI DONC! (Fr.), for shame!

FIDUS ACHATES (L.), faithful Achates: a true friend.

FIDUS ET AUDAX (L.), faithful and bold.

FIERI FACIAS (Late L.), cause to be done--the name of a writ commanding the
sheriff to distrain the defendant's goods.

FIERTÉ (Fr.), haughtiness, high spirit.

FIGURANT, fem. FIGURANTE (Fr.), a supernumerary on the stage;--FIGURANTE,
pl. FIGURANTI (It.), a ballet-dancer.

FILIUS NULLIUS (L.), son of nobody, a bastard.

FILIUS POPULI (L.), son of the people.

FILIUS TERRÆ (L.), son of the soil, one of mean birth.

FILLE DE CHAMBRE (Fr.), chambermaid.

FILLE DE JOIE (Fr.), a prostitute.

FILLE D'HONNEUR (Fr.), maid of honour.

FILS (Fr.), son.

FIN DE SIÈCLE (Fr.), end of the [19th] century: decadent.

FINIS CORONAT OPUS (L.), the end crowns the work.

FINIS POLONIÆ! (L.), the end of Poland! the Scotch Chancellor Seafield's
'end o' an auld sang' in 1707.

FIN MOT (Fr.), main point.

FISOLEN (Ger.), beans.

FLACON (Fr.), a smelling-bottle.

FLAGRANTE BELLO (L.), while war is raging.

FLAGRANTE DELICTO (L.), in the very act.

FLAIR (Fr.), scent, keen sense of smell.

FLECTERE SI NEQUEO SUPEROS, ACHERONTA MOVEBO (L.), if I can't move the
gods, I'll stir up hell.

FLECTI, NON FRANGI (L.), to be bent, not to be broken.

FLEURON (Fr.), a piece of decorative flower-work.

FLOCCULUS, pl. FLOCCULI (Late L.), a small flock or tuft of wool or the
like.

FLOREAT (L.), let it flourish.

FLORILEGIUM, pl. FLORILEGIA (Late L.), a collection of flowers--i.e. of
choice passages, an anthology.

FLOSCULI SENTENTIARUM (L.), flowerets of wisdom.

FOENUM HABET IN CORNU (L.), he has hay on his horn [the sign of a dangerous
bull].

FOIBLESSE (Old French; modern, _faiblesse_), a failing.

FOIE GRAS (Fr.), fat liver [of goose] made into _pâté de foie gras_ (or
_foies gras_).

FOLÂTRE (Fr.), sportive, frolicsome, fond of romping.

FOMES, pl. FOMITES (L.), touchwood, a substance which retains contagion.

FOND (Fr.), ground, basis, fund;--FONDS, ground, fund, stock, capital.

FONDA (Sp.), a tavern.

FONS ET ORIGO (L.), the source and origin.

FONS LACRIMARUM (L.), fount or source of tears.

FORCE MAJEURE (Fr.), superior power.

FORENSIS STREPITUS (L.), the clamour of the forum.

FORMALITER (Late L.), formally, in respect of the formal element.

FORSAN ET HÆC OLIM MEMINISSE JUVABIT (L.), perchance hereafter it will be
delightful to remember even these things.

FORS CLAVIGERA--the title assumed by Ruskin for his series of periodical
letters to British working-men. _Fors_=fortune; _Claviger_, the
club-bearer, an epithet of Hercules.

FORTI ET FIDELI NIHIL DIFFICILE (L.), to the brave and faithful nothing is
difficult.

FORTIS CADERE, CEDERE NON POTEST (L.), the brave man may fall, he cannot
yield.

FORTITER ET RECTE (L.), bravely and uprightly.

FORTITER, FIDELITER, FELICITER (L.), firmly, faithfully, felicitously.

FORTITER IN RE, SUAVITER IN MODO (L.), forcibly in deed, gently in manner.

FORTUNA FAVET FATUIS (L.), fortune favours fools.

FORTUNA FAVET FORTIBUS (L.), fortune aids the bold.

FORTUNA FORTES ADJUVAT (L.), fortune aids the brave.

FORUM CONSCIENTIÆ (L.), the court of conscience.

FOURGON (Fr.), a wagon, cart.

FRA (It.), brother, friar.

FRAÎCHEUR (Fr.), freshness, coolness.

FRAIS (Fr.), _n.pl._ expenses, charges.

FRANCISÉ, fem. FRANCISÉE (Fr.), Frenchified.

FRANCO (It.), post-free, franked.

FRANGAS, NON FLECTES (L.), you may break, you shall not bend.

FRANKFURTER (Ger.) a small smoked sausage.

FRAPPÉ, fem. FRAPPÉE (Fr.), iced, artificially cooled.

FRATE, pl. FRATI (It.), a friar, a mendicant Franciscan.

FRAU (Ger.), dame, married woman, wife.

FRÄULEIN (Ger.), miss, unmarried woman, German governess.

FRAUS EST CELARE FRAUDEM (L.), it is a fraud to conceal a fraud.

FRAUS PIA (L.), a pious fraud.

FREDAINE (Fr.), escapade, prank.

FRIAND, fem. FRIANDE (Fr.), dainty, delicate: an epicure.

FRIGIDARIUM (L.), the cold swimming-tank of a bath-house.

FRIJOL, pl. FRIJOLES (Sp.), French beans.

FRIPONNERIE (Fr.), knavery, roguishness.

FRISETTE (Fr.), a frizette, fringe of frizzled hair worn above or on the
forehead.

FRITURE (Fr.), frying: fried food: fry.

FRONDEUR (Fr.), an adherent of the Fronde: any malcontent. See _Fronde_ in
Dict.

FRONT À FRONT (Fr.), front to front, face to face.

FRONTIGNAC, a sweet wine produced near Frontignan, in Hérault, France [in
modern French, _Frontignan_.]

FRONTI NULLA FIDES (L.), no reliance on the face, no trusting appearances.

FROU-FROU (Fr.), the delicate rustling of women's drapery.

FROW(E), FRO(E), Anglicised from Dut. _vruow_, a married woman, wife: a
slovenly woman.

FRUGES CONSUMERE NATI (L.), born to consume the fruits of the soil.

FUGIT HORA (L.), the hour flies.

FUIMUS TROES (L.), we were once Trojans.

FUIT ILIUM (L.), Troy has been--i.e. is no more.

FULMEN BRUTUM (L.), a harmless thunderbolt.

FUMADO (Sp.), smoked fish.

FUNCTUS OFFICIO (L.), having fulfilled an office, out of office.

FUNDAMENTUM RELATIONIS (Late L.), ground of relation.

FUNÈBRE (Fr.), mournful.

FUREUR (Fr.), extravagant admiration.

FUROR ARMA MINISTRAT (L.), rage supplies arms.

FUROR LOQUENDI (L.), a rage for speaking.

FUROR POETICUS (L.), poetic frenzy.

FUROR SCRIBENDI (L.), a rage for writing.



GAGE D'AMOUR (Fr.), pledge of love, love-token.

GAIETÉ DE COEUR (Fr.), gaiety of heart.

GAILLARD, fem. GAILLARDE (Fr.), lively, frolicsome.

GALANT, fem. GALANTE (Fr.), given to illicit intrigue: one of the parties
in an amour;--GALANT HOMME, a man of honour.

GALAPAGO (Sp.), a tortoise.

GALIMAFRÉE (Fr.), hotch-potch, hash.--Anglicised as _Gallimaufry_ (q.v. in
Dict.).

GARDE À CHEVAL (Fr.), mounted guard.

GARDE CHAMPÊTRE (Fr.), rural guard, field-keeper.

GARDE-CHASSE (Fr.), gamekeeper.

GARDE DU CORPS (Fr.), a bodyguard.

GARDE-FEU (Fr.), fender.

GARDE-FOU (Fr.), a parapet.

GARDE MOBILE (Fr.), a guard liable to general service.

GARDE NATIONALE (Fr.), national guard.

GARDE ROYALE (Fr.), royal guard.

GARDEZ (Fr.), take care, be on your guard.

GARDEZ BIEN (Fr.), take good care.

GARDES LA FOI (Fr.), keep the faith.

GAUDEAMUS IGITUR (L.), let us therefore rejoice.

GAUDET TENTAMINE VIRTUS (L.), virtue rejoices in trial.

GAUDIUM CERTAMINIS (L.), the delight of battle.

GEFLÜGELTE WORTE (Ger.), winged words.

GEFRORNES (Ger.), ices.

GENDARMES (Fr.), _n.pl._ armed police.

GENIUS LOCI (L.), the genius of the place.

GENS D'AFFAIRES (Fr.), business men; GENS D'ARMES, men-at-arms (cf.
GENDARMES); GENS DE BIEN, honest folk; GENS DE CONDITION, people of rank;
GENS D'ÉGLISE, churchmen; GENS DE LANGUES, linguists; GENS DE LETTRES, men
of letters; GENS DE LOI, lawyers; GENS DE MÊME FARINE, birds of a feather;
GENS DE MER, seamen; GENS D'ÉPÉE, GENS DE GUERRE, military men; GENS DE
PEU, people of humble condition; GENS DE ROBE, lawyers; GENS DU MONDE,
people of fashion.

GENS TOGATA (L.), the toga-wearing nation--i.e. the Romans.

GENTILHOMME (Fr.), a nobleman: a gentleman.

GENUS IRRITABILE VATUM (L.), the irritable tribe of poets.

GERMANICÈ (L.), in German.

GESPRITZT (Ger.), mixed in equal quantity with soda water--of wine.

GIBIER DE POTENCE (Fr.), game for the gibbet, gallows-bird, jail-bird.

GIOVINE SANTO, DIAVOLO VECCHIO (It.), young saint, old devil.

GIPPESVICUM (L.), Ipswich.

GITANO, fem. GITANA (Sp.), gipsy.

GLI ASSENTI HANNO TORTO (It.), the absent are in the wrong.

GLORIA IN EXCELSIS (L.), glory to God in the highest.

GLORIA PATRI (L.), glory be to the Father.

GLORIA VIRTUTIS UMBRA (L.), glory [is] the shadow of virtue.

GLÜCKLICHE REISE! (Ger.), prosperous journey to you!

GN[=O]THI SEAUTON (Gr.), know thyself.

GOUTTE À GOUTTE (Fr.), drop by drop.

GOUVERNANTE (Fr.), a governess.

GRÂCE À DIEU (Fr.), thanks to God.

GRADU DIVERSO, VIÂ UNÂ (L.), with different step on the one way.

GRADUS AD PARNASSUM (L.), a step to Parnassus, aid in the composition of
Latin or Greek verse.

GRANDE CHÈRE ET BEAU FEU (Fr.), ample cheer and a fine fire.

GRANDE FORTUNE, GRANDE SERVITUDE (Fr.), great wealth, great slavery.

GRANDE PARURE or TOILETTE (Fr.), full dress.

GRANDE PASSION (Fr.), a serious love-affair.

GRAND MERCI (Fr.), many thanks.

GRATIANOPOLIS (L.), Grenoble.

GRATIA PLACENDI (L.), the delight of pleasing.

GRATIS DICTUM (L.), mere assertion.

GRAVIORA MANENT (L.), more grievous things remain.

GRAVIORA QUÆDAM SUNT REMEDIA PERICULIS (L.), some remedies are more
grievous than the perils.

GRAVIS IRA REGUM EST SEMPER (L.), the anger of kings is always serious.

GREGATIM (L,), in flocks.

GREX VENALIUM (L.), the herd of hirelings.

GROSSE SEELEN DULDEN STILL (Ger.), great souls suffer in silence.

GROSSE TÊTE ET PEU DE SENS (Fr.), big head and little wit.

GROSSIÈRETÉ (Fr.), grossness, vulgarity in conversation.

GUERRA AL CUCHILLO (Sp.), war to the knife.

GUERRE À MORT (Fr.), war to the death.

GUERRE À OUTRANCE (Fr.), war to the uttermost, to the bitter end.

GULYÁS (Hung.), meat stewed with paprika or red pepper.

GUTTA CAVAT LAPIDEM (L.), the drop wears away the stone.



HAC LEGE (L.), with this law, under this condition.

HAFNIA (L.), Copenhagen.

HALA (L.), Halle.

HANC VENIAM PETIMUSQUE DAMUSQUE VICISSIM (L.), we ask and grant this
liberty turn about.

HANNIBAL AD PORTAS! (L.), Hannibal at the gates!

HAPAX LEGOMENON (Gr.), a word or phrase that occurs once only; a solitary
instance.

HAUD LONGIS INTERVALLIS (L.), at no long intervals.

HAUT ET BON (Fr.), great and good.

HEIMWEH (Ger.), home-sickness.

HELLUO LIBRORUM (L.), a devourer of books.

HEU PIETAS! HEU PRISCA FIDES! (L.), alas for piety! alas for the ancient
faith!

HEUREUSEMENT (Fr.), happily, fortunately.

HIATUS VALDE DEFIENDUS (L.), a gap deeply to be deplored.

HIC ET UBIQUE (L.), here and everywhere.

HIC FINIS FANDI (L.), here [was] an end of the speaking.

HIC JACET (L.), here lies.

HIC LABOR, HOC OPUS EST (L.), this is the labour, this the toil.

HIC SEPULTUS (L.), here buried.

HINC ILLÆ LACRIMÆ (L.), hence [proceed] these tears.

HINC LUCEM ET POCULA SACRA (L.), from this source [we draw] light and
draughts of sacred learning.

HOC AGE (L.), this do.

HOC ANNO (L.), in this year.

HOC ERAT IN VOTIS (L.), this was the very thing I prayed for.

HOC GENUS OMNE (L.), and all that sort [of people].

HOCH (Ger.), _lebe hoch!_ your health! [in drinking].

HOC LOCO (L.), in this place.

HOC SAXUM POSUIT (L.), this stone [T. D.] placed.

HOC TEMPORE (L.), at this time.

HOC VOLO, SIC JUBEO, SIT PRO RATIONE VOLUNTAS (L.), this I will, thus I
command, be my will sufficient reason.

HODIE MIHI, CRAS TIBI (L.), to-day is mine, to-morrow thine.

HOFRATH (Ger.), an Aulic councillor: a complimentary title.

HOI POLLOI (Gr.), the many; the rabble: the vulgar.

HOLMIA (L.), Stockholm.

HOMINIBUS PLENUM, AMICIS VACUUM (L.), full of men, empty of friends.

HOMINIS EST ERRARE (L.), it belongs to man to err.

HOMME D'AFFAIRES (Fr.), business man: agent: steward; HOMME DE BIEN, man of
worth, good man; HOMME DE COUR, courtier; HOMME DE FORTUNE, fortunate man:
rich man; HOMME DE LETTRES, man of letters; HOMME DE PAILLE, man of straw;
HOMME D'ÉPÉE, military man; HOMME DE ROBE, a lawyer; HOMME D'ESPRIT, a man
of wit; HOMME D'ÉTAT, a statesman; HOMME DU MONDE, man of fashion.

HOMO ALIENI JURIS (L.), one under control of another.

HOMO ANTIQUÂ VIRTUTE AC FIDE (L.), a man of the antique virtue and loyalty.

HOMO HOMINI LUPUS (L.), man is a wolf to man.

HOMO MULTARUM LITTERARUM (L.), a man of many literary accomplishments.

HOMO NULLIUS COLORIS (L.), a man of no colour, one who does not commit
himself.

HOMO SUI JURIS (L.), one who is his own master.

HOMO SUM: HUMANI NIHIL A ME ALIENUM PUTO (L.), I am a man; I count nothing
human indifferent to me. [Said by a Paul Pry in Terence, _Heaut._ I. i.
25.]

HOMO TRIUM LITTERARUM (L.), man of three letters--i.e. _fur_ = thief.

HOMO UNIUS LIBRI (L.), a man of one book.

HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE (O. Fr.), the shame be his who thinks ill of
it--the motto of the Order of the Garter.

HONNEUR ET PATRIE (Fr.), honour and native land.

HONORES MUTANT MORES (L.), honours change [men's] manners.

HONORIS CAUSÂ [GRATIÂ] (Late L.), for the sake of honour, as honorary.

HONOR VIRTUTIS PRÆMIUM (L.), honour is the reward of virtue.

HONOS ALIT ARTES (L.), honour nourishes the arts.

HONOS HABET ONUS (L.), honour has its burden.

HORÆ CANONICÆ (L.), the canonical hours.

HORÆ SUBSECIVÆ (Late L.), leisure hours.

HORA FUGIT (L.), the hour flies.

HORAS NON NUMERO NISI SERENAS (L.), I number none but shining hours.

HORRESCO REFERENS (L.), I shudder in relating.

HORRIBILE DICTU (L.), horrible to relate.

HORS DE COMBAT (Fr.), unfit to fight, disabled.

HORS CONCOURS (Fr.), outside competition.

HORS LA LOI (Fr.), in outlawry, outlawed.

HORS DE PROPOS (Fr.), aside from the purpose.

HORS DE SAISON (Fr.), out of season.

HORTUS SICCUS (L.), a collection of dried plants.

HOSTIS HONORI INVIDIA (L.), an enemy's hatred is an honour.

HOSTIS HUMANI GENERIS (L.), enemy of the human race.

HÔTEL DES INVALIDES (Fr.), Hospital for Invalids--the name of a hospital
for disabled soldiers in Paris, founded in 1670.

HÔTEL-DIEU (Fr.), the House of God, a hospital.

HÔTEL GARNI (Fr.), a furnished town house.

HUISSIER (Fr.), doorkeeper, usher: bailiff.

HUMANUM EST ERRARE (L.), to err is human.

HURTAR PARA DAR POR DIOS (Sp.), to steal in order to give to God.



IBIDEM (L.), in the same place, thing, or case.

ICH DIEN (Ger.), I serve.

ICI (Fr.), here--i.e. here is a W.C.

ICI ON PARLE FRANÇAIS (Fr.), here French is spoken.

IDÉE FIXE (Fr.), a fixed idea, a monomania.

IDEM (L.), the same.

IDEM SONANS (L.), sounding the same.

IDEM VELLE ATQUE IDEM NOLLE (L.), to like and to dislike the same things.

ID EST (L.), that is, often I.E.

ID GENUS OMNE (L.), all that class or kind.

IESUS HOMINIM SALVATOR (L.), Jesus Saviour of men.

IGNORATIO ELENCHI (L.), ignoring the point in question, the fallacy of
arguing to the wrong point.

IGNORATIO LEGIS NEMINEM EXCUSAT (L.), ignorance of the law excuses nobody.

IGNOTI NULLA CUPIDO (L.), for a thing unknown there is no desire.

IGNOTUM PER IGNOTIUS (L.), the unknown by the still more unknown.

IGRAN DOLORI SONO MUTI (It.), great griefs are mute.

IL A INVENTÉ L'HISTOIRE (Fr.), he has invented history.

IL A LE DIABLE AU CORPS (Fr.), the devil is in him.

IL A LES DÉFAUTS DE SES QUALITÉS (Fr.), he has the defects which go with
the good qualities he has.

IL DOLCI FAR NIENTI (It.), the sweet state of do-nothing.

IL FAUT DE L'ARGENT (Fr.), money is necessary.

IL FAUT LAVER SON LINGE SALE EN FAMILLE (Fr.), one should wash one's foul
linen within the family, in private, at home.

ILIAS MALORUM (L.), an Iliad of woes.

ILLE CRUCEM SCELERIS PRETIUM TULIT, HIC DIADEMA (L.), that man got a cross,
this man a crown, as the price of his crime.

ILLE TERRARUM MIHI PRÆTER OMNES ANGULUS RIDET (L.), that corner of the
earth to me smiles sweetest of all.

ILLUSTRISSIMO (It.), most illustrious.

IL MEGLIO È L'INIMICO DEL BENE (It.), the better is the enemy of the well.

IL N'Y A PAS À DIRE (Fr.), there is nothing to be said.

IL N'Y A PAS QUE LE PREMIER PAS QUI COÛTE (Fr.), it is only the first step
that is difficult.

IL PENSEROSO (It.), the pensive man.

ILS N'ONT RIEN APPRIS NI RIEN OUBLIÉ (Fr.), they have learned nothing and
forgotten nothing [said of the French _Emigrés_, often of the Bourbons].

IMPAR CONGRESSUS ACHILLI (L.), unequally matched against Achilles.

IMPASSE (Fr.), a cul-de-sac, an insoluble difficulty.

IMPAYABLE (Fr.), invaluable.

IMPEDIMENTA (L.), luggage in travelling: the baggage of an army.

IMPERIUM ET LIBERTAS (L.), empire and liberty.

IMPERIUM IN IMPERIO (L.), a government within another.

IN ABSTRACTO (Late L.), in the abstract.

IN ARTICULO MORTIS (L.), at the point of death.

IN BANCO REGIS (Late L.), in the King's Bench.

IN BIANCO (It.), in blank, in white.

IN CAMERÂ (Late L.), in a [judge's private] room.

IN CAPITE (Late L.), in chief, by direct grant from the Crown.

INCIDIS IN SCYLLAM CUPIENS VITARE CHARYBDIM (L.), you fall into Scylla
trying to avoid Charybdis.

IN COMMENDAM (Late L.). See under _Commend_ in Dict.

IN CONTUMACIAM (Late L.), as an act of contumacy.

IN DELICIIS (L.), as favourites.

IN DEPOSITO (Late L.), for a pledge.

INDEX EXPURGATORIUS (L.), a list of prohibited books.

IN DOMINO (Late L.), in the Lord.

IN EQUILIBRIS (Late L.), in equilibrium.

IN ESSE (Late L.), in being, in fact.

IN EXCELSIS (Late L.), in the highest, at the highest point.

IN EXTENSO (Late L.), at full length.

IN EXTREMIS (Late L.), at the point of death.

INFIMA SPECIES (Late L.), the lowest species included in a genus or class.

IN FLAGRANTI DELICTO (L.), in the very act of committing the crime.

IN FORMÂ PAUPERIS (L.), as a poor man.

IN FORO CONSCIENTIÆ (L.), in the court of conscience: judged by one's own
conscience.

INFRA DIGNITATEM (L.), below one's dignity.

INGÉNU, INGÉNUE (Fr.), a young man or woman of exceptional simplicity.

IN GREMIO (Late L), in the bosom.

IN HOC SIGNO VINCES (L.), in this sign thou wilt conquer--i.e. in the Cross
[the motto of Constantine the Great].

IN LIMINE (L.), on the threshold.

IN LOCO PARENTIS (L.), in the place of a parent.

IN MAGNIS ET VOLUISSE SAT EST (L.), in great things even to have wished to
try is enough.

IN MALEM PARTEM (L.), in an unfavourable manner.

IN MEDIAS RES (L.), into the midst of things.

IN MEMORIAM (L.), to the memory of: in memory.

IN NUBIBUS (L.), in the clouds.

IN PACE (L.), in peace.

IN PARTIBUS INFIDELIUM (L.), in unbelieving countries--where there are no
strictly territorial Catholic dioceses.

IN PETTO (It.), within the breast: in reserve.

IN POSSE (Late L.), in potential existence: in possibility.

IN PROPRIÂ PERSONÂ (Late L.), in person.

IN PURIS NATURALIBUS (Late L.), quite naked.

IN RE (L.), in the matter of.

IN RERUM NATURÂ (L.), in nature.

IN SECULA SECULORUM (L.), for ever and ever.

IN SITU (L.), in its original situation.

INSTAR OMNIUM (L.), worth all the rest.

IN STATU PUPILLARI (Late L.), in a state of wardship.

IN STATU QUO (Late L.), in the former state.

INSULA or INSULÆ (L.), Lille.

INTEGER VITÆ SCELERISQUE PURUS (L.), blameless in life and clear of crime.

INTER ALIA (L.), among other things;--inter alios, among other persons.

INTER ARMA SILENT LEGES (L.), amid wars laws are silent.

INTÉRIEUR (Fr.), interior, home, inside.

INTER NOS (L.), between ourselves.

INTER POCULA (L.), over one's cups.

IN TERROREM (L.), as a warning.

INTER SE (L.), amongst themselves.

IN TOTO (L.), in the whole: entirely.

INTRA MUROS (L.), within the walls.

IN TRANSITU (L.), on the passage.

IN USUM DELPHINI (L.), for the use of the Dauphin: toned down to suit the
young person.

IN UTRUMQUE PARATUS (L.), prepared for either alternative.

INVENIT (L.), [T.D.] devised [this].

IN VINO VERITAS (L.), in wine the truth [comes out].

INVITÂ MINERVÂ (L.), against the will of Minerva, against the grain.

IPSE DIXIT (L.), he himself said it: his mere word.

IPSISSIMA VERBA (L.), the very words.

IPSO FACTO (L.), in the fact itself: virtually.

IRA FUROR BREVIS EST (L.), rage is a brief madness.

ISPALIS (L.), Seville.

ITALIA IRREDENTA (It.), unredeemed Italy--the parts of Italy not yet freed
from foreign domination--South Tyrol, Dalmatia, Trieste, &c.

ITALICÈ (L.), in Italian.

ITERUM (L.), again.

IVRESSE (Fr.), drunkenness.



JACTA EST ALEA (L.), the die is cast.

JAM PROXIMUS ARDET UCALEGON (L.), already [the house of] our next-door
neighbour, Ucalegon, is in flames.

JE N'EN VOIS PAS LA NÉCESSITÉ! (Fr.), I don't see the necessity for that!
[said in reply to a man who pleaded, 'But one must live somehow'].

JE NE SAIS QUOI (Fr.), I know not what.

JET D'EAU (Fr.), a jet of water.

JEU DE MOTS (Fr.), a play on words: a pun.

JEU D'ESPRIT (Fr.), a witticism.

JEUNESSE DORÉE (Fr.), gilded youth, luxurious young fops.

JOCI CAUSÂ (L.), for the sake of the joke.

JUDEX DAMNATUR CUM NOCENS ABSOLVITUR (L.), the judge is condemned when the
guilty man is acquitted.

JUNGFERNBRATEN (Ger.), roast-pork with juniper-berries.

JUPITER PLUVIUS (L.), rain-bringing Jupiter: rainy weather.

JURE DIVINO (L.), by divine law.

JURE HUMANO (L.), by human law.

JURIS UTRIUSQUE DOCTOR (L.), doctor both of canon and of civil law.

JUS GLADII (L.), the right of the sword.

JUSTE MILIEU (Fr.), the just mean, the happy medium.

JUSTUM ET TENACEM PROPOSITI VIRUM (L.), a man upright and tenacious of
purpose.

J'Y SUIS, J'Y RESTE! (Fr.), here I am, and here I stay! [said by Macmahon
at the Malakoff].



KAISERFLEISCH (Ger.), smoked sucking-pig.

KAISERSCHMARN (Ger.), a pudding consisting of flour and eggs fried in lard.

KNÖDEL (Ger.), a ball of dough made of bread, eggs, flour, milk, and lard.

KREN (Ger.), horse-radish.

KT[=E]MA ES AEI (Gr.), a possession [to be kept] for ever.

KULTURKAMPF (Ger.), the war of culture [said by Virchow in 1873 of the
conflict between Bismarck and the Catholic Church].



LABORARE EST ORARE (L.), work is prayer.

LABORE ET HONORE (L.), by labour and honour.

LABOR IMPROBUS (L.), persistent, dogged labour.

LABOR IPSE VOLUPTAS (L.), labour itself is pleasure.

LABUNTUR ET IMPUTANTUR (L.), they [i.e. the moments] slip away and are laid
to our account [on sundials].

LÆSA MAJESTAS (L.), LÈSE MAJESTÉ (Fr.), injured majesty, treason.

LA GRANDE NATION (Fr.), the great nation--i.e. France.

L'ALLEGRO (It.), the merry, cheerful, man.

LANGAGE DES HALLES (Fr.), language of the market-places, billingsgate.

L'APPÉTIT VIENT EN MANGEANT (Fr.), appetite comes as you eat: the more you
get, the more you would have.

LA PROPRIÉTÉ C'EST LE VOL (Fr.), property is theft [from Proudhon].

LAPSUS CALAMI (L.), a slip of the pen.

LAPSUS LINGUÆ (L.), a slip of the tongue.

LAPSUS MEMORIÆ (L.), a slip of the memory.

LARES ET PENATES (L.), household gods.

LA REYNE LE VEULT (Norm Fr.), the Queen will it, the form expressing the
Queen's assent to a bill.

LASCIATE OGNI SPERANZA, VOI CH' ENTRATE (It.), abandon hope, all ye who
enter here [in Dante, the inscription over the gate of hell].

LAUDATOR TEMPORIS ACTI (L.), one who praises past times.

LAUS DEO (L.), praise to God.

L'AVENIR (Fr.), the future.

LE BEAU MONDE (Fr.), the fashionable world.

LECTOR BENEVOLE (L.), kind reader.

LE GÉNIE C'EST LA PATIENCE (Fr.), genius is patience.

LE GRAND MONARQUE (Fr.), the great king--i.e. Louis XIV.

LEITMOTIF (Ger.), a representation theme used to indicate a certain person,
attribute, or idea, in an opera, oratorio, &c.

LE JEU NE VAUT PAS LA CHANDELLE (Fr.), the game is not worth the candle.

L'EMPIRE C'EST LA PAIX (Fr.), the empire means peace [said by Louis
Napoleon in 1852].

LEODICUM (L.), Liège.

LE PAS (Fr.), precedence in place or rank.

LE STYLE EST L'HOMME MÊME (Fr.), the style is the man himself [from
Buffon].

L'ÉTAT, C'EST MOI! (Fr.), the state? I am the state! [said by Louis XIV.].

LETTRE DE CACHET (Fr.), a sealed letter: a royal warrant for arrest and
imprisonment.

LETTRE DE CHANGE (Fr.), a bill of exchange.

LETTRE DE CRÉANCE (Fr.), letter of credit.

LETTRE DE MARQUE (Fr.), a letter of marque or of reprisal.

LEVER LE RIDEAU (Fr.), to raise the curtain.

LEX NON SCRIPTA (L.), unwritten law--i.e. the common law.

LEX SCRIPTA (L.), statute law.

LEX TALIONIS (L.), the law of retaliation.

LIBERAVI ANIMUM MEUM (L.), I have cleared my mind.

LIBRAIRE (Fr.), a bookseller.

LICENTIA VATUM (L.), poetical license.

LIMÆ LABOR (L.), the labour of the file, of polishing.

LIMBO PATRUM; LIMBUS INFANTUM (Late L.). See _Limbo_ in Dict.

LINGUA FRANCA (It.), the corrupt Italian once current in the Levant: the
mixed language spoken by Europeans in the East.

LIT DE JUSTICE (Fr.), bed of justice. See _Bed_ in Dict.

LITTERA SCRIPTA MANET (L.), what is written down is permanent.

LOCUM TENENS (L.), one occupying the place: a deputy or substitute.

LOCUS CLASSICUS (L.), the classical passage, the stock quotation.

LOCUS PÆNITENTIÆ (L.), room for penitence: time for repentance.

LOCUS STANDI (L.), a place for standing: a right to interfere.

LUCRI CAUSÂ (L.), for the sake of gain.

LUCUS A NON LUCENDO (L.), the grove [_lucus_] [is so named] from its _not_
shining--of a contradictory or incredible explanation.

LUDERE CUM SACRIS (L.), to trifle with sacred things.

LUGDUNUM (L.), Lyons.--LUGDUNUM BATAVORUM, Leyden.

LUPUS IN FABULÂ (L.), the wolf in the fable.

LUSUS NATURÆ (L.), a sport or freak of nature.

LUTETIA (L.), Paris.



MA CHÈRE (Fr.), my dear (fem.).

MA FOI (Fr.), upon my faith.

MAGNA EST VERITAS ET PRÆVALEBIT (L.), truth is great and will prevail
[better, ET PREVALET, and prevails].

MAGNI NOMINIS UMBRA (L.), the mere shadow of a mighty name.

MAGNUM BONUM (L.), a great good.

MAGNUM OPUS (L.), a great work.

MAISON DO VILLE (Fr.), a town-house.

MAÎTRE D'HÔTEL (Fr.), a house-steward, a hotel-keeper.

MALADIE DU PAYS (Fr.), home-sickness.

MALÂ FIDE (L.), with bad faith: treacherously.

MAL À PROPOS (Fr.), ill-timed.

MAL DE MER (Fr.), sea-sickness.

MALENTENDU (Fr.), a misunderstanding.

MALGRÉ NOUS (Fr.), in spite of us.

MANDAMUS (L.), we command: a writ or command issued by a higher court to a
lower.

MARIAGE DE CONVENANCE (Fr.), marriage from interest rather than love.

MASSILIA (L.), Marseilles.

MATERFAMILIAS (L.), the mother of a family.

MATERIA MEDICA (L.), medicines collectively: all substances used as
remedies: the science of their properties and use.

MATÉRIEL (Fr.), materials, esp. the baggage and munitions of an army.

MATINÉE (Fr.), a morning recital or performance.

MATRE PULCHRÂ FILIA PULCHRIOR (L.), a daughter fairer than her fair mother.

MAUVAISE HONTE (Fr.), false modesty, bashfulness.

MAUVAIS SUJET (Fr.), a bad subject: a worthless fellow;--MAUVAIS TON (Fr.),
bad style, bad form.

MAXIMA DEBETUR PUERO REVERENTIA (L.), the greatest reverence is due to the
boy--i.e. to the innocence of his age.

MEÂ CULPÂ (Late L.), by my own fault.

MEA VIRTUTE ME INVOLVO (L.), I wrap myself in my virtue [as in a cloak].

MEDEN AGAN! (Gr.), [let there be] nothing in excess!

MEDIOLANUM (L.), Milan.

MEDIO TUTISSIMUS IBIS (L.), thou wilt go safest in the middle.

MEGA BIBLION, MEGA KAKON (Gr.), big book, great evil.

ME JUDICE (L.), I being judge, in my opinion.

MÉLANGE (Fr.), a mixture: coffee with milk.

MÊLÉE (Fr.), a confused scuffle: a hot debate.

MEMENTO MORI (L.), remember that you must die.

MEMORABILIA (L.), things to be remembered.

MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO (L.), a sound mind in a sound body.

MENS SIBI CONSCIA RECTI (L.), a mind conscious of rectitude.

MEO PERICULO (L.), at my own risk.

MERUM SAL (L.), pure salt, genuine Attic wit.

MÉSALLIANCE (Fr.), marriage with one of lower station.

MESQUIN, fem. MESQUINE (Fr.), mean;--MESQUINERIE, meanness.

MESSIEURS (Fr.), sirs, gentlemen.

MEUM ET TUUM (L.), mine and thine.

MIRABILE DICTU (L.), wonderful to tell.

MIRABILE VISU (L.), wonderful to see.

MIRABILIA (L.), wonders.

MISE EN SCÈNE (Fr.), the get-up for the stage.

MODUS (L.), manner, mode.

MODUS OPERANDI (L.), plan of working: mode of operation;--MODUS VIVENDI, a
way or mode of living: an arrangement or compromise by means of which
persons or parties differing greatly are enabled to get on together for a
time.

MOGUNTIACUM (L.), Mainz.

MON AMI (Fr.), my friend.

MON CHER (Fr.), my dear.

MONSIEUR (Fr.), sir, Mr.

MONT-DE-PIÉTÉ (Fr.), a pawnbroking shop established by public
authority.--It. _monte di pietà_.

MORCEAU (Fr.), a morsel: fragment: piece of music.

MORE HIBERNICO (L.), after the Irish fashion.

MORE MAJORUM (L.), after the manner of our ancestors.

MORE SUO (L.), in his own way.

MOTIVÉ (Fr.), supported by a statement of reasons.

MOTU PROPRIO (L.), of his own accord.

MUET COMME UN POISSON (Fr.), mute as a fish.

MULTUM IN PARVO (L.), much in little.

MULTUM NON MULTA (L.), much, not many things.

MUTATIS MUTANDIS (L.), with necessary changes.

MUTATO NOMINE (L.), the name being changed.

MUTUUS CONSENSUS (L.), mutual consent.



NAISSANCE (Fr.), birth.

NATALE SOLUM (L.), natal soil.

NATURAM EXPELLAS FURCÂ, TAMEN USQUE RECURRET (L.), though you drive out
nature with a pitchfork [i.e. with violence], yet will she always return.

NEAPOLIS (L.), Naples.

NEC CUPIAS, NEC METUAS (L.), neither desire nor fear.

NE CEDE MALIS (L.), yield not to misfortune.

NÉCESSAIRE (Fr.), a dressing-case, work-box.

NECESSITAS NON HABET LEGEM (L.), necessity has, or knows, no law.

NEC SCIRE FAS EST OMNIA (L.), it is not permitted to know all things.

NÉE (Fr.), born So-and-so: her maiden name being So-and-so, as Madame de
Staël, née Necker.

NE EXEAT (L.), let him not depart.

NEMINE CONTRADICENTE (L.; often NEM. CON.), without opposition: no one
speaking in opposition.

NEMINE DISSENTIENTE (L.), no one dissenting.

NEMO ME IMPUNE LACESSIT (L.), no one hurts me with impunity--the motto of
Scotland.

NEMO REPENTE FIT TURPISSIMUS (L.), no one becomes utterly bad all at once.

NE PLUS ULTRA (L.), nothing further: the uttermost point or extreme
perfection of anything.

NE QUID NIMIS (L.), [let there be] nothing in excess.

NESCIS, MI FILI, QUANTILLA PRUDENTIA MUNDUS REGATUR (L.), you know not, my
son, with what a small stock of wisdom the world is governed.

NE SUTOR ULTRA CREPIDAM (L.), let not the cobbler go beyond his last.

NICHT WAHR? (Ger.), is it not true? isn't that so?

NIHIL AD REM (L.), nothing to the point.

NIHIL TETIGIT QUOD NON ORNAVIT, OR NULLUM QUOD TETIGIT NON ORNAVIT (L.), he
touched nothing without adorning it.

NIL ADMIRARI (L.), to wonder at nothing, to admire nothing, to be superior
and self-complacent.

NIL DESPERANDUM (L.), never despair.

N'IMPORTE (Fr.), it matters not.

NISI DOMINUS FRUSTRA (L.), unless the Lord [build the house, they labour]
in vain [that build it]--the motto of Edinburgh.

NISI PRIUS (L.), unless previously--a name [from the first words of the
writ] given to the jury sittings in civil cases.

NITOR IN ADVERSUM (L.), I strive against adverse circumstances.

NOBLESSE OBLIGE (Fr.), rank imposes obligations.

NOLENS VOLENS (L.), whether he will or not.

NOLI ME TANGERE (L.), don't touch me.

NOLLE PROSEQUI (L.), to be unwilling to prosecute.

NOLO EPISCOPARI (L.), I do not wish to be a bishop.

NOM DE GUERRE (Fr.), an assumed name: travelling title: pseudonym [NOM DE
PLUME is _not_ French].

NON COMPOS MENTIS (L.), not of sound mind.

NON EST INVENTUS (L.), he has not been found, he has disappeared.

NON MI RICORDO (It.), I don't remember.

NON MULTA, SED MULTUM (L.), not many things, but much.

NON OLET PECUNIA (L.), money does not stink--you can't tell how the money
has been acquired.

NON OMNIA POSSUMUS OMNES (L.), we cannot all do everything.

NON OMNIS MORIAR (L.), I shall not wholly die.

NON TALI AUXILIO (L.), not with such aid [should it be done].

NOSCE TEIPSUM (L.), know thyself.

NOTRE-DAME (Fr.), Our Lady.

NOUS AVONS CHANGÉ TOUT CELA (Fr.), we have changed all that--from Molière.

NOUS VERRONS (Fr.), we shall see.

NOUVEAUX RICHES (Fr.), persons who have but lately acquired wealth,
upstarts.

NULLA DIES SINE LINEÂ (L.), no day without a line, without writing a
little.

NULLA NUOVA, BUONA NUOVA (It.), no news is good news.

NULLI SECUNDUS (L.), second to none.

NULLIUS ADDICTUS JURARE IN VERBA MAGISTRI (L.), bound to swear to the words
of no master, to follow no one blindly or slavishly.

NUNC EST BIBENDUM (L.), now it is time to drink.



OBERS (Ger.), cream.

OBIIT (L.), he, or she, died.

OBITER (L.), by the way, cursorily;--OBITER DICTUM, pl. OBITER DICTA,
something said by the way, a cursory remark.

OBSCURUM PER OBSCURIUS (L.), [explaining] the obscure by means of the more
obscure.

OBSERVANDA (L.), things to be observed.

OBSTA PRINCIPIIS (L.), resist the first beginnings.

OCTROI (Fr.), duties paid at the gate of a city.

ODERINT DUM METUANT (L.), let them hate so long as they fear.

ODI PROFANUM VULGUS (L.), I loathe the profane rabble.

ODIUM THEOLOGICUM (L.), the hatred of theologians--of theological
controversy.

OEIL DE BOEUF (Fr.), a bull's eye.

OENIPONS (L.), Innsbruck.

OEUVRES (Fr.), works.

OLIM MEMINISSE JUVABIT (L.), it will sometime be a pleasure to remember
[these trials].

OLISIPO, ULYSSIPO, ULYSSIPOLIS (L.), Lisbon.

OMNE IGNOTUM PRO MAGNIFICO (L.), everything unknown [is taken to be]
magnificent.

OMNE TULIT PUNCTUM QUI MISCUIT UTILE DULCI (L.), he scored every point who
combined the useful with the sweet.

OMNIA MUTANTUR, ET NOS MUTAMUR IN ILLIS (L.), all things change, and we
change with them.

OMNIA VINCIT AMOR, NOS ET CEDAMUS AMORI (L.), love overcomes all things,
and even we succumb to love.

ON DIT (Fr.), they say, hence a flying rumour.

ORA ET LABORA (L.), pray and labour.

ORA PRO NOBIS (L.), pray for us.

ORE ROTUNDO (L.), with round, full voice.

O SANCTA SIMPLICITAS! (L.), O sacred simplicity!

O! SI SIC OMNIA (L.), O would that all [had been done or said] thus!

O TEMPORA! O MORES! (L.), O the times! O the manners!--i.e. what sad times!
what dreadful doings!

OTIA DANT VITIA (L.), idleness begets vice.

OTIUM CUM DIGNITATE (L.), dignified leisure.

OUVERT, fem. OUVERTE (Fr.), open.

OUVRAGE (Fr.), a work.

OUVRIERS (Fr.), operatives, workpeople.

OXONIA (L.), Oxford.



PACE (L.), by leave of;--PACE TUÂ, by your leave.

PACTUM ILLICITUM (L.), an illegal compact.

PADRONE (It.), ruler: protector: master.

PALLIDA MORS (L.), pale death.

PALMAM QUI MERUIT FERAT (L.), let him who has won the palm wear it.

PANEM ET CIRCENSES! (L.), [give us] bread and circus-games! [the cry of the
Roman populace]: beer and skittles.

PÁPRIKA (Hung.), pepper.

PARCERE SUBJECTIS ET DEBELLARE SUPERBOS (L.), to spare the vanquished and
put down the proud.

PARERGON (Gr.), something done by-the-bye.

PAR EXCELLENCE (Fr.), by way of eminence.

PAR EXEMPLE (Fr.), for example.

PARI PASSU (L.), with equal pace: together.

PAR NOBILE FRATRUM (L.), a noble pair of brothers.

PARTICEPS CRIMINIS (L.), an accomplice.

PARTURIUNT MONTES, NASCETUR RIDICULUS MUS (L.), the mountains are in
travail, an absurd mouse will be the outcome.

PARVIS COMPONERE MAGNA (L.), to compare great things with small.

PATER PATRIÆ (L.), the father of his country.

PATH[=E]MATA MATH[=E]MATA (Gr.), sufferings [are] lessons.

PENSION (Fr.), board paid, a boarding-house.

PER ASPERA AD ASTRA (L.), to the stars by rough roads. through bolts and
bars.

PEREUNT ET IMPUTANTUR (L.), [the moments, hours] pass away and are reckoned
to our account.

PER FAS ET NEFAS (L.), through right and wrong.

PERSONNEL (Fr.), the persons employed in any service as distinguished from
the _matériel_.

PER TOT DISCRIMINA RERUM (L.), through so many crises of fortune.

PETROPOLIS (L.), St Petersburg.

PIA DESIDERIA (L.), pious regrets.

PIA FRAUS (L.), pious fraud.

PIÈCE DE RÉSISTANCE (Fr.), the substantial course at dinner, the joint.

PIED-À-TERRE (Fr.), temporary lodging.

PINXIT (L.), [T. D.] painted [this].

PIS ALLER (Fr.), the last or worst shift, a make-shift.

PLENO JURE (L.), with full authority.

POETA NASCITUR, NON FIT (L.), the poet is born, not made.

POINT D'APPUI (Fr.), point of support: prop.

POPULUS VULT DECIPI (L.), the people wish to be fooled.

POSCIMUR (L.), we are called on [to sing, &c.].

POSSE COMITATUS (L.), the power of the county [called by the sheriff to
quell a riot].

POSTE RESTANTE (Fr.), a department in a post-office, in which letters so
addressed are kept to be called for.

POST HOC, ERGO PROPTER HOC (L.), after this, therefore because of this [a
fallacious reasoning].

POST MORTEM (L.), after death.

POST OBITUM (L.), after death.

POUR FAIRE RIRE (Fr.), to raise a laugh.

POUR PASSER LE TEMPS (Fr.), to pass away the time.

POUR PRENDRE CONGÉ, or P.P.C. (Fr.), to take leave.

PRESCRIPTUM (L.), a thing prescribed.

PREUX CHEVALIER (Fr.), a brave knight.

PRIMÂ FACIE (L.), on the first view.

PRIMO (L.), in the first place.

PRO ARIS ET FOCIS (L.), for altars and firesides: for faith and home.

PROFANUM VULGUS (L.), the profane rabble.

PROH PUDOR! (L.), oh, for shame!

PROJET DE LOI (Fr.), a legislative bill.

PRO MEMORIÂ (L.), for a memorial.

PRO PATRIÂ (L.), for our country.

PRO RE NATÂ (L.), for a special emergency, according to the circumstances.

PRO TANTO (L.), for so much.

PRO TEMPORE (L.), for the time being.

PROXIME ACCESSIT (L.), he came next [to the prizeman].

PUBLICÈ (L.), publicly.

PULVIS ET UMBRA SUMUS (L.), we are dust and a shadow.

PUNICA FIDES (L.), Punic or Carthaginian faith--i.e. treachery.



QUÆRE (L.), inquire.

QUÆRITUR (L.), the question is asked.

QUALIS AB INCEPTO (L.), as from the beginning.

QUAMDIU SE BENE GESSERIT (L.), during good behaviour.

QUANTUM MUTATUS AB ILLO! (L.), how much changed from what he was!

QUE DIABLE ALLAIT-IL FAIRE DANS CETTE GALÈRE? (Fr.), what the devil was he
doing in that galley? [from Molière's _Les Fourberies de Scapin_].

QUEM DEUS PERDERE VULT, PRIUS DEMENTAT (L.), whom a god wishes to destroy,
he first makes mad.

QUE SAIS-JE? (Fr.), how do I know? and what not.

QUE VOULEZ-VOUS? (Fr.), what would you have?

QUICQUID DELIRANT REGES PLECTUNTUR ACHIVI (L.), whatever madness possesses
the chiefs, it is [the common soldiers or people of] the Achæans who
suffer.

QUID DESIDERIO SIT PUDOR AUT MODUS? (L.), why should there be shame or
stint in regret for the loss of one so dear?

QUID RIDES? (L.), why do you laugh?

QUIETA NON MOVERE (L.), things that are at rest not to move--to let
sleeping dogs lie.

QUIS CUSTODIET IPSOS CUSTODES? (L.), who will watch the watchers?

QUI S'EXCUSE S'ACCUSE (Fr.), he who excuses himself accuses himself.

QUIS SEPARABIT? (L.), who shall separate [us]?

QUI TACET CONSENTIT (L.), who keeps silence consents.

QUI VA LÀ? (Fr.), who goes there?

QUOD AVERTAT DEUS! (L.), which may God avert!

QUOD BONUM, FELIX, FAUSTUMQUE SIT (L.), may this be right, happy, and of
good omen.

QUOD ERAT DEMONSTRANDUM (L.), or Q.E.D., which was to be proved or
demonstrated.

QUOD ERAT FACIENDUM (L.), or Q.E.F., which was to be done.

QUOD HOC SIBI VULT? (L.), what does this mean?

QUOD VIDE (L.), which see.

QUO JURE? (L.), by what right?

QUORUM PARS MAGNA FUI (L.), in which I bore a great share.

QUOT HOMINES, TOT SENTENTIÆ (L.), as many men, so many minds (Terence's
_Phormio_).

QUOUSQUE TANDEM, O CATILINA? (L.), to what length, then, O Catiline, [are
you resolved to go]? [from Cicero's oration against Catiline].



RABAT (in mod. Fr. _rabais_), reduction of price.

RAGIONE (It.), a commercial company, a firm.

RARA AVIS (L.), a rare bird, a prodigy.

RARI NANTES IN GURGITE VASTO (L.), here and there [some] swimming in a vast
whirlpool.

REALSCHULEN (Ger.), secondary schools in Germany, giving a general
practical training.

RÉCHAUFFÉ (Fr.), warmed over, as food; hence stale, insipid.

REÇU (Fr.), received: receipt.

RECULER POUR MIEUX SAUTER (Fr.), to draw back to take a better leap.

REDOLET LUCERNÂ (L.), it smells of the lamp.

RE GALANTUOMO (It.), the gallant king [said of Victor Emmanuel].

REGIOMONTIUM (L.), Königsberg.

REICHSTAG (Ger.), the Imperial Diet of Germany.

RELÂCHE (Fr.), intermission: no performance: relaxation.

RELIGIO LOCI (L.), the religious spirit of the place.

REM ACU TETIGISTI (L.), you have touched the thing with a needle: you have
hit it exactly.

RENOMMÉE (Fr.), renown.

RENTES (Fr.), funds bearing interest: stocks.

RÉPONSE, S'IL VOUS PLAÎT, or R.S.V.P. (Fr.), reply, if you please, an
answer will oblige.

REQUIESCAT IN PACE! or R.I.P. (L.), may he [or she] rest in peace!

RES ANGUSTA DOMI (L.), narrow circumstances at home, poverty.

RES GESTÆ (L.), exploits.

RESPICE FINEM (L.), look to the end.

RÉSUMÉ (Fr.), an abstract or summary.

RESURGAM (L.), I shall rise again.

REVENONS À NOS MOUTONS (Fr.), let us return to our sheep: let us return to
our subject.

RÉVERBÈRE (Fr.), a reflector, street-lamp.

RÊVEUR, fem. RÊVEUSE (Fr.), a day-dreamer.

RIFACIMENTO (It.), restatement, recast.

RISUM TENEATIS, AMICI? (L.), could you keep from laughing, friends?

ROMA LOCUTA, CAUSA FINITA (L.), Rome has spoken, the cause is ended.

ROTOMAGUS (L.), Rouen.

RUAT COELUM (L.), let the heavens fall.

RUDIS INDIGESTAQUE MOLES (L.), a rude and shapeless mass.

RUIT MOLE SUÂ (L.), it falls by its own weight.

RUSE CONTRE RUSE (Fr.), cunning against cunning, diamond cut diamond.

RUSE DE GUERRE (Fr.), a stratagem of war.

RUS IN URBE (L.), the country in town.



SALLE (Fr.), a hall.

SALVO JURE (L.), the right being safe.

SANCTA SIMPLICITAS (L.), holy simplicity, child-like innocence.

SANS CÉRÉMONIE (Fr.), without ceremony.

SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE (Fr.), without fear and without reproach.

SANS PHRASE (Fr.), without phrases [of courtesy], without formalities,
without any more talk.

SANS SOUCI (Fr.), without care.

SAPERE AUDE (L.), dare to be wise.

SARTOR RESARTUS (L.), the tailor done over.

SARUM (L.), Salisbury.

SATIS VERBORUM (L.), enough of words.

SAT SAPIENTI (L.), enough for the wise: a nod to the wise.

SAUVE QUI PEUT (Fr.), save himself who can--devil take the hindmost.

SCHNITZEL (Ger.), a cutlet [of veal].

SCULPSIT (L.), [T. D.] sculptured [this].

SECUNDUM ORDINEM (L.), in order.

SELON LES RÈGLES (Fr.), according to the rules.

SEMPER IDEM (L.), always the same.

SEMPER PARATUS (L.), always ready.

SE NON È VERO, È BEN TROVATO (It.), if it is not true, it is cleverly
invented.

SERVUS SERVORUM DEI (L.), a servant of the servants of God [a title adopted
by the popes].

SIC ITUR AD ASTRA (L.), such is the way to the stars, to fame.

SIC TRANSIT GLORIA MUNDI (L.), so passes away earthly glory.

SIC VOLO, SIC JUBEO (L.), thus I will, thus I command.

SIC VOS NON VOBIS (L.), thus you [toil] not for yourselves.

SILENT LEGES. See _inter arma_.

SIMILIA SIMILIBUS CURANTUR (L.), like things are cured by like--a hair of
the dog that bit one.

SI MONUMENTUM REQUIRIS, CIRCUMSPICE (L.), if you seek [his] monument, look
round you [inscription for the architect Christopher Wren's tomb in St
Paul's].

SINE IRÂ ET STUDIO (L.), without ill-will and without favour.

SISTE, VIATOR! (L.), stop, traveller!

SI VIS PACEM, PARA BELLUM (L.), if you wish peace, be ready for war.

SOLVENTUR RISU TABULÆ (L.), the bills will be dismissed with laughter--you
will be laughed out of court.

SOLVITUR AMBULANDO (L.), [the problem] is solved by walking--by practical
experiment.

S'ORIENTER (Fr.), to take one's bearings.

SPERO MELIORA (L.), I hope for better things.

SPLENDIDE MENDAX (L.), splendidly false [for a good purpose]--lying in
state.

SPONTE SUÂ (L.), of one's own accord.

SPRETÆ INJURIA FORMÆ (L.), the insult of beauty slighted.

STANS PEDE IN UNO (L.), standing on one foot.

STAT PRO RATIONE VOLUNTAS (L.), my will stands in place of reason.

STATUS QUO (L.), the state in which.

STET FORTUNA DOMUS! (L.), may the fortune of the house long last!

STURM UND DRANG (Ger.), storm and stress.

SUAVITER IN MODO, FORTITER IN RE (L.), gentle in manner, resolute in deed.

SUB JUDICE (L.), under consideration.

SUB POENÂ (L.), under a penalty.

SUB ROSÂ (L.), under the rose: privately.

SUB SPECIE (L.), under the appearance of.

SUB VOCE (L.), under that head.

SUCCÈS D'ESTIME (Fr.), a success of esteem or approval [if not profit].

SUGGESTIO FALSI (L.), suggestion of something false.

SUI GENERIS (L.), of its own kind, peculiar.

SUMMUM BONUM (L.), the chief good.

SUNT LACRIMÆ RERUM (L.), there are tears for things [unhappy].

SURSUM CORDA (L.), lift up your hearts [to God].

SURTOUT, PAS DE ZÈLE! (Fr.), above all, no zeal!

SUTOR NE SUPRA CREPIDAM JUDICARET (L.), let not the cobbler venture above
his last.

SUUM CUIQUE (L.), to each his own--let each have his own.



TABULA RASA (L.), a smooth or blank tablet.

TÆDIUM VITÆ (L.), weariness of life.

TACENT, SATIS LAUDANT (L.), their silence is praise enough.

TANTÆ MOLIS ERAT ROMANAM CONDERE GENTEM (L.), a task of such difficulty was
it to found the Roman race.

TANTÆNE ANIMIS COELESTIBUS IRÆ? (L.), are there such violent passions in
celestial minds?

TANT MIEUX (Fr.), so much the better.

TANTO UBERIOR (L.), so much the richer.

TANT PIS (Fr.), so much the worse.

TARVISIUM (L.), Treviso.

TEMPORA MUTANTUR, NOS ET MUTAMUR IN ILLIS (L.), the times are changed, and
we with them.

TEMPOS EDAX RERUM (L.), time consumer of things.

TEMPUS FUGIT (L.), time flies.

TERRA INCOGNITA (L.), an unknown country.

TERTIUM QUID (L.), a third something.

THALATTA, THALATTA! (Gr.), the sea, the sea! [the exulting cry of
Xenophon's soldiers on catching sight of the sea].

TIMEO DANAOS ET DONA FERENTES (L.), I fear the Greeks, even when bringing
gifts.

TIRAGE À PART (Fr.), an off-print, or article reprinted separately from the
magazine, &c., in which it first appeared--the German _Abdruck_.

TOGA VIRILIS (L.), the garb of manhood.

TO KALON (Gr.), the beautiful: the chief good.

TORNACUM (L.), Tournay.

TOTIDEM VERBIS (L.), in just so many words.

TOTIES QUOTIES (L.), as often as.

TOTO COELO (L.), by the whole heavens: diametrically opposite.

TOTUS, TERES, ATQUE ROTUNDUS (L.), complete, smooth, and round.

TOUJOURS PERDRIX (Fr.), partridge every day--there may be too much even of
a good thing.

TOUR DE FORCE (Fr.), a feat of strength or skill.

TOUT AU CONTRAIRE (Fr.), quite the contrary.

TOUT À FAIT (Fr.), entirely.

TOUT À VOUS (Fr.), wholly yours.

TOUT ENSEMBLE (Fr.), the whole taken together: the broad or general effect.

TOUT EST PERDU HORS L'HONNEUR (Fr.), all is lost but honour [said by
Francis I. at Pavia].

TOUT LE MONDE (Fr.), all the world, everybody.

TRADUTTORE TRADITORE (It.), a translator is a traitor or betrayer:--pl.
TRADUTTORI TRADITORI.

TRAJECTUM or ULTRAJECTUM (L.), Utrecht.

TRECÆ or CIVITAS TRICASSINA (L.), Troyes.

TRIA JUNCTA IN UNO (L.), three in one.

TRIDENTUM (L.), Trent.

TU QUOQUE, BRUTE! (L.), and thou too, Brutus!



UBI BENE, IBI PATRIA (L.), where it goes well with me, there is my
fatherland.

UBIQUE (L.), everywhere.

ULTIMA RATIO REGUM (L.), the last argument of kings [war].

ULTIMA THULE (L.), the utmost boundary or limit.

ULTIMUS ROMANORUM (L.), the last of the Romans.

ULTRA VIRES (L.), beyond one's powers.

UND SO WEITER (Ger.), or U.S.W., and so forth.

USQUE AD NAUSEAM (L.), to disgust.

USUS LOQUENDI (L.), current usage of speech.

UTILE DULCI (L.), the useful with the agreeable.

UT INFRA (L.), as below.

UT SUPRA (L.), as above.



VADE IN PACE (L.), go in peace.

VADE MECUM (L.), go with me: a constant companion.

VÆ VICTIS! (L.), woe to the conquered.

VALE (L.), farewell.

VALET DE CHAMBRE (Fr.), an attendant: a footman.

VARIÆ LECTIONES (L.), various readings.

VARIORUM NOTÆ (L.), the notes of various authors.

VARIUM ET MUTABILE SEMPER FEMINA (L.), woman is ever fickle and changeable.

VAURIEN (Fr.), a worthless fellow, a rogue.

VEDI NAPOLI, E POI MUORI (L.), see Naples, and die.

VENI, VIDI, VICI (L.), I came, I saw, I conquered.

VERA INCESSU PATUIT DEA (L.), the true goddess stood revealed by her gait.

VERBATIM ET LITTERATIM (L.), word for word and letter for letter.

VERBUM SAPIENTI SAT EST (L.), a word is enough for a wise man--often
abbrev. _verb. sap._ and _verb. sat._

VERITAS ODIUM PARIT (L.), truth begets hatred.

VERSUS OR V. (L.), against: toward.

VESTIGIA (L.), tracks: vestiges.

VESTIGIA NULLA RETRORSUM (L.), no footprints backwards [at the lion's den]:
no going back.

VEXATA QUÆSTIO (L.), a disputed question.

VIÂ (L.), by way of.

VIA MEDIA (L.), a middle course.

VIA TRITA, VIA TUTA (L.), the beaten path is the safe path.

VICE (L.), in the place of.

VICE VERSÂ (L.), the terms being exchanged.

VIDELICET (L.), to wit, namely; usually shortened into VIZ.

VIDEO MELIORA PROBOQUE, DETERIORA SEQUOR (L.), I see the better course and
approve it, I follow the worse.

VI ET ARMIS (L.), by force and arms: by main force.

VIGILATE ET ORATE (L.), watch and pray.

VIRES ACQUIRIT EUNDO (L.), it gains strength as it goes.

VIRGILIUM VIDI TANTUM (L.), I just saw Virgil [and no more].

VIRGINIBUS PUERISQUE (L.), for maidens and boys--for the young person.

VIRTUS POST NUMMOS (L.), virtue after money--i.e. money first.

VIRTUTE OFFICII (Late L.), by virtue of office.

VIS A TERGO (L.), compulsion from behind.

VIS-À-VIS (Fr.), opposite: facing.

VIS COMICA (L.), comic power.

VIS INERTIÆ (L.), the power of inertia: passive resistance.

VITA BREVIS, ARS LONGA (L.), life is short, art is long.

VITA PATRIS (L.), or V.P., in the father's lifetime.

VITA SINE LITTERIS MORS EST (L.), life without literature is death.

VIVAT REGINA! (L.), long live the queen!

VIVAT REX! (L.), long live the king!

VIVÂ VOCE (L.), by the living voice: by oral testimony.

VIVE LA BAGATELLE! (quasi-French), long live folly!

VIVE LA RÉPUBLIQUE! (Fr.), long live the republic!

VIVE L'EMPEREUR! (Fr.), long live the emperor!

VIVE UT VIVAS (L.), live that you may live.

VIVE, VALEQUE! (L.), life and health to you!

VIXERE FORTES ANTE AGAMEMNONA (L.), brave heroes lived before Agamemnon.

VOGUE LA GALÈRE! (Fr.), forward, come what may!

VOILÀ (Fr.), behold: there is, or there are.

VOILÀ TOUT (Fr.), that is all.

VOITURE (Fr.), a carriage.

VOLAGE (Fr.), flighty, fickle, giddy.

VOLENTE DEO (L.), God willing.

VOLO, NON VALEO (L.), I am willing, but unable.

VOLTO SCIOLTO E PENSIERI STRETTI (It.), countenance open and thoughts
closed.

VOUS L'AVEZ VOULU, GEORGE DANDIN! (Fr.), you would have it so! [from
Molière's _George Dandin_].

VOX ET PRÆTEREA NIHIL (L.), a voice and nothing more.

VOX POPULI, VOX DEI (L.), the voice of the people is the voice of God.

VULGO (L.), commonly.



WAHRHEIT UND DICHTUNG (Ger.), truth and poetry.

WANDERJAHRE (Ger.), years of journeymanship.

WELI, WELY (Ar.), a Mohammedan saint.

WELTGEIST (Ger.), the world-spirit.

WELTSCHMERZ (Ger.), world-sorrow: sympathy with universal misery:
thorough-going pessimism.

WIENER SCHNITZEL (Ger.), a veal cutlet dressed with bread-crumbs and eggs.



XANTHIPPE (Gr.), a shrewish wife--from the wife of Socrates.

XERAFIN, XERAPHIM (Port.), a silver coin of Goa, worth about 1s. 5d.

XERES (Sp.), wine of Xeres, sherry.

XYSTUM, pl. XYSTA (L.--Gr.), a covered colonnade in a gymnasium, a shaded
walk in the garden of a Roman village.



YABOO (Pers.), an Afghan pony.

YAGHOURT, YAOORT (Turk.), a kind of cream cheese.



ZABETA (Ar.), a stated tariff.

ZABTIE, ZAPTIEH (Turk.), a Turkish policeman.

ZAMARRA, ZAMARRO (Sp.), a shepherd's sheepskin coat.

ZECCHIN. See _Sequin_ in Dict.

ZEITGEIST (Ger.), spirit [and tendency] of the times.

ZEITVERTREIB (Ger.), a pastime.

ZIF (Heb.), a Hebrew month, same as _Iyar_, which begins with the new moon
of April.

ZIKR (Ar.), a dervishes' circular dance.

ZOLLVEREIN (Ger.), the German Customs-League.

ZONAM PERDIDIT (L.), he has lost his purse, he is in needy circumstances.

ZONUM SOLVERE (L.), to loose the virgin zone.

Z[=O]ON POLITIKON (Gr.), a political animal [said of man].

ZUM BEISPIEL (Ger.), for example, often Z.B.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE METRIC OR FRENCH SYSTEM.

[Illustration]

MEASURES OF LENGTH.

The MÈTRE, the unit of length, is the ten-millionth part of a line drawn
from the Pole to the Equator.

  1 MÈTRE        = as above.
  1 DÉCAMÈTRE    =     10 mètres.
  1 HECTOMÈTRE   =    100   "
  1 KILOMÈTRE    =   1000   "
  1 MYRIAMÈTRE   = 10,000   "
  1 DECIMÈTRE    =   1/10th of a mètre.
  1 CENTIMÈTRE   =  1/100th     "
  1 MILLIMÈTRE   = 1/1000th     "
  The Greek prefixes (_deca_, _hecto_, _kilo_, _myria_) denote
      multiplication.
  The Latin prefixes (_deci_, _centi_, _milli_) denote division.

SQUARE MEASURE.

The ARE, the unit of surface measure, is a square the side of which is ten
mètres long.

  1 ARE        =   100 Square mètres.
  1 DECARE     =    10 ares.
  1 HECTARE    =   100  "
  1 DÉCIARE    =  1/10th of an are.
  1 CENTIARE   = 1/100th of an are,
    or, mètre carré (square mètre).

MEASURES OF WEIGHT.

The GRAMME, the unit of weight, is the _weight_ of a cubic centimètre of
distilled water at 4° Centigrade.

  1 GRAMME              = as above.
  1 DÉCAGRAMME          =     10 gram.
  1 HECTOGRAMME         =    100   "
  1 KILOGRAMME, or KILO =   1000   "
  1 MYRIAGRAMME         = 10,000   "
  1 DÉCIGRAMME          =   1/10th of a gram.
  1 CENTIGRAMME         =  1/100th     "
  1 MILLIGRAMME         = 1/1000th     "
     ½ kilogramme is called a livre.

MEASURES OF CAPACITY, DRY AND LIQUID.

The LITRE, the unit of the measures of capacity, dry and liquid, is the
_volume_ of a cubic decimètre.

  1 LITRE        = as above.
  1 DÉCALITRE    =     10 litres.
  1 HECTOLITRE   =    100   "
  1 DÉCILITRE    =   1/10th of a litre.
  1 CENTILITRE   =  1/100th      "
  1 MILLILITRE   = 1/1000th      "

MONEY.

  1 FRANC = 100 centimes.
            A franc = 5 grammes (4.5 silver, and .5 alloy).
  1 DÉCIME = 10 centimes.
  1 SOU    =  5     "

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH LINEAL MEASURES, &c. = BRITISH.

        _French_.       |                 _British_.
        LINEAL.         |
  MILLIMÈTRE            |   0.0394 inch.
  CENTIMÈTRE            |   0.3937   "           or less than half an inch.
  DÉCIMÈTRE             |   3.937  inches           nearly 4 inches.
  MÈTRE                 |  39.3708   "              about 3 feet 3 inches.
  HECTOMÈTRE            |   0.0621 mile               "  1/16th of a mile.
  KILOMÈTRE             |   0.6214   "              8 kilomètres = 5 miles.
                        |
        SQUARE.         |
  CENTIARE              |   1.196 square yard    or 1-1/5th square yard.
  ARE                   |   3.954 poles             40½ ares = 1 acre.
  HECTARE               |   2.471 acres             nearly 2½ acres.

BRITISH LINEAL MEASURES, &c. = FRENCH.

        _British_.                             _French_.
       LINEAL.          |
  INCH                  |  25.399 millimètres.
  FOOT                  |  30.479 centimètres.
  YARD                  |   0.914 mètre.
  CHAIN [22 yards]      |  20.116 mètres.
  FURLONG [10 chains]   | 201.164    "
  MILE                  |   1.609 kilomètre.    5 miles = 8 kilomètres,
                        |                                   nearly.
                        |
       SQUARE.          |
  SQUARE FOOT           |    9.29  square décimètres.
  ACRE                  |    0.405 hectare     or about 40 ares.
  SQUARE MILE           |    2.599 square kilomètres    100 square miles =
                                                        260 sq. kilomètres.

       *       *       *       *       *


FRENCH WEIGHTS = BRITISH.

          _French_.                         _British_.
  DÉCIGRAMME            |   1.543 grain              or about 1½ grains.
  GRAMME                |  15.432 grains             28-1/3 grammes =
                                                     1 ounce avoirdupois.
  DÉCAGRAMME            |   0.353 ounce avoirdupois  about 1/3 of an ounce
                                                     avoirdupois.
  HECTOGRAMME           |   3.527 ounces             nearly ¼ pound.
  KILOGRAMME or KILO    |   2.2046 pounds            In trade, a kilo is
                              reckoned at 10 per cent. more than 2 pounds.

BRITISH WEIGHTS = FRENCH.

        _British_.        _French_.
  GRAIN                 |   .0648 gramme.
  OUNCE (avoirdupois)   |  28-1/3 grammes.
  POUND     "           |  454      "
  POUND (troy)          |  373    grammes.
  CWT (avoirdupois)     |   50.8  kilos.
  TON                   | 1015      "

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH LIQUID AND CORN MEASURES = BRITISH.

         _French_.                             _British_.
  LITRE                 |   1.76 pint (imperial)      or about 1¾ pints.
  HECTOLITRE            |  22.01 gallons                   "    22 gallons.

BRITISH LIQUID AND CORN MEASURES = FRENCH.

         _British_.                         _French_.
  PINT                  |   0.568 litre     or more than ½ litre.
  QUART                 |   1.136   "          about 1-1/8 litres.
  GALLON                |   4.543 litres         "   4½ litres
                                                              11 gallons =
                                                                 50 litres.
  PECK                  |   9.087   "            "   9 litres.
  BUSHEL [8 gallons]    |  36.348   "            "   36-1/3 litres.
  QUARTER [8 bushels]   |   2.908 hectolitres    "   3 hectolitres.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONEY.

    _English_.                     _French_.
  1 £.        | 25 francs 22 centimes,       or about 25 francs.
  1 s.        |  1 franc 26 centimes,             "   1¼ franc.
  1 d.        | 10 centimes.
  ½ d.        |  5 centimes, or a 'sou.'
             A franc is about 9½ d.             100 francs = £4, nearly.
         A milliard of francs (1,000,000,000) = £40,000,000, nearly.

       *       *       *       *       *


ADDENDA.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACETONE, a's[=e]-t[=o]n, _n._ one of a class of carbon compounds in many
respects similar to the aldehydes; also called _Ketone_. [From ACETIC.]

ACIERATE, as'i-[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to turn into steel.--_n._ AC'IERAGE, the
process of electroplating a metal with iron or steel. [Fr. _acier_, steel,
L. _acies_, edge.]

ADIABATIC, ad-i-a-bat'ik, _adj._ (_physics_) neither losing nor gaining
heat: impassable to heat. [Gr. _a_, not, _dia_, through, _batos_,
passable.]

AËROPLANE, [=a]'e-r[=o]-pl[=a]n, _n._ a form of flying-machine: a small
plane for aerostatic experiments. [Gr. _a[=e]r_, air, L. _planus_, plain.]

AGAR-AGAR, äg'ar-äg'ar, _n._ a nutrient jelly prepared from certain
seaweeds, and used in the artificial cultivation of bacteria.

ALBUMINURIA, al-b[=u]-min-[=u]'ri-a, _n._ the presence of albumin in the
urine: the disease producing this.

ALTISCOPE, al'ti-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument containing several lenses and
mirrors, so arranged that an observer can see beyond intervening objects.

BARRANCA, bar-ran'ka, _n._ a deep gorge, with steep sides.--Also BARRAN'CO.
[Sp. Am.]

CARBOHYDRATE, kär'b[=o]-h[=i]-dr[=a]t, _n._ a compound of carbon, hydrogen,
and oxygen, the last two being in the proportion to form water. [CARBON and
HYDRATE.]

CIRRHOSIS, si-r[=o]'sis, _n._ a wasting of the proper tissue of an organ,
accompanied by abnormal growth of connective tissue. [Gr. _kirrhos_,
tawny.]

ELECTRON, [=e]-lek'tron, _n._ a particle or corpuscle vastly more minute
than anything heretofore contemplated by science--in mass about a
thousandth part of that of a hydrogen atom; and identified with the charge
of negative electricity with which it is indissolubly associated. [From the
root of ELECTRIC (q.v.).]

FORMALIN, form'al-in, _n._ a powerful antiseptic and germicide.--Also
FORMAL'DEHYDE (see ALDEHYDE).

LIMERICK, lim'[.e]r-ik, _n._ 'nonsense verse' in five-lined stanzas.

LITCHI, l[=e]'ch[=e], _n._ a Chinese fruit: the tree on which it grows.

MAFFICKING, maf'fik-ing, _n._ noisy rejoicings of the mob. [From the scene
in the streets of London when the news of the relief of _Mafeking_ was
received (1900).]

MALNUTRITION, mal'n[=u]-trish'un, _n._ imperfect nutrition.

MARCONIGRAM, mar-c[=o]'ni-gram, _n._ a message transmitted by 'wireless'
telegraphy. [From _Marconi_, the inventor of the system, and Gr. _gramma_,
that which is written.]

MERCERISE, m[.e]r'c[.e]r-[=i]z, _v.t._ to treat cotton so as to make it
appear like silk. [From _Mercer_ (1791-1866), the inventor of the process.]

MOTOR-GARAGE, m[=o]'tor-gär-äzh', _n._ a depot where motor-cars are stored
or repaired and provided with accessories. [_Motor_ and Fr.
_garage_--_gare_, dock, railway station; from the High German root found in
AWARE (q.v.).]

PARALDEHYDE, pär-al'de-h[=i]d, _n._ a colourless liquid, of disagreeable
taste and smell, used to produce sleep (see ALDEHYDE).

POGROM, pog-rom', _n._ destruction: devastation: a lawless outburst
involving injury to persons and property. [Russian.]

PRODUCER-GAS, pro-d[=u]'s[.e]r-gas, _n._ a mixture of hydrogen and
carbon-monoxide diluted with nitrogen.

RADIO-ACTIVITY, r[=a]'di-o-ak-tiv'i-ti, _n._ the power of producing
photographic or electrical effects by a process identical with or analogous
to radiation.

RADIOSCOPE, r[=a]'di-o-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for detecting radiation
(see RADIANT).

RÖNTGENISE, runt'gen-[=i]z (g hard), _v.t._ to treat by the Röntgen rays
(see at X-RAYS under X).--_ns._ RÖNTGENOG'RAPHY, photography by these rays;
RÖNTGENOL'OGY, the study of the rays; RÖNTGENOS'COPY, observation by means
of them; RÖNTGENOTHER'APY, healing by means of them.

SERENDIPITY, s[.e]r-en-dip'i-ti, _n._ a love for rare old books and other
articles of virtu.--_adj._ appertaining to this. [Coined from _Serendib_, a
character in the _Arabian Nights_ who went about picking up odds and ends
and piecing them together.]

SPINTHARISCOPE, spin-thär'i-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument devised by Sir W.
Crookes for observing the scintillations produced in zinc sulphide by a
small fragment of a radium compound placed near it. [Gr. _spintharis_, a
spark, and _skopein_, to see.]

SULPHONAL, sul'f[=o]-nal, _n._ a chemical compound used as a hypnotic and
anæsthetic, and derived in part from potassium sulpho-hydrate.

TAXIMETER, tak-sim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument attached to cabs for
indicating the fare due for the distance travelled. Sometimes (but wrongly)
called TAXAMETER. [Fr. _taxe_, price, and Gr. _metron_, measure.]

TELEGONY, tel-eg'on-i, _n._ the transmitted influence of a male by whom a
female has previously conceived upon her subsequent offspring by another
male. [Gr. _t[=e]l[=e]_, at a distance, _gonia_, a begetting.]

TELESCRIPTOR, tel'e-skrip-tor, _n._ a machine for the purpose of sending
messages over telegraph wires so that they appear in the handwriting of the
sender when received. [Gr. _t[=e]l[=e]_, at a distance, L. _scriptum_,
_scribere_, to write.]

TRIONAL, tr[=i]'[=o]-nal, _n._ a drug used as a hypnotic, akin to
sulphonal, but safer.

VERONAL, ver'[=o]-nal, _n._ a drug used as a hypnotic, akin to trional.

       *       *       *       *       *


Edinburgh: Printed by W. & R. Chambers, Limited.

       *       *       *       *       *


Corrections made to printed original.

Under "Sal":--"corrosive sublimate and ammonium chloride", "and" omitted in
original.

Under "Savin":--"anthelmintic", printed as "antithelmintic" in original.

Under "Sesquiduple":--"two and a half times", printed as "three and a half
times" in original.

Under "Silk" in "raw silk is unwound":--"silk", printed as "cotton" in
original.

Under "Soldier" (in etymology):--"a piece of money", printed as "or a piece
of money" in original.

Under "Solomon":--"two triangles interlaced", printed as "one triangle
interlaced" in original.

Under "Somatist":--"S[=o]matotrop'ic", printed as "S[=o]matrop'ic" in
original.

Under "Somite":--"arthromere", printed as "arthromore" in original.

Under "Stibium":--"trisulphide", printed as "trisulphid" in original.

Under "Subimago":--"certain", printed as "cetrain" in original.

Under "Tenesmus":--"fæcal", printed as "foecal" in original.

Under "Trepan" (in etymology):--"tryp[)a]non", printed as "tyrp[)a]non" in
original.

Under "Trieteric" (pronunciation):--"tr[=i]-e-t[.e]r'ik", printed as
"tr[=i]-e-t[.e]r'k" in original.

Under "Unnecessary" (descibing Unnecessarily):--"adv.", printed as "adj."
in original.

Under "D.d." (abbreviation):--"dedit", printed as "detit" in original.

Under "Musical terms: Sforzando" (abbreviations):--"sfz.", printed as "rf.,
rfz." in original.

Under "Christian names: William (name)" before Guillaume:--"Fr.", printed
as "Gr." in original.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Twentieth Century
Dictionary (part 4 of 4: S-Z and supplements), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S 20TH CENT. DICTIONARY (S-Z) ***

***** This file should be named 38700-8.txt or 38700-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/8/7/0/38700/

Produced by Colin Bell, Keith Edkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
