The Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary
(part 3 of 4: N-R), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary (part 3 of 4: N-R)

Author: Various

Editor: Thomas Davidson

Release Date: January 28, 2012 [EBook #38699]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S 20TH CENT. DICTIONARY (N-R) ***




Produced by Colin Bell, Keith Edkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net





Transcriber's note: A few typographical errors have been corrected: they
are listed at the end of the text.

       *       *       *       *       *


In this version [=e] signifies "e macron"; [)e] "e breve"; [.e] "e with dot
above"; and so forth.

CHAMBERS'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY DICTIONARY
OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE

PRONOUNCING, EXPLANATORY, ETYMOLOGICAL, WITH COMPOUND PHRASES,
TECHNICAL TERMS IN USE IN THE ARTS AND SCIENCES,
COLLOQUIALISMS, FULL APPENDICES, AND
COPIOUSLY ILLUSTRATED

EDITED BY
REV. THOMAS DAVIDSON
ASSISTANT-EDITOR OF 'CHAMBERS'S ENCYCLOPÆDIA'
EDITOR OF 'CHAMBERS'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY'

LONDON: 47 Paternoster Row
W. & R. CHAMBERS, LIMITED
EDINBURGH: 339 High Street
1908

EXPLANATIONS TO THE STUDENT.

THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE WORDS.--Every word is given in its _alphabetical_
order, except in cases where, to save space, derivatives are given after
and under the words from which they are derived. Each uncompounded verb has
its participles, when irregular, placed after it. Exceptional plurals are
also given. When a word stands after another, with no meaning given, its
meanings can be at once formed from those of the latter, by adding the
signification of the affix: thus the meanings of _Darkness_ are obtained by
prefixing the meaning of _ness_, _state of being_, to those of _Dark_.

Many words from French and other tongues, current in English usage, but not
yet fairly Anglicised, are inserted in the list of Foreign Phrases, &c., at
the end, rather than in the body of the Dictionary.

THE PRONUNCIATION.--The Pronunciation is given immediately after each word,
by the word being spelled anew. In this new spelling, every consonant used
has its ordinary unvarying sound, _no consonant being employed that has
more than one sound_. The same sounds are always represented by the same
letters, no matter how varied their actual spelling in the language. No
consonant used has any mark attached to it, with the one exception of _th_,
which is printed in common letters when sounded as in _thick_, but in
italics when sounded as in _th_en. _Unmarked vowels_ have always their
short sounds, as in _lad_, _led_, _lid_, _lot_, _but_, _book_. The _marked
vowels_ are shown in the following line, which is printed at the top of
each page:--

f[=a]te, fär; m[=e], h[.e]r; m[=i]ne; m[=o]te; m[=u]te; m[=oo]n; _th_en.

The vowel _u_ when marked thus, _ü_, has the sound heard in Scotch _bluid_,
_gude_, the French _du_, almost that of the German _ü_ in _Müller_. Where
more than one pronunciation of a word is given, that which is placed first
is more accepted.

THE SPELLING.--When more than one form of a word is given, that which is
placed first is the spelling in current English use. Unfortunately our
modern spelling does not represent the English we actually speak, but
rather the language of the 16th century, up to which period, generally
speaking, English spelling was mainly phonetic, like the present German.
The fundamental principle of all rational spelling is no doubt the
representation of every sound by an invariable symbol, but in modern
English the usage of pronunciation has drifted far from the conventional
forms established by a traditional orthography, with the result that the
present spelling of our written speech is to a large extent a mere exercise
of memory, full of confusing anomalies and imperfections, and involving an
enormous and unnecessary strain on the faculties of learners. Spelling
reform is indeed an imperative necessity, but it must proceed with a wise
moderation, for, in the words of Mr Sweet, 'nothing can be done without
unanimity, and until the majority of the community are convinced of the
superiority of some one system unanimity is impossible.' The true path of
progress should follow such wisely moderate counsels as those of Dr J. A.
H. Murray:--the dropping of the final or inflexional silent _e_; the
restoration of the historical _-t_ after breath consonants; uniformity in
the employment of double consonants, as in _traveler_, &c.; the discarding
of _ue_ in words like _demagogue_ and _catalogue_; the uniform levelling of
the agent _-our_ into _-or_; the making of _ea = [)e]_ short into _e_ and
the long _ie_ into _ee_; the restoration of _some_, _come_, _tongue_, to
their old English forms, _sum_, _cum_, _tung_; a more extended use of _z_
in the body of words, as _chozen_, _praize_, _raize_; and the correction of
the worst individual monstrosities, as _foreign_, _scent_, _scythe_,
_ache_, _debt_, _people_, _parliament_, _court_, _would_, _sceptic_,
_phthisis_, _queue_, _schedule_, _twopence-halfpenny_, _yeoman_, _sieve_,
_gauge_, _barque_, _buoy_, _yacht_, &c.

Already in America a moderate degree of spelling reform may be said to be
established in good usage, by the adoption of _-or_ for _-our_, as _color_,
_labor_, &c.; of _-er_ for _-re_, as _center_, _meter_, &c.; _-ize_ for
_-ise_, as _civilize_, &c.; the use of a uniform single consonant after an
unaccented vowel, as _traveler_ for _traveller_; the adoption of _e_ for
_oe_ or _æ_ in _hemorrhage_, _diarrhea_, &c.

THE MEANINGS.--The current and most important meaning of a word is usually
given first. But in cases like _Clerk_, _Livery_, _Marshal_, where the
force of the word can be made much clearer by tracing its history, the
original meaning is also given, and the successive variations of its usage
defined.

THE ETYMOLOGY.--The Etymology of each word is given after the meanings,
within brackets. Where further information regarding a word is given
elsewhere, it is so indicated by a reference. It must be noted under the
etymology that whenever a word is printed thus, BAN, BASE, the student is
referred to it; also that here the sign--is always to be read as meaning
'derived from.' Examples are generally given of words that are cognate or
correspond to the English words; but it must be remembered that they are
inserted merely for illustration. Such words are usually separated from the
rest by a semicolon. For instance, when an English word is traced to its
Anglo-Saxon form, and then a German word is given, no one should suppose
that our English word is derived from the German. German and Anglo-Saxon
are alike branches from a common Teutonic stem, and have seldom borrowed
from each other. Under each word the force of the prefix is usually given,
though not the affix. For fuller explanation in such cases the student is
referred to the list of Prefixes and Suffixes in the Appendix.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS DICTIONARY.

  _aor._                    aorist.
  _abbrev._                 abbreviation.
  _abl._                    ablative.
  _acc._                    according.
  _accus._                  accusative.
  _adj._                    adjective.
  _adv._                    adverb.
  _agri._                   agriculture.
  _alg._                    algebra.
  _anat._                   anatomy.
  _app._                    apparently.
  _arch._                   archaic.
  _archit._                 architecture.
  _arith._                  arithmetic.
  _astrol._                 astrology.
  _astron._                 astronomy.
  _attrib._                 attributive.
  _augm._                   augmentative.
  _B._                      Bible.
  _biol._                   biology.
  _book-k._                 book-keeping.
  _bot._                    botany.
  _c._ (_circa_)            about.
  _c._, _cent._             century.
  _carp._                   carpentry.
  _cf._                     compare.
  _chem._                   chemistry.
  _cog._                    cognate.
  _coll._, _colloq._        colloquially.
  _comp._                   comparative.
  _conch._                  conchology.
  _conj._                   conjunction.
  _conn._                   connected.
  _contr._                  contracted.
  _cook._                   cookery.
  _corr._                   corruption.
  _crystal._                crystallography.
  _dat._                    dative.
  _demons._                 demonstrative.
  _der._                    derivation.
  _dial._                   dialect, dialectal.
  _Dict._                   Dictionary.
  _dim._                    diminutive.
  _dub._                    doubtful.
  _eccles._                 ecclesiastical history.
  _e.g._                    for example.
  _elect._                  electricity.
  _entom._                  entomology.
  _esp._                    especially.
  _ety._                    etymology.
  _fem._                    feminine.
  _fig._                    figuratively.
  _fol._                    followed; following.
  _fort._                   fortification.
  _freq._                   frequentative.
  _fut._                    future.
  _gen._                    genitive.
  _gener._                  generally.
  _geog._                   geography.
  _geol._                   geology.
  _geom._                   geometry.
  _ger._                    gerundive.
  _gram._                   grammar.
  _gun._                    gunnery.
  _her._                    heraldry.
  _hist._                   history.
  _hort._                   horticulture.
  _hum._                    humorous.
  _i.e._                    that is.
  _imit._                   imitative.
  _imper._                  imperative.
  _impers._                 impersonal.
  _indic._                  indicative.
  _infin._                  infinitive.
  _inten._                  intensive.
  _interj._                 interjection.
  _interrog._               interrogative.
  _jew._                    jewellery.
  _lit._                    literally.
  _mach._                   machinery.
  _masc._                   masculine.
  _math._                   mathematics.
  _mech._                   mechanics.
  _med._                    medicine.
  _metaph._                 metaphysics.
  _mil._                    military.
  _Milt._                   Milton.
  _min._                    mineralogy.
  _mod._                    modern.
  _Mt._                     Mount.
  _mus._                    music.
  _myth._                   mythology.
  _n._, _ns._               noun, nouns.
  _nat. hist._              natural history.
  _naut._                   nautical.
  _neg._                    negative.
  _neut._                   neuter.
  _n.pl._                   noun plural.
  _n.sing._                 noun singular.
  _N.T._                    New Testament.
  _obs._                    obsolete.
  _opp._                    opposed.
  _opt._                    optics.
  _orig._                   originally.
  _ornith._                 ornithology.
  _O.S._                    old style.
  _O.T._                    Old Testament.
  _p._, _part._             participle.
  _p.adj._                  participial adjective.
  _paint._                  painting.
  _paleog._                 paleography.
  _paleon._                 paleontology.
  _palm._                   palmistry.
  _pa.p._                   past participle.
  _pass._                   passive.
  _pa.t._                   past tense.
  _path._                   pathology.
  _perf._                   perfect.
  _perh._                   perhaps.
  _pers._                   person.
  _pfx._                    prefix.
  _phil._, _philos._        philosophy.
  _philol._                 philology.
  _phon._                   phonetics.
  _phot._                   photography.
  _phrenol._                phrenology.
  _phys._                   physics.
  _physiol._                physiology.
  _pl._                     plural.
  _poet._                   poetical.
  _pol. econ._              political economy.
  _poss._                   possessive.
  _Pr.Bk._                  Book of Common
                            Prayer.
  _pr.p._                   present participle.
  _prep._                   preposition.
  _pres._                   present.
  _print._                  printing.
  _priv._                   privative.
  _prob._                   probably.
  _Prof._                   Professor.
  _pron._                   pronoun;
                            pronounced;
                            pronunciation.
  _prop._                   properly.
  _pros._                   prosody.
  _prov._                   provincial.
  _q.v._                    which see.
  _R.C._                    Roman Catholic.
  _recip._                  reciprocal.
  _redup._                  reduplication.
  _refl._                   reflexive.
  _rel._                    related; relative.
  _rhet._                   rhetoric.
  _sculp._                  sculpture.
  _Shak._                   Shakespeare.
  _sig._                    signifying.
  _sing._                   singular.
  _spec._                   specifically.
  _Spens_.                  Spenser.
  _subj._                   subjunctive.
  _suff._                   suffix.
  _superl._                 superlative.
  _surg._                   surgery.
  _term._                   termination.
  _teleg._                  telegraphy.
  _Tenn._                   Tennyson.
  _Test._                   Testament.
  _theat._                  theatre; theatricals.
  _theol._                  theology.
  _trig._                   trigonometry.
  _ult._                    ultimately.
  _v.i._                    verb intransitive.
  _voc._                    vocative.
  _v.t._                    verb transitive.
  _vul._                    vulgar.
  _zool._                   zoology.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Amer.       American.
  Ar.         Arabic.
  A.S.        Anglo-Saxon.
  Austr.      Australian.
  Bav.        Bavarian.
  Beng.       Bengali.
  Bohem.      Bohemian.
  Braz.       Brazilian.
  Bret.       Breton.
  Carib.      Caribbean.
  Celt.       Celtic.
  Chal.       Chaldean.
  Chin.       Chinese.
  Corn.       Cornish.
  Dan.        Danish.
  Dut.        Dutch.
  Egypt.      Egyptian.
  Eng.        English.
  Finn.       Finnish.
  Flem.       Flemish.
  Fr.         French.
  Fris.       Frisian.
  Gael.       Gaelic.
  Ger.        German.
  Goth.       Gothic.
  Gr.         Greek.
  Heb.        Hebrew.
  Hind.       Hindustani.
  Hung.       Hungarian.
  Ice.        Icelandic.
  Ind.        Indian.
  Ion.        Ionic.
  Ir.         Irish.
  It.         Italian.
  Jap.        Japanese.
  Jav.        Javanese.
  L.          Latin.
  Lith.       Lithuanian.
  L. L.       Low or Late Latin.
  M. E.       Middle English.
  Mex.        Mexican.
  Norm.       Norman.
  Norw.       Norwegian.
  O. Fr.      Old French.
  Pers.       Persian.
  Peruv.      Peruvian.
  Pol.        Polish.
  Port.       Portuguese.
  Prov.       Provençal.
  Rom.        Romance.
  Russ.       Russian
  Sans.       Sanskrit.
  Scand.      Scandinavian.
  Scot.       Scottish.
  Singh.      Singhalese.
  Slav.       Slavonic.
  Sp.         Spanish.
  Sw.         Swedish.
  Teut.       Teutonic.
  Turk.       Turkish.
  U.S.        United States.
  W.          Welsh.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAMBERS'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
DICTIONARY.

       *       *       *       *       *

N the fourteenth letter and eleventh consonant of our alphabet, a
nasal-dental: (_chem._) the symbol for nitrogen: (_math._) an indefinite
constant whole number, esp. the degree of a quantic or an equation: as a
numeral, formerly, N=90, and ([=N])=90,000.

NA, nä, a Scotch form of _no_.

NAB, nab, _v.t._ to seize suddenly:--_pr.p._ nab'bing; _pa.p._ nabbed. [Sw.
_nappa_; Dan. _nappe_, to catch.]

NAB, nab, _n._ a hill-top: the projecting cavity fixed to the jamb of a
door to receive the latch or bolt: (_obs._) a hat. [For _knab_=_knap_.]

NABATÆAN, nab-a-t[=e]'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to a once powerful Arab
people who formerly dwelt on the east and south-east of Palestine,
identified by some with the _Nebaioth_ of Isa. lx. 7, the _Nabathites_ of 1
Maccab. v. 25.--Also NABATH[=E]'AN.

NABK, nabk, _n._ one of the plants in the crown of thorns (_Zizyphus
Spina-Christi_). [Prob. Ar.]

NABOB, n[=a]'bob, _n._ a deputy or governor under the Mogul Empire: a
European who has enriched himself in the East: any man of great wealth.
[Corr. of Hind. _nawwâb_, a deputy, from Ar. _naww[=a]b_, pl. (used as
sing.) of _n[=a]ib_, a deputy.]

NACARAT, nak'a-rat, _n._ a light-red colour, scarlet: a fabric of this
colour. [Fr.]

NACKET, nak'et, _n._ (_Scot._) a small cake, luncheon.

NACRE, n[=a]'kr, _n._ mother-of-pearl.--_adj._ iridescent.--_adj._
N[=A]'CREOUS, consisting of nacre: having a pearly lustre. [Fr.,--Ar.
_nak[=i]r_, hollowed.]

NADIR, n[=a]'dir, _n._ the point of the heavens diametrically opposite to
the zenith: the lowest point of anything. [Fr.,--Ar. _naz[=i]r_, from
_nazara_, to be like.]

NÆVUS, n[=e]'vus, _n._ a birth-mark: a congenital growth strictly on a part
of the skin, whether a _pigmentary nævus_ or mole, or a _vascular naevus_
or overgrowth of capillary blood-vessels--also _Mother-spot_ or
_Birth-mark_--also NÆVE, NEVE:--_pl._ NÆ'V[=I].--_adjs._ NÆ'VOID, NÆ'VOUS,
NÆ'VOSE. [L.]

NAG, nag, _n._ a horse, but particularly a small one--(_Scot._) NAIG:
(_Shak._) a jade. [M. E. _nagge_--Mid. Dut. _negge_, _negghe_ (mod. Dut.
_negge_); cf. _Neigh._]

NAG, nag, _v.t._ to worry or annoy continually: to tease or vex: to find
fault with constantly:--_pr.p._ nag'ging; _pa.p._ nagged.--_n._ NAG'GER.
[Cf. _Gnaw_.]

NAGA, nä'ga, _n._ the name of deified serpents in Hindu mythology.

NAGARI. See DEVA-NAGARI.

NAIAD, n[=a]'yad, _n._ a water-nymph or a goddess, presiding over rivers
and springs:--_pl._ NAI'ADES. [L. and Gr. _naias_, _naiados_, from _naein_,
to flow.]

NAIANT, n[=a]'yant, _adj._ floating: (_her._) swimming, as a fish placed
horizontally across a shield. [L. _nans_, _nantis_, pr.p. of _nat[=a]re_,
to swim.]

NAÏF, nä-[=e]f', NAÏVE, nä-[=e]v', _adj._ with natural or unaffected
simplicity, esp. in thought, manners, or speech: artless:
ingenuous.--_adv._ NAÏVE'LY.--_n._ NAÏVETÉ (nä-[=e]v-t[=a]'), natural
simplicity and unreservedness of thought, manner, or speech. [Fr. _naïf_,
fem, _naïve_--L. _nativus_, native--_nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

NAIL, n[=a]l, _n._ one of the flattened, elastic, horny plates placed as
protective coverings on the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the
fingers and toes: the claw of a bird or other animal: a thin pointed piece
of metal for fastening wood: a measure of length (2¼ inches):--_v.t._ to
fasten with nails: to make certain: to confirm, pin down, hold fast: to
catch or secure through promptitude; to trip up or expose.--_ns._
NAIL'-BRUSH, a small brush for cleaning the nails; NAIL'ER, one whose trade
is to make nails; NAIL'ERY, a place where nails are made.--_adj._
NAIL'-HEAD'ED, having a head like that of a nail: formed like nail-heads,
said of ornamental marks on cloth and on certain kinds of mouldings
(_dog-tooth_).--_n._ NAIL'-ROD, a strip cut from an iron plate to be made
into nails: a trade name for a strong kind of manufactured tobacco.--NAIL
TO THE COUNTER, to expose publicly as false, from the habit of nailing a
counterfeit coin to a shop counter.--DRIVE A NAIL IN ONE'S COFFIN (see
COFFIN); HIT THE NAIL ON THE HEAD, to touch the exact point; ON THE NAIL,
on the spot: immediately: without delay. [A.S. _nægel_; Ger. _nagel_.]

NAINSELL, n[=a]n'sel, _n._ own self--_Highland Scotch_.

NAINSOOK, n[=a]n's[=oo]k, _n._ a kind of muslin like jaconet, both plain
and striped. [Hind.]

NAISSANT, n[=a]s'sant, _adj._ (_her._) rising or coming forth, as an animal
newly born or about to be born. [Fr., pr.p. of _naître_--L. _nasci_,
_natus_, to be born.]

NAÏVE. See NAÏF.

NAKED, n[=a]'ked, _adj._ without clothes: uncovered: open to view:
unconcealed: evident: unarmed: defenceless: unprovided: without addition or
ornament: simple: artless: (_bot._) without the usual covering.--_adv._
N[=A]'KEDLY.--_n._ N[=A]'KEDNESS.--NAKED EYE, the eye unassisted by glasses
of any kind; NAKED LADY, the meadow-saffron.--STARK NAKED, entirely naked.
[A.S. _nacod_; Ger. _nackt_.]

NAKER, n[=a]'ker, _n._ a kettledrum. [O. Fr.,--Ar.]

NAM, nam, _n._ an obsolete law term for distraint.--_n._ NAM[=A]'TION.
[A.S. _niman_, pa.t. _nam_, to take.]

NAMBY-PAMBY, nam'bi-pam'bi, _n._ silly talking or writing.--_adj._
sentimental, affectedly pretty.--_v.t._ to coddle. [H. Carey's nickname for
_Ambrose_ Philips (1671-1749), from his childish odes to children.]

NAME, n[=a]m, _n._ that by which a person or a thing is known or called: a
designation: that which is said of a person: reputed character: reputation:
fame: celebrity: remembrance: a race or family: appearance, not reality:
authority: behalf: assumed character of another: (_gram._) a noun.--_v.t._
to give a name to: to designate: to speak of or to call by name: to mention
for a post or office: to nominate: to mention formally by name a person in
the House of Commons as guilty of disorderly conduct.--_adjs._ NAM'ABLE,
NAME'ABLE; NAME'LESS, without a name: undistinguished: indescribable;
NAME'WORTHY, distinguished.--_adv._ NAME'LESSLY.--_n._
NAME'LESSNESS.--_adv._ NAME'LY, by name: that is to say.--_ns._
NAME'-PLATE, a plate of metal having on it the name of a person, usually
affixed to a door or a gate; NAM'ER; NAME'SAKE, one bearing the same name
as another for his sake.--NAME THE DAY, to fix a day, esp. for a
marriage.--CALL NAMES, to nickname; CHRISTIAN NAME (see CHRISTIAN); IN NAME
OF, on behalf of: by the authority of; PROPER NAME, a name given to a
particular person, place, or thing; TAKE A NAME IN VAIN, to use a name
lightly or profanely. [A.S. _nama_; Ger. _name_; L. _nomen_.]

NANCY, nan'si, _n._ an effeminate young man, often a 'Miss Nancy.'--NANCY
PRETTY, a corruption of _none so pretty_, the _Saxifraga umbrosa_.

NANDINE, nan'din, _n._ a small West African paradoxure, with spotted sides.

NANDU, NANDOO, nan'd[=oo], _n._ the South American ostrich.

NANISM, n[=a]'nizm, _n._ dwarfishness.--_n._ NANIS[=A]'TION, the artificial
dwarfing of trees.--_adj._ N[=A]'NOID. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _nanos_, a dwarf.]

NANKEEN, nan-k[=e]n', _n._ a buff-coloured cotton cloth first made at
_Nankin_ in China: (_pl._) clothes, esp. breeches, made of nankeen.--Also
NANKIN'.

NANNY, nan'i, _n._ a female goat.--Also NANN'Y-GOAT.

NAP, nap, _n._ a short sleep.--_v.i._ to take a short sleep: to feel drowsy
and secure:--_pr.p._ nap'ping; _pa.p._ napped.--CATCH NAPPING, to come upon
unprepared. [A.S. _hnappian_; cf. Ger. _nicken_, to nod.]

NAP, nap, _n._ the woolly substance on the surface of cloth: the downy
covering of plants.--_v.t._ to raise a nap on.--_ns._ NAP'-M[=E]'TER, a
machine for testing the wearing strength of cloth; NAP'PINESS.--_adj._
NAP'PY. [M. E. _noppe_: the same as _knop_.]

NAP, nap, _n._ a game of cards--_Napoleon_ (q.v.).

NAP, nap, _v.t._ to seize, to take hold of, steal.

NAPE, n[=a]p, _n._ the back upper part of the neck, perhaps so called from
the knob or projecting point of the neck behind. [_Knap_, _knob_.]

NAPERY, n[=a]'per-i, _n._ linen, esp. for the table: table-cloths, napkins,
&c. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _naparia_--_napa, a cloth_--L. _mappa_, a napkin.]

NAPHTHA, naf'tha, or nap'tha, _n._ a clear, inflammable liquid distilled
from petroleum, wood, coal-tar, &c.: rock-oil.--_n._ NAPH'THALENE, a
grayish-white, inflammable substance obtained by the distillation of
coal-tar.--_adj._ NAPHTHAL'IC, pertaining to, or derived from,
naphthalene.--_v.t._ NAPH'THALISE.--_ns._ NAPH'THOL, NAPHTHYL'AMINE.
[L.,--Gr.,--Ar. _naft_.]

NAPIERIAN, n[=a]-p[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to John _Napier_ of
Merchiston (1550-1617), the inventor of logarithms.--NAPIER'S BONES, or
RODS, an invention of Napier's for performing mechanically the operations
of multiplication and division, by means of sets of rods.

NAPIFORM, n[=a]p'i-form, _adj._ shaped like a turnip: large and round above
and slender below.--_adj._ NAPIF[=O]'LIOUS, with leaves like the turnip.
[L. _napus_, a turnip.]

NAPKIN, nap'kin, _n._ a cloth for wiping the hands: a handkerchief.--_n._
NAP'KIN-RING, a ring in which a table-napkin is rolled. [Dim. of Fr.
_nappe_.]

NAPLESS, nap'les, _adj._ without nap: threadbare.

NAPLES-YELLOW, n[=a]'plz-yel'l[=o], _n._ a light-yellow pigment consisting
of antimoniate of lead, originally made in Italy by a secret process.

NAPOLEON, na-p[=o]'l[=e]-on, _n._ a French gold coin worth 20 francs, or
about 15s. 10½d.: a French modification of the game of euchre, each player
receiving five cards and playing for himself: a kind of rich iced
cake.--_adj._ NAPOLEON'IC, relating to _Napoleon I_. or _III_., the Great
or the Little.--_ns._ NAP[=O]'LEONISM; NAP[=O]'LEONIST.--GO NAP, to declare
all five tricks--success rewarded by double payment all round.

NAPPY, nap'i, _adj._ heady, strong: tipsy.--_n._ strong ale. [Prob. from
_nap_, a sleep.]

NAPPY, nap'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) brittle. [Cf. _Knap._]

NAPRON, nap'ron, _n._ (_Spens._) an apron.

NARCISSUS, nar-sis'us, _n._ a genus of plants of the Amaryllis family,
comprising the daffodils. [L.,--Gr. _narkissos_--_nark[=e]_, torpor.]

NARCOLEPSY, nar'k[=o]-lep-si, _n._ a nervous disorder marked by frequent
short attacks of irresistible drowsiness.

NARCOTIC, nar-kot'ik, _adj._ having power to produce torpor, sleep, or
deadness.--_n._ a medicine producing sleep or stupor.--_n._ NARC[=O]'SIS,
the stupefying effect of a narcotic.--_adv._ NARCOT'ICALLY.--_n._
NAR'COTINE, one of the organic bases or alkaloids occurring in
opium.--_v.t._ NAR'COTISE.--_n._ NAR'COTISM, the influence of narcotics, or
the effects produced by their use. [Fr.,--Gr. _nark[=e]_, torpor.]

NARD, närd, _n._ an aromatic plant usually called _Spikenard_: an ointment
prepared from it.--_adj._ NARD'INE. [Fr.,--L. _nardus_--Gr. _nardos_--Pers.
_nard_--Sans. _nalada_, from Sans. _nal_, to smell.]

NARDOO, när-d[=oo]', _n._ an Australian cryptogamic plant whose spore-cases
are eaten by the natives.

NARDUS, när'dus, _n._ a genus of grasses, having but one species, _Nardus
stricta_, mat-grass.

NARGHILE, när'gi-le, _n._ an Eastern tobacco-pipe, in which the smoke is
passed through water.--Also NAR'GILE, NAR'GILEH, NAR'GILI. [Pers.]

NARIS, n[=a]'ris, _n._ a nostril:--_pl._ N[=A]'RES.--_adjs._ NAR'IAL,
NAR'INE.--_n._ NAR'ICORN, the horny nasal sheath of the beak of some
birds.--_adj._ NAR'IFORM. [L.]

NARRATE, na-r[=a]t', or nar'-, _v.t._ to tell, to give an account
of.--_adj._ NARR'ABLE, capable of being told.--_n._ NARR[=A]'TION, act of
telling: that which is told: an orderly account of what has
happened.--_adj._ NARR'ATIVE, narrating: giving an account of any
occurrence: inclined to narration: story-telling.--_n._ that which is
narrated: a continued account of any occurrence: story.--_adv._
NARR'ATIVELY.--_n._ NARR[=A]'TOR, one who narrates: one who tells or states
facts, &c.--_adj._ NARR'ATORY, like narrative: consisting of narrative.
[Fr.,--L. _narr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_gn[=a]rus_, knowing.]

NARRE, när, _adj._ (_Spens._) an older form of _near_.

NARROW, nar'[=o], _adj._ of little breadth: of small extent from side to
side: limited: contracted in mind: bigoted: not liberal: selfish: within a
small distance: almost too small: close: accurate: careful.--_n._ (oftener
used in the _pl._) a narrow passage, channel, or strait.--_v.t._ to make
narrow: to contract or confine.--_v.i._ to become narrow: to reduce the
number of stitches in knitting.--_adj._ NARR'OW-GAUGE, denoting a railroad
of less width than 4 ft. 8½ in.--_n._ NARR'OWING, the act of making less in
breadth: the state of being contracted: the part of anything which is made
narrower.--_adv._ NARR'OWLY.--_adj._ NARR'OW-MIND'ED, of a narrow or
illiberal mind.--_ns._ NARR'OW-MIND'EDNESS; NARR'OWNESS.--_adjs._
NARR'OW-PRY'ING (_Shak._), scrutinising closely, inquisitive;
NARR'OW-SOULED, illiberal.--NARROW CLOTH, cloth, esp. woollen, of less than
54 inches in width; NARROW WORK, in mining, the making of passages,
air-shafts, &c. [A.S. _nearu_; not conn. with _near_, but prob. with
_nerve_, _snare_.]

NARTHEX, nar'theks, _n._ a former genus of umbelliferous plants, now
included in _Ferula_: a portico or lobby in an early Christian or Oriental
church or basilica. [L.,--Gr., _narth[=e]x_.]

NARWHAL, när'hwal, NARWAL, när'wal, _n._ the sea-unicorn, a mammal of the
whale family with one large projecting tusk. [Dan. _narhval_--Ice.
_náhvalr_, 'corpse-whale,' from the creature's pallid colour (Ice. _nár_,
corpse).]

NARY, ner'i, a provincial corruption of _ne'er a_, _never a_.

NAS, nas, an obsolete corruption of _ne has_; of _ne was_.

NASAL, n[=a]'zal, _adj._ belonging to the nose: affected by, or sounded
through, the nose.--_n._ a letter or sound uttered through the nose: the
nose-piece in a helmet.--_n._ NASALIS[=A]'TION, the act of uttering with a
nasal sound.--_v.i._ N[=A]'SALISE, to render nasal, as a sound: to insert a
nasal letter into.--_n._ NASAL'ITY.--_adv._ N[=A]'SALLY, by or through the
nose.--_adjs._ N[=A]'SICORN, having a horn on the nose, as a rhinoceros;
N[=A]'SIFORM, nose-shaped.--_n._ N[=A]'SION, the median point of the
naso-frontal suture.--_adjs._ NASOB[=A]'SAL, pertaining to the nose and
base of the skull; NASOC'ULAR, pertaining to the nose and eye, nasorbital;
NASOFRON'TAL, pertaining to the nasal bone and the frontal bone;
NASOL[=A]'BIAL, pertaining to the nose and the upper lip; NASOLAC'RYMAL,
pertaining to the nose and to tears, as the duct which carries tears from
the eyes to the nose; NASOPAL'ATINE, pertaining to the nose and to the
palate or palate-bones. [Fr.,--L. _nasus_, the nose.]

NASARD, naz'ard, _n._ a mutation-stop in organ-building.--Also NAS'ARDE.

NASCENT, nas'ent, _adj._ springing up: arising: beginning to exist or to
grow.--_n._ NAS'CENCY, the beginning of production: birth or origin. [L.
_nascens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

NASEBERRY, n[=a]z'ber-i, _n._ an American tropical tree.--Also NEES'BERRY,
NIS'BERRY. [Sp. _níspero_--L. _mespilus_, medlar.]

NASTURTIUM, nas-tur'shi-um, _n._ the water-cress. [L., _nasus_, the nose,
_torqu[=e]re_, _tortum_, to twist.]

NASTY, nas'ti, _adj._ dirty: filthy: obscene: disagreeable to the taste or
smell: difficult to deal with: ill-natured: nauseous.--_adv._
NAS'TILY.--_n._ NAS'TINESS. [Old form _nasky_, soft; cf. prov. Swed.
_snaskig_, nasty, Low Ger. _nask_, nasty.]

NASUTE, n[=a]-s[=u]t', _adj._ having a long snout: keen-scented.

NATAL, n[=a]'tal, _adj._ pertaining to the nates or buttocks.--_n.pl._
N[=A]'TES, the buttocks.--_adj._ NAT'IFORM. [L. _natis_, the rump.]

NATAL, n[=a]'tal, _adj._ pertaining to birth: native: presiding over
birthdays.--_adj._ NATALI'TIAL, pertaining to a birthday.--_n._ NATAL'ITY,
birth-rate. [Fr.,--L. _natalis_--_nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

NATANT, n[=a]'tant, _adj._ floating on the surface, as leaves of
water-plants: (_her._) in a horizontal position, as if swimming.--_n._
NAT[=A]'TION, swimming.--_n.pl._ NATAT[=O]'RES, the swimming-birds.--_adj._
NATAT[=O]'RIAL, swimming: adapted to swim.--_n._ NATAT[=O]'RIUM, a
swimming-school.--_adj._ N[=A]'TATORY, pertaining to swimming: having the
habit of swimming. [L. _natans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _nat[=a]re_, inten. of
_n[=a]re_, to swim.]

NATCH, nach, _n._ (_prov._) the rump.

NATCH, nach, _n._ a provincial form of _notch_.

NATHLESS, nath'les, _adj._ not the less: nevertheless.--Also NATHE'LESS.
[A.S. _ná thý læs_, not the less.]

NATHMORE, nath'm[=o]r, _adv._ (_Spens._) not or never the more.--Also
NATH'MOE. [A.S. _ná thý mára_.]

NATION, n[=a]'shun, _n._ a body of people born of the same stock: the
people inhabiting the same country, or under the same government: a race: a
great number: a division of students in a university for voting purposes at
Aberdeen and Glasgow. [Fr.,--L. _nation-em_,--_nasci_, _natus_, to be
born.]

NATIONAL, nash'un-al, _adj._ pertaining to a nation: public: general:
attached to one's own country.--_n._ NATIONALIS[=A]'TION, the act of
nationalising, as of railways, private property, &c.: the state of being
nationalised.--_v.t._ NAT'IONALISE, to make national: to make a nation
of.--_ns._ NAT'IONALISM; NAT'IONALIST, one who strives after national unity
or independence, esp. as in Ireland for more or less separation from Great
Britain: an advocate of nationalism: NATIONAL'ITY, birth or membership in a
particular country: separate existence as a nation: a nation, race of
people: national character.--_adv._ NAT'IONALLY.--_n._
NAT'IONALNESS.--NATIONAL AIR, ANTHEM, the popular song by which a people's
patriotic feelings are expressed; NATIONAL CHURCH, the church established
by law in a country; NATIONAL CONVENTION, the sovereign assembly which sat
from Sept. 21, 1792, to Oct. 26, 1795, after the abolition of monarchy in
France; NATIONAL DEBT, money borrowed by the government of a country and
not yet paid; NATIONAL FLAG, or ENSIGN, the principal flag of a country;
NATIONAL GUARD, a force which took part in the French Revolution, first
formed in 1789.

NATIVE, n[=a]'tiv, _adj._ arising or appearing by birth: produced by
nature: pertaining to the time or place of birth: belonging by birth,
hereditary, natural, original: occurring uncombined with other substances,
as metals.--_n._ one born in any place: an original inhabitant: (_pl._)
oysters raised in artificial beds.--_adv._ N[=A]'TIVELY.--_ns._
N[=A]'TIVENESS; N[=A]'TIVISM, the belief that the mind possesses some ideas
or forms of thought that are inborn, and not derived from sensation: the
disposition to favour the natives of a country in preference to immigrants;
N[=A]'TIVIST.--_adj._ NATIVIS'TIC.--_n._ NATIV'ITY, state or fact of being
born: time, place, and manner of birth: the birth of Christ, hence the
festival of His birth, Christmas--also a picture representing His birth:
state or place of being produced: a horoscope.--NATIVE ROCK, stone not yet
quarried. [Fr.,--L. _nativus_--_nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

NATRIX, n[=a]'triks, _n._ a genus of colubrine snakes. [L.,--_nat[=a]re_,
to swim.]

NATROLITE, nat'ro-l[=i]t, _n._ one of the most common of the group of
minerals known as Zeolites.

NATRON, n[=a]'trun, _n._ native carbonate of sodium, or mineral alkali, the
nitre of the Bible.--_n._ NATROM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the
quantity of soda in salts of potash and soda. [Fr.,--L. _nitrum_--Gr.
_nitron_.]

NATTER, nat'[.e]r, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_prov._) to find fault.--_adjs._
NATT'ERED, NATT'ERY, peevish.

NATTERJACK, nat'[.e]r-jak, _n._ a common European toad. [Cf. _Adder_.]

NATTES, nats, _n.pl._ surface decoration or diaper resembling plaited or
interlaced work. [Fr.]

NATTY, nat'i, _adj._ trim, tidy, neat, spruce.--_adv._ NATT'ILY.--_n._
NATT'INESS. [Allied to _neat_.]

NATURAL, nat'[=u]-ral, _adj._ pertaining to, produced by, or according to
nature: inborn: not far-fetched: not acquired: tender: unaffected: in a
state of nature, unregenerate: (_math._) having 1 as the base of the
system, of a function or number: illegitimate: (_mus._) according to the
usual diatonic scale.--_n._ an idiot: (_mus._) a character ([Natural])
which removes the effect of a preceding sharp or flat: a white key in
keyboard musical instruments.--_adj._ NAT'URAL-BORN, native.--_n.pl._
NATUR[=A]'LIA, the sexual organs.--_n._ NATURALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
NAT'URALISE, to make natural or easy: to adapt to a different climate or to
different conditions of life: to grant the privileges of natural-born
subjects to.--_ns._ NAT'URALISM, mere state of nature: a close following of
nature, without idealisation, in painting, sculpture, fiction, &c.: the
belief that natural religion is of itself sufficient; NAT'URALIST, one who
studies nature, more particularly zoology and botany: a believer in
naturalism.--_adj._ NATURALIST'IC, pertaining to, or in accordance with,
nature: belonging to the doctrines of naturalism.--_adv._ NAT'URALLY.--_n._
NAT'URALNESS.--NATURAL HISTORY, originally the description of all that is
in nature, now used of the sciences that deal with the earth and its
productions--botany, zoology, and mineralogy, esp. zoology; NATURAL LAW,
the sense of right and wrong which arises from the constitution of the mind
of man, as distinguished from the results of revelation or legislation;
NATURAL NUMBERS, the numbers 1, 2, 3, and upwards; NATURAL ORDER, in
botany, an order or division belonging to the natural system of
classification, based on a consideration of all the organs of the plant;
NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, the science of nature, of the physical properties of
bodies: physics; NATURAL SCALE, a scale of music written without sharps or
flats; NATURAL SCIENCE, the science of _nature_, as distinguished from that
of _mind_ (mental and moral science), and from _pure_ science
(mathematics); NATURAL SELECTION, a supposed operation of the laws of
nature, the result of which is the 'survival of the fittest,' as if brought
about by intelligent design; NATURAL SYSTEM, a classification of plants and
animals according to real differences in structure; NATURAL THEOLOGY, or
NATURAL RELIGION, the body of theological truths discoverable by reason
without revelation.

NATURE, n[=a]'t[=u]r, _n._ the power which creates and which regulates the
material world: the power of growth: the established order of things, the
universe: the qualities of anything which make it what it is: constitution:
species: conformity to nature, truth, or reality: inborn mind, character,
instinct, or disposition: vital power, as of man or animal: course of life:
nakedness: a primitive undomesticated condition.--_adj._ N[=A]'TURED,
having a certain temper or disposition: used in compounds, as
_good-natured_.--_ns._ N[=A]'TURE-D[=E]'ITY, a deity personifying some
force of physical nature; N[=A]'TURE-MYTH, a myth symbolising natural
phenomena; N[=A]'TURE-PRINT'ING, the process of printing in colours from
plates that have been impressed with some object of nature, as a plant,
leaf, &c.; N[=A]'TURE-WOR'SHIP, N[=A]'TURISM, worship of the powers of
nature.--_n._ N[=A]'TURIST.--_adj._ NATURIST'IC.--DEBT OF NATURE, death;
EASE, or RELIEVE, NATURE, to evacuate the bowels. [Fr.,--L.
_natura_--_nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

NAUGHT, nawt, _n._ no-whit, nothing.--_adv._ in no degree.--_adj._ of no
value or account: worthless: bad.--BE NAUGHT, an obsolete form of
malediction; COME TO NAUGHT, to come to nothing, to fail; SET AT NAUGHT, to
treat as of no account, to despise. [Another form of _nought_. A.S. _náht_,
_náwiht_--_ná_, not, _wiht_, a whit.]

NAUGHTY, nawt'i, _adj._ bad in conduct or speech: mischievous: perverse:
disagreeable.--_adv._ NAUGHT'ILY.--_n._ NAUGHT'INESS.

NAUMACHY, naw'ma-ki, _n._ a sea-fight: a show representing a
sea-fight.--Also NAUMACH'IA. [Gr. _naus_, a ship, _mach[=e]_, a fight.]

NAUPLIUS, naw'pli-us, _n._ a stage of development of low Crustaceans, as
cirripeds, &c.:--_pl._ NAU'PLII.--_adjs._ NAU'PLIIFORM, NAU'PLIOID. [L., a
kind of shell-fish--Gr. _Nauplios_, a son of Poseidon, _naus_, a ship,
_plein_, to sail.]

NAUROPOMETER, naw-r[=o]-pom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring a
ship's heeling or inclination at sea. [Gr. _naus_, a ship, _hrop[=e]_,
inclination, _metron_, measure.]

NAUSCOPY, naw'skop-i, _n._ the art of sighting ships at great distances.
[Gr. _naus_, a ship, _skopein_, to see.]

NAUSEA, naw'she-a, _n._ sea-sickness: any sickness of the stomach, with a
tendency to vomit: loathing.--_adj._ NAU'SEANT, producing nausea.--_n._ a
substance having this quality.--_v.i._ NAU'SE[=A]TE, to feel nausea or
disgust.--_v.t._ to loathe: to strike with disgust.--_n._
NAUSE[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ NAU'SE[=A]TIVE, causing nausea or loathing;
NAU'SEOUS, producing nausea: disgusting: loathsome.--_adv._
NAU'SEOUSLY.--_n._ NAU'SEOUSNESS. [L.,--Gr. _nausia_, sea-sickness--_naus_,
a ship.]

NAUTCH, nawch, _n._ a kind of ballet-dance performed by professional
dancers known as NAUTCH'-GIRLS in India: any form of stage entertainment
with dancing. [Hind. _n[=a]ch_, dance.]

NAUTICAL, naw'tik-al, _adj._ of or pertaining to ships, to sailors, or to
navigation: naval: marine.--_adv._ NAU'TICALLY.--NAUTICAL ALMANAC, an
almanac giving information specially useful to sailors; NAUTICAL MILE,
one-sixtieth of a degree measured at the Equator (=about 2025 yards). [L.
_nauticus_--Gr. _nautikos_--_naus_; cog. with L. _navis_, a ship.]

NAUTILUS, naw'ti-lus, _n._ a Cephalopod found in the southern seas, once
believed to sail by means of the expanded tentacular arms: a kind of
diving-bell sinking or rising by means of condensed air:--_pl._
NAU'TILUSES, or NAU'TILI.--_adjs._ NAU'TILIFORM, NAU'TILOID.--PAPER
NAUTILUS, any species of _Argonauta_. [L.,--Gr. _nautilos_, a sailor.]

NAVAL, n[=a]'val, _adj._ pertaining to ships: consisting of, or possessing,
ships: marine: nautical: belonging to the navy.--NAVAL BRIGADE, a body of
seamen so arranged as to be able to serve on land; NAVAL OFFICER, an
officer on board a man-of-war: a custom-house officer of high rank in the
United States; NAVAL TACTICS, the science and methods of managing and
moving squadrons of ships. [Fr.,--L. _navalis_--_navis_, a ship.]

NAVE, n[=a]v, _n._ the middle or main body of a church, distinct from the
aisles or wings.--_n._ N[=A]'VARCH, a Greek admiral. [Fr. _nef_--L.
_navis_, a ship.]

NAVE, n[=a]v, _n._ the hub or piece of wood, &c., in the centre of a wheel,
through which the axle passes.--_v.t._ to form as a nave. [A.S. _nafu_,
nave; cf. Dut. _naaf_, Ger. _nabe_.]

NAVEL, n[=a]v'l, _n._ the mark or depression in the centre of the lower
part of the abdomen, at first a small projection.--_n._ N[=A]V'EL-STRING,
the umbilical cord. [A.S. _nafela_, dim. of _nafu_, nave.]

NAVEW, n[=a]'v[=u], _n._ the wild turnip.

NAVICULAR, nav-ik'[=u]-lar, _adj._ pertaining to small ships or boats:
(_bot._) boat-shaped: scaphoid.--_n._ a bone in man and animals, so called
from its shape.--_n._ NAVIC'ULA, an incense-boat.--NAVICULAR DISEASE, an
inflammation, often rheumatic, of the small bone--the navicular--in horses,
below which passes the strong flexor tendon of the foot. [L.
_navicularis_--_navicula_, dim. of _navis_, a ship.]

NAVIGATE, nav'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to steer or manage a ship in sailing: to
sail upon.--_v.i._ to go in a vessel or ship: to sail.--_ns._
NAVIGABIL'ITY, NAV'IGABLENESS.--_adj._ NAV'IGABLE, that may be passed by
ships or vessels.--_adv._ NAV'IGABLY.--_ns._ NAVIG[=A]'TION, the act,
science, or art of sailing ships: shipping generally: a canal or artificial
waterway; NAV'IGATOR, one who navigates or sails: one who directs the
course of a ship.--NAVIGATION LAWS, the laws passed from time to time to
regulate the management and privileges of ships, and the conditions under
which they may sail or carry on trade.--AERIAL NAVIGATION, the management
of balloons in motion; INLAND NAVIGATION, the passing of boats, &c., along
rivers and canals. [L. _navig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_navis_, a ship,
_ag[)e]re_, to drive.]

NAVVY, nav'i, _n._ a labourer--originally a labourer on a navigation or
canal: a machine for digging out earth, &c.--called also _French
navvy_:--_pl._ NAVV'IES. [A contr. of _navigator_.]

NAVY, n[=a]'vi, _n._ a fleet of ships: the whole of the ships-of-war of a
nation: the officers and men belonging to the warships of a nation.--_ns._
N[=A]'VY-LIST, a list of the officers and ships of a navy, published from
time to time; N[=A]'VY-YARD, a government dockyard. [O. Fr. _navie_--L.
_navis_, a ship.]

NAWAB, na-wab', _n._ a nabob.

NAY, n[=a], _adv._ no: not only so, but: yet more: in point of fact.--_n._
a denial: a vote against.--_n._ NAY'WARD (_Shak._), tendency to denial: the
negative side. [M. E. _nay_, _nai_--Ice. _nei_, Dan. _nei_; cog. with
_no_.]

NAYWORD, n[=a]'wurd, _n._ (_Shak._) a proverbial reproach, a byword, a
watchword.

NAZARENE, naz'ar-[=e]n, _n._ an inhabitant of Nazareth, in Galilee: a
follower of Jesus of Nazareth, originally used of Christians in contempt:
one belonging to the early Christian sect of the Nazarenes, which existed
from the 1st to the 4th cent. A.D.--Also NAZAR[=E]'AN. [From _Nazareth_,
the town.]

NAZARITE, naz'ar-[=i]t, _n._ a Jew who vowed to abstain from strong drink,
&c.--also NAZ'IRITE.--_n._ NAZ'ARITISM, the vow and practice of a Nazarite.
[Heb. _n[=a]zar_, to consecrate.]

NAZE, n[=a]z, _n._ a headland or cape. [Scand., as in Dan. _næs_; a doublet
of _ness_.]

NAZIR, na-z[=e]r', _n._ a native official in an Anglo-Indian court who
serves summonses, &c. [Ar.]

NE, ne, _adv._ not: never. [A.S. _ne_; cf. _Nay_.]

NEAF, n[=e]f, _n._ the fist--(_Scot._) NEIVE. [M. E. _nefe_--Ice. _hnefi_,
_nefi_; cf. Sw. _näfve_, the fist.]

NEAL, n[=e]l, _v.t._ to temper by heat.--_v.i._ to be tempered by heat.
[Cf. _Anneal_.]

NEALOGY, n[=e]-al'o-ji, _n._ the description of the morphological
correlations of the early adolescent stages of an animal.--_adj._
NEALOG'IC. [Gr. _neos_, young, logia--_legein_, to speak.]

NEANDERTHALOID, n[=e]-an'd[.e]r-tal-oid, _adj._ like the low type of skull
found in 1857 in a cave in the _Neanderthal_, a valley between Düsseldorf
and Elberfeld.

NEAP, n[=e]p, _adj._ low, applied to the lowest tides.--_n._ a neap-tide:
the lowest point of the tide.--_adj._ NEAPED, left aground from one high
tide to another. [A.S. _nép_, orig. _hnép_; Dan. _knap_, Ice. _neppr_,
scanty.]

NEAPOLITAN, n[=e]-a-pol'i-tan, _adj._ pertaining to the city of Naples or
its inhabitants.--_n._ a native or inhabitant of Naples.--NEAPOLITAN ICE, a
combination of two different ices. [L. _Neapolitanus_--Gr. _Neapolis_,
Naples--_neos_, new, _polis_, city.]

NEAR, n[=e]r, _adj._ nigh: not far away in place or time: close in kin or
friendship: dear: following or imitating anything closely: close, narrow,
so as barely to escape: short, as a road: greedy, stingy: on the left in
riding or driving.--_adv._ at a little distance: almost: closely,--_prep._
close to.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to approach: to come nearer.--_adjs._
NEAR'-BY, adjacent; NEAR'-HAND (_Scot._), near--also _adv._ nearly.--_adv._
NEAR'LY, at no great distance: closely: intimately: pressingly: almost:
stingily.--_n._ NEAR'NESS, the state of being near: closeness: intimacy:
close alliance: stinginess.--_adj._ NEAR'-SIGHT'ED, seeing distinctly only
when near, myopic, short-sighted.--_n._ NEAR'-SIGHT'EDNESS.--NEAR POINT,
the nearest point the eye can focus. [A.S. _neár_, comp. of _neáh_, nigh;
Ice. _nær_; Ger. _näher_.]

NEARCTIC, n[=e]-ark'tik, _adj._ of or pertaining to the northern part of
the New World--embracing temperate and arctic North America.

NEAT, n[=e]t, _adj._ belonging to the bovine genus.--_n._ black-cattle: an
ox or cow.--_ns._ NEAT'-HERD, one who herds, or has the care of, neat or
cattle; NEAT'-HOUSE, a building for the shelter of
neat-cattle.--NEAT'S-FOOT OIL, an oil obtained from the feet of oxen;
NEAT'S LEATHER, leather made of the hides of neat-cattle. [A.S. _neát_,
cattle, a beast--_neótan_, _niótan_, to use; cf. Scot. _nowt_,
black-cattle.]

NEAT, n[=e]t, _adj._ trim: tidy: clean: well-shaped: without mixture or
adulteration: finished, adroit, clever, skilful.--_adj._ NEAT'-HAND'ED,
dexterous.--_adv._ NEAT'LY.--_n._ NEAT'NESS. [Fr. _net_--L. _nitidus_,
shining--_nìt[=e]re_, to shine.]

NEB, neb, _n._ the beak of a bird: the nose: the sharp point of
anything.--_adj._ NEBB'Y (_Scot._), saucy. [A.S. _nebb_, the face; cog.
with Dut. _neb_, beak.]

NEBBUK, neb'uk, _n._ a shrub, _Zizyphus Spina-Christi_, one of the thorns
of Christ's crown.

NEBEL, neb'el, _n._ a Hebrew stringed instrument.

NEB-NEB, neb'-neb, _n._ the dried pods of a species of acacia found in
Africa, which are much used in Egypt for tanning--called also _Bablah_.

NEBRIS, neb'ris, _n._ a fawn-skin worn in imitation of Bacchus by his
priests and votaries.

NEBULA, neb'[=u]-la, _n._ a little cloud: a faint, misty appearance in the
heavens produced either by a group of stars too distant to be seen singly,
or by diffused gaseous matter:--_pl._ NEB'ULÆ.--_adjs._ NEB'ULAR,
pertaining to nebulæ: like nebulæ; NEBULÉ (neb-[=u]-l[=a]'), curved in and
out (_her._); NEB'ULOSE, NEB'ULOUS, misty, hazy, vague: relating to, or
having the appearance of, a nebula.--_ns._ NEBULOS'ITY,
NEB'ULOUSNESS.--NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS, the theory of Laplace and Sir W.
Herschel that nebulæ form the earliest stage in the formation of stars and
planets. [L.; Gr. _nephel[=e]_, cloud, mist.]

NECESSARY, nes'es-sar-i, _adj._ that must be: that cannot be otherwise:
unavoidable: indispensable: under compulsion: not free.--_n._ that which
cannot be left out or done without (food, &c.)--used chiefly in _pl._: a
privy.--_ns._ NECESS[=A]'RIAN, one who holds the doctrine of necessity;
NECESS[=A]'RIANISM, the doctrine that the will is not free, but subject to
causes without, which determine its action.--_adv._ NEC'ESSARILY.--_n._
NEC'ESSARINESS, the state or quality of being necessary.--NECESSARY TRUTHS,
such as cannot but be true. [Fr.,--L. _necessarius_.]

NECESSITY, ne-ses'i-ti, _n._ state or quality of being necessary: that
which is necessary or unavoidable: compulsion: great need: poverty.--_ns._
NECESSIT[=A]'RIAN; NECESSIT[=A]'RIANISM, necessarianism.--_v.t._
NECESS'IT[=A]TE, to make necessary: to render unavoidable: to compel.--_n._
NECESSIT[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ NECESS'ITIED (_Shak._), in a state of want;
NECESS'ITOUS, in necessity: very poor: destitute.--_adv._
NECESS'ITOUSLY.--_n._ NECESS'ITOUSNESS.--NATURAL NECESSITY, the condition
of being necessary according to the laws of nature; LOGICAL or
MATHEMATICAL, according to those of human intelligence; MORAL, according to
those of moral law; WORKS OF NECESSITY, work so necessary as to be
allowable on the Sabbath. [L. _necessitas_.]

NECK, nek, _n._ the part of an animal's body between the head and trunk:
anything that resembles the neck: a long narrow part or corner: (_fig._)
life: the flesh of the neck and adjoining parts.--_v.t._ to break the neck
or cut off the head.--_ns._ NECK'ATEE, a neckerchief; NECK'-BAND, the part
of a shirt encircling the neck; NECK'-BEAR'ING, that part of a shaft which
rotates in the bearing proper, a journal; NECK'BEEF, the coarse flesh of
the neck of cattle; NECK'CLOTH, a piece of folded cloth worn round the neck
by men as a band or cravat, the ends hanging down often of lace.--_adj._
NECKED, having a neck of a certain kind.--_ns._ NECK'ERCHIEF, a kerchief
for the neck; NECK'LACE, a lace or string of beads or precious stones worn
on the neck by women; NECK'LET, a simple form of necklace; NECK'-MOULD, a
small moulding surrounding a column at the junction of the shaft and
capital; NECK'-PIECE, the part of a suit of armour that protects the neck:
an ornamental frill round the neck of a gown; NECK'TIE, a tie or cloth for
the neck; NECK'VERSE, the verse (usually Ps. li. 1) in early times placed
before a prisoner claiming _benefit-of-clergy_, in order to test his
ability to read, which, if he could do, he was burned in the hand and set
free (see BENEFIT).--_n._ STIFF'NECK (see STIFF).--NECK AND CROP,
completely; NECK AND NECK, exactly equal: side by side; NECK OR NOTHING,
risking everything.--HARDEN THE NECK, to grow more obstinate; TREAD ON THE
NECK OF, to oppress or tyrannise over. [A.S. _hnecca_; Ger. _nacken_.]

NECROLATRY, nek-rol'a-tri, _n._ worship of the dead.--_ns._
NECROBI[=O]'SIS, degeneration of living tissue; NECROG'RAPHER, one who
writes an obituary notice.--_adjs._ NECROLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to
necrology.--_ns._ NECROL'OGIST, one who gives an account of deaths;
NECROL'OGY, an account of those who have died, esp. of the members of some
society: a register of deaths; NEC'ROMANCER, one who practises necromancy:
a sorcerer; NEC'ROMANCY, the art of revealing future events by calling up
and questioning the spirits of the dead: enchantment.--_adjs._
NECROMAN'TIC, -AL, pertaining to necromancy: performed by
necromancy.--_adv._ NECROMAN'TICALLY.--_adj._ NECROPH'AGOUS, feeding on
carrion.--_ns._ NECROPH'ILISM, a morbid love for the dead; NECROPH[=O]'BIA,
a morbid horror of corpses.--_adj._ NECROPH'OROUS, carrying away and
burying dead bodies, esp. of beetles of the genus _Necrophorus_.--_n._
NECROP'OLIS, a cemetery.--_adjs._ NECROSCOP'IC, -AL.--_n._ NEC'ROSCOPY, a
post-mortem examination, autopsy--also NEC'ROPSY.--_adjs._ NECROSED',
NECR[=O]'TIC.--_ns._ NECR[=O]'SIS, the mortification of bone: (_bot._) a
disease of plants marked by small black spots; NECROT'OMIST; NECROT'OMY,
dissection of dead bodies. [Gr. _nekros_, dead.]

NECTAR, nek'tar, _n._ the name given by Homer, Hesiod, Pindar, &c. to the
beverage of the gods, giving life and beauty: a delicious beverage: the
honey of the glands of plants.--_adjs._ NECT[=A]'REAL, NECT[=A]'REAN,
pertaining to, or resembling, nectar: delicious; NEC'TARED, imbued with
nectar: mingled or abounding with nectar; NECT[=A]'REOUS, NEC'TAROUS,
pertaining to, containing, or resembling nectar: delicious.--_adv._
NECT[=A]'REOUSLY, in a nectareous manner.--_n._ NECT[=A]'REOUSNESS, the
quality of being nectareous.--_adjs._ NECT[=A]'RIAL; NECTARIF'EROUS,
producing nectar or honey: having a nectary; NEC'TARINE, sweet as
nectar.--_n._ a variety of peach with a smooth fruit.--_n._ NEC'TARY, the
part of a flower which secretes the nectar or honey. [L.,--Gr. _nektar_;
ety. dub.]

NECTOCALYX, nek'to-k[=a]-liks, _n._ the swimming-bell of a medusa:--_pl._
NECTOC[=A]'LYCES.

NEDDY, ned'i, _n._ a donkey. [From _Ned_=Edward.]

NÉE, n[=a], _adj._ born: placed before a married woman's maiden-name, to
show her own family, as Rebecca Crawley, _née_ Sharp. [Fr., fem. of _né_,
pa.p. of _naître_, to be born--L. _nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

NEED, n[=e]d, _n._ want of something which one cannot do without:
necessity: a state that requires relief: want of the means of
living.--_v.t._ to have occasion for: to want.--_ns._ NEED'-BE, a
necessity; NEED'ER; NEED'FIRE, fire produced by friction, to which a
certain virtue is superstitiously attached: a beacon generally.--_adj._
NEED'FUL, full of need: having need: needy: necessary: requisite.--_adv._
NEED'FULLY.--_n._ NEED'FULNESS.--_adv._ NEED'ILY.--_n._ NEED'INESS.--_adj._
NEED'LESS (_Shak._), having no need: not needed: unnecessary.--_adv._
NEED'LESSLY.--_n._ NEED'LESSNESS.--_adv._ NEED'LY (_Shak._),
necessarily.--_n._ NEED'MENT, something needed.--_adv._ NEEDS, of
necessity: indispensably--often used with _must_, as 'needs must.'--_adj._
NEED'Y, very poor: requisite.--_n._ NEED'YHOOD.--THE NEEDFUL (_slang_),
ready money. [A.S. _néd_, _niéd_, _nýd_; Dut. _nood_, Ger. _noth_.]

NEEDLE, n[=e]d'l, _n._ a small, sharp-pointed steel instrument, with an eye
for a thread--(_Shak._) NEELD, NEELE: any slender, pointed instrument like
a needle, as the magnet or movable bar of a compass, or for knitting,
etching, &c.: anything sharp and pointed, like a pinnacle of rock, &c.: an
aciform crystal: a temporary support used by builders to sustain while
repairing, being a strong beam resting on props: the long, narrow,
needle-like leaf of a pine-tree.--_v.t._ to form into a shape like a
needle, as crystals: to work with a needle.--_v.i._ to become of the shape
of needles, as crystals.--_ns._ NEED'LE-BOOK, a number of pieces of cloth,
leather, &c. arranged like a book, for holding needles; NEED'LE-CASE, a
case for holding needles; NEED'LE-FISH, a pipe-fish: a garfish or belonid;
NEED'LEFUL, as much thread as fills a needle; NEED'LE-GUN, a gun or rifle
loaded at the breech, the cartridge of which is exploded by the impact of a
needle or spike at its base.--_adjs._ NEED'LE-POINT'ED, pointed like a
needle: without a barb, as a fish-hook; NEED'LE-SHAPED, shaped like a
needle: applied to the long, slender, sharp-pointed leaves of pines, firs,
and other trees.--_ns._ NEED'LE-TEL'EGRAPH, a telegraph the receiver of
which gives its messages by the deflections of a magnetic needle;
NEED'LEWOMAN, a woman who makes her living by her needle, a seamstress;
NEED'LEWORK, work done with a needle: the business of a seamstress.--_adj._
NEED'LY, thorny. [A.S. _n['æ]dl_; Ger. _nadel_; cog. with Ger. _nähen_, to
sew, L. _n[=e]re_, to spin.]

NEEP, a Scotch form of _turnip_.

NE'ER, n[=a]r, _adv._ contr. of _never_.--_adj._ and _n._ NE'ER'-DO-WELL,
past all well-doing: one who is good for nothing.

NEESE, n[=e]z, _v.i._ an old form of _sneeze_.--_n._ NEES'ING, sneezing.

NEF, nef, _n._ a cadenas.

NEFANDOUS, n[=e]-fan'dus, _adj._ bad to execration, abominable. [L.,--_ne_,
not, _fandus_, _f[=a]ri_, to speak.]

NEFARIOUS, n[=e]-f[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ impious: extremely wicked:
villainous.--_adv._ NEF[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ NEF[=A]'RIOUSNESS.--_adj._
N[=E]FAST', abominable. [L. _nefarius_, contrary to divine law--_ne_, not,
_fas_, divine law, prob. from _f[=a]ri_, to speak.]

NEGATION, ne-g[=a]'shun, _n._ act of saying no: denial: (_logic_) the
absence of certain qualities in anything. [Fr.,--L.
_negation-em-_--_neg[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to say no--_nec_, not, _aio_, I
say yes.]

NEGATIVE, neg'a-tiv, _adj._ that denies or refuses--opp. to _Affirmative_:
implying absence: that stops, hinders, neutralises--opp. to _Positive_: in
photography, exhibiting the reverse, as dark for light, light for dark:
(_logic_) denying the connection between a subject and a predicate:
(_algebra_) noting a quantity to be subtracted.--_n._ a word or statement
by which something is denied: the right or act of saying 'no,' or of
refusing assent: the side of a question or the decision which denies what
is affirmed: in photography, an image on glass or other medium, in which
the lights and shades are the opposite of those in nature, used for
printing positive impressions from on paper, &c.: (_gram._) a word that
denies.--_v.t._ to prove the contrary: to reject by vote.--_adv._
NEG'ATIVELY.--_ns._ NEG'ATIVENESS, NEG'ATIVISM, NEGATIV'ITY.--_adj._
NEG'ATORY, expressing denial.--NEGATIVE BATH, a silver solution in which
photographic negatives are placed to be sensitised; NEGATIVE ELECTRICITY,
electricity with a relatively low potential, electricity such as is
developed by rubbing resinous bodies with flannel, opposite to that
obtained by rubbing glass; NEGATIVE QUANTITY (_math._), a quantity with a
_minus_ sign ( - ) before it, indicating that it is either to be
subtracted, or reckoned in an opposite direction from some other with a
_plus_ sign; NEGATIVE SIGN, the sign ( - or _minus_) of subtraction. [L.
_negativus_--_neg[=a]re_, to deny.]

NEG[=A]TUR, _v._ it is denied. [L., 3d pers. sing. pres. ind. pass. of
_neg[=a]re_, to deny.]

NEGLECT, neg-lekt', _v.t._ to treat carelessly, pass by without notice: to
omit by carelessness.--_n._ disregard: slight: omission.--_adj._
NEGLECT'ABLE, that may be neglected.--_ns._ NEGLECT'EDNESS;
NEGLECT'ER.--_adj._ NEGLECT'FUL, careless: accustomed to omit or neglect
things: slighting.--_adv._ NEGLECT'FULLY.--_n._ NEGLECT'FULNESS.--_adj._
NEGLECT'IBLE.--_adv._ NEGLECT'INGLY, carelessly: heedlessly. [L.
_neglig[)e]re_, _neglectum_--_nec_, not, _leg[)e]re_, to gather.]

NEGLIGÉE, neg-li-zh[=a]', _n._ easy undress: a plain, loose gown: a
necklace, usually of red coral.--_adj._ carelessly or unceremoniously
dressed: careless. [Fr., fem. of _négligé_--_négliger_, to neglect.]

NEGLIGENCE, neg'li-jens, _n._ fact or quality of being negligent: want of
proper care: habitual neglect: a single act of carelessness or neglect, a
slight: carelessness about dress, manner, &c.: omission of duty, esp. such
care for the interests of others as the law may require--(_Shak._)
NEGLEC'TION.--_adj._ NEG'LIGENT, neglecting: careless: inattentive:
disregarding ceremony or fashion.--_adv._ NEG'LIGENTLY.--_adj._
NEG'LIGIBLE.--_adv._ NEG'LIGIBLY. [Fr.,--L. _negligentia_--_negligens_,
_-entis_, pr.p. of _neglig[)e]re_, to neglect.]

NEGOTIABLE, ne-g[=o]'shi-a-bl, _adj._ that may be transacted: that can be
transferred to another with the same rights as belonged to the original
holder, as a bill of exchange.--_n._ NEGOTIABIL'ITY.

NEGOTIATE, ne-g[=o]'shi-[=a]t, _v.i._ to carry on business: to bargain: to
hold intercourse for the purpose of mutual arrangement.--_v.t._ to arrange
for by agreement: to manage: to transfer to another with all the rights of
the original holder: to pass, as a bill: to sell.--_ns._ NEGOTI[=A]'TION,
act of negotiating: the treating with another on business; NEG[=O]'TIATOR;
NEG[=O]'TIATRIX.--_adj._ NEGOTI[=A]'TORY, of or pertaining to negotiation.
[L. _negoti[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_negotium_, business--_nec_, not, _otium_,
leisure.]

NEGRITO, ne-gr[=e]'to, _n._ the Spanish name for certain tribes of
negro-like diminutive people in the interior of some of the Philippine
Islands--also _Aëtas_ or _Itas_: in a wider sense, the Papuans and all the
Melanesian peoples of Polynesia.

NEGRO, n[=e]'gr[=o], _n._ one of the black-skinned woolly-haired race in
the Soudan and central parts of Africa, also their descendants in
America.--_adj._ of or pertaining to the race of black men:--_fem._
N[=E]'GRESS.--_ns._ N[=E]'GRO-CORN, the name given in the West Indies to
the plant durra or Indian millet; N[=E]'GROHEAD, tobacco soaked in molasses
and pressed into cakes, so called from its blackness.--_adj._
N[=E]'GROID.--_n._ N[=E]'GR[=O]ISM, any peculiarity of speech noticeable
among negroes, esp. in the southern United States. [Sp. _negro_--L.
_niger_, black.]

NEGUS, n[=e]'gus, _n._ a beverage of either port or sherry with hot water,
sweetened and spiced. [Said to be so called from Colonel _Negus_, its first
maker, in the reign of Queen Anne.]

NEGUS, n[=e]'gus, _n._ the title of the kings of Abyssinia.

NEIF, n[=e]f, _n._ (_Shak._) the fist.

NEIGH, n[=a], _v.i._ to utter the cry of a horse:--_pr.p._ neigh'ing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p_. neighed (n[=a]d).--_n._ the cry of a horse--(_Scot._)
NICH'ER. [A.S. _hn['æ]gan_; Ice. _hneggja_.]

NEIGHBOUR, nä'bur, _n._ a person who dwells, sits, or stands near another:
one who is on friendly terms with another.--_adj._ (_B._)
neighbouring.--_v.i._ to live near each other.--_v.t._ to be near to.--_n._
NEIGH'BOURHOOD, state of being neighbours, kindly feeling: adjoining
district or the people living in it: a district generally, esp. with
reference to its inhabitants.--_adj._ NEIGH'BOURING, being near:
adjoining.--_n._ NEIGH'BOURLINESS.--_adjs._ NEIGH'BOURLY, like or becoming
a neighbour: friendly: social--also _adv._; NEIGH'BOUR-STAINED (_Shak._),
stained with neighbours' blood. [A.S. _neáhbúr_, _neáhgebúr_--A.S. _neáh_,
near, _gebúr_ or _búr_, a farmer.]

NEIST, n[=e]st, a dialectic form of _next_.

NEITHER, n[=e]'_th_[.e]r, or n[=i]'_th_[.e]r, _adj._ and _pron._ not
either.--_conj._ not either: and not: nor yet.--_adv._ not at all: in no
case. [A.S. _ná_th_er, náw_th_er_, abbrev. of _náhwæther_--_ne_, not,
_áhwæther_, _áwther_, either.]

NEIVIE-NICK-NACK, n[=e]'vi-nik'-nak, _n._ a Scotch children's game of
guessing in which hand a thing is held while the holder repeats a rhyme
beginning with these words.

NELUMBO, n[=e]-lum'b[=o], _n._ a genus of water-lilies including the
_Egyptian Bean_ of Pythagoras, and the Hindu _Lotus_.--Also NELUM'BIUM.
[Ceylon name.]

NEMALITE, nem'a-l[=i]t, _n._ a fibrous hydrate of magnesia. [Gr. _n[=e]ma_,
a thread, _lithos_, a stone.]

NEMATHECIUM, nem-a-th[=e]'si-um, _n._ a wart-like elevation on the surface
of the thallus of certain florideous algæ. [Gr. _n[=e]ma_, a thread,
_th[=e]kion_, _th[=e]k[=e]_, case.]

NEMATHELMINTHES, nem-a-thel-min'thez, _n.pl._ a name applied to the
thread-worms or nematodes (as _Ascaris_, _Guinea-worm_, _Trichina_), to the
somewhat distinct _Gordiidæ_ or _hair-eels_, and to the more remotely
allied _Acanthocephala_ or _Echinorhynchus_.--Also
NEMATHELMIN'THA.--_adjs._ NEMATHEL'MINTH, -IC. [Gr. _n[=e]ma_, a thread,
_helmins_, _-minthos_, worm.]

NEMATOCEROUS, nem-a-tos'e-rus, _adj._ having long thready antennæ, as a
dipterous insect. [Gr. _n[=e]ma_, a thread, _keras_, a horn.]

NEMATOCYST, nem'a-t[=o]-sist, _n._ a cnida, one of the offensive organs of
Coelenterates, as jellyfish. [Gr. _n[=e]ma_, a thread, _kystis_, a
bladder.]

NEMATOID, nem'a-toid, _adj._ thread-like--also NEM'ATODE.--_n.pl._
NEMATOI'DEA, a class of Vermes, with mouth, alimentary canal, and separate
sexes, usually parasitic. [Gr. _n[=e]ma_, thread, _eidos_, form.]

NEMEAN, n[=e]'m[=e]-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Nemea_, a valley of Argolis
in the Peloponnesus, famous for its public games held in the second and
fourth of each Olympiad.

NEMERTEA, n[=e]-mer't[=e]-a, _n.pl._ a class of Vermes, mostly marine,
unsegmented, covered with cilia, often brightly coloured, with protrusile
proboscis, and usually distinct sexes.--_adj._ NEMER'TEAN. [Gr.
_N[=e]mert[=e]s_, a nereid's name.]

NEMESIS, nem'e-sis, _n._ (_myth._) the goddess of vengeance: retributive
justice.--_adj._ NEMES'IC. [Gr.,--_nemein_, to distribute.]

NEMO, n[=e]'mo, _n._ nobody: a nobody. [L.]

NEMOCEROUS, n[=e]-mos'e-rus, _adj._ having filamentous antennæ.

NEMORAL, nem'o-ral, _adj._ pertaining to a wood or grove.--_n._
NEMOPH'ILIST.--_adjs._ NEMOPH'ILOUS, fond of woods, inhabiting woods;
NEM'OROSE, growing in woodland; NEM'OROUS, woody. [L. _nemus_, _-[)o]ris_,
a grove.]

NEMPT, nemt (_Spens._), named, called.

NENUPHAR, nen'[=u]-far, _n._ the great white water-lily. [Fr.,--Ar.]

NEO-CATHOLIC, n[=e]-[=o]-kath'o-lik, _adj._ pertaining to the short-lived
school of liberal Catholicism that followed Lamennais, Lacordaire, and
Montalembert about 1830: pertaining to a small party within the Anglican
Church, who think they have outgrown Keble and Pusey and the great Caroline
divines, and are more noisy than intelligent in their avowal of preference
for Roman doctrine, ritual, and discipline.

NEO-CHRISTIAN, n[=e]-[=o]-kris'tyan, _adj._ and _n._ of or pertaining to
so-called _Neo-Christianity_, which merely means old Rationalism.

NEOCOMIAN, n[=e]-[=o]-k[=o]'mi-an, _adj._ and _n._ (_geol._) of or
pertaining to the lower division of the Cretaceous system, including the
Lower Greensand and the Wealden of English geologists. [Græcised from
_Neuchâtel_, near which is its typical region; Gr. _neos_, new,
_k[=o]m[=e]_, a village.]

NEOCOSMIC, n[=e]-[=o]-koz'mik, _adj._ pertaining to the present condition
of the universe, esp. its races of men. [Gr. _neos_, new, _kosmos_, the
universe.]

NEOCRACY, n[=e]-ok'ra-si, _n._ government by upstarts.

NEOGAMIST, n[=e]-og'a-mist, _n._ a person recently married.

NEOGRAMMARIAN, n[=e]-[=o]-gra-m[=a]'ri-an, _n._ one of the more recent
school in the study of Indo-European grammar and philology, who attach vast
importance to phonetic change, and the laws governing it.--_adj._
NEOGRAMMAT'ICAL.

NEOHELLENISM, n[=e]-[=o]-hel'en-izm, _n._ the modern Hellenism inspired by
the ancient: the devotion to ancient Greek ideals in literature and art,
esp. in the Italian Renaissance.

NEO-KANTIAN, n[=e]-[=o]-kan'ti-an, _adj._ pertaining to the philosophy of
_Kant_ as taught by his successors.

NEO-LATIN, n[=e]-[=o]-lat'in, _n._ Latin as written by modern writers: new
Latin, as in the Romance languages sprung from the Latin.

NEOLITE, n[=e]'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a dark-green silicate of aluminium and
magnesium. [Gr. _neos_, new, _lithos_, a stone.]

NEOLITHIC, n[=e]-[=o]-lith'ik, _adj._ applied to the more recent implements
of the stone age--opp. to _Palæolithic_. [Gr. _neos_, new, _lithos_, a
stone.]

NEOLOGY, n[=e]-ol'o-ji, _n._ the introduction of new words, or new senses
of old words, into a language: (_theol._) new doctrines, esp. German
rationalism.--_n._ NEOL[=O]'GIAN.--_adjs._ NEOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to
neology: using new words.--_adv._ NEOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ NEOL'OGISE, to
introduce new words or doctrines.--_ns._ NEOL'OGISM, a new word, phrase, or
doctrine: the use of old words in a new sense; NEOL'OGIST, one who
introduces new words or senses: one who introduces new doctrines in
theology.--_adjs._ NEOLOGIS'TIC, -AL. [Gr. _neos_, new, _logos_, word.]

NEONOMIANISM, n[=e]-[=o]-n[=o]'mi-an-izm, _n._ the doctrine that the gospel
is a new law, and that faith has abrogated the old moral obedience.--_n._
NEON[=O]'MIAN. [Gr. _neos_, new, _nomos_, law.]

NEONOMOUS, n[=e]-on'o-mus, _adj._ having a greatly modified biological
structure, specialised according to recent conditions of environment. [Gr.
_neos_, new, _nomos_, law.]

NEONTOLOGY, n[=e]-on-tol'o-ji, _n._ the science and description of extant,
as apart from extinct, animals.--_n._ NEONTOL'OGIST. [Gr. _neos_, new,
_on_, _ontos_, being, _logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

NEO-PAGANISM, n[=e]-[=o]-p[=a]'gan-izm, _n._ a revival of paganism, or its
spirit--a euphemism for mere animalism.--_v.t._ NEO-P[=A]'GAN[=I]SE, to
imbue with this spirit.

NEOPHOBIA, n[=e]-[=o]-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ dread of novelty. [Gr. _neos_, new,
_phobia_--_phebesthai_, to fear.]

NEOPHRON, n[=e]'[=o]-fron, _n._ a genus of vultures, having horizontal
nostrils. [Gr.,--_neos_, new, _phren_, mind.]

NEOPHYTE, n[=e]'[=o]-f[=i]t, _n._ a new convert, one newly baptised or
admitted to the priesthood, or to a monastery, a novice: a tyro or
beginner.--_adj._ newly admitted or entered on office.--_n._
N[=E]'OPHYTISM. [L. _neophytus_--Gr. _neos_, new, _phytos_,
grown--_phyein_, to produce.]

NEOPLASM, n[=e]'[=o]-plazm, _n._ a morbid new growth or formation of
tissue.--_adj._ NEOPLAS'TIC.

NEOPLATONISM, n[=e]-[=o]-pl[=a]'to-nizm, _n._ a system of philosophy
combining _Platonic_ and Oriental elements, originating with Ammonius
Saccas at Alexandria in the 3d century, developed by Plotinus, Porphyry,
Proclus, &c.--_adj._ NEOPLATON'IC.--_n._ NEOPL[=A]'TONIST.

NEOTERIC, -AL, n[=e]-[=o]-ter'ik, -al, _adj._ of recent origin,
modern.--_v.i._ NEOT'ERISE.--_n._ NEOT'ERISM, the introduction of new
things, esp. new words. [Gr.,--_ne[=o]teros_, comp. of _neos_, new.]

NEOTIC, n[=e]-ot'ik, _adj._ addressed to the understanding.

NEOTROPICAL, n[=e]-[=o]-trop'i-kal, _adj._ applied to the part of the New
World including tropical and South America and the adjacent islands.

NEOZOIC, n[=e]-[=o]-z[=o]'ik, _adj._ denoting all rocks from the Trias down
to the most recent formations, as opposed to _Palæozoic_. [Gr. _neos_, new,
_zo[=e]_, life.]

NEP, nep, _n._ (_prov._) a knot in a fibre of cotton.

NEPENTHES, ne-pen'th[=e]z, _n._ (_med._) a drug that relieves pain--also
NEPEN'THE: a genus of plants having a cup or pitcher attached to the leaf,
often filled with a sweetish liquid, the pitcher-plant. [Gr.,--_n[=e]_,
neg., _penthos_, grief.]

NEPHALISM, nef'a-lizm, _n._ total abstinence from alcoholic drinks.--_n._
NEPH'ALIST, a bigoted teetotaler. [Gr. _n[=e]phalios_, sober; _n[=e]phein_,
to be sober.]

NEPHELINE, nef'e-lin, _n._ a rock-forming mineral, colourless, usually
crystallising in hexagonal prisms, occurring in various volcanic rocks, as
in certain basalts. [Gr. _nephel[=e]_, a cloud.]

NEPHELOID, nef'e-loid, _adj._ cloudy, turbid.--_ns._ NEPHELOM'ETER, a
supposititious instrument for measuring cloudiness; NEPH'ELOSCOPE, an
apparatus for illustrating the formation of cloud; NEPH'ELOSPHERE, an
atmosphere of cloud surrounding a planet, &c. [Gr. _nephel[=e]_, cloud.]

NEPHEW, nev'[=u], or nef'[=u], _n._ the son of a brother or sister:
(_orig._) a grandson (so in New Test.):--_fem._ NIECE. [O. Fr. _neveu_--L.
_nepos_, _nepotis_, grandson, nephew; A.S. _nefa_, Ger. _neffe_, nephew.]

NEPHRALGIA, ne-fral'ji-a, _n._ pain or disease of the kidneys--also
NEPHRAL'GY.--_ns._ NEPH'RITE, a mineral usually called _Jade_, an old charm
against kidney disease; NEPHRIT'IC, a medicine for the cure of diseases of
the kidneys.--_adjs._ NEPHRIT'IC, -AL, pertaining to the kidneys: affected
with a disease of the kidneys: relieving diseases of the kidneys.--_ns._
NEPHR[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the kidneys; NEPH'ROCELE, hernia of the
kidney; NEPHROG'RAPHY, a description of the kidneys.--_adj._ NEPH'ROID,
kidney-shaped.--_ns._ NEPHROL'OGY, scientific knowledge of the kidneys;
NEPHROT'OMY, the operation of excising the kidneys. [Gr. _nephros_, a
kidney, _algos_, pain.]

NEPOTISM, nep'o-tizm, _n._ undue favouritism to one's relations, as in the
bestowal of patronage.--_adjs._ NEPOT'IC, NEP[=O]'TIOUS.--_n._ NEP'OTIST,
one who practises nepotism. [L. _nepos_, _nepotis_, a grandson.]

NEPTUNE, nep't[=u]n, _n._ (_Rom. myth._) the god of the sea, identified
with the Greek Poseidon, represented with a trident in his hand:
(_astron._) the outermost planet of the solar system, discovered in
1846.--_adj._ NEPT[=U]'NIAN, pertaining to the sea: (_geol._) formed by
water: applied to stratified rocks or to those due mainly to the agency of
water, as opposed to _Plutonic_ or _Igneous_.--_n._ NEP'T[=U]NIST, one who
holds the Neptunian theory in geology--also _adj._ [L. _Neptunus_.]

NEREID, n[=e]'r[=e]-id, _n._ (_Gr. myth._) a sea-nymph, one of the
daughters of the sea-god _Nereus_, who attended Neptune riding on
sea-horses: (_zool._) a genus of marine worms like long myriapods.--_ns._
N[=E]'R[=E]IS, a nereid; N[=E]'R[=E]ITE, a fossil annelid related to the
nereids. [L.,--Gr.]

NERINE, n[=e]-r[=i]'n[=e], _n._ a genus of ornamental South African plants
of the Amaryllis family, with scarlet or rose-coloured flowers.--The
Guernsey Lily is the _Nerine Sarniensis_.

NERITE, n[=e]'r[=i]t, _n._ a gasteropod of the genus _Nerita_ or the family
_Neritidæ_.--_adj._ NERIT[=A]'CEAN.

NERIUM, n[=e]'ri-um, _n._ a genus of Mediterranean shrubs, with fragrant
and showy pink, white, or yellowish flowers, the oleander.

NERO, n[=e]'ro, _n._ the last emperor of the family of the Cæsars, at Rome
(54-68 A.D.): any cruel and wicked tyrant.--_adj._ NER[=O]'NIAN.

NERO-ANTICO, n[=a]-r[=o]-an-t[=e]'ko, _n._ a deep-black marble found in
Roman ruins. [It.]

NERVE, n[.e]rv, _n._ bodily strength, firmness, courage: (_anat._) one of
the fibres which convey sensation from all parts of the body to the brain:
(_bot._) one of the fibres or ribs in the leaves of plants: a trade term
for a non-porous quality of cork, slightly charred: (_pl._) hysterical
nervousness.--_v.t._ to give strength or vigour to: to arm with
force.--_adj._ NERV'AL.--_ns._ NERV[=A]'TION, the arrangement or
distribution of nerves, esp. those of leaves; NERVE'-CELL, any cell forming
part of the nervous system, esp. one of those by means of which
nerve-fibres are connected with each other; NERVE'-CEN'TRE, a collection of
nerve-cells from which nerves branch out.--_adj._ NERVED, furnished with
nerves, or with nerves of a special character, as 'strong-nerved.'--_n._
NERVE'-F[=I]'BRE, one of the essential thread-like units of which a nerve
is composed.--_adj._ NERVE'LESS, without strength.--_n._
NERVE'LESSNESS.--_adj._ NERV'INE, acting on the nerves: quieting nervous
excitement.--_n._ a medicine that soothes nervous excitement.--_adjs._
NERV'OUS, having nerve: sinewy: strong, vigorous, showing strength and
vigour: pertaining to the nerves: having the nerves easily excited or weak;
NERV'OUS, NERVOSE', NERVED (_bot._) having parallel fibres or
veins.--_adv._ NERV'OUSLY.--_n._ NERV'OUSNESS.--_adj._ NERV'[=U]LAR.--_ns._
NERV'[=U]LE, a small nerve, a small vein of an insect's wing--also
_Nervulet_, _Veinlet_, _Venule_; NERV'URE, one of the nerves or veins of
leaves: one of the horny tubes or divisions which expand the wings of
insects: one of the ribs in a groined vault: a projecting moulding.--_adj._
NERV'Y, strong, vigorous.--NERVOUS SYSTEM (_anat._), the brain, spinal
cord, and nerves collectively: the whole of the nerves and nerve-centres of
the body considered as related to each other, and fitted to act together.
[Fr.,--L. _nervus_; Gr. _neuron_, a sinew.]

NESCIENCE, nesh'ens, _n._ want of knowledge.--_adj._ NESC'IENT. [L.
_nescientia_--_nesc[=i]re_, to be ignorant--_ne_, not, _sc[=i]re_, to
know.]

NESH, nesh, _adj._ (_prov._) soft, crumbly: tender.--_v.t._ NESH'EN, to
make tender.

NESHAMAH, nesh'a-mä, _n._ the highest degree of the soul in the cabbalistic
system.

NESIOTE, n[=e]'si-[=o]t, _adj._ insular. [Gr. _n[=e]sos_, an island.]

NESKI, nes'ki, _n._ the cursive hand generally used in Arabic.--Also
NESH'KI. [Ar.]

NESOGÆAN, n[=e]-s[=o]-j[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to Nesogæa--Polynesia or
Oceania, New Zealand excepted, with regard to the distribution of its
animals. [Gr. _n[=e]sos_, an island, _gaia_, the earth.]

NESS, nes, _n._ a promontory or headland. [A.S. _næss_; a doublet of
_naze_, prob. conn. with _nose_.]

NEST, nest, _n._ the bed formed by a bird for hatching her young: the place
in which the eggs of any animal are laid and hatched: a comfortable
residence: a number of persons haunting one place for a bad purpose: the
place itself: a number of baskets or boxes each fitting inside the next
larger.--_v.t._ to form a nest for.--_v.i._ to build and occupy a
nest.--_n._ NEST'-EGG, an egg left in the nest to keep the hen from
forsaking it: something laid up as the beginning of an
accumulation.--FEATHER ONE'S NEST, to provide for one's self, esp. from
other people's property of which one has had charge. [A.S. _nest_; Ger.
_nest_, L. _n[=i]dus_.]

NESTLE, nes'l, _v.i._ to lie close or snug as in a nest: to settle
comfortably.--_v.t._ to cherish, as a bird does her young.--_adj._
NEST'LING, being in the nest, newly hatched.--_n._ act of making a nest: a
young bird in the nest--also NEST'LER. [A.S. _nestlian_--_nest_.]

NESTOR, nes'tor, _n._ a Greek hero at Troy, remarkable for eloquence and
wisdom gained through long life and varied experience: any one who
possesses those qualities, a counsellor, adviser.--_adj._ NEST[=O]'RIAN.

NESTORIAN, nes-t[=o]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Christological
doctrine of _Nestorius_, patriarch of Constantinople from 428 to his
condemnation and deposition at the general council of Ephesus in 431; he
held the true divinity and humanity of Christ, but denied their union in a
single self-conscious personality, that union being merely moral or
sympathetic--thus the personality was broken up into a duality.--_n._ a
follower of Nestorius.--_n._ NEST[=O]'RIANISM.

NET, net, _n._ an open fabric of twine, &c., knotted into meshes for
catching birds, fishes, &c.: anything like a net for keeping out insects,
&c.: a meshed bag for holding a woman's hair: machine-made lace of various
kinds: a snare: a difficulty.--_adj._ made of netting or resembling it,
reticulate: caught in a net.--_v.t._ to form into network: to take with a
net: to protect with a net, to veil.--_v.i._ to form network:--_pr.p._
net'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ net'ted.--_ns._ NET'-FISH, any fish, like the
herring, caught in nets--opp. to _Trawl-fish_ and _Line-fish_;
NET'-FISH'ERY, a place for net-fishing, the business of such fishing;
NET'-FISH'ING, the method or the industry of fishing with nets.--_p.adj._
NET'TED, made into a net, reticulated: caught in a net.--_ns._ NET'TING,
act or process of forming network: a piece of network: any network of ropes
or wire, esp. for use on shipboard; NET'TING-NEED'LE, a kind of shuttle
used in netting.--_adjs._ NET'TY, like a net; NET'-VEINED, in entomology,
having a great number of veins or nervures like a network on the surface,
as in the wings of many Orthoptera; NET'-WINGED, having net-veined
wings.--_n._ NET'WORK, any work showing cross lines or open spaces like the
meshes of a net. [A.S. _net_, _nett_; Dut. _net_, Ger. _netz_.]

NET, NETT, net, _adj._ clear of all charges or deductions--opp. to _Gross_:
lowest, subject to no further deductions.--_v.t._ to produce as clear
profit:--_pr.p._ net'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ net'ted. [_Neat._]

NETHELESSE, neth'les, _adv._=NATHLESS.

NETHER, ne_th_'[.e]r, _adj._ beneath another, lower: infernal.--_n._
NETH'ERLANDER, an inhabitant of Holland.--_adj._ NETH'ERLANDISH,
Dutch.--_n.pl._ NETH'ERLINGS, stockings.--_adjs._ NETH'ERMORE, lower;
NETH'ERMOST, lowest.--_n.pl._ NETH'ERSTOCKS (_Shak._), short stockings or
half-hose for the leg, as distinguished from trunk hose for the
thigh.--_advs._ NETH'ERWARD, -S, downward. [A.S. _neothera_, a comp. adj.
due to adv. _nither_, downward; Ger. _nieder_, low.]

NETHINIM, neth'in-im, _n.pl._ (_B._) servants of the old Jewish temple, set
apart to assist the Levites. [Heb.]

NETSUKE, net'su-k[=a], _n._ a small toggle or button, carved or inlaid, on
Japanese pipe-cases, pouches, &c.

NETTLE, net'l, _n._ a common plant covered with hairs which sting
sharply.--_v.t._ to fret, as a nettle does the skin: to irritate.--_ns._
NETT'LE-CLOTH, thick japanned cotton cloth used for leather; NETT'LE-FISH,
a jelly-fish, sea-nettle; NETT'LERASH, a kind of fever characterised by a
rash or eruption on the skin; NETT'LE-TREE, a genus of trees, with simple
and generally serrated leaves, the fruit a fleshy, globose, one-celled
drupe; NETT'LE-WORT, any plant of the nettle family. [A.S. _netele_; Ger.
_nessel_.]

NETTLING, net'ling, _n._ the joining of two ropes, end to end, without
seam: the tying in pairs of yarns in a ropewalk to prevent tangling.
[_Knittle._]

NEUME, n[=u]m, _n._ a succession of notes to be sung to one syllable, a
sequence: an old sign for a tone or a phrase. [O. Fr.,--Gr. _pneuma_,
breath.]

NEURAL, n[=u]'ral, _adj._ pertaining to the nerves--also NEUR'IC.--_ns._
NEURIC'ITY, nerve-force; NEURIL'ITY, the function of the nervous
system--that of conducting stimuli.--NEURAL ARCH, the arch of a vertebra
protecting the spinal cord. [Gr. _neuron_, a nerve.]

NEURALGIA, n[=u]-ral'ji-a, _n._ pain of a purely nervous character,
occurring in paroxysms, usually unaccompanied by inflammation, fever, or
any appreciable change of structure in the affected part--(_obs._)
NEURAL'GY.--_adjs._ NEURAL'GIC, NEURAL'GIFORM. [Gr. _neuron_, nerve,
_algos_, pain.]

NEURASTHENIA, n[=u]-ras-the-n[=i]'a, _n._ nervous debility.--_adj._
NEURASTHEN'IC--also _n._ one suffering from this. [Gr. _neuron_, a nerve,
_astheneia_, weakness.]

NEURATION, n[=u]-r[=a]'shun, _n._ Same as NERVATION.

NEURILEMMA, n[=u]-ri-lem'a, _n._ the external sheath of a nerve-fibre.

NEURITIS, n[=u]-r[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of a nerve.

NEUROHYPNOLOGY, n[=u]-r[=o]-hip-nol'o-ji, _n._ the study of hypnotism: the
means employed for inducing the hypnotic state.--_ns._ NEUROHYPNOL'OGIST;
NEUROHYP'NOTISM, hypnotism. [Gr. _neuron_, nerve, _hypnos_, sleep, _logia_,
discourse.]

NEUROLOGY, n[=u]-rol'o-ji, _n._ the science of the nerves.--_adj._
NEUROLOG'ICAL.--_n._ NEUROL'OGIST, a writer on neurology. [Gr. _neuron_,
nerve, _logia_, science.]

NEURON, n[=u]'ron, _n._ the cerebro-spinal axis in its entirety: a nervure
of an insect's wing.

NEUROPATH, n[=u]'ro-path, _n._ one who takes nervous conditions solely or
mostly into account in his pathology.--_adjs._ NEUROPATH'IC, -AL.--_adv._
NEUROPATH'ICALLY.--_ns._ NEUROPATHOL'OGY, the sum of knowledge of the
diseases of the nervous system; NEUROP'ATHY, nervous disease generally.
[Gr. _neuron_, nerve, _pathos_, suffering.]

NEUROPTERA, n[=u]-rop't[.e]r-a, _n.pl._ an order of insects which have
generally four wings marked with a network of many nerves:--_sing._
NEUROP'TERON; also NEUROP'TER, NEUROP'TERAN.--_adjs._ NEUROP'TERAL,
NEUROP'TEROUS, nerve-winged. [Gr. _neuron_, nerve, _ptera_, pl. of
_pteron_, a wing.]

NEUROSE, n[=u]'r[=o]s, _adj._ nerved: having many nervures or veins, of an
insect's wing, &c.

NEUROTIC, n[=u]-rot'ik, _adj._ relating to, or seated in, the nerves.--_n._
a disease of the nerves: a medicine useful for diseases of the
nerves.--_adj._ NEUR[=O]'SAL.--_n._ NEUR[=O]'SIS, a nervous disease, esp.
without lesion of parts, as epilepsy, &c.

NEUROTOMY, n[=u]-rot'om-i, _n._ the cutting or dissection of a
nerve.--_adj._ NEUROTOM'ICAL. [Gr. _neuron_, a nerve, _tom[=e]_, cutting.]

NEUROTONIC, n[=u]-ro-ton'ik, _n._ a medicine intended to strengthen the
nervous system.

NEUTER, n[=u]'t[.e]r, _adj._ neither: taking no part with either side:
(_gram._) neither masculine nor feminine: neither active nor passive:
(_bot._) without stamens or pistils: (_zool._) without sex.--_n._ one
taking no part in a contest: (_bot._) a plant having neither stamens nor
pistils: (_zool._) a sexless animal, esp. the working bee. [L.,
'neither'--_ne_, not, _uter_, either.]

NEUTRAL, n[=u]'tral, _adj._ being neuter, indifferent: taking no part on
either side: unbiassed: neither very good nor very bad, of no decided
character: having no decided colour, bluish or grayish: (_chem._) neither
acid nor alkaline.--_n._ a person or nation that takes no part in a
contest.--_n._ NEUTRALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ NEU'TRALISE, to declare by
convention any nation permanently neutral or neutral during certain
hostilities: to make inert: to render of no effect.--_ns._ NEU'TRALISER;
NEUTRAL'ITY, state of taking no part on either of two sides: those who are
neutral.--_adv._ NEU'TRALLY.--NEUTRAL TINT, a dull grayish colour; NEUTRAL
VOWEL, the vowel-sound heard in _but_, _firm_, _her_, &c., and commonly in
unaccented syllables.--ARMED NEUTRALITY, the condition of a neutral power
ready to repel aggression from either belligerent. [L.
_neutralis_--_neuter_, neither.]

NÉVÉ, n[=a]-v[=a]', _n._ the same as _firn_ or _glacier snow_. [Fr.,--L.
_nix_, _nivis_, snow.]

NEVEL, nev'el, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to beat with the fists.

NEVER, nev'[.e]r, _adv._ not ever: at no time: in no degree: not.--_adv._
NEV'ERMORE, at no future time.--_conj._ NEVERTHELESS', notwithstanding: in
spite of that (earlier _Natheless_).--_adv._ NEVERTHEMORE' (_Spens._), none
the more. [A.S. _n['æ]fre_--_ne_, not, _['æ]fre_, ever.]

NEW, n[=u], _adj._ lately made: having happened lately: recent, modern: not
before seen or known: strange, different: recently commenced: changed for
the better: not of an ancient family: as at first: unaccustomed: fresh from
anything: uncultivated or only recently cultivated.--_adjs._ NEW'BORN
(_Shak._), recently born; NEW'COME, recently arrived.--_n._ NEW'-COM'ER,
one who has lately come.--_v.t._ NEW'-CREATE' (_Shak._), to create for the
first time.--_adjs._ NEW'-FASH'IONED, made in a new way or fashion: lately
come into fashion; NEW'-FLEDGED, having just got feathers; NEW'ISH,
somewhat new: nearly new.--_adv._ NEW'LY.--_adj._ NEW'-MADE (_Shak._),
recently made.--_v.t._ NEW'-MOD'EL, to model or form anew.--_n._ the
Parliamentary army as remodelled by Cromwell after the second battle of
Newbury, which gained a conclusive victory at Naseby (1645).--_n._
NEW'NESS.--_adj._ NEW'-SAD (_Shak._), recently made sad.--NEW BIRTH (see
REGENERATION); NEW CHUM, a new arrival from the old country in Australia;
NEW CHURCH, NEW JERUSALEM CHURCH, the Swedenborgian Church; NEW COVENANT
(see COVENANT); NEW DEPARTURE (see DEPARTURE); NEW ENGLANDER, a native or
resident in any of the New England states; NEW JERUSALEM, the heavenly
city; NEW LEARNING (see RENAISSANCE); NEW LIGHT, a member of a relatively
more advanced religious school--applied esp. to the party within the
18th-century Scottish Secession Church which adopted Voluntary views of the
relations of Church and State, also sometimes to the Socinianising party in
the Church of Scotland in the 18th century, &c.; NEW RED SANDSTONE
(_geol._), the name formerly given to the great series of red sandstones
which occur between the Carboniferous and Jurassic systems; NEW STYLE (see
STYLE); NEW WOMAN, a name humorously applied to such modern women as rebel
against the conventional restrictions of their sex, and ape men in their
freedom, education, pursuits, amusements, clothing, manners, and sometimes
morals; NEW WORLD, North and South America; NEW-YEAR'S DAY, the first day
of the new year. [A.S. _níwe_, _neówe_; Ger. _neu_, Ir. _nuadh_, L.
_novus_, Gr. _neos_.]

NEWEL, n[=u]'el, _n._ (_archit._) the upright column about which the steps
of a circular staircase wind. [O. Fr. _nual_ (Fr. _noyau_), stone of
fruit--Low L. _nucalis_, like a nut--L. _nux_, _nucis_, a nut.]

NEWEL, n[=u]'el, _n._ (_Spens._) a new thing: a novelty.

NEWFANGLED, n[=u]-fang'gld, _adj._ fond of new things: newly devised,
novel.--_adv._ NEWFANG'LEDLY.--_ns._ NEWFANG'LEDNESS, NEWFANG'LENESS.
[Corr. from M. E. _newefangel_--_newe_ (A.S. _níwe_), new, _fangel_ (A.S.
_fangen_--_fón_), ready to catch.]

NEWFOUNDLAND, n[=u]-fownd'land, _n._ a large dog of great intelligence, a
strong swimmer, black without any white markings, first brought from
_Newfoundland_.

NEWGATE, n[=u]'g[=a]t, _n._ a famous prison in London.--NEWGATE CALENDAR, a
list of Newgate prisoners, with their crimes; NEWGATE FRILL, or FRINGE, a
beard under the chin and jaw.

NEWMARKET, n[=u]'mar-ket, _n._ a card-game for any number of persons, on a
table on which duplicates of certain cards have been placed face up: a
close-fitting coat, originally a riding-coat, a long close-fitting coat for
women.

NEWS, n[=u]z, _n.sing._ something heard of that is new: recent account:
first information of something that has just happened or of something not
formerly known: intelligence.--_v.t._ to report.--_ns._ NEWS'AGENT, one who
deals in newspapers; NEWS'BOY, NEWS'MAN, a boy or man who delivers or sells
newspapers; NEWS'-HOUSE, a printing-office for newspapers only;
NEWS'LETTER, an occasional letter or printed sheet containing news, the
predecessor of the regular newspaper; NEWS'MONGER, one who deals in news:
one who spends much time in hearing and telling news; NEWS'PAPER, a paper
published periodically for circulating news, &c.--the first English
newspaper was published in 1622; NEWS'PAPERDOM; NEWS'PAPERISM.--_adj._
NEWS'PAPERY, superficial.--_ns._ NEWS'ROOM, a room where newspapers,
magazines, &c. lie to be read; NEWS'VENDER, a seller of newspapers;
NEWS'-WRIT'ER, a reporter or writer of news.--_adj._ NEWS'Y, gossipy. [Late
M. E., an imit. of Fr. _nouvelles_.]

NEWT, n[=u]t, _n._ a genus of amphibious animals like small lizards.
[Formed with initial _n_, borrowed from the article _an_, from _ewt_--A.S.
_efeta_.]

NEWTONIAN, n[=u]-t[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ relating to, formed, or discovered by
Sir Isaac _Newton_, the celebrated philosopher (1642-1727)--also
NEWTON'IC.--NEWTONIAN TELESCOPE, a form of reflecting telescope.

NEXT, nekst, _adj._ (_superl._ of NIGH) nearest in place, time, &c.--_adv._
nearest or immediately after.--_prep._ nearest to.--_n._ NEXT'NESS.--NEXT
DOOR TO (see DOOR); NEXT TO NOTHING, almost nothing at all. [A.S. _néhst_,
superl. of _néh_, _neáh_, near; Ger. _nächst_.]

NEXUS, nek'sus, _n._ a tie, connecting principle, bond: (_Rom. law_) a
person who had contracted a _nexum_ or obligation of such a kind that, if
he failed to pay, his creditor could compel him to serve until the debt was
paid. [L.--_nect[)e]re_, to bind.]

NIB, nib, _n._ something small and pointed: a point, esp. of a pen: the
bill of a bird: the handle of a scythe-snath.--_v.t._ to furnish with a
nib: to point.--_adj._ NIBBED, having a nib. [NEB.]

NIBBLE, nib'l, _v.t._ to bite by small bits: to eat by little at a
time.--_v.i._ to bite gently: to find fault.--_n._ act of nibbling: a
little bit.--_ns._ NIBB'LER; NIBB'LING.--_adv._ NIBB'LINGLY. [Freq. of
_nip_.]

NIBELUNGEN, n[=e]'bel-[=oo]ng-en, _n.pl._ a supernatural race in German
mythology guarding a treasure wrested from them by Siegfried, the hero of
the _Nibelungenlied_, an epic of _c._ 1190-1210.

NIBLICK, nib'lik, _n._ a golf-club with cup-shaped head.

NICE, n[=i]s, _adj._ foolishly simple: over-particular: hard to please:
fastidious: marking or taking notice of very small differences: done with
great care and exactness, accurate: easily injured: delicate: dainty:
agreeable: delightful.--_adv._ NICE'LY.--_ns._ NICE'NESS, quality of being
nice: exactness: scrupulousness: pleasantness; NIC'ETY, quality of being
nice: delicate management: exactness of treatment: fineness of perception:
fastidiousness: that which is delicate to the taste: a delicacy.--TO A
NICETY, with great exactness. [O. Fr. _nice_, foolish, simple--L.
_nescius_, ignorant--_ne_, not, _sc[=i]re_, to know.]

NICENE, n[=i]'s[=e]n, _adj._ pertaining to the town of _Nice_ or _Nicæa_,
in Bithynia, Asia Minor, where an ecumenical council was held in 325 for
the purpose of defining the questions raised in the Arian controversy--it
promulgated the _Nicene Creed_. A second council, the seventh general
council, held here in 787, condemned the Iconoclasts.

[Illustration]

NICHE, nich, _n._ a recess in a wall for a statue, vase, &c.: a person's
proper place or condition in life or public estimation, one's appointed or
appropriate place.--_v.t._ to place in a niche.--_adj._ NICHED, placed in a
niche. [Fr.,--It. _nicchia_, a niche, _nicchio_, a shell--L. _mytilus_,
_mitulus_, a sea-mussel.]

NICK, nik, _n._ a notch cut into something: a score for keeping an account:
the precise moment of time: a lucky throw at hazard.--_v.t._ to cut in
notches: to hit the precise time: to strike as if making a nick: to cheat:
catch in the act: to cut short: (_Scot._) to cut with a single snip, as of
shears: to make a cut with the pick in the face of coal to facilitate
blasting or wedging.--_adj._ NICK'-EARED, crop-eared.--_n._ NICK'ER, one
who, or that which, nicks: a woodpecker: a street-ruffian in the early part
of the 18th century.--NICK A HORSE'S TAIL, to make a cut at the root of the
tail, making the horse carry it higher. [Another spelling of _nock_, old
form of _notch_.]

NICK, nik, _n._ the devil, esp. OLD NICK. [Prob. a corr. of St _Nicholas_,
or from A.S. _nicor_, a water-spirit; Ice. _nykr_, Ger. _nix_, _nixe_.]

NICKEL, nik'el, _n._ a grayish-white metal related to cobalt, very
malleable and ductile.--_v.t._ to plate with nickel.--_ns._ NICK'ELAGE,
NICK'ELURE, the art of nickel-plating.--_adjs._ NICK'ELIC, NICK'ELOUS;
NICKELIF'EROUS, containing nickel.--_ns._ NICK'ELINE, NIC'COLITE, native
nickel arsenide.--_v.t._ NICK'ELISE, to plate with nickel.--_ns._
NICK'EL-PLAT'ING, the plating of metals with nickel; NICK'EL-SIL'VER,
German silver (see GERMAN). [Sw. _koppar-nickel_ (Ger. _kupfernickel_),
_koppar_, copper, _nickel_, a word corresponding to Ger. _nickel_, the
devil (cf. _Cobalt_ and _Kobold_), or to Ice. _hnikill_, a lump.]

NICKER, nik'[.e]r, _v.i._ to neigh: to snigger.--_n._ a neigh: a loud
laugh--(_obs._) NICH'ER.

NICKNACK, nik'nak, _n._ a trifle--dim. NICK'NACKET.--_n._ NICK'NACKERY.
[Same as _Knick-knack_.]

NICKNAME, nik'n[=a]m, _n._ a name given in contempt or sportive
familiarity.--_v.t._ to give a nickname to. [M. E. _neke-name_, with
intrusive initial _n_ from _eke-name_, surname; from _eke_ and _name_.]

NICOTINE, nik'o-tin, _n._ a poisonous, volatile, alkaloid base, obtained
from tobacco.--_adj._ NIC[=O]'TIAN, pertaining to tobacco, from Jean
_Nicot_ (1530-1600), the benefactor who introduced it into France in
1560.--_n._ a smoker of tobacco.--_n.pl._ NICOTI[=A]'NA, the literature of
tobacco.--_n._ NIC'OTINISM, a morbid state induced by excessive misuse of
tobacco.

NICTATE, nik't[=a]t, _v.i._ to wink--also NIC'TITATE.--_ns._ NIC'T[=A]TION,
NICTIT[=A]'TION.--NICTITATING MEMBRANE, a thin movable membrane covering
the eyes of birds. [L. _nict[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

NIDDER, nid'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to keep under: to pinch with cold or
hunger: to molest.

NIDDLE-NODDLE, nid'l-nod'l, _adj._ vacillating.--_v.i._ to wag the head.

NIDERLING, nid'[.e]r-ling, _n._ a wicked fellow--also NID'ERING,
NITH'ING.--_n._ NIDD'ERING, a noodle.

NIDGE, nij, _v.t._ to dress the face of (a stone) with a sharp-pointed
hammer.

NIDGING, nij'ing, _adj._ trifling.--_n._ NIDG'ET, a fool.

NIDIFICATION, nid-i-fi-k[=a]'shun, _n._ the act or art of building a nest,
and the hatching and rearing of the young.--_adj._ NIDAMENT'AL, pertaining
to nests or what protects eggs.--_n._ NIDAMENT'UM, an egg-case.--_vs.i._
NID'IFICATE, NID'IFY.--_adjs._ NID'ULANT, NID'ULATE, lying free in a
cup-shaped body, or in pulp.--_n._ NIDUL[=A]'TION, nest-building. [L.
_nidus_, a nest, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

NIDOR, n[=i]'dor, _n._ odour, esp. of cooked food.--_adjs._ N[=I]'DOROSE,
N[=I]'DOROUS, N[=I]'DOSE. [L.]

NIDUS, n[=i]'dus, _n._ a place, esp. in an animal body, in which a germ
lodges and begins to develop. [L.]

NIECE, n[=e]s, _n._ (_fem._ of NEPHEW) the daughter of a brother or sister:
(_orig._) a granddaughter. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _nepta_--L. _neptis_, a
granddaughter, niece.]

NIELLO, ni-el'lo, _n._ a method of ornamenting silver or gold plates by
engraving the surface, and filling up the lines with a black composition,
to give clearness and effect to the incised design: a work produced by this
method: an impression taken from the engraved surface before the incised
lines have been filled up: the compound used in niello-work.--_v.t._ to
decorate with niello.--_n._ NIELL'URE, the process, also the work done.
[It. _niello_--Low L. _nigellum_, a black enamel--L. _nigellus_, dim. of
_niger_, black.]

NIERSTEINER, n[=e]r'st[=i]-ner, _n._ a variety of Rhine wine, named from
_Nierstein_, near Mainz.

NIFFER, nif'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to barter.--_n._ an exchange.

NIFFLE, nif'l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to pilfer.--_n._ NIFF'NAFF, a
trifle.--_adj._ NIFF'NAFFY, fastidious.

NIFLHEIM, nifl'h[=i]m, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) a region of mist, ruled over
by Hel.

NIFTY, nif'ti, _adj._ (_slang_) stylish.

NIGELLA, n[=i]-jel'a, _n._ a genus of ranunculaceous plants, with finely
dissected leaves, and whitish, blue, or yellow flowers, often almost
concealed by their leafy involucres--_Nigella damascena_, called
Love-in-a-mist, Devil-in-a-bush, and Ragged Lady.

NIGGARD, nig'ard, _n._ a person who is unwilling to spend or give away: a
miser.--_adjs._ NIGG'ARD, NIGG'ARDLY, having the qualities of a niggard:
miserly; NIGG'ARDISH, rather niggardly.--_n._ NIGG'ARDLINESS, meanness in
giving or spending--(_Spens._) NIGG'ARDISE.--_adv._ NIGG'ARDLY. [Ice.
_hnöggr_, stingy; Ger. _genau_, close.]

NIGGER, nig'[.e]r, _n._ a black man, a negro: a native of the East Indies
or one of the Australian aborigines: a black caterpillar: a Cornish
holothurian.--_v.t._ to exhaust soil by cropping it year by year without
manure.--_n._ NIGG'ERDOM, niggers collectively.--_adjs._ NIGG'ERISH,
NIGG'ERY.--_ns._ NIGG'ER-KILL'ER, a scorpion; NIGG'ERLING, a little nigger.

NIGGLE, nig'l, _v.i._ to trifle, busy one's self with petty matters: to
cramp.--_v.t._ to fill with excessive detail: to befool.--_n._ small
cramped handwriting.--_ns._ NIGG'LER, one who trifles; NIGG'LING,
fussiness, finicking work.--_adj._ mean: fussy. [Freq. of _nig_, which may
be a variant of _nick_.]

NIGH, n[=i], _adj._ near: not distant in place or time: not far off in
degree, kindred, &c.: close.--_adv._ nearly: almost.--_prep._ near to: not
distant from.--_adv._ NIGH'LY, nearly: within a little.--_n._ NIGH'NESS,
the state or quality of being nigh: nearness. [A.S. _néah_, _néh_; Dut.
_na_, Ger. _nahe_.]

NIGHT, n[=i]t, _n._ the end of the day: the time from sunset to sunrise:
darkness: ignorance, affliction, or sorrow: death.--_ns._ NIGHT'-BELL, a
bell for use at night--of a physician, &c.; NIGHT'-BIRD, a bird that flies
only at night, esp. the owl: the nightingale, as singing at night;
NIGHT'-BLIND'NESS, inability to see in a dim light, nyctalopia;
NIGHT'-BRAWL'ER, one who raises disturbances in the night; NIGHT'CAP, a cap
worn at night in bed (so NIGHT'DRESS, -SHIRT, &c.): a dram taken before
going to bed: a cap drawn over the face before hanging; NIGHT'-CART, a cart
used to remove the contents of privies before daylight; NIGHT'-CHAIR, a
night-stool; NIGHT'-CHURR, or -JAR, the British species of goat-sucker, so
called from the sound of its cry.--_n.pl._ NIGHT'-CLOTHES, garments worn in
bed.--_ns._ NIGHT'-CROW, a bird that cries in the night; NIGHT'-DOG
(_Shak._), a dog that hunts in the night.--_adj._ NIGHT'ED, benighted:
(_Shak._) darkened, clouded.--_ns._ NIGHT'FALL, the fall or beginning of
the night: the close of the day: evening; NIGHT'FARING, travelling by
night; NIGHT'FIRE, a fire burning in the night: a will-o'-the-wisp;
NIGHT'-FISH'ERY, a mode of fishing by night, or a place where this is done;
NIGHT'-FLY, a moth that flies at night; NIGHT'-FOE, one who makes his
attack by night; NIGHT'-FOSS'ICKER, one who robs a digging by
night.--_adj._ NIGHT'-FOUN'DERED, lost in the night.--_ns._ NIGHT'-FOWL, a
night-bird; NIGHT'-GLASS, a spy-glass with concentrating lenses for use at
night; NIGHT'-GOWN, a long loose robe for sleeping in, for men or women; a
loose gown for wearing in the house; NIGHT'-HAG, a witch supposed to be
abroad at night; NIGHT'-HAWK, a species of migratory goat-sucker, common in
America; NIGHT'-HER'ON, a heron of nocturnal habit; NIGHT'-HOUSE, a tavern
allowed to be open during the night; NIGHT'-HUNT'ER, a degraded woman who
prowls about the streets at night for her prey; NIGHT'-LAMP, or -LIGHT, a
light left burning all night.--_adj._ NIGHT'LESS, having no night.--_n._
NIGHT'-LINE, a fishing-line set overnight.--_adj._ and _adv._ NIGHT'LONG,
lasting all night.--_adj._ NIGHT'LY, done by night: done every
night.--_adv._ by night: every night.--_ns._ NIGHT'-MAN, a night-watchman
or scavenger; NIGHT'-OWL, an owl of exclusively nocturnal habits: one who
sits up very late; NIGHT'-PAL'SY, a numbness of the lower limbs, incidental
to women; NIGHT'PIECE, a picture or literary description of a night-scene:
a painting to be seen best by artificial light; NIGHT'-POR'TER, a porter in
attendance during the night at hotels, railway stations, &c.; NIGHT'-RAIL,
a night-gown: a 17th-century form of head-dress; NIGHT'-RAV'EN (_Shak._), a
bird that cries at night, supposed to be of ill-omen; NIGHT'-REST, the
repose of the night; NIGHT'-RULE (_Shak._), a frolic at night.--_adv._
NIGHTS (_obs._), by night.--_ns._ NIGHT'-SCHOOL, a school held at night,
esp. for those at work during the day; NIGHT'-SEA'SON, the time of night;
NIGHT'SHADE, a name of several plants of the genus _Solanum_, having
narcotic properties, often found in damp shady woods; NIGHT'-SHRIEK, a cry
in the night; NIGHT'-SIDE, the dark, mysterious, or gloomy side of
anything; NIGHT'-SING'ER, any bird like the nightingale, esp. the Irish
sedge-warbler; NIGHT'-SOIL, the contents of privies, cesspools, &c.,
generally carried away at night; NIGHT'-SPELL, a charm against accidents by
night; NIGHT'-STEED, one of the horses in the chariot of NIGHT;
NIGHT'-STOOL, a close-stool for use in a bedroom; NIGHT'-T[=A]'PER, a
night-light burning slowly.--_n.pl._ NIGHT'-TERR'ORS, the sudden starting
from sleep of children in a state of fright.--_p.adj._ NIGHT'-TRIP'PING
(_Shak._), tripping about in the night.--_ns._ NIGHT'-WAK'ING, watching in
the night; NIGHT'-WALK, a walk in the night; NIGHT'-WALK'ER, one who walks
in his sleep at night, a somnambulist: one who walks about at night for bad
purposes, esp. a prostitute; NIGHT'-WALK'ING, walking in one's sleep,
somnambulism: roving about at night with evil designs; NIGHT'-WAN'DERER,
one who wanders by night.--_adjs._ NIGHT'-WAR'BLING, singing in the night;
NIGHT'WARD, toward night.--_ns._ NIGHT'-WATCH, a watch or guard at night:
time of watch in the night; NIGHT'-WATCH'MAN, one who acts as a watch
during the night; NIGHT'-WORK, work done at night. [A.S. _niht_; Ger.
_nacht_, L. _nox_.]

NIGHTINGALE, n[=i]t'in-g[=a]l, _n._ a small sylviine bird, of the Passerine
family, widely distributed in the Old World, celebrated for the rich
love-song of the male heard chiefly at night. [A.S. _nihtegale_--_niht_,
night, _galan_, to sing; Ger. _nachtigall_.]

NIGHTINGALE, n[=i]t'in-g[=a]l, _n._ a kind of flannel scarf with sleeves,
worn by invalids when sitting up in bed. [From the famous Crimean hospital
nurse, Florence _Nightingale_, born 1820.]

NIGHTMARE, n[=i]t'm[=a]r, _n._ a dreadful dream accompanied with pressure
on the breast, and a feeling of powerlessness to move or speak--personified
as an incubus or evil-spirit.--_adj._ NIGHT'MARISH. [A.S. _niht_, night,
_mara_, a nightmare; cf. Old High Ger. _mara_, incubus, Ice. _mara_,
nightmare.]

NIGRESCENT, n[=i]-gres'ent, _adj._ growing black or dark: approaching to
blackness.--_n._ NIGRESC'ENCE. [L., _nigresc[)e]re_, to grow
black--_niger_, black.]

NIGRITE, nig'r[=i]t, _n._ an insulating composition consisting of the
impure residuum obtained in the distillation of paraffin. [L. _niger_,
black.]

NIGRITIAN, ni-grish'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Nigritia_, Upper Guinea,
Senegambia, and the Soudan region generally, the home of the true
negroes.--_n._ a native of this region, a negro.

NIGRITUDE, nig'ri-t[=u]d, _n._ blackness. [L. _nigritudo_--_niger_, black.]

NIGROSINE, nig'r[=o]-sin, _n._ a coal-tar colour prepared from the
hydrochloride of violaniline. [L. _niger_, black.]

NIHIL, n[=i]'hil, _n._ nothing.--_ns._ N[=I]'HILISM, belief in nothing,
extreme scepticism: in Russia, a revolutionary socialistic movement aiming
at the overturn of all the existing institutions of society in order to
build it up anew on different principles; N[=I]'HILIST, one who professes
Nihilism.--_adj._ NIHILIST'IC.--_ns._ NIHIL'ITY, nothingness; NIL, nothing.
[L.]

NIKE, n[=i]'k[=e], _n._ the goddess of victory. [Gr.]

NILGAU. See NYL-GHAU.

NILL, nil, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to refuse, to reject.--_v.i._ to be unwilling.
[A.S. _nillan_--_ne_, not, _willan_, to will.]

NILOMETER, n[=i]-lom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a gauge for measuring the height of
water in the river _Nile_: any river-gauge--also N[=I]'LOSCOPE.--_adj._
NILOT'IC.

NIM, nim, _v.t._ to steal, pilfer. [A.S. _niman_, to take.]

NIMBLE, nim'bl, _adj._ light and quick in motion: active: swift.--_adjs._
NIM'BLE-FING'ERED, skilful with the fingers, thievish; NIM'BLE-FOOT'ED,
swift of foot.--_ns._ NIM'BLENESS, NIM'BLESS (_Spens._), quickness of
motion either in body or mind.--_adj._ NIM'BLE-WIT'TED,
quick-witted.--_adv._ NIM'BLY. [M. E. _nimel_--A.S. _niman_, to catch; cf.
Ger. _nehmen_.]

NIMBUS, nim'bus, _n._ the raincloud: (_paint._) the disc or halo, generally
circular or semicircular, which encircles the head of the sacred person
represented.--_adj._ NIMBIF'EROUS, bringing clouds. [L.]

NIMIETY, ni-m[=i]'e-ti, _n._ (rare) state of being too much. [L.
_nimietas_--_nimis_, too much.]

NIMINY-PIMINY, nim'i-ni-pim'i-ni, _adj._ affectedly fine or delicate.--_n._
affected delicacy. [Imit.]

NIMROD, nim'rod, _n._ the founder of Babel (see Gen. x. 8-10): any great
hunter.

NINCOMPOOP, nin'kom-poop, _n._ a simpleton. [Corr. of L. _non compos_
(_mentis_), not of sound mind.]

NINE, n[=i]n, _adj._ and _n._ eight and one.--_n._ NINE'-EYES, a popular
name for the young lampreys found in rivers.--_adj._ NINE'FOLD, nine times
folded or repeated.--_ns._ NINE'HOLES, a game in which a ball is to be
bowled into nine holes in the ground or a board; NINE'PINS, a game at
bowls, a form of skittles, so called from nine pins being set up to be
knocked down by a ball.--_adj._ NINE'-SCORE, nine times twenty.--_n._ the
number of nine times twenty.--_adj._ and _n._ NINE'TEEN, nine and
ten.--_adj._ NINE'TEENTH, the ninth after the tenth: being one of nineteen
equal parts.--_n._ a nineteenth part.--_adj._ NINE'TIETH, the last of
ninety: next after the eighty-ninth.--_n._ a ninetieth part.--_adj._ and
_n._ NINE'TY, nine tens.--_adj._ NINTH, the last of nine: next after the
eighth.--_n._ one of nine equal parts.--_adv._ NINTH'LY, in the ninth
place.--NINE DAYS' WONDER (see WONDER); NINE MEN'S MORRIS (see MORRIS);
NINE WORTHIES, Hector, Alexander the Great, Julius Cæsar, Joshua, David,
Judas Maccabæus, Arthur, Charlemagne, Godfrey of Bouillon; THE NINE, the
nine muses (see MUSE); TO THE NINES, to perfection, fully, elaborately.
[A.S. _nigon_; Dut. _negen_, L. _novem_, Gr. _ennea_, Sans. _navan_.]

NINNY, nin'i, _n._ a simpleton.--Also NINN'Y-HAMM'ER. [It. _ninno_, child;
Sp. _niño_, infant.]

NIOBE, n[=i]'o-b[=e], _n._ daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king
of Thebes. Proud of her many children, she gloried over Latona, who had but
two, Artemis and Apollo. But these killed them all, on which the weeping
mother was turned into stone by Zeus.--_adj._ NIOB[=E]'AN.

NIOBIUM, n[=i]-[=o]'bi-um, _n._ a rare metal, steel-gray in colour,
discovered in the mineral Tantalite--sometimes called _Columbium_.

NIP, nip, _n._ a sip, esp. of spirits--also NIP'PER (_U.S._).--_v.i._ to
take a dram.--_n._ NIP'PERKIN, a small measure of liquor. [Dut. _nippen_,
to sip.]

NIP, nip, _v.t._ to pinch: to press between two surfaces: to cut off the
edge: to check the growth or vigour of: to destroy: to bite, sting,
satirise:--_pr.p._ nip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ nipped.--_n._ a pinch: a
seizing or closing in upon: a cutting off the end: a blast: destruction by
frost: (_min._) a more or less gradual thinning out of a stratum: (_naut._)
a short turn in a rope, the part of a rope at the place bound by the
seizing or caught by jambing.--_ns._ NIP'-CHEESE, a stingy fellow:
(_naut._) the purser's steward; NIP'PER, he who, or that which, nips: one
of various tools or implements like pincers: one of a pair of automatically
locking handcuffs: a chela or great claw, as of a crab: the young bluefish:
a boy who attends on navvies: (_obs._) a thief: one of the four fore-teeth
of a horse: (_pl._) small pincers.--_v.t._ to seize (two ropes)
together.--_adv._ NIP'PINGLY.--NIP IN THE BUD, to cut off in the earliest
stage. [From root of _knife_; Dut. _knijpen_, Ger. _kneipen_, to pinch.]

NIPPERTY-TIPPERTY, nip'[.e]r-ti-tip'[.e]r-ti, _adj._ (_Scot._) silly,
frivolous.

NIPPLE, nip'l, _n._ the pap by which milk is drawn from the breasts of
females: a teat: a small projection with an orifice, as the nipple of a
gun.--_v.t._ to furnish with a nipple.--_ns._ NIPP'LE-SHIELD, a defence for
the nipple worn by nursing women; NIPP'LE-WORT, a small, yellow-flowered
plant of remedial use. [A dim. of _neb_ or _nib_.]

NIPPY, nip'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) sharp in taste: curt: parsimonious.

NIPTER, nip't[.e]r, _n._ the ecclesiastical ceremony of washing the
feet--the same as maundy. [Gr. _nipt[=e]r_, a basin--_niptein_, to wash.]

NIRLES, NIRLS, nirlz, _n._ herpes.

NIRVANA, nir-vä'na, _n._ the cessation of individual existence--the state
to which a Buddhist aspires as the best attainable. [Sans., 'a blowing
out.']

NIS, nis (_Spens._), is not. [A contr. of _ne is_.]

NIS, nis, _n._ a hobgoblin. [Same as _Nix_.]

NISAN, n[=i]'san, _n._ the name given after the Captivity to the Jewish
month Abib. [Heb.]

NISI, n[=i]'s[=i], _conj._ unless, placed after the words 'decree' or
'rule,' to indicate that the decree or rule will be made absolute unless,
after a time, some condition referred to be fulfilled.--NISI PRIUS, the
name usually given in England to the sittings of juries in civil
cases--from the first two words of the old Latin writ summoning the juries
to appear at Westminster _unless_, _before_ the day appointed, the judges
shall have come to the county.

NISUS, n[=i]'sus, _n._ effort, attempt.--NISUS FORMATIVUS (_biol._),
formative effort. [L.]

NIT, nit, _n._ the egg of a louse or other small insect.--_adj._ NIT'TY,
full of nits. [A.S. _hnitu_; Ger. _niss_.]

NITHING, n[=i]'_th_ing, _adj._ wicked, mean.--_n._ a wicked man. [A.S.
_níthing_; Ger. _neiding_.]

NITHSDALE, niths'd[=a]l, _n._ a hood which can be drawn over the face.
[From the Jacobite Earl of _Nithsdale_ who escaped from the Tower in
women's clothes brought in by his wife, in 1716.]

NITID, nit'id, _adj._ shining: gay.--_n._ N[=I]'TENCY, brightness. [L.
_nitidus_--_nit[=e]re_, to shine.]

NITRE, n[=i]'t[.e]r, _n._ the nitrate of potash--also called
_Saltpetre_.--_n._ N[=I]'TR[=A]TE, a salt of nitric acid.--_adjs._
N[=I]'TR[=A]TED, combined with nitric acid; N[=I]'TRIC, pertaining to,
formed from, or containing or resembling nitre.--_n._ N[=I]'TRIC AC'ID, an
acid got by distilling a mixture of sulphuric acid and nitrate of
sodium--it acts powerfully on metals, and is known by the name of
_Aqua-fortis_.--_adj._ NITRIF'EROUS, nitre-bearing.--_n._
NITRIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ N[=I]'TRIFY, to convert into nitre.--_v.i._ to
become nitre:--_pr.p._ n[=i]'trifying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
n[=i]'trified.--_ns._ N[=I]'TRITE, a salt of nitrous acid;
N[=I]'TRO-BEN'ZOL, a yellow oily fluid, obtained by treating benzol with
warm fuming nitric acid--used in perfumery and known as _Essence of
mirbane_; N[=I]'TRO-GLYC'ERINE, a powerfully explosive compound produced by
the action of nitric and sulphuric acids on glycerine--sometimes used in
minute doses as a medicine.--_adjs._ NITROSE', N[=I]'TROUS, resembling, or
containing, nitre.--_n._ N[=I]'TROUS OX'IDE, a combination of oxygen and
nitrogen, called also _Laughing gas_, which causes, when breathed,
insensibility to pain.--_adj._ N[=I]'TRY, of or producing nitre.--CUBIC
NITRE, nitrate of soda, so called because it crystallises in cubes.
[Fr.,--L. _nitrum_--Gr. _nitron_, natron, potash, soda--Ar. _nitrún_,
_natrún_.]

NITROGEN, n[=i]'tro-jen, _n._ a gas forming nearly four-fifths of common
air, a necessary constituent of every organised body, so called from its
being an essential constituent of nitre.--_adjs._ NITROGEN'IC,
NITROG'ENOUS.--_v.t._ NITROG'ENISE, to impregnate with nitrogen.--_n._
NITROM'ETER, an apparatus for estimating nitrogen in some of its
combinations. [Gr. _nitron_, and _gennaein_, to generate.]

NITTER, nit'[.e]r, _n._ a bot-fly, the horse-bot.

NITTINGS, nit'ingz, _n.pl._ small particles of coal or refuse of any ore.

NIVAL, n[=i]'val, _adj._ snowy, growing among snow.--_adj._ NIV'EOUS,
snowy, white.--_n._ NIVÔSE (n[=e]-v[=o]z'), the 4th month of the French
revolutionary calendar, Dec. 21-Jan. 19. [L. _niveus_--_nix_, _nivis_,
snow.]

NIX, niks, _n._ (_Teut. myth._) a water-spirit, mostly malignant.--Also
NIX'IE, NIX'Y. [Ger. _nix_; cf. _Nicker_.]

NIX, niks, _n._ nothing: (_U.S._) in the postal service, anything
unmailable because addressed to places which are not post-offices or to
post-offices not existing in the States, &c., indicated in the
address--usually in _pl._ [Ger. _nichts_, nothing.]

NIX, niks, _interj._ a roughs' street-cry of warning at the policeman, &c.

NIZAM, ni-zam', _n._ the title of the sovereign of Hyderabad in India,
first used in 1713: _sing._ and _pl._ the Turkish regulars, or one of them.
[Hind., contr. of _Nizam-ul-Mulk_=Regulator of the state.]

NO, n[=o], _adv._ the word of refusal or denial: not at all: never: not so:
not.--_n._ a denial: a vote against or in the negative:--_pl._ NOES
(n[=o]z).--_adj._ not any: not one: none.--_advs._ N[=O]'WAY, in no way,
manner, or degree--also N[=O]'WAYS; N[=O]'WISE, in no way, manner, or
degree.--NO ACCOUNT, worthless; NO DOUBT, surely; NO GO (see GO); NO JOKE,
not a trifling matter. [A.S. _ná_, compounded of _ne_, not, and _á_ ever;
_nay_, the neg. of _aye_, is Scand.]

NOACHIAN, n[=o]-[=a]'ki-an, _adj._ pertaining to the patriarch _Noah_, or
to his time--also NOACH'IC.--NOAH'S ARK, a child's toy in imitation of the
ark of Noah and its inhabitants.

NOB, nob, _n._ the head: a knobstick.--ONE FOR HIS NOB, a blow on the head
in boxing: a point at cribbage by holding the knave of trumps. [_Knob._]

NOB, nob, _n._ a superior sort of person.--_adv._ NOB'BILY.--_adj._ NOB'BY,
smart, fashionable: good, capital. [A contr. of _nobleman._]

NOBBLE, nob'l, _v.t._ (_slang_) to get hold of dishonestly, to steal: to
baffle or circumvent dexterously: to injure, destroy the chances of, as a
racer.--_n._ NOBB'LER, a finishing-stroke: a thimble-rigger's confederate:
a dram of spirits.

NOBILITY, no-bil'i-ti, _n._ the quality of being noble: high rank: dignity:
excellence: greatness of mind or character: antiquity of family: descent
from noble ancestors: the persons holding the rank of nobles.--_adj._
NOBIL'IARY, pertaining to the nobility.--_v.t._ NOBIL'ITATE, to
ennoble.--_n._ NOBILIT[=A]'TION.

NOBLE, n[=o]'bl, _adj._ illustrious: high in rank or character: of high
birth: magnificent: generous: excellent.--_n._ a person of exalted rank: a
peer: an obsolete gold coin=6s. 8d. sterling.--_n._ N[=O]'BLEMAN, a man who
is noble or of rank: a peer: one above a commoner.--_adj._
N[=O]'BLE-MIND'ED, having a noble mind.--_ns._ N[=O]BLE-MIND'EDNESS;
N[=O]'BLENESS, the quality of being noble: excellence in quality: dignity:
greatness by birth or character: ingenuousness: worth; NOBLESS', NOBLESSE'
(_Spens._), nobility: greatness: the nobility collectively; N[=O]'BLEWOMAN,
the fem. of NOBLEMAN.--_adv._ N[=O]'BLY.--NOBLE ART, boxing; NOBLE METALS
(see METAL).--MOST NOBLE, the style of a duke. [Fr.,--L. _nobilis_, obs.
_gnobilis_--_nosc[)e]re_ (_gnosc[)e]re_), to know.]

NOBODY, n[=o]'bod-i, _n._ no body or person: no one: a person of no
account, one not in fashionable society.

NOCAKE, n[=o]'k[=a]k, _n._ meal made of parched corn, once much used by
North American Indians on the march. [Amer. Ind. _nookik_, meal.]

NOCENT, n[=o]'sent, _adj._ (_obs._) hurtful: guilty.--_n._ one who is
hurtful or guilty.--_adv._ N[=O]'CENTLY. [L. _noc[=e]re_, to hurt.]

NOCK, nok, _n._ the forward upper end of a sail that sets with a boom: a
notch, esp. that on the butt-end of an arrow for the string. [Cf. _Notch._]

NOCTAMBULATION, nok-tam-b[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ walking in sleep.--_ns._
NOCTAM'BULISM, sleep-walking; NOCTAM'BULIST, one who walks in his sleep.
[L. _nox_, _noctis_, night, _ambul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to walk.]

NOCTILIO, nok-til'i-[=o], _n._ a genus of American bats.

NOCTILUCA, nok-ti-l[=u]'ka, _n._ a phosphorescent marine Infusorian,
abundant around the British coasts, one of the chief causes of the
phosphorescence of the waves.--_adjs._ NOCTIL[=U]'CENT, NOCTIL[=U]'CID,
NOCTIL[=U]'COUS, shining in the dark. [L. _nox_, _noctis_, night,
_luc[=e]re_, to shine.]

NOCTIVAGANT, nok-tiv'a-gant, _adj._ wandering in the night.--_n._
NOCTIVAG[=A]'TION.--_adj._ NOCTIV'AGOUS. [L. _nox_, _noctis_, night,
_vag[=a]ri_, to wander.]

NOCTOGRAPH, nok'to-graf, _n._ a writing-frame for the blind: an instrument
for recording the presence of a night-watchman on his beat.--_n._
NOCTURN'OGRAPH, an instrument for recording work done in factories, &c.,
during the night. [L. _nox_, Gr. _graphein_, to write.]

NOCTUA, nok't[=u]-a, _n._ a generic name variously used--giving name to the
NOCT[=U]'IDÆ, a large family of nocturnal lepidopterous insects,
strong-bodied moths.--_n._ NOC'TUID.--_adjs._ NOCT[=U]'IDOUS; NOC'TUIFORM;
NOC'TUOID.

NOCTUARY, nok't[=u]-[=a]-ri, _n._ an account kept of the events or thoughts
of night.

NOCTULE, nok't[=u]l, _n._ a vespertilionine bat. [Fr.,--L. _nox_, _noctis_,
night.]

NOCTURN, nok'turn, _n._ in the early church, a service of psalms and
prayers at midnight or at daybreak: a portion of the psalter used at
nocturns. [Fr. _nocturne_--L. _nocturnus_--_nox_, _noctis_, night.]

NOCTURNAL, nok-tur'nal, _adj._ pertaining to night: happening by night:
nightly.--_n._ an instrument for observations in the night.--_adv._
NOCTUR'NALLY.

NOCTURNE, nok'turn, _n._ a painting showing a scene by night: a piece of
music of a dreamy character suitable to evening or night thoughts: a
serenade: a reverie. [Fr.; cf. _Nocturn_.]

NOCUOUS, nok'[=u]-us, _adj._ hurtful.--_adv._ NOC'UOUSLY. [L.
_nocuus_--_noc[=e]re_, to hurt.]

NOD, nod, _v.i._ to give a quick forward motion of the head: to bend the
head in assent: to salute by a quick motion of the head: to let the head
drop in weariness.--_v.t._ to incline: to signify by a nod:--_pr.p._
nod'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ nod'ded.--_n._ a bending forward of the head
quickly: a slight bow: a command.--_ns._ NOD'DER; NOD'DING.--_adj._
inclining the head quickly: indicating by a nod: acknowledged by a nod
merely, as a nodding acquaintance: (_bot._) having the flower looking
downwards.--LAND OF NOD, the state of sleep. [M. E. _nodden_, not in A.S.;
but cf. Old High Ger. _hn[=o]ton_, to shake, prov. Ger. _notteln_, to wag.]

NODDLE, nod'l, _n._ properly, the projecting part at the back of the head:
the head.--_v.i._ to nod repeatedly. [A variant of _knot_; cf. Old Dut.
_knodde_, a knob, Ger. _knoten_, a knot.]

NODDY, nod'i, _n._ one whose head nods from weakness: a stupid fellow: a
sea-fowl--easily taken: a four-wheeled carriage with a door at the back: an
upright flat spring with a weight on the top, forming an inverted pendulum,
indicating the vibration of any body to which it is attached. [_Nod._]

NODE, n[=o]d, _n._ a knot: a knob: a knot or entanglement: (_astron._) one
of the two points in which the orbit of a planet intersects the plane of
the ecliptic: (_bot._) the joint of a stem: the plot of a piece in poetry:
(_math._) a point at which a curve cuts itself, and through which more than
one tangent to the curve can be drawn: a similar point on a surface, where
there is more than one tangent-plane.--_adjs._ NOD'AL, pertaining to nodes;
NOD[=A]T'ED, knotted.--_ns._ NOD[=A]'TION, the act of making knots: the
state of being knotted; NODE'-COUP'LE, a pair of points on a surface at
which one plane is tangent; NODE'-CUSP, a peculiar kind of curve formed by
the union of a node, a cusp, an inflection, and a bitangent.--_adjs._
NOD'ICAL, pertaining to the nodes: from a node round to the same node
again; NODIF'EROUS (_bot._), bearing nodes; N[=O]'DIFORM; NOD'OSE, full of
knots: having knots or swelling joints: knotty.--_n._ NODOS'ITY.--_adjs._
NOD'ULAR, of or like a nodule; NOD'UL[=A]TED, having nodules.--_ns._
NOD'ULE, NOD'ULUS, a little knot: a small lump.--_adjs._ NOD'ULED, having
nodules or little knots or lumps; NODULIF'EROUS; NOD'ULIFORM; NOD'ULOSE,
NOD'ULOUS (_bot._), having nodules or small knots: knotty.--_ns._
NOD'ULUS:--_pl._ NOD'UL[=I]; N[=O]'DUS:--_pl._ N[=O]'D[=I]. [L. _nodus_
(for _gnodus_), allied to _Knot_.]

NOËL, n[=o]'el, _n._ Christmas.--Same as NOWEL (q.v.).

NOEMATIC, -AL, n[=o]-[=e]-mat'ik, -al, _adj._ intellectual--also NOET'IC,
-AL.--_adv._ NOEMAT'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ NOEM'ICS, intellectual science. [Gr.
_no[=e]ma_--_noein_, to perceive.]

NOETIAN, n[=o]-[=e]'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to NOË'TUS or NOË'TIANISM, a
form of Patripassianism taught by _Noëtus_ of Smyrna about 200 A.D.

NOG, nog, _n._ a mug, small pot: a kind of strong ale.

NOG, nog, _n._ a tree nail driven through the heels of the shores, to
secure them: one of the pins in the lever of a clutch-coupling: a piece of
wood in an inner wall: a cog in mining.

NOGGIN, nog'in, _n._ a small mug or wooden cup, or its contents, a dram
suitable for one person. [Ir. _noigin_, Gael. _noigean_.]

NOGGING, nog'ging, _n._ a partition of wooden posts with the spaces between
filled up with bricks: brick-building filling up the spaces between the
wooden posts of a partition.

NOHOW, n[=o]'how, _adv._ not in any way, not at all: (_coll._) out of one's
ordinary way, out of sorts.

NOIANCE, noi'ans, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as ANNOYANCE.

NOILS, noilz, _n.pl._ short pieces of wool separated from the longer fibres
by combing.

NOINT, noint, _v.t._ (_Shak._). Same as ANOINT.

NOISE, noiz, _n._ sound of any kind: any over-loud or excessive sound, din:
frequent or public talk: (_Shak._) report: a musical band.--_v.t._ to
spread by rumour.--_v.i._ to sound loud.--_adjs._ NOISE'FUL, noisy;
NOISE'LESS, without noise: silent.--_adv._ NOISE'LESSLY.--_n._
NOISE'LESSNESS.--MAKE A NOISE IN THE WORLD, to attract great notoriety.
[Fr. _noise_, quarrel; prob. from L. _nausea_, disgust; but possibly from
L. _noxa_, hurt--_noc[=e]re_, to hurt.]

NOISETTE, nwo-zet', _n._ a variety of rose. [Fr.]

NOISOME, noi'sum, _adj._ injurious to health: disgusting to sight or
smell.--_adv._ NOI'SOMELY.--_n._ NOI'SOMENESS. [M. E. _noy_, annoyance. Cf.
_Annoy_.]

NOISY, noiz'i, _adj._ making a loud noise or sound: attended with noise:
clamorous: turbulent.--_adv._ NOIS'ILY.--_n._ NOIS'INESS.

NOKES, n[=o]ks, _n._ a simpleton.

NOLENS VOLENS, n[=o]lens vol'ens, unwilling (or) willing:
willy-nilly.--_n._ NOLI-ME-TANGERE (n[=o]'l[=i]-m[=e]-tan'je-r[=e]), the
wild cucumber: lupus of the nose: a picture showing Jesus appearing to Mary
Magdalene, as in John XX.--NOLLE PROSEQUI (nol'e pros'e-kw[=i]), a term
used in English law to indicate that the plaintiff does not intend to go on
with his action. [L. _nolle_, to be unwilling, _velle_, to be willing,
_tang[)e]re_, to touch, _prosequi_, to prosecute.]

NOLL, nol, _n._ the head.

NOM, nong, _n._ name.--NOM DE PLUME, 'pen-name:' the signature assumed by
an author instead of his own name--not a Fr. phrase, but one of Eng.
manufacture from Fr. _nom_, a name, _de_, of, _plume_, a pen.

NOMAD, NOMADE, nom'ad, _n._ one of a tribe that wanders about in quest of
game, or of pasture for their flocks.--_adj._ NOMAD'IC, of or for the
feeding of cattle: pastoral: pertaining to the life of nomads: wandering:
unsettled: rude.--_adv._ NOMAD'ICALLY.--_v.i._ NOM'ADISE, to lead a nomadic
or vagabond life.--_n._ NOM'ADISM, the state of being nomadic: habits of
nomads. [Gr. _nomas_, _nomados_--_nomos_, pasture--_nemein_, to drive to
pasture.]

NOMANCY, n[=o]'man-si, _n._ divination from the letters in a name.

NO-MAN'S-LAND, n[=o]'-manz-land, _n._ a region to which no one possesses a
recognised claim.

NOMARCH, nom'ärk, _n._ the ruler of a NOME, or division of a province, as
in modern Greece.--_n._ NOM'ARCHY, the district governed by a nomarch. [Gr.
_nomos_, district, _arch[=e]_, rule.]

NOMBRIL, nom'bril, _n._ (_her._) the navel-point.

NOME, n[=o]m, _n._ See NOMARCH.

NOMEN, n[=o]'men, _n._ a name, esp. of the _gens_ or clan, as Caius
_Julius_ Cæsar. [L.]

NOMENCLATOR, n[=o]'men-kl[=a]-tor, _n._ one who gives names to
things:--_fem._ N[=O]'MENCLATRESS.--_adjs._ NOMENCLAT[=O]'RIAL,
N[=O]'MENCL[=A]TORY, N[=O]'MENCL[=A]T[=U]RAL.--_n._ N[=O]'MENCL[=A]TURE, a
system of naming: a list of names: a calling by name: the peculiar terms of
a science. [L.,--_nomen_, a name, _cal[=a]re_, to call.]

NOMIAL, n[=o]'mi-al, _n._ (_alg._) a single name or term.

NOMIC, nom'ik, _adj._ customary, applied to the common mode of
spelling--opp. to _Glossic_ and _Phonetic_. [Gr. _nomos_, custom.]

NOMINAL, nom'in-al, _adj._ pertaining to a name: existing only in name:
having a name.--_ns._ NOM'INALISM, the doctrine that general terms have no
corresponding reality either in or out of the mind, being mere words;
NOM'INALIST, one of a sect of philosophers who held the doctrine of
nominalism.--_adj._ NOMINALIST'IC, pertaining to nominalism.--_adv._
NOM'INALLY. [L. _nominalis_--_nomen_, _-[)i]nis_, a name.]

NOMINATE, nom'in-[=a]t, _v.t._ to name: to mention by name: to appoint: to
propose by name, as for an office or for an appointment.--_adv._
NOM'IN[=A]TELY, by name.--_ns._ NOM'IN[=A]TION, the act or power of
nominating: state of being nominated; NOM'IN[=A]TION-GAME, in billiards, a
game in which the player has to name beforehand what stroke he is
leading.--_adjs._ NOMIN[=A]T[=I]'VAL; NOM'IN[=A]TIVE, naming: (_gram._)
applied to the case of the subject.--_n._ the naming case, the case in
which the subject is expressed.--_adv._ NOM'IN[=A]TIVELY.--_n._
NOM'IN[=A]TOR, one who nominates.--NOMINATIVE ABSOLUTE, a grammatical
construction in which we have a subject (noun or pronoun) combined with a
participle, but not connected with a finite verb or governed by any other
words, as 'All being well, I will come.' [L. _nomin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
name--_nomen_.]

NOMINEE, nom-in-[=e]', _n._ one who is nominated by another: one on whose
life an annuity or lease depends: one to whom the holder of a copyhold
estate surrenders his interest.

NOMISTIC, n[=o]-mis'tik, _adj._ pertaining to laws founded on a sacred
book. [Gr. _nomos_, a law.]

NOMOCRACY, n[=o]-mok'ra-si, _n._ a government according to a code of laws.
[Gr. _nomos_, law, _kratia_--_kratein_, to rule.]

NOMOGENY, n[=o]-moj'e-ni, _n._ the origination of life according to natural
law, not miracle--opp. to _Thaumatogeny_. [Gr. _nomos_, law,
_geneia_--_gen[=e]s_, producing.]

NOMOGRAPHY, n[=o]-mog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of drawing up laws in proper
form.--_n._ NOMOG'RAPHER, one versed in this art. [Gr. _nomos_, law,
_graphein_, to write.]

NOMOLOGY, no-mol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the laws of the mind.--_adj._
NOMOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ NOMOL'OGIST. [Gr. _nomos_, law, _logia_,
discourse--_legein_, to speak.]

NOMOS, nom'os, _n._ in modern Greece, a nome.

NOMOTHETIC, nom-[=o]-thet'ik, _adj._ legislative: founded on a system of
laws, or by a lawgiver. [Gr. _nomothet[=e]s_, a lawgiver, one of a body of
heliasts or jurors in ancient Athens, charged with the decision as to any
proposed change in legislation.]

NON, non, _adv._ not, a Latin word used as a prefix, as in _ns._
NON-ABIL'ITY, want of ability; NON-ACCEPT'ANCE, want of acceptance: refusal
to accept; NON-AC'CESS (_law_), absence of opportunity for marital
commerce; NON-ACQUAINT'ANCE, want of acquaintance; NON-ACQUIESC'ENCE,
refusal of acquiescence; NON-ADMISS'ION, refusal of admission: failure to
be admitted; NON-ALIEN[=A]'TION, state of not being alienated: failure to
alienate; NON-APPEAR'ANCE, failure or neglect to appear, esp. in a court of
law; NON-ARR[=I]'VAL, failure to arrive; NON-ATTEND'ANCE, a failure to
attend: absence; NON-ATTEN'TION, inattention; NON'-CLAIM, a failure to make
claim within the time limited by law; NON-COM'BATANT, any one connected
with an army who is there for some other purpose than that of fighting, as
a surgeon, &c.: a civilian in time of war.--_adjs._ NON-COMMISS'IONED, not
having a commission, as an officer in the army below the rank of
commissioned officer--abbrev. NON-COM'.; NON-COMMIT'TAL, unwilling to
commit one's self to any particular opinion or course of conduct, free from
any declared preference or pledge.--_ns._ NON-COMM[=U]'NICANT, one who
abstains from joining in holy communion, or who has not yet communicated;
NON-COMM[=U]N'ION; NON-COMPL[=I]'ANCE, neglect or failure of
compliance.--_adj._ NON-COMPLY'ING.--_n._ NON-CONCUR'RENCE, refusal to
concur.--_adj._ NON-CONDUCT'ING, not conducting or transmitting: not
allowing a fluid or a force to pass along, as glass does not conduct
electricity.--_n._ NON-CONDUCT'OR, a substance which does not conduct or
transmit certain properties or conditions, as heat or electricity.--_adj._
NONCONFORM'ING, not conforming, esp. to an established church.--_n._ and
_adj._ NONCONFORM'IST, one who does not conform: esp. one who refused to
conform or subscribe to the Act of Uniformity in 1662--abbrev.
NON-CON'.--_n._ NONCONFORM'ITY, want of conformity, esp. to the established
church.--_adj._ NON-CONT[=A]'GIOUS, not infectious.--_ns._ NON'-CONTENT,
one not content: in House of Lords, one giving a negative vote;
NON-DELIV'ERY, failure or neglect to deliver.--_adj._ NON-EFFECT'IVE, not
efficient or serviceable: unfitted for service.--_n._ a member of a force
who is not able, for some reason, to take part in active service.--_adj._
NON-EFFIC'IENT, not up to the mark required for service.--_n._ a soldier
who has not yet undergone the full number of drills.--_n._ NON-[=E]'GO, in
metaphysics, the not-I, the object as opposed to the subject, whatever is
not the conscious self.--_adjs._ NON-EGOIS'TICAL; NON-ELAS'TIC, not
elastic; NON-[=E]LECT', not elect.--_n._ one not predestined to
salvation.--_n._ NON-[=E]LEC'TION, state of not being elected.--_adjs._
NON-ELEC'TRIC, -AL, not conducting the electric fluid; NON-EMPHAT'IC;
NON-EMPIR'ICAL, not empirical, not presented in experience;
NON-EPIS'COPAL.--_n._ NON-EPISCOP[=A]'LIAN.--_adj._ NON-ESSEN'TIAL, not
essential: not absolutely required.--_n._ something that may be done
without.--_n._ NON-EXIST'ENCE, negation of existence: a thing that has no
existence.--_adj._ NON-EXIST'ENT.--_n._ NON-EXPORT[=A]'TION.--_adj._
NON-FOR'FEITING, of a life insurance policy not forfeited by reason of
non-payment.--_ns._ NON-FULFIL'MENT; NON-IMPORT[=A]'TION.--_adj._
NON-IMPORT'ING.--_ns._ NON-INTERVEN'TION, a policy of systematic
non-interference by one country with the affairs of other nations;
NON-INTRU'SION, in Scottish Church history, the principle that a patron
should not force an unacceptable clergyman on an unwilling congregation;
NON-INTRU'SIONIST.--_adj._ NON-ISS'UABLE, not capable of being issued: not
admitting of issue being taken on it.--_n._ NON-JOIN'DER (_law_), the
omitting to join all the parties to the action or suit.--_adj._ NONJUR'ING,
not swearing allegiance.--_n._ NONJUR'OR, one of the clergy in England and
Scotland who would not swear allegiance to William and Mary in 1689,
holding themselves still bound by the oath they had taken to the deposed
king, James II.--_adjs._ NON-L[=U]'MINOUS; NON-MANUFACT'URING;
NON-MARR'YING, not readily disposed to marry; NON-METAL'LIC, not consisting
of metal: not like the metals; NON-MOR'AL, involving no moral
considerations; NON-NAT'URAL, not natural: forced or strained.--_n._ in
ancient medicine, anything not considered of the essence of man, but
necessary to his well-being, as air, food, sleep, rest, &c.--_ns._
NON-OB[=E]'DIENCE; NON-OBSERV'ANCE, neglect or failure to observe;
NON-PAY'MENT, neglect or failure to pay; NON-PERFORM'ANCE, neglect or
failure to perform.--_adjs._ NON-PLACENT'AL; NON-PON'DEROUS.--_n._
NON-PRODUC'TION.--_adj._ NON-PROFESS'IONAL, not done by a professional man,
amateur: not proper to be done by a professional man, as unbecoming conduct
in a physician, &c.--_ns._ NON-PROFIC'IENT, one who has made no progress in
the art or study in which he is engaged; NON-REGARD'ANCE, want of due
regard; NON-RES'IDENCE, failure to reside, or the fact of not residing at a
certain place, where one's official or social duties require one to
reside.--_adj._ NON-RES'IDENT, not residing within the range of one's
responsibilities.--_n._ one who does not do so, as a landlord, clergyman,
&c.--_n._ NON-RESIST'ANCE, the principle of not offering opposition:
passive or ready obedience.--_adjs._ NON-RESIST'ANT, NON-RESIST'ING;
NON-SEX'UAL, sexless, asexual; NON-SOC[=I]'ETY, not belonging to a society,
esp. of a workman not attached to a trades-union, or of a place in which
such men are employed.--_n._ NON-SOL[=U]'TION.--_adjs._ NON-SOL'VENT;
NON-SUBMIS'SIVE.--_n._ NON'SUIT, a legal term in England, which means that
where a plaintiff in a jury trial finds he will lose his case, owing to
some defect or accident, he is allowed to be nonsuited, instead of allowing
a verdict and judgment to go for the defendant.--_v.t._ to record that a
plaintiff drops his suit.--_n._ NON'-TERM, a vacation between two terms of
a law-court.--_adj._ NON-UN'ION (see NON-SOCIETY).--_ns._ NON-[=U]'SAGER
(see USAGE); NON-[=U]'SER (_law_), neglect of official duty: omission to
take advantage of an easement, &c.--_adj._ NON-V[=I]'ABLE, not viable, of a
foetus too young for independent life.

NONAGE, non'[=a]j, _n._ legal infancy, minority: time of immaturity
generally.--_adj._ NON'AGED. [L. _non_, not, and _age_.]

NONAGENARIAN, non-a-je-n[=a]'ri-an, _n._ one who is ninety years
old.--_adj._ relating to ninety.--_adj._ NONAGES'IMAL, belonging to the
number ninety.--_n._ that point of the ecliptic 90 degrees from its
intersection by the horizon. [L. _nonagenarius_, containing
ninety--_nonaginta_, ninety.]

NONAGON, non'a-gon, _n._ (_math._) a plane figure having nine sides and
nine angles. [L. _novem_, nine, _nonus_, ninth, _g[=o]nia_, angle.]

NONCE, nons, _n._ (only in phrase 'for the nonce') the present time,
occasion.--NONCE-WORD, a word specially coined, like Carlyle's _gigmanity_.
[The substantive has arisen by mistake from 'for the nones,' originally
_for then ones_, meaning simply 'for the once.']

NONCHALANCE, non'shal-ans, _n._ unconcern: coolness: indifference.--_adj._
NONCHALANT (non'sha-lant).--_adv._ NON'CHALANTLY. [Fr., _non_, not,
_chaloir_, to care for--L. _cal[=e]re_, to be warm.]

NONDESCRIPT, non'de-skript, _adj._ novel: odd.--_n._ anything not yet
described or classed: a person or thing not easily described or classed.
[L. _non_, not, _descriptus_, _describ[)e]re_, to describe.]

NONE, nun, _adj._ and _pron._ not one: not any: not the smallest
part.--_adv._ in no respect: to no extent or degree.--_n._
NONE'-SO-PRETT'Y, or London Pride, _Saxifraga umbrosa_, a common English
garden-plant.--_adj._ NONE'-SPAR'ING (_Shak._), all-destroying. [M. E.
_noon_, _non_--A.S. _nán_--_ne_, not, _án_, one.]

NONENTITY, non-en'ti-ti, _n._ want of entity or being: a thing not
existing: a person of no importance.

NONES, n[=o]nz, _n.pl._ in the Roman calendar, the ninth day before the
Ides (both days included)--the 5th of Jan., Feb., April, June, Aug., Sept.,
Nov., Dec., and the 7th of the other months: the Divine office for the
ninth hour, or three o'clock. [L. _nonæ_--_nonus_ for _novenus_,
ninth--_novem_, nine.]

NON EST, non est, _adj._ for absent, being a familiar shortening of the
legal phrase _non est inventus_=he has not been found (_coll_).

NONESUCH, nun'such, _n._ a thing like which there is none such: an
extraordinary thing.

NONET, n[=o]-net', _n._ (_mus._) a composition for nine voices or
instruments.

NON-FEASANCE, non-f[=e]'zans, _n._ omission of something which ought to be
done, distinguished from _Misfeasance_, which means the wrongful use of
power or authority. [Pfx. _non_, not, O. Fr. _faisance_, doing--_faire_--L.
_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

NONILLION, n[=o]-nil'yun, _n._ the number produced by raising a million to
the ninth power.

NONINO. See NONNY.

NONNY, non'i, _n._ a meaningless refrain in Old English ballads, &c.,
usually 'hey, nonny'--often repeated _nonny-nonny_, _nonino_, as a cover
for obscenity.

NONPAREIL, non-pa-rel', _n._ a person or thing without equal or unique: a
fine apple: a printing-type forming about twelve lines to the inch, between
emerald (larger) and ruby (smaller).--_adj._ without an equal: matchless.
[Fr.,--_non_, not, _pareil_, equal--Low L. _pariculus_, dim. of _par_,
equal.]

NONPLUS, non'plus, _n._ a state in which no more can be done or said: great
difficulty.--_v.t._ to perplex completely, to puzzle:--_pr.p._
non'plussing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ non'plussed. [L. _non_, not, _plus_,
more.]

NON POSSUMUS, non pos'[=u]-mus, we are not able: we cannot, a plea of
inability. [L., 1st pl. pres. ind. of _posse_, to be able.]

NONSENSE, non'sens, _n._ that which has no sense: language without meaning:
absurdity: trifles.--_adj._ NONSENS'ICAL, without sense: absurd.--_ns._
NONSENSICAL'ITY, NONSENS'ICALNESS.--_adv._ NONSENS'ICALLY.--NONSENSE NAME,
an arbitrarily coined name, for mnemonic purposes, &c.; NONSENSE VERSES,
verses perfect in form but without any connected sense, being merely
exercises in metre, &c.: verses intentionally absurd, like that of the
Jabberwock in _Through the Looking-glass_.

NON SEQUITUR, non sek'wi-tur, it does not follow: a wrong conclusion: one
that does not follow from the premises. [L. _non_, not, and 3d sing. pres.
ind. of _sequi_, to follow.]

NOODLE, n[=oo]d'l, _n._ a simpleton: a blockhead.--_n._ NOOD'LEDOM.
[_Noddy._]

NOODLE, n[=oo]d'l, _n._ dried dough of wheat-flour and eggs, used in soup
or as a baked dish.

NOOK, n[=oo]k, _n._ a corner: a narrow place formed by an angle: a recess:
a secluded retreat.--_adjs._ NOOK'-SHOT'TEN, full of nooks and corners;
NOOK'Y. [Gael. and Ir. _niuc_; Scot. _neuk_.]

NOOLOGY, no-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science of the phenomena of the mind, or of
the facts of intellect. [Gr. _noos_, the mind, _logia_, discourse.]

NOON, n[=oo]n, _n._ the ninth hour of the day in Roman and ecclesiastical
reckoning, three o'clock P.M.: afterwards (when the church service for the
ninth hour, called _Nones_, was shifted to midday) midday: twelve o'clock:
middle: height.--_adj._ belonging to midday: meridional.--_v.i._ to rest at
noon.--_n._ NOON'DAY, midday: the time of greatest prosperity.--_adj._
pertaining to midday: meridional.--_ns._ NOON'ING, a rest about noon: a
repast at noon; NOON'TIDE, the tide or time of noon: midday.--_adj._
pertaining to noon: meridional. [A.S. _nón-tíd_ (noontide)--L. _nona_
(_hora_), the ninth (hour).]

NOOSE, n[=oo]s, or n[=oo]z, _n._ a running knot which ties the firmer the
closer it is drawn: a snare or knot generally.--_v.t._ to tie or catch in a
noose. [Prob. O. Fr. _nous_, pl. of _nou_ (Fr. _noeud_)--L. _nodus_, knot.]

NOR, nor, _conj._ and not, a particle introducing the second part of a
negative proposition--correlative to _neither_. [Contr. of
_nother_=_neither_.]

NORIA, n[=o]'ri-a, _n._ a water-raising apparatus in Spain, Syria, and
elsewhere, by means of a large paddle-wheel having fixed to its rim a
series of buckets, a flush-wheel. [Sp.,--Ar.]

NORIMON, nor'i-mon, _n._ a kind of sedan-chair used in Japan. [Jap. _nori_,
ride, _mono_, thing.]

NORLAND, nor'land, _n._ the same as NORTHLAND.

NORM, norm, _n._ a rule: a pattern: an authoritative standard: a type or
typical unit.--_n._ NOR'MA, a rule, model: a square for measuring right
angles.--_adj._ NOR'MAL, according to rule: regular: exact:
perpendicular.--_n._ a perpendicular.--_ns._ NORMALIS[=A]'TION,
NORMAL'ITY.--_v.t._ NOR'MALISE.--_adv._ NOR'MALLY.--_adj._ NOR'MATIVE,
establishing a standard.--NORMAL SCHOOL, a training-college for teachers in
the practice of their profession. [L. _norma_, a rule.]

NORMAN, nor'man, _n._ a native or inhabitant of Normandy: one of that
Scandinavian race which settled in northern France about the beginning of
the 10th century, founded the Duchy of Normandy, and conquered England in
1066--the _Norman Conquest_.--_adj._ pertaining to the Normans or to
Normandy.--_v.t._ NOR'MANISE, to give a Norman character to.--NORMAN
ARCHITECTURE, a round-arched style, a variety of Romanesque, prevalent in
England from the Norman Conquest (1066) till the end of the 12th century,
of massive simplicity, the churches cruciform with semicircular apse and a
great tower rising from the intersection of nave and transept, deeply
recessed doorways, windows small, round-headed, high in wall; NORMAN
FRENCH, a form of French spoken by the Normans, which came into England at
the Norman Conquest, modified the spelling, accent, and pronunciation of
Anglo-Saxon, and enriched it with a large infusion of new words relating to
the arts of life, &c. [_Northmen._]

NORMAN, nor'man, _n._ (_naut._) a bar inserted in a windlass, on which to
fasten or veer a rope or cable.

NORN, norn, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) one of the three fates--Urd, Verdande,
and Skuld.--Also NORN'A.

NORROY, nor'roi, _n._ (_her._) the third of the three English
kings-at-arms, or provincial heralds, whose jurisdiction lies north of the
Trent. [Fr. _nord_, north, _roy_, _roi_, king.]

NORSE, nors, _adj._ pertaining to ancient Scandinavia.--_n._ the language
of ancient Scandinavia--also OLD NORSE.--_n._ NORSE'MAN, a Scandinavian or
Northman. [Ice. _Norskr_; Norw. _Norsk_.]

NORTH, north, _n._ the point opposite the sun at noon: one of the four
cardinal points of the horizon: the side of a church to the left of one
facing the principal altar: that portion of the United States north of the
former slave-holding states--i.e. north of Maryland, the Ohio, and
Missouri.--_adv._ to or in the north.--_ns._ NORTH'-COCK, the snow bunting;
NORTH'-EAST, the point between the north and east, equidistant from
each.--_adj._ belonging to or from the north-east.--_n._ NORTH'-EAST'ER, a
wind from the north-east.--_adjs._ NORTH'-EAST'ERLY, toward or coming from
the north-east; NORTH'-EAST'ERN, belonging to the north-east: being in the
north-east, or in that direction.--_adv._ NORTH'-EAST'WARD, toward the
north-east.--_ns._ NORTH'ER (_th_), a wind or gale from the north, esp.
applied to a cold wind that blows in winter over Texas and the Gulf of
Mexico; NORTH'ERLINESS (_th_), state of being toward the north.--_adj._
NORTH'ERLY (_th_), being toward the north: coming from the north.--_adv._
toward or from the north.--_adj._ NORTH'ERN (_th_), pertaining to the
north: being in the north or in the direction toward it: proceeding from
the north.--_n._ an inhabitant of the north.--_n._ NORTH'ERNER (_th_), a
native of, or resident in, the north, esp. of the northern United
States.--_adjs._ NORTH'ERNMOST (_th_), NORTH'MOST, situate at the point
farthest north.--_ns._ NORTH'ING, motion, distance, or tendency northward:
distance of a heavenly body from the equator northward: difference of
latitude made by a ship in sailing northward: deviation towards the north;
NORTH'MAN, one of the ancient Scandinavians; NORTH'-POLE, the point in the
heavens, or beneath it on the earth's surface, ninety degrees north of the
equator; NORTH'-STAR, the north polar star; NORTHUM'BRIAN, a native of the
modern _Northumberland_, or of the ancient kingdom of _Northumbria_,
stretching from the Humber to the Forth: that variety of English spoken in
Northumbria before the Conquest--also _adj._--_adjs._ NORTH'WARD,
NORTH'WARDLY, being toward the north.--_adv._ toward the north--also
NORTH'WARDS.--_n._ NORTH'-WEST, the point between the north and west,
equidistant from each.--_adj._ pertaining to or from the
north-west.--_adjs._ NORTH'-WEST'ERLY, toward or coming from the
north-west; NORTH'-WEST'ERN, belonging to the north-west: pertaining to, or
being in, the north-west or in that direction.--NORTH WATER, the space of
open sea left by the winter pack of ice moving southward.--NORTH-EAST
PASSAGE, a passage for ships along the north coasts of Europe and Asia to
the Pacific, first made by Nordenskiöld in 1878-79; NORTHERN LIGHTS, the
aurora borealis (q.v.); NORTH-WEST PASSAGE, a sea-way for ships from the
Atlantic into the Pacific along the northern coast of America, first made
by Sir Robert McClure, 1850-54. [A.S. _north_; cf. Ger. _nord_.]

NORWEGIAN, nor-w[=e]'ji-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Norway_--(_Shak._)
NORW[=E]'YAN.--_n._ a native of _Norway_: a kind of fishing-boat on the
Great Lakes.

NOSE, n[=o]z, _n._ the organ of smell: the power of smelling: sagacity: the
projecting part of anything resembling a nose, as the spout of a kettle,
&c.: a drip, a downward projection from a cornice: (_slang_) an
informer.--_v.t._ to smell: to oppose rudely face to face: to sound through
the nose.--_ns._ NOSE'BAG, a bag for a horse's nose, containing oats, &c.;
NOSE'-BAND, the part of the bridle coming over the nose, attached to the
cheek-straps.--_adjs._ NOSED, having a nose--used in composition, as
bottle-_nosed_, long-_nosed_, &c.; NOSE'-LED, led by the nose, ruled and
befooled completely; NOSE'LESS, without a nose.--_ns._ NOSE'-LEAF, a
membranous appendage on the snouts of phyllostomine and rhinolophine bats,
forming a highly sensitive tactile organ; NOSE'-OF-WAX, an over-pliable
person or thing; NOSE'-PIECE, the outer end or point of a pipe, bellows,
&c.: the extremity of the tube of a microscope to which the objective is
attached: a nose-band: the nasal in armour; NOSE'-RING, an ornament worn in
the septum of the nose or in either of its wings; NOS'ING, the projecting
rounded edge of the step of a stair or of a moulding.--AQUILINE NOSE, a
prominent nose, convex in profile; BOTTLE NOSE, a name given to certain
species of cetaceans: an eruption on the nose such as is produced by
intemperate drinking; PUG NOSE, a short turned-up nose; ROMAN NOSE, an
aquiline nose.--HOLD, KEEP, or PUT ONE'S NOSE TO THE GRINDSTONE (see
GRINDSTONE); LEAD BY THE NOSE, to cause to follow blindly; PUT ONE'S NOSE
OUT OF JOINT, to bring down one's pride or sense of importance: to push out
of favour; THRUST ONE'S NOSE INTO, to meddle officiously with anything;
TURN UP ONE'S NOSE (_at_), to express contempt for a person or thing. [A.S.
_nosu_; Ger. _nase_, L. _nasus_.]

NOSEGAY, n[=o]z'g[=a], _n._ a bunch of fragrant flowers: a posy or bouquet.
[From _nose_ and _gay_ (adj.).]

NOSOCOMIAL, nos-[=o]-k[=o]'mi-al, _adj._ relating to a hospital. [Gr.
_nosos_, sickness, _komein_, to take care of.]

NOSOGRAPHY, n[=o]-sog'ra-fi, _n._ the description of diseases.--_adj._
NOSOGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _nosos_, disease, _graphein_, to write.]

NOSOLOGY, nos-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science of diseases: the branch of medicine
which treats of the classification of diseases.--_adj._ NOSOLOG'ICAL.--_n._
NOSOL'OGIST. [Gr. _nosos_, disease, _logia_, discourse.]

NOSONOMY, n[=o]-son'o-mi, _n._ the classification of diseases. [Gr.
_nosos_, a disease, _onoma_, a name.]

NOSOPHOBIA, nos-o-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ morbid dread of disease. [Gr. _nosos_, a
disease, _phobia_, fear.]

NOSTALGIA, nos-tal'ji-a, _n._ home-sickness, esp. when morbid.--_adj._
NOSTAL'GIC. [Gr. _nostos_, a return, algos, pain.]

NOSTOC, nos'tok, _n._ a genus of Algæ, found in moist places.--Also
_Witches' butter_, _Spittle of the stars_, _Star-jelly_, &c. [Ger.
_nostoch_.]

NOSTOLOGY, nos-tol'o-ji, _n._ the science of the phenomena of extreme old
age or senility in which there is ever seen a return to the characteristics
of the youthful stage.--_adj._ NOSTOLOG'IC. [Gr. _nostos_, return,
_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

NOSTRADAMUS, nos-tra-d[=a]'mus, _n._ any quack doctor or charlatan--from
the French astrologer (1503-66).

NOSTRIL, nos'tril, _n._ one of the openings of the nose. [M. E.
_nosethirl_--A.S. _nosthyrl_--_nosu_, nose, _thyrel_, opening. Cf. _Drill_,
to pierce, and _Thrill_.]

NOSTRUM, nos'trum, _n._ any secret, quack, or patent medicine: any
favourite remedy or scheme. [L., 'our own,' from _nos_, we.]

NOT, not, _adv._ a word expressing denial, negation, or refusal.--NOT IN IT
(_coll._), having no part in some confidence or advantage. [Same as
_Naught_, from A.S. _ná_, _wiht_, a whit.]

NOTABLE, n[=o]'ta-bl, _adj._ worthy of being known or noted: remarkable:
memorable: distinguished: notorious: capable, clever, industrious.--_n._ a
person or thing worthy of note, esp. in _pl._ for persons of distinction
and political importance in France in pre-Revolution times.--_n.pl._
NOTABIL'IA, things worthy of notice: noteworthy sayings.--_ns._
NOTABIL'ITY, the being notable: a notable person or thing;
N[=O]'TABLENESS.--_adv._ N[=O]'TABLY.

NOTÆUM, n[=o]-t[=e]'um, _n._ the upper surface of a bird's trunk--opp. to
_Gastræum_: a dorsal buckler in some gasteropods. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the
back.]

NOTALGIA, n[=o]-tal'ji-a, _n._ pain in the back.--_adj._ NOTAL'GIC. [Gr.
_n[=o]tos_, the back, _algos_, pain.]

NOTANDA, n[=o]-tan'da, _n.pl._ something to be specially noted or
observed:--_sing._ NOTAN'DUM. [L. pl. ger. of _not[=a]re_, to note.]

NOTARY, n[=o]'ta-ri, _n._ an officer authorised to certify deeds,
contracts, copies of documents, affidavits, &c.--generally called a NOTARY
PUBLIC--anciently one who took notes or memoranda of others' acts.--_adj._
NOT[=A]'RIAL.--_adv._ NOT[=A]'RIALLY.--APOSTOLICAL NOTARY, the official who
despatches the orders of the Pope; ECCLESIASTICAL NOTARY, in the early
church, a secretary who recorded the proceedings of councils, &c. [L.
_notarius_.]

NOTATION, n[=o]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the act or practice of recording by marks
or symbols: a system of signs or symbols.--_adj._ N[=O]'TATE (_bot._),
marked with coloured spots or lines.--CHEMICAL NOTATION (see CHEMISTRY).
[L.,--_not[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to mark.]

NOTCH, noch, _n._ a nick cut in anything: an indentation, incision,
incisure: a narrow pass in a rock, or between two mountains.--_v.t._ to cut
a hollow into.--_n._ NOTCH'-BOARD, the board which receives the ends of the
steps of a staircase--also _Bridge-board_.--_adjs._ NOTCH'-EARED, having
emarginate ears, as the notch-eared bat; NOTCHED, nicked.--_n._ NOTCH'ING,
a method of joining framing-timbers, by halving, scarfing, or caulking.
[From a Teut. root, as in Old Dut. _nock_. Cf. _Nick_, a notch.]

NOTCHEL, NOCHEL, noch'el, _v.t._ (_prov._) to repudiate.

NOTE, n[=o]t, _n._ that by which a person or thing is known: a mark or sign
calling attention: a brief explanation: a short remark: a brief report, a
catalogue, a bill: a memorandum: a short letter: a diplomatic paper: a
small size of paper used for writing: (_mus._) a mark representing a sound,
also the sound itself, air, tune, tone, also a digital or key of the
keyboard: a paper acknowledging a debt and promising payment, as a
bank-note, a note of hand: notice, heed, observation: reputation:
fame.--_v.t._ to make a note of: to notice: to attend to: to record in
writing: to furnish with notes.--_n._ NOTE'-BOOK, a book in which notes or
memoranda are written: a bill-book.--_adj._ NOT'ED, marked: well known:
celebrated: eminent: notorious.--_adv._ NOT'EDLY.--_n._ NOT'EDNESS.--_adj._
NOTE'LESS, not attracting notice.--_ns._ NOTE'-P[=A]'PER, folded
writing-paper for letters (_commercial_, 5 × 8 in.; _octavo_, 4½ × 7;
_billet_, 4 × 6; _queen_, 3½ × 5-3/8; _packet_, 5½ × 9; _Bath_, 7 × 8);
NOT'ER, one who notes or observes: one who makes notes, an annotator;
NOTE'-SHAV'ER (_U.S._), a money-lender.--_adj._ NOTE'WORTHY, worthy of note
or of notice.--NOTE A BILL, to record on the back of it a refusal of
acceptance, as a ground of protest. [Fr.,--L. _nota_, _nosc[)e]re_,
_notum_, to know.]

NOTE, n[=o]t (_Spens._), wot or knew not (a contr. of _ne wot_): could not
(a contr. of _ne mote_).

NOTHING, nuth'ing, _n._ no thing: non-existence: absence of being: a low
condition: no value or use: not anything of importance, a trifle: utter
insignificance, no difficulty or trouble: no magnitude: a cipher.--_adv._
in no degree: not at all.--_adj._ and _n._ NOTHING[=A]'RIAN, believing
nothing.--_ns._ NOTHING[=A]'RIANISM; NOTH'ING-GIFT (_Shak._), a gift of no
value; NOTH'INGISM, nihility; NOTH'INGNESS, state of being nothing or of no
value: a thing of no value.--NOTHING BUT, no more than: only; NOTHING LESS
THAN, equal to: as much as.--COME TO NOTHING, to have no result: to turn
out a failure; MAKE NOTHING OF, to consider as of no difficulty or
importance; NECK OR NOTHING (see NECK); NEXT TO NOTHING, almost nothing.
[_No_ and _thing_.]

NOTICE, n[=o]t'is, _n._ act of noting or observing: attention: observation:
information: warning: a writing containing information: public intimation:
civility or respectful treatment: remark.--_v.t._ to mark or see: to regard
or attend to: to mention: to make observations upon: to treat with
civility.--_adj._ NOT'ICEABLE, that can be noticed: worthy of notice:
likely to be noticed.--_adv._ NOT'ICEABLY.--_n._ NOT'ICE-BOARD, a board on
which a notice is fixed.--GIVE NOTICE, to warn beforehand: to inform.
[Fr.,--L. _notitia_--_nosc[)e]re_, _notum_, to know.]

NOTIFY, n[=o]'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make known: to declare: to give notice or
information of:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ n[=o]'tified.--_adj._ N[=O]'TIFIABLE,
that must be made known.--_n._ NOTIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of notifying: the
notice given: the paper containing the notice. [Fr.,--L. _notific[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_notus_, known, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

NOTION, n[=o]'shun, _n._ the art of forming a conception in the mind of the
various marks or qualities of an object: the result of this act, a
conception: opinion: belief: judgment: a caprice or whim: any small article
ingeniously devised or invented, usually in _pl._--_adj._ N[=O]'TIONAL, of
the nature of a notion: ideal: fanciful.--_adv._ N[=O]'TIONALLY, in notion
or mental apprehension: in idea, not in reality.--_n._ N[=O]'TIONIST, one
who holds ungrounded opinions. [Fr.,--L. _notion-em_--_nosc[)e]re_,
_notum_, to know.]

NOTITIA, n[=o]-tish'i-a, _n._ a roll, list, register: a catalogue of public
functionaries, with their districts: a list of episcopal sees. [L.; cf.
_Notice_.]

NOTOBRANCHIATE, n[=o]-t[=o]-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ and _n._ having dorsal
gills, belonging to NOTOBRANCHI[=A]'TA, an order of worms having such. [Gr.
_n[=o]tos_, the back, _brangchia_, gills.]

NOTOCHORD, n[=o]'t[=o]-kord, _n._ a simple cellular rod, the basis of the
future spinal column, persisting throughout life in many lower vertebrates,
as the amphioxus, &c.--_adj._ N[=O]'TOCHORDAL. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the back,
_chord[=e]_, a string.]

NOTODONTIFORM, n[=o]-t[=o]-don'ti-form, _adj._ resembling a tooth-back or
moth of the family _Notodontidæ_. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, back, _odous_, tooth, L.
_forma_, form.]

NOTONECTAL, n[=o]-t[=o]-nek'tal, _adj._ swimming on the back, as certain
insects: related to the _Notonectidæ_, a family of aquatic bugs, the
boat-flies or water-boatmen. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the back, _n[=e]kt[=e]s_, a
swimmer.]

NOTOPODAL, n[=o]-top'[=o]-dal, _adj._ pertaining to the NOTOP'ODA, a
division of decapods, including the dromioid crabs, &c.--Also NOTOP'ODOUS.
[Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the back, _pous_, _podos_, the foot.]

NOTOPODIUM, n[=o]-t[=o]-p[=o]'di-um, _n._ the dorsal or upper part of the
parapodium of an annelid, a dorsal oar.--_adj._ NOTOP[=O]'DIAL. [Gr.
_n[=o]tos_, the back, _pous_, _podos_, the foot.]

NOTORIOUS, no-t[=o]'ri-us, _adj._ publicly known (now used in a bad sense):
infamous.--_n._ NOTOR[=I]'ETY, state of being notorious: publicity: public
exposure.--_adv._ NOT[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ NOT[=O]'RIOUSNESS. [Low L.
_notorius_--_not[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to mark--_nosc[)e]re_.]

NOTORNIS, n[=o]-tor'nis, _n._ a genus of gigantic ralline birds, with wings
so much reduced as to be incapable of flight, which have within historical
times become extinct in New Zealand, &c. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the south,
_ornis_, a bird.]

NOTOTHERIUM, n[=o]-t[=o]-th[=e]'ri-um, _n._ a genus of gigantic fossil
kangaroo-like marsupials, found in Australia. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the south,
_th[=e]rion_, a wild beast.]

NOTOTREMA, n[=o]-t[=o]-tr[=e]'ma, _n._ the pouch-toads, a genus of
_Hylidæ_.--_adj._ NOTOTREM'ATOUS. [Gr. _n[=o]tos_, the back, _tr[=e]ma_, a
hole.]

NOTOUR, no-t[=oo]r', _adj._ (_Scot._) well known, notorious.

NOTT-HEADED, not'-hed'ed, _adj._ (_Shak._) having the hair cut
bare.--NOTT'-PAT'ED. [A.S. _hnot_, shorn.]

NOTUM, n[=o]'tum, _n._ the dorsal aspect of the thorax in insects. [Gr.
_n[=o]tos_, the back.]

NOTUS, n[=o]'tus, _n._ the south or south-west wind. [L.]

NOTWITHSTANDING, not-with-stand'ing, _prep._ in spite of.--_conj._ in spite
of the fact that, although.--_adv._ nevertheless, however, yet. [Orig. a
participial phrase in nominative absolute=L. _non obstante_.]

NOUGAT, n[=oo]-gä', _n._ a confection made of a sweet paste filled with
chopped almonds or pistachio-nuts. [Fr. (cf. Sp. _nogado_, an
almond-cake)--L. _nux_, _nucis_, a nut.]

NOUGHT, nawt, _n._ not anything: nothing.--_adv._ in no degree.--SET AT
NOUGHT, to despise. [Same as _Naught_.]

NOUL, n[=o]l, _n._ (_Spens._) the top of the head. [A.S. _hnoll_, top or
summit.]

NOULD, n[=oo]ld (_Spens._), would not. [A contr. of _ne would_.]

NOUMENON, n[=oo]'me-non, _n._ an unknown and unknowable substance or thing
as it is in itself--opp. to _Phenomenon_, or the form through which it
becomes known to the senses or the understanding:--_pl._ NOU'MENA.--_adj._
NOU'MENAL. [Gr. _noumenon_, pa.p. of _noein_, to perceive--_nous_, the
mind.]

NOUN, nown, _n._ (_gram._) the name of any person or thing.--_adj._
NOUN'AL. [O. Fr. _non_ (Fr. _nom_)--L. _nomen_, name.]

NOURICE, nur'is, _n._ (_Spens._) a nurse. [_Nurse._]

NOURISH, nur'ish, _v.t._ to suckle: to feed or bring up: to support: to
help forward growth in any way: to encourage: to cherish: to
educate.--_adjs._ NOUR'ISHABLE, able to be nourished.--_n._
NOUR'ISHER.--_adj._ NOUR'ISHING, giving nourishment.--_n._ NOUR'ISHMENT,
the act of nourishing or the state of being nourished: that which
nourishes: nutriment. [O. Fr. _norir_ (Fr. _nourrir_)--L. _nutr[=i]re_, to
feed.]

NOURSLE, nurs'l, _v.t._ to nurse: to bring up.--Also NOUS'LE. [_Nuzzle._]

NOUS, nows, _n._ intellect: talent: common-sense. [Gr.]

NOVACULITE, n[=o]-vak'[=u]-l[=i]t, _n._ a hone-stone.

NOVALIA, n[=o]-v[=a]'li-a, _n.pl._ (_Scots law_) waste lands newly
reclaimed.

NOVATIAN, n[=o]-v[=a]'shi-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Novatianus_, who
had himself ordained Bishop of Rome in opposition to Cornelius (251), and
headed the party of severity against the lapsed in the controversy about
their treatment that arose after the Decian persecution.--_ns._
NOV[=A]'TIANISM; NOV[=A]'TIANIST.

NOVATION, n[=o]-v[=a]'shun, _n._ the substitution of a new obligation for
the one existing: innovation.

NOVEL, nov'el, _adj._ new: unusual: strange.--_n._ that which is new: a new
or supplemental constitution or decree, issued by certain Roman emperors,
as Justinian, after their authentic publications of law (also NOVELL'A): a
fictitious prose narrative or tale presenting a picture of real life, esp.
of the emotional crises in the life-history of the men and women
portrayed.--_n._ NOVELETTE', a small novel.--_v.t._ NOV'ELISE, to change by
introducing novelties: to put into the form of novels.--_v.i._ to make
innovations.--_n._ NOV'ELIST, a novel-writer: an innovator.--_adj._
NOVELIST'IC.--_n._ NOV'ELTY, newness: unusual appearance: anything new,
strange, or different from anything before:--_pl._ NOV'ELTIES. [O. Fr.
_novel_ (Fr. _nouveau_)--L. _novellus_--_novus_.]

NOVEMBER, n[=o]-vem'b[.e]r, _n._ the eleventh month of our year. [The
_ninth_ month of the Roman year; L., from _novem_, nine.]

NOVENA, n[=o]-v[=e]'na, _n._ a devotion lasting nine days, to obtain a
particular request, through the intercession of the Virgin or some saint.
[L. _novenus_, nine each, _novem_, nine.]

NOVENARY, nov'en-a-ri, _adj._ pertaining to the number nine.--_adj._
NOVENE', going by nines. [L. _novenarius_--_novem_, nine.]

NOVENNIAL, n[=o]-ven'yal, _adj._ done every ninth year. [L.
_novennis_--_novem_, nine, _annus_, a year.]

NOVERCAL, n[=o]-v[.e]r'kal, _adj_. pertaining to or befitting a stepmother.
[L. _novercalis_--_noverca_, a stepmother.]

NOVERINT, nov'e-rint, _n._ a writ--beginning with the words _noverint
universi_--let all men know. [3d pers. pl. perf. subj. of _nosc[)e]re_, to
know.]

NOVICE, nov'is, _n._ one new in anything: a beginner: one newly received
into the church: an inmate of a convent or nunnery who has not yet taken
the vow.--_ns._ NOV'ICESHIP; NOVI'CIATE, NOVI'TIATE, the state of being a
novice: the period of being a novice: a novice. [Fr.,--L.
_novitius_--_novus_, new.]

NOVUM, n[=o]'vum, _n._ (_Shak._) a certain game at dice, in which the chief
throws were nine and five.

NOVUS HOMO, nov'us hom'o, _n._ a new man: one who has risen from a low
position to a high dignity.

NOW, now, _adv._ at the present time: at this time or a little
before.--_conj._ but: after this: things being so.--_n._ the present
time.--_advs._ NOW'ADAYS, in days now present.--NOW--NOW, at one time--at
another time. [A.S. _nú_; Ger. _nun_, L. _nunc_, Gr. _nun_.]

NOWEL, NOËL, n[=o]'el, _n._ Christmas: a joyous shout or song at Christmas:
a Christmas carol. [O. Fr. _nowel_, _noel_ (mod. Fr. _noël_; cf. Sp.
_natal_, It. _natale_)--L. _natalis_, belonging to one's birthday.]

NOWHERE, n[=o]'hw[=a]r, _adv._ in no where or place: at no time.--_adv._
N[=O]'WHITHER, not any whither: to no place: in no direction: nowhere.

NOWL, nowl, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as NOUL.

NOWT, nowt, _n._ (_Scot._) cattle.--Also NOUT. [_Neat._]

NOWY, now'i, _adj._ (_her._) having a convex curvature near the
middle.--Also NOWED. [O. Fr. _noue_--L. _nudatus_, knotted.]

NOXIOUS, nok'shus, _adj._ hurtful: unwholesome: injurious: destructive:
poisonous.--_adj._ NOX'AL, relating to wrongful injury.--_adv._
NOX'IOUSLY.--_n._ NOX'IOUSNESS. [L. _noxius_--_noxa_, hurt--_noc[=e]re_, to
hurt.]

NOY, noi, _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as ANNOY.

NOYADE, nwa-yad', _n._ an infamous mode of drowning by means of a boat with
movable bottom, practised by Carrier at Nantes, 1793-94. [Fr.,--_noyer_, to
drown.]

NOYANCE, noi'ans, _n._ Same as ANNOYANCE.

NOYAU, nwo-y[=o]', _n._ a liqueur flavoured with kernels of bitter almonds
or of peach-stones. [Fr., the stone of a fruit--L. _nucalis_, like a
nut--_nux_, _nucis_, a nut.]

NOYOUS, noi'us, _adj._ (_Spens._) serving to annoy: troublesome: hurtful.
[_Annoy._]

NOYSOME, noi'sum, _adj._ (_Spens._) noisome (q.v.).

NOZZLE, noz'l, _n._ a little nose: the snout: the extremity of anything:
the open end of a pipe or tube, as of a bellows, &c. [Dim. of _nose_.]

NUANCE, n[=u]-ans', _n._ a delicate degree or shade of difference perceived
by any of the senses, or by the intellect. [Fr.,--L. _nubes_, a cloud.]

NUB, nub, _v.t._ (_prov._) to push: beckon: hang.

NUB, nub, _n._ a knob, knot: point, gist.--_adjs._ NUB'BLY, full of knots;
NUB'BY, lumpy, dirty.

NUBBLE, nub'l, _v.t._ to beat with the fist.

NUBECULA, n[=u]-bek'[=u]-la, _n._ a light film on the eye: a cloudy
appearance in urine:--_pl._ NUBEC'ULÆ.

NUBIFEROUS, n[=u]-bif'e-rus, _adj._ bringing clouds.--_adjs._
N[=U]BIG'ENOUS, produced by clouds; N[=U]'BILOUS, cloudy,
overcast--(_obs._) N[=U]'BILOSE.

NUBILE, n[=u]'bil, _adj._ marriageable.--_n._ NUBIL'ITY. [L.
_nubilis_--_nub[)e]re_, to veil one's self, hence to marry.]

NUCELLUS, n[=u]-sel'us, _n._ the nucleus of the ovule.

NUCHAL, n[=u]'kal, _adj._ pertaining to the N[=U]'CHA or nape.

NUCIFORM, n[=u]s'i-form, _adj._ nut-shaped.--_adj._ NUCIF'EROUS,
nut-bearing. [L. _nux_, _nucis_, nut, _forma_, form.]

NUCIFRAGA, n[=u]-sif'ra-ga, _n._ a genus of corvine birds, between crows
and jays, the nutcrackers.

NUCLEUS, n[=u]'kl[=e]-us, _n._ the central mass round which matter gathers:
(_astron._) the head of a comet:--_pl._ NUCLEI
(n[=u]'kl[=e]-[=i]).--_adjs._ N[=U]'CL[=E]AL, N[=U]'CL[=E]AR, pertaining to
a nucleus.--_v.t._ N[=U]'CL[=E][=A]TE, to gather into or around a
nucleus.--_adjs._ N[=U]'CL[=E]ATE, -D, having a nucleus;
N[=U]'CL[=E]IFORM.--_ns._ N[=U]'CL[=E]IN, a colourless amorphous proteid, a
constituent of cell-nuclei; N[=U]'CLEOBRANCH, one of an order of molluscs
which have the gills packed in the shell along with the heart:--_pl._
NUCLEOBRANCHI[)A]'TA; N[=U]'CL[=E][=O]LE, a little nucleus: a nucleus
within a nucleus--also NUCL[=E]'OLUS:--_pl._ NUCL[=E]'OLI. [L.,--_nux_,
_nucis_, a nut.]

NUCULE, n[=u]k'[=u]l, _n._ a little nut: in _Characeæ_ the female sexual
organ. [L. _nucula_, dim. of _nux_, _nucis_, a nut.]

NUDE, n[=u]d, _adj._ naked: bare: without drapery, as a statue: void, as a
contract.--_n._ N[=U]D[=A]'TION, act of making bare.--_adv._
N[=U]DE'LY.--_ns._ N[=U]DE'NESS, N[=U]'DITY, nakedness: want of covering:
anything laid bare.--_adjs._ NUDIFL[=O]'ROUS, having the flowers destitute
of hairs, glands, &c.; N[=U]DIF[=O]'LIOUS, having bare or smooth leaves;
N[=U]DIROS'TRATE, having the rostrum naked.--_n.pl._ N[=U]'DITIES, naked
parts: figures divested of drapery.--THE NUDE, the undraped human figure as
a branch of art. [L. _nudus_, naked.]

NUDGE, nuj, _n._ a gentle push.--_v.t._ to push gently. [Cf. _Knock_,
_Knuckle_; Dan. _knuge_.]

NUDIBRANCH, n[=u]'di-brangk, _n._ one of an order of gasteropods having no
shell, and with the gills exposed on the surface of the body:--_pl._
NUDIBRANCHI[=A]'TA. [L. _nudus_, naked, _branchiæ_, gills.]

NUGATORY, n[=u]'ga-tor-i, _adj._ trifling: vain: insignificant: of no
power: ineffectual. [L. _nugatorius_,--_nugæ_, jokes, trifles.]

NUGGET, nug'et, _n._ a lump or mass, as of a metal. [Prob. _ingot_, with
the _n_ of the article.]

NUISANCE, n[=u]'sans, _n._ that which annoys or hurts: that which troubles:
that which is offensive.--_n._ N[=U]'ISANCER. [Fr.,--L. _noc[=e]re_, to
hurt.]

NULL, nul, _adj._ of no legal force: void: invalid: of no importance.--_n._
something of no value or meaning, a cipher: a bead-like raised
work.--_v.t._ to annul, nullify.--_v.i._ to kink: to form nulls, or into
nulls, as in a lathe.--NULLED WORK, woodwork turned by means of a lathe so
as to form a series of connected knobs--for rounds of chairs, &c. [L.
_nullus_, not any, from _ne_, not, _ullus_, any.]

NULLAH, nul'a, _n._ a dry water-course.

NULLA-NULLA, nul'a-nul'a, _n._ an Australian's hard-wood club.

NULLIFIDIAN, nul-i-fid'i-an, _adj._ having no faith.--_n._ a person in such
a condition. [L. _nullus_, none, _fides_, faith.]

NULLIFY, nul'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to make null: to annul: to render void or of
no force:--_pr.p._ null'ifying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ null'ified.--_ns._
NULLIFIC[=A]'TION, a rendering void or of none effect, esp. (_U.S._) of a
contract by one of the parties, or of a law by one legislature which has
been passed by another; NULL'IFIER; NULL'ITY, the state of being null or
void: nothingness: want of existence, force, or efficacy.

NULLIPARA, nul-lip'a-ra, _n._ a woman who has never given birth to a child,
esp. if not a virgin.--_adj._ NULLIP'AROUS.

NULLIPENNATE, nul-i-pen'[=a]t, _adj._ having no flight-feathers, as a
penguin.

NULLIPORE, nul'i-p[=o]r, _n._ a small coral-like seaweed.--_adj._
NULL'IPOROUS.

NUMB, num, _adj._ deprived of sensation or motion: powerless to feel or
act: stupefied: motionless: (_Shak._) causing numbness.--_v.t._ to make
numb: to deaden: to render motionless:--_pr.p._ numbing (num'ing); _pa.p._
numbed (numd).--_adj._ NUMB'-COLD (_Shak._), numbed with cold: causing
numbness.--_n._ NUMB'NESS, state of being numb: condition of living body in
which it has lost the power of feeling: torpor. [A.S. _numen_, pa.p. of
_niman_, to take; so Ice. _numinn_, bereft.]

NUMBER, num'b[.e]r, _n._ that by which things are counted or computed: a
collection of things: more than one: a unit in counting: a numerical
figure: the measure of multiplicity: sounds distributed into harmonies:
metre, verse, esp. in _pl._: (_gram._) the difference in words to express
singular or plural: (_pl._) the fourth book of the Old Testament.--_v.t._
to count: to reckon as one of a multitude: to mark with a number: to amount
to.--_n._ NUM'BERER.--_adj._ NUM'BERLESS, without number: more than can be
counted.--_ns._ NUMERABIL'ITY, N[=U]'MERABLENESS.--_adj._ N[=U]'MERABLE,
that may be numbered or counted.--_adv._ N[=U]'MERABLY.--_adj._
N[=U]'MERAL, pertaining to, consisting of, or expressing number.--_n._ a
figure or mark used to express a number, as 1, 2, 3, &c.: (_gram._) a word
used to denote a number.--_adv._ N[=U]'MERALLY, according to
number.--_adj._ N[=U]'MERARY, belonging to a certain number: contained
within or counting as one of a body or a number--opp. to
_Supernumerary_.--_v.t._ N[=U]'MER[=A]TE, to point off and read as figures:
(_orig._) to enumerate, to number.--_ns._ N[=U]MER[=A]'TION, act of
numbering: the art of reading numbers, and expressing their values;
N[=U]'MER[=A]TOR, one who numbers: the upper number of a vulgar fraction,
which expresses the number of fractional parts taken.--_adjs._ N[=U]MER'IC,
-AL, belonging to, or consisting in, number: the same both in number and
kind.--_adv._ N[=U]MER'ICALLY.--_n._ N[=U]MEROS'ITY, numerousness:
harmonious flow.--_adj._ N[=U]'MEROUS, great in number: being many.--_adv._
N[=U]'MEROUSLY.--_n._ N[=U]'MEROUSNESS. [Fr. _nombre_--L. _numerus_,
number.]

NUMBLES, num'bls, _n.pl._ the entrails of a deer. See UMBLES.

NUMEROTAGE, n[=u]-me-r[=o]-täzh', _n._ the numbering of yarns so as to
denote their fineness. [Fr.]

NUMISMATIC, n[=u]-mis-mat'ik, _adj._ pertaining to money, coins, or
medals.--_n.sing._ N[=U]MISMAT'ICS, the science of coins and medals.--_ns._
N[=U]MIS'MATIST, one having a knowledge of coins and medals;
N[=U]MISMATOG'RAPHY, description of coins; NUMISMATOL'OGIST, one versed in
numismatology; N[=U]MISMATOL'OGY, the science of coins and medals in
relation to history. [L. _numisma_--Gr. _nomisma_, current
coin--_nomizein_, to use commonly--_nomos_, custom.]

NUMMARY, num'a-ri, _adj._ relating to coins or money.--_adjs._ NUMM'IFORM,
shaped like a coin; NUMM'[=U]LAR, NUMM'[=U]LARY, NUMM'[=U]L[=A]TED,
NUMM'[=U]LINE, pertaining to coins: like a coin in shape;
NUMM'[=U]LIFORM.--_n._ NUMM'[=U]LITE, a fossil shell resembling a
coin.--_adj._ NUMMULIT'IC. [L. _nummus_, a coin.]

NUMSKULL, num'skul, _n._ a stupid fellow: a blockhead.--_adj._ NUM'SKULLED.
[From _numb_ and _skull_.]

NUN, nun, _n._ a female who, under a vow, secludes herself in a religious
house, to give her time to devotion: (_zool._) a kind of pigeon with the
feathers on its head like the hood of a nun.--_ns._ NUN'-BUOY, a buoy
somewhat in the form of a double cone; NUN'NERY, a house for nuns.--_adj._
NUN'NISH.--_ns._ NUN'NISHNESS; NUN'S'-VEIL'ING, a woollen cloth, soft and
thin, used by women for veils and dresses. [A.S. _nunne_--Low L. _nunna_,
_nonna_, a nun, an old maiden lady, the orig. sig. being 'mother;' cf. Gr.
_nann[=e]_, aunt, Sans. _nan[=a]_, a child's word for 'mother.']

NUNC DIMITTIS, nungk di-mit'tis, _n._ 'now lettest thou depart:' the name
given to the song of Simeon (Luke, ii. 29-32) in the R.C. Breviary and the
Anglican evening service--from the opening words.

NUNCHEON, nun'shun, _n._ a luncheon. [Prob. a corr. of _luncheon_, with
some reference to _noon_.]

NUNCIO, nun'shi-o, _n._ a messenger: one who brings tidings: an ambassador
from the Pope to an emperor or a king.--_n._ NUN'CI[=A]T[=U]RE, the office
of a nuncio. [It.,--L. _nuncius_, a messenger, one who brings news--prob. a
contr. of _noventius_; cf. _novus_, new.]

NUNCLE, nung'kl, _n._ (_Shak._) a contr. of _mine uncle_.

NUNCUPATIVE, nung'k[=u]-p[=a]-tiv, _adj._ declaring publicly or solemnly:
(_law_) verbal, not written, as a will--also NUN'C[=U]P[=A]TORY.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ NUN'CUPATE, to declare solemnly: to declare orally.--_n._
NUNC[=U]P[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--Low L. _nuncupativus_, nominal--L.
_nuncup[=a]re_, to call by name--prob. from _nomen_, name, _cap[)e]re_, to
take.]

NUNDINAL, nun'di-nal, _adj._ pertaining to a fair or market.--Also
NUN'DINARY. [L. _nundinæ_, the market-day, properly the ninth day--i.e.
from the preceding market-day, both days inclusive--_novem_, nine, _dies_,
a day.]

NUPHAR, n[=u]'fär, _n._ a genus of yellow water-lilies, the _Nymphæa_.

NUPTIAL, nup'shal, _adj._ pertaining to marriage: constituting
marriage.--_n.pl._ NUP'TIALS, marriage: wedding ceremony. [Fr.,--L.
_nuptialis_--_nuptiæ_, marriage--_nub[)e]re_, _nuptum_, to marry.]

NUR, nur, _n._ a knot or knob in wood. See KNURR.

NURL, nurl, _v.t._ to mill or indent on the edge.--_ns._ NURL'ING, the
milling of a coin: the series of indentations on the edge of some
screw-heads: zigzag ornamental engraving; NURL'ING-TOOL.

NURSE, nurs, _n._ a woman who nourishes an infant: a mother while her
infant is at the breast: one who has the care of infants or of the sick:
(_hort._) a shrub or tree which protects a young plant.--_v.t._ to tend, as
an infant or a sick person: to bring up: to cherish: to manage with care
and economy: to play skilfully, as billiard-balls, in order to get them
into the position one wants.--_adj._ NURSE'LIKE (_Shak._), like or becoming
a nurse.--_ns._ NURSE'MAID, a girl who takes care of children; NURS'ER, one
who nurses: one who promotes growth; NURS'ERY, place for nursing: an
apartment for young children: a place where the growth of anything is
promoted: (_hort._) a piece of ground where plants are reared;
NURS'ERY-GOV'ERNESS; NURS'ERYMAID, a nurse-maid; NURS'ERYMAN, a man who
owns or works a nursery: one who is employed in cultivating plants, &c.,
for sale; NURS'ING-FA'THER (_B._), a foster-father; NURS'LING, that which
is nursed: an infant. [O. Fr. _norrice_ (Fr. _nourrice_)--L.
_nutrix_--_nutr[=i]re_, to nourish.]

NURTURE, nurt'[=u]r, _n._ act of nursing or nourishing: nourishment:
education: instruction.--_v.t._ to nourish: to bring up: to educate.--_n._
NURT'URER. [O. Fr. _noriture_ (Fr. _nourriture_)--Low L. _nutritura_--L.
_nutr[=i]re_, to nourish.]

NUT, nut, _n._ the name popularly given to all those fruits which have the
seed enclosed in a bony, woody, or leathery pericarp, not opening when
ripe: (_bot._) a one-celled fruit, with a hardened pericarp, containing,
when mature, only one seed: often the hazel-nut, sometimes the walnut: a
small block of metal for screwing on the end of a bolt.--_v.i._ to gather
nuts:--_pr.p._ nut'ting; _pa.p._ nut'ted.--_adj._ NUT'-BROWN, brown, like a
ripe old nut.--_ns._ NUT'CRACKER, an instrument for cracking nuts: a genus
of birds of the family _Corvidæ_; NUT'-GALL, an excrescence, chiefly of the
oak; NUT'HATCH, a genus of birds of the family _Sittidæ_, agile
creepers--also NUT'JOBBER, NUT'PECKER; NUT'-HOOK, a stick with a hook at
the end for pulling down boughs that the nuts may be gathered: a bailiff, a
thief who uses a hook; NUT'MEAL, meal made from the kernels of nuts;
NUT'-OIL, an oil obtained from walnuts; NUT'-PINE, one of several pines
with large edible seeds; NUT'SHELL, the hard substance that encloses the
kernel of a nut: anything of little value; NUT'TER, one who gathers nuts;
NUT'TINESS; NUT'TING, the gathering of nuts; NUT'-TREE, any tree bearing
nuts, esp. the hazel.--_adj._ NUT'TY, abounding in nuts: having the flavour
of nuts.--_n._ NUT'-WRENCH, an instrument for fixing on nuts or removing
them from screws.--A NUT TO CRACK, a difficult problem to solve; BE NUTS ON
(_slang_), to be very fond of; IN A NUTSHELL, in small compass. [A.S.
_hnutu_; Ice. _hnot_, Dut. _noot_, Ger. _nuss_.]

NUTANT, n[=u]'tant, _adj._ nodding: (_bot._) having the top of the stem of
the flower-cluster bent downward.--_n._ N[=U]T[=A]'TION, a nodding:
(_astron._) a periodical and constant change of the angle made by the
earth's axis, with the ecliptic, caused by the attraction of the moon on
the greater mass of matter round the equator: (_bot._) the turning of
flowers towards the sun. [L. _nut[=a]re_, to nod.]

NUTMEG, nut'meg, _n._ the aromatic kernel of an East Indian tree, much used
as a seasoning in cookery.--_adj._ NUT'MEGGED; NUT'MEGGY. [M. E.
_notemuge_, a hybrid word formed from _nut_, and O. Fr. _muge_, musk--L.
_muscus_, musk.]

NUTRIA, n[=u]'tri-a, _n._ the fur of the coypou, a South American beaver.
[Sp.,--L. _lutra_, an otter.]

NUTRIMENT, n[=u]'tri-ment, _n._ that which nourishes: that which helps
forward growth or development: food.--_adj._ N[=U]'TRIENT,
nourishing.--_n._ anything nourishing.--_adj._ N[=U]'TRIMENTAL, having the
quality of nutriment or food: nutritious.--_n._ N[=U]TRI'TION, act of
nourishing: process of promoting the growth of bodies: that which
nourishes: nutriment.--_adjs._ N[=U]TRI'TIONAL; N[=U]TRI'TIOUS, nourishing:
promoting growth.--_adv._ N[=U]TRI'TIOUSLY.--_n._
N[=U]TRI'TIOUSNESS.--_adjs._ N[=U]'TRITIVE, N[=U]'TRITORY, nourishing:
concerned in nutrition.--_adv._ N[=U]'TRITIVELY.--_ns._ N[=U]'TRITIVENESS;
N[=U]TRIT[=O]'RIUM, the nutritive apparatus. [L.
_nutrimentum_--_nutr[=i]re_, to nourish.]

NUX VOMICA, nuks vom'ik-a, _n._ the seed of an East Indian tree, from which
the powerful poison known as strychnine is obtained. [L. _nux_, a nut,
_vomicus_, from _vom[)e]re_, to vomit.]

NUZZER, nuz'[.e]r, _n._ a present made to a superior. [Ind.]

NUZZLE, nuz'l, _v.i._ to rub the nose against: to fondle closely, to
cuddle: to nurse or rear.--_v.t._ to touch with the nose: to go with the
nose toward the ground.--Also NOUS'LE. [A freq. verb from _nose_.]

NYANZA, ni-an'za, _n._ a sheet of water, marsh, the river feeding a lake.
[Afr.]

NYAS. See EYAS.

NYCTALA, nik'ta-la, _n._ a genus of owls of family _Strigidæ_.

NYCTALOPIA, nik-ta-l[=o]'pi-a, _n._ the defective vision of persons who can
see in a faint light but not in bright daylight: sometimes applied to the
opposite defect, inability to see save in a strong daylight--also
NYC'TALOPY.--_n._ NYC'TALOPS, one affected with nyctalopia. [Gr.
_nyktal[=o]ps_, seeing by night only--_nyx_, _nyktos_, night, _[=o]ps_,
vision.]

NYCTITROPISM, nik'ti-tr[=o]-pizm, _n._ the so-called sleep of plants, the
habit of taking at night certain positions unlike those during the
day.--_adj._ NYCTITROP'IC. [Gr. _nyx_, night, _tropos_, a turn.]

NYLGHAU, nil'gaw, _n._ a large species of antelope, in North Hindustan, the
males of which are of a bluish colour. [Pers. _níl gáw_--_níl_, blue,
_gáw_, ox, cow.]

NYMPH, nimf, _n._ a young and beautiful maiden: (_myth._) one of the
beautiful goddesses who inhabited mountains, rivers, trees, &c.--_adjs._
NYMPH'AL, relating to nymphs; NYMPH[=E]'AN, pertaining to nymphs: inhabited
by nymphs; NYMPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to nymphs; NYMPH'ISH, NYMPH'LY,
nymph-like; NYMPH'-LIKE.--_ns._ NYMPH'OLEPSY, a species of ecstasy or
frenzy said to have seized those who had seen a nymph; NYMPH'OLEPT, a
person in frenzy.--_adj._ NYMPHOLEPT'IC.--_ns._ NYMPHOM[=A]'NIA, morbid and
uncontrollable sexual desire in women; NYMPHOM[=A]'NIAC, a woman affected
with the foregoing.--_adjs._ NYMPHOM[=A]'NIAC, -AL. [Fr.,--L. _nympha_--Gr.
_nymph[=e]_, a bride.]

NYMPH, nimf, NYMPHA, nimf'a, _n._ the pupa or chrysalis of an
insect.--_n.pl._ NYMPHÆ (nimf'[=e]), the labia minora.--_adj._
NYMPHIP'AROUS, producing pupæ.--_ns._ NYMPH[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
nymphæ; NYMPHOT'OMY, the excision of the nymphæ.

NYMPHÆA, nim-f[=e]'a, _n._ a genus of water-plants, with beautiful fragrant
flowers, including the water-lily, Egyptian lotus, &c. [L. _nympha_, a
nymph.]

NYS, nis (_Spens._), none is. [_Ne_, not, and _is_.]

NYSTAGMUS, nis-tag'mus, _n._ a spasmodic, lateral, oscillatory movement of
the eyes, found in miners, &c. [Gr., _nystazein_, to nap.]

NYULA, ni-[=u]'la, _n._ an ichneumon.

       *       *       *       *       *

O the fifteenth letter and fourth vowel of our alphabet, its sound
intermediate between _a_ and _u_--with three values in English, the
name-sound heard in _note_, the shorter sound heard in _not_, and the
neutral vowel heard in _son_: as a numeral, 'nothing,' or 'zero' (formerly
O=11, and ([=O])=11,000): (_chem._) the symbol of oxygen: anything round or
nearly so (_pl._ O'S, OES, pron. [=o]z).

O, OH, [=o], _interj._ an exclamation of wonder, pain, desire, fear, &c.
The form _oh_ is the more usual in prose.--O HONE! OCH HONE! an Irish
exclamation of lamentation. [A.S. _eá_.]

O, usually written o', an abbrev. for _of_ and _on_.

OAF, [=o]f, _n._ a foolish or deformed child left by the fairies in place
of another: a dolt, an idiot.--_adj._ OAF'ISH, idiotic, doltish. [_Elf._]

OAK, [=o]k, _n._ a tree of about 300 species, the most famous the British
oak, valued for its timber in shipbuilding, &c.--_ns._ OAK'-APP'LE, a
spongy substance on the leaves of the oak, caused by insects--also
OAK'LEAF-GALL; OAK'-BARK, the bark of some species of oak used in
tanning.--_adjs._ OAK'-CLEAV'ING (_Shak._), cleaving oaks; OAK'EN,
consisting or made of oak.--_ns._ OAK'-GALL, a gall produced on the oak;
OAK'-LEATH'ER, a fungus mycelium in the fissures of old oaks; OAK'LING, a
young oak; OAK'-P[=A]'PER, paper for wall-hangings veined like oak.--_adj._
OAK'Y, like oak, firm.--OAK-APPLE DAY, the 29th of May, the anniversary of
the Restoration in 1660, when country boys used to wear oak-apples in
commemoration of Charles II. skulking in the branches of an oak (the ROYAL
OAK) from Cromwell's troopers after Worcester.--SPORT ONE'S OAK, in English
university slang, to signify that one does not wish visitors by closing the
outer door of one's rooms; THE OAKS, one of the three great English
races--for mares--the others being the Derby and St Leger. [A.S. _ác_; Ice.
_eik_, Ger. _eiche_.]

OAKER, [=o]k'[.e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) ochre.

OAKUM, [=o]k'um, _n._ old ropes untwisted and teased into loose hemp for
caulking the seams of ships. [A.S. _ácumba_, _['æ]cemba_--_cemban_, to
comb.]

OAR, [=o]r, _n._ a light pole with a flat feather or spoon-shaped end (the
_blade_) for propelling a boat: an oar-like appendage for swimming, as the
antennæ of an insect or crustacean, &c.: an oarsman.--_v.t._ to impel by
rowing.--_v.i._ to row.--_n._ OAR'AGE, oars collectively.--_adj._ OARED,
furnished with oars.--_ns._ OAR'LAP, a rabbit with its ears standing out at
right-angles to the head; OAR'-LOCK, a rowlock; OARS'MAN, one who rows with
an oar; OARS'MANSHIP, skill in rowing.--_adj._ OAR'Y, having the form or
use of oars.--BOAT OARS, to bring the oars inboard; FEATHER OARS, to turn
the blades parallel to the water when reaching back for another stroke; LIE
ON THE OARS, to cease rowing without shipping the oars: to rest, take
things easily: to cease from work; PUT IN ONE'S OAR, to give advice when
not wanted; SHIP, or UNSHIP, OARS, to place the oars in the rowlocks, or to
take them out. [A.S. _ár_.]

OARIUM, [=o]-[=a]'ri-um, _n._ an ovary or ovarium.

OASIS, [=o]-[=a]'sis, _n._ a fertile spot in a sandy desert: any place of
rest or pleasure in the midst of toil and gloom:--_pl._ OASES
([=o]-[=a]'s[=e]z). [L.,--Gr. _oasis_, an Egyptian word; cf. Coptic
_ouahe_.]

OAST, [=o]st, _n._ a kiln to dry hops or malt.--_n._ OAST'-HOUSE. [A.S.
_ást_.]

OAT, [=o]t (oftener in _pl._ OATS, [=o]ts), _n._ a well-known grassy plant,
the seeds of which are much used as food: its seeds: a musical pipe of
oat-straw: a shepherd's pipe, pastoral song generally.--_n._ OAT'CAKE, a
thin broad cake made of oatmeal.--_adj._ OAT'EN, consisting of an oat stem
or straw: made of oatmeal.--_ns._ OAT'-GRASS, two species of oat, useful
more as fodder than for the seed; OAT'MEAL, meal made of oats.--SOW ONE'S
WILD OATS, to indulge in the usual youthful dissipations. [A.S. _áta_, pl.
_átan_.]

OATH, [=o]th, _n._ a solemn statement with an appeal to God as witness, and
a calling for punishment from Him in case of falsehood or of failure, also
the form of words in which such is made--_oath of abjuration_,
_allegiance_, &c.: an irreverent use of God's name in conversation or in
any way: any merely exclamatory imprecation, &c.:--_pl._ OATHS
([=o]_th_z).--_adj._ OATH'ABLE (_Shak._), capable of having an oath
administered to.--_n._ OATH'-BREAK'ING (_Shak._), the violation of an oath,
perjury.--UPON ONE'S OATH, sworn to speak the truth. [A.S. _áth_; Ger.
_eid_, Ice. _eithr_.]

OB., for _objection_, just as _sol._ for _solution_, on the margins of old
books of controversial divinity.--_n._ OB'-AND-SOL'ER, a disputant,
polemic.

OBANG, [=o]-bang', _n._ an old Japanese oblong gold coin.

OBBLIGATO, ob-li-gä'to, _adj._ that cannot be done without.--_n._ a musical
accompaniment, itself of independent importance, esp. that of a single
instrument to a vocal piece.--Also OBLIGA'TO. [It.]

OBCONIC, -AL, ob-kon'ik, -al, _adj._ inversely conical.

OBCORDATE, ob-kor'd[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) inversely heart-shaped, as a
leaf.

OBDURATE, ob'd[=u]-r[=a]t, _adj._ hardened in heart or in feelings:
difficult to influence, esp. in a moral sense: stubborn: harsh.--_n._
OB'D[=U]RACY, state of being obdurate: invincible hardness of
heart.--_adv._ OB'D[=U]RATELY.--_ns._ OB'D[=U]RATENESS,
OBD[=U]R[=A]'TION.--_adj._ OBD[=U]RED', hardened. [L. _obdur[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_ob_, against, _dur[=a]re_, to harden--_durus_, hard.]

OBEAH. See OBI.

OBEDIENCE, [=o]-b[=e]'di-ens, _n._ state of being obedient: willingness to
obey commands: dutifulness: the collective body of persons subject to any
particular authority: a written instruction from the superior of an order
to those under him: any official position under an abbot's
jurisdiction.--_adjs._ OB[=E]'DIENT, willing to obey; OB[=E]DIEN'TIAL,
submissive: obligatory.--_adv._ OB[=E]'DIENTLY.--CANONICAL OBEDIENCE, the
obedience, as regulated by the canons, of an ecclesiastic to another of
higher rank; PASSIVE OBEDIENCE, unresisting and unquestioning obedience to
authority, like that taught by some Anglican divines as due even to
faithless and worthless kings like Charles II. and James II.

OBEISANCE, [=o]-b[=a]'sans, or [=o]-b[=e]'sans, _n._ obedience: a bow or
act of reverence: an expression of respect.--_adj._ OB[=E]'ISANT.
[Fr.,--_obéir_--L. _obed[=i]re_, to obey.]

OBELION, [=o]-b[=e]'li-on, _n._ a point in the sagittal suture of the
skull, between the two parietal foramina. [Gr. _obelos_, a spit.]

OBELISK, ob'e-lisk, _n._ a tall, four-sided, tapering pillar, usually of
one stone, finished at the top like a flat pyramid: (_print._) a dagger
( + ).--_adj._ OB'ELISCAL.--_v.t._ OB'ELISE, to mark with an obelisk, to
condemn as spurious, indelicate, &c.--_n._ OB'ELUS, a mark ( -- or ÷ ) used
in ancient MSS. to mark suspected passages, esp. in the Septuagint to
indicate passages not in the Hebrew:--_pl._ OB'ELI. [Through Fr. and L.,
from Gr. _obeliskos_, dim. of _obelos_, a spit.]

OBERHAUS, [=o]'ber-hows, _n._ the upper house in those German legislative
bodies that have two chambers. [Ger. _ober_, upper, _haus_, house.]

OBERLAND, [=o]'ber-lant, _n._ highlands, as the Bernese Oberland in
Switzerland.

OBERON, [=o]'ber-on, king of the fairies, husband of Titania.

OBESE, [=o]-b[=e]s', _adj._ fat: fleshy.--_ns._ OBESE'NESS, OBES'ITY,
fatness: abnormal fatness. [L. _obesus_--_ob_, up, _ed[)e]re_, _esum_, to
eat.]

OBEX, [=o]'beks, _n._ a barrier: a thickening at the calamus scriptorius of
the medulla oblongata. [L., _objic[)e]re_, to throw before.]

OBEY, [=o]-b[=a]', _v.t._ to do as told by: to be ruled by: to yield to: to
carry out or perform.--_v.i._ to submit to power, &c.: (_B._) to yield
obedience (followed by _to_).--_n._ OBEY'ER.--_adv._ OBEY'INGLY,
obediently. [Fr. _obéir_--L. _obed[=i]re_--_ob_, near, _aud[=i]re_, to
hear.]

OBFUSCATE, ob-fus'k[=a]t, _v.t._ to darken: to confuse.--_n._
OBFUSC[=A]'TION. [L. _obfusc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ob_, inten., _fuscus_,
dark.]

OBI, [=o]'bi, _n._ a kind of sorcery practised by _obeah-men_ and
_obeah-women_ among the negroes of the West Indies and United States, a
survival of African magic: a fetish or charm--also O'BEA, O'BEAH,
O'BY.--_n._ O'BIISM. [Prob. Afr.]

OBI, [=o]'bi, _n._ a broad, gaily embroidered sash worn by Japanese women.
[Jap.]

OBIT, [=o]'bit, or ob'it, _n._ death: the fact or the date of death:
funeral ceremonies: the anniversary of a person's death, or a service at
such time.--_adj._ OBIT'UAL, pertaining to obits.--_adv._
OBIT'UARILY.--_n._ OBIT'UARIST, a writer of obituaries.--_adj._ OBIT'UARY,
relating to the death of a person or persons.--_n._ a register of deaths
(_orig._) in a monastery: an account of a deceased person, or a notice of
his death. [Fr.,--L. _obitus_--_ob[=i]re_--_ob_, to, _[=i]re_, to go.]

OBJECT, ob-jekt', _v.t._ to place before the view: to throw in the way of:
to offer in opposition: to oppose.--_v.i._ to oppose: to give a reason
against.--_n._ OBJECTIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ OBJECT'IFY, to make
objective.--_n._ OBJEC'TION, act of objecting: anything said or done in
opposition: argument against.--_adj._ OBJEC'TIONABLE, that may be objected
to: requiring to be disapproved of.--_adv._ OBJEC'TIONABLY, in an
objectionable manner or degree.--_adj._ OBJECT'IVE, relating to an object:
being exterior to the mind: substantive, self-existent: setting forth what
is external, actual, practical, apart from the sensations or emotions of
the speaker: as opposed to _Subjective_, pertaining to that which is real
or exists in nature, in contrast with what is ideal or exists merely in
thought: (_gram._) belonging to the case of the object.--_n._ (_gram._) the
case of the object: in microscopes, &c., the lens which brings the rays to
a focus: the point to which the operations of an army are directed.--_adv._
OBJECT'IVELY.--_ns._ OBJECT'IVENESS; OBJECT'IVISM.--_adj._
OBJECTIVIST'IC.--_ns._ OBJECTIV'ITY, state of being objective; OBJECT'OR.
[Fr.,--L. _object[=a]re_, a freq. of _objic[)e]re_, _-jectum_--_ob_, in the
way of, _jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

OBJECT, ob'jekt, _n._ anything perceived or set before the mind: that which
is sought after, or that toward which an action is directed: end: motive:
(_gram._) that toward which the action of a transitive verb is
directed.--_ns._ OB'JECT-FIND'ER, a device in microscopes for locating an
object in the field before examination by a higher power; OB'JECT-GLASS,
the glass at the end of a telescope or microscope next the object;
OB'JECTIST, one versed in the objective philosophy.--_adj._ OB'JECTLESS,
having no object: purposeless.--_ns._ OB'JECT-LESS'ON, a lesson in which
the object to be described, or a representation of it, is shown;
OB'JECT-SOUL, a vital principle attributed by the primitive mind to
inanimate objects.

OBJURE, ob-j[=oo]r', _v.i._ to swear.--_n._ OBJUR[=A]'TION, act of binding
by oath.

OBJURGATION, ob-jur-g[=a]'shun, _n._ act of chiding: a blaming, reproof:
reprehension.--_v.t._ OBJUR'GATE, to chide.--_adj._ OBJUR'GATORY,
expressing blame or reproof. [Fr.,--L.,--_ob_, against, _jurg[=a]re_, to
sue at law--_jus_, law, _ag[)e]re_, to drive.]

OBLANCEOLATE, ob-lan'se-o-l[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) shaped like the head of a
lance reversed, as a leaf.

OBLATE, ob-l[=a]t', _n._ a secular person devoted to a monastery, but not
under its vows, esp. one of the Oblate Fathers or Oblate Sisters: one
dedicated to a religious order from childhood, or who takes the cowl in
anticipation of death: a loaf of altar-bread before its consecration.--_n._
OBL[=A]'TION, act of offering: anything offered in worship or sacred
service, esp. a eucharistic offering: an offering generally.--GREAT
OBLATION, the solemn offering or presentation in memorial before God of the
consecrated elements, as sacramentally the body and blood of Christ; LESSER
OBLATION, the offertory. [L. _oblatus_, offered up.]

OBLATE, ob-l[=a]t', _adj._ flattened at opposite sides or poles: shaped
like an orange.--_ns._ OBLATE'NESS, flatness at the poles;
OBLATE'-SPHER'OID, a spherical body flattened at the poles. [L. _oblatus_,
pa.p. of _offerre_, to offer--_ob_, against, _ferre_, to bring.]

OBLIGATO. See OBBLIGATO.

OBLIGE, [=o]-bl[=i]j', _v.t._ to bind or constrain: to bind by some favour
rendered, hence to do a favour to.--_adj._ OB'LIGABLE, that can be held to
a promise or an undertaking: true to a promise or a contract.--_n._
OB'LIGANT, one who binds himself to another to pay or to perform
something.--_v.t._ OB'LIG[=A]TE, to constrain: to bind by contract or
duty:--_pr.p._ ob'lig[=a]ting; _pa.p._ ob'lig[=a]ted.--_n._ OBLIG[=A]'TION,
act of obliging: the power which binds to a promise, a duty, &c.: any act
which binds one to do something for another: that to which one is bound:
state of being indebted for a favour: (_law_) a bond containing a penalty
in case of failure.--_adv._ OB'LIGATORILY.--_n._ OB'LIGATORINESS.--_adj._
OB'LIG[=A]TORY, binding: imposing duty.--_ns._ OBLIGEE (ob-li-j[=e]'), the
person to whom another is obliged; OBLIGE'MENT, a favour conferred.--_adj._
OBLIG'ING, disposed to confer favours: ready to do a good turn.--_adv._
OBLIG'INGLY.--_ns._ OBLIG'INGNESS; OB'LIGOR (_law_), the person who binds
himself to another. [Fr.,--L. _oblig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ob_, before,
_lig[=a]re_, to bind.]

OBLIQUE, ob-l[=e]k', _adj._ slanting: not perpendicular: not parallel: not
straightforward: obscure: (_geom._) not a right-angle: (_gram._) denoting
any case except the nominative.--_v.i._ to deviate from a direct line or
from the perpendicular, to slant: to advance obliquely by facing half right
or left and then advancing.--_ns._ OBLIQU[=A]'TION, OBLIQUE'NESS,
OBLIQ'UITY, state of being oblique: a slanting direction: error or wrong:
irregularity.--_adv._ OBLIQUE'LY.--_adj._ OBLIQ'UID (_Spens._),
oblique.--OBLIQUE CONE or CYLINDER, one whose axis is oblique to the plane
of its base; OBLIQUE NARRATION or SPEECH (L. _oratio obliqua_), indirect
narration, the actual words of the speaker, but, as related by a third
person, having the first person in pronoun and verb converted into the
third, adverbs of present time into the corresponding adverbs of past time,
&c.; OBLIQUE SAILING, the reduction of the position of a ship from the
various courses made good, oblique to the meridian or parallel of latitude;
OBLIQUITY OF THE ECLIPTIC, the angle between the plane of the earth's orbit
and that of the earth's equator. [Fr.,--L. _obliquus_--_ob_, before,
_liquis_, slanting.]

OBLITERATE, ob-lit'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to blot out, so as not to be
readable: to wear out: to destroy: to reduce to a very low state.--_n._
OBLITER[=A]'TION, act of obliterating: a blotting or wearing out:
extinction.--_adj._ OBLIT'ER[=A]TIVE. [L. _obliter[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_ob_, over, _litera_, a letter.]

OBLIVION, ob-liv'i-un, _n._ act of forgetting or state of being forgotten:
remission of punishment.--_adj._ OBLIV'IOUS, forgetful: prone to forget:
causing forgetfulness.--_adv._ OBLIV'IOUSLY.--_ns._ OBLIV'IOUSNESS;
OBLIVISC'ENCE. [Fr.,--L. _oblivion-em_--_oblivisci_, to forget.]

OBLONG, ob'long, _adj._ long in one way: longer than broad.--_n._ (_geom._)
a rectangle longer than broad: any oblong figure.--_adj._
OB'LONGISH.--_adv._ OB'LONGLY.--_n._ OB'LONGNESS. [Fr.,--L. _ob_, over,
_longus_, long.]

OBLOQUY, ob'lo-kwi, _n._ reproachful language: censure: calumny: disgrace.
[L. _obloquium_--_ob_, against, _loqui_, to speak.]

OBMUTESCENCE, ob-m[=u]-tes'ens, _n._ loss of speech, dumbness. [L.
_obmutesc[)e]re_, to become dumb.]

OBNOXIOUS, ob-nok'shus, _adj._ liable to hurt or punishment: exposed to:
guilty: blameworthy: offensive: subject: answerable.--_adv._
OBNOX'IOUSLY.--_n._ OBNOX'IOUSNESS. [L.,--_ob_, before, _noxa_, hurt.]

OBNUBILATION, ob-n[=u]-bi-l[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of making dark or
obscure.--_v.t._ OBN[=U]'BIL[=A]TE. [Low L. _obnubilare_, to cloud over--L.
_ob_, over, _nubilus_, cloudy.]

OBOE, [=o]'b[=o]-e, _n._ a treble reed musical instrument, usually with
fifteen keys, with a rich tone, giving the pitch to the violin in the
orchestra: a treble stop on the organ, its bass being the bassoon--also
_Hautboy._--_n._ O'B[=O]IST, a player on the oboe.--OBOE D'AMORE, an
obsolete alto oboe; OBOE DI CACCIA, an obsolete tenor oboe, or rather tenor
bassoon. [Fr. _hautbois_.]

OBOL, ob'ol, _n._ in ancient Greece, a small coin, worth rather more than
three-halfpence: also a weight, the sixth part of a drachma--also
OB'OLUS:--_pl._ OB'OLI ([=i]).--_adj_. OB'OLARY, consisting of obols:
extremely poor. [Gr. _obelos_, a spit.]

OBOVATE, ob-[=o]'v[=a]t, _adj_. _(bot.)_ egg-shaped, as a leaf, with the
narrow end next the leaf-stalk.--_adv._ OB[=O]'V[=A]TELY.--_adj_.
OB[=O]'VOID, solidly obovate.

OBREPTION, ob-rep'shun, _n._ obtaining of gifts of escheat by
falsehood--opp. to _Subreption_ (q.v.).--_adj._ OBREPTIT'IOUS.

OBSCENE, ob-s[=e]n', _adj_. offensive to chastity: unchaste: indecent:
disgusting: ill-omened.--_adv_. OBSCENE'LY.--_ns._ OBSCENE'NESS,
OBSCEN'ITY, quality of being obscene: lewdness. [L. _obscenus_.]

OBSCURE, ob-sk[=u]r', _adj_. dark: not distinct: not easily understood: not
clear, legible, or perspicuous: unknown: humble: unknown to fame: living in
darkness.--_v.t._ to darken: to make less plain: to render doubtful.--_ns._
OBSC[=U]'RANT, one who labours to prevent enlightenment or reform;
OBSC[=U]'RANTISM, opposition to inquiry or reform; OBSC[=U]'RANTIST, an
obscurant.--_adj_. pertaining to obscurantism.--_n._ OBSC[=U]R[=A]'TION,
the act of obscuring or state of being obscured.--_adv_.
OBSC[=U]RE'LY.--_ns._ OBSC[=U]RE'MENT; OBSC[=U]RE'NESS; OBSC[=U]'RER;
OBSC[=U]'RITY, state or quality of being obscure: darkness: an obscure
place or condition: unintelligibleness: humility. [Fr.,--L. _obscurus_.]

OBSECRATE, ob'se-kr[=a]t, _v._ to beseech: to implore.--_n._
OBSECR[=A]'TION, supplication: one of the clauses in the Litany beginning
with _by._--_adj_. OB'SECR[=A]TORY, supplicatory. [L. _obsecr[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to entreat; _ob_, before, _sacr[=a]re_--_sacer_, sacred.]

OBSEQUIES, ob'se-kwiz, _n.pl._ funeral rites and solemnities:--_sing._
OB'SEQUY (_Milt._)--rarely used.--_adj_. OBS[=E]'QUIAL. [Fr. _obsèques_--L.
_obsequiæ_--_ob_, before, upon, sequi, to comply.]

OBSEQUIOUS, ob-s[=e]'kwi-us, _adj_. compliant to excess: meanly
condescending.--_adv_. OBS[=E]'QUIOUSLY.--_n._ OBS[=E]'QUIOUSNESS.
[Fr.,--L. _obsequiosus_, compliant, _obsequium_, compliance.]

OBSERVE, ob-z[.e]rv', _v.t._ to keep in view: to notice: to subject to
systematic observation: to regard attentively: to remark, refer to in
words: to comply with: to heed and to carry out in practice: to keep with
proper ceremony: to keep or guard.--_v.i._ to take notice: to attend: to
remark.--_adj._ OBSERV'ABLE, that may be observed or noticed: worthy of
observation: remarkable: requiring to be observed.--_n._
OBSERV'ABLENESS.--_adv_. OBSERV'ABLY.--_ns._ OBSERV'ANCE, act of observing
or paying attention to: performance: attention: that which is to be
observed: rule of practice, a custom to be observed: reverence: homage;
OBSERV'ANCY, observance: obsequiousness.--_adj._ OBSERV'ANT, observing:
having powers of observing and noting: taking notice: adhering to:
carefully attentive.--_n._ (_Shak._) an obsequious attendant: one strict to
comply with a custom, &c.; or OBSERV'ANTINE, one of those Franciscan monks
of stricter rule who separated from the Conventuals in the 15th
century.--_adv._ OBSERV'ANTLY.--_n._ OBSERV[=A]'TION, act of observing:
habit of seeing and noting: attention: the act of recognising and noting
phenomena as they occur in nature, as distinguished from _experiment:_ that
which is observed: a remark: performance: the fact of being
observed.--_adj_. OBSERV[=A]'TIONAL, consisting of, or containing,
observations or remarks: derived from observation, as distinguished from
_experiment_.--_adv._ OBSERV[=A]'TIONALLY.--_adj._ OBSER'VATIVE,
attentive.--_ns._ OB'SERV[=A]TOR, one who observes: a remarker;
OBSERV'ATORY, a place for making astronomical and physical observations,
usually placed in some high and stable place; OBSERV'ER.--_adj._
OBSERV'ING, habitually taking notice: attentive.--_adv._ OBSERV'INGLY.
[Fr.,--L. _observ[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ob_, before, _serv[=a]re_, to keep.]

OBSESSION, ob-sesh'un, _n._ persistent attack, esp. of an evil spirit upon
a person: the state of being so molested from without--opp. to
_Possession_, or control by an evil spirit from within. [L.
_obsession-em_--_obsid[=e]re_, to besiege.]

OBSIDIAN, ob-sid'i-an, _n._ a natural glass--the vitreous condition of an
acid lava. [From _Obsidius_, who, according to Pliny, discovered it in
Ethiopia.]

OBSIDIONAL, ob-sid'i-[=o]-nal, _adj._ pertaining to a siege.--Also
OBSID'IONARY.

OBSIGNATE, ob-sig'n[=a]t, _v.t._ to seal, confirm.--_n._ OBSIGN[=A]'TION.

OBSOLESCENT, ob-so-les'ent, _adj._ going out of use.--_n._
OBSOLESC'ENCE.--_adj._ OB'SOLETE, gone out of use: antiquated: (_zool._)
obscure: not clearly marked or developed: rudimental.--_adv._
OB'SOLETELY.--_ns._ OB'SOLETENESS; OBSOL[=E]'TION (_rare_); OB'SOLETISM.
[L. _obsolescens_, _-entis_, _pr.p._ of _obsolesc[)e]re_,
_obsoletum_--_ob_, before, _sol[=e]re_, to be wont.]

OBSTACLE, ob'sta-kl, _n._ anything that stands in the way of or hinders
progress: obstruction.--OBSTACLE RACE, a race in which obstacles have to be
surmounted or circumvented. [Fr.,--L. _obstaculum_--_ob_, in the way of,
_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

OBSTETRIC, -AL, ob-stet'rik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to midwifery.--_ns._
OBSTETRIC'IAN, one skilled in obstetrics; OBSTET'RICS, the science of
midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; OBSTET'RIX, a midwife. [L.
_obstetricius_--_obstetrix_, _-icis_, a midwife--_ob_, before, _st[=a]re_,
to stand.]

OBSTINATE, ob'sti-n[=a]t, _adj._ blindly or excessively firm: unyielding:
stubborn: not easily subdued or remedied.--_ns._ OB'STINACY,
OB'STINATENESS, the condition of being obstinate: excess of firmness:
stubbornness: fixedness that yields with difficulty, as a disease.--_adv._
OB'STINATELY. [L. _obstin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ob_, in the way of,
_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

OBSTIPATION, ob-sti-p[=a]'shun, _n._ extreme costiveness.

OBSTREPEROUS, ob-strep'[.e]r-us, _adj._ making a loud noise: clamorous:
noisy.--_v.i._ OBSTREP'ER[=A]TE (_Sterne_).--_adv._ OBSTREP'EROUSLY.--_n._
OBSTREP'EROUSNESS. [L. _obstreperus_--_ob_, before, _strep[)e]re_, to make
a noise.]

OBSTRICTION, ob-strik'shun, _n._ obligation. [L. _obstring[)e]re_,
_obstrictum_, to bind up.]

OBSTROPULOUS, ob-strop'[=u]-lus, _adj._ a vulgar form of _obstreperous_.

OBSTRUCT, ob-strukt', _v.t._ to block up, to hinder from passing, to
retard.--_ns._ OBSTRUC'TER, OBSTRUC'TOR, one who obstructs; OBSTRUC'TION,
act of obstructing: that which hinders progress or action: opposition, esp.
in a legislative assembly; OBSTRUC'TIONIST.--_adj._ OBSTRUC'TIVE, tending
to obstruct: hindering.--_n._ one who opposes progress.--_adv._
OBSTRUCT'IVELY.--_adj._ OB'STRUENT, obstructing: blocking up.--_n._
(_med._) anything that obstructs, esp. in the passages of the body. [L.
_obstru[)e]re_, _obstructum_--_ob_, in the way of, _stru[)e]re_,
_structum_, to pile up.]

OBTAIN, ob-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to lay hold of: to hold: to procure by effort:
to gain: to keep possession of.--_v.i._ to be established: to continue in
use: to become customary or prevalent: to hold good: (_rare_) to
succeed.--_adj._ OBTAIN'ABLE, that may be obtained, procured, or
acquired.--_ns._ OBTAIN'ER; OBTAIN'MENT; OBTEN'TION, procurement.--OBTAIN
TO (_Bacon_), to attain to. [Fr.,--L. _obtin[=e]re_--_ob_, upon,
_ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

OBTECTED, ob-tek'ted, _adj._ covered, protected by a chitonous case, as the
pupæ of most flies. [L. _obteg[)e]re_, _obtectum_, to cover over.]

OBTEMPER, ob-tem'per, _v.t._ to yield obedience to (with _to_, _unto_). [L.
_obtemper[=a]re_.]

OBTEND, ob-tend', _v.t._ (_obs._) to oppose: to allege. [L. _obtend[)e]re_,
to stretch before.]

OBTEST, ob-test', _v.t._ to call upon, as a witness: to beg for.--_v.i._ to
protest.--_n._ OBTEST[=A]'TION, act of calling to witness: a supplication.
[L. _obtest[=a]ri_, to call as a witness--_ob_, before, _testis_, a
witness.]

OBTRUDE, ob-tr[=oo]d', _v.t._ to thrust in upon when not wanted: to urge
upon against the will of.--_v.i._ to thrust one's self or be thrust
upon.--_ns._ OBTRUD'ER; OBTRUD'ING, OBTRU'SION, a thrusting in or upon
against the will of.--_adj._ OBTRUS'IVE, disposed to thrust one's self
among others.--_adv._ OBTRUS'IVELY.--_n._ OBTRUS'IVENESS. [L.
_obtrud[)e]re_--_ob_, before, _trud[)e]re_, _trusum_, to thrust.]

OBTRUNCATE, ob-trung'k[=a]t, _v.t._ to cut or lop off. [L. _obtrunc[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_ob_, before, _trunc[=a]re_, cut off.]

OBTUND, ob-tund', _v.t._ to dull or blunt, to deaden.--_adj._ OBTUND'ENT,
dulling.--_n._ an oily mucilage for sores: an application to deaden the
nerve of a tooth. [L. _obtund[)e]re_, to strike upon.]

OBTURATE, ob't[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to close or stop up.--_ns._
OBTUR[=A]'TION, the act of stopping up, esp. in gunnery, of a hole to
prevent the escape of gas; OB'T[=U]R[=A]TOR, that which stops or closes up,
as a device of this kind in gunnery, &c.: in surgery, an artificial plate
for closing an abnormal aperture or fissure, as with cleft palate, &c., or
for distending an opening, as in lithotomy: any structure that shuts off a
cavity or passage, esp. in anatomy, the membrane vessels, &c., closing the
_obturator foramen_, or _thyroid foramen_, a large opening or fenestra in
the anterior part of the hip-bone. [L. _obtur[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to stop
up.]

OBTURBINATE, ob-tur'bi-n[=a]t, _adj._ inversely top-shaped.

OBTUSE, ob-t[=u]s', _adj._ blunt: not pointed: (_bot._) blunt or rounded at
the point, as a leaf: stupid: not shrill: (_geom._) greater than a right
angle.--_adjs._ OBTUSE'-ANG'LED, OBTUSE'-ANG'ULAR, having an angle greater
than a right angle.--_adv._ OBTUSE'LY.--_ns._ OBTUSE'NESS, OBTUS'ITY.
[Fr.,--L. _obtusus_--_obtund[)e]re_, to blunt--_ob_, against, _tund[)e]re_,
to beat.]

OBUMBRATE, ob-um'br[=a]t, _v.t._ to overshadow, to darken.--_adj._ lying
under some projecting part, as the abdomen of certain spiders.--_adj._
OBUM'BRANT, overhanging. [L. _obumbr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to overshadow.]

OBVALLATE, ob-val'[=a]t, _adj._ walled up. [L. _obvall[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_,
to wall round.]

OBVELATION, ob-v[=e]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ concealment.

OBVENTION, ob-ven'shun, _n._ (_obs._) any incidental occurrence, or
advantage, esp. an offering.

OBVERSE, ob-v[.e]rs', _adj._ turned towards one: bearing the head, as one
face of a coin--opp. to _Reverse_: a second or complemental aspect of the
same fact, a correlative proposition identically, implying another:
(_bot._) having the base narrower than the top.--_n._ OB'VERSE, the side of
a coin containing the head, or principal symbol.--_adv._ OBVERSE'LY.--_n._
OBVER'SION, the act of turning toward the front of anything: in logic, a
species of immediate inference--viz. the predicating of the original
subject, the contradictory of the original predicate, and changing the
quality of the proposition--e.g. to infer from _all_ A is B that _no_ A is
not B--also called _Permutation_ and _Equipollence_.--_v.t._ OBVERT', to
turn towards the front. [L. _obversus_--_ob_, towards, _vert[)e]re_, to
turn.]

OBVIATE, ob'vi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to meet on the way, hence to remove, as
difficulties. [L. _obvi[=a]re_, -[=a]tum--_ob_, in the way of, _vi[=a]re_,
_vi[=a]tum_, to go--_via_, a way.]

OBVIOUS, ob'vi-us, _adj._ meeting one in the way: easily discovered or
understood: evident.--_adv._ OB'VIOUSLY.--_n._ OB'VIOUSNESS. [L. _obvius_.]

OBVOLUTE, -D, ob'vo-l[=u]t, -ed, _adj._ rolled or turned in, as two leaves
in a bud, one edge of each out and the other in, as in the poppy.--_adj._
OBVOL'VENT, curved downward or inward. [L. _obvolutus_--_ob_, before,
_volv[)e]re_, _volutum_, to roll.]

OCARINA, ok-a-r[=e]'na, _n._ a kind of musical instrument with a whistling
sound, made of terra-cotta, with finger-holes and a mouthpiece. [It.]

OCCAMISM, ok'am-mizm, _n._ the doctrine of the nominalist schoolman,
William of _Occam_ or _Ockham_ (_c._ 1270-1349).--_n._ OCC'AMIST, a
follower of Occam.

OCCAMY, ok'a-mi, _n._ a silvery alloy. [_Alchemy._]

OCCASION, o-k[=a]'zhun, _n._ a case of something happening: a special time
or season: a chance of bringing about something desired: an event which,
although not the cause, determines the time at which another happens: a
reason or excuse: opportunity: requirement, business: a special
ceremony.--_v.t._ to cause indirectly: to influence.--_adj._
OCC[=A]'SIONAL, falling in the way or happening: occurring only at times:
resulting from accident: produced on some special event.--_ns._
OCC[=A]'SIONALISM, the philosophical system of the Cartesian school for
explaining the action of mind upon matter, or the combined action of both
by the direct intervention of God, who on the occasion of certain
modifications in our minds, excites the corresponding movements of body,
and on the occasion of certain changes in our body, awakens the
corresponding feelings in the mind; OCC[=A]'SIONALIST;
OCCASIONAL'ITY.--_adv._ OCC[=A]'SIONALLY.--_n._ OCC[=A]'SIONER.--ON
OCCASION, in case of need: as opportunity offers, from time to time; TAKE
OCCASION, to take advantage of an opportunity. [Fr.,--L.
_occasion-em_--_occid[)e]re_--_ob_, in the way of, _cad[)e]re_, _casum_, to
fall.]

OCCIDENT, ok'si-dent, _n._ the western quarter of the sky where the sun
goes down or sets: the west generally.--_adj._ OCCIDEN'TAL, noting the
quarter where the sun goes down or sets: western: relatively less precious,
as a gem.--_n._ a native of some occidental country--opp. to
_Oriental_.--_v.t._ OCCIDEN'TALISE, to cause to conform to western ideas or
customs.--_ns._ OCCIDEN'TALISM, habits, &c., of occidental peoples;
OCCIDEN'TALIST, a student of occidental languages--opp. to _Orientalist_:
an individual belonging to an oriental country who favours western ideas,
customs, &c.--_adv._ OCCIDEN'TALLY. [Fr.,--L. _occidens_, _-entis_, pr.p.
of _occid[)e]re_, to fall down.]

OCCIPUT, ok'si-put, _n._ the back part of the head or skull.--_adj._
OCCIP'ITAL, pertaining to the occiput or back part of the head.--_n._ the
occipital bone.--_adv._ OCCIP'ITALLY.--_adjs._ OCCIP'ITO-AX'IAL, of or
pertaining to the occipital bone and to the axis or second cervical
vertebra; OCCIP'ITO-FRONT'AL, pertaining to the occiput and to the
forehead; OCCIP'ITO-TEM'PORAL, pertaining to the occipital and temporal
regions. [L.,--_ob_, over against, _caput_, head.]

OCCLUDE, o-kl[=oo]d', _v.t._ to absorb, as a gas by a metal.--_adj._
OCCLU'DENT, serving to close.--_n._ OCCLU'SION, a closing of an opening,
passage, or cavity: the act of occluding or absorbing.--_adj._ OCCLU'SIVE,
serving to close.--_n._ OCCLU'SOR, that which closes, esp. an organ for
closing an opening in a body. [L. _occlud[)e]re_,--_ob_, before,
_claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

OCCULT, ok-kult', _adj._ covered over: escaping observation: hidden: not
discovered without test or experiment: secret, unknown, transcending the
bounds of natural knowledge.--_n._ OCCULT[=A]'TION, a concealing, esp. of
one of the heavenly bodies by another: state of being hid.--_adj._
OCCULT'ED (_Shak._), hidden, secret: (_astron._) concealed, as by a body
coming between.--_ns._ OCCULT'ISM, the doctrine or study of things hidden
or mysterious--theosophy, &c.; OCCULT'IST, one who believes in occult
things.--_adv._ OCCULT'LY.--_n._ OCCULT'NESS.--OCCULT SCIENCES, alchemy,
astrology, magic, &c. [Fr.,--L. _occul[)e]re_, _occultum_, to hide.]

OCCUPY, ok'[=u]-p[=i], _v.t._ to take or hold possession of: to take up, as
room, &c.: to fill, as an office: to employ: (_B._) to use: to trade with:
(_Shak._) to possess, enjoy.--_v.i._ to hold possession: (_B._) to
trade:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ occ'[=u]pied.--_ns._ OCC'UPANCY, the act of
occupying, or of taking or holding possession: possession: the time during
which one occupies; OCC'UPANT, one who takes or has possession.--_v.t._
OCC'UP[=A]TE (_Bacon_), to hold: to possess:--_pr.p._ occ'[=u]p[=a]ting;
_pa.p._ occ'[=u]p[=a]ted.--_n._ OCCUP[=A]'TION, the act of occupying or
taking possession: possession: state of being employed or occupied: that
which occupies or takes up one's attention: employment.--_adj._
OCCUP[=A]'TIVE.--_n._ OCC'UPIER, one who takes or holds possession of: an
occupant: (_B._) a trader. [Fr.,--L. _occup[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ob_, to,
on, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

OCCUR, o-kur', _v.i._ to come or be presented to the mind: to happen: to
appear: to be found here and there: to coincide in time:--_pr.p._
occur'ring; _pa.p._ occurred'.--_ns._ OCCUR'RENCE, anything that occurs: an
event, esp. one unlooked for or unplanned: occasional presentation;
OCCUR'RENT, one who comes to meet another: (_B._) an occurrence or
chance.--_adj._ (_B._) coming in the way. [Fr.,--L. _occurr[)e]re_--_ob_,
towards, _curr[)e]re_, to run.]

OCEAN, [=o]'shan, _n._ the vast expanse of salt water that covers the
greater part of the surface of the globe: one of its five great divisions
(Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Arctic, Antarctic): any immense expanse or vast
quantity.--_adj._ pertaining to the great sea.--_n._ O'CEAN-B[=A]'SIN, the
depression of the earth's surface in which the waters of an ocean are
contained.--_adjs._ OCEAN'IAN, pertaining to _Oceania_, which includes
Polynesia, Micronesia, Melanesia, Australasia, and Malaysia; OCEAN'IC,
pertaining to the ocean: found or formed in the ocean or high seas,
pelagic: wide like the ocean.--_ns.pl._ OCEAN'IC-IS'LANDS, islands far from
the mainland, situated in the midst of the ocean; OCEAN'IDES, marine
molluscs or sea-shells.--_ns._ O'CEAN-LANE (see LANE); OCEANOG'RAPHER, one
versed in oceanography.--_adj._ OCEANOGRAPH'IC.--_ns._ OCEANOG'RAPHY, the
scientific description of the ocean; OCEANOL'OGY, the science of the ocean:
a treatise on the ocean. [Fr.,--L. _oceanus_--Gr. _[=o]keanos_, perh. from
_[=o]kys_, swift.]

OCELLATE, -D, [=o]'sel-l[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ resembling an eye: marked with
spots resembling eyes, as the feathers of a peacock.--_adjs._ OCEL'LAR,
OC'ELLARY, ocellate, pertaining to ocelli; OCELLIF'EROUS, OCELLIG'EROUS,
bearing spots like small eyes.--_n._ OCEL'LUS, a little eye, an eye-spot:
one of the round spots of varied colour in the tail of a peacock,
&c.:--_pl._ OCEL'L[=I]. [L. _ocellatus_--_ocellus_, dim. of _oculus_, an
eye.]

OCELOT, [=o]'se-lot, _n._ the name of several species of animals in
tropical America allied to the leopard, but much smaller.--_adj._ O'CELOID.
[Mex.]

OCHER, OCHEROUS. See OCHRE.

OCH HONE, oh h[=o]n, an exclamation of lamentation. [Ir.]

OCHIDORE, ok'i-d[=o]r, _n._ a shore-crab.

OCHLESIS, ok-l[=e]'sis, _n._ an unhealthy condition due to
overcrowding.--_adj._ OCHLET'IC. [Gr. _ochlos_, a crowd.]

OCHLOCRACY, ok-lok'ra-si, _n._ mob-rule: government by the
populace.--_adjs._ OCHLOCRAT'IC, -AL.--_adv._ OCHLOCRAT'ICALLY. [Gr.
_ochlokratia_--_ochlos_, the mob, _kratia_, rule.]

OCHRE, [=o]'k[.e]r, _n._ a fine clay, mostly pale yellow, used for
colouring walls, &c.: (_slang_) money, esp. gold.--_adjs._ O'CHEROUS,
OCHR[=A]'CEOUS, O'CHREOUS, O'CHROID, O'CHRY, consisting of, containing, or
resembling ochre. [Fr.,--L. _ochra_--Gr. _[=o]chra_--_[=o]chros_, pale
yellow.]

OCREA, [=o]'kre-a, _n._ (_bot._) a sheath formed of two stipules united
round a stem:--_pl._ O'CHREÆ, O'CREÆ.--_adj._ O'CHRE[=A]TE. [L. _ochrea_, a
legging.]

OCTACHORD, ok'ta-kord, _n._ a musical instrument with eight strings: a
diatonic series of eight tones.

OCTAGON, ok'ta-gon, _n._ a plane figure of eight sides and eight
angles.--_adj._ OCTAG'ONAL. [Gr. _okt[=o]_, eight, _g[=o]nia_, an angle.]

OCTAHEDRON, ok-ta-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a solid bounded by eight faces.--_adj._
OCTAH[=E]'DRAL. [Gr. _okt[=o]_, eight, _hedra_, a base.]

OCTANDROUS, ok-tan'drus, _adj._ (_bot._) having eight stamens.--_n.pl._
OCTAN'DRIA.--_adj._ OCTAN'DRIAN. [Gr. _okt[=o]_, eight, _an[=e]r_,
_andros_, a man.]

OCTANGULAR, ok-tang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ having eight angles.

OCTANT, ok'tant, _n._ the eighth part of a circle: an instrument for
measuring angles: the aspect of two planets when 45°, or one-eighth of a
circle, apart.--Also OC'TILE. [L. _octans_, _octantis_--_octo_, eight.]

OCTAPLA, ok'ta-pla, _n._ something eightfold: a Bible in eight languages.
[Gr. _oktaplous_, eightfold.]

OCTAPODY, ok-tap'[=o]-di, _n._ (_pros._) a metre or verse of eight
feet.--_adj._ OCTAPOD'IC.--_n._ OC'TASTICH, a strophe of eight verses or
lines--also OCTAS'TICHON.--_adj._ OCTASTROPH'IC, consisting of eight
strophes.

OCTASTYLE. See OCTOSTYLE.

OCTAVE, ok't[=a]v, _adj._ eight: consisting of eight.--_n._ an eighth: that
which consists of eight: the eighth day after a church festival, counting
the feast-day itself as the first: the period between a festival and its
octave: (_mus._) an eighth, or an interval of twelve semitones: the eighth
part of a pipe of wine. [Fr.,--L. _octavus_, eighth--_octo_, eight.]

OCTAVO, ok-t[=a]'v[=o], _adj._ having eight leaves to the sheet.--_n._ a
book printed on sheets folded into eight leaves, contracted 8vo--usually
meaning a medium octavo, 6×9½ inches. Smaller octavos are--post 8vo, 5½×8½
in.; demy 8vo, 5¼×8 in.; crown 8vo, 5×7½ in.; cap 8vo, 4½×7 in. Larger
octavos are--royal 8vo, 6½×10 in.; super-royal 8vo, 7×11 in.; imperial 8vo,
8¼×11 in.:--_pl._ OCT[=A]'VOS.

OCTENNIAL, ok-ten'i-al, _adj._ happening every eighth year: lasting eight
years.--_adv._ OCTENN'IALLY.--_n._ OCTOCEN'TENARY, the 800th anniversary of
an event. [L. _octennis_--_octo_, eight, _annus_, a year.]

OCTILLION, ok-til'yun, _n._ the number produced by raising a million to the
eighth power, expressed by a unit with forty-eight ciphers: in France and
the United States, one thousand raised to the ninth power, expressed by a
unit with twenty-seven ciphers. [L. _octo_, eight, _million_.]

OCTOBER, ok-t[=o]'b[.e]r, _n._ the eighth month of the Roman year, which
began in March: the tenth month in our calendar. [L. _octo_, eight.]

OCTOBRACHIATE, ok-t[=o]-br[=a]'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having eight brachia, arms,
or rays.

OCTOCEROUS, ok-tos'e-rus, _adj._ having eight arms or rays.

OCTODECIMO, ok-t[=o]-des'i-m[=o], _adj._ having eighteen leaves to the
sheet, contracted 18mo.--_adj._ OCTODEC'IMAL (_crystal._), having eighteen
faces. [L. _octodecim_, eighteen--_octo_, eight, _decem_, ten.]

OCTODENTATE, ok-t[=o]-den't[=a]t, _adj._ having eight teeth.

OCTOFID, ok't[=o]-fid, _adj._ (_bot._) cleft into eight segments.

OCTOGENARIAN, ok-t[=o]-je-n[=a]'ri-an, _n._ and _adj._ one who is eighty
years old, or between eighty and ninety.--_adj._ OCTOG'ENARY.

OCTOGYNOUS, ok-toj'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) having eight pistils or styles.
[Gr. _okt[=o]_, eight, _gyn[=e]_, wife.]

OCTOHEDRON=OCTAHEDRON.

OCTOLATERAL, ok-t[=o]-lat'e-ral, _adj._ having eight sides.

OCTONARY, ok't[=o]-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ consisting of eight.

OCTONOCULAR, ok-t[=o]-nok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having eight eyes.

OCTOPEDE, ok't[=o]-p[=e]d, _n._ an eight-footed animal.

OCTOPETALOUS, ok-t[=o]-pet'a-lus, _adj._ having eight petals.

OCTOPOD, ok't[=o]-pod, _adj._ eight-footed or eight-armed--also
OCTOP'ODOUS.--_n._ an octopus.

OCTOPUS, ok't[=o]-pus, _n._ a widely distributed genus of eight-armed
cuttle-fishes, covered with suckers, a devil-fish. [Gr. _okt[=o]_, eight,
_pous_, _podos_, foot.]

OCTORADIATE, -D, ok-t[=o]-r[=a]'di-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ having eight rays.

OCTOROON, ok-t[=o]-r[=oo]n', _n._ the offspring of a quadroon and a white
person: one who has one-eighth negro blood. [L. _octo_, eight.]

OCTOSEPALOUS, ok-t[=o]-sep'a-lus, _adj._ having eight sepals.

OCTOSPERMOUS, ok-t[=o]-sper'mus, _adj._ having eight seeds.

OCTOSPOROUS, ok-t[=o]-sp[=o]'rus, _adj._ eight-spored.

OCTOSTICHOUS, ok-tos'ti-kus, _adj._ (_bot._) eight-ranked.

OCTOSTYLE, ok't[=o]-st[=i]l, _n._ an edifice or portico with eight pillars
in front.

OCTOSYLLABIC, ok-t[=o]-sil-lab'ik, _adj._ consisting of eight
syllables.--_n._ OC'TOSYLLABLE, a word of eight syllables.

OCTROI, ok-trwä', _n._ a grant of the exclusive right of trade: a toll or
tax levied at the gates of a city on articles brought in: the place where
such taxes are paid. [Fr.,--_octroyer_, to grant--L. _auctor[=a]re_, to
authorise--_auctor_, author.]

OCTUPLE, ok't[=u]-pl, _adj._ eightfold.--_n._ OC'T[=U]PLET (_mus._), a
group of eight notes to be played in the time of six.

OCTYL, ok'til, _n._ a hypothetical organic radical, known only in
combination--also _Capryl_.--_n._ OC'TYL[=E]NE, a hydrocarbon obtained by
heating octylic alcohol with sulphuric acid.--_adj._ OCTYL'IC.

OCULAR, ok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ pertaining to the eye: formed in, or known by,
the eye: received by actual sight.--_adv._ OC'ULARLY.--_adjs._ OC'UL[=A]TE,
-D, having eyes, or spots like eyes; OCULAU'DITORY, representing an eye and
an ear together; OCULIF'EROUS, OCULIG'EROUS, bearing an eye or eyes;
OC'ULIFORM, ocular in form; OC'ULIM[=O]TOR, -Y, ocular and motory.--_n._
OC'ULIST, one skilled in diseases of the eye. [L. _ocularius_--_oculus_,
the eye.]

OD, [=o]d, or od, _n._ a peculiar force acting on the nervous system,
assumed by Reichenbach to exist in light, heat, electricity, living bodies,
and all material substances whatever, and to produce the phenomena of
mesmerism.--_adj._ O'DIC.--_ns._ OD'-FORCE, od; O'DISM, belief in od. [Gr.
_hodos_, a way.]

OD, od, _n._ for God--sometimes ODD.--_interjs._ OD'S-BODIKINS, God's body;
OD'S LIFE, God's life; OD'S-PITIKINS (_Shak._), a corr. of God's pity.

ODAL, ODALLER, same as UDAL, UDALLER.

ODALISQUE, ODALISK, [=o]'da-lisk, _n._ a female slave in a harem.
[Fr.,--Turk. _oda_, a chamber.]

ODD, od, _adj._ not paired with another: not even: left over after a round
number has been taken: additional to a certain amount in round numbers: not
exactly divisible by two: strange: unusual in kind or appearance: trifling:
remote: (_Shak._) at variance.--_ns._ ODD'-COME-SHORTLY, an early day, any
time; ODD'FELLOW, a member of a secret benevolent society called
Oddfellows; ODD'ITY, the state of being odd or singular: strangeness: a
singular person or thing.--_adj._ ODD'-LOOK'ING, having a singular
appearance.--_adv._ ODD'LY.--_ns._ ODD'MENT, something remaining over: one
of a broken set--often used in the plural; ODD'NESS.--_n.pl._ ODDS (odz),
inequality: difference in favour of one against another: more than an even
wager: the amount or proportion by which the bet of one exceeds that of
another: advantage: dispute: scraps, miscellaneous pieces, as in the phrase
ODDS AND ENDS (lit. 'points' and ends).--AT ODDS, at variance. [Scand.,
Ice. _oddi_, a triangle, odd number--Ice. _oddr_, point; cf. A.S. _ord_,
point.]

ODE, [=o]d, _n._ a song: a poem written to be set to music: the music
written for such a poem.--_adj._ O'DIC.--_n._ O'DIST, a writer of odes.
[Fr. _ode_--Gr. _[=o]d[=e]_, contr. from _aoid[=e]_--_aeidein_, to sing.]

ODEUM, [=o]-d[=e]'um, _n._ in ancient Greece a theatre for musical
contests, &c., sometimes applied to a modern music-hall.--Also OD[=E]'ON.
[Gr.]

ODIN, [=o]'din, _n._ the chief of the gods in Norse mythology.

ODIOUS, [=o]'di-us, _adj._ hateful: offensive: repulsive: causing
hatred.--_adv._ O'DIOUSLY.--_ns._ O'DIOUSNESS; O'DIUM, hatred:
offensiveness: blame: quality of provoking hate.--ODIUM THEOLOGICUM, the
proverbial hatred of controversial divines for each other's errors--and
persons. [L.,--_odi_, to hate.]

ODOMETER=HODOMETER (q.v.).

ODONTOGLOSSUM, [=o]-don-t[=o]-glos'um, _n._ a genus of tropical American
orchids with showy flowers.

ODONTOID, o-don'toid, _adj._ tooth-shaped: tooth-like.--_ns._ ODONTAL'GIA,
ODONTAL'GY, toothache.--_adj._ ODONTAL'GIC.--_n._ ODONT[=I]'ASIS, the
cutting of the teeth.--_adj._ ODON'TIC, dental.--_n._ ODON'TOBLAST, a cell
by which dentine is developed.--_adjs._ ODON'TOCETE, toothed, as a
cetacean; ODONTOGEN'IC.--_ns._ ODONTOG'ENY, the origin and development of
teeth; ODONTOG'RAPHY, description of teeth.--_adjs._ ODONTOLOG'IC,
-AL.--_ns._ ODONTOL'OGIST, one skilled in odontology; ODONTOL'OGY, the
science of the teeth; ODONTOLOX'IA, irregularity of teeth; ODONT[=O]'MA, a
small tumour composed of dentine.--_adjs._ ODON'TOMOUS, pertaining to
odontoma; ODONTOPH'ORAL, ODONTOPH'ORAN.--_n._ ODON'TOPHORE, the radula,
tongue, or lingual ribbon of certain molluscs.--_adjs._ ODONTOPH'OROUS,
bearing teeth; ODONTOSTOM'ATOUS, having jaws which bite like teeth.--_ns._
ODONTOTHERAP[=I]'A, the treatment or care of the teeth; ODON'TRYPY, the
operation of perforating a tooth to draw off purulent matter from the
cavity of the pulp. [Gr. _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

ODOUR, [=o]'dur, _n._ smell: perfume: estimation: reputation.--_adj._
ODORIF'EROUS, bearing odour or scent: diffusing fragrance:
perfumed.--_adv._ ODORIF'EROUSLY.--_n._ ODORIF'EROUSNESS, the quality of
being odoriferous.--_adj._ O'DOROUS, emitting an odour or scent:
sweet-smelling: fragrant.--_adv._ O'DOROUSLY.--_n._ O'DOROUSNESS, the
quality of exciting the sensation of smell.--_adjs._ O'DOURED, perfumed;
O'DOURLESS, without odour.--ODOUR OF SANCTITY (see SANCTITY); IN BAD ODOUR,
in bad repute. [Fr.,--L. _odor_.]

ODYLE, [=o]'dil, _n._ Same as OD (1).

ODYSSEY, od'is-si, _n._ a Greek epic poem, ascribed to Homer, describing
the return of the Greeks from the Trojan war, and esp. of _Odysseus_
(Ulysses) to Ithaca after ten years' wanderings.

OECOLOGY, [=e]-kol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of animal and vegetable
economy.--_n._ OE'CIUM, the household common to the individuals of a
compound organism.--_adj._ OECOLOG'ICAL.

OECONOMY, OECUMENIC, -AL, &c. See ECONOMY, ECUMENIC.

OEDEMA, [=e]-d[=e]'ma, _n._ (_med._) the swelling occasioned by the
effusion or infiltration of serum into cellular or areolar structures,
usually the subcutaneous cellular tissue. [Gr. _oid[=e]ma_, swelling.]

OEDEMIA, [=e]-d[=e]'mi-a, _n._ a genus of _Anatidæ_, the scoters,
surf-ducks, or sea-coots. [Gr. _oid[=e]ma_.]

OEILLADE, [.e]l-yad', _n._ (_Shak._) a glance or wink given with the
eye.--_ns._ OEIL-DE-BOEUF, a round or oval opening for admitting light: a
small, narrow window, or bull's-eye:--_pl._ OEILS-DE-BOEUF;
OEIL-DE-PERDRIX, a small, round figure in decorative art, a dot. [Fr.
_oeillade_--_oeil_, eye.]

OENANTHIC, [=e]-nan'thik, _adj._ having or imparting the characteristic
odour of wine.--_ns._ OENOL'OGY, the science of wines; OE'NOMANCY,
divination from the appearance of wine poured out in libations;
OENOM[=A]'NIA, dipsomania; OENOM'ETER, a hydrometer for measuring the
alcoholic strength of wines; OENOPH'ILIST, a lover of wine. [Gr. _oinos_
wine.]

OENOMEL, [=e]'no-mel, _n._ wine mixed with honey: mead. [Gr. _oinos_, wine,
and _meli_, honey.]

OENOTHERA, [=e]-n[=o]-th[=e]'ra, _n._ a genus of leafy branching plants,
with yellow or purplish flowers, called also _Evening_, or _Tree_,
_primrose_. [Gr. _oinos_, wine, and perh. _th[=e]ran_, to hunt.]

O'ER, [=o]r, contracted from _over_.

O'ERCOME, owr'kum, _n._ (_Scot._) the burden of a song: overplus.--_n._
O'ER'LAY, a large cravat.

OES, [=o]z, _n._ (_Bacon_) circlets of gold or silver.

OESOPHAGUS, ESOPHAGUS, [=e]-sof'a-gus, _n._ the gullet, a membranous canal
about nine inches in length, extending from the pharynx to the stomach,
thus forming part of the alimentary canal.--_n._ OESOPHAGAL'GIA, pain, esp.
neuralgia, in the oesophagus.--_adj._ OESOPHAGEAL (-faj'-).--_ns._
OESOPHAGEC'TOMY, excision of a portion of the oesophagus; OESOPHAGIS'MUS,
oesophageal spasm; OESOPHAG[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the oesophagus;
OESOPHAG'OCELE, hernia of the mucous membrane of the oesophagus through its
walls; OESOPHAGODYN'IA, pain in the oesophagus; OESOPHAGOP'ATHY, disease of
the oesophagus; OESOPHAGOPL[=E]'GIA, paralysis of the oesophagus;
OESOPHAGORRH[=A]'GIA, hemorrhage from the oesophagus; OESOPH'AGOSCOPE, an
instrument for inspecting the interior of the oesophagus;
OESOPHAGOSPAS'MUS, spasm of the oesophagus; OESOPHAGOSTEN[=O]'SIS, a
constriction of the oesophagus. [Gr.]

OESTRUM, [=e]s'trum, _n._ violent desire.--_adj._ OES'TRUAL, in heat,
rutting.--_v.i._ OES'TRU[=A]TE, to be in heat.--_ns._ OESTRU[=A]'TION;
OES'TRUS, a gadfly. [L.]

OF, ov, _prep._ from or out from: belonging to: out of: among: proceeding
from, so in the Litany and Nicene Creed: owing to: with: over: concerning:
during: (_B._ and _Pr. Bk._) sometimes=by, from, on, or over.--OF PURPOSE
(_B._), intentionally. [A.S. _of_; Dut. _af_, Ger. _ab_, also L. _ab_, Gr.
_apo_.]

OFF, of, _adv._ from: away from: on the opposite side of a
question.--_adj._ most distant: on the opposite or farther side: on the
side of a cricket-field right of the wicket-keeper and left of the bowler:
not devoted to usual business, as an OFF DAY.--_prep._ not on.--_interj._
away! depart!--_adj._ and _adv._ OFF'-AND-ON', occasional.--_adj._
OFF'-COL'OUR, of inferior value: indisposed.--_n._ OFF'-COME (_Scot._), an
apology, pretext: any exhibition of temper, &c.--_adv._ OFF'-HAND, at once:
without hesitating.--_adj._ without study: impromptu: free and
easy.--_adj._ OFF'ISH, reserved in manner.--_ns._ OFF'-PRINT, a reprint of
a single article from a magazine or other periodical--the French _tirage à
part_, German _Abdruck_; OFF'-RECK'ONING, an allowance formerly made to
certain British officers from the money appropriated for army
clothing.--_v.t._ OFF'SADDLE, to unsaddle.--_ns._ OFF'SCOURING, matter
scoured off: refuse: anything vile or despised; OFF'-SCUM, refuse or scum;
OFF'SET (_in accounts_), a sum or value set off against another as an
equivalent: a short lateral shoot or bulb: a terrace on a hillside:
(_archit._) a horizontal ledge on the face of a wall: in surveying, a
perpendicular from the main line to an outlying point.--_v.t._ (_in
accounts_) to place against as an equivalent.--_n._ OFF'SHOOT, that which
shoots off from the main stem, stream, &c.: anything growing out of
another.--_adv._ OFF'SHORE, in a direction from the shore, as a wind: at a
distance from the shore.--_adj._ from the shore.--_ns._ OFF'SIDE, the
right-hand side in driving: the farther side; OFF'SPRING, that which
springs from another: a child, or children: issue: production of any
kind.--OFF ONE'S CHUMP, HEAD, demented; OFF ONE'S FEED, indisposed to
eat.--BE OFF, to go away quickly; COME OFF, GO OFF, SHOW OFF, TAKE OFF, &c.
(see COME, GO, SHOW, TAKE, &c.); ILL OFF, poor or unfortunate; TELL OFF, to
count: to assign, as for a special duty; WELL OFF, rich, well provided.
[Same as _Of_.]

OFFAL, of'al, _n._ waste meat: the part of an animal which is unfit for
use: refuse: anything worthless. [_Off_ and _fall_.]

OFFEND, of-fend', _v.t._ to displease or make angry: to do harm to: to
affront: (_B._) to cause to sin.--_v.i._ to sin: to cause anger: (_B._) to
be made to sin.--_n._ OFFENCE', any cause of anger or displeasure: an
injury: a crime: a sin: affront: assault.--_adjs._ OFFENCE'FUL (_Shak._)
giving offence or displeasure: injurious; OFFENCE'LESS (_Milt._),
unoffending: innocent.--_ns._ OFFEND'ER, one who offends or injures: a
trespasser: a criminal:--_fem._ OFFEND'RESS; OFFENSE', &c., same as
OFFENCE, &c.--_adj._ OFFENS'IVE, causing offence, displeasure, or injury:
used in attack: making the first attack.--_n._ the act of the attacking
party: the posture of one who attacks.--_adv._ OFFENS'IVELY.--_n._
OFFENS'IVENESS.--OFFENSIVE AND DEFENSIVE, requiring all parties to make war
together, or to defend each other if attacked.--GIVE OFFENCE, to cause
displeasure; TAKE OFFENCE, to feel displeasure, be offended. [Fr.,--L.
_ob_, against, _fend[)e]re_, to strike.]

OFFER, of'[.e]r, _v.t._ to bring to or before: to hold out for acceptance
or rejection: to make a proposal to: to lay before: to present to the mind:
to attempt: to propose to give, as a price or service: to present in
worship.--_v.i._ to present itself: to be at hand: to declare a
willingness.--_n._ act of offering: first advance: that which is offered:
proposal made.--_adj._ OFF'ERABLE, that may be offered.--_ns._ OFF'ERER;
OFF'ERING, act of making an offer: that which is offered: a gift: (_B._)
that which is offered on an altar: a sacrifice: (_pl._) in Church of
England, certain dues payable at Easter; OFF'ERTORY, act of offering, the
thing offered: the verses or the anthem said or sung while the offerings of
the congregation are being made and the celebrant is placing the
unconsecrated elements on the altar: the money collected at a religious
service: anciently a linen or silken cloth used in various ceremonies
connected with the administration of the eucharist. [L. _offerre_--_ob_,
towards, _ferre_, to bring.]

OFFICE, of'is, _n._ settled duty or employment: a position imposing certain
duties or giving a right to exercise an employment: business: act of
worship: order or form of a religious service, either public or private:
that which a thing is designed or fitted to do: a place where business is
carried on: (_pl._) acts of good or ill: service: the apartments of a house
in which the domestics discharge their duties.--_ns._ OFF'ICE-BEAR'ER, one
who holds office: one who has an appointed duty to perform in connection
with some company, society, &c.; OFF'ICER, one who holds an office: a
person who performs some public duty: a person entrusted with
responsibility in the army or navy.--_v.t._ to furnish with officers: to
command, as officers.--_adj._ OFFIC'IAL, pertaining to an office: depending
on the proper office or authority: done by authority.--_n._ one who holds
an office: a subordinate public officer: the deputy of a bishop, &c.--_ns._
OFFIC'IALISM, official position: excessive devotion to official routine and
detail; OFFICIAL'ITY, OFFIC'IALTY, the charge, office, or jurisdiction of
an official: the official headquarters of an ecclesiastical or other
deliberative and governing body.--_adv._ OFFIC'IALLY.--_n._ OFFIC'IANT, one
who officiates at a religious service, one who administers a
sacrament.--_v.i._ OFFIC'I[=A]TE, to perform the duties of an office: (with
_for_) to perform official duties in place of another.--_n._
OFFIC'I[=A]TOR.--GIVE THE OFFICE (_slang_), to suggest, supply information;
HOLY OFFICE, the Inquisition. [Fr.,--L. _officium_.]

OFFICINAL, of-fis'i-nal, _adj._ belonging to, or used in, a shop: denoting
an approved medicine kept prepared by apothecaries. [Fr.,--L. _officina_, a
workshop--_opus_, work, _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

OFFICIOUS, of-fish'us, _adj._ too forward in offering services: overkind:
intermeddling.--_adv._ OFFIC'IOUSLY.--_n._ OFFIC'IOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_officiosus_--_officium_.]

OFFING, of'ing, _n._ the part of the sea more than half-way between the
shore and the horizon.

OFT, oft, OFTEN, of'n, _adv._ frequently: many times.--_adj._ OFT'EN
(_B._), frequent.--_n._ OFT'ENNESS, frequency.--_advs._ OFT'TIMES,
OFT'ENTIMES, many times: frequently. [A.S. _oft_; Ger. _oft_, Goth.
_ufta_.]

OGEE, [=o]-j[=e]', _n._ a wave-like moulding formed of a convex curve
continued or followed by a concave one. [Fr. _ogive_.]

[Illustration]

OGHAM, OGAM, og'am, _n._ an ancient Irish writing, in straight lines
crossing each other; one of the characters, twenty in number, of which it
is formed.--_adjs._ OGH'AMIC, OG'AMIC.

OGIVE, [=o]'jiv, _n._ (_archit._) a pointed arch or window.--_adj._
OG[=I]'VAL. [Fr.,--Sp.,--Ar. _áwj_, summit.]

OGLE, [=o]'gl, _v.t._ to look at fondly with side glances.--_v.i._ to cast
amorous glances.--_ns._ O'GLE; O'GLER; O'GLING. [Dut. _oogen_--_ooge_, the
eye.]

OGRE, [=o]'g[.e]r, _n._ a man-eating monster or giant of fairy
tales:--_fem._ O'GRESS.--_adj._ O'GREISH. [Fr. _ogre_--Sp. _ogro_--L.
_orcus_, the lower world.]

OGYGIAN, [=o]-jij'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to the mythical Attic king
_Og[)y]ges_, prehistoric, primeval.

OH, [=o], _interj._ denoting surprise, pain, sorrow, &c.

OHM, [=o]m, _n._ the unit by which electrical resistance is measured, being
nearly equal to that caused by a thousand feet of copper wire one-tenth of
an inch in diameter.--OHM'S LAW (see LAW). [Georg Simon _Ohm_, a German
electrician, 1787-1854.]

OIDIUM, [=o]-id'i-um, _n._ a genus of parasitic fungi, including the
vine-mildew, &c. [Gr. _[=o]on_, an egg.]

OIL, oil, _n._ the juice from the fruit of the olive-tree: any greasy
liquid.--_v.t._ to smear or anoint with oil.--_ns._ OIL'BAG, a bag or cyst
in animals containing oil; OIL'CAKE, a cake made of flax seed from which
the oil has been pressed out; OIL'CLOTH, a painted floorcloth;
OIL'-COL'OUR, a colouring substance mixed with oil; OIL'ER, one who, or
that which, oils: an oil-can: (_coll._) a coat of oilskin; OIL'ERY, the
commodities of an oil-man; OIL'-GAS, illuminating gas or heating gas made
by distilling oil in closed retorts; OIL'INESS; OIL'-MAN, one who deals in
oils; OIL'-MILL, a grinding-mill for expressing oil from seeds, nuts, &c.;
OIL'NUT, the butter-nut of North America; OIL'-PAINT'ING, a picture painted
in oil-colours: the art of painting in oil-colours; OIL'-PALM, a palm whose
fruit-pulp yields palm-oil; OIL'-PRESS, a machine for expressing oils from
seeds or pulp; OIL'SKIN, cloth made waterproof by means of oil: a garment
made of oilskin; OIL'-SPRING, a spring whose water contains oily matter: a
fissure or area from which petroleum, &c. oozes; OIL'STONE, a fine-grained
kind of stone used, when wetted with oil, for sharpening tools; OIL'-WELL,
a boring made for petroleum.--_adj._ OIL'Y, consisting of, containing, or
having the qualities of oil: greasy.--STRIKE OIL (see STRIKE). [O. Fr.
_oile_ (Fr. _huile_)--L. _oleum_--Gr. _elaion_--_elaia_, the olive.]

OINTMENT, oint'ment, _n._ anything used in anointing: (_med._) any greasy
substance applied to diseased or wounded parts: (_B._) a perfume. [O.
Fr.,--L. _unguentum_--_ung[)e]re_, to smear.]

OKAPI, [=o]'ka-pi, _n._ a giraffe-like animal of the Semliki forests of
Central Africa.

OKE, [=o]k, _n._ a Turkish weight of 2¾ lb. avoirdupois.

OLD, [=o]ld, _adj._ advanced in years: having been long in existence: worn
out: out of date, old-fashioned: ancient, former, antique, early: (_coll._)
great, high: having the age or duration of: long practised: sober,
wise.--_n._ OLD-CLOTHES'MAN, one who buys cast-off garments.--_v.i._
OLD'EN, to grow old, to become affected by age.--_adj._ old,
ancient.--_adj._ OLD-FASH'IONED, of a fashion like that used long ago: out
of date: clinging to old things and old styles: with manners like those of
a grown-up person (said of a child).--_n._ OLD-FASH'IONEDNESS.--_adjs._
OLD-F[=O]'GYISH, like an old fogy; OLD-GEN'TLEMANLY, characteristic of an
old gentleman; OLD'ISH, somewhat old; OLD'-LIGHT, denoting those of the
Seceders from the Church of Scotland who continued to hold unchanged the
principle of the connection between church and state--the position
maintained by the first Seceders in 1733.--_n._ one of this body.--_ns._
OLD-MAID'HOOD, OLD-MAID'ISM.--_adj._ OLD-MAID'ISH, like the conventional
old maid, prim.--_ns._ OLD'NESS; OLD'STER (_coll._), a man getting old: a
midshipman of four years' standing, a master's mate.--_adj._ OLD'-TIME, of
or pertaining to times long gone by: of long standing: old-fashioned.--_n._
OLD'-TIM'ER, one who has lived in a place or kept a position for a long
time.--_adjs._ OLD-WOM'ANISH, like an old woman; OLD'-WORLD, belonging to
earlier times, antiquated, old-fashioned.--_n._ the Eastern
Hemisphere.--OLD AGE, the later part of life; OLD BACHELOR, an unmarried
man somewhat advanced in years; OLD ENGLISH (see ENGLISH): the form of
black letter used by 16th-century English printers; OLD GOLD, a dull gold
colour like tarnished gold, used in textile fabrics; OLD HARRY, NICK, ONE,
&c., the devil; OLD HUNDRED, properly OLD HUNDREDTH, a famous tune set in
England about the middle of the 16th century to Kethe's version of the
100th Psalm, marked 'Old Hundredth' in Tate and Brady's new version in
1696; OLD MAID, a woman who has not been married, and is past the usual age
of marriage: a simple game played by matching cards from a pack from which
a card (usually a queen) has been removed; OLD MAN, unregenerate human
nature: (_coll._) one's father, guardian, or employer (usually with 'the');
OLD RED SANDSTONE (see SAND); OLD SALT, an experienced sailor; OLD SCHOOL,
of, or resembling, earlier days, old-fashioned; OLD SONG, a mere trifle, a
very small price; OLD SQUAW, a sea-duck of the northern hemisphere--also
OLD WIFE; OLD STYLE (often written with a date O.S.), the mode of reckoning
time before 1752, according to the Julian calendar or year of 365¼ days;
OLD TESTAMENT (see TESTAMENT); OLD TOM, a strong kind of English gin; OLD
WIFE, a prating old woman, or even a man: a chimney-cap for curing
smoking.--OF OLD, long ago, in ancient times, or belonging to such. [A.S.
_eald_; Dut. _oud_; Ger. _alt_.]

OLEAGINOUS, [=o]-l[=e]-aj'in-us, _adj._ oily: (_bot._) fleshy and oily:
unctuous, sanctimonious, fawning.--_n._ OLEAG'INOUSNESS. [L.
_oleaginus_--_oleum_, oil.]

OLEANDER, [=o]-l[=e]-an'd[.e]r, _n._ an evergreen shrub with lance-shaped
leathery leaves and beautiful red or white flowers, the _Rose Bay_ or _Rose
Laurel_. [Fr., a corr. of Low L. _lorandrum_. Cf. _Rhododendron_.]

OLEASTER, [=o]-l[=e]-as't[.e]r, _n._ the wild olive. [L.,--_olea_, an
olive-tree--Gr. _elaia_.]

OLECRANON, [=o]-l[=e]-kr[=a]'non, _n._ a process forming the upper end of
the ulna.--_adj._ OLECR[=A]'NAL. [Gr.]

OLEIN, [=o]'l[=e]-in, _n._ a natural fat, found in the fatty oils of
animals and vegetables.--_n._ O'LE[=A]TE, a salt of oleic acid.--_adj._
OLEF[=I]'ANT, producing oil.--_ns._ OLEF[=I]'ANT-GAS, ethylene; O'LEFINE,
any one of a group of hydrocarbons homologous with ethylene.--_adjs._
O'LEIC; OLEIF'EROUS, producing oil, as seeds.--_ns._ OLEOMAR'GARINE,
artificial butter at first made from pure beef-fat, now from oleo-oil,
neutral lard, milk, cream, and pure butter, worked together, with a
colouring matter; OLEOM'ETER, an instrument for determining the density of
oils; O'LEON, a liquid obtained from the distillation of olein and lime;
OLEORES'IN, a native compound of an essential oil and a resin: a
preparation of a fixed or volatile oil holding resin in solution;
OLEOSAC'CHARUM, a mixture of oil and sugar.--_adjs._ O'LE[=O]SE, O'LEOUS,
oily. [L. _oleum_, oil.]

OLENT, [=o]'lent, _adj._ smelling. [L. _ol[=e]re_, to smell.]

OLEOGRAPH, [=o]'l[=e]-[=o]-graf, _n._ a print in oil-colours to imitate an
oil-painting.--_n._ OLEOG'RAPHY, the art of preparing such. [L. _oleum_,
oil, Gr. _graphein_, to write.]

OLERACEOUS, ol-e-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ of the nature of a pot-herb, for
kitchen use. [L.]

OLFACTORY, ol-fak'tor-i, _adj._ pertaining to, or used in, smelling. [L.
_olfact[=a]re_, to smell--_ol[=e]re_, to smell, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

OLIBANUM, [=o]-lib'a-num, _n._ a gum-resin flowing from incisions in
several species of _Boswellia_ in Somaliland and southern Arabia--the
_Lebonah_ of the Hebrews, _Libanos_ and _Liban[=o]tos_ of the Greeks.

OLIGÆMIA, ol-i-j[=e]'mi-a, _n._ abnormal deficiency of blood.

OLIGARCHY, ol'i-gärk-i, _n._ government by a small exclusive class: a state
governed by such: a small body of men who have the supreme power of a state
in their hands.--_n._ OL'IGARCH, a member of an oligarchy.--_adjs._
OLIGARCH'AL, OLIGARCH'IC, -AL, pertaining to an oligarchy. [Fr.,--Gr.,
_oligos_, few, _archein_, to rule.]

OLIGIST, ol'i-jist, _n._ a crystallised variety of hematite.

OLIGOCENE, ol'i-g[=o]-s[=e]n, _adj._ (_geol._) pertaining to a division of
the Tertiary series, the rocks chiefly of fresh and brackish water origin,
with intercalations of marine beds. [Gr. _oligos_, little, _kainos_, new.]

OLIGOCHROME, ol'i-g[=o]-kr[=o]m, _adj._ and _n._ painted in few colours.
[Gr. _oligos_, few, _chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

OLIGOCLASE, ol'i-g[=o]-kl[=a]s, _n._ a soda-lime triclinic feldspar.

OLIO, [=o]'li-[=o], _n._ a savoury dish of different sorts of meat and
vegetables: a mixture: a medley, literary miscellany. [Sp. _olla_--L.
_olla_, a pot.]

OLIPHANT, ol'i-fant, _n._ an ancient ivory hunting-horn: an obsolete form
of elephant.

OLITORY, ol'i-t[=o]-ri, _adj._ and _n._ pertaining to
kitchen-vegetables:--_pl._ OL'ITORIES. [L. _olitor_, gardener.]

OLIVE, ol'iv, _n._ a tree cultivated round the Mediterranean for its oily
fruit: its fruit: peace, of which the olive was the emblem: a colour like
the unripe olive.--_adj._ of a brownish-green colour like the
olive.--_adjs._ OLIV[=A]'CEOUS, olive-coloured: olive-green; OL'IVARY, like
olives.--_ns._ OL'IVENITE, a mineral consisting chiefly of arsenic acid and
protoxide of iron; OL'IVE-OIL, oil pressed from the fruit of the olive;
OL'IVE-YARD, a piece of ground on which olives are grown; OL'IVINE,
chrysolite.--OLIVE BRANCH, a symbol of peace: (_pl._) children (Ps.
cxxviii. 4; _Pr. Bk._). [Fr.,--L. _oliva_--Gr. _elaia_.]

OLIVER, ol'i-v[.e]r, _n._ a forge-hammer worked by foot.

OLIVERIAN, ol-i-v[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ an adherent of the great Protector,
_Oliver_ Cromwell (1599-1658).

OLIVET, ol'i-vet, _n._ an imitation pearl manufactured for trade with
savages.

OLIVETAN, ol'i-vet-an, _n._ one of an order of Benedictine monks founded in
1313, the original house at Monte _Oliveto_, near Siena.

OLLA, ol'la, _n._ a jar or urn.--_n._ OL'LA-PODRIDA (-po-dr[=e]'da), a
Spanish mixed stew or hash of meat and vegetables: any incongruous mixture
or miscellaneous collection. [Sp.,--L. _olla_, a pot.]

OLLAM, ol'am, _n._ a doctor or master among the ancient Irish.--Also
OLL'AMH. [Ir.]

OLOGY, ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ a science whose name ends in -ology, hence any
science generally.

OLPE, ol'p[=e], _n._ a small Greek even-rimmed spoutless vase or jug. [Gr.]

OLYMPIAD, [=o]-lim'pi-ad, _n._ in ancient Greece, a period of four years,
being the interval from one celebration of the Olympic games to another,
used in reckoning time (the date of the first Olympiad is 776
B.C.).--_adjs._ OLYM'PIAN, OLYM'PIC, pertaining to Olympia in Elis, where
the Olympic games were celebrated, or to Mount Olympus in Thessaly, the
seat of the gods.--_n._ a dweller in Olympus, one of the twelve greater
gods of Greek mythology.--_ns.pl._ OLYM'PICS, OLYM'PIC GAMES, games
celebrated every four years at Olympia, dedicated to Olympian Zeus;
OLYM'PUS, the abode of the gods, supposed to have been Mount Olympus in
Thessaly. [Gr. _olympias_, _-ados_, belonging to _Olympia_ in Elis.]

OMADHAUN, om'a-dawn, _n._ a stupid, silly creature. [Ir.]

OMASUM, [=o]-m[=a]'sum, _n._ a ruminant's third stomach, the psalterium or
manyplies.--_adj._ OM[=A]'SAL.

OMBRE, om'b[.e]r, _n._ a game of cards played with a pack of forty cards,
usually by three persons. [Fr.,--Sp. _hombre_--L. _homo_, a man.]

OMBROMETER, om-brom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a rain-gauge.

OMEGA, [=o]'meg-a, or [=o]-m[=e]'ga, _n._ the last letter of the Greek
alphabet: (_B._) the end.--ALPHA AND OMEGA, the beginning and the end: the
chief point or purpose (Rev. i. 8). [Gr. _[=o] mega_, the great or long
_O_.]

OMELET, OMELETTE, om'e-let, _n._ a pancake chiefly of eggs, beaten up with
flour, &c., and fried in a pan. [O. Fr. _amelette_ (Fr. _omelette_), which
through the form _alemette_ is traced to _alemelle_, the O. Fr. form of Fr.
_alumelle_, a thin plate, a corr. of _lemelle_--L. _lamella_, _lamina_, a
thin plate.]

OMEN, [=o]'men, _n._ a sign of some future event, either good or evil: a
foreboding.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to prognosticate: to predict.--_adj._
O'MENED, containing omens, mostly with prefixes, as ill-_omened_. [L. for
_osmen_, that which is uttered by the mouth--L. _os_; or for _ausmen_, that
heard--_aud[=i]re_, to hear.]

OMENTUM, [=o]-men'tum, _n._ a fold of peritoneum, proceeding from one of
the abdominal viscera to another:--_pl._ OMEN'TA.--_adj._ OMEN'TAL.--GREAT
OMENTUM, the epiploon. [L.]

OMER, [=o]'m[.e]r, _n._ a Hebrew dry measure containing about half a
gallon, 1/10 ephah.

OMICRON, [=o]-m[=i]'kron, _n._ the short _o_ in the Greek alphabet.

OMINOUS, om'in-us, _adj._ pertaining to, or containing, an omen: foreboding
evil: inauspicious.--_adv._ OM'INOUSLY.--_n._ OM'INOUSNESS.

OMIT, [=o]-mit', _v.t._ to leave out: to neglect: to fail: to make no use
of:--_pr.p._ omit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ omit'ted.--_adj._ OMISS'IBLE,
that may be omitted.--_n._ OMISS'ION, act of omitting: the neglect or
failure to do something required: that which is left out.--_adj._
OMISS'IVE, omitting or leaving out.--_n._ OMIT'TANCE, the act of omitting:
the state of being omitted: forbearance. [L. _omitt[)e]re_,
_omissum_--_ob_, away, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

OMLAH, om'la, _n._ a staff of native clerks or officials in India. [Ar.]

OMNI-, om'ni, from L. _omnis_, all, a combining form, as in _adjs._
OMNIF[=A]'RIOUS, of all varieties or kinds; OMNIF'EROUS, bearing or
producing all kinds; OMNIF'IC, all-creating; OM'NIFORM, of, or capable of,
every form.--_n._ OMNIFORM'ITY.--_v.t._ OM'NIFY (_rare_), to make
universal.--_adj._ OMNIG'ENOUS, consisting of all kinds.--_n._ OMNIPAR'ITY,
general equality.--_adjs._ OMNIP'AROUS, producing all things;
OMNIP[=A]'TIENT, enduring all things.--_ns._ OMNIP'OTENCE, OMNIP'OTENCY,
unlimited power--an attribute of God.--_adj._ OMNIP'OTENT, all-powerful,
possessing unlimited power.--_adv._ OMNIP'OTENTLY.--_n._ OMNIPRES'ENCE,
quality of being present everywhere at the same time--an attribute of
God.--_adj._ OMNIPRES'ENT, present everywhere at the same time.--_n._
OMNISC'IENCE, knowledge of all things--an attribute of God.--_adj._
OMNISC'IENT, all-knowing: all-seeing: infinitely wise.--_adv._
OMNISC'IENTLY.--_adj._ OMNIV'OROUS, all-devouring: (_zool._) feeding on
both animal and vegetable food.--THE OMNIPOTENT, God.

OMNIBUS, om'ni-bus, _adj._ including all: covering many different cases or
objects, as 'an _omnibus_ clause.'--_n._ a large four-wheeled vehicle for
passengers, chiefly between two fixed points:--_pl._ OM'NIBUSES. [Lit. 'for
all,' L. dative pl. of _omnis_, all.]

OMNIUM, om'ni-um, _n._ a Stock Exchange term for the aggregate value of the
different stocks in which a loan is funded.--_n._ OM'NIUM-GATH'ERUM
(_coll._), a miscellaneous collection of things or persons. [L., 'of all;'
gen. pl. of _omnis_, all.]

OMOHYOID, [=o]-m[=o]-h[=i]'oid, _adj._ pertaining to the shoulder-blade,
and to the lingual or hyoid bone--also OMOHYOI'DEAN.--_n._ OMOI'DEUM, the
pterygoid bone. [Gr. _[=o]mos_, the shoulder.]

OMOPHAGOUS, [=o]-mof'a-gus, _adj._ eating raw flesh--also OMOPHAG'IC.--_n._
OMOPH[=A]'GIA. [Gr. _[=o]mos_, raw, _phagein_, to eat.]

OMOPHORION, [=o]-m[=o]-f[=o]'ri-on, _n._ an eastern ecclesiastical vestment
like the western pallium, worn over the phenolion by bishops and patriarchs
at the eucharist, &c. [Gr. _[=o]mos_, the shoulder, _pherein_, to carry.]

OMOPLATE, [=o]'m[=o]-pl[=a]t, _n._ the shoulder-blade or scapula.--_n._
OMOPLATOS'COPY, scapulimancy. [Gr. _[=o]moplat[=e]_.]

OMOSTERNUM, [=o]-m[=o]-ster'num, _n._ a median ossification of the
coraco-scapular cartilages of a batrachian. [Gr. _[=o]mos_, the shoulder,
_sternon_, the chest.]

OMPHACITE, om'fa-s[=i]t, _n._ a grass-green granular variety of pyroxene,
one of the constituents of eclogite.--_adj._ OM'PHACINE, pertaining to
unripe fruit.

OMPHALOS, om'fal-us, _n._ the navel: a raised central point: a
boss.--_adj._ OMPHAL'IC.--_ns._ OM'PHALISM, tendency to place the capital
of a country at its geographical centre, or to increase the powers of
central at the expense of local government; OMPHAL[=I]'TIS, inflammation of
the umbilicus; OM'PHALOCELE, umbilical hernia.--_adj._ OM'PHALOID.--_ns._
OM'PHALOMANCY, divination from the number of knots in the navel-string as
to how many children the mother will bear; OMPHALOP'AGUS, a double monster
united at the umbilicus; OMPHALOT'OMY, cutting of the umbilical cord at
birth. [Gr., the navel.]

ON, on, _prep._, in contact with the upper part of: to and toward the
surface of: upon or acting by contact with: not off: at or near: at or
during: in addition to: toward, for: at the peril of: in consequence:
immediately after: (_B._) off.--_adv._ above, or next beyond: forward, in
succession: in continuance: not off.--_interj._ go on! proceed!--_adj._
denoting the part of the field to the left of a right-handed batter, and to
the right of the bowler--opp. to _Off._ [A.S. _on_; Dut. _aan_, Ice. _á_,
Ger. _an_.]

ON, on, _prep._ (_Scot._) without.

ONAGER, on'[=a]-j[.e]r, _n._ the wild ass of Central Asia. [L.,--Gr.
_onagros_--_onos_, an ass, _agros_, wild.]

ONANISM, [=o]'nan-izm, _n._ self-pollution.--_n._ O'NANIST.--_adj._
ONANIST'IC. [See Gen. xxxviii. 9.]

ONCE, ons, _n._ Same as OUNCE, the animal.

ONCE, wuns, _adv._ a single time: at a former time: at any time or
circumstances.--_n._ one time.--ONCE AND AGAIN, more than once: repeatedly;
ONCE FOR ALL, once only and not again; ONCE IN A WAY, on one occasion only:
very rarely.--AT ONCE, without delay: alike: at the same time; FOR ONCE, on
one occasion only. [A.S. _ánes_, orig. gen. of _án_, one, used as adv.]

ONCIDIUM, on-sid'i-um, _n._ a widely-spread American genus of orchids. [Gr.
_ogkos_, a hook.]

ONCOLOGY, ong-kol'o-ji, _n._ the science of tumours.--_n._ ONCOT'OMY,
incision into, or excision of, a tumour.

ONCOME, on'kum, _n._ (_prov._) a sudden fall of rain or snow: the beginning
of attack by some insidious disease.--_n._ ON'COMING, approach.

ONCOMETER, ong-com'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for recording variations in
volume, as of the kidney, &c.--_n._ ON'COGRAPH, an apparatus for recording
such. [Gr. _ogkos_, bulk, _metron_, measure.]

ONCOST, on'kost, _n._ all charges for labour in getting mineral, other than
the miners' wages: payment to the collier in addition to the rate per
ton.--_n.pl._ ON'COSTMEN, men who work in or about a mine at other work
than cutting coal. [_On_ and _cost_.]

ONDINE, on'din, _n._ a water-spirit, an undine.

ONDING, on'ding, _n._ a sudden fall of rain or snow.

ONE, wun, _pron._ a person (indefinitely), as in 'one says:' any one: some
one.--_n._ a single person or thing: a unit. [A special use of the numeral
_one_; not conn. with Fr. _on_--L. _homo_, a man.]

ONE, wun, _adj._ single in number, position, or kind: undivided: the same:
a certain, some, implying a name unknown or denoting insignificance or
contempt, as '_one_ Guy Fawkes, a Spaniard!'--_adjs._ ONE'-EYED, having but
one eye: limited in vision; ONE'-HAND'ED, single-handed; ONE'-HORSE, drawn
by a single horse: petty, mean, inferior; ONE'-IDEA'D, entirely possessed
by one idea.--_ns._ ONE'NESS, singleness, unity; ONER (wun'[.e]r), one
possessing some special skill, an adept (_slang_).--_pron._ ONESELF', one's
self: himself or herself.--_adj._ ONE'-SID'ED, limited to one side:
partial: (_bot._) turned to one side.--_adv._ ONE'-SID'EDLY.--_n._
ONE'-SID'EDNESS.--ONE ANOTHER, each other; ONE BY ONE, singly: in order;
ONE DAY, on a certain day: at an indefinite time.--ALL ONE, just the same:
of no consequence; AT ONE, of one mind. [A.S. _an_; Ice. _einn_, Ger.
_ein_.]

ONEIROMANCY, [=o]-n[=i]'r[=o]-man-si, _n._ the art of divining by
dreams.--_ns._ ONEIROCRIT'IC, ONIROCRIT'IC, one who interprets
dreams.--_adjs._ ONEIROCRIT'IC, -AL.--_ns._ ONEIRODYN'IA, nightmare;
ONEIROL'OGY, the doctrine of dreams; ONEI'ROSCOPIST, an interpreter of
dreams. [Gr. _oneiros_, a dream, _manteia_, divination.]

ONELY, [=o]n'li, _adv._ (_Spens._) only.

ONEROUS, on'[.e]r-us, _adj._ burdensome: oppressive.--_adj._ ON'ERARY,
fitted or intended for carrying burdens: comprising burdens.--_adv._
ON'EROUSLY.--_n._ ON'EROUSNESS. [L. _onerosus_--_onus_.]

ONEYER, wun'y[.e]r, _n._ (1 _Hen. IV._, II. i. 84) probably a person that
converses with great ones--hardly, as Malone explains, an accountant of the
exchequer, a banker. [No doubt formed from _one_, like law_yer_, saw_yer_,
&c. Malone over-ingeniously refers to the mark _o.ni._, an abbreviation of
the Latin form _oneretur, nisi habeat sufficientem exonerationem_ ('let him
be charged unless he have a sufficient discharge'), or explains as a
misprint for _moneyer_.]

ONGOING, on'g[=o]-ing, _n._ a going on: course of conduct: event: (_pl._)
proceedings, behaviour.

ONICOLO, [=o]-nik'[=o]-l[=o], _n._ a variety of onyx for cameos, a
bluish-white band on the dark ground. [It.]

ONION, un'yun, _n._ the name given to a few species of genus _Allium_, esp.
_Allium cepa_, an edible biennial bulbous root.--_adj._ ON'ION-EYED
(_Shak._), having the eyes full of tears.--_n._ ON'ION-SKIN, a very thin
variety of paper.--_adj._ ON'IONY. [Fr. _oignon_--L. _unio_,
_-onis_--_unus_, one.]

ONLOOKER, on'l[=oo]k-[.e]r, _n._ a looker on, observer.--_adj._ ON'LOOKING.

ONLY, [=o]n'li, _adj._ single in number or kind: this above all others:
alone.--_adv._ in one manner: for one purpose: singly: merely: barely:
entirely.--_conj._ but: except that.--_n._ ON'LINESS. [A.S. _ánlíc_
(adj.)--_án_, one, _líc_, like.]

ONOCENTAUR, on-o-sen'tawr, _n._ a kind of centaur, half-man, half-ass.

ONOCLEA, on-[=o]-kl[=e]'a, _n._ a genus of aspidioid ferns, with contracted
fertile fronds. [Gr. _onos_, a vessel, _kleiein_, to close.]

ONOLOGY, [=o]-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ foolish talk.

ONOMANTIC, on-[=o]-man'tik, _adj._ pertaining to ON'OMANCY or (_obs._)
ONOMAT'OMANCY, divination by names. [Gr. _onoma_, a name, _manteia_,
divination.]

ONOMASTIC, on-[=o]-mas'tik, _adj._ pertaining to a name, esp. pertaining to
the signature to a paper written in another hand.--_n._ ONOMAS'TICON, a
list of words: a vocabulary. [Gr., from _onoma_, a name.]

ONOMATOLOGY, on-[=o]-ma-tol'o-ji, _n._ the science of, or a treatise on,
the derivation of names.--_n._ ONOMATOL'OGIST, one versed in such. [Gr.
_onoma_, _onomatos_, name, _logia_--_legein_, to discourse.]

ONOMATOPOEIA, on-[=o]-mat-o-p[=e]'ya, _n._ the formation of a word so as to
resemble the sound of the thing of which it is the name: such a word
itself, also the use of such a word, as 'click,' 'cuckoo'--also
ONOMATOPO[=E]'SIS, or ONOMATOPOI[=E]'SIS.--_adjs._ ONOMATOPOE'IC,
ONOMATOPOET'IC. [Gr. _onoma_, _-atos_, a name, _poiein_, to make.]

ONSET, on'set, _n._ violent attack: assault: storming. [_On_ and _set_.]

ONSHORE, on'sh[=o]r, _adj._ toward the land.

ONSLAUGHT, on'slawt, _n._ an attack or onset: assault. [A.S. _on_, on,
_sleaht_, a stroke.]

ONST, wunst, _adv._ a vulgar form of _once_.

ONSTEAD, on'sted, _n._ (_Scot._) a farmstead, the farm buildings. [M. E.
_wone_--A.S. _wunian_, to dwell, _stead_, place.]

ONTOGENESIS, on-t[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ the history of the individual
development of an organised being as distinguished from _phylogenesis_ and
_biogenesis_--also ONTOG'ENY.--_adjs._ ONTOGENET'IC, -AL,
ONTOGEN'IC.--_adv._ ONTOGENET'ICALLY. [Gr. _onta_, things being, neut. pl.
of _[=o]n_, pr.p. of _einai_, to be, _genesis_, generation.]

ONTOLOGY, on-tol'o-ji, _n._ the science that treats of the principles of
pure being: that part of metaphysics which treats of the nature and essence
of things.--_adjs._ ONTOLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._ ONTOLOG'ICALLY.--_n._
ONTOL'OGIST, one versed in ontology. [Gr. _[=o]n_, _ontos_, being pr.p. of
_einai_, to be, _logia_--_legein_, to discourse.]

ONUS, [=o]'nus, _n._ burden: responsibility.--ONUS PROBAND[=I], the burden
of proving. [L. _onus_, burden.]

ONWARD, on'ward, _adj._ going on: advancing: advanced.--_adv._ (also
ON'WARDS) toward a point on or in front: forward.

ONYM, on'im, _n._ (_zool._) the technical name of a species or other
group.--_adjs._ ON'YMAL, ONYMAT'IC.--_v.i._ ON'YMISE.--_n._ ON'YMY, the use
of onyms.

ONYX, on'iks, _n._ (_min._) an agate formed of layers of chalcedony of
different colours, used for making cameos.--_ns._ ONYCH'IA, suppurative
inflammation near the finger-nail; ONYCH[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the soft
parts about the nail; ONYCH'IUM, a little claw; ON'YCHOMANCY, divination by
means of the finger-nails; ONYCHON[=O]'SOS, disease of the nails.--_adj._
ONYCHOPATH'IC, affected with such.--_n._ ONYCH[=O]'SIS, disease of the
nails. [L.,--Gr. _onyx_, _onychos_, a finger-nail.]

OODLES, [=oo]'dlz, _n._ (_U.S._) abundance.--Also OOD'LINS.

OOF, [=oo]f, _n._ (_slang_) money.

OÖGENESIS, [=o]-[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ the genesis and development of the
ovum--also OÖG'ENY.--_adj._ OÖGENET'IC.

OÖIDAL, [=o]-oi'dal, _adj._ egg-shaped.

OÖLITE, [=o]'o-l[=i]t, _n._ (_geol._) a kind of limestone, composed of
grains like the eggs or roe of a fish.--_adjs._ OÖLIT'IC; OÖLITIF'EROUS.
[Gr. _[=o]on_, an egg, _lithos_, stone.]

OÖLOGY, [=o]-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science or study of birds' eggs.--_n._
O'ÖGRAPH, a mechanical device for drawing the outline of a bird's
egg.--_adjs._ OÖLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._ OÖLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ OÖL'OGIST, one
versed in oology; OÖM'ETER, an apparatus for measuring eggs.--_adj._
OÖMET'RIC.--_n._ OÖM'ETRY, the measurement of eggs. [Gr. _[=o]on_, an egg.]

OOLONG, [=oo]'long, _n._ a variety of black tea, with the flavour of
green.--Also OU'LONG.

OORIE, OURIE, [=oo]'ri, _adj._ (_Scot._) feeling cold or chill, shivering.

OOZE, [=oo]z, _n._ soft mud: gentle flow, as of water through sand or
earth: a kind of mud in the bottom of the ocean: the liquor of a tan
vat.--_v.i._ to flow gently: to percolate, as a liquid through pores or
small openings.--_adj._ OOZ'Y, resembling ooze: slimy. [M. E. _wose_--A.S.
_wase_, mud; akin to A.S. _wos_, juice, Ice. _vas_, moisture.]

OPACITY, [=o]-pas'i-ti, _n._ opaqueness: obscurity.

OPACOUS, [=o]-p[=a]'kus, _adj._ Same as OPAQUE.

OPAH, [=o]'pa, _n._ a sea-fish of the Dory family--also called _Kingfish_.

OPAL, [=o]'pal, _n._ a precious stone of a milky hue, remarkable for its
changing colours.--_n._ OPALESC'ENCE.--_adjs._ OPALESC'ENT, reflecting a
milky or pearly light from the interior; O'PALINE, relating to, or like,
opal.--_v.t._ O'PALISE. [Fr. _opale_--L. _opalus_.]

OPAQUE, [=o]-p[=a]k', _adj._ shady: dark: that cannot be seen through: not
transparent.--_adv._ OPAQUE'LY.--_n._ OPAQUE'NESS, quality of being opaque:
want of transparency. [Fr.,--L. _opacus_.]

OPE, [=o]p, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_poet._) short for _open_.

OPEIDOCOPE, [=o]-p[=i]'d[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for illustrating
sound by means of light.

OPEN, [=o]'pn, _adj._ not shut: allowing one to pass out or in: free from
trees: not fenced: not drawn together: spread out: not frozen up: not
frosty: free to be used, &c.: public: without reserve: frank: easily
understood: generous: liberal: clear: unbalanced, as an account: attentive:
free to be discussed.--_v.t._ to make open: to remove hinderances: to bring
to view: to explain: to begin.--_v.i._ to become open: to unclose: to be
unclosed: to begin to appear: to begin.--_n._ a clear space.--_n._
O'PENER.--_adjs._ O'PEN-EYED (_Shak._), watchful; O'PEN-HAND'ED, with an
open hand: generous: liberal.--_n._ O'PEN-HAND'EDNESS.--_adj._
O'PEN-HEART'ED, with an open heart: frank: generous.--_ns._
O'PEN-HEART'EDNESS, liberality: generosity: frankness: candour; O'PENING,
an open place: a breach: an aperture: beginning: first appearance:
opportunity.--_adv._ O'PENLY.--_adj._ O'PEN-MIND'ED, free from prejudice:
ready to receive and consider new ideas.--_n._ O'PEN-MIND'EDNESS.--_adj._
O'PEN-MOUTHED, gaping: greedy: clamorous.--_ns._ O'PENNESS; O'PEN-SES'AME,
a form of words which makes barriers fly open--from the story of Ali Baba
and the Forty Thieves in the _Arabian Nights' Entertainments_; O'PEN-STEEK
(_Scot._), a kind of open-work stitching; O'PEN-WORK, any work showing
openings through it for ornament.--_adj._ open-cast, of mining work in open
air.--OPEN VERDICT (see VERDICT). [A.S. _open_--_up_, up; cf. Dut.
_open_--_op_, Ice. _opinn_--_upp_, and Ger. _offen_--_auf_.]

OPERA, op'[.e]r-a, _n._ a musical drama: a place where operas are
performed.--_adj._ used in or for an opera, as an _opera_-glass, &c.--_ns._
OP'ERA-CLOAK, a cloak of elegant form and material for carrying into the
auditorium of a theatre or opera-house as a protection against draughts;
OP'ERA-DANC'ER, one who dances in ballets introduced into operas;
OP'ERA-GLASS, a small glass or telescope for use at operas, theatres, &c.;
OP'ERA-HAT, a hat which can be made flat by compression and expanded again
to its full size; OP'ERA-HOUSE, a theatre where operas are represented;
OP'ERA-SING'ER.--_adjs._ OPERAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to or resembling the
opera. [It.,--L. _opera_. Cf. _Operate_.]

OPERA-BOUFFE, op'[.e]r-a-b[=oo]f, _n._ a comic opera. [Fr.,--It.
_opera-buffa_. Cf. _Buffoon_.]

OPERATE, op'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.i._ to work: to exert strength: to produce any
effect: to exert moral power: (_med._) to take effect upon the human
system: (_surg._) to perform some unusual act upon the body with the hand
or an instrument.--_v.t._ to effect: to produce by agency.--_n._
OPERAM'ETER, an instrument for indicating the number of movements made by a
part of a machine.--_adj._ OP'ERANT, operative.--_n._ an operator.--_n._
OPER[=A]'TION, art or process of operating, or of being at work: that which
is done or carried out: agency: influence: method of working: action or
movements: surgical performance.--_adj._ OP'ER[=A]TIVE, having the power of
operating or acting: exerting force: producing effects: efficacious.--_n._
a workman in a manufactory: a labourer.--_adv._ OP'ER[=A]TIVELY.--_ns._
OP'ER[=A]TIVENESS; OP'ER[=A]TOR, one who, or that which, operates or
produces an effect: (_math._) a letter, &c., signifying an operation to be
performed. [L. _oper[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_opera_, work, closely conn. with
_opus_, _operis_, work.]

OPERCULUM, [=o]-p[.e]r'k[=u]-lum, _n._ (_bot._) a cover or lid: (_zool._)
the plate over the entrance of a shell: the apparatus which protects the
gills of fishes:--_pl._ OPER'CULA.--_adjs._ OPER'CULAR, belonging to the
operculum; OPER'CULATE, -D, having an operculum; OPERCULIF'EROUS;
OPER'CULIFORM; OPERCULIG'ENOUS; OPERCULIG'EROUS. [L.,--_oper[=i]re_, to
cover.]

OPERETTA, op-[.e]r-et'a, _n._ a short, light musical drama. [It., dim. of
_opera_.]

OPEROSE, op'[.e]r-[=o]z, _adj._ laborious: tedious.--_adv._
OP'EROSELY.--_ns._ OP'EROSENESS, OPEROS'ITY.

OPHICLEIDE, of'i-kl[=i]d, _n._ a large bass trumpet, with a deep pitch.
[Fr.; coined from Gr. _ophis_, a serpent, _kleis_, _kleidos_, a key.]

OPHIDIAN, o-fid'i-an, _n._ one of the true serpents, in which the ribs are
the only organs of locomotion.--_adjs._ OPHID'IAN, OPHID'IOUS, pertaining
to serpents: having the nature of a serpent.--_ns._ OPHIDI[=A]'RIUM, a
place where serpents are confined; OPHIOG'RAPHY, the description of
serpents; OPHIOL'ATER, a serpent-worshipper.--_adj._ OPHIOL'ATROUS.--_n._
OPHIOL'ATRY, serpent-worship.--_adjs._ OPHIOLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._
OPHIOL'OGIST, one versed in ophiology; OPHIOL'OGY, the study of serpents;
OPH'IOMANCY, divination by serpents.--_adjs._ OPHIOMOR'PHIC,
OPHIOMOR'PHOUS, having the form of a serpent; OPHIOPH'AGOUS, feeding on
serpents.--_n._ OPH'ITE, one of a Gnostic sect who worshipped the serpent.
[Gr. _ophidion_, dim. of _ophis_, _ophe[=o]s_, a serpent.]

OPHIURA, of-i-[=u]'ra, _n._ a genus of sand-stars.--_ns._ and _adjs._
OPHI[=U]'RAN; OPHI[=U]'ROID. [Gr. _ophis_, serpent, _oura_, tail.]

OPHTHALMIA, of-thal'mi-a, _n._ inflammation of the eye--also
OPHTHAL'MY.--_adj._ OPHTHAL'MIC, pertaining to the eye.--_ns._
OPHTHAL'MIST, OPHTHALMOL'OGIST, one skilled in ophthalmology;
OPHTHALM[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the eyeball; OPHTHALMODYN'IA, pain, esp.
rheumatic pain, of the eye; OPHTHALMOG'RAPHY, a description of the
eye.--_adjs._ OPHTHALMOLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._ OPHTHALMOL'OGY, the science of
the eye, its structure and functions; OPHTHALMOM'ETER, an instrument for
eye-measurements; OPHTHALMOM'ETRY, the making of such; OPHTHALMOPL[=E]'GIA,
paralysis of one or more of the muscles of the eye; OPHTHAL'MOSCOPE, an
instrument for examining the interior of the eye.--_adjs._
OPHTHALMOSCOP'IC, -AL.--_adv._ OPHTHALMOSCOP'ICALLY.--_ns._
OPHTHAL'MOSCOPY, examination of the interior of the eye with the
ophthalmoscope; OPHTHALMOT'OMY, dissection of the eye: an incision into the
eye. [Gr.,--_ophthalmos_, eye.]

OPIATE, [=o]'pi-[=a]t, _n._ a drug containing opium to induce sleep: that
which dulls sensation, physical or mental.--_adj._ inducing sleep.--_adj._
O'PIATED.

OPINE, o-p[=i]n', _v.i._ to suppose.--_adj._ OPIN'ABLE, capable of being
thought.--_ns._ OP[=I]'NANT, one who forms an opinion; OPIN'ICUS (_her._),
a half-lion, half-dragon. [Fr.,--L. _opin[=a]ri_, to think.]

OPINION, [=o]-pin'yun, _n._ one's belief, judgment: favourable estimation:
(_Shak._) opinionativeness.--_adjs._ OPIN'IONABLE, that may be matter of
opinion; OPIN'ION[=A]TED, OPIN'IONED, firmly adhering to one's own
opinions.--_adv._ OPIN'ION[=A]TELY (_obs._).--_adj._ OPIN'ION[=A]TIVE,
unduly attached to one's own opinions: stubborn.--_adv._
OPIN'ION[=A]TIVELY.--_ns._ OPIN'ION[=A]TIVENESS; OPIN'IONIST. [L.]

OPISOMETER, op-i-som'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring curved
lines on a map. [Gr. _opis[=o]_, backward, _metron_, measure.]

OPISTHOBRANCHIATE, [=o]-pis-th[=o]-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having the gills
behind the heart--_n._ OPISTHOBRANCH'ISM.

OPISTHOCOELIAN, [=o]-pis-th[=o]-s[=e]'li-an, _adj._ hollow or concave
behind, as a vertebra.--Also OPISTHOCOE'LOUS.

OPISTHOCOMOUS, op-is-thok'[=o]-mus, _adj._ having an occipital crest.

OPISTHODOMOS, op-is-thod'[=o]-mos, _n._ a rear-chamber or treasury at the
back of the cella in some temples. [Gr.]

OPISTHODONT, [=o]-pis'th[=o]-dont, _adj._ having back teeth only.

OPISTHOGASTRIC, [=o]-pis-th[=o]-gas'trik, _adj._ behind the stomach.

OPISTHOGNATHOUS, op-is-thog'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ having retreating jaws or
teeth.

OPISTHOGRAPH, [=o]-pis'th[=o]-graf, _n._ a manuscript or a slab inscribed
on the back as well as the front.--_adj._ OPISTHOGRAPH'IC, written on both
sides.--_n._ OPISTHOG'RAPHY.

OPIUM, [=o]'pi-um, _n._ the narcotic juice of the white poppy.--_n._
O'PIUM-EAT'ER, one who makes a habitual use of opium. [L.,--Gr. _opion_,
dim. from _opos_, sap.]

OPOBALSAM, op-[=o]-bal'sam, _n._ a resinous juice, balm of Gilead.

OPODELDOC, op-[=o]-del'dok, _n._ a solution of soap in alcohol, with
camphor and essential oils, soap-liniment. [Fr., perh. from Gr. _opos_,
juice.]

OPOPANAX, [=o]-pop'a-naks, _n._ a gum-resin used in perfumery and formerly
in medicine. [Gr., opos, juice, _panax_, a plant, _panak[=e]s_,
all-healing.]

OPORICE, [=o]-por'i-s[=e], _n._ a medicine prepared from quinces,
pomegranates, &c.

OPOSSUM, o-pos'um, _n._ a small American marsupial mammal, nocturnal,
mainly arboreal, with prehensile tail: an Australian marsupial. [West
Indian.]

OPPIDAN, op'i-dan, _n._ at Eton, a student who is not a foundationer or
colleger. [L. _oppidanus_--_oppidum_, town.]

OPPILATION, op-i-l[=a]'shun, _n._ stoppage.--_v.t._ OPP'ILATE, to crowd
together.--_adj._ OPP'IL[=A]TIVE, obstructive. [L.]

OPPONENT, [=o]-p[=o]'nent, _adj._ opposing in action, speech, &c.: placed
in front.--_n._ one who opposes.

OPPORTUNE, op-or-t[=u]n', _adj._ present at a proper time: timely:
convenient.--_adv._ OPPORTUNE'LY.--_ns._ OPPORTUNE'NESS; OPPORTUN'ISM,
practice of regulating principles by favourable opportunities without
regard to consistency; OPPORTUN'IST, a politician who waits for events
before declaring his opinions: a person without settled principles;
OPPORTUN'ITY, an opportune or convenient time: a good occasion or chance.
[Fr.,--L. _opportunus_--_ob_, before, _portus_, a harbour.]

OPPOSE, o-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to place before or in the way of: to set against:
to place as an obstacle: to resist: to check: to compete with.--_v.i._ to
make objection.--_n._ OPPOSABIL'ITY.--_adjs._ OPPOS'ABLE, that may be
opposed; OPPOSE'LESS (_Shak._), not to be opposed, irresistible.--_n._
OPPOS'ER, one who opposes.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ OPPOS'IT, to negative.
[Fr.,--L. _ob_, Fr. _poser_, to place.]

OPPOSITE, op'[=o]-zit, _adj._ placed over against: standing in front:
situated on opposite sides: contrasted with: opposed to: of an entirely
different nature.--_n._ that which is opposed or contrary: an
opponent.--_adv._ OPP'OSITELY.--_n._ OPP'OSITENESS.--BE OPPOSITE WITH
(_Shak._), to be perverse and contradictory in dealing with. [Fr.,--L.
_oppositus_--_ob_, against, _pon[)e]re_, _positum_, to place.]

OPPOSITION, op-[=o]-zish'un, _n._ state of being placed over against:
position over against: repugnance: contrariety: contrast: act or action of
opposing: resistance: that which opposes: obstacle: (_logic_) a difference
of quantity or quality between two propositions having the same subject and
predicate: the party that opposes the ministry or existing administration:
(_astron._) the situation of heavenly bodies when 180 degrees apart.--_n._
OPPOSI'TIONIST, one who belongs to an opposing party, esp. that opposed to
the government. [_Opposite._]

OPPRESS, o-pres', _v.t._ to press against or upon: to use severely: to
burden: to lie heavy upon: to constrain: to overpower: to treat unjustly:
to load with heavy burdens.--_n._ OPPRESS'ION, act of oppressing or
treating unjustly or harshly: severity: cruelty: state of being oppressed:
misery: hardship: injustice: dullness of spirits: (_Shak._)
pressure.--_adj._ OPPRESS'IVE, tending to oppress: overburdensome: treating
with severity or injustice: heavy: overpowering: difficult to bear.--_adv._
OPPRESS'IVELY.--_ns._ OPPRESS'IVENESS; OPPRESS'OR, one who oppresses.
[Fr.,--L. _opprim[)e]re_, _oppressum_--_ob_, against, _prem[)e]re_, to
press.]

OPPROBRIOUS, o-pr[=o]'bri-us, _adj._ expressive of opprobrium or disgrace:
reproachful: infamous: despised.--_adv._ OPPR[=O]'BRIOUSLY.--_ns._
OPPR[=O]'BRIOUSNESS; OPPR[=O]'BRIUM, reproach expressing contempt or
disdain: disgrace: infamy. [L.,--_ob_, against, _probrum_, reproach.]

OPPUGN, o-p[=u]n', _v.t._ to fight against, esp. by argument: to oppose: to
resist.--_n._ OPPUGN'ER. [Fr.,--L. _oppugn[=a]re_, to fight against--_ob_,
against, _pugna_, a fight.]

OPPUGNANCY, o-pug'nan-si, _n._ (_Shak._) opposition, resistance.--_adj._
OPPUG'NANT, opposing: hostile.--_n._ an opponent. [L. _oppugnans_,
_-antis_, _pr.p._ of _oppugn[=a]re_.]

OPSIMATHY, op-sim'a-thi, _n._ learning obtained late in life.
[Gr.,--_opse_, late, _mathein_, to learn.]

OPSIOMETER, op-si-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an optometer.

OPSONIUM, op-s[=o]'ni-um, _n._ anything eaten with bread as a relish, esp.
fish.--_ns._ OPSOM[=A]'NIA, any morbid love for some special kind of food;
OPSOM[=A]'NIAC, one who manifests the foregoing. [Gr.
_ops[=o]nion_--_opson_, strictly boiled meat, any relish.]

OPTATIVE, op'ta-tiv, or op-t[=a]'tiv, _adj._ expressing desire or
wish.--_n._ (_gram._) a mood of the verb expressing wish.--_adv._
OP'TATIVELY. [L. _optativus_--_opt[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to wish.]

OPTIC, -AL, op'tik, -al, _adj._ relating to sight, or to optics.--_n._
OP'TIC (_Pope_), an organ of sight: an eye.--_adv._ OP'TICALLY.--_ns._
OPTIC'IAN, one skilled in optics: one who makes or sells optical
instruments; OP'TICS (_sing._), the science of the nature and laws of
vision and light; OPTIM'ETER, OPTOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the
refractive powers of the eye; OPTOM'ETRY, the measurement of the visual
powers.--OPTIC AXIS, the axis of the eye--that is, a line going through the
middle of the pupil and the centre of the eye. [Fr. _optique_--Gr.
_optikos_.]

OPTIME, op'ti-m[=e], _n._ in the university of Cambridge, one of those in
the second or third rank of honours (_senior_ and _junior optimes_
respectively), next to the wranglers.--_n.pl._ OPTIM[=A]'TES, the Roman
aristocracy. [L. _optimus_, best.]

OPTIMISM, op'ti-mizm, _n._ the doctrine that everything is ordered for the
best: a disposition to take a hopeful view of things--opp. to
_Pessimism_.--_v.i._ OP'TIMISE, to take the most hopeful view of
anything.--_n._ OP'TIMIST, one who holds that everything is ordered for the
best.--_adj._ OPTIMIST'IC.--_adv._ OPTIMIST'ICALLY.--_n._ OP'TIMUM
(_bot._), that point of temperature at which metabolic--i.e. vegetative and
fructificative processes are best carried on. [L. _optimus_, best.]

OPTION, op'shun, _n._ act of choosing: power of choosing or wishing:
wish.--_adj._ OP'TIONAL, left to one's option or choice.--_adv._
OP'TIONALLY.--_n._ OP'TIONS, a mode of speculating, chiefly in stocks and
shares, which is intended to limit the speculator's risk. It consists in
paying a sum down for the right to _put_ (make delivery) or _call_ (call
for delivery) a given amount of stock at a fixed future date, the price
also being fixed at the time the contract is entered into.--LOCAL OPTION
(see LOCAL). [L. _optio_, _optionis_--_opt[=a]re_, to choose.]

OPTOMETER, OPTOMETRY. See OPTIC.

OPULENT, op'[=u]-lent, _adj._ wealthy.--_n._ OP'ULENCE, means: riches:
wealth.--_adv._ OP'ULENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _op-ulentus_.]

OPUNTIA, [=o]-pun'shi-a, _n._ a genus of cacti.

OPUS, [=o]'pus, _n._ work, a work.--OPUS MAGNUM, the great work of one's
life; OPUS OPERANTIS (_theol._), the effect of a sacrament ascribed
chiefly, if not exclusively, to the spiritual disposition of the recipient,
the grace flowing _ex opere operantis_--the Protestant view; OPUS OPERATUM,
the due celebration of a sacrament necessarily involving the grace of the
sacrament, which flows _ex opere operato_ from the sacramental act
performed independent of the merit of him who administers it--the R.C.
view.

OPUSCULE, [=o]-pus'k[=u]l, _n._ a little work.--Also OPUS'CLE, OPUS'CULUM.
[L. _opusculum_, dim. of _opus_, work.]

OR, or, _adv._ ere, before. [_Ere._]

OR, or, _conj._ marking an alternative, and sometimes opposition [short for
_other_, modern Eng. _either_].--_prep._ (_B._) before. [In this sense a
corr. of _ere_.]

OR, or, _n._ (_her._) gold. [Fr.,--L. _aurum_, gold.]

ORACH, ORACHE, or'ach, _n._ one of several European plants used as spinach.
[Fr. _arroche_.]

ORACLE, or'a-kl, _n._ the answer spoken or uttered by the gods: the place
where responses were given, and the deities supposed to give them: a person
famed for wisdom: a wise decision: (_B._) the sanctuary: (_pl._) the
revelations made to the prophets: the word of God.--_adj._ ORAC'ULAR,
delivering oracles: resembling oracles: grave: venerable: not to be
disputed: ambiguous: obscure--also ORAC'ULOUS.--_ns._ ORACULAR'ITY,
ORAC'ULARNESS.--_adv._ ORAC'ULARLY. [Fr.,--L. _ora-culum_, double dim. from
_or[=a]re_, to speak--_os_, _oris_, the mouth.]

ORAGIOUS, [=o]-r[=a]'jus, _adj._ stormy. [Fr.]

ORAISON, or'i-zun, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as ORISON.

ORAL, [=o]'ral, _adj._ uttered by the mouth: spoken, not written.--_adv._
O'RALLY. [L. _os_, _oris_, the mouth.]

ORALE, or-[=a]'le, _n._ a white silk veil, with coloured stripes, sometimes
worn by the Pope.

ORANG, [=o]-rang', _n._ See ORANG-OUTANG.

ORANGE, or'anj, _n._ a delightful gold-coloured fruit with a thick, rough
skin, within which are usually from eight to ten juicy divisions: the tree
on which it grows: a colour composed of red and yellow.--_adj._ pertaining
to an orange: orange-coloured.--_ns._ ORANGE[=A]DE', a drink made with
orange juice; OR'ANGE-BLOSS'OM, the white blossom of the orange-tree, worn
by brides.--_adj._ OR'ANGE-COL'OURED, having the colour of an
orange.--_ns._ OR'ANGE-LIL'Y, a garden-plant with large orange flowers;
OR'ANGE-PEEL, the rind of an orange separated from the pulp; OR'ANGERY, a
plantation of orange-trees: an orange-garden.--_adj._ OR'ANGE-TAW'NY
(_Shak._), of a colour between orange and brown.--_n._ the colour
itself.--_n._ OR'ANGE-WIFE (_Shak._), a woman who sells oranges. [Fr.,--It.
_arancio_--Pers. _naranj_, the _n_ being dropped; it was thought to come
from L. _aurum_, gold, hence Low L. _aurantium_.]

ORANGEMAN, or'anj-man, _n._ a member of a society instituted in Ireland in
1795 to uphold Protestantism, or the cause of William of _Orange_--a secret
society since its formal suppression in 1835 after a protracted
parliamentary inquiry.--_adj._ OR'ANGE.--_n._ OR'ANGEISM. [From the
principality of _Orange_ (L. _Arausio_), near Avignon, ruled by its own
sovereigns from the 11th to the 16th century, passing by the last heiress
in 1531 to the Count of Nassau, father of William the Silent.]

ORANG-OUTANG, [=o]-rang'-[=oo]-tang', _n._ an anthropoid ape, found only in
the forests of Sumatra and Borneo, reddish-brown, arboreal in habit.--Also
ORANG' and ORANG'-UTAN'. [Malay, 'man of the woods.']

ORANT, [=o]'rant, _n._ a worshipping figure in ancient Greek and early
Christian art.

ORARIAN, [=o]-r[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the coast. [L. _ora_, the
shore.]

ORARION, [=o]-r[=a]'ri-on, _n._ a deacon's stole in the Eastern Church.

ORARIUM, [=o]-r[=a]'ri-um, _n._ a linen neckcloth or handkerchief: a scarf
attached to a bishop's staff. [L. _os_, _oris_, the mouth.]

ORARIUM, [=o]-r[=a]'ri-um, _n._ a collection of private devotions. [L.
_or[=a]re_, to pray.]

ORATION, [=o]-r[=a]'shun, _n._ a public speech of a formal character: an
eloquent speech.--_n._ ORATIUN'CLE, a brief speech. [Fr.,--L.
_oratio_--_or[=a]re_, to pray.]

ORATOR, or'a-tor, _n._ a public speaker: a man of eloquence: a spokesman or
advocate:--_fem._ OR'ATRESS, OR'ATRIX.--_v.i._ OR'[=A]TE, to deliver an
oration.--_adjs._ ORAT[=O]'RIAL; ORATOR'ICAL, pertaining to oratory:
becoming an orator.--_adv._ ORATOR'ICALLY.--_n._ OR'ATORY, the art of
speaking well, or so as to please and persuade, esp. publicly: the exercise
of eloquence: an apartment or building for private worship: one of various
congregations in the R.C. Church, esp. the Fathers of the Oratory,
established by St Philip Neri (1515-95): a religious house of theirs.

ORATORIO, or-a-t[=o]'ri-[=o], _n._ a sacred story set to music, which, as
in the opera, requires soloists, chorus, and full orchestra for its
performance, the theatrical adjuncts, however, of scenery, costumes, and
acting bring dispensed with. [It., so called because first performed in the
_Oratory_ of the Church of Santa Maria Maggiore, near Rome, under the care
of St Philip Neri (1571-94).]

ORB, orb, _adj._ (_obs._) bereft, esp. of children. [L. _orbus_.]

ORB, orb, _n._ a circle: a sphere: a celestial body: a wheel: any rolling
body: the eye: (_archit._) a blank window or panel: the globe forming part
of regalia, the monde or mound: the space within which the astrological
influence of a planet operates.--_v.t._ to surround: to form into an
orb.--_adjs._ OR'BATE; ORBED, in the form of an orb; circular; ORBIC'ULAR,
having the form of an orb or sphere: spherical: round.--_n._
ORBICUL[=A]'RIS, a muscle surrounding an opening.--_adv._
ORBIC'ULARLY.--_n._ ORBIC'ULARNESS.--_adjs._ ORBIC'ULATE, -D, made in the
form of an orb.--_n._ ORBICUL[=A]'TION.--_adj._ OR'BY, orbed. [L. _orbis_,
circle.]

ORBILIUS, or-bil'i-us, _n._ a flogging schoolmaster--from Horace's master.

ORBIT, or'bit, _n._ the path in which one of the heavenly bodies, as a
planet, moves round another, as the sun: the hollow in the bone in which
the eyeball rests--also OR'BITA: the skin round the eye.--_adjs._ OR'BITAL,
OR'BITARY. [L. _orbita_--_orbis_, a ring.]

ORC, ork, _n._ any whale, the grampus. [L. _orca_.]

ORCADIAN, or-k[=a]'di-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the Orkney
Islands.--_n._ an inhabitant or a native of the Orkneys. [L. _Orcades_.]

ORCHARD, or'chard, _n._ a garden of fruit-trees, esp. of apple-trees, also
the enclosure containing such.--_ns._ OR'CHARD-HOUSE, a glass house for
cultivating fruits without artificial heat; OR'CHARDING; OR'CHARDIST. [A.S.
_orceard_--older form _ort-geard_.]

ORCHELLA-WEED=_Archil_ (q. v.).

ORCHEOCELE, or-ke-o-s[=e]l', _n._ a tumour or inflammation of the
testicle.--_ns._ ORCHIAL'GIA, pain, esp. neuralgia, in a testicle;
ORCHIDEC'TOMY, ORCHOT'OMY, the excision of a testicle; ORCHIODYN'IA, pain
in a testicle; ORCH[=I]'TIS, inflammation of a testicle.--_adj._ ORCHIT'IC.
[Gr. _orchis_, a testicle, _k[=e]l[=e]_, a tumour.]

ORCHESTRA, or'kes-tra, _n._ in the Greek theatre, the place where the
chorus danced: now the part of a theatre or concert-room in which the
musicians are placed: the performers in an orchestra.--_ns._ ORCH[=E]'SIS,
the art of dancing or rhythmical movement of the body; ORCHESOG'RAPHY, the
theory of dancing.--_adjs._ OR'CHESTRAL, ORCHES'TRIC, of or pertaining to
an orchestra: performed in an orchestra.--_v.t._ OR'CHESTR[=A]TE, to
arrange for an orchestra.--_ns._ ORCHESTR[=A]'TION, the arrangement of
music for an orchestra: instrumentation; ORCHES'TRION, a musical instrument
of the barrel-organ kind, designed to imitate an orchestra. [L.,--Gr.
_orch[=e]stra_--_orchesthai_, to dance.]

ORCHID, or'kid, _n._ a plant with a rich, showy, often fragrant flower,
frequently found growing, in warm countries, on rocks and stems of
trees.--_adjs._ ORCHID[=A]'CEOUS, ORCHID'[=E]OUS, pertaining to the
orchids.--_ns._ ORCHIDOL'OGY, the knowledge of orchids; OR'CHIS, a genus
containing ten of the British species of orchids. [Gr. _orchis_, a
testicle.]

ORCHIL, or'kil, _n._ the colouring matter derived from archil (q.v.).

ORCINE, or'sin, _n._ a colouring matter obtained from orchella-weed and
other lichens.

ORDAIN, or-d[=a]n', _v.t._ to put in order: to appoint: to dispose or
regulate: to set apart for an office: to invest with ministerial
functions.--_adj._ ORDAIN'ABLE.--_ns._ ORDAIN'ER; ORDAIN'MENT.--_adj._
OR'DINAL, showing order or succession.--_n._ a number noting order or place
among others: a body of regulations, a book containing forms and rules for
ordination.--_n._ OR'DINANCE, that which is ordained by authority: a law: a
religious practice or right established by authority.--_adj._ OR'DINANT
(_Shak._), ordaining, decreeing.--_n._ one who ordains, as a bishop--opp.
to OR'DINAND, or one who is to be ordained.--_n._ ORDIN[=A]'TION, the act
of ordaining: admission to the Christian ministry by the laying on of hands
of a bishop or a presbytery: established order. [O. Fr. _ordener_ (Fr.
_ordonner_)--L. _ordin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ordo_.]

ORDEAL, or'de-al, _n._ a dealing out or giving of just judgment: an ancient
form of referring a disputed question to the judgment of God, by lot, fire,
water, &c.: any severe trial or examination. [A.S. _or-dél_, _or-dál_; cf.
Dut. _oor-deel_, Ger. _ur-theil_.]

ORDER, or'd[.e]r, _n._ regular arrangement, method: degree, rank, or
position: rule, regular system or government: command: a class, a society
of persons of the same profession, &c.: a religious fraternity: a dignity
conferred by a sovereign, &c., giving membership in a body, after the
medieval orders of knighthood, also the distinctive insignia thereof:
social rank generally: a number of genera having many important points in
common: a commission to supply, purchase, or sell something: (_archit._)
one of the different ways in which the column, with its various parts and
its entablature, are moulded and related to each other: due action towards
some end, esp. in old phrase 'to take order:' the sacerdotal or clerical
function: (_pl._) the several degrees or grades of the Christian
ministry.--_v.t._ to arrange: to conduct: to command.--_v.i._ to give
command.--_ns._ OR'DER-BOOK, a book for entering the orders of customers,
the special orders of a commanding officer, or, the motions to be put to
the House of Commons; OR'DERER; OR'DERING, arrangement: management: the act
or ceremony of ordaining, as priests or deacons.--_adj._ OR'DERLESS,
without order: disorderly.--_n._ OR'DERLINESS.--_adj._ OR'DERLY, in good
order: regular: well regulated: of good behaviour: quiet: being on
duty.--_adv._ regularly: methodically.--_n._ a non-commissioned officer who
carries official messages for his superior officer, formerly the first
sergeant of a company.--_adj._ OR'DINATE, in order: regular.--_n._ the
distance of a point in a curve from a straight line, measured along another
straight line at right angles to it--the distance of the point from the
other of the two lines is called the _abscissa_, and the two lines are the
_axes of co-ordinates_.--_adv._ OR'DINATELY.--ORDER-IN-COUNCIL, a sovereign
order given with advice of the Privy Council; ORDER-OF-BATTLE, the
arrangement of troops or ships at the beginning of a battle;
ORDER-OF-THE-DAY, in a legislative assembly, the business set down to be
considered on any particular day: any duty assigned for a particular
day.--CLOSE ORDER, the usual formation for soldiers in line or column, the
ranks 16 inches apart, or for vessels two cables'-length (1440 ft.)
apart--opp. to _Extended order_; FULL ORDERS, the priestly order; MINOR
ORDERS, those of acolyte, exorcist, reader, and doorkeeper; OPEN ORDER, a
formation in which ships are four cables'-length (2880 ft.) apart; SAILING
ORDERS, written instructions given to the commander of a vessel before
sailing; SEALED ORDERS, such instructions as the foregoing, not to be
opened until a certain specified time; STANDING ORDERS or RULES,
regulations for procedure adopted by a legislative assembly.--IN ORDER, and
OUT OF ORDER, in accordance with regular and established usage of
procedure, in subject or way of presenting it before a legislative
assembly, &c., or the opposite; IN ORDER TO, for the end that; TAKE ORDER
(_Shak._), to take measures. [Fr. _ordre_--L. _ordo_, _-inis_.]

ORDINAIRE, or-din-[=a]r', _n._ wine for ordinary use--usually _vin
ordinaire_: a soldier's mess: a person of common rank.

ORDINARY, or'di-na-ri, _adj._ according to the common order: usual: of
common rank: plain: of little merit: (_coll._) plain-looking.--_n._ a judge
of ecclesiastical or other causes who acts in his own right: something
settled or customary: actual office: a bishop or his deputy: a place where
regular meals are provided at fixed charges: the common run or mass:
(_her._) one of a class of armorial charges, called also _honourable
ordinaries_, figures of simple outline and geometrical form, conventional
in character--_chief_, _pale_, _fess_, _bend_, _bend-sinister_, _chevron_,
_cross_, _saltire_, _pile_, _pall_, _bordure_, _orle_, _tressure_,
_canton_, _flanches_.--_adv._ OR'DINARILY.--ORDINARY OF THE MASS, the
established sequence or fixed order for saying mass.--IN ORDINARY, in
regular and customary attendance.

ORDNANCE, ord'nans, _n._ great guns: artillery: (_orig._) any arrangement,
disposition, or equipment.--ORDNANCE SURVEY, a preparation of maps and
plans of Great Britain and Ireland, or parts thereof, undertaken by
government and carried out by men selected from the Royal Engineers--so
called because in earlier days the survey was carried out under the
direction of the Master-general of the Ordnance. [_Ordinance._]

ORDONNANCE, or'do-nans, _n._ co-ordination, esp. the proper disposition of
figures in a picture, parts of a building, &c.

ORDURE, or'd[=u]r, _n._ dirt: dung: excrement: also _fig._ anything
unclean.--_adj._ OR'DUROUS. [Fr.,--O. Fr. _ord_, foul--L. _horridus_,
rough.]

ORE, [=o]r, _n._ metal as it comes from the mine: metal mixed with earthy
and other substances. [A.S. _ór_, another form of _ár_, brass; Ice. _eir_,
L. _æs_, _ær-is_, bronze.]

OREAD, [=o]'r[=e]-ad, _n._ (_myth._) a mountain nymph:--_pl._ O'READS, or
OR[=E]'ADES. [Gr. _oreias_, _oreiados_--_oros_, a mountain.]

OREOG'RAPHY=OROGRAPHY.

ORGAN, or'gan, _n._ an instrument or means by which anything is done: a
part of a body fitted for carrying on a natural or vital operation: a means
of communication, or of conveying information or opinions from one to
another of two parties, as an ambassador, a newspaper, &c.: a musical wind
instrument consisting of a collection of pipes made to sound by means of
compressed air from bellows, and played upon by means of keys: a system of
pipes in such an organ, having an individual keyboard, a partial organ: a
musical instrument having some mechanism resembling the pipe-organ, as the
barrel-organ, &c.--_ns._ OR'GAN-BUILD'ER, one who constructs organs;
OR'GAN-GRIND'ER, a fellow who plays a hand-organ by a crank;
OR'GAN-HARM[=O]'NIUM, a large harmonium used instead of a
pipe-organ.--_adjs._ ORGAN'IC, -AL, pertaining to an organ: organised:
instrumental.--_adv._ ORGAN'ICALLY.--_n._ ORGAN'ICALNESS.--_v.t._
ORGAN'IFY, to add organic matter to.--_n._ ORGANISABIL'ITY.--_adj._
ORGANIS'ABLE, that may be organised.--_n._ ORGANIS[=A]'TION, the act of
organising: the state of being organised.--_v.t._ OR'GAN[=I]SE, to supply
with organs: to form several parts into an organised whole, to
arrange.--_ns._ OR'GAN[=I]SER; OR'GANISM, organic structure, or a body
exhibiting such: a living being, animal or vegetable.--_adj._
OR'GANISMAL.--_ns._ OR'GANIST, one who plays on an organ; OR'GAN-LOFT, the
loft where an organ stands; ORGANOG'ENY, ORGANOGEN'ESIS, history of the
development of living organs; ORGANOG'RAPHY, a description of the organs of
plants or animals; ORGANOL'OGY, the study of structure and function;
OR'GAN-PIPE, one of the sounding pipes of a pipe-organ (_flue-pipes_ and
_reed-pipes_); OR'GAN-POINT, a note sustained through a series of chords,
although only in harmony with the first and last; OR'GANRY, the music of
the organ; OR'GAN-SCREEN, an ornamental stone or wood screen, on which a
secondary organ is sometimes placed in cathedrals; ORGUINETTE', a
mechanical musical instrument, with reeds and exhaust-bellows.--ORGANIC
CHEMISTRY, the chemistry of substances of animal or vegetable origin, prior
to 1828 supposed to be capable of formation only as products of vital
processes: the chemistry of the compounds of carbon; ORGANIC DISEASE, a
disease accompanied by changes in the structures involved; ORGANIC REMAINS,
fossil remains of a plant or animal.--HYDRAULIC ORGAN, one whose bellows is
operated by a hydraulic motor. [Fr. _organe_--L. _organum_--Gr. _organon_.]

ORGANON, or'ga-non, _n._ an instrument: a system of rules and principles
for scientific investigation: a system of thought: the logic of
Aristotle--also OR'GANUM:--_pl._ OR'GANA. [Gr., from _ergon_, a work.]

ORGANZINE, or'gan-zin, _n._ a silk thread of several twisted together, a
fabric of the same. [Fr.]

ORGASM, or'gasm, _n._ immoderate excitement or action.--_adj._ ORGAS'TIC.
[Gr. _orgasmos_, swelling.]

ORGEAT, or'zhat, _n._ a confectioner's syrup made from almonds, sugar, &c.
[Fr. _orge_--L. _hordeum_, barley.]

ORGULOUS, or'g[=u]-lus, _adj._ (_Shak._) haughty.

ORGY, or'ji, _n._ any drunken or riotous rite or revelry, esp. by
night--(_rare_) ORGE:--_pl._ OR'GIES, riotous secret rites observed in the
worship of Bacchus.--_v.i._ ORGE, to indulge in riotous jollity.--_n._
OR'GIAST.--_adjs._ ORGIAS'TIC, OR'GIC. [Fr.,--L. _orgia_--Gr.]

ORICHALC, or'i-kalk, _n._ (_Spens._) a gold-coloured alloy resembling
brass.--_adj._ ORICHAL'CEOUS. [Fr., from Gr. _oreichalkos_, mountain
copper--_oros_, a mountain, _chalkos_, copper.]

ORIEL, [=o]'ri-el, _n._ a portico or recess in the form of a window built
out from a wall, supported on brackets or corbels--distinguished from a bay
window. [O. Fr. _oriol_, a porch--Low L. _oriolum_, a highly ornamented
recess--L. _aureolus_, gilded--_aurum_, gold.]

ORIENT, [=o]'ri-ent, _adj._ rising, as the sun: eastern: bright or pure in
colour.--_n._ the part where the sun rises: the east, or the countries of
the east: purity of lustre, as in a pearl.--_v.t._ to set so as to face the
east: to build, as a church, with its length from east to west.--_adj._
ORIEN'TAL, eastern: pertaining to, in, or from the east.--_n._ a native of
the east.--_v.t._ ORIEN'TALISE.--_ns._ ORIEN'TALISM, an eastern word,
expression, or custom; ORIEN'TALIST, one versed in the eastern languages:
an oriental; ORIENTAL'ITY.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ ORIEN'T[=A]TE.--_ns._
ORIENT[=A]'TION, the act of turning or state of being turned toward the
east, the process of determining the east in taking bearings: the situation
of a building relative to the points of the compass: the act of making
clear one's position in some matter: the homing instinct, as in pigeons;
O'RIENT[=A]TOR, an instrument for orientating. [L. _oriens_, _-entis_,
pr.p. of _or[=i]ri_, to rise.]

ORIFICE, or'i-fis, _n._ something made like a mouth or opening. [Fr.,--L.
_orificium_--_os_, _oris_, mouth, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

ORIFLAMME, or'i-flam, _n._ a little banner of red silk split into many
points, borne on a gilt staff--the ancient royal standard of France.
[Fr.,--Low L. _auriflamma_--L. _aurum_, gold, _flamma_, a flame.]

ORIGAN, or'i-gan, _n._ wild marjoram.--Also ORIG'ANUM. [Fr.,--L.
_origanum_.--Gr. _origanon_--_oros_, mountain, _ganos_, brightness.]

ORIGENIST, or'ij-en-ist, _n._ a follower of _Origen_ (_c._ 186-254 A.D.),
his allegorical method of scriptural interpretation, or his theology, esp.
his heresies--the subordination though eternal generation of the Logos,
pre-existence of all men, and universal restoration, even of the
devil.--_n._ OR'IGENISM.--_adj._ ORIGENIST'IC.

ORIGIN, or'i-jin, _n._ the rising or first existence of anything: that from
which anything first proceeds: (_math._) the fixed starting-point: cause:
derivation.--_adjs._ ORIG'INABLE; ORIG'INAL, pertaining to the origin or
beginning: first in order or existence: in the author's own words or from
the artist's own pencil: not copied: not translated: having the power to
originate, as thought.--_n._ origin: first copy: the precise language used
by a writer: an untranslated tongue: a person of marked
individuality.--_ns._ ORIGINAL'ITY, ORIG'INALNESS, quality or state of
being original or of originating ideas.--_adv._ ORIG'INALLY.--_v.t._
ORIG'IN[=A]TE, to give origin to: to bring into existence.--_v.i._ to have
origin: to begin.--_n._ ORIGIN[=A]'TION, act of originating or of coming
into existence: mode of production.--_adj._ ORIG'IN[=A]TIVE, having power
to originate or bring into existence.--_n._ ORIG'IN[=A]TOR. [Fr.
_origine_--L. _origo_, _originis_--_or[=i]ri_, to rise.]

ORILLON, o-ril'lon, _n._ a semicircular projection at the shoulder of a
bastion intended to cover the guns and defenders on the flank.
[Fr.,--_oreille_, an ear--L. _auricula_, dim. of _auris_, ear.]

ORIOLE, [=o]r'i-[=o]l, _n._ the golden thrush. [O. Fr. _oriol_--L.
_aureolus_, dim. of _aureus_, golden--_aurum_, gold.]

ORION, [=o]-r[=i]'on, _n._ (_astron._) one of the constellations containing
seven very bright stars, three of which, in a straight line, form Orion's
belt. [_Orion_, a hunter placed among the stars at his death.]

ORISMOLOGY, or-is-mol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of defining technical
terms.--_adjs._ ORISMOLOG'IC, -AL. [Gr. _horismos_--_horizein_, to bound.]

ORISON, or'i-zun, _n._ a prayer. [O. Fr. _orison_ (Fr. _oraison_)--L.
_oratio_, _-[=o]nis_--_or[=a]re_, to pray.]

ORLE, orl, _n._ (_archit._) a fillet under the ovolo of a capital--also
OR'LET: (_her._) a border within a shield at a short distance from the
edge. [O. Fr., border, from Low L. _orlum_, dim. of L. _ora_, border.]

ORLEANIST, or'l[=e]-an-ist, _n._ one of the family of the Duke of
_Orleans_, brother of Louis XIV. of France: a supporter of the claims of
this family to the throne of France.--_adj._ favourable to the claims of
the Orleans family.--_ns._ OR'LEANISM; OR'LEANS, a wool and cotton cloth
for women's dresses.

ORLOP, or'lop, _n._ the deck below the berth-deck in a ship where the
cables, &c., are stowed. [Dut. _overloop_, the upper deck--_overlopen_, to
run over.]

ORMER, or'm[.e]r, _n._ an ear-shell or sea-ear.

ORMOLU, or'mo-l[=oo], _n._ an alloy of copper, zinc, and tin: gilt or
bronzed metallic ware: gold-leaf prepared for gilding bronze, &c. [Fr.
_or_--L. _aurum_, gold, _moulu_, pa.p. of _moudre_, to grind--L.
_mol[=a]re_, to grind.]

ORMUZD, or'muzd, _n._ the name of the chief god of the ancient Persians:
the creator and lord of the whole universe: (later) the good principle, as
opposed to _Ahriman_, the bad. [A corr. of Pers. _Ahura-Mazdâh_=the Living
God or Lord (_ahu_='the living,' 'life,' or 'spirit,' root _ah_='to be'),
the Great Creator (_maz_+_dâ_=Sans. _mahâ_+_dhâ_), or the Wise One.]

ORNAMENT, or'na-ment, _n._ anything that adds grace or beauty: additional
beauty: a mark of honour: (_pl._, _Pr. Bk._) all the articles used in the
services of the church.--_v.t._ to adorn: to furnish with
ornaments.--_adj._ ORNAMENT'AL, serving to adorn or beautify.--_adv._
ORNAMENT'ALLY.--_ns._ ORNAMENT[=A]'TION, act or art of ornamenting:
(_archit._) ornamental work; OR'NAMENTER; OR'NAMENTIST.--_adj._ ORNATE',
ornamented: decorated: highly finished, esp. applied to a style of
writing.--_adv._ ORNATE'LY.--_n._ ORNATE'NESS. [Fr. _ornement_--L.
_ornamentum_--_orn[=a]re_, to adorn.]

ORNIS, or'nis, _n._ the birds collectively of a region, its
avifauna.--_adj._ ORNITH'IC.--_ns._ ORNITHICH'NITE (_geol._), the footmark
of a bird found impressed on sandstone, &c.; ORNITHODEL'PHIA, the lowest of
the three sub-classes of mammals, same as _Monotremata_--from the ornithic
character of the urogenital organs.--_adjs._ ORNITHODEL'PHIAN (also _n._),
ORNITHODEL'PHIC, ORNITHODEL'PHOUS; OR'NITHOID, somewhat ornithic.--_ns._
ORNITH'OLITE (_geol._), the fossil remains of a bird: a stone occurring of
various colours and forms bearing the figures of birds.--_adj._
ORNITHOLOG'ICAL, pertaining to ornithology.--_adv._
ORNITHOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ ORNITHOL'OGIST, one versed in ornithology, or who
makes a special study of birds; ORNITHOL'OGY, the science and study of
birds; OR'NITHOMANCY, divination by means of birds, by observing their
flight, &c.--_adjs._ ORNITHOMAN'TIC; ORNITHOPH'ILOUS, bird-fertilised;
OR'NITHOPOD, ORNITHOP'ODOUS, having feet like a bird.--_ns._
ORNITHORHYN'CHUS, an animal in Australia, with a body like an otter and a
snout like the bill of a duck, also called _Duck-bill_; ORNITHOS'COPY,
observation of birds or of their habits; ORNITHOT'OMY, the act of
dissecting birds. [Gr. _ornis_, _ornithos_, a bird.]

OROGRAPHY, or-og'ra-fi, _n._ the description of mountains--also
OROL'OGY.--_n._ OROG'ENY, the origin and formation of mountains.--_adjs._
OROGRAPH'IC, -AL; OROLOG'ICAL, of or pertaining to orology.--_ns._
OROL'OGIST, one versed in orology; OROM'ETER, a mountain-barometer. [Gr.
_oros_, a mountain.]

OROIDE, [=o]'r[=o]-[=i]d, _n._ an alloy of copper, tin, and other metals
used for watch-cases, cheap jewellery, &c.--Also O'R[=E]IDE. [Fr. _or_--L.
_aurum_, gold, Gr. _eidos_, form.]

OROTUND, [=o]'r[=o]-tund, _adj._ full, clear, and musical, as speech.--_n._
full, clear, and musical speech, as when directly from the larynx. [L.
_os_, _oris_, the mouth, _rotundus_, round.]

ORPHAN, or'fan, _n._ a child bereft of father or mother, or of
both.--_adj._ bereft of parents.--_v.t._ to bereave of parents.--_ns._
OR'PHANAGE, the state of being an orphan: a house for orphans;
OR'PHAN-ASY'LUM; OR'PHANHOOD, OR'PHANISM; ORPHANOT'ROPHY, the supporting of
orphans. [Gr. _orphanos_, akin to L. _orbus_, bereaved.]

ORPHARION, or-f[=a]'ri-on, _n._ a large lute with six to nine metal
strings.--Also ORPHE[=O]'REON.

ORPHEAN, or'f[=e]-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Orpheus_, a poet who could move
inanimate objects by the music of his lyre.--_adj._ OR'PHIC, pertaining to
Orpheus, or the mysteries connected with the cult of Bacchus.--_v.i._
OR'PHISE.--_n._ OR'PHISM.

ORPHREY, or'fri, _n._ gold or other rich embroidery attached to vestments,
esp. chasuble and cope. [Fr. _orfroi_--_or_--L. _aurum_, gold, Fr.
_fraise_, fringe.]

ORPIMENT, or'pi-ment, _n._ arsenic trisulphide, giving king's yellow and
realgar (red).--_ns._ OR'PINE, OR'PIN, a deep-yellow colour: the _Sedum
Telephium_, a popular vulnerary. [Fr.,--L. _auripigmentum_--_aurum_, gold,
_pigmentum_, paint.]

ORRA, or'a, _adj._ (_Scot._) odd: not matched: left over: doing odd pieces
of work: worthless.

ORRERY, or'[.e]r-i, _n._ an apparatus for illustrating, by balls mounted on
rods and moved by clockwork around a centre, the size, positions, motions,
&c. of the heavenly bodies. [From Charles Boyle, fourth Earl of _Orrery_
(1676-1731).]

ORRIS, or'is, _n._ a species of iris in the south of Europe, the dried root
of which has the smell of violets, used in perfumery.--Also ORR'ICE.

ORRIS, or'is, _n._ a peculiar kind of gold or silver lace: upholsterers'
galloon and gimp. [_Orphrey._]

ORSEILLE, or-s[=a]l', _n._ a colouring matter (cf. _Archil_ and
_Litmus_).--_adj._ ORSEL'LIC. [Fr.]

ORT, ort, _n._ a fragment, esp. one left from a meal--usually _pl._ [Low
Ger. _ort_, refuse of fodder.]

ORTHOCEPHALY, or-th[=o]-sef'a-li, _n._ the character of a skull in which
the ratio between the vertical and transverse diameters is from 70 to
75.--_adj._ ORTHOCEPHAL'IC.

ORTHOCERAS, or-thos'e-ras, _n._ a genus of fossil cephalopods, having the
shell straight or but slightly curved.

ORTHOCHROMATIC, or-th[=o]-kr[=o]-mat'ik, _adj._ correct in rendering the
relation of colours, without the usual photographic modifications. [Gr.
_orthos_, right, _chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

ORTHOCLASE, or'tho-kl[=a]z, _n._ common or potash feldspar.--_adj._
ORTHOCLAS'TIC. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _klasis_, a fracture.]

ORTHODOX, or'tho-doks, _adj._ sound in doctrine: believing the received or
established opinions, esp. in religion: according to the received
doctrine.--_adv._ OR'THODOXLY.--_ns._ OR'THODOXNESS; OR'THODOXY, soundness
of opinion or doctrine: belief in the commonly accepted opinions, esp. in
religion. [Through Fr. and Late L. from Gr. _orthodoxos_--_orthos_, right,
_doxa_, opinion--_dokein_, to seem.]

ORTHODROMIC, or-th[=o]-drom'ik, _adj._ pertaining to OR'THODROMY, the art
of sailing on a great circle or in a straight course.

ORTHOËPY, or'tho-e-pi, _n._ (_gram._) correct pronunciation of
words.--_adjs._ ORTHOËP'IC, -AL.--_adv._ ORTHOËP'ICALLY.--_n._ OR'THOËPIST,
one versed in orthoëpy. [Gr. _orthos_, right, _epos_, a word.]

ORTHOGAMY, or-thog'a-mi, _n._ (_bot._) direct or immediate fertilisation.

ORTHOGNATHOUS, or-thog'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ straight-jawed--also
ORTHOGNATH'IC.--_n._ ORTHOG'NATHISM. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _gnathos_,
the jaw.]

ORTHOGON, or'tho-gon, _n._ (_geom._) a figure with all its angles right
angles.--_adj._ ORTHOG'ONAL, rectangular.--_adv._ ORTHOG'ONALLY. [Gr.
_orthos_, right, _g[=o]nia_, angle.]

ORTHOGRAPHER, or-thog'ra-f[.e]r, _n._ one who spells words correctly--also
ORTHOG'RAPHIST.--_adjs._ ORTHOGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining or according to
orthography: spelt correctly.--_adv._ ORTHOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ ORTHOG'RAPHY
(_gram._), the art or practice of spelling words correctly. [Gr.
_orthographia_--_orthos_, right, _graphein_, to write.]

ORTHOMETRY, or-thom'et-ri, _n._ the art of constructing verse correctly.

ORTHOPÆDIA, or-th[=o]-p[=e]-d[=i]'a, _n._ the art or process of curing
deformities of the body, esp. in childhood--also OR'THOPÆDY,
OR'THOPEDY.--_adjs._ ORTHOPÆ'DIC, -AL, ORTHOPED'IC, -AL.--_ns._
ORTHOPÆ'DICS, ORTHOPED'ICS, orthopædic surgery; OR'THOPÆDIST, OR'THOPEDIST,
one skilled in the foregoing. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _pais_, _paidos_, a
child.]

ORTHOPHONY, or'th[=o]-f[=o]-ni, _n._ the art of correct speaking: the
proper culture of the voice. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _ph[=o]nein_, to
speak--_ph[=o]n[=e]_, voice.]

ORTHOPNOEA, or-thop-n[=e]'a, _n._ dyspnoea.--_n._ ORTHOP'NIC, one who can
breathe in an upright posture only. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _pnein_, to
breathe.]

ORTHOPRAXY, or'th[=o]-prak-si, _n._ correct practice or procedure.

ORTHOPTERA, or-thop't[.e]r-a, _n._ an order of insects with wing-covers,
that overlap at the top when shut, under which are the true wings, which
fold lengthwise like a fan.--_ns._ ORTHOP'TER, ORTHOP'TERAN, an insect of
the order orthoptera; ORTHOPTEROL'OGY.--_adj._ ORTHOP'TEROUS, pertaining to
the orthoptera. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _ptera_, pl. of _pteron_, wing.]

ORTHOSCOPIC, or-th[=o]-skop'ik, _adj._ seeing correctly: appearing normal
to the eye. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _skopein_, to see.]

ORTHOSTYLE, or'th[=o]-st[=i]l, _n._ (_archit._) an arrangement of columns
or pillars in a straight line. [Gr. _orthos_, straight, _stylos_, a
column.]

ORTHOTONIC, or-th[=o]-ton'ik, _adj._ retaining an accent in certain
positions, but not in others--also OR'THOTONE.--_n._ ORTHOTON[=E]'SIS,
accentuation of a proclitic or enclitic--opp. to _Enclisis_. [Gr. _orthos_,
straight, _tonos_, accent.]

ORTHOTROPISM, or-thot'r[=o]-pizm, _n._ vertical growth in plants.--_adjs._
ORTHOT'ROPAL, ORTHOTROP'IC, ORTHOT'ROPOUS. [Gr. _orthos_, straight,
_trepein_, to turn.]

ORTHOTYPOUS, or'th[=o]-t[=i]-pus, _adj._ in mineralogy, having a
perpendicular cleavage.

ORTHROS, or'thros, _n._ one of the Greek canonical hours, corresponding to
the Western lauds. [Gr. _orthros_, dawn.]

ORTIVE, or'tiv, _adj._ rising: eastern.

ORTOLAN, or't[=o]-lan, _n._ a kind of bunting, common in Europe, and
considered a great table delicacy. [Fr.,--It. _ortolano_--L. _hortulanus_,
belonging to gardens--_hortulus_, dim. of _hortus_, a garden.]

ORVIETAN, or-vi-[=e]'tan, _n._ a supposed antidote or counter-poison.--_n._
ORVI[=E]'TO, an esteemed still white wine.

ORYCTICS, [=o]-rik'tiks, _n._ the branch of geology relating to
fossils.--_adjs._ ORYCTOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ ORYCTOZOÖL'OGY, palæontology.
[Gr. _oryctos_, fossil.]

ORYX, or'iks, _n._ a genus of antelopes. [Gr., a pick-axe.]

ORYZA, [=o]-r[=i]'za, _n._ a small tropical genus of true grasses,
including rice.

OS, os, _n._ a bone. [L.]

OSCAN, os'kan, _n._ and _adj._ one of an ancient Italic race in southern
Italy: a language closely akin to Latin, being a ruder and more primitive
form of the same central Italic tongue.

OSCHEAL, os'k[=e]-al, _adj._ pertaining to the scrotum.--_ns._
OSCHE[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the scrotum; OS'CHEOCELE, a scrotal hernia;
OS'CHEOPLASTY, plastic surgery of the scrotum. [Gr. _osch[=e]_, the
scrotum.]

OSCILLATE, os'sil-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to move backwards and forwards like a
pendulum: to vary between certain limits.--_n._ OS'CILLANCY, a swinging
condition.--_adj._ OS'CILL[=A]TING.--_n._ OSCILL[=A]'TION, act of
oscillating: a swinging like a pendulum: variation within limits.--_adjs._
OS'CILL[=A]TIVE, having a tendency to vibrate; OS'CILL[=A]TORY, swinging:
moving as a pendulum does. [L. _oscill[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
swing--_oscillum_, a swing.]

OSCINES, os'si-n[=e]z, _n.pl._ a sub-order of birds of the order
Passeres.--_adj._ OS'CINE--also _n._ [L. _oscen_, _oscinis_, a
singing-bird.]

OSCITANCY, os'si-tan-si, _n._ sleepiness, stupidity.--_adj._
OS'CITANT.--_adv._ OS'CITANTLY.--_v.i._ OS'CITATE, to yawn.--_n._
OSCIT[=A]'TION, act of yawning or gaping from sleepiness. [L.
_oscit[=a]re_, to yawn.]

OSCULANT, os'k[=u]-lant, _adj._ kissing: adhering closely: (_biol._)
situated between two other genera, and partaking partly of the character of
each.--_v.t._ OS'CUL[=A]TE, to kiss: to touch, as two curves: to form a
connecting-link between two genera.--_adj._ of or pertaining to
kissing.--_n._ OSCUL[=A]'TION.--_adj._ OS'CUL[=A]TORY, of or pertaining to
kissing: (_geom._) having the same curvature at the point of contact.--_n._
a tablet with a picture of the Virgin or of Christ, which was kissed by the
priest and then by the people.--_ns._ OS'CULE, a little mouth: a small
bilabiate aperture; OS'C[=U]LUM, a mouth in sponges: one of the suckers on
the head of a tapeworm. [L. _oscul[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_osculum_, a little
mouth, a kiss, dim. of _os_, mouth.]

OSIER, [=o]'zh[.e]r, _n._ the popular name for those species of willow
whose twigs are used in making baskets, &c.--_adj._ made of or like
osiers.--_adj._ O'SIERED, adorned with willows.--_n._ O'SIERY, a place
where osiers are grown. [Fr.; perh. from Gr. _oisos_.]

OSIRIS, [=o]-s[=i]'ris, _n._ the greatest of Egyptian gods, son of Seb and
Nut, or Heaven and Earth, married to Isis, slain by Set but avenged by his
son Horus, judge of the dead in the nether-world.

OSITE, os'[=i]t, _n._ Sombrero guano.

OSMANLI, os-man'li, _adj._ of or belonging to Turkey.--_n._ a member of the
reigning family of Turkey: a subject of the emperor of Turkey. [_Osman_ or
_Othman_, who founded the Turkish empire in Asia, and reigned 1288-1326.]

OSMETERIUM, os-m[=e]-t[=e]'ri-um, _n._ an organ devoted to the production
of an odour, esp. the forked process behind the head of certain
butterfly-larvæ:--_pl._ OSMET[=E]'RIA.

OSMIDROSIS, os-mi-dr[=o]'sis, _n._ the secretion of strongly smelling
perspiration.--Also _Bromidrosis_. [Gr. _osm[=e]_, smell, _hidr[=o]sis_,
sweat.]

OSMIUM, [=o]s'mi-um, _n._ a gray-coloured metal found in platinum ore, the
oxide of which has a disagreeable smell.--_adjs._ OS'MIC, OS'MIOUS. [Gr.
_osm[=e]_, smell, orig. _od-m[=e]_--_ozein_, to smell.]

OSMOSE, os'm[=o]s, _n._ the tendency of fluids to mix or become equally
diffused when in contact, even through an intervening membrane or porous
structure--also OSM[=O]'SIS.--_adj._ OSMOT'IC, pertaining to, or having,
the property of osmose.--_adv._ OSMOT'ICALLY. [Gr. _[=o]smos_=_[=o]sis_,
impulse--_[=o]thein_, to push.]

OSMUNDA, os-mun'da, _n._ a genus of ferns, the chief species being OSMUNDA
REGALIS, the royal fern--also called _Bog-onion_, _King-fern_, &c.

OSNABURG, oz'na-burg, _n._ a coarse kind of linen, originally brought from
_Osnaburg_ in Germany.

OSPREY, os'pr[=a], _n._ the fish-hawk, a species of eagle very common on
the coast of North America. [Corr. from _ossifrage_, which see.]

OSSEOUS, os'[=e]-us, _adj._ bony: composed of, or resembling, bone: of the
nature or structure of bone.--_ns._ OSS[=A]'RIUM, an ossuary; OSS'[=E]IN,
the organic basis of bone; OSS'ELET, a hard substance growing on the inside
of a horse's knee; OSS'ICLE, a small bone.--_adjs._ OSSIF'EROUS, producing
bone: (_geol._) containing bones; OSSIF'IC.--_n._ OSSIFIC[=A]'TION, the
process or state of being changed into a bony substance.--_v.t._ OSS'IFY,
to make into bone or into a bone-like substance.--_v.i._ to become
bone:--_pa.p._ oss'ified.--_adj._ OSSIV'OROUS, devouring or feeding on
bones.--_ns._ OS'TEOBLAST, a cell concerned in the formation of bone;
OS'TEOCLAST, an apparatus for fracturing bones; OSTEOCOL'LA, a deposited
carbonate of lime encrusted on the roots and stems of plants;
OSTEODEN'TINE, one of the varieties of dentine, resembling bone;
OSTEOGEN'ESIS, the formation or growth of bone--also OSTEOG'ENY;
OSTEOG'RAPHER; OSTEOG'RAPHY, description of bones.--_adj._ OS'TEOID, like
bone: having the appearance of bone.--_ns._ OSTEOL'EPIS, a genus of fossil
ganoid fishes peculiar to the Old Red Sandstone, so called from the bony
appearance of their scales; OSTEOL'OGER, OSTEOL'OGIST, one versed in
osteology.--_adjs._ OSTEOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to osteology.--_adv._
OSTEOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ OSTEOL'OGY, the science of the bones, that part of
anatomy which treats of the bones; OSTEOMAL[=A]'CIA, a disease in which the
earthy salts disappear from the bones, which become soft and misshapen;
OS'TEOPHYTE, an abnormal bony outgrowth.--_adjs._ OSTEOPHYT'IC;
OSTEOPLAST'IC.--_ns._ OS'TEOPLASTY, a plastic operation by which a loss of
bone is remedied; OSTEOSARC[=O]'MA, a tumour composed of intermingled bony
and sarcomatous tissue; OS'TEOTOME (_surg._), a saw-like instrument for
cutting bones; OSTEOT'OMY, the division of, or incision into, a bone;
OST[=I]'TIS, inflammation of bone. [L. _osseus_--_os_, _ossis_, bone; Gr.
_osteon_, bone.]

OSSIANIC, os-i-an'ik, _adj._ pertaining to _Ossian_ or the poems dubiously
attributed to him.

OSSIFRAGE, os'i-fr[=a]j, _n._ the sea or bald eagle, common in the United
States: (_B._) the bearded vulture, the largest of European birds. [L.
_ossifragus_, breaking bones--_os_, _frag_, root of _frang[)e]re_,
_fractum_, to break.]

OSSUARY, os'[=u]-ar-i, _n._ a place where the bones of the dead are
deposited: a charnel-house. [L. _ossuarium_, a charnel-house--_os_, a
bone.]

OSTENSIBLE, os-tens'i-bl, _adj._ that may be shown: declared: put forth as
real: apparent.--_n._ OSTENSIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ OSTENS'IBLY.--_adj._
OSTENS'IVE, showing: exhibiting.--_adv._ OSTENS'IVELY.--_ns._ OSTEN'SORY, a
monstrance; OS'TENT (_Shak._), appearance, manner: token: portent, prodigy;
OSTENT[=A]'TION, act of making a display: ambitious display: display to
draw attention or admiration: boasting.--_adj._ OSTENT[=A]'TIOUS, given to
show: fond of self-display: intended for display.--_adv._
OSTENT[=A]'TIOUSLY.--_n._ OSTENT[=A]'TIOUSNESS. [L. _ostend[)e]re_,
_ostensum_, to show.]

OSTIARY, os'ti-ar-i, _n._ the doorkeeper of a church.

OSTIUM, os'ti-um, _n._ an opening: the mouth of a river.--_n._ OSTI[=O]'LE,
a small orifice.--_adjs._ OS'TIOLAR; OS'TIOL[=A]TE, furnished with an
ostiole. [L.]

OSTLER, os'l[.e]r. Same as HOSTLER.

OSTMEN, ost'men. _n.pl._ the Danish settlers in Ireland.

OSTRACEA, os-tr[=a]'s[=e]'a, _n.pl._ the oyster family.--_adjs._
OSTR[=A]'CEAN, OSTR[=A]'CEOUS.--_ns._ OS'TRACITE, a fossil oyster;
OS'TR[=E]A, the typical genus of the oyster family; OSTR[=E]ICUL'TURE,
oyster-culture; OSTR[=E]ICUL'TURIST.

OSTRACISE, os'tra-s[=i]z, _v.t._ in ancient Greece, to banish by the vote
of the people written on an earthenware tablet: to banish from
society.--_n._ OS'TRACISM, banishment by ostracising: expulsion from
society. [Gr. _ostrakizein_--_ostrakon_, an earthenware tablet.]

OSTRICH, os'trich, _n._ the largest of birds, found in Africa, remarkable
for its speed in running, and prized for its feathers.--_n._ OS'TRICH-FARM,
a place where ostriches are bred and reared for their feathers. [O. Fr.
_ostruche_ (Fr. _autruche_)--L. _avis-_, _struthio_, ostrich--Gr.
_strouthi[=o]n_, an ostrich, _strouthos_, a bird.]

OSTROGOTH, os'tr[=o]-goth, _n._ an eastern Goth: one of the tribe of east
Goths who established their power in Italy in 493, and were overthrown in
555.--_adj._ OS'TROGOTHIC.

OTACOUSTIC, ot-a-kows'tik, _adj._ assisting hearing.--_n._ an instrument to
assist hearing--also OTACOUS'TICON. [Gr. _akoustikos_--_akouein_, to
hear--_ous_, _[=o]tos_, ear.]

OTALGIA, [=o]-tal'ji-a, _n._ earache--also OTAL'GY.--_ns._ OTOG'RAPHY,
descriptive anatomy of the ear; OTORRH[=E]'A, a purulent discharge from the
ear; O'TOSCOPE, an instrument for viewing the interior of the ear.

OTARY, [=o]'tar-i, _n._ a genus of seals with an external ear:--_pl._
O'TARIES.--_adj._ OT'ARINE. [Gr. _[=o]taros_, large-eared--_ous_,
_[=o]tos_, ear.]

OTHER, u_th_'[.e]r, _adj._ and _pron._ different, not the same: additional:
second of two.--_adj._ OTH'ERGUESS=_Othergates_.--_n._ OTH'ERNESS.--_advs._
OTH'ERWHERE, elsewhere; OTH'ERWHILE, OTH'ERWHILES, at other times:
sometimes; OTH'ERWISE, in another way or manner: by other causes: in other
respects.--_conj._ else: under other conditions.--EVERY OTHER, each
alternate; RATHER ... THAN OTHERWISE, rather than not; THE OTHER DAY, on
some day not long past, quite recently. [A.S. _other_; cf. Ger. _ander_, L.
_alter_.]

OTHERGATES, u_th_'[.e]r-g[=a]tz, _adv._ (_obs._) in another way--also
_adj._ [_Other_, and _gate_, way, manner.]

OTIC, [=o]'tik, _adj._ of or pertaining to the ear.--_ns._ OT[=I]'TIS,
inflammation of the internal ear; OT'OCYST, an auditory vesicle; OT'OLITH,
a calcareous concretion within the membranous labyrinth of the ear;
OTOL'OGIST, one skilled in otology; OTOL'OGY, knowledge of the ear. [Gr.
_ous_, _[=o]tos_, ear.]

OTIOSE, o'shi-[=o]s, _adj._ unoccupied: lazy: done in a careless way,
perfunctory, futile.--_n._ OTIOS'ITY, ease, idleness. [L.
_otiosus_--_otium_, rest.]

OTOSCOPE. See under OTALGIA.

OTTAVA, ot-tä'vä, _n._ an octave.--OTTAVA RIMA, an Italian form of
versification consisting of eight lines, the first six rhyming alternately,
the last two forming a couplet--used by Byron in _Don Juan_. [It.]

OTTER, ot'[.e]r, _n._ a large kind of weasel living entirely on fish. [A.S.
_otor_, _oter_; cf. Dut. and Ger. _otter_.]

OTTO, ot'o, OTTAR, ot'ar (better ATT'AR), _n._ a fragrant oil obtained from
certain flowers, esp. the rose. [Ar. _`itr_--_`atira_, to smell sweetly.]

OTTOMAN, ot'o-man, _adj._ pertaining to the Turkish Empire, founded by
_Othman_ or _Osman_ about 1299.--_n._ a Turk (_Shak._ OTT'OMITE): a
cushioned seat for several persons sitting with their backs to one another:
a low, stuffed seat without a back: a variety of corded silk. [Fr.]

OUBIT, [=oo]'bit, _n._ a hairy caterpillar. [Prob. the A.S. _wibba_, a
crawling thing.]

OUBLIETTE, [=oo]-bli-et', _n._ a dungeon with no opening but at the top: a
secret pit in the floor of a dungeon into which a victim could be
precipitated. [Fr.,--_oublier_, to forget--L. _oblivisci_.]

OUCH, owch, _n._ a jewel or ornament, esp. one in the form of a clasp: the
socket of a precious stone. [O. Fr. _nouche_, _nosche_, from Teut., cf. Old
High Ger. _nusca_, a clasp.]

OUDENARDE, [=oo]'de-närd, _n._ a kind of decorative tapestry, representing
foliage, &c., once made at _Oudenarde_ in Belgium.

OUGHT, awt, _n._ (same as _Aught_) a vulgar corr. of _nought_.--_adv._
(_Scot._) OUGHT'LINGS, at all, in any degree.

OUGHT, awt, _v.i._ to be under obligation: to be proper or necessary.--_n._
OUGHT'NESS, rightness. [A.S. _áhte_, pa.t. of _ágan_, to owe.]

OUISTITI, wis'ti-ti, _n._ a wistit or marmoset.

OUNCE, owns, _n._ the twelfth part of a pound troy=480 grains: 1/16 of a
pound avoirdupois=437½ troy grains. [O. Fr. _unce_--L. _uncia_, the twelfth
part.]

OUNCE, owns, _n._ a carnivorous animal of the cat kind, found in Asia,
allied to the leopard--(_obs._) ONCE. [Fr. _once_, prob. Pers. _yúz_, a
panther.]

OUNDY, own'di, _adj._ wavy: scalloped: (_her._) undé.

OUPHE, [=oo]f, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as OAF.

OUR, owr, _adj._ and _pron._ pertaining or belonging to us--prov.
OURN.--_prons._ OURS, possessive of _We_; OURSELF', myself (as a king or
queen would say):--_pl._ OURSELVES (-selvz'), we, not others: us. [A.S.
_úre_, gen. pl. of _wé_, we.]

OURANG-OUTANG. Same as ORANG-OUTANG.

OUROLOGY, OUROSCOPY, &c. See UROLOGY under URINE.

OUSEL. See OUZEL.

OUST, owst, _v.t._ to eject or expel.--_n._ OUST'ER (_law_), ejection:
dispossession. [O. Fr. _oster_ (Fr. _ôter_), to remove; acc. to Diez, from
L. _haur[=i]re_, _haustum_, to draw (water).]

OUT, owt, _adv._ without, not within: gone forth: abroad: to the full
stretch or extent: in a state of discovery, development, &c.: in a state of
exhaustion, extinction, &c.: away from the mark: completely: at or to an
end: to others, as to hire _out_: freely: forcibly: at a loss: unsheltered:
uncovered.--_prep._ forth from: outside of: exterior: outlying,
remote.--_n._ one who is out, esp. of office--opp. to _In_: leave to go
out, an outing.--_v.i._ to go or come out.--_interj._ away! begone!--_n._
OUT'-AND-OUT'ER, a thoroughgoer, a first-rate fellow.--_adjs._
OUT'-OF-DOOR, open-air; OUT-OF-THE-WAY', uncommon: singular: secluded.--OUT
AND AWAY, by far; OUT AND OUT, thoroughly: completely--also as _adj._
thorough, complete; OUT-AT-ELBOWS, worn-out, threadbare; OUT OF CHARACTER,
unbecoming: improper; OUT OF COURSE, out of order; OUT OF DATE,
unfashionable: not now in use; OUT OF FAVOUR, disliked; OUT OF HAND,
instantly; OUT OF JOINT, not in proper connection: disjointed; OUT OF ONE'S
MIND, mad; OUT OF POCKET, having spent more than one has received; OUT OF
PRINT, not to be had for sale, said of books, &c.; OUT OF SORTS, or TEMPER,
unhappy: cross-tempered; OUT OF THE COMMON, unusual, pre-eminent; OUT OF
THE QUESTION, that cannot be at all considered; OUT OF TIME, too soon or
too late: not keeping time in music; OUT WITH, away with: (_Scot._) outside
of: say, do, &c., at once. [A.S. _úte_, _út_; Goth. _ut_, Ger. _aus_, Sans.
_ud_.]

OUTASK, owt-ask', _v.t._ to ask or proclaim, as to be married, in church
for the last time.

OUTBALANCE, owt-bal'ans, _v.t._ to exceed in weight or effect: to outweigh.

OUTBAR, owt-bär', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to bar out, esp. to shut out by
fortifications.

OUTBARGAIN, owt-bär'gin, _v.t._ to get the better of in a bargain.

OUTBID, owt-bid', _v.t._ to offer a higher price than another.

OUTBLUSH, owt-blush', _v.t._ to exceed in rosy colour.

OUTBLUSTER, owt-blus't[.e]r, _v.t._ to exceed in blustering: to get the
better of in this way.

OUTBOUND, owt'bownd, _adj._ bound for a distant port.

OUTBOUNDS, owt'bowndz, _n.pl._ (_Spens._) boundaries.

OUTBRAG, owt-brag', _v.t._ to surpass in bragging or boasting: to surpass
in beauty or splendour.

OUTBRAVE, owt-br[=a]v', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to excel in bravery or boldness,
to defy.

OUTBREAK, owt'br[=a]k, _n._ a breaking out: eruption: a disturbance of the
peace.--_v.i._ OUTBREAK', to burst forth.--_ns._ OUT'BREAKER, a wave which
breaks on the shore or on rocks; OUT'BREAKING.

OUTBREATHE, owt-br[=e]th', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to breathe out as breath or
life: to exhaust or deprive of breath.--_v.i._ to be breathed out:
(_Shak._) to expire.

OUTBUD, owt-bud', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to sprout forth.

OUTBUILDING, owt'bild-ing, _n._ a building separate from, but used in
connection with, a dwelling-house or a main building: an outhouse.

OUTBURN, owt-burn', _v.t._ to exceed in burning.--_v.i._ to burn away.

OUTBURST, owt'burst, _n._ a bursting out: an explosion.

OUTBY, owt'b[=i], _adv._ (_Scot._) out of doors: (_min._) towards the
shaft--opp. to _Inby._--Also OUT'BYE.

OUTCAST, owt'kast, _adj._ exiled from home or country: rejected.--_n._ a
person banished: a vagabond: an exile: (_Scot._) a quarrel: the amount of
increase in bulk of grain in malting.

OUTCOME, owt'kum, _n._ the issue: consequence: result.

OUTCRAFTY, owt-kraft'i, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in craft.

OUTCROP, owt'krop, _n._ the appearance, at the surface, of a layer of rock
or a vein of metal, caused by tilting or inclination of the strata: the
part of a layer which appears at the surface of the ground.--_v.i._ to
appear at the surface.

OUTCRY, owt'kr[=i], _n._ a loud cry of distress: a confused noise: a public
auction.--_v.t._ to cry louder than.

OUTDARE, owt-d[=a]r', _v.t._ to surpass in daring: to defy.

OUTDISTANCE, owt-dis'tans, _v.t._ to distance, leave far behind in any
competition.

OUTDO, owt-d[=oo]', _v.t._ to surpass: excel.

OUTDOOR, owt'd[=o]r, _adj._ outside the door or the house: in the open
air.--_adv._ OUT'DOORS, out of the house: abroad.--OUTDOOR RELIEF, help
given to a pauper who does not live in the workhouse.

OUTDWELL, owt-dwel', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to dwell or stay beyond.--_n._
OUT-DWELL'ER, one who owns land in a parish but lives outside it.

OUT-EDGE, owt'-ej, _n._ the farthest bound.

OUTER, owt'[.e]r, _adj._ more out or without: external--opp. to
_Inner_.--_n._ the part of a target outside the rings, a shot striking
here.--_adj._ OUT'ERMOST, most or farthest out: most distant.--OUTER BAR,
the junior barristers who plead outside the bar in court, as distinguished
from King's Counsel and others who plead within the bar. [Comp. of _out_.]

OUTFACE, owt-f[=a]s', _v.t._ to stare down: to bear down by bravery or
impudence: to confront boldly.

OUTFALL, owt'-fawl, _n._ the place of discharge of a river, sewer, &c.:
(_prov._) a quarrel.

OUTFIELD, owt'f[=e]ld, _n._ (_Scot._) arable land continually cropped
without being manured--opp. to _Infield_: any open field at a distance from
the farm-steading: any undefined district or sphere: at cricket and
baseball, the players collectively who occupy the outer part of the
field.--_n._ OUT'FIELDER, one of such players.

OUTFIT, owt'fit, _n._ the act of making ready everything required for a
journey or a voyage: complete equipment: the articles or the expenses for
fitting out: the means for an outfit.--_v.t._ to fit out, equip.--_ns._
OUT'FITTER, one who furnishes outfits; OUT'FITTING, an outfit: equipment
for a voyage.

OUTFLANK, owt-flangk', _v.t._ to extend the flank of one army beyond that
of another: to get the better of.

OUTFLASH, owt-flash', _v.t._ to outshine.

OUTFLING, owt'fling, _n._ a sharp retort or gibe.

OUTFLOW, owt-fl[=o]', _v.i._ to flow out.--_n._ issue.

OUTFLUSH, owt'flush, _n._ any sudden glow of heat.

OUTFLY, owt-fl[=i]', _v.t._ to surpass in flying: to fly faster than: to
escape by swiftness of flight.

OUTFOOT, owt-f[=oo]t', _v.i._ to outsail.

OUTFROWN, owt-frown', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to frown down.

OUTGARTH, owt'gärth, _n._ an outer yard or garden.

OUTGAZE, owt-g[=a]z', _v.t._ to stare out of countenance: to gaze farther
than.

OUTGENERAL, owt-jen'[.e]r-al, _v.t._ to outdo in generalship: to prove a
better general than.

OUTGIVE, owt-giv', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to surpass in liberality.

OUTGO, owt-g[=o]', _v.t._ to advance before in going: to surpass: to
overreach.--_v.i._ to go out: to come to an end.--_ns._ OUT'GO, that which
goes out: expenditure--opp. to _Income_; OUT'GOER; OUT'GOING, act or state
of going out: extreme limit: expenditure.--_adj._ departing--opp. to
_Incoming_, as a tenant.

OUTGROW, owt-gr[=o]', _v.t._ to surpass in growth: to grow out of.--_n._
OUT'GROWTH, that which grows out of a thing: growth to excess.

OUTGUARD, owt'gärd, _n._ a guard at a distance or at the farthest distance
from the main body.

OUTGUSH, owt-gush', _v.i._ to issue with force.--_n._ OUT'GUSH, a gushing
out.

OUTHAUL, owt'hawl, _n._ a rope for hauling out the clew of a sail.--Also
OUT'HAULER.

OUT-HEROD, owt-her'od, _v.t._ to surpass (_Herod_) in cruelty: to exceed,
esp. in anything bad.

OUTHIRE, owt-h[=i]r', _v.t._ to hire or let out.

OUTHOUSE, owt'hows, _n._ a small building outside a dwelling-house.

OUTING, owt'ing, _n._ the act of going out, or the distance gone out: an
excursion or airing.

OUTJEST, owt-jest', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to overpower by jesting: to excel in
jesting.

OUTJET, owt'jet, _n._ that which projects from anything.--_n._ OUTJUT'TING,
a projection.

OUTLAND, owt'land, _n._ land beyond the limits of cultivation.--_adj._
(_Tenn._) foreign.--_n._ OUT'LANDER, a foreigner, a person not
naturalised.--_adj._ OUTLAND'ISH, belonging to an out or foreign land:
foreign: not according to custom: strange: rustic: rude: vulgar.--_adv._
OUTLAND'ISHLY.--_n._ OUTLAND'ISHNESS.

OUTLASH, owt'lash, _n._ any sudden outburst.

OUTLAST, owt-last', _v.t._ to last longer than.

OUTLAW, owt'law, _n._ one deprived of the protection of the law: a robber
or bandit.--_v.t._ to place beyond the law: to deprive of the benefit of
the law: to proscribe.--_n._ OUT'LAWRY, the act of putting a man out of the
protection of the law: state of being an outlaw. [A.S. _útlaga_; cf. Ice.
_útlági_--_út_, out, _lög_, law.]

OUTLAY, owt'l[=a], _n._ that which is laid out: expenditure.--_v.t._ to lay
out to view.

OUTLEAP, owt'l[=e]p, _n._ a sally, flight.

OUTLEARN, owt-l[.e]rn', _v.t._ to learn: to excel in learning: to get
beyond the instruction of.

OUTLET, owt'let, _n._ the place or means by which anything is let out: the
passage outward, vent.

OUTLIER, owt'l[=i]-[.e]r, _n._ (_geol._) a portion of a stratum: anything,
as detached from the principal mass, and lying some distance from
it.--_v.t._ OUTLIE', to beat in lying.--_v.i._ to live in the open air.

OUTLINE, owt'l[=i]n, _n._ the outer line: the lines by which any figure is
bounded: a sketch showing only the main lines: a draft: a set-line in
fishing.--_v.t._ to draw the exterior line of: to delineate or
sketch.--_adj._ OUTLIN'EAR, like an outline.

OUTLIVE, owt-liv', _v.t._ to live longer than: to survive.--_n._ OUTLIV'ER.

OUTLODGING, owt'loj-ing, _n._ a lodging outside a college bounds at Oxford
and Cambridge.

OUTLOOK, owt'l[=oo]k, _n._ vigilant watch: view obtained by looking out:
prospect, or (_fig._) one's prospects: a watch-tower.--_v.t._ to face
courageously.

OUTLUSTRE, owt-lus't[.e]r, _v.t._ to excel in brightness.

OUTLYING, owt'l[=i]-ing, _adj._ lying out or beyond: remote: on the
exterior or frontier: detached.

OUTMAN, owt-man', _v.t._ to outdo in manliness: to outnumber in men.

OUTMANOEUVRE, owt-ma-n[=u]'v[.e]r, _v.t._ to surpass in manoeuvring.

OUTMANTLE, owt-man'tl, _v.t._ to excel in dress or ornament.

OUTMARCH, owt-märch', _v.t._ to march faster than: to leave behind by
marching.

OUTMATE, owt-m[=a]t', _v.t._ to outmatch.

OUTMEASURE, owt-mezh'[=u]r, _v.t._ to exceed in extent.

OUTMOST, owt'm[=o]st. Same as OUTERMOST.

OUTMOVE, owt-m[=oo]v', _v.t._ to move faster than.

OUTNAME, owt-n[=a]m', _v.t._ to surpass in name, reputation, or importance.

OUTNESS, owt'nes, _n._ state of being out, externality to the perceiving
mind, objectiveness.

OUTNUMBER, owt-num'b[.e]r, _v.t._ to exceed in number.

OUTPACE, owt-p[=a]s', _v.t._ to walk faster than.

OUT-PARAMOUR, owt-par'a-m[=oo]r, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in number of
mistresses.

OUTPARISH, owt'par-ish, _n._ a rural parish, as distinguished from an urban
one.

OUTPART, owt'part, _n._ a part remote from the centre.

OUTPASSION, owt-pash'un, _v.t._ (_Tenn._) to go beyond in passionateness.

OUTPATIENT, owt'p[=a]-shent, _n._ a patient who receives aid from a
hospital, but lives outside of it.

OUTPEER, owt-p[=e]r', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to surpass or excel.

OUT-PENSIONER, owt'-pen'shun-[.e]r, _n._ a non-resident pensioner.

OUTPORT, owt'p[=o]rt, _n._ a port out of or remote from the chief port: a
place of export.

OUTPOST, owt'p[=o]st, _n._ a post or station beyond the main body of an
army: the troops placed there.

OUTPOUR, owt-p[=o]r', _v.t._ to pour out: to send out in a stream.--_ns._
OUTPOUR'; OUTPOUR'ER; OUT'POURING, a pouring out: an abundant supply.

OUTPOWER, owt-pow'[.e]r, _v.t._ to surpass in power.

OUTPRAY, owt-pr[=a]', _v.t._ to exceed in earnestness of prayer.

OUTPRIZE, owt-pr[=i]z', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in the value set upon
it.

OUTPUT, owt'p[=oo]t, _n._ the quantity of metal made by a smelting furnace,
or of coal taken from a pit, within a certain time, production generally.

OUTQUARTERS, owt-kwär't[.e]rz, _n.pl._ quarters situated away from
headquarters.

OUTQUENCH, owt-kwensh', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to extinguish.

OUTRAGE, owt'r[=a]j, _n._ violence beyond measure: excessive abuse: wanton
mischief.--_v.t._ to treat with excessive abuse: to injure by violence,
esp. to violate, to ravish.--_v.i._ to be guilty of outrage.--_adj._
OUTR[=A]'GEOUS, violent: furious: turbulent: atrocious: enormous,
immoderate.--_adv._ OUTR[=A]'GEOUSLY.--_n._ OUTR[=A]'GEOUSNESS. [O. Fr.
_oultrage_ (mod. _outrage_)--Low L. _ultragium_--L. _ultra_, beyond.]

OUTRANCE, owt'rans, _n._ the utmost extremity: the bitter end.--À OUTRANCE,
to the bitter end of a combat--usually in Eng. use, À L'OUTRANCE. [Fr.]

OUTRÉ, [=oo]t-r[=a]', _adj._ beyond what is customary or proper:
extravagant: overstrained. [Fr. pa.p. of _outrer_--_outre_--L. _ultra_,
beyond.]

OUTREACH, owt-r[=e]ch', _v.t._ to reach or extend beyond: to cheat or
overreach.

OUTREDDEN, owt-red'n, _v.t._ (_Tenn._) to grow redder than.

OUTREIGN, owt-r[=a]n', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to reign longer than: to reign
through the whole of (a period).

OUTREMER, [=oo]tr-m[=a]r', _n._ the region beyond sea. [Fr.]

OUTRIDE, owt-r[=i]d', _v.t._ to ride beyond: to ride faster than.--_n._
OUT'RIDER, one who rides abroad: a servant on horseback who attends a
carriage.

OUTRIGGER, owt'rig-[.e]r, _n._ a projecting spar for extending sails or any
part of the rigging: a projecting contrivance ending in a float fixed to
the side of a canoe against capsizing: an iron bracket fixed to the outside
of a boat carrying a rowlock at its extremity to increase the leverage of
the oar: a light racing-boat with projecting rowlocks.

OUTRIGHT, owt'r[=i]t, _adv._ immediately: at once: completely.--_adj._ free
from reserve: positive, undisguised.

OUTRIVAL, owt-r[=i]'val, _v.t._ to surpass, excel.

OUTROAD, owt'r[=o]d, _n._ (_obs._) a foray into an enemy's country, a
hostile attack--opp. to _Inroad_.

OUTROAR, owt-r[=o]r', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in roaring.--_n._
OUT'ROAR, an uproar.

OUTROOT, owt-r[=oo]t', _v.t._ to root out.

OUTROPER, owt-r[=o]'p[.e]r, _n._ formerly an officer in London who seized
the goods of foreigners sold elsewhere than in the public market.

OUTRUN, owt-run', _v.t._ to go beyond in running: to exceed: to get the
better of or to escape by running.--_n._ OUT'RUNNER.

OUTRUSH, owt-rush', _v.i._ to rush out:--_n._ a rushing out.

OUTSAIL, owt-s[=a]l', _v.t._ to leave behind in sailing.

OUTSCOLD, owt-sk[=o]ld', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in scolding.

OUTSCORN, owt-skorn', _v.t._ to bear down or confront by contempt: to
disregard or despise.

OUTSCOURING, owt'skowr-ing, _n._ substance washed or scoured out.

OUTSELL, owt-sel', _v.t._ to sell for a higher price than: to exceed in the
number or amount of sales.

OUT-SENTRY, owt'-sen-tri, _n._ a sentry who guards the entrance to a place
at a distance.--_n._ OUT'SCOUT, an advance scout.

OUTSET, owt'set, _n._ a setting out: beginning.--Also OUT'SETTING.

OUTSETTLEMENT, owt'set'l-ment, _n._ a settlement away from the main one.

OUTSHINE, owt-sh[=i]n', _v.i._ to shine out or forth.--_v.t._ to excel in
shining: to be brighter than.

OUTSHOT, owt'shot, _n._ (_Scot._) a projection in a building: (_pl._) in
paper-making, rags of second quality.

OUTSIDE, owt's[=i]d, _n._ the outer side: the farthest limit: the surface:
the exterior: one who is without, as a passenger on a coach, &c.: the outer
or soiled sheets of a package of paper.--_adj._ on the outside: exterior:
superficial: external: extreme, beyond the limit.--_adv._ on the outside:
not within.--_prep._ beyond.--_ns._ OUT'SIDE-CAR, an Irish jaunting-car;
OUT'SIDER, one not admitted to a particular company, profession, &c., a
stranger, a layman: a racehorse not included among the favourites in the
betting: (_pl._) a pair of nippers for turning a key in a keyhole from the
outside.--OUTSIDE COUNTRY, districts beyond the line of settlements in
Australia; OUTSIDE OF, outside: (_coll._) besides.--GET OUTSIDE OF
(_vulgar_), to comprehend: to eat or drink.

OUTSIGHT, owt's[=i]t, _n._ power of seeing things, outlook.--OUTSIGHT
PLENISHING (_Scot._), outdoor movables.

OUTSIT, owt-sit', _v.t._ to sit beyond the time of.

OUTSKIRT, owt'sk[.e]rt, _n._ the outer skirt: border: suburb--often used in
_pl._

OUTSLEEP, owt-sl[=e]p' _v.t._ (_Shak._) to sleep longer than.

OUTSLIDE, owt-sl[=i]d', _v.t._ to slide forward.

OUTSOAR, owt-s[=o]r', _v.t._ to soar beyond.

OUTSOLE, owt's[=o]l, _n._ the outer sole of a boot or shoe which rests on
the ground.

OUTSPAN, owt-span', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to unyoke or unharness draught-oxen,
&c., from a vehicle, to encamp--opp. to _Inspan_.

OUTSPEAK, owt-sp[=e]k', _v.t._ to say aloud: to speak more, louder, or
longer than.--_v.i._ to speak boldly, to speak up.--_adj._ OUTSP[=O]'KEN,
frank or bold of speech: uttered with boldness.--_n._ OUTSP[=O]'KENNESS.

OUTSPECKLE, owt'spek'l, _n._ (_Scot._) a laughing-stock.

OUTSPENT, owt-spent', _adj._ thoroughly tired out.

OUTSPORT, owt-sport', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to outdo in sporting.

OUTSPREAD, owt-spred', _v.t._ to spread out or over.--_adj._ OUTSPREAD'ING.

OUTSPRING, owt'spring, _n._ the outcome, result, or issue.

OUTSTAND, owt-stand', _v.t._ to resist or withstand: to stand beyond the
proper time.--_v.i._ to stand out or project from a mass: to remain unpaid
or unsettled in any way.--_adj._ OUTSTAND'ING, prominent: uncollected:
remaining unpaid.

OUTSTARE, owt'st[=a]r, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to stare down or abash with
effrontery.

OUTSTAY, owt-st[=a]', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to stay beyond.

OUTSTEP, owt-step', _v.t._ to step beyond, overstep.

OUTSTRETCH, owt-strech', _v.t._ to spread out, extend.

OUTSTRIKE, owt-str[=i]k', _v.t._ to exceed in striking, so as to overpower.

OUTSTRIP, owt-strip', _v.t._ to outrun: to leave behind: to escape beyond
one's reach.

OUTSUM, owt-sum', _v.t._ to outnumber.

OUTSWEAR, owt-sw[=a]r', _v.t._ to exceed in swearing.

OUTSWEETEN, owt-sw[=e]t'n, _v.t._ to excel in sweetness.

OUTSWELL, owt-swel', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to overflow.

OUTTALK, owt-tawk', _v.t._ to talk down.

OUTTONGUE, owt-tung', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to bear down by talk or noise.

OUTTOP, owt-top', _v.t._ to reach higher than: to excel.

OUT-TRAVEL, owt-trav'el, _v.t._ to surpass in travelling, to go more
swiftly than.

OUTVALUE, owt-val'[=u], _v.t._ to exceed in value.

OUTVENOM, owt-ven'um, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in poison.

OUTVIE, owt-v[=i]', _v.t._ to go beyond in vying with: to exceed: to
surpass.

OUTVILLAIN, owt-vil'[=a]n, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in villainy.

OUTVOICE, owt-vois', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in clamour or noise: to
drown the voice of.

OUTVOTE, owt-v[=o]t', _v.t._ to defeat by a greater number of votes.

OUTWALK, owt-wawk', _v.t._ to walk farther, longer, or faster than.

OUTWALL, owt'wawl, _n._ the outside wall of a building: (_Shak._) external
appearance.

OUTWARD, owt'ward, _adj._ toward the outside: external: exterior: not
inherent, adventitious: (_theol._) worldly, carnal--opp. to _Inward_ or
spiritual: (_B._) public.--_adv._ toward the exterior: away from port: to a
foreign port: superficially--also OUT'WARDS.--_n._ OUT'WARD (_Shak._),
external form: the outside.--_adj._ OUT'WARD-BOUND, bound outwards or to a
foreign port.--_adv._ OUT'WARDLY, in an outward manner: externally: in
appearance.--_n._ OUT'WARDNESS.--_adj._ OUT'WARD-SAINT'ED, appearing
outwardly to be a saint.

OUTWARD, owt-wawrd', _n._ a ward in a detached building connected with a
hospital.

OUTWATCH, owt-wawch', _v.t._ to watch longer than.

OUTWEAR, owt-w[=a]r', _v.t._ to wear out: to spend tediously: to last
longer than: to consume.

OUTWEARY, owt-w[=e]'ri, _v.t._ to weary out completely.

OUTWEED, owt-w[=e]d', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to root out.

OUTWEIGH, owt-w[=a]', _v.t._ to exceed in weight or importance: to
overtask.

OUTWELL, owt-wel', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to pour or well out.

OUTWENT, owt-went', _v.t._ went faster than, outstripped.

OUTWIN, owt-win', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to get out of.

OUTWIND, owt-w[=i]nd', _v.t._ to extricate by winding, to unloose.

OUTWING, owt-wing', _v.t._ to outstrip in flying: to outflank.

OUTWIT, owt-wit', _v.t._ to surpass in wit or ingenuity: to defeat by
superior ingenuity:--_pr.p._ outwit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ outwit'ted.

OUTWITH, owt'with, _prep._ (_Scot._), without, outside of.

OUTWORK, owt'wurk, _n._ a work outside the principal wall or line of
fortification: work done in the fields, out of doors, as distinguished from
indoor work.--_v.t._ OUTWORK' (_Shak._), to surpass in work or labour: to
work out or bring to an end: to finish.--_n._ OUT'WORKER, one who works out
of doors, or who takes away work to do at home.

OUTWORTH, owt-wurth', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to exceed in value.

OUTWREST, owt-rest', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to extort by violence.

OUVRAGE, [=oo]v'razh, _n._ work.--_ns._ (_masc._) OUVRIER ([=oo]v'ri-[=a]),
(_fem._) OUVRIÈRE ([=oo]v'ri-[=a]r), a working man or woman.--_adj._
working. [Fr.]

OUZEL, [=oo]'zl, _n._ a kind of thrush--also OU'SEL. [A.S. _ósle_; cog.
with Ger. _amsel_.]

OVAL, [=o]'val, _adj._ having the shape of an egg.--_n._ anything oval, a
plot of ground, &c.: an ellipse.--_adv._ O'VALLY. [Fr. _ovale_--L. _ovum_,
an egg.]

OVARY, [=o]'var-i, _n._ the part of the female animal in which the egg of
the offspring is formed, the female genital gland: (_bot._) the part of the
pistil which contains the seed.--_n.pl._ O'VA, eggs.--_adjs._ OV[=A]'RIAL,
OV[=A]'RIAN, of or pertaining to the ovary.--_ns._ OV[=A]'RI[=O]LE;
OVARIOT'OMIST; OVARIOT'OMY (_surg._), the removal of a diseased tumour from
the ovary.--_adj._ OV[=A]'RIOUS, consisting of eggs.--_n._ OVAR[=I]'TIS,
inflammation of the ovary. [Low L. _ovaria_.]

OVATE, [=o]'v[=a]t, _n._ an Eisteddfodic graduate who is neither a bard nor
a druid. [W. _ofydd_, a philosopher.]

OVATE, -D, [=o]'v[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ egg-shaped.

OVATION, [=o]-v[=a]'shun, _n._ an outburst of popular applause, an
enthusiastic reception: in ancient Rome, a lesser triumph.
[Fr.,--L.,--_ov[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to shout.]

OVEN, uv'n, _n._ an arched cavity over a fire for baking, heating, or
drying: any apparatus used as an oven.--_ns._ OV'EN-BIRD, a South American
tree-creeper which builds an oven-shaped nest; OV'EN-TIT, the
willow-warbler; OV'EN-WOOD, brushwood.--DUTCH OVEN, a baking-pot, heated by
heaping coals round it. [A.S. _ofen_; Ger. _ofen_.]

OVER, [=o]'v[.e]r, _prep._ higher than in place, rank, value, &c.: across:
on the surface of: upon the whole surface of: through: concerning: on
account of: longer than.--_adv._ on the top: above: across: from one side,
person, &c. to another: above in measure: too much: in excess: left
remaining: at an end: completely.--_adj._ upper or superior (often used as
a prefix, as in _over_coat, _over_lord, &c.): beyond: past.--_n._ the
number of balls delivered at cricket between successive changes of bowlers:
an excess, overplus.--_v.t._ to go, leap, or vault over.--_v.i._ to go
over.--OVER AGAIN, afresh, anew; OVER AGAINST, opposite; OVER AND ABOVE, in
addition to: besides; OVER AND OVER, several times: repeatedly; OVER HEAD
AND EARS, beyond one's depth: completely; OVER SEAS, to foreign lands.--All
over, completely: at an end. [A.S. _ofer_; Ger. _über_, L. _super_, Gr.
_huper_.]

OVERACT, [=o]-v[.e]r-akt', _v.t._ to act overmuch, to overdo any
part.--_v.i._ to act more than necessary.

OVER-ALL, [=o]'v[.e]r-awl, _adv._ (_Spens._) everywhere, all over.--_n.pl._
O'VERALLS, loose trousers of canvas, &c., worn over the others to keep them
sound or clean, waterproof leggings.

OVER-ANXIOUS, [=o]-v[.e]r-angk'shus, _adj._ anxious beyond what is right or
reasonable.--_n._ OVER-ANX[=I]'ETY.--_adv._ OVER-ANX'IOUSLY.

OVERARCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-ärch', _v.t._ to arch over.--_v.i._ to hang over like
an arch.

OVERAWE, [=o]-v[.e]r-aw', _v.t._ to restrain by fear or by superior
influence.

OVERBALANCE, [=o]-v[.e]r-bal'ans, _v.t._ to exceed in weight, value, or
importance: to cause to lose (one's) balance.--_n._ excess of weight or
value.

OVERBATTLE, [=o]-v[.e]r-bat'tl, _adj._ (_obs._) too fertile.

OVERBEAR, [=o]-v[.e]r-b[=a]r', _v.t._ to bear down or overpower: to
overwhelm.--_adj._ OVERBEAR'ING, inclined to domineer, esp. in manner or
conduct: haughty and dogmatical: imperious.--_adv._ OVERBEAR'INGLY.--_n._
OVERBEAR'INGNESS.

OVERBID, [=o]-v[.e]r-bid', _v.t._ to offer a price greater than.--_v.i._
offer more than the value of.

OVERBLOW, [=o]-v[.e]r-bl[=o]', _v.i._ to blow over or to be past its
violence: to blow with too much violence.--_v.t._ to blow away: to blow
across.--_adj._ OVERBLOWN', blown over or past, at an end: burnt by an
excessive blast, in the Bessemer steel process.

OVERBLOW, [=o]-v[.e]r-bl[=o]', _v.t._ to cover with blossoms or
flowers.--_adj._ OVERBLOWN', past the time of flower, withered.

OVERBOARD, [=o]'v[.e]r-b[=o]rd, _adv._ over the board or side: from on
board: out of a ship.--THROWN OVERBOARD, deserted, discarded, betrayed.

OVERBODY, [=o]-v[.e]r-bod'i, _v.t._ to give too much body to.

OVERBOIL, [=o]'v[.e]r-boil', _v.i._ and _v.t._ to boil excessively.

OVERBOLD, [=o]-v[.e]r-b[=o]ld', _adj._ (_Shak._) excessively bold:
impudent.--_adv._ OVERBOLD'LY.

OVERBRIDGE, [=o]'v[.e]r-brij, _n._ a bridge over a road.

OVERBRIM, [=o]-v[.e]r-brim', _v.t._ to fill to overflowing.--_v.i._ to be
so full as to overflow.--_adj._ OVERBRIMMED', having too large a brim.

OVERBROOD, [=o]-v[.e]r-br[=oo]d', _v.t._ to brood over.

OVERBROW, [=o]-v[.e]r-brow', _v.t._ to overhang like a projecting brow.

OVERBUILD, [=o]-v[.e]r-bild', _v.t._ to build over: to build more than is
needed.--_v.i._ to build beyond one's means.

OVERBULK, [=o]-v[.e]r-bulk', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to oppress by bulk.

OVERBURDEN, [=o]-v[.e]r-bur'dn, _v.t._ to burden overmuch.--_n._ alluvial
soil overlying a bed of ore.

OVERBURN, [=o]-v[.e]r-burn', _v.t._ to burn too much.--_v.i._ to be too
zealous.

OVERBUSY, [=o]-v[.e]r-biz'i, _adj._ too busy, over-officious.

OVERBUY, [=o]-v[.e]r-b[=i]', _v.t._ to buy at too dear a rate: to buy more
than is needed.

OVERBY, [=o]-v[.e]r-b[=i]', _adv._ a little way over--(_Scot._) OWERBY',
O'ERBY'.

OVERCANOPY, [=o]-v[.e]r-kan'o-pi, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to cover as with a
canopy.

OVERCAREFUL, [=o]-v[.e]r-k[=a]r'fool, _adj._ careful to excess.

OVERCARRY, [=o]-v[.e]r-kar'i, _v.t._ to carry too far, to go
beyond.--_v.i._ to go to excess.

OVERCAST, [=o]-v[.e]r-kast', _v.t._ to cast over: to cloud: to cover with
gloom: to sew over or stitch the edges (of a piece of cloth)
slightly.--_v.i._ to grow dull or cloudy.--_n._ OVERCAST'ING, the action of
the verb overcast: in bookbinding, a method of oversewing single leaves in
hem-stitch style to give the pliability of folded double leaves.

OVERCATCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-kach', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to overtake.

OVERCHARGE, [=o]-v[.e]r-chärj', _v.t._ to load with too great a charge: to
charge too great a price.--_n._ O'VERCHARGE, an excessive load or burden:
too great a charge, as of gunpowder or of price.

OVERCHECK, [=o]-v[.e]r-chek', _n._ a check-rein passing over a horse's head
between the ears.

OVERCLOUD, [=o]-v[.e]r-klowd', _v.t._ to cover over with clouds: to cause
gloom or sorrow to.

OVERCLOY, [=o]-v[.e]r-kloi', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to fill beyond satiety.

OVERCOAT, [=o]'v[.e]r-k[=o]t, _n._ an outdoor coat worn over all the other
dress, a top-coat.--_n._ O'VERCOATING, cloth from which such is made.

OVERCOLD, [=o]'v[.e]r-k[=o]ld, _adj._ too cold.

OVERCOLOUR, [=o]-v[.e]r-kul'ur, _v.t._ to colour to excess, to exaggerate.

OVERCOME, [=o]-v[.e]r-kum', _v.t._ to get the better of: to conquer or
subdue: (_obs._) to spread over, surcharge.--_v.i._ to be victorious.

OVER-CONFIDENT, [=o]-v[.e]r-kon'fi-dent, _adj._ too confident.--_n._
OVER-CON'FIDENCE.--_adv._ OVER-CON'FIDENTLY.

OVERCOUNT, [=o]-v[.e]r-kownt', _v.t._ to outnumber.

OVERCOVER, [=o]-v[.e]r-kuv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to cover completely.

OVERCREDULOUS, [=o]-v[.e]r-kred'[=u]-lus, _adj._ too easily persuaded to
believe.

OVERCROW, [=o]-v[.e]r-kr[=o]', _v.t._ to crow over, insult.

OVERCROWD, [=o]-v[.e]r-krowd', _v.t._ to fill or crowd to excess.

OVERDARING, [=o]-v[.e]r-d[=a]r'ing, _adj._ foolhardy.

OVERDATE, [=o]'v[.e]r-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to post-date.

OVER-DEVELOP, [=o]-v[.e]r-de-vel'op, _v.t._ in photography, to develop a
plate too much, as by too long a process or by too strong a
developer.--_n._ OVER-DEVEL'OPMENT.

OVERDIGHT, [=o]-v[.e]r-d[=i]t', _adj._ (_Spens._) dight or covered over:
overspread.

OVERDO, [=o]-v[.e]r-d[=oo]', _v.t._ to do overmuch: to carry too far: to
harass, to fatigue: to cook too much: to excel.--_n._ OVERDO'ER.--_adj._
OVERDONE', overacted: fatigued: cooked too much.

OVERDOSE, [=o]-v[.e]r-d[=o]s', _v.t._ to dose overmuch.--_n._ an excessive
dose.

OVERDRAW, [=o]-v[.e]r-draw', _v.t._ to draw overmuch: to draw beyond one's
credit: to exaggerate.--_n._ O'VERDRAFT, the act of overdrawing, the amount
by which the cheque, &c., exceeds the sum against which it is drawn: a
current of air passing over, not through, the ignited fuel in a furnace: an
arrangement of flues by which the kiln is heated from the top toward the
bottom--also O'VERDRAUGHT.

OVERDRESS, [=o]-v[.e]r-dres', _v.t._ to dress too ostentatiously.--_n._
O'VERDRESS, any garment worn over another.

OVERDRIVE, [=o]-v[.e]r-dr[=i]v', _v.t._ to drive too hard.

OVERDROP, [=o]-v[.e]r-drop', _v.t._ to drop over: to overhang.

OVERDUE, [=o]-v[.e]r-d[=u]', _adj._ due beyond the time: unpaid at the
right time.

OVERDYE, [=o]-v[.e]r-d[=i]', _v.t._ to dye too deeply.

OVEREARNEST, [=o]'v[.e]r-[.e]r'nest, _adj._ too earnest.

OVEREAT, [=o]-v[.e]r-[=e]t', _v.t._ to surfeit with eating (generally
reflexive): (_Shak._) to eat over again.

OVERENTREAT, [=o]-v[.e]r-en-tr[=e]t', _v.t._ to entreat to excess.

OVERESTIMATE, [=o]-v[.e]r-es'tim-[=a]t, _v.t._ to estimate too
highly.--_n._ an excessive estimate.--_n._ OVERESTIM[=A]'TION.

OVEREXCITE, [=o]'v[.e]r-ek-s[=i]t', _v.t._ to excite unduly.--_n._
OVEREXCITE'MENT.

OVER-EXERTION, [=o]'v[.e]r-eg-z[.e]r'shun, _n._ too great exertion.

OVER-EXPOSURE, [=o]'v[.e]r-eks-p[=o]'zh[=u]r, _n._ excessive exposure:
(_photography_) the exposure to light for too long a time of the sensitive
plate.--_v.t._ OVER-EXPOSE'.

OVER-EXQUISITE, [=o]'v[.e]r-eks'kwi-zit, _adj._ excessively exquisite: over
exact or nice: too careful.

OVEREYE, [=o]-v[=e]r-[=i]', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to overlook or superintend:
(_Shak._) to observe or remark.

OVERFALL, [=o]'v[.e]r-fawl, _n._ a rippling or race in the sea, where, by
the peculiarities of bottom, the water is propelled with immense force,
esp. when the wind and tide, or current, set strongly together.

OVERFAR, [=o]-v[.e]r-fär', _adv._ (_Shak._) to too great an extent.

OVERFAST, [=o]-v[.e]r-fast', _adj._ too fast: at too great speed.

OVERFEED, [=o]-v[.e]r-f[=e]d', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to feed to excess.

OVERFILL, [=o]-v[.e]r-fil', _v.t._ to fill to excess.

OVERFINENESS, [=o]'v[.e]r-f[=i]n'nes, _n._ excessive fineness.

OVERFIRED, [=o]-v[.e]r-f[=i]rd', _adj._ overheated in firing.

OVERFISH, [=o]-v[.e]r-fish', _v.t._ to fish to excess: to diminish unduly
the stock of fish.

OVERFLOURISH, [=o]'v[.e]r-flur'ish, _v.t._ to make excessive flourish of:
to decorate superficially.

OVERFLOW, [=o]-v[.e]r-fl[=o]', _v.t._ to flow over: to flood: to overwhelm:
to cover, as with numbers.--_v.i._ to run over: to abound.--_n._ O'VERFLOW,
a flowing over: that which flows over: a pipe or channel for spare water,
&c.: an inundation: superabundance: abundance: copiousness.--_adj._ flowing
over: over full: abundant.--_adj._ OVERFLOW'ING, exuberant, very
abundant.--_adv._ OVERFLOW'INGLY.--OVERFLOW MEETING, a supplementary
meeting of those unable to find room in the main meeting.

OVERFLY, [=o]'v[.e]r-fl[=i]', _v.t._ to soar beyond.

OVERFOLD, [=o]'v[.e]r-f[=o]ld, _n._ (_geol._) a reflexed or inverted fold
in strata.

OVERFOND, [=o]-v[.e]r-fond', _adj._ fond to excess.--_adv._ OVERFOND'LY.

OVERFORWARD, [=o]-v[.e]r-for'wärd, _adj._ too forward or officious.--_n._
OVERFOR'WARDNESS.

OVERFREIGHT, [=o]-v[.e]r-fr[=a]t', _v.t._ to overload.

OVERFULL, [=o]-v[.e]r-fool', _adj._ (_Shak._) too full.--_n._
OVERFULL'NESS.

OVERGAZE, [=o]-v[.e]r-g[=a]z', _v.t._ to gaze or look over.

OVERGET, [=o]-v[.e]r-get', _v.t._ (_obs._) to reach, overtake: to get over.

OVERGIVE, [=o]-v[.e]r-giv', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to give over or
surrender.--_v.i._ to give too lavishly.

OVERGLANCE, [=o]-v[.e]r-glans', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to look hastily over.

OVERGLAZE, [=o]-v[.e]r-gl[=a]z', _v.t._ to glaze over: decorate
superficially.--_adj._ suitable for painting on glazed articles.--_n._
O'VERGLAZE, an additional glaze given to porcelain, &c.

OVERGLOOM, [=o]-v[.e]r-gl[=oo]m', _v.t._ to cover with gloom.

OVERGO, [=o]-v[.e]r-g[=o]', _v.t._ to exceed: excel: to go over: to
cover.--_v.i._ to go over: to pass away.

OVERGORGE, [=o]-v[.e]r-gorj', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to gorge to excess.

OVERGRAIN, [=o]-v[.e]r-gr[=a]n', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to grain over a surface
already grained.--_n._ OVERGRAIN'ER, a long-bristled brush used in graining
wood.

OVERGRASSED, [=o]-v[.e]r-grast', _adj._ (_Spens._) overstocked or overgrown
with grass.

OVERGREEDY, [=o]-v[.e]r-gr[=e]d'i, _adj._ excessively greedy.

OVERGREEN, [=o]-v[.e]r-gr[=e]n', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to cover over so as to
hide blemishes.

OVERGROUND, [=o]'v[.e]r-grownd, _adj._ being above ground.

OVERGROW, [=o]-v[.e]r-gr[=o]', _v.t._ to grow beyond: to rise above: to
cover with growth.--_v.i._ to grow beyond the proper size.--_adj._
OVERGROWN', grown beyond the natural size.--_n._ O'VERGROWTH.

OVERHAIL, [=o]-v[.e]r-h[=a]l', _v.t._ Same as OVERHAUL.

OVERHAIR, [=o]'v[.e]r-h[=a]r, _n._ the long hair overlying the fur of many
animals.

OVERHAND, [=o]'v[.e]r-hand, _adj._ having the hand raised above the elbow
or over the ball at cricket (also O'VERHANDED): above the shoulder at
baseball: (_min._) done from below upward.--_adv._ with the hand over the
object.--_v.t._ to sew over and over.

OVERHANDLE, [=o]-v[.e]r-han'dl, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to handle or mention too
often.

OVERHANG, [=o]-v[.e]r-hang', _v.t._ to hang over: to project over: to
impend: to overlade with ornamentation.--_v.i._ to hang over.--_n._
O'VERHANG, a projecting part, the degree of projection, of roofs,
&c.--_adj._ OVERHUNG', covered over, adorned with hangings.

OVERHAPPY, [=o]-v[.e]r-hap'i, _adj._ excessively or too happy.

OVERHASTY, [=o]-v[.e]r-h[=a]s'ti, _adj._ too hasty or rash.--_adv._
OVERHAS'TILY.--_n._ OVERHAS'TINESS.

OVERHAUL, [=o]-v[.e]r-hawl', _v.t._ to haul or draw over: to turn over for
examination: to examine: to re-examine: (_naut._) to overtake in a
chase.--_n._ O'VERHAUL, a hauling over: examination: repair.--OVERHAUL A
SHIP, to overtake a ship: to search her for contraband goods.

OVERHEAD, [=o]'v[.e]r-hed, _adv._ over the head: aloft: in the zenith: per
head.--_adj._ situated above.

OVERHEAR, [=o]-v[.e]r-h[=e]r', _v.t._ to hear what was not intended to be
heard: to hear by accident: (_Shak._) to hear over again.

OVERHEAT, [=o]-v[.e]r-h[=e]t', _v.t._ to heat to excess.--_n._ O'VERHEAT,
extreme heat.

OVERHEND, [=o]-v[.e]r-hend', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to overtake.

OVERHOLD, [=o]-v[.e]r-h[=o]ld', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to overvalue.

OVERHOURS, [=o]'v[.e]r-owrz, _n.pl._ time beyond the regular number of
hours: overtime in labour.

OVERHOUSE, [=o]'v[.e]r-hows, _adj._ stretched along the roofs, rather than
on poles or underground.

OVERINFORM, [=o]-v[.e]r-in-form', _v.t._ to animate too much.

OVERISSUE, [=o]-v[.e]r-ish'[=u], _v.t._ to issue in excess, as bank-notes
or bills of exchange.--_n._ O'VERISSUE, any excessive issue.

OVERJOY, [=o]-v[.e]r-joi', _v.t._ to fill with great joy: to transport with
delight or gladness.--_n._ O'VERJOY, joy to excess: transport.

OVERJUMP, [=o]-v[.e]r-jump', _v.t._ to jump beyond: to pass by: neglect.

OVERKIND, [=o]-v[.e]r-k[=i]nd', _adj._ excessively kind.--_n._
OVERKIND'NESS.

OVERKING, [=o]'v[.e]r-king, _n._ a king holding sway over inferior kings or
princes.

OVERKNEE, [=o]'v[.e]r-n[=e], _adj._ reaching above the knee, as waders, &c.

OVERLABOUR, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=a]'bur, _v.t._ to labour excessively over: to be
too nice with: to overwork.

OVERLADE, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=a]d', _v.t._ to load with too great a burden.

OVERLAID, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=a]d', _adj._ (_her._) lapping over.

OVERLAND, [=o]'v[.e]r-land, _adj._ passing entirely or principally by land,
as a route, esp. that from England to India by the Suez Canal, rather than
by the Cape of Good Hope.

OVERLAP, [=o]-v[.e]r-lap', _v.t._ to lap over: to lay so that the edge of
one rests on that of another.--_n._ O'VERLAP (_geol._), a disposition of
strata where the upper beds extend beyond the bottom beds of the same
series.

OVERLAUNCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-lawnsh', _v.t._ to unite timbers by long splices or
scarfs.

OVERLAY, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=a]', _v.t._ to spread over or across: to cover
completely: to smother by lying on (for _overlie_): to use overlays in
printing: to cloud: to overwhelm or oppress: to span by means of a
bridge.--_ns._ O'VERLAY, a piece of paper pasted on the impression-surface
of a printing-press, so as to increase the impression in a place where it
is too faint: (_Scot._) a cravat; OVERLAY'ING, a superficial covering: that
which overlays: plating.

OVERLEAF, [=o]'v[.e]r-l[=e]f, _adv._ on the other side of the leaf of a
book.

OVERLEAP, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=e]p', _v.t._ to leap over: to pass over without
notice.--OVERLEAP ONE'S SELF, to make too much effort in leaping: to leap
too far.

OVERLEATHER, [=o]'v[.e]r-leth-[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) the upper part of a
shoe or boot.

OVERLEAVEN, [=o]-v[.e]r-lev'n, _v.t._ to leaven too much: to mix too much
with.

OVERLIE, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=i]', _v.t._ to lie above or upon: to smother by
lying on.

OVERLIVE, [=o]-v[.e]r-liv', _v.t._ (_B._) to live longer than: to
survive.--_v.i._ to live too long: to live too fast, or so as prematurely
to exhaust the fund of life.

OVERLOAD, [=o]-v[.e]r-l[=o]d', _v.t._ to load or fill overmuch.--_n._ an
excessive load.

OVERLOCK, [=o]-v[.e]r-lok', _v.t._ to make the bolt of a lock go too far.

OVERLONG, [=o]-v[.e]r-long', _adj._ too long.

OVERLOOK, [=o]-v[.e]r-look', _v.t._ to look over: to see from a higher
position: to view carefully: to neglect by carelessness or inadvertence: to
pass by without punishment: to pardon: to slight: to bewitch by looking
upon with the Evil Eye.--_n._ OVERLOOK'ER.

OVERLORD, [=o]-v[.e]r-lawrd', _n._ a lord over other lords: a feudal
superior.--_n._ OVERLORD'SHIP.

OVERLUSTY, [=o]-v[.e]r-lust'i, _adj._ (_Shak._) too lusty.

OVERLY, [=o]'v[.e]r-li, _adv._ (_coll._) excessively, too.

OVERLYING, [=o]'v[.e]r-l[=i]'ing, _adj._ lying on the top.

OVERMAN, [=o]'v[.e]r-man, _n._ in mining, the person in charge of the work
below ground.

OVERMAN, [=o]-v[.e]r-man', _v.t._ to keep more men than necessary on a
ship, farm, &c.

OVERMANTEL, [=o]'v[.e]r-man-tl, _n._ a frame containing shelves and other
decorations, and often a mirror, set on a mantel-shelf.

OVERMASTED, [=o]-v[.e]r-mast'ed, _adj._ furnished with a mast or masts too
long or too heavy.

OVERMASTER, [=o]-v[.e]r-mas't[.e]r, _v.t._ to subdue, to govern: to get and
keep in one's power.

OVERMATCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-mach', _v.t._ to be more than a match for: to
conquer.--_n._ O'VERMATCH, one who is more than a match: one who cannot be
overcome.

OVERMEASURE, [=o]'v[.e]r-mezh-[=u]r, _n._ something given over the due
measure.--_v.t._ to measure too largely.

OVERMELLOW, [=o]-v[.e]r-mel'l[=o], _adj._ (_Tenn._) excessively or too
mellow.

OVERMOUNT, [=o]-v[.e]r-mownt', _v.t._ to surmount: to go higher than.--_n._
O'VERMOUNT, a piece of cardboard cut in proper shape, to prevent the glass
of the frame from lying too closely upon an engraving or a picture.

OVERMUCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-much', _adj._ and _adv._ too much.

OVERMULTITUDE, [=o]-v[.e]r-mul'ti-t[=u]d, _v.t._ (_Milt._) to
outnumber.--_v.t._ OVERMUL'TIPLY, to repeat too often.--_v.i._ to increase
to excess.

OVERNAME, [=o]-v[.e]r-n[=a]m', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to name over: to name in a
series, to recount.--_n._ O'VERNAME, a surname, nickname.

OVERNEAT, [=o]-v[.e]r-n[=e]t', _adj._ unnecessarily neat.

OVERNET, [=o]-v[.e]r-net', _v.t._ to cover with a net.

OVERNICE, [=o]-v[.e]r-n[=i]s', _adj._ fastidious.--_adv._ OVERNICE'LY.

OVERNIGHT, [=o]'v[.e]r-n[=i]t, _n._ the forepart of the evening, esp. that
of the day just past.--_adv._ during the night: on the evening of the day
just past.

OVEROFFICE, [=o]-v[.e]r-of'is, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to lord it over by virtue
of an office.

OVERPART, [=o]-v[.e]r-part' _v.t._ to assign too difficult a part to.

OVERPASS, [=o]-v[.e]r-pas', _v.t._ to pass over: to pass by without
notice.--_pa.p._ OVERPAST' (_B._), that has already passed.

OVERPAY, [=o]-v[.e]r-p[=a]', _v.t._ to pay too much: to be more than an
ample reward for.--_n._ OVERPAY'MENT.

OVERPEER, [=o]-v[.e]r-p[=e]r', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to overlook: to look down
on: to hover above.

OVERPEOPLE, [=o]-v[.e]r-p[=e]'pl, _v.t._ to fill with too many
inhabitants.--Also OVERPOP'ULATE.

OVERPERCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-p[.e]rch', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to perch or fly over.

OVERPERSUADE, [=o]-v[.e]r-p[.e]r-sw[=a]d', _v.t._ to persuade a person
against his inclination.

OVERPICTURE, [=o]-v[.e]r-pik't[=u]r, _v.t._ to exceed the picture of: to
exaggerate.

OVERPLATE, [=o]'v[.e]r-pl[=a]t, _n._ in armour, a large pauldron protecting
the shoulder, or a cubitière protecting the elbow.

OVERPLUS, [=o]'v[.e]r-plus, _n._ that which is more than enough: surplus.

OVERPLY, [=o]-v[.e]r-pl[=i]', _v.t._ to ply to excess.

OVERPOISE, [=o]'v[.e]r-poiz, _v.t._ to outweigh.--_n._ O'VERPOISE, a weight
sufficient to weigh another down.

OVERPOST, [=o]-v[.e]r-post', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to hasten over quickly.

OVERPOWER, [=o]-v[.e]r-pow'[.e]r, _v.t._ to have or gain power over: to
subdue, defeat: to overwhelm.--_adj._ OVERPOW'ERING, excessive in degree or
amount: irresistible.--_adv._ OVERPOW'ERINGLY.

OVERPRAISE, [=o]-v[.e]r-pr[=a]z', _v.t._ to praise too much.--_n._
OVERPRAIS'ING, excessive praise.

OVERPRESS, [=o]-v[.e]r-pres', _v.t._ to overwhelm, to crush: to overcome by
importunity.--_n._ OVERPRESS'URE, excessive pressure.

OVERPRIZE, [=o]-v[.e]r-pr[=i]z', _v.t._ to value too highly: to surpass in
value.

OVERPRODUCTION, [=o]'v[.e]r-pro-duk-shun, _n._ the act of producing a
supply of commodities in excess of the demand.

OVERPROOF, [=o]'v[.e]r-proof, _adj._ containing more than a certain amount
of alcohol, stronger than proof-spirit, the standard by which all mixtures
of alcohol and water are judged--containing 57.27 per cent. by volume, and
49.50 per cent. by weight, of alcohol.

OVERPROUD, [=o]-v[.e]r-prowd', _adj._ too proud.

OVERPURCHASE, [=o]-v[.e]r-pur'ch[=a]s, _n._ a dear bargain.--_v.i._
(_obs._) to pay too dear a price.

OVERRACK, [=o]-v[.e]r-rak', _v.t._ to torture beyond bearing.

OVERRAKE, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=a]k', _v.t._ to sweep over, as a vessel by a wave.

OVERRANK, [=o]-v[.e]r-rangk', _adj._ too rank or luxurious.

OVERRATE, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=a]t', _v.t._ to rate or value too high.--_n._
O'VERRATE, an excessive estimate or rate.

OVERREACH, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=e]ch', _v.t._ to reach or extend beyond: to cheat
or get the better of.--_v.i._ to strike the hindfoot against the forefoot,
as a horse.

OVERREAD, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=e]d', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to read over, to
peruse.--_adj._ OVERREAD ([=o]-v[.e]r-red'), having read too much.

OVER-RECKON, [=o]-v[.e]r-rek'n, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to compute too highly.

OVERRED, [=o]-v[.e]r-red', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to smear with a red colour.

OVERREFINE, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=e]-f[=i]n', _v.i._ to refine too much.--_n._
OVERREFINE'MENT, any over subtle or affected refinement.

OVERRENT, [=o]-v[.e]r-rent', _v.i._ to exact too high a rent.

OVERRIDE, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=i]d', _v.t._ to ride too much: to pass on
horseback: to trample down or set aside.--OVERRIDE ONE'S COMMISSION, to act
with too high a hand: to stretch one's authority too far.

OVERRIPEN, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=i]p'n, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to make too ripe.--_adj._
OVERRIPE', too ripe, more than ripe.

OVERROAST, [=o]-v[=e]r-r[=o]st', _v.t._ to roast too much.

OVERRULE, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=oo]l', _v.t._ to rule over: to influence or to set
aside by greater power: (_law_) to reject or declare to be invalid.--_v.i._
to prevail.--_n._ OVERRUL'ER.--_adv._ OVERRUL'INGLY.

OVERRUN, [=o]-v[.e]r-run', _v.t._ to run or spread over: to grow over: to
spread over and take possession of: to crush down: (_B._) to run faster
than: to pass in running: to extend composed types beyond their first
limit.--_v.i._ to run over: to extend beyond the right length, as a line or
page in printing.--_n._ OVERRUN'NER, one that overruns.

OVERSCORE, [=o]-v[.e]r-sk[=o]r', _v.t._ to score or draw lines over
anything: to erase by this means.

OVERSCRUPULOUS, [=o]-v[.e]r-skroop'[=u]-lus, _adj._ scrupulous to
excess.--_n._ OVERSCRUP'ULOUSNESS.

OVERSCUTCHED, [=o]-v[.e]r-skucht', _adj._ (_Shak._) over switched or
whipped, or more probably worn out in the service.

OVERSEA, [=o]'v[.e]r-s[=e], _adj._ foreign, from beyond the sea.--_adv._ to
a place beyond the sea, abroad.--Also O'VERSEAS.

OVERSEAM, [=o]'v[.e]r-s[=e]m, _n._ a seam in which the thread is at each
stitch passed over the edges sewn together.--_n._ O'VERSEAMING, the
foregoing kind of sewing.

OVERSEE, [=o]-v[.e]r-s[=e]', _v.t._ to see or look over, to
superintend.--_n._ OVERS[=E]'ER, one who oversees: a superintendent: an
officer who has the care of the poor, and other duties, such as making out
lists of voters, of persons who have not paid rates, &c.: one who manages a
plantation of slaves: (_obs._) a critic.--OVERSEERS OF THE POOR, officers
in England who manage the poor-rate.--BE OVERSEEN (_obs._), to be deceived:
to be fuddled.

OVERSELL, [=o]-v[.e]r-sel', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to sell too dear: to sell
more than exists, of stock, &c.

OVERSET, [=o]-v[.e]r-set', _v.t._ to set or turn over: to upset: to
overthrow.--_v.i._ to turn or be turned over.

OVERSHADE, [=o]-v[.e]r-sh[=a]d', _v.t._ to throw a shade over.

OVERSHADOW, [=o]-v[.e]r-shad'[=o], _v.t._ to throw a shadow over: to
shelter or protect.

OVERSHINE, [=o]-v[.e]r-sh[=i]n', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to shine upon, illumine:
to outshine.

OVERSHOE, [=o]'v[.e]r-sh[=oo], _n._ a shoe, esp. of waterproof, worn over
another.

OVERSHOOT, [=o]-v[.e]r-sh[=oo]t', _v.t._ to shoot over or beyond, as a
mark: to pass swiftly over.--_v.i._ to shoot or fly beyond the
mark.--_adj._ O'VERSHOT, having the water falling on it from above, as a
water-wheel: surpassed: fuddled.--OVERSHOOT ONE'S SELF, to venture too far,
to overreach one's self.

OVERSIDE, [=o]-v[.e]r-s[=i]d', _adj._ acting over the side.--_adv._ over
the side.

OVERSIGHT, [=o]'v[.e]r-s[=i]t, _n._ a failing to notice: mistake: omission:
(_orig._) superintendence.

OVERSIZE, [=o]-v[.e]r-s[=i]z', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to cover with any gluey
matter: to plaster over.

OVERSKIP, [=o]-v[.e]r-skip', _v.t._ to skip, leap, or pass over: (_Shak._)
to fail to see or find: to escape.

OVERSLAUGH, [=o]-v[.e]r-slaw', _v.t._ (_U.S._) to pass over in favour of
another: to supersede: to hinder: to oppress. [Dut. _overslaan_ (cf. Ger.
_überschlagen_), to skip over.]

OVERSLEEP, [=o]-v[.e]r-sl[=e]p', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to sleep beyond one's
usual time.

OVERSLIP, [=o]-v[.e]r-slip', _v.t._ to pass without notice.

OVERSMAN, [=o]'v[.e]rz-man, _n._ an overseer: (_Scot._) an umpire appointed
to decide between the differing judgment of two arbiters.

OVERSOUL, [=o]'v[.e]r-s[=o]l, _n._ the divine principle forming the
spiritual unity of all being.

OVERSOW, [=o]-v[.e]r-s[=o]', _v.t._ to sow too much seed on: to sow over.

OVERSPENT, [=o]-v[.e]r-spent', _adj._ excessively fatigued.

OVERSPREAD, [=o]-v[.e]r-spred', _v.t._ to spread over: to scatter
over.--_v.i._ to be spread over.

OVERSTAIN, [=o]-v[.e]r-st[=a]n', _v.t._ to besmear the surface of.

OVERSTAND, [=o]-v[.e]r-stand', _v.t._ to stand too strictly on the
conditions of.

OVERSTARE, [=o]-v[.e]r-st[=a]r', _v.t._ to outstare.

OVERSTATE, [=o]-v[.e]r-st[=a]t', to state over and above: to
exaggerate.--_n._ OVERSTATE'MENT.

OVERSTAY, [=o]-v[.e]r-st[=a]', _v.t._ to stay too long.

OVERSTEP, [=o]-v[.e]r-step', _v.t._ to step beyond: to exceed.

OVERSTOCK, [=o]-v[.e]r-stok', _v.t._ to stock overmuch: to fill too
full.--_n._ superabundance.

OVERSTRAIN, [=o]v[.e]r-str[=a]n', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to strain or stretch
too far.--_n._ too great strain.--_adj._ OVERSTRAINED', strained to excess:
exaggerated.

OVERSTREAM, [=o]-v[.e]r-str[=e]m', _v.t._ to stream or flow over.

OVERSTRETCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-strech', _v.t._ to stretch to excess: to
exaggerate.

OVERSTREW, [=o]-v[.e]r-str[=oo]', _v.t._ to scatter over.

OVERSTRUNG, [=o]-v[.e]r-strung', _adj._ too highly strung.

OVERSUPPLY, [=o]'v[.e]r-sup-pl[=i], _n._ an excessive supply.

OVERSWAY, [=o]-v[.e]r-sw[=a]', _v.t._ to overrule, to bear down.

OVERSWELL, [=o]-v[.e]r-swel', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to swell or rise above: to
overflow.

OVERT, [=o]'v[.e]rt, _adj._ open to view: public: apparent.--_adv._
O'VERTLY.--OVERT ACT, something actually done in execution of a criminal
intent.--MARKET OVERT, open or public market. [Fr. _ouvert_, pa.p. of
_ouvrir_, to open; acc. to Diez, from O. Fr. _a-ovrir_, through Prov.
_adubrir_, from L. _de-oper[=i]re_, to uncover--_de_=un-, and _oper[=i]re_,
to cover; acc. to Littré, from L. _oper[=i]re_, to cover, confounded in
meaning with _aper[=i]re_, to open.]

OVERTAKE, [=o]-v[.e]r-t[=a]k', _v.t._ to come up with: to catch: to come
upon: to take by surprise.--_p.adj._ OVERT[=A]'KEN, fuddled.

OVERTASK, [=o]-v[.e]r-task', _v.t._ to task overmuch: to impose too heavy a
task on.

OVERTAX, [=o]-v[.e]r-taks', _v.t._ to tax overmuch.

OVERTEDIOUS, [=o]-v[.e]r-t[=e]'di-us, _adj._ (_Shak._) too tedious.

OVERTHROW, [=o]-v[.e]r-thr[=o]', _v.t._ to throw down: to upset: to bring
to an end: to demolish: to defeat utterly.--_ns._ O'VERTHROW, act of
overthrowing or state of being overthrown: ruin: defeat: a throwing of a
ball beyond the player; O'VERTHROWER.

OVERTHRUST, [=o]'v[.e]r-thrust, _adj._ (_geol._) belonging to earlier
strata, pushed by faulting over later and higher strata.

OVERTHWART, [=o]-v[.e]r-thwawrt', _v.t._ to lie athwart: to cross.--_adj._
opposite, transverse: contrary, perverse.--_prep_. across, on the other
side of.

OVERTILT, [=o]-v[.e]r-tilt', _v.t._ to upset.

OVERTIME, [=o]'v[.e]r-t[=i]m, _n._ time employed in working beyond the
regular hours.

OVERTOIL, [=o]-v[.e]r-toil', _v.i._ to overwork one's self.

OVERTONE, [=o]'v[.e]r-t[=o]n, _n._ a harmonic, because heard above its
fundamental tone.

OVERTOP, [=o]-v[.e]r-top', _v.t._ to rise over the top of: to make of less
importance: to surpass: to obscure.

OVERTOWER, [=o]-v[.e]r-tow'er, _v.t._ to tower above.--_v.i._ to soar too
high.

OVERTRADE, [=o]-v[.e]r-tr[=a]d', _v.i._ to trade overmuch or beyond
capital: to buy in more than can be sold or paid for.--_n._ OVERTRAD'ING,
the buying of a greater amount of goods than one can sell or pay for.

OVERTRIP, [=o]-v[.e]r-trip', _v.t._ to trip nimbly over.

OVERTURE, [=o]'v[.e]r-t[=u]r, _n._ a proposal, an offer for acceptance or
rejection: (_mus._) a piece introductory to a greater piece or ballet: a
discovery or disclosure: the method in Presbyterian usage of beginning
legislation and maturing opinion by sending some proposition from the
presbyteries to the General Assembly, and _vice versâ_, also the proposal
so sent.--_v.t._ to lay a proposal before. [Fr.]

OVERTURN, [=o]-v[.e]r-turn', _v.t._ to throw down or over: to subvert: to
conquer: to ruin.--_ns._ O'VERTURN, state of being overturned; OVERTURN'ER.

OVERVALUE, [=o]-v[.e]r-val'l[=u], _v.t._ to set too high a value on.--_n._
OVERVALU[=A]'TION, an overestimate.

OVERVEIL, [=o]-v[.e]r-v[=a]l', _v.t._ to veil or cover.

OVERVIEW, [=o]'v[.e]r-v[=u], _n._ (_Shak._) an inspection.

OVERWASH, [=o]'v[.e]r-wawsh, _adj._ (_geol._) carried by glacier-streams
over a frontal moraine, or formed of material so carried.

OVERWATCH, [=o]-v[.e]r-wawch', _v.t._ to watch excessively: to overcome
with long want of rest.

OVERWEAR, [=o]-v[.e]r-w[=a]r', _v.t._ to wear out: to outwear,
outlive.--_n._ O'VERWEAR, clothes for wearing out of doors.

OVERWEATHER, [=o]-v[.e]r-weth'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to batter by violence
of weather.

OVERWEEN, [=o]-v[.e]r-w[=e]n', _v.i._ (_Shak._) to think too highly or
favourably, esp. of one's self.--_adj._ OVERWEEN'ING, thinking too highly
of: conceited, vain.--_n._ conceit: presumption.--_adv._ OVERWEEN'INGLY.

OVERWEIGH, [=o]-v[.e]r-w[=a]', _v.t._ to be heavier than: to
outweigh.--_n._ O'VERWEIGHT, weight beyond what is required or what is
just.--_v.t._ OVERWEIGHT', to weigh down: to put too heavy a burden on.

OVERWHELM, [=o]-v[.e]r-hwelm', _v.t._ to overspread and crush by something
heavy or strong: to flow over and bear down: to overcome.--_p.adj._
OVERWHEL'MING, crushing with weight, &c.: irresistible.--_adv._
OVERWHEL'MINGLY.

OVERWIND, [=o]-v[.e]r-w[=i]nd', _v.t._ to wind too far.

OVERWISE, [=o]-v[.e]r-w[=i]z', _adj._ wise overmuch: affectedly
wise.--_adv._ OVERWISE'LY.

OVERWORK, [=o]-v[.e]r-wurk', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to work overmuch or beyond
the strength: to tire.--_n._ O'VERWORK, excess of work: excessive labour.

OVERWORN, [=o]-v[.e]r-wörn', _adj._ worn out: subdued by toil: spoiled by
use: worn or rubbed till threadbare.

OVERWREST, [=o]-v[.e]r-rest', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to wrest or twist from the
proper position.

OVERWRESTLE, [=o]-v[.e]r-res'l, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to overcome by wrestling.

OVERWRITE, [=o]-v[.e]r-r[=i]t', _v.t._ to cover over with other writing.

OVERWROUGHT, [=o]-v[.e]r-rawt', _pa.p._ of OVERWORK, worked too hard: too
highly excited: worked all over: overdone.

OVERYEAR, [=o]-v[.e]r-y[=e]r', _adj._ (_prov._) kept over from last year.

OVIDIAN, [=o]-vid'i-an, _adj._ belonging to, or resembling the style of,
the Latin poet _Ovid_ (43 B.C.-17 A.D.).

OVIDUCT, [=o]'vi-dukt, _n._ a duct or passage for the egg in animals, from
the ovary.

OVIFEROUS, [=o]-vif'[.e]r-us, _adj._ egg-bearing.--_n._ O'VIFER, a small
wire cage on a solid base, for carrying an egg safely. [L. _ovum_, an egg,
_ferre_, to bear.]

OVIFORM, [=o]'vi-form, _adj._ having the form of an oval or egg. [L.
_ovum_, an egg.]

OVIFORM, [=o]'vi-form, _adj._ like a sheep: ovine. [L. _ovis_, a sheep.]

OVIGEROUS, ov-ij'[.e]r-us, _adj._ egg-bearing. [L. _ovum_, an egg,
_ger[)e]re_, to bear.]

OVINE, [=o]'v[=i]n, _adj._ pertaining to the _Ovinæ_, sheep-like.--_n._
OVIN[=A]'TION, inoculation of sheep with ovine virus against sheep-pox.

OVIPAROUS, [=o]-vip'a-rus, _adj._ bringing forth or laying eggs instead of
fully formed young.--_n.pl._ OVIP'ARA, animals that lay eggs.--_ns._
OVIPAR'ITY, OVIP'AROUSNESS. [L. _ovum_, egg, _par[)e]re_, to bring forth.]

OVIPOSITOR, [=o]-vi-poz'i-tor, _n._ the organ at the extremity of the
abdomen of many insects, by which the eggs are deposited.--_v.i._
OVIPOS'IT, to deposit eggs with an ovipositor.--_n._ OVIPOSIT'ION. [L.
_ovum_, egg, _positor_--_pon[)e]re_, to place.]

OVISAC, [=o]v'i-sak, _n._ the cavity in the ovary which immediately
contains the ovum. [L. _ovum_, an egg, and _sac_.]

OVOID, -AL, [=o]'void, -al, _adj._ oval: egg-shaped.--_n._ an egg-shaped
body. [L. _ovum_, egg, Gr. _eidos_, form.]

OVOLO, [=o]'v[=o]-l[=o], _n._ (_archit._) a moulding with the rounded part
composed of a quarter of a circle, or of an arc of an ellipse with the
curve greatest at the top. [It.,--L. _ovum_, an egg.]

OVOVIVIPAROUS, [=o]-v[=o]-vi-vip'ar-us, _adj._ producing eggs which are
hatched in the body of the parent. [L. _ovum_, an egg, _vivus_, living,
_par[)e]re_, to bring forth.]

OVULE, [=o]v'[=u]l, _n._ a little egg: the seed of a plant in its
rudimentary state, growing from the placenta.--_adj._ OV'ULAR.--_ns._
OVUL[=A]'TION, the formation of ova, or the period when this takes place;
OV'ULITE, a fossil egg. [Dim. of L. _ovum_, an egg.]

OVUM, [=o]'vum, _n._ an egg: (_biol._) the egg-cell, in all organisms the
starting-point of the embryo, development beginning as soon as it is
supplemented by the male-cell or spermatozoon:--_pl._ O'VA. [L.]

OWCHE, owch, _n._ Same as OUCH.

OWE, [=o], _v.t._ to possess or to be the owner of: to have what belongs to
another: to be bound to pay: to be obliged for.--_v.i._ to be in debt.--BE
OWING, to be due or ascribed (to). [A.S. _ágan_, pres. indic. _áh_, pret.
_áhte_, pa.p. _ágen_; Ice. _eiga_, Old High Ger. _eigan_, to possess.]

OWELTY, [=o]'el-ti, _n._ equality. [O. Fr. _oelte_.]

OWENITE, [=o]'en-[=i]t, _n._ a disciple of Robert _Owen_ (1771-1858), a
social reformer, who proposed to establish society on a basis of
socialistic co-operation.

OWER, ow'[.e]r (_Scot._ for _over_).--_ns._ OW'ERCOME, OW'ERWORD, the
refrain of a song.

OWING, [=o]'ing, _adj._ due: that has to be paid (to): happening as a
consequence of: imputable to.

OWL, owl, _n._ a carnivorous bird that seeks its food by night, noted for
its howling or hooting noise.--_v.i._ to smuggle contraband goods.--_ns._
OWL'ERY, an abode of owls: (_Carlyle_) an owl-like character; OWL'ET, a
little or young owl.--_adj._ OWL'-EYED, having blinking eyes like an
owl.--_n._ OWL'-GLASS, a malicious figure in a popular German tale,
translated into English about the end of the 16th century--the German _Tyll
Eulenspiegel_--also OWLE'GLASS, HOWLE'GLASS, OWL'SPIEGLE.--_adj._ OWL'ISH,
like an owl: stupid: dull-looking.--_n._ OWL'ISHNESS. [A.S. _úle_; Ger.
_eule_, L. _ulula_; imit.]

OWN, [=o]n, _v.t._ to grant: to allow to be true: concede: acknowledge.
[A.S. _unnan_, to grant; Ger. _gönnen_, to grant.]

OWN, [=o]n, _v.t._ to possess: to be the rightful owner of. [A.S. _ágnian_,
with addition of casual suffix--_ágen_, one's own; cf. _Own_ (adj.).]

OWN, [=o]n, _adj._ possessed: belonging to one's self and to no other:
peculiar.--_ns._ OWN'ER, one who owns or possesses; OWN'ERSHIP, state of
being an owner: right of possession. [A.S. _ágen_, pa.p. of _ágan_, to
possess. Cf. _Owe_.]

OWRE, owr, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as AUROCHS. [A.S. _úr_.]

OWSEN, ow'sen, _n.pl._ a dialectic form of _oxen_.

OX, oks, _n._ a well-known animal that chews the cud, the female of which
supplies the chief part of the milk used as human food: the male of the
cow, esp. when castrated:--_pl._ OX'EN, used for both male and
female.--_ns._ OX'-BOT, OX'-WAR'BLER, a bot-fly or its larva, found under
the skin of cattle; OX'EYE, a common plant in meadows, with a flower like
the eye of an ox.--_adj._ OX'-EYED, having large, full, ox-like
eyes.--_ns._ OX'-GOAD (see GOAD); OX'-PECK'ER, OX'-BIRD, an African bird,
which eats the parasites infesting the skins of cattle--also _Beefeater_;
OX'-TAIL-SOUP, a kind of soup made of several ingredients, one of which is
an oxtail cut in joints.--HAVE THE BLACK OX TREAD ON ONE'S FOOT, to
experience sorrow or misfortune. [A.S. _oxa_, pl. _oxan_; Ice. _uxi_; Ger.
_ochs_, Goth. _auhsa_, Sans. _ukshan_.]

OXALATE, oks'a-l[=a]t, _n._ a salt formed by a combination of oxalic acid
with a base.--_n._ OX'ALITE, a yellow mineral composed of oxalate of iron.

OXALIS, oks'a-lis, _n._ wood-sorrel: (_bot._) a genus of plants having an
acid taste.--_adj._ OXAL'IC, pertaining to or obtained from sorrel.
[Gr.,--_oxys_, acid.]

OXFORD CLAY, oks'ford kl[=a], _n._ (_geol._) the principal member of the
Middle Oolite series.--OXFORD MOVEMENT (see TRACTARIANISM).

OXGANG, oks'gang, _n._ as much land as can be tilled by the use of an ox
(averaging about 15 acres)--called also OX'LAND or OX'GATE.

OX-HEAD, oks'-hed, _n._ (_Shak._) blockhead, dolt.

OXIDE, oks'[=i]d, _n._ a compound of oxygen and some other element or
organic radical. Oxides are of three kinds--_acid-forming_, _basic_, and
_neutral_.--_n._ OXIDABIL'ITY.--_adj._ OX'IDABLE, capable of being
converted into an oxide.--_v.t._ OX'IDATE (same as OXIDISE).--_ns._
OXID[=A]'TION, OXIDISE'MENT, act or process of oxidising; OX'ID[=A]TOR, a
contrivance for drawing a current of air to the flame of a lamp.--_adj._
OXIDIS'ABLE, capable of being oxidised.--_v.t._ OX'IDISE, to convert into
an oxide.--_v.i._ to become an oxide.--_n._ OXIDIS'ER.

OXLIP, oks'lip, _n._ a species of primrose, having its flowers in an umbel
on a stalk like the cowslip.

OXONIAN, oks-[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Oxford_ or to its
university.--_n._ an inhabitant or a native of Oxford: a student or
graduate of Oxford.

OXTER, oks't[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) the armpit.--_v.t._ to hug with the arms:
to support by taking the arm.

OXYGEN, oks'i-jen, _n._ a gas without taste, colour, or smell, forming part
of the air, water, &c., and supporting life and combustion.--_n._
OXYCHL[=O]'RIDE, a chemical compound containing both chlorine and oxygen in
combination with some other element.--_v.t._ OX'YGEN[=A]TE, to unite, or
cause to unite, with oxygen.--_n._ OXYGEN[=A]'TION, act of
oxygenating.--_v.t._ OX'YGENISE (same as OXYGENATE).--_adj._ OXYG'ENOUS,
pertaining to, or obtained from, oxygen.--_adj._ OXYHY'DROGEN, pertaining
to a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, as in a form of blowpipe in which jets
of either ignite as they issue from separate reservoirs. [Gr. _oxys_,
sharp, _gen_, the root of _gennaein_, to generate.]

OXYMEL, oks'i-mel, _n._ a mixture of vinegar and honey. [Gr. _oxys_, sour,
_meli_, honey.]

OXYMORON, ok-si-m[=o]'ron, _n._ a figure of speech, by means of which two
ideas of opposite meaning are combined, so as to form an expressive phrase
or epithet, as _cruel kindness_, _falsely true_, &c. [Gr.,--_oxys_, sharp,
_m[=o]ros_, foolish.]

OXYOPIA, ok-si-[=o]'pi-a, _n._ unusual keenness of sight. [Gr.,--_oxys_,
sharp, _[=o]ps_, the eye.]

OXYRHYNCHUS, ok-si-ring'kus, _n._ an Egyptian fish, formerly sacred to the
goddess Hathor, and represented on coins and sculptures. [Gr.,--_oxys_,
sharp, _rhyngchos_, a snout.]

OXYTONE, oks'i-t[=o]n, _adj._ having an acute sound: having the acute
accent on the last syllable.--_n._ a word so accented. [Gr. _oxys_, sharp,
_tonos_, tone.]

OYER, [=o]'y[.e]r, _n._ a hearing in a law-court, an assize.--OYER AND
TERMINER, a royal commission conferring upon a judge or judges the power to
hear and determine criminal causes pending in a particular county. [Norm.
Fr. _oyer_ (Fr. _ouir_)--L. _aud[=i]re_, to hear.]

OYEZ, OYES, [=o]'yes, _interj._ the call of a public crier, or officer of a
law-court, for attention before making a proclamation. [Norm. Fr., 2d pers.
pl. imper. of _oyer_.]

OYSTER, ois't[.e]r, _n._ a well-known bivalve shellfish, used as
food.--_ns._ OYS'TER-BANK, -BED, -FARM, -FIELD, -PARK, a place where
oysters breed or are bred; OYS'TER-CATCH'ER, the sea pie--a sea wading bird
of the family Hæmatopodidæ, having dark plumage and red bill and feet;
OYS'TER-FISH'ERY, the business of catching oysters; OYS'TER-KNIFE, a knife
for opening oysters.--_n.pl._ OYS'TER-PAT'TIES, small pies or pasties made
from oysters.--_n._ OYS'TER-SHELL, the shell of an oyster.--_n.pl._
OYS'TER-TONGS, a tool used to dredge up oysters in deep water.--_ns._
OYS'TER-WENCH, -WIFE, -WOM'AN, a woman who vends oysters. [O. Fr. _oistre_
(Fr. _huître_)--L. _ostrea_--Gr. _ostreon_, an oyster--_osteon_, a bone.]

OZOCERITE, [=o]-z[=o]-s[=e]'r[=i]t, _n._ a waxy-like substance, having a
weak bituminous odour, found in Moldavia and elsewhere, and used for making
candles.--Also OZOK[=E]'RITE. [Gr. _ozein_, to smell, _keros_, wax.]

OZOENA, [=o]-z[=e]'na, _n._ a term applied to any one of various diseased
conditions of the nose accompanied by fetid discharge. [Gr. _ozein_, to
smell.]

OZONE, [=o]'z[=o]n, _n._ name given to a supposed allotropic form of
oxygen, when affected by electric discharges, marked by a peculiar
smell.--_ns._ OZON[=A]'TION; OZONIS[=A]'TION; OZONOM'ETER.--_adj._
OZONOMET'RIC.--_ns._ OZONOM'ETRY; OZ[=O]'NOSCOPE.--_adjs._ OZONOSCOP'IC;
O'ZONOUS. [Gr. _ozein_, to smell.]

OZOSTOMIA, [=o]-zo-st[=o]'mi-a, _n._ foul breath due to morbid causes. [Gr.
_ozein_, to smell, _stoma_, the mouth.]

       *       *       *       *       *

P the sixteenth letter of our alphabet, its sound the sharp labial mute,
interchanging with other labials, esp. with _b_, the flat labial mute:
P=400; ([=P])=400,000: the chemical symbol for phosphorus: (_math._) the
Greek [PI]=a continued product, while small [pi] denotes the ratio of the
circumference to the diameter.--MIND ONE'S P'S AND Q'S (see MIND).

PA, pä, _n._ papa, a child's name for father.

PABOUCHE, pa-b[=oo]sh', _n._ a slipper.--Also _Baboosh_.

PABULUM, pab'[=u]-lum, _n._ food of any kind, especially that of animals
and plants: provender: fuel: nourishment for the mind.--_adjs._ PAB'ULAR,
PAB'ULOUS, of or pertaining to food: fit for food: affording food.
[L.,--_pasc[)e]re_, to feed.]

PACA, pak'a, _n._ the spotted cavy of South America. [Sp. and Port., the
spotted cavy--Braz. _pak_, _paq_.]

PACABLE, p[=a]'ka-bl, _adj._ that may be calmed or quieted: willing to
forgive.--_adj._ PAC[=A]'TED.--_n._ PAC[=A]'TION. [L. _pac[=a]re_, to make
at peace--_pax_, peace.]

PACE, p[=a]s, _n._ a stride: the space between the feet in walking, 30
inches, a step: gait: rate of walking (of a man or beast): rate of speed in
movement or work, often applied to fast living: mode of stepping in horses
in which the legs on the same side are lifted together: amble: (_obs._) a
passage.--_v.t._ to measure by steps: to cause to progress: to train in
walking or stepping.--_v.i._ to walk: to walk slowly: to amble.--_adj._
PACED, having a certain pace or gait.--_ns._ PACE'-MAK'ER, one who sets the
pace, as in a race; PAC'ER, one who paces: a horse whose usual gait is a
pace.--KEEP, or HOLD, PACE WITH, to go as fast as: to keep up with. [Fr.
_pas_--L. _passus_, a step--_pand[)e]re_, _passum_, to stretch.]

PACE, p[=a]'s[=e], _prep._ with or by the leave of (expressing disagreement
courteously). [L., abl. of _pax_, peace.]

PACHA, PACHALIC. See PASHA, PASHALIC.

PACHY-, pak'i-, thick, in combination, as _adjs._ PACHYDAC'TYL, -OUS,
having thick digits; PACH'YDERM, thick-skinned--_n._ one of an order of
non-ruminant, hoofed mammals, thick-skinned, as the elephant:--_pl._
PACH'YDERMS, or PACHYDER'MATA.--_adj._ PACHYDER'MATOUS, thick-skinned:
insensible to impressions.--_n._ PACHYDER'MIA, a form of elephantiasis in
which the skin becomes thick and warty.--_adj._ PACHYDER'MOID.--_ns._
PACHY[=E]'MIA, a thickening of the blood--also PACHYÆ'MIA; PACHY'MA, a
genus of fungi consisting of tuber-like growths, some of which are now
referred to the genus _Polyporus_--also _Tuckahoe_, _Tuckahoe truffle_, or
_Indian bread_; PACHYM[=E]'NIA, a thickening of the skin.--_adj._
PACHYM[=E]'NIC.--_n._ PACHYM'ETER, an instrument for measuring small
thicknesses, as of paper.--_adjs._ PACH'YODONT, with thick teeth;
PACH'YOTE, with thick ears, as a bat--also _n._; PACH'YPOD, having thick
feet; PACHYP'TEROUS, having thick wings or fins.--_ns._ PACHYTH[=E]'RIUM, a
South American fossil genus of gigantic edentate mammals; PACHYT'YLUS, a
genus of locusts, embracing the dreaded Migratory Locust (_Pachytylus
migratorius_). [Gr. _pachys_, thick.]

PACIFY, pas'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to make peaceful: to appease: to bring back
peace to: to calm; to soothe.--_adjs._ PAC'IFIABLE, that may be pacified;
PACIF'IC, peacemaking: appeasing: peaceful: mild: tranquil.--_n._ the ocean
between Asia and America, so called by its discoverer Magellan because he
sailed peacefully over it after weathering Cape Horn.--_adj._ PACIF'ICAL,
pacific (obs. except in phrase _Letters pacifical_, letters recommending
the bearer as one in peace and fellowship with the church--also _Letters of
peace_, _Pacificæ_).--_adv._ PACIF'ICALLY.--_v.t._ PACIF'IC[=A]TE, to give
peace to.--_ns._ PACIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of making peace, esp. between
parties at variance; PACIF'IC[=A]TOR, PAC'IFIER, a peacemaker.--_adj._
PACIF'IC[=A]TORY, tending to make peace. [Fr. _pacifier_--L.
_pacific[=a]re_--_pax_, _pacis_, peace, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PACK, pak, _n._ a bundle made to be carried on the back: a collection,
stock, or store: a bundle of some particular kind or quantity, as of wool,
480 or 240 lb.: the quantity of fish packed: a complete set of cards: a
number of animals herding together or kept together for hunting: a number
of persons combined for bad purposes: any great number: a large extent of
floating and broken ice: a wet sheet for folding round the body to allay
inflammation, fever, &c.--_v.t._ to press together and fasten up: to place
in order: to crowd: to assort, bring together, select, or manipulate
persons, cards, &c. for some unjust object: to send away, as from one's
presence or employment: to surround a joint, &c., with any substance to
prevent leaking, &c.--_v.i._ to store things away anywhere for safe
keeping, &c.: to settle into a firm mass: to admit of being put into
compact shape: to depart in haste.--_ns._ PACK'AGE, the act of packing,
also something packed: a bundle or bale: a charge made for packing;
PACK'-AN'IMAL, a beast of burden used to carry goods on its back;
PACK'-CINCH (-sinsh), a wide girth of canvas, &c., having a hook and ring
attached for adjusting the load of a pack-animal; PACK'-CLOTH, a cloth in
which goods are tied up: packsheet; PACK'ER, one who packs: one who cures
and packs provisions: any device to fill the space between the tubing and
the sides of an oil-well, &c.; PACK'ET, a small package: a ship or vessel
employed in carrying packets of letters, passengers, &c.: a vessel plying
regularly between one port and another (also PACK'ET-BOAT, PACK'ET-SHIP,
&c.).--_v.t._ to bind in a packet or parcel: to send in a packet.--_ns._
PACK'ET-DAY, the day of the departure or arrival of a mail-ship;
PACK'ET-NOTE (see NOTE-PAPER); PACK'-HORSE, a horse used to carry goods in
panniers: a drudge; PACK'-ICE, a collection of large pieces of floating
ice; PACK'ING, the act of putting into packs or of tying up for carriage:
material for packing: anything used to fill an empty space, or to make a
joint close, as the elastic ring round a moving rod or piston to make it a
tight fit; PACK'ING-BOX, -CASE, a box in which goods are packed: a hollow
place round the opening of a steam cylinder, filled with some soft
substance which, being pressed hard against the piston-rod, makes it a
tight fit; PACK'ING-NEED'LE, or _Sack-needle_, a strong needle for sewing
up packages; PACK'ING-P[=A]'PER, a strong and thick kind of wrapping-paper;
PACK'ING-PRESS, a press for squeezing goods into small compass for packing;
PACK'ING-SHEET, or PACK'SHEET, coarse cloth for packing goods; PACK'-LOAD,
the load an animal can carry on its back; PACK'MAN, a peddler or a man who
carries a pack; PACK'-MULE, a mule used for carrying burdens;
PACK'-SADD'LE, a saddle for packs or burdens; PACK'-THREAD, a coarse thread
used to sew up packages; PACK'-TRAIN, a train of loaded pack-animals;
PACK'WAY, a narrow path fit for pack-horses.--PACK A JURY, MEETING, &c., to
fill up with persons of a particular kind for one's own purposes.--SEND ONE
PACKING, to dismiss summarily. [Prob. Celt.; Gael. and Ir. _pac_, Bret.
_pak_, a bundle; cf. Ger. _pack_, Dut. _pak_.]

PACK, pak, _adj._ (_Scot._) intimate, confidential.

PACKFONG, an incorrect form of _paktong_ (q.v.)

PACO, p[=a]'ko, _n._ same as ALPACA:--_pl._ P[=A]'COS.

PACT, pakt, _n._ that which is agreed on: an agreement: a contract--also
PAC'TION.--_adj._ PAC'TIONAL.--PACTUM ILLICITUM, an unlawful agreement. [L.
_pactum_--_pacisci_, _pactus_, to contract.]

PAD, pad, _n._ a thief on the high-road (more commonly _Footpad_): (abbrev.
from _pad-horse_) a horse for riding on the road: an easy-paced
horse.--_v.i._ to walk on foot: to trudge along: to rob on foot:--_pr.p._
pad'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pad'ded.--_adj._ PAD'-CLINK'ING, keeping
company with thieves.--_n._ PAD'DING-KEN, a low lodging-house inhabited by
thieves.--STAND PAD, to beg by the roadside. [Dut. _pad_, a path.]

PAD, pad, _n._ anything stuffed with a soft material, to prevent friction
or pressure, or for filling out: a soft saddle, cushion, &c.: a number of
sheets of paper or other soft material fastened together for writing upon:
the fleshy, thick-skinned under-surface of the toes of many animals, as the
fox: a fox's foot generally: the large floating leaf of an aquatic plant:
(_pl._) thick watered ribbon for watch-guards.--_v.t._ to stuff with
anything soft: to fix colours in cloth:--_pr.p._ pad'ding; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ pad'ded.--_ns._ PAD'-CLOTH, a cloth covering a horse's loins;
PAD'DER, one who pads or cushions; PAD'DING, the soft stuffing of a saddle,
&c.: matter of less value introduced into a book or article in order to
make it of the length desired: the process of mordanting a fabric;
PAD'-EL'EPHANT, a working elephant, distinguished from a war or hunting
one; PAD'-SADD'LE, a treeless, padded saddle; PAD'-TREE, the wooden or
metal frame to which harness-pads are attached. [A variant of _pod_, orig.
sig. 'a bag.']

PADDLE, pad'l, _v.i._ to dabble in water with the hands or the feet: to
touch or toy with the fingers: to beat the water as with the feet: to row:
to move in the water as a duck does: (_slang_) to make off.--_v.t._ to move
by means of an oar or paddle: to finger, toy with.--_n._ a short, broad,
spoon-shaped oar, used for moving canoes: the blade of an oar: one of the
boards at the circumference of a paddle-wheel.--_ns._ PADD'LE-BEAM, one of
the large timbers at the side of a paddle-wheel; PADD'LE-BOARD, one of the
floats on the circumference of a paddle-wheel; PADD'LE-BOX, a wooden box
covering the upper part of the paddle-wheel of a steamer; PADD'LER, one who
paddles; PADD'LE-SHAFT, the axle on which the paddle-wheels of a steamer
turn; PADD'LE-WHEEL, the wheel of a steam-vessel, which by turning in the
water causes it to move forward; PADD'LE-WOOD, the light, strong wood of a
Guiana tree of the dogbane family. [For _pattle_, freq. of _pat_.]

PADDLE, pad'l, _n._ (_B._) a little spade.--_n._ PADD'LE-STAFF, a spade for
clearing a ploughshare. [Prob. from _spaddle_; cf. _Spade_.]

PADDOCK, pad'uk, _n._ a toad or frog.--_n._ PADD'OCK-STOOL, a toadstool.
[Dim. of M. E. _padde_, a toad--Ice. _padda_.]

PADDOCK, pad'uk, _n._ a small park under pasture, immediately adjoining the
stables of a domain: a small field in which horses are kept. [A.S.
_pearroc_, a park--_sparran_ (Ger. _sperren_), to shut.]

PADDY, pad'i, _n._ rice in the husk.--_ns._ PADD'Y-BIRD, the Java sparrow
or rice-bird; PADD'Y-FIELD, a field where rice is grown. [East Ind.]

PADDY, pad'i, _n._ a familiar name for an Irishman, from St _Patrick:_ a
drill used in boring wells, with cutters that expand on pressure.--_n._
PADD'Y-WHACK, a nurse's word for a slap.

PADELLA, pa-del'la, _n._ a shallow vessel filled with fat, in the centre of
which a wick has been placed--used in illuminations. [It., a frying-pan.]

PADEMELON, pad'[=e]-mel-on, _n._ a brush kangaroo or wallaby.--Also
PAD'YMELON, PAD'DYMELON.

PADISHAH, pä'di-sha, _n._ chief ruler: great king, a title of the Sultan of
Turkey or of the Sovereign of Great Britain as ruler of India. [Pers.
_p[=a]d_, master, _sh[=a]h_, king; cf. _Pasha_.]

PADLOCK, pad'lok, _n._ a movable lock with a link turning on a hinge or
pivot at one end, to enable it to pass through a staple or other opening,
and to be pressed down to catch the bolt at the other end.--_v.t._ to
fasten with a padlock. [Prob. prov. Eng. _pad_, a basket, and _lock_.]

PADMA, pad'ma, _n._ the true lotus.

PAD-NAG, pad'-nag, _n._ an ambling nag.

PADRE, pä'dre, _n._ father, a title given to priests in some
countries.--_n._ PADR[=O]'NE, a person who jobs out hand-organs, or who
gets children to beg for him:--_pl._ PADR[=O]'NI. [It. and Sp.,--L.
_pater_, a father.]

PADUAN, pad'[=u]-an, _adj._ and _n._ belonging to _Padua:_ one of the
clever imitations of old Roman bronze coins made at Padua in the 16th
century: a Spanish dance, the pavan.

PADUASOY, pad'[=u]-a-soi, _n._ a smooth silk originally manufactured at
_Padua_, used in the 18th century, also a garment of the same. [Fr. _soie
de Padoue_.]

PÆAN, p[=e]'an, _n._ a song of triumph: any joyous song: a song in honour
of Apollo, later also of Dionysus and Ares.--_n._ PÆ'ON, a foot of four
syllables, one long, three short.--_adj._ PÆON'IC. [L.,--Gr. _Paian_ or
_Pai[=o]n_, an epithet of Apollo.]

PÆDAGOGY, PÆDAGOGICS, PÆDOBAPTISM, PÆDOBAPTIST. See PEDAGOGY, PEDAGOGICS,
PEDOBAPTISM, PEDOBAPTIST.

PÆNULA, p[=e]'n[=u]-la, _n._ a chasuble, esp. in its older form: a woollen
outer garment covering the whole body, worn on journeys and in rainy
weather.

PÆONIN, p[=e]'[=o]-nin, _n._ a red colouring matter obtained from yellow
coralline.

PÆONY, p[=e]'o-ni, _n._ Same as PEONY.

PAFF, paf, _n._ a meaningless word, used with _piff_ to indicate jargon.

PAGAN, p[=a]'gan, _n._ a heathen: one who does not worship the true
God.--_adj._ heathenish: pertaining to the worship of false gods.--_v.t._
P[=A]'GANISE, to render pagan or heathen: to convert to paganism.--_adj._
P[=A]'GANISH, heathenish.--_n._ P[=A]'GANISM, heathenism: the beliefs and
practices of the heathen. [L. _paganus_, a rustic, heathen, because the
country-people were later in becoming Christians than the people of the
towns--_pagus_, a district--_pang[)e]re_, to fix.]

PAGE, p[=a]j, _n._ a boy attending on a person of distinction: a young lad
employed as attendant: a contrivance for holding up a woman's skirt in
walking.--_n._ PAGE'HOOD, condition of a page. [Fr. _page_; acc. to Littré,
prob. from Low L. _pagensis_, a peasant--L. _pagus_, a village; acc. to
Diez, but hardly with probability, through the It. _paggio_, from Gr.
_paidion_, dim. of _pais_, _paidos_, a boy.]

PAGE, p[=a]j, _n._ one side of a written or printed leaf--4 pages in a
folio sheet, 8 in a quarto, 16 in an octavo, 24 in a duodecimo, 36 in an
octodecimo: a book, record, or source of knowledge: the type,
illustrations, &c. arranged for printing one side of a leaf: (_pl._)
writings.--_v.t._ to number the pages of.--_adj._ PAG'INAL.--_v.t._
PAG'IN[=A]TE, to mark with consecutive numbers, to page.--_ns._
PAGIN[=A]'TION, the act of paging a book: the figures and marks that
indicate the number of pages; P[=A]'GING, the marking or numbering of the
pages of a book. [Fr.,--L. _pagina_, a thing fastened--_pang[)e]re_, to
fasten.]

PAGEANT, paj'ant, or p[=a]'-, _n._ a showy exhibition: a spectacle: a
fleeting show: (_orig._) a platform on four wheels for the purpose of
representing plays, &c.--_adj._ showy: pompous.--_n._ PAGE'ANTRY, splendid
display: pompous spectacle. [M. E. _pagent_ (with excrescent _-t_), from an
older form _pagen_ or _pagin_--Low L. _pagina_, a stage--L. _pagina_, a
slab--_pang[)e]re_, to fix; cf. _Page_ (2).]

PAGODA, pa-g[=o]'da, _n._ an idol-house: an Indian idol: its temple: a gold
coin formerly current in India, so called because the figure of a pagoda
was stamped upon it--also PAGODE'.--_n._ PAG[=O]'DITE, the mineral which
the Chinese carve into figures of pagodas, &c. [Port., a corr. of Pers.
_but-kadah_, an idol-temple.]

PAGODE, pa-g[=o]d', _n._ a funnel-shaped sleeve worn by both sexes in the
first half of the 18th century.

PAGUS, p[=a]'gus, _n._ a country district with scattered hamlets, also its
fortified centre: among the early Teutons, a division of the territory
larger than a village, like a wapentake or hundred.

PAH, pä, _interj._ an exclamation expressing contempt or disgust.

PAHLAVI. Same as PEHLEVI.

PAID, p[=a]d, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of pay.

PAIDEUTICS, p[=a]-d[=u]'tiks, _n.sing._ the science or theory of
teaching.--_n._ PAIDOL'OGY, the scientific study of the child. [Gr.
_paideutikos_--_paideuein_, to teach--_pais_, _paidos_, a child.]

PAIGLE, PAGLE, p[=a]'gl, _n._ (_obs._) the cowslip or primrose.

PAIK, p[=a]k, _n._ (_Scot._) a beating.

PAIL, p[=a]l, _n._ an open vessel of wood, &c., for holding or carrying
liquids.--_n._ PAIL'FUL, as much as fills a pail. [O. Fr. _paile_,
_paele_--L. _patella_, a pan, dim. of _patera_--_pat[=e]re_, to be open.]

PAILLASSE, pa-lyas', _n._ a small bed, originally made of chaff or straw:
an under mattress of straw.--_n._ PAILLASSON (pa-lya-song'), a form of
straw bonnet. [Fr.,--_paille_, straw--L. _palea_, chaff.]

PAILLETTE, pa-lyet', _n._ a piece of metal or coloured foil used in
enamel-painting: a sponge.--_n._ PAILLON (pa-lyong'), a bright metal
backing for enamel, &c. [Fr.]

PAIN, p[=a]n, _n._ suffering coming as the punishment of evil-doing:
suffering either of body or mind: anguish: great care or trouble taken in
doing anything: (_pl._) labour: care: trouble: the throes of
childbirth.--_v.t._ to cause suffering to: to distress: to torment: to
grieve.--_adjs._ PAINED, showing or expressing pain: (_B._) in pain, in
labour; PAIN'FUL, full of pain: causing pain: requiring labour, pain, or
care: (_arch._) hard-working, painstaking: distressing: difficult.--_adv._
PAIN'FULLY.--_n._ PAIN'FULNESS.--_adj._ PAIN'LESS, without pain.--_adv._
PAIN'LESSLY.--_ns._ PAIN'LESSNESS; PAINS'TAKER, one who takes pains or
care: a laborious worker.--_adj._ PAINS'TAKING, taking pains or care:
laborious: diligent.--_n._ careful labour: diligence.--UNDER PAIN OF,
subject to the penalty of. [Fr. _peine_--L. _poena_, satisfaction--Gr.
_poin[=e]_, penalty.]

PAINIM, p[=a]'nim. See PAYNIM.

PAINT, p[=a]nt, _v.t._ to cover over with colour: to represent in a
coloured picture: to describe in words: to adorn.--_v.i._ to practise
painting: to lay colours on the face, to blush: (__slang__) to
tipple.--_n._ a colouring substance: anything fixed with caoutchouc to
harden it.--_adj._ PAINT'ABLE, that may be painted.--_ns._ PAINT'-BOX, a
box in which different paints are kept in compartments; PAINT'-BRIDGE, a
platform used by theatrical scene-painters in painting scenery;
PAINT'-BRUSH, a brush for putting on paint.--_adj._ PAINT'ED, covered with
paint: ornamented with coloured figures: marked with bright colours.--_ns._
PAINT'ED-GRASS, ribbon-grass; PAINT'ED-L[=A]'DY, the thistle-butterfly,
orange-red spotted with white and black; PAINT'ER, one whose employment is
to paint: one skilled in painting; PAINT'ER'S-COL'IC, lead colic;
PAINT'ER-STAIN'ER, one who paints coats of arms, &c.; PAINT'INESS;
PAINT'ING, the act or employment of laying on colours: the act of
representing objects by colours: a picture: vivid description in words;
PAINT'[=U]RE (_Dryden_), the art of painting: a picture.--_adj._ PAINT'Y,
overloaded with paint, with the colours too glaringly used: smeared with
paint.--PAINT THE TOWN RED (_U.S._), to break out in a boisterous spree.
[O. Fr., pa.p. of Fr. _peindre_, to paint--L. _ping[)e]re_, _pictum_, to
paint.]

PAINTER, p[=a]nt'[.e]r, _n._ a rope used to fasten a boat.--CUT THE
PAINTER, to set adrift; LAZY PAINTER, a small painter for use in fine
weather only. [A corr. of M. E. _panter_, a fowler's noose, through O. Fr.
from L. _panther_, a hunting-net--Gr. _panth[=e]ros_, catching all--_pan_,
neut. of _pas_, every, _th[=e]r_, wild beast.]

PAIR, p[=a]r, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to impair.

PAIR, p[=a]r, _n._ two things equal, or suited to each other, or used
together: a set of two equal or like things forming one instrument, as a
pair of scissors, tongs, &c., a set of like things generally: in building,
a flight of stairs: a couple: a man and his wife: two members of a
legislative body, holding opposite opinions, who agree with each other to
abstain from voting for a certain time, so as to permit one or both to be
absent.--_v.t._ to join in couples.--_v.i._ to be joined in couples: to fit
as a counterpart.--_adj._ PAIRED, arranged in pairs: set by twos of a like
kind: mated.--_ns._ PAIR'ING, an agreement between two members of a
legislative body holding opposite opinions to refrain from voting, so that
both may absent themselves; PAIR'ING-TIME, the time when birds go together
in pairs; PAIR'-ROY'AL, three cards of the same denomination, esp. in
cribbage.--_adv._ PAIR'-WISE, in pairs.--PAIR OF COLOURS, two flags carried
by a regiment, one the national ensign, the other the flag of the regiment;
PAIR OFF (see PAIRING above). [Fr. _paire_, a couple--_pair_, like--L.
_par_, equal.]

PAIS, p[=a], _n._ the people from whom a jury is drawn.--MATTER-IN-PAIS,
matter of fact. [O. Fr.]

PAISE, p[=a]z, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as POISE.

PAITRICK, p[=a]'trik, _n._ (_Scot._) a partridge.

PAJAMAS. See PYJAMAS.

PAJOCK, pä'jok, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as PEACOCK.

PAKTONG, pak'tong, _n._ the Chinese name for German silver.--Also
PACK'FONG, PAK'FONG. [Chin.]

PAL, pal, _n._ (_slang_) a partner, mate. [Gipsy.]

PALABRA, pa-lä'bra, _n._ talk, palaver. [Sp., a word.]

PALACE, pal'[=a]s, _n._ the house of a king or a queen: a very large and
splendid house: a bishop's official residence.--_n._ PAL'ACE-CAR, a
sumptuously furnished railway-car. [Fr. _palais_--L. _Palatium_, the Roman
emperor's residence on the _Palatine_ Hill at Rome.]

PALADIN, pal'a-din, _n._ one of the twelve peers of Charlemagne's
household: a knight-errant, or paragon of knighthood. [Fr.,--It.
_paladino_--L. _palatinus_, belonging to the palace. Cf. _Palatine_.]

PALÆARCTIC, p[=a]-l[=e]-ark'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the northern part of
the Old World.--PALÆARCTIC REGION, a great division embracing Europe,
Africa north of the Atlas, and Asia north of the Himalaya.

PALÆICHTHYOLOGY, p[=a]-l[=e]-ik-th[=i]-ol'o-ji, _n._ the branch of
ichthyology which treats of fossil fishes.

PALÆOBOTANY, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-bot'a-ni, _n._ the science or study of fossil
plants.--_adj._ PALÆOBOTAN'ICAL.--_n._ PALÆOBOT'ANIST.

PALÆOCRYSTIC, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-kris'tik, _adj._ consisting of ancient ice.

PALÆOGRAPHY, PALEOGRAPHY, p[=a]-l[=e]-og'ra-fi, _n._ ancient modes of
writing: study of ancient writings and modes of writing.--_n._
PALÆOG'RAPHER, one skilled in palæography.--_adjs._ PALÆOGRAPH'IC, -AL, of
or pertaining to palæography.--_n._ PALÆOG'RAPHIST. [Gr. _palaios_,
ancient, _graphein_, to write.]

PALÆOLITHIC, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-lith'ik, _adj._ of or pertaining to the time
when early stone implements were used: the first half of the stone
age.--_n._ PALÆOL'ITH, a rude stone implement or object of the earlier
stone age. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient, _lithos_, a stone.]

PALÆOLOGY, p[=a]-l[=e]-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ a discourse or treatise on
antiquities: archæology.--_n._ PALÆOL'OGIST, one versed in palæology: a
student of antiquity. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient, _logia_, discourse.]

PALÆONTOGRAPHY, p[=a]-l[=e]-on-tog'ra-fi, _n._ the description of fossil
remains.--_adj._ PALÆONTOGRAPH'ICAL, pertaining to palæontography. [Gr.
_palaios_, ancient, _onta_, existences, _graphein_, to write.]

PALÆONTOLOGY, p[=a]-l[=e]-on-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the ancient
life of the earth: description of fossil remains: archæology.--_adj._
PALÆONTOLOG'ICAL, belonging to palæontology.--_n._ PALÆONTOL'OGIST, one
versed in palæontology. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient, _onta_, existences,
_logia_, discourse.]

PALÆOPHYTOLOGY, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-f[=i]-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ palæobotany.

PALÆOSAURUS, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-saw'rus, _n._ a genus of fossil saurian
reptiles belonging to the Permian period. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient,
_sauros_, lizard.]

PALÆOTHERIUM, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-th[=e]'ri-um, _n._ a genus of fossil
pachydermatous mammalia in the Eocene beds. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient,
_th[=e]rion_, a wild beast.]

PALÆOZOIC, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-z[=o]'ik, _adj._ denoting the lowest division
of the fossiliferous rocks, so called because they contain the earliest
forms of life. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient, _zo[=e]_, life.]

PALÆOZOOLOGY, p[=a]-l[=e]-[=o]-z[=o]-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ geologic
zoology.--_adjs._ PALÆOZOOLOG'IC, -AL.

PALÆTIOLOGY, p[=a]-l[=e]-ti-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science which explains
past conditions by the law of causation.--_adj._ PALÆTIOLOG'ICAL.--_n._
PALÆTIOL'OGIST.

PALAMA, pal'a-ma, _n._ the webbing of the toes of a bird:--_pl._
PAL'AMÆ.--_adj._ PAL'AM[=A]TE. [Gr. _palam[=e]_.]

PALAMPORE, pal'am-p[=o]r, _n._ a flowered chintz bedcover common in the
East.--Also PAL'EMPORE. [Prob. from the Ind. town of _Palamp[=u]r_.]

PALANQUIN,  PALANKEEN, pal-an-k[=e]n', _n._ a light covered carriage used
in India, &c., for a single person, and borne on the shoulders of men.
[Hind. _palang_, a bed--Sans. _palyanka_, a bed.]

PALAPTERYX, pal-ap't[.e]r-iks, _n._ a genus of fossil birds found in New
Zealand, resembling the Apteryx. [Gr. _palaios_, ancient, and _apteryx_.]

PALAS, pal'as, _n._ a small bushy Punjab bean, yielding a kind of kino,
Butea gum.

PALATE, pal'[=a]t, _n._ the roof of the mouth, consisting of two portions,
the hard palate in front and the soft palate behind: taste: relish: mental
liking.--_v.t._ to taste.--_adj._ PAL'ATABLE, agreeable to the palate or
taste: savoury.--_n._ PAL'ATABLENESS, the quality of being agreeable to the
taste.--_adv._ PAL'ATABLY.--_adj._ PAL'ATAL, pertaining to the palate:
uttered by aid of the palate--also PAL'ATINE.--_n._ a letter pronounced
chiefly by aid of the palate, as _k_, _g_, _e_, _i_.--_v.t._ PAL'ATALISE,
to make palatal.--_adj._ PALAT'IC.--CLEFT PALATE, a congenital defect of
the palate, leaving a longitudinal fissure in the roof of the mouth. [O.
Fr. _palat_--L. _palatum_.]

PALATIAL, pa-l[=a]'shi-al, _adj._ of or pertaining to a palace: resembling
a palace: royal: magnificent.

PALATINE, pal'a-tin, _adj._ pertaining to a palace, originally applied to
officers of the royal household: possessing royal privileges.--_n._ a noble
invested with royal privileges: a subject of a palatinate.--_n._
PALAT'INATE, office or rank of a palatine: province of a palatine, esp. an
electorate of the ancient German Empire.--COUNT PALATINE, a feudal lord
with supreme judicial authority over a province; COUNTY PALATINE, the
province of a count palatine. [Fr.,--L. _palatinus._ Cf. _Palace._]

PALAVER, pa-lav'[.e]r, _n._ talk or conversation, esp. idle talk: talk
intended to deceive: a public conference: in Africa, a talk with the
natives.--_v.i._ to use conversation: to flatter: to talk idly.--_n._
PALAV'ERER. [Port. _palavra_--L. _parabola_, a parable.]

PALAY, pa-l[=a]', _n._ a small S. Indian tree of the dogbane family, with
hard white wood.--Also _Ivory-tree_.

PALE, p[=a]l, _n._ a narrow piece of wood driven into the ground for use in
enclosing grounds: anything that encloses or fences in: any enclosed field
or space: limit: district: a broad stripe from top to bottom of a shield in
heraldry.--_v.t._ to enclose with stakes: to encompass.--_n._
PALIFIC[=A]'TION, act of strengthening by stakes.--_adj._
PAL'IFORM.--ENGLISH PALE, the district in Ireland within which alone the
English had power for centuries after the invasion in 1172. [Fr. _pal_--L.
_palus_, a stake.]

PALE, p[=a]l, _adj._ somewhat white in colour: not ruddy or fresh: wan: of
a faint lustre, dim: light in colour.--_v.t._ to make pale.--_v.i._ to turn
pale.--_ns._ PALE'-ALE, a light-coloured pleasant bitter ale; PALE'BUCK, an
antelope, the oribi.--_adj._ PALE'-EYED (_Shak._), having the eyes
dimmed.--_n._ PALE'-FACE, a white person.--_adj._ PALE'-HEART'ED (_Shak._),
dispirited.--_adv._ PALE'LY.--_n._ PALE'NESS.--_adjs._ PALE'-VIS'AGED
(_Shak._), having no colour in the face; P[=A]'LISH, somewhat pale.
[Fr.,--L. _pallidus_, pale.]

PALEA, p[=a]'l[=e]-a, _n._ (_bot._) a chaffy bract at the base of the
florets in many _Compositæ_, also one of the inner scales of a grass-flower
opposite the flowering glume: the throat-wattle, as in turkeys:--_pl._
P[=A]'LEÆ.--_adj._ PALE[=A]'CEOUS (_bot._), resembling, consisting of, or
furnished with chaff: chaffy. [L. _palea_, chaff.]

PALEOTYPE, p[=a]'l[=e]-[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a system of spelling invented by
A. J. Ellis, according to which all spoken sounds can be represented by the
letters in common use, some of them being used upside down as well as in
the usual way, to express varieties of sound.

PALES, p[=a]'l[=e]z, _n._ an ancient Roman divinity of flocks.--_n._
PALIL'IA, the festival of Pales, held on April 21, the traditional date of
the founding of Rome.

PALESTINIAN, pal-es-tin'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Palestine_.--PALESTINE
SOUP (see ARTICHOKE).

PALESTRA, p[=a]-les'tra, _n._ a wrestling school: the exercise of
wrestling: any training school: academic oratory.--_adjs._ PALES'TRAL,
PALES'TRIAN, PALES'TRIC, -AL, pertaining to wrestling: athletic. [L.,--Gr.
_palaistra_--_pal[=e]_, wrestling.]

PALETOT, pal'e-t[=o], _n._ a loose overcoat. [Fr.]

PALETTE, pal'et, _n._ a little oval board on which a painter mixes his
colours: the special arrangement of colours for any particular picture: a
plate against which a person presses his breast to give force to a drill
worked by the hand: a small plate covering a joint in armour.--_n._
PAL'ETTE-KNIFE, a thin round-pointed knife for mixing colours on the
grinding slab. [Fr.,--It. _paletta_--_pala_, spade--L. _pala_, a spade.]

PALFREY, pal'fri, _n._ a saddle-horse, esp. for a lady.--_adj._ PAL'FREYED,
riding on, or supplied with, a palfrey. [Fr. _palefroi_--Low L.
_paraveredus_, prob. from Gr. _para_, beside, Low L. _veredus_, a
post-horse--L. _veh[)e]re_, to draw, _rheda_, a carriage.]

PALI, pä'l[=e], _n._ the sacred language of the Buddhists of eastern India,
closely allied to Sanskrit.

PALILLOGY, p[=a]-lil'[=o]-ji, _n._ a repetition of a word or phrase. [Gr.
_palillogia_--_palin_, again, _legein_, to say.]

PALIMPSEST, pal'imp-sest, _n._ a manuscript which has been written upon
twice, the first writing having been rubbed off to make room for the
second: an engraved brass plate, with a new inscription on the reverse
side. [Gr. _palimps[=e]ston_--_palin_, again, _ps[=e]stos_, rubbed.]

PALINAL, pal'i-nal, _adj._ moving backward. [Gr. _palin_.]

PALINDROME, pal'in-dr[=o]m, _n._ a word, verse, or sentence that reads the
same either backward or forward, as Adam's first words to Eve: 'Madam, I'm
Adam.'--_adjs._ PALINDROM'IC, -AL.--_n._ PAL'INDROMIST, an inventor of
palindromes. [Gr. _palindromia_--_palin_, back, _dromos_, a running.]

PALING, p[=a]l'ing, _n._ pales collectively: a fence.

PALINGENESIS, pal-in-jen'e-sis, _n._ a new birth or a second creation:
regeneration: the development of an individual germ in which it repeats
that of its ancestors: the recurrence of historical events in the same
order in an infinite series of cycles--also PAL'INGENY,
PALING[=E]'SIA.--_adj._ PALINGET'IC.--_adv._ PALINGET'ICALLY. [Gr. _palin_,
again, _genesis_, birth.]

PALINODE, pal'i-n[=o]d, _n._ a poem retracting a former one: a
recantation.--_adjs._ PALIN[=O]'DIAL, PALINOD'IC.--_n._ PAL'IN[=O]DIST, a
writer of palinodes. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.,--_palin_, back, _[=o]d[=e]_, song.]

PALISADE, pal-i-s[=a]d' _n._ a fence of pointed pales or stakes firmly
fixed in the ground.--_v.t._ to surround with a palisade.--Also
PALIS[=A]'DO:--_pl._ PALIS[=A]'DOES. [Fr.,--L. _palus_, a stake.]

PALISANDER, pal-i-san'd[.e]r, _n._ rosewood. [Fr.]

PALISSÉE, pal-i-s[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) battlemented, the indentations
pointing both up and down. [Fr.]

PALKEE, pal'k[=e], _n._ a palanquin.--_n._ PAL'KEE-GHAR'RY, a wheeled
vehicle like a palanquin. [Hind.]

PALL, pawl, _n._ a cloak or mantle, an outer garment: a chalice-cover:
(_her._) a Y-shaped bearing charged with crosses _patté fitché_, as in the
arms of the see of Canterbury--sometimes reversed: a pallium (q.v.): a
curtain or covering: the cloth over a coffin at a funeral: that which
brings deep sorrow.--_n._ PALL'-BEAR'ER, one of the mourners at a funeral
who used to hold up the corners of the pall. [A.S. _pæll_, purple cloth--L.
_palla_, a mantle; cf. _Pallium_, a cloak.]

PALL, pawl, _v.i._ to become vapid, insipid, or wearisome.--_v.t._ to make
vapid: to dispirit or depress. [W. _pallu_, to fail, _pall_, failure.]

PALLADIAN, pa-l[=a]'di-an, _adj._ in the style of architecture introduced
by Andrea _Palladio_ (1518-80), modelled on Vitruvius, its faults a
superfluity of pilasters and columns, broken entablatures, and
inappropriate ornament.--_n._ PALL[=A]'DIANISM.

PALLADIUM, pal-l[=a]'di-um, _n._ a statue of _Pallas_, on the preservation
of which the safety of ancient Troy depended: any safeguard: a rare metal
in colour and ductility resembling platinum.--_adj._ PALL[=A]'DIAN.--_v.t._
PALL[=A]'DIUMISE, to coat with palladium. [L.,--Gr. _palladion_--_Pallas_,
_Pallados_, Pallas.]

PALLAH, pal'a, _n._ a small African antelope.

PALLAS, pal'as, _n._ the Greek goddess of wisdom and war--the Roman
Minerva.--Also PALLAS ATHENE.

PALLESCENCE, pal-les'ens, _n._ paleness.

PALLET, pal'et, _n._ a palette: the tool used by potters for shaping their
wares: an instrument for spreading gold-leaf: a tool used in lettering the
backs of books: one of the points moved by the pendulum of a clock which
check the motion of the escape or balance wheel: a disc in the endless
chain of a chain-pump: a ballast-locker in a ship: a valve by which the
admission of air from the bellows to an organ-pipe may be regulated from
the keyboard: a board for carrying newly moulded bricks. [_Palette_.]

PALLET, pal'et, _n._ a mattress, or couch, properly a mattress of straw.
[Prov. Fr. _paillet_, dim. of Fr. _paille_, straw--L. _palea_, chaff.]

PALLIAL, pal'i-al, _adj._ pertaining to a pallium.--_n._ PALL'IAMENT
(_Shak._), a robe.

PALLIASSE, pa-lyas', _n._ Same as PAILLASSE.

PALLIATE, pal'i-[=a]t, _v.t._ to cover, excuse, extenuate: to soften by
pleading something in favour of: to mitigate.--_n._ PALLI[=A]'TION, act of
palliating: extenuation: mitigation.--_adj._ PALL'I[=A]TIVE, serving to
extenuate: mitigating.--_n._ that which lessens pain, disease, &c.--_adj._
PALL'I[=A]TORY. [L. _palli[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to cloak--_pallium_, a
cloak.]

PALLID, pal'id, _adj._ pale, wan.--_ns._ PALLID'ITY, PALL'IDNESS.--_adv._
PALL'IDLY. [L. _pallidus_, pale.]

PALLIUM, pal'i-um, _n._ a large, square mantle, worn by learned Romans in
imitation of the Greeks: an annular white woollen band, embroidered with
black crosses, worn by the Pope, and on some occasions by archbishops, to
whom it is granted: (_ornith._) the mantle:--_pl._ PALL'IA.--_adj._
PALL'IAL. [L.]

PALL-MALL, pel-mel', _n._ an old game, in which a ball was driven through
an iron ring with a mallet: an alley where the game used to be played,
hence the street in London.--_adv._ in pall-mall fashion. [O. Fr.
_pale-maille_--Old It. _palamaglio_--_palla_--Old High Ger. _pallá_ (Ger.
_ball_, Eng. _ball_), and _maglio_--L. _malleus_, a hammer.]

PALLOMETRIC, pal-o-met'rik, _adj._ pertaining to the measurement of
artificial vibrations in the earth's surface. [Gr. _pallein_, to shake,
_metron_, a measure.]

PALLONE, päl-l[=o]'n[=a], _n._ a game like tennis played with a ball, which
is struck by the arm covered by a guard. [It.]

PALLOR, pal'or, _n._ quality or state of being pallid or pale: paleness.
[L.,--_pall[=e]re_, to be pale.]

PALM, päm, _n._ the inner part of the hand: a measure of length equal to
the breadth of the hand, or to its length from wrist to finger-tip: a
measure of 3 and sometimes of 4 inches: that which covers the palm: the
fluke of an anchor: the flattened portion of an antler.--_v.t._ to stroke
with the palm or hand: to conceal in the palm of the hand: (esp. with
_off_, and _on_, or _upon_) to impose by fraud.--_n._ PAL'MA, the palm: the
enlarged proximal joint of the fore tarsus of a bee.--_adjs._ PAL'MAR, -Y,
relating to the palm of the hand; PAL'M[=A]TE, -D, shaped like the palm of
the hand: (_bot._) divided into sections, the midribs of which run to a
common centre: entirely webbed, as the feet of a duck.--_adv._
PAL'M[=A]TELY.--_adjs._ PALMAT'IFID (_bot._), shaped like the hand, with
the divisions extending half-way, or slightly more, down the leaf;
PALMAT'IFORM, shaped like an open palm; PALMED, having palms. [Fr.
_paume_--L. _palma_, the palm of the hand; Gr. _palam[=e]_.]

PALM, päm, _n._ a tropical, branchless tree of many varieties, bearing at
the summit large leaves like the palm of the hand: a leaf of this tree
borne in token of rejoicing or of victory: (_fig._) triumph or
victory.--_adjs._ PALM[=A]'CEOUS, belonging to the order of palm-trees;
PALM[=A]'RIAN, PAL'MARY, worthy of the palm: pre-eminent.--_ns._
PALM'-BUTT'ER, palm-oil; PALM'ERY, a place for growing palms; PALM'HOUSE, a
glass house for raising palms and other tropical plants.--_adjs._
PALMIF'EROUS, producing palm-trees; PALMIT'IC, pertaining to, or obtained
from, palm-oil.--_ns._ PAL'MITINE, a white fat, usually occurring, when
crystallised from ether, in the form of scaly crystals--abundant in
palm-oil; PALM'-OIL, an oil or fat obtained from the pulp of the fruit of
palms, esp. of the oil-palm, allied to the coco-nut palm: (_slang_) a bribe
or tip; PALM'-S[=U]'GAR, jaggery; PALM'-SUN'DAY, the Sunday before Easter,
in commemoration of the day on which our Saviour entered Jerusalem, when
palm-branches were strewed in His way by the people; PALM'-WINE, the
fermented sap of certain palms.--_adj._ PALM'Y, bearing palms: flourishing:
victorious.--PALMA CHRISTI, the castor-oil plant. [A.S. from L., as above.]

PALMER, päm'[.e]r, _n._ a pilgrim from the Holy Land, distinguished by his
carrying a branch of palm: a cheat at cards or dice.--_ns._ PAL'MERIN, any
medieval knightly hero, from the Palmerin romances, the original hero
_Palmerin_ de Oliva; PALM'ER-WORM (_B._), a hairy worm which wanders like a
palmer, devouring leaves, &c.

PALMETTE, pal'met, _n._ an ornament, somewhat like a palm-leaf, cut or
painted on mouldings, &c. [Fr.]

PALMETTO, pal-met'[=o], _n._ a name for several fan-palms, esp. the
cabbage-palm of Florida, &c.: a hat made of palmetto-leaves. [Sp.,--L.
_palma_.]

PALMIGRADE, pal'mi-gr[=a]d, _adj._ noting animals that walk on the sole of
the foot and not merely on the toes: plantigrade. [L. _palma_, palm,
_gradi_, to walk.]

PALMIPED, pal'mi-p[=e]d, _adj._ web-footed.--_n._ a web-footed or swimming
bird:--_pl._ PALMIP'EDES (-[=e]z). [L. _palma_, palm of the hand, _pes_,
_pedis_, the foot.]

PALMIST, pal'mist, or pä'mist, _n._ one who tells fortunes by the lines and
marks of the palm--also PAL'MISTER (or pä'-).--_n._ PAL'MISTRY (or pä'-),
the practice of telling fortunes by the lines, &c., of the palm.

PALMYRA, pal-m[=i]'ra, _n._ an East Indian palm furnishing the greater part
of the palm-wine of India (_Toddy_).--_adj._ and _n._ PALMYRENE',
pertaining to the ancient Syrian city of _Palmyra_ or Tadmor.

PALOLO, pa-l[=o]'l[=o], _n._ an edible annelid allied to the lugworm, found
near Polynesian coral-reefs.

PALP, palp, _n._ a jointed sensiferous organ attached in pairs to the
labium or maxilla of insects, and thus distinguished from antennæ, which
are on the top of the head--also PAL'PUS:--_pl._ PAL'PI.--_adjs._ PAL'PAL;
PALPED; PAL'PIFORM; PALPIG'EROUS, bearing palpi; PALP'LESS.--_n._
PAL'P[=U]LUS, a little palp. [Low L. _palpus_--L. _palp[=a]re_, to stroke.]

PALPABLE, pal'pa-bl, _adj._ that can be touched or felt: easily perceived
or found out, as lies, &c.: looking as if it might be touched or felt:
obvious, gross.--_ns._ PALPABIL'ITY, PAL'PABLENESS, quality of being
palpable: obviousness.--_adv._ PAL'PABLY.--_v.t._ PAL'P[=A]TE, to examine
by touch.--_n._ PALP[=A]'TION, the act of examining by means of touch.
[Fr.,--L. _palpabilis_--_palp[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to touch softly.]

PALPEBRAL, pal'pe-bral, _adj._ of or pertaining to the eyelids.--_adjs._
PAL'PEBR[=A]TE, having eyebrows; PAL'PEBROUS, having heavy eyebrows. [L.
_palpebra_, the eyelid.]

PALPIFER, pal'pi-f[.e]r, _n._ an outer lobe of the maxilla.--_adj._
PALPIF'EROUS.

PALPITATE, pal'pi-t[=a]t, _v.i._ to move often and quickly: to beat
rapidly: to throb: to pulsate.--_adj._ PAL'PITANT (_arch._),
palpitating.--_n._ PALPIT[=A]'TION, act of palpitating: irregular action of
the heart, caused by excitement, excessive exertion, or disease. [L.
_palpit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, freq. of _palp[=a]re_. Cf. _Palpable_.]

PALSGRAVE, palz'gr[=a]v, _n._ one who has charge of a royal household: one
of a special order of nobility, esp. one of the hereditary rulers of the
Palatinate:--_fem._ PALS'GRAVINE.

PALSTAFF, pal'staf, _n._ an old Celtic and Scandinavian weapon--a wedge of
stone or metal fixed by a tongue in a staff. [Dan.,--Ice. _pálstafr_.]

PALSY, pawl'zi, _n._ a loss of power or of feeling, more or less complete,
in the muscles of the body: paralysis.--_v.t._ to affect with palsy: to
deprive of action or energy: to paralyse:--_pa.p._ pal'sied. [Fr.
_paralysie_--Gr. _paralysis_. Cf. _Paralysis_.]

PALTER, pawl't[.e]r, _v.i._ to trifle in talk: to use trickery: to dodge:
to shuffle: to equivocate.--_n._ PAL'TERER. [Prob. conn. with _paltry_.]

PALTRY, pawl'tri, _adj._ mean: vile: worthless.--_adv._ PAL'TRILY.--_n._
PAL'TRINESS. [Teut.; Dan. _pialter_, rags, Low Ger. _paltrig_, ragged.]

PALUDAL, pal'[=u]-dal, _adj._ pertaining to marshes: marshy--also
PAL'[=U]DINE, PAL[=U]'DINOUS, PAL'[=U]DOSE, PALUS'TRAL, PALUS'TRINE.--_n._
PAL'UDISM, marsh poisoning. [L. _palus_, _paludis_, a marsh.]

PALUDAMENTUM, p[=a]-l[=u]-da-men'tum, _n._ a military cloak worn by a Roman
Imperator, or by members of his staff.--Also PAL[=U]'DAMENT. [L.]

PALY, p[=a]'li, _adj._ pale: wanting colour: (_her._) divided by pales into
equal parts.

PAM, pam, _n._ the knave of clubs at loo.

PAMPAS, pam'paz, _n.pl._ vast plains, without trees, in South America,
south of the Amazon--north of that river they are called _llanos_.--_n._
PAM'PAS-GRASS, a tall, ornamental, reed-like grass with large thick silvery
panicles.--_adj._ PAM'P[=E]AN.

PAMPER, pam'p[.e]r, _v.t._ to feed with fine food: to gratify to the full:
to glut.--_ns._ PAM'PEREDNESS; PAM'PERER. [A freq. from _pamp_, a nasalised
form of _pap_; cf. Low Ger. _pampen_--_pampe_, pap.]

PAMPERO, pam-p[=a]'ro, _n._ a violent south-west wind which sweeps over the
pampas of South America. [Sp.,--_pampa_, a plain.]

PAMPHLET, pam'flet, _n._ a small book consisting of one or more sheets
stitched together, but not bound: a short essay on some interesting
subject.--_n._ PAMPHLETEER', a writer of pamphlets.--_p.adj._
PAMPHLETEER'ING, writing pamphlets.--_n._ the practice of writing
pamphlets. [Ety. dub.; acc. to Skeat, perh. through Fr. from _Pamphila_, a
1st cent. female writer of epitomes; others suggest Fr. _paume_, the palm
of the hand, and _feuillet_, a leaf.]

PAMPHRACT, pam'frakt, _adj._ (_rare_) protected completely, as by a coat of
mail. [Gr. _pam_, _pan_, all, _phraktos_--_phrassein_, to fence in.]

PAMPHYSICAL, pam-fiz'ik-al, _adj._ pertaining to nature regarded as
embracing all things.

PAMPINIFORM, pam-pin'i-form, _adj._ curling like the tendril of a vine. [L.
_pampinus_, a tendril.]

PAMPLEGIA, pam-pl[=e]'ji-a, _n._ general paralysis. [Gr. _pan_, all,
_pl[=e]g[=e]_, a blow.]

PAN, pan, _n._ a broad, shallow vessel for domestic use, or for use in the
arts or manufactures: anything resembling a pan in shape, as the upper part
of the skull: the part of a firelock which holds the priming.--_v.t._ to
treat with the panning process, as earth, or to separate by shaking the
auriferous earth with water in a pan: to obtain in any way, to secure: to
cook and serve in a pan.--_v.i._ to yield gold: to appear, as gold, in a
pan: to turn out well, according to expectation: to try to find gold with
the pan process.--PAN OUT, to yield or afford, to result; PANNED OUT
(_U.S._), exhausted, bankrupt.--FLASH IN THE PAN, to flash and go out
suddenly, not igniting the charge--of the powder in the pan of a flint-lock
firearm: to fail after a fitful effort, to give up without accomplishing
anything; HARD-PAN (see HARD). [A.S. _panne_--prob. through the Celt., from
Low L. _panna_--L. _patina_, a basin.]

PAN, pan, _n._ the Greek god of pastures, flocks, and woods, worshipped in
Arcadia, and fond of music--with goat's legs and feet, and sometimes horns
and ears.--_n._ PAN'S'-PIPES (see PANDEAN).

PANACEA, pan-a-s[=e]'a, _n._ a universal medicine: (_bot._) the plant
Allheal (_Valeriana officinalis_). [Gr. _panakeia_--_pas_, _pan_, all,
_akos_, cure.]

PANACHE, pa-nash', _n._ a plume of feathers, used as a head-dress. [Fr.]

PANADA, pa-nä'da, _n._ a dish made by boiling bread to a pulp in water,
with sweetening and flavour: a batter for forcemeats. [Sp.]

PANÆSTHESIA, pan-es-th[=e]'si-a, _n._ common sensation, as distinct from
special sensations or sense-perceptions.--_n._ PANSÆS'THETISM.

PANAGIA, pa-n[=a]'ji-a, _n._ an epithet of the Virgin in the Eastern
Church: an ornament worn hanging on the breast by Russian bishops--also
PAN[=A]'GHIA.--_n._ PANAGI[=A]'RION, a paten on which the loaf is placed,
used in the 'elevation of the _Panagia_.' [Gr., 'all holy,' _pas_, all,
_hagios_, holy.]

PAN-AMERICAN, pan-a-mer'i-kan, _adj._ including all the divisions of
America collectively.

PAN-ANGLICAN, pan-ang'gli-kan, _adj._ representing or including all
Christians everywhere who hold the doctrines and polity of the Anglican
Church.

PANARITIUM, pan-a-rish'i-um, _n._ suppurative inflammation in a
finger--same as _whitlow_.

PANARTHRITIS, pan-är-thr[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation involving all the
structures of a joint.

PANARY, pan'a-ri, _adj._ of or pertaining to bread.--_n._ a storehouse for
bread: a pantry. [L. _panis_, bread.]

PANATHENÆA, pan-ath-[=e]-n[=e]'a, _n.pl._ the chief national festival of
ancient Athens--the lesser held annually, the greater every fourth
year.--_adjs._ PANATHENÆ'AN, PANATHEN[=A]'IC. [Gr.]

PANAX, pa-naks', _n._ a genus of shrubs with radiately or pinnately
compound leaves and small flowers in compound umbels, the ginseng. [Gr.,
'all healing.']

PANCAKE, pan'k[=a]k, _n._ a thin cake of eggs, flour, sugar, and milk fried
in a pan.--_n._ PAN'CAKE-ICE, thin ice forming in smooth water.--PANCAKE
TUESDAY, Shrove Tuesday.

PANCH, panch, _n._ a thick mat made of strands of rope, used in ships in
places to prevent chafing.--Also PAUNCH.

PANCHATANTRA, pan-chä-tänt'rä, _n._ the oldest extant collection of
apologues and stories in Sanskrit literature, arranged in five books.

PANCHEON, pan'chon, _n._ a coarse earthenware pan.--Also PANCH'IN.
[_Pannikin._]

PANCLASTITE, pan-klas't[=i]t, _n._ an explosive substance of slightly less
strength than dynamite, formed of a preparation of nitrogen and carbon.
[Gr. _pan_, all, _klastos_, broken, _klaein_, to break.]

PANCRATIUM, pan-kr[=a]'ti-um, _n._ a contest of boxing and wrestling
combined.--_adjs._ PANCR[=A]'TIAN, PANCRAT'IC.--_ns._ PANCR[=A]'TIAST,
PAN'CRATIST. [Gr. _pan_, all, _kratos_, strength.]

PANCREAS, pan'kr[=e]-as, _n._ a conglomerate gland, lying transversely
across the posterior wall of the abdomen, secreting the pancreatic juice
which pours with the bile into the digestive system.--_adj._ PANCREAT'IC,
pertaining to the pancreas.--_ns._ PAN'CREATIN, the pancreatic juice;
PANCREAT[=I]T'IS, inflammation of the pancreas. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_, all,
_kreas_, flesh.]

PAND, pand, _n._ (_Scot._) a narrow curtain over a bed.

PANDA, pan'da, _n._ a remarkable animal in the bear section of Carnivores
found in the south-east Himalayas.--Also _Chitwah_, or _Red bear-cat_.

PANDANUS, pan-d[=a]'nus, _n._ the screw-pipe, the typical genus of the
_Pandaneæ_. [Malay.]

PANDATION, pan-d[=a]'shun, _n._ a yielding or warping. [L. _pand[=a]re_, to
bend.]

PANDEAN, pan-d[=e]'an, _adj._ of or relating to the god _Pan_.--_n._
PAND[=E]'AN-PIPES, or PAN'S'-PIPES, a musical instrument composed of reeds
of various lengths, said to have been invented by _Pan_: a syrinx.

PANDECT, pan'dekt, _n._ a treatise containing the whole of any science:
(_pl._) the digest of Roman or civil law made by command of the Emperor
Justinian in the 6th century. [L.,--Gr. _pandectes_--_pas_, _pan_, all,
_dechesthai_, to receive.]

PANDEMIC, pan-dem'ik, _adj._ incident to a whole people, epidemic.--_n._ a
pandemic disease.--_n._ PANDEM'IA, a widespread disease. [Gr.
_pand[=e]mios_--_pas_, _pan_, all, _d[=e]mos_, the people.]

PANDEMONIUM, pan-d[=e]-m[=o]'ni-um, _n._ the great hall of evil spirits,
described in _Paradise Lost_: any disorderly assembly, or loud tumultuous
noise. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_, all, _daim[=o]n_, a demon.]

PANDER, pan'd[.e]r, _n._ one who procures for another the means of
gratifying his passions: a pimp.--_v.t._ to play the pander for.--_v.i._ to
act as a pander: to minister to the passions.--_ns._ PAN'DERAGE, act,
employment, or vices of a pander; PAN'DERESS, a procuress; PAN'DERISM, the
employment or practices of a pander.--_adjs._ PAN'DERLY (_Shak._), acting
as a pander; PAN'DEROUS. [_Pandarus_, the pimp in the story of Troilus and
Cressida in the versions of Boccaccio (_Filostrato_), Chaucer, and
Shakespeare.]

PANDICULATION, pan-dik-[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of stretching one's
self after sleep, &c.: restlessness before fever, hysteria, &c.:
yawning.--_adj._ PANDIC'UL[=A]TED, stretched out. [L. _pandicul[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_, to stretch one's self out.]

PANDION, pan-d[=i]'on, _n._ the genus of ospreys or fishing-hawks. [Gr.,
the father of Procne, who was changed into a swallow.]

PANDIT. Same as PUNDIT.

PANDORA, pan-d[=o]'ra, _n._ a beautiful woman to whom Jupiter, in order to
punish the theft of heavenly fire by Prometheus, gave a box containing all
the ills of human life, which, on the box being opened, spread over all the
earth. [Gr., _pan_, all, _d[=o]ron_, a gift.]

PANDORE, pan-d[=o]r', _n._ a musical instrument of the lute kind with three
or four strings--also _Bandore_.--_n._ PAND[=U]'RA, a Neapolitan musical
instrument with eight metal wires, played with a quill.--_adjs._
PAN'DURATE, -D, PAND[=U]'RIFORM, fiddle-shaped. [Gr. _pandoura_, a
3-stringed instrument, invented by _Pan_.]

PANDORE, pan'd[=o]r, _n._ an esteemed variety of oysters found near
Prestonpans on the Firth of Forth.

PANDOUR, pan'd[=oo]r, _n._ a Hungarian foot-soldier in the Austrian
service: a robber.--Also PAN'DOOR. [From _Pandur_, a village in Hungary.]

PANDOWDY, pan-dew'di, _n._ a pudding baked with bread and apples.

PANDY, pan'di, _n._ a stroke on the palm as a school punishment.--_v.t._ to
slap. [L. _pande_, hold out, imper. of _pand[)e]re_, to hold out.]

PANE, p[=a]n, _n._ a plate of glass: a square in a pattern: a flat division
or side in any kind of work: a slash in a dress, showing an under garment,
or for the insertion of a piece of cloth of different colour, &c.: a panel
or piece of cloth of a different colour from the rest, esp. in variegated
work.--_v.t._ to insert panes or panels in.--_adj._ PANED, composed of
panes or small squares: variegated. [Fr. _pan_, a lappet, pane--L.
_pannus_, a cloth, a rag, akin to Gr. _p[=e]nos_, the woof.]

PANEGOISM, pan-[=e]'g[=o]-izm, _n._ Same as _Solipsism_ (q.v.).

PANEGYRIC, pan-[=e]-jir'ik, _n._ an oration or eulogy in praise of some
person or event: an encomium.--_adjs._ PAN[=E]GYR'IC, -AL.--_adv._
PAN[=E]GYR'ICALLY.--_n._ PAN[=E]GYR'ICON, in the Greek Church, a collection
of sermons for festivals.--_v.t._ PAN'[=E]GYRISE, to write or pronounce a
panegyric on: to praise highly.--_ns._ PAN'[=E]GYRIST; PAN'[=E]GYRY
(_obs._). [L.,--Gr. _pan[=e]gyrikos_, fit for a national festival--_pas_,
_pan_, all, _agyris_ (_agora_), an assembly.]

PANEITY, p[=a]-n[=e]'i-ti, _n._ the state of being bread. [L. _panis_,
bread.]

PANEL, pan'el, _n._ a rectangular piece of any material: (_archit._) a flat
surface with raised margins, or with a surrounding frame: a thin board on
which a picture is painted: (_law_) a schedule containing the names of
those summoned to serve as jurors: the jury: (_Scots law_) a prisoner at
the bar: a frame for carrying a mortar: a rail in a post-and-rail
fence.--_v.t._ to furnish with panels:--_pr.p._ pan'elling; _pa.p._
pan'elled.--Also PANN'EL.--_ns._ PAN'EL-GAME, the act of stealing articles
by means of a sliding panel; PAN'ELLING, panel-work; PAN'EL-PIC'TURE, a
picture painted on a panel; PAN'EL-PL[=A]N'ER, a machine for dressing
panels and feathering their edges to fit them to the grooves in the stiles;
PAN'EL-SAW, a saw for cutting very thin wood; PAN'EL-STRIP, a narrow piece
of wood or metal for covering a joint between two panels; PAN'EL-WORK'ING,
a method of working a coal-mine by dividing it into compartments. [O.
Fr.,--Low L. _pannellus_--L. _pannus_, a rag.]

PANEULOGISM, pan-[=u]'l[=o]-jizm, _n._ indiscriminate eulogy.

PANFUL, pan'fool, _n._ the quantity that a pan will hold:--_pl._ PAN'FULS.

PANG, pang, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to cram, stuff with food.

PANG, pang, _n._ a violent but not long-continued pain: a sudden and bitter
feeling of sorrow: a throe.--_v.t._ to cause a pang, to torture.--_adj._
PANG'LESS, free from pain. [A form of _prong_, prob. modified by confusion
with Fr. _poing_, a fist--L. _pugnus_, the fist.]

PANGENESIS, pan-jen'e-sis, _n._ the theory that every separate part of the
whole organisation reproduces itself.--_adj._ PANGENET'IC. [Gr. _pas_,
_pan_, all, _genesis_, production.]

PANGOLIN, pang'g[=o]-lin, _n._ the scaly ant-eater, a name given to the
various species of the genus _Manis_ belonging to the mammalian order
Edentata. [Malay.]

PANGRAMMATIST, pan-gram'a-tist, _n._ one who twists all the letters of the
alphabet into sentences, as in the following example: 'John P. Brady, give
me a black walnut box of quite a small size.'

PAN-HANDLE, pan'-han'dl, _n._ the handle of a pan: a long narrow strip
projecting like this.

PANHARMONICON, pan-har-mon'i-kon, _n._ a mechanical musical instrument of
the orchestrion class.--Also _Orpheus-harmonica_.

PANHELLENIC, pan-hel-en'ik, _adj._ pertaining to all Greece.--_ns._
PANHELL[=E]'NION, or PANHELL[=E]'NIUM, a council representing all the
sections of the Greeks; PANHELL'ENISM, a scheme for forming all Greeks into
one political body; PANHELL'ENIST, one who favours Panhellenism. [Gr.
_pas_, _pan_, all, _Hell[=e]nikos_, Greek--_Hellas_, Greece.]

PANIC, pan'ik, _n._ extreme or sudden fright: great terror without any
visible ground or foundation: a state of terror about investments produced
by some startling collapse in credit, impelling men to rush and sell what
they possess.--_adj._ of the nature of a panic: extreme or sudden:
imaginary.--_adj._ PAN'ICKY (_coll._), inclined to panic or sudden terror,
affected by financial panic.--_n._ PAN'IC-MONG'ER, one who creates
panics.--_adjs._ PAN'IC-STRICK'EN, PAN'IC-STRUCK, struck with a panic or
sudden fear. [Orig. an adj.; Gr. _panikon_ (_deima_), 'panic' (fear), from
_panikos_, belonging to Pan, god of the woods.]

PANICLE, pan'i-kl, _n._ (_bot._) a form of the arrangement of flowers on a
stalk, in which the cluster is irregularly branched, as in oats.--_n._
PAN'IC, a grass of the genus _Panicum_.--_adjs._ PAN'ICLED (_bot._),
furnished with panicles: arranged in or like panicles; PANIC'UL[=A]TE, -D,
furnished with, arranged in, or like panicles.--_adv._
PANIC'UL[=A]TELY.--_n._ PAN'ICUM, a large genus of true grasses having the
one or two-flowered spikelets in spikes, racemes, or panicles--including
the common millet. [L. _panicula_, double dim. of _panus_, thread wound on
a bobbin, akin to L. _pannus_ and Gr. _p[=e]nos_. See PANE.]

PANIDROSIS, pan-i-dr[=o]'sis, _n._ a perspiration over the whole body. [Gr.
_pas_, _pan_, all, _hidr[=o]s_, perspiration.]

PANIFICATION, pan-i-fi-k[=a]'shun, _n._ a conversion into bread.--_adj._
PANIV'OROUS, eating bread.

PANIONIC, pan-[=i]-on'ik, _adj._ pertaining to all the _Ionian_ peoples.

PANISC, pan'isk, _n._ the god _Pan_, represented as a satyr.

PANISLAMIC, pan-is-lam'ik, _adj._ relating to all _Islam_, or all the
Mohammedan races.--_n._ PANIS'LAMISM, the idea of union amongst the
Mohammedan races.

PANJANDRUM, pan-jan'drum, _n._ an imaginary figure of great power and
importance, a burlesque potentate.--Also PANJAN'DARUM. [A gibberish word.]

PANLOGISM, pan'l[=o]-jizm, _n._ the theory that the universe is an outward
manifestation of the Logos.

PANMELODION, pan-m[=e]-l[=o]'di-on, _n._ a keyboard musical instrument
whose tone is produced by wheels rubbing on metal bars.

PANMIXIA, pan-mik'si-a, _n._ (_biol._) cessation of natural selection, as
on a useless organ.

PANNADE, pa-n[=a]d', _n._ the curvet of a horse.

PANNAGE, pan'[=a]j, _n._ food picked up by swine in the woods, mast; also
the right to this.

PANNEL. Same as PANEL.

PANNICULUS, pa-nik'[=u]-lus, _n._ a thin, sheet-like investment. [L., dim.
of _pannus_, a cloth.]

PANNIER, pan'y[.e]r, or pan'i-[.e]r, _n._ a bread-basket: one of two
baskets thrown across a horse's back, for carrying light produce to market:
(_archit._) a corbel: a contrivance for puffing out a woman's dress at the
hips: a piece of basket-work for protecting archers, or, when filled with
gravel or sand, for forming and protecting dikes, embankments, &c.--_adj._
PANN'IERED, loaded with panniers. [Fr. _panier_--L. _panarium_, a
bread-basket--_panis_, bread.]

PANNIKEL, pan'i-kl, _n._ the brain-pan: (_Spens._) the skull. [Dim. of
_pan_.]

PANNIKIN, pan'i-kin, _n._ a small pan or saucer.

PANNOSE, pan'[=o]s, _adj._ (_bot._) like felt in texture. [L.
_pannosus_--_pannus_, cloth.]

PANNUS, pan'us, _n._ an opaque vascular membrane over the cornea: a tent
for a wound: a birth-mark on the skin. [L., 'cloth.']

PANNUSCORIUM, pan-us-k[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a leather-cloth for boots. [L.
_pannus_, cloth, _corium_, leather.]

PANOCHA, pa-n[=o]'cha, _n._ a Mexican coarse sugar.

PANOCHIA, pa-n[=o]'chi-a, _n._ bubo in the groin or armpit. [Gr. _cheia_, a
hole.]

PANOISTIC, pan-[=o]-is'tik, _adj._ producing ova only--opp. to _Meroistic_.
[Gr. _[=o]on_, an egg.]

PANOPHOBIA, pan-[=o]-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ a morbid fear of everything. [Gr.
_pas_, _pan_, all, _phobos_, fear.]

PANOPHTHALMITIS, pan-of-thal-m[=i]'tis, _n._ suppurative inflammation of
the whole eye.

PANOPLY, pan'[=o]-pli, _n._ complete armour: a full suit of armour.--_adj._
PAN'OPLIED, dressed in panoply: completely armed.--_n._ PAN'OPLIST, one so
armed. [Gr. _panoplia_--_pas_, _pan_, all, _hopla_ (pl.), arms.]

PANOPTICON, pan-op'ti-kon, _n._ a prison so constructed that all the
prisoners can be watched from one point: an exhibition room. [Gr. _pas_,
_pan_, all, _horaein_, fut. _opsesthai_, to see.]

PANORAMA, pan-[=o]-rä'ma, _n._ a wide or complete view: a picture giving
views of objects in all directions: a picture representing a number of
scenes unrolled and made to pass before the spectator.--_adj._ PANORA'MIC.
[Gr. _pan_, all, _horama_, a view, from _horaein_, to see.]

PANOTITIS, pan-[=o]-t[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation in both the middle and
internal ear.

PANOTYPE, pan'[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a picture made by the collodion process.

PANPHARMACON, pan-far'ma-kon, _n._ a universal remedy.

PAN-PRESBYTERIAN, pan-pres-bi-t[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the
whole body of Presbyterians.--PAN-PRESBYTERIAN COUNCIL, a council
representing all the Presbyterian churches throughout the world.

PANSCLEROSIS, pan-skle-r[=o]'sis, _n._ complete thickening and hardening of
the interstitial tissue of a part.

PANSER, pan's[.e]r, _n._ an ancient piece of armour for the abdomen. [O.
Fr. _pansiere_--_panse_, the belly--L. _pantex_, the belly.]

PAN-SLAVIC, pan'-slav'ik, _adj._ pertaining to all the Slavic races.--_ns._
PAN'-SLAV'ISM, a movement for the amalgamation of all the Slavonic races
into one body, with one language, literature, and social polity;
PAN'-SLAV'IST, one who favours Pan-Slavism.--_adjs._ PAN-SLAV[=O]'NIAN,
PAN-SLAVON'IC.

PANSOPHY, pan's[=o]-fi, _n._ a scheme of universal knowledge, esp. that of
the educational reformer, John Amos Comenius (1592-1671): the pretence of
universal wisdom.--_adjs._ PANSOPH'IC, -AL. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_, all,
_sophia_, wisdom.]

PANSPERMATISM, pan-sper'ma-tizm, _n._ the theory of the widespread
diffusion of germs--also PANSPER'MY.--_n._ PANSPER'MATIST, a holder of
this.--_adj._ PANSPER'MIC. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_, all, _sperma_, seed.]

PANSTEREORAMA, pan-ster-[=e]-[=o]-rä'ma, _n._ a model showing every part in
proportional relief, as of a building. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_, all, _stereos_,
solid, _horama_, a view.]

PANSY, pan'zi, _n._ a species of violet developed by cultivation into large
blossoms of great variety of colour--also _Heart's-ease_,
_Love-in-idleness_:--_pl._ PAN'SIES.--_adj._ PAN'SIED. [Fr.
_pensée_--_penser_, to think--L. _pens[=a]re_, to weigh.]

PANT, pant, _v.i._ to breathe hard and quickly: to show excitement by
quickness of breathing: to gasp: to throb: to desire ardently: to heave, as
the breast: to bulge and shrink successively, of iron hulls, &c.--_v.t._ to
gasp out: to long for.--_ns._ PANT, PANT'ING, rapid breathing: palpitation:
longing.--_adv._ PANT'INGLY, in a panting manner: with hard and rapid
breathing. [Imit.; or nasalised from _pat_ (v.t.).]

PANTAGAMY, pan-tag'a-mi, _n._ a system of communistic marriage, once
practised in the Oneida community. [Gr. _panta_, all, _gamos_, marriage.]

PANTAGOGUE, pan'ta-g[=o]g, _n._ a medicine once believed capable of purging
away all morbid humours. [Gr. _panta_, _pas_, all, _ag[=o]gos_, drawing
out--_agein_, to lead.]

PANTAGRAPH, PANTAGRAPHIC, -AL. Same as PANTOGRAPH, &c.

PANTAGRUELISM, pan-ta-gr[=oo]'el-izm, _n._ the theories and practice of
_Pantagruel_ as described by Rabelais (1483-1553)--burlesque ironical
buffoonery as a cover for serious satire: empirical medical theory and
practice.--_adj._ PANTAGRUEL'IAN.--_ns._ PANTAGRUEL'ION, a magic herb
allegorising fortitude, patience, industry; PANTAGRU'ELIST, a cynic who
uses the medium of burlesque.

PANTALEON, pan-tal'[=e]-on, _n._ a musical instrument invented about 1700
by _Pantaleon_ Hebenstreit, a very large dulcimer.

PANTALETS, pan-ta-lets', _n.pl._ long frilled drawers, once worn by women
and children: a removable kind of ruffle worn at the feet of women's
drawers.

PANTALOON, pan-ta-l[=oo]n', _n._ in pantomimes, a ridiculous character, a
buffoon: (_orig._) a ridiculous character in Italian comedy, also a garment
worn by him, consisting of breeches and stockings all in one piece: (_pl._)
a kind of trousers.--_n._ PANTALOON'ERY, buffoonery. [Fr. _pantalon_--It.
_pantalone_, from _Pantaleon_ (Gr. 'all-lion'), the patron saint of
Venice.]

PANTATROPHY, pan-tat'ro-fi, _n._ general atrophy of the whole body.

PANTECHNICON, pan-tek'ni-kon, _n._ a place where every species of
workmanship is sold, or where furniture, &c., is stored. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_,
all, _techn[=e]_, art.]

PANTER, pan't[.e]r, _n._ (_obs._). Same as PANTHER.

PANTHEISM, pan'th[=e]-izm, _n._ the form of monism which identifies mind
and matter, making them manifestations of one absolute being: the doctrine
that there is no God apart from nature or the universe, everything being
considered as part of God, or a manifestation of Him.--_n._ PAN'TH[=E]IST,
a believer in pantheism.--_adjs._ PANTH[=E]IST'IC, -AL.--_ns._
PANTH[=E]OL'OGIST, one versed in pantheology; PANTH[=E]OL'OGY, a system of
theology embracing all religions and the knowledge of all gods.

PANTHEON, pan'th[=e]-on, _n._ a temple dedicated to all the gods, esp. the
round one at Rome, built by Agrippa in 27 B.C.: all the gods of a nation
considered as one body: a complete mythology. [L. _panth[=e]on_--Gr.
_pantheion_ (_hieron_), (a temple) for all gods--_pas_, _pan_, all,
_theos_, a god.]

PANTHER, pan'th[.e]r, _n._ a fierce, spotted, carnivorous quadruped of Asia
and Africa:--_fem._ PAN'THERESS. [Fr. _panthère_--L.,--Gr. _panth[=e]r_.]

PANTILE, pan't[=i]l, _n._ a tile with a curved surface, convex or concave
with reference to its width: a tile whose cross-section forms a double
curve, forming a tegula and imbrex both in one.--_adj._ dissenting--chapels
being often roofed with these.--_n._ PAN'TILING, a system of tiling with
pantiles.

PANTISOCRASY, pan-ti-sok'ra-si, _n._ a Utopian community in which all are
of equal rank or social position. [Gr. _pas_, _pantos_, all, isos, equal,
_kratein_, to rule.]

PANTLER, pant'l[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) the officer in a great family who had
charge of the bread and other provisions. [Fr. _panetier_--L. _panis_,
bread.]

PANTOCHRONOMETER, pan-t[=o]-kro-nom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a combination of
compass, sun-dial, and universal sun-dial.

PANTOFFLE, pan'tof'l, _n._ a slipper. [Fr.]

PANTOGRAPH, pan't[=o]-graf, _n._ an instrument for copying drawings, plans,
&c. on the same, or a different, scale from the original.--_adjs._
PANTOGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or done by, a pantograph.--_n._
PANTOG'RAPHY, general description: entire view: process of copying by means
of the pantograph. [Gr. _pan_, all, _graphein_, to write.]

PANTOLOGY, pan-tol'o-ji, _n._ universal knowledge: a view of all branches
of knowledge: a book of universal information.--_adj._ PANTOLOG'IC.--_n._
PANTOL'OGIST. [Gr. _pas_, _pantos_, all, _logia_, description.]

PANTOMETER, pan-tom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring angles and
perpendiculars.--_n._ PANTOM'ETRY.

PANTOMIME, pan't[=o]-m[=i]m, _n._ one who expresses his meaning by action
without speaking: a play or an entertainment in dumb show: an entertainment
in a theatre, usually about Christmas-time, in which some well-known story
is acted, amidst showy scenery, with music and dancing, concluding with
buffoonery by conventional characters--the clown, pantaloon, harlequin, and
columbine.--_adj._ representing only by action without words.--_adjs._
PANTOMIM'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PANTOMIM'ICALLY.--_n._ PAN'TOMIMIST, an actor in
a pantomime. [Fr.,--L.--Gr. _pantomimos_, imitator of all--_pas_, _pantos_,
all, _mimos_, an imitator.]

PANTOMORPH, pan't[=o]-morf, _n._ that which exists in all shapes.--_adj._
PANTOMOR'PHIC.

PANTON, pan'ton, _n._ a horse-shoe for curing a narrow and hoof-bound heel:
an idle fellow.

PANTOPHAGY, pan-tof'a-ji, _n._ morbid hunger for all kinds of food.--_n._
PANTOPH'AGIST.--_adj._ PANTOPH'AGOUS. [Gr. _panta_, all, _phagein_, to
eat.]

PANTOSCOPE, pan't[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ a panoramic camera: a very wide-angled
photographic lens.--_adj._ PANTOSCOP'IC, giving a wide range of vision.

PANTOSTOMATOUS, pan-t[=o]-stom'a-tus, _adj._ ingesting food at any point on
the surface of the body.

PANTRY, pan'tri, _n._ a room or closet for provisions and table
furnishings, or where plate, knives, &c. are cleaned. [Fr. _paneterie_, a
place where bread is distributed--Low L. _panitaria_--L. _panis_, bread.]

PANTS, _n.pl._ (_coll._) trousers, abbrev. of _pantaloons_.

PANURGIC, pan-ur'jik, _adj._ able to do all kinds of work. [Gr. _pan_, all,
_ergon_, work.]

PANZOISM, pan-z[=o]'izm, _n._ the sum of the elements that make up vital
force. [Gr. _pas_, _pan_, all, _z[=o][=e]_, life.]

PAP, pap, _n._ soft food for infants: pulp of fruit: nourishment: (_slang_)
the emoluments or perquisites of public office.--_v.t._ to feed with
pap.--_adjs._ PAPES'CENT, PAP'PY.--_ns._ PAP'MEAT, soft food for infants;
PAP'SPOON, a spoon for infants. [Imit.]

PAP, pap, _n._ a nipple or teat: a woman's breast: a round conical hill, as
the _Paps_ of Jura.

PAPA, pa-pä', or pä'pa, _n._ father: a bishop: a priest of the Greek
Church. [Imit.]

PAPACY, p[=a]'pa-si, _n._ the office of the Pope: the authority of the
Pope: popery: the Popes, as a body.--_adj._ P[=A]'PAL, belonging to, or
relating to, the Pope or to popery: popish.--_v.t._ P[=A]'PALISE, to make
papal.--_v.i._ to conform to popery.--_ns._ P[=A]'PALISM;
P[=A]'PALIST.--_adv._ P[=A]'PALLY.--_ns._ P[=A]PAPH[=O]'BIA, extreme fear
of the Pope, or the progress of papacy; P[=A]'PARCHY, papal government.
[Low L. _papatia_--_papa_, a father.]

PAPAIN, pä'pa-in, _n._ a nitrogenous body, isolated from the juice of the
papaw, one of the digestive ferments applied in some cases of dyspepsia,
either internally or for the predigestion of food.

PAPAVEROUS, pa-pav'[.e]r-us, _adj._ resembling or having the qualities of
the poppy.--_adj._ PAPAVER[=A]'CEOUS, of or like the poppy. [L. _papaver_,
the poppy.]

PAPAW, pa-paw', _n._ the tree _Carica papaya_, or its fruit, native to
South America, but common in the tropics, the trunk, leaves, and fruit
yielding papain (q.v.), the leaves forming a powerful anthelmintic: the
tree _Asimina triloba_, or its fruit, native to the United States. [The
Malabar native name.]

PAPER, p[=a]'p[.e]r, _n._ the material made from rags or vegetable fibres
on which we commonly write and print: a piece of paper: a written or
printed document or instrument, note, receipt, bill, bond, deed, &c.: a
newspaper: an essay or literary contribution, generally brief: paper-money:
paper-hangings for walls: a set of examination questions: free passes of
admission to a theatre, &c., also the persons admitted by such.--_adj._
consisting or made of paper.--_v.t._ to cover with paper: to fold in paper:
to treat in any way by means of paper, as to sand-paper, &c.: to paste the
end-papers and fly-leaves at the beginning and end of a book before fitting
it into its covers.--_ns._ P[=A]'PER-BAR'ON, or -LORD, one who holds a
title that is merely official, like that of a Scotch Lord of Session, &c.,
or whose title is merely by courtesy or convention; P[=A]'PER-CASE, a box
for holding writing materials, &c.; P[=A]'PER-CHASE, the game of hounds and
hares, when the hares scatter bits of paper to guide the hounds;
P[=A]'PER-CIGAR', a cigarette; P[=A]'PER-CLAMP, a frame for holding
newspapers, sheets of music, &c., for easy reference; P[=A]'PER-CLIP, or
_Letter-clip_, an appliance with opening and closing spring, for holding
papers together; P[=A]'PER-CLOTH, a fabric prepared in many of the Pacific
islands from the inner bark of the mulberry, &c.; P[=A]'PER-CRED'IT, credit
given to a person because he shows by bills, promissory notes, &c. that
money is owing to him; P[=A]'PER-CUT'TER, a machine for cutting paper in
sheets, for trimming the edges of books, &c.; P[=A]'PER-DAY, one of certain
days in each term for hearing causes down in the paper or roll of business;
P[=A]'PER-ENAM'EL, an enamel for cards and fine note-paper.--_adj._
P[=A]'PER-FACED (_Shak._), having a face as white as paper.--_ns._
P[=A]'PER-FEED'ER, an apparatus for delivering sheets of paper to a
printing-press, &c.; P[=A]'PER-FILE, an appliance for holding letters, &c.,
for safety and readiness of reference; P[=A]'PER-GAUGE, a rule for
measuring the type-face of matter to be printed, and the width of the
margin; P[=A]'PER-HANG'ER, one who hangs paper on the walls of rooms,
&c.--_n.pl._ P[=A]'PER-HANG'INGS, paper, either plain or with coloured
figures, for hanging on or covering walls.--_ns._ P[=A]'PERING, the
operation of covering or hanging with paper: the paper itself;
P[=A]'PER-KNIFE, -CUT'TER, -FOLD'ER, a thin, flat blade of ivory, &c., for
cutting open the leaves of books and other folded papers; P[=A]'PER-MAK'ER,
one who manufactures paper; P[=A]'PER-MAK'ING; P[=A]'PER-MAR'BLER, one
engaged in marbling paper; P[=A]'PER-MILL, a mill where paper is made;
P[=A]'PER-MON'EY, pieces of paper stamped or marked by government or by a
bank, as representing a certain value of money, which pass from hand to
hand instead of the coin itself; P[=A]'PER-MUS'LIN, a glazed muslin for
dress linings, &c.; P[=A]'PER-NAU'TILUS, or -SAIL'OR, the nautilus;
P[=A]'PER-OFF'ICE, an office in Whitehall where state-papers are kept;
P[=A]'PER-PULP, the pulp from which paper is made; P[=A]'PER-PUNCH, an
apparatus for piercing holes in paper; P[=A]'PER-REED (_B._), the papyrus;
P[=A]'PER-RUL'ER, one who, or an instrument which, makes straight lines on
paper; P[=A]'PER-STAIN'ER, one who prepares paper-hangings;
P[=A]'PER-TEST'ER, a machine for testing the stretching strength of paper;
P[=A]'PER-WASH'ING (_phot._), water in which prints have been washed;
P[=A]'PER-WEIGHT, a small weight for laying on a bundle of loose papers to
prevent them from being displaced.--_adj._ P[=A]'PERY, like paper.--BRISTOL
PAPER or BOARD, a strong smooth paper for drawing on; BROWN-PAPER (see
BROWN); CHINESE PAPER, rice-paper: a fine soft slightly brownish paper made
from bamboo bark, giving fine impressions from engravings; CREAM-LAID
PAPER, a smooth paper of creamy colour, much used for note-paper;
DISTINCTIVE PAPER, a fine silk-threaded fibre paper used in the United
States for bonds, &c.; FILTER-PAPER (see FILTER); HAND-MADE PAPER, that
made wholly by hand, as still with some kinds of printing and drawing
papers; HEIGHT-TO-PAPER, in typefounding, the length of a type from its
face to its foot (11/12 inch); HOT-PRESSED PAPER, paper polished by
pressure between heated plates; IMPERFECT PAPER, sheets of poorer quality,
as the two outside quires of a ream; INDIA PAPER (see INDIAN); JAPANESE
PAPER, a soft fine paper made from the bark of the paper-mulberry, giving
good impressions of plate engravings; LITHOGRAPHIC PAPER, paper used for
taking impressions from lithographic stones; LITMUS PAPER (see LITMUS);
MARBLED PAPER (see MARBLE); PARCHMENT PAPER, a tough paper, prepared in
imitation of parchment by dipping in diluted sulphuric acid and washing
with weak ammonia; PLAIN PAPER, unruled paper: (_phot._) any unglossy
paper; PLATE PAPER, the best class of book paper; PRINTING PAPER (see
PRINT); RAG-PAPER, that made from the pulp of rags; RULED PAPER,
writing-paper ruled with lines for convenience; SENSITISED PAPER (_phot._),
paper chemically treated so that its colour is affected by the action of
light; STATE-PAPER (see STATE); TEST-PAPER (see TEST); TISSUE-PAPER, a very
thin soft paper for wrapping delicate articles, protecting engravings in
books, &c.--also SILK-PAPER; TRACING-PAPER, transparent paper used for
copying a design, &c., by laying it over the original, and copying the
lines shown through it; TRANSFER-PAPER (see TRANSFER); VELLUM PAPER, a
heavy ungrained smooth paper, sometimes used in fine printing; WHATMAN
PAPER, a fine quality of English paper, with fine or coarse grain, used for
etchings, engravings, &c.; WOVE PAPER, paper laid on flannel or felt,
showing no marks of wires; WRAPPING-PAPER, coarse paper used for wrapping
up parcels, &c. [A shortened form of _papyrus_.]

PAPETERIE, pap-e-tr[=e]', _n._ a box containing paper, &c., for writing
purposes: stationery. [Fr.]

PAPHIAN, p[=a]'fi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Paphos_ in Cyprus, sacred to
Aphrodite: lascivious.--_n._ a native of Paphos, a votary of Aphrodite: a
whore.

PAPIER-MÂCHÉ, pap'y[=a]-mä'sh[=a], _n._ a material consisting either of
paper-pulp or of sheets of paper pasted together, which by a peculiar
treatment resembles varnished or lacquered wood in one class of articles
made of it, and in another class (chiefly architectural ornaments) somewhat
resembles plaster. [Fr. _papier_--L. _papyrus_; _mâché_ is pa.p. of Fr.
_mâcher_, to chew--L. _mastic[=a]re_, to masticate.]

PAPILIONACEOUS, pa-pil-yo-n[=a]'shus, _adj._ (_bot._) having a flower
shaped somewhat like a butterfly, as the bean, pea, &c. [L. _papilio_,
_-onis_, a butterfly.]

PAPILLA, pa-pil'a, _n._ one of the minute elevations on the skin, esp. on
the upper surface of the tongue and on the tips of the fingers, and in
which the nerves terminate: (_bot._) a nipple-like protuberance:--_pl._
PAPILL'Æ.--_adjs._ PAP'ILLAR, PAP'ILLARY, like a papilla, provided with
papillæ; PAP'ILL[=A]TE, formed into a papilla, studded with
papillæ.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to become a papilla, to cover with
such.--_adjs._ PAPILLIF'EROUS, papillate: bearing one or more fleshy
excrescences; PAPILL'IFORM, like a papilla in form.--_ns._ PAPILL[=I]'TIS,
inflammation of the optic papilla; PAPILL[=O]'MA, a tumour formed by the
hypertrophy of one papilla, or of several, including warts, corns,
&c.--_adjs._ PAPILLOM'ATOUS; PAP'ILL[=O]SE, full of papillæ, warty--also
PAP'ILLOUS; PAPILL'[=U]LATE, finely papillose.--_n._ PAP'ILL[=U]LE, a very
small papilla, a verruca or a variole. [L., a small pustule, dim. of
_papula_.]

PAPILLOTE, pap'il-[=o]t, _n._ a curl-paper, from its fancied resemblance to
a butterfly. [Fr., from _papillot_, old form of _papillon_, butterfly--L.
_papilio_.]

PAPIST, p[=a]'pist, _n._ an adherent of the Pope: a name slightingly given
to a Roman Catholic--(_prov._) P[=A]'PISH, P[=A]'PISHER.--_n._ P[=A]'PISM,
popery.--_adjs._ P[=A]PIST'IC, -AL, pertaining to popery, or to the Church
of Rome, its doctrines, &c.--_adv._ P[=A]PIST'ICALLY.--_n._ P[=A]'PISTRY,
popery.

PAPOOSE, pap-[=oo]s', _n._ a N. Amer. Indian infant, usually wrapped up,
fixed to a board, and thus carried by its mother or hung up for
safety.--Also PAPPOOSE'.

PAPPUS, pap'us, _n._ (_bot._) the fine hair or down which grows on the
seeds of some plants: the first hair on the chin.--_adjs._ PAPPIF'EROUS,
bearing a pappus; PAPP[=O]SE', PAPP'OUS, provided or covered with down. [L.
_pappus_--Gr. _pappos_, down.]

PAPUAN, pap'[=u]-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Papua_ or New Guinea.--_n._ an
inhabitant of Papua: one of a race of black colour, dolichocephalic, with
rough and frizzly hair, inhabiting many of the islands of the Pacific near
Australia. [Malay.]

PAPULOSE, pap'[=u]-l[=o]s, _adj._ full of pimples--also PAP'[=U]LOUS.--_n._
PAP'[=U]LA, a small inflammatory pustule, a pimple:--_pl._
PAP'[=U]LÆ.--_adj._ PAP'[=U]LAR.--_ns._ PAP[=U]L[=A]'TION, the development
of papules; PAP'[=U]LE, a pimple.--_adj._ PAPULIF'EROUS, pimply. [L.
_papula_, a pimple.]

PAPYRUS, pa-p[=i]'rus, _n._ an Egyptian sedge, now scarcely found there,
from the inner pith (_byblos_) of which the ancients made their paper: a
manuscript on papyrus:--_pl._ PAPY'R[=I].--_adjs._ PAPYR[=A]'CEOUS,
PAP'YRAL, PAPYR'[=E]AN, PAP'YRINE, pertaining to the papyrus or to papyri:
like paper in appearance and consistency; PAPYRIT'IOUS, resembling paper,
as the nests of certain wasps.--_n._ PAPYROGRAPH (p[=a]-p[=i]'r[=o]-graf),
a hectograph or apparatus for producing copies of a written or printed
document.--_v.t._ to produce by means of such.--_adj._
P[=A]PYROGRAPH'IC.--_n._ PAPYROG'RAPHY. [L.--Gr. _papyros_, prob.
Egyptian.]

PAR, pär, _n._ state of equality: equal value, the norm or standard: state
or value of bills, shares, &c. when they sell at exactly the price marked
on them--i.e. without _premium_ or _discount_: equality of
condition.--_v.t._ to fix an equality between.--PAR OF EXCHANGE, the value
of coin of one country expressed in that of another.--ABOVE PAR, at a
premium, or at more than the nominal value; AT PAR, at exactly the nominal
value; BELOW PAR, at a discount, or at less than the nominal value; NOMINAL
PAR, the value with which a bill or share is marked, or by which it is
known. [L. _par_, equal.]

PAR, pär, _n._ Same as PARR.

PARA, pa-rä', _n._ a coin of copper, silver, or mixed metal in use in
Turkey and Egypt, the 40th part of a piastre, and worth about 1/18th of a
penny in Turkey and 1/16th in Egypt.

PARABAPTISM, par-a-bap'tizm, _n._ uncanonical baptism.

PARABASIS, pa-rab'a-sis, _n._ the chief of the choral parts in ancient
Greek comedy, usually an address from the poet to the public. [Gr., _para_,
beside, _basis_--_bainein_, to walk.]

PARABEMA, par-a-b[=e]'ma, _n._ in Byzantine ecclesiastical architecture,
the chapel of the prothesis or the diaconicon, or sacristy, where divided
by walls from the bema or sanctuary:--_pl._ PARAB[=E]'MATA.--_adj._
PARABEMAT'IC.

PARABLAST, par'a-blast, _n._ the supplementary or nutritive yolk of a
meroblastic egg or metovum--as distinguished from the _archiblast_, or
formative yolk.--_adj._ PARABLAST'IC. [Gr. _para_, beside, _blastos_, a
germ.]

PARABLE, par'a-bl, _n._ a comparison: a fable or story of something which
might have happened, told to illustrate some doctrine, or to make some duty
clear: (_B._) an apologue, proverb (Ps. lxxviii. 2, Hab. ii. 6).--_v.t._ to
represent by a parable.--_adjs._ PARABOL'IC, -AL, like a parable or a
parabola: expressed by a parable: belonging to, or of the form of, a
parabola.--_adv._ PARABOL'ICALLY. [Gr. _parabol[=e]_--_paraballein_, to
compare--_para_, beside, _ballein_, to throw.]

PARABLEPSIS, par-a-blep'sis, _n._ false vision.--Also PAR'ABLEPSY. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _blepsis_--_bleptein_, to see.]

PARABOLA, par-ab'o-la, _n._ (_geom._) a curve or conic section, formed by
cutting a cone with a plane parallel to its slope (for illustration, see
CONE).--_adjs._ PARABOL'IC; PARABOL'IFORM.--_n._ PARAB'OLOID, the solid
which would be generated by the rotation of a parabola about its principal
axis. [Gr. _parabol[=e]_; cf. _Parable_.]

PARABOLANUS, par-a-b[=o]-l[=a]'nus, _n._ in the early Eastern Church, a lay
assistant to the clergy for waiting on the sick. [Gr. _parabolos_,
reckless.]

PARABOLE, par-ab'o-le, _n._ (_rhet._) a parable, a comparison or
similitude. [Gr.; cf. _Parable_.]

PARACELSIAN, par-a-sel'si-an, _adj._ of or relating to the famous Swiss
philosopher and physician, _Paracelsus_ (1490-1541), or resembling his
theories or practice. The name was coined for himself by Theophrastus
Bombastus von Hohenheim, and apparently implied a claim to be greater than
Celsus.

PARACENTESIS, par-a-sen-t[=e]'sis, _n._ (_surg._) the perforation of a
cavity with a trocar, &c., tapping. [Gr., _para_, beside, _kentein_, to
pierce.]

PARACENTRAL, par-a-sen'tral, _adj._ situated next a centrum.--_adj._
PARACEN'TRIC, approaching to the centre or receding from it.

PARACHORDAL, par-a-k[=o]r'dal, _adj._ (_biol._) lying alongside the cranial
part of the notochord. [Gr. _para_, beside, _chord[=e]_, a chord.]

PARACHROMATISM, par-a-kr[=o]'ma-tizm, _n._ colour-blindness. [Gr. _para_,
beside, _chroma_, colour.]

PARACHRONISM, par-ak'ron-izm, _n._ an error in dating an event by which it
is made to appear later than it really was. [Gr., _para_, beside,
_chronos_, time.]

PARACHROSE, par'a-kr[=o]s, _adj._ (_min._) changing colour by exposure to
weather. [Gr., _para_, beside, _chroa_, colour.]

PARACHUTE, par'a-sh[=oo]t, _n._ an apparatus like an umbrella for
descending safely from a balloon.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to descend by means of
such.--_n._ PAR'ACHUTIST. [Fr., for _par' à chute_, from Fr. _parer_--L.
_par[=a]re_, to prepare, _chute_, a fall--L. _cad[)e]re_.]

PARACLETE, par'a-kl[=e]t, _n._ the Comforter, Advocate, or Intercessor of
John, xiv. 16, 26, 1 John, ii. 1, &c.--the Holy Ghost or Spirit.--_ns._
PARACL[=E]T'ICE, PARACL[=E]T'ICON, an office-book in the Greek Church
containing the troparia of the whole ferial office for the year. [Through
L., from Gr. _parakl[=e]tos_--_parakalein_, _para_, beside, _kalein_, to
call.]

PARACME, pa-rak'm[=e], _n._ (_biol._) the decadence of an evolutionary
series of organisms after reaching its highest point of development. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _akm[=e]_, a point.]

PARACOLPITIS, par-a-kol-p[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the outer coat of
the vagina. [Gr. _para_, beside, _kolpos_, the womb.]

PARACOROLLA, par-a-k[=o]-rol'a, _n._ (_bot._) a crown or appendage of a
corolla, usually as a nectary. [Gr. _para_, beside, L. _corolla_.]

PARACROSTIC, par-a-kr[=o]s'tik, _n._ a poem with the first verse containing
the initial letters of the others.

PARACUSIS, par-a-k[=u]'sis, _n._ disordered hearing. [Gr. _para_, beside,
_akousis_, hearing.]

PARACYANOGEN, par-a-s[=i]-an'[=o]-jen, _n._ a substance obtained by heating
mercury cyanide almost to redness.

PARACYESIS, par-a-s[=i]-[=e]'sis, _n._ extra-uterine pregnancy.

PARADACTYLUM, par-a-dak'ti-lum, _n._ the side of a bird's toe. [Gr. _para_,
beside, _daktylos_, a finger.]

PARADE, par-[=a]d', _n._ the orderly arrangement of troops for exercise or
inspection: a review of troops: the place where such a display takes place:
that which is displayed: great or splendid show of any kind: a public walk
or promenade.--_v.t._ to show off: to marshal in military order.--_v.i._ to
march up and down as if for show: to pass in military order: to march in
procession. [Fr.--Sp. _parada_--_parar_, to halt--L. _par[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to prepare.]

PARADIGM, par'a-dim, _n._ an example: model: (_gram._) an example of the
inflection of a word.--_adjs._ PARADIGMAT'IC, -AL, consisting of, or
resembling, paradigms.--_n._ PARADIGMAT'IC, one who narrates the lives of
religious persons by way of examples.--_adv._ PARADIGMAT'ICALLY.
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _paradeigma_--_para_, beside, _deiknynai_, to show.]

PARADISE, par'a-d[=i]s, _n._ a park or pleasure-ground, esp. in ancient
Persia: the garden of Eden: heaven: any place of great beauty or state of
blissful delights: the happy abode of the righteous in heaven: (_slang_)
the upper gallery in a theatre: (_archit._) a small private apartment, a
court in front of a church.--_adjs._ PARADIS[=A]'IC, -AL, PARADIS'IAC, -AL,
pertaining to, or resembling, paradise.--_n._ PAR'ADISE-FISH, a Chinese
species of Macropid often kept in aquaria for its beauty of form and
colouring.--_adjs._ PARADIS'IAL, PARADIS'IAN, pertaining to, suitable to,
or resembling paradise; PARADIS'IC, -AL, pertaining to paradise.--BIRD OF
PARADISE, an Eastern bird closely allied to the crow, with splendid
plumage. [Fr. _paradis_--L. _paradisus_--Gr. _paradeisos_, a park, prob.
Persian.]

PARADOS, par'a-dos, _n._ earthworks behind a fortified place, protecting
against a rear attack.

PARADOX, par'a-doks, _n._ that which is contrary to received opinion, or
that which is apparently absurd but really true.--_n._ PAR'ADOXER.--_adjs._
PARADOX'IC, -AL, of the nature of a paradox: inclined to paradoxes, said of
persons.--_adv._ PARADOX'ICALLY.--_ns._ PARADOX'ICALNESS; PARADOX'IDES, a
genus of trilobites; PAR'ADOXIST; PAR'ADOXY, the quality of being
paradoxical.--HYDROSTATIC PARADOX (see HYDROSTATICS). [Through Fr. and L.,
from Gr. _paradoxon_--_para_, contrary to, _doxa_, an opinion.]

PARADOXURE, par-a-dok's[=u]r, _n._ a civet-like carnivore of Southern Asia
and Malaysia, the palm-cat of India.--_adj._ PARADOX[=U]'RINE, having a
paradoxical or peculiarly curling tail.

PARÆSTHESIA, par-es-th[=e]'si-a, _n._ abnormal sensation. [Gr. _para_,
beyond, _aisth[=e]sis_, sensation.]

PARAFFIN, par'af-fin, _n._ a white, transparent, crystalline substance,
obtained from shale, coal-tar, &c., much used instead of wax, tallow, &c.
in making candles--so named as having little affinity--for an alkali--also
PAR'AFFINE.--_v.t._ to coat or impregnate with paraffin.--_ns._
PAR'AFFIN-OIL, any of the mineral burning oils associated with the
manufacture of paraffin; PAR'AFFIN-SCALE, unrefined paraffin. [Fr.,--L.
_parum_, little, _affinis_, allied.]

PARAFFLE, pa-raf'l, _n._ (_Scot._) any pretentious display.

PARAGASTRIC, par-a-gas'trik, _adj._ lying alongside the gastric cavity:
pertaining to the paragaster or the cavity of the sac of a sponge.

PARAGE, par'[=a]j, _n._ equality in law: a woman's portion at marriage.
[_Par._]

PARAGENESIS, par-a-jen'e-sis, _n._ hybridism.--_adjs._ PARAGENET'IC;
PARAGEN'IC, originating with the germ or at the genesis of an individual.
[Gr. _para_, beside, _genesis_, birth.]

PARAGEUSIA, par-a-g[=u]'si-a, _n._ perverted sense of taste--also
PARAGEU'SIS.--_adj._ PARAGEU'SIC. [Gr. _para_, beside, _geusis_, taste.]

PARAGLENAL, par-a-gl[=e]'nal, _n._ the coracoid of a fish--also _adj._ [Gr.
_para_, beside, _gl[=e]n[=e]_, a socket.]

PARAGLOBULIN, par-a-glob'[=u]-lin, _n._ a globulin found in blood-serum,
fibrino-plastin.--Also PARAGL[=O]'BIN.

PARAGLOSSA, par-a-glos'a, _n._ one of the two appendages of the ligula in
insects.--_adjs._ PARAGLOSS'AL; PARAGLOSS'ATE, provided with paraglossæ.
[Gr. _para_, beside, _gl[=o]ssa_, the tongue.]

PARAGNATHOUS, par-ag'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ having both mandibles of equal
length.--_n._ PARAG'N[=A]THISM. [Gr. _para_, beside, _gnathos_, the jaw.]

PARAGOGE, par-a-g[=o]'j[=e], _n._ the addition of a letter or a syllable to
the end of a word, as _amidst_ for _amid_, _generical_ for _generic_--also
called _epithesis_ and _ecstasis_, as opposed to _prosthesis_ and
_apocope_.--_adjs._ PARAGOG'IC, -AL, forming a paragoge: relating to, or of
the nature of, paragoge: added on: additional.--PARAGOGIC FUTURE, the
cohortative tense in Hebrew grammar--a lengthened form of the imperfect or
future tense, usually confined to the first person, giving the sense of
'let me' or 'let us.' [L.,--Gr. from _para_, beyond, _agein_, to lead.]

PARAGON, par'a-gon, _n._ a pattern or model with which comparisons are
made: (_Spens._) a companion or a rival: something supremely excellent: a
size of printing-type intermediate between great-primer and double pica,
equal to 20 points in the newer system.--_v.t._ to compare: to bring into
comparison with: (_Shak._) to surpass. [O. Fr., from Sp. compound prep.
_para con_, in comparison with--L. _pro_, for, _ad_, to, _con=cum_, with.]

PARAGRAM, par'a-gram, _n._ a play upon words: a pun.--_n._ PARAGRAM'MATIST,
a punster. [Gr. _para_, beside, _gramma_, something written, _graphein_, to
write.]

PARAGRAPH, par'a-graf, _n._ a distinct part of a discourse or writing
marked by ¶, or by being begun on a new line, at more than the usual
distance from the margin: a short passage, or a collection of sentences
with unity of purpose.--_v.t._ to form into paragraphs.--_ns._
PAR'AGRAPHER, PAR'AGRAPHIST, one who writes in paragraphs, esp. for
newspapers.--_adjs._ PARAGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PARAGRAPH'ICALLY. [The mark
¶ is the reversed initial of this word, which is, through Fr. and Low L.,
from Gr. _paragraphos_--_para_, beside, _graphein_, to write.]

PARAHELIOTROPISM, par-a-h[=e]-li-ot'r[=o]-pizm, _n._ the diurnal sleep of
plants.--_adj._ PARAHELIOTROP'IC. [Gr. _para_, beside, _h[=e]lios_, the
sun, _trepein_, to turn.]

PARAKEET. See PAROQUET.

PARALEIPSIS, par-a-l[=i]p'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure by which one fixes
attention on a subject by pretending to neglect it, as, 'I will not speak
of his generosity, his gentleness of disposition, or his reverence for
sacred things.' [Gr., from _paraleipein_, to leave on one side--_para_,
beside, _leipein_, to leave.]

PARALIPOMENA, par-a-li-pom'e-na, _n.pl._ things passed over, but given in a
supplement, specially the name given in the Septuagint to the First and
Second Books of Chronicles, a recapitulation of Second Samuel and the Books
of Kings. [Late L.,--Gr. _paraleipomena_--_paraleipein_, to pass over.]

PARALLAX, par'a-laks, _n._ an apparent change in the position of an object
caused by change of position in the observer: (_astron._) the difference
between the apparent and real place of a star or other celestial
object.--_adjs._ PARALLAC'TIC, -AL. [Gr. _parallaxis_--_para_, beside,
_allassein_, to change--_allos_, another.]

PARALLEL, par'al-lel, _adj._ side by side: (_geom._) extended in the same
direction and equi-distant in all parts: with the same direction or
tendency: running in accordance with: resembling in all essential points:
like or similar.--_n._ a line equi-distant from another at all points: a
line drawn across a map or round a globe at right angles to the axis,
marking latitude: likeness: a comparison: counterpart: (_pl._) trenches,
dug parallel to the outline of a besieged fortress to protect the besiegers
(_mil._).--_v.t._ to place so as to be parallel: to correspond, or to make
to correspond, to:--_pr.p._ par'alleling or par'allelling; _pa.p._
par'alleled or par'allelled.--_n._ PAR'ALLELISM, state of being parallel:
resemblance: comparison: likeness of form or meaning, as of two statements,
clauses, or verses.--_adj._ PARALLELIS'TIC, of the nature of, or involving,
parallelism.--_adv._ PAR'ALLELLY.--PARALLEL BARS, a pair of bars securely
fixed, 4 to 6 feet above the ground, and about 1½ feet apart, used in
gymnastics to strengthen the arms; PARALLEL FORCES, forces which act in
parallel lines, having a single resultant, readily found by the method of
moments; PARALLEL MOTION, a name given to any linkage by which circular
motion may be changed into straight-line motion; PARALLEL RULERS, a
mathematical instrument for drawing parallel lines. [Fr.,--L.
_parallelus_--Gr. _parall[=e]los_--_para_, beside, _all[=e]l[=o]n_, of one
another--_allos_, another.]

PARALLELEPIPED, par-al-lel-e-p[=i]'ped, _n._ a regular solid, the opposite
sides and ends of which form three pairs of equal parallelograms.--Also
PARALLELEP[=I]'PEDON, improperly PARALLELOP[=I]'PED, PARALLELOP[=I]'PEDON.
[L.,--Gr. _parall[=e]lepipedon_--_parall[=e]los_, _epipedon_, a plane
surface--_epi_, on, _pedon_, the ground.]

PARALLELOGRAM, par-al-lel'[=o]-gram, _n._ a plane four-sided figure, the
opposite sides of which are parallel and equal.--_adjs._
PARALLELOGRAMMAT'IC, -AL, PARALLELOGRAM'MIC, -AL. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_parall[=e]los_, side by side, _gramma_, a line--_graphein_, to write.]

PARALOGISM, par-al'[=o]-jizm, _n._ reasoning beside the point: a conclusion
not following from the premises--also PARAL'OGY.--_v.i._ PARAL'OGISE, to
reason falsely. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _paralogismos_--_para_, beside,
_logismos_--_logos_, discourse.]

PARALYSE, par'a-l[=i]z, _v.t._ to strike with paralysis or palsy: to make
useless: to deaden the action of: to exhaust.--_n._ PARAL'YSIS, a loss of
the power of motion, sensation, or function in any part of the body: palsy:
loss of energy: state of being crippled.--_adj._ PARALYT'IC, of or
pertaining to paralysis: afflicted with or inclined to paralysis.--_n._ one
who is affected with paralysis.--GENERAL PARALYSIS, dementia paralytica.
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _paralyein_, _paralysein_--_para_, beside, _lyein_,
loosen.]

PARAMAGNETIC, par-a-mag-net'ik, _adj._ See under DIAMAGNETIC.

PARAMASTOID, par-a-mas'toid, _adj._ situated near the mastoid,
paroccipital.--_n._ a paramastoid process.

PARAMATTA, par-a-mat'a, _n._ a fabric like merino made of worsted and
cotton. [From _Paramatta_ in New South Wales.]

PARAMECIUM, par-a-m[=e]'si-um, _n._ an infusorian in pond water or
vegetable infusions--also _Slipper Animalcule_:--_pl._ PARAM[=E]'CIA. [Gr.
_param[=e]k[=e]s_, long-shaped, _para_, beside, _m[=e]kos_, length.]

PARAMENIA, par-a-m[=e]'ni-a, _n.pl._ disordered menstruation. [Gr. _para_,
beside, _m[=e]n_, a month.]

PARAMERE, par'a-m[=e]r, _n._ (_biol._) a radiated part or organ: either
half of a bi-laterally symmetrical animal--usually _Antimere_.--_adj._
PARAMER'IC. [Gr. _para_, beside, _meros_, a part.]

PARAMETER, par-am'[=e]-t[.e]r, _n._ (_geom._) the constant quantity which
enters into the equation of a curve: in conic sections, a third
proportional to any diameter and its conjugate diameter. [Gr. _para_,
beside, _metron_, measure.]

PARAMNESIA, par-am-n[=e]'si-a, _n._ false memory. [Gr. _para_, beside,
_mim-n[=e]skein_, to remind.]

PARAMO, par'a-m[=o], _n._ a bare wind-swept elevated plain. [Sp.]

PARAMORPH, par'a-morf, _n._ (_min._) a pseudomorph formed by a change in
molecular structure without change of chemical composition.--_adjs._
PARAMORPH'IC, PARAMORPH'OUS.--_ns._ PARAMORPH'ISM, PARAMORPH[=O]'SIS. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _morph[=e]_, form.]

PARAMOUNT, par'a-mownt, _adj._ superior to all others: chief: of the
highest order or importance--opp. to _Paravail_.--_n._ the chief: a
superior.--_adv._ PAR'AMOUNTLY. [O. Fr. _par amont_, _par_--L. prep. _per_;
cf. _Amount_.]

PARAMOUR, par'a-m[=oo]r, _n._ a lover of either sex, now usually in the
illicit sense. [Fr. _par amour_, by or with love--L. _per amorem_.]

PARANEMA, par-a-n[=e]'ma, _n._ (_bot._) paraphysis.--_adj._ PARANEMAT'IC.
[Gr. _para_, about, _n[=e]ma_, a thread.]

PARANG, par'ang, _n._ a heavy Malay knife. [Malay.]

PARANGON, pa-rang'gon, _n._ a jeweller's term for a gem of remarkable
excellence. [Fr.]

PARANOEA, par-a-n[=e]'a, _n._ chronic mental derangement--also
PARANOI'A.--_ns._ PARANOE'AC, PARANOI'AC.--_adj._ PARANOE'IC. [Gr. _para_,
beside, _noein_, to think.]

PARANTHELION, par-an-th[=e]'li-on, _n._ a diffuse whitish image of the sun,
having the same altitude, at an angular distance of about 120°--due to
reflection from atmospheric ice-prisms. [Gr. _para_, beside, _anti_,
against, _h[=e]lios_, the sun.]

PARANUCLEUS, par-a-n[=u]'kl[=e]-us, _n._ (_biol._) an accessory nucleus in
some protozoans.--_adjs._ PARAN[=U]'CLEAR, PARAN[=U]'CLEATE.--_n._
PARAN[=U]CL[=E]'OLUS, a mass of substance extruded from the nucleus, in
pollen and spore mother-cells before division.

PARANYMPH, par'a-nimf, _n._ a friend of the bridegroom who escorted the
bride on the way to her marriage: a bride's-man: one who countenances and
supports another. [Gr. _para_, beside, _nymph[=e]_, a bride.]

PARAPEPTONE, par-a-pep't[=o]n, _n._ a proteid compound formed in gastric
digestion, acid albumen.

PARAPET, par'a-pet, _n._ a rampart breast-high, to protect soldiers on a
wall from the fire of an enemy: a breast-high wall on a bridge, house-roof,
a platform, &c., to prevent persons from falling over.--_adj._ PAR'APETED,
having a parapet. [Fr.,--It. _parapetto_--It. _parare_, to adorn--L.
_par[=a]re_, to prepare, It. _petto_--L. _pectus_, the breast.]

PARAPH, par'af, _n._ a mark or flourish under one's signature.--_v.t._ to
append a paraph to, to sign with initials. [_Paragraph._]

PARAPHASIA, par-a-f[=a]'zi-a, _n._ a form of aphasia in which one word is
substituted for another.

PARAPHERNALIA, par-a-f[.e]r-n[=a]l'i-a, _n.pl._ ornaments of dress of any
kind: trappings: that which a bride brings over and above her dowry: the
clothes, jewels, &c. which a wife possesses beyond her dowry in her own
right. [Late L. _parapherna_--Gr., from _para_, beyond, _phern[=e]_, a
dowry--_pherein_, to bring.]

PARAPHIMOSIS, par-a-f[=i]-m[=o]'sis, _n._ strangulation of the glans penis
by constriction of the prepuce.

PARAPHONIA, par-a-f[=o]'ni-a, _n._ in Byzantine music, a melodic
progression by consonances (fourths and fifths): an abnormal condition of
the voice: an alteration of the voice, as at puberty. [Gr. _para_, beside,
_ph[=o]n[=e]_, the voice.]

PARAPHRAGM, par'a-fram, _n._ a kind of lateral diaphragm in
Crustacea.--_adj._ PARAPHRAG'MAL. [Gr. _para_, beside, _phrassein_, to
fence.]

PARAPHRASE, par'a-fr[=a]z, _n._ a saying of the same thing in other words,
often more fully and more clearly: an explanation of a passage: a loose or
free translation: (_Scot._) one of a certain number of Scripture passages
turned into verse for use in the service of praise.--_v.t._ to say the same
thing in other words: to render more fully: to interpret or translate
freely.--_v.i._ to make a paraphrase.--_n._ PAR'APHRAST, one who
paraphrases.--_adjs._ PARAPHRAST'IC, -AL, of the nature of a paraphrase:
more clear and ample than the original passage: free, loose,
diffuse.--_adv._ PARAPHRAST'ICALLY.--PARAPHRASTIC CONJUGATION, one composed
of the verb _sum_ (am) with participial forms of the verbs conjugated
(_amaturus sum_, &c.). [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _paraphrasis_--_para_, beside,
_phrasis_, a speaking--_phrazein_, to speak.]

PARAPHYLLUM, par-a-fil'um, _n._ (_bot._) a small foliaceous organ between
the leaves of some mosses. [Gr. _para_, beside, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

PARAPHYSIS, pa-raf'i-sis, _n._ an erect sterile filament accompanying the
sexual organs of some cryptogamous plants:--_pl._ PARAPH'YS[=E]S.

PARAPLEGIA, par-a-pl[=e]'ji-a, _n._ a form of spinal paralysis in which
voluntary motion and sensation are interrupted below the level of the
affected part of the spinal cord, while reflex movements may be preserved
and certain forms even increased.--_adjs._ PARAPLEC'TIC, PARAPL[=E]'GIC.
[Gr. _para_, beside, _pl[=e]ssein_, to strike.]

PARAPLEURUM, par-a-pl[=oo]'rum, _n._ one of the pleura or sternal
side-pieces in a beetle, &c.--Also PARAPLEU'RON. [Gr. _para_, beside,
_pleuron_, side.]

PARAPODIUM, par-a-p[=o]'di-um, _n._ one of the jointless lateral appendages
of an annelid:--_pl._ PARAP[=O]'DIA. [Gr. _para_, beside, _pous_, _podos_,
a foot.]

PARAPOPHYSIS, par-a-pof'i-sis, _n._ the inferior or anterior process on the
side of a vertebra--the superior or posterior one being a
_diapophysis_.--_adj._ PARAPOPHYS'IAL. [Gr. _para_, beside, _apophysis_, an
offshoot.]

PARAPSIS, pa-rap'sis, _n._ (_entom._) one of the two lateral parts of the
mesoscutum of the thorax.--_adj._ PARAP'SIDAL. [Gr. _para_, beside,
_hapsis_, a loop.]

PARAPSIS, pa-rap'sis, _n._ a disordered sense of touch.--Also PAR[=A]'PHIA.
[Gr. _para_, beside, _hapsis_, a touching.]

PARAPTERUM, pa-rap'te-rum, _n._ (_entom._) the third sclerite of each
pleuron, or lateral segment of each thoracic somite--the first and second,
the _episternum_, and the _epimeron_: in birds, the scapular and adjoining
feathers of the wing.--_adj._ PARAP'TERAL. [Gr. _para_, beside, _pteron_, a
wing.]

PARAQUITO, par-a-k[=e]'to, _n._ Same as PAROQUET, PARRAKEET.

PARARCTALIA, par-ark-t[=a]'li-a, _n._ the northern temperate realm of the
waters of the globe.--_adj._ PARARCT[=A]'LIAN.

PARARTHRIA, pa-rär'thri-ä, _n._ disordered articulation of speech. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _arthron_, a joint.]

PARASANG, par'a-sang, _n._ a Persian measure of length, containing 30
stadia, equal to about 3¾ miles. [Gr. _parasang[=e]s_--Pers. _farsang_.]

PARASCENIUM, par-a-s[=e]'ni-um, _n._ in the Greek theatre, one of the wings
on either side of the proscenium:--_pl._ PARASC[=E]'NIA. [Gr.]

PARASCEVE, par'a-s[=e]v, _n._ the eve before the Jewish Sabbath when the
preparations are made: sometimes applied to Good-Friday: (_obs._)
preparation.--_adj._ PARASCENAS'TIC. [Gr. _paraskeu[=e]_,
preparation--_para_, beside, _skeu[=e]_, equipment.]

PARASCHEMATIC, par-a-sk[=e]-mat'ik, _adj._ imitative. [Gr. _para_, beside,
_sch[=e]ma_, a scheme.]

PARASELENE, par-a-se-l[=e]'n[=e], _n._ a mock moon, seen in connection with
a lunar rainbow (cf. _Parahelion_):--_pl._ PARASEL[=E]'NÆ.--_adj._
PARASELEN'IC. [Gr. _para_, beside, _sel[=e]n[=e]_, the moon.]

PARASITE, par'a-s[=i]t, _n._ one who frequents another's table: a
hanger-on: a sycophant: (_bot._) a plant growing upon and nourished by the
juices of another: (_zool._) an animal which lives on another--its
host.--_adjs._ PARASIT'IC, -AL, like a parasite: fawning: acting as a
sycophant: living on other plants or animals.--_adv._
PARASIT'ICALLY.--_ns._ PARASIT'ICALNESS; PARASIT'ICIDE, that which destroys
parasites; PAR'ASITISM; PARASITOL'OGIST; PARASITOL'OGY. [Fr.,--L.
_paras[=i]tus_--Gr. _parasitos_--_para_, beside, _sitos_, corn.]

PARASOL, par'a-sol, _n._ a small umbrella used by women as a shade from the
sun.--_v.t._ to shelter from the sun. [Fr.,--It. _parasole_--_parare_, to
keep off--L. _par[=a]re_, to prepare, _sol_, _solis_, the sun.]

PARASPHENOID, par-a-sf[=e]'noid, _n._ a bone which in some Vertebrata
underlies the base of the skull from the basi-occipital to the
presphenoidal region.--_adj._ lying under or alongside the sphenoid.

PARASYNTHESIS, par-a-sin'the-sis, _n._ the principle of forming words by a
combined process of derivation and composition with a particle.--_adj._
PARASYNTHET'IC.--_n._ PARASYN'THETON, a word so formed:--_pl._
PARASYN'THETA.

PARATAXIS, par-a-tak'sis, _n._ (_gram._) the arrangement of clauses or
propositions without connectives. [Gr.]

PARATHESIS, pa-rath'e-sis, _n._ (_gram._) apposition: (_philol._) the
setting side by side of things of equivalent grade in the monosyllabic or
isolating languages: (_rhet._) a parenthetic notice of something to be
afterwards explained: in the Eastern Church, a prayer of the bishop over
converts or catechumens. [Gr.]

PARATONIC, par-a-ton'ik, _adj._ retarding a plant's growth. [Gr. _para_,
beside, _teinein_, to stretch.]

PARAVAIL, par'a-v[=a]l, _adj._ inferior: lowest, said of a feudal tenant:
of least account--opp. to _Paramount_. [O. Fr. _par aval_, below--L. _per_,
through, _ad_, to, _vallem_, a valley.]

PARAVANT, PARAVAUNT, par'a-vänt, _adv._ (_Spens._) in front, first,
beforehand. [O. Fr. _paravant_--_par_, through, _avant_, before--L. _ab_,
from, _ante_, before.]

PARBAKE, pär'b[=a]k, _v.t._ to bake partially. [Formed on analogy of
_parboil_.]

PARBOIL, pär'boil, _v.t._ to boil slightly or in part--as if from _part_
and _boil_.

PARBREAK, pär'br[=a]k, _v.t._ or _v.i._ (_Spens._) to throw out, to
vomit.--_n._ (_Spens._) vomit. [Fr. _par_--L. _per_, through, and _break_.]

[Illustration]

PARBUCKLE, pär'buk'l, _n._ a purchase made by looping a rope in the middle
to aid in rolling casks up or down an incline, or in furling a sail by
rolling the yards: a sling made by passing both ends of a rope through its
bight.--_v.t._ to hoist or lower by a parbuckle:--_pr.p._ par'buckling;
_pa.p._ par'buckled. [Prob. L. _par_, equal, and _buckle_.]

PARCÆ, pär's[=e], _n.pl._ the Fates.

PARCEL, pär'sel, _n._ a little part: a portion: a quantity, as of single
articles: a number forming a group or a lot: a package.--_v.t._ to divide
into portions:--_pr.p._ par'celling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ par'celled.--_n._
PAR'CEL-BAWD (_Shak._), one partly a bawd.--_adjs._ PAR'CEL-BEARD'ED
(_Tenn._), partially bearded; PAR'CEL-GILT, partially gilded.--_n._
PAR'CEL-OFF'ICE, a place where parcels are received for despatch and
delivery.--PARCELS POST, that department of the post-office which takes
charge of the forwarding and delivery of small parcels. [Fr. _parcelle_
(It. _particella_)--L. _particula_, dim. of _pars_, _partis_, a part.]

PARCENARY, par'se-n[=a]-ri, _n._ co-heirship.--_n._ PAR'CENER, a co-heir.

PARCH, pärch, _v.t._ to burn slightly: to scorch.--_v.i._ to be scorched:
to become very dry.--_adj._ PARCHED, scorched.--_adv._ PARCH'EDLY.--_n._
PARCH'EDNESS. [M. E. _parchen_, either a variety of
_per(s)chen_=_peris(c)hen_, to kill, or from _perchen_, to pierce.]

PARCHMENT, pärch'ment, _n._ the skin of a sheep or goat prepared for
writing on.--PARCHMENT PAPER, or VEGETABLE PARCHMENT (see PAPER).--VIRGIN
PARCHMENT, a fine kind of parchment made from the skins of new-born lambs
or kids. [Fr. _parchemin_--L. _pergamena_ (_charta_, paper)--from Gr.
_Pergamos_.]

PARD, pärd, _n._ (_slang_) a partner, mate.

PARD, pärd, _n._ the panther: the leopard: in poetry, any spotted
animal.--_n._ PARD'ALE (_Spens._). [L. _pardus_--Gr. _pardos_, the panther,
the leopard.]

PARDIEU, pär'd[=u], PARDI, PARDY, pär'di, _adv._ (_Spens._) in truth:
certainly. [Fr., by God--_par_--L. _per_, through, by, _Dieu_--L. _deus_,
God.]

PARDON, pär'don, _v.t._ to forgive, said either of an offender or of a
crime: to pass by without punishment or blame: to set free from punishment:
to let off without doing something.--_n._ forgiveness, either of an
offender or of his offence: remission of a penalty or punishment: a warrant
declaring a pardon: a papal indulgence.--_adj._ PAR'DONABLE, that may be
pardoned: excusable.--_n._ PAR'DONABLENESS.--_adv._ PAR'DONABLY.--_n._
PAR'DONER, one who pardons: formerly, one licensed to sell papal
indulgences.--_p.adj._ PAR'DONING, disposed to pardon: forgiving:
exercising the right or power to pardon: conferring authority to grant
pardon.--PARDON ME, excuse me--used in apology and to soften a
contradiction. [Fr. _pardonner_--Low L. _perdon[=a]re_--L. _per_, through,
away, _don[=a]re_, to give.]

PARDY, pär'di, _adv._ A form of _pardieu_.

PARE, p[=a]r, _v.t._ to cut or shave off: to trim, or to remove by cutting:
to diminish by littles.--_n._ P[=A]R'ER, one who, or that which, pares.
[Fr. _parer_--L. _par[=a]re_, to prepare.]

PAREGORIC, par-[=e]-gor'ik, _adj._ soothing, lessening pain.--_n._ a
medicine that soothes pain: tincture of opium. [L.,--Gr.
_par[=e]gorikos_--_par[=e]gorein_, to exhort.]

PAREIL, par-el', _n._ an equal. [Fr.,--L. _par_, equal.]

PAREIRA, pa-r[=a]'ra, _n._ a tonic diuretic drug derived from various South
and Central American plants. [Braz.]

PARELLA, pa-rel'la, _n._ a crustaceous lichen yielding archil, cudbear, and
litmus.--Also PARELLE'. [Fr. _parelle_.]

PAREMBOLE, pa-rem'b[=o]-l[=e], _n._ (_rhet._) an inserted phrase modifying
or explaining the thought of the sentence--closer to the context than a
parenthesis. [Gr.]

PARENCHYMA, pa-reng'ki-mä, _n._ the soft cellular tissue of glandular and
other organs, as the pith in plants or the pulp in fruits.--_adjs._
PARENCH'YMAL, PARENCHYM'ATOUS, PARENCH'YMOUS. [Gr., _para_, beside,
_engchein_, to pour in.]

PARENESIS, pa-ren'e-sis, _n._ persuasion.--_adjs._ PARENET'IC, -AL,
hortatory. [Gr. _parainesis_, exhortation, _para_, beside, _ainein_, to
praise.]

PARENT, p[=a]r'ent, _n._ one who begets or brings forth: a father or a
mother: one who, or that which, produces: an author: a cause.--_n._
PAR'ENTAGE, descent from parents: birth: extraction: rank or character
derived from one's parents or ancestors: relation of parents to their
children.--_adj._ PARENT'AL, pertaining to, or becoming, parents:
affectionate: tender.--_adv._ PARENT'ALLY.--_ns._ PAR'ENTHOOD, state of
being a parent: duty or feelings of a parent; PARENT'ICIDE, one who kills a
parent.--_adj._ PAR'ENTLESS, without a parent. [Fr., 'kinsman'--L.
_parens_, for _pariens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _par[)e]re_, to bring forth.]

PARENTHESIS, pa-ren'the-sis, _n._ a word, phrase, or sentence put in or
inserted in another which is grammatically complete without it: (_pl._) the
marks ( ) used to mark off a parenthesis:--_pl._ PAREN'THESES
(-s[=e]z).--_v.i._ PARENTH'ESISE.--_adjs._ PARENTHET'IC, -AL, of the nature
of a parenthesis: expressed in a parenthesis: using parentheses.--_adv._
PARENTHET'ICALLY. [Gr.,--_para_, beside, _en_, in, _thesis_, a
placing--_tithenai_, to place.]

PARERGON, pa-r[.e]r'gon, _n._ a by-work, any work subsidiary to another.
[Gr.,--_para_, beside, _ergon_, work.]

PARESIS, par'e-sis, _n._ a diminished activity of function--a partial form
of paralysis.--_adj._ PARET'IC. [Gr., _parienai_, to relax.]

PARFAY, pär-f[=a]', _interj._ by or in faith. [Fr.]

PARFILAGE, pär'fi-l[=a]j, _n._ the unravelling of woven fabrics, to save
gold or silver threads. [Fr.]

PARFLECHE, pär-flesh', _n._ rawhide of buffalo-skin stripped of hair and
dried on a stretcher: a wallet, tent, &c. of such material. [Canadian
Fr.,--Ind.]

PARGASITE, pär'ga-s[=i]t, _n._ a dark-green crystallised variety of
amphibole or hornblende.

PARGET, pär'jet, _n._ (_Spens._) the plaster of a wall: paint.--_v.t._ to
plaster: to paint.--_ns._ PAR'GETER; PAR'GETING, PARGE'-WORK. [L. _paries_,
_parietis_, a wall; or Low L. _spargit[=a]re_, to sprinkle--L.
_sparg[)e]re_.]

PARHELION, par-h[=e]'li-un, _n._ a bright light caused by refraction of
light through ice crystals floating in the air, sometimes seen near the
sun, and sometimes opposite to the sun, when it is called
_anthelion_:--_pl._ PARH[=E]'LIA.--_adjs._ PARHEL'IC, PARHEL[=I]'ACAL. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _h[=e]lios_, the sun.]

PARIAH, p[=a]r'i-a, _n._ a member of a caste in southern India, lower than
the four Brahminical castes: one who has lost his caste: an outcast.
[Tamil.]

PARIAN, p[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to or found in the island of
_Paros_, in the Ægean Sea.--_n._ an inhabitant of Paros: a fine porcelain
for statuettes, resembling marble.--PARIAN MARBLE, a fine marble found in
Paros, much used by the ancients for statues.

PARIDIGITATE, par-i-dij'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ having an even number of digits.

PARIETAL, pa-r[=i]'et-al, _adj._ pertaining to a wall or walls: (_anat._)
forming the sides: (_bot._) growing from the inner lining of an organ, and
not from the axis, as seeds in the ovary.--_n._ one of the bones of the
skull. [L. _parietalis_--_paries_, _parietis_, a wall.]

PARING, p[=a]r'ing, _n._ act of trimming or cutting off: that which is
pared off: rind: the cutting off of the surface of grass land for tillage.

PARIPINNATE, par-i-pin'[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) equally pinnate.

PARISH, par'ish, _n._ a district under one pastor: an ecclesiastical
district having officers of its own and supporting its own poor: the people
of a parish.--_adj._ belonging or relating to a parish: employed or
supported by the parish.--_n._ PARISH'IONER, one who belongs to or is
connected with a parish: a member of a parish church.--PARISH CLERK, the
clerk or recording officer of a parish: the one who leads the responses in
the service of the Church of England; PARISH PRIEST, a priest who has
charge of a parish; PARISH REGISTER, a book in which the births, marriages,
and deaths of a parish are registered. [Fr. _paroisse_--L. _paroecia_--Gr.
_paroikia_--_paroikos_, dwelling beside--_para_, beside, _oikos_, a
dwelling.]

PARISIAN, par-iz'i-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Paris_.--_n._ a native
or resident of Paris:--_fem._ PARISIENNE'.--PARIS DOLL, a small figure
dressed in the latest fashions, sent out by Paris modistes.

PARISYLLABIC, par-i-si-lab'ik, _adj._ having the same number of syllables.

PARITOR, par'i-tor, _n._ Same as APPARITOR.

PARITY, par'i-ti, _n._ state of being equal in rank, position, quality,
&c.: resemblance: analogy. [Fr. _parité_--L. _paritas_--_par_, equal.]

PARK, pärk, _n._ an enclosed piece of land for a special purpose, as for
wild beasts: a grass field: a tract of land surrounding a mansion: a piece
of ground enclosed for recreation: (_mil._) a space in an encampment
occupied by the artillery; hence, a collection of artillery, or stores in
an encampment.--_v.t._ to enclose: to bring together in a body, as
artillery.--_n._ PARK'ER, the keeper of a park. [A.S. _pearroc_, prob.
modified by Fr. _parc_.]

PARLANCE, pär'lans, _n._ speaking: conversation: peculiar manner of
conversation.--_adj._ and _adv._ PARLAN'DO, declamatory in style: in
recitative.--_v.i._ PARLE (_Shak._), to talk.--_n._ (_Shak._) talk,
conversation.--_v.i._ PAR'LEY, to speak with another: to confer on some
important point: to treat with an enemy.--_n._ talk: a conference with an
enemy in war. [Fr. _parler_--L. _parabola_--Gr. _parabol[=e]_, a parable,
word.]

PARLIAMENT, pär'li-ment, _n._ a meeting for deliberation: the supreme
legislature of Great Britain, also of some of her colonies: in France, down
to the Revolution, one of certain superior and final courts of judicature,
in which also the edicts of the king were registered before becoming
law.--_adjs._ PARLIAMENT[=A]'RIAN, adhering to the Parliament in opposition
to Charles I.; PARLIAMENT'ARY, pertaining to parliament: enacted or done by
parliament: according to the rules and practices of legislative
bodies.--PARLIAMENTARY AGENT, a person employed by private persons or
societies for drafting bills or managing business to be brought before
parliament; PARLIAMENTARY BOROUGH, a borough having the right of sending a
member or members to parliament; PARLIAMENTARY TRAIN, a train which, by act
of parliament, runs both ways along a line of railway, at least once each
day, at the rate of one penny per mile.--ACT OF PARLIAMENT, a statute that
has passed through both the House of Commons and the House of Lords, and
received the formal royal assent. [Fr. _parlement_--_parler_, to speak.]

PARLOUR, pär'lur, _n._ an ordinary family sitting-room: a room for
receiving guests in.--_n._ PAR'LOUR-BOARD'ER, a pupil at a boarding-school
who enjoys particular privileges. [Fr., _parloir_--_parler_, to speak.]

PARLOUS, pär'lus, _adj._ perilous, venturesome, notable.--_adv._
PAR'LOUSLY. [_Perilous._]

PARMACETY, par-mas-it'i, _n._ (_Shak._) a corr. of _spermaceti_.

PARMESAN, par-me-zan', _adj._ pertaining to _Parma_.--_n._ Parmesan cheese.

PARNASSUS, par-nas'us, _n._ a mountain in Greece, sacred to Apollo and the
Muses.--_adj._ PARNASS'IAN.--GRASS OF PARNASSUS, a plant with beautiful
white or yellowish flowers.

PARNELLISM, pär'nel-izm, _n._ the plans and methods of agitation used by
Charles Stewart _Parnell_ (1846-91) for the purpose of promoting 'Home
Rule' for Ireland.--_n._ PAR'NELLITE, one of the followers of C. S.
Parnell.--_adj._ of or pertaining to the nationalist movement led by
Parnell.

PAROCCIPITAL, par-ok-sip'i-tal, _adj._ situated near the occiput.

PAROCHIAL, par-[=o]'ki-al, _adj._ of or relating to a parish: restricted or
confined within narrow limits--of sentiments, tastes, &c.--_v.t._
PAR[=O]'CHIALISE, to form into parishes.--_n._ PAR[=O]'CHIALISM, a system
of local government which makes the parish the unit--hence provincialism,
narrowness of view.--_adv._ PAR[=O]'CHIALLY.--PAROCHIAL BOARD (in
Scotland), the board in each parish which relieves the poor. [L.
_parochialis_--_parochia_, a variant of _paroecia_.]

PARODY, par'o-di, _n._ an imitation of a poem in which its words and ideas
are so far changed as to produce a ridiculous effect.--_v.t._ to turn into
parody, to make a parody of:--_pa.p._ par'odied.--_adjs._ PAROD'IC,
-AL.--_n._ PAR'ODIST, one who writes a parody. [L.,--Gr.
_par[=o]dia_--_para_, beside, _[=o]d[=e]_, an ode.]

PAROLE, par-[=o]l', _n._ word of mouth: (_mil._) word of honour (esp. by a
prisoner of war, to fulfil certain conditions): the daily password in a
camp or garrison.--_adj._ given by word of mouth: oral--opp. to
_Documentary_, as _parole_ evidence. [Fr.,--L. _parabola_, a parable,
saying.]

PARONOMASIA, par-[=o]-n[=o]-m[=a]'zhi-a, _n._ a rhetorical figure in which
words similar in sound but different in meaning are set in opposition to
each other: a play upon words--also PARONOM'ASY.--_adjs._ PARONOMAS'TIC,
-AL.--_ns._ PAR'ONYME, PAR'ONYM, a paronymous word--opp. to
_Homonym_.--_adj._ PARON'YMOUS, formed by a slight change of word or name:
derived from the same root: having the same sound, but different in
spelling and meaning.--_n._ PARON'YMY, quality of being paronymous. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _onoma_, name.]

PAROQUET, PARROQUET, par'o-ket, _n._ a small long-tailed tropical and
subtropical parrot.--Also PARR'AKEET. [Fr. _perroquet_--_Pierrot_, dim. of
_Pierre_, Peter.]

PAROSMIA, pa-ros'mi-a, _n._ a perversion of the sense of smell. [Gr.
_para_, beside, _osm[=e]_, smell.]

PAROTID, par-ot'id, _n._ the largest of the three pairs of salivary glands,
situated immediately in front of the ear--also PAR[=O]'TIS.--_adj._
PAROT'IC, auricular, situated about the outer ear.--_ns._ PAROTID[=I]'TIS,
PAROT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the parotic gland. [L.,--Gr. _par[=o]tis_,
_-idos_--_para_, beside, _ous_, _[=o]tos_, ear.]

PAROXYSM, par'oks-izm, _n._ a fit of acute pain occurring at intervals: a
fit of passion: any sudden violent action.--_adjs._ PAROXYS'MAL,
PAROXYS'MIC, pertaining to, or occurring in, paroxysms. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_paroxysmos_--_para_, beyond, _oxys_, sharp.]

PAROXYTONE, par-ok'si-t[=o]n, _adj._ having the acute accent on the last
syllable but one.--_n._ a word with an acute accent on the second last
syllable.--_v.t._ to accent a word in this way.

[Illustration]

PARQUET, pär-ket', _n._ the part of the floor of a theatre, &c., behind the
musicians' seats, but not under the gallery: the pit or the whole of the
floor of a theatre: parquetry.--_n._ PAR'QUETRY, woodwork inlaid with
figures, for floors. [Fr. _parquet_, an inlaid floor, dim. of _parc_, an
enclosure.]

PARR, pär, _n._ a young salmon.

PARRAKEET, par'a-k[=e]t, _n._ Same as PAROQUET.

PARRHESIA, pa-r[=e]'si-a, _n._ boldness of speech. [Gr.]

PARRICIDE, par'ri-s[=i]d, _n._ the murder of one's own father or mother:
the murder of a parent: the murder of any one to whom reverence is
due.--_adj._ PARRICID'AL, pertaining to, or committing, parricide.
[Fr.,--L. _parricida_ (for _patri-cida_)--_pater_, _patris_, father,
_cæd[)e]re_, to slay.]

PARROT, par'rut, _n._ one of a family of tropical and subtropical birds,
with brilliant plumage and a hooked bill, remarkable for their faculty of
imitating the human voice: a repeater of the words of others.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to repeat by rote.--_ns._ PAR'ROT-COAL, a kind of coal which
crepitates in burning; PAR'ROTER; PAR'ROT-FISH, a name applied to various
fishes, from their colours or the shape of their jaws; PAR'ROTRY, servile
imitation. [Contr. of Fr. _perroquet_.]

PARRY, par'i, _v.t._ to ward or keep off: to turn aside: to avoid:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ parr'ied.--_n._ a turning aside of a blow or a thrust: a
defensive movement of any kind. [Fr. _parer_--L. _par[=a]re_, to prepare,
in Low L. to keep off.]

PARSE, pärs, _v.t._ (_gram._) to tell the parts of speech of a sentence and
the relations of the various words to each other.--_n._ PARS'ING. [L. _pars
(orationis)_, a part of speech.]

PARSEE, PARSI, pär's[=e], _n._ one of the surviving remnant of
Zoroastrianism which took refuge in India in the 7th century: a
fire-worshipper.--_n._ PAR'SEEISM. [Pers. _P[=a]rs[=i]_--_P[=a]rs_,
Persia.]

PARSIMONY, pär'si-mun-i, _n._ sparingness in the spending of money:
frugality: niggardliness.--_adj._ PARSIM[=O]'NIOUS, sparing in the use of
money: frugal to excess: niggardly: covetous.--_adv._
PARSIM[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_n._ PARSIM[=O]'NIOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _parsimonia_,
_parcimonia_--_parc[)e]re_, to spare.]

PARSLEY, pärs'li, _n._ a bright-green herb, with finely divided, strongly
scented leaves, used in cookery. [Fr. _persil_--L. _petroselinum_--Gr.
_petroselinon_--_petros_, a rock, _selinon_, a kind of parsley.]

PARSNIP, PARSNEP, pärs'nip, _n._ an edible plant with a carrot-like root.
[O. Fr. _pastenaque_--L. _pastinaca_--_pastinum_, a dibble.]

PARSON, pär'sn, _n._ the priest or incumbent of a parish: a clergyman: one
who is licensed to preach.--_n._ PAR'SONAGE, the residence of the minister
of a parish: (_orig._) the house, lands, tithes, &c. set apart for the
support of the minister of a parish.--_adjs._ PARSON'IC, PAR'SONISH,
pertaining to or like a parson. [O. Fr. _persone_--L. _pers[=o]na_, a
person.]

PART, pärt, _n._ something less than the whole: a portion: a quantity or
number making up with others a larger quantity or number: a fraction: a
member or essential part of a whole: a proportional quantity: one's share:
interest: side or party: action: character taken by an actor in a play:
(_math._) a quantity which taken a certain number of times will equal a
larger quantity: an exact divisor: (_mus._) one of the melodies of a
harmony: (_pl._) qualities: talents.--_v.t._ to divide: to make into parts:
to put or keep asunder.--_v.i._ to be separated: to be torn asunder: to
have a part or share.--_adj._ PART'ED (_Shak._), endowed with parts or
abilities: (_bot._) deeply cleft, as a leaf.--_n._ PART'ER.--_adv._
PART'LY, in part: in some degree.--PART OF SPEECH (_gram._), one of the
various classes of words.--FOR MY PART, as far as concerns me; FOR THE MOST
PART, commonly; IN BAD, or ILL, PART, unfavourably; IN GOOD PART,
favourably; TAKE PART IN, to share or to assist in; TAKE PART WITH, to take
one's side. [Fr.,--L. _pars_, _partis_.]

PARTAKE, pär-t[=a]k', _v.i._ to take or have a part, either absolutely, or
with of or in before the thing shared, as food, &c.: to have something of
the nature or properties, &c.: to be admitted: (_Shak._) to make common
cause.--_v.t._ to have a part in: to share: (_Shak._) to
communicate:--_pr.p._ part[=a]'king; _pa.t._ partook'; _pa.p._
part[=a]'ken.--_ns._ PART[=A]'KER, one who shares in along with others: a
partner: an accomplice; PART[=A]'KING, a sharing: (_law_) a combination in
an evil design. [_Part_ and _take_.]

PARTAN, par'tan, _n._ (_Scot._) a small edible sea-crab. [Gael.]

PARTERRE, par-ter', _n._ an arrangement of flower-plots with spaces of turf
or gravel between for walks: the pit of a theatre, esp. beneath the
galleries. [Fr.,--L. _per terram_, along the ground.]

PARTHENOGENESIS, pär-the-n[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ reproduction without renewed
impregnation by a male, as in aphids or plant-lice, &c.--also
PARTHENOG'ENY.--_adjs._ PARTHENOGENET'IC, PARTHENOG'ENOUS. [Gr.
_parthenos_, a virgin, _genesis_, production.]

PARTHENON, pär'the-non, _n._ the temple of Ath[=e]n[=e] _Parth[)e]nos_, on
the Acropolis at Athens. [Gr. _Parthen[=o]n_--_parthenos_, a virgin.]

PARTHIAN, par'thi-an, _adj._ of or belonging to _Parthia_, in Persia.--A
PARTHIAN SHOT, a shot or blow given while pretending to fly, a parting
shot.

PARTIAL, pär'shal, _adj._ relating to a part only: not total or entire:
inclined to favour one person or party: having a preference: (_bot._)
subordinate.--_v.t._ PAR'TIALISE (_Shak._), to render partial.--_ns._
PAR'TIALISM, the doctrine of the Partialists; PAR'TIALIST, one who holds
that the atonement of Christ was made only for a part of mankind;
PARTIAL'ITY, state or quality of being partial: liking for one thing more
than for others.--_adv._ PAR'TIALLY.[Fr.,--Low L. _partialis_--L. _pars_, a
part.]

PARTIBLE, pär'ti-bl, _adj._ that may be parted: separable.--_n._
PARTIBIL'ITY.

PARTIBUS, par'ti-bus, _n._ in Scots law, a note on the margin of a summons,
giving name and designation of the pursuer.--IN PARTIBUS INFIDELIUM, a
phrase applying formerly to bishops who were merely titular, without
regular jurisdiction, their function to assist some other bishop or to act
as delegates of the Pope where no hierarchy had as yet been established.

PARTICIPATE, pär-tis'i-p[=a]t, _v.i._ to partake: to have a share.--_v.t._
to receive a part or share of.--_n._ PÄR'TICEPS CRIM'INIS, one who,
although not present, helps in any way the commission of a crime, or who
after the deed assists or hides the person who did it.--_adjs._
PARTIC'IPABLE, capable of being participated in or shared; PARTIC'IPANT,
participating: sharing.--_n._ a partaker.--_adv._ PARTIC'IPANTLY.--_n._
PARTICIP[=A]'TION.--_adj._ PARTIC'IP[=A]TIVE, capable of
participating.--_n._ PARTIC'IP[=A]TOR, one who partakes with another: a
sharer. [L. _particip[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_pars_, part, _cap[)e]re_, to
take.]

PARTICIPLE, pär'ti-si-pl, _n._ a word having the value of an adjective but
regularly formed from a verb.--_adj._ PARTICIP'IAL, having the nature of a
participle: formed from a participle.--_adv._
PARTICIP'IALLY.[L.,--_participium_--_particeps_--_pars_, a part,
_cap[)e]re_, to take.]

PARTICLE, pär'ti-kl, _n._ a little part: a very small portion: (_physics_)
the minutest part into which a body can be divided: an atom: (_gram._) an
indeclinable word, as a preposition, a conjunction, an interjection: a word
that can only be used in composition, as _wise_ in side_wise_: (_R.C.
Church_) a crumb of consecrated bread, also the 'smaller breads' used in
the communion of the laity.--_adj._ PARTIC'ULAR, relating to a part of
anything: pertaining to a single person or thing: individual: special:
worthy of special attention: concerned with or marking things single or
distinct: exact: nice in taste: precise.--_n._ a distinct or minute part: a
single point: a single instance: (_pl._) details.--_n._
PARTICULARIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ PARTIC'ULARISE, to mention the particulars
of: to enumerate in detail: to give a special description of.--_v.i._ to
mention or attend to single things or minute details.--_ns._
PARTIC'ULARISM, attention to one's own interest or party: a particular or
minute description: the doctrine that salvation is offered only to
particular individuals, the elect, and not freely to the whole race on
condition of faith; PARTIC'ULARIST, one who holds the doctrine of
particularism.--_adj._ PARTICULARIST'IC.--_n._ PARTICULAR'ITY, quality of
being particular: minuteness of detail: a single act or case: a single or a
minute circumstance: something peculiar or singular.--_adv._ PARTIC'ULARLY,
in an especial manner: in a high degree: (_B._) in detail.--_n._
PARTIC'ULARNESS.--_adj._ PARTIC'UL[=A]TE, having the form of a small
particle.--IN PARTICULAR, specially, distinctly. [Fr.,--L. _particula_,
dim. of _pars_, _partis_, a part.]

PARTIM, part'im, _adv._ in part. [L.]

PARTING, pärt'ing, _adj._ putting apart: separating: departing: given at
parting.--_n._ the act of parting: a division: a point or a line of
division: the division of the hair on the head in dressing it: (_geol._) a
division of a mineral into layers: a snapping or breaking under a great
strain, as of a cable.--_n._ PART'ING-CUP, a drinking-cup with two handles
on opposite sides.

PARTISAN, pär'ti-zan, _n._ an adherent of a party or a faction: one who is
too strongly devoted to his own party or sect to be able to understand or
to judge fairly of others.--_adj._ adhering to a party.--_n._
PAR'TISANSHIP. [Fr. (It. _partigiano_),--L. _part[=i]ri_.]

PARTISAN, pär'ti-zan, _n._ a kind of halberd or long-handled weapon, common
in the Middle Ages: a soldier armed with such a weapon. [O. Fr.
_pertuisane_, which is perh. from Old High Ger. _parta_ a battle-axe, seen
in _halberd_.]

PARTITION, par-tish'un, _n._ act of parting or dividing: state of being
divided: separate part: that which divides: a wall between apartments: the
place where separation is made.--_v.t._ to divide into shares: to divide
into parts by walls.--_adjs._ PAR'T[=I]TE, divided into parts: (_bot._)
parted nearly to the base; PAR'TITIVE, parting: dividing:
distributive.--_n._ (_gram._) a word denoting a part or partition.--_adv._
PAR'TITIVELY. [Fr.,--L. _partitio_--_part[=i]ri_, divide.]

PARTLET, pärt'let, _n._ a ruff or band worn round the neck or shoulders by
women: a hen, from its habit of ruffling the feathers round its neck.
[Prob. O. Fr. _Pertelote_, a woman's name.]

PARTNER, pärt'n[.e]r, _n._ a sharer: an associate: one engaged with another
in business: one who plays on the same side in a game: one who dances with
another: a husband or wife.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to join as a partner.--_ns._
PART'NERSHIP, state of being a partner: a contract between persons engaged
in any business; SLEEP'ING-PART'NER, one who has money invested in a
business, but takes no part in its management.

PARTRIDGE, pär'trij, _n._ a genus of gallinaceous birds preserved for
game.--_n._ PAR'TRIDGE-WOOD, a hard variegated wood, from Brazil and the
West Indies, used in cabinet-work. [Fr. _perdrix_--L. _perdix_,
_perdicis_--Gr. _perdix_.]

PART-SINGING, pärt'-sing-ing, _n._ act or practice of singing different
parts in harmony.--_n._ PART'-SONG, a song sung in parts.

PARTURE, pärt'[=u]r, _n._ (_Spens._) departure.

PARTURIENT, pär-t[=u]'ri-ent, _adj._ bringing, or about to bring, forth
young: fruitful.--_n._ PART[=U]RI'TION, act of bringing forth.--_adj._
PART[=U]'RITIVE. [L. _parturiens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_partur[=i]re_--_par[)e]re_, to bring forth.]

PARTY, pär'ti, _n._ a part of a greater number of persons: a faction: a
company met for a particular purpose, as a dinner party, a pleasure party,
&c.: an assembly: one concerned in any affair: the person or persons on
either side in a law-suit: (_colloq._) a single individual spoken of:
(_mil._) a detachment of soldiers.--_adj._ belonging to a party and not to
the whole: consisting of different parties, parts, or things: (_her._)
parted or divided.--_adjs._ PAR'TI-COAT'ED, having on a coat of various
colours; PAR'TI-COL'OURED, coloured differently at different parts.--_ns._
PAR'TYISM, devotion to party; PAR'TY-JU'RY, a jury half of natives and half
of aliens; PAR'TY-MAN, a member of a party: a partisan; PAR'TY-POL'ITICS,
politics viewed from a party stand-point, or arranged to suit the views or
interests of a party; PAR'TY-SPIR'IT, the unreasonable spirit shown by a
party-man toward those who do not belong to his party.--_adj._
PAR'TY-SPIR'ITED.--_ns._ PAR'TY-VER'DICT, a joint verdict; PAR'TY-WALL, a
wall between two adjoining properties, built half on one and half on the
other: a wall separating one house from another. [O. Fr. _partir_--L.
_part[=i]ri_, to divide--_pars_, a part.]

PARURE, pa-rür', _n._ a set of ornaments, &c. [Fr.]

PARVANIMITY, par-va-nim'i-ti, _n._ littleness of mind.

PARVENU, pär've-n[=u], _n._ an upstart: one newly risen into notice or
power.--_adj._ like a parvenu. [Fr., pa.p. of _parvenir_--L.
_perven[=i]re_, to arrive at--_per_, through, _ven[=i]re_, to come.]

PARVIS, PARVISE, pär'vis, _n._ a porch, or an enclosed space before a
church: a room over a church porch used as a store, or schoolroom, or as an
ecclesiastic's chamber. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _paravisus_, corr. of Gr.
_paradeisos_; cf. _Paradise_.]

PAS, pä, _n._ a step, as in dancing or marching: a dance, as in 'Pas
seul'=a dance by one person, 'Pas deux'=a dance of two persons.--PAS
D'ARMES, a joust, a tilt, or a tourney.--HAVE THE PAS OF ONE, to take
precedence of him. [Fr.]

PASCH, pask, _n._ the Jewish Passover: Easter.--_adj._ PASCH'AL, pertaining
to the Passover, or to Easter.--_ns._ PASCH'AL-CAN'DLE, a large candle
blessed and placed on the altar on the day before Easter; PASCH'AL-FLOW'ER
(see PASQUE); PASCH'AL-LAMB, the lamb slain and eaten at the Jewish
Passover; PASCH'-EGG, an Easter-egg.--PASCH OF THE CROSS, Good-Friday;
PASCHAL CONTROVERSY, a long dispute in the early church about the proper
time for celebrating Easter. [A.S. _pascha_--L.,--Gr.,--Heb. _pesach_, the
Passover--_pasach_, to pass over.]

PASCUAGE, pas'k[=u]-[=a]j, _n._ the grazing or pasturing of
cattle.--_adjs._ PAS'C[=U]AL, PAS'C[=U]OUS. [L. _pascuum_,
pasture--_pasc[)e]re_, to feed.]

PASH, pash, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to strike, to dash, to crush.--_n._ a blow.
[Perh. imit.]

PASH, pash, _n._ (_Shak._) the head, the face.

PASHA, PACHA, pash'ä, _n._ a title given to Turkish officers who are
governors of provinces or hold high naval and military commands.--_ns._
PASH'ALIC, PACH'ALIC, the jurisdiction of a pasha. [Turk.,--Pers.
_p[=a]sh[=a]_, _p[=a]dsh[=a]h_.]

PASIGRAPHY, pa-sig'ra-fi, _n._ a system of language-signs universally
intelligible.--_adjs._ PASIGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ PAS'ILALY, universal
speech. [Gr. _pas_, all, _graphein_, to write.]

PASQUE-FLOWER, pask'-flow'[.e]r, _n._ one of several genera of anemone,
blooming about Easter--also _Campana_ and _Dane-flower_.

PASQUIN, pas'kwin, _n._ a lampoon or satire--also PAS'QUIL.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to lampoon or satirise--also PAS'QUIL.--_ns._ PAS'QUILANT,
PAS'QUILER, PASQUIN[=A]'DER, a lampooner; PASQUIN[=A]DE', a
lampoon.--_v.t._ to lampoon. [_Pasquino_, a sarcastic tailor in Rome in the
15th century, near whose house a mutilated statue was dug up just after his
death, on which lampoons were posted.]

PASS, pas, _v.i._ to pace or walk onward: to move from one place or state
to another: to travel: to change: to circulate: to be regarded: to go by:
to go unheeded or neglected: to elapse, as time: to be finished: to move
away: to disappear: (_B._) to pass away: to go through an examination or an
inspection: to be approved: to meet with acceptance: to happen: to fall, as
by inheritance: to flow through: to thrust, as with a sword: to run, as a
road.--_v.t._ to go by, over, beyond, through, &c.: to spend: to omit: to
disregard: to surpass: to enact, or to be enacted by: to cause to move: to
send: to transfer: to give forth: to cause to go from one person or state
to another: to approve: to undergo successfully: to give circulation to:
(_fencing_) to thrust:--_pa.p._ passed and past.--_n._ a way through which
one passes: a narrow passage, esp. over or through a range of mountains: a
narrow defile: a passport: state or condition: a written permission to go
out or in anywhere: a ticket: (_fencing_) a thrust: success in any
examination or other test, a certificate of having reached a certain
standard--without honours.--_adj._ PASS'ABLE, that may be passed, travelled
over, or navigated: that may bear inspection: that may be accepted or
allowed to pass: a little above the common: tolerable.--_n._
PASS'ABLENESS.--_adv._ PASS'ABLY.--_ns._ PASS'BOOK, a book that passes
between a trader and his customer, in which credit purchases are entered: a
bank-book; PASS'-CHECK, a ticket of admission to a place, or of readmission
when one goes out intending to return; PASS'ER, one who passes; PASS'ER-BY,
one who passes by or near; PASS'KEY, a key enabling one to enter a house: a
key for opening several locks.--_adj._ PASS'LESS, having no pass:
impassable.--_ns._ PASS'MAN, one who gains a degree or pass without honours
at a university; PASS'PORT, a warrant of protection and permission to
travel; PASS'WORD (_mil._), a private word by which a friend is
distinguishable from a stranger, enabling one to pass or enter a camp,
&c.--PASS MUSTER, to go through an inspection without fault being found;
PASS OFF, to impose fraudulently, to palm off; PASS ON, to go forward: to
proceed; PASS ON, or UPON, to come upon, to happen to: to give judgment or
sentence upon: to practise artfully, to impose upon, to palm off; PASS
OVER, or BY, to go to the other side of: to cross, to go past without
visiting or halting: to overlook, to disregard; PASS THE TIME OF DAY, to
exchange any ordinary greeting of civility; PASS THROUGH, to undergo,
experience.--BRING TO PASS, to cause to happen; COME TO PASS, to happen.
[O. Fr. _passer_--It. _passare_--_passus_, a step.]

PASSADE, pa-s[=a]d', _n._ (_Shak._) a push or thrust with a sword: the
motion of a horse turning backwards or forwards on the same spot of
ground.--Also PASS[=A]'DO.

PASSAGE, pas'[=a]j, _n._ act of passing: a moving from one place or state
to another: a journey, as in a ship: course: time occupied in passing:
means of passing in or out: a way: entrance: enactment of a law: right of
passing: price paid for passing or for being conveyed between two places:
occurrence, any incident or episode: a single clause or part of a book,
&c.: a modulation in music: (_B._) a mountain-pass: ford of a river:
(_zool._) migratory habits.--_v.i._ to cross: to walk sideways, of a
horse.--PASSAGE OF ARMS, any feat of arms: a quarrel, esp. of words.--BIRD
OF PASSAGE, a bird that passes from one climate to another at the change of
the seasons.

PASSAMEZZO. See PASSY-MEASURE.

PASSANT, pas'ant, _adj._ (_her._) walking. [Fr.]

PASSÉ, pas-s[=a]', _adj._ past one's best, faded, past the heyday of life:
nearly out of date:--_fem._ PASSÉE. [Fr., pa.p. of _passer_, to pass.]

PASSEMENTERIE, pas-men-te-r[=e]', _n._ trimming for dresses, as beaded
lace. [Fr.]

PASSENGER, pas'en-j[.e]r, _n._ one who passes: one who travels in some
public conveyance.--PASSENGER PIGEON, a species of pigeon, a native of
North America, having a small head and short bill, a very long,
wedge-shaped tail, and long and pointed wings; PASSENGER TRAIN, a
railway-train for the conveyance of passengers. [O. Fr. _passagier_ (Fr.
_passager_), with inserted _n_, as in _messenger_, _nightingale_.]

PASSE-PARTOUT, pas'-par-t[=oo]', _n._ a means of passing anywhere: a
master-key: a kind of simple picture-frame, usually of pasteboard, within
which the picture is fixed by strips of paper pasted over the edges. [Fr.,
a 'master-key,' from _passer_, to pass, _par_, over, _tout_, all.]

PASSEPIED, pas'py[=a], _n._ a dance like the minuet, but quicker. [Fr.]

PASSERES, pas'e-rez, _n.pl._ the name given by Cuvier to the order of birds
otherwise called _Insessores_, comprising more than half of all the
birds.--_adj._ PASS'ERINE, relating to the _Passeres_, an order of which
the sparrow is the type. [L. _passer_, a sparrow.]

PASSIBLE, pas'i-bl, _adj._ susceptible of suffering, or of impressions from
external agents.--_ns._ PASSIBIL'ITY, PASS'IBLENESS, the quality of being
passible.--_adv._ PASS'IBLY, in a passible manner. [L.
_passibilis_--_pati_, _passus_, to suffer.]

PASSIM, pas'im, _adv._ here and there. [L.]

PASSIMETER, pa-sim'e-ter, _n._ a pocket pedometer.

PASSING, pas'ing, _adj._ going by, through, or away: happening now:
surpassing.--_adv._ exceedingly: very.--_ns._ PASS'ING-BELL, a bell tolled
immediately after a person's death, originally to invite prayers for the
soul passing into eternity; PASS'ING-NOTE (_mus._), a smaller note marking
a tone introduced between two others, to effect a smooth passage from the
one to the other, but forming no essential part of the harmony.

PASSION, pash'un, _n._ power of feeling pain or suffering: strong feeling
or agitation of mind, esp. rage: ardent love: eager desire: state of the
soul when receiving an impression: suffering or passive condition, as
opposed to _Action_: the sufferings, esp. the death, of Christ: (_pl._)
excited conditions of mind.--_ns._ PASSIFL[=O]'RA, a genus of climbing
herbs or shrubs, the passion-flowers; PASS'IONAL, PASS'IONARY, a book
containing accounts of the sufferings of saints and martyrs.--_adjs._
PASS'IONAL, influenced by passion; PASS'IONATE, moved by passion: showing
strong and warm feeling: easily moved to anger: intense.--_adv._
PASS'IONATELY.--_n._ PASS'IONATENESS.--_adj._ PASS'IONED, moved by passion:
expressing passion.--_ns._ PASS'ION-FLOW'ER, a flower so called from a
fancied resemblance to a crown of thorns, the emblem of Christ's passion;
PASS'IONIST (_R.C._), one of a religious congregation devoted to the
commemoration of the Passion of Christ by missions, &c.--_adj._
PASS'IONLESS, free from passion: not easily excited to anger.--_n._
PASS'ION-M[=U]'SIC, music to which words describing the sufferings and
death of Christ are set.--_adj._ PASS'ION-PALE (_Tenn._), pale with
passion.--_ns._ PASS'ION-PLAY, a religious drama representing the
sufferings and death of Christ; PASS'ION-SUN'DAY, the fifth Sunday in Lent;
PASS'ION-WEEK, name commonly given in England to Holy-week (as being the
week of Christ's passion); but, according to proper rubrical usage, the
week preceding Holy-week. [Fr.,--L. _passio_, _passionis_--_passus_, pa.p.
of _pati_, to suffer.]

PASSIVE, pas'iv, _adj._ suffering, unresisting: not acting: (_gram._)
expressing the suffering of an action by the subject of the verb.--_adv._
PASS'IVELY.--_ns._ PASS'IVENESS, PASSIV'ITY, inactivity: patience: tendency
of a body to preserve a given state, either of motion or of rest. [Fr.,--L.
_passivus_--_pati_, suffer.]

PASSMAN. See PASS.

PASSOVER, pas'[=o]-v[.e]r, _n._ annual feast of the Jews, to commemorate
the destroying angel passing over the houses of the Israelites when he slew
the first-born of the Egyptians.--_adj._ pertaining to the Passover.

PASSY-MEASURE, pas'si-mezh'[=u]r, _n._ (_Shak._) an old stately kind of
dance, called also _Passamezzo_. [It. _passamezzo_--_passare_, to
pass--_passo_--L. _passus_, a pace, _mezzo_--L. _medius_, the middle.]

PAST, past, _pa.p._ of PASS.--_adj._ gone by: elapsed: ended: now retired
from service: in time already passed.--_prep._ farther than: out of reach
of: no longer capable of.--_adv._ by.--THE PAST, that which has passed,
esp. time.

PASTE, p[=a]st, _n._ a mass of anything made soft by wetting: flour and
water forming dough for pies, &c.: a cement made of flour, water, &c.: a
fine kind of glass for making artificial gems.--_v.t._ to fasten with
paste.--_n._ PASTE'BOARD, a stiff board made of sheets of paper pasted
together, &c.--_adj._ made of such, unsubstantial. [O. Fr. _paste_ (Fr.
_pâte_)--Late L. _pasta_--Gr. _past[=e]_, a mess of food--_pastos_,
salted--_passein_, to sprinkle.]

PASTEL, pas'tel, _n._ chalk mixed with other materials and various colours
for crayons, a drawing made with such, also the art: woad.--_n._
PAS'TELIST.[Fr. _pastel_--It. _pastello_--L. _pastillus_, a small
loaf--_pasc[)e]re_, _pastum_, to feed.]

PASTERN, pas't[.e]rn, _n._ the part of a horse's foot from the fetlock to
the hoof, where the shackle is fastened. [O. Fr. _pasturon_ (Fr.
_pâturon_)--O. Fr. _pasture_, pasture, a tether for a horse.]

PASTEURISM, pas-t[.e]r'izm, _n._ the method of inoculation with the
attenuated virus of certain diseases, esp. hydrophobia, as introduced by
Louis _Pasteur_ (1822-95).--_adj._ PASTEUR'IAN.--_n._ PASTEURIS[=A]'TION, a
method of arresting the fermentation in beer, wine, &c. by heating to at
least 140° F.--_v.t._ PASTEUR'ISE.

PASTICHE, pas-t[=e]sh', _n._ a mixture of many parts of different kinds,
used of _music_, _painting_, &c.: a work in literature or art in direct
imitation of another's style.--Also PASTIC'CIO. [It. _pasticcio_.]

PASTIL, pas'til, _n._ Same as PASTEL.

PASTILLE, pas-t[=e]l', _n._ a small cone of charcoal and aromatic
substances, burned either as incense, or as a means of diffusing an
agreeable odour: a small aromatic confection: a paper tube containing a
firework which causes a small wheel to rotate in burning: (_art_) the same
as _pastel_--also PAS'TIL.--_n._ PAS'TILLAGE.[Fr.,--L. _pastillus_, a small
loaf.]

PASTIME, pas't[=i]m, _n._ that which serves to pass away the time:
amusement: recreation.

PASTOR, pas'tur, _n._ one who has care of a flock: a shepherd: a
clergyman.--_adj._ PAS'TORAL, relating to shepherds or to shepherd life:
rustic: of or pertaining to the pastor of a church: addressed to the clergy
of a diocese by their bishop.--_n._ a poem which describes the scenery and
life of the country: a letter or an address by a pastor to his people, or
by a bishop to his clergy: (_mus._) a simple melody.--_n._ PAS'TORALISM,
pastoral character.--_adv._ PAS'TORALLY.--_ns._ PAS'TORATE, PAS'TORSHIP,
the office of a pastor: the time during which one has been a pastor: the
whole body of pastors in one church or district.--_adj._ PAS'TORLY,
becoming a pastor.--PASTORAL ADDRESS, or LETTER (see PASTORAL, _n._);
PASTORAL CHARGE, position of a pastor: the church, &c., over which a pastor
is placed: an address to a newly ordained minister; PASTORAL EPISTLES,
those in the New Test. to Timothy and Titus; PASTORAL STAFF, a tall staff
borne as an emblem of episcopal authority, headed like a shepherd's crook,
or having a T-shaped head; PASTORAL THEOLOGY, that part of theology which
treats of the duties of pastors; PASTORAL WORK, the work of a pastor in
visiting his people. [L., _pasc[)e]re_, _pastum_, to feed.]

PASTOR, pas'tur, _n._ a beautiful bird allied to the starlings, native to
Western Asia.

PASTORALE, pas-t[=o]-rä'le, _n._ a variety of opera or cantata
characterised by the idyllic or pastoral element: a vocal or instrumental
piece intended to suggest pastoral life: one of the simple traditional
open-air dramas still kept up among the Basques: one of the figures of a
quadrille.--Also PASTOURELLE'.

PASTRY, p[=a]s'tri, _n._ articles made of paste or dough: crust of pies,
tarts, &c.: act or art of making articles of paste.--_n._ P[=A]S'TRYCOOK,
one who cooks or sells pastry. [_Paste._]

PASTURE, past'[=u]r, _n._ grass for grazing: ground covered with grass for
grazing.--_v.t._ to feed on pasture: to supply with grass.--_v.i._ to feed
on pasture: to graze.--_adj._ PAST'[=U]RABLE, that can be pastured: fit for
pasture.--_ns._ PAST'[=U]RAGE, the business of feeding or grazing cattle:
pasture-land: grass for feeding; PAST'[=U]RE-LAND, land appropriated to
pasture.--_adj._ PAST'[=U]RELESS, destitute of pasture. [O. Fr. _pasture_
(Fr. _pâture_)--L. _pastura_--_pasc[)e]re_, _pastum_, to feed.]

PASTY, p[=a]s'ti, _adj._ like paste.--_n._ a small pie of meat and crust
baked without a dish.

PAT, pat, _n._ a light, quick blow, as with the hand.--_v.t._ to strike
gently: to tap:--_pr.p._ pat'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pat'ted.--PAT ON THE
BACK, to mark approval by patting on the back, to patronise. [Imit.]

PAT, pat, _n._ a small, moulded lump of butter. [Celt., as Ir. _pait_, a
lump.]

PAT, pat, _adj._ fitly: at the right time or place.--_adv._ PAT'LY, fitly,
conveniently.--_n._ PAT'NESS, fitness, appropriateness. [_Pat_, a light
blow.]

PATAGIUM, pat-[=a]-j[=i]'um, _n._ the wing-membrane of a bat, &c.: the
parachute of a flying squirrel, &c.: the fold of integument between the
upper arm and the forearm of a bird: one of the scales affixed to the
pronotum of lepidopterous insects--the _tegula_. [L., 'a gold edging.']

PATAMAR, pat'a-mär, _n._ a vessel on the Bombay coast, with arched keel,
and great stem and stern rake.

PATAVINITY, pat-a-vin'i-ti, _n._ the style of Padua (L. _Patavium_), esp.
the diction of Livy, a native of Patavium, hence provincialism generally.

PATCH, pach, _v.t._ to mend by putting in a piece: to repair clumsily: to
make up of pieces: to make hastily.--_n._ a piece sewed or put on to mend a
defect: anything like a patch: a small piece of ground: a plot: (_Shak._) a
paltry fellow, a fool--properly a jester: (_print._) an overlay to obtain a
stronger impression: a small piece of black silk, &c., stuck by ladies on
the face, to bring out the complexion by contrast--common in the 17th and
18th centuries.--_adj._ PATCH'ABLE.--_ns._ PATCH'-BOX, a fancy box for
holding the patches worn on the face, generally having a mirror inside the
lid; PATCH'ER, one who patches; PATCH'ERY (_Shak._), bungling work;
PATCH'WORK, work formed of patches or pieces sewed together: work patched
up or clumsily executed.--_adj._ PATCH'Y, covered with patches:
inharmonious, incongruous.--NOT A PATCH ON, not fit to be compared with.
[Low Ger. _patschen_; prob. conn. with _piece_.]

PATCHOCKE, pach'ok, _n._ (_Spens._) a clown. [_Patch._]

PATCHOULI, pa-ch[=oo]'li, _n._ a perfume got from the dried branches of the
patchouli shrub, 2-3 ft. high: the plant itself.--Also PATCHOU'LY. [Tamil,
_patchei_, gum, _elei_, a leaf.]

PATE, p[=a]t, _n._ the crown of the head: the head.--_adj._ P[=A]T'ED,
having a pate. [Through O. Fr., from Ger. _platte_, a plate; cf. Low L.
_platta_, tonsure.]

PÂTÉ, pä-t[=a]', _n._ pie: pasty.--PÂTÉ DE FOIE GRAS, pasty of fat goose
liver: Strasburg pie. [Fr.]

PATELLA, pa-tel'la, _n._ a little dish or vase: the knee-pan: a genus of
gasteropodous univalve molluscs: the limpet.--_adjs._ PATEL'LAR, pertaining
to the patella or knee-cap; PATEL'LATE or PATEL'LULATE; PATEL'LIFORM, of
the form of a small dish or saucer. [L., dim. of _patina_, a pan.]

PATEN, pat'en, _n._ the plate for the bread in the Eucharist. [Fr.,--L.
_patina_, a plate--Gr. _patan[=e]_.]

PATENT, p[=a]'tent, or pat'ent, _adj._ lying open: conspicuous: public:
protected by a patent: (_bot._) spreading: expanding.--_n._ an official
document, open, and having the Great Seal of the government attached to it,
conferring an exclusive right or privilege, as a title of nobility, or the
sole right for a term of years to the proceeds of an invention: something
invented and protected by a patent.--_v.t._ P[=A]'TENT, to grant or secure
by patent.--_adj._ P[=A]'TENTABLE, capable of being patented.--_ns._
P[=A]TENTEE', one who holds a patent, or to whom a patent is granted--also
P[=A]'TENTER; P[=A]'TENT-LEATH'ER, a kind of leather to which a permanently
polished surface is given by a process of japanning; P[=A]'TENTOR, one who
grants or who secures a patent; P[=A]'TENT-RIGHT, the exclusive right
reserved by letters-patent.--_n.pl._ P[=A]'TENT-ROLLS, the register of
letters-patent issued in England.--PATENT MEDICINE, a medicine sold under
the authority of letters-patent, any proprietary medicine generally on
which stamp-duty is paid; PATENT OFFICE, an office for the granting of
patents for inventions; PATENT OUTSIDE, or INSIDE, a newspaper printed on
the outside or inside only, sold to a publisher who fills the other side
with his own material, as local news, &c. [Fr.,--L. _patens_, _-entis_,
pr.p. of _pat[=e]re_, to lie open.]

PATERA, pat'e-rä, _n._ a round flat dish for receiving a sacrificial
libation among the Romans: (_archit._) the representation of such in
bas-relief in friezes, &c.--often applied loosely to rosettes and other
flat ornaments:--_pl._ PAT'ERÆ (-r[=e]).--_adj._ PAT'ERIFORM.
[L.,--_pat[=e]re_, to lie open.]

PATERCOVE, pat'[.e]r-k[=o]v, _n._ Same as PATRICO.

PATERERO, pat-e-r[=a]'ro, _n._:--_pl._ PATERE'ROES (-r[=o]z). Same as
PEDERERO.

PATERFAMILIAS, p[=a]-t[.e]r-fa-mil'i-as, _n._ the father or head of a
family or household:--_pl._ P[=A]TRESFAMIL'IAS. [L. _pater_, a father,
_familias_, arch. form of _familiæ_, gen. of _familia_, a household.]

PATERNAL, pa-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ fatherly: showing the disposition of a
father: derived from a father: hereditary.--_n._ PATER'NALISM.--_adv._
PATER'NALLY.--_n._ PATER'NITY, state of being a father: fatherhood: the
relation of a father to his children: origination or authorship. [Fr.
_paternel_--Low L. _paternalis_--L. _paternus_--_pater_ (Gr. _pat[=e]r_), a
father.]

PATERNOSTER, p[=a]'t[.e]r-nos-t[.e]r, or pat-[.e]r-nos't[.e]r, _n._ the
Lord's Prayer: every eleventh bead in a R.C. rosary, at which, in telling
their beads, the Lord's Prayer is repeated: the whole rosary: anything made
of objects strung together like a rosary, esp. a fishing-line with hooks at
intervals: (_archit._) an ornament shaped like beads, used in astragals,
&c. [L. _Pater noster_, 'Our Father,' the first two words of the Lord's
Prayer in Latin.]

PATH, päth, _n._ a way trodden out by the feet: track: road: course of
action or conduct:--_pl._ PATHS (pä_th_z).--_n._ PATH'FINDER, one who
explores the route, a pioneer.--_adj._ PATH'LESS, without a path:
untrodden. [A.S. _pæth_, _path_; Ger. _pfad_, Gr. _patos_, L. _pons_,
_pontis_, a bridge.]

PATHAN, pa-than', _n._ an Afghan proper, one of Afghan race settled in
India.

PATHETIC, -AL, pa-thet'ik, -al, _adj._ showing passion: affecting the
tender emotions: causing pity, grief, or sorrow: touching: (_anat._)
trochlear.--_adj._ PATHEMAT'IC, pertaining to emotion.--_adv._
PATHET'ICALLY.--_ns._ PATHET'ICALNESS; PATH'ETISM, animal magnetism;
PATH'ETIST, one who practises this.--THE PATHETIC, the style or manner
fitted to excite emotion. [Gr. _path[=e]tikos_, subject to suffering.]

PATHIC, path'ik, _adj._ pertaining to disease.--_ns._ PATHOGEN'ESIS,
PATHOG'ENY, mode of production or development of disease.--_adjs._
PATHOGENET'IC, PATHOGEN'IC, PATHOG'ENOUS, producing disease.

PATHOGNOMONIC, p[=a]-thog-n[=o]-mon'ik. _adj._ characteristic of a
disease.--_n._ PATHOG'NOMY. [Gr. _pathos_, suffering, _gn[=o]m[=o]n_, a
judge.]

PATHOLOGY, pa-thol'o-ji, _n._ science of the nature, causes, and remedies
of diseases: the whole of the morbid conditions in a disease.--_adjs._
PATHOLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PATHOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ PATHOL'OGIST, one versed
in pathology; PATHOPH[=O]'BIA, morbid dread of disease. [Fr.,--Gr.
_pathos_, suffering, _logos_, discourse.]

PATHOS, p[=a]'thos, _n._ that in anything (as a word, a look, &c.) which
touches the feelings or raises the tender emotions: the expression of deep
feeling.--_n._ PATHOM'ETRY, the distinction of suffering into different
kinds. [Gr., from _pathein_, 2 aorist of _paschein_, to suffer, feel.]

PATHWAY, päth'w[=a], _n._ a path or way: a footpath: course of action.

PATIBULARY, p[=a]-tib'[=u]-la-ri, _adj._ of or pertaining to a gibbet or
gallows. [L. _patibulum_, a gibbet.]

PATIENCE, p[=a]'shens, _n._ quality of being patient or able calmly to
endure: (_Shak._) permission: a card-game, same as Solitaire
(q.v.).--_adj._ P[=A]'TIENT, sustaining pain, &c., without repining: not
easily provoked: not in a hurry: persevering: expecting with calmness:
long-suffering.--_n._ one who bears or suffers: a person under medical
treatment.--_adv._ P[=A]'TIENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _patentia_--_patiens_--_pati_,
to bear.]

PATIN, PATINE, pat'in, _n._ Same as PATEN.

PATINA, pat'i-na, _n._ a bowl, pan, patella: the encrustation which age
gives to works of art: the peculiar varnish-like rust which covers ancient
bronzes and medals.--_adj._ PAT'IN[=A]TED.--_n._ PATIN[=A]'TION. [It.,--L.
_patina_, a dish, a kind of cake.]

PATIO, pat'i-[=o], _n._ a courtyard connected with a house. [Sp.,--L.
_spatium_, a space.]

PATLY, PATNESS. See PAT (3).

PATOIS, pat'waw, _n._ a vulgar or provincial dialect. [Fr., orig.
_patrois_--L. _patriensis_, indigenous--_patria_, one's native country.]

PATONCE, pa-tons', _n._ (_her._) a cross whose four arms expand in curves
from the centre, with floriated ends.--_adj._ PATONCÉE. [Fr.,--L.
_pat[=e]re_, to expand.]

PATRES CONSCRIPTI, p[=a]'tres kon-skrip't[=i], _n.pl._ conscript fathers:
the senators of ancient Rome. [L. _patres_, pl. of _pater_, a father,
_conscripti_, pl. of _conscriptus_,--_conscrib[)e]re_, to enrol.]

PATRIAL, p[=a]'tri-al, _adj._ designating a race or nation.--_n._ a noun
derived from the name of a country.

PATRIA POTESTAS, p[=a]'tri-ä p[=o]-tes'tas, _n._ a father's control over
his family, in ancient Rome, which was almost unlimited. [L.]

PATRIARCH, p[=a]'tri-ärk, _n._ one who governs his family by paternal
right: (_B._) one of the early heads of families from Adam downwards to
Abraham, Jacob, and his sons: in Eastern churches, a dignitary superior to
an archbishop.--_adjs._ PATRIARCH'AL, PATRIARCH'IC, belonging or subject to
a patriarch: like a patriarch: of the nature of a patriarch.--_ns._
P[=A]'TRIARCHALISM, the condition of tribal government by a patriarch;
P[=A]'TRIARCHATE, the office or jurisdiction of a patriarch or church
dignitary: the residence of a patriarch; P[=A]'TRIARCHISM, government by a
patriarch; P[=A]'TRIARCHY, a community of related families under the
authority of a patriarch. [O. Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _patriarch[=e]s_--_pat[=e]r_,
father, _arch[=e]_, beginning.]

PATRICIAN, pa-trish'an, _n._ a nobleman in ancient Rome, being a descendant
of one of the fathers or first Roman senators: a nobleman.--_adj._
pertaining to the ancient senators of Rome or to their descendants: of
noble birth.--_n._ PATRIC'IATE, the position or duties of a patrician: the
patrician order. [L. _patricius_--_pater_, _patris_, a father.]

PATRICIDE, pat'ri-s[=i]d, _n._ the murder or the murderer of one's own
father.--_adj._ PAT'RIC[=I]DAL, relating to patricide or the murder of a
father. [L. _patricida_--_pater_, _patris_, father, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

PATRICO, pat'ri-k[=o], _n._ (_slang_) a gipsy or beggars'
hedge-priest.--Also PAT'ERCOVE.

PATRIMONY, pat'ri-mun-i, _n._ a right or estate inherited from a father or
from one's ancestors: a church estate or revenue.--_adj._ PATRIM[=O]'NIAL,
pertaining to a patrimony: inherited from ancestors.--_adv._
PATRIM[=O]'NIALLY. [Fr. _patrimoine_--L. _patrimonium_, a paternal
estate--_pater_, _patris_, a father.]

PATRIOT, p[=a]'tri-ot, or pat'-, _n._ one who truly loves and serves his
fatherland.--_adj._ devoted to one's country.--_adj._ P[=A]TRIOT'IC, like a
patriot: actuated by a love of one's country: directed to the public
welfare.--_adv._ P[=A]TRIOT'ICALLY.--_n._ P[=A]'TRIOTISM, quality of being
patriotic: love of one's country. [Fr.,--Low L.,--Gr.
_patri[=o]t[=e]s_--_patrios_--_pat[=e]r_, a father.]

PATRIPASSIAN, p[=a]-tri-pas'i-an, _n._ a member of one of the earliest
classes of anti-Trinitarian sectaries (2d century), who denied the
distinction of three persons in one God, maintaining that the sufferings of
the Son could be predicated of the Father. [L. _pater_, father, _pati_,
_passus_, to suffer.]

PATRISTIC, -AL, pa-tris'tik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the fathers of the
Christian Church.--_ns._ P[=A]'TRIST, one versed in patristics;
PATRIS'TICISM, mode of thought, &c., of the fathers.--_n.pl._ PATRIS'TICS,
the knowledge of the fathers as a subject of study--sometimes PATROL'OGY.
[Fr., coined from L. _pater_, _patris_, a father.]

PATROL, pa-tr[=o]l', _v.i._ to go the rounds in a camp or garrison: to
watch and protect.--_v.t._ to pass round as a sentry:--_pr.p._
patr[=o]l'ling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ patr[=o]lled'.--_n._ the marching round
of a guard in the night: the guard or men who make a patrol: (also
PATR[=O]L'MAN) a policeman who walks about a certain beat for a specified
time, such policemen collectively. [O. Fr. _patrouille_, a patrol,
_patrouiller_, to march in the mud, through a form _patouiller_, from
_pate_ (mod. _patte_), the paw or foot of a beast, of Teut. origin, cf.
Ger. _patsche_, little hand.]

PATRON, p[=a]'trun, _n._ a protector: one who countenances or encourages:
one who has the right to appoint to any office, esp. to a living in the
church: a guardian saint:--_fem._ P[=A]'TRONESS.--_v.t._ to treat as a
patron.--_n._ P[=A]'TRONAGE, the support given by a patron: guardianship of
saints: the right of bestowing offices, privileges, or church
benefices.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to support.--_adj._ P[=A]'TRONAL.--_n._
P[=A]TRONIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ P[=A]'TRON[=I]SE, to act as a patron toward:
to give countenance or encouragement to: to assume the air of a patron
towards.--_n._ P[=A]'TRON[=I]SER.--_adj._ P[=A]'TRON[=I]SING.--_adv._
P[=A]'TRON[=I]SINGLY.--_adj._ P[=A]'TRONLESS. [Fr.,--L.
_patronus_--_pater_, _patris_, a father.]

PATRONYMIC, -AL, pat-r[=o]-nim'ik, -al, _adj._ derived from the name of a
father or an ancestor.--_n._ PATRONYM'IC, a name taken from one's father or
ancestor. [Gr. _pat[=e]r_, a father, _onoma_, a name.]

PATROON, p[=a]-tr[=oo]n', _n._ one who received a grant of land under the
old Dutch governments of New York and New Jersey.--_n._ PATROON'SHIP.
[Dut.; cf. _Patron_.]

PATTE, pat, _n._ a narrow band keeping a belt or sash in its place. [Fr.]

PATTÉ, PATTÉE, pa-t[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) spreading toward the extremity.
[O. Fr. _patte_, a paw.]

PATTEN, pat'en, _n._ a wooden sole with an iron ring, worn under the shoe
to keep it from the wet: the iron hoop attached to the boot in cases of
hip-joint disease: the base of a pillar.--_v.i._ to go about on
pattens.--_adj._ PATT'ENED, provided with pattens. [O. Fr. _patin_,
clog--_patte_.]

PATTER, pat'[.e]r, _v.i._ to pat or strike often, as hailstones: to make
the sound of short quick steps:--_pr.p._ patt'ering; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
patt'ered. [A freq. of _pat_.]

PATTER, pat'[.e]r, _v.i._ to repeat the Lord's Prayer: to pray: to repeat
over and over again indistinctly, to mumble.--_v.t._ to repeat hurriedly,
to mutter.--_n._ glib talk, chatter: the cant of a class.--_ns._ PATT'ERER,
one who sells articles on the street by speechifying; PATT'ER-SONG, a comic
song in which a great many words are sung or spoken very rapidly.--PATTER
FLASH, to talk the jargon of thieves. [_Pater-noster_.]

PATTERN, pat'[.e]rn, _n._ a person or thing to be copied: a model: an
example: style of ornamental work: anything to serve as a guide in forming
objects: the distribution of shot in a target at which a gun is
fired.--_ns._ PATT'ERN-BOOK, a book containing designs of lace, &c., or in
which patterns of cloth, &c., are pasted; PATT'ERN-BOX, in weaving, a box
at each side of a loom containing the various shuttles that may be used;
PATT'ERN-CARD, a piece of cardboard on which specimens of cloth are fixed;
PATT'ERN-MAK'ER, one who makes the patterns for moulders in foundry-work;
PATT'ERN-SHOP, the place in which patterns for a factory are prepared;
PATT'ERN-WHEEL, the count-wheel in a clock movement. [Fr. _patron_, a
protector, pattern.]

PATTLE, pat'l, _n._ a paddle.

PATTY, pat'i, _n._ a little pie:--_pl._ PATT'IES.--_n._ PATT'Y-PAN, a pan
in which to bake these. [Fr. _pâté_.]

PATULOUS, pat'[=u]-lus, _adj._ spreading.

PAUCITY, paw'sit-i, _n._ fewness: smallness of number or quantity.
[Fr.,--L. _paucitas_--_paucus_, few.]

PAUL. Same as PAWL.

PAULDRON, pawl'dron, _n._ a separable shoulder-plate in medieval armour.
[O. Fr. _espalleron_--_espalle_, the shoulder.]

PAULICIAN, paw-lish'an, _n._ a member of a Dualistic Eastern sect, founded
about 660, professing peculiar reverence for _Paul_ and his writings.

PAULINE, paw'l[=i]n, _adj._ of or belonging to the Apostle _Paul_.--_ns._
PAUL'INISM, the teaching or theology of Paul; PAUL'INIST, a follower of
Paul.

PAULO-POST-FUTURE, paw'l[=o]-p[=o]st-f[=u]'t[=u]r, _adj._ and _n._ the
future perfect tense in grammar.

PAUNCH, pawnsh, or pänsh, _n._ the belly: the first and largest stomach of
a ruminant.--_v.t._ to eviscerate.--_adj._ PAUNCH'Y, big-bellied. [O. Fr.
_panche_ (Fr. _panse_)--L. _pantex_, _panticis_.]

PAUPER, paw'p[.e]r, _n._ a very poor or destitute person: one supported by
charity or by some public provision:--_fem._ PAU'PERESS.--_n._
PAUPERIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ PAU'PERISE, to reduce to pauperism.--_n._
PAU'PERISM, state of being a pauper. [L.]

PAUSE, pawz, _n._ a ceasing: a temporary stop: cessation caused by doubt:
suspense: a mark for suspending the voice: (_mus._) a mark showing
continuance of a note or rest.--_v.i._ to make a pause.--_adjs._ PAUS'AL;
PAUSE'LESS.--_adv._ PAUSE'LESSLY.--_n._ PAUS'ER, one who pauses or
deliberates.--_adv._ PAUS'INGLY, with pauses: by breaks: deliberately.
[Fr.,--L. _pausa_--Gr. _pausis_, from _pauein_, to cause to cease.]

PAVAN, pav'an, _n._ (_Shak._) a slow dance, much practised in Spain: music
for this dance.--Also PAV'EN, PAV'IN. [Fr.,--Sp. _pavana_, _pavon_--L.
_pavo_, peacock; or It., for _Padovana_, pertaining to _Padua_.]

PAVE, p[=a]v, _v.t._ to lay down stone, &c., to form a level surface for
walking on: to prepare, as a way or passage: to make easy and smooth in any
way.--_ns._ P[=A]'VAGE, P[=A]'VIAGE, money paid towards paving
streets.--_adj._ P[=A]VED--also P[=A]'VEN.--_ns._ PAVE'MENT, a paved road,
floor, or side-walk, or that with which it is paved; P[=A]'VER, P[=A]'VIER,
P[=A]'VIOR, P[=A]'VIOUR, one who lays pavements; P[=A]'VING, the act of
laying pavement: pavement.--_adj._ employed or spent for paving.--PAVE THE
WAY, to prepare the way for. [Fr. _paver_--L. _pav[=i]re_, to beat hard;
cog. with Gr. _paiein_, to beat.]

PAVID, pav'id, _adj._ timid. [L. _pavidus_.]

PAVILION, pa-vil'yun, _n._ a tent: an ornamental building often turreted or
domed: (_mil._) a tent raised on posts: a canopy or covering: the outer
ear: a flag or ensign carried at the gaff of the mizzenmast.--_v.t._ to
furnish with pavilions: to shelter, as with a tent.--_n._ PAVIL'ION-ROOF, a
roof sloping equally on all sides. [Fr. _pavillon_--L. _papilio_, a
butterfly, a tent.]

PAVISE, pav'is, _n._ a shield for the whole body. [Fr.,--Low L. _pavensis_,
prob. from _Pavia_ in Italy.]

PAVON, pav'on, _n._ a small triangular flag attached to a lance. [L.
_pavo_, a peacock.]

PAVONINE, pav'o-n[=i]n, _adj._ pertaining to the peacock: resembling the
tail of a peacock or made of its feathers: iridescent--also
PAV[=O]'NIAN.--_n._ PAV[=O]NE' (_Spens._), the peacock. [L.
_pavoninus_--_pavo_, _pavonis_, a peacock.]

PAW, paw, _n._ the foot of a beast of prey having claws: the hand, used in
contempt.--_v.i._ to draw the forefoot along the ground like a
horse.--_v.t._ to scrape with the forefoot: to handle with the paws: to
handle roughly: to flatter.--_adj._ PAWED, having paws: broad-footed. [O.
Fr. _poe_, _powe_, prob. Teut.; cf. Dut. _poot_, Ger. _pfote_. Perh.
related to O. Fr. _pate_ (cf. _Patrol_). But perh. Celt., as W. _pawen_, a
paw.]

PAWKY, pawk'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) sly, arch, shrewd.

PAWL, pawl, _n._ a short bar lying against a toothed wheel to prevent a
windlass, &c., from running back: a catch or click.--_v.t._ to stop by
means of a pawl. [W. _pawl_, a stake, conn. with L. _palus_, a stake.]

PAWN, pawn, _n._ something given as security for the repayment of money or
the performance of a promise: state of being pledged.--_v.t._ to give in
pledge.--_ns._ PAWN'BROKER, a broker who lends money on pawns or pledges;
PAWN'BROKING, the business of a pawnbroker; PAWNEE', one who takes anything
in pawn; PAWN'ER, one who gives a pawn or pledge as security for money
borrowed; PAWN'SHOP, a shop of a pawnbroker; PAWN'TICKET, a ticket marked
with the name of the article, the amount advanced, &c., delivered to the
person who has pawned anything.--AT PAWN, pledged, laid away. [O. Fr.
_pan_, prob. from L. _pannus_, a cloth.]

PAWN, pawn, _n._ a common piece in chess. [O. Fr. _paon_, a
foot-soldier--Low L. _pedo_, _pedonis_, a foot-soldier--L. _pes_, _pedis_,
the foot.]

PAWN, pawn, _n._ a gallery.

PAWNEE, paw'n[=e], _n._ one of a tribe of Indians in North America.--_adj._
belonging to this tribe.

PAX, paks, _n._ the kiss of peace (Rom. xvi. 16): a plaque or tablet used
in giving the kiss of peace when the mass is celebrated by a high
dignitary--a crucifix, a tablet with the image of Christ on the cross upon
it, or a reliquary.--PAX VOBIS, PAX VOBISCUM, peace (be) with you. [L.]

PAXWAX, paks'waks, _n._ the strong tendon in the neck of animals. [Orig.
_fax-wax_--A.S. _feax_, _fex_, hair, _weaxan_, to grow.]

PAY, p[=a], _v.t._ to satisfy or set at rest: to discharge, as a debt or a
duty: to requite with what is deserved: to reward: to punish: to give,
render.--_v.i._ to recompense: to be worth one's trouble: to be
profitable:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ paid.--_n._ that which satisfies: money
given for service: salary, wages.--_adj._ PAY'ABLE, that may be paid: that
ought to be paid: due.--_ns._ PAY'-BILL, a statement of moneys to be paid,
to workmen, soldiers, &c.; PAY'-CLERK, a clerk who pays wages; PAY'-DAY, a
regular day for payment, as of wages; PAY'-DIRT, -GRAV'EL, gravel or sand
containing enough gold to be worth working; PAYEE', one to whom money is
paid; PAY'ER; PAY'-LIST, -ROLL, a list of persons entitled to pay, with the
amounts due to each; PAY'MASTER, the master who pays: an officer in the
army or navy whose duty it is to pay soldiers, &c.; PAY'MENT, the act of
paying: the discharge of a debt by money or its equivalent in value: that
which is paid: recompense: reward: punishment; PAY'-OFF'ICE, the place
where payments are made; FULL'-PAY, the whole amount of wages, &c., without
deductions; HALF'-PAY (see HALF).--PAY DOWN, to pay in cash on the spot;
PAY FOR, to make amends for: to bear the expense of; PAY OFF, to discharge:
to take revenge upon: to requite: (_naut._) to fall away to leeward; PAY
OUT, to cause to run out, as rope; PAY ROUND, to turn the ship's head; PAY
THE PIPER, to have all expenses to pay.--IN THE PAY OF, hired by. [Fr.
_payer_--L. _pac[=a]re_, to appease; cf. _pax_, peace.]

PAY, p[=a], _v.t._ (_naut._, and in the proverb 'the devil to pay') to
smear with tar, pitch, &c. [Perh. through O. Fr. _peier_ (Sp. _empegar_)
from L. _pic[=a]re_, to pitch.]

PAYNE, p[=a]n, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to take pains, exert one's self.

PAYNIM, PAINIM, p[=a]'nim, _n._ a pagan: a heathen. [O. Fr. _paienisme_,
paganism--L. _paganismus_--_paganus_, a pagan.]

PAYNISE, p[=a]'n[=i]z, _v.t._ to harden and preserve, as wood, by
successive injections of solutions of calcium or barium sulphide followed
by calcium sulphate. [_Payne_, inventor of the process.]

PAYSAGE, p[=a]'s[=a]j, _n._ a landscape.--_n._ PAY'S[=A]GIST, a
landscape-painter. [Fr.]

PAYSE, p[=a]z, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to poise, to balance.

PEA, p[=e], _n._ a climbing annual herb of the bean family, whose seeds are
nutritious:--_pl._ PEAS, a definite number; PEASE, a quantity not
numbered.--_ns._ PEA'-R[=I]'FLE, a rifle throwing a very small bullet;
PEAS'COD, PEASE'COD, the pod or pericarp of the pea; PEA'-SHOOT'ER, a small
metal tube for blowing peas through; PEA'-STONE, pisolite.--EGYPTIAN PEA,
the chick-pea; FRENCH PEA, the common garden pea: (_pl._) canned peas made
up in France; SPLIT PEAS, peas stripped of their membraneous covering in a
mill, used for making pea-soup, or ground into meal; SWEET PEA, a climbing
annual with large and fragrant flowers. [M. E. _pese_, pl. _pesen_ and
_peses_--A.S. _pisa_, pl. _pisan_--L. _pisum_, Gr. _pison_.]

PEA, p[=e], _n._ a pea-fowl. See PEACOCK.

PEACE, p[=e]s, _n._ a state of quiet: freedom from disturbance: freedom
from war: friendliness: calm: rest: harmony: silence.--_interj._ silence:
be silent: hist!--_adj._ PEACE'ABLE, disposed to peace: free from war or
disturbance: quiet: tranquil.--_n._ PEACE'ABLENESS.--_adv._
PEACE'ABLY.--_n._ PEACE'-BREAK'ER, one who breaks or disturbs the peace of
others.--_adj._ PEACE'FUL, full of peace: quiet: tranquil: calm:
serene.--_adv._ PEACE'FULLY.--_n._ PEACE'FULNESS.--_adj._ PEACE'LESS,
without peace.--_ns._ PEACE'LESSNESS; PEACE'MAKER, one who makes or
produces peace; one who reconciles enemies; PEACE'-OFF'ERING, an offering
bringing about peace: among the Jews, an offering to God, either in
gratitude for past or petition for future mercies (see Lev. iii.; vii.
11-21): satisfaction to an offended person; PEACE'-OFF'ICER, an officer
whose duty it is to preserve the peace: a police-officer.--_adj._
PEACE'-PART'ED (_Shak._), dismissed from the world in peace.--_n._
PEACE'-PAR'TY, a political party advocating the making or the preservation
of peace; PEACE'-PIPE (see CALUMET).--PEACE ESTABLISHMENT, the reduced
military strength maintained in time of peace; PEACE OF GOD, the ancient
cessation from suits between terms, and on Sundays and holy days.--BREACH
OF THE PEACE (see BREACH); HOLD ONE'S PEACE, to be silent; KEEP PEACE,
abstain from breaking the peace of others; KISS OF PEACE (see KISS);
LETTERS OF PEACE (see PACIFY); MAKE ONE'S PEACE WITH, to reconcile or to be
reconciled with; QUEEN'S, or KING'S, PEACE, the public peace, for the
maintenance of which the sovereign as head of the executive is responsible;
SWEAR THE PEACE, to take oath before a magistrate that a certain person
ought to be put under bond to keep the peace. [O. Fr. _pais_ (Fr.
_paix_)--L. _pax_, _pacis_, peace.]

PEACH, p[=e]ch, _v.i._ to betray one's accomplice: to become
informer.--_n._ PEACH'ER. [A corr. of _impeach_.]

PEACH, p[=e]ch, _n._ a tree with a delicious, juicy fruit: the fruit of
this tree.--_ns._ PEACH'-BLOSS'OM, a canary-yellow colour: pink with a
yellowish tinge: a collector's name for a moth, the _Thyatira batis_;
PEACH'-BRAND'Y, a spirit distilled from the fermented juice of the
peach.--_adj._ PEACH'-COL'OURED, of the colour of a peach-blossom: pale
red.--_ns._ PEACH'ERY, a hothouse in which peaches are grown; PEACH'-STONE,
the hard nut enclosing the seed within the fruit of the peach;
PEACH'-WA'TER, a flavouring extract used in cookery, prepared from the
peach.--_adj._ PEACH'Y.--_n._ PEACH'-YELL'OWS, a disease that attacks
peach-trees in the eastern United States. [O. Fr. _pesche_ (Fr. _pêche_,
It. _persica_, _pesca_)--L. _Persicum_ (_malum_), the Persian (apple).]

PEACOCK, p[=e]'kok, _n._ a large gallinaceous bird of the pheasant kind,
remarkable for the beauty of its plumage, esp. that of its tail:--_fem._
PEA'HEN.--_v.t._ to cause to strut like a peacock.--_v.i._ to strut about
proudly.--_ns._ PEA'CHICK, the young of the pea-fowl; PEA'COCK-FISH, a
variegated labroid fish; PEA'-FOWL, the peacock or peahen. [A.S. _pawe_--L.
_pavo_--Gr. _ta[=o]s_--Pers. _t[=a]wus_; and _cock_ (q.v.).]

PEACOD. Same as PEASCOD.

PEA-CRAB, p[=e]'-krab, _n._ a genus of small crustaceans, which live within
the mantle-lobes of mussels, oysters, &c.

PEAG, p[=e]g, _n._ polished shell-beads used as money among the North
American Indians.--Also PEAK (p[=e]k).

PEA-GREEN, p[=e]'-gr[=e]n, _adj._ a shade of green like the colour of green
peas.

PEA-JACKET, p[=e]'-jak'et, _n._ a coarse thick jacket worn esp. by
seamen.--Also PEA'-COAT. [Dut. _pij_ (pron. p[=i]), a coat of coarse thick
cloth; _jacket_.]

PEAK, p[=e]k, _n._ a point: the pointed end of anything: the top of a
mountain: (_naut._) the upper outer corner of a sail extended by a gaff or
yard, also the extremity of the gaff.--_v.i._ to rise upward in a peak: to
look thin or sickly.--_v.t._ (_naut._) to raise the point (of a gaff) more
nearly perpendicular.--_adjs._ PEAKED, pointed: ending in a point: having a
thin or sickly look; PEAK'ING, sickly, pining, sneaking; PEAK'ISH, having
peaks: thin or sickly looking; PEAK'Y (_Tenn._), having or showing peaks.
[M. E. _pec_--Ir. _peac_, a sharp thing. Cf. _Beak_, _Pike_.]

PEAL, p[=e]l, _n._ a loud sound: a number of loud sounds one after another:
a set of bells tuned to each other: a chime or carillon: the changes rung
upon a set of bells.--_v.i._ to resound like a bell: to utter or give forth
loud or solemn sounds.--_v.t._ to cause to sound loudly: to assail with
noise: to celebrate. [For _appeal_; O. Fr. _apel_--_apeler_--L.
_appell[=a]re_, inten. of _appell[)e]re_, _ap-_ (_ad_), to, _pell[)e]re_,
to drive.]

PEA-MAGGOT, p[=e]'-mag'ut, _n._ the caterpillar of a small moth which lays
its eggs in pods of peas.

PEAN, p[=e]n, _n._ one of the heraldic furs, differing from ermine only in
the tinctures, the ground being sable and the spots of gold. [O. Fr.
_panne_, a fur. Cf. _Pane_.]

PEAN. See PÆAN.

PEA-NUT, or _Ground-nut_. See GROUND.

PEAR, p[=a]r, _n._ a common fruit of a somewhat conical shape, and very
juicy to the taste: the tree on which it grows, allied to the
apple.--_adj._ PEAR'IFORM, PEAR'-SHAPED, shaped like a pear--that is, thick
and rounded at one end, and tapering to the other.--_n._ PEAR'-TREE. [A.S.
_pera_ or _peru_--L. _pirum_, a pear (whence also Fr. _poire_).]

PEAR, p[=e]'ar, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as PEER.

PEARL, p[.e]rl, _n._ a well-known shining gem, found in several kinds of
shellfish, but most esp. in the mother-of-pearl oyster: anything round and
clear: anything very precious: a jewel: a while speck or film on the eye:
(_print._) a size of type immediately above diamond, equal to 5 points
(about 15 lines to the inch).--_adj._ made of, or belonging to,
pearls.--_v.t._ to set or adorn with pearls: to make into small round
grains.--_v.i._ to take a rounded form: to become like pearls.--_adj._
PEARL[=A]'CEOUS, resembling pearls or mother-of-pearl: spotted with
white.--_ns._ PEARL'-ASH, a purer carbonate of potash, obtained by
calcining potashes, so called from its pearly-white colour; PEARL'-BAR'LEY,
barley after the skin has been ground off (prob. for 'pilled barley,' Fr.
_orge perlé_); PEARL'-BUTT'ON, a button made of mother-of-pearl;
PEARL'-DIV'ER, one who dives for pearls.--_adj._ PEARLED, set with pearls:
like pearls: having a border trimmed with narrow lace.--_ns._ PEARL'-EDGE,
a thread edging, a border on some ribbons formed by projecting loops of the
threads; PEARL'-EYE, cataract.--_adj._ PEARL'-EYED, having a white speck on
the eye.--_ns._ PEARL'-FISH'ER, one who fishes for pearls; PEARL'-FISH'ERY,
the occupation of fishing for pearls, or the place where it is carried on;
PEARL'-FISH'ING; PEARL'-GRAY, a pale gray colour.--_adj._ of a pale gray
colour, like the pearl.--_ns._ PEARL'INESS, state of being pearly;
PEARL'-NAU'TILUS, the pearly nautilus; PEARL'-OYS'TER, the oyster which
produces pearls; PEARL'-POW'DER, a cosmetic for improving the appearance of
the skin; PEARL'-WHITE, a material made from fish-scales, used in making
artificial pearls: a kind of cosmetic.--_adj._ PEARL'Y, like a pearl,
nacreous: yielding pearls: dotted with pearls: clear, transparent: having a
pure sweet tone. [Fr. _perle_, acc. to Diez, prob. either a corr. of L.
_pirula_, a dim. of _pirum_, a pear, or of L. _pilula_, dim. of _pila_, a
ball.]

PEARLING, p[.e]rl'ing, _n._ lace made of silk or other kind of
thread.--Also PEARL'IN. [Ir. _peirlin_, fine linen.]

PEARLING, p[.e]rl'ing, _n._ the process of removing the outer coat of
grain.

PEARMAIN, p[=a]r'm[=a]n, _n._ a name of several varieties of apple.

PEART, p[=e]rt, _adj._ lively: saucy: in good health and spirits.--_adv._
PEART'LY. [_Pert._]

PEASANT, pez'ant, _n._ a countryman: a rustic: one whose occupation is
rural labour.--_adj._ of or relating to peasants, rustic, rural:
rude.--_n._ PEAS'ANTRY, the body of peasants or tillers of the soil:
rustics: labourers.--PEASANT PROPRIETOR, a peasant who owns and works his
own farm; PEASANTS' WAR, a popular insurrection in Germany, in 1525,
stamped out with horrible cruelty. [O. Fr. _paisant_ (Fr.
_paysan_)--_pays_--L. _pagus_, a district.]

PEASE, p[=e]z, _n._ (_Spens._) a blow.

PEASE, p[=e]z, _indef. pl._ of PEA.--_ns._ PEASE'COD, PEAS'COD, the
pericarp of the pea: a peacod; PEASE'-MEAL, PEASE'-PORR'IDGE, PEASE'-SOUP
or PEA'-SOUP, meal, porridge, soup, made from pease.

PEASEWEEP, p[=e]z'w[=e]p, _n._ (_prov._) the pewit. [Imit.]

PEAT, p[=e]t, _n._ decayed vegetable matter like turf, cut out of boggy
places, and when dried used for fuel.--_ns._ PEAT'-BOG, a district covered
with peat: a place from which peat is dug--also PEAT'-BED, PEAT'-MOOR,
PEAT'-MOSS; PEAT'-HAG, a ditch whence peat has been dug; PEAT'-REEK, the
smoke of peat, supposed to add a delicate flavour to whisky; PEAT'-SPADE, a
spade having a side wing at right angles for cutting peat in rectangular
blocks.--_adj._ PEAT'Y, like peat: abounding in, or composed of, peat.
[True form _beat_--M. E. _beten_, to mend a fire--A.S. _bétan_, to make
better--_bót_, advantage.]

PEBA, p[=e]'ba, _n._ a South American armadillo.

PEBBLE, peb'l, _n._ a small roundish ball or stone: transparent and
colourless rock-crystal used for glass in spectacles, a fine kind of glass:
a large size of gunpowder.--_v.t._ to give (to leather) a rough appearance
with small rounded prominences.--_adjs._ PEBB'LED, PEBB'LY, full of
pebbles.--_ns._ PEBB'LE-POW'DER, gunpowder consisting of large cubical
grains, and burning slowly--also _Cube-powder_ and _Prismatic-powder_;
PEBB'LE-WARE, a kind of fine pottery made of various coloured clays mixed
together; PEBB'LING, a way of graining leather with a ribbed or roughened
appearance. [A.S. _papol_-(_-stán_), a pebble(-stone); akin to L. _papula_,
a pustule.]

PEBRINE, peb'rin, _n._ a destructive disease of silkworms.--_adj._
PEB'RINOUS. [Fr.]

PECAN, p[=e]-kan', _n._ a North American tree whose wood is chiefly used
for fuel, also the nut it yields.

PECCABLE, pek'a-bl, _adj._ liable to sin.--_ns._ PECCABIL'ITY; PECC'ANCY,
sinfulness: transgression.--_adj._ PECC'ANT, sinning: transgressing:
guilty: morbid: offensive: bad.--_adv._ PECC'ANTLY. [L.
_peccabilis_--_pecc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to sin.]

PECCADILLO, pek-a-dil'lo, _n._ a little or trifling sin: a petty
fault:--_pl._ PECCADIL'LOS, PECCADIL'LOES. [Sp. _pecadillo_, dim. of
_pecado_--L. _peccatum_, a sin.]

PECCARY, pek'ar-i, _n._ a hog-like quadruped of South America.

PECCAVI, pe-k[=a]'v[=i], I have sinned. [L. 1st pers. sing. perf. indic.
act. of _pecc[=a]re_, I sin.]

PECH, PEGH, peh, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to pant, to breathe hard. [Imit.]

PECHT, peht, _n._ a corruption of _Pict_.

PECK, pek, _n._ a measure of capacity for dry goods=2 gallons, or
one-fourth of a bushel: a great amount. [M. E. _pekke_, prob. from _peck_,
'to pick up.']

PECK, pek, _v.t._ to strike with the beak: to pick up with the beak: to
eat: to strike with anything pointed: to strike with repeated blows.--_ns._
PECK'ER, that which pecks: a woodpecker: (_slang_) spirit, as in 'to keep
one's pecker up'=to keep up one's spirits; PECK'ING, the sport of throwing
pebbles at birds.--_adj._ PECK'ISH, somewhat hungry. [_Pick._]

PECKSNIFF, pek'snif, _n._ one who talks large about virtue and benevolence,
while at heart a selfish and unprincipled hypocrite.--_adj._
PECK'SNIFFIAN.--_n._ PECK'SNIFFIANISM. [From Mr _Pecksniff_ in Dickens's
_Martin Chuzzlewit_.]

PECTEN, pek'ten, _n._ a genus of molluscs, one species of which is the
scallop--so called from the valves having ribs radiating from the umbo to
the margin like a comb: a membrane on the eyes of birds.--_adjs._
PECTIN[=A]'CEOUS, like the scallops; PEC'TINAL, of a comb: comb-like:
having bones like the teeth of a comb; PEC'TIN[=A]TE, -D, having teeth like
a comb: resembling the teeth of a comb.--_adv._ PEC'TIN[=A]TELY.--_n._
PECTIN[=A]'TION, the state of being pectinated--_adjs._ PECTIN[=E]'AL,
having a comb-like crest; PEC'TINIBRANCHIATE, having comb-like gills;
PEC'TINIFORM, comb-like. [L. _pecten_, a comb.]

PECTIC, pek'tik, _adj._ congealing, curdling.--_ns._ PEC'TIN, PEC'TINE, a
soluble gelatinising substance obtained from pectose; PEC'T[=O]SE, a
substance yielding pectin, contained in the fleshy pulp of unripe fruit.
[Gr. _p[=e]ktikos_, congealing--_p[=e]gnynai_, to make solid.]

PECTORAL, pek't[=o]-ral, _adj._ relating to the breast or chest.--_n._
armour for the breast: an ornament worn on the breast, esp. the breastplate
worn by the ancient Jewish high-priest, and the square of gold, embroidery,
&c. formerly worn on the breast over the chasuble by bishops during mass: a
pectoral cross: a pectoral fin: a medicine for the chest.--_adv._
PEC'TORALLY.--_n._ PECTORIL'OQUY, the sound of the patient's voice heard
through the stethoscope when applied to the chest in certain morbid
conditions of the lungs.--PECTORAL FINS, the anterior paired fins of
fishes; PECTORAL THEOLOGY, a name sometimes applied to the theology of
those Christians who make much of experience and emotion, as themselves
guides to a knowledge of divine truth--in Neander's phrase, 'Pectus est
quod facit theologum.' [Fr.,--L. _pectoralis_--_pectus_, _pectoris_, the
breast.]

PECULATE, pek'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to take for one's own use money or
property entrusted to one's care: to embezzle: to steal.--_ns._
PECUL[=A]'TION; PEC'UL[=A]TOR. [L. _pecul[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_--_pec[=u]lium_, private property, akin to _pecunia_, money.]

PECULIAR, p[=e]-k[=u]l'yar, _adj._ one's own: belonging to no other:
appropriate: particular: odd, uncommon, strange.--_n._ (_obs._) private
property: a parish or church exempt from the jurisdiction of the ordinary
or bishop in whose diocese it is placed.--_v.t._ PECUL'IARISE, to set
apart.--_n._ PECULIAR'ITY, quality of being peculiar or singular: that
which is found in one and in no other: that which marks a person off from
others: individuality.--_adv._ PECUL'IARLY.--_n._ PEC[=U]'LIUM, private
property, esp. that given by a father to a son, &c.--PECULIAR PEOPLE, the
people of Israel: a sect of faith-healers, founded in London in 1838, who
reject medical aid in cases of disease, and rely on anointing with oil by
the elders, and on prayer, with patient nursing. [Fr.,--L.
_peculiaris_--_peculium_, private property.]

PECUNIARY, p[=e]-k[=u]'ni-ar-i, _adj._ relating to money: consisting of
money.--_adv._ PEC[=U]'NIARILY.--_adj._ PEC[=U]'NIOUS, rich. [Fr.,--L.
_pecuniarius_--_pecunia_, money--_pecu-_, which appears in L. _pecudes_
(pl.), cattle.]

PED, ped, _n._ (_Spens._) a basket, a hamper. [_Pad._]

PEDAGOGUE, ped'a-gog, _n._ a teacher: a pedant.--_v.t._ to teach.--_adjs._
PEDAGOG'IC, -AL, relating to teaching: belonging to, or possessed by, a
teacher of children.--_ns._ PEDAGOG'ICS, PED'AGOGISM, PED'AGOGY, the
science of teaching: instruction: discipline. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_paidag[=o]gos_--_pais_, _paidos_, a boy, _ag[=o]gos_, a leader--_agein_,
to lead.]

PEDAL, ped'al, _adj._ pertaining to a foot.--_n._ any part of a machine
transmitting power from the foot: in musical instruments, a lever moved by
the foot.--_v.i._ to work a pedal.--_n._ P[=E]D[=A]'LE, a foot-cloth in
front of an altar: a collection of canons of general councils in the Greek
Church.--_adjs._ P[=E]D[=A]'LIAN, relating to the foot, or to a metrical
foot; PED'[=A]TE, divided like a foot: (_bot._) having the side lobes of a
divided leaf also divided into smaller parts, the midribs of which do not
run to a common centre as in the palmate leaf.--_adv._
PED'[=A]TELY.--_adj._ PEDAT'IFID, divided in a pedate manner, but having
the divisions connected at the base.--COMBINATION PEDAL, a metal pedal in
organs controlling several stops at once. [L. _pedalis_--_pes_, _pedis_,
the foot.]

PEDANT, ped'ant, _n._ one who makes a vain display of learning: a pretender
to knowledge which he does not possess: (_Shak._) a pedagogue.--_adjs._
PEDANT'IC, -AL, displaying knowledge for the sake of showing.--_adv._
PEDANT'ICALLY, in a pedantic manner.--_ns._ PEDANT'ICISM,
PED'ANTISM.--_v.i._ PED'ANTISE, to play the pedant.--_ns._ PEDANTOC'RACY,
government by pedants; PED'ANTRY, acts, manners, or character of a pedant:
vain display of learning: (_Swift_) the overrating of any kind of knowledge
we pretend to. [Fr.,--It. _pedante_--L. _pædagogan_s, _-antis_,
teaching--_pædagogus_, a pedagogue.]

PEDDLE, ped'l, _v.i._ to travel about with a basket or bundle of goods,
esp. of smallwares, for sale: to trifle.--_v.t._ to retail in small
quantities.--_ns._ PEDD'LER, PED'LAR, PED'LER, a hawker or travelling
merchant; PEDD'LERY, PED'LARY, the trade or tricks of a peddler: wares sold
by a peddler.--_adj._ PEDD'LING, unimportant.--_n._ the trade or tricks of
a peddler. [_Peddar_, _pedder_, one who carries wares in a _ped_ or
basket.]

PEDERASTY, ped'e-rast-i, _n._ unnatural commerce of males with males, esp.
boys.--_n._ PED'ERAST, one addicted to this vice.--_adj._ PEDERAST'IC.
[Gr., _pais_, _paidos_, a boy, _erast[=e]s_--_eraein_, to love.]

PEDERERO, ped-e-r[=e]'r[=o], _n._ an old gun for discharging stones, pieces
of iron, &c., also for firing salutes.

PEDESIS, ped-[=e]'sis, _n._ the rapid oscillation of small particles in a
liquid.

PEDESTAL, ped'es-tal, _n._ anything that serves as a foot or a support: the
foot or base of a pillar, &c.: the fixed casting which holds the brasses,
in which a shaft turns, called also _Axle-guard_ or _Pillow-block_.--_v.t._
to place on a pedestal. [Sp.,--It. _piedestallo_--L. _pes_, _pedis_, the
foot, It. _stallo_, a place.]

PEDESTRIAN, p[=e]-des'tri-an, _adj._ going on foot: performed on foot:
pertaining to common people: vulgar.--_n._ one journeying on foot: an
expert walker, one who practises feats of walking or running.--_adj._
P[=E]DES'TRIAL, of or pertaining to the foot: pedestrian.--_adv._
P[=E]DES'TRIALLY.--_v.t._ P[=E]DES'TRIANISE, to traverse on foot.--_n._
P[=E]DES'TRIANISM, a going on foot: walking: the practice of a pedestrian.
[L. _pedestris_--_pes_, _pedis_.]

PEDETENTOUS, ped-[=e]-ten'tus, _adj._ proceeding slowly.

PEDIATRICS, ped-i-at'riks, _n.pl._ that branch of medical science which
relates to children and their special diseases.--Also PED'IATRY. [Gr.
_pais_, _paidos_, a child, _iatrikos_, relating to a physician.]

PEDICEL, ped'i-sel, _n._ the little footstalk by which a single leaf or
flower is fixed on the twig or on the cluster of which it forms a
part--also PED'ICLE.--_n._ PEDICELL[=A]'RIA, a minute structure on the skin
of sea-urchins and star-fish, like a stalk with a three or two bladed
snapping forceps at the summit.--_adjs._ PED'ICELLATE, PEDIC'[=U]LATE,
provided with a pedicel.--_n._ PED'ICLE, a fetter for the foot. [Fr.
_pédicelle_--L. _pediculus_, dim. of _pes_, _pedis_, the foot.]

PEDICULUS, p[=e]-dik'[=u]-lus, _n._ a genus of lice, or an individual of
it.--_adjs._ P[=E]DIC'ULAR, P[=E]DIC'ULOUS, lousy.--_ns._
P[=E]DICUL[=A]'TION, P[=E]DICUL[=O]'SIS, lousiness.

PEDICURE, ped'i-k[=u]r, _n._ the treatment of corns, bunions, or the like:
one who treats the feet.

PEDIFEROUS, p[=e]-dif'e-rus, _adj._ footed--also P[=E]DIG'EROUS.--_adj._
PED'IFORM, foot-shaped.

PEDIGREE, ped'i-gr[=e], _n._ a line of ancestors: a list, in order, of the
ancestors from whom one has descended: lineage: genealogy.--_adj._
PED'IGREED, having a pedigree. [Skeat suggests Fr. _pied de grue_,
crane's-foot, from its use in the drawing out of pedigrees.]

PEDIMANOUS, p[=e]-dim'a-nus, _adj._ having all four feet like hands--of the
opossums and lemurs.--_n._ PED'IMANE.

[Illustration]

PEDIMENT, ped'i-ment, _n._ (_archit._) a triangular or circular ornament
which crowns the fronts of buildings, and serves as a finish to the tops of
doors, windows, porticoes, &c.--_adjs._ PEDIMENT'AL; PED'IMENTED, furnished
with a pediment: like a pediment. [L. _pedamentum_--_pes_, _pedis_, the
foot.]

PEDIPALP, ped'i-palp, _n._ a maxillipalp or maxillary palpus.--_adj._
pertaining to the same.--_n.pl._ PEDIPAL'PI, an order of
_Arachnida_.--_adj._ PEDIPAL'POUS.

PEDLAR. See PEDDLE.

PEDOBAPTISM, p[=e]-d[=o]-bap'tizm, _n._ infant baptism.--_n._ PEDOBAP'TIST,
one who believes in infant baptism. [Gr. _pais_, _paidos_, a child,
_baptism_.]

PEDOMETER, p[=e]-dom'et-[.e]r, _n._ an instrument, somewhat like a watch,
by which the number of the steps of a pedestrian are registered, from which
the distance he has walked is measured.--_adj._ PEDOMET'RIC. [L. _pes_,
_pedis_, a foot, Gr. _metron_, a measure.]

PEDOMOTOR, ped-[=o]-m[=o]'tor, _n._ a means for applying the foot as a
driving power.--_adj._ PEDOM[=O]'TIVE.

PEDOTROPHY, p[=e]-dot'r[=o]-fi, _n._ the rearing of children.--_adj._
PEDOTROPH'IC.--_n._ PEDOT'ROPHIST. [Gr. _pais_, _paidos_, a child,
_trephein_, to nourish.]

PEDUM, p[=e]'dum, _n._ a shepherd's crook. [L.]

PEDUNCLE, p[=e]-dung'kl, _n._ the stalk by which a cluster of flowers or
leaves is joined to a twig or branch--sometimes same as _pedicel_--also
PEDUN'CULUS.--_adjs._ PEDUN'CULAR, PEDUN'CULATE, -D. [Fr. _pedoncule_--Low
L. _pedunculus_--L. _pes_, _pedis_, the foot.]

PEECE, p[=e]s, _n._ (_Shak._) a fabric, a fortified place.

PEECED, p[=e]sd, _adj._ (_Spens._) imperfect.

PEEK, p[=e]k, _v.i._ to peep.--_n._ PEEK'ABOO, a children's game, from the
cry made when hiding one's eyes.

PEEL, p[=e]l, _v.t._ to strip off the skin or bark: to bare.--_v.i._ to
come off as the skin: to lose the skin: (_slang_) to undress.--_n._ the
skin, rind, or bark: (_print._) a wooden pole with short cross-piece for
carrying printed sheets to the poles on which they are to be dried: the
wash or blade of an oar--not the loom: a mark ([Peel mark]) for cattle, for
persons who cannot write, &c.--_adj._ PEELED, stripped of skin, rind, or
bark: plundered.--_ns._ PEEL'ER, one who peels, a plunderer; PEEL'ING, the
act of stripping: that which is stripped off: (_print._) the removing of
the layers of a paper overlay, to get a lighter impression. [O. Fr.
_peler_, to unskin--L. _pil[=a]re_, to deprive of hair--_pilus_, a hair; or
_pellis_, a skin.]

PEEL, p[=e]l, _n._ a small Border fortress.--Also PEEL'-TOW'ER. [_Pile_.]

PEEL, p[=e]l, _n._ a baker's wooden shovel: a fire-shovel. [O. Fr.
_pele_--L. _p[=a]la_, a spade.]

PEEL, p[=e]l, _v.t._ to plunder: to pillage. [_Pill_ (v.).]

PEELER, p[=e]l'[.e]r, _n._ a policeman, from Sir R. _Peel_, who established
the Irish police (1812-18) and improved those in Britain (1828-30).--_n._
PEEL'ITE, a follower of Peel in the reform of the Corn-laws in 1846.

PEEN, p[=e]n, _n._ the end of a hammer-head, usually shaped for
indenting.--_v.t._ to strike with such. [Ger. _pinne_.]

PEENGE, p[=e]nj, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to complain childishly.

PEEP, p[=e]p, _v.i._ to chirp, or cry as a chicken.--_n._ the cry of a
young chicken. [Fr. _piper_--L. _pip[=a]re_.]

PEEP, p[=e]p, _v.i._ to look through a narrow opening: to look out from
concealment: to look slyly or cautiously: to begin to appear.--_n._ a sly
look: a beginning to appear, a glimpse: a narrow view, a slit.--_ns._
PEEP'ER, one that peeps: a prying person: a chicken just breaking the
shell: (_slang_) the eye; PEEP'-HOLE, a hole through which one may look
without being seen; PEEP'-O'-DAY, the first appearance of light in the
morning; PEEP'-SHOW, a small show viewed through a small hole, usually
fitted with a magnifying-glass; PEEP'-SIGHT, a plate on the breach with a
small hole through which a gunner takes his sight.--PEEPING TOM, a prying
fellow, esp. one who peeps in at windows; PEEP-O'-DAY BOYS, a band of
Protestants in the north of Ireland, in the end of the 18th
century--opposed to the Catholic _Defenders_. [Same as above, Fr. _piper_,
to chirp like a bird, then to beguile, whence _peep_=to look out slyly.]

PEER, p[=e]r, _n._ an equal in rank, ability, character, &c.: an associate:
a nobleman: a member of the House of Lords:--_fem._ PEER'ESS.--_n._
PEER'AGE, the rank or dignity of a peer: the body of peers: a book
containing a description of the history, connections, &c. of the different
peers.--_adj._ PEER'LESS, having no peer or equal: matchless.--_adv._
PEER'LESSLY.--_n._ PEER'LESSNESS.--HOUSE OF PEERS, the House of Lords;
SPIRITUAL PEER, one of the bishops or archbishops qualified to sit as
members of the House of Lords; TEMPORAL PEER, one of the members of the
House of Lords, other than the bishops. [O. Fr. (Fr. _pair_),--L. _par_,
_paris_, equal.]

PEER, p[=e]r, _v.i._ to look narrowly or closely: to peep: to
appear:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ peered.--_adj._ PEER'Y, prying, sly. [M. E.
_piren_--Low Ger. _piren_, orig. _pliren_, to draw the eyelids together.]

PEERIE, PEERY, p[=e]r'i, _n._ a top spun with a string.

PEEVERS, p[=e]v'ers, _n._ (_Scot._) the game of hop-scotch.

PEEVISH, p[=e]v'ish, _adj._ habitually fretful: easily annoyed: hard to
please: showing ill-nature: childish.--_adv._ PEEV'ISHLY.--_n._
PEEV'ISHNESS. [Prob. imit. of the puling of fretful infants.]

PEEWIT. Same as PEWIT.

PEG, peg, _n._ a wooden pin for fastening boards, or the soles of shoes:
one of the pins on which the strings of a musical instrument are stretched:
a reason or excuse for action: a drink of soda-water with brandy, &c.: a
degree or step.--_v.t._ to fasten with a peg: to keep up the market price
by buying or selling at a fixed price: to make points during the game of
cribbage before the show of hands.--_v.i._ to work with unremitting
effort:--_pr.p._ peg'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pegged.--_ns._ PEG'-FICHED,
an English game played with pegs or pointed sticks; PEG'-FLOAT, a machine
for rasping away the ends of pegs inside shoes.--_adj._ PEGGED, fashioned
of, or furnished with, pegs.--_ns._ PEG'GING, the act of fastening with a
peg: pegs collectively: a thrashing: determined perseverance in work;
PEG'-LEG, a wooden leg of the simplest form, or one who walks on such;
PEG'-STRIP, a ribbon of wood cut to the width, &c., of a shoe-peg;
PEG'-TANK'ARD, a drinking-vessel having each one's share marked off by a
knob; PEG'-TOP, a child's plaything made to spin round by winding a string
round it and then rapidly pulling it off: (_pl._) a kind of trousers, wide
at the top and narrow at the ankles.--_adj._ shaped like a top.--PEG AWAY,
to keep continually working.--TAKE DOWN A PEG, to take down, to humble.
[Scand.; as in Dan. _pig_, a spike.]

PEGASUS, peg'a-sus, _n._ a winged horse which arose from the blood of the
Gorgon Medusa, when she was slain by Perseus: a genus of small fishes with
large, wing-like, pectoral fins: one of the constellations in the northern
sky.--_adj._ PEGAS[=E]'AN.

PEGGY, peg'i, _n._ one of several small warblers, the whitethroat, &c.
[_Peggy_, from _Peg_=_Meg_--_Margaret_.]

PEGMATITE, peg'ma-t[=i]t, _n._ coarsely crystallised granite.--_adj._
PEGMATIT'IC.

PEHLEVI, p[=a]'le-v[=e], _n._ an ancient West Iranian idiom during the
period of the Sassanides, largely mixed with Semitic words, and poorer in
inflections and terminations than Zend (235-640 A.D.): the characters used
in writing this language.--_adj._ of or pertaining to, or written in,
Pehlevi. [Pers.]

PEIGNOIR, p[=e]n-wär', _n._ a loose wrapper worn by women during their
toilet. [Fr.]

PEINCT, p[=a]ngkt, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to paint.

PEINE, p[=a]n, _n._ a form of punishment by pressing to death--usually
_Peine forte et dure_. [Fr.]

PEIRASTIC, p[=i]-ras'tik, _adj._ tentative.--_n._ PEIRAM'ETER, an
instrument for measuring the resistances of road-surface to traction. [Gr.
_peira_, a trial.]

PEISE, p[=a]z, _v.t._ (_Spens._, _Shak._) to poise, to weigh.--_n._ a
weight. [_Poise_.]

PEJORATION, p[=e]-j[=o]-r[=a]'shun, _n._ a becoming worse:
deterioration.--_v.i._ P[=E]'JOR[=A]TE.--_adj._ and _n._
P[=E]'JOR[=A]TIVE.--_n._ P[=E]JOR'ITY. [L. _pejor_, worse, comp. of
_malus_, bad.]

PEKAN, pek'an, _n._ an American species of Marten--called also
_Wood-shock_, _Fisher_, and _Black-fox_.

PEKOE, p[=e]'k[=o], _n._ a scented black tea. [Chinese.]

PELAGE, pel'[=a]j, _n._ the hair or wool of a mammal. [Fr.]

PELAGIAN, p[=e]-l[=a]'ji-an, _n._ one who holds the views of _Pelagius_, a
British monk of the 4th century, who denied original sin.--_adj._
pertaining to Pelagius.--_n._ PEL[=A]'GIANISM, the doctrines of Pelagius.

PELAGIC, p[=e]-laj'ik, _adj._ inhabiting the deep sea, marine, oceanic.
[Gr. _pelagos_, the sea.]

PELARGONIUM, pel-ar-g[=o]'ni-um, _n._ a vast genus of beautiful flowering
plants of order _Geraniaceæ_.--_adj._ P[=E]LAR'GIC, stork-like. [Gr.
_pelargos_, stork, the beaked capsules resembling a stork's beak.]

PELASGIC, p[=e]-las'jik, _adj._ pertaining to the _Pelasgians_ or
_Pelasgi_, a race spread over Greece in prehistoric times, to whom are
ascribed many enormous remains built of unhewn stones, without cement--the
so-called PELASGIC ARCHITECTURE. Also PELAS'GIAN.

PÊLE-MÊLE. See PELL-MELL, _adv._

PELERINE, pel'[.e]r-in, _n._ a woman's tippet or cape with long ends coming
down in front. [Fr., a tippet--_pèlerin_, a pilgrim--L. _peregrinus_,
foreign.]

PELF, pelf, _n._ riches (in a bad sense): money. [O. Fr. _pelfre_, booty;
allied to _pilfer_.]

PELICAN, pel'i-kan, _n._ a large water-fowl, having an enormous distensible
gular pouch: an alembic with tubulated head from which two opposite and
crooked beaks extend and enter again the body of the vessel--used for
continuous distillation: a dentist's instrument: (_her._) a pelican above
her nest, with wings indorsed, wounding her breast with her beak in order
to feed her young with her blood. [Low L. _pelicanus_--Gr.
_pelikan_--_pelekus_, an axe.]

PELIKE, pel'i-k[=e], _n._ a large vase like the hydria, double-handled.
[Gr.]

PELISSE, pe-l[=e]s', _n._ a cloak of silk or other cloth, with sleeves,
worn by ladies: a garment lined with fur, a dragoon's jacket with shaggy
lining. [Fr.,--Low L. _pellicea (vestis)_--L. _pellis_, a skin.]

PELL, pel, _n._ a skin or hide: a roll of parchment. [O. Fr. _pel_ (Fr.
_peau_)--L. _pellis_, a skin or hide.]

PELLAGRA, pe-l[=a]'gra, _n._ a loathsome skin disease supposed to be common
in the rice-producing part of the north of Italy.--_n._ PELL[=A]'GRIN, one
afflicted with pellagra.--_adj._ PELL[=A]'GROUS, like or afflicted with
pellagra. [Gr. _pella_, skin, _agra_, seizure.]

PELLET, pel'et, _n._ a little ball, as of lint or wax: a small rounded
boss: a small pill: a ball of shot.--_adj._ PELL'ETED, consisting of
pellets: pelted, as with bullets. [O. Fr. _pelote_--L. _pila_, a ball.]

PELLICLE, pel'i-kl, _n._ a thin skin or film: the film or scum which
gathers on liquors.--_adj._ PELLIC'ULAR.

PELLITORY, pel'i-tor-i, _n._ a genus of plants found most commonly on old
walls and heaps of rubbish: the feverfew.--_n._ PELL'ITORY-OF-SPAIN, a
plant which grows in Algeria, the root of which causes in the hands first a
sensation of extreme cold, then one of a burning heat. [L. _parietaria_,
the wall-plant--_parietarius_--_paries_, _parietis_, a wall.]

PELL-MELL, pel-mel', _adv._ in great confusion: promiscuously: in a
disorderly manner--also written _Pêle-mêle_.--_n._ PELL-MELL' (same as
PALL-MALL). [O. Fr. _pesle-mesle_ (Fr. _pêle-mêle_), _-mesle_ being from O.
Fr. _mesler_ (Fr. _mêler_), to mix--Low L. _miscul[=a]re_--L. _misc[=e]re_;
and _pesle_, a rhyming addition, perh. influenced by Fr. _pelle_, shovel.]

PELLUCID, pe-l[=u]'sid, _adj._ perfectly clear: letting light through:
transparent.--_ns._ PELL[=U]CID'ITY, PELL[=U]'CIDNESS.--_adv._
PELL[=U]'CIDLY. [Fr.,--L. _pellucidus_--_per_, perfectly, _lucidus_,
clear--_luc[=e]re_, to shine.]

PELMA, pel'ma, _n._ the sole of the foot.--_n._ PELMAT'OGRAM, the
impression of the foot. [Gr.]

PELOPID, pel'[=o]-pid, _adj._ pertaining to _Pelops_.--_n._ one of his
descendants.

PELOPONNESIAN, pel-[=o]-po-n[=e]'zi-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the
_Peloponnesus_ or southern part of Greece.--_n._ an inhabitant or a native
of the Peloponnesus.--PELOPONNESIAN WAR, a war between Athens and Sparta
(431-404 B.C.). [Gr. _Pelops_, an ancient Greek hero, _n[=e]sos_, an
island.]

PELORIA, p[=e]-l[=o]'ri-a, _n._ the appearance of regularity in flowers
normally irregular--also PEL'ORISM.--_adjs._ P[=E]LOR'IATE, P[=E]LOR'IC.
[Gr. _pel[=o]r_, a monster.]

PELT, pelt, _n._ a raw hide: the quarry or prey of a hawk all torn.--_ns._
PELT'MONGER, a dealer in skins; PELT'RY, the skins of animals with the fur
on them: furs. [M. E. _pelt_, _peltry_--O. Fr. _pelleterie_--_pelletier_, a
skinner--L. _pellis_, a skin.]

PELT, pelt, _v.t._ to strike with something thrown: to cast.--_v.i._ to
fall heavily, as rain.--_n._ a blow from something thrown.--_ns._ PEL'TER,
a shower of missiles, a sharp storm of rain, &c.: a storm of anger;
PEL'TING, an assault with a pellet, or with anything thrown. [Cf.
_Pellet_.]

PELTA, pel'ta, _n._ a light buckler.--_n._ PEL'TAST, a soldier armed with
this.--_adjs._ PEL'T[=A]TE, -D, shield-shaped; PELTAT'IFID, PEL'TIFORM.
[L.,--Gr. _pelt[=e]_.]

PELTING, pel'ting, _adj._ (_Shak._) paltry, contemptible.--_adv._
PELT'INGLY. [_Paltry_.]

PELVIS, pel'vis, _n._ the bony cavity at the lower end of the trunk,
forming the lower part of the abdomen.--_adjs._ PEL'VIC, of or pertaining
to the pelvis; PEL'VIFORM, openly cup-shaped.--_ns._ PELVIM'ETER, an
instrument for measuring the diameters of the pelvis; PELVIM'ETRY. [L.
_pelvis_, a basin.]

PEMMICAN, PEMICAN, pem'i-kan, _n._ a North American Indian preparation,
consisting of lean venison, dried, pounded, and pressed into cakes, now
made of beef and used in Arctic expeditions, &c.

PEMPHIGUS, pem'fi-gus, _n._ an affection of the skin with pustules.--_adj._
PEM'PHIGOID. [Gr.]

PEN, pen, _v.t._ to shut up: to confine in a small enclosure:--_pr.p._
pen'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ penned or pent.--_n._ a small enclosure: a
fold for animals: a coop. [A.S. _pennan_, to shut up, in comp. _on pennan_,
to unpen. Prop. to fasten with a _pin_.]

PEN, pen, _n._ one of the large feathers of the wing of a bird: an
instrument used for writing, formerly made of the feather of a bird, but
now of steel, &c.: style of writing: a female swan--opp. to _Cob_.--_v.t._
to write, to commit to paper:--_pr.p._ pen'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
penned.--_adj._ PEN'-AND-INK', written, literary: executed with pen and
ink, as a drawing.--_ns._ PEN'-CASE, a holder for a pen or pens; PEN'CRAFT,
skill in penmanship: the art of composition; PEN'-DRIV'ER, a clerk;
PEN'FUL, what one can write with one dip of ink; PEN'-HOLD'ER, a holder for
pens or nibs; PEN'-W[=I]'PER, a piece of cloth, leather, &c. for wiping
pens after use; PEN'-WOM'AN, a female writer. [O. Fr. _penne_--L. _penna_,
a feather.]

PENAL, p[=e]'nal, _adj._ pertaining to, incurring, or constituting
punishment: used for punishment.--_v.t._ P[=E]'NALISE, to lay under
penalty.--_adv._ P[=E]'NALLY.--PENAL LAWS, laws prohibiting certain actions
under penalties; PENAL SERVITUDE, hard labour in a prison as a punishment
for crime--introduced in England in 1853 instead of transportation; PENAL
STATUTE, a statute imposing a penalty or punishment for crime. [Fr.,--L.
_poenalis_--_poena_, Gr. _poin[=e]_, punishment.]

PENALTY, pen'al-ti, _n._ punishment: suffering in person or property for
wrong-doing or for breach of a law: a fine or loss which a person agrees to
pay or bear in case of his non-fulfilment of some undertaking: a
fine.--UNDER PENALTY OF, so as to suffer, or (after a negative) without
suffering the punishment of.

PENANCE, pen'ans, _n._ repentance: external acts performed to manifest
sorrow for sin, to seek to atone for the sin and to avert the punishment
which, even after the guilt has been remitted, may still remain due to the
offence--also the sacrament by which absolution is conveyed (involving
contrition, confession, and satisfaction): any instrument of
self-punishment.--_v.t._ to impose penance on: to punish. [O. Fr.; cf.
_Penitence_.]

PENANG-LAWYER, pe-nang'-law'y[.e]r, _n._ a walking-stick made from the stem
of a Penang palm. [Prob. a corr. of _Penang liyar_, the wild areca.]

PENANNULAR, p[=e]-nan'[=u]-lar, _adj._ shaped almost like a ring. [L.
_pæna_, almost, _annularis_, annular.]

PENATES, p[=e]-n[=a]'t[=e]s, _n.pl._ the household gods of ancient Rome who
presided over and were worshipped by each family. [L., from root _pen-_ in
L. _penitus_, within, _penetralia_, the inner part of anything.]

PENCE, pens, _n._ plural of _penny_ (q.v.).

PENCHANT, päng'shäng, _n._ inclination: decided taste: bias. [Fr., pr.p. of
_pencher_, to incline, through a form _pendic[=a]re_, from L. _pend[=e]re_,
to hang.]

PENCIL, pen'sil, _n._ a small hair brush for laying on colours: any pointed
instrument for writing or drawing without ink: a collection of rays of
light converging to a point: the art of painting or drawing.--_v.t._ to
write, sketch, or mark with a pencil: to paint or draw:--_pr.p._
pen'cilling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pen'cilled.--_ns._ PEN'CIL-CASE, a holder
for a pencil; PEN'CIL-COM'PASS, a compass having a pencil on one of its
legs for use in drawing.--_adjs._ PEN'CILLED, written or marked with a
pencil: having pencils of rays: radiated: (_bot._) marked with fine lines,
as with a pencil; PEN'CILLIFORM, having the form of a pencil, as of
rays.--_ns._ PEN'CILLING, the art of writing, sketching, or marking with a
pencil: marks made with a pencil: fine lines on flowers or the feathers of
birds: a sketch; PEN'CIL-SKETCH, a sketch made with a pencil. [O. Fr.
_pincel_ (Fr. _pinceau_)--L. _penicillum_, a painter's brush, dim. of
_penis_, a tail.]

PEND, pend, _n._ (_obs._) an enclosure: (_Scot._) a narrow close leading
off a main street.

PEND, pend, _v.i._ to hang, as in a balance, to impend.--_adj._ PEND'ING,
hanging: remaining undecided: not terminated.--_prep._ during.

PENDANT, pen'dant, _n._ anything hanging, esp. for ornament: an earring: a
lamp hanging from the roof: an ornament of wood or of stone hanging
downwards from a roof: a long narrow flag, at the head of the principal
mast in a royal ship: something attached to another thing of the same kind,
an appendix, a companion picture, poem, &c.--_ns._ PEN'DENCE, PEN'DENCY, a
hanging in suspense: state of being undecided.--_adj._ PEN'DENT, hanging:
projecting: supported above the ground or base: (_bot._) hanging downwards,
as a flower or a leaf.--_n._ PENDEN'TIVE (_archit._), the triangular
portion of a dome cut off between two supporting arches at right angles to
each other.--_adv._ PEN'DENTLY.--_ns._ PEN'DICLE, an appendage: something
attached to another, as a privilege, a small piece of ground for
cultivation; PEN'D[=U]LET, a pendant. [Fr. _pendant_, pr.p. of _pendre_, to
hang--L. _pendens_, _-entis_--_pr.p._ of _pend[=e]re_, to hang.]

PENDRAGON, pen-drag'on, _n._ a chief leader: an ancient British
chief.--_n._ PENDRAG'ONSHIP. [W. _pen_, head, _dragon_, a chief.]

PENDULUM, pen'd[=u]-lum, _n._ any weight so hung from a fixed point as to
swing freely: the swinging weight which regulates the movement of a clock:
a lamp, &c., pendent from a ceiling: a guard-ring of a watch by which it is
attached to a chain.--_adj._ PEN'DULAR, relating to a pendulum.--_v.i._
PEN'DULATE, to swing, vibrate.--_adjs._ PEN'DULENT, pendulous; PEN'DULINE,
building a pendulous nest; PEN'DULOUS, hanging loosely: swinging freely, as
the pensile nests of birds: (_bot._) hanging downwards, as a flower on a
curved stalk.--_adv._ PEN'DULOUSLY.--_ns._ PEN'DULOUSNESS,
PEN'DULOSITY.--PENDULUM WIRE, a kind of flat steel wire for clock
pendulums.--COMPENSATION PENDULUM, a pendulum so constructed that its rod
is not altered in length by changes of temperature; COMPOUND PENDULUM,
every ordinary pendulum is _compound_, as differing from a SIMPLE PENDULUM,
which is a material point suspended by an ideal line; INVARIABLE PENDULUM,
a pendulum for carrying from station to station to be oscillated at each so
as to fix the relative acceleration of gravity; LONG and SHORT PENDULUM, a
pendulum for determining the absolute force of gravity by means of a bob
suspended by a wire of varying length. [L., neut. of _pendulus_,
hanging--_pend[=e]re_, to hang.]

PENEIAN, p[=e]-n[=e]'yan, _adj._ relating to the river _Peneus_ in the
famous Vale of Tempe in Thessaly.

PENELOPISE, p[=e]-nel'o-p[=i]z, _v.i._ to act like _Penelope_, the wife of
Ulysses, who undid at night the work she did by day, to gain time from her
suitors.

PENETRATE, pen'[=e]-tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to thrust into the inside: to pierce
into: to affect the mind or feelings: to enter and to fill: to understand:
to find out.--_v.i._ to make way: to pass inwards.--_ns._ PENETRABIL'ITY,
PEN'ETRABLENESS.--_adj._ PEN'ETRABLE, that may be penetrated or pierced by
another body: capable of having impressions made upon the mind.--_adv._
PEN'ETRABLY, so as to be penetrated--_n.pl._ PENETR[=A]'LIA, the inmost
parts of a building: secrets: mysteries.--_ns._ PEN'ETRANCE, PEN'ETRANCY,
the quality of being penetrant.--_adjs._ PEN'ETRANT, subtle, penetrating;
PEN'ETRATING, piercing or entering: sharp: subtle: acute:
discerning.--_adv._ PEN'ETRATINGLY.--_n._ PENETR[=A]'TION, the act or power
of penetrating or entering: acuteness: discernment: the space-penetrating
power of a telescope.--_adj._ PEN'ETRATIVE, tending to penetrate: piercing:
sagacious: affecting the mind.--_adv._ PEN'ETRATIVELY, in a penetrative
manner.--_n._ PEN'ETRATIVENESS, the quality of being penetrative:
penetrative power. [L. _penetr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_penes_, within.]

PEN-FISH, pen'-fish, _n._ a sparoid fish of genus _Calamus_.

PENFOLD. Same as PINFOLD.

PENGUIN, pen'gwin, _n._ an aquatic bird in the southern hemisphere, unable
to fly, but very expert in diving--also PIN'GUIN.--_n._ PEN'GUINERY, a
breeding-place of penguins. [Ety. dub.; a corr. of _pen-wing_, or from W.
_pen_, head, _gwen_, white.]

PEN-GUN, pen'-gun, _n._ a pop-gun.

PENICIL, pen'i-sil, _n._ a brush of hairs: a pledget for wounds,
&c.--_adjs._ PEN'ICILLATE, PENICIL'LIFORM.--_n._ PENICIL'LIUM, one of the
blue-moulds.

PENINSULA, p[=e]-nin's[=u]-la, _n._ land so surrounded by water as to be
almost an island.--_adj._ PENIN'SULAR, pertaining to a peninsula: in the
form of a peninsula: inhabiting a peninsula.--_n._ PENINSULAR'ITY, state of
being, or of inhabiting, a peninsula: narrow provincialism.--_v.t._
PENIN'SULATE, to form into a peninsula: to surround almost entirely with
water.--PENINSULAR WAR, the war in Spain and Portugal, carried on by Great
Britain against Napoleon's marshals (1804-1814).--THE PENINSULA, Spain and
Portugal. [L.,--_pæne_, almost, _insula_, an island.]

PENIS, p[=e]'nis, _n._ the characteristic external male organ.--_adj._
P[=E]'NIAL. [L., a tail.]

PENISTONE, pen'i-st[=o]n, _n._ a coarse frieze.--PENISTONE FLAGS, a kind of
sandstone for paving and building, brought from _Penistone_ in Yorkshire.

PENITENT, pen'i-tent, _adj._ suffering pain or sorrow for sin: contrite:
repentant.--_n._ one who is sorry for sin: one who has confessed sin, and
is undergoing penance.--_ns._ PEN'ITENCE, PEN'ITENCY, state of being
penitent: sorrow for sin.--_adj._ PENITEN'TIAL, pertaining to, or
expressive of, penitence.--_n._ a book of rules relating to
penance.--_adv._ PENITEN'TIALLY.--_adj._ PENITEN'TIARY, relating to
penance: penitential.--_n._ a penitent: an office at the court of Rome for
examining and issuing secret bulls, dispensations, &c.: a book for guidance
in imposing penances: a place for the performance of penance: a house of
correction and punishment for offenders.--_adv._ PEN'ITENTLY.--PENITENTIAL
GARMENT, a rough garment worn for penance; PENITENTIAL PSALMS, certain
psalms suitable for being sung by penitents, as the 6th, 32d, 38th, 51st,
102d, 130th, 143d. [Fr.,--L. _poenitens_, _-entis_--_poenit[=e]re_, to
cause to repent.]

PENKNIFE, pen'n[=i]f, _n._ a small knife, originally for making and mending
quill pens.

PENMAN, pen'man, _n._ a man skilled in the use of the pen: an
author:--_pl._ PEN'MEN.--_n._ PEN'MANSHIP, the use of the pen: art or
manner of writing.

PENNA, pen'a, _n._ a feather, esp. one of the large feathers of the wings
or tail.--_adj._ PENN[=A]'CEOUS. [L.]

PENNAL, pen'al, _n._ a freshman at a German university--so called from
their pennales or pen-cases.--_n._ PENN'ALISM, a system of fagging once in
vogue at German universities.

PEN-NAME, pen'-n[=a]m, _n._ a name, other than his real one, by which an
author is known to the public: a nom de plume.

PENNANT, pen'ant, _n._ a flag many times as long as it is wide: a streamer:
a long narrow piece of bunting at the mast-heads of war-ships.--Also
PENN'ON. [_Pennant_ is formed from _pennon_, with excrescent _t_; _pennon_
is Fr. _pennon_--L. _penna_, a wing.]

PENNATE, -D, pen'[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ winged: (_bot._) same as
PINNATE.--_adj._ PENNATIF'ID (see PINNATIFID).--_n._ PENNE (_Spens._), a
feather.--_adj._ PENNED, having wings: winged: written with a pen.--_n._
PEN'NER, a case for holding pens: (_her._) a representation of such carried
at the girdle.--_adjs._ PENNIF'EROUS, PENNIG'EROUS, feathered; PEN'NIFORM,
like a feather in form. [L. _pennatus_--_penna_, wing.]

PENNILL, pen'il, _n._ a kind of Welsh verse, in which the singer has to
change words and measure according to the variations of his accompanist on
the harp. [W. 'a verse,' pl. _pennillion_.]

PENNON, pen'on, _n._ a flag, a medieval knight-bachelor's ensign: a long
narrow flag: a pinion or wing.--_ns._ PENN'ONCELLE, a small flag like a
pennon; PENN'ONCIER, a knight-bachelor.--_adj._ PENN'ONED, bearing a
pennon. [Cf. _Pennant._]

PENNY, pen'i, _n._ a copper coin (bronze since 1860), originally
silver=1/12 of a shilling, or four farthings: a small sum: money in
general: (_N.T._) a silver coin=7½d.: pound, in _fourpenny_, _sixpenny_,
_tenpenny nails_=four, six, ten _pound_ weight to the thousand:--_pl._
PENNIES (pen'iz), denoting the number of coins; PENCE (pens), the amount of
pennies in value.--_adjs._ PENN'IED, possessed of a penny; PENN'ILESS,
without a penny: without money: poor.--_ns._ PENN'ILESSNESS;
PENN'Y-A-LIN'ER, one who writes for a public journal at so much a line: a
writer for pay; PENN'Y-A-LIN'ERISM, hack-writing; PENN'Y-DOG, the tope or
miller's dog, a kind of shark; PENN'Y-POST, a means of carrying a letter
for a penny; PENN'Y-RENT, income; PENN'YWEIGHT, twenty-four grains of troy
weight (the weight of a silver penny); PENN'Y-WIS'DOM, prudence in petty
matters.--_adj._ PENN'Y-WISE, saving small sums at the risk of larger:
niggardly on improper occasions.--_ns._ PENN'Y-WORTH, a penny's worth of
anything: the amount that can be given for a penny: a good bargain--also
PENN''ORTH (_coll._); P[=E]'TER'S-PENCE, the name given to an old tribute
offered to the Roman Pontiff, now a voluntary contribution.--PENNY FEE
(_Scot._), a small wage; PENNY GAFF (_slang_), a low-class theatre; PENNY
MAIL (_Scot._), rent in money, not in kind: a small sum paid to the
superior of land; PENNY WEDDING, a wedding ceremonial in Scotland, at which
the invited guests made contributions in money to pay the general
expenses.--A PRETTY PENNY, a considerable sum of money; TURN AN HONEST
PENNY, to earn money honestly. [A.S. _penig_, oldest form _pending_, where
_pend_=Eng. _pawn_, Ger. _pfand_, Dut. _pand_, a pledge, all which are from
L. _pannus_, a rag, a piece of cloth.]

PENNYROYAL, pen'i-roi-al, _n._ a species of mint, much in use in domestic
medicine, in the form of a warm infusion, to promote perspiration and as an
emmenagogue. [Corr. from old form _pulial_, which is traced through O. Fr.
to L. _puleium regium_, the plant pennyroyal--_pulex_, a flea.]

PENOLOGY, PÆNOLOGY, p[=e]-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the study of punishment in its
relation to crime: the management of prisons.--_n._ PENOL'OGIST. [Gr.
_poin[=e]_, punishment, _logia_, description.]

PENSÉE, pang-s[=a]', _n._ a thought. [Fr.]

PENSEROSO, pen-se-r[=o]'so, _adj._ melancholy: thoughtful:--_fem.
Penser[=o]'sa._ [It.]

PENSILE, pen's[=i]l, _adj._ hanging: suspended.--_ns._ PEN'SILENESS,
PENSIL'ITY. [Fr.,--L.,--_pend[=e]re_, hang.]

PENSION, pen'shun, _n._ a stated allowance to a person for past services
performed by himself or by some relative: a payment made to a person
retired from service on account of age or weakness: a boarding-school or
boarding-house on the Continent (pron. pong-siong'): a sum paid to a
clergyman in place of tithes.--_v.t._ to grant a pension to.--_adjs._
PEN'SIONABLE, entitled, or entitling, to a pension; PEN'SIONARY, receiving
a pension: consisting of a pension.--_n._ one who receives a pension: the
syndic or legal adviser of a Dutch town.--_ns._ PEN'SIONER, one who
receives a pension: a dependent: one who pays out of his own income for his
commons, chambers, &c. at Cambridge University=an Oxford _commoner_;
PEN'SIONNAIRE.--GRAND PENSIONARY, the president of the States-general of
Holland. [Fr.,--L. _pension-em_--_pend[)e]re_, _pensum_, to weigh, pay.]

PENSIVE, pen'siv, _adj._ thoughtful: reflecting: expressing thoughtfulness
with sadness.--_adj._ PEN'SIVED (_Shak._), thought over.--_adv._
PEN'SIVELY.--_n._ PEN'SIVENESS, state of being pensive: gloomy
thoughtfulness: melancholy. [Fr. _pensif_--L. _pens[=a]re_, to
weigh--_pend[)e]re_, to weigh.]

PENSTOCK, pen'stok, _n._ a trough conveying water to a water-wheel.

PENSUM, pen'sum, _n._ an extra task given a scholar in punishment.

PENT, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of pen, to shut up.

PENTACAPSULAR, pen-ta-kap's[=u]-lar, _adj._ having five capsules.

PENTACHORD, pen'ta-kord, _n._ a musical instrument with five strings: a
diatonic series of five tones.

PENTACLE, pent'a-kl, _n._ a figure formed by two equilateral triangles
intersecting regularly so as to form a six-pointed star: properly a
five-pointed object, the same as PENTAGRAM (q.v.), a defence against
demons.--_adj._ PENTAC'ULAR. [O. Fr., but prob. not from Gr. _pente_, five,
but O. Fr. _pente_, _pendre_, to hang. As applied to a magical figure prob.
a corr. of _pentangle_, perh. _pentacol_--_pendre_, to hang, a, on, _col_,
the neck.]

PENTACOCCOUS, pen-ta-kok'us, _adj._ (_bot._) having five grains or seeds.

PENTACROSTIC, pen-ta-kros'tik, _adj._ containing five acrostics of the same
name.--_n._ a set of such verses.

PENTACT, pen'takt, _adj._ five-rayed.--Also PENTAC'TINAL.

PENTAD, pen'tad, _n._ the number five, a group of five things: a mean of
temperature, &c., taken every five days.

PENTADACTYLOUS, pen-ta-dak'ti-lus, _adj._ having five digits--also
PENTADAC'TYL.--_n._ PENTADAC'TYLISM.

PENTADELPHOUS, pen-ta-del'fus, _adj._ (_bot._) grouped together in five
sets.

PENTAGLOT, pen'ta-glot, _adj._ of five tongues.--_n._ a work in five
languages.

[Illustration]

PENTAGON, pen'ta-gon, _n._ (_geom._) a plane figure having five angles and
five sides: a fort with five bastions.--_adj._ PENTAG'ONAL.--_adv._
PENTAG'ONALLY. [Gr. _pentag[=o]non_--_pente_, five, _g[=o]nia_, angle.]

[Illustration]

PENTAGRAM, pen'ta-gram, _n._ a five-pointed star: a magic figure so
called.--This is the proper _pentacle_.--_adj._ PENTAGRAMMAT'IC. [Gr.
_pente_, five, _gramma_, a letter.]

PENTAGRAPH=_Pantograph_.

PENTAGYNIA, pent-a-jin'i-a, _n._ (_bot._) a Linnæan order of plants,
characterised by their flowers having five pistils.--_n._ PENT'AGYN
(_bot._), a plant having five styles.--_adjs._ PENTAGYN'IAN, PENTAG'YNOUS.
[Gr. _pente_, five, _gyn[=e]_, a female.]

PENTAHEDRON, pen-ta-h[=e]'dron, _n._ (_geom._) a solid figure bounded by
five plane faces.--_adj._ PENTAH[=E]'DRAL. [Gr. _pente_, five, _hedra_,
base.]

PENTALPHA, pen-tal'fa, _n._ a five-pointed star: a pentacle. [Gr. _pente_,
five, _alpha_.]

PENTAMERON, pen-tam'e-ron, _n._ a famous collection of fifty folk-tales
(Naples 1637) written in the Neapolitan dialect by Giambattista Basile,
supposed to be told during five days by ten old women, for the
entertainment of a Moorish slave who has usurped the place of the rightful
princess. [It. _pentamerone_.]

PENTAMEROUS, pen-tam'[.e]r-us, _adj._ (_bot._) consisting of or divided
into five parts.--PENTAMERUS BEDS (_geol._), a name applied to the upper
and lower Llandovery rocks, full of the brachiopods called _Pentamerus_.
[Gr. _pente_, five, _meros_, part.]

PENTAMETER, pen-tam'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a verse of five measures or
feet.--_adj._ having five feet.--ELEGIAC PENTAMETER, a verse of six
dactylic feet, the third and sixth with the first member only; IAMBIC
PENTAMETER, in English, heroic couplets and blank verse. [Gr.
_pentametros_--_pente_, five, _metron_, a measure.]

PENTANDRIA, pen-tan'dri-a, _n._ (_bot._) a Linnæan order of plants,
characterised by their flowers having five stamens.--_n._ PENTAN'DER, a
plant of the class Pentandria.--_adjs._ PENTAN'DRIAN, PENTAN'DROUS. [Gr.
_pente_, five, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a man, a male.]

PENTANGULAR, pen-tang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ having five angles.

PENTAPETALOUS, pen-ta-pet'a-lus, _adj._ having five petals.

PENTAPHYLLOUS, pen-ta-fil'us, _adj._ having five leaves. [Gr. _pente_,
five, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

PENTAPODY, pen-tap'o-di, _n._ a measure of five feet.

PENTAPOLIS, pen-tap'o-lis, _n._ a group of five cities.--_adj._
PENTAPOL'ITAN, esp. of the ancient _Pentapolis_ of Cyrenaica in northern
Africa. [Gr. _pente_, five, _polis_, a city.]

PENTARCHY, pen'tär-ki, _n._ government by five persons. [Gr. _pente_, five,
_arch[=e]_, rule.]

PENTASEPALOUS, pen-ta-sep'a-lus, _adj._ having five sepals.

PENTASPERMOUS, pent-a-sp[.e]r'mus, _adj._ (_bot._) containing five seeds.
[Gr. _pente_, five, _sperma_, seed.]

PENTASTICH, pen'ta-stik, _n._ a composition of five verses.--_adj._
PENTAS'TICHOUS, five-ranked.

PENTASTYLE, pen'ta-st[=i]l, _adj._ having five columns in front.--_n._
(_archit._) a building with a portico of five columns. [Gr. _pente_, five,
_stylos_, a pillar.]

PENTASYLLABIC, pen-ta-si-lab'ik, _adj._ having five syllables.

PENTATEUCH, pen'ta-t[=u]k, _n._ a name used to denote the Jewish Thorah,
the first five books of the Old Testament.--_adj._ PEN'TATEUCHAL. [Gr.
_pente_, five, _teuchos_, a book--_teuchein_, to prepare.]

PENTATHLON, pen-tath'lon, _n._ a contest consisting of five
exercises--wrestling, throwing the discus, spear-throwing, leaping, and
running--also PENTATH'LUM.--_n._ PENTATH'L[=E]TE, one who contests in the
pentathlon. [Gr. _pente_, five, _athlon_, a contest.]

PENTATONIC, pen-ta-ton'ik, _adj._ consisting of five tones.

PENTECONTER, pen't[=e]-kon-t[.e]r, _n._ an ancient Greek ship having fifty
oars.

PENTECOST, pen't[=e]-kost, _n._ a Jewish festival held on the fiftieth day
after the Passover, in commemoration of the giving of the law: the festival
of Whitsuntide, held in remembrance of the descent of the Holy Ghost upon
the assembled disciples at the feast of Pentecost.--_adj._
PENTECOST'AL.--_n.pl._ offerings formerly made to the parish priest at
Whitsuntide. [Gr. _pent[=e]kost[=e]_ (_h[=e]mera_), the fiftieth (day).]

PENTEGRAPH=_Pantograph_.

PENTELIC, -AN, pen-tel'ik, -an, _adj._ describing a kind of marble found at
Mount _Pentelicus_ near Athens.

PENTETERIC, pen-te-ter'ik, _adj._ occurring every five years. [Gr.,
_pente_, five, _etos_, a year.]

PENTHEMIMERAL, pen-th[=e]-mim'e-ral, _adj._ belonging to a metrical group
of 2½ feet. [Gr. _pente_, five, _h[=e]mi_, half, _meros_, a part.]

PENTHOUSE, pent'hows, _n._ a shed projecting from or adjoining a main
building: a protection from the weather over a door or a window: anything
resembling a penthouse.--_v.t._ to provide with a penthouse, shelter by
means of a shed sloping from a wall, or anything similar. [A corr. of
_pentice_, which is from Fr. _appentis_--L. _appendicium_, an appendage.]

PENTICE, pen'tis, _n._ See PENTHOUSE.

PENTILE=_Pantile_.

PENTROOF, pent'r[=oo]f, _n._ a roof with a slope on one side only. [A
hybrid word, from Fr. _pente_, a slope--_pendre_, to hang, and Eng.
_roof_.]

PENTSTEMON, pent-st[=e]'mon, _n._ a genus of perennial herbs of the order
_Scrophularineæ_, common in California. [Gr. _pente_, five, _st[=e]m[=o]n_,
warp, stamen.]

PENTZIA, pent'si-a, _n._ a genus of South African shrubs, having yellow
flowers in small heads, usually in corymbs.--The chief species is _Pentzia
virgata_ or the 'sheep-fodder bush.' [Named after C. J. _Pentz_, a student
under Thunberg.]

PENULT, p[=e]-nult', or p[=e]'nult, PENULT'IMA, _n._ the syllable last but
one.--_adj._ PENULT'IM[=A]TE, last but one.--_n._ the penult: the last
member but one of any series. [L. _penultima_--_pæne_, almost, _ultimus_,
last.]

PENUMBRA, p[=e]-num'bra, _n._ a partial or lighter shadow round the perfect
or darker shadow of an eclipse: the part of a picture where the light and
shade blend into each other.--_adjs._ PENUM'BRAL, PENUM'BROUS. [L. _pæne_,
almost, _umbra_, shade.]

PENURY, pen'[=u]-ri, _n._ want: absence of means or resources: great
poverty.--_adj._ PEN[=U]'RIOUS, showing penury: not bountiful: too saving:
sordid: miserly.--_adv._ PEN[=U]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ PEN[=U]'RIOUSNESS.
[Fr.,--L. _penuria_; Gr. _peina_, hunger, _pen[=e]s_, poor.]

PEON, p[=e]'on, _n._ a day-labourer, esp. in South America, one working off
a debt by bondage: in India, a foot-soldier, a messenger, a native
policeman.--_ns._ P[=E]'ONAGE, P[=E]'ONISM, this kind of agricultural
servitude. [Sp.,--Low L. _pedo_--L. _pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

PEONY, p[=e]'o-ni, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Ranunculaceæ_, with large showy flowers, carmine, in some white. [O. Fr.
_pione_ (Fr. _pivoine_)--L. _pæonia_, healing--Gr. _Pai[=o]n_.]

PEOPLE, p[=e]'pl, _n._ persons generally: the men, women, and children of a
country or a nation: the mass of persons as distinguished from the rulers,
&c.: an indefinite number: inhabitants: the vulgar: the populace:--_pl._
PEOPLES (p[=e]'plz), races, tribes.--_v.t._ to stock with people or
inhabitants.--PEOPLE'S PALACE, an institution for the amusement,
recreation, and association of the working-classes, as that in the East End
of London, inaugurated in 1887.--CHOSEN PEOPLE, the Israelites; GOOD
PEOPLE, or FOLK, a popular euphemistic name for the fairies; PECULIAR
PEOPLE (see PECULIAR); THE PEOPLE, the populace, the mass. [Fr.
_peuple_--L. _populus_, prob. reduplicated from root of _plebs_, people.]

PEOTOMY, p[=e]-ot'[=o]-mi, _n._ the amputation of the penis. [Gr. _peos_,
the penis, _temnein_, to cut.]

PEPERIN, pep'e-rin, _n._ a volcanic tufa found in the Alban Hills near
Rome. [It. _peperino_--_pepe_, pepper--L. _piper_, pepper.]

PEPITA, pe-p[=e]'ta, _n._ a nugget of gold. [Sp.]

PEPLUM, pep'lum, _n._ an upper robe worn by women in ancient Greece.--Also
PEP'LUS. [L.,--Gr. _peplos_.]

PEPO, p[=e]'p[=o], _n._ a fruit like that of the gourd. [Gr.]

PEPPER, pep'[.e]r, _n._ a pungent aromatic condiment consisting of the
dried berries of the pepper-plant, entire or powdered: any plant of genus
_Piper_: a plant of genus _Capsicum_, or one of its pods, whence _Cayenne
pepper_.--_v.t._ to sprinkle with pepper: to hit or pelt with shot, &c.: to
pelt thoroughly: to do for.--_adj._ PEPP'ER-AND-SALT', of a colour composed
of a light ground dotted with fine spots of a dark colour, or of a dark
ground with light spots.--_ns._ PEPP'ER-BOX, a box with a perforated top
for sprinkling pepper on food; PEPP'ER-CAKE, a kind of spiced cake or
gingerbread; PEPP'ER-CAST'ER, the vessel, on a cruet-stand, from which
pepper is sprinkled; PEPP'ERCORN, the berry of the pepper plant: something
of little value--PEPPERCORN RENT, a nominal rent; PEPP'ERER, one who sells
pepper, a grocer; PEPP'ER-GIN'GERBREAD, hot-spiced gingerbread;
PEPP'ER-GRASS, any plant of genus _Lepidium_; PEPP'ERINESS; PEPP'ERMINT, a
species of mint, aromatic and pungent like pepper: a liquor distilled from
the plant: a lozenge flavoured with peppermint--_Peppermint-drop_, a
confection so flavoured; PEPP'ER-POT, a West Indian dish, of cassareep,
together with flesh or dried fish and vegetables, esp. green okra and
chillies: tripe shredded and stewed, with balls of dough and plenty of
pepper; PEPP'ER-TREE, a shrub of the cashew family, native to South
America, &c.--also PEPPER SHRUB and _Chili pepper_; PEPP'ERWORT, the
dittander.--_adj._ PEPP'ERY, possessing the qualities of pepper: hot,
choleric.--ÆTHIOPIAN PEPPER, the produce of _Xylopia Æthiopica_; BENIN
PEPPER, of _Cubeba Clusii_; GUINEA PEPPER, or MALEGUETTA PEPPER, of
_Amomum_; JAMAICA PEPPER, or PIMENTO, of species of Eugenia (_Myrtaceæ_);
LONG PEPPER, the fruit of _Piper Longum_; WHITE PEPPER, the seed freed from
the skin and fleshy part of the fruit by soaking in water and rubbing the
dried fruit. [A.S. _pipor_--L. _piper_--Gr. _peperi_--Sans. _pippala_.]

PEPPER'S GHOST, pep'[.e]rs g[=o]st, _n._ a device for associating on the
same stage living persons and phantoms to act together--the phantom
produced by a large sheet of unsilvered glass on the stage, practically
invisible to the spectators, reflecting to them, along with a visible actor
or actors, the appearance of another actor on an understage, himself
invisible. [John H. _Pepper_ (b. 1821), the improver and exhibitor of Henry
Dircks' invention.]

PEPSIN, PEPSINE, pep'sin, _n._ one of the essential constituents of the
gastric juice: the active agent in fermenting food in the stomach--a
hydrolytic ferment.--_adj._ PEP'TIC, relating to or promoting digestion:
having a good digestion.--_ns._ PEPTIC'ITY, eupepsia; PEP'TICS, digestion
considered as a science: the digestive organs; PEP'TOGEN, a substance
producing peptone, any preparation that facilitates digestion.--_adjs._
PEPTOGEN'IC, PEPTOG'ENOUS, PEPTON'IC.--_ns._ PEP'T[=O]NE, one of a class of
albumenoids formed by the action of the chemical ferment pepsin and
hydrochloric acid, the latter first converting into a syntonin or acid
protein, the former converting this syntonin into peptone--they are soluble
in water, are not coagulated by boiling, and pass readily through an animal
membrane, being therefore easily absorbed; PEPTONIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
PEP'TONISE, to convert into peptones.--_n._ PEP'TONOID, a substance like
peptone: one of certain food preparations. [Fr.,--Gr. _pepsis_,
digestion--_peptein_, to digest.]

PEPYSIAN, pep'is-i-an, _adj._ pertaining to Samuel _Pepys_ (1633-1703), his
inimitable diary, or the collection of prints, books, ballads, &c. he
bequeathed to Magdalene College, Cambridge.

PER, p[.e]r, _prep._ through, by means of, according to.--PER ANNUM, year
by year: for each year; PER CAPITA, by heads, implying equal rights to two
or more persons; PER CENT., per hundred; PER CONTRA, on the contrary: as a
set-off; PER DIEM, every day: day by day; PER MENSEM, monthly: by the
month; PER SALTUM, at a single leap: all at once; PER SE, by himself, &c.:
essentially.

PERACUTE, per-a-k[=u]t', _adj._ very sharp or violent.

PERADVENTURE, per-ad-vent'[=u]r, _adv._ by adventure: by chance:
perhaps.--_n._ uncertainty: question.

PERAMBULATE, per-am'b[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to walk through or over: to pass
through for the purpose of surveying: to survey the boundaries of.--_ns._
PERAMBUL[=A]'TION, act of perambulating: a survey or inspection by
travelling through: the district within which a person has the right of
inspection; PERAM'BUL[=A]TOR, one who perambulates: an instrument for
measuring distances on roads: a light carriage for a child.--_adj._
PERAM'BUL[=A]TORY. [L. _perambul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_per_, through,
_ambul[=a]re_, to walk.]

PERCALE, per-käl', _n._ a closely woven French cambric.--_n._ PER'CALINE, a
glossy cotton cloth. [Fr.]

PERCASE, per-k[=a]s', _adv._ (_Bacon_) perchance, perhaps. [L. _per_,
through, by, _casus_, a chance.]

PERCEABLE, p[.e]rs'a-bl, _adj._ (_Spens._)=_Pierceable_.

PERCEANT, p[.e]rs'ant, _adj._ piercing, penetrating.--_v.t._ PERC'EN
(_Spens._), to pierce. [Fr. _perçant_, pr.p. of _percer_, to pierce.]

PERCEIVE, per-s[=e]v', _v.t._ to become aware of through the senses: to get
knowledge of by the mind: to see: to understand: to discern.--_adj._
PERCEIV'ABLE (same as PERCEPTIBLE).--_adv._ PERCEIV'ABLY (same as
PERCEPTIBLY).--_ns._ PERCEIV'ER; PERCEIV'ING (_Bacon_), perception. [O. Fr.
_percever_--L. _percip[)e]re_, _perceptum_--_per_, perfectly, _cap[)e]re_,
to take.]

PERCENTAGE, per-sen't[=a]j, _n._ rate per hundred: an allowance of so much
for every hundred.--_adj._ PERCEN'TILE. [Cf. _Cent._]

PERCEPT, p[.e]r'sept, _n._ that which is perceived by means of the
senses.--_n._ PERCEPTIBIL'ITY, quality of being perceptible.--_adj._
PERCEP'TIBLE, that can be perceived: that may be known by the senses:
discernible.--_adv._ PERCEP'TIBLY.--_n._ PERCEP'TION, act of perceiving:
discernment: (_phil._) the faculty of perceiving: the evidence of external
objects by our senses.--_adjs._ PERCEP'TIONAL; PERCEP'TIVE, having the
power of perceiving or discerning.--_ns._ PERCEP'TIVENESS, the faculty or
power of perceiving: readiness to perceive; PERCEPTIV'ITY, character or
quality of being perceptive: power of perceiving.--_adj._ PERCEP'T[=U]AL,
of the nature of perception.

PERCH, p[.e]rch, _n._ a genus of fresh-water fishes.--_adjs._
PERCH'-BACKED, shaped like a perch's back; PER'CIFORM, percoid; PER'CINE,
perciform; PER'COID, like the perch: pertaining to the perch family. [Fr.
_perche_--L. _perca_--Gr. _perk[=e]_, a perch, prob. conn. with _perknos_,
spotted.]

PERCH, p[.e]rch, _n._ a rod on which birds roost: any high seat or
position: a measure=5½ yards: a square measure=30¼ square yards: a pole
joining the fore and hind gear of a spring carriage: a frame on which cloth
is examined for flaws.--_v.i._ to sit or roost on a perch: to
settle.--_v.t._ to place, as on a perch.--_ns._ PERCH'ER, a bird that
perches on trees; PERCH'ING, the examination of cloth stretched on a frame
for burs, knots, or holes--also called _Burling_.--_adj._
insessorial.--_ns._ PERCH'-PLATE, a plate or block above or below a
carriage-reach, at the king-bolt; PERCH'-POLE, an acrobat's climbing-pole;
PERCH'-STAY, one of the side-rods bracing the perch to the hind-axle. [Fr.
_perche_--L. _pertica_, a rod.]

PERCHANCE, per-chans', _adv._ by chance: perhaps.

PERCHERON, per-she-rong', _n._ a horse of the Percheron breed, large strong
draught-horses, usually dapple-gray--also _Norman_ and _Norman
Percheron_.--_adj._ pertaining to the foregoing. [Fr.,--_Perche_, in
southern Normandy.]

PERCHLORIC, per-kl[=o]'rik, _adj._ pertaining to an acid, a syrupy liquid
obtained by decomposing potassium perchlorate by means of sulphuric
acid.--_n._ PERCHL[=O]'RATE, a salt of perchloric acid.

PERCIPIENT, per-sip'i-ent, _adj._ perceiving: having the faculty of
perception.--_n._ one who perceives or who has the power of
perceiving.--_ns._ PERCIP'IENCE, PERCIP'IENCY.

PERCLOSE, per-kl[=o]z', _n._ an enclosed place: (_archit._) a railing
separating a tomb or chapel from the rest of the church: (_her._) the lower
half of a garter with the buckle.--Also PAR'ACLOSE, PARCLOSE'. [O. Fr.,--L.
_præ_, in front, _claud[)e]re_, _clausum_, to shut.]

PERCOCT, per-kokt', _adj._ well-cooked. [L. _percoctus_, _percoqu[)e]re_,
to cook thoroughly.]

PERCOID, per'koid. See PERCH (1).

PERCOLATE, p[.e]r'k[=o]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to strain through pores or small
openings, as a liquid: to filter.--_v.i._ to pass or ooze through very
small openings: to filter.--_n._ a filtered liquid.--_ns._ PERCOL[=A]'TION,
act of filtering; PER'COLATOR, a filtering vessel. [L.
_percol[=a]re_,_-[=a]tum_--_per_, through, _col[=a]re_, to strain.]

PERCURRENT, per-kur'ent, _adj._ running through the whole length.--_adj._
PERCUR'SORY, running over slightly or in haste (same as _Cursory_). [L.
_percurrens_, pr.p. of _percurr[)e]re_, _percursum_, to run through.]

PERCUSS, per-kus', _v.t._ to strike so as to shake: to tap for purposes of
diagnosis.--_adj._ PERCUS'SANT (_her._), bent round and striking the side,
as a lion's tail--also PERCUSSED'.

PERCUSSION, per-kush'un, _n._ the forcible striking of one body against
another: collision, or the shock produced by it: impression of sound on the
ear: (_med._) the tapping upon the body to find the condition of an
internal organ by the sounds: in the jargon of palmistry, the outer side of
the hand.--_adjs._ PERCUSS'IONAL, PERCUSS'IVE.--_ns._ PERCUSS'ION-BULL'ET,
a bullet so formed as to explode on striking something: an explosive
bullet; PERCUS'SION-CAP, a cap of copper partly filled with a substance
which explodes when struck, formerly used for firing rifles, &c.;
PERCUS'SION-FUSE, a fuse in a projectile set in action by concussion when
the projectile strikes the object; PERCUS'SION-HAMM'ER, a small hammer for
percussion in diagnosis; PERCUS'SION-LOCK, a kind of lock for a gun in
which a hammer strikes upon a percussion-cap on the nipple, igniting the
charge; PERCUS'SION-POW'DER, powder which explodes on being struck, called
also _fulminating powder_.--_adv._ PERCUSS'IVELY.--_ns._ PERCUSS'OR;
PERCUTEUR', an instrument for light percussion in neuralgia, &c.--_adj._
PERC[=U]'TIENT, striking or having power to strike.--_n._ that which
strikes or has power to strike. [L. _percussion-em_--_percut[)e]re_,
_percussum_--_per_, thoroughly, _quat[)e]re_, to shake.]

PERCUTANEOUS, per-k[=u]-t[=a]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ done or applied through or
by means of the skin.--_adv._ PERCUT[=A]'NEOUSLY. [L. _per_, through,
_cutis_, the skin.]

PERDENDO, per-den'd[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) dying away.--Also PERDEN'DOSI.
[It.]

PERDIE, PERDY, p[.e]r'di, _adv._=PARDIEU.

PERDITION, per-dish'un, _n._ utter loss or ruin: the utter loss of
happiness in a future state.--_n._ PER'DITA, a lost woman.--_adj._
PERDI'TIONABLE. [Fr.,--L. _perditio_--_perd[)e]re_, _perditum_--_per_,
entirely, _d[)a]re_, to put.]

PERDU, PERDUE, per-d[=u]', _adj._ lost to view: concealed: being on a
forlorn hope or on a desperate enterprise: reckless.--_n._ (_Shak._) one
lying in concealment or ambush: one on a forlorn hope. [Fr., pa.p. of
_perdre_, to lose--L. _perd[)e]re_, to destroy.]

PERDUELLION, per-d[=u]-el'i-on, _n._ treason. [L.]

PERDURABLE, per'd[=u]-ra-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) very durable, long
continued.--_ns._ PERDURABIL'ITY, PERD[=U]'RANCE, PERDUR[=A]'TION.--_adv._
PERD[=U]'RABLY (_Shak._), very durably: everlastingly.--_v.i._ PERDURE', to
last for a very long time. [L. _perdur[=a]re_--_per_, through, _dur[=a]re_,
to last.]

PEREGAL, per'e-gal, _adj._ fully equal.--_n._ equal.

PEREGRINATE, per'[=e]-gri-n[=a]t, _v.i._ to travel through the country: to
travel about from place to place: to live in a foreign country.--_adj._
foreign.--_ns._ PEREGRIN[=A]'TION, act of peregrinating or travelling
about; PER'EGRIN[=A]TOR, one who travels about.--_adj._ PER'EGRINE,
foreign, not native: migratory, as a bird.--_n._ a foreigner resident in
any country: a kind of falcon.--_n._ PEREGRIN'ITY, foreignness. [L.
_peregrin[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_peregrinus_, foreign.]

PEREION, pe-r[=i]'on, _n._ the thorax in crustacea:--_pl._ PEREI'A.--_n._
PEREI'OPOD, one of the true thoracic limbs of a crustacean. [Gr.
_perii[=o]n_, pr.p. of _periienai_, to go about.]

PERELLE, pe-rel', _n._ Same as PARELLA.

PEREMPTORY, per'emp-t[=o]-ri, _adj._ preventing debate: authoritative:
dogmatical: final, determinate: fully resolved or determined: that must be
done.--_adv._ PER'EMPTORILY.--_n._ PER'EMPTORINESS. [Fr.,--L.
_peremptorius_--_perim[)e]re_, peremptum--_per_, entirely, _em[)e]re_, to
take.]

PERENNIAL, pe-ren'i-al, _adj._ lasting through the year: perpetual: never
failing: growing constantly: (_bot._) lasting more than two years: of
insects, living more than one year.--_n._ a plant which lives more than two
years.--_v.i._ PERENN'ATE, to live perennially.--_n._
PERENN[=A]'TION.--_adv._ PERENN'IALLY. [L. _perennis_--_per_, through,
_annus_, a year.]

PERENNIBRANCHIATE, pe-ren-i-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having perennial
branchiæ or gills.--Also PERENN'IBRANCH.

PERFECT, p[.e]r'fekt, _adj._ done thoroughly or completely: completed:
without blemish, fault, or error: having neither too much nor too little:
entire, very great: in the highest degree: possessing every moral
excellence: completely skilled or acquainted: (_gram._) expressing an act
completed: (_bot._) having both stamens and pistils, hermaphrodite.--_v.t._
(or per-fekt') to make perfect: to finish: to teach fully, to make fully
skilled in anything.--_ns._ PERFECT[=A]'TION (_rare_); PER'FECTER;
PERFECT'I, a body of Catharists in the 12th and 13th centuries, of very
strict lives; PERFECTIBIL'ITY, quality of being made perfect.--_adj._
PERFECT'IBLE, that may be made perfect.--_ns._ PERFEC'TION, state of being
perfect: a perfect quality or acquirement: the highest state or degree;
PERFEC'TIONISM (or PERFECTIBIL'ITY), the belief that man in a state of
grace may attain to a relative perfection or a state of living without sin
in this life; PERFEC'TIONIST, one who pretends to be perfect: one who
thinks that moral perfection can be attained in this life: one of the Bible
Communists or Free-lovers, a small American sect founded by J. H. Noyes
(1811-86), which settled at Oneida in 1848, holding that the gospel if
accepted secures freedom from sin.--_adj._ PERFECT'IVE, tending to make
perfect.--_advs._ PERFECT'IVELY, PER'FECTLY, in a perfect manner:
completely: exactly: without fault.--_n._ PER'FECTNESS, state or quality of
being perfect: completeness: perfection: consummate excellence.--PERFECT
INSECT, the imago or completely developed form of an insect; PERFECT METALS
(see METAL); PERFECT NUMBER, a number equal to the sum of all its divisors,
the number itself of course excepted, as 6 = 1 + 2 + 3, 28 = 1 + 2 + 4 + 7
+ 14. [Fr.,--L. _perfectus_, pa.p. of _perfic[)e]re_--_per_, thoroughly,
_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

PERFERVID, per-fer'vid, _adj._ very fervid: very hot or eager.--_n._
PERFER'VIDNESS.--PERFERVIDUM INGENIUM, a very ardent disposition. [L.
_perfervidus_, _præfervidus_--_præ_, before, _fervidus_, fervid.]

PERFICIENT, p[.e]r-fish'ent, _adj._ effectual.--_n._ one who does a lasting
work, esp. who endows a charity.

PERFIDIOUS, per-fid'i-us, _adj._ faithless: unfaithful: basely violating
trust: treacherous.--_adv._ PERFID'IOUSLY.--_ns._ PERFID'IOUSNESS,
PER'FIDY, treachery. [L. _perfidiosus_--_perfidia_, faithlessness.]

PERFOLIATE, -D, per-f[=o]'li-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) having the stem as
it were passing through the blade--of a leaf: having the leaf round the
stem at the base: (_zool._) surrounded by a circle of hairs, &c., taxicorn.
[L. _per_, through, _folium_, a leaf.]

PERFORATE, p[.e]r'f[=o]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to bore through: to pierce: to make
a hole through.--_adj._ PER'FORABLE, capable of being perforated.--_n._
PER'FORANS, the long flexor muscle of the toes, or the deep flexor muscle
of the fingers.--_adjs._ PER'FORANT, perforating; PER'FORATE, -D (_bot._),
pierced with holes: having transparent dots, as the leaves of certain
flowers.--_n._ PERFOR[=A]'TION, act of boring through: a hole through or
into anything.--_adj._ PER'FOR[=A]TIVE, having power to pierce.--_ns._
PER'FOR[=A]TOR, one who bores, or an instrument for boring; PER'FOR[=A]TUS,
the short flexor of the toes, or the superficial flexor of the fingers. [L.
_perfor[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_per_, through, _for[=a]re_, to bore.]

PERFORCE, per-f[=o]rs', _adv._ by force: of necessity.

PERFORM, per-form', _v.t._ to do thoroughly: to carry out: to achieve: to
act, as on the stage.--_v.i._ to do: to act a part: to play, as on a
musical instrument.--_adj._ PERFOR'MABLE, capable of being performed:
practicable.--_ns._ PERFOR'MANCE, act of performing: a carrying out of
something: something done, esp. of a public character: a piece of work: an
exhibition in a theatre or a place of amusement: an act or action;
PERFOR'MER, one who performs, esp. one who makes a public exhibition of his
skill: an actor, an actress, &c.--_adj._ PERFOR'MING, doing: trained to
perform tricks. [O. Fr. _parfournir_, _par_--L. _per_, through, _fournir_,
to furnish.]

PERFUME, p[.e]r'f[=u]m, or p[.e]r-f[=u]m', _n._ sweet-smelling smoke: sweet
scent: anything which yields a sweet odour.--_v.t._ (p[.e]r-f[=u]m') to
fill with a pleasant odour: to scent.--_adj._ PERF[=U]'MATORY, yielding
perfume.--_ns._ PER'FUME-FOUN'TAIN, a small appliance for throwing a jet or
spray of perfume; PERF[=U]'MER, one who or that which perfumes: one who
makes or sells perfumes; PERF[=U]'MERY, perfumes in general: the art of
preparing perfumes; PER'FUME-SET, a set of articles for the
toilet-table.--_adj._ PER'F[=U]MY. [Fr. _parfum_--L. _per_, through,
_fumus_, smoke.]

PERFUNCTORY, per-fungk't[=o]-ri, _adj._ done merely as a duty to be passed
over: performed carelessly or without interest: negligent: slight.--_adv._
PERFUNC'TORILY, in a careless, half-hearted manner: without zeal or
interest.--_n._ PERFUNC'TORINESS, careless performance: half-heartedness.
[L. _perfunctorius_--_perfunctus_, pa.p. of _perfungi_, to execute--_per_,
thoroughly, _fungi_, to do.]

PERFUSE, per-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to pour through or over.--_n._
PERF[=U]'SION.--_adj._ PERF[=U]'SIVE, sprinkling, or tending to sprinkle.
[L. _perfusus_, poured over--_per_, through, _fund[)e]re_, to pour.]

PERGAMENEOUS, per-ga-m[=e]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ thin and parchment-like in
texture.--_adj._ PERGAMENT[=A]'CEOUS, parchment-like. [L. _pergamena_,
parchment.]

PERGOLA, per'g[=o]-la, _n._ an arbour, a balcony.--Also PER'GULA. [It.,--L.
_pergula_, a shed.]

PERGUNNAH, p[.e]r-gun'a, _n._ a sub-division of a zillah or district in
India.--Also PARGAN'A. [Hind.]

PERHAPS, per-haps', _adv._ it may be: possibly.

PERI, p[=e]'ri, _n._ in Persian mythology, a female elf or fairy,
represented as descended from the fallen angels. [Fr. _péri_--Pers.
_par[=i]_, a fairy.]

PERIAGUA, per-i-ä'gwä, _n._ a canoe hollowed out of a single trunk, a
dug-out: a vessel made by cutting a canoe in two lengthwise and inserting a
large plank: a large keelless flat-bottomed boat for shoal-water
navigation, decked at the ends only, propelled by rowing, or by sails on
two masts capable of being struck.--Also PIROGUE'. [Sp. _piragua_.]

PERIAKTOS, per-i-ak'tos, _n._ in the ancient Greek theatre a tall
prism-shaped frame or screen at the side entrances, each carrying three
scenes changed by turning the frames. [Gr.]

PERIANTH, per'i-anth, _n._ the floral envelope where the calyx and corolla
are not easily distinguished. [Gr. _peri_, around, _anthos_, a flower.]

PERIAPT, per'i-apt, _n._ (_Shak._) an amulet. [Gr. _periapton_, something
hung round, _peri_, about, _aptos_--_aptein_, to fasten.]

PERIAXIAL, per-i-ak'si-al, _adj._ surrounding an axis.

PERIBLAST, per'i-blast, _n._ the protoplasm about the nucleus of a
cell.--_adj._ PERIBLAST'IC. [Gr. _peri_, about, _blastos_, a germ.]

PERIBOLOS, pe-rib'o-los, _n._ a court enclosed by a wall, esp. one
containing a temple or a church, the whole outer enclosure of sanctuary or
refuge. [Gr. _peribolos_, encircling--_peri_, around, _ballein_, to throw.]

PERICARDIUM, per-i-kär'di-um, _n._ (_anat._) the bag or sac composed of two
layers which surrounds the heart.--_adjs._ PERICAR'DIAC, PERICAR'DIAL,
PERICAR'DIAN.--_n._ PERICARD[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the pericardium.
[Late L.,--Gr. _perikardion_--_peri_, around, _kardia_, heart.]

PERICARP, per'i-kärp, _n._ (_bot._) the covering, shell, or rind of fruits:
a seed-vessel.--_adj._ PERICARP'IAL. [Gr. _perikarpion_--_peri_, around,
_karpos_, fruit.]

PERICENTRAL, per-i-sen'tral, _adj._ surrounding a central body.--_adj._
PERICEN'TRIC.

PERICHONDRIUM, per-i-kon'dri-um, _n._ the fibrous investment of cartilage.
[Gr. _peri_, about, _chondros_, cartilage.]

PERICLASE, per'i-kl[=a]z, _n._ a rare mineral consisting of magnesia with a
little iron protoxide. [Gr. _peri_, about, _klasis_, fracture.]

PERICLEAN, per-i-kl[=e]'an, _adj._ of _Pericles_ (died 429 B.C.) or the
golden age of art and letters at Athens.

PERICOPE, p[=e]-rik'[=o]-p[=e], _n._ an extract, esp. the selections from
the epistles and gospels for the Sundays of the year. [Gr. _peri_, around,
_koptein_, to cut.]

PERICRANIUM, per-i-kr[=a]'ni-um, _n._ (_anat._) the membrane that surrounds
the cranium.--_adj._ PERICR[=A]'NIAL.--_n._ PER'ICR[=A]NY (_obs._), the
skull. [Late L.,--Gr. _perikranion_--_peri_, around, _kranion_, the skull.]

PERICULUM, p[=e]-rik'[=u]-lum, _n._ (_Scots law_) a risk:--_pl._ PERIC'ULA.
[L.]

PERICYSTITIS, per-i-sis-t[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation around the bladder.
[Gr. _peri_, around, _kystis_, the bladder.]

PERIDENTAL, per-i-den'tal, _adj._ surrounding the teeth.

PERIDERM, per'i-derm, _n._ the hard integument of some tubularian
hydromedusans: (_bot._) the outer bark.--_adj._ PER'IDERMAL. [Gr. _peri_,
about, _derma_, skin.]

PERIDESMIUM, per-i-des'mi-um, _n._ (_anat._) the areolar tissue round a
ligament. [Gr. _peri_, around, _desmos_, a band.]

PERIDIUM, p[=e]-rid'i-um, _n._ the outer coat of a sporophore in
angiocarpous fungi.--_adj._ PERID'IAL.--_n._ PERID[=I]'OLUM (_bot._), an
inner peridium inside of which the hymenium is formed. [Gr. _p[=e]ridion_,
dim. of _p[=e]ra_, a wallet.]

PERIDOTITE, per'i-d[=o]-t[=i]t, _n._ rock mainly composed of olivine.--_n._
PER'IDOT, chrysolite.--_adj._ PERIDOT'IC.

PERIDROME, per'i-dr[=o]m, _n._ the space between the inner cell or chamber
and the surrounding pillars in an ancient temple. [Gr. _peridromos_,
running round--_peri_, around, _dromos_, a race.]

PERIEGESIS, per-i-[=e]-j[=e]'sis, _n._ a progress or journey through. [Gr.]

PERIENTERON, per-i-en'te-ron, _n._ the primitive perivisceral
cavity.--_adj._ PERIENTER'IC. [Gr. _peri_, about, _enteron_, an intestine.]

PERIFIBRUM, per-i-f[=i]'brum, _n._ the membraneous covering of the spicules
and fibre of sponges.

PERIGANGLIONIC, per-i-gang-gli-on'ik, _adj._ surrounding a ganglion.

PERIGASTRIC, per-i-gas'trik, _adj._ surrounding the alimentary canal.

PERIGEE, per'i-j[=e], _n._ (_astron._) the point of the moon's orbit at
which it is nearest the earth--opp. to _Apogee_.--_adjs._ PERIG[=E]'AL,
PERIG[=E]'AN. [Gr. _peri_, near, _g[=e]_, the earth.]

PERIGENESIS, per-i-jen'e-sis, _n._ wave-generation, the dynamic theory of
reproduction by a kind of wave-motion of plastidules.

PERIGLOTTIS, per-i-glot'is, _n._ the epidermis of the tongue.--_adj._
PERIGLOTT'IC.

PERIGONE, per'i-g[=o]n, _n._ (_bot._) the same as PERIANTH--also
PERIG[=O]'NIUM.--_adj._ PERIG[=O]'NIAL. [Gr. _peri_, about, _gon[=e]_,
seed.]

PERIGRAPH, per'i-graf, _n._ an inaccurate delineation of anything.--_adj._
PERIGRAPH'IC.

PERIGYNOUS, per-ij'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) denoting flowers which have the
petals and stamens growing on the calyx, or around the pistil.--_n._
PERIGYN'IUM. [Gr. _peri_, about, _gyn[=e]_, a female.]

PERIHELION, per-i-h[=e]'li-on, _n._ the point of the orbit of a planet or a
comet at which it is nearest to the sun--opp. to _Aphelion_.--Also
PERIH[=E]'LIUM. [Gr. _peri_, near, _h[=e]lios_, the sun.]

PERIHEPATIC, per-i-h[=e]-pat'ik, _adj._ surrounding the liver.

PERIL, per'il, _n._ danger: a source of danger: exposure to danger.--_v.t._
to expose to danger:--_pr.p._ per'illing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
per'illed.--_adj._ PER'ILOUS, full of peril: dangerous.--_adv._
PER'ILOUSLY.--_n._ PER'ILOUSNESS. [Fr. _péril_--L. _periculum_.]

PERILYMPH, per'i-limf, _n._ the fluid which surrounds the membraneous
labyrinth of the ear.

PERIMETER, p[=e]-rim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ (_geom._) the circuit or boundary of
any plane figure, or the sum of all its sides: an instrument for measuring
the area over which a person can see distinctly.--_adjs._ PERIMET'RIC, -AL,
pertaining to the perimeter.--_n._ PERIM'ETRY, the act of making
perimetrical measurements. [Gr. _perimetros_--_peri_, around, _metron_,
measure.]

PERIMORPH, per'i-morf, _n._ a mineral enclosing another.--_adjs._
PERIMOR'PHIC, PERIMOR'PHOUS.

PERINEUM, PERINÆUM, per-i-n[=e]'um, _n._ the lower part of the body between
the genital organs and the rectum.--_adj._ PERIN[=E]'AL. [L.,--Gr.]

PERIOD, p[=e]'ri-ud, _n._ the time in which anything is performed:
(_astron._) the time occupied by one of the heavenly bodies in making its
revolution: a stated interval of time, at the end of which certain events
begin again to go through the same course as before: a series of events: a
series of years: length of duration: the time at which anything ends:
conclusion: (_gram._) a mark at the end of a sentence: (_rhet._) a complete
sentence.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to put an end to.--_adjs._ PERIOD'IC, -AL,
pertaining to a period: happening by revolution: occurring at regular
intervals: pertaining to periodicals.--_ns._ PERIOD'ICAL, a magazine or
other publication which appears in parts at regular periods;
PERIOD'ICALIST, one who writes in a periodical.--_adv._
PERIOD'ICALLY.--_n._ PERIODIC'ITY, state of being periodic: tendency to
happen over again at regular intervals of time.--PERIODICAL LITERATURE,
literature published in magazines, &c.; PERIODIC FUNCTION, one whose
operation being iterated a certain number of times restores the variable: a
function having a period; PERIODIC INEQUALITY, a disturbance in the motion
of a planet due to its position in its orbit relatively to another planet;
PERIODIC LAW (_chem._), a relation of elements according to their atomic
weights. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _periodos_--_peri_, around, _hodos_, a way.]

PERIOPHTHALMUS, per-i-of-thal'mus, _n._ a genus of acanthopterous fishes,
allied to gobies, with protruding mobile eyes, pectoral fins that can be
used as legs.

PERIORBITAL, per-i-or'bi-tal, _adj._ pertaining to the orbit of the eye.

PERIOSTEUM, per-i-os't[=e]-um, _n._ a tough fibrous membrane which forms
the outer coating of bones.--_adjs._ PERIOS'T[=E]AL, PERIOS'T[=E]OUS;
PERIOSTIT'IC.--_n._ PERIOST[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the periosteum. [Gr.
_periosteon_--_peri_, around, _osteon_, a bone.]

PERIOTIC, per-i-[=o]'tik, _adj._ surrounding the inner ear.--_n._ a
periotic bone. [Gr. _peri_, about, _ous_, _[=o]tos_, the ear.]

PERIPATETIC, -AL, per-i-pa-tet'ik, -al, _adj._ walking about: of or
pertaining to the philosophy of Aristotle, who taught while walking up and
down in the Lyceum at Athens.--_n._ PERIPATET'IC, an adherent of the
philosophy of Aristotle: one accustomed or obliged to walk: (_pl._)
instruction by lectures.--_n._ PERIPATET'ICISM, the philosophy of
Aristotle. [Gr. _peripat[=e]tikos_--_peri_, about, _patein_, to walk.]

PERIPATUS, pe-rip'[=a]-tus, _n._ a genus of myriapods.

PERIPETIA, per-i-pe-t[=i]'a, _n._ the dénouement of a drama.

PERIPHERY, pe-rif'[.e]r-i, _n._ (_geom._) the circumference of a circle or
of any closed figure: the outside of anything generally.--_adjs._
PERIPH'ERAL, PERIPHER'IC, -AL. [L.--Gr. _peri_, around, _pherein_, to
carry.]

PERIPHRACTIC, per-i-frak'tik, _adj._ enclosed around. [Gr. _peri_, about,
_phrassein_, to enclose.]

PERIPHRASE, per'i-fr[=a]z, _n._ a round-about way of speaking: the use of
more words than are necessary to express an idea: (_rhet._) a figure
employed to avoid a trite expression--also PERIPH'RASIS.--_v.t._ or _v.i._
to use circumlocution.--_adjs._ PERIPHRAS'TIC, -AL, containing or expressed
by periphrasis or circumlocution.--_adv._ PERIPHRAS'TICALLY. [L.,--Gr.
_periphrasis_--_peri_, about, _phrasis_, a speaking.]

PERIPLAST, per'i-plast, _n._ the intercellular substance of an organ or
tissue of the body.--_adj._ PERIPLAST'IC.

PERIPLUS, per'i-plus, _n._ a circumnavigation. [Gr. _peri_, around,
_ploos_, _plous_, a voyage.]

PERIPTERY, pe-rip't[.e]r-i, _n._ (_archit._) a building surrounded by a
wing or row of columns.--_adjs._ PERIP'TERAL, having a periptery or range
of columns all round, said of a temple, &c.; PERIP'TEROUS, feathered on all
sides: peripteral. [Gr. _peripteros_--_peri_, about, _pteron_, a wing.]

PERIRHINAL, per-i-r[=i]'nal, _adj._ surrounding the nose.

PERISCII, pe-rish'i-[=i], _n.pl._ the people within the polar circle,
because their shadows, on some days in summer, move round in a complete
circle, owing to the fact that on those days the sun does not set.--_adj._
PERIS'CIAN. [Gr. _periskios_, throwing a shadow all round; _peri_, around,
_skia_, a shadow.]

PERISCOPE, per'i-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument like the altiscope, used in
directing submarine boats.--_adj._ PERISCOP'IC. [Gr. _peri_, about,
_skopein_, to see.]

PERISH, per'ish, _v.i._ to pass away completely: to waste away: to decay:
to lose life: to be destroyed: to be ruined or lost.--_ns._ PERISHABIL'ITY,
PER'ISHABLENESS, the quality of being liable to speedy decay or
destruction.--_adj._ PER'ISHABLE, that may perish: subject to speedy
decay.--_adv._ PER'ISHABLY.--_v.i._ PER'ISHEN (_Spens._), to perish. [O.
Fr. _perir_, pr.p. _perissant_--L. _per[=i]re_, to perish--_per_,
completely, _[=i]re_, to go.]

PERISPERM, per'i-sp[.e]rm, _n._ (_bot._) that which is round a seed, the
albumen.--_adj._ PERISPER'MIC. [Gr. _peri_, around, _sperma_, seed.]

PERISPHERIC, -AL, per-i-sfer'ik, -al, _adj._ globular.

PERISPORE, per'i-sp[=o]r, _n._ the outer covering of a spore.

PERISSAD, pe-ris'ad, _n._ (_chem._) an atom whose valency is represented by
an odd number--opp. to _Artiad_--also _adj._ [Gr. _perissos_, beyond the
regular number.]

PERISSODACTYLA, pe-ris-[=o]-dak'ti-la, _n._ one of the two divisions of the
great mammalian order Ungulata, including the horse, tapir, and rhinoceros,
distinguished by the third digit of each limb being symmetrical in itself,
by the presence of an odd number of digits on the hind-foot, &c.--opp. to
_Artiodactyla_.--_adjs._ PERISSODAC'TYL, PERISSODAC'TYLATE,
PERISSODACTYL'IC, PERISSODAC'TYLOUS. [Gr. _perissos_, beyond the regular
number, _daktylos_, a finger.]

PERISSOLOGY, per-i-sol'[=o]-ji, _n._ verbiage.--_adj._ PERISSOLOG'ICAL,
redundant in words.

PERISSOSYLLABIC, pe-ris-o-si-lab'ik, _adj._ having superfluous syllables.

PERISTALITH, pe-ris'ta-lith, _n._ a series of standing stones surrounding a
barrow or burial-mound. [Gr. _peri_, around, _histanai_, to stand,
_lithos_, a stone.]

PERISTALTIC, per-i-stalt'ik, _adj._ noting the involuntary muscular action
of the alimentary canal, by which it forces its contents onwards.--_n._
PERISTAL'SIS. [Gr. _peristaltikos_--_peristellein_, to wrap round--_peri_,
around, _stellein_, to place.]

PERISTEROPOD, p[=e]-ris'te-r[=o]-pod, _adj._ pigeon-toed--also _n._ [Gr.
_peristera_, a pigeon, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

PERISTOME, per'i-st[=o]m, _n._ the mouth-parts of echinoderms, &c.: the
fringe of hair-like appendages round the rim of the capsule of a moss.

PERISTYLE, per'i-st[=i]l, _n._ a range of columns round a building or round
a square: a court, square, &c., with columns all round.--_adj._
PERISTY'LAR. [L. _peristylium_--Gr. _peristylon_, with pillars round the
wall--_peri_, around, _stylos_, a column.]

PERITHORACIC, per-i-th[=o]-ras'ik, _adj._ around the thorax.

PERITOMOUS, pe-rit'[=o]-mus, _adj._ (_min._) cleaving in more directions
than one parallel to the axis, the faces being all similar. [Gr. _peri_,
round, _temnein_, to cut.]

PERITONEUM, PERITONÆUM, per-i-t[=o]-n[=e]'um, _n._ a serous membrane which
encloses all the viscera lying in the abdominal and pelvic
cavities.--_adjs._ PERITON[=E]'AL; PERITONIT'IC.--_n._ PERITON[=I]'TIS,
inflammation of the peritoneum. [Gr. _peritoneion_--_peri_, around,
_teinein_, to stretch.]

PERITYPHLITIS, per-i-tif-l[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the cæcum,
appendix, and connective tissue, or of the peritoneum covering cæcum and
appendix. [Gr. _peri_, round, _typhlos_, blind (the cæcum being the 'blind
gut').]

PERIVASCULAR, per-i-vas'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ surrounding a vascular structure.

PERIVISCERAL, per-i-vis'e-ral, _adj._ surrounding viscera.

PERIWIG, per'i-wig, _n._ a peruke or small wig, usually shortened to _Wig_:
an artificial head of hair.--_v.t._ to dress with a periwig.--_adj._
PER'IWIG-P[=A]'TED, wearing a periwig. [Old Dut. _peruyk_--Fr. _perruque_.]

PERIWINKLE, per'i-wingk-l, _n._ a creeping evergreen plant, growing in
woods. [M. E. _peruenke_, through A.S. _peruincæ_, from L. _pervinca_,
_vinc[=i]re_, to bind.]

PERIWINKLE, per'i-wingk-l, _n._ a small univalve mollusc: a small
shellfish, abundant between tide-marks on the rocks, boiled and eaten as
food. [Corrupted by confusion with preceding from A.S.
_pinewincla_--_wincle_, a whelk; prov. Eng. _pin-patch_.]

PERJURE, p[.e]r'j[=oo]r, _v.t._ to swear falsely (followed by a reciprocal
pronoun): to cause to swear falsely.--_v.i._ to be false to one's
oath.--_n._ (_Shak._) a perjured person.--_adj._ PER'JURED, having sworn
falsely: being sworn falsely, as an oath.--_n._ PER'JURER.--_adjs._
PERJU'RIOUS, PER'JUROUS, guilty of perjury.--_n._ PER'JURY, false swearing:
the breaking of an oath: (_law_) the crime committed by one who, when
giving evidence on oath as a witness in a court of justice, gives evidence
which he knows to be false. [Fr.,--L. _perjur[=a]re_--_per-_, _jur[=a]re_,
to swear.]

PERK, p[.e]rk, _adj._ trim: spruce: jaunty: proud.--_v.t._ to make smart or
trim.--_v.i._ to hold up the head with smartness: to toss or jerk the
head.--_adj._ PERK'Y (_Tenn._), perk, trim. [W. _perc_, trim.]

PERK, p[.e]rk, _v.i._ (_prov._) to peer.--_adj._ PERK'ING, peering,
inquisitive.

PERKIN, per'kin, _n._ weak perry.

PERLACEOUS=_Pearlaceous_. See PEARL.

PERLITE, p[.e]r'l[=i]t, _n._ the name given to some vitreous rocks, as
obsidian, which seem as if made up of little pearly or enamel-like
spheroids.--_adj._ PERLIT'IC.

PERLOUS, p[.e]rl'us, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as PERILOUS.

PERLUSTRATE, per-lus'tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to survey carefully.--_n._
PERLUSTR[=A]'TION. [L. _perlustr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

PERMANENT, p[.e]r'ma-nent, _adj._ lasting: durable: not subject to change:
not to be removed: (_zool._) always present.--_ns._ PER'MANENCE,
PER'MANENCY, state or quality of being permanent: continuance in the same
state, position, &c.: unlikelihood of change: duration.--_adv._
PER'MANENTLY.--PERMANENT WAY, the finished road of a railway. [Fr.,--L.
_perman[=e]re_--_per_, through, _man[=e]re_, to continue.]

PERMANGANATE, per-man'gan-[=a]t, _n._ a salt containing manganese.--_adj._
PERMANGAN'IC.

PERMEATE, p[.e]r'm[=e]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to pass through the pores of: to
penetrate and fill the pores of.--_n._ PERM[=E]ABIL'ITY.--_adj._
PER'M[=E]ABLE, that may be permeated or passed through: allowing the
passage of liquids.--_adv._ PER'M[=E]ABLY.--_n._ PERM[=E][=A]'TION, act of
permeating, or state of being permeated.--_adj._ PERM[=E][=A]'TIVE. [L.
_permeatus_--_per_, through, _me[=a]re_, to pass.]

PERMIAN, per'mi-an, _n._ a group of strata forming the uppermost division
of the Palezoic series.

PERMISCIBLE, per-mis'i-bl, _adj._ capable of being mixed.

PERMIT, per-mit', _v.t._ to give leave to: to allow to be or to be done: to
afford means: to give opportunity:--_pr.p._ permit'ting; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ permit'ted.--_n._ (per'mit) a written permission, esp. from a
custom-house officer to remove goods.--_n._ PERMISSIBIL'ITY.--_adj._
PERMISS'IBLE, that may be permitted: allowable.--_adv._ PERMISS'IBLY.--_n._
PERMIS'SION, act of permitting: liberty granted: allowance.--_adj._
PERMISS'IVE, granting permission or liberty: allowing: granted: not
hindered.--_adv._ PERMISS'IVELY, by permission, without prohibition.--_ns._
PERMIT'TANCE, permission; PERMITT[=EE]', one to whom permission is granted;
PERMIT'TER, one who permits.--PERMISSIVE BILL, a measure embodying the
principles of local option for the regulation of the liquor traffic;
PERMISSIVE LAWS, laws that permit certain things without enforcing
anything. [L. _permitt[)e]re_, _-missum_, to let pass through--_per_,
through, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

PERMUTABLE, per-m[=u]'ta-bl, _adj._ that may be changed one for
another.--_ns._ PERM[=U]'TABLENESS, PERMUTABIL'ITY.--_adv._
PERM[=U]'TABLY.--_ns._ PERM[=U]'TANT; PERMUT[=A]'TION, act of changing one
thing for another: (_math._) the arrangement of things or letters in every
possible order.--_v.t._ PERMUTE'. [L.,--_permut[=a]re_--_per_, through,
_mut[=a]re_, to change.]

PERN, p[.e]rn, _n._ a honey-buzzard.--Also PER'NIS.

PERNICIOUS, per-nish'us, _adj._ killing utterly: hurtful: destructive:
highly injurious.--_adv._ PERNI'CIOUSLY.--_n._ PERNI'CIOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_perniciosus_--_per_, completely, _nex_, _necis_, death by violence.]

PERNICKETY, per-nik'e-ti, _adj._ easily troubled about trifles: (_coll._)
fastidious.--_n._ PERNICK'ETINESS.

PERNOCTATION, p[.e]r-nok-t[=a]'shun, _n._ act of passing the whole night,
esp. in prayer or watching: a watch all night. [L. _per_, through, _nox_,
_noctis_, night.]

PERONE, per'[=o]-n[=e], _n._ the fibula or small bone of the leg.--_adjs._
PER[=O]N[=E]'AL; PER[=O]N[=E][=O]TIB'IAL, pertaining to the perone and the
tibia.--_n._ a muscle from the fibula to the tibia in some marsupials: an
anomalous muscle in man, constant in apes, between the inner side of the
head of the fibula and the tibia.--_n._ PERON[=E]'US, one of several
fibular muscles. [Fr.,--Gr. _peron[=e]_, the tongue of a buckle.]

PEROPOD, p[=e]'r[=o]-pod, _adj._ having rudimentary hind limbs, as
serpents--also _n._ [Gr. _p[=e]ros_, maimed, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

PERORATION, per-[=o]-r[=a]'shun, _n._ the conclusion of a speech, usually
summing up the points and enforcing the argument.--_v.i._ PER'ORATE, to
make a peroration: (_coll._) to make a speech. [Fr.,--L.
_peroratio_--_peror[=a]re_, to bring a speech to an end--_per_, through,
_or[=a]re_, to speak--_os_, _oris_, the mouth.]

PEROXIDE, per-ox'[=i]d, _n._ an oxide having a larger proportion of oxygen
than any other oxide of the same series.--_n._ PEROXID[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ PEROX'IDISE.

PERPEND, per-pend', _v.t._ to weigh in the mind, to consider carefully. [L.
_perpend[)e]re_--_per_, inten., _pend[)e]re_, to weigh.]

PERPEND, per'pend, _n._ in building, a bond-stone or bonder.--Also
PER'PEND-STONE, PER'PENT-STONE. [O. Fr. _parpaigne_, Fr. _parpaing_.]

PERPENDICULAR, p[.e]r-pen-dik'[=u]-lar, _adj._ exactly upright: extending
in a straight line toward the centre of the earth: (_geom._) at right
angles to a given line or surface.--_n._ a perpendicular line or
plane.--_n._ PERPENDICULAR'ITY, state of being perpendicular.--_adv._
PERPENDIC'ULARLY.--PERPENDICULAR STYLE, a style of Gothic architecture in
England which succeeded the Decorated style, prevailing from the end of the
14th to the middle of the 16th century, contemporary with the Flamboyant
style in France, marked by stiff and rectilinear lines, mostly vertical
window-tracery, depressed or four-centre arch, fan-tracery vaulting, and
panelled walls. [Fr.,--L. _perpendicularis_--_perpendiculum_, a
plumb-line--_per_, through, _pend[)e]re_, to weigh.]

PERPETRATE, p[.e]r'p[=e]-tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to perform or commit (usually in a
bad sense): to produce (as a poor pun).--_adj._ PER'PETRABLE.--_ns._
PERPETR[=A]'TION, act of committing a crime: the thing perpetrated: an evil
action; PER'PETR[=A]TOR. [L. _perpetr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_per_,
thoroughly, _patr[=a]re_, to perform.]

PERPETUAL, per-pet'[=u]-al, _adj._ never ceasing: everlasting: not
temporary.--_adv._ PERPET'UALLY.--PERPETUAL CURATE, a curate of a parish
where there was neither rector nor vicar, the tithes being in the hands of
a layman--abolished in 1868, every incumbent not a rector now being a
vicar; PERPETUAL MOTION, motion of a machine arising from forces within
itself, constantly kept up without any force from without; PERPETUAL SCREW,
an endless screw. [Fr. _perpétuel_--L. _perpetuus_, continuous.]

PERPETUATE, per-pet'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make perpetual: to cause to last
for ever or for a very long time: to preserve from extinction or
oblivion.--_adj._ PERPET'[=U]ABLE, capable of being perpetuated.--_n._
PERPET'UANCE, the act of making perpetual.--_adjs._ PERPET'U[=A]TE, -D,
made perpetual: continued for an indefinite time.--_n._ PERPETU[=A]'TION,
act of perpetuating or preserving from oblivion: preservation for ever, or
for a very long time; PERPET[=U]'ITY, state of being perpetual: endless
time: duration for an indefinite period: something lasting for ever: the
sum paid for a perpetual annuity: the annuity itself.

PERPLEX, per-pleks', _v.t._ to make difficult to be understood: to
embarrass: to puzzle: to tease with suspense or doubt.--_n._ (_obs._) a
difficulty.--_adv._ PERPLEX'EDLY.--_n._ PERPLEX'EDNESS.--_adj._
PERPLEX'ING.--_adv._ PERPLEX'INGLY.--_n._ PERPLEX'ITY, state of being
perplexed: confusion of mind arising from doubt, &c.: intricacy:
embarrassment: doubt. [Fr.,--L. _perplexus_, entangled--_per_, completely,
_plexus_, involved, pa.p. of _plect[)e]re_.]

PERQUISITE, p[.e]r'kwi-zit, _n._ an allowance granted over and above the
settled wages: a fee allowed by law to an officer for a specific
service.--_ns._ PERQUISI'TION, a strict search: diligent inquiry;
PERQUIS'ITOR, the first purchaser of an estate. [L. _perquisitum_, from
_perquir[)e]re_--_per_, thoroughly, _quær[)e]re_, to ask.]

PERRADIAL, p[.e]r-r[=a]'di-al, _adj._ fundamentally radial.--_n._
PERR[=A]'DIUS.

PERRIER, per'i-[.e]r, _n._ a machine for hurling stones.

PERRON, per'on, _n._ an external flight of steps giving access to the
entrance-door of a building.

PERRUQUE, PERRUQUIER. See PERUKE.

PERRY, per'i, _n._ an agreeable beverage made by fermenting the juice of
pears. [Fr. _poiré_, from _poire_, a pear--L. _pirum_.]

PERSANT, p[.e]rs'ant, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as PERCEANT.

PERSCRUTATION, per-skr[=oo]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a thorough search through: a
minute inquiry. [L. _per_, through, _scrut[=a]ri_, to search carefully.]

PERSE, pers, _adj._ dark blue, bluish-gray.--_n._ a dark-blue colour, a
cloth of such colour. [O. Fr. _pers_--L. _persicum_, a peach.]

PERSECUTE, p[.e]r'se-k[=u]t, _v.t._ to pursue so as to injure or annoy: to
follow after persistently: to annoy or punish, esp. for religious or
political opinions.--_ns._ PERSEC[=U]'TION, act or practice of persecuting:
state of being persecuted: a time of general oppression on account of
religious opinions; PER'SEC[=U]TOR:--_fem._ PER'SEC[=U]TRIX. [Fr.,--L.
_persequi_, _persecutus_--_per_, thoroughly, _sequi_, to follow.]

PERSEUS, per's[=u]s, _n._ a fabled Greek hero, who slew the Gorgon Medusa,
and rescued Andromeda from a sea-monster: a constellation in the northern
sky. [Gr.]

PERSEVERE, p[.e]r-s[=e]-v[=e]r', _v.i._ to persist in anything: to pursue
anything steadily: to be constant: not to give over.--_n._
PERSEV[=E]'RANCE, act or state of persevering: continued application to
anything which one has begun: a going on till success is met with.--_adj._
PERSEV[=E]'RING.--_adv._ PERSEV[=E]'RINGLY.--PERSEVERANCE OF SAINTS, the
Calvinistic doctrine that those who are effectually called by God cannot
fall away so as to be finally lost. [Fr.,--L.
_persever[=a]re_--_perseverus_, very strict--_per_, very, _severus_,
strict.]

PERSIAN, p[.e]r'shi-an, _adj._ of, from, or relating to _Persia_, its
inhabitants, or language.--_n._ a native of Persia: the language of Persia:
(_archit._) male figures used instead of columns to support an
entablature--also PER'SIC.--PERSIAN APPLE, the peach; PERSIAN BERRY, the
fruit of several buckthorns; PERSIAN BLINDS (see PERSIENNE); PERSIAN WHEEL,
a large wheel for raising water, fixed vertically with a number of buckets
at its circumference.

PERSICOT, per'si-kot, _n._ a cordial flavoured with kernels of peaches and
apricots. [Fr.,--L. _persicum_, a peach.]

PERSIENNE, per-si-en', _n._ an Eastern cambric or muslin with coloured
printed pattern: (_pl._) Persian blinds, outside shutters of thin movable
slats in a frame.

PERSIFLAGE, p[.e]r'si-fläzh, _n._ a frivolous way of talking or treating
any subject: banter.--_adj._ PER'SIFLANT, bantering.--_v.i._ PER'SIFL[=A]TE
(_Thackeray_).--_n._ PER'SIFLOUR (_Carlyle_). [Fr.,--_persifler_, to
banter--L. _per_, through, Fr. _siffler_--L. _sibil[=a]re_, to whistle, to
hiss.]

PERSIMMON, PERSIMON, per-sim'on, _n._ the American date-plum. [Amer. Ind.]

PERSIST, per-sist', _v.i._ to stand throughout to something begun: to
continue in any course, esp. against opposition: to persevere.--_ns._
PERSIS'TENCE, PERSIS'TENCY, quality of being persistent: perseverance:
obstinacy: duration, esp. of an effect after the exciting cause has been
removed.--_adj._ PERSIS'TENT, persisting: pushing on, esp. against
opposition: tenacious: fixed: (_bot._) remaining till or after the fruit is
ripe, as a calyx.--_advs._ PERSIS'TENTLY; PERSIS'TINGLY.--_adj._
PERSIS'TIVE (_Shak._), persistent. [Fr.,--L. _persist[)e]re_--_per_,
through, _sist[)e]re_, to cause to stand--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

PERSON, p[.e]r'sun, _n._ character represented, as on the stage: character:
an individual, sometimes used slightingly: a living soul: a human being:
the outward appearance, &c.: bodily form: one of the three hypostases or
individualities in the triune God: (_gram._) a distinction in form,
according as the subject of the verb is the person speaking, spoken to, or
spoken of.--_adj._ PER'SONABLE, having a well-formed body or person: of
good appearance.--_n._ PER'SON[=A]GE, a person: character represented: an
individual of eminence: external appearance.--_adj._ PER'SONAL, belonging
to a person: having the nature or quality of a person: peculiar to a person
or to his private concerns: pertaining to the external appearance: done in
person: relating to one's own self: applied offensively to one's character:
(_gram._) denoting the person.--_n._ PERSONALIS[=A]'TION,
personification.--_v.t._ PER'SONALISE, to make personal.--_ns._
PER'SONALISM, the character of being personal; PER'SONALIST, one who writes
personal notes; PERSONAL'ITY, that which distinguishes a person from a
thing, or one person from another: individuality: a derogatory remark or
reflection directly applied to a person--esp. in _pl._
PERSONAL'ITIES.--_adv._ PER'SONALLY, in a personal or direct manner: in
person: individually.--_n._ PER'SONALTY (_law_), all the property which,
when a man dies, goes to his executor or administrator, as distinguished
from the realty, which goes to his heir-at-law.--_v.t._ PER'SON[=A]TE, to
assume the likeness or character of: to represent: to counterfeit: to
feign.--_adj._ (_bot._) mask-like, as in the corollary of the snapdragon:
larval, cucullate.--_adj._ PER'SON[=A]TED, impersonated, feigned,
assumed.--_ns._ PERSON[=A]'TION; PER'SON[=A]TOR.--_n._
PERSONIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ PER'SONISE, to personify.--_n._ PERSONNEL', the
persons employed in any service, as distinguished from the
materiel.--PERSONAL ESTATE, PROPERTY, movable goods or property, as
distinguished from freehold or real property, esp. in land; PERSONAL
EXCEPTION (_Scots law_), a ground of objection which applies to an
individual and prevents him from doing something which, but for his conduct
or situation, he might do; PERSONAL IDENTITY, the continued sameness of the
individual person, through all changes both without and within, as
testified by consciousness; PERSONAL RIGHTS, rights which belong to the
person as a living, reasonable being; PERSONAL SECURITY, security or pledge
given by a person, as distinguished from the delivery of some object of
value as security; PERSONAL SERVICE, delivery of a message or an order into
a person's hands, as distinguished from delivery in any other indirect way;
PERSONAL TRANSACTION, something done by a person's own effort, not through
the agency of another.--IN PERSON, by one's self, not by a representative.
[Fr.,--L. _pers[=o]na_, a player's mask, perh. from _pers[)o]n[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_per_, through, _son[=a]re_, to sound.]

PERSONA, p[.e]r-s[=o]'na, _n._ a person.--PERSONA GRATA, a person who is
acceptable to those to whom he is sent.--DRAMATIS PERSONÆ, the characters
in a play or story. [L.]

PERSONIFY, per-son'i-f[=i], _v.t._ (_rhet._) to treat, look on, or describe
as a person: to ascribe to any inanimate object the qualities of a person:
to be the embodiment of:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ person'if[=i]ed.--_n._
PERSONIFIC[=A]'TION. [L. _persona_, a person, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PERSPECTIVE, per-spek'tiv, _n._ a view or a vista: the art of drawing
objects on a plane surface, so as to give the picture the same appearance
to the eye as the objects themselves: just proportion in all the parts: a
telescope or field-glass: a picture in perspective.--_adj._ pertaining or
according to perspective.--_adv._ PERSPEC'TIVELY.--_ns._ PERSPEC'TOGRAPH,
an instrument for indicating correctly the points and outlines of objects;
PERSPECTOG'RAPHY, the science of perspective, or of delineating
it.--PERSPECTIVE PLANE, the surface on which the picture of the objects to
be represented in perspective is drawn.--IN PERSPECTIVE, according to the
laws of perspective. [Fr.,--L. _perspic[)e]re_, _perspectum_--_per_,
through, _spec[)e]re_, to look.]

PERSPICACIOUS, p[.e]r-spi-k[=a]'shus, _adj._ of clear or acute
understanding: quick-sighted.--_adv._ PERSPIC[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._
PERSPIC[=A]'CIOUSNESS; PERSPICAC'ITY, state of being acute in discerning:
keenness of sight or of understanding; PERSPIC[=U]'ITY, state of being
perspicacious: clearness in expressing ideas so as to make them easily
understood by others: freedom from obscurity.--_adj._ PERSPIC'[=U]OUS, that
can be seen through: clear to the mind: easily understood: not obscure in
any way: evident.--_adv._ PERSPIC'[=U]OUSLY.--_n._ PERSPIC'[=U]OUSNESS. [L.
_perspicax_, _perspicacis_--_perspic[)e]re_, to see through.]

PERSPIRE, per-sp[=i]r', _v.i._ and _v.t._ to emit or to be emitted, as
moisture, through the pores of the skin: to sweat.--_n._
PERSPIRABIL'ITY.--_adj._ PERSP[=I]R'ABLE, capable of being
perspired.--_v.i._ PER'SPIR[=A]TE (_rare_), to sweat.--_n._
PERSPIR[=A]'TION, act of perspiring: that which is perspired: moisture
given out through the pores of the skin: sweat.--_adj._ PERSP[=I]R'ATORY,
pertaining to or causing perspiration. [L. _perspir[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_per_, through, _spir[=a]re_, to breathe.]

PERSTRINGE, p[.e]r-strinj', _v.t._ to criticise.

PERSUADE, per-sw[=a]d', _v.t._ to influence successfully by argument,
advice, &c.: to bring to any particular opinion: to cause to believe: to
convince.--_adj._ PERSUAD'ABLE.--_n._ PERSUAD'ER.--_adj._ PERSU[=A]'SIBLE,
capable of being persuaded.--_ns._ PERSU[=A]'SIBLENESS, PERSUASIBIL'ITY;
PERSU[=A]'SION, act of persuading: state of being persuaded: settled
opinion: a creed: a party adhering to a creed: (_Spens._) an
inducement.--_adjs._ PERSU[=A]'SIVE, PERSU[=A]'SORY, having the power to
persuade: influencing the mind or passions.--_n._ that which persuades or
wins over.--_adv._ PERSU[=A]'SIVELY.--_n._ PERSU[=A]'SIVENESS. [Fr.,--L.
_persuad[=e]re_, _-suasum_--_per_, thoroughly, _suad[=e]re_, to advise.]

PERSUE, p[.e]rs'[=u], _n._ (_Spens._) a track.

PERSULPHATE, p[.e]r-sul'f[=a]t, _n._ that sulphate of a metal which
contains the relatively greater quantity of acid.

PERT, p[.e]rt, _adj._ (_obs._) open: evident: plain. [O. Fr. _apert_--L.
_aper[=i]re_, _apertum_, to open.]

PERT, p[.e]rt, _adj._ forward: saucy: impertinent: too free in speech:
(_obs._) clever.--_n._ an impudent person.--_adv._ PERT'LY.--_n._
PERT'NESS. [_Perk_.]

PERTAIN, per-t[=a]n', _v.i._ to belong: to relate (with _to_).--_ns._
PER'TINENCE, PER'TINENCY, state of being pertinent or to the point: fitness
for the matter on hand: suitableness: appositeness.--_adj._ PER'TINENT,
pertaining or related to a subject: being to the point: fitted for the
matter on hand: fitting or appropriate: suitable: apposite.--_adv._
PER'TINENTLY.--_n._ PER'TINENTNESS. [O. Fr. _partenir_--L.
_pertin[=e]re_--_per_, thoroughly, _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

PERTINACIOUS, p[.e]r-ti-n[=a]'shus, _adj._ thoroughly tenacious: holding
obstinately to an opinion or a purpose: obstinate: unyielding.--_adv._
PERTIN[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ PERTIN[=A]'CIOUSNESS; PERTINAC'ITY, quality of
being pertinacious or unyielding: obstinacy: resoluteness. [Fr.,--L.
_pertinax_, _-acis_, holding fast--_per_, thoroughly, _tenax_,
tenacious--_ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

PERTURB, per-turb', _v.t._ to disturb greatly: to agitate--also
PER'TURBATE.--_adj._ PERTUR'BABLE, that can be agitated or confused.--_ns._
PERTUR'BANCE, PERTURB[=A]'TION, act of perturbing or state of being
perturbed: disquiet of mind: irregular action, esp. (_astron._) the
disturbance produced in the simple elliptic motion of one heavenly body
about another by the action of a third body, or by the non-sphericity of
the principal body; PERTUR'BANT, any disturbing thing.--_adjs._
PERTURB[=A]'TIONAL; PERTUR'BATIVE.--_n._ PERTUR'BATORY, the power of
deflecting the divining-rod by magnetic influence.--_p.adj._
PERTURBED'.--_adv._ PERTURB'EDLY.--_ns._ PERTUR'BER,
PERTURB[=A]'TOR:--_fem._ PER'TURB[=A]TRIX. [Fr.,--L. _perturb[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_per_, thoroughly, _turb[=a]re_, to disturb--_turba_, a crowd.]

PERTUSION, p[.e]r-t[=u]'zhon, _n._ a hole made by a sharp
instrument.--_adjs._ PERT[=U]'SATE, pierced at the apex; PERTUSE', -D,
pierced with holes. [L. _pertund[)e]re_, _-tusum_--_per_, through,
_tund[)e]re_, to strike.]

PERTUSSIS, per-tus'is, _n._ whooping-cough.--_adj._ PERTUSS'AL.

PERUKE, per-[=u]k', or per'[=u]k, _n._ an artificial cap of hair: a
periwig--also PERRUQUE.--_adj._ PERUQU[=E]R'IAN, of or pertaining to the
making of wigs.--_n._ PERRU'QUIER, a wigmaker. [Fr. _perruque_--It.
_parrucca_ (Sp. _peluca_)--L. _pilus_, hair.]

PERUSE, per-[=u]z', or per-[=oo]z', _v.t._ to read attentively: to examine
carefully or in detail.--_ns._ PERUSAL (per-[=u]z'al, or per-[=oo]z'al),
the act of perusing: careful examination: study: reading; PERUS'ER. [Formed
from L. _per_, thoroughly, _uti_, _usum_, to use.]

PERUVIAN, per-[=oo]'vi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Peru_ in South
America.--_n._ a native of Peru.--PERUVIAN BALSAM, a fragrant bitterish
liquid yielded by a South American tree, used for asthma and in making
soaps; PERUVIAN BARK, cinchona (q.v.).

PERVADE, per-v[=a]d', _v.t._ to go through or penetrate: to spread all
over.--_n._ PERV[=A]'SION.--_adj._ PERV[=A]'SIVE, tending or having power
to pervade. [L. _pervad[)e]re_, _pervasum_--_per_, through, _vad[)e]re_, to
go.]

PERVERSE, per-v[.e]rs', _adj._ turned aside: obstinate in the wrong:
stubborn: vexatious.--_adv._ PERVERSE'LY.--_ns._ PERVERSE'NESS,
PERVER'SITY, state or quality of being perverse: inclination to oppose:
wickedness.--_adj._ PERVER'SIVE, tending to pervert. [L. _perversus_,
turned the wrong way.]

PERVERT, per-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to turn wrong or from the right course: to
change from its true use: to corrupt: to turn from truth or virtue.--_v.i._
to go wrong or out of the right course.--_n._ (per'vert) one who has
changed from a former position: an apostate.--_ns._ PERVER'SION, the act of
perverting: a diverting from the true object: a turning from truth or
propriety: misapplication; PERVERT'ER.--_adj._ PERVERT'IBLE, able to be
perverted. [Fr. _pervertir_--L. _pervert[)e]re_--_per_, thoroughly,
_vert[)e]re_, _versum_, to turn.]

PERVEYAUNCE. Same as PURVEYANCE.

PERVICACIOUS, per-vi-k[=a]'shus, _adj._ very obstinate.--_ns._
PERVIC[=A]'CIOUSNESS, PERVICAC'ITY.

PERVIOUS, p[.e]r'vi-us, _adj._ permeable, penetrable: open,
perforate.--_adv._ PER'VIOUSLY.--_n._ PER'VIOUSNESS. [L. _pervius_--_per_,
through, _via_, a way.]

PESADE, pe-z[=a]d', _n._ the act or position of a saddle-horse in rearing.
[Fr.]

PESETA, pe-s[=a]'ta, _n._ a silver coin of Spain worth 9½d. [Sp., dim. of
_pesa_, weight.]

PESHITO, pe-sh[=e]'to, _n._ a translation of the Bible into Syriac, made in
the second century.--Also PESHIT'TO. [Syriac, _p[)e]shittá_, the simple.]

PESHWA, pesh'wa, _n._ a chief or prince of the Mahrattas.--Also PEISH'WAH.

PESKY, pes'ki, _adj._ annoying.--_adv._ PES'KILY.

PESO, p[=a]'so, _n._ a Spanish dollar. [Sp.,--L. _pensum_, _pend[)e]re_, to
weigh.]

PESSARY, pes'a-ri, _n._ an instrument worn in the vagina to remedy
displacement of the womb. [Fr. _pessaire_--Low L. _pessarium_--Gr.
_pessos_, a pebble.]

PESSIMISM, pes'i-mizm, _n._ the doctrine that on the whole the world is bad
rather than good: a temper of mind that looks too much on the dark side of
things: a depressing view of life.--_v.i._ PESS'IMISE.--_n._ PESS'IMIST,
one who believes that everything is tending to the worst: one who looks too
much on the dark side of things--opp. to _Optimist_.--_adjs._ PESSIMIS'TIC,
-AL. [L. _pessimus_, worst.]

PEST, pest, _n._ a deadly disease: a plague: anything destructive: a
troublesome person.--_n._ PEST'HOUSE, a hospital for persons afflicted with
any contagious disease.--_adj._ PESTIF'EROUS, contagious: pestilent:
annoying.--_adv._ PESTIF'EROUSLY.--_n._ PEST'ILENCE, any contagious deadly
disease: anything that is hurtful to the morals.--_adjs._ PEST'ILENT,
producing pestilence: hurtful to health and life: mischievous: corrupt:
troublesome; PESTILEN'TIAL, of the nature of pestilence: producing
pestilence: destructive.--_advs._ PESTILEN'TIALLY, PEST'ILENTLY. [Fr.
_peste_--L. _pestis_, a contagious disease.]

PESTALOZZIAN, pes-ta-lot'si-an, _adj._ pertaining to graduated
object-teaching as originated by Johann Heinrich _Pestalozzi_ (1745-1827).

PESTER, pes't[.e]r, _v.t._ to disturb, to annoy.--_n._ a bother.--_n._
PES'TERER, one who pesters.--_adv._ PES'TERINGLY.--_n._ PES'TERMENT,
annoyance. [Short for _impester_, O. Fr. _empestrer_ (Fr. _empêtrer_), to
entangle, from _in_, in, Low L. _pastorium_, a foot-shackle--L. _pastus_,
pa.p. of _pasc[)e]re_, to feed.]

PESTLE, pes'l, or pest'l, _n._ an instrument for pounding anything in a
mortar.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to pound with a pestle: to use a pestle. [O. Fr.
_pestel_--L. _pistillum_, a pounder, _pins[)e]re_, _pistum_, to pound.]

PET, pet, _n._ any animal tame and fondled: a word of endearment often used
to young children: a favourite child: a wilful young woman--also
PEAT.--_adj._ indulged: cherished: favourite.--_v.t._ to treat as a pet: to
fondle:--_pr.p._ pet'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pet'ted. [Celt., as Ir.
_peat_, Gael. _peata_.]

PET, pet, _n._ a sudden fit of peevishness or slight passion:
ill-humour.--_v.i._ to be peevish, to sulk. [From the above word.]

[Illustration]

PETAL, pet'al, _n._ a flower-leaf: a corolla leaf.--_adjs._ PET'ALED,
PET'ALIFORM, PET'ALOUS, having petals or flower-leaves; PET'ALINE,
pertaining to or resembling a petal: attached to a petal.--_n._ PET'ALISM,
a method of ostracism practised in ancient Syracuse, the name being written
on an olive-leaf.--_adj._ PET'ALOID, having the form of a petal--also
PETALOI'DEOUS. [Gr. _petalon_, a leaf.]

PETARD, p[=e]-tärd', _n._ a kind of mortar filled with gunpowder, fixed to
gates, barriers, &c., to break them down by explosion--(_Shak._) PETAR': a
paper bomb in pyrotechny.--_ns._ PETARDEER', PETARDIER'.--HOIST WITH ONE'S
OWN PETARD (see HOIST). [O. Fr.--_péter_, to crack or explode--L.
_ped[)e]re_, cog. with Gr. _perdein_, Eng. _fart_.]

PETARY, p[=e]'tar-i, _n._ a peat-bog.

PETASUS, pet'a-sus, _n._ a low broad-brimmed hat worn by heralds, &c.,
characteristic of Hermes. [Gr.]

PETAURIST, pe-taw'rist, _n._ a flying opossum, Australian squirrel,
&c.--_adj._ PETAU'RINE. [Gr.]

PETCHARY, pech'a-ri, _n._ the gray king-bird.

PETECHIÆ, p[=e]-tek'i-[=e], _n.pl._ purple spots on the skin.--_adj._
PETECH'IAL. [L. _petigo_, a scab.]

PETER, p[=e]'t[.e]r, _v.i._ in mining, to become exhausted (with _out_):
(_fig._) to lose power or value.

PETER, p[=e]'t[.e]r, _v.i._ to call for trumps at whist, by throwing away a
higher card of a suit while holding a smaller.--_n._ this signal for
trumps.

PETEREL. Same as PETREL.

PETERSHAM, p[=e]'t[.e]r-sham, _n._ a heavy greatcoat, also the rough-napped
cloth, generally dark blue, of which it is made. [From Lord _Petersham_.]

PETER'S-PENCE. See PENNY.

PETIOLE, pet'i-[=o]l, _n._ the stalk which joins a leaf to the twig or
branch: a footstalk--also PET[=I]'OLUS.--_adjs._ PET'IOLAR, -Y, pertaining
to, or growing upon, a petiole; PET'IOL[=A]TE, -D, PET'IOLED, growing on a
petiole.--_n._ PET'IOLULE, a little or partial petiole. [Fr.,--L.
_petiolus_, a little foot--_pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

PETIT, pet'i, _adj._ small:--_fem._ PETITE (pe-t[=e]t').--_n._
PET'IT-MAÎ'TRE, a dandy, a coxcomb generally. [Fr.]

PETITION, p[=e]-tish'un, _n._ a request generally from an inferior to a
superior: a written request presented to a court of law, or to a body of
legislators: a prayer: a supplication.--_v.t._ to present a petition to: to
ask as a favour: to supplicate.--_adj._ PETIT'IONARY, offering or
containing a petition: supplicatory.--_ns._ PETIT'IONER, one who offers a
petition or prayer; PETIT'IONING, the act of presenting a petition:
entreaty: solicitation; PETIT'IONIST.--_adj._ PET'ITORY,
petitioning.--PETITIO PRINCIPII, the fallacy of begging the question--a
taking for granted in argument of that which has yet to be proved.
[Fr.,--L. _petitio_--_pet[)e]re_, _petitum_, to ask.]

PETRARY, pe-tr[=a]'ri, _n._ an engine for hurling stones.

PETRE. Same as SALTPETRE.

PETREAN, p[=e]-tr[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to rock. [L. _petræus_--Gr.
_petraios_--_petra_, a rock.]

PETREL, pet'rel, _n._ a long-winged dusky sea-bird, rarely landing except
to lay its eggs, esp. the STORMY PETREL, called by sailors 'Mother Carey's
Chickens,' scarcely larger than a lark, the smallest web-footed bird known.
[Fr.; from Matt. xiv. 29.]

PETRIFY, pet'ri-f[=i], _v.t._ to turn into stone: to make hard like a
stone: to fix in amazement.--_v.i._ to become stone, or hard like
stone:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pet'rified.--_n._ PETRES'CENCE.--_adjs._
PETRES'CENT, growing into or becoming stone; PETRIC'OLOUS, inhabiting
rocks.--_n._ PETRIFAC'TION, the act of turning into stone: the state of
being turned into stone: that which is made stone: a fossil.--_adjs._
PETRIFAC'TIVE, PETRIF'IC, changing animal or vegetable substances into
stone; PET'RIF[=I]ABLE.--_ns._ PETROG'ENY, the science of the origin of
rocks; PET'ROGLYPH, a rock-carving.--_adj._ PETROGLYPH'IC.--_ns._
PETROG'LYPHY, the art of writing on rocks or stones; PETROG'RAPHER, a
student of petrography.--_adjs._ PETROGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._
PETROGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ PETROG'RAPHY, the study of rocks:
petrology.--_adj._ PETROLOG'ICAL.--_adv._ PETROLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._
PETROL'OGIST; PETROL'OGY, the science of the composition and classification
of rocks.--_adjs._ PETR[=O]'SAL, of great hardness: petrous; P[=E]'TROUS,
like stone: hard: rocky. [L. _petra_--Gr. _petra_, rock, L. _fac[)e]re_,
_factum_, to make.]

PETRINE, p[=e]'trin, _adj._ pertaining to, or written by, the Apostle
_Peter_.--_n._ P[=E]'TRINISM, the Tübingen theory of F. C. Baur (1792-1860)
and his school, of a doctrinal trend in primitive Christianity towards
Judaism, ascribed to Peter and his party in opposition to _Paulinism_. [L.
_Petrinus_--_Petrus_, Peter.]

PETROLEUM, p[=e]-tr[=o]'l[=e]-um, _n._ a liquid inflammable substance
issuing or pumped up from the earth in various parts of the world.--_ns._
PET'ROL, a spirit obtained from petroleum; PETROLEUR (p[=a]-tro-l[=a]r'),
one of those Parisians who, with the help of petroleum, set fire to many of
the public buildings of Paris in May 1871: an incendiary:--_fem._
PETROLEUSE'.--_adj._ PETROLIF'EROUS, yielding petroleum. [L. _petra_, rock,
_oleum_, oil.]

PETRONEL, pet'ro-nel, _n._ a large horse-pistol: a small carbine. [O. Fr.
_petrinal_, the breast--L. _pectus_.]

PETTED, pet'ed, _adj._ treated as a pet: indulged.--_adj._ PETT'ISH, given
to take the pet: peevish: fretful.--_adv._ PETT'ISHLY.--_n._ PETT'ISHNESS.

PETTICHAPS, PETTY-CHAPS, pet'i-chaps, _n._ the garden warbler, the
willow-warbler, chiff-chaff.

PETTICOAT, pet'i-k[=o]t, _n._ a loose under-skirt worn by females and
little boys: (_coll._) a woman: a fisherman's loose canvas or oilcloth
skirt: a bell-mouthed piece over the exhaust nozzles in the smoke-box of a
locomotive, strengthening and equalising the draught through the
boiler-tubes.--_adj._ feminine: female, as 'petticoat influence.'--_n._
PETT'ICOAT-AFFAIR', an affair in which a woman is concerned.--_n.pl._
PETT'ICOAT-BREECH'ES, a loose short breeches worn by men in the 17th
century.--_adj._ PETT'ICOATED.--PETTICOAT GOVERNMENT, government by women,
either at home or in the state. [_Petty_ + _coat_.]

PETTIFOGGER, pet'i-fog-[.e]r, _n._ a lawyer who practises only in paltry
cases.--_v.i._ PETT'IFOG, to play the pettifogger.--_n._ PETT'IFOGGERY,
mean tricks: quibbles.--_adj._ PETT'IFOGGING. [_Petty_, and obs. _fog_, to
cheat (cf. Old Dut. _focker_).]

PETTITOES, pet'i-t[=o]z, _n.pl._ the feet of a sucking pig: (_Shak._) human
feet. [_Petty_ + _toe_.]

PETTLE, pet'l, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to indulge, pet.

PETTO, pet'o, _n._ the breast. [It.,--L. _pectus_, breast.]

PETTY, pet'i, _adj._ small: of less importance: lower in rank, power, &c.:
inconsiderable, insignificant: contemptible.--_adv._ PETT'ILY.--_n._
PETT'INESS.--PETTY CASH, small sums of money received or paid; PETTY
LARCENY (see LARCENY); PETTY OFFICER, a naval officer with rank
corresponding to a non-commissioned officer in the army. [O. Fr. _petit._]

PETULANT, pet'[=u]-lant, _adj._ showing peevish impatience, irritation, or
caprice: forward, impudent in manner.--_ns._ PET'ULANCE, PET'ULANCY,
sauciness: peevishness or impatience.--_adv._ PET'ULANTLY. [L. _petulans,
-antis_--obs. _petul[=a]re,_ dim. of _pet[)e]re,_ to fall upon.]

PETUNIA, p[=e]-t[=u]'ni-a, _n._ a Brazilian genus of ornamental plants of
the nightshade family, with small undivided leaves and showy funnel-form
flowers. [Amer. Ind. _petun,_ tobacco.]

PEW, p[=u], _n._ an enclosed seat in a church.--_ns._ PEW'-FELL'OW,
companion; PEW'-HOLD'ER, one who rents a pew in a church; PEW'-[=O]'PENER,
an attendant who opens pews in a church; PEW'-RENT, rent paid for the use
of a pew in church. [O. Fr. _pui_, a raised place--L. _podium_, a front
seat in the amphitheatre--Gr. _podion_, orig. a footstool--_pous_, _podos_,
foot.]

PEWIT, p[=e]'wit, _n._ the lapwing, a bird with a black head and crest,
common in moors.--Also P[=E]'WET, PEE'WIT. [Imit.; cf. Dut. _piewit_ or
_kiewit_.]

PEWTER, p[=u]'t[.e]r, _n._ an alloy of four parts of tin and one of lead:
sometimes tin with a little copper and antimony: a vessel made of pewter,
esp. a beer-tankard: (_slang_) prize-money.--_adj._ made of pewter.--_ns._
PEW'TERER, one who works in pewter; PEW'TER-MILL, a lapidaries'
polishing-wheel for amethyst, agate, &c.--_adj._ PEW'TERY, belonging to
pewter. [O. Fr. _peutre_ (It. _peltro_), from a Teut. root, seen in Low
Ger. _spialter_, Eng. spelter.]

PFENNIG, pfen'ig, _n._ a German copper coin, the hundredth part of a
mark.--Also PFENN'ING.

PHACITIS, f[=a]-s[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the crystalline lens of the
eye.--_n._ PHACOCYST[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the capsule of the
crystalline lens of the eye.--_adj._ PH[=A]'COID, lentil-shaped.--_n._
PH[=A]'COSCOPE. [Gr. _phakos_, a lentil.]

PHÆNOGAMOUS, PHENOGAMOUS, f[=e]-nog'a-mus, _adj._ having manifest flowers,
phanerogamous.--_ns._ PHÆ'NOGAM, a phanerogamous plant;
PHÆNOG[=A]'MIA=_Phanerogamia_.--_adj._ PHÆNOGAM'IC. [Gr. _phainein_, to
show, _gamos_, marriage.]

PHAETON, f[=a]'e-ton, _n._ a kind of open pleasure-carriage on four wheels,
drawn by one or two horses, from _Phaëthon_, son of Helios, the sun, whose
chariot he attempted to drive: a tropic bird.--_adj._ PHAËTON'IC.

PHAGEDENA, PHAGEDÆNA, faj-e-d[=e]'na, _n._ a sloughing ulcer, hospital
gangrene.--_adjs._ PHAGED[=E]'NIC, PHAGEDÆ'NIC. [Gr. _phagein_, to eat.]

PHAGOCYTE, fag'o-s[=i]t, _n._ a white or colourless blood-corpuscle--also
called _leucocyte_--an active amoeboid cell, which engulfs both nutritive
and harmful particles.--_adjs._ PHAGOCYT'IC, -AL.--_ns._ PHAG'OCYTISM, the
nature or function of a phagocyte; PHAGOCYT[=O]'SIS, the destruction of
microbes by phagocytes. [Gr. _phagein_, to eat, _kytos_, a vessel.]

PHALÆNA, f[=a]-l[=e]'na, _n._ the Linnæan genus including moths.--_adj._
PHAL[=E]'NOID. [Gr. _phalaina_, a moth.]

PHALANGE, f[=a]-lanj', _n._ a phalanx of a digit: any of the joints of an
insect's tarsus: a bundle of stamens joined by their filaments: a
socialistic community in Fourier's dream of an ideal arrangement of
society, consisting of 1800 persons living in a _phalanstère_--generally in
_pl._, the usual _sing_. being PH[=A]'LANX (q.v.).--_adjs._ PHALAN'GAL,
PHALAN'G[=E]AL, PHALAN'GIAL, PHALAN'GIAN; PHALAN'GIFORM;
PHALANST[=E]'RIAN.--_ns._ PHALANST[=E]'RIANISM, PHALAN'STERISM;
PHAL'ANSTERY, the dwelling of the phalange in the ideal social system of
Fourier (1772-1837), a vast structure in the midst of a square league of
cultivated land.

PHALANGER, f[=a]-lan'jer, _n._ a genus of small arboreal Australasian
marsupials. [Fr.,--L. _phalanx_.]

PHALANX, fal'angks, or f[=a]'-, _n._ a line of battle: a square battalion
of heavy-armed infantry drawn up in ranks and files close and deep: any
compact body of men: one of the small bones of the fingers and toes:--_pl._
PHALAN'GES, or PHAL'ANXES. [L.,--Gr. _phalangks_.]

PHALAROPE, fal'a-r[=o]p, _n._ a genus of wading birds, forming a sub-family
of the snipes. [Gr. _phalaris_, a coot, _pous_, a foot.]

PHALLUS, fal'us, _n._ the symbol of generation which figures in the rites
and ceremonies of most primitive peoples: (_biol_.) the organ of
sex.--_adj._ PHALL'IC.--_ns._ PHALL'ICISM, PHALL'ISM, the phallic
worship.--_adj._ PHALL'OID. [L.,--Gr. _phallos_.]

PHANARIOT, fa-nar'i-ot, _n._ one of the Greeks inhabiting the _Fanar_
quarter of Constantinople--in Turkish history mostly diplomatists,
administrators, and bankers, also hospodars of Wallachia and
Moldavia.--_adj._ PHANAR'IOT.--Also FANAR'IOT.

PHANEROGAMOUS, fan-e-rog'a-mus, _adj._ having true flowers containing
stamens and pistils--opp. to _Cryptogamous_--also PHANEROGAM'IC.--_n._
PHAN'EROGAM, a phanerogamic plant. [Gr. _phaneros_, visible, _gamos_,
marriage.]

PHANTASM, fan'tazm, _n._ a vain, airy appearance: a fancied vision: an
apparition or spectre--also PHANTAS'MA (_Shak._):--_pl._ PHAN'TASMS,
PHANTAS'MATA.--_adjs._ PHANTAS'MAL; PHANTASM[=A]'LIAN (_rare_).--_n._
PHANTASMAL'ITY.--_adv._ PHANTAS'MALLY.--_adjs._ PHANTASMAT'IC, -AL;
PHANTAS'MIC; PHANTASMOGENET'IC, begetting phantasms.--_adv._
PHANTASMOGENET'ICALLY.--_adj._ PHANTASMOLOG'ICAL, pertaining to phantasms
as subjects of inquiry.--_n._ PHANTASMOL'OGY, the science of phantasms.
[Gr. _phantasma_--_phantazein_, to make visible--_phainein_, to bring to
light--_pha-ein_, to shine.]

PHANTASMAGORIA, fan-taz-ma-g[=o]'ri-a, _n._ a fantastic series of illusive
images: a gathering of appearances or figures upon a flat surface by a
magic-lantern.--_adjs._ PHANTASMAG[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to or resembling a
phantasmagoria; PHANTASMAGOR'IC, -AL. [Gr. _phantasma_, an appearance,
_agora_, an assembly--_ageirein_, to gather.]

PHANTASTIC, PHANTASY. See FANTASTIC, FANTASY.--_n._ PHANT[=A]'SIAST, one of
those Docetæ who believed Christ's body to have been a mere phantom.

PHANTOM, fan'tom, _n._ a phantasm.--_adj._ illusive, spectral.--_adj._
PHANTOMAT'IC, relating to a phantom. [O. Fr. _fantosme_--Gr. _phantasma_.]

PHARAOH, f[=a]'r[=o], _n._ a title of the kings of ancient Egypt.--_adj._
PHARAON'IC. [Heb.,--Egyptian.]

PHARE, fär, _n._ a lighthouse.--Also PH[=A]'ROS. [_Pharos_.]

PHARISEE, far'i-s[=e], _n._ one of a religious school among the Jews,
marked by their strict observance of the law and of religious ordinances:
any one more careful of the outward forms than of the spirit of religion, a
formalist.--_adjs._ PHARIS[=A]'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or like, the
Pharisees: hypocritical.--_adv._ PHARIS[=A]'ICALLY.--_ns._
PHARIS[=A]'ICALNESS; PHAR'IS[=A]ISM, PHAR'ISEEISM, the practice and
opinions of the Pharisees: strict observance of outward forms in religion
without the spirit of it: hypocrisy. [Late L. _pharisæus_--Gr.
_pharisaios_--Heb. _p[=a]r[=u]sh_, separated from, _parash_, to separate.]

PHARMACEUTIC, -AL, fär-ma-s[=u]'tik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the
knowledge or art of preparing medicines.--_adv._
PHARMACE[=U]'TICALLY.--_ns._ PHARMACE[=U]'TICS, the science of preparing
medicines; PHARMACE[=U]'TIST, one who practises pharmacy.

PHARMACOPOEIA, fär-ma-k[=o]-p[=e]'ya, _n._ a book containing directions for
the preparation of medicines: a collection of drugs.--_adj._
PHARMACOPOE'IAL. [Gr. _pharmakon_, a drug, _poiein_, to make.]

PHARMACY, fär'ma-si, _n._ a department of the medical art which consists in
the collecting, preparing, preserving, and dispensing of medicines: the art
of preparing and mixing medicines: a drug-store.--_ns._ PHAR'MACIST, a
druggist, one skilled in pharmacy; PHARMACOGNOS'TICS, the sum of knowledge
about drugs; PHARMACOG'RAPHY, a description of drugs; PHARMACOL'OGIST, one
skilled in pharmacology; PHARMACOL'OGY, pharmacy; PHAR'MACON, a drug;
PHARMACOP'OLIST, a dealer in drugs. [Fr. _pharmacie_--L.,--Gr. _pharmakon_,
a drug.]

PHARO=Faro.

PHAROS, f[=a]'ros, _n._ a lighthouse or beacon, so named from the famous
lighthouse on the island of _Pharos_ in the Bay of Alexandria.--_n._
PHAROL'OGY, the art or science of directing the course of ships by means of
light-signals from the shore.

PHARYNX, far'ingks, _n._ the cleft or cavity forming the upper part of the
gullet, and lying behind the nose, mouth, and larynx:--_pl._ PHAR'YNGES,
PHAR'YNXES.--_adjs._ PHARYN'G[=E]AL; PHARYNGIT'IC, pertaining to
pharyngitis.--_n._ PHARYNG[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the mucous membrane of
the pharynx.--_adjs._ PHARYNGOGLOS'SAL, pertaining to the pharynx and the
tongue; -LARYN'GEAL, to that and the larynx; -N[=A]'SAL, and the nose;
-[=O]'RAL, and the mouth.--_ns._ PHARYNGOG'RAPHY, a description of the
pharynx; PHARYNG'[=O]SCOPE, an instrument for inspecting the pharynx;
PHARYNG'OSCOPY; PHARYNGOT'OMY, the operation of making an incision into the
pharynx to remove a tumour. [Late L.,--Gr. _pharyngkx_, the pharynx.]

PHASE, f[=a]z, _n._ aspect, appearance, at any stage: an era: the form in
which an object or a question presents itself to the mind: the appearance
at a given time of the illuminated surface exhibited by a planet--also
PH[=A]'SIS:--_pl._ PHAS'ES.--_adj._ PHASE'LESS, unchanging. [Gr.
_phasis_--_phaein_, to shine.]

PHASMA, fas'mä, _n._ a genus of gressorial orthopterous
insects--walking-stick insects, spectre-insects (_Phasma_), and
leaf-insects.

PHEASANT, fez'ant, _n._ a gallinaceous bird abundant in Britain, and highly
valued as food.--_n._ PHEAS'ANTRY, an enclosure for pheasants, where they
may be bred and reared. [O. Fr. _faisan_--L. _Phasiana_ (_avis_)--Gr.
_Phasianos_, of Phasis, in Colchis.]

PHEER, f[=e]r, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as FERE, a mate.

PHEESE, f[=e]z, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to beat, to drive off: to worry.--_v.i._
(_U.S._) to worry.--_n._ worry--better FEEZE.--_n._ PHEES'AR, one of the
mad host's words (_Merry Wives_, I. iii. 10).

PHELLOPLASTICS, fel-[=o]-plas'tiks, _n._ modelling in cork.--_n._
PHELL'OGEN, cork-meristem.--_adj._ PHELLOGENET'IC. [Gr. _phellos_, cork,
_plassein_, to form.]

PHENACETIN, f[=e]-nas'e-tin, _n._ a drug prepared from carbolic acid, good
against fevers, insomnia, &c.

PHENAKISTOSCOPE, fen-a-kis't[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an optical instrument which
produces the appearances of objects in motion, as birds flying, &c.--_n._
PHEN'AKISM (_Bacon_), deceit. [Gr.
_phenakistikos_--_phenakizein_--_phenax_, a cheat.]

PHENIX=_Phoenix_.

PHENOGAM=_Phænogam_.

PHENOGAMIA=_Phænogamia_.

PHENOL, f[=e]'nol. _n._ phenyl alcohol or carbolic acid. [_Fr._]

PHENOLOGY, PHÆNOLOGY, f[=e]-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the branch of biology
treating of animal or plant life and development as affected by
climate.--_adjs._ PHENOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ PHENOL'OGIST. [_Phenomenology_.]

PHENOMENON, f[=e]-nom'e-non, _n._ an appearance: the appearance which
anything makes to our consciousness, as distinguished from what it is in
itself: an observed result: a remarkable or unusual person, thing, or
appearance:--_pl._ PHENOM'ENA.--_adj._ PHENOM'ENAL, pertaining to a
phenomenon: of the nature of a phenomenon: so strange as to excite great
wonder: out of the common.--_v.t._ PHENOM'ENALISE, to represent as a
phenomenon.--_ns._ PHENOM'ENALISM, the philosophical doctrine that the
phenomenal and the real are identical--that phenomena are the only
realities--also _Externalism_; PHENOM'ENALIST, one who believes in
phenomenalism; PHENOMENAL'ITY, the character of being phenomenal.--_adv._
PHENOM'ENALLY.--_v.t._ PHENOM'ENISE, to bring into the world of
experience.--_ns._ PHENOM'ENISM, the doctrines of the phenomenists;
PHENOM'ENIST, one who believes only what he observes, or phenomena, one who
rejects necessary primary principles.--_adj._ PHENOMEN[=O]LOG'ICAL.--_n._
PHENOMENOL'OGY, a description of phenomena. [Gr. _phainomenon_--_phainein_,
to show.]

PHENYL, f[=e]'nil, _n._ an organic radical found esp. in carbolic acid,
benzole, and aniline.--_adjs._ PH[=E]'NIC, PHENYL'IC. [Fr. _phényle_.]

PHEON, f[=e]'on, _n._ (_her._) the barbed iron head of a dart: the broad
arrow marking property of the Crown.

PHEW, f[=u], _interj._ an exclamation of disgust.

PHIAL, f[=i]'al, _n._ a small glass vessel or bottle. [L. _phiala_--Gr.
_phial[=e]_, a vial.]

PHI BETA KAPPA, fi bet-a kap-a, the oldest of the American college Greek
letter societies. [From the initial letters of its motto--_Philosophia biou
kubern[=e]t[=e]s_, 'Philosophy is the guide of life.']

PHILADELPHIAN, fil-a-del'fi-an, _n._ one of a mystic sect emphasising
'brotherly love,' founded in London in 1652 under the influence of Boehme.
[Gr. _philein_, to love, _adelphos_, a brother.]

PHILANDER, fi-lan'd[.e]r, _v.i._ to make love: to flirt or coquet.--_n._ a
lover.--_n._ PHILAN'DERER. [Gr. _philandros_, loving men--_philos_,
dear--_philein_, to love, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a man.]

PHILANTHROPY, fi-lan'thr[=o]-pi, _n._ love of mankind, esp. as shown in
good deeds and services to others: goodwill towards all men.--_ns._
PHIL'ANTHROPE, PHILAN'THROPIST, one who tries to benefit mankind.--_adjs._
PHILANTHROP'IC, -AL, doing good to others, benevolent.--_adv._
PHILANTHROP'ICALLY. [L.,--Gr. _philanthr[=o]pia_--_philos_, loving,
_anthr[=o]pos_, a man.]

PHILATELY, fi-lat'e-li, _n._ the study and collection of postage and
revenue stamps and labels (also _Timbrophily_, _Timbrology_).--_adj._
PHILATEL'IC.--_n._ PHILAT'ELIST, one devoted to this pursuit. [Formed in
1865 from Gr. _philos_, loving, _atel[=e]s_, free of tax, 'prepaid'--_a-_,
neg., _telos_, tax.]

PHILHARMONIC, fil-har-mon'ik, _adj._ loving music. [Gr. _philos_, loving,
_harmonia_, harmony.]

PHILHELLENIC, fil-he-len'ik, _adj._ loving Greece.--_ns._ PHILHEL'LENE,
PHILHEL'LENIST, a supporter of Greece, esp. in 1821-32; PHILHEL'LENISM,
love of Greece. [Gr. _philos_, loving, _Hell[=e]n_, a Greek.]

PHILIBEG, PHILABEG. See FILLIBEG.

PHILIPPIAN, fi-lip'i-an, _n._ a native of _Philippi_ in Macedonia--also
_adj._

PHILIPPIC, fil-ip'ik, _n._ one of the three orations of Demosthenes against
Philip of Macedon, or of Cicero against Marc Antony: any discourse full of
invective.--_v.i._ PHIL'IPPISE, to utter such.

PHILISTINE, fil'is-tin, _n._ one of the ancient inhabitants of
south-western Palestine, enemies of the Israelites--also PHILIS'TIAN, and
PHILIS'TIM (_Milt._): a name applied by German students to shopkeepers and
others not connected with the university: an uncultured person.--_n._
PHIL'ISTINISM.

PHILL-HORSE, fil'-hors, _n._=_Thill-horse_, a shaft-horse.

PHILOGYNY, fil-oj'i-ni, _n._ love of women.--_n._ PHILOG'YNIST. [Gr.
_philos_, loving, _gyn[=e]_, a woman.]

PHILOLOGY, fi-lol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of language: the study of
etymology, grammar, rhetoric, and literary criticism: (_orig._) the
knowledge which enabled men to study and explain the classical languages of
Greece and Rome.--_ns._ PHILOL'OGER, PHILOL[=O]'GIAN, PHILOL'OGIST,
PHIL'OLOGUE, one versed in philology.--_adjs._ PHILOLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._
PHILOLOG'ICALLY.--COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY, study of languages by comparing
their history, forms, and relationships with each other. [L.,--Gr.
_philologia_--_philologos_, fond of words--_philos_, loving, _logos_,
discourse.]

PHILOMATH, fil'[=o]-math, _n._ a lover of learning.--_adjs._ PHILOMATH'IC,
-AL.--_n._ PHILOM'ATHY, love of learning. [Gr. _philomath[=e]s_, fond of
learning--_philos_, loving, _e-math-on_, 2d aorist _manthanein_, to learn.]

PHILOMEL, fil'[=o]-mel, _n._ the nightingale.--Also PHILOM[=E]'LA. [Gr.
_Philomela_, daughter of Pandion, king of Athens, changed into a
nightingale or swallow.]

PHILOMUSICAL, fil-[=o]-m[=u]'zi-cal, _adj._ fond of music.

PHILOPENA, fil-[=o]-p[=e]'na, _n._ a game in which each of two persons eats
a twin kernel of a nut, and one pays a forfeit to the other on certain
conditions: the gift made as a forfeit, or the twin kernels shared. [Ger.
_vielliebchen_--_viel_, much, _liebchen_, sweetheart.]

PHILOPOLEMIC, fil-[=o]-p[=o]-lem'ik, _adj._ fond of war or of debate.

PHILOPROGENITIVENESS, fil-[=o]-pr[=o]-jen'i-tiv-nes, _n._ (_phren._) the
instinctive love of offspring. [Gr. _philos_, loving, L. _progenies_,
progeny.]

PHILOSOPHER, fi-los'[=o]-f[.e]r, _n._ a lover of wisdom: one versed in or
devoted to philosophy: a metaphysician: one who acts calmly and rationally
in all the affairs and changes of life--also PHIL'OSOPHE:--_fem._
PHILOS'OPHESS.--_adjs._ PHILOSOPH'IC, -AL, pertaining or according to
philosophy: skilled in or given to philosophy: becoming a philosopher:
rational: calm.--_adv._ PHILOSOPH'ICALLY.--_v.i._ PHILOS'OPHISE, to reason
like a philosopher: to form philosophical theories.--_ns._ PHILOS'OPHISER,
a would-be philosopher; PHILOS'OPHISM, would-be philosophy;
PHILOS'OPHIST.--_adjs._ PHILOSOPHIST'IC, -AL.--_n._ PHILOS'OPHY, the
science of being as being: the knowledge of the causes and laws of all
phenomena: the collection of general laws or principles belonging to any
department of knowledge: reasoning: a particular philosophical system:
calmness of temper.--PHILOSOPHER'S STONE, an imaginary stone or mineral
compound, long sought after by alchemists as a means of transforming other
metals into gold.--MORAL, and NATURAL, PHILOSOPHY (see MORAL, NATURAL).
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _philosophos_--_philos_, a lover, _sophos_, wise.]

PHILOTECHNIC, -AL, fil-[=o]-tek'nik, -al, _adj._ fond of the arts.

PHILOZOIC, fil-[=o]-z[=o]'ik, _adj._ fond of animals.

PHILTRE, PHILTER, fil't[.e]r, _n._ a charm or spell to excite love. [Fr.
_philtre_--L. _philtrum_--Gr. _philtron_--_philos_, loving, _-tron_,
denoting the agent.]

PHIMOSIS, f[=i]-m[=o]'sis, _n._ stenosis of the preputial orifice.

PHISNOMY, fis'no-mi, _n._ (_Shak._) the face--a corr. of _physiognomy_.

PHIZ, fiz, _n._ (_humorous_) the face.

PHLEBITIS, fl[=e]-b[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of a vein.--_ns._
PHLEB'OLITE, a calcareous concretion found in a vein; PHLEBOL'OGY, science
of the veins; PHLEB'ORRHAGE, venous hemorrhage.--_adjs._ PHLEBOTOM'IC,
-AL.--_v.t._ PHLEBOT'OMISE.--_ns._ PHLEBOT'OMIST; PHLEBOT'OMY, act of
letting blood. [Gr. _phleps_, _phlebos_, a vein.]

PHLEGETHONTIC, fleg-e-thon'tik, _adj._ pertaining to or resembling the
river _Phlegethon_, a mythological river of the infernal regions, whose
waves rolled torrents of fire, flowing into the lake of Acheron. [Gr.
_phlegethein_--_phlegein_, to burn.]

PHLEGM, flem, _n._ one of the four elements of which the ancients supposed
the blood to be composed: the thick, slimy matter secreted in the throat,
and discharged by coughing: sluggishness: indifference: calmness.--_adj._
PHLEGMAGOGIC (fleg-ma-goj'ik).--_ns._ PHLEG'MAGOGUE, a medicine expelling
phlegm; PHLEGM[=A]'SIA, inflammation, esp. _Phlegmasia dolens_, puerperal
tumid leg.--_adjs._ PHLEGMAT'IC, -AL, abounding in or generating phlegm:
cold: sluggish: not easily excited.--_adv._ PHLEGMAT'ICALLY.--_n._
PHLEG'MON, inflammation in the connective tissue.--_adjs._ PHLEG'MONOID;
PHLEGM'Y. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _phlegma_, _phlegmatos_--_phlegein_, to burn.]

PHLEME=_Fleam_.

PHLEUM, fl[=e]'um, _n._ a small genus of annual or perennial
grasses--_timothy_, _cat's-tail grass_, _herd's grass_. [Gr. _phle[=o]s_.]

PHLOEUM, fl[=e]'um, _n._ the cellular portion of bark next the
epidermis--also _Epiphloeum_ and Bast.--_n._ PHL[=O]'ËM, the bast or liber
portion of a vascular bundle. [Gr. _phloios_, bark.]

PHLOGISTON, fl[=o]-jis'ton, _n._ an imaginary element, believed in till
nearly the end of the 18th century as forming part of every combustible
body, which by its disengagement caused burning, or fire in action.--_adj._
PHLOGIS'TIC (_chem._), containing or resembling phlogiston: inflaming:
(_med._) inflammatory.--_v.t._ PHLOGIS'TICATE, to combine phlogiston with.
[Gr.]

PHLOX, floks, _n._ a well-known garden plant, so called from its colour.
[Gr.,--_phlegein_, to burn.]

PHLYCTÆNA, PHLYCTENA, flik-t[=e]'na, _n._ a small vesicle.--_adjs._
PHLYCT[=E]'NAR; PHLYCT[=E]'NOID; PHLYCT[=E]'NOUS.

PHOBANTHROPY, f[=o]-ban'thr[=o]-pi, _n._ a morbid dread of mankind.

PHOCINE, f[=o]'sin, _adj._ pertaining to the seal family.--_n._ PH[=O]'CA,
a seal.--_adj._ PHOC[=A]'CEAN, relating to the genus _Phoca_.--_n._ a seal
of this genus.--_n._ PHOCÆ'NA, a genus of delphinoid odontocete
cetaceans--the true porpoises.--_adjs._ PH[=O]'CAL; PHOCÆ'NINE, like a
porpoise. [L. _phoca_--Gr. _ph[=o]k[=e]_, a seal.]

PHOEBUS, f[=e]'bus, _n._ the sun-god: the sun:--_fem._ PHOEBE
(f[=e]'b[=e]), the moon. [L.,--Gr. _phoibos_, bright, _phæin_, to shine.]

PHOENICIAN, PHENICIAN, f[=e]-nish'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Phoenicia_, on
the coast of Syria, to its people, language, or arts.--_n._ an inhabitant
of Phoenicia: the language, a Semitic dialect, akin to Hebrew.

PHOENIX, PHENIX, f[=e]'niks, _n._ a fabulous bird said to have existed for
500 years all alone in the wilderness, and, after burning itself on a
funeral pile, to have risen from its own ashes--hence, the emblem of
immortality: a paragon. [L.,--Gr. _phoinix_.]

PHOLAS, f[=o]'las, _n._ a genus of stone-bearing bivalves, a
piddock:--_pl._ PH[=O]'LADES.--_n._ PH[=O]'LADITE, a fossil pholad. [Gr.]

PHONATE, f[=o]'n[=a]t, _v.t._ to utter vocal sounds.--_n._ PHON[=A]'TION,
emission of vocal sounds.--_adj._ PH[=O]'NATORY, pertaining to
phonation.--_n._ PHONAU'TOGRAPH, an instrument for registering the
vibrations of a sounding body.--_adj._ PHONAUTOGRAPH'IC.--_adv._
PHONAUTOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ PHONOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the
vibrations of a body.

PHONETIC, -AL, f[=o]-net'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to, or in accordance
with, the sound of the voice: representing elementary sounds:
vocal.--_adv._ PHONET'ICALLY.--_n._ PHONETIC'IAN, a student of
phonetics.--_v.t._ PHONET'ICISE, to make phonetic.--_ns._ PHONET'ICISM,
phonetic character or representation; PHONET'ICIST, one who advocates
phonetic-spelling.--_n.sing._ PHONET'ICS, the science of sounds, esp. of
the human voice.--_ns._ PHONET'IC-SPELL'ING, spelling according to sound:
the spelling of words as they are pronounced; PHONETIS[=A]'TION, art of
representing sound by phonetic signs.--_v.t._ PH[=O]'NETISE, to represent
phonetically.--_ns._ PH[=O]'NETISM, sound, pronunciation; PH[=O]'NETIST, a
student of phonetics.--_adj._ PHON'IC, pertaining to sound.--_n.sing_.
PHON'ICS, acoustics.--_adj._ PHONOCAMP'TIC, reflecting or deflecting
sound.--_n._ PH[=O]'NOLITE, clinkstone. [Gr.
_ph[=o]netikos_--_ph[=o]n[=e]_, a sound.]

PHONOGRAPH, f[=o]'n[=o]-graf, _n._ a character or mark used to represent a
sound (also PH[=O]'NOGRAM): an instrument by which spoken words or other
sounds can be recorded, and afterwards given out again almost in the
original tones.--_ns._ PHONOG'RAPHER, PHONOG'RAPHIST, one versed in
phonography.--_adjs._ PHONOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PHONOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_ns._
PHONOG'RAPHY, the art of representing each spoken sound by a distinct
character: phonetic shorthand; PH[=O]'N[=O]SCOPE, an apparatus for
recording music as played, or for testing musical strings: a microphone.
[Gr. _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound, _graphein_, to write.]

PHONOLOGY, f[=o]-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the sounds of the voice,
the manner in which these are combined in any language: phonetics.--_adj._
PHONOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ PHONOL'OGIST, one versed in phonology. [Gr.
_ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound, _logos_, discourse.]

PHONOTYPE, f[=o]'n[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a type or sign representing a
sound.--_adjs._ PHONOTYP'IC, -AL, of or belonging to a phonotype, or to
phonotypy.--_ns._ PH[=O]'NOTYPIST; PH[=O]'NOTYPY, the art of representing
each of the elementary sounds by different types or distinct characters.
[Gr. _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound, _typos_, type.]

PHORMINX, for'mingks, _n._ a kind of cithara. [Gr.]

PHORMIUM, for'mi-um, _n._ a genus of New Zealand plants of the lily
family--New Zealand flax or flax-lily. [Gr. _phormion_, a plant.]

PHOSPHENE, fos'f[=e]n, _n._ a brilliant coloured spectrum seen when the
finger is pressed into the internal corner of the eye. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_,
light, _phainein_, to shine.]

PHOSPHORUS, fos'f[=o]-rus, _n._ the morning-star: a yellowish substance,
like wax, inflammable and giving out light in the dark.--_n._ PHOS'PHATE, a
salt formed by the combination of phosphoric acid with a base.--_adj._
PHOSPHAT'IC, of the nature of, or containing, a phosphate.--_ns._
PHOS'PHIDE, a compound formed of phosphorus and some other element, as
copper or iron; PHOS'PHITE, a salt of phosphorous acid; PHOS'PHOR, the
morning-star: (_obs._) phosphorus.--_v.t._ PHOS'PHORATE, to combine or
impregnate with phosphorus.--_n._ PHOS'PHOR-BRONZE, an alloy of copper,
tin, and phosphorus.--_v.i._ PHOSPHORESCE', to shine in the dark like
phosphorus.--_n._ PHOSPHORESC'ENCE.--_adjs._ PHOSPHORESC'ENT, shining in
the dark like phosphorus; PHOSPHOR'IC, PHOS'PHOROUS, pertaining to or
obtained from phosphorus.--_ns._ PHOS'PHORITE, a massive radiated variety
of apatite; PHOS'PHURET, a compound of phosphorus with a metal.--_adj._
PHOS'PHURETTED, combined with phosphorus.--_n._ PHOS'SY-JAW, phosphorous
poisoning.--PHOSPHATIC DIATHESIS (_med._), the condition in which there is
a tendency in the urine to deposit white gravel.
[L.,--Gr.,--_ph[=o]sphoros_, light-bearer--_ph[=o]s_, light, _phoros_,
bearing, from _pherein_, to bear.]

PHOTO, f[=o]'t[=o], _n._ a colloquial abbreviation of _photograph_.

PHOTOCHEMISTRY, f[=o]-t[=o]-kem'is-tri, _n._ that branch of chemistry which
treats of the chemical action of light.--_adj._ PHOTOCHEM'ICAL.--_n._
PHOTOCHEM'IST.

PHOTOCHROMY, f[=o]'t[=o]-kr[=o]-mi, _n._ the art of reproducing colours by
photography.--_adj._ PHOTOCHROMAT'IC.--_n._ PHOTOCHR[=O]'MOTYPE, a
photo-process picture printed in colours by any of the ordinary methods of
typography in colours. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light, _chr[=o]ma_,
colour.]

PHOTO-ENGRAVING, f[=o]'t[=o]-en-gr[=a]'ving, _n._ a general term including
all the various processes of mechanical engraving by the aid of
photography.--The term PHOTOG'LYPHY is sometimes applied to photo-engraving
by one process or other, often limited to photogravure.--_adj._
PHOTOGLYPH'IC.

PHOTOGENY, f[=o]-toj'e-ni, _n._ the art of taking pictures by the action of
light on a chemically prepared ground.--_adjs._ PHOTOGEN'IC, PHOTOG'ENOUS.

PHOTOGRAPHY, f[=o]-tog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of producing pictures by the
action of light on chemically prepared surfaces.--_n._ PH[=O]'TOGRAPH, a
picture so produced.--_v.t._ to make a picture of by means of
photography.--_ns._ PH[=O]TOG'RAPHER, PH[=O]TOG'RAPHIST.--_adj._
PH[=O]TOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PH[=O]TOGRAPH'ICALLY. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_, light,
_graphein_, to draw.]

PHOTOGRAVURE, f[=o]'t[=o]-gr[=a]-v[=u]r, _n._ a method of producing by
means of photography and the action of acids on a sensitised surface a kind
of mezzo-engraving on metal. [Fr.,--Gr. _ph[=o]s_, light, Fr. _gravure_,
engraving.]

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY, f[=o]-t[=o]-li-thog'ra-fi, _n._ a method by which a
photograph in line can be developed with ink so as to be transferred to
stone as a lithograph.--_n._ PHOTOLITH'OGRAPH, a print produced by
photolithography.--_v.t._ to reproduce by this aid.--_n._
PHOTOLITHOG'RAPHER.--_adj._ PHOTOLITHOGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_,
_ph[=o]tos_, light, _lithos_, a stone, _graphein_, to write.]

PHOTOLOGY, f[=o]-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of light.--_adjs._
PHOTOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ PHOTOL'OGIST. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light,
_logia_--_legein_, to say.]

PHOTOLYSIS, f[=o]-tol'i-sis, _n._ (_bot._) the movements of protoplasm
under the influence of light. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light,
_lysis_--_lyein_, to unloose.]

PHOTOMECHANICAL, f[=o]-t[=o]-m[=e]-kan'i-kal, _adj._ pertaining to the
mechanical production of pictures by the aid of light, as in
photo-engraving, &c.

PHOTOMETER, f[=o]-tom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
intensity of light, esp. for comparing the amount of light coming from
different sources.--_adjs._ PHOTOMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._ PHOTOM'ETRY, the
measurement of the intensity of light. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light,
_m[=e]tron_, a measure.]

PHOTOMICROGRAPHY, f[=o]-t[=o]-m[=i]-krog'ra-fi, _n._ the enlargement of
microscopic objects by means of the microscope, and the projection of the
enlarged image on a sensitive film.--_ns._ PHOTOM[=I]'CROGRAPH;
PHOTOMICROG'RAPHER.--_adj._ PHOTOMICROGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_,
_ph[=o]tos_, light, _mikros_, little, _graphein_, to write.]

PHOTOPHOBIA, f[=o]-t[=o]-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ a dread of light.--_adj._
PHOTOPHOB'IC.

PHOTOPHONE, f[=o]'t[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ an apparatus for transmitting
articulate speech to a distance along a beam of light. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_,
_ph[=o]tos_, light, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

PHOTO-PROCESS, f[=o]'t[=o]-pros'es, _n._ any process by which is produced,
by the agency of photography, a matrix from which prints can be made in
ink--photogravure, photolithography, and photozincography.

PHOTOPSIA, f[=o]-top'si-a, _n._ the condition of having the sensation of
light without external cause.--Also PH[=O]'TOPSY.

PHOTO-RELIEF, f[=o]'t[=o]-re-l[=e]f', _n._ a process of producing plates by
means of photography, from which impressions can be taken in an ordinary
printing-press.

PHOTOSCULPTURE, f[=o]-t[=o]-skulp't[=u]r, _n._ the art of taking likenesses
in the form of statuettes or medallions by the aid of photography.

PHOTOSPHERE, f[=o]'t[=o]-sf[=e]r, _n._ the luminous envelope round the
sun's globe, which is the source of light. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_,
light, _sphaira_, a sphere.]

PHOTOTHERAPY, f[=o]-t[=o]-ther'a-pi, _n._ the art of healing (of lupus,
&c.) by means of light, electric or other, focussed on the diseased part.
[Gr. _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light, _therapeuein_, to heal.]

PHOTOTYPE, f[=o]'t[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a type or plate of the same nature as
an engraved plate, produced from a photograph.--_n._ PH[=O]'TOTYPY_._ [Gr.
_ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light, _typos_, type.]

PHOTO-XYLOGRAPHY, f[=o]-t[=o]-z[=i]-log'ra-fi, _n._ wood-engraving after an
impression has been taken on the wood-block by photography. [Gr. _ph[=o]s_,
_ph[=o]tos_ light, _xylon_, a log of wood, _graphein_, to write.]

PHOTOZINCOGRAPHY, f[=o]-t[=o]-zing-kog'ra-fi, _n._ the process of engraving
on zinc by taking an impression by photography and etching with
acids.--_n._ PHOTOZINC'OGRAPH, a picture so produced.

PHRASE, fr[=a]z, _n._ two or more words expressing a single idea by
themselves, or showing the manner or style in which a person expresses
himself: part of a sentence: a short pithy expression: phraseology:
(_mus._) a short clause or portion of a sentence.--_v.t._ to express in
words: to style.--_n._ PHRASE'-BOOK, a book containing or explaining
phrases.--_adj._ PHRASE'LESS, incapable of being described.--_ns._
PHRASE'-MAN, PHRASE'-MONG'ER, a wordy speaker or writer; PHR[=A]'SEOGRAM,
PHR[=A]'SEOGRAPH, a combination of shorthand characters to represent a
phrase or sentence.--_adjs._ PHRASEOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to phraseology:
consisting of phrases.--_adv._ PHRASEOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ PHRASEOL'OGIST, a
maker or a collector of phrases; PHR[=A]SEOL'OGY, style or manner of
expression or arrangement of phrases: peculiarities of diction: a
collection of phrases in a language; PHR[=A]'SER, a mere maker or repeater
of phrases.--_adj._ PHR[=A]'SICAL.--_n._ PHR[=A]'SING, the wording of a
speech or passage: (_mus._) the grouping and accentuation of the sounds in
a melody. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _phrasis_--_phrazein_, to speak.]

PHRATRY, fr[=a]'tri, _n._ a clan: a brotherhood--also PHR[=A]'TRIA.--_adj._
PHR[=A]'TRIC. [Gr. _phrat[=e]r_, a brother.]

PHREN, _fren_, _n._ the thinking principle, mind: the diaphragm:--_pl._
PHRENES.--_ns._ PHR[=E]NAL'GIA, psychalgia; PHREN[=E]'SIS, delirium,
frenzy.--_adjs._ PHRENET'IC, -AL (also FRENET'IC, -AL), having a disordered
mind: frenzied: mad; PHRENIAT'RIC, pertaining to the cure of mental
diseases; PHREN'IC, belonging to the diaphragm.--_ns._ PHREN'ICS, mental
philosophy; PHREN'ISM, thought force.--_adj._ PHRENIT'IC, affected with
phrenitis.--_ns._ PHREN[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the brain; PHRENOG'RAPHY,
descriptive psychology; PHRENOPATH'IA, mental disease.--_adj._
PHRENOPATH'IC.--_n._ PHRENOPL[=E]'GIA, sudden loss of mental power. [Gr.
_phr[=e]n_, the mind.]

PHRENOLOGY, fr[=e]-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the theory that the various faculties
and powers of the mind are connected with certain parts of the brain, and
can be known by an examination of the outer surface of the skull: the
science by which character can be read by examining the skull.--_adjs._
PHRENOLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PHRENOLOG'ICALLY.--_n._ PHRENOL'OGIST, one who
believes or is versed in phrenology. [Gr. _phr[=e]n_, _phrenos_, mind,
_logos_, science.]

PHRONESIS, fr[=o]'-n[=e]'sis, _n._ practical wisdom. [Gr.,--_phr[=e]n_,
mind.]

PHRYGIAN, frij'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Phrygia_ in Asia Minor, or to
the Phrygians.--_n._ a native of Phrygia: a Montanist.--PHRYGIAN CAP, a
conical cap with the top turned forward.

PHTHALEIN, thal'e-in, _n._ one of a very important class of dye-yielding
materials formed by the union of phenols with the anhydride of phthalic
acid.--_adj._ PHTHAL'IC, pertaining to naphthalene.--_n._ PHTHAL'IN, a
colourless crystalline compound obtained by reducing phthalein.

PHTHIRIASIS, thi-r[=i]'a-sis, _n._ the lousy disease--_morbus pediculosus._
[L.,--Gr.]

PHTHISIS, th[=i]'sis, _n._ consumption or wasting away of the
lungs.--_adjs._ PHTHIS'IC, -AL (tiz'ik, -al), pertaining to or having
phthisis.--_n._ PHTHISIOLOGY (tiz-i-ol'[=o]-ji), the sum of scientific
knowledge about phthisis. [L.,--Gr. _phthiein_, to waste away.]

PHYCOLOGY, f[=i]-kol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the knowledge of algæ or
sea-weeds.--_n._ PHYCOG'RAPHY, systematic description of algae.--_adj._
PHYCOLOG'IC.--_n._ PHYCOL'OGIST.

[Illustration]

PHYLACTERY, fi-lak'te-ri, _n._ a charm or amulet: among the Jews, a slip of
parchment inscribed with certain passages of Scripture, worn on the left
arm or forehead: among the early Christians, a case in which relics were
preserved.--_adjs._ PHYLACTER'IC, -AL. [L.,--Gr. _phylakt[=e]rion_,
_phylakt[=e]r_, a guard--_phylassein_, to guard.]

PHYLARCH, f[=i]'lark, _n._ in ancient Greece, the chief of a tribe: in
Athens, the commander of the cavalry of a tribe.--_ns._ PHY'LARCHY, the
office of a phylarch; PHYLE (f[=i]'l[=e]), a tribe or clan in ancient
Greece.--_adj._ PHYLET'IC, pertaining to a race or tribe: pertaining to a
phylum of the animal kingdom.--_n._ PHYLUM (f[=i]'lum), any primary
division or sub-kingdom of the animal or vegetable kingdom:--_pl._ PHY'LA.

PHYLLITE, fil'[=i]t, _n._ clay-slate or argillaceous schist.--_adj._
PHYLLIT'IC. [Gr.,--_phyllon_, a leaf.]

PHYLLIUM, fil'i-um, _n._ a genus of orthopterous insects of family
_Phasmidæ_--leaf-insects or walking-leaves.

PHYLLODIUM, fi-l[=o]'di-um, _n._ a petiole which usurps the function of a
leaf-blade.--_adj._ PHYLLODIN'EOUS.

PHYLLOID, fil'oid, _adj._ leaf-like--also PHYLLOI'DEOUS.--_ns._
PHYL'LOMANCY, divination by leaves; PHYLLOM[=A]'NIA, abnormal production of
leaves; PHYL'LOME, foliage.--_adj._ PHYLLOM'IC.--_n._ PHYL'LOMORPHY, the
reversion of floral organs, as sepals and bracts, to leaves--better
PHYL'LODY.

PHYLLOPHAGOUS, fi-lof'a-gus, _adj._ feeding on leaves.--_n._ a member of
the PHYLLOPH'AGA, a tribe of hymenopterous insects--the saw-flies: a group
of lamellicorn beetles which are leaf-eaters--the chafers.

PHYLLOPHOROUS, fi-lof'[=o]-rus, _adj._ producing leaves: (_zool._) having
leaf-like organs.

PHYLLOPOD, fil'[=o]-pod, _adj._ having foliaceous feet--also
PHYLLOP'ODOUS.--_n._ a crustacean of the order _Phyllopoda_.--_adj._
PHYLLOPOD'IFORM.

PHYLLORHINE, fil'[=o]-rin, _adj._ having a nose-leaf.

PHYLLOSTOMATOUS, fil-[=o]-stom'a-tus, _adj._ leaf-nosed, as a bat.--_n._
PHYLL'OSTOME, a leaf-nosed bat.--_adj._ PHYLLOS'TOMINE, leaf-nosed.

PHYLLOTAXIS, fil-[=o]-tak'sis, _n._ the disposition of leaves on the
stem.--Also PHYLL'OTAXY. [Gr. _phyllon_, a leaf, _taxis_, arrangement.]

PHYLLOXERA, fil-ok-s[=e]'ra, _n._ a genus of insects, belonging to a family
nearly related to aphides and coccus insects, very destructive to vines.
[Gr. _phyllon_, a leaf, _x[=e]ros_, dry.]

PHYLOGENY, f[=i]-loj'e-ni, _n._ a biological term applied to the evolution
or genealogical history of a race or tribe--also PHYLOGEN'ESIS.--_adv._
PHYLOGENET'ICALLY.--_adjs._ PHYLOGEN'IC, PHYLOGENET'IC. [Gr. _phylon_,
race, _genesis_, origin.]

PHYSALIA, f[=i]-s[=a]'li-a, _n._ a genus of large oceanic
hydrozoans--_Portuguese man-of-war_. [Gr. _physallis_, a plant,
bladder--_physa_, bellows.]

PHYSALITE, fis'a-l[=i]t, _n._ a coarse topaz.

PHYSETER, fi-s[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ a sperm-whale.

PHYSIC, fiz'ik, _n._ the science of medicine: the art of healing: a
medicine: (_orig._) natural philosophy, physics.--_v.t._ to give medicine
to:--_pr.p._ phys'icking; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ phys'icked.--_ns._ PHYSICIAN
(fi-zish'an), one skilled in the use of physic or the art of healing: one
who prescribes remedies for diseases: a doctor.--_ns._ PHYSIC'IANCY, post
or office of physician; PHYSIC'IANSHIP; PHYS'IC-NUT, _Barbadoes_ or
_Purging nut_, the seeds of _Jatropha curcas_.--PHYSIC GARDEN, a botanical
garden. [O. Fr.,--Gr. _physik[=e]_, natural--Gr. _physis_, nature.]

PHYSICAL, fiz'ik-al, _adj._ pertaining to nature or to natural objects:
pertaining to material things: of or pertaining to natural philosophy:
known to the senses: pertaining to the body.--_n._ PHYS'ICALIST, one who
thinks that human thought and action are determined by the physical
organisation.--_adv._ PHYS'ICALLY.--_ns._ PHYS'ICISM (-sizm), belief in the
material or physical as opposed to the spiritual; PHYS'ICIST (-sist), a
student of nature: one versed in physics: a natural philosopher: one who
believes that life is merely a form of physical energy.--PHYSICAL
ASTRONOMY, an account of the causes of the motions of the heavenly bodies;
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, training of the bodily powers by exercise; PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION, an examination of the bodily state of a person; PHYSICAL
FORCE, force applied outwardly to the body, as distinguished from
persuasion, &c.; PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, an account of the state of the earth
in its natural condition--its mountain-chains, ocean-currents, distribution
of plants and animals, conditions of climate, &c.; PHYSICAL TRUTH, the
agreement of thought with what exists in nature; PHYSICAL WORLD, the world
of matter. [Gr. _physikos_--_physis_, nature.]

PHYSICS, fiz'iks, _n.pl._ used as _sing._ (_orig._) equivalent to PHYSICAL
SCIENCE--i.e. the science of the order of nature: usually sig. (as
distinguished from chemistry) the study of matter and the general
properties of matter as affected by energy or force--also called _Natural
philosophy_.--_ns._ PHYSICOLOG'IC, logic illustrated by physics;
PHYS'ICO-THEOL'OGY, theology illustrated by natural philosophy. [L.
_physica_--Gr. _physik[=e]_ (_the[=o]ria_, theory)--_physis_, nature.]

PHYSIOCRACY, fiz-i-ok'r[=a]-si, _n._ the economic doctrine of the
physiocrats (François Quesnay, 1694-1744, and his followers), that society
should be governed by a natural order inherent in itself, land and its
products the only true source of wealth, direct taxation of land the only
proper source of revenue.--_n._ PHYS'IOCRAT, one who maintains these
opinions.--_adj._ PHYSIOCRAT'IC.--_n._ PHYSIOC'RATISM. [Gr. _physis_,
nature, _kratein_, to rule.]

PHYSIOGENY, fiz-i-oj'e-ni, _n._ (_biol._) the genesis of function--also
PHYSIOGEN'ESIS.--_adjs._ PHYSIOGENET'IC, PHYSIOGEN'IC.

PHYSIOGNOMY, fiz-i-og'n[=o]-mi, _n._ the art of judging the qualities of a
character from the external appearance, especially from the countenance:
expression of countenance: the face as an index of the mind: the general
appearance of anything.--_adjs._ PHYSIOGNOM'IC, -AL.--_adv._
PHYSIOGNOM'ICALLY.--_n.sing._ PHYSIOGNOM'ICS (same as PHYSIOGNOMY).--_n._
PHYSIOG'NOMIST. [For _physiognomony_--Gr. _physiogn[=o]monia_--_physis_,
nature, _gn[=o]m[=o]n_, one who interprets--_gn[=o]nai_, to know.]

PHYSIOGRAPHY, fiz-i-og'ra-fi, _n._ an exposition of the principles that
underlie physical geography, and including the elements of physical
science: an introduction to the study of nature: physical geography.--_n._
PHYSIOG'RAPHER, one versed in physiography.--_adjs._ PHYSIOGRAPH'IC, -AL.
[Gr. _physis_, nature, _graphein_, to describe.]

PHYSIOLATRY, fiz-i-ol'a-tri, _n._ nature-worship.

PHYSIOLOGY, fiz-i-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the nature and processes
of life, of the vital phenomena of animals and plants and the functions of
their parts--a branch of biology.--_adjs._ PHYSIOLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._
PHYSIOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ PHYSIOL'OGISE.--_n._ PHYSIOL'OGIST. [Gr.
_physis_, nature, _logos_, science.]

PHYSIOMEDICALISM, fiz-i-[=o]-med'i-kal-izm, _n._ the system of treating
disease with only non-poisonous vegetable drugs.--_n._ PHYSIOMED'ICALIST.

PHYSIQUE, fiz-[=e]k', _n._ the physical structure or natural constitution
of a person. [Fr.]

PHYSITHEISM, fiz'i-th[=e]-izm, _n._ the ascribing of physical form and
attributes to deity.--_adj._ PHYSITHEIS'TIC. [Gr. _physis_, nature,
_theos_, God.]

PHYSIURGIC, fiz-i-ur'jik, _adj._ produced by natural causes, without man's
intervention.

PHYSNOMY, fiz'no-mi, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as PHYSIOGNOMY.

PHYSOCLISTOUS, f[=i]-s[=o]-klis'tus, _adj._ having no air-bladder, or
having it closed, as a fish. [Gr. _physa_, bellows, _kleistos_--_kleiein_,
to close.]

PHYSOGRADE, f[=i]'s[=o]-gr[=a]d, _adj._ moving by a vesicular float. [Gr.
_physa_, bellows, L. _gradi_, to walk.]

PHYSOPOD, f[=i]'s[=o]-pod, _adj._ with suckers on the feet. [Gr. _physa_,
bellows, _pous_, _podos_, the foot.]

PHYSOSTIGMINE, f[=i]-s[=o]-stig'min, _n._ a poisonous alkaloid, the active
principle of the Calabar bean. [Gr. _physa_, bellows, _stigma_, stigma.]

PHYSOSTOMOUS, f[=i]-sos't[=o]-mus, _adj._ having mouth and air-bladder
connected by an air-duct, as a fish. [Gr. _physa_, bellows, _stoma_, a
mouth.]

PHYTOBRANCHIATE, f[=i]-t[=o]-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having leafy gills.
[Gr. _phyton_, a plant, _brangchia_, gills.]

PHYTOCHEMISTRY, f[=i]-t[=o]-kem'is-tri, _n._ the chemistry of plants--also
PHY'TOCHIMY.--_adj._ PHYTOCHEM'ICAL.

PHYTOGENESIS, f[=i]-t[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ the theory of the generation of
plants--also PHYTOG'ENY.--_adjs._ PHYTOGENET'IC, -AL. [Gr. _phyton_, a
plant, _genesis_, birth.]

PHYTOGEOGRAPHY, f[=i]-t[=o]-je-og'ra-fi, _n._ the geographical distribution
of plants.--_adjs._ PHYTOGEOGRAPH'IC, -AL.

PHYTOGLYPHY, f[=i]-tog'li-fi, _n._ the art of printing from nature, by
taking impressions from plants, &c., on soft metal, from which an
electrotype plate is taken.--_adj._ PHYTOGLYPH'IC. [Gr. _phyton_, a plant,
_glyphein_, to engrave.]

PHYTOGRAPHY, f[=i]-tog'raf-i, _n._ the department of botany relating to the
particular description of species of plants.--_n._ PHYTOG'RAPHER.--_adj._
PHYTOGRAPH'ICAL. [Gr. _phyton_, a plant, _graphein_, to write.]

PHYTOID, f[=i]'toid, _adj._ plant-like, esp. of animals and organs. [Gr.
_phyton_, a plant, _eidos_, form.]

PHYTOLITHOLOGY, f[=i]-t[=o]-li-thol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of fossils
plants.--_n._ PHYTOLITHOL'OGIST.

PHYTOLOGY, f[=i]-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of plants, botany.--_adj._
PHYTOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ PHYTOL'OGIST. [Gr. _phyton_, a plant, _logia_,
discourse.]

PHYTONOMY, f[=i]-ton'[=o]-mi, _n._ the science of the origin and growth of
plants: botany. [Gr. _phyton_, a plant, _nomos_, a law.]

PHYTOPATHOLOGY, f[=i]-t[=o]-p[=a]-thol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the
diseases of plants.--_adj._ PHYTOPATHOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ PHYTOPATHOL'OGIST.

PHYTOPHAGOUS, f[=i]-tof'a-gus, _adj._ feeding on plants--also
PHYTOPHAG'IC.--_ns._ PHYTOPH'AGAN; PHYTOPH'AGY. [Gr. _phyton_, a plant,
_phagein_, to eat.]

PHYTOSIS, f[=i]-t[=o]'sis, _n._ the presence of vegetable parasites, or the
diseases caused by them.

PHYTOTOMY, f[=i]-tot'[=o]-mi, _n._ the dissection of plants.--_n._
PHYTOT'OMIST.--_adj._ PHYTOT'OMOUS. [Gr. _phyton_, a plant, _tomos_, a
cutting--_temnein_, to cut.]

PHYTOZOA, f[=i]-t[=o]-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ plant-like animals: animals which
more or less resemble plants in appearance and habits, such as sponges,
sea-anemones, &c.:--_sing._ PHYTOZ[=O]'ON.--_adj._ and _n._ PHYTOZ[=O]'AN.
[Gr. _phyton_, a plant, _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

PI, PIE, p[=i], _n._ a mass of types confusedly mixed.--_v.t._ to reduce to
a mixed mass, or to a state of pi, as types. [Cf. _Pie_, a magpie, &c.]

PIA, p[=e]'a, _n._ a perennial Polynesian herb, whose fleshy tubers yield
arrowroot.

PIACERE, pia-ch[=a]'re, _n._ (_mus._) _a piacere_, at pleasure.--_adj._
PIACEVOLE (pia-ch[=a]'v[=o]-le), pleasant, playful. [It.]

PIACULAR, p[=i]-ak'[=u]-lar, _adj._ serving to appease, expiatory:
requiring expiation: atrociously bad.--_n._ PIACULAR'ITY. [L. _piaculum_,
sacrifice--_pi[=a]re_, expiate--_pius_, pious.]

PIAFFE, pi-af', _v.i._ in horsemanship, to advance at a piaffer.--_n._
PIAF'FER, a gait in which the feet are lifted in the same succession as the
trot, but more slowly.--Also _Spanish-walk_. [Fr. _piaffer_.]

PIA MATER, p[=i]'a m[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ the vascular membrane investing the
brain: (_Shak._) the brain. [L.]

PIANOFORTE, pi-ä'no-f[=o]r't[=a], generally shortened to PIANO
(pi-an'[=o]), _n._ a musical instrument furnished with wires struck by
little hammers which are moved by keys, so as to produce both soft and
strong sounds.--_ns._ PIANETTE', a small piano; PIANINO
(p[=e]-a-n[=e]'n[=o]), an upright pianoforte; PIAN'ISM, the technique of
the pianoforte: arrangement of music for the pianoforte.--_adv._
PIANIS'SIMO, very softly.--_n._ PIAN'IST, one who plays on the pianoforte,
or one well skilled in it.--_adv._ PIÄN'O (_mus._), softly.--_ns._
PIAN'O-SCHOOL, a school where piano music is taught; PIAN'O-STOOL, a stool
on which the player sits at the piano.--BOUDOIR, or CABINET, PIANO, an
upright piano. [It., _piano_, soft--L. _planus_, plane, _forte_, strong--L.
_fortis_, strong.]

PIARIST, p[=i]'ar-ist, _n._ one of a religious congregation for the
education of the poor, founded in Rome in 1617 by Joseph Calasanza. [L.
_pius_, pious.]

PIASSAVA, pi-as'a-va, _n._ a coarse stiff fibre used for rope-making in
Brazil.--Also PIASS'ABA. [Port.]

PIASTRE, PIASTER, pi-as't[.e]r, _n._ a silver coin of varying value, used
in Turkey and other countries: the Spanish dollar. [Fr.,--It. _piastra_.]

PIAZZA, pi-az'a, _n._ a place or square surrounded by buildings: a walk
under a roof supported by pillars.--_adj._ PIAZZ'IAN. [It.,--L. _platea_, a
place.]

PIBROCH, p[=e]'broh, _n._ a form of bagpipe music, generally of a warlike
character, including marches, dirges, &c. [Gael. _piobaireachd_,
pipe-music--_piobair_, a piper--piob, a _pipe_, _fear_, a man.]

PICA, p[=i]'ka, _n._ a size of type smaller than _English_ and larger than
_Small pica_, equal to 12 points in the new system of sizes, about 6 lines
to the inch, used by printers as a standard unit of measurement for
thickness and length of leads, rules, borders, &c.--as 6-to-pica or
10-to-pica, according as 6 or 10 leads set together make a line of
pica.--DOUBLE PICA, a size equal to 2 lines of small pica; DOUBLE SMALL
PICA, a size of type giving about 3-1/3 lines to the inch; SMALL PICA, a
size smaller than pica and larger than long-primer, about 11 points;
TWO-LINE PICA, a size of about 3 lines to the inch, equal to 2 lines of
pica, or to 24 points. [_Pie_ (2).]

PICA, p[=i]'ka, _n._ a magpie. [_Pie._]

PICADOR, pik-a-d[=o]r', _n._ a horseman armed with a lance, who commences a
bull-fight by pricking the bull with his weapon. [Sp. _pica_, a pike.]

PICAMAR, pik'a-mär, _n._ the bitter principle of tar. [L. _pix_, pitch,
_amarus_, bitter.]

PICARD, pik'ärd, _n._ a high shoe for men, introduced from France about
1720.

PICAROON, pik-a-r[=oo]n', _n._ one who lives by his wits: a cheat: a
pirate.--_adj._ PICARESQUE'.--PICARESQUE NOVELS, the tales of Spanish rogue
and vagabond life, much in vogue in the 17th century. [Sp.
_picaron_--_pícaro_, a rogue.]

PICAYUNE, pik-a-y[=oo]n', _n._ a small coin worth 6¼ cents, current in
United States before 1857, and known in different states by different names
(_fourpence_, _fippence_, _fip_, _sixpence_, &c.).--_adj._ petty. [Carib.]

PICCADILLY, pik'a-dil-i, _n._ a standing-up collar with the points turned
over, first worn about 1870: a high collar worn in the time of James I.: an
edging of lace on a woman's broad collar (17th century).

PICCALILLI, pik'a-lil-i, _n._ a pickle of various vegetable substances with
mustard and spices.

PICCANINNY, PICKANINNY, pik'a-nin-i, _n._ a little child: an African or
negro child. [Perh. from Sp. _pequeño niño_='little child.']

PICCOLO, pik'[=o]-l[=o], _n._ a flute of small size, having the same
compass as an ordinary flute, while the notes all sound an octave higher
than their notation.--Also _Flauto piccolo_, _Octave flute_, _Ottavino_.
[It.]

PICE, p[=i]s, _n.sing._ and _pl._ a money of account and a copper coin, ¼
anna. [Marathi _paisa_.]

PICEA, p[=i]'s[=e]-a, _n._ a genus of coniferous trees, including the
spruce.

PICEOUS, pish'[=e]-us, _adj._ pitch-black.

PICIFORM, pis'i-form, _adj._ like to, or relating to, the woodpecker.

PICK, pik, _v.t._ to prick with a sharp-pointed instrument: to peck, as a
bird: to pierce: to open with a pointed instrument, as a lock: to pluck or
gather, as flowers, &c.: to separate or pull apart: to clean with the
teeth: to gather: to choose: to select: to call: to seek, as a quarrel: to
steal.--_v.i._ to do anything carefully: to eat by morsels.--_n._ any
sharp-pointed instrument, esp. for loosening and breaking up hard soil,
&c.: a picklock: foul matter collecting on printing-types, &c.: right or
opportunity of first choice.--_n._ PICK'-CHEESE, the blue titmouse: the
fruit of the mallow.--_adj._ PICKED (pikt), selected, hence the choicest or
best: having spines or prickles, sharp-pointed.--_ns._ PICK'EDNESS;
PICK'ER, one who picks or gathers up: one who removes defects from and
finishes electrotype plates: a pilferer; PICK'ING, the act of picking,
selecting, gathering, pilfering: that which is left to be picked: dabbing
in stone-working: the final finishing of woven fabrics by removing burs,
&c.: removing defects from electrotype plates; PICK'LOCK, an instrument for
picking or opening locks; PICK'-ME-UP, a stimulating drink; PICK'POCKET,
one who picks or steals from other people's pockets; PICK'-PURSE, one who
steals the purse or from the purse of another.--_adj._ PICK'SOME, given to
picking and choosing.--_n._ PICK'-THANK, an officious person who does what
he is not desired to do in order to gain favour: a flatterer: a
parasite.--_v.t._ to gain favour by unworthy means.--PICK A HOLE IN ONE'S
COAT, to find fault with one; PICK A QUARREL, to find an occasion of
quarrelling; PICK AT, to find fault with; PICK FAULT, to seek occasions of
fault-finding; PICK OAKUM, to make oakum by untwisting old ropes; PICK OFF,
to aim at and kill or wound, as with a rifle; PICK ONE'S WAY, to move
carefully; PICK OUT, to make out: to mark with spots of colour, &c.; PICK
TO PIECES, to tear asunder: to damage, as character; PICK UP, to improve
gradually: to gain strength bit by bit: to take into a vehicle, or into
one's company: to get as if by chance.--_adj._ gathered together by chance.
[Celt., as Gael. _pioc_, to pick, W. _pigo_; cf. _Pike_.]

PICKABACK, pik'a-bak, _adv._ on the back like a pack.--Also PICK'BACK,
PICK'APACK.

PICKAXE, pik'aks, _n._ a picking tool, with a point at one end of the head
and a cutting blade at the other, used in digging. [M. E. _pikois_--O. Fr.
_picois_, a mattock, _piquer_, to pierce, _pic_, a pick--Celt.]

PICKEER, pi-k[=e]r', _v.i._ (_obs._) to act as a skirmisher.--_n._
PICKEER'ER.

PICKEREL, pik'e-rel, _n._ an American pike: a wading bird, the dunlin.
[_Pike_ + _er_ + _el_.]

PICKET, pik'et, _n._ a pointed stake used in fortification: a small outpost
or guard stationed in front of an army: a number of men sent out by a
trades-union to prevent others from working against the wishes or decisions
of the union: a game at cards: a punishment inflicted by making a person
stand on one foot on a pointed stake.--_v.i._ to fasten to a stake, as a
horse: to post a vanguard: to place a picket at or near.--_ns._
PICK'ET-FENCE, a fence of pickets or pales; PICK'ET-GUARD, a guard kept in
readiness in case of alarm. [Fr. _piquet_, dim. of _pic_, a pickaxe.]

PICKLE, pik'l, _n._ a liquid of salt and water in which flesh and
vegetables are preserved: vinegar, &c., in which articles of food are
preserved: anything pickled: a disagreeable position: (_coll._) a
troublesome child.--_v.t._ to season or preserve with salt, vinegar,
&c.--_ns._ PICK'LE-HERR'ING, a pickled herring: (_obs._) a merry-andrew;
PICK'LE-WORM, the larva of a pyralid moth.--HAVE A ROD IN PICKLE, to have a
punishment ready. [M. E. _pikil_, prob. _pick-le_; Dut. _pekel_; Ger.
_pökel_.]

PICKLE, pik'l, _n._ (_Scot._) a small quantity.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to eat
sparingly: to pilfer.

PICKWICKIAN, pik-wik'i-an, _adj._ relating to or resembling Mr _Pickwick_,
the hero of Dickens's _Pickwick Papers_.--IN A PICKWICKIAN SENSE, in a
merely hypothetical sense--a phrase by which the members of the Pickwick
Club explained away unparliamentary language.

PICNIC, pik'nik, _n._ a short excursion into the country by a
pleasure-party who take their own provisions with them: an entertainment in
the open air, towards which each person contributes.--_v.i._ to go on a
picnic:--_pr.p._ pic'nicking; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pic'nicked.--_n._
PIC'NICKER. [Prob. _pick_, to nibble, and _nick_, for _knack_, a trifle.]

PICOT, p[=e]-k[=o]', _n._ a loop in an ornamental edging, the front of a
flounce, &c.--_adj._ PICOTTÉ. [Fr.]

PICOTEE, pik-[=o]-t[=e]', _n._ a florist's variety of carnation. [From the
French botanist _Picot_, Baron de la Peyrouse, 1744-1818.]

PICQUET. Same as PIQUET.

PICQUÉ-WORK, p[=e]-k[=a]'-wurk, _n._ decoration by dots or slight
depressions.--Also POUNCED-WORK.

PICRA, pik'ra, _n._ a cathartic powder of aloes and canella. [Gr. _pikros_,
bitter.]

PICRIC, pik'rik, _adj._ carbazotic.--_n._ PIC'R[=A]TE, a salt of picric
acid.--_adj._ PIC'R[=A]TED, mixed with a picrate as in a composition for a
whistling rocket.--_ns._ PIC'R[=I]TE, one of the peridotites or
olivine-rocks; PICROTOX'INE, a bitter poisonous principle in the seeds of
_Cocculus indicus_.--PICRIC ACID, an acid used as a dye for wool, &c. [Gr.
_pikros_, bitter.]

PICT, pikt, _n._ one of an ancient race for 5½ centuries (296-844 A.D.)
inhabiting eastern Scotland, from the Forth to the Pentland Firth, most
probably Celts, but more nearly allied to the Cymry than to the
Gael.--_adj._ PIC'TISH.--PICTISH TOWERS, a name sometimes given to brochs
(q.v.); PICTS' HOUSES, a name popularly given in many parts of Scotland to
rude underground dwellings or earth-houses; PICTS' WORK, a name sometimes
given to the Catrail, the remains of a large earthwork extending for about
fifty miles through the counties of Selkirk and Roxburgh. [L. _picti_, pl.
of pa.p. of _ping[)e]re_, _pictum_, to paint.]

PICTURE, pik't[=u]r, _n._ a painting: a likeness in colours: a drawing:
painting: a resemblance: an image: a vivid verbal description.--_v.t._ to
paint, to represent by painting: to form a likeness of in the mind: to
describe vividly in words.--_n._ PIC'TOGRAPH, a picture or pictorial sign:
a piece of picture-writing.--_adj._ PICTOGRAPH'IC.--_n._
PICTOG'RAPHY.--_adjs._ PICT[=O]'RIAL, PIC'T[=U]RAL, relating to pictures:
illustrated by pictures: consisting of pictures.--_adv._
PICT[=O]'RIALLY.--_ns._ PIC'T[=U]RAL (_Spens._), a picture; PIC'TURE-BOOK,
a book of pictures; PIC'TURE-FRAME, a frame surrounding a picture;
PIC'TURE-GALL'ERY, a gallery, or large room, in which pictures are hung up
for exhibition; PIC'TURE-ROD, a rod running round the upper part of the
wall of a room, from which pictures are hung; PIC'TURE-WRIT'ING, the use of
pictures to express ideas or relate events. [L. _pictura_--_ping[)e]re_,
_pictum_, to paint.]

PICTURESQUE, pik-t[=u]-resk', _adj._ like a picture: such as would make a
good or striking picture: expressing the pleasing beauty of a
picture.--_adv._ PICTURESQUE'LY.--_n._ PICTURESQUE'NESS. [It.
_pittoresco_--_pittura_, a picture--L. _pictura_.]

PICUL, PECUL, pik'ul, _n._ a Chinese weight of about 133-1/3 lb.

PICUS, p[=i]'kus, _n._ a Linnæan genus of woodpeckers.

PIDDLE, pid'l, _v.i._ to deal in trifles: to trifle: to eat with little
relish: to make water.--_n._ PIDD'LER, a trifler.--_adj._ PIDD'LING,
trifling, squeamish. [_Peddle._]

PIDDOCK, pid'ok, _n._ the pholas.

PIDGIN-ENGLISH, pij'in-ing'glish, _n._ a mixture of corrupted English with
Chinese and other words, a sort of _lingua franca_ which grew up between
Chinese on the sea-board and foreigners, as a medium of intercommunication
in business transactions. [_Pidgin_, a Chinese corruption of _business_.]

PIE, p[=i], _n._ a magpie: (_print._) type mixed or unsorted (cf. _Pi_).
[Fr.,--L. _pica_.]

PIE, p[=i], _n._ a book which ordered the manner of performing divine
service: a service-book: an ordinal.--BY COCK AND PIE (_Shak._), a minced
oath=By God and the service-book. [Fr.,--L. _pica_, lit. magpie, from its
old black-letter type on white paper resembling the colours of the magpie.]

PIE, p[=i], _n._ the smallest Indian copper coin, equal to 1/3 of a pice,
or 1/12 of an anna. [Marathi _p[=a]'[=i]_, a fourth.]

PIE, p[=i], _n._ a quantity of meat or fruit baked within a crust of
prepared flour.--A FINGER IN THE PIE (see FINGER); HUMBLE-PIE (see HUMBLE);
MINCE-PIE (see MINCE); PERIGORD PIE, a pie flavoured with truffles,
abundant in _Perigord_ in France. [Perh. Ir. and Gael. _pighe_, pie.]

PIEBALD, PYEBALD, p[=i]'bawld, _adj._ of various colours: having spots and
patches. [For _pie-balled_--_pie_, a magpie, W. _bal_, a streak on a
horse's forehead.]

PIECE, p[=e]s, _n._ a part of anything: a single article: a definite
quantity, as of cloth or paper: an amount of work to be done at one time: a
separate performance: a literary or artistic composition: a gun: a coin: a
man in chess or draughts: a person, generally a woman, in contempt.--_v.t._
to enlarge by adding a piece: to patch.--_v.i._ to unite by a joining of
parts: to join.--_n.pl_. PIECE'-GOODS, cotton, linen, woollen, or silk
fabrics sold retail in varying lengths.--_adj._ PIECE'LESS, not made of
pieces: entire.--_adv._ PIECE'MEAL, in pieces or fragments: by pieces:
little by little: bit by bit: gradually.--_adj._ made of pieces: single:
separate.--_ns._ PIEC'ENER, a piecer; PIEC'ENING, or PIEC'ING, the act of
mending, esp. the joining of the ends of yarn, thread, &c. so as to repair
breaks; PIEC'ER, a boy or girl employed in a spinning-factory to join
broken threads; PIECE'WORK, work done by the piece or quantity rather than
by time.--PIÈCE DE RÉSISTANCE, principal piece: chief event or performance:
chief dish at a dinner; PIECE OF EIGHT, the Spanish _peso duro_ ('hard
dollar'), bearing the numeral 8, of the value of 8 reals (prob. the sign $
is derived from this); PIECE OUT, to put together bit by bit; PIECE UP, to
patch up.--GIVE A PIECE OF ONE'S MIND, to give a rating frankly to any
one's face; OF A PIECE, as if of the same piece, the same in nature, &c.
[O. Fr. _piece_--Low L. _petium_, a piece of land--prob. L. _pes_, _pedis_,
a foot.]

PIED, p[=i]d, _adj._ variegated like a magpie: of various colours:
spotted.--_n._ PIED'NESS.

PIELED, p[=e]ld, _adj._ (_Shak._) peeled, bare, bald.

PIEND, p[=e]nd, _n._ the sharp point or edge of a hammer: a salient angle.

PIEPOWDER, p[=i]'pow-d[.e]r, _n._ an ancient court held in fairs and
markets to administer justice in a rough-and-ready way to all comers--also
_Court of Dusty Foot_.--_adj._ PIE'POWDERED, with dusty feet. [O. Fr.
_piepoudreux_, a hawker, _pied_--L. _pes_, a foot, _poudre_, powder.]

PIER, p[=e]r, _n._ the mass of stone-work between the openings in the wall
of a building: an arch, bridge, &c.: a stone pillar on which the hinges of
a gate are fixed: a mass of stone or wood-work projecting into the sea for
landing purposes: a wharf.--_ns._ PIER'AGE, toll paid for using a pier;
PIER'-GLASS, a mirror hung in the space between windows; PIER'-T[=A]'BLE, a
table fitted for the space between two windows. [O. Fr. _pierre_, a
stone--L. _petra_--Gr. _petra_, a rock.]

PIERCE, p[=e]rs, _v.t._ to thrust or make a hole through: to enter, or
force a way into: to touch or move deeply: to dive into, as a
secret.--_v.i._ to penetrate.--_adj._ PIERCE'ABLE, capable of being
pierced.--_n._ PIERC'ER, one who, or that which, pierces: any sharp
instrument used for piercing: a stiletto.--_adj._ PIERC'ING.--_adv._
PIERC'INGLY.--_n._ PIERC'INGNESS. [O. Fr. _percer_, prob.
_pertuisier_--_pertuis_, a hole--L. _pertund[)e]re_, _pertusum_, to thrust
through.]

PIERIAN, p[=i]-[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Muses.--_n._ PIER'IDES,
the nine Muses. [L. _Pierius_--Mt. _Pierus_, in Thessaly, the haunt of the
Muses.]

PIERROT, pye-r[=o]', _n._ a buffoon with loose long-sleeved white robe: an
18th-century women's low-cut basque, with sleeves. [Fr.]

PIET, p[=i]'et, _n._ a pie or magpie. [_Pie._]

PIETÀ, p[=e]-[=a]-ta', _n._ a representation of the Virgin embracing the
dead body of Jesus.

PIETRA-DURA, py[=a]'tra-d[=oo]'ra, _n._ Florentine mosaic-work, in which
the inlaid materials are hard stones--jasper, agate, &c.

PIETY, p[=i]'e-ti, _n._ the quality of being pious: reverence for the
Deity, and desire to do His will: love and duty towards parents, friends,
or country: sense of duty: dutiful conduct.--_ns._ P[=I]'ETISM, the
doctrine and practice of the pietists; P[=I]'ETIST, one marked by strong
devotional feeling: a name first applied to a sect of German religious
reformers of deep devotional feeling (end of 17th century).--_adjs._
PIETIST'IC, -AL. [Fr. _piété_--L. _pietas_.]

PIEZOMETER, p[=i]-e-zom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
compressibility of liquids. [Gr. _piezein_, to press, _metron_, a measure.]

PIFFERO, pif'e-r[=o], _n._ a form of oboe: an organ-stop.

PIG, pig, _n._ a swine of either gender: an oblong mass of unforged metal,
as first extracted from the ore, so called because it is made to flow when
melted in channels called _pigs_, branching from a main channel called the
_sow_.--_v.i._ to bring forth pigs: to live together like pigs:--_pr.p._
pig'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pigged.--_adjs._ PIG'-EYED, having small dull
eyes with heavy lids; PIG'-FACED, looking like a pig.--_n._ PIG'GERY, a
place where pigs are kept.--_adj._ PIG'GISH, belonging to or like pigs:
greedy, said of persons.--_n._ PIG'GISHNESS.--_adj._ PIG'HEADED, having a
large or ill-formed head: stupidly obstinate.--_ns._ PIG'HEADEDNESS;
PIG'-[=I]'RON, iron in pigs or rough bars; PIG'-LEAD, lead in pigs;
PIG'-NUT (same as EARTH-NUT); PIG'SCONCE, a pigheaded fellow: a blockhead;
PIG'SKIN, the skin of a pig prepared as a strong leather: a saddle;
PIG'-STY, a pen for keeping pigs; PIG'S'-WASH, swill; PIG'S'-WHIS'PER
(_slang_), a low whisper: a very short space of time; PIG'-TAIL, the tail
of a pig: the hair of the head tied behind in the form of a pig's tail: a
roll of twisted tobacco. [A.S. _pecg_; Dut. _bigge_, _big_.]

PIG, pig, _n._ an earthen vessel. [_Piggin_.]

PIGEON, pij'un, _n._ a well-known bird, the dove: any bird of the dove
family.--_adjs._ PIG'EON-BREAST'ED, having a physical deformity, due to
rickets, in which the chest is flattened from side to side, and the sternum
or breast-bone is thrown forward; PIG'EON-HEART'ED, timid: fearful.--_n._
PIG'EON-HOLE, a hole or niche in which pigeons lodge in a dovecot: a
division of a case for papers, &c.--_v.t._ to put into a pigeon-hole: to
lay aside and treat with neglect.--_n._ PIG'EON-HOUSE, a dovecot.--_adj._
PIG'EON-LIV'ERED, timid: cowardly.--_n._ PIG'EONRY, a place for keeping
pigeons.--_adj._ PIG'EON-TOED, having feet like pigeons, peristeropod:
having turned-in toes. [Fr.,--L. _pipio_, _-onis_--_pip[=i]re_, to chirp.]

PIGGIN, pig'in, _n._ a small wooden or earthen vessel. [Gael. _pigean_,
dim. of _pigeadh_, or _pige_, a pot.]

PIGHT, p[=i]t, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to place, to fix.--_adj._ placed, fixed,
determined. [_Pitch_, to place.]

PIGMEAN, pig-m[=e]'an, _adj._ like a pygmy: very small.

PIGMENT, pig'ment, _n._ paint: any substance used for colouring: that which
gives colour to animal and vegetable tissues.--_adjs._ PIGMENT'AL,
PIG'MENTARY.--_n._ PIG'MENT-CELL, a cell which secrets pigment. [L.
_pigmentum_--_ping[)e]re_, to paint.]

PIGMY. Same as PYGMY.

PIGNORATION, pig-n[=o]-r[=a]'shun, _n._ act of giving in pledge: (_law_) a
seizing and detaining of cattle straying and doing damage, till the damage
be made good. [L. _pignus_, _-oris_, a pledge.]

PIKE, p[=i]k, _n._ a sharp point: a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp
head like a spear, formerly used by foot-soldiers: a sharp-pointed hill or
summit: a voracious fresh-water fish (so called from its pointed
snout).--_adj._ PIKED, ending in a point.--_ns._ PIKE'-HEAD, the head of a
pike or spear; PIKE'-KEEP'ER, the keeper of a turnpike; PIKE'LET, a
tea-cake; PIKE'MAN, a man armed with a pike: a man in charge of a turnpike
gate; PIKE'-PERCH, a common percoid fish; PIKE'STAFF, the staff or shaft of
a pike: a staff with a pike at the end. [A.S. _píc_, _piic_, a pike; Dut.
_piek_, Ger. _pike_, _pieke_; or Celt., as Gael. _pìc_, a pike, W. _pig_, a
point.]

PIKE, p[=i]k, _v.i._ to go quickly.--_n._ a turnpike.--_n._ P[=I]'KER, a
tramp.

PILA, p[=i]'la, _n._ in archæology and art, a mortar. [L.]

PILAR, p[=i]'lar, _adj._ hairy.--Also PIL'ARY.

PILASTER, pi-las't[.e]r, _n._ a square column, partly built into, partly
projecting from a wall.--_adj._ PILAS'TERED, furnished with pilasters or
inserted pillars. [Fr. _pilastre_--It. _pilastro_--L. _p[=i]la_, a pillar.]

PILAU, pi-law', _n._ a dish, in origin purely Mohammedan, consisting of
meat or fowl, boiled along with rice and spices.--Also PILLAU', PILAW',
PILAFF', PILOW'. [Pers. _pil[=a]w_, _pilaw_.]

PILCH, pilch, _n._ (_Shak._) a cloak or gown lined with furs: a flannel
cloth or wrap for a child.--_n._ PILCH'ER, one who wears a pilch: a
scabbard. [A.S. _pylce_--Low L. _pellicea_--L. _pellis_, skin.]

PILCHARD, pil'chärd, _n._ a sea-fish like the herring, but thicker and
rounder, caught chiefly on the Cornish coast. [Prob. Celt., Ir. _pilseir_.]

PILE, p[=i]l, _n._ a roundish mass: a heap of separate objects:
combustibles, esp. for burning dead bodies: a large building: a heap of
shot or shell: (_elect._) a form of battery consisting of a number of
dissimilar metal plates laid in pairs one above another, with an acid
solution between them: (_slang_) a large amount of money: a
fortune.--_v.t._ to lay in a pile or heap: to collect in a mass: to heap
up: to fill above the brim.--_n._ P[=I]'LER, one who forms into a
heap.--PILE ARMS, to place three muskets with fixed bayonets so that the
butts remain firm, the muzzles close together pointing obliquely--also
_Stack arms_. [Fr.,--L. _p[)i]la_, a ball.]

PILE, p[=i]l, _n._ a pillar: a large stake driven into the earth to support
foundations: a pyramidal figure in a heraldic bearing.--_v.t._ to drive
piles into.--_ns._ PILE'-DRIV'ER, PILE'-EN'GINE, an engine for driving down
piles; PILE'-DWELL'ING, a dwelling built on piles, a lake-dwelling;
PILE'WORK, work or foundations made of piles; PILE'-WORM, a worm found
eating into the timber of piles and ships: the teredo. [A.S. _píl_--L.
_p[=i]la_, a pillar.]

PILE, p[=i]l, _n._ hair, fur: the nap on cloth, esp. if regular and closely
set.--_v.t._ to furnish with pile, to make shaggy.--_adj._ PILE'-WORN, worn
threadbare. [O. Fr. _peil_, _poil_--L. _p[)i]lus_, a hair.]

PILES, p[=i]lz, _n.pl._ hæmorrhoids. [L. _p[)i]la_, a ball.]

PILEUM, pil'[=e]-um, _n._ (_ornith._) the top of the head from the base of
the bill to the nape--including the forehead or front, the vertex or
corona, and the hindhead or occiput:--_pl._ PIL'[=E]A.

PILEUS, pil'[=e]-us, _n._ a Roman conical cap: (_bot._) the summit of the
stipe bearing the hymenium in some fungi:--_pl._ PIL'EI (-[=i]).--_adjs._
PIL'[=E]ATE, -D, fitted with a cap: having the form of a cap or hat;
PIL'[=E]IFORM.--_n._ PIL[=E]'OLUS, a little pileus:--_pl._ PIL[=E]'OLI. [L.
_pileatus_--_pileus_, a cap of felt.]

PILE-WORT, p[=i]l'-wurt, _n._ a buttercup, the celandine.

PILFER, pil'f[.e]r, _v.i._ to steal small things.--_v.t._ to steal by petty
theft.--_ns._ PIL'FERER; PIL'FERING, PIL'FERY, petty theft.--_adv._
PIL'FERINGLY. [_Pelf._]

PILGARLICK, pil-gar'lik, _n._ a low fellow--perh. because _pilled_ or made
bald by a shameful disease.

PILGRIM, pil'grim, _n._ one who travels to a distance to visit a sacred
place: a wanderer: a traveller: a silk screen formerly attached to the back
of a woman's bonnet to protect the neck: (_slang_) a new-comer.--_adj._ of
or pertaining to a pilgrim: like a pilgrim: consisting of pilgrims.--_ns._
PIL'GRIMAGE, the journey of a pilgrim: a journey to a shrine or other
sacred place: the time taken for a pilgrimage: the journey of life, a
lifetime; PIL'GRIM-BOTT'LE, a flat bottle holed at the neck for a
cord.--PILGRIM FATHERS, the colonists who went to America in the ship
_Mayflower_, and founded New England in 1620; PILGRIM'S SHELL, a
cockle-shell used as a sign that one had visited the Holy Land; PILGRIM'S
STAFF, a long staff which pilgrims carried as a sort of badge. [O. Fr.
_pelegrin_ (Fr. _pèlerin_)--L. _peregrinus_, foreigner,
stranger--_pereger_, a traveller--_per_, through, _ager_, land.]

PILIFORM, pil'i-form, _adj._ slender as a hair.--_adjs._ PILIF'EROUS,
PILIG'EROUS, bearing hairs. [L. _pilus_, a hair, _forma_, form.]

PILING, p[=i]'ling, _n._ the act of piling up: the driving of piles: a
series of piles placed in order: pilework.

PILKINS, pil'kinz, _n._ (_prov._) the naked oat, _Avena nuda_.--Also
PILL'AS, PILL'CORN.

PILL, pil, _n._ a little ball of medicine: anything nauseous which must be
accepted: (_slang_) a doctor: a disagreeable person.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to
blackball.--_n._ PILL'-BOX, a box for holding pills: a kind of one-horse
carriage. [Fr. _pilule_--L. _pilula_, dim. of _p[)i]la_, a ball.]

PILL, pil, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to strip, peel: to deprive of hair.--_n._
(_Spens._) skin. [_Peel._]

PILLAGE, pil'[=a]j, _n._ (_Shak._) act of plundering: plunder: spoil, esp.
taken in war.--_v.t._ to plunder or spoil.--_v.t._ PILL, to rob or
plunder.--_n._ PILL'AGER. [O. Fr.,--_piller_--L. _pil[=a]re_, to plunder.]

PILLAR, pil'ar, _n._ (_archit._) a detached support, differing from a
column in that it is not necessarily cylindrical, or of classical
proportions: one who, or anything that, sustains: something resembling a
pillar in appearance.--_adj._ PILL'ARED, supported by a pillar: having the
form of a pillar.--_ns._ PILL'AR-BOX, a short pillar in a street with
receptacle for letters to be sent by post; PILL'ARIST, PILL'AR-SAINT, a
person in the early church who crucified the flesh by living on the summit
of pillars in the open air, a stylite.--FROM PILLAR TO POST, from one state
of difficulty to another: hither and thither. [O. Fr. _piler_ (Fr.
_pilier_)--Low L. _pilare_--L. _p[=i]la_, a pillar.]

PILLAU, pil-law', _n._ See PILAU.

PILLICOCK, pil'i-kok, _n._ (_Shak._) a term of endearment.

PILLION, pil'yun, _n._ a cushion for a woman behind a horseman: the cushion
of a saddle. [Ir. _pilliun_, Gael. _pillean_, a pad, a
pack-saddle--_peall_, a skin or mat, L. _pellis_, skin.]

[Illustration]

PILLORY, pil'o-ri, _n._ a wooden frame, supported by an upright pillar or
post, and having holes through which the head and hands of a criminal were
put as a punishment, disused in England since 1837.--_vs.t._ PILL'ORY,
PILL'ORISE, to punish in the pillory: to expose to ridicule:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ pill'oried. [O. Fr. _pilori_; ety. dub.; Prov. _espitlori_--Low L.
_speculatorium_, a lookout--L. _specularia_, a window, _speculum_, a
mirror.]

PILLOW, pil'[=o], _n._ a cushion filled with feathers, &c., for resting the
head on: any cushion: a block of metal for bearing the end of a shaft, or
the end of a bowsprit: the socket of a pivot.--_v.t._ to lay or rest on for
support.--_v.i._ to rest the head on a pillow.--_ns._ PILL'OW-BIER, -BEER,
-CASE, -SLIP, a cover which can be drawn over a pillow; PILL'OW-CUP, a last
cup before going to bed.--_adjs._ PILL'OWED, supported by, or provided
with, a pillow; PILL'OWY, like a pillow: soft. [A.S. _pyle_--L.
_pulv[=i]nus_.]

PILLWORM, pil'wurm, _n._ the millipede.

PILOCARPUS, p[=i]-l[=o]-kär'pus, _n._ a shrub about four or five feet high,
slightly branched, the branches erect, a native of Brazil.--_n._
PILOCAR'PINE, an alkaloid isolated from pilocarpus, with sudorific
properties. [Gr. _pilos_, a cap, _karpos_, fruit.]

PILOSE, p[=i]'l[=o]s, _adj._ hairy--also P[=I]'LOUS.--_n._ PILOS'ITY. [L.
_pilosus_--_pilus_, hair.]

PILOT, p[=i]'lut, _n._ the steersman of a ship: one who conducts ships in
and out of a harbour, along a dangerous coast, &c.: a guide.--_v.t._ to
conduct as a pilot: to direct through dangerous places.--_ns._
P[=I]'LOTAGE, the skill of a pilot: the act of piloting: the fee or wages
of pilots; P[=I]'LOT-BOAT, a boat used by pilots for meeting or leaving
ships; P[=I]'LOT-CLOTH, a coarse, stout kind of cloth for overcoats;
P[=I]'LOT-EN'GINE, a locomotive engine sent on before a train to clear its
way, as a pilot; P[=I]'LOT-FISH, a fish of the mackerel family, so called
from its having been supposed to guide sharks to their prey;
P[=I]'LOT-FLAG, the flag hoisted at the fore by a vessel needing a pilot;
P[=I]'LOT-HOUSE, an enclosed place on deck to shelter the steering-gear and
the pilot--also _Wheel-house_; P[=I]'LOT-JACK'ET, a pea-jacket worn by
seamen; P[=I]'LOT-WHALE, the caaing-whale (q.v.). [Fr. _pilote_--Dut.
_piloot_, from _peilen_, to sound, _loot_ (Ger. _loth_, Eng. _lead_), a
sounding-lead.]

PILULE, pil'[=u]l, _n._ a little pill--also PIL'ULA.--_adj._ PIL'ULAR,
pertaining to pills.

PILUM, p[=i]'lum, _n._ the heavy javelin used by Roman
foot-soldiers:--_pl._ P[=I]'LA. [L.]

PILUS, p[=i]'lus, _n._ one of the slender hairs on plants:--_pl._ P[=I]'LI.
[L.]

PIMENTO, pi-men'to, _n._ allspice or Jamaica pepper: the tree producing
it.--Also PIMEN'TA. [Port. _pimenta_--L. _pigmentum_, paint.]

PIMP, pimp, _n._ one who procures gratifications for the lust of others: a
pander.--_v.i._ to pander.--_adjs._ PIMP'ING, petty: mean; PIMP'-LIKE. [Fr.
_pimper_, a nasalised form of _piper_, to pipe, hence to cheat.]

PIMPERNEL, pim'p[.e]r-nel, _n._ a plant of the primrose family, with
reddish flowers--also _Poor man's weather-glass_, _Red chickweed_.--_n._
PIMPINEL'LA, a genus of umbelliferous plants--_anise_, _pimpernel_,
_breakstone_. [Fr. _pimprenelle_ (It. _pimpinella_), either a corr. of a L.
form _bipennula_, double-winged, dim. of _bi-pennis_--_bis_, twice,
_penna_, feather; or from a dim. of L. _pampinus_, a vine-leaf.]

PIMPLE, pim'pl, _n._ a pustule: a small swelling.--_adjs._ PIM'PLED,
PIM'PLY, having pimples. [A.S. _pipel_, nasalised from L. _papula_, a
pustule.]

PIN, pin, _n._ a piece of wood or of metal used for fastening things
together: a peg or nail: a sharp-pointed piece of wire with a rounded head
for fastening clothes: anything that holds parts together: a piece of wood
set up on end to be knocked down by a bowl, as in skittles: a peg used in
musical instruments for fastening the strings: anything of little
value.--_v.t._ to fasten with a pin: to fasten: to enclose: to seize and
hold fast:--_pr.p._ pin'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pinned.--_ns._
PIN'-BUTT'OCK (_Shak._), a sharp, pointed buttock; PIN'CASE, PIN'CUSHION, a
case or cushion for holding pins; PIN'-FEATH'ER, a small or short
feather.--_adj._ PIN'-FEATH'ERED.--_ns._ PIN'-HOLD, a place where a pin is
fixed; PIN'-HOLE, a hole made by a pin: a very small opening; PIN'-MON'EY,
money allowed to a wife by her husband for private expenses, originally to
buy pins; PIN'NER, one who pins or fastens: a pin-maker: a pinafore: a
head-dress with a lappet flying loose; PIN'-POINT, the point of a pin: a
trifle; PIN'TAIL, a genus of ducks, one handsome species of which is a
winter visitor to many parts of the British coast.--_adj._ PIN'TAILED,
having a long, narrow tail.--_n._ PIN'-WHEEL, a contrate wheel in which the
cogs are pins set into the disc: a form of firework constructed to revolve
rapidly while burning.--_v.t._ PIN'WORK, to work flax-yarn on a wooden pin
so as to make it more supple for ease in packing.--PIN-FIRE CARTRIDGE, a
cartridge for breech-loading guns; PINS AND NEEDLES, a feeling as of
pricking under the skin, formication.--IN MERRY PIN, in a merry humour; ON
ONE'S PINS, on one's legs: in good condition. [M. E. _pinne_, like Ir. and
Gael. _pinne_, and Ger. _pinn_, from L. _pinna_ or _penna_, a feather.]

PIN, pin, _n._ an induration of the membranes of the eye, cataract. [A.S.
_pinn_--Low L. _pannus_.]

PIÑA-CLOTH, p[=e]'nya-kloth, _n._ a beautiful fabric made of the fibres of
the leaves of the pine-apple plant.

PINAFORE, pin'a-f[=o]r, _n._ a loose covering of cotton or linen over a
child's dress. [_Pin_ + _afore_.]

PINASTER, pi-nas't[.e]r, _n._ the cluster-pine.

PINCE-NEZ, pangs'-n[=a], _n._ a pair of eye-glasses with a spring for
catching the nose. [Fr.]

PINCERS. Same as PINCHERS.

PINCH, pinsh, _v.t._ to grip hard: to squeeze between two hard or firm
substances: to squeeze the flesh so as to give pain: to nip: to distress:
to gripe.--_v.i._ to act with force: to bear or press hard: to live
sparingly.--_n._ a close compression with the fingers: what can be taken up
between the finger and thumb: an iron bar used as a lever for lifting
weights, rolling wheels, &c.: a gripe: distress: oppression.--_n._
PINCH'COMMONS, a niggard, a miser.--_adj._ PINCHED, having the appearance
of being tightly squeezed: hard pressed by want or cold: narrowed in
size.--_ns._ PINCH'ER, one who, or that which, pinches; PINCH'ERS,
PIN'CERS, an instrument for gripping anything firmly, esp. for drawing out
nails, &c.; PINCH'FIST, PINCH'GUT PINCH'PENNY, a niggard.--_adv._
PINCH'INGLY, in a pinching manner.--AT A PINCH, in a case of necessity;
KNOW WHERE THE SHOE PINCHES, to know where the cause of trouble or
difficulty is. [O. Fr. _pincer_; prob. Teut., cf. Dut. _pitsen_, to pinch.]

PINCHBECK, pinsh'bek, _n._ a yellow alloy of five parts of copper to one of
zinc. [From Chris. PINCHBECK, an 18th-century London watchmaker.]

PINDARI, PINDAREE, pin'dar-[=e], _n._ one of a band of freebooters who,
after the overthrow of the Mogul empire in India, grew (1804-17) to be a
formidable power in the Central Provinces. [Hind.]

PINDARIC, pin-dar'ik, _adj._ after the manner of _Pindar_, one of the first
of Greek lyric poets.--_n._ an ode in imitation of one of Pindar's: an ode
of irregular metre.--_n._ PIN'DARISM, imitation of Pindar.

PINDER, pin'd[.e]r, _n._ one who impounds stray cattle.--Also PIN'NER.
[A.S. _pyndan_, to shut up--_pund._ Cf. _Pen_, v., and _Pound_, to shut
up.]

PINE, p[=i]n, _n._ a northern cone-bearing, evergreen, resinous tree,
furnishing valuable timber.--_adj._ PIN'EAL.--_ns._ PIN'EAL-GLAND, a
rounded body about the size of a pea, of a slightly yellowish colour,
situated upon the anterior pair of corpora quadrigemina, and connected with
the optic thalami by two strands of nerve fibres termed its peduncles;
PINE'-APP'LE, a tropical plant, and its fruit, shaped like a pine-cone;
PINE'-BARR'EN, a level sandy tract growing pines; PINE'-CH[=A]'FER, a
beetle which eats pine-leaves.--_adjs._ PINE'-CLAD, PINE'-CROWNED, clad or
crowned with pine-trees.--_ns._ PINE'-CONE, the cone or strobilus of a
pine-tree; PINE'-FINCH, a small fringilline bird of North America;
PINE'-HOUSE, a pinery; PINE'-NEED'LE, the circular leaf of the pine-tree;
PINE'-OIL, an oil obtained from the resinous exudations of pine and fir
trees; PIN'ERY, a place where pine-apples are raised: a pine forest;
PIN[=E]'TUM, a plantation of pine-trees: a collection of pine-trees for
ornamental purposes; PINE'-WOOD, a wood of pine-trees: pine timber;
PINE'-WOOL, a fibrous substance prepared from the leaves of the pine, and
used for flannels, hosiery, and blankets in hospitals.--_adjs._ P[=I]'NIC,
pertaining to, or obtained from, the pine: noting an acid consisting of the
portion of common resin soluble in cold alcohol; PINIC'OLINE, inhabiting
pine-woods; P[=I]'NY, P[=I]'NEY, abounding in pine-trees.--PINE-TREE MONEY,
silver money coined at Boston in the 17th century, and so called from the
coins bearing the rude figure of a pine-tree on one side. [A.S. _pín_,--L.
_p[=i]nus_ (for _pic-nus_),--_pix_, _picis_, pitch.]

PINE, p[=i]n, _v.i._ to waste away under pain or mental distress: to
languish with longing.--_v.t._ to grieve for: to bewail.--_n._ wasting
pain: weary suffering.--DONE TO PINE, starved to death. [A.S. _pínian_, to
torment--L. _poena_, punishment.]

PINFOLD, pin'f[=o]ld, _n._ a pound or enclosure for cattle.--_v.t._ to
impound. [For _pind-fold_=_pound-fold_.]

PING, ping, _n._ the whistling sound of a bullet.--_v.i._ to produce such a
sound.--_n._ PING'-PONG, a kind of indoor lawn-tennis, played with
battledores or small rackets over a net on a table. [From the sounds made
by the strokes on the ball.]

PINGLE, ping'gl, _v.i._ (_prov._) to eat with feeble appetite: to
dawdle.--_adj._ PING'LING, dawdling, feeble.

PINGUID, ping'gwid, _adj._ fat.--_n._ PING'UITUDE. [L. _pinguis_, fat.]

PINGUIN, pin'gwin, _n._ Same as PENGUIN.

PINION, pin'yun, _n._ a wing: the joint of a wing most remote from the body
of the bird: a small wheel with 'leaves' or teeth working into
others.--_v.t._ to confine the wings of: to cut off the pinion: to confine
by binding the arms. [O. Fr. _pignon_--L. _pinna_ (=_penna_), wing. Cf.
_Pen_, n.]

PINK, pingk, _n._ a boat with a narrow stern.--Also PINK'Y. [Dut.; Ger.
_pinke_.]

PINK, pingk, _v.t._ to stab or pierce, esp. with a sword or rapier: to
decorate by cutting small holes or scallops.--_n._ a stab: an
eyelet.--_adj._ PINKED, pierced or worked with small holes.--_n._
PINK'ING-[=I]'RON, a tool for pinking or scalloping. [Either through A.S.
_pyngan_, from L. _pung[)e]re_, to prick; or acc. to Skeat, a nasalised
form of _pick_.]

PINK, pingk, _n._ a flower of any one of several plants of the genus
_Dianthus_--carnation, &c.: a shade of light-red colour like that of the
flower: a scarlet hunting-coat, also the person wearing such: the minnow,
from the colour of its abdomen in summer: any type or example of excellence
in its kind.--_adj._ of a pink colour.--_n._ PINK'INESS.--_adj._ PINK'ISH,
somewhat pink.--_n._ PINK'-ROOT, the root of the Carolina or Indian pink, a
common vermifuge.--PINK OF PERFECTION, the very highest state of
perfection: an example of highest perfection.--DUTCH PINK, a yellow lake
obtained from quercitron bark: (_slang_) blood. [Prob. a nasalised form of
Celt. _pic_, a point--from the finely notched edges of the petals.]

PINK, pingk, _v.i._ to wink: to half-shut.--_n._ PINK'-EYE, a disease in
horses in which the eye turns somewhat red.--_adj._ PINK'-EYED, having pink
eyes like a rabbit: having small or half-shut eyes.--_adj._ PINK'Y,
winking. [Dut. _pinken_, to wink.]

PINNA, pin'a, _n._ a single leaflet of a pinnate leaf: a wing, fin, or the
like: the auricle of the ear:--_pl._ PINN'Æ.--_adjs._ PINN'ATE, -D, shaped
like a feather: furnished with wings or fins.--_adv._ PINN'ATELY.--_adjs._
PINNAT'IFID, cut as a leaf, half-way down or more, with the divisions
narrow or acute; PINNAT'ISECT (_bot._), pinnately divided; PINN'IFORM, like
a feather or fin: pinnate; PINN'IGRADE, moving by fins--also _n._;
PINN'IPED, PINNAT'IPED, fin-footed, as a bird; PINN'[=U]LATE, -D.--_n._
PINN'[=U]LE, one of the branchlets of a pinnate leaf: one of the lateral
divisions of the finger-like stalks of an encrinite--also
PINN'[=U]LA.--PINNATE LEAF, a compound leaf wherein a single petiole has
several leaflets attached to each side of it. [L. _pinna_, a feather, dim.
_pinnula_.]

PINNACE, pin'[=a]s, _n._ a small vessel with oars and sails: a boat with
eight oars: a man-of-war's boat. [Fr. _pinasse_--It. _pinassa_--L. _pinus_,
a pine.]

[Illustration]

PINNACLE, pin'a-kl, _n._ a slender turret: a high point like a spire: the
highest point of a mountain, &c.--_v.t._ to build with pinnacles: to place
on a pinnacle. [Fr. _pinacle_--Low L. _pinna-culum_, double dim. from L.
_pinna_, a feather.]

PINNER, pin'[.e]r. See PIN.

PINNET, pin'et, _n._ (_Scott_) a pinnacle.

PINNOCK, pin'ok, _n._ the hedge-sparrow.

PINNOED, pin'[=o]d, _adj._ (_Spens._) pinioned.

PINNY, PINNIE, pin'[=i], _n._ a pinafore. [_Pinafore._]

PINNYWINKLE, pin'i-wingk-l, _n._ an ancient form of torture for the
fingers.--Also PINN'IEWINKLE, PIL'NIE-WINKS. [A corr. of _periwinkle_.]

PINT, p[=i]nt, _n._ a measure of capacity=½ quart or 4 gills: (_med._) 12
ounces.--_ns._ PINT'-POT, a pot for holding a pint, esp. a pewter pot for
beer: a seller or drinker of beer; PINT'-STOUP, a vessel for holding a
Scotch pint. [Fr. _pinte_--Sp. _pinta_, mark--L. _picta_, _ping[)e]re_, to
paint.]

PINTADO, pin-tä'do, _adj._ painted, spotted.--_n._ the guinea-fowl: chintz,
applied to all printed goods.

PINTAIL, PIN-WHEEL. See PIN.

PINTLE, pin'tl, _n._ a little pin: a long iron bolt: the bolt or pin on
which the rudder of a ship turns. [Dim. of _pin_.]

PINXIT, pingk'sit, _v.i._ and _v.t._ he or she painted--used in noting the
painter of a picture, as Rubens _pinxit_. [L., 3d sing. perf. indic. of
_ping[)e]re_, to paint.]

PIONED, p[=i]'[=o]-ned, _adj._ (_Shak._) overgrown with marsh-marigolds,
that flower being still called _peony_ around Stratford.

PIONEER, p[=i]-[=o]-n[=e]r', _n._ one of a party of soldiers who clear the
road before an army, sink mines, &c.: one who goes before to prepare the
way for others.--_v.t._ to act as pioneer to.--_ns._ P[=I]'ONER (_Shak._),
a pioneer; P[=I]'ONING (_Spens._), the work of pioneers: military works.
[O. Fr. _peonier_ (Fr. _pionnier_)--pion, a foot-soldier--Low L. _pedo_,
_pedonis_, a foot-soldier--L. _pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

PIOUS, p[=i]'us, _adj._ showing love, affection, or respect towards
parents: having reverence and love for the DEITY: proceeding from religious
feeling.--_adv._ P[=I]'OUSLY, in a pious manner.--_adj._ P[=I]'OUS-MIND'ED,
of a pious disposition. [Fr. _pieux_--L. _pius_.]

PIP, pip, _n._ a disease of fowls--also called _Roup_. [Low L. _pipita_--L.
_pipuita_, rheum.]

PIP, pip, _n._ the seed of fruit. [_Pippin_.]

PIP, pip, _n._ one of the spots on dice or playing-cards. [Corr. of prov.
_pick_--Fr. _pique_, a spade, at cards.]

PIP, pip, _v.t._ (_slang_) to blackball.

PIP, pip, _v.i._ to chirp, as a young bird.

PIPE, p[=i]p, _n._ a musical wind instrument consisting of a long tube: any
long tube: a tube of clay, &c., with a bowl at one end for smoking tobacco:
a pipeful: the note of a bird: a cask containing two hogsheads.--_v.i._ to
play upon a pipe: to whistle, to chirp: to make a shrill noise.--_v.t._ to
play on a pipe: to call with a pipe, as on board ships: to give forth
shrill notes: to supply with pipes, to convey by pipes.--_ns._ PIP'AGE,
conveyance or distribution by pipes; PIPE'-CASE, a box softly lined to
protect a pipe; PIPE'CLAY, a fine white plastic clay, very like kaolin, but
containing a larger percentage of silica, used for making tobacco-pipes and
fine earthenware.--_v.t._ to whiten with pipeclay: (_slang_) to blot out,
as accounts.--_adj._ PIPED (p[=i]pt), tubulous or fistulous.--_ns._
PIPE'-FISH, a genus of fishes in the same order as the seahorse, having a
long thin body covered with partially ossified plates, the head long, and
the jaws elongated so as to form a tubular snout, hence the name;
PIPE'-LAY'ER; PIPE'-LAY'ING, the laying down of pipes for gas, water, &c.;
PIPE'-OFF'ICE, formerly an office in the Court of Exchequer in which the
clerk of the pipe made out crown-land leases; PIP'ER; PIPE'-ROLL, a
pipe-like roll, the earliest among the records of the Exchequer;
PIPE'-ST[=A]'PLE, the stalk of a tobacco-pipe: a stalk of grass;
PIPE'-STICK, the wooden tube used as the stem of some tobacco-pipes;
PIPE'-TONGS, an implement for holding or turning metal pipes or
pipe-fittings; PIPE'-TREE, the lilac; PIPE'-WINE (_Shak._), wine drawn from
the cask, as distinguished from bottled wine; PIPE'-WRENCH, a wrench with
one movable jaw, both so shaped as to bite together when placed on a pipe
and rotated round it.--PIPE DOWN, to dismiss from muster, as a ship's
company; PIPE OFF, to watch a house or person for purposes of theft; PIPE
ONE'S EYE, to weep.--DRUNK AS A PIPER, very drunk; PAY THE PIPER, to bear
the expense. [A.S. _pípe_; Dut. _pijp_, Ger. _pfeife_.]

PIPERACEOUS, pip-e-r[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ pertaining to the PIPER[=A]'CEÆ,
the pepper family.--_adj._ PIPER'IC, produced from such plants.--_n._
PIP'ERINE, an alkaloid found in pepper. [L. _piper_, pepper.]

PIPETTE, pi-pet', _n._ a small tube for removing small portions of a fluid
from one vessel to another. [Fr.]

PIPI, p[=e]'p[=e], _n._ the astringent pods of _Cæsalpinia pipai_, a
Brazilian plant used in tanning.

PIPING, p[=i]'ping, _adj._ uttering a weak, shrill, piping sound, like the
sick: sickly: feeble: boiling.--_n._ act of piping: sound of pipes: a
system of pipes for any purpose: small cord used as trimming for dresses,
&c.: a slip or cutting taken from a plant with a jointed stem.

PIPISTREL, PIPISTRELLE, pip-is-trel', _n._ a small reddish-brown bat. [Fr.]

PIPIT, pip'it, _n._ a genus of birds resembling larks in plumage and
wagtails in habits, the most common British species being the titlark.

PIPKIN, pip'kin, _n._ a small earthen pot. [_Pipe_.]

PIPPIN, pip'in, _n._ a kind of apple. [O. Fr. _pepin_--L. _pepo_--Gr.
_pep[=o]n_, a melon.]

PIPUL, pip'ul, _n._ the sacred fig-tree.--Also PIP'AL, PIPP'UL-TREE,
PEEP'UL-TREE. [Hind.]

PIPY, p[=i]'pi, _adj._ like a pipe: tubular.

PIQUANT, p[=e]'kant, _adj._ stimulating to the taste: of a lively
spark.--_n._ PIQ'UANCY.--_adv._ PIQ'UANTLY. [Fr. _piquant_, pr.p. of
_piquer_, to prick.]

PIQUE, p[=e]k, _n._ an offence taken: a feeling of anger or vexation caused
by wounded pride: spite: nicety: punctilio.--_v.t._ to wound the pride of:
to offend: to pride or value (one's self):--_pr.p._ piq'uing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ piqued. [Fr. _pique_, a pike, pique; cf. _Pick_ and _Pike_.]

PIQUÉ, p[=e]-k[=a]', _n._ a heavy cotton fabric having a surface corded or
with a raised lozenge pattern: a similar pattern produced by quilting with
the needle.--_n._ PIQUÉ-WORK. [Fr.]

PIQUET. Same as PICKET.

PIQUET, pi-ket', _n._ a game at cards.--_n._ PIQUE, in piquet, the scoring
of 30 points in one hand before the other side scores at all. [_Picket_.]

PIRAGUA, pi-rä'gwä. Same as PERIAGUA.

PIRATE, p[=i]'r[=a]t, _n._ one who, without authority, attempts to capture
ships at sea: a sea-robber: an armed vessel which, without legal right,
plunders other vessels at sea: one who steals or infringes a
copyright.--_v.t._ to rob at sea: to take without permission, as books or
writings.--_n._ P[=I]'RACY, the crime of a pirate: robbery on the high
seas: infringement of copyright.--_adjs._ PIRAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to a
pirate: practising piracy.--_adv._ PIRAT'ICALLY. [Fr.,--L. _pirata_--Gr.
_peirat[=e]s_--_peiraein_, to attempt.]

PIRIFORM, pir'i-form, _adj._ pear-shaped.

PIRN, pirn, _n._ anything that revolves or twists: a reel, bobbin, &c.: the
amount of thread wound on a shuttle or reel.

PIRNIE, pir'ni, _n._ (_Scot._) a striped woollen nightcap.

PIROGUE, pi-r[=o]g'. See PERIAGUA.

PIROUETTE, pir-[=oo]-et', _n._ a wheeling about, esp. in dancing: the
whirling round of a horse on the same ground.--_v.i._ to execute a
pirouette. [Fr.]

PISCES, pis'[=e]z, _n._ the Fishes, the twelfth sign of the zodiac.--_ns._
PIS'CARY, right of fishing in another man's waters; PISCATOL'OGY, the
scientific study of fishes; PISC[=A]'TOR, an angler:--_fem._
PISC[=A]'TRIX.--_adj._ PISCAT[=O]'RIAL, relating to fishes or fishing: fond
of fishing--also PIS'CATORY.--_n._ PIS'CICAPTURE, the taking of
fish.--_adjs._ PISCIC'OLOUS, parasitic upon fishes; PISCICUL'TURAL,
pertaining to pisciculture.--_ns._ PIS'CICULTURE, the rearing of fish by
artificial methods; PIS'CICULTURIST, a fish-culturist.--_adjs._ PIS'CIFORM,
in shape like a fish: having the form of a fish; PIS'CINE, pertaining to
fishes; PISCIV'OROUS, feeding on fishes. [L. _piscis_, a fish.]

[Illustration]

PISCINA, pis-[=i]'na, _n._ a basin or tank, esp. one for holding fishes or
for growing water-plants: a fish-pond: (_archit._) a basin or sink on the
south side of the altar in old churches, into which is emptied water used
in washing any of the sacred vessels.--_adj._ PIS'CINAL, belonging to a
fish-pond. [L., a fish-pond, a cistern--_piscis_, a fish.]

PISÉ, p[=e]-z[=a]', _n._ stiff earth or clay rammed down to form walls or
floors. [Fr.]

PISH, pish, _interj._ expressing contempt. [Imit.]

PISIFORM, p[=i]'si-form, _adj_. pea-shaped. [L. _pisum_, pea, _forma_,
shape.]

PISMIRE, pis'm[=i]r, _n._ an ant or emmet. [_Piss_, from the strong smell
of the ant-hill, A.S. _mire_, ant.]

PISOLITE, p[=i]'s[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a coarse oolite or concretionary
limestone in large globules.--_adj._ PISOLIT'IC. [Gr. _pisos_, pea,
_lithos_, stone.]

PISS, pis, _v.i._ to discharge urine or make water.--_ns._ PISS'-A-BED
(_prov._), the dandelion; PISS'ASPHALT, PIS'OPHALT, a variety of bitumen;
PISS'-POT, a chamber-pot. [Fr. _pisser_; imit.]

PISTACHIO, pis-t[=a]'shi-[=o], _n._ the almond-flavoured pistachio-nut, the
fruit of the PIST[=A]'CHIA, a small genus of trees of the cashew family,
native to western Asia. [It.,--L. _pistacium_--Gr. _pistakion_--Pers.
_pist[=a]_.]

PISTAREEN, pis-ta-r[=e]n', _n._ in West Indies, the peseta.

PISTIL, pis'til, _n._ (_bot._) the female organ in the centre of a flower,
consisting of three parts--_ovary_, _style_, and _stigma_.--_adjs._
PISTILL[=A]'CEOUS, PIS'TILLARY, growing on a pistil: pertaining to, or
having the nature of, a pistil; PIS'TILL[=A]TE, having a pistil: having a
pistil only; PISTILLIF'EROUS, bearing a pistil without stamens. [Fr.,--L.
_pistillum_, a pestle.]

PISTOL, pis'tol, _n._ a small hand-gun, held in one hand when
fired.--_v.t._ to shoot with a pistol.--_ns._ PISTOLEER', one armed with a
pistol; PIS'TOLET, a little pistol; PIS'TOL-SHOT. [O. Fr. _pistole_--It.
_pistola_, said to be from _Pistoja_ (orig. _Pistola_), a town in Italy.]

PISTOLE, pis't[=o]l, _n._ a Spanish gold coin=about 16 shillings. [Same as
above.]

PISTON, pis'tun, _n._ a circular plate of metal, or other material, used in
pumps, steam-engines, &c., fitting and moving up and down within a tube or
hollow cylinder.--_n._ PIS'TON-ROD, the rod to which the piston is fixed,
and which moves up and down with it. [Fr.,--It. _pistone_--_pesto_, to
pound--L. _pins[)e]re_, _pistum_.]

PIT, pit, _n._ a hole in the earth: a place whence minerals are dug: the
bottomless pit: the grave: the abode of evil spirits: a hole used as a trap
for wild beasts: the hollow of the stomach, or that under the arm at the
shoulder: the indentation left by smallpox: the ground-floor of a theatre:
an enclosure in which cocks fight: the shaft of a mine.--_v.t._ to mark
with little hollows: to lay in a pit: to set in competition:--_pr.p._
pit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pit'ted.--_ns._ PIT'-COAL, coal dug from a
pit--not _charcoal_; PIT'-FRAME, the framework round a mine-shaft;
PIT'-HEAD, the ground at the mouth of a pit, and the machinery, &c., on it;
PIT'MAN, a man who works in a coal-pit or a saw-pit, esp. the man who works
the pumping machinery in the shaft of a mine: (_mach._) a rod connecting a
rotary with a reciprocating part.--_adj._ PIT'TED, marked with small
pits.--_ns._ PIT'TING, the act of digging, or of placing in, a pit: a group
of pit-marks: a corrosion of the inside of steam-boilers, &c.;
PIT'-VILL'AGE, a group of miners' houses near a pit. [A.S. _pyt_,
_pytt_--L. _puteus_, a well.]

PITAKA, pit'a-ka, _n._ a collection of Buddhist scriptures, as made in
Tibet. [Sans., 'basket.']

PITAPAT, pit'a-pat, _adv._ with palpitation or quick beating.--_adj._
fluttering.--_n._ a light, quick step: a succession of light taps.--_v.i._
to step or tread quickly.

PITCH, pich, _n._ the solid black shining substance obtained by boiling
down common tar.--_v.t._ to smear with pitch.--_adjs._ PITCH'-BLACK,
PITCH'-DARK, dark as pitch: very dark.--_ns._ PITCH'-BLENDE, a black oxide
of uranium; PITCH'-COAL, a kind of bituminous coal: jet; PITCH'INESS, state
or quality of being pitchy; PITCH'-PINE, a kind of pine which yields pitch,
and is much used in America as fuel; PITCH'-PLAS'TER, a plaster of Burgundy
or white pitch; PITCH'-STONE, an old volcanic-like hardened pitch;
PITCH'-TREE, the kauri pine, the Amboyna pine, or the Norway
spruce.--_adj._ PITCH'Y, having the qualities of pitch: smeared with pitch:
black like pitch: dark: dismal. [A.S. _pic_--L. _pix_, _pic-is_.]

PITCH, pich, _v.t._ to thrust or fix in the ground: to fix or set in array:
to fix the rate or price: to fling or throw: (_mus._) to set the keynote
of.--_v.i._ to settle, as something pitched: to come to rest from flight:
to fall headlong: to fix the choice: to encamp: to rise and fall, as a
ship.--_n._ a throw or cast from the hand: any point or degree of elevation
or depression: degree: degree of slope: a descent: the height of a note in
speaking or in music: (_mech._) distance between the centres of two teeth
in a wheel or a saw, or between the threads of a screw measured parallel to
the axis.--_ns._ PITCHED'-BATT'LE, a battle in which the contending parties
have fixed positions: a battle previously arranged for on both sides;
PITCH'ER; PITCH'-FAR'THING, chuck-farthing; PITCH'FORK, a fork for pitching
hay, &c.: a tuning-fork.--_v.t._ to lift with a pitchfork: to throw
suddenly into any position.--_ns._ PITCH'ING, the act of throwing: a facing
of stone along a bank to protect against the action of water; PITCH'PIPE, a
small pipe to pitch the voice or tune with.--PITCH AND PAY (_Shak._), pay
down at once, pay ready-money; PITCH AND TOSS, a game in which coins are
thrown at a mark, the person who throws nearest having the right of
_tossing_ all the coins, and keeping those which come down head uppermost;
PITCH IN, to begin briskly; PITCH INTO, to assault. [A form of _pick_.]

PITCHER, pich'[.e]r, _n._ a vessel for holding water, &c.--_n._
PITCH'ER-PLANT, a plant with leaves shaped like a pitcher or
ascidium--_Nepenthes_, &c.--PITCHERS HAVE EARS, there may be listeners. [O.
Fr. _picher_--Low L. _picarium_, a goblet--Gr. _b[=i]kos_, a wine-vessel,
an Eastern word.]

PITEOUS, pit'e-us, _adj._ showing or feeling pity: fitted to excite pity:
mournful: compassionate: paltry.--_adv._ PIT'EOUSLY.--_n._ PIT'EOUSNESS.
[O. Fr. _pitos_, _piteus_. Cf. _Pity_.]

PITFALL, pit'fawl, _n._ a pit slightly covered, so that wild beasts may
fall into it: any concealed danger.

PITH, pith, _n._ the marrow or soft substance in the centre of the stems of
dicotyledonous plants: force or energy: importance: condensed substance:
quintessence.--_n._ PITH'-BALL, a pellet of pith.--_adv._ PITH'ILY.--_n._
PITH'INESS.--_adj._ PITH'LESS, wanting pith, force, or energy.--_n._
PITH'-P[=A]'PER, a thin sheet cut from pith for paper: rice-paper.--_adj._
PITH'Y, full of pith: forcible: strong: energetic. [A.S. _pitha_; Dut.
_pit_, marrow.]

PITHECUS, pi-th[=e]'kus, _n._ a name formerly used by zoologists for
various groups of apes and monkeys.--_ns._ PITHECANTHR[=O]'PI, hypothetical
ape-men; PITH[=E]'CIA, the genus of South American monkeys which includes
the _Sakis_ and allied species.--_adj._ PITH[=E]'COID. [L.,--Gr.
_pith[=e]kos_, an ape.]

PITHOS, pith'os, _n._ a large spheroid Greek earthenware vase. [Gr.]

PIT-MIRK, pit'-m[.e]rk, _adj._ (_Scot._) dark as pitch.

PITRI, pit'r[=e], _n.pl._ the deceased ancestors of a man: in Hindu
mythology, an order of divine beings inhabiting celestial regions of their
own, and receiving into their society the spirits of those mortals for whom
funeral rites have been duly performed. [Sans., 'father,' pl. _pitaras_.]

PITSAW, pit'saw, _n._ a large saw for cutting timber, worked by the
_pit-sawyer_ in the pit below the log and the _top-sawyer_ on the log.

PITTACAL, pit'a-kal, _n._ a blue substance obtained from wood-tar oil and
used in dyeing. [Gr. _pitta_, pitch, _kalos_, beautiful.]

PITTANCE, pit'ans, _n._ an allowance of food or drink: a dole: a very small
portion or quantity. [Fr. _pitance_, an allowance of food in a
monastery--Low L. _pietantea_--L. _pietas_, pity.]

PITUITARY, pit'[=u]-i-t[=a]-ri, _adj._ mucous--also PIT'[=U]ITAL,
PIT'[=U]ITOUS.--_ns._ PIT[=U][=I]'TA, PIT'UITE, phlegm.--PITUITARY BODY, a
rounded body of the size of a small bean, situated in the sella turcica in
the sphenoid bone on the floor of the cavity of the skull. [L.
_pituitarius_--_pituita_, mucus.]

PITY, pit'i, _n._ a strong feeling for or with the sufferings of others:
sympathy with distress: a cause or source of pity or grief.--_v.t._ to feel
pity with: to sympathise with:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pit'ied.--_adj._
PIT'IABLE, deserving pity: affecting: wretched.--_n._
PIT'IABLENESS.--_adv._ PIT'IABLY.--_n._ PIT'IER, one who pities.--_adj._
PIT'IFUL, feeling pity: compassionate: exciting pity: sad:
despicable.--_adv._ PIT'IFULLY.--_n._ PIT'IFULNESS.--_adj._ PIT'ILESS,
without pity: cruel.--_adv._ PIT'ILESSLY.--_n._ PIT'ILESSNESS.--_adv._
PIT'YINGLY, in a pitying manner.--IT PITIETH ME, YOU, THEM, &c. (_Pr.
Bk._), it causeth pity in me, you, them, &c. [O. Fr. _pite_ (Fr. _pitié_,
It. _pietà_)--L. _pietas_, _pietatis_--_pius_, pious.]

PITYRIASIS, pit-i-r[=i]'a-sis, _n._ the term given to certain of the
squamous or scaly diseases of the skin, in which there is a continual
throwing off of bran-like scales of epidermis.--_adj._ PIT'YROID,
bran-like. [Gr. _pityron_, bran.]

PIÙ, p[=u], _adv._ more.--PIÙ ALLEGRO, quicker. [It.]

PIVOT, piv'ut, _n._ the pin on which anything turns: the officer or soldier
at the flank upon whom a company wheels: that on which anything depends or
turns.--_adj._ PIV'OTAL, of the nature of a pivot: acting as a pivot.--_n._
PIV'OT-BRIDGE, a form of swing-bridge moving on a vertical pivot.--_adj._
PIV'OTED, furnished with a pivot or pivots.--_ns._ PIV'OT-GEAR'ING, a
system of gearing permitting the driving-shaft to be swivelled so as to set
the machine in any direction with relation to the power; PIV'OT-GUN, a gun
mounted on a pivot, so as to be able to turn in any direction; PIV'OTING,
the pivot-work in machines; PIV'OT-MAN, the soldier or officer who acts as
a pivot (see PIVOT). [Fr. dim. of It. _piva_, a pipe, a peg, a pin--Low L.
_pipa_.]

PIX, piks, _n._ Same as PYX.

PIXY, PIXIE, pik'si, _n._ a small Devonshire fairy.--_adj._ PIX'Y-LED,
bewildered.--_ns._ PIX'Y-RING, a fairy-ring, a well-marked ring of a
different kind of grass, common on meadows and heaths; PIX'Y-STOOL, a
toadstool or mushroom. [_Puck_.]

PIZE, p[=i]z, _n._ a term used in execration, like _pox_.

PIZZICATO, pit-si-kä'to, _adj._ a phrase used in music for the violin or
violoncello, to denote that here the strings are to be twitched with the
fingers in the manner of a harp or guitar. [It.,--_pizzicare_, to twitch.]

PIZZLE, piz'l, _n._ the penis of an animal, as a bull. [Low Ger. _pesel_.]

PLACABLE, pl[=a]'ka-bl, or plak'a-bl, _adj._ that may be appeased:
relenting: willing to forgive.--_ns._ PLACABIL'ITY,
PL[=A]'CABLENESS.--_adv._ PL[=A]'CABLY.--_v.t._ PL[=A]'C[=A]TE, to
conciliate.--_n._ PLAC[=A]'TION, propitiation.--_adj._ PL[=A]'CATORY,
conciliatory. [L. _placabilis_--_plac[=a]re_, to appease, akin to
_plac[=e]re_, to please.]

PLACARD, plak'ärd, or pl[=a]-kärd', _n._ a written or printed paper stuck
upon a wall as an advertisement, &c.: a public proclamation: the woodwork
and frame of the door of a closet and the like.--_v.t._ PLACARD
(pl[=a]-kärd', or plak'ärd), to publish or notify by placards. [Fr.
_placard_, a bill stuck on a wall--_plaque_, plate, tablet; acc. to Diez,
from Dut. _plak_, a piece of flat wood.]

PLACCATE, plak'[=a]t, _n._ See PLACKET.

PLACE, pl[=a]s, _n._ a broad way in a city: an open space used for a
particular purpose: a particular locality: a town: room to dwell, sit, or
stand in: the position held by anybody, employment, office, a situation: a
mansion with its grounds: proper position or dignity, priority in such:
stead: passage in a book: a topic, matter of discourse: in sporting
contests, position among the first three.--_v.t._ to put in any place or
condition: to find a home for: to settle: to lend: invest: to
ascribe.--_n._ PLACE'-HUNT'ER, one who seeks eagerly official position or
public office.--_adj._ PLACE'LESS, without place or office.--_ns._
PLACE'MAN, one who has a place or office under a government:--_pl._
PLACE'MEN; PLACE'MENT, placing or setting; PLACE'-MONG'ER, one who traffics
in appointments to places; PLACE'-NAME, the name of a place or locality: a
local name; PLAC'ER.--GIVE PLACE, to make room, to yield; HAVE PLACE, to
have existence; IN PLACE, in position: opportune; OUT OF PLACE,
inappropriate, unseasonable; TAKE PLACE, to come to pass: to take
precedence of. [Fr.,--L. _platea_, a broad street--Gr. _plateia_, a
street--_platys_, broad.]

PLACEBO, pl[=a]-s[=e]'bo, _n._ in the R.C. service of vespers for the dead
the name of the first antiphon, which begins with the word: a medicine
given to humour or gratify a patient rather than to exercise any curative
effect. [L., 'I will please'--_plac[=e]re_, to please.]

PLACENTA, pla-sen'ta, _n._ the structure which unites the unborn mammal to
the womb of its mother and establishes a nutritive connection between them:
(_bot._) the portion of the ovary which bears the ovules:--_pl._
PLACEN'TÆ.--_adj._ PLACEN'TAL.--_n.pl._ PLACENT[=A]'LIA, placental
mammals.--_adjs._ PLACENT[=A]'LIAN; PLACEN'TARY, pertaining to, or having,
a placenta.--_n._ a mammal having a placenta.--_adjs._ PLACEN'TATE,
PLACENTIF'EROUS.--_ns._ PLACENT[=A]'TION, the mode in which the placenta is
formed and attached to the womb; PLACENT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
placenta. [L., a flat cake, akin to Gr. _plakous_, a flat cake, from
_plax_, _plak-os_, anything flat.]

PLACER, plas'er, _n._ a place where the superficial detritus is washed for
gold, &c.: hence any place holding treasures. [Sp.]

PLACET, pl[=a]'set, _n._ a vote of assent in a governing body: permission
given, esp. by a sovereign, to publish and carry out an ecclesiastical
order, as a papal bull or edict. [L., 'it pleases,' 3d sing. pres. indic.
of _plac[=e]re_, to please.]

PLACID, plas'id, _adj._ gentle: peaceful.--_ns._ PLACID'ITY,
PLAC'IDNESS.--_adv._ PLAC'IDLY. [Fr.,--L. _placidus_--_plac[=e]re_, to
please.]

PLACITORY, plas'i-t[=o]-ri, _adj._ of or relating to pleas or pleading in
courts of law.

PLACITUM, plas'i-tum, _n._ a public assembly in the Middle Ages, presided
over by the sovereign, to consult on affairs of state: a resolution of such
an assembly:--_pl._ PLAC'ITA. [L., from _plac[=e]re_, to please.]

PLACK, plak, _n._ a small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, equal
in value to the third part of an English penny.--_adj._ PLACK'LESS,
penniless. [O. Fr. _plaque_, a plate.]

PLACKET, plak'et, _n._ (_Shak._) the slit in a petticoat: a
petticoat--hence, a woman: a placcate or additional plate of steel on the
lower half of the breast-plate, or back-plate: a leather jacket
strengthened with strips of steel. [Fr. _plaquet_--_plaquer_, to clap on.]

PLACODERM, plak'o-d[.e]rm, _adj._ noting an order of fossil fishes having
their skin covered with bony plates. [Gr. _plax_, _plakos_, anything flat,
_derma_, skin.]

PLACOID, plak'oid, _adj._ plate-like.--PLACOID FISHES, an order of fishes
having placoid scales, irregular plates of hard bone, not imbricated, but
placed near together in the skin. [Gr. _plax_, _plakos_, anything flat and
broad, _eidos_, form.]

PLACULA, plak'[=u]-la, _n._ a little plate or plaque.--_adjs._ PLAC'ULAR,
PLAC'UL[=A]TE.

PLAFOND, pla-fond', _n._ the ceiling of a room, any soffit. [Fr.]

PLAGAL, pl[=a]'gal, _adj._ in Gregorian music, denoting a mode or melody in
which the final is in the middle of the compass instead of at the
bottom--opp. to _Authentic_. [Gr. _plagios_, sidewise--_plagos_, a side.]

PLAGIARISE, pl[=a]'ji-ar-[=i]z, _v.t._ to steal from the writings or ideas
of another.--_ns._ PL[=A]'GIARISM, the act or practice of plagiarising;
PL[=A]'GIARIST, one who plagiarises; PL[=A]'GIARY, one who steals the
thoughts or writings of others and gives them out as his own: the crime of
plagiarism.--_adj._ practising literary theft. [Fr. _plagiaire_--L.
_plagiarius_, a kidnapper--_plaga_, a net.]

PLAGIOCLASE, pl[=a]'ji-[=o]-kl[=a]z, _n._ a group of triclinic feldspars
whose cleavage planes are not at right angles to each other.--_adj._
PLAGIOCLAS'TIC. [Gr. _plagios_, oblique, _klasis_, a fracture.]

PLAGIODONT, pl[=a]'ji-[=o]-dont, _adj._ having the teeth oblique.

PLAGIOSTOME, pl[=a]'ji-[=o]-st[=o]m, _n._ a plagiostomous fish, one of the
PLAGIOS'TOMI, a division of fishes, including sharks and rays.--_adjs._
PLAGIOSTOM'ATOUS, PLAGIOS'TOMOUS.

PLAGIOTROPISM, pl[=a]-ji-ot'r[=o]-pizm, _n._ a mode of turning of the
organs of plants in the direction of gravitation or of the ray of
light.--_adj._ PLAGIOTROP'IC.--_adv._ PLAGIOTROP'ICALLY. [Gr. _plagios_,
oblique, _tropos_, a turning.]

PLAGIUM, pl[=a]'ji-um, _n._ the crime of kidnapping.

PLAGUE, pl[=a]g, _n._ any great natural evil: a deadly disease or
pestilence: a very troublesome person or thing, esp. a malignant kind of
contagious fever, prevailing epidemically, characterised by buboes, or
swellings of the lymphatic glands, by carbuncles and petechiæ.--_v.t._ to
infest with disease or trouble: to harass or annoy:--_pr.p._ pl[=a]g'uing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pl[=a]gued.--_ns._ PLAGUE'-MARK, -SPOT, a mark or spot
of plague or foul disease: a place where disease is constantly present;
PLAG'UER, one who plagues, vexes, or annoys; PLAGUE'-SORE.--_adv._
PLAG'UILY, vexatiously.--_adj._ PLAGUY (pl[=a]'gi), vexatious: (_Shak._)
troublesome.--_adv._ vexatiously.--PLAGUE ON, may a curse rest on.--BE AT
THE PLAGUE, to be at the trouble. [O. Fr. _plague_--L. _plaga_, a blow; Gr.
_pl[=e]g[=e]_.]

PLAICE, pl[=a]s, _n._ a broad, flat fish, in the same genus as the
flounder. [O. Fr. _plaïs_ (Fr. _plie_)--Low L. _platessa_, a flat fish--Gr.
_platys_, flat.]

PLAID, plad, or pl[=a]d, _n._ a loose outer garment of woollen cloth, often
of a tartan, or coloured striped pattern, a special dress of the
Highlanders of Scotland.--_adj._ like a plaid in pattern or
colours.--_adj._ PLAID'ED, wearing a plaid: made of plaid cloth.--_n._
PLAID'ING, a strong woollen twilled fabric. [Gael. _plaide_, a blanket,
contr. of _peal-laid_, a sheepskin--_peall_, a skin, cog. with L. _pellis_,
Eng. _fell_.]

PLAIN, pl[=a]n, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to complain: to lament.--_ns._ PLAIN'ANT,
one who complains: a plaintiff; PLAIN'ING (_Shak._), complaint. [O. Fr.
_pleigner_ (Fr. _plaindre_)--L. _plang[)e]re_, to lament.]

PLAIN, pl[=a]n, _adj._ without elevations, even, flat: level, smooth,
without obstructions: free from difficulties, easy, simple: without
ornament or beauty, homely: artless: sincere: evident, unmistakable: mere:
not coloured, figured, or variegated: not highly seasoned, natural, not
cooked or dressed: not trumps at cards.--_n._ an extent of level land: an
open field.--_adv._ clearly: distinctly.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to make
plain.--_n.pl._ PLAIN'-CLOTHES, clothes worn by an officer when off duty or
not in uniform.--_ns._ PLAIN'-COOK, one able to cook all ordinary dishes;
PLAIN'-DEAL'ER, one who deals or speaks his mind plainly.--_adj._
PLAIN'-DEAL'ING, speaking or acting plainly, candid.--_n._ candid speaking
or acting, sincerity.--_adj._ PLAIN'-HEART'ED, having a plain or honest
heart: sincere.--_n._ PLAIN'-HEART'EDNESS.--_adv._ PLAIN'LY.--_ns._
PLAIN'NESS; PLAIN'-SONG, the music of a recitative-like character and sung
in unison, used in the Christian Church of the West from the earliest
times, and still in use in all R.C. churches: a simple air without
variations: a plain unvarnished statement; PLAIN'-SPEAK'ING,
straight-forwardness or bluntness of speech.--_adj._ PLAIN'-SPOK'EN,
speaking with plain, rough sincerity.--_n.pl._ PLAIN'STANES (_Scot._),
flagstones, pavement.--_n._ PLAIN'WORK, plain needlework, as distinguished
from embroidery.--PLAIN AS A PIKESTAFF, perfectly plain or clear. [Fr.,--L.
_pl[=a]nus_, plain.]

PLAINT, pl[=a]nt, _n._ lamentation: complaint: a sad song: (_law_) the
exhibiting of an action in writing by a complainant.--_adj._ PLAINT'FUL,
complaining: expressing sorrow.--_n._ PLAINT'IFF (_Eng. law_), one who
commences a suit against another--opp. to _Defendant_.--_adj._ PLAINT'IVE,
complaining: expressing sorrow: sad.--_adv._ PLAINT'IVELY.--_n._
PLAINT'IVENESS.--_adj._ PLAINT'LESS, without complaint: unrepining. [O. Fr.
_pleinte_ (Fr. _plainte_)--L. _planctus_--_plang[)e]re_, _planctum_, to
lament.]

PLAISE, pl[=a]s, _n._ Same as PLAICE.

PLAISTER, pl[=a]s't[.e]r, _n._ an obsolete form of _plaster_.

PLAIT, pl[=a]t, _n._ a fold: a doubling over, as of cloth upon itself: a
braid.--_v.t._ to fold: to double in narrow folds: to interweave.--_adj._
PLAIT'ED, folded over in narrow folds: braided: interwoven:
intricate.--_ns._ PLAIT'ER, one who plaits or braids: a machine for making
plaits, as in cloth; PLAIT'ING, the act of making plaits. [O. Fr. _pleit_,
_ploit_ (Fr. _pli_)--L. _plic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to fold.]

PLAN, plan, _n._ a drawing of anything on a plane or flat surface: a
drawing of a building as it stands on the ground: a scheme or project for
accomplishing a purpose: a contrivance: a method or custom.--_v.t._ to make
a sketch of on a flat surface: to form in design: to lay plans
for:--_pr.p._ plan'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ planned.--_adj._
PLAN'LESS.--_ns._ PLAN'NER, one who forms a plan: a projector;
WORK'ING-PLAN, a draft on a large scale given to workmen to work
from.--PLAN OF CAMPAIGN, the method of conducting the struggle of the Irish
tenants against the landlords, organised by the National League in 1886,
its officers collecting what they considered a fair rent, and offering it
to the landlord, and where he refused to accept it spending it on the
support of the persons evicted. [Fr.,--L. _planus_, flat.]

PLANARIAN, pl[=a]-n[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ and _n._ a term practically
coextensive with Turbellarian, applicable to the members of the lowest
class of worm-like animals, living in fresh and salt water, and sometimes
in damp earth.--_adjs._ PLANAR'IFORM, PLAN[=A]'RIOID. [L. _planarius_,
flat.]

PLANCH, planch, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to cover with planks. [Fr. _planche_--L.
_planea_.]

PLANCHET, plan'chet, _n._ a flat piece of metal ready to receive impression
as a coin.

PLANCHETTE, plan-shet', _n._ a small heart-shaped or triangular piece of
board resting on three props, two of which are castors and one a
pencil-point, which, while a person's fingers are lightly resting on it,
sometimes moves, as if of its own accord, and traces with the pencil marks
and even words upon a piece of paper below it. [Fr. _planchette_, a small
board.]

PLANE, pl[=a]n, _n._ (_geom._) a surface on which, if any two points be
taken, the straight line joining them will lie entirely on the surface:
(_astron._) a surface thought of as bounded by the line round which a
heavenly body moves: any flat or level surface: any incline on which coal
is lowered by the effect of gravity: any grade of life or of
development.--_adj._ having the character of a plane: pertaining to, lying
in, or forming a plane.--_v.t._ to make plane or smooth.--_adj._
PL[=A]'NARY, relating to a plane: flat.--_n._ PLANE'-T[=A]'BLE, a
topographical instrument used in field-mapping, and having a
sighting-telescope for observing objects, whose angles may be noted on a
paper on the table of the instrument: an inclined table on which ore is
dressed.--_v.t._ to survey with a plane-table.--_ns._ PLAN'IGRAPH, an
instrument for reducing or enlarging drawings; PLANIM'ETER, an instrument
for measuring the area of a plane figure.--_adjs._ PLANIMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._
PLANIM'ETRY, the mensuration of plane surfaces.--_adj._ PLANIPET'ALOUS,
having flat petals.--_ns._ PLAN'ISHER, a thin flat-ended tool used for
smoothing tin-plate and brasswork: a workman who planishes, esp. one who
prepares copper-plates for engravers; PLAN'ISPHERE, a sphere projected on a
plane.--_adjs._ PLANISPHER'IC; PL[=A]NO-CON'CAVE, plane on one side and
concave on the other; PL[=A]'NO-CON'ICAL, plane on one side and conical on
the other; PL[=A]'NO-CON'VEX, plane on one side and convex on the
other.--_n._ PLANOG'RAPHIST, a map-maker.--_adj._ PL[=A]'NO-HORIZON'TAL,
having a plane horizontal surface or position.--_ns._ PLANOM'ETER, a plane
surface used in machine-making as a gauge for plane surfaces; PLANOM'ETRY,
the measurement of plane surfaces.--_adj._ PL[=A]'NO-SUB'ULATE, smooth and
awl-shaped.--PLANE ANGLE, an angle contained by two straight lines in a
plane; PLANE FIGURE, a figure all of whose points lie in one plane; PLANE
GEOMETRY, the geometry of plane figures; PLANE SAILING, the calculation of
a ship's place in its course, as if the earth were flat instead of
spherical: easy work; PLANE TRIGONOMETRY, that branch of trigonometry which
treats of triangles described on a plane.--INCLINED PLANE (see INCLINE);
PERSPECTIVE PLANE (see PERSPECTIVE). [Fr.,--L. _planus_, plain.]

PLANE, pl[=a]n, _n._ a carpenter's tool for producing a level or smooth
surface.--_v.t._ to make a surface (as of wood) level by means of a
plane.--_ns._ PL[=A]'NER, a tool or machine for planing: a smooth wooden
block used for levelling a form of type; PL[=A]N'ING-MACHINE', a machine
for planing wood or metals.--_v.t._ PLAN'ISH, to make smooth: to polish.
[Fr.,--Low L. _plan[=a]re_, to make level.]

PLANET, plan'et, _n._ one of the bodies in the solar system which revolve
in elliptic orbits round the sun.--_n._ PLANET[=A]'RIUM, a machine showing
the motions and orbits of the planets.--_adjs._ PLAN'ETARY, pertaining to
the planets: consisting of, or produced by, planets: under the influence of
a planet: erratic: revolving; PLANET'IC, -AL.--_n._ PLAN'ETOID, a celestial
body having the form or nature of a planet: one of a number of very small
planets, often called asteroids, moving round the sun between Mars and
Jupiter.--_adjs._ PLANETOI'DAL; PLAN'ET-STRICK'EN, PLAN'ET-STRUCK
(_astrol._), affected by the influence of the planets: blasted.--_n._
PLAN'ETULE, a little planet.--MINOR PLANETS, the numerous group of very
small planets which is situated in the solar system between Mars and
Jupiter. [Fr. _planète_--Gr. _plan[=e]t[=e]s_, wanderer--_plan[=a]n_, to
make to wander.]

PLANE-TREE, pl[=a]n'-tr[=e], _n._ any one of the several trees constituting
the genus _Platanus_, esp. the oriental or common plane-tree, with its
variety the maple-leaved plane-tree, and the American plane-tree, usually
called _sycamore_ or _buttonwood_ or _buttonball_: in Great Britain, the
sycamore maple. [Fr. _plane_--L. _platanus_--Gr. _platanos_--_platys_,
broad.]

PLANGENT, plan'jent, _adj._ resounding: noisy. [L. _plangens_,
_-gentis_--_plang[)e]re_, to beat.]

PLANK, plangk, _n._ a long piece of timber, thicker than a board: one of
the principles or aims of an associated party.--_v.t._ to cover with
planks.--_n._ PLANK'ING, the act of laying planks: a series of planks: work
made up of planks.--WALK THE PLANK, to be compelled to walk along a plank
projecting over the ship's edge into the sea. [L. _planca_, a board; cf.
_Plain_, even.]

PLANKTON, plangk'ton, _n._ pelagic animals collectively. [Gr., _planktos_,
wandering.]

PLANODIA, pl[=a]-n[=o]'di-a, _n._ a false passage, such as may be made in
using a catheter.

PLANT, plant, _n._ a something living and growing, fixed on the ground and
drawing food therefrom by means of its root, and developing into a stem,
leaves, and seed: a sprout: any vegetable production: the tools or material
of any trade or business: (_slang_) a trick, dodge, hidden plunder.--_v.t._
to put into the ground for growth: to furnish with plants: to set in the
mind, implant: to establish.--_v.i._ to set shoots in the ground.--_adj._
PLANT'ABLE.--_ns._ PLANT'AGE (_Shak._), plants in general, or the vegetable
kingdom; PLANT[=A]'TION, a place planted: a wood or grove: (_U.S._) a large
estate: a colony: act or process of introduction: (_Milt._) the act of
planting; PLANT'ER, one who plants or introduces: the owner of a
plantation; PLANT'-HOUSE, a garden structure designed for the protection
and cultivation of the plants of warmer climates than our own; PLANT'ICLE,
a young plant; PLANT'ING, the act of setting in the ground for growth: the
art of forming plantations of trees: a plantation.--_adj._ PLANT'LESS,
destitute of vegetation.--_ns._ PLANT'LET, a little plant; PLANT'-LOUSE, a
small homopterous insect which infests plants; PLANT'ULE, the embryo of a
plant. [A.S. _plante_ (Fr. _plante_)--L. _planta_, a shoot, a plant.]

PLANTAIN, plan't[=a]n, _n._ an important food-plant of tropical countries,
so called from its broad leaf: a common roadside plant of several species,
with broad leaves and seed-bearing spikes.--PLANTAIN EATER, one of a family
of African, arboreal, vegetarian Pie-like birds. [Fr.,--L. _plantago_,
_plantaginis_.]

PLANTIGRADE, plant'i-gr[=a]d, _adj._ that walks on the sole of the
foot.--_n._ a plantigrade animal, as the bear.--_adj._ PLANT'AR, pertaining
to the sole of the foot. [L. _planta_, the sole, _gradi_, to walk.]

PLANULA, plan'[=u]-la, _n._ the locomotory embryo of the
coelenterates.--_adjs._ PLAN'ULAR; PLAN'ULIFORM; PLAN'ULOID.

PLANURIA, pl[=a]-n[=u]'ri-a, _n._ the discharge of urine through an
abnormal passage, uroplania.--Also PLAN'URY.

PLAP, plap, _v.i._ to plash, fall with plashing sound. [Imit.]

PLAQUE, plak, _n._ a flat piece of metal or other material, used for
ornament, as a brooch, &c., or for painting on, to form a
wall-picture.--_n._ PLAQUETTE', a small plaque. [Fr.; cf. _Plack_.]

PLASH, plash, _v.t._ to bind and interweave the branches of.--_v.i._ to
bend down a branch.--_n._ a small branch of a tree partly cut and bound to
or twisted among other branches.--_n._ PLASH'ING, a mode of repairing a
hedge by bending the branches and twisting them about each other. [O. Fr.
_plassier_--L. _plexus_--_plect[)e]re_, to twist.]

PLASH, plash, _n._ a dash of water: a puddle: a shallow pool: a splashing
sound: a sudden downpour: a flash.--_v.i._ to dabble in water: to
splash.--_v.t._ to sprinkle with colouring matter, as a wall.--_adj._
PLASH'Y, full of puddles: watery. [Imit.]

PLASM, plazm, _n._ a mould or matrix: protoplasm--also PLAS'MA.--_adjs._
PLASMAT'IC, -AL, plastic, formative; PLAS'MIC, pertaining to plasma,
protoplasmic.--_ns._ PLASM[=O]'DIUM, composite masses of primitive
protozoa, in which numerous units are fused, or in rare cases simply
combined in close contact; PLAS'MOGEN, true protoplasm; PLASMOG'ONY, the
generation of an organism from plasma; PLASMOL'OGY, minute or microscopic
anatomy, histology.--_v.t._ PLAS'MOLYSE.--_n._ PLASMOL'YSIS, the
contraction of the protoplasm in active cells under the action of certain
reagents.--_adj._ PLASMOLYT'IC.

PLASMA, plas'ma, _n._ a green variety of translucent quartz or
silica.--_adj._ PLAS'MIC. [Gr.,--_plassein_, to form.]

PLASTER, plas't[.e]r, _n._ something that can be moulded into figures: a
composition of lime, water, and sand for overlaying walls, &c.: (_med._) a
medicinal agent consisting of an adhesive substance spread upon cloth or
leather, so as to stick to the part of the body to which it is
applied.--_adj._ made of plaster.--_v.t._ to cover with plaster: to cover
with a plaster, as a wound: to besmear: (_fig._) to smooth over.--_ns._
PLAS'TERER, one who plasters, or one who works in plaster; PLAS'TERING, the
art of covering the internal faces of walls, the partitions and ceiling of
a building, with plaster: a covering of plaster: the plasterwork of a
building; PLAS'TER-STONE, gypsum.--_adj._ PLAS'TERY, like plaster,
containing plaster.--PLASTER CAST, a copy of an object got by pouring a
mixture of plaster of Paris and water into a mould formed from the object;
PLASTER OF PARIS, a kind of gypsum, originally found near _Paris_, used in
building and in making casts of figures; POROUS PLASTER, a plaster for
application to the body, full of small holes, which prevent it from
wrinkling. [A.S. _plaster_--O. Fr. _emplastre_--L. _emplastrum_--Gr.
_emplastron_.]

PLASTIC, plas'tik, _adj._ having power to give form to: capable of being
moulded: of or pertaining to moulding.--_ns._ PLASTIC'ITY, state or quality
of being plastic; PLASTIL[=I]'NA, a modelling clay which remains soft and
plastic for a considerable time; PLASTOG'RAPHY, imitation of handwriting.
[Gr. _plastikos_--_plassein_, to mould.]

PLASTRON, plas'tron, _n._ a breast-plate: a detachable part of a woman's
dress hanging from the throat to the waist: a man's shirt-bosom: a fencer's
wadded shield of leather worn on the breast: the ventral part of the shell
of a chelonian or testudinate, the lower shell of a turtle or tortoise: the
sternum with costal cartilages attached.--_adj._ PLAS'TRAL.

PLAT, plat, _v.t._ Same as PLAIT.

PLAT, plat, _n._ a piece of ground: a piece of ground ornamentally laid
out: (_obs._) a plan, scheme.--_v.t._ to make a map or plan of.--_n._
PLAT'-BAND, a border of flowers in a garden: (_archit._) a slightly
projecting square moulding, an architrave fascia, a list between flutings.
[_Plot._]

PLATANE, plat'[=a]n, _n._ the plane-tree.--Also PLAT'AN. [L.
_platanus_--Gr. _platanos_--_platys_, broad.]

PLATE, pl[=a]t, _n._ something flat: a thin piece of metal: wrought gold
and silver: household utensils in gold and silver: a shallow dish nearly
flat: an engraved piece of metal.--_v.t._ to overlay with a coating of
plate or metal: to arm or defend with metal plates: to adorn with metal: to
beat into thin plates.--_n._ PLATE'-ARM'OUR, armour of strong metal plates
for protecting ships-of-war, &c.--_adj._ PL[=A]'TED, covered with plates of
metal for strength, as ships: covered with a coating of a more precious
metal: (_zool._) covered with hard scales.--_ns._ PLATE'-FLEET (_Milt._),
vessels used for carrying precious metals; PLATE'FUL, as much as a plate
will hold; PLATE'-GLASS, a fine kind of glass, cast in thick plates, used
for mirrors and large shop-windows; PLATE'-LAY'ER, a workman whose
occupation it is to lay the rails of a railway and fix them to the
sleepers; PLATE'-MARK, a mark or stamp on gold or silver plate to indicate
its purity and the place where it was made; PLATE'-POW'DER, a composition
of rouge and prepared chalk used for cleaning gold and silver plate and
plated articles; PLATE'-PRINT'ING, the process of printing from engraved
plates; PL[=A]'TER, one who plates articles with a coating of gold or
silver; PLATE'-RACK, a frame for holding plates, &c., when not in use;
PLATE'-WARM'ER, an apparatus in which plates are warmed before the fire;
PL[=A]'TING, the covering of an inferior metal with one of the precious
metals: a thin coating of metal on another.--_adj._ PL[=A]'TY, like a
plate.--HALF'-PLATE, in photography, a size of plate measuring 4¾ by 6½ in.
(4¼ by 5½ in U.S.); QUAR'TER-PLATE, 3¼ by 4¼ in.; WHOLE'-PLATE, 6½ by 8½
in. [O. Fr. _plate_, fem. of _plat_, flat--Gr. _platys_, broad.]

PLATEAU, pla-t[=o]', _n._ a broad flat space on an elevated position: a
tableland:--_pl._ PLATEAUS, PLATEAUX (pla-t[=o]z'). [Fr.,--O. Fr. _platel_,
dim. of _plat_.]

PLATEN, plat'en, _n._ the flat part of a printing-press which comes down
upon the form, and by which the impression is made.

PLATFORM, plat'form, _n._ a raised level surface: a part of a floor raised
above the rest to form a standing-place for speakers, workmen, &c.:
(_mil._) an elevated floor for cannon: a statement of principles to which a
body of men declare their adhesion, and on which they act: (_Shak._) a
scheme, plan.--_v.t._ (_Milt._) to sketch, plan: (_Mrs Browning_) to
support as on a platform.--_ns._ PLAT'FORM-BRIDGE (_Amer._), a movable
gangway between the platforms of two railway carriages; PLAT'FORM-CAR, a
railway car open all round and without a roof; PLAT'FORM-CRANE, a crane
used on a railway platform, or one mounted on a movable truck;
PLAT'FORM-SCALE, a weighing-machine with a flat surface for holding the
thing to be weighed.--THE PLATFORM, the function of public oratory. [Fr.
_plate-forme_, 'flat form.']

PLATIASMUS, plat-i-as'mus, _n._ imperfect speech.

PLATINUM, plat'in-um, _n._ an important metal of a dim silvery appearance,
between gold and silver in value, and very difficult to melt--older name
PLAT'INA.--_adjs._ PLATIN'IC; PLATINIF'EROUS.--_v.t._ PLAT'INISE, to coat
with platinum.--_ns._ PLAT'INOID, one of the metals with which platinum is
always found associated--_palladium iridium_, &c.; PLAT'INOTYPE, a method
of producing photographs by means of paper coated with a preparation of
platinum: a picture so produced.--_adj._ PLAT'INOUS, containing or
consisting of platinum. [Sp. _platina_--_plata_, plate.]

PLATITUDE, plat'i-t[=u]d, _n._ flatness: that which exhibits dullness of
thought: an empty remark made as if it were important.--_n._
PLATITUDIN[=A]'RIAN, one who indulges in platitudes.--_adj._
PLATIT[=U]'DINOUS. [Fr.,--_plat_, flat.]

PLATONIC, -AL, pl[=a]-ton'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to _Plato_, the Greek
philosopher (about 427-347 B.C.), or to his philosophical opinions.--_adv._
PL[=A]TON'ICALLY.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ PL[=A]'TONISE, to reason like
Plato.--_ns._ PL[=A]'TONISM, the philosophical opinions of Plato;
PL[=A]'TONIST, PL[=A]TON'IC, a follower of Plato.--PLATONIC LOVE, the love
of soul for soul, a love into which sensual desire is supposed not to enter
at all.

PLATOON, pla-t[=oo]n', _n._ a number of recruits assembled for
exercise--originally a small body of soldiers in a hollow square, to
strengthen the angles of a longer formation: a subdivision of a company.
[Fr. _peloton_, a ball, a knot of men--_pelote_--L. _p[)i]la_, a ball.]

PLATTER, plat'[.e]r, _n._ a large flat plate or dish. [M. E. _plater_--O.
Fr. _platel_--_plat_, a plate.]

PLATTING, plat'ing, _n._ the process of making interwoven work: such work
itself.

PLATYCEPHALOUS, plat-i-sef'a-lus, _adj._ having the vault of the skull
flattened.--Also PLATYCEPHAL'IC.

PLATYPUS, plat'i-poos, _n._ the duck-bill (q.v.). [Gr. _platys_, flat,
_pous_, a foot.]

PLATYRHINE, plat'i-rin, _adj._ broad-nosed.--_n._ a platyrhine monkey.

PLAUDIT, plawd'it, _n._ a mark of applause: praise bestowed.--_adj._
PLAUD'ITORY, applauding.--_adj._ PLAUS'IVE, applauding, approving:
(_Shak._) plausible. [Shortened from L. _plaudite_, praise ye, a call for
applause, 2d pers. pl. imper. of _plaud[)e]re_, _plausum_, to praise.]

PLAUSIBLE, plawz'i-bl, _adj._ that may be applauded: seemingly worthy of
approval or praise: superficially pleasing: apparently right: fair-spoken:
popular.--_ns._ PLAUSIBIL'ITY, PLAUS'IBLENESS, an appearance of being right
or worthy of approval: that which seems right and true at first
sight.--_adv._ PLAUS'IBLY. [L. _plausibilis_--_plaud[)e]re_, to praise.]

PLAUSTRAL, plä'stral, _adj._ of or pertaining to a wagon. [L. _plaustrum_,
a wagon.]

PLAY, pl[=a], _v.i._ to engage in some amusing exercise: to take part in a
game, or a piece of diversion: to gamble: to sport: to trifle: to move
irregularly or (_mech._) freely: to operate: to act in a theatre: to
perform on a musical instrument: to practise a trick: to act a character:
to act with repeated strokes.--_v.t._ to put in motion: to perform upon: to
perform: to act a sportive part: to compete with.--_n._ amusement: any
exercise for amusement: a contending for victory or for a prize: practice
in a contest: gaming: action or use: manner of dealing, as fair-play: a
dramatic composition: movement: room for action or motion: liberty of
action.--_ns._ PLAY'-ACT'OR, one who acts a part in a play: an actor;
PLAY'-ACT'ORISM, the manner or habits of a play-actor; PLAY'-BILL, a bill
or advertisement of a play; PLAY'BOOK, a book of plays or dramas;
PLAY'-CLUB, a wooden-headed golf-club used for driving the ball the longest
distances; PLAY'-DAY, PLAY'-TIME, a day devoted to play: a holiday;
PLAY'ER, one who plays: an actor of plays or dramas: a trifler: a musician:
a professional at cricket; PLAY'FELLOW, PLAY'MATE, a fellow or mate in play
or amusements.--_adj._ PLAY'FUL, given to play: sportive.--_adv._
PLAY'FULLY.--_ns._ PLAY'FULNESS; PLAY'-G[=O]'ER, one who habitually attends
the theatre; PLAY'-G[=O]'ING; PLAY'-GROUND, a ground or place on which to
play, esp. that connected with a school; PLAY'-HOUSE, a house where
dramatic performances are represented: a theatre; PLAY'ING-CARD, one of a
set of fifty-two cards used in playing games; PLAY'-MARE, the hobby-horse,
one of the chief parts in the ancient morris-dance; PLAY'THING, anything
for playing with: a toy; PLAY'WRIGHT, PLAY'-WRIT'ER, a writer of plays: one
who adapts dramatic compositions for the stage.--PLAYED OUT, worked to the
end: used up: tired; PLAY FAST AND LOOSE, to act in a tricky, inconstant
way: to say one thing and do another; PLAY FINE, at billiards, to strike
the object-ball near the edge--opp. to PLAY FULL, to strike it nearer the
centre than the edge; PLAY OFF, to show or display; PLAY UP, to make a
beginning of playing: to play more vigorously; PLAY UPON, to trifle with:
to delude.--A PLAY UPON WORDS, a use of words so as to give them a double
meaning; BRING INTO PLAY, to bring into exercise or use; COME INTO PLAY, to
come into use; HOLD IN PLAY, to keep the attention of. [A.S. _plegan_, to
play.]

PLEA, pl[=e], _n._ the defender's answer to the plaintiff's demand or
charge: an excuse: an apology: an action in a court of law: urgent
entreaty. [O. Fr. _plait_ (Fr. _plaid_)--Low L. _placitum_, a decision--L.
_placet_, it pleases, _plac[=e]re_, to please.]

PLEACH, pl[=e]ch, _v.t._ to intertwine the branches of, as a hedge:
(_Shak._) to fold, as the arms. [O. Fr. _plesser_--L. _plec-t[)e]re_,
plait; Gr. _plek-ein_, weave.]

PLEAD, pl[=e]d, _v.i._ to carry on a plea or lawsuit: to argue in support
of a cause against another: to seek to persuade: to admit or deny a charge
of guilt.--_v.t._ to discuss by arguments: to allege in pleading or
defence: to offer in excuse:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ plead'ed, or (less
correctly and coll.) pled.--_adj._ PLEAD'ABLE, capable of being
pleaded.--_n._ PLEAD'ER.--_adj._ PLEAD'ING, imploring.--_n._ act of
pleading or of conducting any cause: (_pl._) the statements of the two
parties in a lawsuit (_law_).--_adv._ PLEAD'INGLY.--PLEAD GUILTY, or NOT
GUILTY, to admit, or deny, guilt.--SPECIAL PLEADING, unfair argument aiming
rather at victory than at truth. [O. Fr. _plaider_; cf. _Plea_.]

PLEASE, pl[=e]z, _v.t._ to give pleasure to: to delight: to
satisfy.--_v.i._ to like: to think fit: to choose: to give pleasure: used
impers., followed by an object, originally dative, of the person=if it
please you.--_n._ PLEAS'ANCE, merriment: a pleasure garden.--_adj._
PLEAS'ANT, pleasing: agreeable: cheerful: gay: facetious.--_adv._
PLEAS'ANTLY.--_ns._ PLEAS'ANTNESS; PLEAS'ANTRY, anything that promotes
pleasure: merriment: lively or humorous talk: a trick:--_pl._
PLEAS'ANTRIES; PLEASE'MAN (_Shak._), an officious fellow, a pick-thank;
PLEAS'ER, one who pleases or gratifies.--_adj._ PLEAS'ING, giving pleasure:
agreeable: gratifying.--_n._ (_Shak._) pleasure given: (_B._)
approbation.--_adv._ PLEAS'INGLY.--_n._ PLEAS'INGNESS, the quality of
giving pleasure.--_adj._ PLEAS'URABLE, able to give pleasure: delightful:
gratifying.--_n._ PLEAS'URABLENESS.--_adv._ PLEAS'URABLY.--_n._ PLEASURE
(plezh'[=u]r), agreeable emotions: gratification of the senses or of the
mind: what the will prefers: purpose: command: approbation.--_v.t._
(_arch._) to give pleasure to.--_ns._ PLEAS'URE-BOAT, a boat used for
pleasure or amusement; PLEAS'URE-GROUND, ground laid out in an ornamental
manner for pleasure; PLEAS'URE-HOUSE, a house to which one retires for
recreation or pleasure.--_adj._ PLEAS'URELESS.--_ns._ PLEAS'URER, one who
seeks pleasure; PLEAS'URE-TRIP, an excursion for pleasure.--AT PLEASURE,
whenever and as one pleases. [O. Fr. _plaisir_ (Fr. _plaire_)--L.
_plac[=e]re_, to please.]

PLEAT, pl[=e]t, _v.t._ Same as PLAIT.

PLEBEIAN, pl[=e]-b[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to, or consisting of, the
common people: popular: vulgar.--_n._ originally one of the common people
of ancient Rome: one of the lower classes.--_v.t._ PLEBEI'ANISE.--_ns._
PLEBEI'ANISM, state of being a plebeian: the conduct or manners of
plebeians: vulgarity; PLEBIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of making
plebeian.--_v.t._ PLEB'IFY, to make plebeian: to vulgarise. [Fr.
_plébéien_--L. _plebeius_--_plebs_, _plebis_, the common people.]

PLEBISCITE, pleb'i-s[=i]t, _n._ a decree of an entire nation, obtained by
an appeal to universal suffrage, as in France under Napoleon III.: a method
of obtaining an expression of opinion upon a certain point from the
inhabitants of a district--also PLEBISC[=I]'TUM:--_pl._ PLEB'ISCITES,
PLEBIS'CITA.--_adj._ PLEB'ISCITARY. [Fr.,--L. _plebiscitum_, decree of the
people--_plebs_, the people, _scitum_, a decree--_sc[=i]re_, to know.]

PLEBS, plebz, _n._ the common people. [L.]

PLECTOGNATHI, plek-tog'n[=a]-th[=i], _n._ an order of bony fishes,
including file-fishes, globe-fishes, coffer-fishes, sun-fishes.--_adjs._
PLECTOGNATH'IC, PLECTOG'NATHOUS. [Gr. _plectos_, plaited, _gnathos_, a
jaw.]

PLECTRUM, plek'trum, _n._ the quill or other form of instrument by which
the strings of the Greek lyre were struck.--Also PLEC'TRE, PLEC'TRON.
[L.--Gr.,--_pl[=e]ssein_, to strike.]

PLED, pled, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _plead_.

PLEDGE, plej, _n._ something given as a security: one who becomes surety
for another: a sentiment of goodwill or friendship expressed by drinking
together.--_v.t._ to give as security: to engage for by promise: to invite
to drink by partaking of the cup first: to drink to the health of.--_ns._
PLEDGEE', the person to whom a thing is pledged; PLEDG'ER.--PLEDGE CARD, a
card given, as a remembrancer, to a person who has signed the total
abstinence pledge; PLEDGE CUP, a cup for drinking pledges.--HOLD IN PLEDGE,
to keep as security; PUT IN PLEDGE, to pawn; TAKE, or SIGN, THE PLEDGE, to
give a written promise to abstain from intoxicating liquor. [O. Fr. _plege_
(Fr. _pleige_); prob. L. _præb[=e]re_, to afford.]

PLEDGET, plej'et, _n._ a wad of lint, cotton, &c., as for a wound or sore:
an oakum string used in caulking.

PLEIAD, pl[=i]'ad, _n._ one of the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione,
after death changed into stars:--_pl._ PLEI'ADS, PLEI'ADES, (_astron._) a
group of seven or more stars in the shoulder of the constellation Taurus.

PLEIOCENE. Same as PLIOCENE.

PLEIOCHROISM, pl[=i]-ok'r[=o]-izm, _n._ the property in some crystals, such
as some species of topaz, where three distinct colours may be observed on
looking through them along three rectangular axes.--Also POL'YCHR[=O]ISM.
[Gr. _plei[=o]n_, _ple[=o]n_, more, _chroa_, colour.]

PLEISTOCENE, pl[=i]s't[=o]-s[=e]n, _n._ (_geol._) the name given to the
system comprising the older accumulations belonging to the Quaternary or
Post-Tertiary division. [Gr. _pleistos_, most, _kainos_, recent.]

PLENARY, pl[=e]'n[=a]-ri, _adj._ full: entire: complete: (_law_) passing
through all its stages--opp. to _Summary_: having full powers.--_adv._
PLEN'ARILY.--_ns._ PLEN'ARINESS; PL[=E]'NARTY, the state of a benefice when
occupied; PL[=E]'NIST, one who believes all space to be filled with matter;
PLEN'ITUDE, fullness: completeness: repletion; PL[=E]'NUM, space considered
as in every part filled with matter.--PLENARY INSPIRATION, inspiration
which excludes all mixture of error. [Low L. _plenarius_--L. _ple-nus_,
full--_pl[=e]re_, to fill.]

PLENICORN, plen'i-korn, _adj._ solid-horned, as a ruminant.

PLENILUNAR, plen-i-l[=u]'nar, _adj._ pertaining to the full moon.

PLENIPOTENCE, pl[=e]-nip'o-tens, _n._ complete power--also
PLENIP'OTENCY.--_adj._ PLENIP'OTENT, having full power. [L. _plenus_, full,
_potens_, _-entis_, powerful.]

PLENIPOTENTIARY, plen-i-po-ten'shi-a-ri, _adj._ conferring or having full
powers.--_n._ a person invested with full powers, esp. a special ambassador
or envoy to some foreign court. [Low L. _plenipotentiarius_--L. _plenus_,
full, _potens_, powerful.]

PLENISH, plen'ish, _v.t._ to furnish: to provide, as a house or farm, with
necessary furniture, implements, stock, &c.--_n._ PLEN'ISHING (_Scot._),
furniture. [Fr.,--L. _plenus_, full.]

PLENTY, plen'ti, _n._ a full supply: all that can be needed:
abundance.--_adj._ being in abundance.--_adj._ PLEN'T[=E]OUS, fully
sufficient: abundant: fruitful: well provided: rich: (_B._) giving
plentifully.--_adv._ PLEN'T[=E]OUSLY.--_n._ PLEN'T[=E]OUSNESS.--_adj._
PLEN'TIFUL, copious: abundant: yielding abundance.--_adv._
PLEN'TIFULLY.--_n._ PLEN'TIFULNESS.--HORN OF PLENTY (see HORN). [O. Fr.
_plente_--L. _plenus_, full.]

PLEONASM, pl[=e]'o-nazm, _n._ use of more words than are necessary:
(_rhet._) a redundant expression.--_n._ PL[=E]'ONAST, one who is given to
pleonasm.--_adjs._ PLEONAS'TIC, -AL, redundant: using too many
words.--_adv._ PLEONAS'TICALLY. [Gr. _pleonasmos_--_plei[=o]n_, more.]

PLEROMA, pl[=e]-r[=o]'ma, _n._ fullness: abundance: in Gnosticism, divine
being, including all æons which emanate from it. [Gr.,--_pl[=e]r[=e]s_,
full.]

PLEROPHORY, pl[=e]-rof'[=o]-ri, _n._ full conviction.--Also
PLEROPH[=O]'RIA.

PLESH, plesh, _n._ (_Spens._) a plash, a pool of water.

PLESIOMORPHISM, pl[=e]-si-[=o]-mor'fizm, _n._ the property of certain
substances of crystallising in similar forms while unlike in chemical
composition--also _Isogonism_.--_adjs._ PLESIOMOR'PHIC, PLESIOMOR'PHOUS.

PLESIOSAURUS, pl[=e]-zi-o-saw'rus, _n._ the type or leading genus of a
family (_Plesiosauridæ_) of fossil sea-reptiles, which are characteristic
of the Mesozoic systems. [Gr. _pl[=e]sios_, near, _sauros_, lizard.]

PLETHORA, pleth'o-ra, _n._ excessive fullness of blood: over-fullness in
any way.--_adjs._ PLETHORE'TIC, PLETHOR'IC, -AL, afflicted with plethora:
superabundant: turgid.--_adv._ PLETHOR'ICALLY. [Gr. _pl[=e]th[=o]r[=e]_,
fullness--_pleos_, full.]

PLEUGH, pl[=u]h, _n._ (_Scot._) a plough.--_n._ PLEUGH'-PAID'LE (_Scot._),
a small spade or 'paddle' for cleaning a plough.

PLEURA, pl[=oo]'ra, _n._ a delicate serous membrane which covers the lungs
and lines the cavity of the chest:--_pl._ PLEU'RÆ.--_adj._ PLEU'RAL.--_ns._
PLEURAPOPH'YSIS, a lateral process of a vertebra, with the morphological
character of a rib:--_pl._ PLEURAPOPH'YSES; PLEURENCH'YMA (_bot._), the
woody tissue of plants; PLEU'RISY, inflammation of the pleura, the
investing membrane of the lung; PLEU'RISY-ROOT, a plant common in the
United States, of which the root has medicinal repute, the infusion being
used as a diaphoretic and expectorant.--_adjs._ PLEURIT'IC, -AL, pertaining
to, or affected with, pleurisy: causing pleurisy.--_ns._ PLEUR[=I]'TIS,
pleurisy; PLEURODYN'IA, neuralgia of the chest-wall, which may simulate
closely the pain of pleurisy; PLEU'RO-PNEUM[=O]'NIA, inflammation of the
pleura and lungs, a contagious disease peculiar to cattle. [Gr., a rib.]

PLEURONECTIDÆ, pl[=oo]-ro-nek'ti-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of flat-fishes,
the flounders. [Gr. _pleura_, the side, _n[=e]kt[=e]s_, a swimmer.]

PLEXIMETER, pleks-im'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a small plate of something hard and
elastic, placed on the body, to receive the tap of the fingers or of the
hammer in examination by percussion--also PLEXOM'ETER.--_adj._
PLEXIMET'RIC. [Gr. _pl[=e]xis_, a striking--_pl[=e]ssein_, to strike,
_metron_, a measure.]

PLEXURE, pleks'[=u]r, _n._ the act or process of weaving together: that
which is woven together.--_adj._ PLEX'IFORM, in the form of network: formed
into a plexus.--_n._ PLEX'US, a number of things, as veins, nerves, &c.,
woven together: a network: (_anat._) an interlacing of nerves, vessels, or
fibres. [L. _plexus_, a twining--_plect[)e]re_, _plexum_, to twine.]

PLIABLE, pl[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ easily bent or folded: supple: easily
persuaded: yielding to influence.--_ns._ PLIABIL'ITY, PL[=I]'ABLENESS,
quality of being pliable or flexible.--_adv._ PL[=I]'ABLY, in a pliable
manner.--_ns._ PL[=I]'ANCY, PL[=I]'ANTNESS, the state of being pliant:
readiness to be influenced.--_adj._ PL[=I]'ANT, bending easily: flexible:
tractable: easily influenced.--_adv._ PL[=I]'ANTLY. [Fr. _pliable_--L.
_plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

PLICA, pl[=i]'ka, _n._ in the phrase PLICA POLONICA, a disease of the
scalp, in which the hairs become matted together by an adhesive and often
fetid secretion, occurring in several countries, but esp. in Poland. [L.
_plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

PLICATE, -D, pl[=i]'k[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ folded like a fan, as a leaf:
plaited.--_adv._ PL[=I]'C[=A]TELY.--_ns._ PLIC[=A]'TION, PLIC'ATURE, act or
process of folding: state of being folded: a fold. [L.
_plicatus_--_plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

PLIERS, pl[=i]'[.e]rz, _n.pl._ small pincers for bending.

PLIGHT, pl[=i]t, _n._ something exposed to risk: security: pledge:
engagement: promise.--_v.t._ to pledge: to promise solemnly: to give as
security.--_n._ PLIGHT'ER, one who, or that which, plights. [A.S. _pliht_,
risk, danger--_plión_, to imperil; cog. with Dut. _pligt_, Ger. _pflicht_,
an obligation.]

PLIGHT, pl[=i]t, _n._ condition: state (either good or bad). [O. Fr.
_plite_--L. _plicitus_, _plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

PLIGHT, pl[=i]t, _v.t._ to plait, to braid, to weave.--_n._ (_Spens._) a
plait, a fold. [L. _plect[)e]re_, freq. of _plicäre_, to fold.]

PLIM, plim, _v.i._ (_prov._) to swell. [_Plump_.]

PLIMSOLL'S MARK. See LOAD-LINE, under LOAD.

PLINTH, plinth, _n._ (_archit._) the square at the bottom of the base of a
column: the projecting band at the bottom of a wall. [L. _plinthus_, Gr.
_plinthos_, a brick.]

PLIOCENE, pl[=i]'o-s[=e]n, _n._ (_geol._) the strata more recent than the
Miocene or Second Tertiary. [Gr. _plei[=o]n_, more, _kainos_, recent.]

PLISKIE, plis'ki, _n._ (_Scot._) condition or plight: a mischievous trick.

PLOD, plod, _v.i._ to travel slowly and steadily: to study or work on
steadily: to toil.--_v.t._ to get along by slow and heavy walking:--_pr.p._
plod'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ plod'ded.--_n._ PLOD'DER, one who plods on:
a dull, heavy, laborious man.--_adj._ PLOD'DING, laborious but slow.--_n._
slow movement: patient study.--_adv._ PLOD'DINGLY. [Orig. 'to wade through
pools,' from Ir. _plod_, a pool.]

PLONGE, plonj, _n._ the descending part of the path of a bomb: the superior
slope of a parapet.--Also PLON'GÉE.

PLONGE, plonj, _v.t._ to cleanse, as open sewers, by stirring with a pole
when the tide is ebbing.

PLOP, plop, _v.i._ to plump into water. [Imit.]

PLOT, plot, _n._ a small piece of ground: a plan of a field, &c., drawn on
paper: a patch or spot on clothes.--_v.t._ to make a plan of:--_pr.p._
plot'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ plot'ted. [A.S. _plot._]

PLOT, plot, _n._ a complicated scheme, esp. for a mischievous purpose: a
conspiracy: stratagem: the chain of incidents which are gradually unfolded
in the story of a play, &c.--_v.i._ to scheme: to form a scheme of
mischief: to conspire.--_v.t._ to devise:--_pr.p._ plot'ting; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ plot'ted.--_adj._ PLOT'FUL.--_adj._ PLOT'-PROOF, safe from any
danger by plots.--_ns._ PLOT'TER, one who plots: a conspirator;
PLOT'TING.--_adv._ PLOT'TINGLY. [Fr. _complot_, acc. to Diez, from L.
_complicitum_, pa.p. of _complic[=a]re_, to fold.]

PLOT, plot, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to scald, steep in very hot water.--_n._
PLOT'TIE, a kind of mulled wine.

PLOTTER, plot'[.e]r, _v.i._ to plouter (q.v.).

PLOUGH, plow, _n._ an instrument for turning up the soil to prepare it for
seed: tillage: a joiner's plane for making grooves.--_v.t._ to turn up with
the plough: to make furrows or ridges in: to tear: to divide: to run
through, as in sailing: (_university slang_) to reject in an
examination.--_v.i._ to work with a plough.--_adj._ PLOUGH'ABLE, capable of
being ploughed: arable.--_ns._ PLOUGH'BOY, a boy who drives or guides
horses in ploughing; PLOUGH'ER; PLOUGH'GATE (_Scots law_), a quantity of
land of the extent of 100 acres Scots; PLOUGH'ING; PLOUGH'-[=I]'RON, the
coulter of a plough; PLOUGH'-LAND, land suitable for tillage: as much land
as could be tilled with one plough, a hide of land; PLOUGH'MAN, a man who
ploughs: a husbandman: a rustic:--_pl._ PLOUGH'MEN; PLOUGH'-MON'DAY, the
Monday after Twelfth Day when, according to the old usage, the plough
should be set to work again after the holidays; PLOUGH'-TAIL, the end of a
plough where the handles are; PLOUGH'-TREE, a plough-handle; PLOUGH'WRIGHT,
one who makes and mends ploughs.--PUT ONE'S HAND TO THE PLOUGH, to begin an
undertaking.--SNOW PLOUGH, a strong triangular frame of wood for clearing
snow off roads, railways, &c., drawn by horses or by a locomotive; STEAM
PLOUGH, a plough driven by a stationary steam-engine; THE PLOUGH, the seven
bright stars in the constellation of the Great Bear. [Ice. _plógr_; perh.
Celt., Gael. _ploc_, a block.]

PLOUGHSHARE, plow'sh[=a]r, _n._ the part of a plough which shears or cuts
the ground in the bottom of the furrow. [_Plough_, and A.S. _scear_, a
share of a plough, a shearing--_sceran_, to cut.]

PLOUTER, plow't[.e]r, _v.i._ to paddle in water.--_n._ (_Scot._) a paddling
or dabbling in water.

PLOVER, pluv'[.e]r, _n._ a well-known wading bird. [Fr. _pluvier_--L.
_pluvia_, rain.]

PLOW, plow. Old spelling of _plough_.

PLOY, ploi, _n._ employment: (_Scot._) a frolic. [_Employ_.]

PLUCK, pluk, _v.t._ to pull off or away: to snatch: to strip, as a fowl of
its feathers: (_slang_) to reject an examinee as inefficient.--_n._ a
single act of plucking.--_n._ PLUCK'ER.--PLUCK OFF (_Shak._), to abate from
the rank; PLUCK UP, to pull out by the roots: to summon up, as courage.
[A.S. _pluccian_; akin to Dut. _plukken_, Ger. _pflücken_.]

PLUCK, pluk, _n._ the heart, liver, and lungs of an animal--hence heart,
courage, spirit.--_adjs._ PLUCKED, PLUCK'Y, having pluck or spirit.--_adv._
PLUCK'ILY.--_n._ PLUCK'INESS.

PLUFFY, pluf'i, _adj._ puffy: blown out.--_n._ PLUFF (_Scot._), a puff of
smoke or dust.--_v.t._ to throw out such.

PLUG, plug, _n._ a block or peg used to stop a hole: a bung: a stopper: a
branch from a water-pipe to supply a hose: a flat cake of tobacco: any
worn-out or useless article: (_slang_) a silk hat.--_v.t._ to stop with a
plug: to drive plugs into:--_pr.p._ plug'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
plugged.--_ns._ PLUG'GER, one who, or that which, plugs, esp. a dentist's
instrument for filling a hollow tooth; PLUG'GING, the act of stopping with
a plug: the material of which a plug is made; PLUG'-UG'LY, a street
ruffian.--FIRE PLUG, a contrivance by means of which a hose can be fixed to
a water-main in case of fire. [Dut. _plug_, a bung, a peg (Sw. _plugg_, a
peg, Ger. _pflock_); most prob. Celt., as in Ir., Gael., and W. _ploc_.]

PLUM, plum, _n._ a well-known stone fruit of various colours, of the
natural order _Rosaceæ_: the tree producing it: the best part of all: a sum
of £100,000, a handsome fortune.--_ns._ PLUM'-CAKE, a cake containing
raisins, currants, &c.; PLUM'-DUFF, a flour-pudding boiled with
raisins.--_adj._ PLUM'MY, full of plums: desirable.--_ns._ PLUM'-PORR'IDGE,
an antiquated dish, of porridge with plums, raisins, &c.; PLUM'-PUDD'ING, a
national English dish made of flour and suet, with raisins, currants, and
various spices. [A.S. _plúme_--L. _prunum_--Gr. _prounon_.]

PLUMAGE, pl[=oo]m'[=a]j, _n._ the whole feathers of a bird. [Fr.,--_plume_,
a feather.]

PLUMB, plum, _n._ a mass of lead or other material, hung on a string, to
show the perpendicular position: the perpendicular direction or
position.--_adj._ perpendicular.--_adv._ perpendicularly.--_v.t._ to adjust
by a plumb-line: to make perpendicular: to sound the depth of, as water by
a plumb-line.--_n._ PLUMB'-BOB, a conoid-shaped metal weight at the end of
a plumb-line.--_adjs._ PLUM'B[=E]AN, PLUM'B[=E]OUS, consisting of, or
resembling, lead: stupid; PLUMB'IC, pertaining to, or obtained from, lead;
PLUMBIF'EROUS, producing lead.--_n._ PLUMB'ING, the art of casting and
working in lead, &c.--_adj._ PLUMB'LESS, incapable of being sounded.--_ns._
PLUMB'-LINE, a line to which a mass of lead is attached to show the
perpendicular: a plummet; PLUMB'-RULE, a narrow board with a plumb-line
fastened to the top, used to determine a perpendicular. [Fr. _plomb_--L.
_plumbum_, lead.]

PLUMBAGINEÆ, plum-ba-jin'[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of oxogenous
plants found on seashores and salt-marshes.

PLUMBAGO, plum-b[=a]'go, _n._ a mineral composed of carbon, iron, and other
materials, used for pencils, &c., popularly called 'blacklead:' graphite: a
genus of plants with blue or violet flowers.--_adj._ PLUMBAG'INOUS. [L.
_plumbum_, lead.]

PLUMBER, plum'[.e]r, _n._ one who works in lead, esp. one who fits into
buildings the tanks, pipes, and fittings for conveying water, gas, and
sewage.--_ns._ PLUMB'ER-BLOCK, a metal frame or case for holding the end of
a revolving shaft: a pillow-block; PLUMB'ERY, articles of lead: the
business of a plumber: a place for plumbing.

PLUME, pl[=oo]m, _n._ a feather: a tuft of feathers: a feather worn as an
ornament: a crest: a token of honour: a prize in a contest.--_v.t._ to
dress the feathers of, as a bird: to adorn with plumes: to strip of
feathers: to boast (used reflexively).--_ns._ PLUMASSIER
(pl[=oo]-ma-s[=e]r'), one who prepares or deals in plumes; PLUME'-BIRD, a
term sometimes given to the _Epimachidæ_ or long-tailed
birds-of-Paradise.--_adjs._ PLUMED, adorned with feathers;
PLUME'LESS.--_n._ PLUME'LET, a down-feather, a plumule: anything resembling
a small plume.--_adj._ PLUME'-PLUCKED, stripped of plumes: (_Shak._)
humbled.--_n._ PLUM'ERY, a display of plumes.--_adjs._ PLUMIG'EROUS,
plumaged; PLU'MIPED, having feathered feet.--_n._ PLU'MIST, a
feather-dresser.--_adjs._ PLU'MOSE, PLU'MOUS, feathery: plume-like; PLU'MY,
covered or adorned with plumes. [O. Fr.,--L. _pluma_, a small soft
feather.]

PLUMMER, PLUMMERY. See PLUMBER, PLUMBERY.

PLUMMET, plum'et, _n._ a weight of lead hung at a string, used for
ascertaining the direction of the earth's attraction, and for sounding
depths: a plumb-line. [O. Fr. _plomet_, dim. of _plom_, lead.]

PLUMP, plump, _adv._ falling straight downward (like lead): heavily:
suddenly.--_adj._ downright: unqualified.--_v.i._ to fall or sink suddenly:
to give all one's votes to one candidate where there are more than one to
be elected.--_v.t._ to cause to fall suddenly.--_n._ (_Scot._) a sudden
downfall of rain.--_n._ PLUMP'ER, a vote given to one candidate only when
more than one are to be elected: one who so votes: (_slang_) a downright
lie.--_adv._ PLUMP'LY, fully, without reserve. [_Plumb._]

PLUMP, plump, _adj._ fat and rounded: sleek: in good condition.--_v.i._ to
grow fat or plump: to swell.--_v.t._ to make plump: to fatten.--_ns._
PLUMP'ER, a ball kept in the mouth to give the cheeks a rounded appearance;
PLUMP'NESS.--_adj._ PLUMP'Y (_Shak._), plump, fat. [Teut.; Dut. _plomp_,
lumpish, Ger. _plump_.]

PLUMP, plump, _n._ a cluster: a clump (of persons or things).

PLUMULARIA, pl[=oo]-m[=u]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of hydrozoa, belonging
to the division _hydroidea_.--_adj._ PLUMUL[=A]'RIAN. [L. _plumula_, a
little feather.]

PLUMULE, pl[=oo]'m[=u]l, _n._ (_bot._) the first bud of a plant growing
from seed, springing from between the cotyledons or seed leaves: a soft
feather: a feathery scale on a butterfly's wing.--Also PLUM'ULA. [L.
_plumula_, dim. of _pluma_, a feather.]

PLUNDER, plun'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to seize the goods of another by force: to
pillage.--_n._ that which is seized by force: booty: (_U.S._) household
goods.--_ns._ PLUN'DERAGE, the stealing of goods on board ship;
PLUN'DERER.--_adj._ PLUN'DEROUS. [Ger. _plündern_, to pillage--_plunder_,
trash, baggage; akin to Low Ger. _plunnen_, rags.]

PLUNGE, plunj, _v.t._ to cast suddenly into water or other fluid: to force
suddenly (into): to immerse.--_v.i._ to sink suddenly into any fluid: to
dive: to pitch suddenly forward and throw up the hind-legs, as a horse: to
rush into any danger: (_slang_) to gamble recklessly.--_n._ act of
plunging: act of rushing headlong, as a horse.--_n._ PLUNG'ER, one who
plunges: a diver: a long solid cylinder used as a forcer in pumps: (_mil._)
a cavalry-man: one who bets heavily.--_adj._ PLUNG'ING, rushing headlong:
aimed from higher ground, as fire upon an enemy.--_n._ the putting or
sinking under water, or other fluid: the act of a horse trying to throw its
rider.--PLUNGE BATH, a bath large enough to allow the whole body under
water. [O. Fr. _plonger_--L. _plumbum_, lead.]

PLUPERFECT, pl[=oo]'p[.e]r-fekt, _adj._ (_gram._) noting that an action
happened before some other past action referred to. [A corr. of L.
_plus-quam-perfectum_, (lit.) _more than_ or _before perfect_.]

PLURAL, pl[=oo]'ral, _adj._ containing or expressing more than one.--_n._
(_gram._) the form denoting more than one.--_n._ PLURALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
PLU'RALISE, to make plural.--_v.i._ to hold two or more benefices
simultaneously.--_ns._ PLU'RALISM, the state of being plural: the holding
by one person of more than one office at once, esp. applied to
ecclesiastical livings; PLU'RALIST, one who holds more than one office at
one time; PLURAL'ITY, the state of being plural: a number consisting of
more than one: the majority: the holding of more than one benefice at one
time: the living held by a pluralist.--_adv._ PLU'RALLY. [Fr.,--L.
_pluralis_--_plus_, _pluris_, more.]

PLURILITERAL, pl[=oo]-ri-lit'[.e]r-al, _adj._ containing more letters than
three.

PLURILOCULAR, pl[=oo]-ri-lok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ multilocular.

PLURIPAROUS, pl[=oo]-rip'a-rus, _adj._ having several young at a
birth.--_n._ PLURIP'ARA, one who has borne two or more children.

PLURIPRESENCE, pl[=oo]-ri-prez'ens, _n._ presence in more places than one.
[L. _plus_, more, _præsentia_, presence.]

PLURISY, pl[=oo]r'i-si, _n._ (_Shak._) superabundance. [L. _plus_,
_pluris_, more.]

PLUS, plus, _adj._ more: to be added: positive.--_n._ the sign (+) prefixed
to positive quantities, and set between quantities or numbers to be added
together: the sign of addition--opp. to _Minus_. [L. _plus_, more.]

PLUSH, plush, _n._ a variety of cloth woven like velvet, but differing from
it in having a longer and more open pile.--_adj._ PLUSH'Y, of or resembling
plush. [Fr. _peluche_, through Low L., from L. _pilus_, hair. See PILE, a
hairy surface.]

PLUTOCRACY, pl[=oo]-tok'ra-si, _n._ government by the wealthy.--_n._
PLU'TOCRAT.--_adj._ PLUTOCRAT'IC.--_ns._ PLUTOL'OGIST; PLUTOL'OGY, the
science of wealth: political economy. [Gr. _ploutokratia_--_ploutos_,
wealth, _kratia_--_kratein_, to rule.]

PLUTONIAN, pl[=oo]-t[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ infernal: dark: (_geol._) formed by
the agency of heat at a depth below the surface of the earth, as
granite--also PLUTON'IC.--_ns._ PLU'TONISM; PLU'TONIST.--PLUTONIC ACTION,
the action of volcanic fires under the surface; PLUTONIC ROCKS, rocks
formed under the surface by the action of fire, as granite, porphyry, &c.;
PLUTONIC THEORY, the theory that the present state of the earth's crust is
the result of the action of fire--opp. to _Neptunian theory_. [L.,--Gr.
_Plout[=o]nios_--_Plout[=o]n_, Pluto, the god of the nether world.]

PLUVIAL, pl[=oo]'vi-al, _adj._ pertaining to rain: rainy.--_ns._
PLU'VIOGRAPH, a self-recording rain-gauge; PLUVIOM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the amount of rain that falls.--_adjs._ PLUVIOMET'RIC, -AL;
PLU'VIOUS, rainy. [Fr.,--_pluvialis_--_pluvia_, rain.]

PLY, pl[=i], _v.t._ to work at steadily: to use diligently: to urge: to
address with importunity.--_v.i._ to work steadily: to go in haste: to make
regular passages, as a boat, between two ports: (_naut._) to make way
against the wind:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ plied.--_n._ a fold: bent:
direction.--_n._ PLY'ER. [O. Fr. _plier_, to fold--L. _plic[=a]re_, to
bend.]

PLYERS. Same as PLIERS.

PLYMOUTH BRETHREN, plim'uth breth'ren, _n.pl._ a rigid religious sect,
originating at _Plymouth_ about 1830, out of a reaction against High Church
principles and against a dead formalism associated with unevangelical
doctrine.--_n._ PLYM'OUTHISM.

PNEUMA, n[=u]'ma, _n._ breath: spirit, soul. [Gr.]

PNEUMATIC, -AL, n[=u]-mat'ik, -al, _adj._ relating to air: consisting of
air: moved by air or wind.--_n._ (_coll._) a bicycle fitted with pneumatic
tires.--_adv._ PNEUMAT'ICALLY.--_n.sing._ PNEUMAT'ICS, the science which
treats of air and other elastic fluids or gases.--_adj._
PNEUMATOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ PNEUMATOL'OGIST, one versed in pneumatology;
PNEUMATOL'OGY, the science of elastic fluids: pneumatics: the branch of
philosophy which treats of spirits or mind: (_theol._) the doctrine of the
Holy Spirit; PNEUMATOM'ETER, PNEUMOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the
quantity of air inhaled into the lungs at a single inspiration.--_adj._
PNEUMOGAS'TRIC, pertaining to the lungs and the stomach.--_n._
PNEUM[=O]'NIA, inflammation of the tissues of the lungs--also
PNEU'MON[=I]'TIS.--_adj._ PNEUMON'IC, pertaining to the lungs.--_n._ a
medicine for lung diseases.--PNEUMATIC DESPATCH, a method of sending
letters, telegrams, and small parcels through tubes by means of compressed
air; PNEUMATIC RAILWAY, a railway along which the carriages are driven by
compressed air; PNEUMATIC TROUGH, a trough of wood or iron, filled with
water and used for collecting gases for experiment or examination;
PNEUMATIC TIRE, a flexible air-inflated tube used as a tire on cycles, &c.
[L.,--Gr. _pneumatikos_--_pneum-a_, _-atos_, wind, air--_pnein_, to blow,
to breathe.]

PNYX, niks, _n._ in ancient Athens, the public place of meeting for
deliberation on political affairs: the assembly. [Gr.,--_pyknos_, crowded.]

POACEÆ, p[=o]-[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a division of the order _Gramineæ_,
the grasses.--_n._ P[=O]'A, a genus of grasses. [Gr. _poa_, grass.]

POACH, p[=o]ch, _v.t._ to dress eggs by breaking them into boiling water.
[Perh. Fr. _pocher_, to put in a pocket--_poche_, pouch.]

POACH, p[=o]ch, _v.i._ to intrude on another's preserves in order to steal
game.--_v.t._ to steal game.--_ns._ POACH'ER, one who poaches or steals
game: the widgeon, from its habit of stealing the prey of other ducks;
POACH'ING. [O. Fr. _pocher_, orig. to pocket--_poche_, pouch.]

POACH, p[=o]ch, _v.t._ to stab: poke: to tread on, and make slushy.--_n._
POACH'INESS.--_adj._ POACH'Y, wet and soft. [O. Fr. _pocher_, to poke.]

POCHARD, p[=o]'chard, _n._ a genus of diving ducks which are marine during
the greater part of the year. [_Poacher_, the widgeon.]

POCK, pok, _n._ a small elevation of the skin containing matter, as in
smallpox.--_adjs._ POCKED, POCK'Y, infected with, or marked by,
smallpox.--_ns._ POCK'MARK, POCK'PIT, the mark, pit, or scar left by a
pock.--_adj._ POCK'PITTED. [A.S. _poc_, a pustule; Ger. _pocke_, Dut.
_pok_. The correct pl. form was _pocks_, erroneously _pox_, and treated as
singular.]

POCKET, pok'et, _n._ a little pouch or bag, esp. one attached to a dress or
to a billiard table: any cavity in which anything can lie: in mining, an
irregular cavity filled with veinstone and ore: money, as being carried in
the pocket: a bag of wool, &c., containing about 168 lb.--_v.t._ to put in
the pocket: to take stealthily: to conceal:--_pr.p._ pock'eting; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ pock'eted.--_ns._ POCK'ET-BOOK, a note-book: a book for holding
papers or money carried in the pocket: a book for frequent perusal, to be
carried in the pocket; POCK'ET-BOR'OUGH (see BOROUGH); POCK'ET-CLOTH, a
pocket-handkerchief; POCK'ETFUL, as much as a pocket will hold;
POCK'ET-GLASS, a small looking-glass for the pocket; POCK'ET-HAND'KERCHIEF,
a handkerchief carried in the pocket; POCK'ET-HOLE, the opening into a
pocket; POCK'ET-KNIFE, a knife with one or more blades folding into the
handle for carrying in the pocket; POCK'ET-MON'EY, money carried for
occasional expenses; POCK'ET-PICK'ING, act or practice of picking the
pocket; POCK'ET-PIS'TOL, a pistol carried in the pocket: a small travelling
flask for liquor.--POCKET AN INSULT, AFFRONT, &c., to submit to or put up
with it; POCKET EDITION, a small portable edition of a standard book.--IN
POCKET, in possession of money; OUT OF POCKET, to lose money by a
transaction; PICK A PERSON'S POCKET, to steal from his pocket. [Fr.
_pochette_, dim. of _poche_, pouch.]

POCKMANTY, pok-man'ti, _n._ (_Scot._) portmanteau.

POCOCURANTE, p[=o]-k[=o]-k[=oo]-ran'te, _n._ a careless or inattentive
person.--_ns._ POCOCURANT'ISM, carelessness: inaccuracy; POCOCURANT'IST.
[It. _poco_, little, _curare_, to care.]

POCULIFORM, pok'[=u]-li-form, _adj._ cup-shaped. [L. _poculum_, cup.]

POD, pod, _n._ the covering of the seed of plants, as the pea or bean: a
shoal of fishes.--_v.i._ to fill, as a pod: to produce pods:--_pr.p._
pod'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pod'ded. [Allied to _pad_, anything stuffed.]

PODAGRA, p[=o]-dag'ra, _n._ gout in the feet.--_adjs._ POD'AGRAL,
PODAG'RIC, -AL, POD'AGROUS, gouty.--_n._ PODAL'GIA, pain, esp. neuralgia,
in the foot. [Gr. _pous_, _podos_, the foot, _agra_, a catching.]

PODARGUS, p[=o]-dar'gus, _n._ a genus of arboreal and nocturnal birds
allied to the true Goatsuckers. [Gr. _pous_, the foot, _argos_, swift.]

PODESTA, p[=o]-des'tä, _n._ a chief magistrate in the medieval Italian
republics: an inferior municipal judge. [It.,--L. _potestas_, power.]

PODGY, poj'i, _adj._ short and fat: thick.

PODIUM, p[=o]'di-um, _n._ a continuous pedestal, a stylobate: (_anat._) a
foot: (_bot._) a support, as a foot-stalk.--__adj.__ P[=O]'DIAL.--_ns._
PODIS'MUS, spasm of the muscles of the foot; P[=O]'DITE, a limb of a
crustacean when ambulatory.--__adj.__ PODIT'IC.

PODOCARPUS, pod-[=o]-kär'pus, _n._ a genus of tropical coniferous trees.
[Gr. _pous_, _podos_, foot, _karpos_, fruit.]

PODOPHTHALMA, pod-of-thal'ma, _n.pl._ a name often applied to a section of
Crustacea. [Gr. _pous_, foot, _ophthalmos_, the eye.]

PODOPHYLLUM, pod-[=o]-fil'um, _n._ a genus of plants of the barberry
family, the fruit edible, other parts actively cathartic.--_n._
PODOPHYLL'IN, the resin obtained by means of rectified spirit from its
root.--__adj.__ PODOPHYLL'OUS, having compressed leaf-like locomotive
organs. [Gr. _pous_, _podos_, foot, _phyllon_, leaf.]

PODURA, p[=o]-d[=u]'ra, _n._ a genus of apterous insects--_spring-tails_,
_snow-fleas_. [Gr. _pous_, foot, _oura_, tail.]

POE, p[=o]'e, _n._ the parson-bird of New Zealand.

POEM, p[=o]'em, _n._ a composition in verse: a composition of high beauty
of thought or language, although not in verse.--__adj.__ POEMAT'IC,
relating to a poem. [Fr. _poème_--L. _poema_--Gr. _poi[=e]ma_, _poiein_, to
make.]

POENOLOGY. See PENOLOGY.

POEPHAGOUS, p[=o]-ef'a-gus, _adj._ eating grass.

POESY, p[=o]'e-si, _n._ the art of composing poems: poetry: a poem:
poetical compositions. [Fr. _poésie_--L. _poesis_--Gr.
_poi[=e]sis_--_poiein_, to make.]

POET, p[=o]'et, _n._ the author of a poem: one skilled in making poetry:
one with a strong imagination:--_fem._ P[=O]'ETESS.--_ns._ P[=O]'ETASTER, a
petty poet: a writer of contemptible verses; P[=O]'ETASTRY.--_adjs._
POET'IC, -AL, pertaining or suitable to a poet or to poetry: expressed in
poetry: marked by poetic language: imaginative.--_adv._ POET'ICALLY, in a
poetic manner.--_n.sing._ POET'ICS, the branch of criticism which relates
to poetry.--_n._ POET'ICULE, a petty poet.--_v.i._ P[=O]'ETISE, to write as
a poet: to make verses.--_ns._ P[=O]'ET-LAU'REATE (see LAUREATE);
P[=O]'ETRESS (_Spens._), a poetess; P[=O]'ETRY, the art of expressing in
melodious words the thoughts which are the creations of feeling and
imagination: utterance in song: metrical composition.--POETIC JUSTICE,
ideal administration of reward and punishment; POETIC LICENSE, a departing
from strict fact or rule by a poet for the sake of effect. [Fr. _poète_--L.
_poeta_--Gr. _poi[=e]t[=e]s_--_poiein_, to make.]

POGGE, pog, _n._ the armed bullhead.

POH, p[=o], _interj._ exclamation of contempt.

POIGNANT, poin'ant, _adj._ stinging, pricking: sharp: penetrating: acutely
painful: satirical: pungent.--_n._ POIGN'ANCY, state of being
poignant.--_adv._ POIGN'ANTLY. [O. Fr. _poignant_, _poindre_--L.
_pung[)e]re_, to sting.]

POIND, poind, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to seize.--_n._ POIND'ING (_Scots law_), the
seizing and selling of a debtor's goods under process of law, or under the
warrant of a heritable security. [_Pound._]

POINT, point, _n._ anything coming to a sharp end: the mark made by a sharp
instrument: (_geom._) that which has position but not length, breadth, or
thickness: a mark showing the divisions of a sentence: (_mus._) a dot at
the right hand of a note to lengthen it by one-half: needle-point lace: a
very small space: a moment of time: a small affair: a single thing: a
single assertion: the precise thing to be considered: anything intended:
exact place: degree: the unit of count in a game: (_print._) a unit of
measurement for type-bodies: an advantage: that which stings, as the point
of an epigram: an imaginary relish, in 'potatoes and point:' a lively turn
of thought: that which awakens attention: a peculiarity, characteristic:
(_cricket_) the fielder standing at the immediate right of the batsman, and
slightly in advance: a signal given by a trumpet: (_pl._) chief or
excellent features, as of a horse, &c.: the switch or movable rails which
allow a train to pass from one line to another.--_v.t._ to give a point to:
to sharpen: to aim: to direct one's attention: to punctuate, as a sentence:
to fill the joints of with mortar, as a wall.--_v.i._ to direct the finger,
the eye, or the mind towards an object: to show game by looking, as a
dog.--_adj._ POINT'ED, having a sharp point: sharp: intended for some
particular person: personal: keen: telling: (_archit._) having
sharply-pointed arches, Gothic.--_adv._ POINT'EDLY.--_ns._ POINT'EDNESS;
POINT'ER, that which points: a dog trained to point out game; POINT'ING,
the act of sharpening: the marking of divisions in writing by points or
marks: act of filling the crevices of a wall with mortar; POINT'ING-STOCK,
a thing to be pointed at, a laughing-stock; POINT'-LACE, a fine kind of
lace wrought with the needle.--_adj._ POINT'LESS, having no point: blunt:
dull: wanting keenness or smartness; POINTS'MAN, a man who has charge of
the points or switches on a railway; POINT'-SYS'TEM, a standard system of
sizes for type-bodies, one point being .0138 inch.--POINT FOR POINT,
exactly: all particulars; POINT OF ORDER, a question raised in a
deliberative society as to whether proceedings are according to the rules;
POINT OF VIEW, the position from which one looks at anything; POINT OUT
(_B._), to assign; POINTS OF THE COMPASS, the points _north_, _south_,
_east_, and _west_, along with the twenty-eight smaller divisions, marked
on the card of the mariner's compass.--At all points, completely; AT, or
ON, THE POINT OF, just about to; CARDINAL POINT (see CARDINAL); CARRY ONE'S
POINT, to gain what one contends for in controversy; FROM POINT TO POINT,
from one particular to another; GIVE POINTS TO, to give odds to: to give an
advantageous hint on any subject; IN POINT, apposite; IN POINT OF, with
regard to; MAKE A POINT OF, to attach special importance to; STAND UPON
POINTS, to be over-scrupulous; Strain a point, to go beyond proper limits;
TO THE POINT, appropriate. [O. Fr.,--L. _punctum_--_pung[)e]re_, to prick.]

POINT-BLANK, point'-blangk', _adj._ aimed directly at the mark:
direct.--_adv._ directly.--POINT-BLANK SHOT, a shot fired in a horizontal
line towards an object. [Fr. _point-blanc_, white point.]

POINT-DEVICE, POINT-DEVISE, point'-de-v[=i]s', _n._ (_orig._) a lace worked
with devices: anything uncommonly nice and exact.--_adj._ (_arch._)
scrupulously neat. [Fr. _point_, lace, _devisé_, with a device.]

POINTEL, poin'tel, _n._ a sharp instrument: any sharp-pointed thing. [O.
Fr.,--Low L. _punctillum_, a little point.]

POISE, poiz, _v.t._ to balance: to make of equal weight: to
examine.--_v.i._ to hang in suspense.--_n._ weight: state of balance:
equilibrium: a weight which balances another: a regulating power: the
weight used in steelyards.--_n._ POIS'ER, one who, or that which, poises.
[O. Fr. _poiser_ (Fr. _peser_)--L. _pens[=a]re_, inten. of _pend[)e]re_, to
hang.]

POISON, poi'zn, _n._ any substance which, introduced into the living
organism, tends to destroy its life or impair its health: anything
malignant or infectious: that which taints or destroys moral
purity.--_v.t._ to infect or to kill with poison: to taint: to mar: to
embitter: to corrupt.--_adj._ POI'SONABLE.--_ns._ POI'SONER; POI'SON-FANG,
one of two large tubular teeth in the upper jaw of venomous serpents,
through which poison passes from glands at their roots when the animal
bites; POI'SON-GLAND, a gland which secretes poison; POI'SON-[=I]'VY, a
shrub-vine of North America, causing a cutaneous eruption; POI'SON-NUT, the
nux vomica.--_adj._ POI'SONOUS, having the quality of poison: destructive:
impairing soundness or purity.--_adv._ POI'SONOUSLY.--_n._ POI'SONOUSNESS.
[Fr.,--L. _potio_, a draught--_pot[=a]re_, to drink.]

POITREL, poi'trel, _n._ armour to protect the horse's breast. [O. Fr.
_poitral_--L. _pectorale_, a breast-plate--_pectus_, the breast.]

POITRINE, poi'trin, _n._ the breast-plate of a knight.

POKAL, p[=o]'kal, _n._ an ornamental drinking-vessel.

POKE, p[=o]k, _n._ a bag: a pouch.--A PIG IN A POKE, a blind bargain, as of
a pig bought without being seen. [Prob. Celt., as Ir. _poc_, a bag.]

POKE, p[=o]k, _v.t._ to thrust or push against with something pointed: to
search for with a long instrument: to thrust at with the horns.--_v.i._ to
grope or feel, as in the dark.--_n._ act of pushing or thrusting: a thrust:
a bonnet having a projecting front worn earlier in the century--also
POKE'-BONN'ET.--_ns._ P[=O]'KER, an iron rod for poking or stirring the
fire; PO'KER-DRAW'ING, a design burnt into lime-tree or other wood with
'pokers,' which rather resembled plumbers' soldering irons.--_adj._
P[=O]'KERISH, like a poker: stiff.--_adv._ P[=O]'KERISHLY.--_adj._
P[=O]'KING, drudging, servile.--_n._ P[=O]'KING-STICK, a small stick or rod
of steel formerly used for adjusting the plaits of ruffs.--_adj._ P[=O]'KY,
stupid: dull: confined, with little room: poor, shabby.--POKE FUN AT, to
ridicule, make fun of. [Ir. _poc_, a blow, Gael. _puc_, to push.]

POKER, p[=o]'k[.e]r, _n._ a bugbear.--_adj._ P[=O]'KERISH, causing terror:
uncanny.--OLD POKER, the devil.

POKER, p[=o]'k[.e]r, _n._ a round game at cards, first played in America
about 1835. [Ety. uncertain.]

POLABIAN, p[=o]-l[=a]'bi-an, _n._ one of an ancient Slavic race, belonging
to the same group as the _Poles_, occupying the basin of the lower Elbe.

POLACCA, po-lak'a, _n._ a species of vessel used in the Mediterranean, with
three masts and a jib-boom; the fore and main masts being of one piece, and
the mizzen-mast with a top and topmast. [It., 'a Polish vessel.']

POLACK, p[=o]l'ak, _n._ (_Shak._) a Pole.--Also POL'ANDER.

POLAR, p[=o]'lar, _adj._ pertaining to, or situated near, either of the
poles: pertaining to the magnetic poles: having a common
meeting-point.--_n._ (_geom._) the line joining the points of contact, of
tangents drawn to meet a curve from a point called the pole of the
line.--_ns.pl._ P[=O]LAR-CO-OR'DINATES, co-ordinates defining a point by
means of a radius vector and the angle which it makes with a fixed line
through the origin; P[=O]'LAR-FOR'CES, forces that act in pairs and in
different directions, as in magnetism.--_n._ POLARIM'ETER, the
polariscope.--_adj._ POLAR[=I]'SABLE, capable of polarisation.--_ns._
POLARIS[=A]'TION (_opt._), a particular modification of rays of light, by
the action of certain media or surfaces, so that they cannot be reflected
or refracted again in certain directions: state of having polarity;
POLAR'ISCOPE, an instrument for polarising light, and analysing its
properties.--_v.t._ P[=O]'LARISE, to give polarity to.--_ns._
P[=O]'LARISER, that which polarises or gives polarity to; POLAR'ITY, state
of having two opposite poles: a condition in certain bodies according to
which their properties arrange themselves so as to have opposite powers in
opposite directions, as in a magnet with its two poles.--POLAR BEAR, a
large white bear found in the Arctic regions; POLAR CIRCLE, a parallel of
latitude encircling each of the poles at a distance of 23° 28' from the
pole--the north polar being called the arctic, the south the antarctic,
circle; POLAR LIGHTS, the aurora borealis or australis. [L.
_polaris_--_polus_, a pole.]

POLDER, p[=o]l'd[.e]r, _n._ in the Netherlands, land below the level of the
sea or nearest river, which, originally a morass or lake, has been drained
and brought under cultivation: a morass. [Prob. cog. with _pool_.]

POLE, p[=o]l, _n._ that on which anything turns, as a pivot or axis: one of
the ends of the axis of a sphere, esp. of the earth: (_physics_) one of the
two points of a body in which the attractive or repulsive energy is
concentrated, as in a magnet: (_geom._) a point from which a pencil of rays
radiates (see POLAR).--_n._ POLE'-STAR, a star at or near the pole of the
heavens: a guide or director.--POLES OF THE HEAVENS, the two points in the
heavens opposite to the poles of the earth--called also _Celestial poles_.
[Fr.,--L. _polus_--Gr. _polos_--_pelein_, to be in motion.]

POLE, p[=o]l, _n._ a pale or pile: a long piece of wood: an instrument for
measuring: a measure of length, 5½ yards: in square measure, 30¼
yards.--_v.t._ to push or stir with a pole.--_v.i._ to use a
pole.--__adj.__ POLE'-CLIPT (_Shak._), hedged in with poles.--UNDER BARE
POLES, with all sails furled. [A.S. _pál_ (Ger. _pfahl_)--L. _palus_, a
stake.]

POLE, p[=o]l, _n._ a native of _Poland_.

[Illustration]

POLE-AXE, p[=o]l'-aks, _n._ a battle-axe consisting of an axe-head on a
long handle: an axe used by sailors for cutting away rigging of ships.
[Orig. _pollax_, from _poll_, the head, and _axe_.]

POLECAT, p[=o]l'kat, _n._ a kind of weasel, which emits a stink--called
also the _Fitchet_ and _Foumart_. [M. E. _polcat_; prob. Fr. _poule_, hen,
and _cat_.]

POLEMARCH, pol'e-mark, _n._ a title of several officials in ancient Greek
states.

POLEMIC, -AL, po-lem'ik, -al, _adj._ given to disputing:
controversial.--_n._ one who disputes: one who speaks or writes in
opposition to another: a controversy.--_adv._ POLEM'ICALLY.--_n.sing._
POLEM'ICS, contest or controversy: (_theol._) the history of ecclesiastical
controversy.--_n._ POL'EMOSCOPE, a perspective glass so constructed as to
give views of objects not lying directly before the eye. [Gr. _polemos_,
war.]

POLEMONIACEÆ, pol-e-m[=o]-ni-[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of
plants--the phlox family.

POLENTA, po-len'ta, _n._ an Italian dish, the chief ingredients of which
are maize, meal, and salt. [It.,--L. _polenta_, peeled barley.]

POLEY, p[=o]'li, _adj._ without horns: polled. [Prov. Eng.]

POLIANTHES, pol-i-an'th[=e]z, _n._ a small genus of ornamental plants of
the amaryllis family--the tuberose. [Gr. _polios_, white, _anthos_, a
flower.]

POLICE, p[=o]-l[=e]s', _n._ the system of regulations of a city, town, or
district for the preservation of order and enforcement of law: the internal
government of a state: (short for POLICE'-FORCE) the civil officers
employed to preserve order, &c.--_v.t._ to guard or maintain order in: to
put in order.--_n.pl._ POLICE'-COMMISS'IONERS, a body of men appointed to
regulate the appointments and duties of the police.--_ns._
POLICE'-INSPECT'OR, a superior officer of police who has charge of a
department, next in rank to a superintendent; POLICE'-MAG'ISTRATE, one who
presides in a police court; POLICE'MAN, a member of a police-force;
POLICE'-OFF'ICE, -ST[=A]'TION, the headquarters of the police of a
district, used also as a temporary place of confinement; POLICE'-OFF'ICER,
-CON'STABLE, a policeman; POLICE'-RATE, a tax levied for the support of the
police.--POLICE COURT, a court for trying small offences brought before it
by the police. [Fr.,--L. _politia_--Gr. _politeia_, the condition of a
state--_polit[=e]s_, a citizen--_polis_, a city.]

POLICY, pol'i-si, _n._ the art or manner of regulating or guiding conduct:
the method and forms according to which the government and business of a
country are carried on: a system of administration guided more by interest
than by principle: dexterity of management: prudence: cunning: in Scotland,
(esp. in _pl._) the pleasure-grounds around a mansion. [O. Fr. _policie_
(Fr. _police_)--L. _politia_--Gr. _politeia_.]

POLICY, pol'i-si, _n._ a warrant for money in the funds: a writing
containing a contract of insurance: a kind of gambling by betting on the
numbers to be drawn in a lottery.--_n._ POL'ICY-HOLD'ER, one who holds a
policy or contract of insurance. [Fr. _police_, a policy--L. _polyptychum_,
a register--Gr. _polyptychon_--_polys_, many, _ptyx_, _ptychos_, fold.]

POLING, p[=o]'ling, _n._ act of using a pole for any purpose.

POLISH, p[=o]'lish, _adj._ relating to _Poland_ or to its people.

POLISH, pol'ish, _v.t._ to make smooth and glossy by rubbing: to refine: to
make elegant.--_v.i._ to become smooth and glossy.--_n._ a smooth, glossy
surface: refinement of manners: anything used to produce a polish.--_adjs._
POL'ISHABLE; POL'ISHED, made smooth by rubbing: trained to act with great
fineness and exactness: refined: polite.--_ns._ POL'ISHER, one who, or that
which, polishes; POL'ISHING-PASTE, polishing material made in the form of
paste; POL'ISHING-POW'DER, polishing material made in the form of powder,
as whiting, diamond-dust, &c.; POL'ISHING-SLATE, a mineral used for
polishing glass, marble, and metals, composed chiefly of silica, with a
little alumina, lime, oxide of iron, and water; POL'ISHMENT. [O. Fr.
_polir_, _polissant_--L. _pol[=i]re_, to make to shine.]

POLITE, p[=o]-l[=i]t', _adj._ polished: smooth: refined: well-bred:
obliging.--_adv._ POLITE'LY.--_ns._ POLITE'NESS, state or quality of being
polite: refinement of manners: good-breeding; POLITESSE', politeness. [L.
_politus_, pa.p. of _pol[=i]re_.]

POLITIC, p[=o]l'i-tik, _adj._ pertaining to policy: well-devised: judicious
in management: skilled in political affairs: prudent: discreet: cunning:
(_Shak._) concerned with politics.--_adj._ POLIT'ICAL, pertaining to polity
or government: pertaining to nations, or to parties in a nation who differ
in their views of how it ought to be governed: derived from
government.--_adv._ POLIT'ICALLY.--_ns._ POLIT'ICASTER (_Milt._), a petty
politician; POLITIC'IAN, one versed in or devoted to politics: a man of
artifice and cunning.--_adj._ (_Milt._) politic.--_adv._
POL'ITICLY.--_n.sing._ POL'ITICS, the art or science of government: the
management of a political party: political affairs or opinions.--_adj._
POL'ITIQUE (_Bacon_), political, civil.--_n._ POL'ITY, the constitution of
the government of a state or an institution: civil constitution: a body of
people arranged under a system of government.--POLITICAL ECONOMY, the
science which treats of the production, distribution, and consumption of
wealth; POLITICAL SCIENCE, the science or study of government, as to its
principles, aims, methods, &c.--BODY POLITIC, the whole body of a people,
as constituting a state. [Fr. _politique_--Gr. _politikos_--_polit[=e]s_, a
citizen.]

POLKA, p[=o]l'ka, _n._ a dance of Bohemian origin, invented in 1830, and
introduced into England in 1843--also its tune: a knitted jacket worn by
women.--_v.i._ POLK, to dance a polka. [Bohem. _pulka_, half, from the
half-step prevalent in it; or from Slav. _polka_, a Polish woman.]

POLL, pol, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to exact from, to plunder.

POLL, pol, _n._ a familiar name, often of a parrot. [Contr. of _Polly_, a
form of _Molly_=_Mary_.]

POLL, p[=o]l, _n._ the round part of the head, esp. the back of it: a
register of heads or persons: the entry of the names of electors who vote
for civil officers, such as members of Parliament: an election of civil
officers: the place where the votes are taken.--_v.t._ to remove the top:
to cut: to clip: to lop, as the branches of a tree: to enter one's name in
a register: to bring to the poll as a voter: to give or to receive a
vote.--_v.i._ to give a vote.--_ns._ POLL'ARCHY, government by the mob or
masses; POLL'-BOOK, a register of voters; POLL'-CLERK, a clerk who assists
at the polling of voters.--_adj._ POLLED, deprived of a poll: lopped:
cropped, hence bald: having cast the horns, hence wanting horns.--_ns._
POLL'ER, one who polls; POLL'-MAN, one who takes the ordinary university
degree, without honours; POLL'-TAX, a tax by the poll or head--i.e. on each
person.--AT THE HEAD OF THE POLL, having the greatest number of votes at an
election. [Old Dut. _polle_, _bol_, a ball, top--Ice. _kollr_, top, head.]

POLLACK, pol'ak, _n._ a common fish on British coasts, belonging to the
cod, haddock, and whiting group.--Also POLL'OCK. [Celt., as in Gael.
_pollag_, a whiting.]

POLLAN, pol'an, _n._ a fresh-water fish of the family _Salmonidæ_, a native
of lakes in Ireland.

POLLARD, pol'ard, _n._ a tree having the whole crown cut off, leaving it to
send out new branches from the top of the stem: an animal without horns: a
coarse kind of bran from wheat.--_v.t._ to make a pollard of. [Cf. _Poll_,
the head.]

POLLAXE. Same as POLEAXE.

POLLEN, pol'en, _n._ the fertilising powder contained in the anthers of
flowers: the male or fecundating element in flowers.--_v.t._ to cover with
pollen.--_adj._ POLLEN[=A]'RIOUS, consisting of pollen.--_v.t._ POLL'ENISE,
to supply with pollen.--_n._ POLL'EN-TUBE, the tube by which the
fecundating element is conveyed to the ovule.--_adj._ POLL'INAR, covered
with a fine dust like pollen.--_v.t._ POLL'INATE, to convey pollen to the
stigma of.--_n._ POLLIN[=A]'TION, the transferring or supplying of pollen
to the stigma of a flower, esp. by aid of insects or other external
agents.--_adj._ POLLINIF'EROUS, bearing pollen.--_n._ POLLIN'IUM, an
agglutinated mass of pollen grains.--_adjs._ POLLINIV'OROUS, feeding upon
pollen; POLL'INOSE, covered with a powdery substance like pollen. [L., fine
flour.]

POLLENT, pol'ent, _adj._ powerful: strong. [L. _pollens_, _-entis_, pr.p.
of _poll[=e]re_, to be strong.]

POLLEX, pol'eks, _n._ the thumb or the great-toe:--_pl._ POLLICES
(pol'i-s[=e]z).--_adj._ POLL'ICAL. [L., the thumb.]

POLLICITATION, po-lis-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a promise, a paper containing
such: a promise without mutuality.

POLLIWIG, pol'i-wig, _n._ a tadpole.--Also POLL'YWIG.

POLLUSION, pol-l[=u]'shun, _n._ (_Shak._) for _allusion_.

POLLUTE, pol-l[=u]t', _v.t._ to soil: to defile: to make foul: to taint: to
corrupt: to profane: to violate.--_adj._ defiled.--_adj._
POLLUT'ED.--_adv._ POLLUT'EDLY.--_ns._ POLLUT'EDNESS; POLLUT'ER;
POLL[=U]'TION, act of polluting: state of being polluted: defilement. [L.
_pollu[)e]re_, _pollutus_--_pol_, towards, _lu[)e]re_, to wash.]

POLLUX, pol'uks, _n._ (_myth._) the twin brother of Castor: a star in the
constellation of the twins. [L.]

POLLY. See POLL (2).

POLO, p[=o]'lo, _n._ an equestrian game, which may be shortly described as
hockey on horseback--of Oriental origin and high antiquity.

POLO, p[=o]'lo, _n._ a Spanish gipsy dance.

POLONAISE, p[=o]-l[=o]-n[=a]z', _n._ a light kind of gown looped up at the
sides to show an ornamented petticoat: a short overcoat bordered with fur:
a Polish national dance of slow movement in ¾ time, during which the
dancers march or promenade: music for such a dance. [Fr., 'Polish.']

POLONY, po-l[=o]'ni, _n._ a dry sausage made of meat partly cooked. [Prob.
a corr. of _Bologna sausage_.]

POLT, p[=o]lt, _n._ a blow.

POLTROON, pol-tr[=oo]n', _n._ an idle, lazy fellow: a coward: a dastard:
one without spirit.--_adj._ base, vile, contemptible.--_n._ POLTROON'ERY,
laziness: cowardice: want of spirit. [Fr. _poltron_--It. _poltro_ (for
_polstro_), lazy--Ger. _polster_, a bolster.]

POLVERINE, pol'v[.e]r-in, _n._ the calcined ashes of a Levantine and Syrian
plant, used in glass-making. [It. _polverino_--L. _pulvis_, _pulv[)e]ris_,
dust.]

POLYACOUSTIC, pol-i-a-kowst'ik, _adj._ multiplying or magnifying
sound.--_n._ an instrument for effecting this.

POLYACT, pol'i-akt, _adj._ having numerous rays.--Also POLYAC'TINAL.

POLYAD, pol'i-ad, _n._ (_chem._) an element whose valence is greater than
two.

POLYADELPH, pol'i-a-delf, _n._ a plant having its stamens united in three
or more bundles by the filaments.--_n.pl._ POLYADEL'PHIA, the 18th class in
the Linnæan system.--_adjs._ POLYADEL'PHIAN, POLYADEL'PHOUS.

POLYANDRIA, pol-i-an'dri-a, _n._ a class of plants in the Linnæan system,
having more than twenty stamens inserted on the receptacle.--_adjs._
POLYAN'DRIAN, POLYAN'DROUS.--_n._ POLYAN'DRY, the social usage of some
races in certain stages of civilisation in which the woman normally forms a
union with several husbands. [Gr. _polys_, many, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a
man.]

POLYANTHUS, pol-i-an'thus, _n._ a kind of primrose much prized and
cultivated by florists:--_pl._ POLYAN'THUSES.--_n._ POLYAN'THEA, a
note-book for keeping choice quotations. [Gr. _polys_, many, _anthos_, a
flower.]

POLYARCHY, pol'i-ar-ki, _n._ government by many persons of whatever
class.--_n._ POL'YARCHIST. [Gr. _polys_, many, _archein_, to rule.]

POLYATOMIC, pol-i-a-tom'ik, _adj._ (_chem._) noting elements or radicals
with an equivalency greater than two: with more than one atom in the
molecule.

POLYAUTOGRAPHY, pol-i-aw-tog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of multiplying copies of
one's own handwriting.

POLYBASIC, pol-i-b[=a]'sik, _adj._ (_chem._) capable of combining with more
than two univalent bases.

POLYCARPIC, pol-i-kar'pik, _adj._ fruiting many times or year after year.

POLYCARPOUS, pol-i-kar'pus, _adj._ having the fruit composed of two or more
distinct carpels.

POLYCHORD, pol'i-kord, _adj._ having many chords.

POLYCHRESTIC, pol-i-kres'tik, _adj._ admitting of use in various
ways.--_n._ POL'YCHRESTY.

POLYCHROITE, pol-i-kr[=o]'[=i]t, _n._ safranine.

POLYCHROMATIC, pol-i-kr[=o]-mat'ik, _adj._ many-coloured--also
POLYCHR[=O]'MIC.--_adj._ POL'YCHROME, having, or tinted with, several or
many colours.--_n._ POL'YCHROMY, decoration or execution in many colours,
esp. of statuary or buildings.

POLYCLADOUS, pol-i-kl[=a]'dus, _adj._ much-branched.--_n._ POL'YCL[=A]DY,
the production of a number of branches where there is normally but one.

POLYCOTYLEDON, pol-i-kot-i-l[=e]'don, _n._ a plant whose embryo has more
than two cotyledons or seed-lobes.--_adj._ POLYCOTYL[=E]'DONOUS.

POLYCRACY, p[=o]-lik'r[=a]-si, _n._ government by many rulers.

POLYCROTIC, pol-i-krot'ik, _adj._ having several beats--of pulses.

POLYDACTYL, pol-i-dak'til, _adj._ having many digits.--_n._ a polydactyl
animal.--_n._ POLYDAC'TYLISM, the condition of having many digits.--_adj._
POLYDAC'TYLOUS.

POLYDIPSIA, pol-i-dip'si-a, _n._ excessive thirst. [Gr. _polys_, much,
_dipsa_, thirst.]

POLYERGIC, pol-i-er'jik, _adj._ acting in many ways.

POLYFOIL, pol'i-foil, _n._ an opening or ornament consisting of several
combined foliations, a combination of more than five foils.--Also _adj._

POLYGALACEÆ, pol-i-g[=a]-l[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ an order of polypetalous
plants--the milkwort family.

POLYGAMY, p[=o]-lig'a-mi, _n._ the practice of having more than one wife at
the same time.--_n.pl._ POLYG[=A]'MIA, the 23d class in the Linnæan system,
embracing plants in which the stamens and pistils are separate in some
flowers and associated in others.--_adj._ POLYG[=A]'MIAN.--_n._
POLYG'AMIST.--_adj._ POLYG'AMOUS, relating to polygamy: (_bot._) a term
applied to plants which bear both unisexual and hermaphrodite flowers,
either on the same or on different individual plants. [Gr.,--_polys_, many,
_gamos_, marriage.]

POLYGASTRIC, pol-i-gas'trik, _adj._ having, or appearing to have, many
stomachs, as an animalcule.--Also POLYGAS'TRIAN.

POLYGENESIS, pol-i-jen'e-sis, _n._ origin from many separate germs: the
theory that organisms sprang from different cells.--_adjs._ POLYGENET'IC,
POLYGEN'IC, POLYG'ENOUS.--_ns._ POLYG'ENISM; POLYG'ENIST; POLYG'ENY, the
multiple genesis of man.

POLYGLOT, pol'i-glot, _adj._ having or containing many languages.--_n._ a
collection of versions in different languages of the same work, esp. a
Bible of this kind: one who understands many languages.--_adjs._
POLYGLOT'TIC, POLYGLOT'TOUS. [Gr. _polys_, many, _gl[=o]tta_, the tongue.]

POLYGON, pol'i-gon, _n._ a plane figure bound by a number of straight
lines: a figure of many angles.--_adjs._ POLYG'ONAL, POLYG'ONOUS. [L.,--Gr.
_polyg[=o]non_--_polys_, many, _g[=o]nia_, a corner.]

POLYGONUM, po-lig'o-num, _n._ a kind of plant with many joints, as the
bistort, knotweed, &c.--_n.pl._ POLYGON[=A]'CEÆ, an order of apetalous
plants, mostly herbs--the buckwheat family. [Gr. _polys_, many, _gonu_, a
knee.]

POLYGRAM, pol'i-gram, _n._ a figure consisting of many lines.--_adj._
POLYGRAMMAT'IC.

POLYGRAPH, pol'i-graf, _n._ an instrument for multiplying copies of a
writing: a collection of different books.--_adjs._ POLYGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._
POLYG'RAPHY, voluminous writing: art of writing in various ciphers.

POLYGYNY, p[=o]-lij'i-ni, _n._ polygamy.--_n._ POL'YGYN, a plant of the
order POLYGYN'IA (_pl._), the 12th order in the first 13 classes of the
Linnæan artificial system of plants, embracing those having flowers with
more than twelve styles.--_adjs._ POLYGYN'IAN, POLYGYN'IC, POLYG'YNOUS.
[Gr. _polys_, many, _gyn[=e]_, woman.]

POLYHEDRON, pol-i-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a solid body with many bases or
sides.--_adjs._ POLYH[=E]'DRAL, POLYH[=E]'DRICAL, POLYH[=E]'DROUS. [Gr.
_polys_, many, _hedra_, a base.]

POLYHISTOR, pol-i-his'tor, _n._ a person of great and varied learning.

POLYHYMNIA, pol-i-him'ni-a, _n._ the muse of the sublime hymn. [Gr.
_polys_, many, _hymnos_, a hymn.]

POLYMATHY, p[=o]-lim'a-thi, _n._ knowledge of many arts and sciences.--_n._
POL'YMATH, a person possessing this.--_adj._ POLYMATH'IC.--_n._
POLYM'ATHIST.

POLYMERISM, p[=o]-lim'[.e]r-ism, _n._ a particular form of isomerism, the
property possessed by several compounds of having similar percentage
composition but different molecular weights. [Gr. _polys_, many, _meros_,
part.]

POLYMORPHOUS, pol-i-mor'fus, _adj._ having many forms: varying in
appearance: taking on many changes--also POLYMOR'PHIC.--_ns._ POL'YMORPH,
an organism showing polymorphism: a substance that crystallises in two or
more systems; POLYMOR'PHISM, the property of being polymorphous. [Gr.
_polys_, many, _morph[=e],_ form.]

POLYNESIAN, pol-i-n[=e]'zi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Polynesia_, the
numerous groups of islands in the Pacific within or near the tropics.--_n._
a native of Polynesia. [Gr. _polys_, many, _n[=e]sos_, an island.]

POLYNOMIAL, pol-i-n[=o]'mi-al, _n._ an algebraic quantity of many names or
terms--same as _multinomial_--also POL'YNOME.--_adj._ of many names or
terms.--_n._ POLYN[=O]'MIALISM. [Gr. _polys_, many, L. _nomen_, a name.]

POLYONYMOUS, pol-i-on'i-mus, _adj_. having many names.--_n._ POL'YONYM, a
name consisting of several terms.--_adjs._ POLYON'YMAL; POLYONYM'IC, of
more than two terms.--_ns._ POLYON'YMIST; POLYON'YMY, multiplicity of names
for the same object.

POLYOPIA, pol-i-[=o]'pi-a, _n._ multiple vision.--Also POL'YOPY.

POLYOPTRUM, pol-i-op'trum, _n._ a glass through which objects appear
multiplied but diminished.--Also POLYOP'TRON.

POLYORAMA, pol-i-[=o]-ra'ma, _n._ an optical apparatus presenting many
views.

POLYP, POLYPE, pol'ip, _n._ a name usually applied to an animal like the
fresh-water hydra, having a tubular body, and a wreath of many tentacles
round the mouth: something with many feet or roots: a pedunculated tumour
attached to the surface of a mucous membrane--in the nose, &c.--also
POL'YPUS:--_pl._ POLYPES (pol'ips), POLYPI (pol'i-p[=i]).--_ns._ POL'YPARY,
the horny or chitonous outer covering of a colony of polyps; POL'YPIDE, an
individual zoöid of a polyzoarium or compound polyzoan; POLYP'IDOM, an
aggregate of polypites or polypides; POL'YPIER, one individual of a
compound polyp: a polypidom, polypary, or polyp-stock.--_adj._ POL'YPOUS.
[Gr. _polypous_--_polys_, many, _pous_, foot.]

POLYPETALOUS, pol-i-pet'al-us, _adj._ with many petals. [Gr. _polys_, many,
_petalon_, a leaf.]

POLYPHAGOUS, p[=o]-lif'a-gus, _adj._ eating many different kinds of food.

POLYPHARMACY, pol-i-fär'ma-si _n._ the prescribing of too many medicines.

POLYPHLOESBOEAN, pol-i-fles-b[=e]'an, _adj._ loud-roaring. [Homer's
frequent description of the sea, _polys_, much, _phloisbos_, noise.]

POLYPHONIC, pol-i-fon'ik, _adj._ capable of being read in more than one
way: noting a musical composition of two or more parts, each with an
independent melody of its own.--_ns._ POL'YPH[=O]NISM, POLYPH'ONY;
POL'YPH[=O]NIST, a ventriloquist: a contrapuntist. [Gr. _polys_, many,
_ph[=o]n[=e]_, a voice.]

POLYPHYLETIC, pol-i-f[=i]-let'ik, _adj._ pertaining to many tribes or
families: pertaining to the theory that animals are derived from several
sources.

POLYPHYLLOUS, pol-i-fil'us, _adj._ many-leafed.

POLYPLASTIC, pol-i-plas'tik, _adj._ having or assuming many forms.

POLYPODE, pol'i-p[=o]d, _n._ an animal with many feet. [Gr.
_polypous_--_polys_, many, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

POLYPODIUM, pol-i-p[=o]'di-um, _n._ a genus of ferns with spore-cases on
the back of the frond, distinct, ring-shaped, in roundish _sori_, destitute
of _indusium_.--_n._ POL'YPODY, a fern of the genus _Polypodium_, having
the seed-clusters round, and on each side of the midrib. [Gr. _polys_,
many, _pous_, a foot.]

POLYPOROUS, p[=o]-lip'[=o]-rus, _adj._ having many pores.

POLYPORUS, p[=o]-lip'or-us, _n._ a large genus of pore-bearing fungus,
which grows on trees, from which amadou is prepared. [Gr. _polys_, many,
_poros_, a passage.]

POLYPTERUS, p[=o]-lip'te-rus, _n._ a genus of Ganoid fishes of one species,
in the Nile and elsewhere. [Gr. _polys_, many, _pteron_, a wing.]

POLYRHIZOUS, pol-i-r[=i]'zus, _adj._ possessing numerous rootlets.--Also
POLYRH[=I]'ZAL.

POLYSCOPE, pol'i-sk[=o]p, _n._ a multiplying lens: (_surg._) an instrument
for throwing light into cavities of the body.

POLYSEPALOUS, pol-i-sep'a-lus, _adj._ having the sepals separate from each
other.

POLYSPERM, pol'i-sperm, _n._ a tree whose fruit contains many
seeds.--_adjs._ POLYSPER'MAL, POLYSPER'MOUS, containing many seeds.

POLYSPOROUS, pol-i-sp[=o]'rus, _adj._ producing many spores.

POLYSTIGMOUS, pol-i-stig'mus, _adj._ having many carpels.

POLYSTOME, pol'i-st[=o]m, _n._ an animal with many mouths.--_adj._
POLYSTOM'ATOUS.

POLYSTYLE, pol'i-st[=i]l, _adj._ having many columns.--_adj._ POLYSTY'LOUS.

POLYSYLLABLE, pol'i-sil-a-bl, _n._ a word of many or of more than three
syllables.--_adjs._ POLYSYLLAB'IC, -AL.--_ns._ POLYSYLLAB'ICISM,
POLYSYLL'ABISM.

POLYSYLLOGISM, pol-i-sil'[=o]-jizm, _n._ a combination of
syllogisms.--_adj._ POLYSYLLOGIS'TIC.

POLYSYMMETRICAL, pol-i-si-met'ri-kal, _adj._ divisible into exactly similar
halves by more than one plane.--_adv._ POLYSYMMET'RICALLY.--_n._
POLYSYM'METRY.

POLYSYNDETON, pol-i-sin'de-ton, _n._ (_rhet._) figurative repetition of
connectives or conjunctions.

POLYSYNTHETIC, -AL, pol-i-sin-thet'ik, -al, _adj._ made up of many separate
elements: formed by the combination of many simple words, as words in the
native languages of America.--_n._ POLYSYN'THESIS.--_adv._
POLYSYNTHET'ICALLY.--_ns._ POLYSYNTHET'ICISM, POLYSYN'THETISM, the
character of being polysynthetic.

POLYTECHNIC, -AL, pol-i-tek'nik, -al, _adj._ comprehending many arts.--_n._
an exhibition of objects illustrating many arts: an institution in which
many arts are taught.--_ns._ POLYTECH'NICS, the science of the mechanical
arts; POLYTECH'NIQUE, or POLYTECHNIC SCHOOL, an industrial school in which
the technical sciences that rest in great part upon a mathematical basis,
such as engineering, architecture, &c., are taught. [Gr. _polys_, many,
_techn[=e]_, an art.]

POLYTHALAMOUS, pol-i-thal'a-mus, _adj._ having many cells or chambers.

POLYTHEISM, pol'i-th[=e]-izm, _n._ the doctrine of a plurality of
gods.--_v.i._ POL'YTHEISE, to adhere to, or conform to, polytheism.--_n._
POL'YTHEIST, a believer in many gods.--_adjs._ POLYTHEIST'IC, -AL.--_adv._
POLYTHEIST'ICALLY. [Gr. _polys_, many, _theos_, a god.]

POLYTOCOUS, p[=o]-lit'[=o]-kus, _adj._ producing many or several at a
birth.

POLYTRICHUM, p[=o]-lit'ri-kum, _n._ a genus of mosses, widely distributed
in north temperate and arctic countries.--_adj._ POLYT'RICHOUS, very hairy,
densely ciliate. [Gr. _polys_, many, _thrix_, _thrichos_, hair.]

POLYTYPE, pol'i-t[=i]p, _n._ a cast or fac-simile of an engraving, matter
in type, &c., produced by pressing a wood-cut or other plate into
semi-fluid metal.--_v.t._ to reproduce by polytypage--also _adj._--_n._
POL'YTYPAGE, stereotyping by the above method.

POLYZOA, pol-i-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ a class of animals forming a crust on
stones, shells, &c. under water:--_sing._ POLYZ[=O]'AN,
POLYZ[=O]'ON.--_adjs._ POL'YZOAN, POLYZO[=A]'RIAL.--_ns._ POLYZO[=A]'RIUM,
a compound polyzoan; POLYZ[=O]'ARY, the polypary or polypidom of a
polyzoan.--_adjs._ POLYZ[=O]'IC, filled with imaginary animals, zoolatrous;
POLYZ[=O]'ÖID, consisting of many zoöids. [Gr. _polys_, many, _z[=o]on_, an
animal.]

POLYZONAL, pol-i-z[=o]'nal, _adj._ composed of many zones or belts.

POMADE, po-m[=a]d', _n._ a preparation of fine inodorous fat, such as lard
or suet, used instead of liquid oil for the hair--also POM[=A]'TUM.--_v.t._
to anoint with pomade. [Fr. _pommade_--It. _pomada_, _pommata_,
lip-salve--L. _pomum_, an apple.]

POMANDER, p[=o]-man'd[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a perfumed ball, or box
containing perfumes, formerly supposed to ward off infection. [O. Fr.
_pomme d'ambre_, apple of amber.]

POME, p[=o]m, _n._ an apple or a fruit like an apple: a small globe of
silver or the like, filled with hot water, on which in cold weather the
priest at mass warms his numbed hands.--_n._ POM'ACE, the substance of
apples or similar fruit: fish-scrap.--_n.pl._ POM[=A]'CEÆ, a suborder of
_Rosaceæ_--the apple family--also POME'Æ.--_adj._ POM[=A]'CEOUS, relating
to, consisting of, or resembling apples: like pomace.--_ns._ POME'-CIT'RON,
a variety of apple; POM'EROY, the king-apple; POME'-WA'TER (_Shak._), a
sweet, juicy apple; POMICUL'TURE, pomology.--_adjs._ POMIF'EROUS (_bot._),
pome-bearing, applied to all plants producing the larger fruits, as
distinguished from berry-bearing; POMOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ POMOL'OGIST;
POMOL'OGY, the science of garden-fruits. [L. _pomum_, an apple.]

POMEGRANATE, pom'gran-[=a]t, _n._ a fruit much cultivated in warm
countries, as large as a medium-sized orange, having a thick leathery rind
filled with numerous seeds. [O. Fr. _pome grenate_--L. _pomum_, an apple,
_granatum_, having many grains.]

POMERANIAN, pom-e-r[=a]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Pomerania_ in northern
Prussia.--POMERANIAN, or SPITZ, DOG, a cross from the Eskimo dog, about the
size of a spaniel, with a sharp-pointed face and an abundant white, creamy,
or black coat.

POMFRET-CAKE, pom'fret-k[=a]k, _n._ a liquorice-cake. [_Pontefract_ in
Yorkshire.]

POMMEL, pum'el, _n._ a knob or ball: the knob on a sword-hilt: the high
part of a saddle-bow.--_v.t._ to beat as with a pommel, or with anything
thick or heavy: to beat soundly: to bruise:--_pr.p._ pomm'elling; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ pomm'elled.--_adjs._ POMM'ELED, POMM'ELLED (_her._), having a
rounded knob ending in a smaller one; POMM'ETTY, ending in a small knob,
esp. of a cross--also POMM'ELÉ. [O. Fr. _pomel_ (Fr. _pommeau_)--L.
_pomum_, an apple.]

POMONA, pom-[=o]'na, _n._ the goddess of fruit and garden produce.
[L.--_pomum_, fruit, apple.]

POM-POM, pom-pom, _n._ the name given to a one-pounder quick-firing shell
gun, from its sound.

POMP, pomp, _n._ a splendid procession: great show or display: ceremony:
splendour: ostentation: grandeur.--_adv._ POMP[=O]'SO (_mus._), in a
dignified style.--_adj._ POMP'OUS, displaying pomp or grandeur: grand:
magnificent: dignified: boastful, self-important.--_adv._
POMP'OUSLY.--_ns._ POMP'OUSNESS, POMPOS'ITY. [Fr. _pompe_--L. _pompa_--Gr.
_pomp[=e]_--_pempein_, to send.]

POMPADOUR, pom'pa-d[=oo]r, _n._ an 18th-century head-dress, a fashion of
dressing women's hair by brushing it up from the forehead and rolling it
over a cushion: a corsage with low square neck: a pattern for silk, with
leaves and flowers pink, blue, and gold. [Marquise de _Pompadour_,
1721-64.]

POMPEIAN, pom-p[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Pompeii_, a city buried by an
eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 A.D., excavated since 1755.--_n._
POMPEI'AN-RED, a red colour like that on the walls of Pompeian houses.

POMPELMOOSE, pom'pel-m[=oo]s, _n._ the shaddock.--Also POM'PELMOUS,
POM'PELO, PUM'ELO.

POMPHOLYX, pom'f[=o]-liks, _n._ a vesicular eruption chiefly on the palms
and soles. [Gr.,--_pomphos_, a blister.]

POMPION=_Pumpion_.

POMPON, pom'pon, _n._ a tuft of feathers, &c., for a hat, the coloured
woollen ball on the front of a shako. [Fr.]

PONCEAU, pon-s[=o]', _n._ a corn-poppy: corn-poppy colour.

PONCEAU, pon-s[=o]', _n._ a small bridge or culvert. [Fr.]

PONCHO, pon'ch[=o], _n._ a cloak worn by South American Indians, a blanket
with a hole in the middle for the head: camlet or strong worsted.

POND, pond, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to ponder.

POND, pond, _n._ a pool of standing water.--_v.t._ to make into a
pond.--_v.i._ to collect into a pond.--_ns._ PON'DAGE, the amount of water
in a pond; POND'-LIL'Y, a plant of the aquatic genus _Nymphæa_;
POND'-TUR'TLE, a terrapin, a mud turtle; POND'WEED, a common aquatic herb.
[From A.S. _pyndan_, to shut in, thus a doublet of _pound_, an enclosure.]

PONDER, pon'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to weigh in the mind: to think over: to
consider.--_v.i._ to think (with _on_ and _over_).--_ns._ PONDERABIL'ITY,
PON'DERABLENESS.--_adjs._ PON'DERABLE, that may be weighed: having sensible
weight; PON'DERAL, ascertained by weight.--_ns._ PON'DERANCE,
PONDER[=A]'TION, weight; PON'DERER, one who ponders.--_adv._
PON'DERINGLY.--_ns._ PON'DERLING, a thing of little weight; PON'DERMENT,
the act of pondering.--_adj._ PON'DEROUS, weighty: massive: forcible:
important: clumsy or unwieldy by reason of weight.--_adv._
PON'DEROUSLY.--_ns._ PON'DEROUSNESS, PONDEROS'ITY, weight: heaviness: heavy
matter. [L. _ponder[=a]re_--_pondus_, _pond[)e]ris_, a weight.]

PONE, p[=o]n, _n._ (_U.S._) bread made from Indian corn.

PONENT, p[=o]'nent, _adj._ (_Milt._) western.

PONEROLOGY, pon-[=e]-rol'[=o]-ji, _n._ (_theol._) the doctrine of
wickedness. [Gr. _pon[=e]ros_, bad.]

PONGEE, pon-j[=e]', _n._ a soft kind of silk, woven in China from the
cocoons of a wild silkworm. [Chin.]

PONGO, pong'g[=o], _n._ a large anthropoid ape of Borneo.

PONIARD, pon'yard, _n._ a small dagger for stabbing.--_v.t._ to stab with a
poniard. [Fr. _poignard_--_poing_, fist (It. _pugno_)--L. _pugnus_.]

PONK, pongk, _n._ (_Spens._, _Shak._) a nocturnal spirit. [A false reading
for _pouke_=_Puck_.]

PONS, ponz, _n._ (_anat._) a part connecting two parts.--_adjs._ PON'TIC,
PON'TILE, relating to the pons of the brain.--PONS ASIN[=O]RUM, the asses'
bridge, a name given to Euclid, i. 5. [L., a bridge.]

PONTAGE, pont'[=a]j, _n._ a toll paid on bridges: a tax for repairing
bridges. [Low L. _pontagium_--L. _pons_, _pontis_, a bridge.]

PONTIC, pon'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the _Pontus_, Euxine, or Black Sea,
or the regions round it.

PONTIFF, pon'tif, _n._ (_R.C._) a bishop, esp. the pope--originally an
ancient Roman high-priest, the PON'TIFEX.--_adjs._ PONTIF'IC, -AL, of or
belonging to a pontiff or to a bishop, esp. the pope: splendid:
magnificent.--_n._ PONTIF'ICAL, an office-book of ecclesiastical ceremonies
proper to a bishop.--_adv._ PONTIF'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ PONTIF'ICALS, the dress
of a priest, bishop, or pope.--_n._ PONTIF'ICATE, the dignity of a pontiff
or high-priest: the office and dignity or reign of a pope.--_v.i._ to
perform the duties of a pontiff.--_n._ PON'TIFICE (_Milt._), bridge-work, a
bridge.--PONTIFICAL MASS, mass celebrated by a bishop while wearing his
full vestments. [Fr. _pontife_--L. _pontifex_, _pontificis_--_pon_s,
_pont-is_, a bridge, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PONTIL, pon'til, _n._ an iron rod used in glass-making for revolving the
glass while soft.--Also PONTEE', PON'TY. [Fr.,--_point_, a point.]

PONTINAL, pon'ti-nal, _adj._ bridging.--_n._ a bone of the skull of some
fishes.

PONTLEVIS, pont-lev'is, _n._ a drawbridge. [Fr.]

PONTOON, pon-t[=oo]n', _n._ a flat kind of boat used in forming a bridge
for the passage of an army: a bridge of boats: a lighter or barge used for
loading or unloading ships--also PON'TON.--_ns._ PONTONIER', PONTONNIER',
one who has charge of a pontoon; PONTOON'-BRIDGE, a platform or roadway
supported upon pontoons. [Fr. _ponton_--L. _pons_, a bridge.]

PONY, p[=o]'ni, _n._ a small horse--one less than 13 hands high: (_slang_)
£25: a key or translation of the writings of an author: a small glass of
beer.--_v.t._ to use a crib in translating.--_ns._ P[=O]'NY-CARR'IAGE, a
small carriage drawn by one or more ponies; P[=O]'NY-EN'GINE, a small
engine used for shunting wagons, &c.--JERUSALEM PONY, an ass. [Prob. Gael.
_poniadh_.]

POOD, p[=oo]d, _n._ a Russian weight, 36 lb. avoirdupois.

POODLE, p[=oo]'dl, _n._ one of a breed of small curly-haired pet dogs,
intelligent and affectionate. [Ger. _pudel_; Low Ger. _pudeln_, to waddle.]

POOH, p[=oo], _interj._ of disdain.--_v.t._ POOH'-POOH, to express contempt
for: to sneer at. [Imit.]

POOL, p[=oo]l, _n._ a small body of water: a deep part of a stream of
water.--_n._ POOL'ER, a stick for stirring a tan-vat. [A.S. _pól_ (Dut.
_poel_, Ger. _pfuhl_)--Celt., as Ir. and Gael. _poll_, W. _pwll_.]

POOL, p[=oo]l, _n._ the receptacle for the stakes in certain games: the
stakes themselves: a set of players at quadrille, &c.: a game played on a
billiard-table with six pockets by two or more persons.--_v.t._ to put into
a common fund for redistribution.--_v.i._ to form a pool. [Fr. _poule_,
orig. a hen--L. _pullus_, a young animal.]

POON, p[=oo]n, _n._ name of a tree of India and Burma, very commonly used
in the East Indies, particularly in shipbuilding, for planks and
spars.--_n._ POON'-WOOD, the wood of the tree.

POONAC, p[=oo]'nak, _n._ the cake left after expressing oil from coco-nut
pulp.

POOP, p[=oo]p, _n._ the hinder part of a ship: a deck above the ordinary
deck in the after part of a ship.--_v.t._ to strike the stern, break in the
stern of. [Fr. _poupe_--L. _puppis_, the poop.]

POOR, p[=oo]r, _adj._ having little or nothing: without means: needy:
spiritless: depressed: (_B._) humble: contrite: wanting in appearance:
lean: wanting in strength: weak: wanting in value: inferior: wanting in
fertility: sterile: wanting in fitness, beauty, or dignity: trifling:
paltry: dear (endearingly).--_ns._ POOR'HOUSE, a house established at the
public expense for sheltering the poor: an almshouse; POOR'JOHN (_Shak._),
a coarse kind of fish, the hake when salted.--_n.pl._ POOR'-LAWS, laws
providing for the support of the poor.--_adv._ POOR'LY.--_ns._ POOR'NESS;
POOR'-RATE, a rate or tax for the support of the poor; POOR'-ROB'IN, an
almanac; POOR'S'-BOX, a box for receiving contributions to the
poor.--_adj._ POOR'-SPIR'ITED, cowardly: mean.--_ns._ POOR'-SPIR'ITEDNESS,
cowardice; POOR'S'-ROLL (_Scots law_), the list of poor persons who are
litigants, but unable to pay the expenses of litigation, and therefore are
allowed to sue in _formâ pauperis_.--POOR MAN OF MUTTON (_Scot._), cold
mutton broiled, esp. the shoulder; POOR MAN'S HERB, the hedge-hyssop; POOR
WILL, a common American bird of the genus _Phalænoptilus_.--THE POOR, poor
people collectively: those depending on public or private charity. [O. Fr.
_poure_, _povre_ (Fr. _pauvre_)--L. _pauper_, poor.]

POORTITH, p[=oo]r'tith, _n._ (_Scot._) poverty.

POP, pop, _v.i._ to make a sharp, quick sound: to dart: to move quickly: to
propose marriage.--_v.t._ to cause to make a sudden report: to thrust
suddenly: to bring suddenly into notice: (_slang_) to pawn:--_pr.p._
pop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ popped.--_n._ a sharp, quick sound or report:
an effervescent beverage: (_slang_) a pistol.--_adv._ suddenly.--_adj._
coming without warning.--_v.t._ POP'-CORN, to parch maize till it bursts
open.--_n._ corn so prepared.--_n.pl._ POP'-EYES, prominent eyes.--_ns._
POP'-GUN, a tube and rammer for shooting pellets, which makes a noise by
the expansion of compressed air; POP'PER, anything that makes a popping
sound; POP'-SHOP, a pawnshop; POP'-WEED, a name for the bladderwort.--POP
OFF, to disappear all at once; POP THE QUESTION, to make an offer of
marriage. [Imit.]

POPE, p[=o]p, _n._ the bishop of Rome, head of the R.C. Church: a priest of
the Eastern Church: the autocratic head of any church or
organisation.--_ns._ POPE'DOM, office, dignity, or jurisdiction of the
pope; POPE'HOOD, POPE'SHIP, the condition of being pope; POPE'LING, a
little pope; POP'ERY, the religion of which the pope is the head: Roman
Catholicism; POPE'S'-EYE, the gland surrounded with fat in the middle of
the thigh of an ox or a sheep; POPE'S'-HEAD, a long-handled brush;
POPE'S'-NOSE, the fleshy part of a bird's tail.--_adj._ POP'ISH, relating
to the pope or to popery: taught by popery.--_adv._ POP'ISHLY.--POPE JOAN,
a game at cards in which the eight of diamonds is removed. [A.S. _pápa_--L.
_papa_, a father.]

POPE, p[=o]p, _n._ a kind of perch. [Ety. obscure.]

POPINJAY, pop'in-j[=a], _n._ a parrot: a mark like a parrot, put on a pole
to be shot at: a fop or coxcomb. [O. Fr. _papegai_--Low L.
_papagallus_--Late Gr. _papagas_, a parrot; prob. Eastern.]

POPJOYING, pop'joi-ing, _n._ sport: amusement. [Perh. conn. with
_popinjay_.]

POPLAR, pop'lar, _n._ a tree common in the northern hemisphere, of rapid
growth, and having dioecious flowers arranged in catkins, both male and
female flowers with an oblique cup-shaped perianth. [O. Fr. _poplier_--L.
_p[=o]pulus_, poplar-tree.]

POPLIN, pop'lin, _n._ a kind of cloth consisting of a warp of silk and a
weft of worsted, the latter, being thicker than the former, giving a corded
appearance. [Fr. _popeline_. Ety. unknown.]

POPLITEAL, pop-li-t[=e]'al, _adj._ of or pertaining to the back of the
knee.--Also POPLIT'IC. [L. _poples_, _poplitis_, the hock.]

POPPET, pop'et, _n._ a puppet: a piece of timber used to support a vessel
while being launched: one of the heads of a lathe. [_Puppet._]

POPPLE, pop'l, _v.i._ to flow, to bob up and down.

POPPY, pop'i, _n._ a plant having large showy flowers, from one species of
which opium is obtained.--_adj._ POPP'IED, covered or filled with poppies:
listless, as the effects of opium.--_ns._ POPP'Y-HEAD, a carved ornament in
wood, often finishing the end of a pew; POPP'Y-OIL, a fixed oil from the
seeds of the opium-poppy. [A.S. _popig_--L. _papaver_, poppy.]

POPULACE, pop'[=u]-l[=a]s, _n._ the common people: those who are not
distinguished by rank, education, office, &c. [Fr.,--It. _popolazzo_--L.
_populus_, people.]

POPULAR, pop'[=u]-lar, _adj._ pertaining to the people: pleasing to, or
prevailing among, the people: enjoying the favour of the people: easily
understood: inferior: (_Shak._) vulgar.--_n._ POPULARIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
POP'ULARISE, to make popular or suitable to the people: to spread among the
people.--_ns._ POP'ULARISER; POPULAR'ITY, POP'ULARNESS, quality or state of
being popular or pleasing to the people: favour with the people: a desire
to obtain favour with the people.--_adv._ POP'ULARLY.--_v.t._ POP'UL[=A]TE,
to people: to furnish with inhabitants.--_v.i._ to increase in
numbers.--_adj._ populous.--_n._ POPUL[=A]'TION, act of populating: the
number of the inhabitants of any place.--_adj._ POP'ULOUS, full of people:
numerously inhabited: (_Shak._) numerous.--_adv._ POP'ULOUSLY.--_n._
POP'ULOUSNESS. [Fr. _populaire_--L. _popularis_--_populus_, the people.]

PORAL, p[=o]'ral. See PORE.

PORBEAGLE, por-b[=e]'gl, _n._ a kind of tope or mackerel-shark. [Fr.
_porc_, a hog + Eng. _beagle_.]

PORCATE, por'k[=a]t, _adj._ ridged.

PORCELAIN, pors'l[=a]n, _n._ a fine earthenware, white, thin,
semi-transparent, first made in China: china-ware.--_adj._ of the nature of
porcelain.--_adjs._ POR'CEL[=A]NOUS, PORCELL[=A]'NEOUS,
POR'CELL[=A]NOUS.--_n._ POR'CELLANITE, a very hard, impure, jaspideous
rock.--CAST, or FUSIBLE, PORCELAIN, a milky glass made of silica and
cryolite with oxide of zinc; EGG-SHELL PORCELAIN, an extremely thin and
translucent porcelain; FALSE PORCELAIN, a name given to the artificial or
soft-paste porcelain; FRIT PORCELAIN, a name given to artificial soft-paste
English porcelain, from its vitreous nature; TENDER PORCELAIN, a ware
imitating hard-paste or natural porcelain. [O. Fr. _porcelaine_--It.
_porcellana_, the Venus' shell--L. _porcella_, a young sow--_porcus_, a
pig.]

[Illustration]

PORCH, p[=o]rch, _n._ a building forming an enclosure or protection for a
doorway: a portico at the entrance of churches and other buildings: the
public porch on the agora of Athens where Zeno the Stoic taught: (_fig._)
the Stoic philosophy. [O. Fr. _porche_ (It. _portico_)--L.
_porticus_--_porta_, a gate.]

PORCINE, por's[=i]n, _adj._ pertaining to or resembling swine: swinish. [L.
_porcinus_--_porcus_, a swine.]

PORCUPINE, por'k[=u]-p[=i]n, _n._ one of the largest of rodent quadrupeds,
covered with spines or quills. [O. Fr. _porc espin_--L. _porcus_, a pig,
_spina_, a spine.]

PORE, p[=o]r, _n._ a minute passage in the skin for the perspiration: an
opening between the molecules of a body.--_adjs._ P[=O]'RAL, of or
pertaining to pores; P[=O]'RIFORM, in the form of a pore.--_ns._
P[=O]'RINESS, POROS'ITY, P[=O]'ROUSNESS, quality of being porous--opp. to
_Density_.--_adjs._ P[=O]'ROSE, containing pores; P[=O]'ROUS, P[=O]'RY,
having pores: that can be penetrated by fluid.--_adv._ P[=O]'ROUSLY.
[Fr.,--L. _porus_--Gr. _poros_, a passage.]

PORE, p[=o]r, _v.i._ to look with steady attention on: to study
closely.--_n._ P[=O]'RER. [_Peer_, to peep.]

PORGY, PORGIE, por'ji, _n._ a fish of the genus _Pagrus_.

PORIFERA, p[=o]-rif'e-ra, _n.pl._ sponges:--_sing._ POR'IFER.--_adjs._
PORIF'ERAL, PORIF'EROUS. [L. _porus_, a pore, _ferre_, to bear.]

PORISM, por'ism, _n._ a proposition affirming the possibility of finding
such conditions as will render a certain problem capable of innumerable
solutions.--_adjs._ PORISMAT'IC, -AL; PORIS'TIC, -AL, reducing a
determinate problem to an indeterminate. [Gr. _porizein_, to
procure--_poros_, a way.]

PORK, p[=o]rk, _n._ the flesh of swine: (_Milt._) a stupid fellow.--_ns._
PORK'-BUTCH'ER, one who kills pigs; PORK'-CHOP, a slice from a pig's rib;
PORK'ER, a young hog: a pig fed for pork; PORK'LING, a young pig;
PORK'-PIE, a pie made of pastry and minced pork.--_adj._ PORK'Y,
fat.--PORK-PIE HAT, a hat somewhat like a pie in shape worn by men and
women about the middle of the 19th century. [Fr. _porc_--L. _porcus_, a
hog.]

PORNOCRACY, p[=o]r-nok'r[=a]-si, _n._ the influence of courtezans--applied
esp. to the dominant influence of certain profligate women over the Papal
court in the earlier half of the 10th century.--_ns._ POR'NOGRAPH, an
obscene picture or writing; PORNOG'RAPHER, a writer of such.--_adj._
PORNOGRAPH'IC.--_n._ PORNOG'RAPHY, the discussion of prostitution: obscene
writing. [Gr. _porn[=e]_, a whore, _kratein_, to rule.]

POROSIS, p[=o]-r[=o]'sis, _n._ formation of callus, the knitting together
of broken bones.

POROTYPE, p[=o]'r[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a copy of an engraved print made by
placing it on chemically prepared paper and subjecting to the action of a
gas. [Gr. _poros_, a pore, _typos_, an impression.]

PORPENTINE, por'pen-t[=i]n, _n._ (_Shak._) a porcupine.

PORPESS, PORPESSE, por'pes, _n._ Same as PORPOISE.

PORPHYRIO, por-fir'i-[=o], _n._ a genus of _Rallidæ_, the hyacinthine
gallinules.

PORPHYROGENITUS, por-fir-[=o]-jen'i-tus, _n._ a title given to the
Byzantine emperor, Constantine VII. (912-959), meaning 'born in the
purple.'--_n._ PORPHYROGEN'ITISM, the Byzantine principle of the first son
born after his father's accession succeeding to the throne. [Gr.
_porphyra_, purple, _gennain_, to beget.]

PORPHYRY, por'fir-i, _n._ a very hard, variegated rock, of a purple and
white colour, used in sculpture (_porfido rosso antico_): an igneous rock
having a ground-mass enclosing crystals of feldspar or quartz.--_v.t._
POR'PHYRISE, to cause to resemble porphyry: to make of a spotted
appearance.--_n._ POR'PHYRITE, one of the crystalline igneous rocks, which
consists principally of plagioclase.--_adjs._ PORPHYRIT'IC,
PORPHYR[=A]'CEOUS, resembling or consisting of porphyry.--_n._ POR'PHYROID,
a crystalline and schistose rock containing porphyritic crystals of
feldspar. [Through Fr. and L. from Gr. _porphyrites_--_porphyra_, purple.]

PORPOISE, por'pus, _n._ a genus of Cetecea in the family _Delphinidæ_, 4 to
8 feet long, gregarious, affording oil and leather--anciently POR'PESS. [O.
Fr. _porpeis_--L. _porcus_, a hog, _piscis_, a fish.]

PORPORINO, por-p[=o]-r[=e]'n[=o], _n._ an old alloy of quicksilver, tin,
and sulphur, used in place of gold. [It.]

PORRACEOUS, po-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ greenish like the leek. [L. _porrum_, a
leek.]

PORRECTION, po-rek'shun, _n._ the action of delivering as by outstretched
hands.--_adj._ PORRECT', extended forward. [L., _porrig[)e]re_, to stretch
out.]

PORRIDGE, por'ij, _n._ a kind of pudding usually made by slowly stirring
oatmeal amongst boiling water: a kind of broth, made by boiling vegetables
in water. [Through O. Fr., from Low L. _porrata_--L. _porrum_, a leek. The
affix _-idge_ (= _-age_) arose through confusion with _pottage_.]

PORRIGO, po-r[=i]'g[=o], _n._ a general name for various skin
diseases.--_adj._ PORRIG'INOUS. [L.]

PORRINGER, por'in-j[.e]r, _n._ a small dish for porridge: (_Shak._) a
head-dress shaped like such a dish.--Also PORR'ENGER. [From
_porrige_=_porridge_, with inserted _n_ as in _passenger_.]

PORT, p[=o]rt, _n._ the larboard or left side of a ship.--_v.t._ to turn to
the left, as the helm.--_v.i._ to turn to larboard or left. [Ety. dub.]

PORT, p[=o]rt, _n._ martial music on the bagpipes. [Gael.]

PORT, p[=o]rt, _n._ bearing: demeanour: carriage of the body.--_v.t._ to
hold, as a musket, in a slanting direction upward across the body.--_ns._
PORTABIL'ITY, PORT'ABLENESS, the state of being portable.--_adj._
PORT'ABLE, that may be carried: not bulky or heavy.--_ns._ PORT'AGE, act of
carrying: carriage: price of carriage: a space between two rivers, canals,
&c., over which goods and boats have to be carried; PORT'ANCE (_Spens._),
carriage, bearing.--_adjs._ POR'T[=A]TE (_her._), in a position as if being
carried; POR'TATILE, portable; POR'TATIVE, easily carried.--_ns._
PORT'-CRAY'ON, a metallic handle for holding a crayon; PORTE'-BONHEUR', a
charm carried for luck; PORTE'-COCHÈRE, a carriage entrance leading from
the street into a building; PORTE'-MON'NAIE, a small clasped pocket-book
for holding money; PORT'-FIRE, a slow-match or match-cord. [Fr.,--L.
_port[=a]re_, to carry.]

PORT, p[=o]rt, _n._ a harbour: a haven or safe station for vessels: a place
from which vessels start, and at which they finish their voyages.--_n._
PORT'-AD'MIRAL, the admiral commanding at a naval port.--_n.pl._
PORT'-CHARG'ES, payments which a ship has to pay while in harbour.--_n._
PORT'-WARD'EN, the officer in charge of a port: a harbour-master.--PORT OF
CALL, a port where vessels can call for stores or repairs; PORT OF ENTRY, a
port where merchandise is allowed by law to enter.--_Free port_, a port
where no duty has to be paid on landing goods. [A.S. _port_--L. _portus_;
akin to L. _porta_, a gate.]

PORT, p[=o]rt, _n._ a gate or entrance, esp. of a walled town: an opening
in the side of a ship for light or air: an opening through which guns can
be fired: the lid of a porthole: a passage in a machine for oil, steam,
&c.--_n._ PORT'AGE (_Shak._), an opening. [Fr. _porte_--L. _porta_, gate.]

PORT, p[=o]rt, _n._ a dark-red wine from _Oporto_, Portugal.

PORTA, p[=o]r'ta, _n._ the part of an organ where its vessels and ducts
enter, esp. the transverse fissure of the liver: the foramen of Monro.

PORTAL, p[=o]rt'al, _n._ a small gate: any entrance: (_archit._) the arch
over a gate: the lesser of two gates.--PORTAL CIRCULATION, the capillary
transmission of venous blood from one organ to another in its passage to
the heart; PORTAL SYSTEM, the portal vein with its tributaries, &c.; PORTAL
VEIN, the vein which conveys to the liver the venous blood from intestines,
spleen, and stomach. [O. Fr. (Fr. _portail_)--Low L. _portale_--L. _porta_,
a gate.]

PORTCULLIS, p[=o]rt-kul'is, _n._ a sliding door of cross timbers pointed
with iron, hung over a gateway, so as to be let down in a moment to keep
out an enemy: (_her._) a lattice: one of the pursuivants of the English
College of Heralds: an Elizabethan coin bearing a portcullis on the
reverse.--_v.t._ to obstruct, as with a portcullis. [O. Fr.
_portecoulisse_--_porte_, a gate, _coulisse_, a groove--L. _col[=a]re_, to
strain.]

PORTE, p[=o]rt, _n._ the Turkish government, so called from the 'High
Gate,' or 'Sublime Porte,' the chief office of the Ottoman government.

PORTEND, por-tend', _v.t._ to indicate the future by signs: to betoken:
presage.--_n._ POR'TENT, that which portends or foreshows: an evil
omen.--_adj._ PORTENT'OUS, serving to portend: foreshadowing ill:
wonderful, dreadful, prodigious.--_adv._ PORTENT'OUSLY. [L.
_portend[)e]re_, _portentum_--_pro_, forth, _tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

PORTER, p[=o]rt'[.e]r, _n._ a door-keeper or gate-keeper: one who waits at
the door to receive messages:--_fem._ PORT'ERESS, PORT'RESS.--_n._
PORT'ERAGE, the office or duty of a porter.--PORTER'S LODGE, a house or an
apartment near a gate for the use of the porter. [O. Fr. _portier_--Low L.
_portarius_--L. _porta_, a gate.]

PORTER, p[=o]rt'[.e]r, _n._ one who carries burdens for hire: a dark-brown
malt liquor, prob. because a favourite drink with London porters.--_ns._
PORT'ERAGE, carriage: charge made by a porter for carrying goods;
PORT'ER-HOUSE, a restaurant; PORT'ERHOUSE-STEAK (_U.S._), a choice cut of
beef-steak next to the sirloin.--_adv._ PORT'ERLY, like a porter: coarse.
[O. Fr. _porteur_--L. _port[=a]re_, to carry.]

PORTFOLIO, p[=o]rt-f[=o]'li-[=o], _n._ a portable case for loose papers,
drawings, &c.: a collection of such papers: the office of a minister of
state. [Sp. _portafolio_--L. _port[=a]re_, to carry, _folium_, a leaf.]

PORTHOLE, p[=o]rt'h[=o]l, _n._ a hole or opening in a ship's side for light
and air, or for pointing a gun through. [_Port_, a gate, and _hole_.]

PORTICO, p[=o]r'ti-k[=o], _n._ (_archit._) a range of columns in the front
of a building: a colonnade: a porch before the entrance to a building: the
Stoic philosophy:--_pl._ POR'TICOES, POR'TICOS.--_adj._ POR'TICOED,
furnished with a portico. [It.,--L. _porticus_, a porch.]

PORTIÈRE, por-ty[=a]r', _n._ a curtain hung over the door or doorway of a
room. [Fr.]

PORTIFORIUM, p[=o]r-ti-f[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a breviary:--_pl._
PORTIF[=O]'RIA.--Also PORT'FORY, PORT'OUS, PORT'UARY.

PORTIFY, p[=o]r'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ (_hum._) to give one's self undue
importance. [_Port_, the wine of that name, _-fy_, from L. _fac[)e]re_, to
make, from the saying, 'Claret would be port if it could.']

PORTION, p[=o]r'shun, _n._ a part: an allotment: fate: destiny: dividend:
the part of an estate descending to an heir: a wife's fortune.--_v.t._ to
divide into portions: to allot a share: to furnish with a portion.--_adj._
POR'TIONED, having a portion or endowment.--_ns._ POR'TIONER, one who
portions or assigns shares: (_Scots law_) the occupier of a small feu or
portion of land: one of two or more incumbents on a benefice at one time;
POR'TIONIST, one who has an academical allowance: the incumbent of a
benefice which has more than one rector or vicar.--_adj._ POR'TIONLESS,
having no portion, dowry, or property.--MARRIAGE PORTION, a gift given by a
parent or guardian to a bride on her marriage. [O. Fr.,--L. _portio_,
_portionis_, akin to _pars_, a part.]

PORTLAND VASE. See VASE.

PORTLY, p[=o]rt'li, _adj._ having a dignified port or mien: corpulent:
(_Shak._) swelling.--_n._ PORT'LINESS, state of being portly. [_Port_,
bearing.]

PORTMAN, p[=o]rt'man, _n._ an inhabitant of a port-town, or one of the
Cinque Ports.--_n._ PORT'-MOTE, a mote composed of such citizens.

PORTMANTEAU, port-man't[=o], _n._ a bag for carrying apparel, &c., on
journeys: a hook on which to hang clothing.--Also PORTMAN'TUA (_obs._).
[Fr.,--_porter_, to carry, _manteau_, a cloak.]

PORTOISE, p[=o]r'tiz, _n._ the gunwale of a boat.--Also PORT'LAST.

PORTRAIT, p[=o]r'tr[=a]t, _n._ the likeness of a person, esp. of his face:
a vivid description in words.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to portray.--_ns._
POR'TRAITIST, a portrait-painter; POR'TRAITURE, a likeness: the drawing of
portraits, or describing in words: a collection of pictures.--_v.t._
PORTRAY (p[=o]r-tr[=a]'), to paint or draw the likeness of: to describe in
words: (_obs._) to adorn.--_ns._ PORTRAY'AL, the act of portraying;
PORTRAY'ER.--COMPOSITE PORTRAITS, a method of indicating the facial
characteristics of a family or group of persons, while at the same time
suppressing the peculiarities of individual members. [O. Fr. _portrait_,
_portraire_--L. _pro_, forth, _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

PORTREEVE, p[=o]rt'r[=e]v, _n._ once the name of the principal magistrate
in a port-town, esp. in London. [A.S. _portgeréfa_--_port_, a port,
_geréfa_, a reeve.]

PORTUGUESE, p[=o]r't[=u]-g[=e]z, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Portugal_ or
to its inhabitants.--_n._ the people, a single inhabitant, or the language
of Portugal.--PORTUGUESE MAN-OF-WAR, a species of _Physalia_.

PORTULACEÆ, p[=o]r-t[=u]-l[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of
exogenous plants, shrubby or herbaceous, generally succulent, mostly
growing in dry places. [L. _portulaca_, purslane.]

PORZANA, p[=o]r-z[=a]'na, _n._ an old name of the small European water-rail
or crake.

POS, poz, _adj._ (_slang_) an abbreviation of _positive_.

POSADA, p[=o]-sä'dä, _n._ an inn. [Sp.,--_posar_, to lodge.]

POSAUNE, p[=o]-zow'ne, _n._ the trombone. [Ger.]

POSE, p[=o]z, _n._ a position: an attitude, either natural or
assumed.--_v.i._ to assume an attitude.--_v.t._ to put in a suitable
attitude: to posit. [Fr.,--_poser_, to place--Low L. _pausare_, to
cease--L. _pausa_, pause--Gr. _pausis_. Between Fr. _poser_ and L.
_pon[)e]re_, _positum_, there has been confusion, which has influenced the
derivatives of both words.]

POSE, p[=o]z, _v.t._ to puzzle: to perplex by questions: to bring to a
stand.--_ns._ P[=O]'SER, one who, or that which, poses: a difficult
question; P[=O]'SING.--_adv._ P[=O]'SINGLY. [M. E. _apposen_, a corr. of
_oppose_, which in the schools meant to 'argue against.']

POSÉ, po-z[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) standing still.

POSITION, po-zish'un, _n._ place, situation: attitude: a place taken or to
be taken by troops: state of affairs: the ground taken in argument or in a
dispute: principle laid down: place in society: method of finding the value
of an unknown quantity by assuming one or more values (_single_, when one
is assumed; _double_, when two).--_v.t._ POSIT (poz'it), to place in right
position or relation: to lay down as something true or granted.--_adj._
POSI'TIONAL.--STRATEGIC POSITION, a position taken up by troops to check
the movements of an enemy. [Fr.,--L.--_pon[)e]re_, _positum_, to place.]

POSITIVE, poz'i-tiv, _adj._ definitely placed or laid down: clearly
expressed: really existing: actual: not admitting of any doubt or
qualification: decisive: settled by distinct appointment: arbitrarily
prescribed, laid down--opp. to _Natural_: too confident in opinion: fully
assured: certain: (_gram._) noting the simple form of an adjective--as
_Positive degree_ of comparison: (_math._) greater than zero, to be added,
as _Positive quantity_: (_phot._) having the lights and shades in the
picture the same as in the original, instead of being reversed: (_electr._)
having a relatively high potential--opp. to _Negative_ (q.v.).--_n._ that
which is placed or laid down: that which may be affirmed: reality: a
positive picture--opp. to _Negative_.--_adv._ POS'ITIVELY.--_ns._
POS'ITIVENESS, state or quality of being positive: certainty: confidence;
POS'ITIVISM, actual or absolute knowledge; POS'ITIVIST, a believer in
positivism.--POS'ITIVISM, POSITIVE PHILOSOPHY, the philosophical system
originated by Comte (1798-1857)--its foundation the doctrine that man can
have no knowledge of anything but phenomena, and that the knowledge of
phenomena is relative, not absolute. [Fr.,--L. _positivus_, fixed by
agreement--_pon[)e]re_, to place.]

POSNET, pos'net, _n._ a small basin. [O. Fr. _pocenet_.]

POSOLOGY, p[=o]-sol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of quantity.--_adjs._
POSOLOG'IC, -AL. [Gr. _posos_, how much, _logia_, discourse.]

POSSE, pos'[=e], _n._ power: possibility.--POSSE COMITATUS, the power of
the county: the body of men entitled to be called out by the sheriff to aid
in enforcing the law. [L. _posse_, to be able.]

POSSESS, poz-zes', _v.t._ to have or hold as an owner: to have the control
of: to inform: to seize: to enter into and influence: to put (_one's self_)
in possession (_of_): (_Spens._) to achieve: (_Shak._) put in possession of
information, convince.--_adj._ POSSESSED', influenced by some evil spirit,
demented.--_n._ POSSES'SION, act of possessing: the thing possessed: a
country taken by conquest: property: state of being possessed, as by an
evil spirit: madness.--_adjs._ POSSES'SIONARY, POSSES'SIVE, pertaining to
or denoting possession.--_n._ POSSES'SIVE (_gram._), a pronoun denoting
possession: the possessive case.--_adv._ POSSES'SIVELY.--_n._ POSSES'SOR,
one who possesses: owner: proprietor: occupant.--_adj._ POSSES'SORY,
relating to a possessor or possession: having possession.--GIVE POSSESSION,
to put in another's power or occupancy; TAKE POSSESSION, to assume
ownership; WRIT OF POSSESSION, a process directing a sheriff to put a
person in possession of property recovered in ejectment. [Fr.,--L.
_possid[=e]re_, _possessum_.]

POSSET, pos'et, _n._ a dietetic preparation, made by curdling milk with
some acidulous liquor, such as wine, ale, or vinegar.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
curdle.--POSSET CUP, a large cup or covered bowl for posset. [Prob. Ir.
_pusoid_, a posset; cf. W. _posel_.]

POSSIBLE, pos'i-bl, _adj._ that may be or happen: that may be done: not
contrary to the nature of things.--_n._ POSSIBIL'ITY, state of being
possible: that which is possible: a contingency.--_adv._ POSS'IBLY.
[Fr.,--L. _possibilis_--_posse_, to be able.]

POSSUM, pos'um, _n._ Same as OPOSSUM.

POST, p[=o]st, _n._ a piece of timber fixed in the ground, generally as a
support to something else: a pillar.--_v.t._ to fix on or to a post, or to
any conspicuous position, in a public place: to expose to public reproach,
to placard as having failed in an examination, &c.--_n._ POST'ER, one who
posts bills: a large printed bill or placard for posting.--FROM PILLAR TO
POST (see PILLAR). [A.S. _post_--L. _postis_, a doorpost--_pon[)e]re_, to
place.]

POST, p[=o]st, _n._ a fixed place, as a military station: a fixed place or
stage on a road: an office: one who travels by stages, esp. carrying
letters, &c.: a public letter-carrier: an established system of conveying
letters: (_Shak._) a post-horse: (_Shak._) haste: a size of writing-paper,
double that of common note-paper (so called from the water-mark, a
postman's horn).--_v.t._ to set or station: to put in the post-office:
(_book-k._) to transfer from the journal to the ledger: to supply with
necessary information, as to _post up_ (cf. _Well posted up_).--v.i to
travel with post-horses, or with speed.--_adv._ with posthorses: with
speed.--_ns._ POST'AGE, the act of going by post: journey: money paid for
conveyance of letters, &c., by post or mail; POST'AGE-STAMP, an adhesive
stamp for affixing to letters to show that the postal charge has been
paid.--_adj._ POST'AL, of or pertaining to the mail-service.--_ns._
POST'-BAG, a mail-bag; POST'-BILL, a way-bill of the letters sent from a
post-office; POST'BOY, a boy that rides posthorses, or who carries letters;
POST'-CARD, a stamped card on which a message may be sent by post;
POST'-CHAISE, POST'-CHAR'IOT, a chaise or carriage with four wheels let for
hire for the conveyance of those who travel with posthorses.--_v.i._
POST'-CHAISE, to travel by post-chaise.--_ns._ POST'-DAY, the day on which
the post or mail arrives or departs; POST'ER, one who travels by post:
(_Shak._) a courier: one who travels expeditiously: a posthorse.--_adj._
POST'-FREE, delivered by the post without payment.--_n._ POSTHASTE', haste
in travelling like that of a post.--_adj._ speedy: immediate.--_adv._ with
haste or speed.--_ns._ POST'-HORN, a postman's horn: a horn blown by the
driver of a mail-coach; POST'HORSE, a horse kept for posting; POST'HOUSE, a
house where horses are kept for the use of parties posting: a post-office;
POST'MAN, a post or courier: a letter-carrier; POST'MARK, the mark or stamp
put upon a letter at a post-office showing the time and place of reception
and delivery; POST'MASTER, the manager or superintendent of a post-office:
one who supplies posthorses: at Merton College, Oxford, a scholar who is
supported on the foundation; POST'MASTER-GEN'ERAL, the minister who is the
chief officer of the post-office department; POST'-OFF'ICE, an office for
receiving and transmitting letters by post: a department of the government
which has charge of the reception and conveyance of letters.--_adj._
POST'-PAID, having the postage paid, as a letter.--_ns._ POST'-TIME, the
time for the despatch or for the delivery of letters; POST'-TOWN, a town
with a post-office.--POSTAL NOTE, a note for a fixed designated sum issued
by a postmaster, payable at any office; POSTAL ORDER, an order issued by
the postmaster authorising the holder to receive at some particular
post-office payment of the sum marked on it. [Fr. _poste_--L. _pon[)e]re_,
_positum_, to place.]

POST, p[=o]st, _adv._ and _prep._ after, behind--in compounds as
_Post-abdominal_, _Post-anal_, _Post-axia_l, _Post-brachial_,
_Post-canonical_, _Post-clavicle_, _Post-embryonic_, &c.--_adj._
POST'-CLASS'ICAL, after those Greek and Latin writers styled classical, but
before the medieval.--_n._ POST'-COMMUN'ION, the part of the eucharistic
office after the act of communion.--_adj._ succeeding communion.--_v.t._
POSTDATE', to date after the real time.--_n._ a date on a letter later than
the real date on which it was written.--_adjs._ POST'-DIL[=U]'VIAL,
POST'-DIL[=U]'VIAN, being or happening after the deluge.--_ns._
POST'-DIL[=U]'VIAN, one who has lived since the deluge; POST'-EN'TRY, an
additional entry of merchandise at a custom-house.--_adjs._ POST'-EXIL'IC,
POST'-EXIL'IAN, after the time of the Babylonian captivity of the
Jews.--_ns._ POST'-EXIST'ENCE, future existence; POST'FIX, a letter,
syllable, or word fixed to or put after another word, an affix.--_v.t._
POSTFIX', to add to the end of another word.--_adjs._ POST'-GL[=A]'CIAL,
after the glacial epoch; POST'-GRAD'UATE, belonging to study pursued after
graduation; POST'-MERID'IAN, coming after the sun has crossed the meridian:
in the afternoon (written P.M.).--_n._ POST'-MILLEN[=A]'RIAN, one who
believes in post-millennialism.--_adj._ POST'-MILLENN'IAL.--_n._
POST'-MILLENN'IALISM, the doctrine that the second coming of Christ will
follow the millennium.--_adj._ POST'-MOR'TEM, after death.--_n._ a
post-mortem examination.--_adjs._ POST'-N[=A]'TAL, after birth;
POST'-N[=I]'CENE, after the first general council at _Nicæa_ in 325
A.D.--_n._ POST'-NOTE, a note issued by a bank, payable at some future
time.--_adj._ POST'-NUP'TIAL, being or happening after marriage.--_ns._
POST'-[=O]'BIT, a bond or security given by heirs and others entitled to
reversionary interests, whereby in consideration of a sum of money
presently advanced, the debtor binds himself to pay a much larger sum after
the death of some person, or of himself; POST'-POSI'TION, the state of
being put back or out of the regular place: (_gram._) a word or particle
placed after a word--opp. to a preposition, which is _placed
before_.--_adjs._ POST'-POS'ITIVE; POST'-REMOTE', more remote in subsequent
time or order; POST'-TER'TIARY, more recent than the Tertiary.--_n._ the
most recent geological division. [L.]

POST-CAPTAIN, p[=o]st'-kap't[=a]n, _n._ a captain in the British navy, so
called in contradistinction to a commander because his name was 'posted' in
the seniority list.

POSTE RESTANTE, p[=o]st res-tant', _n._ a place in a post-office where
letters are kept till called for. [Fr. _poste_, post-office, and pr.p. of
_rester_, to remain.]

POSTERIOR, pos-t[=e]'ri-or, _adj._ coming after: later in time or in
position: situated behind: hinder.--_n._ POSTERIOR'ITY, state of being
posterior--opp. to _Priority_.--_adv._ POST[=E]'RIORLY.--_n.pl._
POST[=E]'RIORS, short for posterior parts: (_hum._) the latter part,
buttock.--_n._ POSTER'ITY, those coming after: succeeding generations:
descendants: a race. [L., comp. of _posterus_, coming after--_post_,
after.]

POSTERN, p[=o]st'[.e]rn, _n._ a back door or gate: a small private door:
(_fort._) a covered passage between the main ditch and the outworks of a
fort, usually closed by a gate.--_adj._ back: private. [O. Fr. _posterne_,
_posterle_--L. _posterula_, a dim. from _posterus_.]

POSTHUMOUS, post'[=u]-mus, _adj._ born after the father's death: published
after the death of the author.--_adv._ POST'HUMOUSLY. [L. _posthumus_,
postumus, superl. of _posterus_, coming after--_post_, after.]

POSTICHE, pos-t[=e]sh', _adj._ added after the work is finished. [Fr.]

POSTIL, pos'til, _n._ a note in the margin of the Bible, so called because
written after the text or other words: a marginal note: (_R.C._) a homily
read after the gospel.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to make such notes.--_n._
POSTIL'LA, a sermon or homily explanatory of the gospel in the mass: any
sermon.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ POS'TILLATE, to write or deliver a
postil.--_ns._ POSTILL[=A]'TION; POS'TILLER, one who comments: a preacher.
[O. Fr. _postille_ (It. _postilla_)--Low L. _postilla_--L. _post illa_
(_verba_), after those (words).]

POSTILLION, p[=o]s-til'yun, _n._ a postboy: one who guides posthorses, or
horses in any carriage, riding on one of them. [Fr. _postillon_.]

POSTLIMINY, post-lim'i-ni, _n._ the right by which persons or things taken
in war by the enemy are restored to their former status upon their coming
again under the power of the nation to which they belonged: the return of a
prisoner, exile, &c. to his former status.--_adjs._ POSTLIM'INARY,
POSTLIMIN'IARY. [L. _postliminium_.]

POSTPONE, p[=o]st-p[=o]n', _v.t._ to put off to a future time: to defer: to
delay: to subordinate.--_n._ POSTPONE'MENT, act of putting off to an
after-time: temporary delay--also POSTP[=O]'NENCE (_obs._). [L.
_postpon[)e]re_, _-positum_--_post_, after, _pon[)e]re_, to put.]

POST-PRANDIAL, p[=o]st-pran'di-al, _adj._ after dinner. [L. _post_, after,
_prandium_, a repast.]

POSTSCRIPT, p[=o]st'skript, _n._ a part added to a letter after the
signature: an addition to a book after it is finished.--_adj._
POST'SCRIPTAL. [L., from _post_, after, _scriptum_, written, pa.p. of
_scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

POSTULATE, pos't[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to assume without proof: to take for
granted or without positive consent: (_eccles._) to ask legitimate
authority to admit a nominee by dispensation, when a canonical impediment
is supposed to exist.--_v.i._ to make demands.--_n._ a position assumed as
self-evident: (_geom._) a self-evident problem: a petition: a condition for
the accomplishment of anything.--_ns._ POS'TULANT, a candidate;
POSTUL[=A]'TION, the act of postulating: solicitation.--_adjs._
POS'TUL[=A]TORY, supplicatory: assuming or assumed without proof as a
postulate; POS'TURAL. [L. _postul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
demand--_posc[)e]re_, to ask urgently.]

POSTURE, pos't[=u]r, _n._ the placing or position of the body, esp. of the
parts of it with reference to each other: attitude: state or condition:
disposition of mind.--_v.t._ to place in a particular manner.--_v.i._ to
assume an affected manner.--_ns._ POS'TURE-M[=A]'KER, POS'TURE-MAS'TER, one
who teaches or practises artificial postures of the body: an acrobat;
POS'TURER, POS'TURIST, an acrobat. [Fr.,--L. _positura_--_pon[)e]re_,
_positum_, to place.]

POSY, p[=o]'zi, _n._ a verse of poetry, esp. a motto or an inscription on a
ring: a motto sent with a bouquet: a bouquet. [_Poesy._]

POT, pot, _n._ a metallic vessel for various purposes, esp. for cooking: a
drinking vessel: an earthen vessel for plants: the quantity in a pot:
(_slang_) a large sum of money, a prize.--_v.t._ to preserve in pots: to
put in pots: to cook in a pot: to plant in a pot: to drain, as sugar, in a
perforated cask: to shoot an enemy.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to tipple:--_pr.p._
pot'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pot'ted.--_n._ POT'-ALE, refuse from a grain
distillery.--_adj._ POT'-BELL'IED, having a prominent belly.--_ns._
POT'-BELL'Y, a protuberant belly; POT'-BOIL'ER, a work in art or literature
produced merely to secure the necessaries of life; POT'-BOY, a boy in a
public-house who carries pots of ale to customers; POT'-COMPAN'ION, a
comrade in drinking; POT'-HANG'ER, a hook on which to hang a pot; POT'-HAT,
a high-crowned felt hat, worn by men; POT'-HEAD, a stupid person; POT'HERB,
any vegetable which is boiled and used as food.--_n.pl._ POT'-HOLES, holes
in the beds of rapid streams, made by an eddying current of water, which
gives the stones a gyratory motion.--_ns._ POT'-HOOK, a hook hung in a
chimney for supporting a pot: a letter shaped like a pot-hook; POT'-HOUSE,
an ale-house; POT'-HUNT'ER, one who hunts or fishes for profit; POT'-LID,
the cover of a pot; POT'-LIQ'UOR, a thin broth in which meat has been
boiled; POT'-LUCK, what may happen to be in the pot for a meal without
special preparation; POT'-MAN, a pot-companion: a pot-boy; POT'-MET'AL, an
alloy of copper and lead; POT'-SHOP, a small public-house; POT'-STICK, a
stick for stirring what is being cooked in a pot; POT'STONE, a massive
variety of talc-schist, composed of a finely felted aggregate of talc,
mica, and chlorite.--_adj._ POT'-VAL'IANT, brave owing to drink.--POTTED
MEATS, meats cooked, seasoned, and hermetically sealed in tins or jars.--GO
TO POT, to go to ruin, originally said of old metal, to go into the
melting-pot; KEEP THE POT BOILING, to procure the necessaries of life; TAKE
POT-LUCK, to accept an invitation to a meal where no preparation for guests
has been made. [M. E. _pot_, from the Celt., as Ir. _pota_, Gael. _poit_,
W. _pot._]

POTABLE, p[=o]'ta-bl, _adj._ that may be drunk: liquid.--_n._ something
drinkable.--_n._ P[=O]'TABLENESS. [Fr.,--L. _potabilis_--_p[=o]t[=a]re_, to
drink.]

POTAMOLOGY, pot-a-mol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the scientific study of rivers.--_n._
POTAMOG'RAPHY.--_adj._ POTAMOLOG'ICAL.

POTASH, pot'ash, _n._ a powerful alkali, obtained from the ashes of
plants--also POTASS'.--_n._ POT'ASH-WA'TER, a kind of aerated water, which,
when of full medicinal strength, contains fifteen grains of the bicarbonate
of potash in each bottle--usually much less is put in. [_Pot ashes._]

POTASSA, p[=o]-tas'a, _n._ [Latinised form of _potash_.]

POTASSIUM, p[=o]-tas'i-um, _n._ the metallic base of the alkali potash--it
is of a bluish colour, and presents a strong metallic lustre. [_Potassa._]

POTATION, p[=o]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ act of drinking: a draught: the liquor
drunk.--_n._ POT[=A]'TOR, a drinker.--_adj._ P[=O]'T[=A]TORY. [L.
_potatio_--_p[=o]t[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to drink.]

POTATO, p[=o]-t[=a]'t[=o], _n._ one of the tubers of a plant almost
universally cultivated for food in the temperate parts of the globe: the
plant itself:--_pl._ POT[=A]'TOES.--_ns._ POT[=A]'TO-BEE'TLE, a North
American beetle which commits fearful ravages among potatoes;
POT[=A]'TO-BING (_Scot._), a heap of potatoes to be preserved;
POT[=A]'TO-B[=O]'GLE (_Scot._), a scarecrow; POT[=A]'TO-DISEASE', -ROT, a
destructive disease of the potato caused by a parasitic fungus;
POT[=A]'TO-FING'ER (_Shak._), a fat finger, used in contempt;
POT[=A]'TO-FLY, a dipterous insect of the same genus as the radish-fly,
whose maggots are often abundant in bad potatoes in autumn.--SMALL POTATOES
(_U.S._), anything petty or contemptible. [Sp. _patata_, _batata_, orig.
Haytian.]

POTCH, poch, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to thrust, to push. [Fr. _pocher_; from root
of _poke_.]

POTCHING-ENGINE, poch'ing-en'jin, _n._ in paper-making, a machine in which
washed rags are bleached.

POTEEN, POTHEEN, po-t[=e]n', _n._ Irish whisky, esp. that illicitly
distilled. [Ir. _poitim_, I drink.]

POTENT, p[=o]'tent, _adj._ strong: powerful in a physical or a moral sense:
having great authority or influence.--_n._ a prince, potentate.--_ns._
P[=O]'TENCE, power: (_her._) a marking of the shape of [T shape]: in
horology, the stud or counterbridge forming a step for the lower pivot of a
verge (also P[=O]'TANCE); P[=O]'TENCY, power: authority: influence;
P[=O]'TENTATE, one who possesses power: a prince.--_adj._ P[=O]TEN'TIAL,
powerful, efficacious: existing in possibility, not in reality: (_gram._)
expressing power, possibility, liberty, or obligation.--_n._ anything that
may be possible: a possibility: the name for a function in the mathematical
theory of attractions: the power of a charge or current of electricity to
do work.--_n._ P[=O]TENTIAL'ITY.--_adv._ P[=O]TEN'TIALLY.--_n._
P[=O]TEN'TIARY, a person invested with power or influence.--_v.t._
P[=O]TEN'TIATE, to give power to.--_n._ P[=O]'TENTITE, a blasting
substance.--_adv._ P[=O]'TENTLY.--_n._ P[=O]'TENTNESS.--POTENTIAL ENERGY,
the power of doing work possessed by a body in virtue of the stresses which
result from its position relatively to other bodies. [L. _potens_--_potis_,
able, _esse_, to be.]

POTENTILLA, p[=o]-ten-til'ä, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Rosaceæ_, differing from _Fragaria_ (strawberry) in the fruit having a dry
instead of a succulent receptacle--well-known varieties are _silver-weed_
and _wild strawberry_.

POTHER, poth'[.e]r, _n._ bustle: confusion.--_v.t._ to puzzle: to perplex:
to tease.--_v.i._ to make a pother. [_Potter._]

POTICHE, p[=o]-t[=e]sh', _n._ a vase or jar of rounded form and short
neck.--_n._ POTICHOM[=A]'NIA, the process of coating glass vessels on the
inside with paper or linen decorations. [Fr.]

POTIN, p[=o]-tang', _n._ an old compound of copper, zinc, lead, and tin.
[Fr.]

POTION, p[=o]'shun, _n._ a draught: a liquid medicine: a dose. [Fr.,--L.
_potio_--_p[=o]t[=a]re_, to drink.]

POT-POURRI, p[=o]-p[=oo]-r[=e]', _n._ a ragout of meats, vegetables, &c.: a
mixture of sweet-scented materials, chiefly dried flowers: medley of
musical airs: a literary production composed of unconnected parts. [Fr.
_pot_, pot, _pourrir_, to rot--L. _putr[=e]re_, to putrefy.]

POTSHERD, pot'sh[.e]rd, _n._ a piece of a broken pot--(_obs._) POT'-SHARD,
POT'-SHARE. [_Pot_ and A.S. _sceard_, a shred--_sceran_, to divide.]

POTTAGE, pot'[=a]j, _n._ anything cooked in a pot: a thick soup of meat and
vegetables: oatmeal porridge.--_n._ POT'TINGER, a pottage-maker. [Fr.
_potage_--_pot_.]

POTTER, pot'[.e]r, _n._ one who makes earthenware.--_n._ POTT'ERY,
earthenware vessels: a place where earthenware is manufactured: the
business of a potter.--POTTER'S CLAY, clay used in the making of
earthenware; POTTER'S FIELD, a burial-place for strangers (Matt. xxvii. 7);
POTTER'S WHEEL, a horizontal wheel on which clay vessels are shaped.

POTTER, pot'[.e]r, _v.i._ to be fussily engaged about trifles: to
loiter.--_n._ POTT'ERER. [Prov. _pote_, to push.]

POTTING, pot'ing, _n._ placing in a pot, as plants: preserving in a pot, as
meats.

POTTLE, pot'l, _n._ a little pot: a measure of four pints: a small basket
for fruit.--_adjs._ POTT'LE-BOD'IED, having a body shaped like a pottle;
POTT'LE-DEEP, to the bottom of the tankard.--_n._ POTT'LE-POT (_Shak._), a
drinking-vessel holding two quarts. [_Pot._]

POT-WALLER, pot'-wol'[.e]r, POT-WALLOPER, pot-wol'op-[.e]r, _n._ a
pot-boiler: a voter in certain English boroughs where, before the Reform
Bill of 1832, every one who boiled a pot--i.e. every male householder or
lodger, was entitled to vote--also POT'-WALL'ONER.--_adj._ POT'-WALL'OPING.
[Lit., 'pot-boiler,' the latter part of the word being from an Old Low Ger.
_wallen_, to boil.]

POUCH, powch, _n._ a poke, pocket, or bag: the bag or sac of an
animal.--_v.t._ to put into a pouch: to pocket, submit to.--_adj._ POUCHED,
having a pouch.--POUCHED MOUSE, a genus of small, lean, long-tailed, agile
rodents, with cheek-pouches; POUCHED RAT, a genus of plump, short-tailed
rodents, with cheek-pouches which open externally. [O. Fr. _poche_; cf.
_Poke_, a bag.]

POUCHONG, p[=oo]-shong', _n._ a superior black tea.

POUDRETTE, p[=oo]-dret', _n._ manure of dried night-soil, charcoal, &c.
[Fr.]

POUFFE, p[=oo]f, _n._ in dressmaking, material gathered up into a kind of
knot: a cushion stuffed so as to be very soft.--_n._ POUF, plaited gauze
attached to a head-dress, as in 18th century. [Fr.]

POULAINE, p[=oo]-l[=a]n', _n._ a long, pointed shoe. [O. Fr.]

POULDRED, powl'drd, _adj._ (_Spens._) powdered.

POULP, POULPE, p[=oo]lp, _n._ the octopus. [Fr.--L. _polypus._]

POULT, p[=o]lt, _n._ a little hen or fowl: a chicken.--_ns._ POULT'ER
(_Shak._), POULT'ERER, one who deals in fowls; POULT'-FOOT, a
club-foot.--_adj._ POULT'-FOOT'ED (_arch._), club-footed.--_ns._ POULT'RY,
domestic fowls; POULT'RY-YARD, a yard where poultry are confined and bred.
[Fr. _poulet_, dim. of _poule_, fowl--L. _pullus_, the young of any
animal.]

POULTICE, p[=o]l'tis, _n._ a soft composition of meal, bran, &c. applied to
sores.--_v.t._ to put a poultice upon. [L. _pultes_, pl. of _puls_,
_pultis_ (Gr. _poltos_), porridge.]

POUNCE, powns, _v.i._ to fall (_upon_) and seize with the claws: to dart
suddenly (_upon_).--_v.t._ to ornament with small holes: to strike with the
claws.--_n._ a hawk's claw: the paw of a lion or other animal.--_adj._
POUNCED, furnished with talons. [Orig. to _pierce_, to stamp holes in for
ornament; through Romance forms, from L. _pung[)e]re_, _punctum_.]

POUNCE, powns, _n._ a fine powder for preparing a surface for writing on:
coloured powder sprinkled over holes pricked in paper to form a pattern on
paper underneath.--_v.t._ to sprinkle with pounce, as paper or a
pattern.--_ns._ POUNCE'-BOX, POUN'CET-BOX, a box with a perforated lid for
sprinkling pounce. [Fr. _ponce_, pumice--L. _pumex_, _pumicis_,
pumice-stone.]

POUND, pownd, _n._ long the unit of weight in the western and central
states of Europe, differing, however, in value in all of them--a weight of
16 oz. avoirdupois for general goods, the troy-pound of 12 oz. being for
bullion (the troy lb. is defined as 5760 grains, of which the lb.
avoirdupois contains 7000): the pound sterling, a money of account: a
sovereign or 20s., also represented in Scotland by a note (the POUND SCOTS
is 1/12th of the pound sterling, or 1s. 8d.--of its twenty shillings each
is worth an English penny): (_Spens._) a balance.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to
wager a pound on.--_ns._ POUND'AGE, a charge or tax made on each pound;
POUND'AL, a name sometimes used for the absolute foot pound second unit of
force, which will produce in one pound a velocity of one foot per second,
after acting for one second; POUND'-CAKE, a sweet cake whose ingredients
are measured by weight; POUND'ER, he who has, or that which weighs, many
pounds--used only after a number, as a 12-pounder.--_adj._ POUND'-FOOL'ISH,
neglecting the care of large sums in attending to little ones. [A.S.
_pund_--L. _pondo_, by weight, _pondus_, a weight--_pend[)e]re_, to weigh.]

POUND, pownd, _v.t._ to shut up or confine, as strayed animals.--_n._ an
enclosure in which strayed animals are confined: a level part of a canal
between two locks: a pound-net.--_ns._ POUND'AGE, a charge made for
pounding stray cattle; POUND'-KEEP'ER; POUND'-NET, a kind of weir in
fishing, forming a trap by an arrangement of nets (the _wings_, _leader_,
and _pocket_, _bowl_, or _pound_). [A.S. _pund_, enclosure.]

POUND, pownd, _v.t._ to beat into fine pieces: to bruise: to bray with a
pestle.--_v.i._ to walk with heavy steps.--_n._ POUND'ER. [M. E.
_pounen_--A.S. _punian_, to beat; _-d_ excrescent.]

POUR, p[=o]r, _v.t._ to cause to flow or fall in streams or drops: to throw
with force: to send forth in great quantity: to give vent to: to
utter.--_v.i._ to flow: to issue forth: to rush.--_n._ POUR'ER. [Celt., as
W. _bwrw_, to throw, Gael. _purr_, to push.]

POURBOIRE, p[=oo]r-bwor', _n._ drink-money: a bribe. [Fr. _pour_, for,
_boire_, to drink.]

POURPARLER, p[=oo]r-pär'l[=a], _n._ a conference to arrange for some
important transaction, as the formation of a treaty. [Fr. _pour_=L. _pro_,
before, _parler_, to speak.]

POURPOINT, p[=oo]r'point, _n._ a close-fitting men's quilted garment worn
in the 14th century.

POURTRAHED, p[=oo]r-tr[=a]d', _adj._ (_Spens._) portrayed or drawn.

POURTRAY. Same as PORTRAY.

POUSSE, pows, _n._ (_Spens._) pulse, pease. [_Pulse_ or _pease_.]

POUSSE-CAFÉ, p[=oo]s'-ka-f[=a]', _n._ a cordial served after coffee.

POUSSETTE, p[=oo]s-set', _v.t._ (_Tenn._) to waltz round each other, as two
couples in a contra-dance. [Fr. _poussette_, _pouser_, to push.]

POUT, powt, _v.i._ to push out the lips, in contempt or displeasure: to
look sulky: to push out or be prominent.--_n._ a fit of sulkiness or
ill-humour.--_ns._ POUT'ER, one who pouts: a variety of pigeon, having its
breast inflated; POUT'ING, childish sullenness.--_adv._ POUT'INGLY, in a
pouting or sullen manner. [Ety. dub.; cf. prov. Fr. _pot_, _pout_, lip, Fr.
_bouder_, to pout; W. _pwdu_, pout.]

POVERTY, pov'[.e]r-ti, _n._ the state of being poor: necessity: want:
meanness: defect.--_adjs._ POV'ERTY-STRICK'EN, POV'ERTY-STRUCK, reduced to
a state of poverty: in great suffering from poverty. [O. Fr. _poverte_ (Fr.
_pauvreté_)--L. _paupertas_, _-tatis_--_pauper_, poor.]

POWAN, pow'an, _n._ (_Scot._) the pollan, vendace, or Coregonus.

POWDER, pow'd[.e]r, _n._ dust: any substance in fine particles: gunpowder,
a mixture of charcoal, sulphur, and saltpetre: hair-powder.--_v.t._ to
reduce to powder: to sprinkle with powder: to salt by sprinkling.--_v.i._
to crumble into powder: to use powder for the hair.--_n._ POW'DER-BOX, a
box for toilet-powder, &c.--_adj._ POW'DERED, reduced to powder: sprinkled
with powder: salted.--_ns._ POW'DER-FLASK, POW'DER-HORN, a flask or horn
for carrying powder, fitted with a means of measuring the amount of each
charge; POW'DERING-GOWN, a loose dressing-gown worn while the hair was
being powdered; POW'DERING-TUB, a vessel in which meat is salted: a vessel
in which venereal disease is treated by sweating; POW'DER-MAG'AZINE, a
strongly built place where powder is stored; POW'DER-MILL, a mill in which
gunpowder is made; POW'DER-MINE, an excavation filled with gunpowder for
blasting rocks, &c.; POW'DER-MONK'EY, a boy formerly employed to carry
powder to the gunners on board a ship-of-war; POW'DER-ROOM, the room in a
ship where powder is kept.--_adj._ POW'DERY, resembling or sprinkled with
powder: dusty: friable. [O. Fr. _poudre_--L. _pulvis_, _pulveris_, dust.]

POWER, pow'[.e]r, _n._ that in a person or a thing which enables them to
act on other persons or things: strength: energy: faculty of the mind: any
agency: moving force of anything: right to command: rule: authority:
influence: ability: capacity of suffering: a ruler: a divinity: the result
of the continued multiplication of a quantity by itself any given number of
times: (_optics_) magnifying strength: (_obs._) a great many.--_adjs._
POW'ERED, having power; POW'ERFUL, having great power: mighty: intense:
forcible: efficacious.--_adv._ POW'ERFULLY.--_ns._ POW'ERFULNESS;
POW'ER-HOUSE, a house where mechanical power (esp. electric) is
generated.--_adj._ POW'ERLESS, without power: weak: impotent.--_adv._
POW'ERLESSLY.--_ns._ POW'ERLESSNESS; POW'ER-LOOM, a loom worked by some
mechanical power, as water, steam, &c.--POWER OF ATTORNEY (see ATTORNEY);
POWER OF SALE, a clause in securities and wills empowering property
referred to to be sold on certain conditions; POWERS, or GREAT POWERS (see
GREAT).--ABSOLUTE POWER, power subject to no control by law; CIVIL POWER,
power of governing a state; MECHANICAL POWERS (see MECHANICAL). [O. Fr.
_poer_ (Fr. _pouvoir_)--Low L. _pot-[)e]re_, to be able.]

POWSOWDY, pow-sow'di, _n._ (_Scot._) any mixture of heterogeneous kinds of
food.--Also POWSOW'DIE.

POWTER, pow't[.e]r, _n._ a pigeon, the pouter.

POWWOW, pow'wow, _n._ a Red Indian conjurer: a dance, feast, &c. before an
expedition: any rowdy meeting.--_v.i._ to hold such a meeting: to
deliberate: to perform conjurations.--Also PAW'WAW.

POX, poks, _n._ pustules: an eruptive disease. [Written for _pocks_, pl. of
_pock_.]

POYNANT, poin'ant, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as POIGNANT.

POZZUOLANA. See PUZZOLANA.

PRACTICE, prak'tis, _n._ the habit of doing anything: frequent use: state
of being used: regular exercise for instruction: performance: method:
medical treatment: exercise of any profession: a rule or method in
arithmetic.--_ns._ PRACTICABIL'ITY, PRAC'TICABLENESS, quality of being
practicable.--_adj._ PRAC'TICABLE, that may be practised, used, or
followed: passable, as a road.--_adv._ PRAC'TICABLY.--_adj._ PRAC'TICAL,
that can be put in practice: useful: applying knowledge to some useful end:
derived from practice.--_ns._ PRACTICAL'ITY; PRAC'TICAL-JOKE, a trick of an
annoying kind played on any one; PRAC'TICAL-KNOWL'EDGE, knowledge which
results in action.--_adv._ PRAC'TICALLY, in a practical way: actually: by
actual trial.--_n._ PRAC'TICALNESS. [M. E. _praktike_--O. Fr.
_practique_--Gr. _praktikos_, fit for doing--_prassein_, to do.]

PRACTICK, PRACTIC, prak'tik, _adj._ (_Spens._, _Shak._) skilful, hence
treacherous, deceitful.

PRACTISE, prak'tis, _v.t._ to put into practice or to do habitually: to
perform: to exercise, as a profession: to use or exercise: to teach by
practice: to commit.--_v.i._ to have or to form a habit: to exercise any
employment or profession: to try artifices.--_n._ PRAC'TISANT (_Shak._), an
agent.--_adj._ PRAC'TISED, skilled through practice.--_n._
PRAC'TISER.--_adj._ PRAC'TISING, actively engaged in professional
employment. [From _practice_.]

PRACTITIONER, prak-tish'un-[.e]r, _n._ one who practises or is engaged in
the exercise of any profession, esp. medicine or law.--GENERAL
PRACTITIONER, one who practises in all the branches of medicine and
surgery. [Older form _practician_--O. Fr. _practicien_.]

PRACTIVE, prak'tiv, _adj._ directly tending towards action.

PRAD, prad, _n._ a horse in thieves' cant.

PRÆ-. See PRE-.

PRÆMUNIRE, PREMUNIRE, pr[=e]-m[=u]-n[=i]'re, _n._ the offence of disregard
or contempt of the king and his government, especially the offence of
introducing papal or other foreign authority into England: the writ founded
on such an offence: the penalty incurred by the offence. [A corr. of L.
_præmon[=e]re_, to cite.]

PRÆNOMEN, pr[=e]-n[=o]'men, _n._ the name prefixed to the family name in
ancient Rome, as _Caius_ in Caius Julius Cæsar: the generic name in zoology
put before the specific name.

PRÆTEXTA, pr[=e]-teks'ta, _n._ the outer garment, bordered with purple,
worn at Rome by the higher magistrates and by free-born children till they
assumed the _toga virilis_. [L., _prætex[)e]re_, to fringe.]

PRÆTOR, PRETOR, pr[=e]'tor, _n._ a magistrate of ancient Rome, next in rank
to the consuls.--_adjs._ PRÆT[=O]'RIAL, PRET[=O]'RIAL, PRÆT[=O]'RIAN,
PRET[=O]'RIAN, pertaining to a prætor or magistrate: authorised or
exercised by the prætor: judicial.--_ns._ PRÆT[=O]'RIUM, PRET[=O]'RIUM, the
official residence of the Roman prætor, proconsul, or governor in a
province: the general's tent in a camp: the council of officers who
attended the general and met in his tent; PRÆ'TORSHIP.--PRÆTORIAN BAND OF
GUARD, the bodyguard of the Roman Emperor; PRÆTORIAN GATE, the gate of a
Roman camp directly in front of the general's tent, and nearest to the
enemy. [L. _prætor_, for _præitor_--_præ_, before, _[=i]re_, _itum_, to
go.]

PRAGMATIC, -AL, prag-mat'ik, -al, _adj._ of or pertaining to public
business: skilled in affairs: active: practical: interfering with the
affairs of others: officious: meddlesome: self-important.--_n._ PRAGMAT'IC,
a man of business, a busybody: a public decree.--_adv._
PRAGMAT'ICALLY.--_ns._ PRAGMAT'ICALNESS, PRAG'MATISM, activity:
earnestness: meddlesomeness; PRAG'MATIST.--PRAGMATIC METHOD, a method of
treating events with reference to their causes, conditions, and
results--also called PRAG'MATISM; PRAGMATIC SANCTION, a special decree
issued by a sovereign, such as that passed by the Emperor Charles VI. of
Germany, securing the crown to Maria Theresa, and which led to the war so
called in 1741. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _pragmatikos_--_pragma_--_pragmatos_,
deed--_prassein_, to do.]

PRAIRIE, pr[=a]'ri, _n._ an extensive meadow or tract of land, level or
rolling, without trees, and covered with tall coarse grass.--_adj._
PRAI'RIED.--_ns._ PRAI'RIE-DOG, a small gregarious North American marmot;
PRAI'RIE-HAWK, the American sparrow-hawk; PRAI'RIE-HEN, a gallinaceous
North American bird: the sharp-tailed grouse; PRAI'RIE-WAR'BLER, an
American warbler, yellow with black spots; PRAI'RIE-WOLF, the coyote.
[Fr.,--Low L. _prataria_, meadow-land--L. _pratum_, a meadow.]

PRAISE, pr[=a]z, _n._ the expression of the honour or value in which any
person or thing is held: commendation on account of excellence or beauty:
tribute of gratitude: a glorifying, as of God in worship: reason or ground
of praise.--_v.t._ to express estimation of: to commend: to honour: to
glorify, as in worship.--_n._ PRAIS'ER, one who praises.--_adv._
PRAISE'WORTHILY.--_n._ PRAISE'WORTHINESS.--_adj._ PRAISE'WORTHY, worthy of
praise: commendable. [O. Fr. _preis_ (Fr. _prix_)--L. _pretium_, price.]

PRÂKRIT, prä'krit, _n._ the collective name of those languages or dialects
which are immediately derived from, or stand in an immediate relation to,
Sanskrit.--_adj._ PRÂKRIT'IC. [Sans. _pr[=a]krita_, the
natural--_prakriti_, nature.]

PRAM, präm, _n._ a flat-bottomed Dutch lighter: a barge fitted as a
floating battery. [Dut. _praam_.]

PRAM, pram, _n._ a vulgar abbrev. of _perambulator_.

PRANCE, prans, _v.i._ to strut about in a showy or warlike manner: to ride
showily: to bound gaily, as a horse.--_adj._ PRANC'ING, riding showily:
springing or bounding gaily.--_n._ the action of a horse in rearing,
bounding, &c.--_adv._ PRANC'INGLY. [_Prank._]

PRANDIAL, pran'di-al, _adj._ relating to dinner. [L. _prandium_,
breakfast.]

PRANK, prangk, _v.t._ to display or adorn showily: to put in right
order.--_v.i._ to make great show.--_n._ a sportive action: a mischievous
trick.--_n._ PRANK'ER.--_adv._ PRANK'INGLY.--_adjs._ PRANK'ISH, PRANK'SOME.
[Closely akin to _prink_, a form of _prick_.]

PRASE, pr[=a]z, _n._ a leek-green quartz.--_adjs._ PRAS'INE, PRAS'INOUS,
lightish-green.

PRATE, pr[=a]t, _v.i._ to talk idly: to tattle: to be loquacious.--_v.t._
to speak without meaning or purpose: to let out, as a secret.--_n._
trifling talk.--_n._ PR[=A]'TER, one who prates or talks idly.--_adj._
PR[=A]'TING, talking idly or unmeaningly.--_n._ idle talk.--_adv._
PR[=A]'TINGLY. [Low Ger. _pr[=a]ten_, Dan. _prate_, Dut. _praaten_.]

PRATIQUE, prat'[=e]k, _n._ converse, intercourse: a license or permission
to hold intercourse, or to trade after quarantine. [Fr.]

PRATTLE, prat'l, _v.i._ to talk much and idly: to utter child's
talk.--_v.t._ to talk about in a prattling way.--_n._ empty talk.--_ns._
PRATT'LEBOX, a prattler; PRATT'LEMENT, prattle; PRATT'LER, one who
prattles: a child. [Freq. of _prate_.]

PRAVITY, prav'i-ti, _n._ wickedness.

PRAWN, prawn, _n._ a small edible crustacean like the shrimp. [L. _perna_,
a mussel.]

PRAXIS, praks'is, _n._ practice: an example or a collection of examples for
exercise: a specimen.--_n._ PRAX'INOSCOPE, an optical instrument showing a
body as if in motion, by means of successive pictures and an arrangement of
mirrors in a horizontally rotating box. [Gr. _praxein_, to do.]

PRAY, pr[=a], _v.i._ to ask earnestly: to entreat: to speak and make known
one's desires to God.--_v.t._ to ask earnestly and reverently, as in
worship: to supplicate: to get by praying:--_pr.p._ pr[=a]y'ing; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ pr[=a]yed.--_ns._ PRAY'ER, the act of praying: entreaty: the
words used: solemn giving of thanks and praise to God, and a making known
of our requests to Him: a form of prayer used in worship: a petition to a
public body; PRAY'ER-BOOK, a book containing prayers or forms of
devotion.--_adj._ PRAY'ERFUL, full of, or given to, prayer: praying much or
often: devotional.--_adv._ PRAY'ERFULLY.--_n._ PRAY'ERFULNESS.--_adj._
PRAY'ERLESS, without or not using prayer.--_adv._ PRAY'ERLESSLY.--_ns._
PRAY'ERLESSNESS; PRAY'ER-MEET'ING, a shorter and simpler form of public
religious service, in which laymen often take part; PRAY'ER-MONG'ER, one
who prays mechanically; PRAY'ER-RUG, a small carpet on which a Moslem
kneels at prayer; PRAY'ING, the act of making a prayer: a prayer
made.--_adj._ given to prayer.--_ns._ PRAY'ING-MACHINE', -MILL, -WHEEL, a
revolving apparatus used for prayer in Tibet and elsewhere. [O. Fr.
_preier_ (Fr. _prier_)--L. _prec[=a]ri_--_prex_, _precis_, a prayer.]

PRE-, pr[=e], before, in compound words like _preanal_, _preauditory_,
_preaxial_, _prebasal_, _prebrachial_, _precardiac_, _precentral_,
_precerebral_, _precloacal_, _precordial_, _precoracoid_, _predentate_,
_pre-esophageal_, &c.

PREACE, pr[=e]s, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as PREASE.

PREACH, pr[=e]ch, _v.i._ to pronounce a public discourse on sacred
subjects: to discourse earnestly: to give advice in an offensive or
obtrusive manner.--_v.t._ to publish in religious discourses: to deliver,
as a sermon: to teach publicly.--_n._ (_coll._) a sermon.--_ns._ PREACH'ER,
one who discourses publicly on religious matter: a minister or clergyman;
PREACH'ERSHIP.--_v.i._ PREACH'IFY, to preach tediously: to weary with
lengthy advice.--_ns._ PREACH'ING, the act of preaching: a public religious
discourse: a sermon; PREACH'ING-CROSS, a cross in an open place at which
monks, &c., preached.--_n.pl._ PREACH'ING-FR[=I]'ARS, the Dominicans.--_n._
PREACH'MENT, a sermon, in contempt: a discourse affectedly solemn.--_adj._
PREACH'Y, given to tedious moralising.--PREACH DOWN, and UP, to decry, or
the opposite. [Fr. _prêcher_ (It. _predicare_)--L. _prædic[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to proclaim.]

PREACQUAINT, pr[=e]-ak-kw[=a]nt', _v.t._ to acquaint beforehand.--_n._
PREACQUAINT'ANCE, previous knowledge.

PRE-ADAMITE, pr[=e]-ad'a-m[=i]t, _n._ one who lived before _Adam_.--_adjs._
PREADAM'IC, -AL; PREADAMIT'IC, -AL.

PREADAPTATION, pr[=e]-ad-ap-t[=a]'shun, _n._ previous adjustment of means
to some end.

PREADJUSTMENT, pr[=e]-ad-just'ment, _n._ previous arrangement.

PREADMISSION, pr[=e]-ad-mish'un, _n._ previous admission.

PREADMONISH, pr[=e]-ad-mon'ish, _v.t._ to admonish or caution
beforehand.--_n._ PREADMONI'TION, previous warning.

PREADVERTISE, pr[=e]-ad-v[.e]r-t[=i]z', _v.t._ to announce beforehand.

PREAMBLE, pr[=e]-am'bl, _n._ preface: introduction, esp. that of an Act of
Parliament, giving its reasons and purpose.--_adj._ PREAM'BULARY. [Fr.
_préambule_--L. _præ,_ before, _ambul[=a]re_, to go.]

PREANNOUNCE, pr[=e]-an-nowns', _v.t._ to announce beforehand.

PREAPPOINT, pr[=e]-ap-point', _v.t._ to appoint beforehand.--_n._
PREAPPOINT'MENT, previous appointment.

PREARRANGE, pr[=e]-ar-r[=a]nj', _v.t._ to arrange beforehand.--_n._
PREARRANGE'MENT.

PREASE, pr[=e]s, _v.t._ or _v.i._ (_Spens._) to press, to crowd.--_n._
(_Spens._) a press, a crowd.

PREASSURANCE, pr[=e]-a-sh[=oo]r'ans, _n._ previous assurance.

PRE-AUDIENCE, pr[=e]-aw'di-ens, _n._ right to be heard before another:
precedence at the bar among lawyers.

PREBEND, preb'end, _n._ the share of the revenues of a cathedral or
collegiate church allowed to a clergyman who officiates in it at stated
times.--_adj._ PREB'ENDAL, relating to a prebend.--_ns._ PREB'ENDARY, a
resident clergyman who enjoys a prebend, a canon: the honorary holder of a
disendowed prebendal stall; PREB'ENDARYSHIP. [L. _præbenda_, a payment from
a public source--_præb[=e]re_, to allow.]

PRECARIOUS, pr[=e]-k[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ uncertain, because depending upon
the will of another: held by a doubtful tenure: depending on chance:
dangerous, risky.--_adv._ PREC[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ PREC[=A]'RIOUSNESS. [L.
_precarius_--_prec[=a]ri_, to pray.]

PRECATORY, prek'a-t[=o]-ri, _adj._ relating to prayer,
supplicatory.--_adj._ PREC'ATIVE (_obs._), suppliant.

PRECAUTION, pr[=e]-kaw'shun, _n._ caution or care beforehand: a preventive
measure: something done beforehand to ward off evil or secure good.--_v.t._
to warn or advise beforehand.--_adjs._ PRECAU'TIONAL, PRECAU'TIONARY,
containing or proceeding from precaution: taking precaution. [Fr.,--L.
_præ_, before, _cav[=e]re_, to be careful.]

PRECEDE, pre-s[=e]d', _v.t._ to go before in time, rank, or
importance.--_v.i._ to be before in time, or place. [Fr. _précéder_--L.
_præced[)e]re_--_præ_, before, _ced[)e]re_, go.]

PRECEDENCE, pr[=e]-s[=e]'dens, _n._ the act of going before in time:
priority: the state of being before in rank: the place of honour: the
foremost place in ceremony--also PREC[=E]'DENCY.--_adj._ PREC[=E]'DENT,
going before in order of time: anterior.--_n._ PRECEDENT (pres'[=e]dent), a
past action which may serve as an example or rule in the future: a parallel
case in the past: an established habit or custom.--_adjs._ PREC'EDENTED,
having a precedent: warranted by an example; PRECEDEN'TIAL, of the nature
of a precedent.--_adv._ PREC[=E]'DENTLY.--_adj._ PREC[=E]'DING, going
before in time, rank, &c.: antecedent: previous: former.--ORDER OF
PRECEDENCE, the rules which fix the places of persons at a ceremony; PATENT
OF PRECEDENCE, a royal grant giving to certain barristers right of superior
rank; TAKE PRECEDENCE OF, to have a right to a more honourable place.
[Fr.,--L. _præcedens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _præced[)e]re_, to go before.]

PRECENTOR, pre-sen'tor, _n._ he that leads in music: the leader of a choir
in a cathedral, &c.: the leader of the psalmody in Scotch churches.--_n._
PRECEN'TORSHIP. [L. _præ_, before, _cantor_, a singer.]

PRECEPT, pr[=e]'sept, _n._ rule of action: a commandment: principle, or
maxim: (_law_) the written warrant of a magistrate: a mandate.--_adj._
PRECEP'TIAL (_Shak._), consisting of precepts.--_n._ PRECEP'TION (_obs._),
a precept.--_adj._ PRECEP'TIVE, containing or giving precepts: directing in
moral conduct: didactic.--_n._ PRECEP'TOR, one who delivers precepts: a
teacher: an instructor: the head of a school: the head of a preceptory of
Knights Templars:--_fem._ PRECEP'TRESS.--_adjs._ PRECEPT[=O]'RIAL;
PRECEP'TORY, giving precepts.--_n._ a religious house or college of the
Knights Templars. [Fr.,--L. _præceptum_--_præcip[)e]re_, to take
beforehand--_præ_, before, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

PRECES, pr[=e]'sez, _n.pl._ the alternate responsive petitions, as the
versicles and suffrages, between the clergyman and the congregation in
liturgical worship. [L., pl. of _prex_, a prayer.]

PRECESSION, pr[=e]-sesh'un, _n._ the act of going before: a moving
forward.--_adj._ PRECES'SIONAL.--PRECESSION OF THE EQUINOXES, a slow
backward motion of the equinoctial points along the ecliptic, caused by the
greater attraction of the sun and moon on the excess of matter at the
equator, such that the times at which the sun crosses the equator come at
shorter intervals than they would otherwise do.

PRECHRISTIAN, pr[=e]-krist'yan, _adj._ existing before the Christian era.

PRECINCT, pr[=e]'singkt, _n._ limit or boundary of a place: a district or
division within certain boundaries: limit of jurisdiction or authority. [L.
_præcinctus_, pa.p. of _præcing[)e]re_--_præ_, before, _cing[)e]re_, to
gird.]

PRECIOUS, presh'us, _adj._ of great price or worth: costly: highly
esteemed: worthless, contemptible (in irony): fastidious, overnice:
(_coll._) considerable: (_B._) valuable because rare.--_adv._ (_coll._)
extremely.--_n._ PRECIOS'ITY, fastidiousness, affected
overrefinement.--_adv._ PREC'IOUSLY.--_ns._ PREC'IOUS-MET'AL, a metal of
great value, as gold or silver; PREC'IOUSNESS; PREC'IOUS-STONE, a stone of
value and beauty for ornamentation: a gem or jewel. [O. Fr. _precios_ (Fr.
_précieux_)--L. _pretiosus_--_pretium_, price.]

PRECIPICE, pres'i-pis, _n._ a very steep place: any steep descent: a
perpendicular bank or cliff.--_adj._ PRECIP'ITOUS, like a precipice: very
steep: hasty: rash.--_adv._ PRECIP'ITOUSLY.--_n._ PRECIP'ITOUSNESS.
[Fr.,--L. _præcipitium_--_præceps_, _præcipitis_, headlong--_præ_, before,
_caput_, _capitis_, the head.]

PRECIPITATE, pr[=e]-sip'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to throw head-foremost: to urge
with eagerness: to hurry rashly: to hasten: (_chem._) to cause to fall to
the bottom, as a substance in solution or suspension.--_v.i._ to fall
headlong: to make too great haste.--_adj._ falling, flowing, or rushing
headlong: lacking deliberation: overhasty: (_med._) ending soon in
death.--_n._ (_chem._) a part of a solution, falling or causing to fall to
the bottom.--_n._ PRECIPITABIL'ITY.--_adj._ PRECIP'ITABLE (_chem._), that
may be precipitated.--_ns._ PRECIP'ITANCE, PRECIP'ITANCY, quality of being
precipitate: haste in resolving or executing a purpose.--_adj._
PRECIP'ITANT, falling headlong: rushing down with too great velocity:
hasty: unexpectedly brought on.--_n._ anything that causes part of a
solution to fall to the bottom.--_advs._ PRECIP'ITANTLY; PRECIP'IT[=A]TELY,
in a precipitate manner: headlong: without due thought.--_n._
PRECIPIT[=A]'TION, act of precipitating: great hurry: rash haste: rapid
movement: (_chem._) the process by which any substance is made to separate
from another in solution, and fall to the bottom.--_adj._
PRECIP'IT[=A]TIVE.--_n._ PRECIPIT[=A]'TOR, one who, or that which,
precipitates or causes precipitation.--PRECIPITATE OINTMENT is of two
kinds, _red_ and _white_--the former containing red oxide of mercury, the
latter ammoniated mercury. [L. _præcipit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_præceps_.]

PRÉCIS, pr[=a]-s[=e]', _n._ a precise or abridged statement: an abstract:
summary. [Fr.]

PRECISE, pr[=e]-s[=i]s', _adj._ definite: exact: not vague: just of the
right amount or measure: adhering too much to rule: excessively nice,
punctilious, prim.--_adv._ PRECISE'LY.--_ns._ PRECISE'NESS; PRECI'SIAN, an
over-precise person: a formalist: a puritan; PRECI'SIANISM; PRECI'SIANIST,
PRECI'SIONIST, a precisian; PRECI'SION, quality of being precise:
exactness: accuracy.--_v.t._ PRECI'SIONISE, to make precise.--_adj._
PREC[=I]'SIVE, cutting off: pertaining to precision. [Fr. _précis_--L.
_præcisus_, pa.p. of _præcid[)e]re_--_præ_, before, _cæd[)e]re_, to cut.]

PRECLASSICAL, pr[=e]-klas'i-kal, _adj._ previous to the classical time or
usage.

PRECLUDE, pr[=e]-klud', _v.t._ to shut out beforehand: to hinder by
anticipation: to keep back: to prevent from taking place.--_n._
PRECL[=U]'SION, act of precluding or hindering: state of being
precluded.--_adj._ PRECL[=U]'SIVE, tending to preclude: hindering
beforehand.--_adv._ PRECL[=U]'SIVELY. [L. _præclud[)e]re_,
_-clusum_--_præ_, before, _claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

PRECOCIOUS, pr[=e]-k[=o]'shus, _adj._ having the mind developed very early,
or too early: premature: forward: (_bot._) appearing before the
leaves.--_adv._ PREC[=O]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ PREC[=O]'CIOUSNESS, PRECOC'ITY,
state or quality of being precocious: too early ripeness of the mind. [L.
_præcox_, _præcocis_--_præ_, before, _coqu[)e]re_, to cook.]

PRECOGNITION, pr[=e]-kog-nish'un, _n._ cognition, knowledge, or examination
beforehand: (_Scots law_) an examination of witnesses as to whether there
is ground for prosecution.--_v.t._ PRECOGNOSCE (pr[=e]-kog-nos'), to
examine witnesses beforehand: to take a precognition.

PRECOMPOSE, pr[=e]-kom-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to compose beforehand.

PRECONCEIVE, pr[=e]-kon-s[=e]v', _v.t._ to conceive or form a notion of
before having actual knowledge.--_ns._ PRECONCEIT', a preconceived notion;
PRECONCEP'TION, act of preconceiving: previous opinion formed without
actual knowledge.

PRECONCERT, pr[=e]-kon-s[.e]rt', _v.t._ to settle beforehand.--_n._
PRECON'CERT, a previous arrangement.--_adv._ PRECONCERT'EDLY.--_n._
PRECONCERT'EDNESS.

PRECONDEMN, pr[=e]-kon-dem', _v.t._ to condemn beforehand.--_n._
PRECONDEMN[=A]'TION.

PRECONDITION, pr[=e]-kon-dish'un, _n._ a previous condition.

PRECONFORM, pr[=e]-kon-form', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to conform in
anticipation.--_n._ PRECONFOR'MITY.

PRECONISE, pr[=e]'kon-[=i]z, _v.t._ to call upon or summon publicly: to
confirm officially, of the pope.--_n._ PRECONIS[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L.
_præco_, a herald.]

PRECONSCIOUS, pr[=e]-kon'shus, _adj._ pertaining to a state prior to
consciousness.

PRECONSENT, pr[=e]-kon-sent', _n._ a previous consent.

PRECONSIGN, pr[=e]-kon-s[=i]n', _v.t._ to consign beforehand.

PRECONSTITUTE, pr[=e]-kon'sti-t[=u]t, _v.t._ to constitute beforehand.

PRECONSUME, pr[=e]-kon-s[=u]m', _v.t._ to consume beforehand.

PRECONTEMPORANEOUS, pr[=e]-kon-tem-p[=o]-r[=a]'n[=e]-us, _adj._ prior to
what is contemporaneous.

PRECONTRACT, pr[=e]-kon-trakt', _v.t._ to contract beforehand: to betroth
previously.--_n._ PRECON'TRACT, a previous contract or betrothal.

PRECONTRIVE, pr[=e]-kon-tr[=i]v', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to contrive beforehand.

PRECORDIAL, PRÆCORDIAL, pr[=e]-kor'di-al, _adj._ situated in front of the
heart.

PRECOURSE, pr[=e]-k[=o]rs', _v.t._ to announce beforehand.

PRECRITICAL, pr[=e]-krit'i-kal, _adj._ previous to the critical philosophy
of Kant.

PRECULAR, prek'[=u]-lär, _n._ a beadsman.

PRECURRENT, pr[=e]-kur'ent, _adj._ running forward: antrorse--opp. to
_Recurrent_.--_ns._ PRECURR'ER (_Shak._), a forerunner; PRECURSE'
(_Shak._), a prognostication.--_adj._ PRECUR'SIVE, anticipatory.--_n._
PRECUR'SOR, a forerunner: one who, or that which, indicates the approach of
an event.--_adj._ PRECUR'SORY, forerunning: indicating something to follow.
[L.,--_præ_, before, _cursor_--_curr[)e]re_, to run.]

PREDACEOUS, pr[=e]-d[=a]'shus, _adj._ living by prey: predatory.--_adj._
PRED'ABLE, raptorial.--_n._ PRED[=A]'CEAN, a carnivorous animal.--_adj._
PR[=E]'DAL, pertaining to prey: plundering.--_n._ PRED[=A]'TION, the act of
plundering.--_adv._ PRED'ATORILY, plunderingly.--_n._ PRED'ATORINESS,
inclination to plunder.--_adj._ PRED'ATORY, plundering: characterised by
plundering: living by plunder: ravenous. [L. _præda_, booty.]

PREDATE, pr[=e]-d[=a]t', _v.t._ to date before the true date: to date by
anticipation: to be earlier than.

PREDECEASE, pr[=e]-d[=e]-s[=e]s', _n._ decease or death before some one or
something else.--_v.t._ to die before.

PREDECESSOR, pr[=e]-d[=e]-ses'or, _n._ one who has been before another in
any office.--_v.t._ PREDECESS' (_rare_), to precede.--_adj._ PREDECES'SIVE.
[L. _præ_, before, _decessor_, a retiring officer, _deced[)e]re_,
_decessum_, to withdraw--_de_, away, _ced[)e]re_.]

PREDECLARE, pr[=e]-d[=e]-kl[=a]r', _v.t._ to declare beforehand.

PREDEFINE, pr[=e]-d[=e]-f[=i]n', _v.t._ to define beforehand.--_n._
PREDEFINI'TION.

PREDELINEATION, pr[=e]-d[=e]-lin-[=e]-[=a]'shun, _n._ the old theory which
supposed the whole body to be predelineated in little in the spermatozoon.

PREDELLA, pr[=e]-del'a, _n._ the gradino, the step or ledge sometimes seen
at the back of an altar, also the frieze along the bottom of an
altar-piece. [It.]

PREDESIGN, pr[=e]-d[=e]-z[=i]n', _v.t._ to design beforehand.--_v.t._
PREDES'IGNATE, to determine upon in advance.--_adj._ designated in advance:
(_logic_) having the quantification of the predicate distinctly expressed
(_Sir W. Hamilton_).--_n._ PREDESIGN[=A]'TION.--_adj._ PREDES'IGN[=A]TORY.

PREDESTINE, pr[=e]-des'tin, _v.t._ to destine or decree beforehand: to
foreordain.--_adj._ PREDESTIN[=A]'RIAN, pertaining to predestination.--_n._
one who holds the doctrine of predestination.--_n._
PREDESTIN[=A]'RIANISM.--_v.t._ PREDES'TINATE, to determine beforehand: to
preordain by an unchangeable purpose.--_adj._ fore-ordained: fated.--_n._
PREDESTIN[=A]'TION, act of predestinating: (_theol._) the doctrine that God
has from all eternity unalterably fixed whatever is to happen, esp. the
eternal happiness or misery of men.--_n._ PREDESTIN[=A]'TOR, one who
predestinates or foreordains: a predestinarian.

PREDETERMINE, pr[=e]-d[=e]-t[.e]r'min, _v.t._ to determine or settle
beforehand.--_adjs._ PREDETER'MINABLE, capable of being determined
beforehand; PREDETER'MIN[=A]TE, determined beforehand.--_ns._
PREDETERMIN[=A]'TION, act of predetermining, or state of being
predetermined; PREDETER'MINISM, determinism.

PREDEVOTE, pr[=e]-d[=e]-v[=o]t', _adj._ foreordained.

PREDIAL, pr[=e]'di-al, _adj._ consisting of land or farms: connected with
land: growing from land. [Fr. _prédial_--L. _prædium_, an estate.]

PREDICABLE, pred'i-ka-bl, _adj._ that may be predicated or affirmed of
something: attributable.--_n._ anything that can be predicated of another,
or esp. of many others: one of the five attributes--genus, species,
difference, property, and accident.--_n._ PREDICABIL'ITY, quality of being
predicable.

PREDICAMENT, pr[=e]-dik'a-ment, _n._ (_logic_) one of the classes or
categories which include all predicables: condition: an unfortunate or
trying position.--_adj._ PREDICAMEN'TAL. [Low L. _predicamentum_, something
predicated or asserted.]

PREDICANT, pred'i-kant, _adj._ predicating: preaching.--_n._ one who
affirms anything: a preacher, esp. a preaching-friar.

PREDICATE, pred'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to affirm one thing of another: to assert:
to base on certain grounds.--_n._ (_logic_ and _gram._) that which is
stated of the subject.--_n._ PREDIC[=A]'TION, act of predicating:
assertion: affirmation.--_adj._ PREDIC[=A]'TIVE, expressing predication or
affirmation: affirming: asserting.--_adv._ PRED'IC[=A]TIVELY.--_adj._
PRED'IC[=A]TORY, affirmative. [L. _prædic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to proclaim.]

PREDICT, pr[=e]-dikt', _v.t._ to declare or tell beforehand: to
prophesy.--_adj._ PREDIC'TABLE.--_n._ PREDIC'TION, act of predicting: that
which is predicted or foretold: prophecy.--_adj._ PREDIC'TIVE, foretelling:
prophetic.--_n._ PREDIC'TOR. [L. _prædictus_, pa.p. of
_prædic[)e]re_--_præ_, before, _dic[)e]re_, to say.]

PREDIGEST, pr[=e]-di-jest', _v.t._ to digest artificially before
introducing into the body.--_n._ PREDIGES'TION.

PREDILECTION, pr[=e]-di-lek'shun, _n._ a choosing beforehand: favourable
prepossession of mind: partiality.--_v.t._ PREDILECT', to prefer. [L.
_præ_, before, _dilectio_, _-onis_, choice--_dilig[)e]re_, _dilectum_, to
love--_dis_, apart, _leg[)e]re_, to choose.]

PREDISCOVER, pr[=e]-dis-kuv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to discover beforehand.--_n._
PREDISCOV'ERY.

PREDISPOSE, pr[=e]-dis-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to dispose or incline beforehand: to
render favourable.--_adj._ PREDISP[=O]'SING, inclining beforehand: making
liable.--_n._ PREDISPOSI'TION, state of being predisposed or previously
inclined: a state of body in which disease is easily excited.--_adj._
PREDISPOSI'TIONAL.

PREDOMINATE, pr[=e]-dom'in-[=a]t, _v.t._ to dominate or rule over.--_v.i._
to be dominant over: to surpass in strength or authority: to
prevail.--_ns._ PREDOM'INANCE, PREDOM'INANCY, condition of being
predominant: superior influence: superiority: ascendency.--_adj._
PREDOM'INANT, ruling: having superior power: ascendant.--_adv._
PREDOM'INANTLY.--_n._ PREDOMIN[=A]'TION, ascendency.--PREDOMINANT PARTNER,
the partner who has a larger stake in any business than the others--applied
by Lord Rosebery (1894) to England as a member of the United Kingdom.

PREDONE, pr[=e]-dun', _adj._ worn out, exhausted.

PREDOOM, pr[=e]-d[=oo]m', _v.t._ to doom in anticipation or beforehand.

PREDORSAL, pr[=e]-dor'sal, _adj._ situated before the dorsal region of the
spine: cervical.

PREDY, pr[=e]'di, _adj._ (_naut._) cleared for action.

PREE, pr[=e], _v.t._ (_Scot._) to prove, esp. to taste.

PRE-ELECT, pr[=e]-e-lekt', _v.t._ to elect or choose beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]-ELEC'TION, choice or election made by previous decision.

PRE-EMINENCE, pr[=e]-em'i-nens, _n._ state of being pre-eminent:
superiority in excellence: (_Shak._) prerogative.--_adj._ PR[=E]-EM'INENT,
eminent above others: surpassing others in good or bad qualities:
outstanding: extreme.--_adv._ PR[=E]-EM'INENTLY.

PRE-EMPLOY, pr[=e]-em-ploi', _v.t._ to employ beforehand.

PRE-EMPTION, pr[=e]-em'shun, _n._ act or right of purchasing before
others.--_v.t._ PR[=E]-EMPT' (_U.S._), to secure, as land, by the right of
pre-emption.--_adjs._ PR[=E]-EMPT'IBLE; PR[=E]-EMPT'IVE.--_n._
PR[=E]-EMPT'OR. [L. _præ_, before, _emptio_, a buying--_em[)e]re_, to buy.]

PREEN, pr[=e]n, _v.t._ to compose and arrange as birds do their feathers.
[_Prune_ (v.).]

PREEN, pr[=e]n, _n._ (_Scot._) a pin.--_v.t._ to fasten. [A.S. _preón_, a
pin.]

PRE-ENGAGE, pr[=e]-en-g[=a]j', _v.t._ to establish beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]-ENGAGE'MENT.

PRE-ESTABLISH, pr[=e]-es-tab'lish, _v.t._ to establish beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]-ESTAB'LISHMENT.--PRE-ESTABLISHED HARMONY (see HARMONY).

PREEVE, pr[=e]v, _n._ and _v.t._ obs. form of _proof_ and _prove_.

PRE-EXAMINATION, pr[=e]-egz-am-i-n[=a]'shun, _n._ previous
examination.--_v.t._ PR[=E]-EXAM'INE.

PRE-EXILIC, pr[=e]-eg-zil'ik, _adj._ before the exile--of O.T. writings
prior to the Jewish exile (_c._ 586-537 B.C.).

PRE-EXIST, pr[=e]-egz-ist', _v.i._ to exist beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]-EXIST'ENCE, the existence of the soul in a previous state, before
the generation of the body with which it is united in this world.--_adj._
PR[=E]-EXIST'ENT, existent or existing beforehand.

PREFACE, pref'[=a]s, _n._ something usually of an explanatory kind, spoken
before: the introduction to a book, &c.: the ascription of glory, &c., in
the liturgy of consecration of the eucharist: a title or epithet.--_v.t._
to introduce with a preface.--_adj._ PREFAT[=O]'RIAL, serving as a preface
or introduction.--_adv._ PREF'ATORILY.--_adj._ PREF'ATORY, pertaining to a
preface: serving as an introduction: introductory. [Fr. _préface_--L.
_præfatio_--_præ_, before, _f[=a]ri_, _fatus_, to speak.]

PREFECT, pr[=e]'fekt, _n._ one placed in authority over others: a
commander: the administrative head of a modern French department.--_ns._
PR[=E]'FECTSHIP, his office or jurisdiction; PR[=E]'FECTURE, the office or
district of a prefect: the house occupied by a prefect. [Fr. _préfet_--L.
_præfectus_, pa.p. of _præfic[)e]re_--_præ_, over, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PREFER, pr[=e]-f[.e]r', _v.t._ to esteem above another: to regard or hold
in higher estimation: to choose or select before others: to promote: to
exalt: to offer or present, as a request: to bring forward for
consideration: to place in advance:--_pr.p._ prefer'ring; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ preferred'.--_ns._ PREFERABIL'ITY, PREF'ERABLENESS.--_adj._
PREF'ERABLE, worthy to be preferred or chosen: more desirable or excellent:
of better quality.--_adv._ PREF'ERABLY, by choice: in preference.--_n._
PREF'ERENCE, the act of preferring: estimation above another: the state of
being preferred: that which is preferred: choice.--_adj._ PREFERENTIAL
(pref-[.e]r-en'shal), having a preference.--_adv._ PREFEREN'TIALLY.--_ns._
PREFER'MENT, the act of preferring: the state of being preferred or
advanced: advancement to a higher position: promotion: superior place, esp.
in the church; PREFER'RER, one who prefers.--PREFERENCE SHARES, or STOCK,
shares or stock on which the dividends must be paid before those on other
kinds. [Fr. _préférer_--L. _præferre_--_præ_, before, _ferre_, to bear.]

PREFIGURE, pr[=e]-fig'[=u]r, _v.t._ to represent beforehand: to suggest by
former types or figures.--_ns._ PREFIGUR[=A]'TION, PREFIG'UREMENT.--_adj._
PREFIG'UR[=A]TIVE, showing by previous figures, types, or similitudes.

PREFIX, pr[=e]-fiks', _v.t._ to put before, or at the beginning: to fix
beforehand.--_ns._ PR[=E]'FIX, a letter, syllable, or word put before
another word to affect its meaning; PREFIX'ION, act of prefixing.

PREFORM, pr[=e]-form', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to form beforehand: to determine
the shape of beforehand.--_n._ PREFORM[=A]'TION.--_adj._ PREFOR'MATIVE.

PREFRONTAL, pr[=e]-fron'tal, _adj._ pertaining to the forepart of the
forehead.--_n._ a bone of this region.

PREFULGENCY, pr[=e]-ful'jen-si, _n._ superior brightness.

PREGLACIAL, pr[=e]-gl[=a]'shal, _adj._ (_geol._) prior to the glacial or
drift period.

PREGNABLE, preg'na-bl, _adj._ that may be taken by assault or force. [Fr.
_prenable_--_prendre_, to take--L. _prehend[)e]re_.]

PREGNANT, preg'nant, _adj._ being with child or young: fruitful: abounding
with results: full of meaning: implying more than is actually expressed:
ready-witted: clever: ingenious: full of promise: free: evident:
clear.--_n._ PREG'NANCY, state of being pregnant: fertility: unusual
capacity.--_adv._ PREG'NANTLY. [O. Fr.--L. _prægnans_, _-antis_.]

PREHALLUX, pr[=e]-hal'uks, _n._ a cartilaginous spur on the inner side of
the foot in some batrachians.

PREHENSILE, pr[=e]-hen'sil, _adj._ seizing: adapted for seizing or
holding--also PREHEN'SORY.--_adj._ PREHEN'SIBLE, that may be seized.--_ns._
PREHEN'SION, act of seizing or taking hold; PREHEN'SOR, one who takes hold.
[L. _pre-hend[)e]re_, _-hensum_, to seize.]

PREHISTORIC, pr[=e]-his-tor'ik, _adj._ relating to a time before that
treated of in history.--_n._ PR[=E]HIS'TORY, history prior to record--the
Ger. _Urgeschichte_.

PREHNITE, pren'[=i]t, _n._ a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime, usually
of a pale-green colour. [Named after _Prehn_, the discoverer of the
mineral.]

PREIGNAC, pr[=a]-nyak', _n._ an esteemed white wine of Bordeaux. [From
_Preignac_ in the Gironde.]

PRE-INSTRUCT, pr[=e]-in-strukt', _v.t._ to instruct beforehand.

PRE-INTIMATION, pr[=e]-in-ti-m[=a]'shun, _n._ an intimation or suggestion
made beforehand.

PREJINK, pr[=e]-jingk', _adj._ (_Scot._) tricked out with dress.--Also
PERJINK'.

PREJUDGE, pr[=e]-juj', _v.t._ to judge or decide upon before hearing the
whole case: to condemn unheard.--_n._ PREJUDG'MENT.--_adj._ PREJUDICAL
(pre-j[=oo]'di-kal), pertaining to the determination of some undecided
matter.--_v.t._ PREJUDIC[=A]TE (-j[=oo]d'-), to judge beforehand: to
prejudge.--_v.i._ to decide without examination.--_n._ PREJUDIC[=A]'TION
(-j[=oo]d-).--_adj._ PREJUDIC[=A]TIVE (-j[=oo]d'-), forming a judgment or
opinion beforehand. [L. _præjudic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_præ_, before,
_judic[=a]re_, to judge.]

PREJUDICE, prej'[=u]-dis, _n._ a judgment or opinion formed beforehand or
without due examination: a prejudgment: unreasonable prepossession for or
against anything: bias: injury or wrong of any kind: disadvantage:
mischief.--_v.t._ to fill with prejudice: to cause a prejudice against: to
prepossess: to bias the mind of: to injure or hurt.--_adj._ PREJUDI'CIAL,
causing prejudice or injury: disadvantageous: injurious: mischievous:
tending to obstruct.--_adv._ PREJUDI'CIALLY.--_n._ PREJUDI'CIALNESS. [O.
Fr.,--L. _præjudicium_--_præ_, before, _judicium_, judgment.]

PREKNOWLEDGE, pr[=e]-nol'ej, _n._ prior knowledge.

PRELATE, prel'[=a]t, _n._ the holder of one of those higher dignities in
the church to which, of their own right, is attached a proper jurisdiction,
not derived by delegation from any superior official: a church
dignitary.--_ns._ PREL'ACY, the office of a prelate: the order of bishops
or the bishops collectively: church government by prelates: episcopacy;
PREL'ATESHIP.--_adjs._ PRELAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to prelates or
prelacy.--_adv._ PRELAT'ICALLY.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ PREL'ATISE, to make or
to become prelatical.--_ns._ PREL'ATISM, PREL'ATURE, prelacy: the time
during which a prelate exercises authority; PREL'ATIST, an upholder of
prelacy. [Fr. _prélat_--L. _prelatus_--_præ_, before, _latus_, borne.]

PRELECT, pr[=e]-lekt', _v.i._ to read before or in presence of others: to
read a discourse: to lecture.--_ns._ PRELEC'TION, a lecture or discourse
read to others; PRELEC'TOR, one who prelects: a lecturer. [L.
_præleg[)e]re_--_præ_, before, _leg[)e]re_, _lectum_, to read.]

PRELIBATION, pr[=e]-l[=i]-b[=a]'shun, _n._ a tasting beforehand, foretaste.
[L. _prælibatio_--_præ_, before, _lib[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to taste.]

PRELIMINARY, pr[=e]-lim'in-ar-i, _adj._ introductory: preparatory:
preceding or preparing for the main discourse or business.--_n._ that which
precedes: introduction--used mostly in _pl._--_adv._ PRELIM'INARILY. [L.
_præ_, before, _liminaris_, relating to a threshold--_limen_, _liminis_, a
threshold.]

PRELINGUAL, pr[=e]-ling'gwal, _adj._ prior to language.

PRELUDE, pr[=e]-l[=u]d', or prel'[=u]d, _n._ the introductory movement of a
musical work: a prefatory piece to an oratorio, &c.: an organ voluntary
before a church service: a preface: a forerunner.--_v.t._ PRELUDE', to play
before: to preface, as an introduction.--_v.i._ to perform a prelude: to
serve as a prelude.--_adjs._ PREL[=U]'DIAL and PREL[=U]'DIOUS (_rare_);
PREL[=U]'SIVE, of the nature of a prelude: introductory.--_advs._
PREL[=U]'SIVELY; PREL[=U]'SORILY.--_adj._ PREL[=U]'SORY, introductory.
[Fr.,--Late L. _præludium_--L. _præ_, before, _lud[)e]re_, to play.]

PREMANDIBULAR, pr[=e]-man-dib'[=u]-lar, _adj._ in front of the lower jaw,
as a bone of some reptiles.

PREMATURE, pr[=e]-ma-t[=u]r', _adj._ mature before the proper time:
happening before the proper time: too soon believed: unauthenticated (as a
report).--_adv._ PR[=E]MAT[=U]RE'LY.--_ns._ PREMAT[=U]R'ITY,
PR[=E]MAT[=U]RE'NESS. [L. _præmaturus_--_præ_, before, _maturus_, ripe.]

PREMAXILLARY, pr[=e]-mak'si-l[=a]-ri, _adj._ in front of the maxilla.--_n._
such a bone.

PREMEDITATE, pr[=e]-med'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to meditate upon beforehand: to
design previously.--_v.i._ to deliberate beforehand.--_adv._
PREMED'IT[=A]TEDLY.--_n._ PREMEDIT[=A]'TION.--_adj._ PREMED'IT[=A]TIVE.
[L., _præmedit[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_præ_, before, _medit[=a]ri_, to
meditate.]

PREMIER, pr[=e]'mi-[.e]r, _adj._ prime or first: chief: (_her._) most
ancient.--_n._ the first or chief: the prime-minister.--_v.i._ to govern as
premier.--_adj._ and _n._ PREMIÈRE (pre-my[=a]r'), first or leading
actress, dancer, forewoman, &c.--_n._ PR[=E]'MIERSHIP. [Fr.,--L.
_primarius_, of the first rank--_primus_, first.]

PREMILLENNIAL, pr[=e]-mi-len'i-al, _adj._ of or pertaining to the times
before the millennium--also PREMILLEN[=A]'RIAN.--_n._ one who believes in
the premillennial advent of Christ.--_ns._ PREMILLEN[=A]'RIANISM;
PREMILLENN'IALISM.

PREMISE, PREMISS, prem'is, _n._ that which is premised or stated at the
outset: a proposition previously stated or proved for after-reasoning:
(_logic_) one of the two propositions in a syllogism from which the
conclusion is drawn: the thing set forth in the beginning of a
deed.--_n.pl._ PREM'ISES, a building and its adjuncts.

PREMISE, pr[=e]-m[=i]z', _v.t._ to send or state before the rest: to make
an introduction: to lay down propositions for subsequent reasonings.
[Fr.,--L. (_sententia_) _præmissa_, (a sentence) put before--_præ_, before,
_mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send.]

PREMIUM, pr[=e]'mi-um, _n._ a reward: a prize: a bounty: payment made for
insurance: the difference in value above the original price or par of
stock--opp. to _Discount_: anything offered as an incentive.--_adjs._
PR[=E]'MIAL, PR[=E]'MIANT.--_v.t._ PR[=E]'MIATE, to reward with a
premium.--AT A PREMIUM, above par (see PAR). [L. _præmium_--_præ_, above,
_em[)e]re_, to buy.]

PREMOLAR, pr[=e]-m[=o]'lar, _adj._ before a molar, in place or time,
deciduous.--_n._ a milk-molar.

PREMONISH, pr[=e]-mon'ish, _v.t._ to admonish or warn beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]MONI'TION, a warning or sign (often a feeling) of what is going to
happen.--_adjs._ PR[=E]MON'ITIVE, PR[=E]MON'ITORY, giving warning or notice
beforehand.--_n._ PR[=E]MON'ITOR, one who, or that which, gives warning
beforehand.--_adv._ PR[=E]MON'ITORILY. [_Pre-_, before, _monish_, a corr.
form through O. Fr., from L. _mon[=e]re_, to warn.]

PREMONSTRANT, pr[=e]-mon'strant, _n._ a member of an order of regular
canons founded by St Norbert, in 1119, at a place in the forest of Coucy
(near Laon in the dep. of Aisne), pointed out in a vision, and thence
called Prémontré (L. _Pratum monstratum_=the meadow pointed out)--called
also Norbertines, and in England, from their habit, White Canons.--Also
PREMONSTRATEN'SIAN (_n._ and _adj._).

PREMORSE, pr[=e]-mors', _adj._ ending abruptly, as if bitten off. [L.
_præmord[=e]re_, _præmorsum_, to bite in front.]

PREMOSAIC, pr[=e]-m[=o]-z[=a]'ik, _adj._ before the time of _Moses_.

PREMOTION, pr[=e]-m[=o]'shun, _n._ previous motion.

PRENASAL, pr[=e]-n[=a]'sal, _adj._ in front of the nasal passages.

PRENATAL, pr[=e]-n[=a]'tal, _adj._ previous to birth.

PRENOMINATE, pr[=e]-nom'in-[=a]t, _p.adj._ (_Shak._) forenamed.

PRENOTION, pr[=e]-n[=o]'shun, _n._ preconception.

PRENTICE, pren'tis, _n._ Short for _apprentice_.

PREOCCIPITAL, pr[=e]-ok-sip'i-tal, _adj._ situated before the occipital
region or lobe.

PREOCCUPY, pr[=e]-ok'[=u]-p[=i], _v.t._ to occupy or take possession of
beforehand: to fill beforehand or with prejudices.--_ns._ PR[=E]OC'CUPANCY,
the act or the right of occupying beforehand; PR[=E]OC'CUPANT, a prior
occupant.--_v.t._ PR[=E]OC'CUP[=A]TE (_Bacon_), to occupy before
others.--_n._ PR[=E]OCCUP[=A]'TION.--_adj._ PR[=E]OC'CUPIED, already
occupied: lost in thought, abstracted.

PREOPTION, pr[=e]-op'shun, _n._ the right of first choice.

PREORAL, pr[=e]-[=o]'ral, _adj._ situated in front of the mouth.--_adv._
PRE[=O]'RALLY.

PREORDAIN, pr[=e]-or-d[=a]n', _v.t._ to ordain, appoint, or determine
beforehand.--_n._ PREORDIN[=A]'TION.

PREORDER, pr[=e]-or'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to arrange beforehand.--_n._
PREOR'DINANCE, a rule previously established.

PREPAID, pr[=e]-p[=a]d', _adj._ paid beforehand.

PREPARATION, prep-a-r[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of preparing: previous
arrangement: the state of being prepared or ready: that which is prepared
or made ready: (_anat._) a part of any animal body preserved as a specimen:
the day before the Sabbath or other Jewish feast-day: devotional exercises
introducing an office: (_mus._) the previous introduction, as an integral
part of a chord, of a note continued into a succeeding dissonance.--_adj._
PR[=E]PAR'ATIVE, having the power of preparing or making ready: fitting for
anything.--_n._ that which prepares the way: preparation.--_adv._
PR[=E]PAR'ATIVELY, by way of preparation.--_adj._ PR[=E]PAR'ATORY,
preparing for something coming: previous: introductory. [Fr.,--L.]

PREPARE, pr[=e]-p[=a]r', _v.t._ to make ready beforehand: to fit for any
purpose: to make ready for use: to adapt: to form: to set or appoint: to
provide: to equip.--_v.i._ to get one's self ready: to put everything in
proper order: to lead up to.--_n._ (_Shak._) preparation.--_adj._
PREPARED', made ready, fit, or suitable: ready.--_adv._
PREP[=A]'REDLY.--_ns._ PREP[=A]'REDNESS; PREP[=A]'RER. [Fr.,--L.
_præpar[=a]re_--_præ_, before, _par[=a]re_, to make ready.]

PREPAY, pr[=e]-p[=a]', _v.t._ to pay before or in advance.--_n._
PREPAY'MENT.

PREPENSE, pr[=e]-pens', _adj._ premeditated: intentional, chiefly in the
phrase 'malice prepense'=malice aforethought or intentional--(_obs._)
PREPEN'SIVE.--_v.t._ (_Spens._) to consider or deliberate
beforehand.--_adv._ PREPENSE'LY, intentionally. [Fr.,--L. _præ_, before,
_pens[=a]re_--_pend[)e]re_, _pensum_, to weigh.]

PREPOLLENCE, pr[=e]-pol'ens, _n._ prevalence--also PREPOLL'ENCY.--_adj._
PREPOLL'ENT.

PREPONDERATE, pr[=e]-pon'd[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to outweigh: to incline to
one side: to exceed in power or influence.--_ns._ PREPON'DERANCE,
PREPON'DERANCY, PREPONDER[=A]'TION, power or state of outweighing: excess
of weight, number, or quantity: predominance.--_adj._ PREPON'DERANT,
outweighing: superior in weight, power, or influence.--_advs._
PREPON'DERANTLY, PREPONDER[=A]'TINGLY. [L. _præ_, before, _ponder[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to weigh--_pondus_, a weight.]

PREPOSITION, prep-[=o]-zish'un, _n._ a word placed before a noun or pronoun
to show its relation to some other word of the sentence.--_adj._
PREPOSI'TIONAL.--_adv._ PREPOSI'TIONALLY.--_adj._ PREPOSI'TIVE, put before:
prefixed.--_n._ a word or particle put before another word--opp. to
_Post-positive_.--_n._ PREPOS'ITOR, a school-monitor. [Fr.,--L.
_præpositio_--_præ_, before, _pon[)e]re_, _positum_, to place.]

PREPOSSESS, pr[=e]-poz-zes', _v.t._ to possess beforehand: to fill
beforehand, as the mind with some opinion: to bias or prejudice.--_adj._
PREPOSSESS'ING, tending to prepossess in one's favour: making a favourable
impression.--_adv._ PREPOSSESS'INGLY.--_n._ PREPOSSES'SION, previous
possession: impression formed beforehand, usually a favourable one.

PREPOSTEROUS, pr[=e]-pos't[.e]r-us, _adj._ contrary to nature or reason:
wrong: absurd: foolish.--_adv._ PREPOS'TEROUSLY.--_n._ PREPOS'TEROUSNESS,
unreasonableness. [L. _præposterus_--_præ_, before, _posterus_,
after--_post_, after.]

PREPOTENT, pr[=e]-p[=o]'tent, _adj._ powerful in a very high degree:
excelling others in influence or authority.--_ns._ PREP[=O]'TENCE,
PREP[=O]'TENCY.--_adj._ PREPOTEN'TIAL.

PREPUCE, pr[=e]'p[=u]s, _n._ the loose skin of the penis covering the
glans: the foreskin.--_adj._ PREP[=U]'TIAL. [L. _præputium_.]

PREPUNCTUAL, pr[=e]-pungk't[=u]-al, _adj._ excessively prompt.--_n._
PREPUNCTUAL'ITY.

PRERAPHAELITISM, pr[=e]-raf'[=a]-el-[=i]-tizm, _n._ a style of painting
begun in 1847-49 by D. G. Rossetti, W. Holman Hunt, J. E. Millais, and
others in imitation of the painters who lived before _Raphael_ (1483-1523),
and characterised by a truthful, almost rigid, adherence to natural forms
and effects--also PRERAPH'AELISM.--_adj._ PRERAPH'AELITE, pertaining to, or
resembling, the style of art before the time of Raphael--also _n._--_adj._
PRERAPH'AELITISH.

PREREMOTE, pr[=e]-r[=e]-m[=o]t', _adj._ more remote in previous time or
order.

PREREQUISITE, pr[=e]-rek'wi-zit, _n._ something previously necessary:
something needed in order to gain an end.--_adj._ required as a condition
of something else.

PREROGATIVE, pr[=e]-rog'a-tiv, _n._ a peculiar privilege shared by no
other: a right arising out of one's rank, position, or nature.--_adj._
arising out of, or held by, prerogative.--_v.t._ to endow with a
prerogative.--_adj._ PREROG'ATIVED (_Shak._), having a prerogative or
exclusive privilege.--_adv._ PREROG'ATIVELY, by prerogative or exclusive
privilege.--PREROGATIVE COURT, formerly a court having jurisdiction over
testamentary matters.--ROYAL PREROGATIVE, the rights which a sovereign has
by right of office, which are different in different countries. [Fr.,--L.
_prærogativus_, that is asked before others for his opinion or vote--_præ_,
before, _rog[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to ask.]

PRESAGE, pr[=e]s'[=a]j, _n._ something that gives warning of a future
event: a foreboding: a presentiment.--_v.t._ PR[=E]SAGE', to forebode: to
warn of something to come: to predict.--_v.i._ to have a presentiment
of.--_adj._ PRESAGE'FUL.--_ns._ PRESAGE'MENT, the act of presaging: that
which is presaged: prediction; PRESAG'ER. [Fr. _présage_--L.
_præsagium_--_præsag[=i]re_--_præ_, before, _sag[=i]re_, to perceive
quickly.]

PRESANCTIFY, pr[=e]-sangk'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to consecrate beforehand.

PRESARTORIAL, pr[=e]-sär-t[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ before the age of tailoring.
[L. _sartor_--_sarc[=i]re_, to patch.]

PRESBYOPIA, pres-bi-[=o]'pi-a, _n._ long-sightedness, together with
diminished power of distinguishing things near, common in old age--also
PRES'BYOPY.--_n._ PRES'BYOPE, one so affected.--_adj._ PRESBYOP'IC.--_n._
PRES'BYTE, one affected with presbyopia. [Gr. _presbys_, old, _[=o]ps_,
_[=o]pos_, the eye.]

PRESBYTER, prez'bi-t[.e]r, _n._ an elder, a priest: a minister or priest in
rank between a bishop and a deacon: a member of a presbytery.--_adjs._
PRESBYT'ERAL, PRESBYT[=E]'RIAL, PRESBYT[=E]'RIAN, pertaining to, or
consisting of, presbyters: pertaining to Presbytery or that form of church
government in which all the clergy or presbyters are equal--opp. to
_Episcopacy_.--_n._ PRESBYT'ER[=A]TE, the office of a presbyter: a
presbytery.--_adv._ PRESBYT[=E]'RIALLY.--_ns._ PRESBYT[=E]'RIAN;
PRESBYT[=E]'RIANISM, the form of church government by presbyters;
PRES'BYTERSHIP; PRES'BYTERY, a church court ranking between the
Kirk-session and the Synod, consisting of the ministers and one elder, a
layman, from each church within a certain district: that part of the church
reserved for the officiating priests: (_R.C._) a clergyman's
house.--REFORMED PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, a religious body in Scotland, called
also _Cameronians_, who remained separate from the Church of Scotland and
maintained the perpetual obligation of the Covenants--the greater part
joined the Free Church in 1876; UNITED PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, a religious
body formed by the union of the Secession and Relief Churches in
1847--itself uniting with the Free Church in 1900. [L.,--Gr. _presbyteros_,
comp. of _presbys_, old.]

PRESCIENCE, pr[=e]'shi-ens, _n._ knowledge of events beforehand:
foresight.--_adj._ PR[=E]'SCIENT, knowing things beforehand.--_adv._
PR[=E]'SCIENTLY. [L. _præsciens_, pr.p. of _præsc[=i]re_--_præ_, before,
_sc[=i]re_, to know.]

PRESCIENTIFIC, pr[=e]-s[=i]-en-tif'ik, _adj._ before the scientific age,
before knowledge was systematised.

PRESCIND, pr[=e]-sind', _v.t._ to abstract from other facts or
ideas.--_v.i._ to withdraw the attention (_from_).--_adj._
PR[=E]SCIN'DENT.--_n._ PR[=E]SCIS'SION.

PRESCRIBE, pr[=e]-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to lay down as a rule or direction: to
give as an order: to appoint: (_med._) to give directions for, as a remedy:
to render useless or invalid through lapse of time.--_v.i._ to lay down
rules: to claim on account of long possession: to become of no force
through time.--_ns._ PR[=E]SCRIB'ER; PR[=E]'SCRIPT, something prescribed:
direction: model prescribed; PR[=E]SCRIPTIBIL'ITY.--_adj._
PR[=E]SCRIP'TIBLE, that may be prescribed.--_n._ PR[=E]SCRIP'TION, act of
prescribing or directing: (_med._) a written direction for the preparation
of a medicine: a recipe: (_law_) custom continued until it becomes a right
or has the force of law.--_adj._ PR[=E]SCRIP'TIVE, consisting in, or
acquired by, custom or long-continued use: customary.--PRESCRIPTIVE TITLE,
a title established by right of prescription. [L. _præscrib[)e]re_,
_-scriptum_--_præ_, before, _scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

PRESEE, pr[=e]-s[=e]', _v.t._ to foresee.

PRESENCE, prez'ens, _n._ state of being present--opp. of Absence: situation
near or within sight, &c., companionship: approach face to face: nearness
to the person of a superior: an assembly of great persons: mien: personal
appearance: an apparition: calmness, readiness, as of mind: (_Shak._) a
presence-chamber.--_ns._ PRES'ENCE-CHAM'BER, -ROOM, the chamber or room in
which a great personage receives company.--_adj._ PRES'ENT, being in a
certain place--opp. to _Absent_: now under view or consideration: being at
this time: not past or future: ready at hand: attentive: not absent-minded:
(_gram._) denoting time just now, or making a general statement.--_n._
present time or business: (_pl._) the writing of a letter, or a deed of any
kind as actually shown at any time: any deed or writing.--_adj._
PR[=E]SEN'TIAL, having or implying actual presence.--_n._
PR[=E]SENTIAL'ITY.--_adv._ PR[=E]SEN'TIALLY.--_n._ PRES'ENTNESS, state of
being present.--PRESENCE OF MIND, a state of mind which enables a person to
speak or act with calmness and promptness in circumstances of great and
sudden difficulties.--AT PRESENT, at the present time, now; REAL PRESENCE,
a doctrine or belief that the body and blood of Christ are really and
substantially present in the eucharist; THE PRESENT, the present time. [O.
Fr.,--L. _præsentia_--_præsens_, _-sentis_--_præ_, before, _sens_, being.]

PRESENT, pr[=e]-zent', _v.t._ to set before, to introduce into the presence
of: to exhibit to view: to offer as a gift: to put into the possession of
another: to make a gift of: to appoint to a benefice: to lay before for
consideration: to point, as a gun before firing.--_n._ PRES'ENT, that which
is presented or given, a gift.--_adj._ PR[=E]SENT'ABLE, fit to be
presented: capable of being presented to a church living.--_n._
PRESENT[=A]'TION, act of presenting: a setting forth, as of a truth:
representation: the act or the right of presenting to a benefice: the
appearance of a particular part of the fetus at the superior pelvic strait
during labour.--_adj._ PRESENT'ATIVE, having the right of presentation:
pertaining to immediate cognition.--_ns._ PRESENT[=EE]', one who is
presented to a benefice; PR[=E]SENT'ER.--_adj._ PR[=E]SENT'IVE,
presentative, non-symbolic (of words).--_n._ PR[=E]SENT'IVENESS.--_adv._
PRES'ENTLY, after a little, by-and-by, shortly: (_arch._) without delay, at
once.--_n._ PRESENT'MENT, act of presenting: the thing presented or
represented: (_law_) notice taken of an offence by a grand-jury from their
own knowledge or observation: accusation presented to a court by a
grand-jury.--PRESENT ARMS, to bring the gun or rifle to a perpendicular
position in front of the body, as a token of respect to a superior officer.
[Fr.,--L. _præsent[=a]re_--_præsens_.]

PRESENTIENT, pr[=e]-sen'shi-ent, _adj._ perceiving beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]SEN'SION.

PRESENTIMENT, pr[=e]-sen'ti-ment, _n._ a sentiment or feeling beforehand:
previous opinion: an impression as of something unpleasant soon to happen.
[O. Fr.,--L. _præsent[=i]re_.]

PRESENTOIR, prez-en-twor', _n._ a tray or salver: a Japanese lacquered
stand for a bowl. [Fr.]

PRESERVE, pr[=e]-z[.e]rv', _v.t._ to keep safe from harm or injury: to
defend: to keep in a sound state: to season for preservation: to make
lasting: to keep up, as appearances.--_n._ that which is preserved, as
fruit, &c.: that which preserves: a place for the protection of animals, as
game: (_pl._) spectacles to protect the eyes from strong light, &c.--_n._
PR[=E]SERVABIL'ITY.--_adj._ PR[=E]SER'VABLE.--_n._ PR[=E]SERV[=A]'TION, act
of preserving or keeping safe: state of being preserved: safety.--_adjs._
PR[=E]SER'VATIVE, PR[=E]SER'VATORY, tending to preserve: having the quality
of preserving.--_n._ that which preserves: a preventive of injury or
decay.--_n._ PR[=E]SERV'ER. [Fr. _préserver_--L. _præ_, beforehand,
_serv[=a]re_, to preserve.]

PRESES, pr[=e]'s[=e]z, _n._ (_Scot._) a president or chairman.

PRESIDE, pr[=e]-z[=i]d', _v.i._ to direct or control, esp. at a meeting: to
superintend.--_ns._ PRES'IDENCY, the office of a president, or his dignity,
term of office, jurisdiction, or residence: a division of British India, as
the _Presidency_ of Bengal; PRES'IDENT, one who presides over a meeting: a
chairman: the chief officer of a college, institution, &c.: an officer
elected from time to time, as chief ruler of a republic--also _adj._
(_Milt._).--_n.fem._ PRES'IDENTESS.--_adj._ PRESIDEN'TIAL, presiding over:
pertaining to a president.--_n._ PRES'IDENTSHIP.--LORD PRESIDENT, the
presiding judge of the Court of Session in Scotland; LORD PRESIDENT OF THE
COUNCIL, a member of the House of Lords who presides over the privy
council, with especial charge of education, sanitation, &c. [Fr.
_présider_--L. _præsid[=e]re_--_præ_, before, _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

PRESIDIAL, pr[=e]-sid'i-al, _adj._ pertaining to a garrison.--_adj._ and
_n._ PR[=E]SID'IARY.--_n._ PR[=E]SID'IO (_Sp. Amer._), a military post: a
penitentiary.

PRESIGNIFY, pr[=e]-sig'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ to signify beforehand.--_n._
PR[=E]SIGNIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of showing beforehand.

PRESS, pres, _v.t._ to push on or against with a heavy weight or with great
force: to squeeze out, as juice: to clasp or embrace: to bear heavily on:
to distress: to urge strongly: to present to the mind with earnestness: to
lay stress upon: to hurry on with great speed: to shape or smooth by the
application of weight.--_v.i._ to exert pressure: to push with force: to
crowd: to go forward with violence: to urge with vehemence and importunity:
to exert a strong influence.--_n._ PRESS'ER.--_adj._ PRESS'ING, urgent:
importunate: forcible.--_adv._ PRESS'INGLY.--_n._ PRES'SION. [Fr.
_presser_--L. _press[=a]re_--_prem[)e]re_, _pressum_, to squeeze.]

PRESS, pres, _n._ an instrument for squeezing bodies: a printing-machine:
the art or business of printing and publishing: act of urging forward:
urgency: strong demand: a crowd: a closet for holding articles.--_ns._
PRESS'-BED, a bed enclosed in a cupboard, or folding up into it; PRESS'FAT
(_B._), the vat of an olive or wine press for collecting the liquor;
PRESS'MAN, one who works a printing-press: a journalist or reporter: a
member of a pressgang; PRESS'MARK, a mark upon a book to show its place
among others in a library; PRESS'-ROOM, a room where printing-presses are
worked; PRESS'-WORK, the operation of taking impressions from type or
plates by means of the printing-press.--PRESS OF SAIL, as much sail as can
be carried.--BRAHMAH PRESS, a hydraulic press called after Mr _Brahmah_,
its inventor; CYLINDER PRESS, a printing-press in which the types are laid
on a cylinder which revolves, instead of on a flat surface; HYDRAULIC PRESS
(see HYDRAULIC); LIBERTY OF THE PRESS, the right of publishing books, &c.,
without submitting them to a government authority for permission; THE
PRESS, the literature of a country, esp. its newspapers.

PRESS, pres, _v.t._ to carry men off by violence to become soldiers or
sailors.--_ns._ PRESS'GANG, a gang or body of sailors under an officer
empowered to impress men into the navy; PRESS'-MON'EY (for _prest-money_),
earnest-money. [Corr. from old form _prest_, from O. Fr. _prester_ (Fr.
_prêter_), to lend--_præst[=a]re_, to offer--_præ_, before, _st[=a]re_, to
stand.]

PRESSIROSTER, pres-si-ros't[.e]r, _n._ one of a tribe of wading birds, the
PRESSIROS'TRES, having a flattened beak.--_adj._ PRESSIROS'TRAL. [L.
_pressus_, pa.p. of _prem[)e]re_, to press, _rostrum_, a beak.]

PRESSURE, presh'[=u]r, _n._ act of pressing or squeezing: the state of
being pressed: impulse: constraining force or influence: that which presses
or afflicts: difficulties: urgency: strong demand: (_physics_) the action
of force on something resisting it.--CENTRE OF PRESSURE (see CENTRE). [O.
Fr.,--L. _pressura_--_prem[)e]re_, to press.]

PREST, prest, _adj._ ready: neat: at hand.--_n._ ready-money: a
loan.--_v.t._ to pay out: to lend. [L. _præsto_, ready.]

PRESTER JOHN, pres't[.e]r jon, _n._ the name applied by medieval credulity
(12th-14th cent.) to the supposed Christian sovereign of a vast empire in
Central Asia. [O. Fr. _prester_ (Fr. _prêtre_), priest.]

PRESTIDIGITATION, pres-ti-dij-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ sleight of hand--also
PRESTIG'I[=A]TION.--_adj._ PRESTIDIG'ITAL.--_ns._ PRESTIDIG'IT[=A]TOR,
PRESTIG'I[=A]TOR, one who practises sleight of hand.

PRESTIGE, pres-t[=e]zh', or pres'tij, _n._ influence arising from past
conduct or from reputation. [Fr.,--L. _præstigium_,
delusion--_præstingu[)e]re_, to deceive.]

PRESTO, pres'to, _adv._ quick: at once: (_mus._) quickly, quicker than
_allegro_:--_superl._ PRESTIS'SIMO. [It.,--L. _præsto_, ready.]

PRESTRICTION, pr[=e]-strik'shun, _n._ blindness. [L. _præstring[)e]re_,
_præstrictum_, to draw tight.]

PRESTUDY, pr[=e]-stud'i, _v.t._ to study beforehand.

PRESULTOR, pr[=e]-sul'tor, _n._ a leader of a dance.

PRESUME, pr[=e]-z[=u]m', _v.t._ to take as true without examination or
proof: to take for granted.--_v.i._ to venture beyond what one has ground
for: to act forwardly or without proper right.--_adj._ PRES[=U]M'ABLE, that
may be presumed or supposed to be true.--_adv._ PRES[=U]M'ABLY.--_adj._
PRES[=U]M'ING, venturing without permission: unreasonably bold.--_adv._
PRES[=U]M'INGLY.--_n._ PRESUMP'TION, act of presuming: supposition: strong
probability: that which is taken for granted: confidence grounded on
something not proved: conduct going beyond proper bounds: (_law_) an
assuming of the truth of certain facts from the existence of others having
some connection with them.--_adj._ PRESUMP'TIVE, presuming: grounded on
probable evidence: (_law_) proving circumstantially.--_adv._
PRESUMP'TIVELY.--PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE, evidence for a fact derived from
other facts having some connection with it: indirect evidence.--HEIR
PRESUMPTIVE, the person, not son or daughter, at present next in succession
to any living person. [Fr. _présumer_--L. _præsum[)e]re_--_præ_, before,
_sum[)e]re_, to take--_sub_, under, _em[)e]re_, to buy.]

PRESUMPTUOUS, pr[=e]-zump't[=u]-us, _adj._ full of presumption: going
beyond the bounds of right or duty: bold and confident: founded on
presumption: wilful.--_adv._ PRESUMP'TUOUSLY.--_n._ PRESUMP'TUOUSNESS. [L.
_præsumptuosus_.]

PRESUPPOSE, pr[=e]-sup-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to suppose before actual knowledge:
to assume or take for granted.--_n._ PRESUPPOSI'TION.

PRESURMISE, pr[=e]-sur-m[=i]z', _n._ (_Shak._) a surmise previously formed.

PRETEND, pr[=e]-tend', _v.t._ to hold out as a cloak for something else: to
lay claim to: to attempt, undertake: to offer as true something that is not
so: to affect to feel: (_obs._) to offer, present.--_v.i._ to put in a
claim: to make-believe.--_ns._ PRETENCE', something pretended: appearance
or show to hide reality: false show or reason: pretext: assumption: claim;
PRETEN'DANT, -ENT, a pretender.--_adjs_. PRETEN'DED, PRETEN'SED,
ostensible, assumed.--_adv._ PRETEN'DEDLY.--_ns._ PRETEN'DER;
PRETEN'DERSHIP.--_adv._ PRETEN'DINGLY.--_n._ PRETEN'SION, act of
pretending: something pretended: false or fictitious appearance: claim
either true or false.--_adj._ PRETEN'TIOUS, marked by or containing
pretence: claiming more than is warranted: presumptuous: arrogant.--_adv._
PRETEN'TIOUSLY, in a pretentious manner.--_n._ PRETEN'TIOUSNESS, the
quality of being pretentious. [Fr. _prétendre_--L. _prætend[)e]re_--_præ_,
before, _tend[)e]re_, _tentum_, _tensum_, to stretch.]

PRETENSE. Same as PRETENCE.

PRETERCANINE, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-ka-n[=i]n', _adj._ more than canine.

PRETERHUMAN, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-h[=u]'man, _adj._ more than human.

PRETERIMPERFECT, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-im-p[.e]r'fekt, _adj._ implying that an
event was happening at a certain past time.

PRETERITE, pret'[.e]r-it, _adj._ gone by: past: noting the past
tense.--_n._ the past tense.--_ns._ PRET'ERIST, one who holds the
prophecies of the Apocalypse already fulfilled; PRET'ERITENESS.--_adj._
PRETERI'TIAL (_biol._), once active but now latent.--_n._ PRETERI'TION, the
act of passing over: the doctrine that God passes over the non-elect in
electing to eternal life those predestinated to salvation.--_adj._
PRETER'ITIVE, expressing past times. [L. _præteritus_--_præter_, beyond,
_[=i]re_, _[=i]tum_, to go.]

PRETERMIT, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-mit', _v.t._ to pass by: to omit: to leave
undone:--_pr.p._ pr[=e]termit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
pr[=e]termit'ted.--_n._ PRETERMIS'SION, the act of passing by: omission.
[L. _præter_, past, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

PRETERNATURAL, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-nat'[=u]-ral, _adj._ beyond what is natural:
out of the regular course of things: extraordinary.--_n._
PRETERNAT'URALISM, belief in the preternatural: preternatural
existence.--_adv._ PRETERNAT'URALLY.--_n._ PRETERNAT'URALNESS.

PRETERNUPTIAL, pr[=e]-ter-nup'shal, _adj._ adulterous.

PRETERPERFECT, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-p[.e]r'fekt, _adj._ denoting the perfect
tense.

PRETERPLUPERFECT, pr[=e]-t[.e]r-pl[=oo]'p[.e]r-fekt, _adj._ denoting the
pluperfect tense.

PRETEXT, pr[=e]'tekst, or pr[=e]-tekst', _n._ an assumed motive or reason
put forward to conceal the real one: a pretence. [L.
_prætextum_--_prætex[)e]re_--_præ_, before, _tex[)e]re_, to weave.]

PRETHOUGHTFUL, pr[=e]-thawt'f[=oo]l, _adj._ forethoughtful, prudent.

PRETIBIAL, pr[=e]-tib'i-al, _adj._ situated upon the front of the lower
part of the leg.

PRETOR, &c. See PRÆTOR, &c.

PRETTY, pret'i, _adj._ tasteful: pleasing to the eye: having attractive but
not striking beauty: neat: beautiful without dignity: small: affected:
moderately large, considerable: puny, weak (a term of endearment): (in
contempt) fine: (_obs._) shrewd, cunning: (_obs._) strong, warlike.--_adv._
in some degree: moderately.--_v.t._ PRETT'IFY, to make pretty in an
excessively ornamental way.--_adv._ PRETT'ILY, in a pretty manner:
pleasingly: elegantly: neatly.--_n._ PRETT'INESS.--_adj._ PRETT'YISH,
somewhat pretty.--_n._ PRETT'YPRETTY (_coll._), a knick-knack.--_adj._
PRETT'Y-SP[=O]'KEN, speaking or spoken prettily.--PRETTY MUCH, very nearly.
[A.S. _prættig_, tricky--_prætt_, trickery; prob. Low L. _practicus_--Gr.
_praktikos_--_prattein_, to do.]

PRETYPIFY, pr[=e]-tip'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to represent by a type what is to
happen: to prefigure.

PRETZEL, pret'sel, _n._ a brittle biscuit, cracknel. [Ger.,--Old High Ger.
_brizilla_, _prezitella_--Low L. _bracellus_, also _braciolum_, a kind of
cake.]

PREVAIL, pr[=e]-v[=a]l', _v.i._ to be very powerful: to gain the victory:
to have the upper hand: to have greater influence or effect: to overcome:
to be in force: to succeed.--_v.t._ (_obs.)_ avail.--_adj._ PREVAIL'ING,
having great power: controlling: bringing about results: very general or
common.--_adv._ PREVAIL'INGLY.--_ns._ PREVAIL'MENT (_Shak._), prevalence;
PREV'ALENCE, PREV'ALENCY, the state of being prevalent or wide-spread:
superior strength or influence: preponderance: efficacy.--_adj._
PREV'ALENT, prevailing: having great power: victorious: wide-spread: most
common.--_adv._ PREV'ALENTLY. [Fr. _prévaloir_--L. _præval[=e]re_--_præ_,
before, _val[=e]re_, to be powerful.]

PREVARICATE, pr[=e]-var'i-k[=a]t, _v.i._ to shift about from side to side,
to evade the truth: to quibble: (_obs._) to undertake a thing with the
purpose of defeating or destroying it: (_law_) to betray a client by
collusion with his opponent.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to pervert,
transgress.--_ns._ PR[=E]VARIC[=A]'TION, the act of quibbling to evade the
truth; PR[=E]VAR'IC[=A]TOR, one who prevaricates to evade the truth: a
quibbler. [L. _prævaric[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_præ_, inten., _varicus_,
straddling--_varus_, bent.]

PREVENANCY, prev'[=e]-nan-si, _n._ complaisance.

PREVENT, pr[=e]-vent', _v.t._ to hinder: to check: to render impossible:
(_orig._) to go before: to be earlier than.--_v.t._ PR[=E]VENE' (rare), to
precede.--_n._ PREV[=E]'NIENCE.--_adj._ PREV[=E]'NIENT (_Milt._), going
before: preceding: preventive.--_n._ PREVENTABIL'ITY, the quality of being
preventable.--_adj._ PREVEN'TABLE, that may be prevented or
hindered.--_ns._ PREVEN'TER, one who, or that which, prevents or hinders:
(_naut._) an additional rope or spar for strengthening the ordinary one;
PREVEN'TION, act of preventing: anticipation or forethought:
obstruction.--_adjs._ PREVEN'TIVE, PREVEN'TATIVE, tending to prevent or
hinder: preservative.--_n._ that which prevents: a preservative.--_adv._
PREVEN'TIVELY.--_n._ PREVEN'TIVENESS.--PREVENTIVE SERVICE, the service
rendered by the coastguard in preventing smuggling. [L. _præventus_, pa.p.
of _præven[=i]re_--_præ_, before, _ven[=i]re_, to come.]

PREVERTEBRAL, pr[=e]-v[.e]r'te-bral, _adj._ situated or developing before
the vertebræ.

PREVIOUS, pr[=e]'vi-us, _adj._ going before in time: former.--_adv._
PR[=E]'VIOUSLY.--_n._ PR[=E]'VIOUSNESS, antecedence: priority in
time.--PREVIOUS QUESTION, a motion made during a debate, 'that the main
question be now put.' If the decision be 'yes,' the debate is ended and the
question put and decided; if it be 'no,' the debate is adjourned in the
British parliament, but continues in the American assembly. [L.
_præevius_--_præ_, before, _via_, a way.]

PREVISE, pr[=e]-viz', _v.t._ to foresee: to forewarn.--_n._ PREVI'SION,
foresight: foreknowledge. [L. _prævid[=e]re_, _prævisum_, to
foresee--_præ_, before, _vid[=e]re_, to see.]

PREWARN, pr[=e]-wawrn', _v.t._ to warn beforehand.

PREX, preks, _n._ in U.S. college slang the president of a college.--Also
PREX'Y.

PREY, pr[=a], _n._ that which is taken by robbery or force: booty: plunder:
that which is or may be seized to be devoured: a victim: depredation:
(_Shak._) the act of seizing.--_v.i._ to take plunder: to seize and devour:
to waste or impair gradually: to weigh heavily (_on_ or _upon_), as the
mind.--_adj._ PREY'FUL (_Shak._), having a disposition to prey on
others.--BEAST OF PREY, one who devours other animals. [O. Fr. _praie_ (Fr.
_proie_)--L. _præda_, booty.]

PRIAPUS, pr[=i]-[=a]'pus, _n._ an ancient deity personifying male
generative power.--_adjs._ PRIAP'IC, PRIAP[=E]'AN.--_n._ PR[=I]'APISM.

PRICE, pr[=i]s, _n._ that at which anything is prized, valued, or bought:
excellence: recompense.--_v.t._ to set value on: (_coll._) to ask the price
of: (_Spens._) to pay the price of.--_ns._ PRICE'-CURR'ENT, -LIST, a list
of the prices paid for any class of goods, &c.--_adjs._ PRICED, set at a
value; PRICE'LESS, beyond price: invaluable: without value:
worthless.--_n._ PRICE'LESSNESS.--PRICE OF MONEY, the rate of discount in
lending or borrowing capital.--WITHOUT PRICE, priceless. [O. Fr. _pris_
(Fr. _prix_)--L. _pretium_, price.]

PRICK, prik, _n._ that which pricks or penetrates: a sharp point: the act
or feeling of pricking: a puncture: a sting: remorse: (_Shak._) a thorn,
prickle, skewer, point of time: (_Spens._) point, pitch.--_v.t._ to pierce
with a prick: to erect any pointed thing: to fix by the point: to put on by
puncturing: to mark or make by pricking: to incite: to deck out as with
flowers or feathers: to pain.--_v.i._ to have a sensation of puncture: to
stand erect: to ride with spurs:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pricked.--_adj._
PRICK'-EARED, having pointed ears.--_ns._ PRICK'ER, that which pricks: a
sharp-pointed instrument: light-horseman: a priming wire; PRICK'ING;
PRICKLE (prik'l), a little prick: a sharp point growing from the bark of a
plant or from the skin of an animal.--_v.t._ to prick slightly.--_v.i._
(_Spens._) to be prickly.--_ns._ PRICK'LE-BACK, the stickle-back;
PRICK'LINESS; PRICK'LING, the act of piercing with a sharp point: (_Shak._)
the sensation of being pricked.--_adj._ prickly.--_adj._ PRICK'LY, full of
prickles.--_ns._ PRICK'LY-HEAT, a severe form of the skin disease known as
lichen, with itching and stinging sensations; PRICK'LY-PEAR, a class of
plants with clusters of prickles and fruit like the pear; PRICK'-ME-DAIN'TY
(_Scot._), an affected person.--_adj._ over-precise.--_ns._ PRICK'-SONG
(_Shak._), a song set to music: music in parts; PRICK'-SPUR, a goad-spur;
PRICK'-THE-GAR'TER (cf. _Fast-and-loose_); PRICK'-THE-LOUSE (_Scot._), a
tailor. [A.S. _pricu_, a point; Ger. _prickeln_, Dut. _prikkel_, a
prickle.]

PRICKET, prik'et, _n._ (_Shak._) a buck in his second year.

PRIDE, pr[=i]d, _n._ state or feeling of being proud: too great
self-esteem: haughtiness: overbearing treatment of others: a proper sense
of what is becoming to one's self: a feeling of pleasure on account of
something worthily done: that of which men are proud: that which excites
boasting: elevation, loftiness: beauty displayed, ornament, ostentation:
high spirit, mettle: (_Shak._) lust.--_v.t._ to have or take pride: to
value, as one's self, &c.--_adj._ PRIDE'FUL.--_adv._ PRIDE'FULLY.--_n._
PRIDE'FULNESS.--_adj._ PRIDE'LESS. [A.S. _prýte_--_prút_, proud.]

PRIDIAN, prid'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to yesterday. [L. _pridie_--_prius_,
before, _dies_, day.]

PRIE-DIEU, pr[=e]-di[=u]', _n._ a praying-desk. [Fr.]

PRIEF, pr[=e]f, _n._ (_Spens._) proof, trial, experiment.

PRIER, PRYER, pr[=i]'er, _n._ one who pries.

PRIEST, pr[=e]st, _n._ one who offers sacrifices or officiates in sacred
offices: a minister above a deacon and below a bishop: a clergyman:--_fem._
PRIEST'ESS.--_ns._ PRIEST'CRAFT, priestly policy: the schemes of priests to
gain wealth or power; PRIEST'HOOD, the office or character of a priest: the
priestly order.--_adjs._ PRIEST'-LIKE, PRIEST'LY, pertaining to or like a
priest.--_n._ PRIEST'LINESS.--_adj._ PRIEST'-RID'DEN, controlled by
priests.--HIGH PRIEST, a chief priest, esp. the chief ecclesiastical
officer in the ancient Jewish church. [A.S. _preóst_ (O. Fr. _prestre_, Fr.
_prêtre_)--L. _presbyter_, an elder.]

PRIEVE, pr[=e]v, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to prove.

PRIG, prig, _n._ a pert fellow who gives himself airs of superior
wisdom.--_adj._ PRIG'GISH, conceited and affected.--_adv._
PRIG'GISHLY.--_ns._ PRIG'GISHNESS, PRIG'GISM. [From _prick_, to adorn.]

PRIG, prig, _n._ a thief.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to filch.--_v.i._ (_Scot._) to
plead hard, haggle: to cheapen.--_ns._ PRIG'GER; PRIG'GERY.--_adj._
PRIG'GISH.--_n._ PRIG'GISM. [Prob. the same as _prick_, to spur.]

PRILL, pril, _n._ (_prov._) a very rich piece of ore.

PRILL, pril, _v.i._ (_prov._) to grow sour: to become tipsy.

PRIM, prim, _adj._ exact and precise in manner: affectedly nice.--_v.t._ to
deck with great nicety: to form with affected preciseness:--_pr.p._
prim'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ primmed.--_adv._ PRIM'LY.--_n._ PRIM'NESS.
[O. Fr. _prim_, fem. _prime_--L. _primus_, _prima_, first.]

PRIMACY, pr[=i]'ma-si, _n._ state of being first in order of time, rank,
&c.: the office or dignity of a primate or archbishop.

PRIMA-DONNA, pr[=e]'ma-don'a, _n._ the first or leading female singer in an
opera. [It.,--L. _prima domina_.]

PRIMA FACIE, pr[=i]'ma f[=a]'shi-[=e], at first view or sight.--PRIMA FACIE
CASE (_law_), a case established by sufficient evidence: a case consisting
of evidence sufficient to go to a jury. [L. _prima_, abl. fem. of _primus_,
first, _facie_, abl. of _facies_, a face.]

PRIMAGE, pr[=i]m'[=a]j, _n._ an allowance to the captain of a vessel by the
shipper or consignee of goods for care in lading the same (_hat-money_):
amount or percentage of water carried from a boiler in priming. [_Prime_,
first.]

PRIMARY, pr[=i]'mar-i, _adj._ first: original: chief: primitive:
elementary, preparatory.--_n._ that which is highest in rank or importance:
a planet in relation to its satellite or satellites.--_adv._
PR[=I]'MARILY.--_ns._ PR[=I]'MARINESS, the state of being first in time,
act, or intention; PR[=I]'MARY-AC'CENT, the accent immediately after a bar
in music.--_ns.pl._ PR[=I]'MARY-COL'OURS, the colours obtained by passing
the sun's rays through a prism: the colours of the rainbow--red, orange,
yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet; PR[=I]'MARY-PLAN'ETS, planets
revolving round the sun--not satellites; PR[=I]'MARY-QUILLS, the largest
feathers of a bird's wing; PR[=I]'MARY-ROCKS, the rocks which seem to have
been first formed and contain no animal remains, as granites, &c.

PRIMATE, pr[=i]'m[=a]t, _n._ the first or highest dignitary in a church: an
archbishop.--_n._ PR[=I]'M[=A]TESHIP.--_adj._ PRIM[=A]'TIAL.

PRIME, pr[=i]m, _adj._ first in order of time, rank, or importance: chief:
excellent: original: early: in early manhood: (_Shak._) eager, bold:
(_math._) incapable of being separated into factors.--_n._ the beginning:
the dawn: the spring: the best part: the height of perfection: full health
and strength: a religious service during the first hour after sunrise:
(_fencing_) the first guard against sword-thrusts, also the first and
simplest thrust.--_adj._ PR[=I]'MAL, first: original: chief.--_n._
PRIMAL'ITY.--_adv._ PRIME'LY.--_ns._ PRIME'-MIN'ISTER, the chief minister
of state; PRIME'-MOV'ER, the force which puts a machine in motion: a
steam-engine or a water-wheel; PRIME'NESS; PRIME'-NUM'BER, a first
number--i.e. one divisible only by itself or unity.--PRIME COST (see COST).
[L. _pr[=i]mus_ (for _pro-i-mus_).]

PRIME, pr[=i]m, _v.t._ to put powder on the nipple of a firearm: to lay on
the first coating of colour: to instruct or prepare beforehand.--_v.i._ to
serve for the charge of a gun: in the steam-engine, to carry over hot water
with the steam from the boiler into the cylinder.--_ns._ PR[=I]'MER;
PR[=I]'MING; PR[=I]'MING-POW'DER, detonating powder: train of powder
connecting a fuse with a charge. [_Prime_ (adj.).]

PRIMER, prim'[.e]r, or pr[=i]'mer, _n._ a first book: a work of elementary
religious instruction: a first reading-book: an elementary introduction to
any subject: a kind of type of two species, _long_-primer (10 point) and
_great_-primer (18 point). [Orig. a small prayer-book.]

PRIMERO, pri-m[=a]'r[=o], _n._ an old game at cards. [Sp.]

PRIMEVAL, pr[=i]-m[=e]'val, _adj._ belonging to the first ages: original:
primitive.--_adv._ PRIM[=E]'VALLY. [L. _primævus_--_primus_, first, _ævum_,
an age.]

PRIMIGENIAL, pr[=i]-mi-j[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ first-born or made: primary:
constituent--also PRIMOG[=E]'NIAL.--_adjs._ PRIMIG'ENOUS, PRIMIG[=E]'NIOUS,
first formed; PRIMOGEN'ITAL (_obs._), PRIMOGEN'ITARY, PRIMOGEN'ITIVE, of or
belonging to primogeniture.--_ns._ PRIMOGEN'ITOR, the first begetter or
father: a forefather; PRIMOGEN'ITURE, state of being born first of the same
parents: (_law_) the right of the eldest son to inherit his father's
estates; PRIMOGEN'ITURESHIP. [Fr.,--L. _primo-genitus_,
first-born--_primus_, first, _gign[)e]re_, _genitum_, to beget.]

PRIMITIÆ, pri-mish'i-[=e], _n.pl._ first-fruits offered to the gods--also
PRIMI'TIAS (_Spens._): the first year's revenue of a benefice.
[L.,--_primus_, first.]

PRIMITIVE, prim'i-tiv, _adj._ belonging to the beginning, or to the first
times: original: ancient: antiquated, old-fashioned: not derived: (_biol._)
rudimentary, primary or first of its kind: (_geol._) of the earliest
formation.--_n._ a primitive word, or one not derived from another:
(_math._) a form from which another is derived.--_ns.pl._
PRIM'ITIVE-COL'OURS, the colours from which all others are supposed to be
derived--viz. red, yellow, and blue; PRIM'ITIVE-FA'THERS, the Christian
writers before the Council of Nice, 325 A.D.--_adv._ PRIM'ITIVELY.--_n.pl._
PRIM'ITIVE-METH'ODISTS, a religious body founded in 1810, whose beliefs are
the same as those of other Methodists, but whose working arrangements are
nearly Presbyterian.--_n._ PRIM'ITIVENESS.--_n.pl._ PRIM'ITIVE-ROCKS (see
PRIMARY-ROCKS). [Fr.,--L. _primitivus_, an extension of _primus_.]

PRIMO, pr[=e]'m[=o], _n._ (_mus._) the first or principal part.

PRIMORDIAL, pr[=i]-mor'di-al, _adj._ first in order: original: existing
from the beginning: (_anat._) in a rudimentary state: (_bot._) first
formed, as leaves or fruit.--_n._ first principle or element.--_ns._
PRIMOR'DIALISM; PRIMOR'DIUM. [L. _primus_, first, _ordo_, order.]

PRIMP, primp, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to dress in an affected manner.--_v.i._ to
be affected. [_Prink._]

PRIMROSE, prim'r[=o]z, _n._ an early spring flower common in woods and
meadows: a plant of the genus _Primula_: (_Spens._) the first or earliest
flower, the first or choicest.--_adj._ resembling a primrose in colour:
flowery, gay.--PRIMROSE LEAGUE, a political association for the spread of
Conservative opinions--formed in 1883 in memory of Lord Beaconsfield, whose
favourite flower is said to have been the _primrose_. [Fr. _prime rose_--as
if L. _prima rosa_; really through O. Fr. _primerole_ and Low L. dim. forms
from L. _primus_.]

PRIMSIE, prim'si, _adj._ (_Scot._) prim, demure.

PRIMULA, prim'[=u]-la, _n._ the genus of plants to which the primrose
belongs. [L. _primus_, first.]

PRIMUM MOBILE, pr[=i]'mum mob'i-l[=e], in the Ptolemaic system the
outermost of the ten revolving spheres of the universe, supposed to carry
the others with it: any great source of motion. [L.]

PRIMUS, pr[=i]'mus, _n._ the bishop in the Scottish Episcopal Church who
presides over the meetings of the other bishops, but without metropolitan
authority.

PRIMY, pr[=i]'mi, _adj._ (_Shak._) blooming.

PRINCE, prins, _n._ one of the highest rank: a sovereign: son of a king or
emperor: a title of nobility, as in Germany: the chief of any body of
men:--_fem._ PRIN'CESS.--_v.i._ to play the prince (usually with
_it_).--_ns._ PRINCE'-BISH'OP, a bishop who was also the civil ruler or
prince of his diocese; PRINCE'-CON'SORT, the husband of a reigning queen;
PRINCE'DOM, the estate, jurisdiction, sovereignty, or rank of a prince;
PRINCE'HOOD, rank or quality of a prince; PRINCE'-IMP[=E]'RIAL, the eldest
son of an emperor; PRINCE'KIN, PRINCE'LET, PRINCE'LING, a little or
inferior prince.--_adj._ PRINCE'-LIKE, becoming a prince.--_n._
PRINCE'LINESS.--_adj._ PRINCE'LY, prince-like: becoming a prince: grand:
august: regal.--_adv._ in a prince-like manner.--_adv._ PRIN'CESSLY, like a
princess.--_n._ PRIN'CESS-ROY'AL, the eldest daughter of a
sovereign.--_adj._ PRIN'CIFIED, ridiculously dignified.--_n._
MER'CHANT-PRINCE, a merchant who has gained great wealth.--PRINCE OF
DARKNESS, PRINCE OF THIS WORLD, Satan; PRINCE OF PEACE, Christ: the
Messiah; PRINCE OF WALES, the eldest son of the British sovereign; PRINCE
RUPERT'S DROPS (see DROP); PRINCE'S FEATHER, a tall showy annual with
spikes of rose-coloured flowers; PRINCE'S METAL, a gold-like alloy of 70
parts of copper and 25 of zinc. [Fr.,--L. _princeps_--_primus_, first,
_cap[)e]re_, to take.]

PRINCEPS, prin'seps, _n._ one who, or that which, is foremost, original,
&c.: short for _editio princeps_, the first edition of a book. [L.]

PRINCESSE, prin-ses', _adj._ of a woman's garment, close-fitting, the skirt
and waist in one, and undraped. [Fr.]

PRINCIPAL, prin'si-pal, _adj._ taking the first place: highest in rank,
character, or importance: chief.--_n._ a principal person or thing: a head,
as of a school or college: one who takes a leading part: money on which
interest is paid: (_archit._) a main beam or timber: (_law_) the person who
commits a crime, or one who aids and abets him in doing it: a person for
whom another becomes surety, a person who, being _sui juris_, employs
another to do an act which he is competent himself to do: (_mus._) an
organ-stop: (_Shak._) the principal rafter.--_n._ PRINCIPAL'ITY, supreme
power: the territory of a prince or the country which gives title to him:
(_B._) a prince: (_obs._) a power: (_pl._) an order of angels, the seventh
in the hierarchy of Dionysius.--_adv._ PRIN'CIPALLY.--_ns._ PRIN'CIPALNESS,
the state of being principal or chief; PRIN'CIPALSHIP, position of a
principal; PRIN'CIPATE, primary: a principality, esp. the office of the
ancient Roman emperors. [L. _principalis_.]

PRINCIPIA, prin-sip'i-a, _n.pl._ first principles: elements, used often as
the contracted title of the 'Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica'
of Newton.--_adj._ PRINCIP'IAL, elementary. [L., pl. of _principium_.]

PRINCIPLE, prin'si-pl, _n._ a fundamental truth on which others are founded
or from which they spring: a law or doctrine from which others are derived:
an original faculty of the mind: a settled rule of action: (_chem._) a
constituent part: (_obs._) a beginning.--_v.t._ to establish in principles:
to impress with a doctrine.--_adj._ PRIN'CIPLED, holding certain
principles.--PRINCIPLE OF CONTRADICTION, the logical principle that a thing
cannot both be and not be; PRINCIPLE OF EXCLUDED MIDDLE (_logic_), the
principle that a thing must be either one thing or its contradictory;
PRINCIPLE OF SUFFICIENT REASON (see REASON).--FIRST PRINCIPLE, a very
general principle not deducible from others. [L. _principium_,
beginning--_princeps_.]

PRINCOCK, prin'kok, _n._ (_Shak._) a conceited fellow: a coxcomb.--Also
PRIN'COX.

PRINK, pringk, _v.t._ to adorn ostentatiously.--_n._ PRINK'ER. [Weakened
from _prank_.]

PRINT, print, _v.t._ to press or impress: to mark by pressure: to impress
letters on paper, &c.: to publish: (_phot._) to produce a positive picture
from a negative.--_v.i._ to practise the art of printing: to publish a
book.--_n._ a mark or character made by impression: the impression of types
in general: a copy: a printed picture: an engraving: a newspaper: a printed
cloth: calico stamped with figures: that which impresses its form on
anything: a cut, in wood or metal: (_archit._) a plaster-cast in low
relief.--_ns._ PRINT'ER, one who prints, esp. books, newspapers, &c.;
PRINT'ING, act, art, or practice of printing; PRINT'ING-INK, ink used in
printing; PRINT'ING-MACHINE', a printing-press worked by machinery;
PRINT'ING-OFF'ICE, an establishment where books, &c., are printed;
PRINT'ING-P[=A]'PER, a paper suitable for printing purposes;
PRINT'ING-PRESS, a machine by which impressions are taken in ink upon paper
from types.--_adj._ PRINT'LESS, receiving or leaving no impression.--_ns._
PRINT'-SELL'ER, one who sells prints or engravings; PRINT'-SHOP, a shop
where prints are sold; PRINT'-WORKS, an establishment where cloth is
printed.--PRINTER'S DEVIL (see DEVIL); PRINTER'S INK (same as
PRINTING-INK); PRINTER'S MARK, an engraved device used by printers as a
trade-mark.--IN PRINT, published in printed form: in stock, as opposed to
books which cannot now be got--_Out of print_. [Shortened from O. Fr.
_empreindre_, _empreint_--L. _imprim[)e]re_--_in_, into, _prem[)e]re_, to
press.]

PRIOR, pr[=i]'or, _adj._ former: previous: coming before in time.--_n._ the
head of a priory: (in Italy) formerly a chief magistrate:--_fem._
PR[=I]'ORESS.--_ns._ PR[=I]'OR[=A]TE, PR[=I]'ORSHIP, the government or
office of a prior: the time during which a prior is in office; PRIOR'ITY,
state of being prior or first in time, place, or rank: preference;
PR[=I]'ORY, a convent of either sex, under a prior or prioress, and next in
rank below an abbey. [L. _prior_, former, comp. from _pro-_, in front.]

PRISAGE, pr[=i]'z[=a]j, _n._ formerly a right of the English kings to seize
for crown purposes, esp. that of taking two tuns of wine from every ship
importing twenty tuns or more. [O. Fr.,--_prise_, taking.]

PRISE, pr[=i]z, _n._ (_Spens._) an enterprise or adventure.

PRISER, pr[=i]z'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as PRIZER.

PRISM, prizm, _n._ (_geom._) a solid whose ends are similar, equal, and
parallel planes, and whose sides are parallelograms: (_opt._) a solid
glass, triangular-shaped body, used for resolving rays of light into their
separate colours.--_adjs._ PRISMAT'IC, -AL, resembling or pertaining to a
prism: separated or formed by a prism.--_adv._ PRISMAT'ICALLY.--_ns._
PRIS'MATOID, PRIS'MOID, a figure in the form of a prism.--_adjs_.
PRIS'MATOIDAL, PRIS'MOIDAL; PRIS'MY, prismatic in colour. [L.,--Gr.
_prisma_, _-atos_.]

PRISON, priz'n, _n._ a building for the confinement of criminals, &c.: a
jail: any place of confinement.--_v.t._ to shut in prison,
restrain.--_n.pl._ PRIS'ON-BARS, whatever confines or restrains.--_ns._
PRIS'ONER, one arrested or confined in prison: a captive; PRIS'ONER'S-,
PRIS'ON-BASE, a game among boys, in which those who are caught in a certain
way are confined as prisoners--a corr. of _prison-bars_; PRIS'ON-F[=E]'VER,
typhus-fever; PRIS'ON-HOUSE, place of confinement; PRIS'ONMENT (_Shak._),
confinement in a prison--usually _imprisonment_; PRIS'ON-SHIP; PRIS'ON-VAN,
a closed conveyance for carrying prisoners.--STATE PRISONER, one confined
for a political offence in a state prison. [Fr.,--L. _prensio_, _-oni_s,
for _prehensio_, a seizing--_prehend[)e]re_, _-hensum_, to seize.]

PRISTINE, pris'tin, _adj._ as at first: former: belonging to the earliest
time: ancient. [O. Fr.,--L. _pristinus_; cf. _priscus_, antique, _prior_,
former.]

PRITHEE, pri_th_'[=e], a corruption of _I pray thee_.

PRITTLE-PRATTLE, prit'l-prat'l, _n._ empty talk.

PRIVACY, pr[=i]'va-si, or priv'-, _n._ state of being private or retired
from company or observation: a place of seclusion: retreat: retirement:
secrecy.

PRIVAT DOCENT, pr[=e]-vat' d[=o]-tsent', _n._ a teacher in connection with
a German university, without share in its government or endowment, only
receiving fees. [Ger.,--L. _privatus_, private, _docens_, _-entis_,
teaching, _doc[=e]re_, to teach.]

PRIVATE, pr[=i]'v[=a]t, _adj._ apart from the state: not invested with
public office: peculiar to one's self: belonging to an individual person or
company: not public: retired from observation: secret: not publicly known:
not holding a commission.--_n._ a common soldier: (_Shak._) a person
without public office, a secret message, privacy, retirement.--_adv._
PR[=I]'VATELY.--_n._ PR[=I]'VATENESS.--PRIVATE ACT, &c., an act, &c., which
deals with the concerns of private persons--opp. to _General act_, &c.;
PRIVATE JUDGMENT, the judgment of an individual, esp. on the meaning of a
passage or doctrine of Scripture, as distinguished from the interpretation
of the church; PRIVATE LAW, that part of law which deals with the rights
and duties of persons quâ individuals; PRIVATE LEGISLATION, legislation
affecting the interests of private persons; PRIVATE PARTS, the sexual
organs; PRIVATE PROPERTY, RIGHTS, the property, rights of individual
persons, as distinguished from that which belongs to a public body and is
devoted to public use; PRIVATE TRUST, a trust managed in the interest of
private parties; PRIVATE WRONG, an injury done to an individual in his
private capacity.--IN PRIVATE, privately, in secret; _The private_
(_obs._), the private life of individuals. [L. _privatus_, pa.p. of
_priv[=a]re_, to separate--_privus_, single.]

PRIVATEER, pr[=i]-va-t[=e]r', _n._ an armed private vessel commissioned by
a government to seize and plunder an enemy's ships: the commander of a
privateer.--_v.i._ to cruise in a privateer: to fit out privateers.--_ns._
PRIVATEER'ING; PRIVATEER'SMAN.

PRIVATION, pr[=i]-v[=a]'shun, _n._ state of being deprived of something,
esp. of what is necessary for comfort: destitution: (_logic_) absence of
any quality: (_obs._) degradation or suspension from an office.--_adj._
PRIV'ATIVE, causing privation: consisting in the absence of
something.--_n._ that which is privative or depends on the absence of
something else: (_logic_) a term denoting the absence of a quality:
(_gram._) a prefix denoting absence or negation.--_adv._
PRIV'ATIVELY.--_n._ PRIV'ATIVENESS. [L.; cf. _Private_.]

PRIVET, priv'et, _n._ a half-evergreen European shrub used for hedges.
[Perh. _primet_--_prim_.]

PRIVILEGE, priv'i-lej, _n._ an advantage to an individual: a right enjoyed
only by a few: freedom from burdens borne by others: prerogative: a sacred
and vital civil right: (_Shak._) superiority.--_v.t._ to grant a privilege
to: to exempt: to authorise, license.--_adj._ PRIV'ILEGED.--BREACH OF
PRIVILEGE, any interference with or slight done to the rights or privileges
of a legislative body; QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE, any question arising out of
the rights of an assembly or of its members; WRIT OF PRIVILEGE, an order
for the release of a person from custody. [Fr.,--L.
_privilegium_--_privus_, single, _lex_, _legis_, a law.]

PRIVY, priv'i, _adj._ private: pertaining to one person: for private uses:
secret: appropriated to retirement: admitted to the knowledge of something
secret.--_n._ (_law_) a person having an interest in an action: a necessary
house.--_adv._ PRIV'ILY, privately: secretly.--_ns._ PRIV'ITY, secrecy:
something kept private: knowledge, shared with another, of something
private or confidential: knowledge implying concurrence: relation between
different interests, as, for example, in feudal tenure the interests of
several persons in the same land, the mutual relationships of contractor
and contractee, the relation caused by common knowledge in breaches of
contract: (_obs._) seclusion, intimacy; PRIV'Y-CHAM'BER, private apartment
in a royal residence; PRIV'Y-COUN'CIL, the private council of a sovereign
to advise in the administration of government; PRIV'Y-COUN'CILLOR, a member
of the privy-council; PRIV'Y-PURSE, the purse or money for the private or
personal use of the sovereign; PRIV'Y-SEAL, -SIG'NET, the seal used by or
for the king in subordinate matters, or those which are not to pass the
great seal; PRIV'Y-VER'DICT, a verdict given to a judge out of
court.--GENTLEMEN USHERS OF THE PRIVY-CHAMBER, four officials in the royal
household who attend certain court ceremonies. [Fr. _privé_--L. _privatus_,
private.]

PRIZE, PRISE, pr[=i]z, _v.t._ to force open by means of a lever. [Fr.; cf.
_Prize_, below.]

PRIZE, pr[=i]z, _n._ that which is taken or gained by competition: anything
taken from an enemy in war: (_hunting_) the note of the trumpet blown at
the capture of the game: a captured vessel: that which is won in a lottery:
anything offered for competition: a gain: a reward: (_Shak._) a
competition.--_adj._ worthy of a prize: to which a prize is given.--_adjs._
PRIZ'ABLE, -EABLE, valuable.--_ns._ PRIZE'-COURT, a court for judging
regarding prizes made on the high seas; PRIZE'-FIGHT, a combat in which
those engaged fight for a prize or wager; PRIZE'-FIGHT'ER, a boxer who
fights publicly for a prize; PRIZE'-FIGHT'ING; PRIZE'-LIST, recorded of the
winners in a competition; PRIZE'MAN; PRIZE'-MON'EY, share of the money or
proceeds from any prizes taken from an enemy; PRIZ'ER (_Shak._), one who
competes for a prize; PRIZE'-RING, a ring for prize-fighting: the practice
itself. [Fr. _prise_--_pris_, taken, pa.p. _prendre_--L. _prehend[)e]re_,
to seize.]

PRIZE, pr[=i]z, _v.t._ to set a price on: to value: to value highly.--_n._
valuation, estimate.--_n._ PRIZ'ER (_Shak._), an appraiser. [Fr.
_priser_--O. Fr. _pris_, price (Fr. _prix_)--L. _pretium_, price.]

PRO, pr[=o], Latin prep. meaning before, used in English in many
phrases.--PRO AND CON, abbrev. of _pro et contra_, for and against.--_v.i._
to consider impartially.--_n.pl._ PROS AND CONS, arguments for and against
an opinion.--PRO BONO PUBLICO, for the public good.

PROA, pr[=o]'a, _n._ a small and swift Malay sailing-vessel, with both ends
equally sharp. [Malay _prau_.]

PROBABLE, prob'a-bl, _adj._ that can be proved: having more evidence for
than against: giving ground for belief: likely: (_Shak._) plausible.--_n._
probable opinion.--_ns._ PROBABIL'IORIST; PROB'ABILISM (_R.C. theol._), the
doctrine in casuistry that of two probable opinions, both reasonable, one
may follow his own inclination, as a doubtful law cannot impose a certain
obligation--opp. to PROBABIL'IORISM, according to which it is lawful to
follow one's inclination only when there is a more probable opinion in its
favour; PROB'ABILIST; PROBABIL'ITY, quality of being probable: appearance
of truth: that which is probable: chance or likelihood of something
happening:--_pl._ PROBABIL'ITIES.--_adv._ PROB'ABLY.--_adj._ PR[=O]'BAL
(_Shak._), probable.--PROBABLE CAUSE, a reasonable ground that an
accusation is true; PROBABLE ERROR, a quantity assumed as the value of an
error, such that the chances of the real error being greater are equal to
those of it being less than this quantity; PROBABLE EVIDENCE, evidence not
conclusive, but admitting of some degree of force. [Fr.,--L.
_probabilis_--_prob[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to prove.]

PROBANG, pr[=o]'bang, _n._ an instrument for pushing obstructions down the
oesophagus of a choking animal.

PROBATE, pr[=o]'b[=a]t, _n._ the proof before a competent court that a
written paper purporting to be the will of a person who has died is indeed
his lawful act: the official copy of a will, with the certificate of its
having been proved: the right or jurisdiction of proving wills.--_adj._
relating to the establishment of wills and testaments.--PROBATE COURT, a
court created in 1858 to exercise jurisdiction in matters touching the
succession to personal estate; PROBATE DUTY, a tax on property passing by
will. [Cf. _Probable._]

PROBATION, pr[=o]-b[=a]'shun, _n._ act of proving: any proceeding to elicit
truth, &c.: trial: time of trial: moral trial: noviciate.--_adjs._
PROB[=A]'TIONAL, PROB[=A]'TIONARY, relating to probation or trial.--_n._
PROB[=A]'TIONER, one who is on probation or trial: (_Scot._) one licensed
to preach, but not ordained to a pastorate.--_adjs._ PR[=O]'BATIVE,
PR[=O]'BATORY, serving for proof or trial: relating to proof.--_n._
PROB[=A]'TOR, an examiner.--THE DOCTRINE OF FUTURE PROBATION, the doctrine
that the gospel will be preached in another life to the unregenerate dead
or to those who never heard it in life. [Fr.,--L.]

PROBATUM EST, pr[=o]-b[=a]'tum est, it has been proved. [L., 3d sing. perf.
indic. pass. of _prob[=a]re_, to prove.]

PROBE, pr[=o]b, _n._ a proof or trial: a long, thin instrument for
examining a wound, &c.: that which tries or probes.--_v.t._ to examine with
or as with a probe: to examine thoroughly.--_n.pl._ PROBE'-SCISS'ORS,
scissors used to open wounds, the blade having a button at the end. [L.
_prob[=a]re_, to prove.]

PROBITY, prob'i-ti, _n._ uprightness: honesty: virtue that has been tested.
[Fr.,--L. _probitas_, _probus_, good.]

PROBLEM, prob'lem, _n._ a matter difficult of settlement or solution:
(_geom._) a proposition in which something is required to be done.--_adjs._
PROBLEMAT'IC, -AL, of the nature of a problem: questionable:
doubtful.--_adv._ PROBLEMAT'ICALLY.--_v.i._ PROB'LEMATISE. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_probl[=e]ma_--_pro_, before, _ballein_, to throw.]

PROBOSCIS, pr[=o]-bos'is, _n._ the trunk of some animals, as the elephant,
for conveying food to the mouth: anything like a trunk:--_pl._
PROBOS'CIDES.--_adjs._ PROBOS'CID[=A]TE; PROBOSCID'EAN, having a
proboscis.--_n._ a mammal of the _Proboscidea_.--_n._ PROBOS'CIS-MONK'EY, a
monkey of Borneo, having a long mobile and retractile nose. [L.,--Gr.
_proboskis_, a trunk--_pro_, in front, _boskein_, to feed.]

PROCACITY, pr[=o]-kas'i-ti, _n._ petulance.--_adj._ PROC[=A]'CIOUS.

PROCATHEDRAL, pr[=o]-ka-th[=e]'dral, _n._ a church used temporarily as a
cathedral.

PROCEED, pr[=o]-s[=e]d', _v.i._ to go forward: to advance: to act according
to a method: to go from point to point: to issue: to be produced: to
prosecute: to take an academic degree: (_Shak._) to be transacted,
done.--_ns._ PROC[=E]'DURE, the act of proceeding or moving forward: a step
taken or an act performed: progress: process: conduct; PROCEED'ER, one who
goes forward or makes progress; PROCEED'ING, a going forward: progress:
step: operation: transaction: (_pl._) a record of the transactions of a
society: (_Shak._) advancement.--_n.pl._ PRO'CEEDS, the money arising from
anything: rent: produce.--SPECIAL PROCEEDING, a judicial proceeding other
than an action, as, for example, a writ of mandamus; SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS,
certain statutory remedies taken without the formal bringing of an action
by process and pleading. [Fr. _procéder_--L. _proced[)e]re_--_pro_, before,
_ced[)e]re_, _cessum_, to go.]

PROCELEUSMATIC, pros-e-l[=u]s-mat'ik, _adj._ inciting, encouraging.--_n._
in ancient prosody, a foot consisting of four short syllables.
[Gr.,--_prokeleuein_, to incite before--_pro_, before, _keleuein_, to
order.]

PROCELLARIA, pros-e-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a Linnæan genus of petrels.

PROCEPHALIC, pr[=o]-se-fal'ik, or pr[=o]-sef'a-lik, _adj._ of or pertaining
to the forepart of the head.--PROCEPHALIC LOBES, two lobes in the embryo of
the Podophthalmia which develop into the anterior parts of the head. [Gr.
_pro_, before, _kephal[=e]_, head.]

PROCEREBRUM, pr[=o]-ser'[=e]-brum, _n._ the fore-brain, consisting of the
cerebral hemispheres, corpora striata, and olfactory lobes.--_adj._
PROCER'EBRAL. [L. _pro_, before, _cerebrum_, brain.]

PROCERITE, pros'e-r[=i]t, _n._ the last segment of the antennæ in the
Crustacea. [Gr. _pro_, before, _keras_, a horn.]

PROCERITY, pr[=o]-ser'i-ti, _n._ tallness, loftiness.--_adj._
PROC[=E]'ROUS, tall. [L.,--_proc[=e]rus_, tall.]

PROCÈS, pr[=o]-s[=a]', _n._ a law-suit: a trial.--PROCÈS VERBAL, a written
account of facts in connection with a trial or other proceeding. [Fr.]

PROCESS, pros'es, or pr[=o]-, _n._ a gradual progress: manner of acting or
happening: operation: the whole proceedings in an action or prosecution:
series of measures: a projection on a bone or plant (also PROCES'SUS): the
same as photo-process, the reproduction as a drawing, &c., by any
mechanical (esp. photographic) process: (_Shak._) a narrative,
account.--_v.t._ to proceed against by legal process: to produce a
reproduction of a drawing as above.--_n._ PROC'ESS-SERV'ER (_Shak._), a
bailiff. [Fr. _procès_--L. _processus._]

PROCESSION, pr[=o]-sesh'un, _n._ the act of proceeding: a train of persons
in a formal march.--_adj._ PROCES'SIONAL, pertaining to a procession:
consisting in a procession.--_n._ a book of the processions of the Romish
Church: a hymn sung during a procession, esp. of clergy in a church.--_n._
PROCES'SIONALIST.--_adj._ PROCES'SIONARY.--_ns._ PROCES'SIONER (_U.S._), a
county officer in Tennessee and North Carolina whose duty it is to survey
lands; PROCES'SIONING (_U.S._), periodical survey and inspection of
boundaries.--PROCESSION OF THE HOLY GHOST (_theol._), the emanation of the
Holy Spirit from the Father (_single procession_), or from the Father and
Son (_double procession_). [Fr.,--L.]

PROCHEIN, pr[=o]'shen, _adj._ next, nearest.--PROCHEIN AMI, AMY, next
friend, one who undertakes to assist a minor in prosecuting his or her
rights. [Fr.,--L. _proximus_, nearest.]

PROCHRONISM, pr[=o]'kron-izm, _n._ a dating of an event before the right
time: a making earlier than it really was--opp. to _Parachronism_. [Gr.
_pro_, before, _chronos_, time.]

PROCIDENCE, pros'i-dens, _n._ a falling down, a prolapsus.--_adjs._
PROC'IDENT; PROCID'UOUS, falling from its proper place.

PROCINCT, pr[=o]-singkt', _n._ (_Milt._) complete preparation. [L., _pro_,
before, _cing[)e]re_, _cinctum_, to gird.]

PROCLAIM, pr[=o]-kl[=a]m', _v.t._ to cry aloud: to publish abroad: to
announce officially.--_ns._ PROCLAIM'; PROCLAIM'ANT; PROCLAIM'ER;
PROCLAM[=A]'TION, the act of proclaiming: official notice given to the
public.--PROCLAIMED DISTRICT, a district in which some unusually strict law
is brought into force by a form of proclamation. [Fr. _proclamer_--L.
_proclam[=a]re_--_pro_, out, _clam[=a]re_, to cry.]

PROCLITIC, pr[=o]-klit'ik, _adj._ dependent in accent upon the following
word.--_n._ a monosyllabic word which depends so much on the following word
as to lose its accent. [Gr. _pro_, forward, _klinein_, lean.]

PROCLIVITY, pr[=o]-kliv'i-ti, _n._ an inclining forward: tendency:
inclination: aptitude.--_adjs._ PROCLIVE', inclining to a thing: having a
natural tendency: prone; PROCL[=I]'VOUS, slanting forward and downward. [L.
_proclivitas_--_proclivus_, having a slope forward--_pro_, forward,
_clivus_, a slope.]

PROCOELIAN, pr[=o]-s[=e]'li-an, _adj._ hollowed or cupped in front.--Also
PROCOE'LOUS. [Gr. _pro_, before, _koilos_, hollow.]

PROCONSUL, pr[=o]-kon'sul, _n._ a Roman official having the authority of a
consul without his office: the governor of a province.--_adj._
PROCON'SULAR, pertaining to, or under the government of, a
proconsul.--_ns._ PROCON'SULATE, PROCON'SULSHIP, the office, or term of
office, of a proconsul.

PROCRASTINATE, pr[=o]-kras'ti-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to put off till some future
time: to postpone.--_v.i._ to delay.--_n._ PROCRASTIN[=A]'TION, a putting
off till a future time: dilatoriness.--_adjs._ PROCRAS'TIN[=A]TIVE,
PROCRAS'TIN[=A]TORY.--_n._ PROCRAS'TIN[=A]TOR. [L.--_pro_, off,
_crastinus_--_cras_, to-morrow.]

PROCREATE, pr[=o]'kr[=e]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to bring into being: to generate: to
propagate: to produce.--_n._ PR[=O]'CREANT, one who, or that which,
procreates or generates.--_adj._ procreating, connected with or related to
reproduction.--_n._ PROCRE[=A]'TION, the act of procreating: generation:
production.--_adj._ PR[=O]'CRE[=A]TIVE, having the power to procreate:
generative: productive.--_ns._ PR[=O]'CRE[=A]TIVENESS; PR[=O]'CRE[=A]TOR,
one who procreates: a father. [L. _procre[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_pro_, forth,
_cre[=a]re_, to produce.]

PROCRUSTEAN, pr[=o]-krus't[=e]-an, _adj._ violently making conformable to a
standard--from _Procrustes_, a Greek robber, who stretched or cut a piece
off the legs of his captives, so as to fit them to an iron bed.

PROCTALGIA, prok-tal'ji-a, _n._ pain of the anus or rectum.--_n._
PROCT[=I]'TIS, inflammation thereof. [Gr. _proktos_, the anus, _algos_,
pain.]

PROCTOR, prok'tor, _n._ a procurator or manager for another: an attorney in
the spiritual courts: a representative of the clergy in Convocation: an
official in the English universities who attends to the morals of the
students and enforces university regulations.--_ns._ PROC'TORAGE,
PROC'TORSHIP.--_adj._ PROCT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a proctor:
magisterial.--_v.t._ PROC'TORISE (_slang_), in the English universities, to
summon before a proctor. [_Procurator_.]

PROCTUCHA, prok-t[=u]'ka, _n.pl._ a group of the Turbellaria in which the
digestive canal is furnished with an anal aperture.--_adj._
PROCT[=U]'CHOUS. [Gr. _pr[=o]ktos_, the anus, _echein_, to have.]

PROCUMBENT, pr[=o]-kum'bent, _adj_. leaning forward: lying down or on the
face: (_bot_.) trailing: without putting out roots, as a stem. [L. _pro_,
forward, _cumb[)e]re_, to lie down.]

PROCURE, pr[=o]-k[=u]r', _v.t._ to obtain for one's self or for another: to
bring about: to attract: (_Spens._) to urge earnestly.--_v.i._ to pander,
pimp.--_adj._ PROCUR'ABLE, that may be procured.--_ns._ PRO'CUR[=A]CY,
office of a procurator; PROCUR[=A]'TION, the act of managing another's
affairs: the instrument giving power to do this: a sum paid by incumbents
to the bishop or archdeacon on visitations; PROC'UR[=A]TOR, one who takes
care of a thing for another: a lawyer: a financial agent in an imperial
province under the Roman emperors; PROC'URATOR-FIS'CAL (see
FISCAL).--_adj._ PROCURAT[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ PROC'URATORSHIP.--_adj_.
PROC'UR[=A]TORY.--_ns._ PROCURE'MENT, the act of procuring: a bringing
about: management: agency; PROCUR'ER, one who procures: a pander:--_fem._
PROC'URESS. [Fr. _procurer_--L. _procur[=a]re_, to manage--_pro_, for,
_cur[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to care for.]

PROCUREUR, pr[=o]-kü-rer', _n._ a procurator.--PROCUREUR GÉNÉRAL (_French
law_), the public prosecutor-in-chief.

PROCYONIDÆ, pr[=o]-si-on'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ an American family of plantigrade
carnivorous mammals, including raccoons and coatis. [Gr. _pro_, before,
_ky[=o]n_, a dog.]

PROD, prod, _n._ a goad, awl: a prick or punch with a pointed
instrument.--_v.t._ to prick. [Perh. _brod._]

PRODIGAL, prod'i-gal, _adj._ spending without necessity: wasteful: lavish:
profuse.--_n._ one who throws away without necessity: a waster: a
spendthrift.--_v.t._ PROD'IGALISE, PROD'IG[=A]TE, to spend lavishly,
waste.--_n._ PRODIGAL'ITY, state or quality of being prodigal:
extravagance: profusion: great liberality.--_adv._ PROD'IGALLY, wastefully.
[Fr.,--L. _prodigus_--_prodig[)e]re_, to squander--_pro_, forth,
_ag[)e]re_, to drive.]

PRODIGY, prod'i-ji, _n._ a portent: any person or thing that causes great
wonder: a wonder: a monster.--_adj._ PRODIG'IOUS, like a prodigy:
astonishing: more than usually large in size or degree: monstrous.--_adv._
PRODIG'IOUSLY.--_n._ PRODIG'IOUSNESS. [Fr. _prodige_--L. _prodigium_, a
prophetic sign--_pro_, before, _dic[)e]re_, to say.]

PRODITOR, prod'i-tor, _n._ a traitor. [L.,--_prod[)e]re_, _-itum_, to
betray--_pro_, forth, _d[)a]re_, to give.]

PRODROMUS, prod'r[=o]-mus, _n._ a sign of approaching disease: a
preliminary course or treatise:--_pl._ PROD'ROMI (-[=i]).--_adj._
PRODROM'IC. [Gr.]

PRODUCE, pr[=o]-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to bring forward: to make longer: to bring
forth: to bear: to exhibit: to yield: to bring about: to cause: (_geom._)
to extend.--_v.i._ to yield: to create value.--_ns._ PROD'UCE, that which
is produced: product: proceeds: crops: yield; PROD'UCE-BROK'ER, a dealer in
natural products, esp. foreign or colonial; PRODUC'ER;
PRODUCIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ PRODUC'IBLE, that may be produced: that may be
generated or made: that may be exhibited.--_n._ PRODUC'IBLENESS.--_adj._
PRODUC'TILE, capable of being drawn out in length. [L. _produc[)e]re_,
_-ductum_--_pro_, forward, _duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

PRODUCT, prod'ukt, _n._ that which grows or is produced: work: composition:
effect: (_arith._) the result of numbers multiplied together: (_Milt._)
offspring.--_v.t._ PRODUCT' (_rare_), to produce.--_ns._ PRODUCTIBIL'ITY,
capability of being produced; PRODUC'TION, act of producing: that which is
produced: fruit: product: (_pol. econ._) creation of values: (_zool._)
extension, protrusion: (_pl._) in Scots law, written documents produced in
support of the action or defence.--_adj._ PRODUC'TIVE, having the power to
produce: generative: fertile: efficient.--_adv._ PRODUC'TIVELY.--_ns._
PRODUC'TIVENESS, PRODUCTIV'ITY.

PROEM, pr[=o]'em, _n._ an introduction: a prelude: a preface.--_adj._
PRO[=E]'MIAL. [Fr. _proème_--L. _prooemium_--Gr. _prooimion_--_pro_,
before, _oimos_, a way.]

PROEMBRYO, pr[=o]-em'bri-[=o], _n._ a cellular structure produced from the
spore of some plants, from which the embryo arises.

PROEMPTOSIS, pr[=o]-emp-t[=o]'sis, _n._ the addition of a day to a calendar
or cycle, to correct error. [Gr.]

PROFACE, pr[=o]'fas, _interj._ (_Shak._) may it profit you!--a phrase of
welcome. [O. Fr.,--_prou_, profit, _face_, _fasse_, 3d pers. sing. pres.
subj. of _faire_, to do.]

PROFANE, pr[=o]-f[=a]n', _adj._ not sacred: common: secular: speaking or
acting in contempt of sacred things: uninitiated: impious: impure.--_v.t._
to violate anything holy: to abuse anything sacred: to put to a wrong use:
to pollute: to debase.--_n._ PROFAN[=A]'TION, desecration: irreverence to
what is holy: a treating of anything with disrespect.--_adj._
PROFAN'ATORY.--_adv._ PROFANE'LY.--_ns._ PROFANE'NESS; PROF[=A]N'ER;
PROFAN'ITY, irreverence: that which is profane: profane language or
conduct. [Fr.,--L. _profanus_--_pro_, before, _fanum_, a temple.]

PROFECTITIOUS, pr[=o]-fek-tish'us, _adj._ derived from an ancestor or
ancestors. [Low L.,--L. _proficisci_, _profectus_, to proceed.]

PROFESS, pr[=o]-fes', _v.t._ to own freely: to make open declaration of: to
declare in strong terms: to announce publicly one's skill in: to affirm
one's belief in: (_Spens._) to present the appearance of: (_R.C._) to
receive into a religious order by profession.--_v.i._ to enter publicly
into a religious state: (_Shak._) to pretend friendship.--_adj._
PROFESSED', openly declared: avowed: acknowledged.--_adv._
PROFESS'EDLY.--_n._ PROFES'SION, the act of professing: open declaration:
pretence: an employment not mechanical and requiring some degree of
learning: calling or known employment: the collective body of persons
engaged in any profession: entrance into a religious order.--_adj._
PROFES'SIONAL, pertaining to a profession: engaged in a profession:
undertaken as a means of subsistence, as opposed to _Amateur._--_n._ one
who makes his living by an art, as opposed to an amateur who practises it
merely for pastime.--_n._ PROFES'SIONALISM.--_adv._ PROFES'SIONALLY.--_ns._
PROFESS'OR, one who professes: one who openly declares belief in certain
doctrines: one who publicly practises or teaches any branch of knowledge: a
public and authorised teacher in a university:--_fem._ PROFESS'ORESS;
PROFESS'ORATE, PROFESS[=O]'RI[=A]TE, the office of a professor or public
teacher: his period of office: body of professors.--_adj._
PROFESS[=O]'RIAL.--_adv._ PROFESS[=O]'RIALLY.--_n._ PROFESS'ORSHIP. [Fr.
_profès_, professed, said of a member of a religious order--L. _professus_,
perf. p. of _profit[=e]ri_--_pro_, publicly, _fat[=e]ri_, to confess.]

PROFFER, prof'[.e]r, _v.t._ to bring forward: to propose: to offer for
acceptance.--_n._ an offer made: a proposal.--_n._ PROFF'ERER. [Fr.
_proférer_--L. _proferre_--_pro_, forward, _ferre_, to bring.]

PROFICIENCE, pr[=o]-fish'ens, _n._ state of being proficient: improvement
in anything: advancement--also PROFI'CIENCY.--_adj._ PROFI'CIENT,
competent: well skilled: thoroughly qualified.--_n._ one who has made
considerable advancement in anything: an adept: an expert.--_adv._
PROFI'CIENTLY. [L. _proficiens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _profic[)e]re_, to make
progress--_pro_, forward, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PROFILE, pr[=o]'f[=i]l, _n._ an outline: a head or portrait in a side-view:
the side-face: the outline of any object without foreshortening: a vertical
section of country to show the elevations and depressions.--_v.t._ to draw
in profile: to make an outline of: (_mech._) to give a definite form by
chiselling, milling, &c.--_ns._ PR[=O]'FILIST, one who takes or makes
profiles; PROFIL'OGRAPH, an instrument for automatically recording the
profile of the ground it traverses. [It. _profilo_ (Fr. _profil_)--L.
_pro_, before, _filum_, a thread.]

PROFIT, prof'it, _n._ gain: the gain resulting from the employment of
capital: the difference between the selling price and the first cost:
advantage: addition to good or value: benefit: improvement.--_v.t._ to
benefit or to be of advantage to: to improve.--_v.i._ to gain advantage: to
receive profit: to improve: to be of advantage: to bring good.--_adj._
PROF'ITABLE, yielding or bringing profit or gain: lucrative: productive:
advantageous: beneficial.--_n._ PROF'ITABLENESS.--_adv._
PROF'ITABLY.--_ns._ PROF'ITER; PROF'ITING, profit, gain, or advantage:
(_B._) progress or proficiency.--_adj._ PROF'ITLESS, without profit, gain,
or advantage.--_adv._ PROF'ITLESSLY.--_n._ PROF'IT-SHAR'ING, a voluntary
agreement under which the employee receives a share, fixed beforehand, in
the profits of a business.--PROFIT AND LOSS, gain or loss arising from
buying and selling, &c.--NET PROFITS, clear gain after deduction of all
outlay and expenses; RATE OF PROFIT, the amount of profit compared with the
capital used in its production. [Fr.,--L. _profectus_,
progress--_profic[)e]re_, _profectum_, to make progress.]

PROFLIGATE, prof'li-g[=a]t, _adj._ abandoned to vice: without virtue or
decency: dissolute: prodigal: (_obs._) overthrown, defeated.--_n._ one
leading a profligate life: one shamelessly vicious: an abandoned
person.--_ns._ PROF'LIGACY, PROF'LIGATENESS, state or quality of being
profligate: a vicious course of life.--_adv._ PROF'LIGATELY. [L.
_profligatus_, pa.p. of _proflig[=a]re_--_pro_, forward, _flig[)e]re_, to
dash.]

PROFLUENT, prof'l[=u]-ent, _adj._ flowing forth.--_n._ PROF'LUENCE. [L.
_pro_, forth, _fluere_, to flow.]

PRO FORMA, pr[=o] for'ma, as a matter of form. [L. _pro_, for, _forma_,
abl. of _forma_, form.]

PROFOUND, pr[=o]-fownd', _adj._ far below the surface: low: very deep:
intense: abstruse: mysterious: occult: intellectually deep: penetrating
deeply into knowledge.--_n._ the sea or ocean: an abyss, great
depth.--_adv._ PROFOUND'LY, deeply: with deep knowledge or insight: with
deep concern.--_ns._ PROFOUND'NESS, PROFUND'ITY, the state or quality of
being profound: depth of place, of knowledge, &c.: that which is profound.
[Fr. _profond_--L. _profundus_--_pro_, forward, _fundus_, bottom.]

PROFUNDA, pr[=o]-fun'dä, _n._ a deep-seated artery, as of the arm, neck, or
leg:--_pl._ PROFUN'DÆ.

PROFUSE, pr[=o]-f[=u]s', _adj._ liberal to excess: lavish:
extravagant.--_adv._ PROF[=U]SE'LY.--_ns._ PROF[=U]SE'NESS, PROF[=U]'SION,
state of being profuse: extravagance: prodigality. [L. _profusus_, pa.p. of
_profund[)e]re_--_pro_, forth, _fund[)e]re_, to pour.]

PROG, prog, _v.t._ to thrust.--_v.i._ to go about, as if picking and
plundering: to beg.--_n._ a pointed instrument: food got by begging. [Prob.
related to W. procio, to stab.]

PROGENERATE, pr[=o]-jen'e-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to beget.--_n._ PROGEN'ITOR, a
forefather: an ancestor: a parent: the founder of a family:--_fem._
PROGEN'ITRESS, PROGEN'ITRIX.--_ns._ PR[=O]GEN'ITURE, a begetting; PROG'ENY,
that which is brought forth: descendants: race: children.
[Fr.,--L.,--_pro_, before, _genitor_, a parent, _gign[)e]re_, _genitum_, to
beget.]

PROGLOTTIS, pr[=o]-glot'is, _n._ a term applied to the detached segments of
the body in the _Cestoidea_:--_pl._ PROGLOTT'ID[=E]S.--_adj._ PROGLOTT'IC.
[Gr.,--_pro_, before, _gl[=o]ssa_, _gl[=o]tta_, tongue.]

PROGNATHOUS, prog'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ having jaws projecting far
forward--also PROGNATH'IC.--_n._ PROG'NATHISM. [Gr. _pro_, forward,
_gnathos_, a jaw.]

PROGNOSIS, prog-n[=o]'sis, _n._ foreknowledge: (_med._) the act or art of
foretelling the course of a disease from the symptoms: the opinion thus
formed.--_n._ PROGNOS'TIC, a foreshowing: a foretelling: an indication: a
presage.--_adj._ foreknowing: foreshowing: indicating what is to happen by
signs or symptoms.--_v.t._ PROGNOS'TIC[=A]TE, to foreshow: to foretell: to
indicate as future by signs.--_n._ PROGNOSTIC[=A]'TION, the act of
prognosticating or foretelling something future by present signs: a
foretoken or previous sign.--_adj._ PROGNOS'TIC[=A]TIVE.--_n._
PROGNOS'TIC[=A]TOR, a predictor of future events, esp. a weather prophet.
[Gr.,--_pro_, before, _gign[=o]skein_, to know.]

PROGRAMME, PROGRAM, pr[=o]'gram, _n._ a public notice in writing: an
outline of subjects and the order in which they are to be taken up at a
meeting, exhibition, concert, &c.: a preliminary outline.--_n._
PR[=O]'GRAMMER, one who makes up a programme.--PROGRAMME MUSIC, music meant
to give the hearers, by means of instruments, without words, the
impressions of scenes and incidents. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _programma_--_pro_,
before, _graphein_, to write.]

PROGRESS, prog'res, _n._ a going forward or onward: advance: improvement of
any kind: proficiency: course: passage from place to place: procession: a
journey of state: a circuit.--_v.i._ PR[=O]GRESS', to go forward: to make
progress: to grow better: to proceed: to advance: to improve.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to move or push forward.--_n._ PR[=O]GRES'SION, motion onward:
act or state of moving onward: progress: regular and gradual advance:
increase or decrease of numbers or magnitudes according to a fixed law:
(_mus._) a regular succession of chords or the movements of the parts in
harmony.--_adj._ PR[=O]GRES'SIONAL.--_ns._ PR[=O]GRES'SIONIST,
PROG'RESSIST, one who believes in the progress of society and its future
perfection: one who believes in the development of animals and plants from
one simple form.--_adj._ PR[=O]GRESS'IVE, progressing or moving forward:
advancing gradually: improving.--_n._ one in favour of reform.--_adv._
PR[=O]GRESS'IVELY.--_n._ PR[=O]GRESS'IVENESS.--ARITHMETICAL PROGRESSION
(see ARITHMETIC); GEOMETRICAL PROGRESSION, a series of numbers or
quantities in which each succeeding one is produced by _multiplying_ or
_dividing_ the preceding one by a fixed number or quantity, as 1, 4, 16,
64, &c., or 18, 6, 2; HARMONIC PROGRESSION (see HARMONIC); MUSICAL
PROGRESSION, the regular succession of chords or the movement of the parts
of a musical composition in harmony, where the key continues unchanged.
[Fr.,--L. _progressus_--_progredi_, to go forward--_pro_, forward, _gradi_,
to go.]

PROGYMNASIUM, pr[=o]-jim-n[=a]'zi-um, _n._ in Germany, a classical school
in which the higher classes are wanting: a school preparatory to a
gymnasium.

PROHIBIT, pr[=o]-hib'it, _v.t._ to hinder: to check or repress: to prevent:
to forbid: to interdict by authority.--_ns._ PROHIB'ITER; PROHIBI'TION, the
act of prohibiting, forbidding, or interdicting: an interdict: the
forbidding by law of the manufacture and sale of alcoholic drinks;
PROHIB'ITIONISM; PROHIBI'TIONIST, one who favours prohibitory duties in
commerce: one who advocates the forbidding by law of the manufacture and
sale of alcoholic drinks.--_adj._ PROHIB'ITIVE.--_adv._
PROHIB'ITIVELY.--_adj._ PROHIB'ITORY, that prohibits or forbids:
forbidding.--PROHIBITED DEGREES (see FORBIDDEN DEGREES, under
DEGREE).--WRIT OF PROHIBITION (_law_), a writ from a superior tribunal
staying proceedings in a lower court: (_Scots law_) a clause in a deed of
entail forbidding the heir to sell the estate, contract debt, &c. [L.
_prohib[=e]re_, _prohibitum_--_pro_, before, _hab[=e]re_, to have.]

PROIN, proin, _v.t._ an obsolete form of _prune_.

PRO INDIVISO, pr[=o] in-di-v[=i]'so, (_law_) applied to rights which two or
more persons hold in common.

PROJECT, pr[=o]j'ekt, _n._ a plan: a scheme: contrivance. [O. Fr. _project_
(Fr. _projet_)--L. _projectum_--_pro_, before, _jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

PROJECT, pr[=o]-jekt', _v.t._ to throw out or forward: to cast forward in
the mind: to contrive or devise: to exhibit (as in a mirror): to draw
straight lines from a fixed point through every point of any body or
figure, and let these fall upon a surface so as to form the points of a new
figure: to exhibit in relief.--_v.i._ to shoot forward: to jut out: to be
prominent.--_adj._ PROJEC'TILE, projecting or throwing forward: impelling
or impelled forward: that can be thrust forward.--_n._ a body projected by
force, esp. through the air: a cannon or rifle ball.--_adj._
PROJEC'TING.--_n._ PROJEC'TION, the act of projecting: that which juts out:
a plan or design: a delineation: a representation of any object on a plane,
esp. (_geom._) the earth's surface: (_alch._) the act of throwing anything
into a crucible, hence the act or result of transmutation of metals: the
crisis of any process, esp. a culinary process.--_adj._ PROJEC'TIVE,
produced by projection: (_geom._) capable, as two plane figures, of being
derived from one another by a number of projections and sections.--_ns._
PROJECTIV'ITY; PROJECT'MENT (_rare_), design; PROJEC'TOR, one who projects
or forms schemes: a parabolic mirror: a camera for throwing an image on a
screen; PROJEC'TURE, a jutting out beyond the main line or
surface.--MERCATOR'S PROJECTION, a map of the world with meridian lines
which are straight and parallel, and with parallels of latitude at
distances from each other, increasing towards the poles, invented by the
Flemish cosmographer, _Mercator_, in 1550.

PROKER, pr[=o]'ker, _n._ (_prov._) a poker.

PROLAPSE, pr[=o]-laps', _n._ (_med._) a falling down, or out, of some part
of the body from the position which it usually occupies--also
PROLAP'SUS.--_v.i._ to fall down: to protrude. [L. _prolabi_, _prolapsus_,
to fall forward--_pro_, forward, _labi_, to fall.]

PROLATE, pr[=o]'l[=a]t, _adj._ extended lengthwise: having the diameter
between the poles longer than at right angles to it, as a spheroid.--_ns._
PROL[=A]TE'NESS, PROL[=A]'TION, a bringing forth: pronunciation: delay:
(_mus._) a division. [L. _prolatus_, pa.p. of _proferre_, to bring
forward--_pro_, forth, _ferre_, to bear.]

PROLEG, pr[=o]'leg, _n._ one of the abdominal limbs of the larvæ of
insects.

PROLEGOMENA, pr[=o]-leg-om'en-a, _n.pl._ an introduction to a
treatise:--_sing._ PROLEGOM'ENON.--_adjs._ PROLEGOM'ENARY, PROLEGOM'ENOUS,
prefatory: prolix. [Gr.,--_pro_, before, _legein_, to say.]

PROLEPSIS, pr[=o]-lep'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure by which objections are
anticipated and answered: the dating of an event before its proper
time:--_pl._ PROLEP'S[=E]S.--_adjs._ PROLEP'TIC, -AL.--_adv._
PROLEP'TICALLY. [Gr.,--_pro_, before, _lambanein_, to take.]

PROLETARIAN, pr[=o]-le-t[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ belonging to the poorest
labouring class: having little or no property: plebeian: vulgar.--_n._ a
member of the poorest class--also PROLETAIRE', PR[=O]'LETARY.--_adj._
PROLET[=A]'NEOUS, having numerous offspring.--_ns._ PROLET[=A]'RIANISM, the
condition of the poorest classes; PROLET[=A]'RIAT, -E, the lowest class.
[L. _proletarius_ (in ancient Rome), a citizen of the sixth and lowest
class, who served the state not with his property, but with his
children--_proles_, offspring.]

PROLICIDE, pr[=o]'li-s[=i]d, _n._ infanticide.

PROLIFERATE, pr[=o]-lif'e-r[=a]t, _v.i._ to grow by multiplication of
elementary parts: (_zool._) to reproduce by proliferation.--_v.t._ to bear
by reproduction.--_n._ PROLIFER[=A]'TION, the birth and growth of
generative zoöids.--_adjs._ PROLIF'ER[=A]TIVE,  PROLIF'EROUS.--_adv._
PROLIF'EROUSLY. [L. _proles_, progeny, _ferre_, to bear.]

PROLIFIC, -AL, pr[=o]-lif'ik, -al, _adj._ bringing forth offspring:
producing young or fruit: productive: bringing about results: (_bot._)
applied to a flower from which another is produced.--_ns._ PROLIF'ICACY,
PROLIF'ICNESS.--_adv._ PROLIF'ICALLY.--_n._ PROLIFIC[=A]'TION, the
generation of young animals or plants: (_bot._) development of a shoot from
an organ normally ultimate. [Fr. _prolifique_--L. _proles_ (for
_pro-oles_), offspring, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PROLIX, pr[=o]'liks, _adj._ tedious: long and wordy: dwelling too long on
particulars: (_obs._) long.--_adj._ PROLIX'IOUS (_Shak._), dilatory,
tedious.--_ns._ PROLIX'ITY, PROLIX'NESS.--_adv._ PROLIX'LY. [Fr.
_prolixe_--L. _prolixus_--_pro_, forward, _liqui_, to flow.]

PROLL, pr[=o]l, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to prowl, rob. [_Prowl._]

PROLOCUTOR, pr[=o]-lok'[=u]-tor, _n._ the chairman of a convocation, or
meeting of clergy: (_rare_) a spokesman:--_fem._ PR[=O]LOC'UTRIX.--_n._
PR[=O]LOC'UTORSHIP. [L., _pro_, before, _loqui_, _locutus_, to speak.]

PROLOGUE, pr[=o]'log, _n._ a preface: the introductory verses before a
play: (_Shak._) the speaker of a prologue.--_v.t._ to introduce with a
prologue or preface.--_v.i._ PR[=O]'LOGISE, -UISE, to deliver a prologue.
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _prologos_--_pro_, before, _logos_, speech.]

PROLONG, pr[=o]-long', _v.t._ to lengthen out: (_Shak._) to put off to
another time: to continue.--_v.i._ to lengthen out.--_v.t._ PROLONG'[=A]TE,
to lengthen.--_ns._ PROLONG[=A]'TION, act of prolonging in space or time:
the additional length made by prolonging; PROLONG'ER. [Fr. _prolonger_--L.
_prolong[=a]re_--_pro_, forward, _longus_, long.]

PROLONGE, pr[=o]-lonj', _n._ a hemp rope consisting of three pieces joined
by two open rings, and having a hook at one end and a toggle at the other.
[Fr.]

PROLUSION, pr[=o]-l[=u]'zhun, _n._ a prelude, introduction: an essay
preparatory to a more solid treatise. [L.,--_pro_, before, _lud[)e]re_,
_lusum_, to play.]

PROMACHOS, prom'a-kos, _n._ a deity who fights in front of, or champions,
some person or state. [Gr.]

PROMENADE, prom-e-näd', or -n[=a]d', _n._ a walk for pleasure, show, or
exercise: a place for walking.--_v.i._ to walk for amusement, show, or
exercise.--_n._ PROMENÄ'DER.--PROMENADE CONCERT, an entertainment in which
the audience promenades or dances during the music. [Fr.,--from (_se_)
_promener_, to walk--L. _promin[=a]re_, to drive forwards--_pro_, forward,
_min[=a]re_, to drive.]

PROMETHEAN, pr[=o]-m[=e]'th[=e]-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Prometheus_, who
stole fire from heaven, for which Zeus chained him to a rock, to be
tortured by a vulture.--_n._ a glass tube containing sulphuric acid and an
inflammable mixture: a kind of lucifer-match.--_n._ PROM[=E]'THEUS, a large
silk-spinning moth. [Gr., lit. 'forethinker;' or Sans. _pramantha_, a
fire-stick.]

PROMINENT, prom'i-nent, _adj._ standing out beyond the line or surface of
something: projecting: most easily seen: conspicuous: principal: eminent:
distinguished.--_ns._ PROM'INENCE, PROM'INENCY, state or quality of being
prominent: conspicuousness: distinction.--_adv._ PROM'INENTLY. [Fr.,--L.
_promin[=e]re_, to jut forth--_pro_, forth, _min[=e]re_, to jut.]

PROMISCUOUS, pr[=o]-mis'k[=u]-us, _adj._ mixed: confused: collected
together without order: indiscriminate: not restricted to one individual:
(_prov._) casual, accidental.--_n._ PROMISC[=U]'ITY, mixture without order
or distinction: promiscuous sexual intercourse.--_adv._
PROMIS'CUOUSLY.--_n._ PROMIS'CUOUSNESS. [L. _promiscuus_--_pro_, inten.,
_misc[=e]re_, to mix.]

PROMISE, prom'is, _n._ an engagement made by a person either verbally or in
writing to do or keep from doing something: expectation or that which
causes expectation: a ground for hope of future excellence: (_rare_)
fulfilment of what is promised.--_v.t._ to make an engagement to do or not
to do something: to afford reason to expect: to assure: to engage to
bestow.--_v.i._ to assure one by a promise: to afford hopes or
expectations: (_rare_) to stand sponsor.--_ns._ PROM'ISE-BREACH (_Shak._),
violation of promise; PROM'ISE-BREAK'ER (_Shak._), a violator of
promises.--_adj._ PROM'ISE-CRAMMED (_Shak._), crammed or filled with
promises.--_ns._ PROMIS[=EE]', the person to whom a promise is made;
PROM'ISER,  PROM'ISOR.--_adj._ PROM'ISING, affording ground for hope or
expectation: likely to turn out well.--_advs._ PROM'ISINGLY;
PROM'ISSORILY.--_adj._ PROM'ISSORY, containing a promise of some engagement
to be fulfilled.--_n._ PROM'ISSORY-NOTE, a note by one person promising to
pay a sum of money to another, or to bearer, at a certain date, or at
sight, or on demand.--PROMISED LAND, the land promised by God to Abraham
and his seed: Canaan: heaven.--BE PROMISED (_rare_), to have an engagement;
BREACH OF PROMISE (see BREACH); CONDITIONAL PROMISE, a promise of which the
obligation depends on certain conditions--opp. to _Absolute promise_;
EXPRESS PROMISE, a promise expressed orally or in writing; THE PROMISE, the
assurance of God to Abraham that his descendants should become the chosen
people. [Fr. _promesse_--L. _promissa_, _promitt[)e]re_, to send
forward--_pro_, forward, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

PROMONTORY, prom'on-tor-i, _n._ a headland or high cape jutting out into
the sea: (_anat._) a projection on the sacrum: a rounded elevation in the
tympanum of the ear. [L. _promontorium_--_pro_, forward, _mons_, _montis_,
a mountain.]

PROMOTE, pr[=o]-m[=o]t', _v.t._ to move forward: to help on the growth or
improvement of anything: to advance: to further: to encourage: to raise to
a higher position: to elevate.--_ns._ PROM[=O]'TER; PROM[=O]'TION, the act
of promoting: advancement in rank or in honour: encouragement:
preferment.--_adj._ PROM[=O]'TIVE.--BE ON ONE'S PROMOTION, to have right or
hope of promotion: to be on good behaviour with a view to chances of
promotion. [L. _promotus_, pa.p. of _promov[=e]re_--_pro_, forward,
_mov[=e]re_, to move.]

PROMPT, promt, _adj._ prepared: ready and willing: acting with alacrity:
cheerful: unhesitating: (_obs._) inclined, disposed.--_v.t._ to incite: to
move to action: to assist a speaker when at a loss for words: to suggest to
the mind.--_n._ a limit of time given for payment for merchandise
purchased, the limit being stated on the _prompt-note_, the note of
reminder.--_ns._ PROMPT'-BOOK, a copy of a play arranged for the prompter's
use; PROMPT'ER; PROMPT'ING, the act of prompting or suggesting: that which
is prompted or suggested; PROMPT'IT[=U]DE, promptness: readiness:
willingness: quickness of decision and action.--_adv._ PROMPT'LY.--_ns._
PROMPT'NESS; PROMPT'[=U]ARY, a magazine, repository, a handbook;
PROMPT'[=U]RE (_Shak._), suggestion: instigation. [Fr.,--L.
_promptus_--_pr[=o]m[)e]re_, to bring forward--_pro_, forth, _em[)e]re_, to
bring.]

PROMULGATE, pr[=o]-mul'g[=a]t, _v.t._ to publish: to proclaim: to make
widely known--(_arch._) PROMULGE'.--_ns._ PROMULG[=A]'TION, act of
promulgating: publication: open declaration: (_law_) the first official
publication of a new law; PROM'ULG[=A]TOR. [L. _promulg[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_.]

PROMUSCIS, pr[=o]-mus'is, _n._ a proboscis, esp. of hemipters.--_adj._
PROMUS'CID[=A]TE, like or having a promuscis.

PRONAOS, pr[=o]-n[=a]'os, _n._ the open porch in front of a temple. [Gr.,
_pro_, before, _naos_, a temple.]

PRONATION, pr[=o]-n[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of turning the palm of the hand
downwards--opp. to _Supination_.--_v.t._ PR[=O]'NATE, to turn the palm
downwards effected by means of the pronator muscle.--_n._ PRON[=A]'TOR, a
muscle of the forearm by which pronation is effected. [L. _pron[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to lead forward--_pronus_.]

PRONE, pr[=o]n, _adj._ with the face downward: bending forward: headlong:
disposed: inclined or sloping.--_adv._ PRONE'LY.--_n._ PRONE'NESS. [O.
Fr.,--L. _pronus_; cog. with Gr. _pr[=e]n[=e]s_, prone.]

PRONG, prong, _n._ the spike of a fork or similar instrument: one of
several points or projections, as on an antler.--_v.t._ to stab with a
prong.--_adj._ PRONGED, having prongs.--_n._ PRONG'-HOE.--_adj._
PRONG'-HORN, having horns with a prong.--_n._ the prong-buck or cabrit, the
American antelope. [Nasalised form of Prov. Eng. _prog_, to prick--W.
_procio_; cf. Gael. _brog_, to goad, _brog_, an awl.]

PRONOMINAL. See PRONOUN.

PRONONCÉ, pr[=o]-nong-s[=a]', _adj._ decided: self-asserting:--_fem._
PRONONCÉE. [Fr.; cf. _Pronounce_.]

PRONOTUM, pr[=o]-n[=o]'tum, _n._ the tergal portion of the prothorax in the
Insecta:--_pl._ PRON[=O]'TA.--_adj._ PRON[=O]'TAL. [Gr. _pro_, before,
_n[=o]tos_, back.]

PRONOUN, pr[=o]'nown, _n._ a word used instead of a noun.--_adj._
PRONOM'INAL, belonging to, or of the nature of, a pronoun.--_adv._
PRONOM'INALLY.

PRONOUNCE, pr[=o]-nowns', _v.t._ to make known by speaking: to utter with
the proper sound and accent: to speak distinctly: to utter formally: to
utter rhetorically: to declare.--_v.i._ to utter confidently: to utter
words.--_adjs._ PRONOUNCE'ABLE, capable of being pronounced; PRONOUNCED',
marked with emphasis: marked.--_adv._ PRONOUN'CEDLY.--_ns._ PRONOUNCE'MENT,
act of pronouncing: an announcement or proclamation; PRONOUN'CER.--_adjs._
PRONOUN'CING, PRONUN'CIAL, giving or marking pronunciation.--_n._
PRONUNCI[=A]'TION, act or mode of pronouncing: art of speaking distinctly
and correctly: utterance. [Fr. _prononcer_--L. _pronunti[=a]re_--_pro_,
forth, _nunci[=a]re_, to announce--_nuntius_, a messenger.]

PRONUNCIAMENTO, pr[=o]-nun-si-a-men'to, _n._ a manifesto: a formal
proclamation. [Sp.]

PROOEMIUM, pr[=o]-[=e]'mi-um, _n._ same as PROEM--also PROE'MION: (_rhet._)
exordium.--_adj._ PROOE'MISE.

PROOF, pr[=oo]f, _n._ that which proves or establishes the truth of
anything: test: (_obs._) experience: experiment: any process to discover or
establish a truth: that which convinces: demonstration: evidence which
convinces the mind: state of having been proved: (_pl._) in equity
practice, the instruments of evidence in their documentary form: (_Scots
law_) the taking of evidence by a judge upon an issue framed in pleading: a
test, hence 'Armour of proof,' armour proved to be trustworthy: (_arith._)
an operation checking the accuracy of a calculation: firmness of mind: a
certain strength of alcoholic spirits: (_print._) an impression taken for
correction, also 'proof-sheet:' an early impression of an engraving--'proof
before letter'=one taken before the title is engraved on the plate:
(_phot._) the first print from a negative.--_adj._ firm in resisting:
noting alcoholic liquors having the specific gravity 0.920:--_pl._
PROOFS.--_ns._ PROOF'-ARM'OUR, armour proved to be able to resist ordinary
weapons; PROOF'-CHARGE, an extraordinary amount of powder and shot put into
a gun to test its strength; PROOF'-HOUSE, a house fitted up for proving the
barrels of firearms; PROOF'-LEAF (same as PROOF-SHEET).--_adj._ PROOF'LESS,
wanting proof or evidence.--_ns._ PROOF'-MARK, a mark stamped on a gun to
show that it has stood the test; PROOF'-READ'ER, a person who reads printed
proofs to discover and correct errors; PROOF'-SHEET, an impression taken on
a slip of paper for correction before printing finally; PROOF'-SPIR'IT, a
mixture containing fixed proportions of alcohol and water--nearly half its
weight and fully half its volume of alcohol; PROOF'-TEXT, a passage of
Scripture held to prove a certain doctrine.--ARTIST'S PROOF, a first
impression from an engraved plate or block; BURDEN OF PROOF (see BURDEN);
INDIA PROOF (see INDIAN). [O. Fr. _prove_ (Fr. _preuve_)--L. _prob[=a]re_,
to prove.]

PROOSTRACUM, pr[=o]-os'tra-kum, _n._ the forward continuation of the guard
or rostrum in the Belemnites. [Gr. _pro_, before, _ostrakon_, shell.]

PROOTIC, pr[=o]-ot'ik, _n._ a bone developed in some vertebrata in front of
the ear--also _adj._ [Gr. _pro_, before, _ous_, _[=o]tos_, ear.]

PROP, prop, _n._ anything on which a weight rests for support: a support: a
stay.--_v.t._ to keep from falling by means of something placed under or
against: to support or to sustain in any way:--_pr.p._ prop'ping; _pa.t_.
and _pa.p._ propped.--_n._ PROP'PAGE. [Allied to Sw. _propp_, Ger. _propf_,
a stopper; some connect also with Ger. _pfropf_, a graft--L. _propago_, a
set, layer.]

PROPÆDEUTIC, -AL, pr[=o]-p[=e]-d[=u]'tik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to
preliminary instruction.--_n._ PROPÆDE[=U]'TIC, a preliminary branch of
knowledge: (_pl._) the introduction to an art or science. [Gr. _pro_,
before, _paideuein_, to teach.]

PROPAGATE, prop'a-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to increase by generation or other natural
process: to multiply plants by layers: to extend: to produce: to impel
forward in space, as sound, light, energy, &c.: to spread from one to
another: to promote: to extend the knowledge of: (_obs._) to
increase.--_v.i._ to be produced or multiplied: to have young.--_adj._
PROP'AGABLE, that can be propagated or increased by generation or other
natural process.--_ns._ PROPAGAN'DA, PROP'AGAND, a committee (_congregatio
de propaganda fide_) at Rome charged with the management of the R.C.
missions: any association for the spread of opinions and principles, esp.
such as are opposed to the existing government; PROPAGAND'ISM, practice of
propagating tenets or principles: zeal in spreading one's opinions:
proselytism; PROPAGAND'IST, one who devotes himself to propagandism;
PROPAG[=A]'TION, act of propagating: the spreading or extension of
anything, as light, sound, energy, &c.: increase: enlargement.--_adj._
PROP'AG[=A]TIVE.--_ns._ PROP'AG[=A]TOR; PROPAGAT[=O]'RIUM (_biol._), the
reproductive apparatus.--_adj._ PROP'AG[=A]TORY.--_ns._ PROP[=A]'GO, a
layer or branch laid down to root; PROPAG'[=U]LUM, a runner or sucker
ending in an expanded bud: a gemma or bud affecting asexual propagation in
many algæ. [L. _prop[=a]g[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, conn. with _pro-p[=a]g-o_, a
layer.]

PROPALE, pr[=o]-p[=a]l', _v.t._ to disclose.

PROPALINAL, pr[=o]-pal'i-nal, _adj._ moving backward and forward, as the
under jaw in mastication. [L. _pro_, forward, Gr. _palin_, backward.]

PROPAROXYTONE, pr[=o]-par-ok'si-t[=o]n, _adj._ having the acute accent on
the antepenultimate or third last syllable.--_n._ a word having the acute
accent on the antepenultimate.

PROPEL, pr[=o]-pel', _v.t._ to drive forward: to urge onward by
force:--_pr.p._ propel'ling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ propelled'.--_n._
PROPEL'LANT, that which drives forward.--_adj._ PROPEL'LENT.--_ns._
PROPEL'LER, one who, or that which, propels: any kind of mechanism for
moving a ship through the water, by a paddle-wheel, oar, screw, &c.: a
vessel thus propelled: a spinning-bait; PROPEL'MENT, act of propelling:
propelling mechanism. [L. _pro_, forward, _pell[)e]re_, to drive.]

PROPEND, pr[=o]-pend', _v.i._ (_Shak._) to lean toward: to be in favour of
anything.--_adj._ PROPEND'ENT. [L. _propend[=e]re_--_pro_, forward,
_pend[=e]re_, _pensum_, to hang.]

PROPENSE. pr[=o]-pens', _adj._ leaning towards in a moral sense: inclined:
disposed.--_adv._ PROPENSE'LY.--_ns._ PROPENSE'NESS, PROPENS'ITY,
inclination of mind: tendency to good or evil: disposition; PROPEN'SION,
tendency to move in a certain direction.--_adj._ PROPEN'SIVE. [L.
_propensus_, hanging forward.]

PROPER, prop'[.e]r, _adj._ one's own: fitted for a person's nature or
qualities: peculiar: belonging to only one of a species (as a name):
natural: suitable: correct: just: right: becoming: (_B._) comely, pretty:
in liturgics, used only on a particular day or festival.--_n._ something
set apart for a special use.--_adv._ (_coll._) very, exceedingly.--_adv._
PROP'ERLY, in a proper manner: (_coll._) entirely, extremely.--_n._
PROP'ERNESS.--PROPERLY SPEAKING, in the strict sense: speaking without
qualification. [Fr. _propre_--L. _proprius_, one's own, akin to _prope_,
near.]

PROPERISPOMENON, pr[=o]-per-i-sp[=o]m'e-non, _n._ a word with the
circumflex accent on the penult. [Gr.,--_pro_, before, _peri_, round,
_sp[=a]n_, to draw.]

PROPERTY, prop'[.e]r-ti, _n._ that which is proper to any person or thing:
a quality which is always present: any quality: that which is one's own: an
estate: right of possessing, employing, &c.: ownership: (_Shak._)
individuality: (_pl._) articles required by actors in a play.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to invest with certain properties: to make a tool of,
appropriate.--_adj._ PROP'ERTIED, possessed of property or
possessions.--_ns._ PROP'ERTY-MAN, -MAS'TER, one who has charge of the
stage properties in a theatre; PROP'ERTY-ROOM, the room in which the stage
properties of a theatre are kept; PROP'ERTY-TAX, a tax paid by persons
possessed of property, at the rate of so much per cent. on its
value.--MOVABLE or PERSONAL PROPERTY, property that may attend the person
of the owner, movables; PRIVATE PROPERTY, that which belongs to an
individual for his personal disposition and use--opp. to PUBLIC PROPERTY;
REAL PROPERTY, lands, tenements, and hereditaments, real estate; QUALIFIED
PROPERTY, the right a man has in reclaimed wild animals--also called
SPECIAL PROPERTY: such right as a bailee has in the chattel transferred to
him by the bailment. [O. Fr. _properte_--a doublet of _propriety_.]

PROPHASIS, prof'a-sis, _n._ prognosis. [Gr.]

PROPHECY, prof'e-si, _n._ a prediction: public interpretation of Scripture:
instruction: (_B._) a book of prophecies. [O. Fr. _prophecie_--L.
_prophet[=i]a_--Gr. _proph[=e]teia_--_proph[=e]t[=e]s_.]

PROPHESY, prof'e-s[=i], _v.t._ to foretell: to predict.--_v.i._ (_B._) to
exhort: to expound religious subjects.--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
proph'es[=i]ed.--_ns._ PROPH'ES[=I]ER; PROPH'ESYING. [_s_ has been
arbitrarily substituted for _c_, to distinguish the verb from the noun.]

PROPHET, prof'et, _n._ one who proclaims or interprets the will of God: one
who announces things to come: one who predicts or foretells events: (_B._)
one inspired by God to warn and teach: (_pl._) the writings of the
prophets.--_n.fem._ PROPH'ETESS.--_ns._ PROPH'ETHOOD, PROPH'ETSHIP,
quality, office of a prophet.--_adjs._ PROPHET'IC, -AL, pertaining to a
prophet: containing prophecy: foreseeing or foretelling events.--_adv._
PROPHET'ICALLY.--_n._ PROPH'ETISM.--PROPHETIC OFFICE, the office of a
prophet.--FORMER PROPHETS, Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings; LATTER
PROPHETS, the prophets properly so called; MAJOR PROPHETS, the prophets
whose books come before that of Hosea; MINOR PROPHETS, the prophets from
Hosea to Malachi; SCHOOL OF THE PROPHETS, a school among the ancient Jews
for training young men as teachers of the people; THE PROPHETS, one of the
three divisions into which the ancient Jews divided their
Scriptures--consisting of the _former_ and the _latter_ prophets (see
above). [Fr.,--L. _proph[=e]ta_--Gr. _proph[=e]t[=e]s_--_pro_, before, in
behalf of, _ph[=e]-mi_, _phanai_, to speak.]

PROPHYLACTIC, prof-i-lak'tik, _adj._ guarding against: defending from
disease.--_n._ a medicine which wards off disease.--_n._ PROPHYLAX'IS. [Gr.
_pro_, before, _phylassein_, to guard.]

PROPINE, pr[=o]-p[=i]n', _v.t._ to pledge in drinking: to present,
guarantee.--_n._ (_obs._) money given as drink-money, any pledge or gift:
the power of giving.--_n._ PROPIN[=A]'TION, act of drinking healths. [O.
Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _propinein_, _pro_, before, _pinein_, to drink.]

PROPINQUITY, pr[=o]-ping'kwi-ti, _n._ nearness in time, place, or blood:
proximity: neighbourhood.--_v.i._ PROPINQ'UATE, to approach. [L.
_propinquitas_--_propinquu_s, near--_prope_, near.]

PROPITIATE, pr[=o]-pish'i-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make propitious: to render
favourable.--_v.i._ to make propitiation: to atone.--_adj._ PROPI'TIABLE,
that maybe propitiated or rendered favourable.--_ns._ PROPITI[=A]'TION, act
of propitiating: (_theol._) that which propitiates: atonement: the death of
Christ as a ground of the forgiveness of sin; PROPI'TI[=A]TOR.--_adv._
PROPI'TIATORILY.--_adj._ PROPI'TI[=A]TORY, having power to propitiate:
expiatory.--_n._ the Jewish mercy-seat.--_adj._ PROPI'TIOUS, favourable:
disposed to be gracious or merciful: ready to forgive.--_adv._
PROPI'TIOUSLY.--_n._ PROPI'TIOUSNESS. [L. _propiti[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
make favourable--_propitius_, well disposed; orig. perh. an augur's term
with reference to the flying of birds--_pro_, forward, _pet[)e]re_, to
seek, orig. fly; by others conn. with _prope_, near.]

PROPLASM, pr[=o]'plazm, _n._ a mould, matrix.--_adj._ PROPLAS'TIC, forming
a mould.

PROPODITE, prop'[=o]-d[=i]t, _n._ the sixth joint of the typical limb of a
Crustacean.

PROPODIUM, pr[=o]-p[=o]'di-um, _n._ the anterior division of the foot in
some Gasteropoda and Pteropoda. [Gr. _pro_, before, _pous_, _podos_, the
foot.]

PROPOLIS, prop'[=o]-lis, _n._ a red, resinous, odorous substance like wax
collected by bees and used to stop crevices in the hive, strengthen cells,
&c. [Gr.,--_pro_, before, _polis_, city.]

PROPONENT, pr[=o]-p[=o]'nent, _adj._ proposing.--_n._ one who makes a
proposal or proposition: (_law_) one who propounds a will for probate.

PROPORTION, pr[=o]-p[=o]r'shun, _n._ the relation of one thing to another
in regard to magnitude: fitness of parts to each other: symmetrical
arrangement: (_math._) the identity or equality of ratios: the 'rule of
three,' in which three terms are given to find a fourth: equal or just
share: (_obs._) form, figure.--_v.t._ to adjust: to form symmetrically: to
correspond to: to divide into proper shares.--_adj._ PROPOR'TIONABLE, that
may be proportioned: having a proper proportion.--_n._
PROPOR'TIONABLENESS.--_adv._ PROPOR'TIONABLY.--_adj._ PROPOR'TIONAL, having
a due proportion: relating to proportion: (_math._) having the same or a
constant ratio.--_n._ (_math._) a number or quantity in a proportion.--_n._
PROPORTIONAL'ITY.--_adv._ PROPOR'TIONALLY.--_adj_. PROPOR'TIONATE, adjusted
according to a proportion: proportional.--_v.t._ to make proportional: to
adjust in proportion.--_adv._ PROPOR'TIONATELY.--_ns._ PROPOR'TIONATENESS,
the quality of being adjusted according to settled rates or comparative
relation; PROPOR'TIONING, adjustment of proportions.--_adj._
PROPOR'TIONLESS, without proportion or symmetry of parts.--PROPORTIONAL
REPRESENTATION, representation in a parliament, &c., according to the
number of electors in an electoral district.--COMPOUND PROPORTION, a
proportion between two quantities, each of which is the product of two or
more, those of the first set being in their order proportional to those of
the other; IN PROPORTION, in the degree or measure, according; INVERSE, or
RECIPROCAL, PROPORTION, an equality of ratio between two quantities and the
reciprocals of other two, as 6 : 3 = ½ : ¼. [L. _proportio_--_pro_, in
comparison with, _portio_, _portionis_, part, share.]

PROPOSE, pr[=o]-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to put forward or offer for consideration,
&c.: to purpose or intend: (_obs._) to place out, state, utter, discourse:
(_Shak._) to face, confront.--_v.i._ to form an intention or design: to
offer, especially marriage: (_Shak._) to converse--_n._ (_obs._) talk,
discourse.--_n._ PROP[=O]'SAL, anything proposed: terms or conditions
proposed.--_n._ PROP[=O]'SER. [Fr.,--pfx. _pro-_, _poser_, to place.]

PROPOSITION, prop-[=o]-zish'un, _n._ a placing before: offer of terms: that
which is proposed: the act of stating anything: that which is stated:
(_gram._ and _logic_) a complete sentence, or one which affirms or denies
something: (_math._) a theorem or problem to be demonstrated or
solved.--_adj._ PROPOSI'TIONAL, pertaining to, or of the nature of, a
proposition: considered as a proposition. [Fr.,--L. _propositio_.]

PROPOUND, pr[=o]-pownd', _v.t._ to offer for consideration: to
exhibit.--_n._ PROPOUND'ER. [Orig. _propone_--L.,--_pro_, forth,
_pon[)e]re_, to place.]

PROPRÆTOR, PROPRETOR, pr[=o]-pr[=e]'tor, _n._ a magistrate of ancient Rome,
who, after acting as prætor in Rome, was appointed to the government of a
province.

PROPRIETOR, pr[=o]-pr[=i]'e-tor, _n._ one who has anything as his property:
an owner:--_fem._ PROPR[=I]'ETRESS, PROPR[=I]'ETRIX.--_adjs._
PROPR[=I]'ETARY, PROPRIET[=O]'RIAL, belonging to a proprietor.--_n._
PROPR[=I]'ETARY, a proprietor, owner: a body of proprietors: the rights of
a proprietor.--_n._ PROPR[=I]'ETORSHIP, state or right of a proprietor:
ownership.--PROPRIETARY RIGHT, the right of a proprietor: the common-law
right of a playwright to control production or representation of his drama
so long as unpublished: the right when protected by copyright after
publication.

PROPRIETY, pr[=o]-pr[=i]'e-ti, _n._ a person's right of possession: state
of being proper or right: agreement with established principles or customs:
fitness: accuracy: property: (_obs._) individuality.--THE PROPRIETIES,
conventional customs of society. [Fr.,--L. _proprietas_--_proprius_, one's
own.]

PROPRIUM, pr[=o]'pri-um, _n._ selfhood.

PROPROCTOR, pr[=o]-prok'tor, _n._ a substitute or assistant proctor.

PROPTERYGIUM, pr[=o]-t[=e]-rij'i-um, _n._ the anterior basal cartilage of
the fins in the _Elasmobranchii_:--_pl._ PROPTERY'GIA.--_adj._
PROPTERY'GIAL. [L. _pro_, before, L.,--Gr. _pterygion_, a fin, _pteron_, a
wing.]

PROPUGNATION, pr[=o]-pug-n[=a]'shun, _n._ (_Shak._) defence. [L., _pro_,
for, _pugn[=a]re_, to fight.]

PROPULSION, pr[=o]-pul'shun, _n._ act of propelling: a driving
forward.--_adjs._ PROPUL'SIVE, PROPUL'SORY, tending or having power to
propel. [Low L. _propulsio_--L. _propell[)e]re_, _propulsum_, to push
forward.]

PROPYLÆUM, pr[=o]-pi-l[=e]'um, _n._ a gateway of architectural importance,
leading into a temple, &c.:--_pl._ PROPYLÆ'A.--_n._ PR[=O]'PYLON, a
monumental gateway before the entrance of an ancient Egyptian temple, &c.
[Gr. _pro_, before, _pyl[=e]_, a gate.]

PRO RATA, pr[=o] r[=a]'ta, according to one's share: in proportion.--_v.t._
PROR[=A]TE', to assess pro rata.

PRORE, pr[=o]r, _n._ Same as PROW.

PRORECTOR, pr[=o]-rek'tor, _n._ a substitute or assistant rector.

PRO RE NATA, pr[=o] r[=e] n[=a]'ta, dealing with something that arises
unexpectedly or out of due course, for special business. [L. _pro_, for,
_re_, abl. of _res_, thing, _nata_, abl. fem. of _natus_, born.]

PROROGUE, pr[=o]-r[=o]g', _v.t._ to bring the meetings of parliament to an
end for a time: to put off from one session to another:--_pr.p._
pror[=o]g'uing: _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pror[=o]gued'.--_v.t._
PR[=O]'ROG[=A]TE.--_n._ PROROG[=A]'TION, act of proroguing: a lengthening
out: a putting off to another time, esp. the bringing to an end of a
session of parliament. [Fr.,--L. _prorog[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_pro_,
forward, _rog[=a]re_, to ask.]

PRORSAD, pror'sad, _adv._ (_anat._) forward.--_adj._ PROR'SAL, anterior.

PROSAIC, -AL, pr[=o]-z[=a]'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to prose: like prose:
commonplace in style, manner, or thought: dull.--_adv._
PROS[=A]'ICALLY.--_ns._ PROS[=A]'ICISM, PROS[=A]'ICNESS, quality of being
prosaic; PR[=O]'SAISM, a prose idiom: a prosaic phrase; PR[=O]'SAIST, a
writer of prose: a commonplace person.

PROSCENIUM, pr[=o]-s[=e]'ni-um, _n._ the front part of the stage: the
curtain and its framework. [L.,--Gr. _prosk[=e]nion_--_pro_, before,
_sk[=e]n[=e]_, the stage.]

PROSCRIBE, pr[=o]-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to publish the names of persons to be
punished: to put beyond the protection of law: to banish: to prohibit: to
denounce, as doctrine.--_ns._ PR[=O]SCRIB'ER; PR[=O]'SCRIPT; PROSCRIP'TION,
the act of proscribing or dooming to death or outlawry: utter
rejection.--_adj._ PR[=O]SCRIP'TIVE, pertaining to, or consisting in,
proscription.--_adv._ PR[=O]SCRIP'TIVELY. [L. _proscrib[)e]re_--_pr_o,
before, publicly, _scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_, to write.]

PROSE, pr[=o]z, _n._ the direct, straightforward arrangement of words, free
from poetical measures: ordinary spoken and written language: all writings
not in verse.--_adj._ pertaining to prose: not poetical: plain:
dull.--_v.i._ to write prose: to speak or write tediously.--_v.t._ to
compose in prose.--_ns._ PROSE'-MAN, PR[=O]'SER, PROSE'-WRIT'ER, a writer
of prose.--_adv._ PR[=O]'SILY, in a prosy manner: tediously.--_ns._
PR[=O]'SINESS, the state or quality of being prosy; PR[=O]'SING, speaking
or writing in a dull or prosy way.--_adj._ PR[=O]'SY, dull, tedious.
[Fr.,--L. _prosa_--_prorsus_, straightforward--_pro_, forward,
_vert[)e]re_, _versum_, to turn.]

PROSECT, pr[=o]-sekt', _v.t._ to dissect beforehand.--_v.i._ to perform the
duties of a prosector, one who dissects a body for the illustration of
anatomical lectures.--_ns._ PROSEC'TION; PROSEC'TOR.--_adj._
PROSECT[=O]'RIAL.--_n._ PROSEC'TORSHIP. [L. _pro_, before, _sec[=a]re_, to
cut.]

PROSECUTE, pros'[=e]-k[=u]t, _v.t._ to follow onwards or pursue, in order
to reach or accomplish: to continue: to pursue by law: to bring before a
court.--_v.i._ to carry on a legal prosecution.--_ns._ PROSEC[=U]'TION, the
act of prosecuting or pursuing, esp. a civil or criminal suit: the party by
which legal proceedings are instituted; PROS'EC[=U]TOR, one who prosecutes
or pursues any plan or business: one who carries on a civil or criminal
suit:--_fem._ PROS'EC[=U]TRIX.--PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, a person whose duty it
is to conduct prosecutions in the public interest. [L. _prosequi_--_pro_,
onwards, _sequi_, _secutus_, to follow.]

PROSELYTE, pros'e-l[=i]t, _n._ one who has come over from one religion or
opinion to another: a convert, esp. one who left the heathen and joined a
Jewish community.--_v.t._ to convert.--_v.t._ PROS'ELYT[=I]SE, to make
proselytes.--_ns._ PROS'ELYT[=I]SER, one who proselytises; PROS'ELYTISM,
the act of proselytising or of making converts: conversion.--PROSELYTE OF
THE GATE, a convert who was not compelled to submit to the regulations of
the Mosaic law. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _pros[=e]lytos_--_proserchomai_, I come
to--_pros_, to, _erchomai_, _[=e]lthon_, to come.]

PROSENCEPHALON, pros-en-sef'a-lon, _n._ the fore-brain, comprising the
cerebral hemispheres and olfactory processes.--_adj._ PROSENCEPHAL'IC. [Gr.
_pros_, before, _enkephalon_, the brain--_en_, in, _kephal[=e]_, the head.]

PROSENCHYMA, pros-eng'ki-ma, _n._ the fibro-vascular system or tissue of
plants--opp. to _Parenchyma_, the soft tissues.--_adj._ PROSENCHYM'ATOUS.
[Gr. _pros_, to, _enchyma_, an infusion.]

PROSEUCHE, (-A), pros-[=u]'k[=e], (-kä), _n._ a place of prayer: among the
Jews one that was not a synagogue, or the temple, usually roofless:--_pl._
PROSEU'CHÆ. [Gr. _pros_, towards, _euchesthai_, to pray.]

PROSILIENCY, pr[=o]-sil'i-en-si, _n._ a standing forward.

PROSIT, pr[=o]'sit, _interj._ good luck to you, a salutation in drinking
healths customary among German students. [3d pers. sing. pres. subj. of
_prodesse_, to be of use--_pro_, for, _esse_, to be.]

PROSOBRANCHIATA, pros-[=o]-brangk-i-[=a]'ta, _n.pl._ an order or sub-class
of gasteropods having the gills anterior to the heart.--_adj._
PROSOBRANCH'I[=A]TE. [Gr. _pros[=o]_, forward, _branchia_, gills.]

PROSODY, pros'[=o]-di, _n._ that part of grammar which treats of quantity,
accent, and the laws of verse or versification.--_adjs._ PROS[=O]'DIAL,
PROSOD'IC, -AL, pertaining to prosody: according to the rules of
prosody.--_ns._ PROS[=O]'DIAN, PROS'ODIST, one skilled in prosody.--_adv._
PROSOD'ICALLY. [Fr.,--L. _pros[=o]dia_, Gr. _pros[=o]dia_--_pros_, to,
_[=o]d[=e]_, a song.]

PROSOPOPEIA, PROSOPOPOEIA, pros-[=o]-p[=o]-p[=e]'ya, _n._ a rhetorical
figure by which inanimate objects are spoken of as persons:
personification. [Gr. _pros[=o]popoiia_--_pros[=o]pon_, a person, _poiein_,
to make.]

PROSOPULMONATA, pros-[=o]-pul-m[=o]-n[=a]'ta, _n.pl._ a group of
air-breathing gasteropods in which the pulmonary sac occupies a forward
position.--_adj._ PROSOPUL'MON[=A]TE. [Gr. _pros[=o]_, forward, L. _pulmo_,
a lung.]

PROSPECT, pros'pekt, _n._ a looking forward: that which the eye takes in at
once: a view: object of view: a scene: expectation: a long, straight, wide
street: outlook, exposure.--_v.i._ PROSPECT', to make a search, esp. for
chances of mining for precious metals.--_ns._ PROSPEC'TER, -OR, one who
explores for valuable minerals; PROSPEC'TING, searching a district for gold
or silver mines with a view to further operations; PROSPEC'TION, the act of
looking forward or of providing for future wants.--_adj._ PROSPEC'TIVE,
looking forward: expected: acting with foresight: relating to the future:
distant.--_n._ outlook: prospect.--_adv._ PROSPEC'TIVELY.--_ns._
PROSPEC'TIVENESS; PROSPEC'TUS, the outline of any plan submitted for public
approval, particularly of a literary work or of a joint-stock concern. [L.
_prospectus_--_prospic[)e]re_, _prospectum_--_pro_, forward, _spec[)e]re_,
to look.]

PROSPER, pros'p[.e]r, _v.t._ to make fortunate or happy: (_B._) to make to
prosper.--_v.i._ to be successful: to succeed: to turn out well.--_n._
PROSPER'ITY, the state of being prosperous: success: good fortune.--_adj._
PROS'PEROUS, according to hope: in accordance with one's wishes: making
good progress: favourable: successful.--_adv._ PROS'PEROUSLY.--_n._
PROS'PEROUSNESS. [L. _prosper_, _prosperus_--_pro_, in accordance with,
_spes_, hope.]

PROSPHYSIS, pros'-fi-sis, _n._ morbid adhesion of the eyelids to each other
or to the eyeball. [Gr.]

PROSTATE, pros't[=a]t, _adj._ standing in front, applied to a gland in
males at the neck of the bladder.--_n._ the gland at the neck of the
bladder.--_adj._ PROSTAT'IC.--_n._ PROSTAT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
prostate gland. [Gr. _prostat[=e]s_--_pro_, before, _sta_, root of
_hist[=e]mi_, I set up.]

PROSTHENIC, pros-then'ik, _adj._ strong in the fore-parts.

PROSTHESIS, pros'the-sis, _n._ addition, affixion, as of letters at the
beginning of a word: the fitting of artificial parts to the body.--_adj._
PROSTHET'IC. [Gr.]

PROSTITUTE, pros'ti-t[=u]t, _v.t._ to expose for sale for bad ends: to sell
to lewdness: to devote to any improper purpose.--_adj._ openly devoted to
lewdness: sold to wickedness.--_n._ a female who indulges in lewdness, esp.
for hire, a whore: a base hireling.--_ns._ PROSTIT[=U]'TION, the act or
practice of prostituting: lewdness for hire: the being devoted to infamous
purposes; PROS'TIT[=U]TOR, one who prostitutes either himself or another.
[L. _prostitu[)e]re_, _-[=u]tum_--_pro_, before, _statu[)e]re_, to place.]

PROSTRATE, pros'tr[=a]t, _adj._ thrown forwards on the ground: lying at
length: lying at mercy: bent in adoration.--_v.t._ to throw forwards on the
ground: to lay flat: to overthrow: to sink totally: to bow in humble
reverence.--_n._ PROSTR[=A]'TION, act of throwing down or laying flat: act
of falling down in adoration: dejection: complete loss of strength. [L.
_pro_, forwards, _stern[)e]re_, _stratum_, to strew.]

PROSTYLE, pr[=o]'st[=i]l, _adj._ (_archit._) having a range of detached
columns in front.

PROSY. See PROSE.

PROSYLLOGISM, pr[=o]-sil'[=o]-jizm, _n._ a syllogism of which the
conclusion is the premise of another.

PROTACTIC, pr[=o]-tak'tik, _adj._ placed at the beginning, introductory.

PROTAGONIST, pr[=o]-tag'on-ist, _n._ a leading character, esp. in a
play.--_n._ PR[=O]'TAGON, a nitrogenous substance obtained from the brain
and other tissues. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first, _ag[=o]nist[=e]s_, a
combatant.]

PROTAMOEBA, pr[=o]-ta-m[=e]'ba, _n._ a low form of the _Monera_, which is
constantly changing its form by sending out and withdrawing pseudopodia.

PRO TANTO, pr[=o] tan'to, for so much: to a certain extent: to the extent
mentioned.

PROTASIS, prot'a-sis, _n._ (_rhet._) the first part of a conditional
sentence--opp. to _Apodosis_: the first part of a dramatic
composition.--_adj._ PROTAT'IC. [Gr.,--_pro_, before, _tasis_, a
stretching, _teinein_, to stretch.]

PROTEAN, pr[=o]'t[=e]-an, _adj._ readily assuming different shapes, like
_Proteus_, the sea-god, fabled to have the power of changing himself into
an endless variety of forms: variable: inconstant.

PROTECT, pr[=o]-tekt', _v.t._ to cover in front: to cover over: to shield
from danger: to defend: to shelter.--_adv._ PROTEC'TINGLY.--_ns._
PROTEC'TION, act of protecting: state of being protected: preservation:
defence: that which protects: guard: refuge: security: a writing
guaranteeing against molestation or interference: passport: a fostering of
home produce and manufactures by laying taxes on the importation of foreign
goods; PROTEC'TIONISM, the doctrine of the protectionists; PROTEC'TIONIST,
one who favours the protection of trade by law.--_adj._ favouring the
economic doctrine of protection.--_adj._ PROTEC'TIVE, affording protection:
defensive: sheltering.--_n._ that which protects.--_adv._
PROTEC'TIVELY.--_ns._ PROTEC'TIVENESS; PROTEC'TOR, one who protects from
injury or oppression: a guardian: a regent:--_fem._ PROTEC'TRESS,
PROTEC'TRIX.--_adjs._ PROTEC'TORAL, PROTECT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a
protector or a regent.--_n._ PROTEC'TOR[=A]TE, government by a protector:
the authority assumed by a superior: relation assumed by a strong nation to
a weak one, whereby the latter is protected from hostile or foreign
interference.--_adj._ PROTEC'TORLESS.--_ns._ PROTEC'TORSHIP; PROTEC'TORY,
an institution for destitute children. [L., _pro_, in front, _teg[)e]re_,
_tectum_, to cover.]

PROTÉGÉ, pr[=o]-t[=a]-zh[=a]', _n._ one under the protection of another: a
pupil: a ward:--_fem._ PROTÉGÉE. [Fr., pa.p. of _protéger_, to protect--L.
_proteg[)e]re_.]

PROTEIN, pr[=o]'t[=e]-in, _n._ the first element in any compound: formerly
the supposed common radical of the group of bodies which form the most
essential articles of food, albumen, fibrine, &c.--_n._ PR[=O]'T[=E]ID, a
body containing protein: one of several bodies which go to make up the soft
tissues of animals and vegetables. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first, suffix _-in_.]

PRO TEMPORE, pr[=o] tem'po-r[=e], for the time being: temporary--sometimes
written _pro tem._--_adj._ PROTEMPOR[=A]'NEOUS, temporary.

PROTEND, pr[=o]-tend', _v.t._ to stretch or hold out.--_ns._ PROTENSE'
(_Spens._), extension; PROTEN'SION, duration; PROTEN'SITY.--_adj._
PROTEN'SIVE. [L.,--_pro_, forth, _tend[)e]re_, _tensum_, to stretch.]

PROTEOLYTIC, pr[=o]-t[=e]-[=o]-lit'ik, _adj._ converting food material into
protein.--_n._ PROTEOL'YSIS. [_Proteid_, Gr. _lyein_, to relax.]

PROTERANDRY, prot-e-ran'dri, _n._ the maturity of the anthers of a perfect
flower before its stigma is ready to receive the pollen.--_adj._
PROTERAN'DROUS.

PROTEROGLYPHA, prot-e-rog'li-fa, _n.pl._ a group of snakes having the
anterior maxillary teeth grooved. [Gr. _proteros_, fore, _glyphein_, to
carve.]

PROTEROGYNY, prot-e-roj'i-ni, _n._ the maturity of the stigmas of a perfect
flower before its anthers have matured their pollen.--_adj._
PROTEROG'YNOUS.

PROTERVITY, pr[=o]-ter'vi-ti, _n._ peevishness, wantonness:--_pl._
PROTER'VITIES. [O. Fr.,--L.,--_protervus_, wanton--_pro_, forth,
_ter[)e]re_, to bruise.]

PROTEST, pr[=o]-test', _v.i._ to bear witness before others: to declare
openly: to give a solemn declaration of opinion (_against_).--_v.t._ to
make a solemn declaration of: to note, as a bill of exchange, on account of
non-acceptance or non-payment: (_rare_) to call as a witness: (_obs._) to
publish, make known: (_Shak._) to vow.--_n._ PR[=O]'TEST, a solemn or
formal declaration, esp. in writing, expressing dissent: the noting by a
notary-public of an unpaid or unaccepted bill: a written declaration,
usually by the master of a ship, stating the circumstances attending loss
or injury of ship or cargo, &c.--_adj._ PROT'ESTANT, protesting: pertaining
to the faith of those who protest against the errors of the Church of
Rome.--_n._ one of those who, in 1529, protested against an edict of
Charles V. and the Diet of Spires denouncing the Reformation: a member of
one of those churches founded by the Reformers: one who protests.--_v.t._
PROT'ESTANTISE.--_ns._ PROT'ESTANTISM, the Protestant religion: state of
being a Protestant; PROTEST[=A]'TION, an act of protesting: a solemn
declaration: a declaration of dissent: a declaration in pleading;
PROT'EST[=A]TOR; PROTEST'ER.--_adv._ PROTEST'INGLY. [Fr.,--L.
_protest[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to bear witness in public--_pro_, before,
_test[=a]ri_--_testis_, a witness.]

PROTEUS. See PROTEAN.

PROTEVANGELIUM, pr[=o]-t[=e]-van-jel'i-um, _n._ the earliest announcement
of the gospel (Gen. iii. 15): an apocryphal gospel ascribed to James,
Jesus' brother.

PROTHALAMIUM, pr[=o]-tha-l[=a]'mi-um, _n._ a piece written to celebrate a
marriage.--Also PROTHAL[=A]'MION. [Gr. _pro_, before, _thalamos_, a
bride-chamber.]

PROTHALLIUM, pr[=o]-thal'i-um, _n._ the green, leaf-like, cellular
expansion which grows from the spore of a fern.--Also PROTHALL'US. [Gr.
_pro_, before, _thallus_, a young shoot.]

PROTHESIS, proth'e-sis, _n._ in the Greek Church the preliminary oblation
of the eucharistic elements before the liturgy: the table used.
[Gr.,--_pro_, before, _tithenai_, to place.]

PROTHONOTARY, pr[=o]-thon'[=o]-ta-ri, _n._ a chief notary or clerk: one of
the chief secretaries of the chancery at Rome: a chief clerk or registrar
of a court, in certain of the United States--also PROTON'OTARY.--_adj._
PROTHONOT[=A]'RIAL.--_n._ PROTHONOT[=A]'RIAT, the college constituted by
the twelve apostolical prothonotaries in Rome. [Late L.,--Gr. _pr[=o]tos_,
first, L. _notarius_, a clerk.]

PROTHORAX, pr[=o]-th[=o]'raks, _n._ the anterior segment of the thorax of
insects.--_adj._ PROTHORAC'IC (-ras-).

PROTISTA, pr[=o]-tis'ta, _n.pl._ a proposed term for a zoological kingdom
including PROTOZOA and PROTOPHYTA. [Gr. _pr[=o]tistos_, superl. of
_pr[=o]tos_, first.]

PROTOCOCCUS, pr[=o]-t[=o]-kok'us, _n._ a microscopic vegetable organism
forming the green scum upon trees, tiles, &c. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first,
_kokkos_, a berry.]

PROTOCOL, pr[=o]'t[=o]-kol, _n._ the first copy of any document: the rough
draft of an instrument or transaction: the original copy.--_v.i._ to issue,
form protocols.--_v.t._ to make a protocol of--also
PR[=O]'TOCOL[=I]SE.--_n._ PR[=O]'TOCOLIST, a registrar or clerk. [Fr.,--Low
L. _protocollum_--Late Gr. _pr[=o]tokollon_, the first leaf, containing the
writer's name, date, &c.--Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first, _kolla_, glue.]

PROTOGENAL, pr[=o]-toj'e-nal, _adj._ primitive.--_n._ PROTOGEN'ESIS,
abiogenesis.--_adjs._ PROTOGENET'IC, PROTOGEN'IC, noting crystalline or
fire-formed rocks: noting intercellular spaces formed within
undifferentiated plant tissues.--_n._ PR[=O]'TOGINE, a variety of granite
in the Alps.

PROTOMARTYR, pr[=o]'t[=o]-mär-t[.e]r, _n._ St Stephen, the first Christian
martyr: the first who suffers in any cause.

PROTOPHYTE, pr[=o]'t[=o]-f[=i]t, _n._ the first or lowest order of
plants.--_n.pl._ PROTOPH'YTA.--_adj._ PROTOPHYT'IC. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_,
first, _phyton_, a plant.]

PROTOPLASM, pr[=o]'t[=o]-plazm, _n._ living matter: a homogeneous,
structureless substance, forming the physical basis of life, endowed with
contractility, with a chemical composition allied to that of
albumen.--_adj._ PROTOPLASM'IC.--_n._ PR[=O]'TOPLAST, he who, or that
which, was first formed: an original: the first parent.--_adj._
PROTOPLAST'IC. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first, _plasma_, form--_plassein_, to
form.]

PROTOTHERIA, pr[=o]-t[=o]-th[=e]'ri-a, _n.pl._ the hypothetical primitive
mammals, ancestors of the monotremes. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first, _th[=e]r_,
wild beast.]

PROTOTYPE, pr[=o]'t[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ the first or original type or model
from which anything is copied: an exemplar: a pattern.--_adjs._
PR[=O]'TOTYPAL, PR[=O]TOTYP'ICAL. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr., _pr[=o]tos_, first,
_typos_, a type.]

PROTOVERTEBRÆ, pr[=o]-t[=o]-ver'te-br[=e], _n.pl._ the rudimentary segments
formed in the vertebrate embryo from the medullary plates, from which the
bodies of the vertebræ, spinal nerve-roots, &c. are developed.--_adjs._
PROTOVER'TEBRAL, PROTOVER'TEBRATE.

PROTOXIDE, pr[=o]-tok's[=i]d, _n._ the first oxide--that is, an oxide
containing one equivalent of oxygen combined with one equivalent of a base.

PROTOZOA, pr[=o]-t[=o]-z[=o]'ä, _n.pl._ the first or lowest class of
animals:--_sing._ PROTOZ[=O]'ON.--_adjs._ PROTOZ[=O]'AN; PROTOZ[=O]'IC,
pertaining to the protozoa: containing remains of the earliest life of the
globe. [Gr. _pr[=o]tos_, first, _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

PROTRACT, pr[=o]-trakt', _v.t._ to draw out or lengthen in time: to
prolong: to put off in time: to draw to a scale.--_p.adj._ PROTRAC'TED,
drawn out in time: tedious: prolonged: postponed.--_adv._
PROTRAC'TEDLY.--_n._ PROTRAC'TER.--_adj._ PROTRAC'TILE, susceptible of
being thrust out.--_n._ PROTRAC'TION, act of protracting or prolonging: the
delaying of the termination of a thing: the plotting or laying down of the
dimensions of anything on paper.--_adj._ PROTRAC'TIVE, drawing out in time:
prolonging: delaying.--_n._ PROTRAC'TOR, one who, or that which, protracts:
a mathematical instrument for laying down angles on paper, used in
surveying, &c. [L.,--_pro_, forth, _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

PROTRUDE, pr[=o]-tr[=oo]d', _v.t._ to thrust or push forward: to drive
along: to put out.--_v.i._ to be thrust forward or beyond the usual
limit.--_adjs._ PROTRUD'ABLE, PROTRU'SILE, protractile; PROTRU'SIBLE, able
to be protruded.--_n._ PROTRU'SION, the act of thrusting forward or beyond
the usual limit: the state of being protruded: that which
protrudes.--_adj._ PROTRU'SIVE, thrusting or impelling forward:
protruding.--_adv._ PROTRU'SIVELY.--_n._ PROTRU'SIVENESS. [L.
_protrud[)e]re_--_pro_, forward, _trud[)e]re_, to thrust.]

PROTUBERANCE, pr[=o]-t[=u]b'[.e]r-ans, _n._ a prominence: a tumour.--_adj._
PROT[=U]'BERANT, swelling: prominent.--_adv._ PROT[=U]'BERANTLY.--_v.i._
PROT[=U]'BER[=A]TE, to bulge out.--_n._ PROT[=U]BER[=A]'TION. [L.
_protuber[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_pro_, forward, _tuber_, a swelling.]

PROUD, prowd (_comp._ PROUD'ER; _superl._ PROUD'EST), _adj._ having
excessive self-esteem: arrogant: haughty: having a proper sense of what is
becoming: daring: grand: ostentatious: giving reason for pride or
boasting.--_n._ PROUD'-FLESH, a growth or excrescence of flesh in a
wound.--_adjs._ PROUD'-HEART'ED (_Shak._), having a proud spirit;
PROUD'ISH, somewhat proud.--_adv._ PROUD'LY.--_adj._ PROUD'-MIND'ED
(_Shak._), proud in mind.--_n._ PROUD'NESS, the state or quality of being
proud: pride.--_adjs._ PROUD'-PIED (_Shak._), gorgeously variegated;
PROUD'-STOM'ACHED, of haughty spirit, arrogant. [A.S. _prut_, proud,
_prýte_, pride.]

PROVABLE, pr[=oo]v'a-bl, _adj._ that may be proved.--_n._
PROV'ABLENESS.--_adv._ PROV'ABLY, in a manner capable of proof. [O. Fr.
_provable_, _prouvable_--L. _probabilis_, probable.]

PROVAND, prov'and, _n._ (_Shak._) provender: provision--also
PROV'END.--_adj._ PROV'ANT, belonging to a regular allowance: of common or
inferior quality. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _præbenda_, a payment, pittance.]

PROVE, pr[=oo]v, _v.t._ to try by experiment or by a test or standard: to
make certain: to try by suffering: to establish or ascertain as truth by
argument or other evidence: to demonstrate: to ascertain the genuineness
of: to experience or suffer: (_math._) to ascertain the correctness of any
result.--_v.i._ to make trial: to turn out: to be shown afterwards.--_n._
PROV'ER.--THE EXCEPTION PROVES THE RULE, the exception tests the rule,
proving its general truth. [O. Fr. _prover_ (Fr. _prouver_), which, like
A.S. _prófian_ and Ger. _proben_, is from L. _prob[=a]re_--_probus_,
excellent.]

PROVECTION, pr[=o]-vek'shun, _n._ the transfer of the final consonant from
a word to the beginning of the next.--_n._ PR[=O]VEC'TOR (_math._), a
contravariant operator formed by substituting signs of partial
differentiation for the facients of a quantic. [L. _proveh[)e]re_,
_provectum_, to carry forward.]

PROVEDOR, (-E), prov'edor, (-d[=o]r), _n._ a purveyor. [Sp.]

PROVEN, prov'n, (_Scots law_) same as PROVED, _pa.p._ of PROVE.--NOT
PROVEN, a verdict declaring that guilt has not been fully made out, but
which leaves the accused still under serious suspicion.

PROVENANCE, prov'e-nans, _n._ the source from which anything comes or is
derived.--Also PROV[=E]'NIENCE. [Fr.,--L. _pro_, forth, _ven[=i]re_, to
come.]

PROVENÇAL, pr[=o]-vang-sal', _adj._ of or pertaining to _Provence_, in
France, or to its inhabitants--also PROVEN'CIAL.--_n._ a native, or the
language of Provence, the _langue d'oc_ (q.v.).

PROVENDER, prov'en-d[.e]r, _n._ dry food for beasts, as hay or corn: esp. a
mixture of meal and cut straw or hay.--_v.t._ to feed. [O. Fr.,--L.
_præbenda_, in Late L. a daily allowance of food.]

PROVERB, prov'[.e]rb, _n._ a short familiar sentence expressing a
well-known truth or moral lesson: a byword: (_B._) a difficult saying that
requires explanation: (_pl._) a book of the Old Testament: a dramatic
composition in which a proverb gives name and character to the
plot.--_v.t._ to speak of proverbially: make a byword of: to provide with a
proverb.--_adj._ PROVER'BIAL, like or pertaining to proverbs: widely spoken
of.--_v.t._ PROVER'BIALISE, to turn into a proverb.--_ns._ PROVER'BIALISM,
a saying in the form of, or like, a proverb; PROVER'BIALIST.--_adv._
PROVER'BIALLY. [Fr. _proverbe_--L. _proverbium_--_pro_, publicly, _verbum_,
a word.]

PROVIDE, pr[=o]-v[=i]d', _v.t._ to make ready beforehand: to prepare for
future use: to supply: to appoint or give a right to a benefice before it
is actually vacant.--_v.i._ to procure supplies or means of defence: to
take measures: to arrange for as a necessary condition or
arrangement.--_adj._ PROV[=I]'DABLE.--_conj._ PROV[=I]'DED, (often with
_that_) on condition: upon these terms: with the understanding.--_n._
PROV[=I]'DER. [L. _provid[=e]re_--_pro_, before, _vid[=e]re_, to see.]

PROVIDENCE, prov'i-dens, _n._ timely preparation: (_theol._) the foresight
and care of God over all His creatures: God, considered in this relation:
something occurring in which God's care is clearly shown: prudence in
managing one's affairs.--_adjs._ PROV'IDENT, seeing beforehand, and
providing for the future: cautious: prudent: economical; PROVIDEN'TIAL,
effected by, or proceeding from, divine providence.--_advs._
PROVIDEN'TIALLY; PROV'IDENTLY.--_n._ PROV'IDENTNESS. [L. _provid-ens_,
_-entis_, pr.p. of _provid[=e]re_.]

PROVINCE, prov'ins, _n._ a portion of an empire or a state marked off for
purposes of government: a part of a country as distinguished from the
capital: the district over which a governor or an archbishop has
jurisdiction: a region: a business or duty: a person's business or calling:
a department of knowledge.--_adj._ PROVIN'CIAL, relating to a province:
belonging to a division of a country: local: showing the habits and manners
of a province: unpolished: narrow.--_n._ an inhabitant of a province or
country district: (_R.C._) the superintendent of the heads of the religious
houses in a province.--_v.t._ PROVIN'CIALISE, to render
provincial:--_pr.p._ provin'cial[=i]sing; _pa.p._
provin'cial[=i]sed.--_ns._ PROVIN'CIALISM, a manner, a mode of speech, or a
turn of thought peculiar to a province or a country district: a local
expression: narrowness; PROVINCIAL'ITY.--_adv._ PROVIN'CIALLY.--PROVINCIAL
LETTERS, a series of letters written (1656-57) by Pascal against the
doctrines and policy of the Jesuits. [Fr.,--L. _provincia_, a province;
perh. _pro_, for, _vinc[)e]re_, to conquer.]

PROVINCIAL, pr[=o]-vin'shal, _adj._ pertaining to _Provence_ or
_Provençal_.--PROVINCIAL ROSE, the cabbage-rose--from _Provins-rose_,
Provins in Seine-et-Marne, being famous for its roses: (_Shak._) a rosette
formerly worn on the shoe.

PROVINE, pr[=o]-v[=i]n', _v.i._ to propagate a vine by layering, to form a
plant for the next season at a distance from the original plant.

PROVISION, pr[=o]-vizh'un, _n._ act of providing: that which is provided or
prepared: measures taken beforehand: a clause in a law or a deed: a rule
for guidance: an appointment by the pope to a benefice not yet vacant:
preparation: previous agreement: a store of food: provender.--_v.t._ to
supply with provisions or food.--_adjs._ PROVI'SIONAL, PROVI'SIONARY,
provided for the occasion: temporary: containing a provision.--_n._
PROVI'SIONAL-JUDG'MENT, a judgment given as far as the available evidence
admits, but subject to correction under more light.--_adv._
PROVI'SIONALLY.--_ns._ PROVI'SIONAL-OR'DER, an order to do something
granted by a secretary of state, which, when confirmed by the legislature,
has the force of an act of parliament; PROVI'SIONAL-REM'EDY, a means of
detaining in safety a person or property until a decision upon some point
in which they are concerned be come to; PROVI'SION-MER'CHANT, a general
dealer in articles of food. [Fr.,--L.,--_provisus_, pa.p. of
_provid[=e]re_.]

PROVISO, pr[=o]-v[=i]'z[=o], _n._ a provision or condition in a deed or
other writing: the clause containing it: any condition:--_pl._ PROVISOS
(pr[=o]-v[=i]'z[=o]z).--_adv._ PROV[=I]'SORILY.--_adj._ PROV[=I]'SORY,
containing a proviso or condition: conditional: making provision for the
time: temporary. [From the L. law phrase _proviso quod_, it being provided
that.]

PROVISOR, pr[=o]-v[=i]'zor, _n._ one who provides: a purveyor: a person to
whom the pope has granted the right to the next vacancy in a
benefice.--STATUTE OF PROVISORS, an act of the English parliament passed in
1351 to prevent the pope from exercising the power of creating provisors.

PROVOKE, pr[=o]-v[=o]k', _v.t._ to call forth: to summon: to excite or call
into action: to excite with anger: to offend: (_B._) to challenge.--_n._
PROVOC[=A]'TION, act of provoking: that which provokes: any cause of
danger.--_adjs._ PROVOC'ATIVE, PROVOC'ATORY, tending to provoke or
excite.--_n._ anything that stirs up or provokes.--_n._ PROVOC'ATIVENESS,
the quality of being provocative.--_adj._ PROV[=O]'KABLE.--_ns._
PROV[=O]KE'MENT (_Spens._), provocation; PROV[=O]'KER, one who, or that
which, provokes, causes, or promotes.--_adj._ PROV[=O]'KING,
irritating.--_adv._ PROV[=O]'KINGLY.--THE PROVOCATION, the sojourn of the
Jews in the wilderness, when they provoked God. [Fr. _provoquer_--L.
_provoc[=a]re_, _pro_, forth, _voc[=a]re_, to call.]

PROVOST, prov'ost, _n._ the dignitary set over a cathedral or collegiate
church: the head of a college: (_Scotland_) the chief magistrate of certain
classes of burghs, answering to mayor in England: (_Shak._) the keeper of a
prison.--_ns._ PROV'OST-MAR'SHAL (_army_), an officer with special powers
for enforcing discipline and securing prisoners till brought to trial:
(_navy_) an officer having charge of prisoners; PROV'OSTRY, a district
under a provost; PROV'OSTSHIP, the office of a provost.--LORD PROVOST, the
style of the chief magistrates of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Perth, Aberdeen, and
Dundee. [O. Fr. _provost_ (Fr. _prévôt_), L. _præpositus_, pa.p. of
_præpon[)e]re_--_præ_, over, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

PROW, prow, _n._ the forepart of a ship: the bow or beak. [Fr. _proue_ (It.
_prua_)--L. _prora_--Gr. _pr[=o]ra_, a prow--_pro_, before.]

PROWESS, prow'es, _n._ bravery, esp. in war: valour: daring.--_adj._ PROW
(_arch._), brave, valiant:--_superl._ PROW'EST. [O. Fr. _prou_ (Fr.
_preux_), perh. from _prod_ in _prodesse_, to do good.]

PROWL, prowl, _v.i._ to keep poking about: to rove about in search of prey
or plunder.--_n._ (_coll._) the act of prowling: a roving for prey.--_n._
PROWL'ER.--_adj._ PROWL'ING.--_adv._ PROWL'INGLY. [Prob. for
_progle_=_prokle_, a freq. form of _proke_, to thrust; cf. _Prog._]

PROXIMATE, proks'i-m[=a]t, _adj._ nearest or next: without any one between,
as a cause and its effect: having the most intimate connection: near and
immediate.--_adj._ PROX'IMAL.--_advs._ PROX'IMALLY; PROX'IMATELY.--_n._
PROXIM'ITY, immediate nearness in time, place, relationship, &c.--_adj._
PROX'IMO, (_in_) the next (month)--often written _prox._--PROXIMATE CAUSE,
a cause which immediately precedes the effect; PROXIMATE OBJECT, immediate
object. [L. _proximus_, next, superl. from _prope_, near.]

PROXY, prok'si, _n._ the agency of one who acts for another: one who acts
or votes for another, or the writing by which he is authorised to do so: a
substitute.--_v.i._ to vote or act by proxy.--_n._ PROX'YSHIP.--_adj._
PROX'Y-WED'DED (_Tenn._), wedded by proxy. [Obs. _procuracy_. Cf.
_Procurator_.]

PROZYMITE, proz'i-m[=i]t, _n._ one who uses leavened bread in the
eucharist--opp. to _Azymite_.

PRUDE, pr[=oo]d, _n._ a woman of affected modesty: one who pretends extreme
propriety.--_n._ PRU'DERY, manners of a prude: pretended or overdone
strictness of manner or behaviour.--_adj._ PRU'DISH, like a prude:
affectedly modest or reserved: stiff: severe.--_adv._ PRU'DISHLY.--_n._
PRU'DISHNESS. [O. Fr. _prode_, fem. of _prou_, _prod_, excellent.]

PRUDENT, pr[=oo]'dent, _adj._ cautious and wise in conduct: careful:
discreet: dictated by forethought: frugal.--_n._ PRU'DENCE, quality of
being prudent: wisdom applied to practice: attention to self-interest:
caution.--_adj._ PRUDEN'TIAL, using or practising prudence.--_n._ a matter
for prudence (generally _pl._).--_n._ PRUDENTIAL'ITY.--_advs._
PRUDEN'TIALLY; PRU'DENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _pr[=u]dens_, _pr[=u]dentis_, contr.
of _providens_, pr.p. of _provid[=e]re_, to foresee.]

PRUD'-HOMME, pr[=oo]-dom', _n._ a prudent man: a skilled workman: in
France, one of a board of arbitrators formed from masters and workmen. [Fr.
_prud_ or _prod_, good, _homme_, a man.]

PRUINOSE, pr[=oo]'i-n[=o]s, _adj._ powdery, mealy.--Also PRU'INOUS. [L.
_pruina_, hoar-frost.]

PRUNE, pr[=oo]n, _v.t._ to trim by lopping off superfluous parts: to divest
of anything superfluous: to arrange or dress feathers, as birds do.--_ns._
PRU'NER; PRU'NING, the act of pruning or trimming; PRU'NING-HOOK, a hooked
bill for pruning with; PRU'NING-KNIFE, a large knife with a slightly hooked
point for pruning.--_n.pl._ PRU'NING-SHEARS, shears for pruning shrubs, &c.
[Older form _proin_, prob. from Fr. _provigner_, _provin_, a shoot--L.
_propago_, _-inis_.]

PRUNE, pr[=oo]n, _n._ a plum, esp. a dried plum.--_adj._ PRUNIF'EROUS,
bearing plums. [Fr.,--L. _prunum_--Gr. _prounon_.]

PRUNELLA, pr[=oo]-nel'a, _n._ sore throat: angina pectoris. [Low L., from
Teut.; Ger. _bräune_, quinsy.]

PRUNELLA, pr[=oo]-nel'a, _n._ a genus of plants, the best known of which is
_Self-heal_, formerly used as a medicine. [Perh. from _prunella_, above.]

PRUNELLA, pr[=oo]-nel'a, _n._ a strong woollen stuff, generally black--also
PRUNELL'O.--_n._ PRUNELL'O, a little prune: a kind of dried plum. [Prob.
Latinised form of Fr. _prunelle_, a sloe, dim. of Fr. _prune_, a plum.]

PRURIENCE, pr[=oo]'ri-ens, _n._ state of being prurient: eager desire--also
PRU'RIENCY.--_adj._ PRU'RIENT, itching or uneasy with desire: given to
unclean thoughts.--_adv._ PRU'RIENTLY. [L. _pruriens_, pr.p. of
_prur[=i]re_, to itch.]

PRURIGO, pr[=oo]-r[=i]'g[=o], _n._ an eruption on the skin, causing great
itching.--_adj._ PRURIG'INOUS.--_n._ PRUR[=I]'TUS. [L. _prurio_, an
itching.]

PRUSSIAN, prush'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Prussia_.--_n._ an
inhabitant of Prussia.--_v.t._ PRUSS'IANISE.--_n._ PRUSS'IATE, a salt of
prussic acid: a cyanide.--_adj._ PRUSS'IC, pertaining to Prussian
blue.--PRUSSIAN BLUE, cyanide of potassium and iron; PRUSSIC ACID, a deadly
poison, an acid first obtained from Prussian blue--also _Hydrocyanic acid_.

PRY, pr[=i], _v.i._ to peer or peep into that which is closed: to inspect
closely: to try to discover with curiosity:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
pried.--_n._ (_rare_) a peeping glance: one who pries--cf. _Paul Pry_, in
John Poole's (1792-1879) comedy so called, first produced in 1825.--_ns._
PR[=I]'ER, PRY'ER.--_p.adj._ PRY'ING, looking closely into: inquisitive:
curious.--_adv._ PRY'INGLY. [M. E. _prien_=_piren_, to peer; cf. _Peer_.]

PRYS, pr[=i]s, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as PRICE.

PRYSE, pr[=i]s, _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as PRIZE.

PRYTANEUM, prit-an-[=e]'um, _n._ the town-hall of an ancient Greek city
where ambassadors were received, and citizens who had deserved well of the
state were sometimes allowed to dine at the public expense.
[Gr.,--_prytanis_, a presiding magistrate.]

PRYTHEE, prith'[=e] (_Shak._). Same as _Prithee_.

PSALM, säm, _n._ a sacred song.--_ns._ PSALM'-BOOK, a book containing
psalms for purposes of worship; _Psalmist_ (säm'ist, or sal'mist), a
composer of psalms, applied to David and to the writers of the Scriptural
psalms.--_adjs._ PSALMOD'IC, -AL, pertaining to psalmody.--_v.i._
PSAL'MODISE, to practise psalmody.--_ns._ PSAL'MODIST, a singer of psalms;
PSALMODY (sal'mo-di, or säm'o-di), the singing of psalms, esp. in public
worship: psalms collectively.--_v.t._ to celebrate in psalms.--_ns._
PSALMOG'RAPHER, PSALMOG'RAPHIST, a writer of psalms; PSALMOG'RAPHY, the act
or practice of writing psalms; PSALM'-TUNE, a tune to which a psalm is
usually sung.--THE PSALMS, one of the books of the Old Testament. [A.S.
_sealm_--Low L. _psalmus_--Gr. _psalmos_--_psallein_, to play on a stringed
instrument.]

PSALTER, sawl't[.e]r, _n._ the book of Psalms, esp. when separately
printed: (_R.C._) a series of 150 devout sentences: a rosary of 150 beads,
according to the number of the psalms.--_adj._ PSALT[=E]'RIAN, pertaining
to a psalter: musical.--_ns._ PSAL'TERY, a stringed instrument used by the
Jews: psalter; PSAL'TRESS, a woman who plays upon the psaltery. [O. Fr.
_psaltier_--L. _psalterium_, a song sung to the psaltery.]

PSALTERIUM, sawl-t[=e]'ri-um, _n._ the third division of a ruminant's
stomach, the omasum or manyplies.

PSAMMITIC, sa-mit'ik, _adj._ in geology, applied to derivative rocks
composed of rounded grains, as ordinary sandstone. [Gr. _psammos_, sand.]

PSCHENT, pshent, _n._ the sovereign crown of ancient Egypt, a combination
of the white mitre of southern Egypt, with the red crown, square in front
and pointed behind, of northern Egypt. [Egyptian.]

PSELLISM, sel'izm, _n._ a defect in articulation--also PSELLIS'MUS. [Gr.
_psellismos_--_psellos_, stammering.]

PSEUDO-, s[=u]'d[=o], a prefix signifying false or spurious, as in _ns._
PSEUDÆSTH[=E]'SIA, imaginary feeling, as in an amputated limb;
PSEUDEPIG'RAPHA (_pl._), spurious writings, especially those writings
claiming to be Biblical, but not judged genuine or canonical by the consent
of scholars.--_adjs._ PSEUDEPIGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ PSEUDEPIG'RAPHY, the
ascription to books of false names of authors.--_n._ PSEU'DO-APOS'TLE, a
pretended apostle.--_adj._ PSEU'DO-ARCH[=A]'IC, archaistic.--_ns._
PSEUDOBLEP'SIS, visual illusion; PSEU'DO-CHRISTIAN'ITY, counterfeit
Christianity; PSEUDOCHR[=O]'MIA, false perception of colour;
PSEU'DO-CLAS'SICISM, false or affected classicism.--_adjs._ PSEU'DODONT,
having false teeth, as a monotreme; PSEU'DODOX, false.--_n._ a common
fallacy.--_ns._ PSEUDOGEU'SIA, false taste-perception; PSEU'DOGRAPH, a
false writing.--_v.i._ PSEUDOG'RAPHISE, to write incorrectly.--_ns._
PSEUDOG'RAPHY, bad spelling; PSEUDOL'OGY, the science of lying;
PSEU'DO-MAR'TYR, a false martyr; PSEUDOMEM'BRANE, a false membrane, or
lining, as in some diseases of the throat.--_adj._ PSEUDOMEM'BRANOUS.--_n._
PSEU'DOMORPH.--_adj._ PSEUDOMOR'PHOUS, deceptive in form: (_min._) noting
crystals which have a form of crystallisation foreign to the species to
which they belong.--_ns._ PSEU'DONYM, a fictitious name assumed, as by an
author; PSEUDONYM'ITY, state of being pseudonymous.--_adj._ PSEUDON'YMOUS,
bearing a fictitious name.--_adv._ PSEUDON'YMOUSLY.--_n.pl._
PSEUDOP[=O]'DIA, the processes alternately thrust forth and drawn back by
amoeboid cells:--_sing._ PSEUDOP[=O]'DIUM, PSEU'DOPOD.--_n._ PSEU'DOSCOPE,
a species of stereoscope which causes the parts of bodies in relief to
appear hollow, and _vice versâ_.--_adj._ PSEUDOSCOP'IC.--_n._ PSEU'DOSCOPY.
[Gr. _pseud[=e]s_, false.]

PSHAW, shaw, _interj._ expressing contempt.--_v.i._ to express contempt, as
with this word. [Imit.]

PSHAW, shaw, _n._ an upright cylindrical hat once worn by women in Spain.

PSILANTHROPISM, s[=i]-lan'thr[=o]-pizm, _n._ the doctrine or belief of the
mere human existence of Christ.--_adj._ PSILANTHROP'IC.--_ns._
PSILAN'THROPIST, one who thinks Christ a mere man; PSILAN'THROPY. [Gr.
_psilos_, bare, _anthr[=o]pos_, man.]

PSITTACI, sit'a-s[=i], _n.pl._ the parrot tribe.--_adjs._ PSIT'TACINE,
PSITT[=A]'CEOUS. [Gr. _psittakos_.]

PSOAS, s[=o]'as, _n._ a muscle of the loins and pelvis: the
tenderloin.--_adj._ PSOAT'IC. [Gr. _psoa_, _psua_, generally in pl.
_psoai_, _psuai_.]

PSORIASIS, s[=o]-r[=i]'a-sis, _n._ a disease characterised by slight
elevations of the surface of the skin covered with whitish scales.--_n._
PS[=O]'RA.--_adj._ PS[=O]'RIC. [Gr. _ps[=o]ri[=a]n_, to have the itch,
_ps[=a]n_, to rub.]

PSYCHIC, -AL, s[=i]'kik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the soul, or living
principle in man: spiritual: pertaining to the mind, or to its faculties
and functions.--_ns._ PSY'CHE, the personified soul or spirit: the human
soul or spirit or mind: a genus of bombycid moths: a cheval-glass;
PSYCH[=I]'ATER, PSYCH[=I]'ATRIST, one who treats diseases of the mind, an
alienist; PSYCH[=I]'ATRY, the treatment of mental diseases; PSY'CHIC, a
spiritualistic medium; PSY'CHICS, the science of psychology; PSY'CHISM, the
doctrine that there is a universal soul animating all living beings;
PSY'CHIST; PSYCHOGEN'ESIS, PSYCHOG'ENY, the origination and development of
the soul; PSYCHOG'ONY, the doctrine of the development of mind;
PSY'CHOGRAPH, an instrument used for so-called spirit-writing.--_adj._
PSYCHOGRAPH'IC.--_n._ PSYCHOG'RAPHY, the natural history of mind: supposed
spirit-writing by the hand of a medium.--_adjs._ PSYCHOLOG'IC, -AL,
pertaining to psychology: pertaining to the mind.--_adv._
PSYCHOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ PSYCHOL'OGISE.--_ns._ PSYCHOL'OGIST, one who
studies psychology; PSYCHOL'OGY, the science which classifies and analyses
the phenomena or varying states of the human mind; PSYCHOM'ACHY, a conflict
of soul with body; PSY'CHOMANCY, necromancy; PSYCHOM'ETRY, the science of
the measurement of the duration, &c., of mental processes: an occult power
claimed by some charlatans of divining the secret properties of things by
mere contact.--_adj._ PSY'CHOM[=O]TOR, pertaining to such mental action as
induces muscular contraction.--_ns._ PSYCHONEUROL'OGY, that part of
neurology which deals with mental action; PSYCHONEUR[=O]'SIS, mental
disease without apparent anatomical lesion; PSYCHON'OMY, the science of the
laws of mental action; PSYCHONOSOL'OGY, the branch of medical science that
treats of mental diseases; PSYCHOPAN'NYCHISM, the theory that at death the
soul falls asleep till the resurrection; PSYCHOPAN'NYCHIST; PSYCHOPAR'ESIS,
mental weakness; PSY'CHOPATH, a morally irresponsible person;
PSYCHOP'ATHIST, an alienist; PSYCHOP'ATHY, derangement of mental
functions.--_adj._ PSY'CHO-PHYS'ICAL.--_ns._ PSY'CHO-PHYS'ICIST;
PSY'CHO-PHYSIOL'OGY, PSY'CHO-PHYS'ICS, the knowledge of the manifold
correspondences of the most intimate and exact kind that exist between
states and changes of consciousness on the one hand, and states and changes
of brain on the other--the concomitance being apparently complete as
respects complexity, intensity, and time-order; PSY'CHOPLASM, the physical
basis of consciousness; PSY'CHOPOMP, Hermes, the guide of spirits to the
other world; PSYCH[=O]'SIS, mental condition: a change in the field of
consciousness: any mental disorder; PSYCHOST[=A]'SIA, the weighing of
souls; PSY'CHO-STAT'ICS, the theory of the conditions of the phenomena of
mind; PSYCHOTH[=E]'ISM, the doctrine that God is pure spirit;
PSYCHOTHERAPEU'TICS, PSYCHOTHER'APY, the art of curing mental
disease.--PSYCHICAL RESEARCH, inquiring into alleged phenomena, apparently
implying a connection with another world; PSYCHIC FORCE, a power not
physical or mechanical, supposed to cause certain so-called spiritualistic
phenomena. [L. _psychicus_--Gr. _psychikos_--_psych[=e]_, the
soul--_psych[=e]in_, to breathe.]

PSYCHROMETER, s[=i]-krom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
tension of aqueous vapour in the atmosphere: a wet and dry bulb
hygrometer.--_adjs._ PSYCHROMET'RIC, -AL.--_ns._ PSYCHROM'ETRY;
PSYCHROPH[=O]'BIA, morbid impressibility to cold; PSY'CHROPHORE, a
refrigerating instrument like a catheter for cooling the urethra. [Gr.
_psychros_, cold, _psychein_, to blow, _metron_, a measure.]

PTARMIC, tar'mik, _n._ a medicine which causes sneezing.

PTARMIGAN, tär'mi-gan, _n._ a species of grouse with feathered toes
inhabiting the tops of mountains. [Gael. _tarmachan_.]

PTERE, t[=e]r, _n._ (_zool._) an alate organ.--_ns._ PTERID'IUM,
PTER[=O]'DIUM, a key-fruit or samara.

PTERICHTHYS, ter-ik'this, _n._ a genus of fossil ganoid fishes in the Old
Red Sandstone strata, with wing-like pectoral fins. [Gr. _pteron_, wing,
_ichthys_, fish.]

PTERION, t[=e]'ri-on, _n._ in craniometry, the region where the frontal,
squamosal, parietal, and sphenoid bones meet:--_pl._ PT[=E]'RIA.

PTERIS, t[=e]'ris, _n._ a genus of ferns which includes the brakes.--_ns._
PTERIDOL'OGIST, one versed in the study of ferns; PTERIDOL'OGY, the science
of ferns; PTERIDOM[=A]'NIA, a passion for ferns; PTERIG'RAPHY, a
description of ferns. [Gr. _pteris_--_pteron_, a feather.]

PTERNA, ter'na, _n._ the heel-pad in birds:--_pl._ PTER'NÆ.

PTERODACTYL, ter-[=o]-dak'til, _n._ an extinct flying reptile with large
and bird-like skull, long jaws, and a flying-membrane like that of a bat.
[Gr. _pteron_, wing, _daktylos_, finger.]

PTEROGRAPHY, ter-og'ra-fi, _n._ the description of feathers.--_n._
PTEROG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ PTEROGRAPH'IC, -AL; PTEROLOG'ICAL.--_n._
PTEROL'OGY, the science of insects' wings.

PTEROMYS, ter'[=o]-mis, _n._ a genus of _Sciuridæ_, the flying-squirrels.

PTERON, t[=e]'ron, _n._ a range of columns, portico.--_n._ PTER[=O]'MA, a
peridrome: a side-wall. [Gr.]

PTEROPE, ter'[=o]p, _n._ a fruit-bat or flying-fox.

PTEROPOD, ter'[=o]-pod, _n._ one of a class of molluscs which move about by
means of wing-like appendages attached to the sides of the head, which are
not, however, homologous to the foot of other molluscs:--_pl._ PTEROP'ODA.
[Gr. _pteron_, wing, _pous_, _podos_, foot.]

PTEROSAURIA, ter-[=o]-saw'ri-a, _n.pl._ a group of extinct flying reptiles.
[Gr. _pteron_, wing, _sauros_, lizard.]

PTERYGOID, ter'i-goid, _n._ one of a pair of bones in the facial apparatus
of some vertebrata behind the palatines, known in human anatomy as the
pterygoid plates of the sphenoid bone.--_adj._ aliform or alate.--_adj._
PTERYG'IAN.--_n._ PTERYG'IUM, a generalised limb of a vertebrate.

PTERYLÆ, ter'i-l[=e], _n.pl._ the bands of contour feathers in
birds.--_adjs._ PTERYLOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ PTERYLOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._
PTERYLOG'RAPHY.

PTILOSIS, t[=i]-l[=o]'sis, _n._ plumage or mode of feathering of a
bird.--Also PTERYL[=O]'SIS. [Gr. _ptilon_, a feather.]

PTISAN, tiz'an, _n._ a medicinal drink made from barley with other
ingredients. [Gr. _ptisan[=e]_, peeled barley, barley-water--_ptissein_, to
peel.]

PTOCHOCRACY, t[=o]-kok'ra-si, _n._ the rule of paupers.--_n._ PTOCHOG'ONY,
the production of beggars--wholesale pauperisation. [Gr. _pt[=o]chos_, a
beggar.]

PTOLEMAIC, tol-e-m[=a]'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the race of Egyptian kings
called the _Ptolemies_: pertaining to _Ptolemy_ the astronomer (of the 2d
century)--also PTOLEMÆ'AN.--_n._ PTOLEM[=A]'IST, one who believes in the
Ptolemaic system of astronomy.--PTOLEMAIC SYSTEM, the method by which
Ptolemy, the astronomer, explained the structure of the heavens and the
motions of the heavenly bodies (139 A.D.).

PTOMAÏNE, t[=o]'ma-in, _n._ a somewhat loosely used generic name for those
bodies, usually poisonous, formed from animal tissues during
putrefaction--_putrescine_, _cadaverine_, _creatinin_, _neurin_, _choline_,
_muscarine_, &c.--Also PT[=O]'MAÏN. [Gr. _pt[=o]ma_, a corpse--_piptein_,
to fall.]

PTOSIS, t[=o]'sis, _n._ inability to raise the upper eyelid.
[Gr.,--_piptein_, to fall.]

PTYALIN, -E, t[=i]'a-lin, _n._ the nitrogenous essential principle of
saliva.--_v.i._ PTY'ALISE, to salivate.--_n._ PTY'ALISM,
salivation.--_adj._ PTYALOGOG'IC.--_ns._ PTYAL'OGOGUE, PTYS'MAGOGUE, a
medicine which causes salivation. [Gr.,--_ptuein_, to spit.]

PUB, pub, _n._ (_slang_) a public-house, tavern.

PUBERTY, p[=u]'b[.e]r-ti, _n._ the age of full development: early manhood
or womanhood: the period when a plant begins to flower.--_adjs._
P[=U]'BERAL; P[=U]BER'ULENT, covered with very fine downy hairs.--_ns._
P[=U]'BES, the pubic region, the hair growing thereon at puberty;
P[=U]BES'CENCE, state of one arrived at puberty: (_bot_.) the soft, short
hair on plants.--_adj._ P[=U]BES'CENT, arriving at puberty: (_bot._,
_zool._) covered with soft, short hair; PUBIG'EROUS, pubescent. [Fr.
_puberté_--L. _pubertas_, _-tatis_--_pubes_, _puber_, grown up.]

PUBIS, p[=u]'bis, _n._ a bone of the pelvis which in man forms the anterior
portion of the _os innominatum_.--_adjs._ P[=U]'BIC; PUBOFEM'ORAL;
P[=U]'BO-IL'IAC; P[=U]'BO-IS'CHIAC; PUBOPROSTAT'IC; P[=U]'BO-UR[=E]'THRAL;
PUBOVES'ICAL. [For _os pubis_, gen. of _pubes_, grown up.]

PUBLIC, pub'lik, _adj._ of or belonging to the people: pertaining to a
community or a nation: general: common to or shared in by all: generally
known.--_n._ the people: the general body of mankind: the people,
indefinitely: a public-house, tavern.--_ns._ PUB'LICAN, the keeper of an
inn or public-house: (_orig_.) a farmer-general of the Roman taxes: a
tax-collector; PUBLIC[=A]'TION, the act of publishing or making public: a
proclamation: the act of printing and sending out for sale, as a book: that
which is published as a book, &c.--_ns.pl._ PUB'LIC-BILLS, -LAWS, &c.,
bills, laws, &c. which concern the interests of the whole people;
PUB'LIC-FUNDS, money lent to government for which interest is paid of a
stated amount at a stated time.--_ns._ PUB'LIC-HOUSE, a house open to the
public: one chiefly used for selling beer and other liquors: an inn or
tavern; PUB'LIC-INSTIT[=U]'TION, an institution kept up by public funds for
the public use, as an educational or charitable foundation; PUB'LICIST, one
who writes on or is skilled in public law, or on current political topics;
PUBLIC'ITY, the state of being public or open to the knowledge of all:
notoriety; PUB'LIC-LAW (see INTERNATIONAL).--_adv._ PUB'LICLY.--_adjs._
PUB'LIC-MIND'ED, -SPIR'ITED, having a spirit actuated by regard to the
public interest: with a regard to the public interest.--_ns._ PUB'LICNESS;
PUB'LIC-OPIN'ION, the view which the people of a district or county take of
any question of public interest; PUB'LIC-POL'ICY, the main principles or
spirit upon which the law of a country is constructed; PUB'LIC-SPIR'IT, a
strong desire and effort to work on behalf of the public interest.--_adv._
PUB'LIC-SPIR'ITEDLY.--_n._ PUB'LIC-SPIR'ITEDNESS.--_n.pl._ PUB'LIC-WORKS,
permanent works or improvements made for public use or benefit.--PUBLIC
HEALTH, the department in any government, municipality, &c. which
superintends sanitation; PUBLIC HOLIDAY, a general holiday ordained by
parliament; PUBLIC LANDS, lands belonging to government, esp. such as are
open to sale, grant, &c.; PUBLIC ORATOR, an officer of English universities
who is the voice of the Senate upon all public occasions; PUBLIC SCHOOL
(see SCHOOL).--IN PUBLIC, in open view. [Fr.,--L. _publicus_--_populus_,
the people.]

PUBLISH, pub'lish, _v.t._ to make public: to divulge: to announce: to
proclaim: to send forth to the public: to print and offer for sale: to put
into circulation.--_adj._ PUB'LISHABLE.--_ns._ PUB'LISHER, one who makes
public: one who publishes books; PUB'LISHMENT, publication, esp. of banns.

PUCE, p[=u]s, _adj._ brownish-purple. [Fr. _puce_--L. _pulex_,
_pul[)i]cis_, a flea.]

PUCELLE, p[=u]-sel', _n._ a maid, virgin, esp. the Maid of Orleans, Jeanne
d'Arc (1412-31): a wanton girl.--_n._ P[=U]'CELAGE, virginity. [O. Fr.
through Low L.,--L. _pullus_, a young animal.]

PUCK, puk, _n._ a goblin or mischievous sprite: a merry fairy in _Midsummer
Night's Dream_.--_adj._ PUCK'ISH. [M. E. _pouke_--Celt., as Ir. _puca_, W.
_pwca_, _bwg_; conn. with Ice. _púki_. Cf. _Pug_, _Bug_.]

PUCKA, puk'a, _adj._ durable, substantial--opp. to _Cutcha_. [Anglo-Ind.]

PUCK-BALL. Same as PUFF-BALL.

PUCKER, puk'[.e]r, _v.t._ to gather into folds: to wrinkle.--_n._ a fold or
wrinkle: a number of folds or wrinkles, esp. irregular ones: (_coll._)
agitation, confusion.--_adj._ PUCK'ERY, astringent: tending to wrinkle.
[Cf. _Poke_, a bag, and _Pock_.]

PUD, pud, _n._ (_coll._) a paw, fist, hand. [Perh. Dut. _poot_, paw.]

PUDDENING, pud'ning, _n._ a thick pad of rope, &c., used as a fender on the
bow of a boat.

PUDDER, pud'[.e]r, _n._ a pother, a bustle, a tumult.--_v.i._ to make a
tumult or bustle.--_v.t._ to disturb: to perplex or confound. [_Pother._]

PUDDING, p[=oo]d'ing, _n._ a skin or gut filled with seasoned minced meat,
&c., a sausage: a soft kind of food made of flour, milk, eggs, &c.: a piece
of good fortune.--_adjs._ PUDD'ING-FACED, having a fat, round, smooth face;
PUDD'ING-HEAD'ED (_coll._), stupid.--_ns._ PUDD'ING-PIE, a pudding with
meat baked in it; PUDD'ING-SLEEVE, a large loose sleeve; PUDD'ING-STONE, a
conglomerate rock made up of rounded pebbles; PUDD'ING-TIME, dinner-time:
(_obs._) critical time. [Prob. Celt., as W. _poten_, Ir. _putog_--_put_, a
bag. The Low Ger. _pudding_, Fr. _boudin_, L. _botulus_, are prob. all
related words.]

PUDDLE, pud'l, _n._ an ill-shaped, awkward person. [Cf. Low Ger. _purrel_,
something short and thick.]

PUDDLE, pud'l, _n._ a small pool of muddy water: a mixture of clay and
sand.--_v.t._ to make muddy: to stir up mud: to make water-tight by means
of clay: to convert into bar or wrought iron.--_v.i._ to make a dirty
stir.--_ns._ PUDD'LER, one who turns cast-iron into wrought-iron by
puddling; PUDD'LING, the act of rendering impervious to water by means of
clay: the process of converting cast into bar or wrought iron.--_adj._
PUDD'LY, dirty. [M. E. _podel_ (prob. for _plod-el_)--Celt.; Ir. _plodach_,
_plod_, a pool.]

PUDDOCK, pud'ok, _n._ Same as PADDOCK.

PUDENCY, p[=u]'dens-i, _n._ (_Shak._) shamefacedness, modesty.--_n.pl._
PUDEN'DA, the genitals.--_adjs._ PUDEN'DAL, PUDEN'DOUS, P[=U]'DIC, -AL,
pertaining to the pudenda.--_n._ PUDIC'ITY, modesty. [L., as if
_pudentia_--_pudens_, pr.p. of _pud[=e]re_, to be ashamed.]

PUDGY, puj'i, _adj._ fat and short: fleshy.--Also PODG'Y.

PUEBLO, pweb'lo, _n._ a town or settlement in Spanish America: one of the
communal habitations of the New Mexico aborigines.--_adj._ PUEB'LAN. [Sp.,
a town--L. _populus_, a people.]

PUERILE, p[=u]'[.e]r-[=i]l, _adj._ pertaining to children: childish:
trifling: silly.--_adv._ P[=U]'ERILELY.--_ns._ P[=U]'ERILENESS,
P[=U]ERIL'ITY, quality of being puerile: that which is puerile: a childish
expression. [Fr. _puéril_--L. _puerilis_--_puer_, a child.]

PUERPERAL, p[=u]-[.e]r'p[.e]r-al, _adj._ relating to childbirth--also
P[=U]ER'PEROUS.--_adv._ P[=U]ER'PERALLY.--PUERPERAL FEVER, fever occurring
in connection with childbirth; PUERPERAL INSANITY, insanity occurring in
connection with childbirth. [L. _puerpera_, a woman lately
delivered--_puer_, a child, _par[)e]re_, to bear.]

PUFF, puf, _v.i._ to blow in puffs or whiffs: to swell or fill with air: to
breathe with vehemence: to blow at, in contempt: to bustle about.--_v.t._
to drive with a puff: to swell with a wind: to praise in exaggerated
terms.--_n._ a sudden, forcible breath: a sudden blast of wind: a gust or
whiff: a fungus ball containing dust: anything light and porous, or swollen
and light: a kind of light pastry: a part of a fabric gathered up so as to
be left full in the middle: a light ball or pad for dusting powder on the
skin, &c.: an exaggerated expression of praise.--_ns._ PUFF'-ADD'ER, a
large, venomous African serpent; PUFF'-BALL, a dried fungus, ball-shaped
and full of dust; PUFF'-BIRD, a South American bird resembling the
kingfisher in form, but living on insects; PUFF'-BOX, a box for holding
powder for the toilet, and a puff for applying it.--_adj._ PUFFED, gathered
up into rounded ridges, as a sleeve.--_ns._ PUFF'ER, one who puffs: one who
raises the prices at an auction in order to excite the eagerness of the
bidders to the advantage of the seller; PUFF'ERY, puffing or extravagant
praise.--_adv._ PUFF'ILY.--_ns._ PUFF'INESS, state of being puffy or
turgid: intumescence; PUFF'ING, the act of praising extravagantly.--_adv._
PUFF'INGLY.--_n._ PUFF'-PASTE, a short flaky paste for pastry.--_adj._
PUFF'Y, puffed out with air or any soft matter: tumid: bombastic: coming in
puffs.--PUFF UP (_B._), to inflate. [Imit.; cf. Ger. _puffen_, &c.]

PUFFIN, puf'in, _n._ a water-fowl having a short, thick, projecting beak
like that of a parrot: a puff-ball.

PUG, pug, _n._ a monkey: a fox: a small kind of dog: any small animal (in
familiarity or contempt).--_n._ PUG'-DOG, a small, short-haired dog with
wrinkled face, upturned nose, and short tail.--_adjs._ PUG'-FACED,
monkey-faced; PUG'GING (_Shak._), thieving--a misprint for
_prigging_.--_n._ PUG'-NOSE (sometimes abbrev. _pug_), a short, thick nose
with the tip turned up. [_Puck._]

PUG, pug, _n._ clay ground and worked with water.--_v.t._ to grind with
water and make plastic: to line spaces between floors with mortar, felt, or
other deafening.--_ns._ PUG'GING, beating or punching, esp. the working of
clay for making bricks, in a pug-mill: (_archit._) clay, sawdust, plaster,
&c. put between floors to deaden sound; PUG'-MILL, a machine for mixing and
tempering clay. [Prov. Eng. _pug_, to strike. Cf. _Poke_.]

PUGH, p[=oo], _interj._ of contempt or disdain. [Imit.]

PUGILISM, p[=u]'jil-izm, _n._ the art of boxing or fighting with the fists,
esp. in the prize-ring.--_ns._ P[=U]'GIL, a pinch; P[=U]'GILIST, one who
fights with his fists.--_adj._ P[=U]GILIST'IC. [L. _pugil_, a boxer.]

PUGNACIOUS, pug-n[=a]'shus, _adj._ fond of fighting: combative:
quarrelsome.--_adv._ PUGN[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ PUGNAC'ITY, readiness or
inclination to fight: fondness for fighting: quarrelsomeness. [L. _pugnax_,
_pugnacis_, fond of fighting--_pugn[=a]re_, to fight.]

PUGREE, pug'r[=e], _n._ a light scarf worn round the hat to keep off the
sun.--Also PUG'GREE, PUG'GERY, PUG'AREE. [Hind. _pagr[=i]_, a turban.]

PUISNE, p[=u]'ne, _adj._ (_law_) younger or inferior in rank, applied to
certain judges in England. [O. Fr. (Fr. _puiné_), from _puis_--L. _post_,
after, _né_, pa.p. of _naître_--L. _nasci_, _natus_, to be born.]

PUISSANT, p[=u]'is-ant, _adj._ potent or powerful: strong: forcible.--_n._
P[=U]'ISSANCE, power, strength, force.--_adv._ P[=U]'ISSANTLY.--_n._
P[=U]'ISSANTNESS. [Fr., (It. _possente_)--L. _potens_, powerful, modified
by the influence of L. _posse_, to be able.]

PUKE, p[=u]k, _v.i._ to spew, vomit: to sicken.--_n._ vomit: an
emetic.--_n._ P[=U]'KER, one who vomits. [Perh. for _spuke_. Cf. _Spew_.]

PUKE, p[=u]k, _adj._ (_Shak._) of a colour between black and russet:
reddish-brown: puce.--_n._ PUKE'-STOCK'ING (_Shak._), a dark-coloured
stocking.

PULCHRITUDE, pul'kri-t[=u]d, _n._ comeliness. [L.]

PULE, p[=u]l, _v.i._ to pipe or chirp: to cry, whimper, or whine, like a
child.--_ns._ P[=U]'LER; P[=U]'LING, the cry as of a chicken: a kind of
whine.--_adj._ whimpering: whining.--_adv._ P[=U]'LINGLY. [From Fr.
_piauler_; imit. like It. _pigolare_, L. _pipil[=a]re_ and _pip[=a]re_, to
pipe.]

PULEX, p[=u]'leks, _n._ a genus of insects: the flea. [L.]

PULKHA, pul'kä, _n._ a Laplander's sledge, shaped like a boat.--Also PULK.
[Lap.]

PULL, p[=oo]l, _v.t._ to draw, or try to draw, with force: to draw or
gather with the hand: to tear: to pluck: to extract: to move, propel by
tugging, rowing, &c.: to transport by rowing: in horse-racing, to check a
horse in order to prevent its winning: to produce on a printing-press
worked by hand: to raid or seize.--_v.i._ to give a pull: to draw.--_n._
the act of pulling: a struggle or contest: exercise in rowing: (_slang_)
influence, a favourable chance, advantage: (_coll._) a drink, draught:
(_print._) a single impression of a hand-press.--_ns._ PULL'-BACK, a
restraint: a device for making a woman's gown hang close and straight in
front; PULL'ER.--PULL A FACE, to draw the countenance into a particular
expression: to grimace; PULL APART, to bring asunder by pulling; PULL DOWN,
to take down or apart: to demolish; PULL FOR, to row in the direction of;
PULL OFF, to carry anything through successfully; PULL ONE'S SELF TOGETHER,
to collect one's faculties; PULL OUT, to draw out, lengthen; PULL THE LONG
BOW, to lie or boast beyond measure; PULL THROUGH, to get to the end of
something difficult or dangerous with some success; PULL UP, to tighten the
reins: to take to task: to bring to a stop: to halt; PULL UP STAKES, to
prepare to leave a place. [A.S. _pullian_; conn. with Low Ger. _pulen_, to
pluck.]

PULLET, p[=oo]l'et, _n._ a young hen.--_n._ PULL'ET-SPERM (_Shak._), the
treadle or chalaza of an egg. [Fr. _poulette_, dim. of _poule_, a hen--Low
L. _pulla_, a hen, fem. of L. _pullus_, a young animal.]

[Illustration]

PULLEY, p[=oo]l'i, _n._ a wheel turning about an axis, and having a groove
on its rim in which a cord runs, used for raising weights:--_pl._
PULL'EYS.--_ns._ PULL'EY-BLOCK, a shell containing one or more sheaves, the
whole forming a pulley; PULL'EY-SHELL, the casing of a pulley-block. [M. E.
_poleyne_--Fr. _poulain_--Low L. _pullanus_--_pullus_; acc. to Diez, from
Fr. _poulie_, itself from Eng. _pull_.]

PULLMAN-CAR, p[=oo]l'man-kär, _n._ a railway sleeping-car or palace-car,
first made by George M. _Pullman_ (b. 1831) in America.

PULLULATE, pul'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to germinate, bud.--_n._
PULLUL[=A]'TION. [L.,--_pullulus_, a young animal, sprout--_pullus_. Cf.
_Pullet_.]

PULMONARY, pul'm[=o]-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ pertaining to, or affecting, the
lungs: done by the lungs: having lungs: pulmonic.--_adj._ PULMOBRANCH'IATE,
breathing by lung-sacs.--_n._ PULMOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the
capacity of the lungs.--_adj._ PULMON[=A]'RIOUS, diseased in the
lungs.--_n.pl._ PULMON[=A]'TA, an order or sub-class of Gasteropoda,
air-breathing.--_adjs._ PUL'MON[=A]TE, having lungs, lung-sacs, or
lung-like organs; PULMON'IC, pertaining to or affecting the lungs.--_n._ a
medicine for disease of the lungs: one affected by disease of the
lungs.--_adj._ PULMONIF'EROUS, provided with lungs.--PULMONARY ARTERY, an
artery which brings blood from the heart to the lungs; PULMONARY VEIN, a
vein which brings blood from the lungs to the heart. [L.
_pulmonarius_--_pulmo_, _pulmonis_, a lung--Gr. _pleum[=o]n_, _pneum[=o]n_,
lung.]

PULP, pulp, _n._ the soft fleshy part of bodies, e.g. of teeth: marrow: the
soft part of plants, esp. of fruits: any soft mass: the soft mass obtained
from the breaking and grinding of rags, &c., before it is hardened into
paper.--_v.t._ to reduce to pulp: to deprive of pulp: to separate the
pulp.--_v.i._ to become ripe or juicy, like the pulp of fruit.--_ns._
PULP'-EN'GINE, a machine for converting rags, &c., into pulp; PULP'IFIER,
an apparatus for reducing fresh meat to a jelly-like pulp, to aid
digestion.--_v.t._ PULP'IFY, to make into pulp. [Fr. _pulpe_--L. _pulpa_,
flesh without bones.]

PULPIT, p[=oo]l'pit, _n._ a platform for speaking from: an elevated or
enclosed place in a church where the sermon is delivered: a desk.--_adj._
belonging to the pulpit.--_ns._ PULPITEER', PUL'PITER, one who speaks from
a pulpit: a preacher.--_adj._ PUL'PITISH.--THE PULPIT, preachers or
preaching collectively. [Fr.,--L. _pulpitum_, a stage.]

PULPOUS, pulp'us, _adj._ consisting of, or resembling, pulp: soft.--_ns._
PULP'INESS; PULP'OUSNESS.--_adj._ PULP'Y, like pulp: soft.

PULQUE, p[=oo]l'k[=a], _n._ a fermented drink, made in Mexico. [Sp., from
Mex.]

PULSATE, pul's[=a]t, _v.i._ to beat, as the heart or as a vein: to
throb.--_adj._ PUL'SATILE, that can pulsate, as a wound: that may be struck
or beaten, as a drum: played by beating: acting by pulsation.--_n._
PULS[=A]'TION, a beating or throbbing: a motion of the heart or pulse: any
measured beat: a vibration.--_adj._ PUL'SATIVE.--_n._ PULS[=A]'TOR, a
pulsometer: a jigging-machine, used in South African
diamond-digging.--_adj._ PUL'SATORY, beating or throbbing.--_n._ any
musical instrument played by being beaten on. [L. _puls[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_,
to beat, freq. of _pell[)e]re_, _pulsum_, to drive.]

PULSATILLA, pul-sa-til'a, _n._ the pasque-flower, _Anemone pulsatilla_.

PULSE, puls, _n._ a beating or throbbing: a measured beat or throb: a
vibration: the beating of the heart and the arteries: (_fig_.) feeling,
sentiment.--_v.i._ to beat, as the heart: to throb.--_adj._ PULSE'LESS,
having no pulsation: without life.--_ns._ PULSE'LESSNESS; PULSE'-RATE, the
number of beats of a pulse per minute; PULSE'-WAVE, the expansion of the
artery, moving from point to point, like a wave, as each beat of the heart
sends the blood to the extremities.--_adj._ PULSIF'IC, exciting the
pulse.--_ns._ PULSIM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the strength or
quickness of the pulse; PULSOM'ETER, a pulsimeter: a kind of
steam-condensing pump.--FEEL ONE'S PULSE, to find out by the sense of touch
the force of the blood in the arteries: to find out what one is thinking on
some point; PUBLIC PULSE, the movement of public opinion on any question;
QUICK PULSE, a pulse in which the rise of tension is very rapid. [Fr.
_pouls_--L. _pulsus_--_pell[)e]re_, _pulsum_.]

PULSE, puls, _n._ grain or seed of beans, pease, &c.--_adj._
PULT[=A]'CEOUS, macerated and softened. [L. _puls_, porridge (Gr.
_poltos_). Cf. _Poultice_.]

PULU, p[=oo]'l[=oo], _n._ a silky fibre obtained from the Hawaiian
tree-ferns, used for stuffing mattresses.

PULVERABLE, pul'v[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that may be reduced to fine
powder--also PUL'VER[=I]SABLE.--_adj._ PULVER[=A]'CEOUS, having a powdery
surface.--_vs.t._ PUL'VERATE, PUL'VERISE, to reduce to dust or fine
powder.--_vs.i._ to fall down into dust or powder: to roll or wallow in the
dust.--_ns._ PUL'VERINE, ashes of barilla; PULVERIS[=A]'TION;
PUL'VER[=I]SER.--_adj._ PUL'VEROUS, consisting of, or like, dust or
powder.--_n._ PULVER'[=U]LENCE.--_adj._ PULVER'[=U]LENT, consisting of fine
powder: powdery: dusty. [L. _pulvis_, _pulveris_, powder.]

PULVIL, pul'vil, _n._ a bag of perfumed powder.--Also PULVIL'IO. [It.
_polviglio_--L. _pulvillus_, a little cushion--_pulvinus_, a cushion.]

PULVILLAR, pul'vi-lär, _adj._ cushion or pad-like.--_adj._ PULVIL'LIFORM,
like a pulvillus.--_n._ PULVIL'LUS, a foot-pad between the clavi of the
terminal tarsal joint of an insect's leg--also PULVIN'ULUS.--_adj._
PULV[=I]'NAR, padded: formed like a cushion.--_n._ a pillow or cushion: a
peculiar prominence on a part of the human brain.--_adjs._ PUL'VIN[=A]TE,
-D, PULVIN'IFORM, cushion-shaped. [L. _pulvillus_, _pulvinus_, a cushion,
_pulvinar_, a soft couch.]

PULWAR, pul'wär, _n._ a light keelless boat used on the Ganges.--Also
PAL'WAR.

PULZA-OIL, pul'zä-oil, _n._ an oil obtained from the seeds of _Fatropha
Curcas_, from the Cape Verd Islands.

PUMA, p[=u]'ma, _n._ a carnivorous animal, of the cat kind, of a
reddish-brown colour without spots, called also the American lion. [Peruv.
_puma_.]

PUMICE, pum'is, or p[=u]'mis, _n._ a hard, light, spongy substance, formed
of lava, from which gas or steam has escaped while hardening.--_v.t._ to
polish or rub with pumice-stone--also P[=U]'MIC[=A]TE.--_adjs._ PUMI'CEOUS,
PUM'ICIFORM, of or like pumice.--_ns._ PUM'ICE-STONE (same as PUMICE);
P[=U]'MY (_Spens._), a pebble, stone. [A.S. _pumic-_(_-stán_), pumice
(-stone)--L. _pumex_, _pumicis_, for _spumex_--_spuma_, foam--_spu[)e]re_.
Cf. _Spume_, and _Pounce_, a fine powder.]

PUMMEL. Same as POMMEL.

PUMP, pump, _n._ a machine for raising water and other fluids to a higher
level: a machine for drawing out or forcing in air.--_v.t._ to raise with a
pump: to draw out information by artful questions.--_v.i._ to work a pump:
to raise water by pumping.--_ns._ PUMP'AGE, the amount pumped;
PUMP'-BARR'EL, the cylinder which forms the body of a pump.--_pa.p._ PUMPED
(_coll._), out of breath, panting--sometimes with _out_.--_ns._ PUMP'ER;
PUMP'-GEAR, the various parts which make up a pump; PUMP'-HAND'LE, the
lever by means of which the pump is worked; PUMP'-HEAD, -HOOD, a frame
covering the upper wheel of a chain-pump, serving to guide the water into
the discharge-spout; PUMP'ING-EN'GINE, any form of motor for operating a
pump; PUMP'-ROD, the rod by which the handle is fixed to the bucket which
moves up and down inside; PUMP'-ROOM, the apartment at a mineral spring in
which the waters are drunk; PUMP'-WELL, a well from which water is got by
pumping.--PUMP SHIP, to urinate. [O. Fr. _pompe_ (cf. Ger. _pumpe_); perh.
conn. with _plump_.]

PUMP, pump, _n._ a thin-soled shoe used in dancing.--_adj._ PUMPED, wearing
pumps. [Prob. Fr. _pompe_, ornament, show, from Teut., cf. Ger.
_pumphosen_, wide pantaloons.]

PUMPERNICKEL, pump'er-nik-el, _n._ a kind of coarse bread, made of unsifted
rye, much used in Westphalia. [Ger., a heavy, stupid fellow, from _pumper_,
a heavy fall, _nickel_=Nicholas.]

PUMPKIN, pump'kin, _n._ a plant of the gourd family and its fruit.--Also
PUMP'ION. [A corr. of O. Fr. _pompon_--L. _pep[=o]_--Gr. _pep[=o]n_, ripe.]

PUMY. See PUMICE.

PUN, pun, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to pound. [Cf. _Pound_.]

PUN, pun, _v.i._ to play upon words similar in sound but different in
meaning so as to produce a ludicrous idea:--_pr.p._ pun'ning; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ punned.--_n._ a play upon words.--_ns._ PUN'NAGE, PUN'NING, the act
or habit of punning. [Ety. dub.; prob. to beat words=_pound_, to beat, from
A.S. _punian_, to pound.]

PUNCH, punsh, _n._ contr. of _Punchinello_, a humpbacked, hook-nosed puppet
with a squeaking voice, one of the two main actors in the street
puppet-show 'Punch and Judy:' PUNCH, or the London CHARIVARI, the chief
illustrated English comic journal (begun 17th July 1841). [Through the
influence of prov. Eng. _punch_, a variant of _bunch_, thick.]

PUNCH, punsh, _adj._ (_prov._) short and fat.--_n._ a short and fat man: a
short-legged, round-bodied horse.--_adj._ PUNCH'Y. [Prob. a variant of
_bunch_.]

PUNCH, punsh, _n._ a drink of five ingredients--spirit, water, sugar,
lemon-juice, and spice.--_ns._ PUNCH'-BOWL, a large bowl for making punch
in; PUNCH'-L[=A]D'LE, a ladle for filling glasses from a punch-bowl. [Hind.
_panch_, five--Sans. _pancha_, five.]

PUNCH, punsh, _v.t._ to prick or pierce with something sharp or blunt: to
make a hole in with a steel tool.--_n._ a tool either blunt, or hollow and
sharp-edged, for stamping or perforating: a kind of awl.--_n._ PUNCH'ER. [A
shortened form of _puncheon_, a tool.]

PUNCH, punsh, _v.t._ to strike or hit: to beat with the fist, as one's
head.--_n._ a stroke or blow with the fist, elbow, &c. [Prob. a corr. of
_punish_.]

PUNCHEON, punsh'un, _n._ a steel tool with a die or a sharp point at one
end for stamping or perforating metal plates: a short post or slab of wood
with the face smoothed. [O. Fr. _poinson_--L. _punctio_,
_-onis_--_pung[)e]re_, _punctum_, to prick.]

PUNCHEON, punsh'un, _n._ a cask: a liquid measure of from 72 or 84 to 120
gallons. [O. Fr. _poinson_, a cask; perh. from the above.]

PUNCHINELLO, punsh-i-nel'o, _n._ the short, hump-backed figure of a
puppet-show: a buffoon, any grotesque personage. [It. _pulcinello_, dim. of
_pulcino_, a chicken, child--L. _pullus_, a young animal.]

PUNCTATE, -D, pungk't[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ pointed: (_bot._) punctured: full
of small holes: pitted: dotted.--_ns._ PUNCT[=A]'TION; PUNCT[=A]'TOR, one
who marks with dots--esp. applied to the Massoretes who invented the Hebrew
vowel-points.--_adj._ PUNC'TIFORM, pointed. [L. _punctum_--_pung[)e]re_,
_punctum_, to prick.]

PUNCTILIO, pungk-til'yo, _n._ a nice point in behaviour or ceremony: nicety
in forms: exact observance of forms.--_adj._ PUNCTIL'IOUS, attending to
little points or matters: very nice or exact in behaviour or ceremony:
exact or punctual to excess.--_adv._ PUNCTIL'IOUSLY.--_ns._
PUNCTIL'IOUSNESS; PUNC'TO (_Shak._), the point, or a blow with it in
fencing: a nice point of ceremony. [Sp. _puntillo_, dim. of _punto_,
point--L. _punctum_, a point.]

PUNCTUAL, pungk't[=u]-al, _adj._ of or pertaining to a point: observant of
nice points: punctilious: exact in keeping time and appointments: done at
the exact time.--_ns._ PUNC'TUALIST; PUNCTUAL'ITY, quality or state of
being punctual: the keeping of the exact time of an appointment:
exactness.--_adv._ PUNC'TUALLY.--_n._ PUNC'TUALNESS. [Fr.
_ponctuel_--_punctum_, a point.]

PUNCTUATE, pungk't[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to mark with points: to divide
sentences by the usual points or marks: to emphasise.--_adv._
PUNC'TU[=A]TIM, point for point.--_n._ PUNCTU[=A]'TION, the act or art of
dividing sentences by points or marks.--_adj._ PUNC'TU[=A]TIVE.--_n._
PUNC'TU[=A]TOR.--PUNCTUATION MARKS, the comma, semicolon, colon, period,
&c.

PUNCTUM, pungk'tum, _n._ (_anat._) a point, dot.--_adjs._ PUNC'T[=U]LATE,
-D.--_ns._ PUNCT[=U]L[=A]'TION; PUNC'T[=U]LE; PUNC'T[=U]LUM.--PUNCTUM
CÆCUM, the point of the retina from which the optic nerve fibres radiate,
so called because impervious to light.

PUNCTURE, pungk't[=u]r, _n._ a pricking: a small hole made with a sharp
point.--_v.t._ to prick: to pierce with a pointed instrument.--_n._
PUNCTUR[=A]'TION. [L. _punctura_--_pung[)e]re_, to prick.]

PUNDIT, pun'dit, _n._ a person who is learned in the language, science,
laws, and religion of India: any learned man. [Hind. _pandit_--Sans.
_pandita_.]

PUNDONOR, pun'do-n[=o]r', _n._ point of honour. [Sp., contr. of _punto de
honor_, point of honour.]

PUNGENT, pun'jent, _adj._ sharp: pricking or acrid to taste or smell:
keenly touching the mind: painful: keen: sarcastic.--_ns._ PUN'GENCY,
PUN'GENCE.--_adv._ PUN'GENTLY. [L. _pungens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_pung[)e]re_, to prick.]

PUNIC, p[=u]'nik, _adj._ pertaining to, or like, the ancient Carthaginians:
faithless, treacherous, deceitful.--_n._ the language of ancient Carthage.
[L. _Punicus_--_Poeni_, the Carthaginians.]

PUNINESS, p[=u]'ni-nes, _n._ the state or quality of being puny or feeble:
smallness: pettiness. [_Puny_.]

PUNISH, pun'ish, _v.t._ to cause to pay a penalty: to cause loss or pain to
a person for a fault or crime: (_coll._) to handle or beat severely, maul:
(_coll._) to consume a large quantity of: to chasten.--_ns._
PUNISHABIL'ITY, PUN'ISHABLENESS.--_adj._ PUN'ISHABLE, that may be
punished--said both of persons and crimes.--_ns._ PUN'ISHER; PUN'ISHMENT,
act or process of punishing: loss or pain inflicted for a crime or fault:
the consequences of a broken law.--_adjs._ PUNITIVE (p[=u]'ni-tiv),
pertaining to punishment: inflicting punishment; P[=U]'NITORY, punishing:
tending to punishment. [Fr. _punir_, _punis-sant_--L. _pun[=i]re_, to
punish--_poena_, penalty.]

PUNJABEE, PUNJABI, pun-jä'b[=e], _n._ a native or inhabitant of the
_Punjab_ in India.

PUNK, pungk, _n._ rotten wood used as tinder: (_Shak._) a strumpet.
[_Spunk_.]

PUNKA, PUNKAH, pung'ka, _n._ a large fan for cooling the air of an Indian
house, consisting of a light framework covered with cloth and suspended
from the ceiling of a room, worked by pulling a cord or by machinery.
[Hind. _pankha_, a fan.]

PUNSTER, pun'st[.e]r, _n._ one who makes puns.

PUNT, punt, _n._ a flat-bottomed boat with square ends.--_v.t._ to propel,
as a boat, by pushing with a pole against the bottom of a river: to kick
the ball (_in football_) before it touches the ground, when let fall from
the hands: to knock.--_v.i._ to pursue water-fowl in a punt with a
punt-gun.--_ns._ PUNT'ER; PUNT'-FISHING, angling from a punt in a pond,
river, or lake; PUNT'-GUN, a heavy gun of large bore used for shooting
water-fowl from a punt; PUNTS'MAN, a sportsman who uses a punt. [A.S.,--L.
_ponto_, a punt--_pons_, _pontis_, a bridge.]

PUNT, punt, _v.i._ to play at basset or ombre.--_n._ PUNT'ER, one who marks
the points in basset or ombre. [Fr., through Sp.--L. _punctum_, a point.]

PUNTILLA, pun-til'a, _n._ lace-work. [Sp.]

PUNTO, pun'to, _n._ (_Shak._) a point or hit: a pass or thrust made in
fencing.--PUNTO DRITTO, a direct or straight hit; PUNTO RIVERSO, a
back-handed stroke. [Sp. and It. _punto_--L. _punctum_, a point.]

PUNY, p[=u]'ni, _adj._ (_comp._ P[=U]'NIER; _superl._ P[=U]'NIEST) small:
feeble: petty. [Cf. _Puisne_.]

PUP, pup, _v.t._ to bring forth puppies, as a bitch: to whelp:--_pr.p._
pup'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ pupped.--_n._ PUP.--BE IN PUP, to be
pregnant, said of dogs. [_Puppy._]

PUPA, p[=u]'pa, _n._ an insect enclosed in a case while passing from the
caterpillar to the winged stage: a chrysalis--also P[=U]PE:--_pl._ PUPÆ
(p[=u]'p[=e]).--_adjs._ P[=U]'PAL, P[=U]P[=A]'RIAL.--_n._ P[=U]P[=A]'RIUM,
a pupa included within the last larval skin.--_v.i._ P[=U]P[=A]TE', to
become a pupa.--_n._ P[=U]P[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ P[=U]'PIFORM;
P[=U]PIG'EROUS.--_n._ P[=U]PIP'ARA, a division of dipterous insects having
pupæ developed within the body of the mother.--_adjs._ P[=U]PIP'AROUS;
P[=U]PIV'OROUS; P[=U]'POID. [L. _pupa_, a girl, a doll, fem. of _pupus_, a
boy, a child; cf. _puer_, a boy.]

PUPIL, p[=u]'pil, _n._ a little boy or girl: one under the care of a tutor:
a scholar: a ward: (_law_) one under the age of puberty--i.e. under
fourteen years for males, and twelve for females.--_adj._ under age.--_ns._
PUPILABIL'ITY (_rare_), pupilary nature: confidential character;
P[=U]'PILAGE, P[=U]'PILLAGE, state of being a pupil: the time during which
one is a pupil; PUPILAR'ITY, PUPILLAR'ITY, the time between birth and
puberty.--_adjs._ P[=U]'PILARY, P[=U]'PILLARY, pertaining to a pupil or
ward.--PUPIL TEACHER, one who is both a pupil and a teacher. [Fr.
_pupille_--L. _pupillus_, _pupilla_, dims. of _pupus_, boy, _pupa_, girl.]

PUPIL, p[=u]'pil, _n._ the round opening in the middle of the eye through
which the light passes: the apple of the eye, so called from the baby-like
figures seen on it: (_zool._) the central dark part of an ocellated
spot.--_adjs._ P[=U]'PILARY, P[=U]'PILLARY; P[=U]'PILATE (_zool._), having
a central spot of another colour.--_n._ PUPILLOM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the size of the pupil of an eye. [Same as above word.]

PUPPET, pup'et, _n._ a small doll or image moved by wires in a show: a
marionette: one who acts just as another tells him.--_ns._ PUPP'ETRY,
finery, affectation: a puppet-show; PUPP'ET-SHOW, -PLAY, a mock show or
drama performed by puppets; PUPP'ET-VALVE, a valve like a pot-lid attached
to a rod, and used in steam-engines for covering an opening. [O. Fr.
_poupette_, dim. from L. _pupa_.]

PUPPY, pup'i, _n._ a doll: a young dog: a whelp: a conceited young
man.--_adj._ PUPP'Y-HEAD'ED (_Shak._), stupid.--_n._ PUPP'YHOOD, the
condition of being a puppy.--_adj._ PUPP'YISH.--_n._ PUPP'YISM, conceit in
men. [Fr. _poupée_, a doll or puppet--L. _pupa_.]

PUR. See PURR.

PURANA, p[=oo]-rä'na, _n._ one of a class of sacred poetical books in
Sanscrit literature, forming with the Tantras the main foundation of the
actual popular creed of the Brahmanical Hindus.--_adj._ PURAN'IC. [Sans.
_pur[=a]na_--_pur[=a]_, ancient.]

PURBLIND, pur'bl[=i]nd, _adj._ nearly blind, near-sighted: (_orig._) wholly
blind.--_adv._ PUR'BLINDLY.--_n._ PUR'BLINDNESS. [For _pure-blind_--i.e.
wholly blind; the meaning has been modified, prob. through some confusion
with the verb to _pore_.]

PURCHASE, pur'ch[=a]s, _v.t._ to acquire by seeking: to obtain by paying:
to obtain by labour, danger, &c.: (_law_) to get in any way other than by
inheritance: to raise or move by mechanical means: (_Shak._) to expiate by
a fine or forfeit.--_n._ act of purchasing: that which is purchased or got
for a price: value, advantage, worth: any mechanical power or advantage in
raising or moving bodies.--_adj._ PUR'CHASABLE, that may be purchased:
(hence of persons) venal, corrupt.--_n._ PUR'CHASER.--PURCHASE MONEY, the
money paid, or to be paid, for anything; PURCHASE SHEARS, a very strong
kind of shears, with removable cutters, and a strong spring at the back;
PURCHASE SYSTEM, the method by which, before 1871, commissions in the
British army could be bought.--(SO MANY) YEARS' PURCHASE, a price paid for
a house, an estate, &c. equal to the amount of the rent or income during
the stated number of years. [O. Fr. _porchacier_ (Fr. _pourchasser_), to
seek eagerly, pursue--_pur_ (L. _pro_), for, _chasser_, to chase.]

PURDAH, pur'dä, _n._ a curtain screening a chamber of state or the women's
apartments: the seclusion itself. [Hind. _parda_, a screen.]

PURE, p[=u]r, _adj._ (_comp._ PUR'ER; _superl._ PUR'EST) clean: unsoiled:
unmixed: not adulterated: real: free from guilt or defilement: chaste:
modest: mere: that and that only: complete: non-empirical, involving an
exercise of mind alone, without admixture of the results of
experience.--_n._ purity.--_adv._ quite: (_obs._) entirely.--_v.t._ to
cleanse, refine.--_adv._ PURE'LY, without blemish: wholly, entirely:
(_dial._) wonderfully, very much.--_n._ PURE'NESS.--PURE MATHEMATICS (see
MATHEMATICS); PURE REASON, reason alone, without any mixture of
sensibility; PURE SCIENCE, the principles of any science considered in
themselves and their relation to each other, and not in their application
to the investigation of other branches of knowledge, as _pure mathematics_,
_pure logic_, &c. [Fr. _pur_--L. _purus_, pure.]

PURÉE, pü-r[=a]', _n._ a soup, such as pea-soup, in which there are no
pieces of solids. [Fr.]

PURFLE, pur'fl, _v.t._ to decorate with a wrought or flowered border:
(_archit._) to decorate with rich sculpture: (_her._) to ornament with a
border of ermines, furs, &c.--_ns._ PUR'FLE, PUR'FLEW, a border of
embroidery: (_her._) a bordure of ermines, furs, &c.; PUR'FLING.--_adj._
PUR'FLY (Carlyle), wrinkled. [O. Fr. _pourfiler_--L. _pro_, before,
_filum_, a thread.]

PURGE, purj, _v.t._ to make pure: to carry off whatever is impure or
superfluous: to clear from guilt or from accusation: to evacuate, as the
bowels: to trim, dress, prune: to clarify, as liquors.--_v.i._ to become
pure by clarifying: to have frequent evacuations.--_n._ act of purging: a
medicine that purges.--_n._ PURG[=A]'TION, a purging: a clearing away of
impurities: (_law_) the act of clearing from suspicion or imputation of
guilt, a cleansing.--_adj._ PUR'GATIVE, cleansing: having the power of
evacuating the intestines.--_n._ a medicine that evacuates.--_adv._
PUR'GATIVELY.--_adjs._ PURGAT[=O]'RIAL, PURGAT[=O]'RIAN, pertaining to
purgatory; PUR'GATORY, purging or cleansing: expiatory.--_n._ (_R.C._) a
place or state in which souls are after death purified from venial sins:
any kind or state of suffering for a time.--_ns._ PUR'GER, a person or
thing that purges; PUR'GING, act of cleansing or clearing. [Fr.
_purger_--L. _purg[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_purus_, pure, _ag[)e]re_, to do.]

PURIFY, p[=u]'ri-f[=i], _v.t._ to make pure: to cleanse from foreign or
hurtful matter: to free from guilt or uncleanness: to free from
improprieties or barbarisms, as language.--_v.i._ to become pure:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ p[=u]'rif[=i]ed.--_n._ PURIFIC[=A]'TION, act of purifying:
(_B._) the act of cleansing ceremonially by removing defilement: a
cleansing of the soul from moral guilt or defilement: a crushing of desire
after anything evil: the pouring of wine into the chalice to rinse it after
communion, the wine being then drunk by the priest.--_adj._
P[=U]'RIFIC[=A]TIVE.--_n._ P[=U]'RIFIC[=A]TOR.--_adj._ P[=U]'RIFIC[=A]TORY,
tending to purify or cleanse.--_n._ P[=U]'RIFIER.--PURIFICATION OF THE
BLESSED VIRGIN MARY, a feast observed in the R.C. Church on February 2d, in
commemoration of the purification of the Virgin Mary, according to the
Jewish ceremonial (Lev. xii. 2) forty days after the birth of Christ. [Fr.
_purifier_--L. _purific[=a]re_--_purus_, pure, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

PURIM, p[=u]'rim, _n._ the feast of lots held about 1st of March, in which
the Jews commemorated their deliverance from the plot of Haman, as related
in Esther. [Heb., pl. of _pur,_ lot.]

PURISM, p[=u]r'izm, _n._ exclusion of mixture of any kind: pure or
immaculate conduct or style: the doctrine of a purist: great nicety or care
in the use of words.--_n._ P[=U]R'IST, one who is excessively pure or nice
in the choice of words.--_adj._ P[=U]RIS'TIC.

PURITAN, p[=u]r'i-tan, _n._ one aiming at greater strictness in religious
life, esp. one of a religious and political party having such aims in the
time of Elizabeth and the Stuarts.--_adj._ pertaining to the
Puritans.--_adjs._ P[=U]RITAN'IC, -AL, like a Puritan: rigid:
exact.--_adv._ P[=U]RITAN'ICALLY.--_v.i._ P[=U]R'ITANISE.--_n._
P[=U]R'ITANISM, a puritan manner of life: strictness of life: simplicity
and purity of worship: the notions or practice of Puritans. [L. _puritas_,
purity--_purus_, pure.]

PURITY, p[=u]r'i-ti, _n._ condition of being pure: freedom from mixture of
any kind: freedom from sin or defilement: chastity: sincerity: freedom from
foreign or improper idioms or words.

PURL, purl, _v.i._ to flow with a murmuring sound, as a stream over small
stones: to ripple: to flow in eddies: to curl or swirl.--_v.t._ to whirl
about: to unseat.--_n._ a soft murmuring sound, as of a stream among
stones: an eddy or ripple.--_n._ PURL'ING, the act of flowing with a
gentle, murmuring sound: the murmuring sound of a small stream. [Prob.
freq. of _purr_; cf. Sw. _porla_, Ger. _perlen_, to bubble.]

PURL, purl, _v.t._ to fringe with a waved edging, as lace: to invert
stitches.--_n._ an embroidered border: a hem or fringe of twisted gold or
silver thread: a ribbed or wavy appearance caused by inverted stitches: a
kind of 16th-cent. lace. [_Purfle_.]

PURL, purl, _n._ ale warmed and spiced.

PURLIEU, pur'l[=u], _n._ the borders or environs of any place: (_orig._)
the grounds on the borders of a royal forest, illegally added to the
forest, but afterwards restored to their rightful owners, and marked out by
perambulation. [Acc. to Skeat, a corr. of O. Fr. _puralee_ (a mere
translation of L. _perambulatio_), land severed from a royal forest by
perambulation--O. Fr. _pur_ (=L. _pro_), _allee_, a going.]

PURLIN, PURLINE, pur'lin, _n._ a piece of timber stretching horizontally
across the rafters underneath to support them in the middle. [Perh. Fr.
_pour_, for, or _par_, through, _ligne_, a line.]

PURLOIN, pur-loin', _v.t._ to carry off to a distance: to take for one's
own use: to steal: to plagiarise.--_v.i._ to practise theft.--_n._
PURLOIN'ER. [O. Fr. _purloignier_--L. _prolong[=a]re_.]

PURPLE, pur'pl, _n._ a very dark-red colour formed by the mixture of blue
and red: a purple dress or robe, originally worn only by royalty: a robe of
honour: the dignity of a king or emperor: a cardinalate, so called from the
red hat and robes worn by cardinals.--_adj._ red tinged with blue:
blood-red: bloody.--_v.t._ to dye purple: to clothe with purple.--_v.i._ to
become purple in colour.--_n._ PUR'PLE-FISH, a shellfish of genus
_Purpura_.--_adjs._ PUR'PLE-FROST'Y (_Tenn._), purple with frost or cold;
PUR'PLE-HUED (_Shak._), having a purple hue.--_n.pl._ PUR'PLES, petechiæ or
spots of livid red on the body: a disease of wheat: an early
purple-flowered orchid.--_adj._ PUR'PLE-SPIKED, having purple
spikes.--_ns._ PUR'PLE-WOOD, -HEART, the heartwood of _Copaifera
pubiflora_, used for ramrods.--_adj._ PUR'PLISH, somewhat purple.--PURPLE
EMPEROR, one of the largest of British butterflies, and one of the most
richly coloured.--BORN IN THE PURPLE, of princely rank or birth; TYRIAN
PURPLE, a fine purple dye for which the people of ancient Tyre were
celebrated. [O. Fr. _porpre_ (Fr. _pourpre_)--L. _purpura_--Gr. _porphyra_,
the purple-fish.]

PURPORT, pur'p[=o]rt, _n._ design: meaning: signification.--_v.t._ (also
PURPORT') to give out as its meaning: to convey to the mind: to seem to
mean--often with an infinitive clause as its object.--_adj._ PUR'PORTLESS.
[O. Fr., from _pur_ (Fr. _pour_)--L. _pro_, for, _porter_--L. _port[=a]re_,
to carry.]

PURPOSE, pur'pos, _n._ idea or aim kept before the mind as the end of
effort: aim, intention: effect: (_Spens._) conversation: (_pl._) a sort of
conversational game.--OF, or ON, PURPOSE, with design, intentionally; TO
THE PURPOSE, to the point, or material to the question. [O. Fr. _pourpos_,
_propos_--L. _propositum_, a thing intended--_pro_, forward, _pon[)e]re_,
_positum_, to place.]

PURPOSE, pur'pos, _v.t._ to intend (often followed by an infinitive or
participial clause as its object).--_v.i._ to have an intention: (_Spens._)
to discourse.--_adj._ PUR'POSEFUL, having an object: full of
meaning.--_adv._ PUR'POSEFULLY.--_n._ PUR'POSEFULNESS.--_adj._
PUR'POSELESS, without purpose or effect: aimless.--_adv._
PUR'POSELESSLY.--_n._ PUR'POSELESSNESS.--_adj._ PUR'POSE-LIKE, having a
definite purpose: having the appearance of being fit for a purpose.--_adv._
PUR'POSELY, with purpose: intentionally.--_n._ PUR'POSER.--_adj._
PUR'POSIVE, having an aim: (_biol._) functional.--_n._ PUR'POSIVENESS. [O.
Fr. _purposer_, form of _proposer_, influenced by Fr. _propos_.]

PURPRISE, pur-pr[=i]z', _n._ an enclosure: the whole compass of a
manor.--_n._ PURPREST'URE, a private encroachment upon a public highway,
&c. [O. Fr. _pourpris_--_pour_, for, _prendre_--L. _prehend[)e]re_, to
take.]

PURPURA, pur'p[=u]-ra, _n._ a genus of marine gasteropods: an eruption of
small purple spots, caused by extravasation of blood in the skin--also
called the _Purples_.--_adj._ PUR'PUR[=A]TE, of purple colour.--_n._
PUR'PURE, purple.--_adjs._ PURP[=U]'REAL, purple; PURP[=U]'RIC, relating to
purpura. [L.,--Gr. _porphyra_.]

PURR, PUR, pur, _v.i._ to utter a low, murmuring sound, as a cat when
pleased: to signify by, or as by, purring.--_ns._ PURR; PURR'ING, the low,
murmuring sound of a cat.--_adv._ PURR'INGLY. [Imit.]

PURSE, purs, _n._ a small bag for money, orig. made of skin: a sum of
money, esp. a sum given as a present or offered as a prize: a treasury: a
person's finances.--_v.t._ to put into a purse: to contract as the mouth of
a purse: to draw into folds or wrinkles.--_n._ PURSE'-BEAR'ER, one who has
charge of the purse of another: a treasurer.--_adj._ PURSE'-BEAR'ING,
pouched, marsupiate.--_ns._ PURSE'FUL, as much as a purse can hold: enough
to fill a purse; PURSE'-MOUTH (_Tenn._), a pursed-up mouth; PURSE'-NET, a
kind of net that can be closed like a purse; PURSE'-PRIDE.--_adj._
PURSE'-PROUD, proud of one's purse or wealth: insolent from wealth.--_ns._
PURS'ER, an officer who has charge of the provisions, clothing, and
accounts of a ship, now termed a 'paymaster;' PURS'ERSHIP; PURSE'-SEINE, a
seine which can be pursed into the shape of a bag.--_n.pl._ PURSE'-STRINGS,
the strings fastening a purse.--_n._ PURSE'-TAK'ING, robbing.--A LIGHT, or
EMPTY, PURSE, poverty; A LONG, or HEAVY, PURSE, riches; PRIVY PURSE, an
allowance for the private expenses of the British sovereign: an officer in
the royal household who pays the sovereign the grant of the civil list for
his private expenses. [O. Fr. _borse_ (Fr. _bourse_)--Low L. _bursa_--Gr.
_byrsa_, a hide.]

PURSLANE, PURSLAIN, purs'l[=a]n, _n._ an annual plant, frequently used in
salads. [O. Fr. _porcelaine_--L. _porcilaca_, _portulaca_.]

PURSUE, pur-s[=u]', _v.t._ to follow after in order to overtake: to follow
with haste: to chase: to follow up: to be engaged in: to carry on: to seek
to obtain: to seek to injure: to imitate: to continue.--_v.i._ to follow:
to go on or continue: to act as a prosecutor at law.--_n._ (_Spens._)
pursuit.--_adj._ PURS[=U]'ABLE.--_n._ PURS[=U]'ANCE, the act of pursuing or
following out: process: consequence.--_adj._ PURS[=U]'ANT, done while
pursuing or seeking any purpose, hence agreeable.--_adv._ agreeably:
conformably--also PURS[=U]'ANTLY.--_n._ PURS[=U]'ER, one who pursues:
(_Scots law_) a plaintiff. [O. Fr. _porsuir_ (Fr. _poursuivre_)--L.
_prosequi_, _-secutus_--_pro_, onwards, _sequi_, to follow.]

PURSUIT, pur-s[=u]t', _n._ the act of pursuing: endeavour to attain:
occupation: employment.

PURSUIVANT, pur'swi-vant, _n._ an attendant or follower: a state messenger:
an attendant on the heralds: one of four inferior officers in the English
College of Arms. [Fr., pr.p. of _poursuivre_, to pursue.]

PURSY, purs'i, _adj._ puffy: fat and short: short-breathed.--_n._
PURS'INESS. [O. Fr. _pourcif_ (Fr. _poussif_), orig. _poulsif_,
broken-winded--O. Fr. _poulser_ (Fr. _pousser_), to push--L. _puls[=a]re_,
to push.]

PURTENANCE, pur'ten-ans, _n._ that which pertains or belongs to: (_B._) the
inwards or intestines of an animal. [_Appurtenance_.]

PURULENCE, p[=u]'r[=u]-lens, _n._ the forming of pus or matter: pus--also
P[=U]'RULENCY.--_adj._ P[=U]'RULENT, consisting of, full of, or resembling
pus or matter.--_adv._ P[=U]'RULENTLY. [_Pus._]

PURVEY, pur-v[=a]', v.t, to provide, esp. with conveniences: to
procure.--_v.i._ to provide: to buy in provisions for several persons:
(with _to_) to pander.--_ns._ PURVEY'ANCE, the act of purveying: a
procuring of victuals: that which is supplied: the former royal prerogative
of pre-emption of necessaries; PURVEY'OR, one who provides victuals: an
officer who formerly exacted provisions for the use of the king's
household: a procurer. [O. Fr. _porvoir_ (Fr. _pourvoir_)--L.
_provid[=e]re_, to provide.]

PURVIEW, pur'v[=u], _n._ a condition or disposition: the part of a statute
beginning with 'Be it enacted:' scope: limits. [O. Fr.
_pourvieu_--_pourvoir_, to provide.]

PUS, pus, _n._ a thick yellowish fluid exuded from inflamed tissues: that
which has become putrid. [L. _pus_, _puris_, matter; akin to Gr. _pyon_.]

PUSEYISM, p[=u]'zi-izm, _n._ a name given to the High Church and Catholic
principles of Dr E. B. _Pusey_ (1800-82), and other Oxford divines, as set
forth in 'Tracts for the Times.'--_adjs._ P[=U]SEYIST'IC, -AL.--_n._
P[=U]'SEYITE, one who holds the views of Dr Pusey.

PUSH, p[=oo]sh, _v.t._ to thrust or press against: to drive by pressure: to
press forward: to urge: to press hard: to thrust, as with a sword.--_v.i._
to make a thrust: to make an effort: to press against: to burst out.--_n._
a thrust: an impulse: assault: effort: exigence: (_Bacon_) a pustule, a
pimple, eruption.--_n._ PUSH'ER, one who pushes: a stem or rod.--_adj._
PUSH'ING, pressing forward in business: enterprising: vigorous.--_n._
PUSH'ING-JACK, an implement for starting a railway-carriage, &c.--_adv._
PUSH'INGLY.--_n._ PUSH'-PIN (_Shak._), a children's game in which pins are
pushed alternately. [Fr. _pousser_--L. _puls[=a]re_, freq. of _pell[)e]re_,
_pulsum_, to beat.]

PUSHTU, PUSHTOO, push't[=oo], _n._ the language of the Afghans
proper.--Also PUSH'TO. [Afghan.]

PUSILLANIMOUS, p[=u]-si-lan'i-mus, _adj._ wanting firmness of mind: of
small courage: having a little mind: mean-spirited: cowardly.--_adv._
PUSILLAN'IMOUSLY.--_ns._ PUSILLAN'IMOUSNESS, PUSILLANIM'ITY, state or
quality of being weak-minded: lack of spirit or courage: timidity. [L.
_pusillanimis_--_pusillus_, very little, _animus_, the mind.]

PUSS, p[=oo]s, _n._ a familiar name for a cat: a hare, in sportsmen's
language: a playful name for a child or a girl.--_ns._ PUSS'-CLOV'ER, the
rabbit's foot or stone-clover; PUSS'-GEN'TLEMAN, a dandy; PUSS'-MOTH, a
moth of the genus Cerura; PUSS'-TAIL, a common grass with bristly spikes,
belonging to the genus Setaria--also called _Foxtail_; PUSS'Y, a dim. of
_puss_--also PUSS'Y-CAT; PUSS'Y-CAT, the silky catkin of various willows;
PUSS'Y-WILL'OW, a common American willow, _Salix discolor_, with silky
spring catkins.--PUSS IN THE CORNER, a children's game in which the places
are continually being changed, while the player who is out tries to secure
one of them. [Dut. _poes_, puss; Ir. and Gael. _pus_, a cat.]

PUSTULE, pus't[=u]l, _n._ a small pimple containing pus: anything like a
pustule, on plants or animals: a small blister.--_adjs._ PUS'T[=U]LAR,
PUS'T[=U]LOUS, covered with pustules.--_v.t._ PUS'T[=U]L[=A]TE, to form
into pustules.--_n._ PUST[=U]L[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L. _pustula_, a pimple.]

PUT, p[=oo]t, _v.t._ to push or thrust: to cast, throw: to drive into
action: to throw suddenly, as a word: to set, lay, or deposit: to bring
into any state or position: to offer: to propose: to express, state: to
apply: to oblige: to incite: to add.--_v.i._ to place: to turn:--_pr.p._
putting (p[=oo]t'-); _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ put.--_n._ a push or thrust: a
cast, throw, esp. of a heavy stone from the shoulder (see PUTTING): an
attempt: a game at cards: a contract by which one person, in consideration
of a certain sum of money paid to another, acquires the privilege of
selling or delivering to the latter within a certain time certain
securities or commodities, at a stipulated price (see OPTIONS).--_ns._
PUT'-OFF, -BY, an excuse, a makeshift, evasion; PUT'TER, one who puts.--PUT
ABOUT, to change the course, as of a ship: to put to inconvenience,
trouble: to publish; PUT AN END, or stop, to, to check, hinder: cause to
discontinue; PUT AWAY, to renounce, to divorce; PUT BACK, to push backward:
to delay: to say nay; PUT BY, to lay aside: to divert: to store up; PUT
DOWN, to crush: to degrade: (_Shak._) to confute: to enter, as a name:
(_rare_) to give up: to start for; PUT FOR, to set out vigorously towards a
place; PUT FORTH, to extend: to propose: to publish: to exert: to depart;
PUT IN, to introduce: to hand in: to appoint: to insert: to conduct a ship
into a harbour; PUT IN FOR, to put in an application or claim for; PUT IN
MIND, to bring to one's memory; PUT OFF, to lay aside: to baffle or
frustrate: to defer or delay: to push from shore: (_Shak._) to discard; PUT
ON, or UPON, to invest: to impute: to assume: to promote: to instigate: to
impose upon: to hasten: to inflict: to deceive, trick: to foist or palm
upon; PUT OUT, to expel, to extinguish: to place at interest: to extend: to
publish: to disconcert: to offend: to expend: to dislocate; PUT OVER
(_Shak._), to refer: to send: to defer: to place in authority; PUT THE
CASE, PUT CASE, suppose the case to be; PUT THE HAND TO, to take hold of:
to take or seize: to engage in (any affair); PUT THIS AND THAT TOGETHER, to
infer from given premises; PUT THROUGH, to bring to an end: to accomplish;
PUT TO, to apply, use: to add to: to bring or consign to; PUT TO DEATH, to
kill; PUT TO IT, to press hard: to distress; PUT TO RIGHTS, to bring into
proper order; PUT TO SEA, to set sail: to begin a voyage; PUT TO, or ON,
TRIAL, to test: to try; PUT TWO AND TWO TOGETHER, to draw a conclusion from
certain circumstances; PUT UP, to startle from a cover, as a hare: to put
back to its ordinary place when not in use, as a sword: to accommodate with
lodging: to nominate for election: (_with_) to bear without complaint: to
take lodgings; PUT UP TO, to give information about, to instruct in. [A.S.
_potian_, to push; prob. Celt., as Gael. _put_, W. _pwtio_.]

PUT, put, _n._ a rustic, simpleton. [Perh. W. _pwt_, _pytiau_, any short
thing.]

PUT, put, _n._ a strumpet.--_ns._ P[=U]'T[=A]GE, a law phrase for a woman's
fornication; P[=U]'TANISM, the habit of prostitution. [O. Fr. _pute_, a
whore.]

PUTAMEN, p[=u]-t[=a]'men, _n._ the hard bony stone of some fruits--cherry,
peach, &c.: the soft shell of an egg: the outer and darker portion of the
lenticular nucleus of the brain. [L.,--_put[=a]re_, to prune.]

PUTATIVE, p[=u]'t[=a]-tiv, _adj._ supposed: reputed: commonly supposed to
be.--_n._ PUT[=A]'TION, act of considering, estimation.--PUTATIVE MARRIAGE,
a marriage prohibited by canon law, but entered into in good faith by at
least one of the parties. [Fr.,--L. _putativus_--_put[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_,
to suppose.]

PUTCHOCK, p[=oo]-chok', _n._ the fragrant costus-root, exported from India
to China--a chief ingredient in the Chinese pastille-rod, commonly called
_jostick_.--ALSO PUTCHUK'. [Perh. Telegu _p[=a]ch'ck[=a]ku_, 'green leaf;'
or more prob. Malay.]

PUTEAL, p[=u]'t[=e]-al, _n._ a well-curb. [L.,--_puteus_, a well.]

PUTELI, put'e-li, _n._ a flat-bottomed Ganges boat.

PUTID, p[=u]'tid, _adj._ rotten: stinking: worthless.--_n._ P[=U]'TIDNESS.
[L. _putidus_, putrid.]

PUT-LOG, put'-log, _n._ a cross-piece in a scaffolding, the inner end
resting in a hole left in the wall.

PUTOIS, pü-twa', _n._ a brush of polecat's hair for pottery. [Fr.]

PUTOO, put'[=oo], _n._ a dish made of palmyra-nut meal, scraped coco-nut,
&c.

PUTORIUS, p[=u]-t[=o]'ri-us, _n._ a large family of _Mustelidæ_, including
weasels, stoats, polecats, ferrets, &c.

PUTREFY, p[=u]'tre-f[=i], _v.t._ to make putrid or rotten: to
corrupt.--_v.i._ to become putrid: to rot:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
p[=u]'trefied.--_adjs._ P[=U]TRED'INOUS, having an offensive smell;
PUTREF[=A]'CIENT (also _n._), PUTREFAC'TIVE, pertaining to or causing
putrefaction.--_ns._ PUTREFAC'TION, the act or process of putrefying:
rottenness: corruption; PUTREFAC'TIVENESS; PUTRES'CENCE.--_adjs._
PUTRES'CENT, becoming putrid: pertaining to putrefaction; P[=U]'TRID, in a
state of decay: showing putrefaction: stinking: rotten: corrupt.--_ns._
PUTRID'ITY, P[=U]'TRIDNESS, state of being putrid: corrupt matter:
rottenness: corruption.--_adj._ P[=U]'TRIFIABLE, liable to putrefy. [O. Fr.
_putrefier_--L. _putrefac[)e]re_, to make putrid--_puter_, _putris_,
rotten.]

PUTT, put, _v.i._ in golf, to play with a putter.--_n._ a short stroke made
with a putter in attempting to hole a ball.--_ns._ PUTT'ER, one who throws
a stone: one who takes coal along underground roads: a short, stiff
golf-club used in putting; PUTT'ER-ON (_Shak._), an instigator; PUTT'ER-OUT
(_obs._), one who deposited money on going abroad, on condition of
receiving a larger sum on his return, the money to be forfeited in case of
non-return; PUTT'ING, the act of hurling a heavy stone from the hand by a
sudden push from the shoulder: the act of striking a golf-ball when near a
hole, so as to cause it to fall into it; PUTT'ING-GREEN, the prepared
ground immediately round a hole in a golf-course; PUTT'ING-STONE, a heavy
stone raised by the hand and thrust forward from the shoulder, as a trial
of strength and skill. [_Put._]

PUTTIES, put'tiz, _n.pl._ strips of cloth wound round the legs, from ankle
to knee, as leggings.

PUTTOCK, p[=oo]t'ok, _n._ (_Shak._) a kite, a buzzard.

PUTTOO, put'[=oo], _n._ a cloth made in Cashmere from the longer and
coarser wool of the goat.

PUTTY, put'i, _n._ an oxide of tin, or of lead and tin, used in polishing
glass, &c.--_jewellers' putty_: a cement of whiting and linseed-oil, used
in glazing windows: a fine cement of lime only--_plasterers'
putty._--_v.t._ to fix or fill with putty:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
putt'ied.--_n._ PUTT'IER, a glazier.--_adj._ PUTT'Y-FACED, having a face
resembling putty in pastiness or colour.--_ns._ PUTT'Y-KNIFE, a knife with
a blunt, flexible blade for laying on putty; PUTT'Y-POW'DER, an
artificially prepared oxide of tin used for polishing glass; PUTT'Y-ROOT,
an American orchid the corm of whose root-stock contains a highly glutinous
matter; PUTT'Y-WORK, decoration in a soft substance which grows very hard.
[O. Fr. _potée_, properly that which is contained in a pot, Fr. _pot._]

PUT-UP, poot'-up, _adj._ speciously conceived, planned, or carried out.
[_Put._]

PUTURE, p[=u]'t[=u]r, _n._ the claim to food for man, horse, and dog within
the bounds of a forest, &c.--Also PUL'T[=U]RE. [O. Fr. _peulture_.]

PUXI, puk'si, _n._ the edible larvæ of various flies of the genus
_Ephydra_, found in the alkali lakes of western North America. [Mex. Ind.]

PUY, pw[=e], _n._ one of the small volcanic cones in Auvergne, &c. [Fr.]

PUZZEL, puz'l, _n._ (_obs._) a drab. [Fr. _pucelle_.]

PUZZLE, puz'l, _n._ a difficulty to be solved: perplexity: something to try
the ingenuity, as a toy or riddle.--_v.t._ to set a difficult question to:
to pose: to perplex.--_v.i._ to be bewildered: to think long and carefully
(with _out_, _over_).--_ns._ PUZZ'LEDOM (_coll._), bewilderment;
PUZZ'LE-HEAD, one who is puzzle-headed.--_adj._ PUZZ'LE-HEAD'ED, having the
head full of confused notions.--_ns._ PUZZ'LE-HEAD'EDNESS; PUZZ'LEMENT, the
state of being puzzled; PUZZ'LE-MONK'EY (same as MONKEY-PUZZLE, q.v.);
PUZZ'LE-PEG, a piece of wood so secured under a dog's jaw as to keep his
nose from the ground; PUZZ'LER; PUZZ'LE-RING, a ring made of several small
rings intricately linked together, capable of being taken apart and put
together again.--_adj._ PUZZ'LING, posing: perplexing.--_adv._ PUZZ'LINGLY.
[From M. E. _opposaile_ (Eng. _opposal_), an objection--_opposen_, _posen_.
Cf. _Pose_ and _Oppose_.]

PUZZOLANA, puz-[=o]-lä'na, _n._ a loosely coherent volcanic sand found at
_Pozzuoli_, near Naples, forming a hydraulic cement with ordinary
lime.--Also PUZZOLÄ'NO, POZZUOLÄ'NA.

PYÆMIA, PYEMIA, p[=i]-[=e]'mi-a, _n._ a disease caused by the introduction
into the blood of decomposing matter, from pus, &c.--_adjs._ PYÆ'MIC,
PY[=E]'MIC. [Gr. _pyon_, pus, _haima_, blood.]

PYCNID, pik'nid, _n._ a special receptacle in ascomycetous fungi,
resembling a perithecium, in which stylospores or pycnospores are
produced--also PYCNID'IUM.--_n._ PYC'NOSPORE, a stylospore. [Gr. _pyknos_,
thick.]

PYCNITE, pik'n[=i]t, _n._ a columnar variety of topaz.

PYCNOGONIDA, pik-n[=o]-gon'i-da, _n.pl._ a division of marine arthropods,
the sea-spiders.--_adj._ PYCNOG'ONOID. [Gr. _pyknos_, thick, _gony_, the
knee.]

PYCNOMETER, pik-nom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for determining the
specific gravity of solid bodies. [Gr. _pyknos_, thick, _metron_, measure.]

PYCNON, pik'non, _n._ (_mus._) a small interval in Greek music, a
quarter-tone: in medieval music, a semi-tone. [Gr. _pyknos_, thick.]

PYCNOSTYLE, pik'n[=o]-st[=i]l, _adj._ (_archit._) noting a lower degree of
intercolumniation, usually 1½ diameters. [Gr. _pyknos_, thick, _stylos_, a
column.]

PYEBALD. See PIEBALD.

PYELITIS, p[=i]-e-l[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the pelvis of the
kidney--also _Endonephritis_.--_adjs._ PYELIT'IC; PYELONEPHRIT'IC.--_n._
PYELONEPHR[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the kidney and renal pelvis. [Gr.
_pyelos_, the pelvis, _nephros_, the kidney.]

PYENGADU, p[=i]-eng'ga-d[=oo], _n._ a large acacia-like tree of Burma,
India, &c., with reddish-brown wood of great heaviness and hardness.--Also
PYN'KADO.

PYGAL, p[=i]'gal, _adj._ belonging to the rump or posteriors of an
animal.--_n._ the posterior median or supracaudal plate of a chelonian
carapace.--_n._ PY'GARG, a kind of antelope: the osprey or sea-eagle. [Gr.
_pyg[=e]_, the rump, _argos_, white.]

PYGMY, PIGMY, pig'mi, _n._ one of a fabulous dwarfish race of antiquity: a
dwarf: any diminutive thing: one of several pygmy races in equatorial
Africa and elsewhere: one of the ancient diminutive dwellers in underground
houses, &c., in whom David MacRitchie sees the historical originals of the
fairies and elves of folklore.--_adj._ resembling a pygmy: very
small.--_adj._ PYGM[=E]'AN, dwarfish: diminutive. [O. Fr. _pigme_,
_pygme_--L. _Pygmæi_--Gr. _Pygmaioi_, the Pygmies, a (Gr.) _pygm[=e]_--13½
in. long--_pygm[=e]_, fist.]

PYGOPUS, p[=i]'g[=o]-pus, _n._ a genus of Australian lizards.

PYGOSTYLE, p[=i]'g[=o]-st[=i]l, _n._ the vomer or ploughshare bone of a
bird's tail.--_adj._ PY'GOSTYLED. [Gr. _pyg[=e]_, the rump, _stylos_, a
column.]

PYJAMAS, pe-jä'maz, _n.pl._ loose drawers or trousers tied round the waist,
in India, used also by Europeans.--Also PAIJÄ'MAS, PAJÄ'MAS. [Hind.
_p[=a]ëj[=a]ma_, lit. 'leg-clothing.']

PYLON, p[=i]'lon, _n._ a gateway to an Egyptian temple: the mass of
building through which the gateway was pierced. [Gr. _pyl[=o]n_--_pyl[=e]_,
a gate.]

PYLORUS, pi-l[=o]'rus, _n._ the lower opening of the stomach leading to the
intestines.--_adj._ PYLOR'IC. [L.,--Gr. _pyl[=o]ros_--_pyl[=e]_, an
entrance, _ouros_, a guardian.]

PYOGENESIS, p[=i]-[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ the formation of pus.--_adjs._
PYOGENET'IC, PYOGEN'IC, PY'OID.--_ns._ PYOPOI[=E]'SIS, suppuration;
PYOP'TYSIS, expectoration of pus; PYORRH[=E]'A, purulent discharge;
PY[=O]'SIS, the formation of pus.

PYRAMID, pir'a-mid, _n._ a solid figure on a triangular, square, or
polygonal base, with triangular sides meeting in a point: (_pl._) 'the
Pyramids,' or great monuments of Egypt: a game played on a billiard-table
in which the balls are arranged in pyramid shape.--_adjs._ PYRAM'IDAL,
PYRAMID'IC, -AL, having the form of a pyramid.--_advs._ PYRAM'IDALLY,
PYRAMID'ICALLY.--_ns._ PYRAMID'ICALNESS; PYRAMID'ION, the small pyramidal
apex of an obelisk; PYRAM'IDIST, one versed in the history of the Pyramids;
PYR'AMIS (_Shak._), a pyramid:--_pl._ PYRAM'IDES.--_adjs._ PYR'AMOID,
PYRAM'IDOID. [L.,--Gr. _pyramis_, _pyramidos_; prob. Egypt. _pir-em-us_.
Some connection with Gr. _pyr_, fire.]

PYRAMIDON, pi-ram'i-don, _n._ in organ-building a stop having wooden pipes
in the form of an inverted pyramid, giving very deep notes somewhat like
those of a stopped diapason.

PYRARGYRITE, p[=i]-rar'ji-r[=i]t, _n._ an ore of silver consisting of the
sulphide of silver and antimony. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _argyros_, silver.]

PYRE, p[=i]r, _n._ a pile of wood, &c., on which a dead body is
burned.--_adj._ PYR'AL. [L.,--Gr.,--_pyr_, fire.]

PYRENE, p[=i]'r[=e]n, _n._ a stone or putamen.--_n._ PYR[=E]'NOCARP, any
drupaceous fruit.--_adjs._ PYR[=E]'NOID, globular, nucleiform;
PYR[=E]'NOUS. [Gr. _pyr[=e]n_.]

PYRENE, p[=i]'r[=e]n, _n._ a hydrocarbon obtained from coal-tar.

PYRENEAN, pir-[=e]-n[=e]'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the _Pyrenees_, the
range of mountains between France and Spain.--_n._ PYREN[=E]'ITE, a
grayish-black garnet. [L. _Pyrenæi_ (_montes_), the Pyrenees.]

PYRENOMYCETES, p[=i]-r[=e]-n[=o]-m[=i]-s[=e]'tez, _n.pl._ an order of
ascomycetous fungi, including ergot, black-rot, &c. [Gr. _pyren_, a stone,
_myk[=e]s_, pl. _myc[=e]tes_, a mushroom.]

PYRETHRUM, pir-eth'rum, _n._ a genus of plants containing the fever-few, or
golden-feather, so much used in gardens as a bordering. [L.,--Gr.,--_pyr_,
fire.]

PYRETIC, p[=i]-ret'ik, _adj._ pertaining to fever.--_n._ a remedy for
fever.--_ns._ PYRETOL'OGY, the science of fevers; PYREX'IA, fever.--_adjs._
PYREX'IAL, PYREX'IC. [Gr. _pyrektikos_--_pyretos_, fever--_pyr_, fire.]

PYRGOIDAL, pir-goi'dal, _adj._ tower-shaped. [Gr., _pyrgos_, a tower.]

PYRHELIOMETER, pir-h[=e]-li-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring
the intensity of the sun.--_adj._ PYRHELIOMET'RIC. [Gr. _pyr_, fire,
_h[=e]lios_, sun, _metron_, measure.]

PYRIFORM, pir'i-form, _adj._ pear-shaped. [L. _pirum_, a pear, _forma_,
form.]

PYRITE, p[=i]'r[=i]t, _n._ native iron disulphide of a pale-yellow colour
and very hard--also IRON PYRITES.--COPPER PYRITES, yellow sulphide of
copper and iron. [L.,--Gr. _pyrites_, a flint--_pyr_, fire.]

PYRITEGIUM, pir-i-t[=e]'ji-um, _n._ the curfew-bell. [Low L.]

PYRITES, pir-[=i]'t[=e]z, _n._ a term applied to a large class of mineral
compounds of metals with sulphur, or with arsenic, or with
both--crystalline, hard, generally brittle, and frequently yellow.--_adjs._
PYRIT[=A]'CEOUS; PYRIT'IC, -AL; PYRITIF'EROUS.--_v.t._ PYR'ITISE, to
convert into pyrites.--_n._ PYRITOL'OGY, knowledge of pyrites.--_adj._
PYR'ITOUS. [L.,--Gr. _pyr_, fire.]

PYRITOHEDRON, p[=i]-r[=i]-t[=o]-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a pentagonal
dodecahedron.--_adj._ PYRITOH[=E]'DRAL. [Gr. _pyrit[=e]s_, pyrites,
_hedra_, a seat.]

PYRO-ACETIC, p[=i]'r[=o]-a-set'ik, _adj._ relating to acetic acid under
heat.

PYROBALLOGY, p[=i]-r[=o]-bal'[=o]-ji, _n._ the art of throwing fire:
(_Sterne_) the science of artillery. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _ballein_, to throw,
_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

PYROCLASTIC, p[=i]-r[=o]-klas'tik, _adj._ formed by volcanic agencies. [Gr.
_pyr_, fire, _klastos_, broken.]

PYRO-ELECTRICITY, p[=i]'r[=o]-e-lek-tris'i-ti, _n._ that branch of
electricity which deals with electrification as produced by change of
temperature in certain crystallised bodies.--_adj._ PY'RO-ELEC'TRIC.

PYROGALLIC, p[=i]-r[=o]-gal'ik, _adj._ obtained from gallic acid by the
action of heat.

PYROGEN, p[=i]'r[=o]-jen, _n._ any substance which causes fever when
introduced into the blood.--_adjs._ PYROGENET'IC, PYROG'ENOUS, producing
fire: produced by fire; PYROGEN'IC, producing fever. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, root
of _gignesthai_, to become.]

PYROGNOMIC, p[=i]-rog-nom'ik, _adj._ becoming incandescent when heated to a
certain degree. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _gn[=o]m[=o]n_, a mark.]

PYROGNOSTIC, p[=i]-rog-nos'tik, _adj._ pertaining to fire or heat. [Gr.
_pyr_, fire, _gn[=o]stikos_, knowing.]

PYROGRAPHY, p[=i]-rog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of producing a design on wood by
applying heat and pressure. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _graphein_, to write.]

PYROGRAVURE, p[=i]-r[=o]-gr[=a]-v[=u]r', _n._ a method of engraving on wood
by a red-hot metallic point: a picture so produced.

PYROLA, p[=i]'r[=o]-la, _n._ a genus of plants of the heath kind, called
also _Wintergreen_: a single plant of this genus. [L., dim. of _pirus_, a
pear-tree.]

PYROLATRY, p[=i]-rol'a-tri, _n._ fire-worship.--_n._ PYROL'ATER, a
fire-worshipper. [Gr. _pyr_, _pyros_, fire, _latreia_, worship.]

PYROLETER, p[=i]-rol'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a fire-extinguishing chemical apparatus
by which carbonic acid is generated and thrown on the fire. [Gr. _pyr_,
fire, _olet[=e]r_, destroyer--_ollynai_, to destroy.]

PYROLIGNEOUS, p[=i]-r[=o]-lig'ne-us, _adj._ procured by the distillation of
wood--applied to a kind of acetic acid.--Also PYROLIG'NIC, PYROLIG'NOUS.

PYROLOGY, p[=i]-r[=o]l-[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of heat: a treatise on
heat.--_n._ PYROL'OGIST. [Gr. _pyr_, _pyros_, fire, _logos_, discourse.]

PYROLUSITE, p[=i]-r[=o]-l[=u]'s[=i]t, _n._ native manganese dioxide.

PYROMAGNETIC, p[=i]-r[=o]-mag-net'ik, _adj._ pertaining to magnetism as
modified by the action of heat.

PYROMANCY, p[=i]'r[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by fire.--_adj._
PYROMAN'TIC. [Gr. _pyr_, _pyros_, fire, _manteia_, divination.]

PYROMANIA, p[=i]-r[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ a mania for destroying things by
fire: insanity which takes this form.--_n._ PYROM[=A]'NIAC.--_adjs._
PYROM[=A]'NIAC, -AL.

PYROMETAMORPHISM, p[=i]-r[=o]-met-a-mor'fizm, _n._ metamorphism due to
heat, as opp. to _Hydrometamorphism_, that due to water.

PYROMETER, p[=i]-rom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument in the form of a metallic
bar for measuring the temperature of bodies under heat.--_adjs._
PYROMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._ PYROM'ETRY, the science or art of measuring degrees
of heat beyond the compass of the mercurial thermometer. [Gr. _pyr_, fire,
_metron_, a measure.]

PYROMORPHOUS, p[=i]-r[=o]-mor'fus, _adj._ assuming a crystallised form
after fusion by heat. [Gr. _pyr_, _pyros_, fire, _morph[=e]_, form.]

PYRONOMICS, p[=i]-r[=o]-nom'iks, _n._ the science of heat.

PYROPE, p[=i]'r[=o]p, _n._ a gem nearly allied to garnet, of a deep-red
colour and translucent, generally occurring in roundish grains. [Gr.
_pyr[=o]pos_, fiery-eyed--_pyr_, _pyros_, fire, _[=o]ps_, _opos_, the
face.]

PYROPHANOUS, p[=i]-rof'a-nus, _adj._ made transparent by heat.--_n._
PY'ROPH[=A]NE, an opal translucent while hot by melted wax. [Gr. _pyr_,
fire, _phainein_, to show.]

PYROPHONE, p[=i]'r[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ a musical instrument invented by Eugene
Kastner (1873), in which the tones are produced by means of burning jets of
hydrogen enclosed in graduated glass tubes. [Gr. _pyr_, fire,
_ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

PYROPHORUS, p[=i]-rof'[=o]-rus, _n._ a substance which takes fire on
exposure to air: a genus of elaterid beetles.--_n._ PY'ROPH[=O]RE, any
composition which takes fire on exposure to air or water.--_adjs._
PYROPHOR'IC, PYROPH'OROUS. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _pherein_, to carry.]

PYROPHOSPHORIC, p[=i]-r[=o]-fos-for'ik, _adj._ formed by heating phosphoric
acid.

PYROPHOTOGRAPHY, p[=i]-r[=o]-f[=o]-tog'ra-fi, _n._ any photographic process
in which heat is applied to fix the picture.

PYROSCOPE, p[=i]'r[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
intensity of radiating heat. [Gr. _pyr_, _pyros_, fire, _skopein_, to
view.]

PYROSILVER, p[=i]-r[=o]-sil'v[.e]r, _n._ electroplated ware in which the
silver is made to sink into the pores of the plated baser metal by the
action of heat.

PYROSIS, p[=i]-r[=o]'sis, _n._ water-brash (q.v.). [Gr.,--_pyr_, fire.]

PYROSOMA, p[=i]-r[=o]-s[=o]'ma, _n._ a genus of compound Tunicates, with
brilliant phosphorescence, inhabiting the Mediterranean and the
Atlantic--fire-flames. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _s[=o]ma_, body.]

PYROSTAT, p[=i]'r[=o]-stat, _n._ an automatic draught-regulator for
chimney-stacks, smoke-pipes, &c. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _statos_--_histanai_, to
stand.]

PYROSULPHURIC, p[=i]-r[=o]-sul-f[=u]'rik, _adj._ obtained from sulphuric
acid by the action of heat.

PYROTECHNICS, p[=i]-r[=o]-tek'niks, _n._ the art of making fireworks: the
use and application of fireworks--also PY'ROTECHNY.--_adjs._ PYROTECH'NIC,
-AL, pertaining to fireworks.--_n._ PYROTECH'NIST, a maker of fireworks:
one skilled in pyrotechny. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _technikos_,
artistic--_techn[=e]_, art.]

PYROTIC, p[=i]-rot'ik, _adj._ burning: caustic.--_n._ a caustic medicine.
[Gr. _pyr[=o]tikos_--_pyr_, _pyros_, fire.]

PYROXENE, p[=i]'rok-s[=e]n, _n._ an important mineral species, occurring in
monoclinic crystals.--_adj._ PYROXEN'IC. [Gr. _pyr_, fire, _xenos_, a
guest.]

PYROXYLIC, p[=i]-rok-sil'ik, _adj._ obtained by distilling wood.--_ns._
PYROX'YLE, PYROX'YLIN, -E, gun-cotton.--PYROXYLIC SPIRIT, a mixture of
acetone, methyl-alcohol, acetate of methyl, &c., obtained by the
destructive distillation of wood in the manufacture of pyroligneous acid.
[Gr. _pyr_, fire, _xylon_, wood.]

PYRRHIC, pir'ik, _n._ a kind of war-dance among the ancient Greeks: a
poetical foot consisting of two short syllables.--_adj._ pertaining to the
dance or to the poetical foot.--_n._ PYR'RHICIST, one who dances the
pyrrhic. [Gr. _pyrrhich[=e]_ (_orch[=e]sis_), a kind of war-dance, so
called from _Pyrrhichos_, the inventor.]

PYRRHIC, pir'ik, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Pyrrhus_, king of Epirus
(318-272 B.C.).--PYRRHIC VICTORY, a victory gained at too great a cost, in
allusion to Pyrrhus's exclamation after his victory of Asculum (279),
'Another such victory and we are lost!'

PYRRHONIST, pir'r[=o]-nist, _n._ one who holds the tenets of _Pyrrho_, a
philosopher of Elis (360-270 B.C.), who taught universal scepticism: a
sceptic.--_adjs._ PYRRH[=O]'NEAN, PYRRHON'IC.--_n._ PYR'RHONISM,
scepticism.

PYRRHOUS, pir'us, _adj._ reddish. [Gr.]

PYRUS, p[=i]'rus, _n._ a genus of trees and shrubs of the natural order
_Rosaceæ_, sub-order _Pomeæ_. [L. _pyrus_, for _pirus_, a pear-tree.]

PYTHAGOREAN, pi-thag-[=o]-r[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Pythagoras_ (_c._
532 B.C.), a celebrated Greek philosopher, or to his philosophy.--_n._ a
follower of Pythagoras.--_ns._ PYTHAG'ORISM, PYTHAGOR[=E]'ANISM, his
doctrines.--PYTHAGOREAN PROPOSITION, the 47th proposition of Euclid, Book
I., said to have been discovered by Pythagoras; PYTHAGOREAN SYSTEM, the
astronomical system of Copernicus, erroneously attributed to Pythagoras;
PYTHAGOREAN TRIANGLE, a triad of whole numbers proportional to the sides of
a right-angled triangle--e.g. 3, 4, 5.

PYTHIAN, pith'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Pythia_, the priestess of
Apollo at Delphi, who delivered the oracles of the god there: noting one of
the four national festivals of ancient Greece, in honour of Apollo, held
every four years at Delphi.--PYTHIAN VERSE, the dactylic hexameter.

[Illustration]

PYTHOGENIC, p[=i]-th[=o]-jen'ik, _adj._ produced by filth.--_n._
PYTHOGEN'ESIS. [Gr. _pythein_, to rot, root of _gignesthai_, to become.]

PYTHOMETRIC, p[=i]-th[=o]-met'rik, _adj._ pertaining to the gauging of
casks. [Gr. _pithos_, a wine-jar, _metron_, a measure.]

PYTHON, p[=i]'thon, _n._ a genus of serpents of the boa family, all natives
of the Old World, and differing from the true boas by having the plates on
the under surface of the tail double: a demon, spirit.--_n._ PY'THONESS,
the priestess of the oracle of Apollo at Delphi, in Greece: a
witch.--_adj._ PYTHON'IC, pretending to foretell future events, like the
Pythoness: prophetic: like a python.--_ns._ PY'THONISM, the art of
predicting events by divination; PY'THONIST. [Gr. _Pyth[=o]n_, the serpent
slain near Delphi by Apollo.]

PYX, piks, _n._ (_R.C._) the sacred box in which the host is kept after
consecration: the box at the British Mint containing sample coins.--_v.t._
to test the weight and fineness of, as the coin deposited in the
pyx.--TRIAL OF THE PYX, final trial by weight and assay of the gold and
silver coins of the United Kingdom, prior to their issue from the Mint. [L.
_pyxis_, a box--Gr. _pyxis_--_pyxos_ (L. _buxus_), the box-tree.]

PYXIDIUM, pik-sid'i-um, _n._ (_bot._) a pod or seed-vessel which opens in
two halves, the upper one resembling a lid. [Gr. _pyxidion_, dim. of
_pyxis_.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Q the seventeenth letter of our alphabet--absent from the Anglo-Saxon
alphabet, in which the sound was expressed by _cw_; in Scotland replacing
_hw_, now always followed by _u_: Roman numeral=500.

QUA, kwä, _adv._ as far as. [L.]

QUAB, QUOB, kwob, _v.i._ (_obs._) to tremble.

QUACK, kwak, _v.i._ to cry like a duck: to boast: to practise as a
quack.--_v.t._ to doctor by quackery.--_n._ the cry of a duck: a boastful
pretender to skill which he does not possess, esp. medical skill: a
mountebank.--_adj._ pertaining to quackery: used by quacks.--_n._
QUACK'ERY, the pretensions or practice of a quack, esp. in
medicine.--_adj._ QUACK'ISH, like a quack: boastful: trickish.--_n._
QUACK'ISM.--_v.i._ QUACK'LE (_rare_), to quack, croak.--_n._ QUACK'SALVER,
a quack who deals in salves, ointments, &c.: a quack generally.--_adj._
QUACK'SALVING. [Imit.; cf. Ger. _quaken_, Dut. _kwaken_, Gr. _koax_, a
croak.]

QUAD, kwod, _n._ a quadrangle: (_slang_) a prison.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to put
in prison.--Also QUOD. [_Quadrangle._]

QUAD, kwod, _n._ (_print._) an abbreviation of _quadrat_.--_v.t._ to fill
with quadrats.

QUADRA, kwod'ra, _n._ a frame enclosing a bas-relief:--_pl._ QUAD'RÆ
(-[=e]). [L. _quadrus_, square.]

QUADRAGENARIAN, kwod-ra-j[=e]-n[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ consisting of forty:
forty years old.--_n._ QUAD'RAGENE, an indulgence for forty days.

QUADRAGESIMA, kwod-ra-jes'i-ma, _n._ the Latin name for the whole season of
Lent, with its forty days: the name commonly assigned to the first Sunday
in Lent, by analogy with the three Sundays which precede
Lent--Septuagesima, Sexagesima, and Quinquagesima.--_adj._ QUADRAGES'IMAL,
belonging to or used in Lent. [L.--_quadragesimus_,
fortieth--_quadraginta_, forty--_quatuor_, four.]

QUADRANGLE, kwod'rang-gl, _n._ a square surrounded by buildings: (_geom._)
a plane figure having four equal sides and angles: in the jargon of
palmistry, the space between the line of the heart and that of the
head.--_adj._ QUADRANG'ULAR, of the form of a quadrangle.--_adv._
QUADRANG'ULARLY. [Fr.,--L. _quadrangulum_--_quatuor_, four, _angulus_, an
angle.]

QUADRANS, kwod'ranz, _n._ a Roman copper coin, the fourth part of the
_as_:--_pl._ QUADRAN'TES. [L.]

QUADRANT, kwod'rant, _n._ (_geom._) the fourth part of a circle, or an arc
of 90°: an instrument used in astronomy for the determination of angular
measurements: an instrument of navigation for measuring the altitude of the
sun.--_adj._ QUADRANT'AL, pertaining to, equal to, or included in a
quadrant. [L. _quadrans_, from _quatuor_, four.]

QUADRAT, kwod'rat, _n._ a piece of type-metal lower than the letters, used
in spacing between words and filling out blank lines (commonly
QUAD)--distinguished as _en_ ([En quadrat]), _em_ ([Em quadrat]), _two-em_
([Two-Em quadrat]), and _three-em_ ([Three-Em quadrat]).

QUADRATE, kwod'r[=a]t, _adj._ squared: having four equal sides and four
right angles: divisible into four equal parts: (_fig._) balanced: exact:
suited.--_n._ a square or quadrate figure: the quadrate bone, that between
the lower jaw and the cranium in birds and reptiles, suspending the lower
jaw.--_v.i._ to square or agree with: to correspond.--_adj._ QUADRAT'IC,
pertaining to, containing, or denoting a square.--_n._ (_alg._) an equation
in which the highest power of the unknown quantity is the second: an old
instrument for measuring latitudes: (_pl._) that branch of algebra which
treats of quadratic equations.--_adj._ QUADRATIF'EROUS, having a distinct
quadrate bone.--_ns._ QUADR[=A]'TRIX, a curve by which may be found
straight lines equal to the circumference of circles or other curves;
QUAD'R[=A]TURE, a squaring: (_geom._) the finding, exactly or
approximately, of a square that shall be equal to a given figure of some
other shape: the position of a heavenly body when 90° distant from another:
(_Milt._) a square space; QUADR[=A]'TUS, the _quadratus femoris_, or square
muscle of the femur in man, the _quadratus lumborum_, that of the loins,
the _depressor labii inferioris_, that of the chin, which draws down the
upper lip.--QUADRATURE OF THE CIRCLE, the problem of squaring the circle,
insoluble both by the arithmetical and the geometrical method.--METHOD OF
QUADRATURES, the name applied to any arithmetical method of determining the
area of a curve. [O. Fr. _quadrat_--L. _quadratus_, pa.p. of _quadr[=a]re_,
to square--_quatuor_, four.]

QUADREL, kwod'rel, _n._ a square stone, brick, or tile: a square piece of
turf.

QUADRENNIAL, kwod-ren'yal, _adj._ comprising four years: once in four
years.--_adv._ QUADRENN'IALLY.--_ns._ QUADRENN'IATE, QUADRENN'IUM,
QUADRIENN'IUM, a period of four years. [L. _quadrennis_--_quatuor_, four,
_annus_, a year.]

QUADRIC, kwod'rik, _adj._ (_alg._) of the second degree, quadratic--esp. in
solid geometry and where there are more than two variables.--_n._
QUAD'RICONE, a quadric cone.

QUADRICENTENNIAL, kwod-ri-sen-ten'i-al, _adj._ pertaining to a period of
400 years.--_n._ the 400th anniversary of an event or its celebration.

QUADRICEPS, kwod'ri-seps, _n._ the great muscle which extends the leg upon
the thigh.--_adj._ QUADRICIP'ITAL. [L. _quatuor_, four, _caput_, head.]

QUADRICORN, kwod'ri-korn, _adj._ and _n._ having four horns, antennæ,
&c.--Also QUADRICORN'OUS.

QUADRICYCLE, kwod'ri-s[=i]-kl, _n._ a four-wheeled vehicle propelled by the
feet. [L. _quatuor_, four, Low L. _cyclus_--Gr. _kyklos_, a circle.]

QUADRIDENTATE, kwod-ri-den't[=a]t, _adj._ having four teeth.
QUADRIDIGITATE, kwod-ri-dij'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ having four digits:
quadrisulcate.

QUADRIFID, kwod'ri-fid, _adj._ four-cleft.

QUADRIFOLIATE, kwod-ri-f[=o]'li-[=a]t, _adj._ four-leaved.

QUADRIFORM, kwod'ri-form, _adj._ fourfold in form, arrangement, &c.

QUADRIGA, kwod-r[=i]'ga, _n._ in Greek and Roman times a two-wheeled car
drawn by four horses abreast:--_pl._ QUADR[=I]'GÆ. [L., a contr. of
_quadrijugæ_--_quatuor_, four, _jugum_, a yoke.]

QUADRIGEMINOUS, kwod-ri-jem'i-nus, _adj._ fourfold, having four similar
parts.--Also QUADRIGEM'INAL, QUADRIGEM'IN[=A]TE.

QUADRIGENARIOUS, kwod-ri-j[=e]-n[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ consisting of four
hundred.

QUADRIJUGATE, kwod-ri-j[=oo]'g[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) pinnate with four
pairs of leaflets.--Also QUADRIJU'GOUS.

QUADRILATERAL, kwod-ri-lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ having four sides.--_n._
(_geom._) a plane figure having four sides: the four fortresses--Mantua,
Verona, Peschiera, and Legnago--which form the points of a
quadrilateral.--_n._ QUADRILAT'ERALNESS. [L. _quadrilaterus_--_quatuor_,
four, _latus_, _lateris_, a side.]

QUADRILITERAL, kwod-ri-lit'[.e]r-al, _adj._ of four letters.--_n._ a word
or a root having four letters. [L. _quatuor_, four, _litera_, a letter.]

QUADRILLE, kwa-dril', _n._ a square dance for four couples, consisting of
five movements: music for such square dances: a game played by four with
forty cards.--_v.i._ to play at quadrille: to dance quadrilles. [Fr.,--Sp.
_cuadra_, a square--L. _quadra_, a square--_quatuor_, four.]

QUADRILLION, kwod-ril'yun, _n._ a million raised to the fourth power,
represented by a unit with twenty-four ciphers. [Coined from L. _quater_,
four times, on the model of _million_.]

QUADRILOBATE, kwod-ri-l[=o]'b[=a]t, _adj._ having four lobes or
lobules.--Also QUAD'RILOBED.

QUADRILOCULAR, kwod-ri-lok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having four cells, cavities, or
compartments.

QUADRIMANOUS, kwod-rim'a-nus, _adj._ Same as QUADRUMANOUS.

QUADRINOMIAL, kwod-ri-n[=o]'mi-al, _adj._ (_alg._) consisting of four
divisions or terms.--_n._ an expression of four terms. [L. _quatuor_, four,
Gr. _nom[=e]_, a division--_nemein_, to distribute.]

QUADRIPARTITE, kwod-ri-par't[=i]t, _adj._ divided into four parts: (_bot._)
deeply cleft into four parts, as a leaf: (_archit._) divided, as a vault,
into four compartments.--_n._ a treatise divided into four parts.--_adv._
QUADRIPAR'TITELY.--_n._ QUADRIPARTI'TION. [L.,--_quatuor_, four,
_part[=i]re_, _-[=i]tum_, to divide.]

QUADRIPENNATE, kwod-ri-pen'[=a]t, _adj._ and _n._ having four wings.

QUADRIPHYLLOUS, kwod-ri-fil'us, _adj._ having four leaves.

QUADRIREME, kwod'ri-r[=e]m, _n._ a galley with four benches of oars. [L.
_quadriremis_--_quatuor_, four, _remus_, an oar.]

QUADRISECTION, kwod-ri-sek'shun, _n._ a division into four equal parts. [L.
_quatuor_, four, _sec[=a]re_, _sectum_, to cut.]

QUADRISYLLABLE, kwod-ri-sil'a-bl _n._ a word consisting of four
syllables.--_adjs._ QUADRISYLLAB'IC, -AL. [L. _quatuor_, four, _syllaba_, a
syllable.]

QUADRIVALVULAR, kwod-ri-val'v[=u]-lar, _adj._ having four valves or
valvular parts.--Also QUAD'RIVALVE.

QUADRIVIUM, kwod-riv'i-um, _n._ the Pythagorean name for the four branches
of mathematics--_arithmetic_, _music_, _geometry_, _astronomy_--when
preceded by the trivium of _grammar_, _logic_, and _rhetoric_--together
making up the seven liberal arts taught in the schools of the Roman
Empire.--_adjs._ QUADRIV'IAL, QUADRIV'IOUS. [L., 'the place where four
roads meet'--L. _quatuor_, four, _via_, a way.]

QUADROON, kwod-r[=oo]n', _n._ the offspring of a mulatto and a white
person, one 'quarter-blooded.'--Also QUARTEROON'. [Sp.
_cuarteron_--_cuarto_, a fourth.]

QUADRUMANE, kwod'r[=oo]-m[=a]n, _n._ one of the QUADRU'MANA, an order of
mammalia having four hands, or four feet, with an opposable thumb--also
QUAD'RUMAN.--_adj._ QUADRU'MANOUS, having four hands. [L. _quatuor_, four,
_manus_, a hand.]

QUADRUPED, kwod'r[=oo]-ped, _n._ a four-footed animal.--_adjs._ QUAD'RUPED,
-AL, having four feet.--_n._ QUAD'RUPEDISM, the state of being a quadruped.
[L. _quatuor_, four, _pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

QUADRUPLE, kwod'r[=oo]-pl, _adj._ fourfold.--_n._ four times the quantity
or number.--_v.t._ to increase fourfold.--_v.i._ to become four times as
many.--_n._ QUAD'RUPLET, any combination of four things--also QUART'ET: one
of four born at a birth.--_adj._ QUAD'RUPLEX, fourfold, esp. of a
telegraphic system capable of sending four messages, two in each direction,
simultaneously over one wire.--_n._ an instrument of this kind.--_v.t._ to
arrange for quadruplex transmission.--_adj._ QUADRU'PLICATE,
fourfold.--_n._ one of four corresponding things.--_v.t._ to make
fourfold.--_ns._ QUADRUPLIC[=A]'TION; QUADRU'PLIC[=A]TURE;
QUADRUPLIC'ITY.--_adv._ QUAD'RUPLY, in a fourfold manner.--QUADRUPLE
ALLIANCE, a league formed in 1718 between England, France, Austria, and
Holland to counteract the ambitious schemes of Alberoni. [Fr.,--L.
_quadruplus_--_quatuor_, four.]

QUÆSITUM, kw[=e]-s[=i]'tum, _n._ something sought or required:--_pl._
QUÆS[=I]'TA. [L. neut. of _quæsitus_, pa.p. of _quær[)e]re_, to seek.]

QUÆSTOR, kw[=e]s'tor, _n._ a magistrate with charge of the Roman public
funds--originally who investigated cases of murder and executed sentence:
in the Middle Ages an officer who announced indulgences: a treasurer--also
QUES'TOR.--_ns._ QUÆS'TORSHIP, QUES'TORSHIP. [L.,--_quærere_, _quæsitum_,
to seek.]

QUAFF, kwaf, _v.t._ to drink in large draughts.--_v.i._ to drink
largely.--_n._ QUAFF'ER. [_Quach_, _quaich_,--Gael. and Ir. _cuach_, a
bowl.]

QUAG, kwag, _n._ a quagmire (q.v.).--_adj._ QUAGG'Y, spongy, boggy.

QUAGGA, kwag'a, _n._ one of the three species of striped wild horses, or
more properly wild asses, peculiar to Africa, of which the zebra is the
type. [Hottentot.]

QUAGMIRE, kwag'm[=i]r, _n._ wet, boggy ground that yields under the
feet.--_v.t._ to entangle, as in a quagmire.--_adj._ QUAG'MIRY. [_Quake_
and _mire_.]

QUAHOG, kwa-hog', _n._ the common round clam of the North American Atlantic
coast.--Also QUAHAUG'. [Amer. Ind. _poquauhock_.]

QUAID, kw[=a]d, _adj._ (_Spens._) quelled, crushed.

QUAIGH, kw[=a]h, _n._ (_Scot._) a kind of drinking-cup, usually made of
wood. [Gael. _cuach_, a cup.]

QUAIL, kw[=a]l, _v.i._ to cower: to fail in spirit: (_Shak._) to
slacken.--_v.t._ to subdue: to terrify.--_n._ QUAIL'ING (_Shak._), act of
one who quails: a failing in courage. [A.S. _cwelan_, to die; Ger.
_quälen_, to suffer.]

QUAIL, kw[=a]l, _n._ a small gallinaceous bird, related to the partridge
family: (_Shak._) a whore.--_ns._ QUAIL'-CALL, -PIPE, a call for alluring
quails into a net. [O. Fr. _quaille_--Low L. _quaquila_--Old Dut.
_quakele_; cf. Low Ger. _quackel_, and _Quack_.]

QUAINT, kw[=a]nt, _adj._ unusual: odd: whimsical: (_obs._) prim, affectedly
nice: fine: (_Shak._) clever.--_adv._ QUAINT'LY.--_n._ QUAINT'NESS. [O. Fr.
_coint_--L. _cognitus_, known. Some confusion with L. _comptus_, neat, is
probable.]

QUAKE, kw[=a]k, _v.i._ to tremble, esp. with cold or fear: to tremble from
want of firmness.--_v.t._ to cause to tremble:--_pr.p._ qu[=a]'king;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ qu[=a]ked.--_n._ a shake: a shudder.--_ns._
QU[=A]'KINESS; QU[=A]'KING; QU[=A]'KING-GRASS, a native grass of the genus
_Briza_, so called from the tremulous motion of its spikelets.--_adv._
QU[=A]'KINGLY.--_adj._ QU[=A]'KY, shaky. [A.S. _cwacian_; perh. allied to
_quick_.]

QUAKER, kw[=a]'k[.e]r, _n._ one of the Society of Friends, a religious sect
founded by George Fox (1624-90): a dummy cannon: a collector's name for
certain noctuoid moths.--_n._ QU[=A]'KER-BIRD, the sooty
albatross.--_n.pl._ QU[=A]'KER-BUTT'ONS, the round seeds of _nux
vomica_.--_ns._ QU[=A]'KER-COL'OUR, drab; QU[=A]'KERDOM, the Quakers as a
class; QU[=A]'KERESS, a female Quaker.--_adjs._ QU[=A]'KERISH,
QU[=A]'KERLY, like a Quaker.--_n._ QU[=A]'KERISM, the tenets of the
Quakers.--STEWED QUAKER, molasses or honey, with butter and vinegar, taken
hot against colds. [The nickname Quakers was first given them by Judge
Bennet at Derby, because Fox bade him and those present _quake_ at the word
of the Lord.]

QUALIFY, kwol'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to render capable or suitable: to furnish
with legal power: to limit by modifications: to soften: to abate: to reduce
the strength of: to vary: (_Scots law_) to prove, confirm.--_v.i._ to take
the necessary steps to fit one's self for a certain position.--_adj._
QUAL'IFIABLE.--_ns._ QUALIFIC[=A]'TION, that which qualifies: a quality
that fits a person for a place, &c.: (_logic_) the attaching of quality, or
the distinction of affirmative and negative, to a term: abatement:
(_Shak._) pacification; QUAL'IFIC[=A]TIVE, that which qualifies, modifies,
or restricts: a qualifying term or statement; QUAL'IFIC[=A]TOR (_R.C._),
one who prepares ecclesiastical causes for trial.--_adj._
QUAL'IFIC[=A]TORY.--_p.adj._ QUAL'IFIED, fitted: competent: modified:
limited.--_adv._ QUAL'IFIEDLY.--_ns._ QUAL'IFIEDNESS; QUAL'IFIER.--_adj._
QUAL'IFYING.--PROPERTY QUALIFICATION, the holding of a certain amount of
property as a condition to the right of suffrage, &c. [Fr.,--Low L.
_qualific[=a]re_--L. _qualis_, of what sort, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

QUALITY, kwol'i-ti, _n._ that which makes a thing what it is: property:
peculiar power: acquisition: character: rank: superior birth or character:
(_logic_) the character of a proposition as affirmative or negative:
(_Shak._) character in respect to dryness or moisture, heat or cold:
(_Shak._) cause, occasion.--_adj._ QUAL'IT[=A]TIVE, relating to quality:
(_chem._) determining the nature of components.--_adv._
QUAL'IT[=A]TIVELY.--_adj._ QUAL'ITIED, furnished with
qualities.--ACCIDENTAL QUALITY, a quality whose removal would not impair
the identity of its subject, as opposed to an _Essential_ quality; THE
QUALITY, persons of high rank, collectively. [Fr.,--L. _qualitas_,
_qualitatis_.]

QUALM, kwäm, _n._ a sudden attack of illness: a sensation of nausea: a
scruple, as of conscience.--_adj._ QUALM'ISH, affected with qualm, or a
disposition to vomit, or with slight sickness: uneasy.--_adv._
QUALM'ISHLY.--_n._ QUALM'ISHNESS. [A.S. _cwealm_, death; Ger. _qualm_,
nausea; Sw. _qvalm_, a suffocating heat.]

QUAMASH, kwa-mash', _n._ camass.

QUANDANG, kwan'dang, _n._ a small Australian tree, with edible fruit, the
native peach. [Austr.]

QUANDARY, kwon-d[=a]'ri, or kwon'da-ri, _n._ a state of difficulty or
uncertainty: a hard plight. [Prob. M. E. _wandreth_, peril--Ice.
_vandrætdi_, trouble.]

QUANNET, kwan'et, _n._ a file for scraping zinc plates: a kind of file used
in comb-making.

QUANT, kwant, _n._ a pushing or jumping pole, with a flat cap at the end,
used in marshes.

QUANTIC, kwon'tik, _n._ (_math._) a rational integral homogeneous function
of two or more variables.--_adj._ QUAN'TICAL. [L. _quantus_, how great.]

QUANTIFY, kwon'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to determine with respect to quantity: to
fix or express the quantity of.--_n._ QUANTIFIC[=A]'TION, the art, process,
or form by which anything is quantified.--QUANTIFICATION OF THE PREDICATE,
a phrase belonging to logic, signifying the attachment of the signs of
quantity to the predicate. [L. _quantus_, how great, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

QUANTITY, kwon'ti-ti, _n._ the amount of anything: bulk: size: a
determinate amount: a sum or bulk: a large portion: (_logic_) the extent of
a conception: (_gram._) the measure of a syllable: (_mus._) the relative
duration of a tone: (_math._) anything which can be increased, divided, or
measured: (_Shak._) a small part: (_Shak._) proportion.--_adj._
QUAN'TIT[=A]TIVE, relating to quantity: measurable in quantity: (_chem._)
determining the relative proportions of components.--_advs._
QUAN'TIT[=A]TIVELY, QUAN'TITIVELY.--_ns._ QUAN'TIT[=A]TIVENESS;
QUANTIV'ALENCE (_chem._), the combining power of an atom as compared with
that of the hydrogen atom, valence.--_adj._ QUANTIV'ALENT.--QUANTITATIVE
LOGIC, the doctrine of probability.--CONSTANT QUANTITY (_math._), a
quantity that remains the same while others vary. [Fr.,--L. _quantitas_,
_quantitatis_--_quantus_, how much--_quam_, how.]

QUANTUM, kwon'tum, _n._ quantity: amount:--_pl._ QUAN'TA.--QUANTUM
SUFFICIT--as much as is sufficient. [L. _quantum_, neut. of _quantus_, how
great.]

QUAQUAVERSAL, kwä-kwä-ver'sal, _adj._ (_geol._) inclining outward in all
directions from a centre: facing all ways.--_adv._ QUAQUAVER'SALLY. [L.
_quaqua_, wheresoever, _vert[)e]re_, _versum_, to turn.]

QUARANTINE, kwor'an-t[=e]n, _n._ a forced abstinence from communication
with the shore which ships are compelled to undergo when they are last from
some port where certain infectious diseases are raging--the time originally
forty days: (_coll._) the isolation of a person, house, district, &c.
afflicted with or recovering from contagious disease.--_v.t._ to prohibit
from intercourse from fear of infection.--_adj._ QUARANTIN'ABLE, admitting
of, or controlled by, quarantine.--QUARANTINE FLAG, a yellow flag displayed
by a ship to signify the presence on board of contagious disease. [Fr.
_quarantaine_--L. _quadraginta_, forty--_quatuor_, four.]

QUARL, kwärl, _n._ a segment of fireclay used in making covers for retorts,
&c.

QUARL, kwärl, _n._ a medusa or jelly-fish.

QUARREL, kwor'el, _n._ a square of glass placed diagonally: a lozenge or
diamond: a diamond pane of glass: a small square tile: a square-headed
arrow for a cross-bow: a graver, glaziers' diamond, or other tool having a
several-edged head or point.--_ns._ QUARR'ELET, a small lozenge;
QUARR'EL-PANE. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _quadrellus_--L. _quadrus_,
square--_quatuor_, four.]

QUARREL, kwor'el, _n._ an angry dispute: a breach of friendship: (_Shak._)
a cause of complaint: a brawl: (_Shak._) a quarreller.--_v.i._ to cavil,
find fault: to dispute violently: to fight: to disagree.--_v.t._ (_Scot._)
to find fault with: to affect by quarrelling:--_pr.p._ quarr'elling;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ quarr'elled.--_ns._ QUARR'ELLER; QUARR'ELLING, strife:
dissension: brawling.--_adjs._ QUARR'ELLOUS (_Shak._), quarrelsome;
QUARR'ELSOME, disposed to quarrel: brawling: easily provoked.--_adv._
QUARR'ELSOMELY.--_n._ QUARR'ELSOMENESS.--QUARREL WITH ONE'S BREAD AND
BUTTER, to act in a way prejudicial to one's means of subsistence.--PICK A
QUARREL WITH, to try to get into a dispute with; TAKE UP A QUARREL
(_Shak._), to settle a dispute. [O. Fr. _querele_--L. _querela_--_queri_,
_questus_, to complain.]

QUARRENDER, kwor'en-d[.e]r, _n._ (_prov._) a kind of apple.

QUARRY, kwor'i, _n._ an excavation from which stone is taken for building,
&c., by cutting, blasting, &c.--_v.t._ to dig from a quarry:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ quarr'ied.--_adj._ QUARR'IABLE, capable of being quarried.--_ns._
QUARR'IER, QUARR'Y-MAN, a man who works in a quarry.--_adj._ QUARR'Y-FACED,
rough-faced.--_ns._ QUARR'YING-MACHINE', a rock-drill; QUARR'Y-WA'TER, the
water contained in the pores of stone while unquarried, or newly quarried,
before its evaporation. [O. Fr. _quarriere_ (Fr. _carrière_)--Low L.
_quadraria_--L. _quadratus_, square.]

QUARRY, kwor'i, _n._ the entrails of the game given to the dogs after the
chase: the object of the chase: the game a hawk is pursuing or has killed:
a heap of dead game. [O. Fr. _curee_, _cuiree_--_cuir_, the skin--L.
_corium_, hide.]

QUARRY, kwor'i, _n._ a small square tile.--_adj._ QUARR'IED, paved with
such. [O. Fr. _quarre_--L. _quadratus_, square.]

QUART, QUARTE, kärt, _n._ a sequence of four cards: one of the eight
thrusts and parries in fencing.--QUART AND TIERCE, practice between
fencers. [Fr. _quarte_.]

QUART, kwort, or kwawrt, _n._ the fourth part of a gallon, or two pints: a
vessel containing two pints: (_Spens._) a quarter: the peck or quarter of a
bushel: (_mus._) the interval of a fourth.--_n._ QUART[=A]'TION, the
parting of gold and silver by means of nitric acid.--QUART D'ÉCU (_Shak._),
a cardecu. [Fr. _quarte_--L. _quartus_, fourth--_quatuor_, four.]

QUARTAN, kwor'tan, _adj._ occurring every fourth day, as a fever or
ague.--_n._ an ague of this character. [Fr. _quartaine_--L. _quartanus_, of
the fourth.]

QUARTER, kwor't[.e]r, _n._ a fourth part: the fourth part of a cwt.=28 lb.
avoirdupois (abbrev. _qr._): 8 bushels, as a measure of capacity, for
grain, &c.: the fourth part of an hour--of the year--of the moon's
period--of a carcass (including a limb)--of the horizon, &c.: a cardinal
point: (_her._) one of the four parts into which a shield is divided by
quartering (_dexter chief_, _sinister chief_, _dexter base_, _sinister
base_), an ordinary occupying one-fourth of the field: a region of a
hemisphere: a division of a town, &c.: place of lodging, as for soldiers,
esp. in _pl._: mercy granted to a disabled antagonist, prob. from the idea
of the captor sending the prisoner to his quarters: (_Shak._) peace,
concord: (_naut._) the part of a ship's side between the mainmast and the
stern.--_v.t._ to divide into four equal parts: to divide into parts or
compartments: to furnish with quarters: to lodge: to allot or share: to
furnish with entertainment: (_her._) to bear as an appendage to the
hereditary arms: to beat the ground for game.--_v.i._ to be stationed: to
shift or change position: to range for game: to drive across a road from
side to side.--_ns._ QUAR'TER[=A]GE, a quarterly payment: quarters,
lodging: a name applied to a particular tax; QUAR'TER-BACK, a certain
player or position in football (see BACK); QUAR'TER-BEND, a bend in a pipe
or rod altering its direction 90°; QUAR'TER-BILL, a list of the stations
for men on board a man-of-war during action; QUAR'TER-BLANK'ET, a
horse-blanket for the hind quarters.--_n.pl._ QUAR'TER-BLOCKS, blocks
fitted under the quarters of a yard, on each side the slings, for the
topsail-sheets, &c., to reeve through.--_ns._ QUAR'TER-BOARD, topgallant
bulwarks; QUAR'TER-BOAT, any boat hung to davits over the ship's quarter;
QUAR'TER-BOOT, a leather boot to protect an overreaching horse's fore feet
from being struck by the hind feet.--_adj._ QUAR'TER-BOUND, having leather
or cloth on the back only.--_n.pl._ QUAR'TER-BOYS, automata which strike
the quarter-hours in certain belfries.--_adjs._ QUAR'TER-BRED, having only
one-fourth pure blood, as horses, cattle, &c.; QUAR'TER-CAST, cut in the
quarter of the hoof.--_ns._ QUAR'TER-DAY, the first or last day of a
quarter, on which rent or interest is paid; QUAR'TER-DECK, the part of the
deck of a ship abaft the mainmast; QUAR'TER-DECK'ER (_coll._), a stickler
for small points of etiquette on board ship.--_adj._ QUAR'TERED, divided
into four equal parts: lodged, stationed for lodging: having hind quarters
of a particular kind, as a short-_quartered_ horse: sawed into quarters:
(_her._) having a square piece cut out of the centre.--_ns._
QUAR'TER-[=E]'VIL, -ILL, symptomatic anthrax, an infectious and frequently
fatal disease of cattle, marked by hemorrhage into the subcutaneous areolar
tissue of the limbs--also _Black-leg_, _Quarter_, or _Spaul_, &c.;
QUAR'TERFOIL (_archit._), an ornamental carving disposed in four segments
of circles like an expanded flower; QUAR'TER-GALL'ERY, a projecting balcony
on each of the quarters of a large ship: a small structure on a ship's
quarters containing the water-closet and bath-tub; QUAR'TER-GUN'NER, a
petty-officer in the United States navy, having care, under the gunner, of
arms, ammunition, &c.--_adj._ QUAR'TERING, sailing nearly before the wind:
striking on the quarter of a ship, as a wind.--_n._ assignment of quarters
to soldiers: (_archit._) a series of small upright posts for forming
partitions of rooms, lathed and plastered only, or boarded also: (_her._)
the bearing of two or more coats-of-arms on a shield divided by horizontal
and perpendicular lines, denoting the alliances of the family--also, one of
the divisions thus formed.--_ns._ QUAR'TERING-BLOCK, a block on which the
body of a person condemned to be quartered was cut in pieces;
QUAR'TER-LINE, the position of ships of a column ranged in a line when one
is four points forward or abaft another's beam.--_adj._ QUAR'TERLY,
relating to a quarter: consisting of, or containing, a fourth part: once a
quarter of a year.--_adv._ once a quarter: (_her._) arranged according to
the four quarters of a shield.--_n._ a periodical published every quarter
of a year.--_ns._ QUAR'TERMASTER, an officer who looks after the quarters
of the soldiers, and attends to the supplies--he is assisted by a
non-commissioned officer named QUAR'TERMASTER-SER'GEANT: (_naut._) a
first-class petty officer who attends to the helm, signals, &c.;
QUAR'TERMASTER-GEN'ERAL, in the British army, a staff-officer of high rank
(major-general or colonel) who deals with all questions of transport,
marches, quarters, fuel, clothing, &c.; QUAR'TERN, the fourth part of a
peck, a stone, or a pint: the quarter of a pound; QUAR'TERN-LOAF, a loaf
weighing, generally, four pounds; QUARTEROON' (see QUADROON);
QUAR'TER-PLATE, in photography, a size of plate measuring 3¼ by 4¼ inches:
a picture of this size; QUAR'TER-ROUND, a moulding having an outline
approximating to a quadrant, an _ovolo_: any tool adapted for making such;
QUAR'TER-SEAL, the seal kept by the director of the Chancery of
Scotland--the _testimonial_ of the Great Seal; QUAR'TER-SES'SIONS, a
criminal court held quarterly by Justices of the Peace, established in
1350-51, but having had most of its administrative powers transferred in
1888 to the County Councils: county or borough sessions held quarterly;
QUAR'TER-STAFF, a long staff or weapon of defence, grasped at a quarter of
its length from the end and at the middle; QUAR'TER-TONE (_mus._), an
interval equivalent to one-half of a semitone; QUAR'TER-WATCH (_naut._),
one-half of the watch on deck; QUARTETTE', QUARTET', anything in fours: a
musical composition of four parts for voices or instruments: a stanza of
four lines.--_adj._ QUAR'TIC (_math._), of the fourth degree or
order.--_n._ an algebraic function of the fourth degree.--_n._ QUAR'TILE
(_astrol._), an aspect of planets when their longitudes differ by
90°.--_adj._ QUAR'TO, having the sheet folded into four leaves (abbrev.
4to).--_n._ a book of a quarto size:--_pl._ QUAR'TOS (demy quarto, 8¾ × 11¼
in.; medium quarto, 9¼ × 11¾ in.; royal quarto, 10 × 12½ in.).--BEAT UP THE
QUARTERS OF, to disturb: to visit unceremoniously; COME TO CLOSE QUARTERS,
to get into a hand-to-hand struggle.--SMALL QUARTO, a square octavo: a book
having eight leaves to a sheet but the shape of a quarto.--WINTER QUARTERS,
the quarters or station of an army during the winter. [O. Fr.,--L.
_quartarius_--_quartus_, fourth.]

QUARTODECIMAN, kwor-t[=o]-des'i-man, _n._ one of those who celebrated the
Paschal festival on the 14th day of Nisan without regard to the day of the
week. The western churches kept it on the Sunday after the 14th day--the
usage approved by the Council of Nice (325 A.D.). [L. _quartodecimus_,
fourteenth, _quatuor_, four, _decem_, ten.]

QUARTZ, kworts, _n._ the common form of native silica, or the oxide of
silicon, occurring both in crystals and massive, scratching glass easily,
and becoming positively electrical by friction, colourless when
pure--Rock-crystal, Common, and Compact Quartz.--_ns._ QUARTZ'-CRUSH'ER,
-MILL, a machine, mill, where auriferous quartz is reduced to powder, and
the gold separated by amalgamation.--_adj._ QUARTZIF'EROUS.--_ns._
QUARTZ'ITE, QUARTZ'-ROCK, a common rock, usually white, gray, or rusty in
colour, and composed of an aggregate of quartz-grains welded
together.--_adjs._ QUARTZIT'IC; QUARTZ'OSE, of or like quartz; QUARTZ'Y.
[Ger. _quarz_.]

QUASH, kwosh, _v.t._ to crush: to subdue or extinguish suddenly and
completely: to annul. [O. Fr. _quasser_ (Fr. _casser_)--L. _quass[=a]re_,
inten. of _quat[)e]re_, to shake.]

QUASHEE, kwosh'e, _n._ a negro, esp. in West Indies.

QUASHEY, kwosh'i, _n._ a pumpkin.

QUASI, kw[=a]'s[=i], _conj._ and _adv._ as if: in a certain manner, sense,
or degree--in appearance only, as '_quasi_-historical,' &c. [L.]

QUASIMODO, kwas-i-m[=o]'do, _n._ the first Sunday after Easter, Low Sunday.
[From the first words of the introit for the day, 1 Peter, ii. 2; L. _Quasi
modo geniti infantes_, as new-born babes, &c.]

QUASS, kwas, _n._ See KVASS.

QUASSATION, kwas-s[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of shaking: the state of being
shaken: concussion.--_adj._ QUAS'SATIVE. [L. _quassatio_--_quass[=a]re_, to
shake.]

QUASSIA, kwash'i-a, _n._ a South American tree, the bitter wood and bark of
which are used as a tonic.--_ns._ QUASS'INE, QUASS'ITE, the bitter
principle of quassia-wood, the Bitter-wood of the West Indies. [So called
by Linnæus from a negro named _Quassi_, who first discoverer its value
against fever.]

QUAT, kwot, _n._ (_Shak._) a pimple: an insignificant person.

QUATCH, kwoch, _adj._ (_Shak._) squat, flat.

QUATERCENTENARY, qua-ter-sen'te-n[=a]-ri, _n._ a 400th anniversary.

QUATERFOIL, kat'[.e]r-foil, _n._ See QUARTERFOIL.

QUATERNARY, kwa-t[.e]r'nar-i, _adj._ consisting of four: by fours:
pertaining to strata more recent than the Upper Tertiary: (_math._)
containing four variables.--_n._ a group of four things.--_adjs._
QU[=A]T'ERN, QU[=A]TER'N[=A]TE, composed of, or arranged in, sets of
four.--_n._ QU[=A]TER'NION, a set or group of four: a word of four
syllables: (_pl._) in mathematics, a calculus of peculiar power and
generality invented by Sir W. R. Hamilton of Dublin, as a geometry,
primarily concerning itself with the operations by which one directed
quantity or vector is changed into another.--_v.t._ to divide into
quaternions: (_Milt._) to divide into companies.--_ns._ QU[=A]TER'NIONIST,
a student of quaternions; QU[=A]TERN'ITY, the state of being four, a group
of four.--QUATERNARY NUMBER, ten; so called by the Pythagoreans because
equal to 1 + 2 + 3 + 4.

QUATORZE, ka-torz', _n._ the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens in
the game of piquet.--_n._ QUATOR'ZAIN, a stanza or poem of fourteen lines.
[Fr.]

QUATRAIN, kwot'r[=a]n, _n._ a stanza of four lines rhyming alternately.
[Fr.]

QUATRE-FOIL, Fr. QUATRE-FEUILLE=QUARTERFOIL.

QUATTROCENTO, kwot-r[=o]-chen'to, _n._ in Italian, a term for the 15th
century, its literature and art: the early Renaissance.--_n._
QUATTROCEN'TIST. Outstanding _quattrocentisti_ in art are Donatello,
Masaccio, Lippo Lippi, and Mantegna. [It., 'four hundred,' contr. for
1400.]

QUAVER, kw[=a]'v[.e]r, _v.i._ to shake: to sing or play with tremulous
modulations.--_n._ a trembling: a vibration of the voice: a note in
music=half a crotchet or one-eighth of a semibreve.--_n._
QU[=A]'VERER.--_adv._ QU[=A]'VERINGLY. [Imit.; cf. _Quiver_, and Ger.
_quabbeln_.]

QUAY, k[=e], _n._ a landing-place: a wharf for the loading or unloading of
vessels.--_n._ QUAY'AGE, payment for use of a quay. [O. Fr. _quay_--Celt.,
as in Bret. _kaé_, and W. _cae_, an enclosure.]

QUAYD, kw[=a]d, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as QUELLED.

QUEACHY, kw[=e]'chi, _adj._ shaking: unsteady. [From _queach_, a variant of
_quitch_.]

QUEAN, kw[=e]n, _n._ a saucy girl or young woman: a woman of worthless
character. [_Queen_.]

QUEASY, kw[=e]'zi, _adj._ sick, squeamish: inclined to vomit: causing
nausea: fastidious: ticklish, nice.--_adv._ QUEA'SILY.--_n._ QUEA'SINESS.
[Scand.; Norw. _kveis_, sickness after a debauch, Ice. _-kveisa_, pains, as
in _idhra-kveisa_, pains in the stomach.]

QUEBRACHO, ke-brä'ch[=o], _n._ the bark of several hard-wooded South
American trees--good in fever. [Port.,--_quebrahacho_,
axe-breaker--_quebrar_, to break, _hacha_, _facha_, axe.]

QUEBRADA, ke-brä'da, _n._ a ravine. [Sp. Amer.]

QUEEN, kw[=e]n, _n._ the wife of a king: a female sovereign: the best or
chief of her kind: a queen-bee or queen-ant: of playing-cards, one with the
queen painted on it: the piece in chess which is the most deadly in
attack.--_v.i._ to play the queen.--_ns._ QUEEN'-APP'LE, QUEEN'ING, the
name of several varieties of apple; QUEEN'-BEE, the sole female of a
bee-hive, considerably larger than an ordinary bee; QUEEN'-CON'SORT, the
wife of the reigning sovereign--opp. to QUEEN'-REG'NANT, holding the crown
in her own right; QUEEN'CRAFT, craft or policy on the part of a queen;
QUEEN'DOM, queenly rule or dignity: the realm of a queen; QUEEN'-DOW'AGER,
the widow of a deceased king; QUEEN'HOOD, the state of being a queen;
QUEEN'LET, a petty queen.--_adjs._ QUEEN'-LIKE, QUEEN'LY, like a queen:
becoming or suitable to a queen.--_n._ QUEEN'LINESS.--_adv._ QUEEN'LY, like
a queen.--_ns._ QUEEN'-MOTH'ER, a queen-dowager, the mother of the reigning
king or queen; QUEEN'-OF-THE-MEAD'OWS, the meadow-sweet; QUEEN'-POST
(_archit._), one of two upright posts in a trussed roof, resting upon the
tie-beam, and supporting the principal rafters; QUEEN'-R[=E]'GENT, a queen
who reigns as regent; QUEEN'S'-ARM, a musket; QUEEN'SHIP, the state,
condition, or dignity of a queen; QUEEN'-STITCH, a square or chequer
pattern in embroidery stitch.--QUEEN ANNE'S BOUNTY, a fund for augmenting
the incomes of the poorer clergy of England, set aside in 1703; QUEEN ANNE
STYLE (_archit._), the style popular in the early part of the 18th century,
the buildings plain and simple, with classic cornices and details, and
frequently with large windows divided by mullions; QUEEN OF HEAVEN, a title
often given to the goddess Astarte or Ashtoreth: among Roman Catholics, a
title for the Virgin Mary; QUEEN OF THE MAY=_May-queen_ (see MAY);
* QUEEN'S BENCH (court of: see KING); * QUEEN'S COLOUR, one of the pair of
colours belonging to each regiment in our army; * QUEEN'S COUNSEL (see
COUNSEL); * QUEEN'S ENGLISH, correct use of the English language; * QUEEN'S
EVIDENCE (see EVIDENT); * QUEEN'S MESSENGER (see MESSAGE); QUEEN'S METAL,
an alloy consisting chiefly of tin; QUEEN'S TOBACCO PIPE, the facetious
designation of a peculiarly shaped kiln which used to be situated at the
corner of the tobacco warehouses belonging to the London Docks, and in
which contraband goods were burned; QUEEN'S WARE, a variety of Wedgwood
ware, otherwise known as _cream-coloured ware_; QUEEN'S YELLOW, the yellow
subsulphate of mercury. [A.S. _cwén_; Goth. _kw[=e]ns_, Ice. _kván_,
_kvæn_.]

    * Now _King's Bench_, &c.

QUEER, kw[=e]r, _adj._ odd, singular, quaint: open to suspicion, dubious:
counterfeit: having a sensation of coming sickness.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to
banter, ridicule.--_adj._ QUEER'ISH, somewhat singular.--_n._ QUEER'ITY
(_rare_).--_adv._ QUEER'LY.--_n._ QUEER'NESS.--QUEER STREET, the imaginary
residence of persons in financial and other difficulties.--A QUEER FISH
(see FISH); SHOVE THE QUEER (_slang_), to pass bad money. [Low Ger.
_queer_, across, oblique (Ger. _quer_); cf. _Thwart_.]

QUEET, kw[=e]t, _n._ (_Scot._) an ankle. [_Coot_ (2).]

QUEEZ-MADAM, kw[=e]z'-mad'am, _n._ (_Scot._) the cuisse-madam, a French
jargonelle pear.

QUEINT, kw[=a]nt, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as QUAINT.

QUEINT, kwent (_Spens._), _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _quench_.

QUELCH, kwelch, _v.i._ (_prov._) to make a sucking sound like that of water
in one's boots.

QUELEA, kw[=e]'le-a, _n._ the weaver-bird of Africa.

QUELL, kwel, _v.t._ to crush: subdue: to allay.--_v.i._ to die, perish,
(_Shak._) abate.--_ns._ QUELL (_Shak._), murder: (_Keats_) power of
quelling; QUELL'ER, one who quells or crushes: a slayer. [A.S. _cwellan_,
to kill, causal of _cwelan_, to die. Cf. _Quail_ (v.).]

QUEME, kw[=e]m, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to please, suit, fit. [A.S. _cwéman_; cf.
Ger. _bequem_, fit.]

QUENCH, kwensh, _v.t._ to put out: to destroy: to check: to allay: to place
in water.--_v.i._ to lose zeal, grow cold.--_adj._ QUENCH'ABLE, that may be
extinguished.--_ns._ QUENCH'ER, one who, or that which, quenches: a draught
or drink; QUENCH'ING, act of extinguishing: the act of cooling the surface
of molten metal and forming rosettes in the crust.--_adj._ QUENCH'LESS,
that cannot be extinguished: irrepressible.--_adv._ QUENCH'LESSLY.--_n._
QUENCH'LESSNESS. [A.S. _cwencan_, to quench, causal of _cwincan_; cf. Old
Fries. _kwinka_, to go out.]

QUENELLE, ke-nel', _n._ a forcemeat ball of chicken, veal, or the like.
[Fr.]

QUENOUILLE-TRAINING, ke-n[=oo]'lye-tr[=a]'ning, _n._ the training of trees
in a conical shape with the branches bent downwards. [Fr. _quenouille_, a
distaff--Low L. _colucula_--L. _colus_, a distaff.]

QUERCETUM, kwer-s[=e]'tum, _n._ a collection of living oaks.
[L.,--_quercus_, an oak.]

QUERCITRON, kwer'si-tron, _n._ the name both of a dye-stuff and of the
species of oak of which it is the bark--the _Quercus coccinea_ of North
America, also called _Dyer's oak_ and _Yellow-barked oak_.--_ns._
QUER'CITE, a sweet crystalline compound found in acorns; QUER'CITIN, a
yellow crystalline compound derived from quercitrin by the action of
mineral acids; QUER'CITRIN, a glucoside, the colouring-matter of
quercitron-bark. [L. _quercus_, oak, _citrus_, a tree of the lemon kind.]

QUERELA, kwe-r[=e]'la, _n._ a complaint preferred in a court.--_n._
QU[=E]'RENT, a plaintiff. [L.]

QUERIMONIOUS, kwer-i-m[=o]'ni-us, _adj._ complaining: discontented.--_adv._
QUERIM[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_n._ QUERIM[=O]'NIOUSNESS. [L. _querimonia_, a
complaining--_queri_, to complain.]

QUERIST, kw[=e]'rist, _n._ one who inquires or asks questions. [_Query_.]

QUERK, kw[.e]rk, _v.t._ (_prov_.) to throttle.--_v.i._ to grunt.

QUERL, kw[.e]rl, _v.t._ (_U.S._) to twirl.--_n._ a coil.

QUERN, kw[.e]rn, _n._ a stone handmill for grinding grain. [A.S. _cwyrn_,
_cweorn_; Ice. _kvern_, Goth, _kwairnus_.]

QUERQUEDULA, kwer-kwed'[=u]-la, _n._ the teal. [L.]

QUERULOUS, kwer'[=u]-lus, _adj._ complaining: discontented:
quarrelsome.--_adv._ QUER'ULOUSLY.--_n._ QUER'ULOUSNESS. [L.,--_queri_, to
complain.]

QUERY, kw[=e]'ri, _n._ an inquiry: the mark of interrogation.--_v.t._ to
inquire into: to question: to doubt of: to mark with a query.--_v.i._ to
question:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ qu[=e]'ried.--_adj._ QUES'ITIVE,
interrogatory. [L. _quære_, imper. of _quær[)e]re_, _quæsitum_, to
inquire.]

QUEST, kwest, _n._ the act of seeking: search: pursuit: a searching party:
a jury of inquest: inquiry, investigation: request or desire.--_v.i._ to go
in search of, to go begging: to give tongue, as a dog after game.--_ns._
QUEST'ANT, QUEST'ER (_Shak._), one who seeks after anything, a
candidate.--_adj._ QUEST'FUL. [O. Fr. _queste_ (Fr. _quête_)--L. _quæsita_
(_res_), a thing sought--_quær[)e]re_, _quæsitum_, to seek.]

QUESTION, kwest'yun, _n._ a seeking: an inquiry: an examination, esp. by
torture: an investigation: dispute: doubt: a subject of discussion, esp.
the particular point actually before the house, the measure to be voted
upon: (_Shak._) conversation.--_v.t._ to ask questions of: to examine by
questions: to inquire of: to regard as doubtful: to challenge, take
exception to: to have no confidence in.--_v.i._ to ask questions: to
inquire: to debate, consider, to converse.--_adj._ QUEST'IONABLE, that may
be questioned: doubtful: uncertain: suspicious.--_n._
QUEST'IONABLENESS.--_adv._ QUEST'IONABLY.--_adj._ QUEST'IONARY, asking
questions.--_n._ one who hawks about for sale indulgences or relics.--_ns._
QUEST'IONER; QUEST'IONING, a query, doubt, suspicion.--_adv._
QUEST'IONINGLY.--_n._ QUEST'IONIST, a questioner, a doubter: at Cambridge,
a student qualified to be a candidate for a degree.--_adj._ QUEST'IONLESS,
unquestioning: beyond question or doubt: certainly.--_n._ QUEST'RIST
(_Shak._), a seeker, a pursuer.--_adj._ QUEST'UARY (_obs._), greedy of
gain, yielding gain.--QUESTION OF FACT, consideration as to the actual
occurrence of an event.--BEG THE QUESTION (see BEG); CALL IN QUESTION, to
challenge, to subject to judicial inquiry; IN QUESTION, under
consideration, referring to a thing just mentioned; LEADING-QUESTION (see
LEAD); OUT OF QUESTION, doubtless; OUT OF THE QUESTION, not to be thought
of; POP THE QUESTION (see POP); PREVIOUS QUESTION (see PREVIOUS). [Fr.,--L.
_quæstion-em_--_quær[)e]re_, _quæsitum_, to seek.]

QUESTOR, QUESTORSHIP. See QUÆSTOR.

QUETZAL, kwet'sal, _n._ the resplendent trogon, a native of Central
America, the plumage of the male a magnificent golden green.--Also QUES'AL,
QUIJ'AL.

QUEUE, k[=u], _n._ a pendent braid of hair at the back of the head, a
pigtail: a file of persons waiting in the order of arrival: a tailpiece, as
of a violin: (_her._) the tail of a beast.--_v.t._ to tie or fasten in a
queue or pigtail. [Fr.,--L. _cauda_, a tail.]

QUEY, kw[=a], _n._ (_Scot._) a young cow or heifer, a cow that has not yet
had a calf. [Ice. _kvíga_; Dan. _kvie_.]

QUHILK, hwilk, _pron._ an obsolete Scotch form of which.

QUIB, kwib. Same as QUIP.

QUIBBLE, kwib'l, _n._ a turning away from the point in question into
matters irrelevant or insignificant: an evasion, a pun: a petty
conceit.--_v.i._ to evade a question by a play upon words: to cavil: to
trifle in argument: to pun.--_n._ QUIBB'LER.--_adv._ QUIBB'LINGLY. [Freq.
of _quip_.]

QUICH, kwich, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to stir, to move.--Also QUINCH, QUITCH.
[A.S. _cweccan_, causal of _cwacian_, to quake.]

QUICK, kwik, _adj._ living: lively: speedy: nimble: ready: sensitive:
hasty: pregnant: active, piercing.--_adv._ without delay: rapidly:
soon.--_n._ a living animal or plant: the living: the living flesh: the
sensitive parts: a hedge of some growing plant, quickset.--_adj._
QUICK'-AN'SWERED (_Shak._), quick at giving an answer.--_n._ QUICK'BEAM,
the mountain-ash or rowan.--_adj._ QUICK'-CONCEIV'ING, quick at conceiving
or understanding.--_v.t._ QUICK'EN, to make quick or alive: to revive: to
reinvigorate: to cheer: to excite: to sharpen: to hasten.--_v.i._ to become
alive: to move with activity.--_n._ the couch or quitch-grass.--_ns._
QUICK'ENER, one who, or that which, reinvigorates; QUICK'ENING, the period
in pregnancy when the mother first becomes conscious of the movement of the
child--from the sixteenth or seventeenth week onwards.--_adj._ QUICK'-EYED,
having acute sight.--_ns._ QUICK'-GRASS=_Quitch-grass_; QUICK'-HEDGE, a
hedge of living plants; QUICK'LIME, recently burnt lime, caustic and
unslaked: carbonate of lime without its carbonic acid.--_adv._
QUICK'LY.--_ns._ QUICK'MARCH (same as QUICK'STEP); QUICK'MATCH (see MATCH);
QUICK'NESS; QUICK'SAND, a movable sandbank in a sea, lake, &c., any large
mass of sand saturated with water, often dangerous to travellers: anything
treacherous.--_adj_. QUICK'-SCENT'ED, having a keen scent.--_n._ QUICK'SET,
a living plant set to grow for a hedge, particularly the hawthorn.--_adj._
consisting of living plants.--_adj._ QUICK'-SIGHT'ED, having quick or sharp
sight: quick in discernment.--_ns._ QUICK'-SIGHT'EDNESS, sharpness of sight
or discernment; QUICK'SILVER, the common name for fluid mercury, so called
from its great mobility and its silvery colour.--_v.t._ to overlay or to
treat with quicksilver.--_adj._ QUICK'SILVERED.--_ns._ QUICK'SILVERING, the
mercury on the back of a mirror; QUICK'STEP, a march in quick time:
(_mus._) a march written in military quick time.--_adj._ QUICK'-TEM'PERED,
irascible.--_n._ QUICK'-WA'TER, a solution of nitrates of mercury and of
gold, for water-gilding.--_adj._ QUICK'-WIT'TED, having ready wit.--_ns._
QUICK'-WIT'TEDNESS; QUICK'-WORK, the part of a ship under water when laden:
the part of the inner upper-works of a ship above the covering board: the
short planks worked inside between the ports: spirketting.--SOME QUICK
(_Spens._), something alive. [A.S. _cwic_; Ice. _kvikr_, Goth. _kwius_,
living; allied to L. _vivus_.]

QUICUNQUE, kw[=i]-kung'kwe, _n._ the so-called Athanasian Creed, from its
first words, _Quicunque vult_='whosoever will.'

QUID, kwid, _n._ what, substance: something.--TERTIUM QUID, something
distinct from both mind and matter, itself immediately known, mediating
between the mind and the reality. [L., what.]

QUID, kwid, _n._ something chewed or kept in the mouth, esp. a piece of
tobacco. [A corr. of _cud_.]

QUID, kwid, _n._ (_slang_) a sovereign.

QUIDAM, kw[=i]'dam, _n._ somebody, one unknown. [L.]

QUIDDANY, kwid'a-ni, _n._ a confection of quince-juice and sugar. [L.
_cydonium_. Cf. _Quince_.]

QUIDDIT, kwid'it, _n._ an equivocation: a subtilty or quibble. [A contr. of
_quiddity_.]

QUIDDITY, kwid'i-ti, _n._ the essence of anything: any trifling nicety: a
cavil: a captious question.--_adjs._ QUIDD'ATIVE, QUIDD'IT[=A]TIVE. [Low L.
_quidditas_--L. _quid_, what.]

QUIDDLE, kwid'l, _v.i._ to spend time in trifling.--_n._ one who does
so.--_n._ QUIDD'LER, a trifler.--_adj._ QUIDD'LING. [L. _quid_.]

QUIDNUNC, kwid'nungk, _n._ one always on the lookout for news: one who
pretends to know all occurrences. [L., 'what now?']

QUID PRO QUO, kwid pr[=o] kw[=o], _n._ something given or taken as
equivalent to something else. [L., 'something for something.']

QUIEN SABE, kien sä'be, who knows? a common reply to a question in the
south-western United States, meaning 'I do not know.' [Sp. _quien_, who--L.
_quis_, who; _sabe_, 3d pers. sing. pres. indic. of _saber_, to know--L.
_sap[)e]re_, to have sense.]

QUIESCENT, kw[=i]-es'ent, _adj._ being quiet, resting: not sounded, as a
_quiescent_ letter: still: unagitated: silent.--_v.i._ QUIESCE', to become
quiet: to become silent in pronunciation, as a letter.--_ns._ QUIES'CENCE,
QUIES'CENCY, state of being at rest: rest of mind: silence: torpor.--_adv._
QUIES'CENTLY. [L. _quiescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _quiesc[)e]re_, to rest.]

QUIET, kw[=i]'et, _adj._ at rest: calm: smooth: peaceable: gentle,
inoffensive: silent, still: free from gaudiness, in good taste: free from
bustle or formality.--_n._ the state of being at rest: repose: calm:
stillness: peace.--_v.t._ to bring to rest: to stop motion: to calm or
pacify: to lull: to allay.--_v.i._ to become quiet, to abate.--_n._
QU[=I]'ET[=A]GE (_Spens._), quiet.--_v.t._ QU[=I]'ETEN, to make quiet,
calm.--_v.i._ to become quiet.--_n._ QU[=I]'ETER (_Shak._), a person or
thing that quiets.--_v.t._ QU[=I]'ETISE, to make quiet.--_ns._
QU[=I]'ETISM, rest of the mind: mental tranquillity: apathy: the doctrine
that religious perfection on earth consists in passive and uninterrupted
contemplation of the Deity; QU[=I]'ETIST, one who believes in this doctrine
(Molinos, Mme. Guyon, &c.).--_adj._ QUIETIST'IC, pertaining to
quietism.--_n._ QU[=I]'ETIVE, anything that induces quiet.--_adv._
QU[=I]'ETLY, in a quiet manner: without motion or alarm: calmly: silently:
patiently.--_ns._ QU[=I]'ETNESS, QU[=I]'ETUDE, rest: repose: freedom from
agitation or alarm: stillness: peace: silence.--_adj._ QU[=I]'ETSOME
(_Spens._), calm, still, undisturbed.--_n._ QUI[=E]'TUS, a final settlement
or discharge: ending generally: (_slang_) a severe blow.--AT QUIET (_B._),
peaceful; IN QUIET, quietly; ON THE QUIET, clandestinely; OUT OF QUIET,
disturbed. [L. _quietus_--_quisc[)e]re_, to rest.]

QUIGHT, kw[=i]t, _adv._ a misspelt form of _quite_.

QUI-HI, -HYE, kw[=i]'h[=i]', _n._ in Bengal, the Anglo-Indian call for a
servant: (_coll._) an Anglo-Indian in Bengal. [Hind. _ko[=i] hai_, 'who is
there?']

QUILL, kwil, _n._ a fold of a plaited or fluted ruff.--_v.t._ to flute:
form with rounded ridges.--_adj._ QUILLED, crimped, fluted.--_n._
QUILL'ING, a narrow bordering of plaited lace or ribbon. [Fr. _quille_, a
keel.]

QUILL, kwil, _n._ a reed-pen: the feather of a goose or other bird used as
a pen, hence a pen generally: the profession of letters: anything like a
quill: the hollow basal stem of a feather: one of the large hollow sharp
spines (modified hairs) of the hedgehog, porcupine, &c.: the reed on which
weavers wind their thread: the instrument for striking the strings of
certain instruments: the tube of a musical instrument: the hollow shaft or
mandril of the seal-engraver's lathe: a train for igniting a blast: bark in
a cylindrical roll.--_v.t._ to plait with small ridges like quills: to wind
on a quill: to pluck out quills from.--_ns._ QUILL'-DRIV'ER (_slang_), one
who works with a quill or pen, a clerk; QUILL'-DRIV'ING, writing.--_adj._
QUILLED, furnished with quills, or formed into a quill.--_ns._ QUILL'-NIB,
a quill-pen shortened for use with a holder; QUILL'-TURN, the machine in
which a weaver's quill is turned; QUILL'-WORK, embroidery with porcupine
quills, done by the North American Indians; QUILL'-WORT, any plant of the
genus Isoëtes, esp. _Isoëtes lacustris_.--IN THE QUILL (_Shak._),
perhaps=penned, though others interpret 'in form and order like a quilled
ruff.' [Explained by Skeat as orig. a stalk, hence anything pointed, O. Fr.
_quille_, a peg--Old High Ger. _kegil_ or _chegil_ (Ger. _kegel_), a
cone-shaped object, ninepin.]

QUILLET, kwil'et, _n._ a trick in argument: a petty quibble. [L.
_quidlibet_, 'what you will.']

QUILLET, kwil'et, _n._ (_prov._) a furrow: a small croft.

QUILLON, k[=e]-lyong', _n._ one of the branches of the cross-guard of a
sword.

QUILT, kwilt, _n._ a bed-cover of two cloths sewed together with something
soft between them: a thick coverlet.--_v.t._ to make into a quilt: to
stitch together with something soft between, to stitch in: to sew like a
quilt.--_adj._ QUILT'ED, stitched together as a quilt: (_Spens._)
padded.--_ns._ QUILT'ER, a person or machine for making quilting;
QUILT'ING, the act of making a quilt: that which is quilted: a cotton or
linen cloth, like diaper, with raised pattern, for vests, &c.: a kind of
coating formed of sinnet, strands of rope, &c., outside any vessel
containing water: a thrashing with a rope's end; QUILT'ING-BEE, in New
England, a gathering of women to help one in quilting a counterpane,
followed by a supper to which men are admitted; QUILT'ING-COTT'ON,
cotton-wadding; QUILT'ING-FRAME, an adjustable frame for holding a fabric
for quilting. [O. Fr. _cuilte_ (Fr. _couette_)--L. _culcita_, a cushion.]

QUIN, kwin, _n._ (_prov._) a kind of scallop.

QUINARIAN, kw[=i]-n[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ classified in sets of five: (_zool._)
relating to the circular or so-called natural system of classification,
propounded in 1819 and much elaborated by Swainson in 1835--also
QU[=I]'NARY.--_n._ one who supports this theory. [L. _quinarius_--_quini_,
five each--_quinque_, five.]

QUINATE, kw[=i]'n[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having five leaflets on a petiole.
[L. _quini_, five each.]

QUINCE, kwins, _n._ the golden, globose or pear-shaped, fragrant fruit of a
large shrub or small tree (_Pyrus Cydonia_) of the rose family, too austere
to be eaten raw, but excellent for jellies, marmalade, and flavouring other
fruits. [Pl. of _quine_--O. Fr. _coin_ (Fr. _coing_)--L. _cydonium_--Gr.
_Cyd[=o]nia_, in Crete.]

QUINCENTENARY, kwin-sen'te-n[=a]-ri, _adj._ relating to five hundred,
especially five hundred years.--_n._ a five hundredth anniversary.

QUINCH, kwinsh, _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as QUITCH, _v.t._

[Illustration]

QUINCUNX, kwin'kungks, _n._ an arrangement of five things, so as to occupy
each corner and the centre of a square, esp. of trees or plants.--_adj._
QUINCUN'CIAL.--_adv._ QUINCUN'CIALLY. [L. _quinque_, five, _uncia_, a
twelfth part, an ounce.]

QUINDECEMVIR, kwin-d[=e]-sem'vir, _n._ one of a college of fifteen men in
ancient Rome who had the charge of the Sibylline books:--_pl._
QUINDECEM'VIRI.--_ns._ QUINDEC'AGON, a plane figure with fifteen sides and
angles; QUINDECEM'VIRATE, the body of the quindecemviri or their office;
QUINDEC'IMA (_mus._), the interval of a fifteenth, or double-octave.
[L.,--_quindecim_, fifteen (_quinque_, five, _decem_, ten), _vir_, a man.]

QUINIBLE, kwin'i-bl, _n._ (_mus._) an interval of a fifth: a descant sung
at the fifth. [L. _quinque_, five.]

QUININE, kwin'[=e]n, ki-n[=e]n', or kw[=i]'n[=i]n, _n._ a colourless,
inodorous, and very bitter alkaloid, obtained from the bark of the Cinchona
tree, its salts used for agues and fevers.--_ns._ QU[=I]'NA, the bark of
various species of Cinchona; QUINAM'INE, a natural white crystalline
alkaloid obtained from various Cinchona barks; QUINAQU[=I]'NA, the bark of
various species of Cinchona.--_adj._ QUIN'IC, pertaining to, or derived
from, quinine.--_ns._ QUIN'IDINE, a white crystalline compound, isomeric
with quinine, found in some Cinchona barks; QUINOL'OGY, the knowledge of
quinine and other Cinchona alkaloids. [Fr.,--Sp. and Port.
_quinina_--Peruv. _quina_, _kina_, bark.]

QUINISEXT, kwin'i-sekst, _adj._ pertaining to five and six, or to the fifth
and sixth.

QUINNAT, kwin'at, _n._ the king-salmon.

QUINOA, k[=e]'no-a, _n._ a Chilian and Mexican food-plant, resembling some
British species of chenopodium, cultivated for its farinaceous seeds.
[Peruv.]

QUINOLINE, kwin'[=o]-lin, _n._ a pungent, colourless liquid obtained by the
distillation of bones, coal-tar, and various alkaloids--the base of many
organic bodies, isomeric with Leucol.--Also CHIN'OLINE. [Peruv. _quina_,
_kina_, bark.]

QUINONE, kwin'[=o]n, _n._ or _Benzoquinone_, a golden-yellow crystalline
compound usually prepared by oxidising aniline with potassium bichromate
and sulphuric acid: a general name applied to all benzene derivatives in
which two oxygen atoms replace two hydrogen atoms.--Also KINONE
(k[=e]'n[=o]n), as _Kinic_--_Quinic_.

QUINQUAGESIMA, kwin-kwa-jes'i-ma, _n._ a period of fifty days.--_n._
QUINQUAGEN[=A]'RIAN, one who is between fifty and sixty years
old.--QUINQUAGESIMA SUNDAY, the Sunday before Ash Wednesday, being the
fiftieth day before Easter. [L. _quinquaginta_, fifty--_quinque_, five.]

QUINQUANGULAR, kwin-kwang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ having five angles.--_adjs._
QUINQUARTIC'ULAR, of five articles; QUINQUECAP'SULAR, having five capsules;
QUINQUECOS'T[=A]TE, -D having five ribs; QUINQUEDEN'TATE, -D (_bot._),
five-toothed; QUINQUEF[=A]'RIOUS, disposed in five sets or rows;
QUIN'QUEFID, cleft into five segments; QUINQUEF[=O]'LIATE, -D (_bot._),
having five leaves or leaflets; QUINQUELIT'ERAL, consisting of five
letters; QUINQUEL[=O]'BATE, having five lobes; QUINQUELOC'ULAR, having five
loculi; QUINQUEPÄR'TITE, five-parted; QUINQUESEP'TATE, having five septa;
QUINQUES[=E]'RIAL, arranged in five series; QUINQUESYLLAB'IC, having five
syllables; QUINQUEV'ALENT, having an equivalence of five; QUIN'QUEVALVE,
QUINQUEVAL'VULAR, having five valves.

QUINQUENNIAD, kwin-kwen'i-ad, _n._ a period of five years--also
QUINQUENN'IUM.--_adj._ QUINQUENN'IAL, occurring once in five years: lasting
five years.--_n._ a fifth anniversary or its celebration.

QUINQUEREME, kwin'kwe-r[=e]m, _n._ an ancient galley having five banks of
oars. [L.,--_quinque_, five, _remus_, an oar.]

QUINQUINA, kin-k[=i]'nä, _n._ quinaquina. [_Quinine_.]

QUINQUINO, kin'ki-n[=o], _n._ the tree (_Myroxylon Pereiræ_) which yields
the balsam of Peru.

QUINSY, kwin'zi, _n._ an inflammatory affection of the substance of the
tonsils, attended when fully developed by suppuration.--_ns._
QUIN'SY-BERR'Y, the common black-currant; QUIN'SY-WORT, a small trailing
British herb of the madder family. [O. Fr. _squinancie_ (Fr.
_esquinancie_)--Gr. _kynanch[=e]_--_ky[=o]n_, a dog, _anchein_, to
throttle.]

QUINT, kwint, _n._ a set or a sequence of five: (_mus._) a fifth: the E
string of a violin.--_adj._ QUINT'AN, recurring on every fifth day.--_n._ a
malarial fever whose paroxysms recur on every fifth day. [Fr.,--L.
_quintus_, fifth--_quinque_, five.]

QUINTA, kwin'tä, _n._ a country house in Madeira. [Sp.]

QUINTAD, kwin'tad, _n._ the same as _Pentad_.

QUINTADENA, kwin-ta-d[=e]'na, _n._ in organ-building, a mutation stop
yielding a tone one-twelfth above the digital struck.

QUINTAIN, kwin't[=a]n, _n._ a post with a turning and loaded top or
cross-piece, to be tilted at.--Also QUIN'TIN. [Fr.,--L. _quintana_,
_quintus_, fifth, the place of recreation in the Roman camp being between
the fifth and sixth maniples.]

QUINTAL, kwin'tal, _n._ a hundredweight, either 112 or 100 pounds according
to the scale.--The QUINTAL MÉTRIQUE, the modern French quintal, is 100
kilograms=220 lb. avoirdupois. [Fr. and Sp. _quintal_--Ar. _qint[)a]r_--L.
_centum_, a hundred.]

QUINTESSENCE, kwin-tes'ens, _n._ the pure concentrated essence of anything,
the most essential part of anything: the fifth essence, according to the
Pythagoreans, beyond earth, water, fire, air.--_adj._
QUINTESSEN'TIAL.--_v.t._ QUINTESSEN'TIALISE. [Fr.,--L. _quinta essentia_,
fifth essence, orig. applied to ether, supposed to be purer than fire, the
highest of the four ancient elements.]

QUINTET, QUINTETTE, kwin-tet', _n._ a musical composition for five voices
or instruments: a company of five singers or players. [It. _quintetto_,
dim. of _quinto_, a fifth part--L. _quintus_, fifth--_quinque_, five.]

QUINTIC, kwin'tik, _adj._ of the fifth degree.

QUINTILE, kwin'til, _n._ the aspect of planets distant from each other the
fifth part of the zodiac, or 72°.

QUINTILLION, kwin-til'yun, _n._ the fifth power of a million, or a unit
followed by thirty ciphers: generally, in U.S., the sixth power of one
thousand, or a unit followed by eighteen ciphers.

QUINTOLE, kwin't[=o]l, _n._ a five-stringed viol common in France in the
18th century: a group of five notes to be played in the time of three,
four, or six. [It. _quinto_--L. _quintus_, fifth.]

QUINTROON, kwin-tr[=oo]n', _n._ the offspring of a white by one who has
one-sixteenth part of negro blood. [Sp. _quinteron_--L. _quintus_,
fifth--_quinque_, five.]

QUINTUPLE, kwin't[=u]-pl, _adj._ fivefold: (_mus._) having five crotchets
in a bar.--_v.t._ to make or to increase fivefold.--_ns._ QUIN'T[=U]PLET, a
set of five things: (_pl._) five young at a birth: (_mus._) same as
QUINTOLE; QUINT[=U]'PLIC[=A]TE, consisting of five: one of five exactly
corresponding things.--_v.t._ to make or to increase a set of
fivefold.--_n._ QUINTUPLIC[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L. _quintuplex_--_quintus_,
fifth, _plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

QUINZAINE, kwin'z[=a]n, _n._ the fifteenth day onward from a feast day,
counting itself: a stanza of fifteen lines. [Fr. _quinze_, fifteen--L.
_quindecim_--_quinque_, five, _decem_, ten.]

QUINZE, kwinz, _n._ a card-game, like vingt-et-un, the object being to
count as nearly to fifteen as possible without going above it.

QUIP, kwip, _n._ a sharp, sarcastic turn, a gibe: a quick retort.--_v.i._
to use sarcasms.--_v.t._ to sneer at.--_adj._ QUIP'PISH. [W. _chwip_, a
quick turn, _chwipio_, to move briskly.]

QUIPU, k[=e]'p[=oo], or kwip'[=oo], _n._ the mnemonic language of coloured
and knotted cords used by the Incas of ancient Peru--depending on order,
colour, and kind.--Also QUIP'O. [Peruv., 'a knot.']

QUIRE, kw[=i]r, _n._ a collection of paper consisting of twenty-four
sheets, the twentieth part of a ream, each having a single fold.--_v.t._ to
fold in quires. [O. Fr. _quaier_ (Fr. _cahier_), prob. from Low L.
_quaternum_, a set of four sheets,--L. _quatuor_, four.]

QUIRE, kw[=i]r, _n._ old form of _choir_.--_n._ QU[=I]'RISTER, a chorister.

QUIRINUS, kwi-r[=i]'nus, _n._ an Italic divinity identified with the
deified Romulus.--_n._ QUIRIN[=A]'LIA, a festival in ancient Rome in honour
of _Quirinus_, on Feb. 17.

QUIRITES, kwi-r[=i]'tez, _n.pl._ the citizens of ancient Rome in their
civil capacity.

QUIRK, kw[.e]rk, _n._ a quick turn: an artful evasion: a quibble: a taunt
or retort: a slight conceit: inclination, turn: fantastic phrase:
(_archit._) an acute angle or recess.--_v.i._ to turn sharply.--_v.t._ to
twist or turn: to furnish with a quirk or channel.--_adjs._ QUIRK'ISH,
consisting of quirks; QUIRK'Y, abounding in quirks. [Skeat explains as
prob. for obs. Eng. _quirt_, to turn; from W. _chwired_, a piece of craft,
from _chwiori_, to turn briskly; cf. Gael. _cuireid_, a turn.]

QUIRT, kw[.e]rt, _n._ a riding-whip much used in the western states of
North America.--_v.t._ to flog with a quirt. [Perh. Sp. _cuerda_, a rope.]

QUISCALUS, kwis'ka-lus, _n._ a genus of birds, the American grackles or
crow-blackbirds.

QUIT, kwit, _v.t._ to pay, requite: to release from obligation, accusation,
&c.: to acquit: to depart from: to give up: to clear by full performance:
(_Spens._) to remove by force: (_coll._) to give over, cease:--_pr.p._
quit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ quit'ted.--_adj._ (_B._) set free:
acquitted: released from obligation.--_n._ QUIT'-CLAIM, a deed of
release.--_v.t._ to relinquish claim or title to.--_n._ QUIT'-RENT, a rent
by which the tenants are discharged from all other services--in old records
called _white rent_, as being paid in silver money.--_adj._ QUIT'TABLE,
capable of being quitted.--_ns._ QUIT'TAL (_Shak._), requital, repayment;
QUIT'TANCE, a quitting or discharge from a debt or obligation: acquittance:
recompense.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to repay.--QUIT COST, to pay expenses; QUIT
ONE'S SELF (_B._), to behave; QUIT SCORES, to balance accounts.--BE QUITS,
to be even with one; CRY QUITTANCE, to get even; DOUBLE OR QUITS, in
gambling, said when a stake due is either to become double or be reduced to
nothing, according to the issue of a certain chance; NOTICE TO QUIT
(_law_), notice to a tenant of real property that he must surrender
possession. [O. Fr. _quiter_ (Fr. _quitter_)--Low L. _quiet[=a]re_, to
pay--L. _quiet[=a]re_, to make quiet--_quietus_, quiet.]

QUI TAM, kw[=i] tam, an action on a penal statute, brought partly at the
suit of the state and partly at that of an informer--from the first words.
[L. _qui_, who, _tam_, as well.]

QUITCH, kwich, _n._ couch-grass.--Also QUITCH'-GRASS, QUICK'ENS.
[Assibilated form of _quick_.]

QUITCH, kwich, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to move. [A.S. _cweccan_, causative of
_cwacian_, to quake.]

QUITE, kw[=i]t (_Spens._). Same as QUIT.

QUITE, kw[=i]t, _adv._ completely: wholly: entirely.--QUITE A LITTLE, a
good few: considerable; QUITE SO, a phrase denoting assent in conversation.
[Merely an adv. use of the adj. _quit_.]

QUITTER, kwit'[.e]r, _n._ a fistulous sore on the quarters or the heel of
the coronet of a horse's hoof.--_v.i._ to suppurate.

QUIVER, kwiv'[.e]r, _adj._ (_Shak._) nimble, active.

QUIVER, kwiv'[.e]r, _n._ a case for arrows.--_adj._ QUIV'ERED, furnished
with a quiver: sheathed, as in a quiver. [O. Fr. _cuivre_; from Old High
Ger. _kohhar_ (Ger. _köcher_); cog. with A.S. _cocer_.]

QUIVER, kwiv'[.e]r, _v.i._ to shake with slight and tremulous motion: to
tremble: to shiver.--_ns._ QUIV'ER, QUIV'ERING, a tremulous motion,
shiver.--_adv._ QUIV'ERINGLY, with quivering.--_adj._ QUIV'ERISH,
tremulous. [A.S. _cwifer_, seen in adv. _cwiferlíce_, eagerly. Cf. _Quick_
and _Quaver_.]

QUI VIVE, k[=e] v[=e]v, Who goes there?--the challenge of French sentries
to those who approach their posts.--BE ON THE QUI VIVE, to be on the alert.
[Fr.,--_qui_, who, _vive_, 3d pers. sing. pres. subj. of _vivre_, to
live--L. _viv[)e]re_.]

QUIXOTIC, kwiks-ot'ik, _adj._ like Don _Quixote_, the knight-errant in the
great romance of Cervantes (1547-1616), extravagantly romantic, aiming at
an impossible ideal.--_adv._ QUIXOT'ICALLY.--_ns._ QUIX'OTISM, QUIX'OTRY,
absurdly romantic, impracticable, and magnanimous notions, schemes, or
actions like those of Don Quixote.

QUIZ, kwiz, _n._ a riddle or enigma: one who quizzes another: an odd
fellow: a monocular eye-glass, often with a handle: (_coll._) an oral
examination of a pupil or class by a teacher.--_v.t._ to puzzle: to banter
or make sport of: to examine narrowly and with an air of mockery.--_v.i._
to practise derisive joking:--_pr.p._ quiz'zing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
quizzed.--_ns._ QUIZ'ZER; QUIZ'ZERY.--_adj._ QUIZ'ZICAL.--_ns._
QUIZZICAL'ITY; QUIZZIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ QUIZ'ZIFY, to turn into a
quiz.--_ns._ QUIZ'ZINESS, oddness; QUIZ'ZING, raillery; QUIZ'ZING-GLASS, a
single eye-glass. [Origin obscure; doubtless framed from _question_, or
direct from L. _quæso_, I ask.]

QUOAD, kw[=o]'ad, _prep._ as far as, to this extent.--QUOAD HOC, as far as
this; QUOAD OMNIA, in respect of all things; QUOAD SACRA, as far as
concerns sacred matters, as a parish disjoined for ecclesiastical purposes
only. [L.]

QUOD, kwod, _n._ (_slang_) prison.

QUODLIBET, kwod'li-bet, _n._ a scholastic argument upon a subject chosen at
will, almost invariably theological: a humorous fanciful combination of two
or more familiar melodies.--_n._ QUODLIBET[=A]'RIAN, one given to
quodlibets.--_adjs._ QUODLIBET'IC, -AL. [L., 'what you please'--_quod_,
what, _libet_, it pleases.]

QUODLIN, kwod'lin, _n._ (_Bacon_). Same as CODLIN.

QUOIF, koif, _n._ a cap or hood.--_v.t._ to cover or dress with a coif.

QUOIN, koin, _n._ (_archit._) a wedge used to support and steady a stone:
an external angle, esp. of a building: (_gun._) a wedge of wood or iron put
under the breech of heavy guns or the muzzle of siege-mortars to raise them
to the proper level: (_print._) a wedge used to fasten the types in the
forms.--_v.t._ to wedge or steady with quoins. [_Coin._]

QUOIT, koit, _n._ a heavy flat ring of iron for throwing as near as
possible to one _hob_ or pin from the other--18 to 21 yards apart--the
points in the game counted as in bowls or curling: (_pl._) the game played
with such rings.--_v.i._ to throw quoits: to throw as with a quoit. [Perh.
from O. Fr. _coiter_, to drive, which may be from L.
_coact[=a]re_--_cog[)e]re_, to force.]

QUONDAM, kwon'dam, _adj._ that was formerly: former. [L., formerly.]

QUONIAM, kw[=o]'ni-am, _n._ the part of the 'Gloria in Excelsis' beginning
'For Thou only art holy:' the musical setting thereof: (_obs._) a kind of
drinking-cup. [L., 'since now.']

QUOOK, kwook (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _quake_.

QUOP, kwop, _v.i._ to move: to throb, as the heart.--Also QUAB, QUAP.

QUORUM, kw[=o]'rum, _n._ a number of the members of any body sufficient to
transact business. [The first word of a commission formerly issued to
certain justices, _of whom_ (L. _quorum_) a certain number had always to be
present when the commission met.]

QUOTA, kw[=o]'ta, _n._ the part or share assigned to each.--_n._ QUOT'ITY
(_Carlyle_), the number of individuals in a collection. [It.,--L. _quotus_,
of what number?--_quot_, how many?]

QUOTE, kw[=o]t, _v.t._ to repeat the words of any one: to adduce for
authority or illustration: to give the current price of: to enclose within
quotation marks: (_Shak._) to set down in writing.--_v.i._ to make a
quotation.--_adj._ QU[=O]'TABLE, that may be quoted.--_ns._
QU[=O]'TABLENESS, QU[=O]TABIL'ITY.--_adv._ QU[=O]'TABLY.--_ns._
QU[=O]T[=A]'TION, act of quoting: that which is quoted: the current price
of anything; QU[=O]T[=A]'TION-MARK, one of the marks used to note the
beginning and the end of a quotation--generally consisting of two inverted
commas at the beginning, and two apostrophes at the end of a quotation; but
a single comma and a single apostrophe are frequently used; QU[=O]'TER. [O.
Fr. _quoter_, to number--Low L. _quot[=a]re_, to divide into chapters and
verses--L. _quotus_, of what number?--_quot_, how many?]

QUOTH, kw[=o]th, _v.t._ say, says, or said--used only in the 1st and 3d
persons present and past, and always followed by its subject.--_interj._
QU[=O]'THÄ, forsooth, indeed. [A.S. _cwethan_, pa.t. _cwæth_, to say. For
_quoth'a_, said he--_'a_ being a corr. of _he_.]

QUOTIDIAN, kw[=o]-tid'i-an, _adj._ every day: occurring daily.--_n._
anything returning daily: (_med._) a kind of ague that returns daily.
[Fr.,--L. _quotidianus_--_quot_, as many as, _dies_, a day.]

QUOTIENT, kw[=o]'shent, _n._ (_math._) the number which shows how often one
number is contained in another.--_n._ QU[=O]T[=I]'ETY, the proportionate
frequency of an event. [Fr.,--L. _quotiens_, _quoties_, how often?--_quot_,
how many?]

QUOTUM, kw[=o]'tum, _n._ quota: share: part or proportion. [L., neut. of
_quotus_; cf. _Quota_.]

QUO WARRANTO, kw[=o] wo-ran'to, _n._ (_law_) the title of a writ by which a
person or corporate body is summoned to show by what warrant a particular
franchise or office is claimed. [So called from these words in the writ. L.
_quo_, by what (abl. sing. neut. of _quis_, who, which, what), _warranto_,
abl. of Low L. _warrantum_, warrant.]

       *       *       *       *       *

R the eighteenth letter in our alphabet, belonging to the class of
liquids--the 'dog's letter' (_littera canina_), from the trilling or
vibration of the tip of the tongue: as a medieval numeral=80;
[=R]=80,000.--THE THREE R'S, a humorous term for reading, writing, and
arithmetic.

RA, rä, _n._ the supreme sun-god of the Memphite system of ancient Egyptian
mythology.

RABANNA, ra-ban'a, _n._ matting made from the fibre of the raffia, in
Madagascar. [Malagasy.]

RABAT, ra-bä', _n._ a neck-band with flaps worn by French ecclesiastics: a
turned-down collar or ruff--(_obs._) RAB'ATINE, RAB[=A]'TO. [Fr.]

RABATE, ra-b[=a]t', _v.t._ to beat down.--_n._ abatement. [Fr. _rabattre_,
to beat down--_re-_, again, _abattre_--L. _ad_, to, _batu[)e]re_, to beat.]

RABBET, rab'et, _n._ a groove cut in the edge of a plank so that another
may fit into it.--_v.t._ to groove a plank thus.--_ns._
RABB'ETING-MACHINE', -PLANE, -SAW, for ploughing and cutting grooves;
RABB'ET-JOINT, a joint formed by fitting together timber with rabbets. [O.
Fr. _raboter_, to plane--_rabouter_--_re-_, again, _aboter_, _abouter_, to
thrust against.]

RABBI, rab'i, or rab'[=i], RABBIN, rab'in, _n._ Jewish title of a doctor or
expounder of the law:--_pl._ RABBIS (rab'[=i]z), RABB'INS.--_ns._ RABB'AN
('our master'), a title of greater honour than rabbi; RABB'INATE, the
dignity of a rabbi.--_adjs._ RABBIN'IC, -AL, pertaining to the rabbis or to
their opinions, learning, and language.--_n._ RABBIN'IC, the later
Hebrew.--_adv._ RABBIN'ICALLY.--_ns._ RABB'INISM, the doctrine or teaching
of the rabbis: a rabbinical peculiarity of expression: the late Jewish
belief which esteemed the oral law equally with the written law of God;
RABB'INIST, RABB'INITE, one who adheres to the Talmud and traditions of the
rabbis; RABB[=O]'NI, my great master. [Gr.,--Heb. _rabbí_--_rab_, great,
master--_r[=a]bab_, to be great. Cf. Ar. _rabb_, master, the Lord.]

RABBIT, rab'it, _n._ a small rodent burrowing animal of the hare family: a
cony: any member of the hare family.--_v.i._ to hunt rabbits.--_ns._
RABB'IT-BRUSH, a North American composite plant; RABB'IT-EAR, a long
slender oyster; RABB'ITER, one who hunts rabbits; RABB'IT-FISH, the 'king
of the herrings;' RABB'IT-HUTCH, a box for the rearing of rabbits;
RABB'IT-MOTH, a moth in United States of a furry appearance; RABB'IT-MOUTH,
harelip; RABB'IT-ROOT, the wild sarsaparilla; RABB'ITRY, a rabbit-warren;
RABB'IT-SQUIRR'EL, a chincha, a South American rodent; RABB'IT-SUCK'ER
(_Shak._), a sucking rabbit; RABB'IT-WARR'EN, a place where rabbits are
kept and bred.--SNOW-SHOE RABBIT, an American hare found in the Rocky
Mountains which turns white in winter; WELSH RABBIT, melted cheese with a
little ale poured over a slice of hot toast--sometimes written 'Welsh
rarebit' by wiseacres. [M. E. _rabet_, dim. of a form seen in Old Dut.
_robbe_.]

RABBIT, rab'it, _v.t._ an interjectional expression, like _confound_.
[Perh. a corr. of _rabate_.]

RABBLE, rab'l, _n._ a disorderly, noisy crowd: a mob: the lowest class of
people.--_adj._ disorderly.--_v.i._ to utter nonsense.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to
mob.--_ns._ RABB'LEMENT, a tumultuous crowd of low people; RABB'LING
(_Scot._), the act of assaulting in a disorderly manner, mobbing. [Allied
to Old Dut. _rabbelen_, to gabble, Prov. Ger. _rabbeln_.]

RABBLE, rab'l, _n._ an iron bar used in puddling.--_v.t._ to stir with a
rabble.--_n._ RABB'LER. [O. Fr. _roable_ (Fr. _râble_)--L. _rutabulum_, a
poker.]

RABDOMANCY. Same as RHABDOMANCY.

RABELAISIAN, rab-e-l[=a]'zi-an, _n._ characteristic of _Rabelais_
(1490-1553), broadly humorous, coarse.

RABI, rab'i, _n._ the great grain crop of Hindustan.

RABID, rab'id, _adj._ furious: mad: affected with _rabies_, as a dog:
foolishly intense.--_adj._ RAB'IC, pertaining to rabies.--_adv._
RAB'IDLY.--_ns._ RAB'IDNESS; R[=A]'BIES, the disease (esp. of dogs) from
which hydrophobia is communicated: canine madness.--_adjs._ R[=A]BIET'IC,
resembling madness; R[=A]BIF'IC, communicating hydrophobia; R[=A]'BIOUS,
raging. [L. _rabidus_--_rab[)e]re_, to rave.]

RABOT, rab'ot, _n._ a rubber used in polishing marble.

RACA, r[=a]'ka, _adj._ worthless--a term of contempt used by the Jews of
Christ's day; cf. Matt. v. 22. [Chaldee _r[=e]k[=a]_, worthless; perh.
conn. with _raq_, to spit (Ar. _r[=i]q_), or with _r[=i]q[=a]_, empty.]

RACCAHOUT, rak'a-h[=oo]t, _n._ an Eastern dish made from the edible acorns
of the oak. [Fr.,--Ar. _r[=a]quat_, _r[=a]qaout_, a nourishing starch.]

RACCOON, RACOON, ra-k[=oo]n', _n._ a genus of the bear family of North
America, valuable for its fur.--_ns._ RACCOON'-BERR'Y, the May apple of the
United States; RACCOON'-OYS'TER, an oyster growing on the shores of the sea
in United States. [Amer. Ind.]

RACE, r[=a]s, _n._ the human family: the descendants of a common ancestor:
a breed or variety: a tribal or national stock: a line of persons, as of
statesmen, or of animals, as the feline race: a herd: peculiar flavour, as
of wine, by which its origin may be recognised: (_Shak._) intrinsic
character, vigour. [Fr.,--Old High Ger. _reiza_, a line.]

RACE, r[=a]s, _n._ rapid motion: trial of speed: progress: course of
action: a strong and rapid current: a canal to a water-wheel: a competitive
trial of speed in running, walking, &c.: a horse-race, as the Ascot
races.--_v.i._ to run swiftly: to contend in running.--_v.t._ to cause to
race, as steamers, horses, &c.--_ns._ RACE'-CARD, a card containing
information about races; RACE'-COURSE, -GROUND, -TRACK, the course over
which races are run; RACE'-CUP, a piece of plate forming a prize at a race;
RACE'HORSE, a horse bred for racing; RACE'-MEET'ING, a meeting for purposes
of horse-racing; R[=A]'CER, one who races: a racehorse; RACE'-WAY, a
mill-race; R[=A]'CING, the running of races; R[=A]'CING-BIT, a light
jointed ring-bit; CONSOL[=A]'TION-RACE (see CONSOLATION); FLAT'-RACE, a
horse-race over _level_ or clear ground--opp. to a _Hurdle-race_ or
_Steeplechase_, which are called generally _Obstacle-races_.--RACING
CALENDAR, a full list of races to be run. [A.S. _r['æ]s_, stream; Ice.
_rás_, rapid course.]

RACE, r[=a]s, _n._ (_Shak._) a root.--_n._ RACE'-GIN'GER, unpulverised
ginger. [O. Fr. _rais_--L. _radix_, a root.]

RACE, r[=a]s, _v.t._ (_obs._)=_Raze_.--_adj._ RACED.

RACEME, ra-s[=e]m', _n._ a cluster: a flower-cluster, as in the
currant.--_adjs._ RACEMED', having racemes; RACEM'IC, pertaining to, or
obtained from, grapes: an acid obtained from a certain kind of grape;
RACEMIF'EROUS, bearing racemes; RAC'EM[=O]SE, RAC'EMOUS, growing in, or
resembling, a raceme.--_n._ RAC'EM[=U]LE, a small raceme.--_adj._
RACEM'UL[=O]SE, bearing small racemes. [Fr.,--L. _racemus_.]

RACH, RATCH, rach, _n._ a dog that hunts by scent. [A.S. _ræcc_, a dog;
Ice. _rakki_.]

RACHIANECTES, ra-ki-an-ek'tez, _n._ the gray whale of the North Pacific.
[Gr. _rhachia_, a rocky shore, _n[=e]kt[=e]s_, a swimmer.]

RACHIS, r[=a]'kis, _n._ the spine: (_bot._) a branch or axis of
inflorescence which proceeds in nearly a straight line from the base to the
apex:--_pl._ R[=A]'CHID[=E]S.--_n._ R[=A]CHIAL'GIA, pain in the
spine.--_adjs._ R[=A]CHIAL'GIC; R[=A]CHID'IAL, R[=A]CHID'IAN.--_n._
R[=A]CHIL'LA, a secondary rachis in a compound inflorescence.--_adj._
R[=A]CHIT'IC, rickety.--_ns._ R[=A]CH[=I]'TIS, rickets in children (see
RICKETS): (_bot._) a disease which produces abortion in the fruit;
R[=A]CH'ITOME, an anatomical instrument for opening the spinal canal. [Gr.
_rachis_, the spine.]

RACIAL, r[=a]'si-al, _adj._ relating to lineage, peculiar to a
race.--_adv._ R[=A]'CIALLY.

RACK, rak, _n._ an instrument for racking or extending: an engine for
stretching the body in order to extort a confession, hence (_fig._) extreme
pain, anxiety, or doubt: a framework on which articles are arranged, as
_hat-rack_, _plate-rack_, _letter-rack_, &c.: the grating above a manger
for hay: (_mech._) a straight bar with teeth to work into those of a wheel,
pinion, or endless screw, for converting a circular into a rectilinear
motion, or _vice versâ_: (_Scot._) the course in curling.--_v.t._ to
stretch forcibly: to strain: to stretch on the rack or wheel: to torture:
to exhaust: to worry, agitate: to wrest, overstrain: to practise rapacity:
to extort: to place in a rack or frame: (_naut._) to seize together with
cross-turns, as two ropes.--_n._ RACK'ER, one who tortures.--_adj._
RACK'ING, tormenting.--_ns._ RACK'-RAIL, a railway having cogs which work
into similar cogs on a locomotive; RACK'-RENT, an annual rent stretched to
the utmost value of the thing rented, exorbitant rent.--_v.t._ to subject
to such rents.--_ns._ RACK'-RENT'ER, one who exacts or pays rack-rent;
RACK'-STICK, a stick for stretching a rope; RACK'-TAIL, a bent arm in a
repeating clock connected with the striking mechanism; RACK'WORK, a strong
bar with cogs to correspond with similar cogs on a wheel, which either
moves or is moved by the bar.--LIVE AT RACK AND MANGER, to live sumptuously
and wastefully; ON THE RACK, stretched upon it: tortured by anxiety; PUT TO
THE RACK, to put to the torture of the rack: to subject to keen suffering.
[The radical sense is to stretch, closely allied to _reach_ (q.v.); cf.
Ice. _rakkr_, straight, Ger. _rack_, a rail, _recken_, to stretch.]

RACK, rak, _n._ same as WRACK=_Wreck_--now used only in the phrases GO TO
RACK, GO TO RACK AND RUIN. [Cf. the next word.]

RACK, rak, _n._ thin or broken clouds drifting across the sky.--_v.i._ to
drift, to drive. [_Wrack_; cf. Ice. _rek_.]

RACK, rak, _v.t._ to strain or draw off from the lees, as wine.--_ns._
RACK'ING-CAN, a vessel from which wine can be drawn without disturbing the
lees; RACK'ING-COCK, -FAU'CET, a cock used in drawing off liquour from a
cask; RACK'ING-PUMP, a pump for the transfer of liquor to casks. [O. Fr.
_raquer_, _vin raqué_; prob. cog. with Sp. _rascar_, to scrape.]

RACK, rak, _n._ (_prov._) the neck and spine of a fore-quarter of veal or
mutton: the neck of mutton or pork.

RACK, rak, _n._ the gait of a horse between a trot and a gallop.--_n._
RACK'ER, a horse that moves in this gait. [Perh. _rack_, to drift, or
_rock_.]

RACK, rak, _n._ same as ARRACK.--RACK PUNCH, a punch made with arrack.

RACK, rak, _n._ a young rabbit. [Orig. unknown.]

RACKABONES, rak'a-b[=o]nz, _n._ (_Amer._) a very lean person or animal.

RACKAROCK, rak'a-rok, _n._ an explosive of potassium chlorate and
nitro-benzol.--Also REND'ROCK.

RACKET, RACQUET, rak'et, _n._ a bat for playing tennis: a snow-shoe: an
organ-stop: a 17th-cent. musical instrument: (_pl._) a modern variety of
the old game of tennis.--_v.t._ to strike, as with a racket.--_ns._
RACK'ET-, RACQ'UET-COURT, -GROUND, a court for playing rackets: a
tennis-court; RACK'ET-TAIL, a humming-bird with two feathers like
rackets.--_adj._ RACK'ET-TAILED. [O. Fr. _rachete_ (Fr. _raquette_)--Sp.
_raqueta_--Ar. _r[=a]hat_, the palm of the hand.]

RACKET, rak'et, _n._ a clattering noise: hurly-burly.--_v.i._ to make a
clattering noise: to engage in racket of any kind: to be dissipated.--_n._
RACK'ETER.--_adj._ RACK'ETY.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ RACK'LE (_prov._), to
rattle.--_n._ noisy talk. [Gael. _racaid_--_rac_, to cackle.]

RACONTEUR, ra-kong-t[.e]r', _n._ a story-teller. [Fr.]

RACOON. See RACCOON.

RACOVIAN, ra-k[=o]'vi-an, _n._ a 17th-cent. Polish Socinian--their seminary
being at _Rakow_.

RACY, r[=a]'si, _adj._ having a strong flavour imparted by the soil, as
wine: exciting to the mind by strongly characteristic thought or language:
spirited: pungent, as a _racy_ story: peculiar to the race.--_adv._
R[=A]'CILY.--_n._ R[=A]'CINESS. [_Race_, a family.]

RAD, rad (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _read_ and _ride_.

RAD, rad, _adj._ (_Scot._) afraid.

RAD, rad, _n._ short for _radical_.

RADDLE, rad'l, _v.t._ to interweave: to beat.--_n._ a hedge formed by
interweaving the branches of trees: a hurdle: split wood like laths: a
wooden bar used in domestic weaving. [Perh. a transposed form of _hurdle_;
or perh. formed from _wreathe_, or _writhe_, and confused with _hurdle_.]

RADDLE, rad'l, _n._ a layer of red pigment--also REDD'LE.--_v.t._ to colour
coarsely, as with raddle: to do work in a slovenly way. [_Ruddle._]

RADE, r[=a]d, old form of _rode_.

RADIAL, r[=a]'di-al, _adj._ shooting out like a ray or radius: pertaining
to the radius of the forearm: (_bot._) developing uniformly on all
sides.--_ns._ R[=A]DI[=A]'LE, the radiocarpal bone:--_pl._ R[=A]DI[=A]'LIA;
R[=A]DI[=A]'LIS, a radial muscle, artery, or nerve:--_pl._ R[=A]DI[=A]'LES;
R[=A]DIALIS[=A]'TION, arrangement in radiating forms.--_v.t._
R[=A]'DIALISE, to make ray-like: to cause to radiate.--_n._ R[=A]DIAL'ITY,
radial symmetry.--_adv._ R[=A]'DIALLY, in the manner of a radius or of
rays.--_adjs._ R[=A]'DIOCAR'PAL, pertaining to the wrist or carpus;
R[=A]'DIOMUS'CULAR, pertaining to the radius and to muscles;
R[=A]'DIO-UL'NAR, pertaining to the radius and the ulna.--RADIAL ARTERY,
the smaller of the branches of the branchial artery at the elbow.

RADIAN, r[=a]'di-an, _n._ the angle subtended at the centre of a circle by
an arc equal to the radius.

RADIANT, r[=a]'di-ant, _adj._ emitting rays of light or heat: issuing in
rays: beaming with light: shining: (_her._) edged with rays.--_n._ (_opt._)
the luminous point from which light emanates: (_astron._) the centre point
from which meteoric showers proceed: (_geom._) a straight line from a point
about which it is conceived to revolve.--_ns._ R[=A]'DIANCE, R[=A]'DIANCY,
quality of being radiant: brilliancy: splendour.--_adv._
R[=A]'DIANTLY.--_adj._ R[=A]'DIOUS (_obs._), radiant.--RADIANT ENERGY,
energy in the form of light or radiant heat; RADIANT HEAT, heat proceeding
in rays or direct lines from a centre. [L. _radians_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_radi[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to radiate--_radius._]

RADIATA, r[=a]-di-[=a]'ta, _n.pl._ the lowest of Cuvier's four great
divisions of the animal kingdom--the organs of sense and motion disposed as
rays round a centre.

RADIATE, r[=a]'di-[=a]t, _v.i._ to emit rays of light: to shine: to proceed
in direct lines from any point or surface.--_v.t._ to send out in rays: to
furnish with rays.--_adjs._ R[=A]'DI[=A]TE, -D, formed of rays diverging
from a centre: (_bot._) consisting of a disc in which the florets are
tubular: (_min._) having crystals diverging from a centre: belonging to the
_Radiata_: in coins, represented with rays proceeding from a centre, as a
head or bust.--_adv._ R[=A]'DIATELY, in a radiate manner: with radiation
from a centre.--_adj._ R[=A]DI[=A]'TIFORM, having the appearance of being
radiate.--_adv._ R[=A]'DIATINGLY.--_n._ R[=A]DI[=A]'TION, act of radiating:
the emission and diffusion of rays of light or heat.--_adj._
R[=A]'DIATIVE.--_n._ R[=A]'DIATOR, a body which radiates or emits rays of
light or heat: a part of a heating apparatus for a room.--_adj._
R[=A]'DIATORY.--_ns._ R[=A]DIOFLAGELL'ATA, marine animalcules;
R[=A]'DIOGRAPH, an instrument by which solar radiation is measured.--_adj._
R[=A]DIOL[=A]'RIAN, pertaining to the ooze at the bottom of the sea,
composed of the shells of RADIOL[=A]'RIANS, a class of marine rhizopod
_Protozoa_, so called from their having thread-like processes of living
matter radiating outwards on all sides.--_ns._ R[=A]D[=I]'OLUS, one of the
barbules of the main shaft of a feather; R[=A]DIOM'ETER, an instrument
consisting of four horizontal arms of very fine glass, carefully poised so
as to revolve easily on a point, the whole contained in a glass vessel
almost exhausted of air--the arms move round under light or heat, more or
less swiftly according to the strength of the rays.--_adj._
R[=A]DIOMET'RIC.--_ns._ R[=A]DIOMICROM'ETER, an instrument for measuring
very small amounts of heat; R[=A]'DIOPHONE, an instrument for producing or
transmitting sound by heat-rays.--_adj._ R[=A]DIOPHON'IC.--_ns._
R[=A]DIOPHON'ICS, R[=A]'DIOPHONY, the production of sound by radiant heat;
R[=A]'DIUM, a rare element whose radiations act upon photographic plates
and have properties like the X-rays.

RADICAL, rad'i-kal, _adj._ pertaining to the root or origin: original:
fundamental: intrinsic: primitive: implanted by nature: not derived:
serving to originate: (_bot._) proceeding immediately from the root:
(_politics_) ultra-liberal, democratic.--_n._ a root: a primitive word or
letter: one who advocates radical reform, an uncompromising democratic
politician: (_chem._) the base of a compound.--_v.t._ RAD'ICALISE, to make
radical.--_v.i._ to become radical, adopt radical political
principles.--_n._ RAD'ICALISM, the principles or spirit of a radical or
democrat.--_adv._ RAD'ICALLY.--_n._ RAD'ICALNESS. [_Radix._]

RADICATE, rad'i-k[=a]t, _adj._ deeply rooted: firmly established: (_zool._)
fixed at the bottom as if rooted: (_conch._) adhering like a
limpet.--_v.t._ to root: to plant or fix deeply and firmly:--_pr.p._
rad'ic[=a]ting; _pa.p._ rad'ic[=a]ted.--_adjs._ RAD'ICANT (_bot._), sending
out roots from the stem above the ground; RADIC[=A]'RIAN, relating to
roots; RAD'ICATED, rooted.--_ns._ RADIC[=A]'TION, the act or process of
radicating or taking root deeply: (_bot._) the disposition of the root with
respect to the ascending or descending stem; RAD'ICEL, a rootlet.--_adjs._
RADICIC'OLOUS, RADIC'OLOUS, living on roots, pertaining to the root-form of
the phylloxera; RADICIFL[=O]'ROUS, flowering from the root; RADIC'IFORM,
like a root.--_n._ RAD'ICLE, a little root: the part of a seed which in
growing becomes the root.--_adjs._ RAD'IC[=O]SE, having a large root;
RADIC'[=U]LAR, pertaining to a radicle.--_n._ RAD'IC[=U]LE (_bot._), that
end of the embryo which is opposite to the cotyledons.--_adj._
RADIC'[=U]L[=O]SE (_bot._), covered with rootlets: radicose, having a large
root. [L. _radic[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to take root--_radix_, a root.]

RADISH, rad'ish, _n._ an annual whose succulent pungent root is eaten raw
as a salad.--_ns._ RAD'ISH-FLY, an American insect; SEA'SIDE-RAD'ISH, the
wild radish. [Fr. _radis_--Prov. _raditz_--L. _radix_, _radicis_, a root.]

RADIUS, r[=a]'di-us, _n._ (_geom._) a straight line from the centre to the
circumference of a circle: anything like a radius, as the spoke of a wheel:
a ray: (_anat._) the exterior bone of the arm: (_bot._) the ray of a
flower: the movable arm of a sextant: one of the radiating lines of a
geometrical spider's web:--_pl._ R[=A]'DII ([=i]).--_ns._ R[=A]'DIUS-BAR,
-ROD, in a steam-engine, a rod pivoted at one end and connected at the
other with a concentrically moving part at a fixed distance.--RADIUS VECTOR
(_pl._ _Radii vectores_), the distance from a fixed origin to any point of
a curve. [L., a rod.]

RADIX, r[=a]'diks, _n._ a root: primitive source: a primitive word from
which other words are formed: the base of a system of logarithms:--_pl._
RADICES (r[=a]-d[=i]'s[=e]z). [L. _radix_, _radic-is_.]

RADOUB, ra-d[=oo]b', _n._ the refitting of a ship. [Fr., _radouber_, to
mend. Cf. _Redub_.]

RADULA, rad'[=u]-la, _n._ the tongue or lingual ribbon of a
mollusc.--_adjs._ RAD'[=U]LAR; RAD'[=U]L[=A]TE; RAD[=U]LIF'EROUS, bearing a
radula; RAD'[=U]LIFORM, rasp-like: like a file. [L.,--_rad[)e]re_, to
scrape.]

RAFF, raf, _n._ the sweepings of society, the rabble: the riff-raff:
rubbish: a low worthless fellow, a rowdy.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to snatch, to
sweep off.--_adj._ RAFF'ISH, worthless. [O. Fr. _raffer_, to catch; cog.
with Ger. _raffen_, to snatch; cf. _Riff-raff_.]

RAFF, RAFFE, raf, _n._ (_naut._) a three-cornered sail set on a schooner
when before the wind.--Also RAFF'IE.

RAFFIA. Same as RAPHIA.

RAFFLE, raf'l, _n._ a kind of sale by chance or lottery in which the price
is subscribed equally by all who hope to win.--_v.i._ to try a
raffle.--_n._ RAFF'LER. [Fr. _rafle_, a certain game of dice--_rafler_, to
sweep away--Ger. _raffeln_, freq. of _raffen_ (A.S. _reafian_), to seize.]

RAFFLE, raf'l, _n._ lumber, rubbish. [Cf. _Raff_ (1).]

RAFFLED, raf'ld, _adj._ having the edge finely notched.

RAFFLESIA, raf-l[=e]'zi-a, _n._ a remarkable genus of apetalous parasitic
plants, named after Sir T. Stamford _Raffles_ (1781-1826), British governor
in Sumatra (1818).

RAFT, raft, _n._ (_U.S._) a miscellaneous or promiscuous lot. [A variant of
_Raff_ (1).]

RAFT, raft, _n._ a collection of pieces of timber fastened together for a
support on the water: planks conveyed by water.--_v.t._ to transport on a
raft: to form into a raft.--_v.i._ to manage a raft, travel by raft.--_ns._
RAFT'-BRIDGE, a bridge supported on rafts; RAFT'-DOG, an iron bar fitted
for securing logs in a raft; RAFT'-DUCK, the black-head duck of the United
States; RAFT'-PORT, a square hole in some ships for convenience in loading
and unloading timber; RAFT'-ROPE, a rope used in whaling-vessels for
stringing blubber; RAFTS'MAN, one who guides a raft. [Ice. _raptr_ (pron.
_raftr_), a rafter--_ráf_, _ræfr_, a roof; cf. Old High Ger. _r[=a]fo_, a
spar.]

RAFTER, raft'[.e]r, _n._ an inclined beam supporting the roof of a
house.--_v.t._ to furnish with rafters.--_n._ RAFT'ER-BIRD, the spotted
fly-catcher.--PRINCIPAL RAFTER, a main timber in supporting the weight of a
roof. [A.S. _ræfter_, a beam; Ice. _raptr_ (_raftr_), a beam; Dan. _raft_,
a pole.]

RAG, rag, _n._ a fragment of cloth: a rock having a rough irregular
surface: a remnant, scrap: a beggarly person: anything rent or worn
out.--_adj._ made of rags.--_v.t._ to make ragged.--_v.i._ to become
ragged, to fray: (_U.S. slang_) to dress (_out_).--_ns._ RAG'ABASH, a low
fellow; RAG'AMUFFIN, a low, disreputable person.--_adj._
RAG'AMUFFINLY.--_ns._ RAG'-BUSH, in some heathen countries, a bush
dedicated to some deity and decorated with rags torn from the clothes of
pilgrims; RAG'-DUST, the refuse of rags used by dyers; RAG'-FAIR, a fair or
market for rags, old clothes, &c.; RAG'GERY, rags collectively; RAG'GING,
the first rough separation of the ore from dross; RAG'-MAN, a man who
collects or deals in rags; RAG'-MON'EY (_slang_), paper money;
RAG'-PICK'ER, one who collects rags, &c., from ash-heaps, dung-hills, &c.:
a machine for tearing old rags, &c., to pieces; RAG'-SHOP, a shop where
rag-pickers dispose of their finds; RAG'-SORT'ER, one who sorts out rags
for paper-making; RAG'-STONE, RAGG, an impure limestone, consisting chiefly
of lime and silica; RAG'-TAG, the rabble; RAG'WEED, any plant of the
composite genus _Ambrosia_; RAG'WHEEL, a wheel with teeth or cogs on the
rim, which fit into the links of a chain or into rackwork: a cutlass
polishing-wheel; RAG'-WOOL, shoddy; RAG'WORK, mason-work built of small
stones about the size of bricks: a manufacture from strips of rag.--RAG-TAG
AND BOBTAIL, a rabble. [Ice. _rögg_, shagginess.]

RAG, rag, _v.t._ to banter, torment.--Also _n._ [Perh. from the previous
word; others refer to Ice. _rægja_, to calumniate; cog. with A.S. _wrégan_,
to accuse.]

RAGBOLT, rag'b[=o]lt, _n._ an iron pin with barbed shank.

RAGE, r[=a]j, _n._ violent excitement: enthusiasm: rapture: furious anger:
intensity: any object much sought after, the fashion.--_v.i._ to be furious
with anger: to exercise fury: to prevail fatally, as a disease: to be
violently agitated, as the waves.--_v.t._ to enrage.--_adjs._ RAGE'FUL,
full of rage, furious; R[=A]'GING, acting with rage, violence, or
fury.--_adv._ R[=A]'GINGLY.--All the rage (_coll._), quite the fashion.
[Fr.,--L. _rabies_--_rab[)e]re_, to rave.]

RAGG, rag, _n._ (_geol._)=_Ragstone_. See under RAG (1).

RAGGED, rag'ed, _adj._ torn or worn into rags: having a rough edge:
ruggedly uneven, jagged: wearing ragged clothes: shabby.--_adv._
RAGG'EDLY.--_ns._ RAGG'EDNESS; RAGG'ED-ROB'IN, the cuckoo flower;
RAGG'ED-SAIL'OR, the prince's feather-plant; RAGG'ED-SCHOOL, a school for
the destitute; RAGG'ED-STAFF (_her._), a knotted stick with short stumps of
branches on each side. [Cf. _Rag_.]

RAGGEE, rag'[=e], _n._ a species of millet, grown in Southern India.
[Hind.]

RAGGLE, rag'l, _v.t._ to notch irregularly.--_n._ a ragged piece. [Freq. of
_rag_.]

RAGLAN, rag'lan, _n._ a loose, wide-sleeved overcoat. [From Lord _Raglan_
(1788-1855), commander of the English forces in the Crimea.]

RAGMAN-ROLL, rag'man-r[=o]l, _n._ a parchment roll with pendent seals, any
important document, esp. the collection of instruments by which the Scotch
nobles subscribed allegiance to Edward I. of England, 1291-2-6, and at the
parliament of Berwick: a vague story (cf. _Rigmarole_). [Prob. Ice.
_ragmenni_, a craven--_ragr_, cowardly (A.S. _earg_), _madhr_, man.]

RAGNARÖK, rag'na-r[=oo]k', _n._ the end of the world when the gods (Odin,
Thor, &c.) shall be overcome by their enemies and the world burnt up. [Ice.
_ragna rökr_, twilight of the gods--_rögn_, _régin_, the gods, _rökr_,
darkness; but orig. _ragna rök_, the history of the gods--_rök_, reason,
judgment.]

RAGOUT, ra-g[=oo]', _n._ a stew of meat with kitchen herbs, the French
equivalent of Irish stew: any spicy mixture or combination, even of
persons. [Fr.,--_ragoûter_, to restore the appetite--L. _re_, again, Fr.
_à_ (=_ad_), to, _goût_--L. _gustus_, taste.]

RAGULY, rag'[=u]-li, _adj._ (_her._) ragged or notched at the edges.--Also
RAG'ULED.

RAGWORT, rag'wurt, _n._ any one of several herbs of genus _Senecio_: a
large coarse weed with a yellow flower.--GOLDEN RAGWORT, a North American
plant; WOOLLY RAGWORT, a plant from one to three feet high, found in the
United States, and covered with hoary wool. [_Rag_, and A.S. _wyrt_, a
plant.]

RAHU, rä'h[=oo], _n._ in Hindu mythology, the demon who causes eclipses of
sun and moon.

RAIBLE, r[=a]'bl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ a Scotch form of _rabble_.

RAID, r[=a]d, _n._ a hostile or predatory invasion: a sudden onset: an
irruption, as if for assault or seizure.--_v.t._ to make a sudden
attack.--_n._ RAID'ER, one who makes a raid.--RAID THE MARKET, to derange
prices by a panic. [A.S. _rád_, a riding; Ice. _reidh_.]

RAIL, r[=a]l, _n._ a bar of timber or metal extending from one support to
another, as in fences, staircases, &c.: one of those steel bars used on the
permanent way of a railway, generally of that form known as the T-rail: a
barrier: the railway as a means of travel or transport: (_archit._) the
horizontal part of a frame and panel: (_naut._) the forecastle-rail,
poop-rail, and top-rail are bars across the forecastle, &c.--_v.t._ to
enclose with rails: to furnish with rails.--_ns._ RAIL'-BEND'ER, a
screw-press for straightening rails; RAIL'-BOR'ER, a hand-drill for rails;
RAIL'-CHAIR, an iron block by which the rails are secured to the sleepers;
RAIL'-CLAMP, a wedge for clamping a rail firmly; RAIL'-COUP'LING, a bar by
which the opposite rails of a railway are connected at curves, switches,
&c.; RAIL'-GUARD, a guard-rail before a front wheel; RAIL'ING, a fence of
posts and rails: material for rails; RAIL'-PUNCH, a machine for punching
holes in the webs of rails; RAIL'ROAD, RAIL'WAY, a road or way laid with
iron rails on which carriages run.--_v.t._ RAIL'ROAD (_U.S._), to push
forward fast.--_ns._ RAIL'ROADER, one employed about a railway;
RAIL'ROAD-WORM, the apple maggot; RAIL'-SAW, a portable machine for sawing
off metal rails; RAIL'-SPLIT'TER (_U.S._), one who splits logs into rails
for a fence; RAIL'WAY-CAR, a vehicle for the transportation of passengers
and goods; RAIL'WAY-CARR'IAGE, a carriage for the conveyance of passengers;
RAIL'WAY-CROSS'ING, an intersection of railway-lines: an intersection of an
ordinary road with a railroad; RAIL'WAY-SLIDE, a turn-table;
RAIL'WAY-STITCH, a loose and rapid stitch in knitting or crochet-work;
RAIL'WAY-TRAIN (see TRAIN).--RAILWAY COMPANY, a stock company formed for
the construction and working of a railway, usually organised by a
legislative enactment.--ELEVATED RAILWAY, an elevated bridge-like structure
used for railway purposes, to avoid obstruction of surface roadways;
MILITARY RAILWAY, a railway equipped for military service, the locomotives
being armoured, and the carriages armour-plated and provided with portholes
for rifles; PORTABLE RAILWAY, a light railway made in detachable sections,
and so suited for carrying easily from place to place. [Low Ger. _regel_,
prob. through O. Fr. _reille_; cf. Ger. _riegel_, a bar. Some refer to L.
_regula_ through O. Fr. _reille_.]

RAIL, r[=a]l, _v.i._ to brawl: to use insolent language.--_v.t._ to scoff
at, affect by railing.--_n._ RAIL'ER, one who rails: one who insults or
defames by opprobrious language.--_adj._ RAIL'ING, reproachful,
insulting.--_n._ reproachful and insulting language.--_adv._ RAIL'INGLY, in
a railing manner: scoffingly: insultingly.--_n._ RAILLERY (r[=a]l'[.e]r-i,
or ral'-), railing or mockery: banter: good-humoured irony. [Fr.
_railler_--L. _rallum_, a hoe--_rad[)e]re_, to scrape.]

RAIL, r[=a]l, _n._ a genus of wading-birds with a harsh cry.--_n._
RAIL'-BIRD, the Carolina rail.--GOLDEN RAIL, a rail snipe. [O. Fr. _rasle_
(Fr. _râle_)--Old Dut. _ratelen_, to rattle.]

RAIL, r[=a]l, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to flow or pour down.

RAIL, r[=a]l, _n._ a robe--now only in _Night-rail_.

RAIMENT, r[=a]'ment, _n._ that in which one is dressed: clothing in
general. [For _arraiment_. Cf. _Array_.]

RAIN, r[=a]n, _n._ water from the clouds in drops: a shower: a fall of any
substance through the atmosphere in the manner of rain.--_v.i._ to fall
from the clouds: to drop like rain.--_v.t._ to pour like rain.--_ns._
RAIN'BAND, a dark band in the solar spectrum; RAIN'-BIRD, a bird, like the
RAIN'-CROW, supposed to foretell rain by its cries and actions; RAIN'BOW,
the brilliant-coloured bow or arch seen when rain is falling opposite the
sun, called _lunar rainbow_ when formed by the moon; RAIN'BOW-DART'ER, the
soldier-fish.--_adjs._ RAIN'BOWED, formed with, or like, a rainbow;
RAIN'BOW-TINT'ED, having tints like those of a rainbow: iridescent.--_ns._
RAIN'BOW-TROUT, a variety of the Californian salmon; RAIN'-CHAM'BER, an
attachment to a furnace in which the fumes of any metal are condensed;
RAIN'-CHART, -MAP, a chart giving information as to the distribution of
rain in any part of the world; RAIN'-CLOUD, a cloud in meteorology called
nimbus; RAIN'DROP, a drop of rain; RAIN'FALL, a fall of rain: the amount of
water that falls in a given time in the form of rain; RAIN'-GAUGE, an
instrument for measuring the quantity of rain that falls; RAIN'INESS, the
state of being rainy.--_adj._ RAIN'LESS, without rain.--_ns._ RAIN'-MAK'ER,
-DOC'TOR, a sorcerer, as those of Africa, professing to bring rain;
RAIN'-POUR, a heavy rainfall; RAIN'-PRINT, one of the small pits seen on
the surfaces of some argillaceous rocks, and believed to be the impressions
of raindrops.--_adjs._ RAIN'-PROOF, -TIGHT, impervious to rain.--_ns._
RAIN'STORM; RAIN'-TREE, the genisaro of South America; RAIN'-WA'TER, water
which falls in rain from the clouds.--_adj._ RAIN'Y, abounding with rain:
showery.--RAIN CATS AND DOGS (see CAT).--A RAINY DAY (_fig._), a time of
need or hardship: future want or need; THE FORMER AND THE LATTER RAIN,
Palestine, the rain in spring and in autumn: rain in its season. [A.S.
_regn_, _rén_, rain; Dut. and Ger. _regen_, Ice. _regn_.]

RAINDEER. Same as REINDEER.

RAISE, r[=a]z, _v.t._ to cause to rise: to lift up: to hoist: to set
upright: to originate or produce: to bring together: to cause to grow or
breed: to produce: to give rise to: to exalt: to increase the strength of:
to excite: to collect: muster: (_Scot._) to rouse, inflame: to recall from
death: to cause to swell, as dough: to extol: to bring up: to remove, take
off, as a blockade: to collect, as to raise a company: to give rise to, as
to raise a laugh.--_n._ an ascent, a cairn: (_coll._) an enlargement,
increase.--_adj._ RAIS'ABLE, capable of being raised.--_ns._ RAIS'ER, one
who, or that which, raises a building, &c.: (_archit._) the upright board
on the front of a step in a flight of steps; RAIS'ING, the act of lifting:
the embossing of sheet-metal by hammering or stamping: the process of
deepening colours in dyeing: that with which bread is raised; RAIS'ING-BEE,
a gathering of neighbours to help in raising the frame of a house, &c.;
RAIS'ING-BOARD, a ribbed board by which to raise the grain of leather;
RAIS'ING-GIG, a machine for raising a nap on cloth; RAIS'ING-PIECE, a piece
of timber laid on a brick wall, or on a frame, to carry a beam or beams;
RAIS'ING-PLATE, a horizontal timber supporting the heels of rafters.--RAISE
A SIEGE, to relinquish a siege, or cause this to be done; RAISE BREAD, to
make it light, as by yeast or leaven; RAISE CAIN, THE DEVIL, HELL, THE
MISCHIEF, &c., to create confusion or riot; RAISED BEACH (_geol._), a
terrace of gravel, &c., marking the margin of an ancient sea; RAISED
EMBROIDERY, that in which the pattern is raised in relief from the ground;
RAISED WORK, in lace-making, work having the edge or some other part of the
pattern raised in relief; RAISE MONEY ON, to get money by pawning
something; RAISE ONE'S DANDER (see DANDER); RAISE THE MARKET UPON
(_coll._), to charge more than the regular price; RAISE THE WIND, to obtain
money by any shift. [M. E. _reisen_--Ice. _reisa_, causal of _rísa_, to
rise. Cf. _Rise_.]

RAISIN, r[=a]'zn, _n._ a dried ripe grape.--RAISIN WINE, wine made from
dried grapes. [Fr.,--L. _racemus_, a bunch of grapes.]

RAISON D'ÊTRE, r[=a]-zong' d[=a]'tr, _n._ reason or excuse for being:
rational ground for existence.--_adj._ RAISONNÉ (r[=a]-zo-n[=a]'), reasoned
out, systematic, as in 'catalogue raisonné.' [Fr. _raison_, reason, _de_,
of, _être_, to be.]

RAJAH, RAJA, rä'ja, _n._ a native prince or king in Hindustan.--_ns._ RAJ
(räj), rule; RA'JAHSHIP, the dignity or principality of a rajah; RAJPOOT,
RAJPUT (räj-poot'), a member of various tribes in India, descended either
from the old royal races of the Hindus or from the warrior caste. [Sans.
_r[=a]jan_, a king, cog. with L. _rex_; Sans. _putra_, a son.]

RAKE, r[=a]k, _n._ an instrument with teeth or pins for smoothing earth,
&c.: any tool consisting of a flat blade at right angles to a long
handle.--_v.t._ to scrape with something toothed: to draw together: to
gather with difficulty: to level with a rake: to search diligently: to pass
over violently and swiftly: (_naut._) to fire into, as a ship, lengthwise:
to inter or hide, as by raking earth over a body.--_v.i._ to work with a
rake: to search minutely.--_ns._ R[=A]'KER; R[=A]'KING, the act or
operation of using a rake: the space raked at once: the quantity collected
at once with a rake: sharp criticism.--_adj._ such as to rake, as a raking
fire.--RAKE HELL, to search even hell to find a person equally bad; RAKE
UP, to cover with material raked or scraped together: to draw from
oblivion, to revive. [A.S. _raca_, a rake; Ger. _rechen_, Ice. _reka_, a
shovel.]

RAKE, r[=a]k, _n._ [Contr. of _rakehell_.]

RAKE, r[=a]k, _n._ (_naut._) the projection of the stem and stern of a ship
beyond the extremities of the keel: the inclination of a mast from the
perpendicular.--_v.i._ to incline from the perpendicular or the
horizontal.--_v.t._ to cause to incline or slope.--_adj._ R[=A]'KISH,
having a rake or inclination of the masts.--_adv._ R[=A]'KISHLY. [Scand.,
Sw. _raka_, to reach.]

RAKE, r[=a]k, _n._ a dissolute person: a libertine.--_v.i._ to lead a
debauched life, esp. to make a practice of lechery.--_n._ RAKE'HELL, a
rascal or villain: a debauchee.--_adjs._ RAKE'HELL, -Y, dissolute.--_ns._
RAKEHELL[=O]'NIAN, a rakehell; R[=A]'KERY, dissoluteness; RAKE'SHAME
(_Milt._), a base, dissolute wretch.--_adj._ R[=A]'KISH, like a rake:
dissolute: debauched.--_adv._ R[=A]'KISHLY.--_n._ R[=A]'KISHNESS,
dissoluteness: the state of being rakish or dissolute: dissolute practices.
[Corr. of M. E. _rakel_, corr. into _rakehell_, shortened to _rake_;
Scand., as Sw. _rakkel_, a vagabond, Ice. _reikall_, unsettled--_reika_, to
wander.]

RAKE, r[=a]k, _v.i._ (_prov._) to wander, to take a course, proceed:
(_hunting_) of a hawk, to fly wide of the game: of a dog, to follow a wrong
course.--RAKE ABOUT (_Scot._), to gad or wander about. [M. E. _raken_--A.S.
_racian_, to run; confused with M. E. _raiken_--Ice. _reika_, to wander.]

RAKI, rak'[=e], _n._ a spirituous liquor used in the Levant and
Greece.--Also RAK'EE. [Turk.]

RAKSHAS, -A, rak'shas, -ä, _n._ in Hindu mythology, one of a class of evil
spirits or genii, generally hideous, frequenting cemeteries.

RÂLE, räl, _n._ (_path._) an abnormal sound heard on auscultation of the
lungs. [Fr.,--_râler_, to rattle--Low Ger. _ratelen_, to rattle.]

RALLENTANDO, ral-len-tan'd[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) becoming slower.--Also
RALLENTA'TO, and abbrev. RALL. [It., _rallentare_, to slacken.]

RALLIER, ral'i-[.e]r, _n._ one who rallies.

RALLUS, ral'us, _n._ a genus containing the true rails, water-rails, and
marsh-hens.--_adjs._ RALL'IFORM; RALL'INE. [_Rail._]

RALLY, ral'i, _v.t._ to gather again: to collect and arrange, as troops in
confusion: to recover.--_v.i._ to reassemble, esp. after confusion: to
recover wasted strength:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rallied (ral'id).--_n._ act
of rallying: a mêlée of pantomimists, as at the end of a transformation
scene: recovery of order: recovery of prices: the return of the ball in
tennis, playing frequently from one side to the other.--_n._
RALL'YING-POINT, a place or person at or about whom people come together
for action. [O. Fr. _rallier_--L. _re-_, again, _ad_, to, _lig[=a]re_, to
bind. Cf. _Ally_.]

RALLY, ral'i, _v.t._ to attack with raillery: to banter.--_v.i._ to
exercise raillery:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rall'ied.--_n._ satirical
merriment.--_adv._ RALL'YINGLY. [Fr. _railler_. A variant of _rail_
(v.i.).]

RALPH, ralf, _n._ (_slang_) the imp of mischief in a printing-house: a
raven.

RAM, ram, _n._ a male sheep, a tup: (_astron._) Aries (q.v.), one of the
signs of the zodiac: an engine of war for battering, with a head like that
of a ram: a hydraulic engine, called water-ram: a ship-of-war armed with a
heavy iron beak for running down a hostile vessel.--_v.t._ to thrust with
violence, as a ram with its head: to force together: to drive hard
down:--_pr.p._ ram'ming; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rammed.--_n._ RAM'-HEAD, an
iron lever for raising great stones: a cuckold. [A.S. _ram_, _rom_; Ger.
_ramm_.]

RAM, ram, _adj._ strong-scented: (used as a prefix) very.--_n._ RAM'-CAT, a
tom-cat.--_adj._ RAM'MISH, strong-scented: lewd.--_n._
RAM'MISHNESS.--_adj._ RAM'MY. [Ice. _ramr_, strong, as Ice. _ramliga_,
strongly.]

RAMADAN, RAMADHAN, ram-a-dan', _n._ the ninth month of the Mohammedan year,
throughout which the faithful are required to fast from dawn to
sunset--prop. RAMAZAN'. [Ar.,--_ramed_, to be hot.]

RAMAL. See RAMUS.

RAMAYANA, rä-mä'ya-nä, _n._ one of the two great epic poems of ancient
India--the history of _Rama_.

RAMBADE, ram'b[=a]d, _n._ the elevated platform built across the prow of a
vessel for boarding. [Fr.]

RAMBLE, ram'bl, _v.i._ to go from place to place without object: to visit
many places: to be desultory, as in discourse.--_n._ a roving about: an
irregular excursion: a place in which to ramble.--_n._ RAM'BLER.--_adj._
RAM'BLING, moving about irregularly: desultory.--_adv._ RAM'BLINGLY, in a
rambling manner. [Freq. of M. E. _ramen_, to roam.]

RAMBUSTIOUS, ram-bus'tyus, _adj._ (_slang_) boisterous.

RAMBUTAN, ram-b[=oo]'tan, _n._ the edible fruit of a lofty Malaysian tree
(_Nephelium lappaceum_).--Also RAMB[=OO]'TAN, RAMBOST'AN. [Malay.]

RAMÉ, ra-m[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) attired. [O. Fr., 'branched.']

RAMEAL, r[=a]'m[=e]-al, _adj._; RAMIFY, &c. See under RAMUS.

RAMED, ramd, _adj._ framed on the stocks, and adjusted by the RAM'-LINE, a
small rope or line used for setting the frames fair, helping to form the
sheer of the ship, &c. [Fr. _rame_, a branch--L. _ramus_.]

RAMEKIN, ram'e-kin, _n._ toasted cheese and bread. [Fr. _ramequin_--Old
Flem. _rammeken_.]

RAMENT, r[=a]-ment', _n._ (_bot._) a bristle-shaped leaflet in the angle of
a petiole:--_pl._ R[=A]MEN'TA, loose foliaceous scales on plants, esp. on
the petioles and leaves of ferns.--_adj._ R[=A]MENT[=A]'CEOUS (_bot._),
covered with ramenta. [L. _ramenta_, scrapings, pl. of
_ramentum_--_rad[)e]re_, to scrape.]

RAMFEEZLE, ram-f[=e]'zl, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to weary out.

RAMGUNSHOCK, ram-gun'shok, _adj._ (_Scot._) rough.

RAMICORN, r[=a]'mi-korn, _n._ the horny sheath of the side of the lower
mandible in birds.--_adj._ possessing ramified antennæ. [L. _ramus_,
branch, _cornu_, horn.]

RAMIE, RAMEE, ram'[=e], _n._ China-grass, _Boehmeria nivea_, or its fibre,
long used in the East for ropes and cordage, and for cloth in China and
Japan.--Also _Rhea_ and _China-grass_. [Malay.]

RAMIFY, RAMIFICATION, &c. See under RAMUS.

RAMILIE, ram'il-[=e], _n._ a name applied to various 18th-cent. articles or
fashions of dress, in honour of Marlborough's victory over the French at
_Ramillies_ in Belgium in 1706--esp. to a form of cocked hat, and to a wig
with a long plaited tail.

RAMISM, r[=a]'mizm, _n._ the system of logic of Peter _Ramus_ (1515-72).

RAM-LINE, ram'-l[=i]n. See under RAMED.

RAMMEL, ram'el, _n._ refuse wood.--_v.i._ to turn to rubbish. [Through Fr.
and Low L. forms from L. _ramus_, a branch.]

RAMMER, ram'[.e]r, _n._ one who, or that which, rams or drives: an
instrument used by founders and pavers for ramming, also by gunners.

RAMOLLESCENCE, ram-o-les'ens, _n._ softening, mollifying.--_n._
RAMOLLISSE'MENT, a morbid softening of some organ or tissue of the body.

RAMOON, ra-m[=oo]n', _n._ a West Indian mulberry. [Sp.,--L. _ramus_, a
branch.]

RAMOSE, r[=a]'m[=o]s, _adj._ branching, much-branched: (_bot._) branched as
a stem or root.--_adv._ R[=A]'MOSELY.--_adj._ R[=A]'MOUS, branched,
branchy.

RAMP, ramp, _v.i._ to climb or creep up, as a plant: to leap or bound: to
adapt a piece of iron to the woodwork of a gate.--_n._ a leap or bound: a
gradual slope or inclined plane between one level and another: a concave
bend at the top or cap of a railing, wall, or coping: a romp.--_adj._
RAMP[=A]'CIOUS=_Rampageous_ (q.v.).--_ns._ RAMP[=A]'DGEON, a furious
fellow; RAM'P[=A]GE, or RAMP[=A]GE', a state of passion or
excitement.--_v.i._ to storm or prance violently.--_adj._ RAMP[=A]'GEOUS,
unruly: boisterous: glaring.--_ns._ RAMP[=A]'GEOUSNESS; RAMPALL'IAN
(_Shak._), a mean wretch; RAMP'ER, a ruffian who infests race-courses;
RAMPS'MAN (_slang_), a highway robber. [Fr. _ramper_, to creep, to clamber;
from the Teut.; cf. Low Ger. _rappen_, to snatch, Ger. _raffen_.]

[Illustration]

RAMPANT, ramp'ant, _adj._ overgrowing usual bounds: rank in growth:
overleaping restraint: (_her._) standing on the hind-legs.--_n._ RAMP'ANCY,
state of being rampant.--_adv._ RAMP'ANTLY.--RAMPANT ARCH, an arch whose
abutments are not on the same level.

RAMPART, ram'part, _n._ that which defends from assault or danger:
(_fort._) a mound or wall surrounding a fortified place.--_v.t._ to fortify
with ramparts, to strengthen. [O. Fr. _rempart_ (orig.
_rempar_)--_remparer_, to defend--_re_, again, _em_, to (=_en_), in,
_parer_, to defend--L. _par[=a]re_, to prepare.]

RAMPICK, ram'pik, _n._ any dead tree--also RAM'PIKE.--_adj._ RAM'PICKED.
[Prob. _ran_, as in _roan_-tree, _rantle_-tree, and _pick_ or _pike_.]

RAMPION, ram'pi-on, _n._ a perennial plant with esculent root. [Prob.
through It. and Low L. forms from L. _rapum_, _rapa_, a turnip.]

RAMPIRE, ram'p[=i]r, _n._=_Rampart_.--_adj._ RAM'PIRED.

RAMPLER, ramp'l[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a roving fellow.

RAMROD, ram'rod, _n._ a rod used in ramming down the charge in a gun.--_n._
RAM'ROD-BAY'ONET.--_adj._ RAM'RODDY, stiff like a ramrod.

RAMSHACKLE, ram'shak'l, _adj._ tumble-down: ill-made: out of repair--also
RAM'SHACKLED.--_n._ (_Scot._) a careless fellow.--_adj._ RAM'SHACKLY. [Ice.
_ramskakkr_, quite wrong--_ramr_, strong, very, _skakkr_, wry, unequal.]

RAMSHACKLE, ram'shak'l, _v.t._=_Ransack_.

RAMSHORN, ramz'horn, _n._ a semicircular work of low profile in the ditch
of a fortified place: an ammonite: a fossil cephalopod.

RAMSKIN, ram'skin, _n._ a cake made of dough mixed with grated cheese.
[Prob. _Ramekin_.]

RAMSONS, ram'zonz, _n.pl._ broad-leaved garlic. [A.S. _hramsan_ (pl.), with
pl. _-s_ added.]

RAMSTAM, ram'stam, _adj._ reckless: (_Scot._) forward.--_adv._
headlong.--_n._ a headstrong, giddy person. [_Ram_, intens. pfx., _stam_, a
form of _stamp_.]

RAMUS, r[=a]'mus, _n._ a small spray or twig.--_adjs._ R[=A]'MAL,
R[=A]'MEAL, pertaining to a branch; R[=A]'M[=E]OUS (_bot._), belonging to,
or growing on, a branch.--_n._ RAMIFIC[=A]'TION, division or separation
into branches: a branch: a division or subdivision: (_bot._) manner of
producing branches.--_adjs._ RAM'IFIED, branched; RAMIFL[=O]'ROUS,
flowering on the branches; R[=A]'MIFORM (_bot._), resembling a
branch.--_v.t._ RAM'IFY, to make or divide into branches.--_v.i._ to shoot
into branches: to be divided or spread out:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
ram'if[=i]ed.--_adj._ RAMIP'AROUS, producing branches.--_ns._ RAM'ULE,
RAM'ULUS, a small branch or artery.--_adjs._ RAM[=U]LIF'EROUS,
RAM'[=U]LOSE, RAM'[=U]LOUS, having small branches.--_n._ RAMUS'C[=U]LE, a
branchlet. [L. _ramus_, a branch.]

RAN, _pa.t._ of _run_.

RANA, r[=a]'na, _n._ the genus of the frogs.--_n._ RAN[=A]'RIUM, a place
where frogs are reared. [L., 'a frog.']

RANA, rä'nä, _n._ prince or chief in Rajputana. [Hind.]

RANCE, rans, _n._ a prop, as for the support of a congreve-rocket. [O. Fr.
_ranche_--L. _ramex_, _-icis_, a staff--_ramus_, a branch.]

RANCH, ranch, _n._ a stock farm in the west part of the United
States.--_v.i._ to manage or work upon a ranch--also RANCHE,
RANCH'O.--_ns._ RANCH'ER, RANCHERO (ran-ch[=a]'r[=o]), RANCH'MAN, one
employed in ranching; RANCHERIA (ran-ch[=a]-r[=e]'a), a herdsman's hut: a
village of herdsmen: a settlement of Indians; RANCH'ING, the business of
cattle-breeding. [Sp. _rancho_, prop. 'mess' or 'mess-room;' in Mexico, a
herdsman's hut, a grazing-farm.]

RANCH, ransh, _v.t._ (_Dryden_) to tear, wound. [_Wrench_.]

RANCID, ran'sid, _adj._ partially decomposed (used of oil or any greasy
substance): sour: disgusting.--_adj._ RANCES'CENT, becoming rancid.--_adv._
RAN'CIDLY.--_ns._ RAN'CIDNESS, RANCID'ITY, the quality of being rancid. [L.
_rancidus_, putrid.]

RANCOUR, rang'kur, _n._ deep-seated enmity: spite: virulence: (_Shak._)
sourness.--_adjs._ (_obs._) RANCK=_Rank_; RAN'COROUS, malicious:
virulent.--_adv._ RAN'COROUSLY. [Fr.,--L. _rancor_, an old
grudge--_rancere_, to be rancid.]

RAND, rand, _n._ a strip of flesh or of leather: one of the slips beneath
the heel of the shoe, called the _heel-rand_: a margin, border, edge, of a
stream: a territory, as the Rand in the Transvaal.--_ns._
RAND'ING-MACHINE', a machine for fitting rands to heel-blanks;
RAND'ING-TOOL, a tool for cutting out rands for shoes. [A.S. _rand_,
_rond_, border.]

RAND, rand, _v.i._ an old form of _rant_.

RANDALL-GRASS, ran'dal-gras, _n._ the meadow fescue.

RANDAN, ran'dan, _n._ a noise or uproar: a spree--in phrase, 'On the
randan:' the finest part of the bran of wheat: a boat impelled by three
oarsmen--also RANDAN GIG. [Prob. from _rand_, a variant of _rant_.]

RANDLE-BAR, ran'dl-bar, _n._ the horizontal bar in an open chimney on which
cooking-vessels are hung.--Also RAN'DLE-BALK.

RANDLE-TREE. See RANTLE-TREE.

RANDOM, ran'dum, _adj._ done or uttered at haphazard: left to chance:
aimless--(_obs._) RAN'DON.--_n._ something done without aim, chance--now
only in phrase, AT RANDOM, haphazard.--_adv._ RAN'DOMLY, without direction:
by chance. [O. Fr. _randon_, urgency, haste; from Teut.; Ger. _rand_, a
brim.]

RANDY, ran'di, _n._ a virago: (_Scot._) a romping girl: a violent beggar.
[_Rand_, _rant_.]

RANEE. See RANI.

RANG, rang, _pa.t._ of _ring_.

RANGE, r[=a]nj, _v.t._ to rank or set in a row: to place in proper order:
to rove or pass over: to sail in a direction parallel to.--_v.i._ to be
placed in order: to lie in a particular direction: to have range or
direction: to rove at large: to beat about, as for game: to sail or pass
near: to be on a level: to extend.--_n._ a row or rank: a class or order: a
wandering: room for passing to and fro: space occupied by anything moving:
capacity of mind: extent of acquirements: the horizontal distance to which
a shot is carried: a space through which a body moves, as the range of a
thermometer: the long cooking-stove of a kitchen: a fire-grate.--_adj._
RANGÉ (_her._), arranged in order, said of small bearings set in a row
fessewise.--_n._ RANGE'-FIND'ER, an instrument for determining the range of
an object by sight.--_n.pl._ RANGE'-LIGHTS, lights placed in line, usually
at or near a lighthouse, so as to direct the course of a ship through a
channel: lights on board ship so placed as to give a ready indication of
changes of course to other vessels.--_n._ RANG'ER, a rover: a dog that
beats the ground: an officer who superintends a forest or park.--_n.pl._
RANG'ERS, a body of mounted troops: a name sometimes taken by clubs of
football players, &c.--_ns._ RANG'ERSHIP; RANGE'-STOVE, a portable
cooking-range.--_adj._ RAN'GY, disposed to roam: roomy. [Fr. _ranger_, to
range--_rang_, a rank.]

RANGIA, ran'ji-a, _n._ a family of bivalves. [From _Rang_, a French
conchologist.]

RANGIFER, ran'ji-fer, _n._ a genus of _Cervidæ_, to which the reindeer
belongs.--_adjs._ RAN'GERINE, RANGIF'ERINE. [O. Fr. _rangier_, a reindeer,
most prob. the Ice. _hreinn_, reindeer, L. _fera_, a wild beast.]

RANI, RANEE, ran'[=e], _n._ the wife of a rajah. [Hind. _r[=a]n[=i]_--Sans.
_r[=a]jñi_, queen, fem. of _r[=a]jan_.]

RANIDÆ, ran'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ the largest family of batrachians, including
about 250 species, of several genera.--_adjs._ RAN'IFORM, frog-like;
R[=A]'NINE, pertaining to frogs; R[=A]NIV'OROUS, frog-eating. [L. _rana_, a
frog.]

RANK, rangk, _n._ a row or line, esp. of soldiers standing side by side:
class or order: grade or degree: station: high social position or
standing.--_v.t._ to place in a line: to range in a particular class: to
place methodically: to take rank over.--_v.i._ to be placed in a rank or
class: to have a certain degree of distinction: to be admitted as a claim
against the property of a bankrupt.--_n._ RANK'ER, one who arranges or
disposes in ranks: an officer who has risen from the ranks.--RANK AND FILE,
the whole body of common soldiers.--TAKE RANK OF, to have the right to take
a higher place than; TAKE RANK WITH, to take the same rank as; THE RANKS,
the order of common soldiers. [O. Fr. _renc_ (Fr. _rang_)--Old High Ger.
_hring_ or _hrinc_, Eng. _ring_.]

RANK, rangk, _adj._ growing high and luxuriantly: coarse from excessive
growth: raised to a high degree: excessive: very fertile: strong-scented:
strong-tasted: rancid: utter, as rank nonsense: coarse: indecent: (_Shak._)
ruttish: (_slang_) eager: (_law_) excessive: (_mech._) cutting
deeply.--_adv._ (_Spens._) rankly, fiercely.--_v.i._ RANK'LE, to be
inflamed: to fester: to be a source of disquietude or excitement: to
rage.--_v.t._ to irritate.--_adv._ RANK'LY, offensively: to an inordinate
degree.--_n._ RANK'NESS, exuberant growth: (_Shak._) insolence.--_adjs._
RANK'-R[=I]'DING, hard-riding; RANK'-SCENT'ED (_Shak._), strong-scented:
rancid. [A.S. _ranc_, fruitful, rank; Ice. _rakkr_, bold, Dan. _rank_,
lank, slender.]

RANSACK, ran'sak, _v.t._ to search thoroughly: to plunder: to
pillage.--_n._ eager search.--_n._ RAN'SACKER. [Scand. _rannsaka_--_rann_,
a house, _sak_ (_sækja_), Eng. _seek_.]

RANSOM, ran'sum, _n._ price paid for redemption from captivity or
punishment: release from captivity: atonement: expiation.--_v.t._ to redeem
from captivity, punishment, or ownership: (_Shak._) to set free for a
price: (_Shak._) to expiate.--_adj._ RAN'SOMABLE.--_n._ RAN'SOMER.--_adj._
RAN'SOMLESS, without ransom: incapable of being ransomed. [Fr. _rançon_--L.
_redemptio_; cf. _Redemption_.]

RANT, rant, _v.i._ to use extravagant language: to be noisy in words: to be
noisily merry.--_n._ empty declamation: bombast: (_Scot._) a frolic.--_ns._
RANT'ER, a noisy talker: a jovial fellow: a boisterous preacher: a byname
for the Primitive Methodists: a nickname applied to the members of a sect
of the Commonwealth time; RANT'ERISM.--_adv._ RANT'INGLY,
boisterously.--_adj._ RANT'IPOLE, wild.--_n._ a reckless fellow. [Old Dut.
_ranten_, to rave; Low Ger. _randen_, Ger. _ranzen_.]

RANTLE-TREE, ran'tl-tr[=e], _n._ (_Scot._) a beam built into the gable of a
cottage.

RANULA, ran'[=u]-la, _n._ a tumour on the tongue of cattle.--_adj._
RAN'[=U]LAR. [L.]

RANUNCULUS, r[=a]-nung'k[=u]-lus, _n._ a genus of plants, including the
crowfoot, buttercup, &c.:--_pl._ R[=A]NUN'CUL[=I],
R[=A]NUN'CULUSES.--_adj._ R[=A]NUNCUL[=A]'CEOUS, pertaining to, or
resembling, plants of the order of which the ranunculus is the typical
genus. [L., a dim. of _rana_, a frog.]

RANZ-DES-VACHES, rong'-d[=a]-väsh', _n._ a melody of the Swiss, played on
the alpenhorn. [Swiss Fr., either 'the lowing of the cows' or 'the line of
cows.' _Vaches_, pl. of _vache_--L. _vacca_, a cow; _ranz_, either Swiss
dial. _ranz_ (cf. Ger. _ranzen_), or for _rangs_, pl. of rang, a line.]

RAP, rap, _n._ a sharp blow: a knock, or a sound made by knocking: a
counterfeit coin current in Ireland for a halfpenny in the time of George
I.--hence, 'Not worth a rap.'--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to strike with a quick
blow: to knock: to utter sharply, as to rap out a lie: to swear
falsely:--_pr.p._ rap'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rapped.--_n._ RAP'PER, one
who raps: a door-knocker. [Scand., as Dan. _rap_; imit.]

RAP, rap, _v.t._ to seize and carry off: to transport out of one's self: to
affect with rapture:--_pr.p._ rap'ping; _pa.p._ rapped or rapt. [Scand., as
Ice. _hrapa_, to rush headlong, cog. with Ger. _raffen_, to snatch.]

RAPACIOUS, ra-p[=a]'shus, _adj._ seizing by violence: given to plunder:
ravenous: greedy of gain.--_n._ RAP[=A]'CES, the beasts and birds of
prey.--_adv._ RAP[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ RAP[=A]'CIOUSNESS, RAPAC'ITY, the
quality of being rapacious: ravenousness: extortion. [L. _rapax_,
_rapacis_--_rap[)e]re_, _raptum_, to seize and carry off.]

RAPE, r[=a]p, _n._ the act of seizing and carrying away by force: carnal
knowledge of a woman without her consent.--_adj._ RAPE'FUL, given to
violence or lust. [M. E. _rapen_, to haste, a variant of _rappen_, to
seize, confused with L. _rap[)e]re_, to snatch.]

RAPE, r[=a]p, _n._ a division of the county of Sussex, greater than the
hundred. [Ice. _hreppr_, district.]

RAPE, r[=a]p, _n._ a plant nearly allied to the turnip, cultivated for its
herbage and oil-producing seeds: cole-seed.--_ns._ RAPE'-CAKE, cake made of
the refuse, after the oil has been expressed from the rape-seed; RAPE'-OIL,
oil obtained from rape-seed; RAPE'-SEED, the seed of the rape, cole-seed.
[Through Fr. from L. _rapa_, _rapum_, a turnip; cog. with Gr. _rhapys_.]

RAPE, r[=a]p, _n._ the stalk and skin of grapes.

RAP-FULL, rap'-fool, _adj._ full of wind--of sails when close-hauled.--_n._
a sail full of wind.

RAPHAELESQUE, raf-[=a]-el-esk', _adj._ in the manner of the great Italian
painter _Raphael_, Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino (1483-1520).--_ns._
RAPH'[=A]ELISM, the principles of art of Raphael; RAPH'[=A]ELITE, one who
follows the principles of Raphael; RAPH'[=A]ELITISM.

RAPHANIA, raf-[=a]'ni-a, _n._ ergotism, a disease occurring in two forms, a
spasmodic and a gangrenous, due to the use of rye, wheat, rice, &c., in
which a poisonous fungus has developed.--_n._ RAPH'ANUS, a genus of
_Cruciferæ_, the radish family.

RAPHE, r[=a]'f[=e], _n._ (_anat._) a seam-like union of two lateral halves,
either a median septum of connective tissue or a longitudinal ridge: the
fibro-vascular cord joining the hilum of an anatropous or amphitropous
ovule or seed with the chalaza: a line or rib connecting the nodules on a
diatom-valve. [Gr. _rhaph[=e]_, a seam.]

RAPHIA, r[=a]'fi-a, _n._ a genus of handsome pinnately-leaved palms.
[Malagasy.]

RAPHIDES, raf'i-d[=e]z, _n.pl._ crystals found in the interior of the cells
of plants:--_sing._ R[=A]'PHIS.--_adjs._ R[=A]PHID'IAN, RAPHIDIF'EROUS.
[Gr. _rhaphis_, _rhaphidos_, a needle--_rhaptein_, to sew.]

RAPHIGRAPH, raf'i-graf, _n._ a kind of typewriter for the blind, pricking
characters in paper by needle-points. [Gr. _rhaphis_, a needle, _graphein_,
to write.]

RAPID, rap'id, _adj._ hurrying along: very swift: speedy.--_n._ that part
of a river where the current is most rapid (gen. in _pl._).--_n._
RAPID'ITY, quickness of motion or utterance: swiftness: velocity.--_adv._
RAP'IDLY.--_n._ RAP'IDNESS. [Fr. _rapide_--L. _rapidus_--_rap[)e]re_, to
seize.]

RAPIDAMENTE, ra-p[=e]-dä-men'te, _adv._ (_mus._) rapidly.--_adv._ RAP'IDO,
with rapidity. [It.]

RAPIER, r[=a]'pi-[.e]r, _n._ a light, highly tempered, edgeless, thrusting
weapon, finely pointed, and about 3 feet in length, long the favourite
weapon in duelling.--_n._ R[=A]'PIER-FISH, a swordfish. [Fr. _rapière_,
prob. from Sp. _raspadera_--_raspar_, _rapar_, to rasp.]

RAPINE, rap'in, _n._ act of seizing and carrying away forcibly: plunder:
violence. [Fr.,--L. _rapina_--_rap[)e]re_, to seize.]

RAPING, r[=a]'ping, _adj._ (_her._) tearing its prey: (_obs._)
transporting, ravishing.

RAPLOCH, rap'loh, _n._ and _adj._ (_Scot._) homespun.

RAPPAREE, rap-ar-[=e]', _n._ a wild Irish plunderer: a vagabond. [Ir.
_rapaire_, a robber.]

RAPPEE, ra-p[=e]', _n._ a coarse, strong-flavoured snuff. [Fr. _râpé_,
rasped, grated--_râper_, to rasp.]

RAPPEL, ra-pel', _n._ the beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms. [Fr.]

RAPPER, rap'[.e]r, _n._ one who raps, esp. a spiritualistic medium: a
swinging knocker for making signals at the mouth of a shaft: a loud oath or
bold lie.--_adj._ RAP'PING (_prov._), remarkably large.

RAPPORT, ra-p[=o]r', _n._ accord, as in the French phrase, 'en rapport,' in
harmony. [Fr.]

RAPPROCHEMENT, ra-pr[=o]sh'mong, _n._ reunion. [Fr.]

RAPSCALLION, rap-skal'yun, _n._ a rascal: a wretch. [_Rascallion_.]

RAPT, rapt, _adj._ raised to rapture: transported: ravished:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ of _rap_ (2).--_v.t._ (_obs._) to grasp or carry off.--_n._
RAP'TOR, a ravisher. [_Rap_, to seize, influenced by L. _rap[)e]re_, to
snatch.]

RAPTORES, rap-t[=o]'r[=e]z, _n.pl._ an order of birds of prey distinguished
by a hooked bill and sharp claws, and including the vultures, falcons, and
owls--also RAPTAT[=O]'RES.--_adjs._ RAPT[=O]'RIAL, seizing by violence, as
a bird of prey; RAPT[=O]'RIOUS. [L. _raptor_, a plunderer--_rap[)e]re_, to
seize.]

RAPTURE, rap't[=u]r, _n._ a seizing and carrying away: extreme delight:
transport: ecstasy.--_adj._ RAP'T[=U]RED.--_n._ RAP'T[=U]RIST (_Spens._),
one filled with rapture.--_adj._ RAP'T[=U]ROUS, seizing and carrying away:
ecstatic.--_adv._ RAP'T[=U]ROUSLY.

RARA AVIS, r[=a]'ra [=a]'vis, _n._ a rare bird: a remarkable person:--_pl._
R[=A]'RÆ [=A]'VES. [L.]

RARE, r[=a]r, _adj._ (_comp._ R[=A]'RER; _superl._ R[=A]'REST) thin: not
dense, as rarefied atmosphere: sparse: seldom met with: uncommon:
excellent: especially good: extraordinary.--_ns._ R[=A]RE'BIT, an erroneous
form of _Welsh-rabbit_; RAREFAC'TION, act of rarefying: expansion of
aëriform bodies.--_adj._ RAR'EFIABLE, capable of being rarefied.--_v.t._
RAREFY (rar'e-f[=i], or r[=a]'re-f[=i]), to make rare, thin, or less dense:
to expand a body.--_v.i._ to become less dense:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
rar'efied.--_adv._ R[=A]RE'LY, seldom: remarkably well.--_ns._
R[=A]RE'NESS, tenuity: scarcity; RARITY (rar'i-ti), state of being rare:
thinness: subtilty: something valued for its scarcity: uncommonness.
[Fr.,--L. _r[=a]rus_.]

RARE, r[=a]r, _adj._ underdone--of meat. [A.S. _hr[=e]r_.]

RAREE-SHOW, rar'[=e]-sh[=o], _n._ a show carried about in a box: a
peep-show. [A corr. of _rarity-show_.]

RARERIPE, r[=a]r'r[=i]p, _adj._ early ripe. [_Rathripe_.]

RAS, ras, _n._ the chief vizier in Abyssinia: a headland, cape. [Ar.,
'head.']

RASANT, r[=a]'zant, _adj._ (_fort._) sweeping or flanking, applied to fire.
[Fr.]

RASCAL, ras'kal, _n._ a dishonest fellow: a knave, rogue, scamp.--_adj._
worthless: mean.--_ns._ RAS'CALDOM, the class of rascals; RAS'CALISM,
RASCAL'ITY, mean trickery or dishonesty: fraud: villainy: the
rabble.--_adj._ RAS'CALLIEST (_Shak._, _superl._ of Rascally).--_n._
RASCALL'ION, a rascal: one of the lowest people: a low, mean
wretch.--_adjs._ RAS'CALLY, RAS'CAL-LIKE, mean: vile: base. [Fr.
_racaille_, scum of the people, through Low L. forms from L. _rad[)e]re_,
_rasum_, to scrape.]

RASE, r[=a]z, _v.t._ to scratch or blot out: to efface: to cancel: to level
with the ground, demolish, or ruin (in this sense _raze_ is generally
used).--_n._ a slight wound.--_ns._ R[=A]'SING, in shipbuilding, the act of
marking figures upon timber; R[=A]'SING-[=I]'RON, a caulking-iron for
cleaning the pitch, &c., from a vessel's seams; R[=A]'SING-KNIFE, an edged
tool for making marks on timber, &c.; R[=A]'SION, a scraping: rasure;
R[=A]'SURE, act of scraping, shaving, or erasing: obliterating: an erasure.
[Fr. _raser_--L. _rad[)e]re_, _rasum_, to scrape.]

RASH, rash, _adj._ (_comp._ RASH'ER; _superl._ RASH'EST) hasty: headstrong:
incautious.--_adj._ RASH'-EMBRACED' (_Shak._), rashly undertaken.--_ns._
RASH'ER, a thin slice of broiled bacon, perh. because quickly roasted;
RASH'LING, a rash person.--_adv._ RASH'LY, precipitately.--_n._ RASH'NESS.
[Dan. and Sw. _rask_; Ger. _rasch_, rapid.]

RASH, rash, _n._ a slight eruption on the skin. [O. Fr. _rasche_ (Fr.
_rache_)--L. _rad[)e]re_, to scratch.]

RASH, rash, _v.t._ (_obs._) to tear, to lacerate. [Fr. _arracher_, to
uproot.]

RASKOLNIK, ras-kol'nik, _n._ in Russia, a schismatic, a dissenter from the
orthodox or Greek Church.

RASORIAL, ra-s[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ belonging to an order of birds which
scrape the ground for their food, as the hen.--_n.pl._ RAS[=O]'RES, the
_Gallinæ_. [_Rase_.]

RASP, rasp, _v.t._ to rub with a coarse file: to utter in a grating
manner.--_v.i._ to have a grating effect.--_n._ a coarse file.--_ns._
RASP'ATORY, a surgeon's rasp; RASP'ER, that which rasps: (_coll._) a
difficult fence; RASP'-HOUSE, a place where wood is reduced to powder for
dyeing; RASP'ING, a filing.--_adj._ exasperating.--_adv._
RASP'INGLY.--_ns._ RASP'ING-MACHINE', a bark-cutting machine;
RASP'ING-MILL; RASP'-PUNCH, a tool for cutting the teeth of rasps.--_adj._
RASP'Y, rough. [O. Fr. _rasper_ (Fr. _râper_)--Old High Ger. _rasp[=o]n_,
whence Ger. _raspeln_, to rasp.]

RASPBERRY, raz'ber-i, _n._ the fruit of several plants of genus _Rubus_,
the plant producing it--also RASP.--_n._ RASP'BERRY-BUSH, the shrub which
yields the raspberry.--RASPBERRY BORER, the larvæ of one of the
clear-winged sphinxes; RASPBERRY VINEGAR, a drink of raspberry juice,
vinegar, and sugar.

RASTRUM, ras'trum, _n._ a music-pen. [_Rase._]

RAT, rat, _n._ an animal of the genus _Mus_, larger and more destructive
than the mouse: a renegade, turncoat: a workman who accepts lower than the
authorised wages, who declines to join in a strike, or who takes a
striker's work: a roll of anything used to puff out the hair which is
turned over it.--_v.i._ (_coll._) to desert one's party and join their
opponents for gain or power: to take lower than current wages, to refuse to
join in a strike, to take a striker's place:--_pr.p._ rat'ting; _pa.p._ and
_pa.t._ rat'ted.--_ns._ RAT'-CATCH'ER, one whose business it is to catch
rats; RAT'-CATCH'ING; RAT'-HOLE (_print._), a pigeon-hole; RAT'-PIT, an
enclosure where rats are killed; RAT'-POI'SON, a preparation of arsenic;
RAT'S'-BANE, poison for rats: arsenious acid; RAT'-TAIL, an excrescence
growing on a horse's leg.--_adj._ RAT'-TAILED, having a tail like a
rat.--_ns._ RAT'TER, a terrier which catches rats; RAT'TERY, apostasy;
RAT'TING, deserting one's principles: working for less than the usual
prices: setting a dog to kill rats in a pit; RAT'-TRAP, a trap for catching
rats.--RAT-TAILED LARVA, the larva of certain syrphid flies.--SMELL A RAT,
to have a suspicion. [A.S. _ræt_; Ger. _ratte_.]

RATA, rä'ta, _n._ a New Zealand tree related to various species of
Ironwood, its wood once much used for making clubs, and valuable for
shipbuilding.

RATABLE, RATEABLE, r[=a]'ta-bl, _adj._ See RATE.

RATAFIA, rat-a-f[=e]'a, _n._ a flavouring essence made with the essential
oil of almonds: a fancy cake. [Fr.,--Malay _araqtáfía_, from Ar. _`araq_,
Malay _táfía_, rum.]

RATAN, ra-tan', _n._ Same as RATTAN.

RATANY, rat'a-ni, _n._ a perennial procumbent shrub, yielding the medicinal
_ratany root_. [Peruv.]

RATAPLAN, rat-a-plong', _n._ the sound or rattle of the military drum, a
tattoo. [Fr.; imit.]

RAT-A-TAT, rat'-a-tat', _n._ sound of repeated knocks, as of a
drumstick.--Also RAT'-TAT. [Imit.]

RATCH, rach, _n._ a rack or bar with teeth into which a click drops: the
wheel which makes a clock strike: a white mark on the face of a
horse.--_v.t._ to stretch: to streak.--_v.i._ to sail by tacks.--_ns._
RATCH'ET, a bar acting on the teeth of a ratchet-wheel: a click or pall;
RATCH'ET-COUP'LING, a device for uncoupling machinery in the event of a
sudden stoppage; RATCH'ET-DRILL, a tool for drilling holes, the bit mounted
in a stock and rotated by a ratchet-wheel and lever; RATCH'ET-JACK, a form
of screw-jack; RATCH'ET-L[=E]'VER, a lever fitted round a ratchet-wheel;
RATCH'ET-PUNCH, a punch worked by means of a ratchet-lever; RATCH'ET-WHEEL,
a wheel having teeth against which a ratchet abuts, for changing a
reciprocating into a rotatory motion, &c.; RATCH'ET-WRENCH, a ratchet
bed-key wrench.--_adj._  RATCH'ETY, jerky.--_n._ RATCH'MENT (_archit._), a
flying buttress springing from corner principals. [_Rack._]

RATCHEL, rach'el, _n._ (_prov._) broken-stone, hard-pan.--Also RATCH'IL.

RATE, r[=a]t, _n._ a ratio or proportion: allowance: standard: value:
price: the class of a ship and of seamen: movement, as fast or slow: a
tax.--_v.t._ to calculate: to estimate: to settle the relative rank, scale,
or position of.--_v.i._ to make an estimate: to be placed in a certain
class: to ratify.--_ns._ R[=A]TABIL'ITY, R[=A]'TABLENESS, quality of being
ratable.--_adj._ R[=A]'TABLE, R[=A]'TEABLE, that may be rated or set at a
certain value: subject to taxation.--_adv._ R[=A]'TABLY.--_ns._
R[=A]TE'-BOOK, a book of valuations; R[=A]TE'PAYER, one who pays a local
tax.--_adj._ R[=A]TE'PAYING, paying, or relating to, an assessed local
tax.--_ns._ R[=A]'TER, one who makes an estimate; R[=A]TE'-TITHE, a tithe
paid for sheep and cattle; R[=A]'TING, a fixing of rates: classification
according to rank or grade.--AT ANY RATE, by any means; BY NO RATE, by no
means. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _rata_, rate--L. _r[=e]ri_, _ratus_, to think.]

RATE, r[=a]t, _v.t._ to tax: to scold: to chide: to reprove. [M. E.
_raten_, acc. to Skeat, from O. Fr. _aretter_, to impute--L. _ad_, to,
_reput[=a]re_, to count. Others explain as Scand., Sw. _rata_, to reject.]

RATEL, r[=a]'tel, _n._ a genus of quadrupeds of the bear family, nearly
allied to the gluttons, and very like the badgers. [Fr., dim. of _rat_.]

RAT-GOOSE, rat'-g[=oo]s, _n._ the brent or brant goose.

RATH, räth, _adj._ early, soon--also RATHE.--_adv._ RATH (_arch._), early,
soon.--_adj._ RATH'EREST (_Shak._), _superl._ of RATH.--_adv._ RATH'LY,
suddenly.--_adj._ RATH'RIPE, early ripe. [A.S. _hræth_, quickly; Ice.
_hradhr_, swift, Mid. High Ger. _hrad_, quick.]

RATH, rath, _n._ a prehistoric hill-fort. [Ir.]

RATH, rät, _n._ a name given to some Indian rock-cut Buddhist temples.

RATH, rät, _n._ a Burmese state-carriage.

RATHER, räth'[.e]r, _adv._ more willingly: in preference: especially: more
so than otherwise: on the contrary: somewhat, in some degree: more
properly: (_coll._) considerably, very much.--_adj._ RATH'ERISH, to a
slight degree, somewhat.--RATHER BETTER THAN, somewhat in excess of.--THE
RATHER, by so much the more. [A.S. _hrathor_, comp. of _hrathe_, early.]

RATIFY, rat'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to approve and sanction: to settle:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ rat'ified.--_ns._ RATIFIC[=A]'TION, act of ratifying or
confirming: confirmation; RAT'IFIER, one who, or that which, ratifies or
sanctions. [Fr. _ratifier_--L. _ratus_, fixed by calculation--_r[=e]ri_,
_ratus_, to think, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

RATIO, r[=a]'shi-o, _n._ the relation or the proportion of one thing to
another: reason, cause: (_mus._) the relation between the vibration-numbers
of two tones. [L. _ratio_, reason--_r[=e]ri_, _ratus_, to think.]

RATIOCINATE, rash-i-os'i-n[=a]t, _v.i._ to reason:--_pr.p._ ratioc'inating;
_pa.p._ ratioc'inated.--_n._ RATIOCIN[=A]'TION, the process of reasoning:
deduction from premises.--_adjs._ RATIOC'IN[=A]TIVE, RATIOC'IN[=A]TORY. [L.
_ratiocin[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_ratio_, reason.]

RATION, r[=a]'shon, _n._ the quantity of provisions distributed to a
soldier or sailor daily: an allowance.--_n._ R[=A]'TION-MON'EY, money paid
as commutation for rations. [Fr.,--L. _ratio_.]

RATIONAL, rash'on-al, _adj._ pertaining to the reason: endowed with reason:
agreeable to reason: sane: intelligent: judicious: (_arith._, _alg._)
noting a quantity which can be exactly expressed by numbers.--_n._
RATIONABIL'ITY, the possession of reason.--_adj._ RAT'IONABLE,
reasonable.--_ns._ RATION[=A]'LE, a rational account of anything, with
reasons for its existence: a theoretical explanation or solution;
RATIONALIS[=A]'TION, subjection to rational principles.--_v.t._
RAT'IONALISE, to interpret like a rationalist: to think for one's
self.--_v.i._ to rely entirely or unduly on reason.--_ns._ RAT'IONALISM,
the religious system or doctrines of a rationalist; RAT'IONALIST, one who
believes himself guided in his opinions solely by reason, independently of
authority, esp. in regard to religion--denying supernatural
revelation.--_adjs._ RATIONALIST'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or in accordance
with, the principles of rationalism.--_adv._ RATIONALIST'ICALLY, in a
rationalistic manner.--_n._ RATIONAL'ITY, quality of being rational: the
possession or due exercise of reason: reasonableness.--_adv._ RAT'IONALLY,
reasonably.--_n._ RAT'IONALNESS.--_n.pl._ RAT'IONALS, dress for women
convenient for bicycling, &c.--breeches instead of skirts.

RATIONAL, rash'on-al, _n._ the breast-plate of the Jewish high-priest: a
pectoral worn by a bishop. [L. _rationale_, a mistaken rendering in the
Vulgate of the Gr. _logion_, oracle.]

RATITÆ, r[=a]-t[=i]'t[=e], _n._ a division of birds, including the
ostriches, cassowaries, emus, and kiwis.--_n._ R[=A]'TITE, RAT'ITATE,
raft-breasted, as a bird.

RATIUNCULE, r[=a]-shi-ung'k[=u]l, _n._ a ratio very near unity. [Dim. of L.
_ratio_.]

[Illustration]

RATLINE, RATLIN, rat'lin, _n._ one of the small lines or ropes traversing
the shrouds and forming the steps of the rigging of ships--also RAT'LING,
RATT'LING.--_n._ RAT'LINE-STUFF (_naut._), a tarred rope from which
ratlines are made. [Prob. _rat-lines_.]

RATOON, ra-t[=oo]n', _n._ a new shoot from the root of a
sugar-cane.--_v.i._ to send up new shoots from the root after cropping.
[Hind. _ratun_.]

RATTAN, rat-an', _n._ a genus of palms having a smooth, reed-like stem
several hundreds of feet in length: a walking-stick made of rattan: stems
of rattan palm used as a raft. [Malay _rótan_.]

RATTAN, ra-tan', _n._ the continuous beat of a drum.

RATTEEN, rat-t[=e]n', _n._ a thick woollen stuff. [Fr.]

RATTEN, rat'n, _v.t._ to break or take away a workman's tools, &c., for
disobeying the trades-union--the loss being ironically attributed to rats.

RATTINET, rat-ti-net', _n._ a thin variety of ratteen.

RATTING. See RAT.

RATTLE, rat'l, _v.i._ to clatter: to move along rapidly, with a clattering
noise: to speak eagerly and noisily.--_v.t._ to cause to make a clatter: to
stun with noise: to speak rapidly: to scold loudly.--_n._ a sharp noise
rapidly repeated, as the death-rattle: a clatter: loud empty talk: loud
scolding: a toy or instrument for rattling: a brisk jabberer: an annual
meadow herb: a lousewort.--_adjs._ RATT'LE-BRAINED, -HEAD'ED, -PAT'ED,
noisy: giddy: unsteady.--_ns._ RATT'LE-MOUSE, a bat; RATT'LEPATE, a noisy
chatterer; RATT'LER, a loud, inconsiderate talker: (_coll._) a stunning
blow: (_coll._) an impudent lie; RATT'LESNAKE, a poisonous snake having a
number of hard, bony rings loosely jointed at the end of the tail, which
make a rattling noise; RATT'LESNAKE-GRASS, an American grass;
RATT'LESNAKE-MAS'TER, -ROOT, an American plant reputed to cure the bite of
a rattlesnake; RATT'LESNAKE-WEED, a hawk-weed of the United States;
RATT'LE-TRAP, a rickety vehicle; RATT'LEWORT, a plant of genus
_Crotalaria_; RATT'LING, a clattering: railing.--_adj._ making a rattle:
smart, lively: (_coll._) strikingly great. [A.S. _hrætele_, _hratele_, a
plant--from the rattling of the seeds in the capsules; Ger. _rasseln_, Dut.
_ratelen_, to rattle.]

RATTLING, rat'ling, _n._ Same as RATLINE.

RAUCITY, raws'i-ti, _n._ hoarseness: harshness of sound.--_adjs._ RAUC'ID,
RAUCOUS (raw'kus), hoarse.--_adv._ RAUC'OUSLY. [L. _raucus_, hoarse.]

RAUCLE, rawk'l, _adj._ (_Scot._) rough: fearless.

RAUGHT, rawt (_Spens._)--(_obs._) _pa.t._ of _reach_.

RAVAGE, rav'[=a]j, _v.t._ to lay waste: to destroy: to pillage.--_n._
devastation: ruin.--_n._ RAV'AGER. [Fr.,--_ravir_, to carry off by
force--L. _rap[)e]re_.]

RAVE, r[=a]v, _v.i._ to be mad: to be wild or raging, like a madman: to
talk irrationally.--_v.t._ to utter wildly.--_ns._ R[=A]'VER, one who raves
or is furious; R[=A]'VING, furious talk.--_adj._ delirious:
distracted.--_adv._ R[=A]'VINGLY, in a raving manner: with frenzy: with
distraction. [O. Fr. _râver_ (Fr. _rêver_), to be delirious--L. _rabies_,
madness.]

RAVE, r[=a]v, _n._ one of the side pieces of a wagon.

RAVE, r[=a]v, _old pa.t._ of _rive_.

RAVE-HOOK, r[=a]v'-hook, _n._ a ripping-iron.

RAVEL, rav'el, _v.t._ to confuse, entangle: to untwist or unweave: to
unravel (in this sense usually with _out_).--_v.i._ to be untwisted or
unwoven: to become entangled: to search (with _into_):--_pr.p._ rav'elling;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rav'elled.--_n._ a ravelled thread.--_adj._ RAV'ELLED,
denoting bread made from flour and bran.--_ns._ RAV'ELLING, a ravelled
thread; RAV'ELLING-EN'GINE, a machine for tearing rags.--_adv._
RAV'ELLY.--_n._ RAV'ELMENT, discord. [Dut. _ravelen_.]

RAVELIN, rav'lin, _n._ a detached work with two embankments raised before
the counterscarp. [Fr.,--It. _rivellino_.]

RAVEN, r[=a]'vn, _n._ a kind of crow, noted for its croak and glossy black
plumage.--_adj._ black, like a raven.--_adj._ R[=A]'VEN-COL'OURED
(_Shak._).--_ns._ R[=A]'VEN'S-DUCK, fine hempen sail-cloth; R[=A]'VENSTONE,
a gallows. [A.S. _hræfn_; Ice. _hrafn_, Dut. _raaf_.]

RAVEN, RAVIN (_B._), rav'n, _v.t._ to obtain by violence: to devour with
great eagerness or voracity.--_v.i._ to prey rapaciously.--_n._ prey:
plunder.--_ns._ RAV'ENER, a plunderer; RAV'ENING (_B._), eagerness for
plunder.--_adjs._ RAV'ENOUS, RAV'INED, voracious: devouring with rapacity:
eager for prey or gratification.--_adv._ RAV'ENOUSLY.--_n._ RAV'ENOUSNESS.
[O. Fr. _ravine_, plunder--L. _rapina_, plunder.]

RAVINE, ra-v[=e]n', _n._ a long, deep hollow, worn away by a torrent: a
deep, narrow mountain-pass. [Fr.,--L. _rapina_, rapine, violence.]

RAVISH, rav'ish, _v.t._ to seize or carry away by violence: to rob: to have
sexual intercourse with by force: to fill with ecstasy.--_n._
RAV'ISHER.--_p.adj._ RAV'ISHING, delighting to rapture: transporting:
ecstatic.--_adv._ RAV'ISHINGLY, in a ravishing manner: with rapture.--_n._
RAV'ISHMENT, act of ravishing: abduction: rape: ecstatic delight: rapture.
[Fr. _ravir_--L. _rap[)e]re_.]

RAW, raw, _adj._ not altered from its natural state: not cooked or dressed:
unbaked: not prepared or manufactured: not mixed: having the skin abraded:
sore, as from abrasion of the skin: unfinished: immature: inexperienced:
chilly and damp.--_n._ a galled place: an inveterate sore: hence (_fig._) a
point on which one is particularly sensitive.--_adjs._ RAW'BONE (_Spens._),
RAW'BONED, with little flesh on the bones: gaunt; RAW'-COLD (_Shak._), damp
and cold.--_ns._ RAW'HEAD, a spectre mentioned to frighten children;
RAW'HIDE, an untanned skin: a whip made of twisted, untanned
leather.--_adj._ RAW'ISH, rather raw.--_adv._ RAW'LY.--_ns._ RAW'NESS;
RAW'-PORT, a porthole through which an oar can be worked in a small vessel.
[A.S. _hreáw_; Dut. _raauw_, Ice. _hrár_, Ger. _roh_.]

RAX, raks, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to reach out, hand. [_Rack._]

RAY, r[=a], _n._ array.--_v.t._ to array--hence, ironically, (_Shak._) to
bedaub. [_Array._]

RAY, r[=a], _n._ a line of light or heat: a beam or gleam of intellectual
light: a radiating part of any structure: (_bot._) the outer part of a
flower-cluster.--_v.t._ to radiate: to furnish with rays.--_v.i._ to shine
out.--_adjs._ RAYED, having rays; RAY'LESS, without rays: destitute of
light. [Fr. _raie_--L. _radius_, a rod.]

RAY, r[=a], _n._ a popular name for such flat, cartilaginous fishes as the
skate, thornback, and torpedo.--_n._ RAY'-OIL, oil prepared from the livers
of ray-fish. [Fr. _raie_--L. _raia_.]

RAY, r[=a], _n._ the scab--a disease of sheep.

RAY, r[=a], _n._ (_mus._) the second note of the diatonic scale.

RAYAH, rä'ya, _n._ a non-Mohammedan subject of Turkey who pays the
capitation tax. [Ar. _raiya_--_ra`a_, to pasture.]

RAYLE, r[=a]l, _v.i._ (_Spens._). Same as RAIL.

RAYNE, r[=a]n, _v.i._ and _n._ (_Spens._). Same as RAIN.

RAYON, r[=a]'on, _n._ (_Spens._) a ray. [Fr.]

RAYONNANT, r[=a]'o-nant, _adj._ (_her._) sending forth rays. [Fr., _pr.p._
of _rayonner_, to emit rays--_rayon_, a ray.]

RAZE, r[=a]z, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as RACE (3).

RAZE, r[=a]z, _v.t._ to lay level with the ground: to overthrow: to
destroy. [_Rase._]

RAZE, r[=a]z, _n._ a swinging fence in a water-course to prevent the
passage of cattle.

RAZEE, ra-z[=e]', _n._ a ship-of-war cut down by reducing the number of
decks. [Fr. _rasé_, cut down.]

RAZOR, r[=a]'zor, _n._ a keen-edged implement for shaving: a tusk, as the
_razors_ of a boar.--_adj_ R[=A]'ZORABLE (_Shak._), fit to be
shaved.--_ns._ R[=A]'ZOR-BACK, a kind of baleen whale, also called
_Rorqual_, _Fin-back_, or _Finner_: a hog whose back has the form of a
ridge; R[=A]'ZOR-BILL, a species of auk, common on the coasts of the
northern Atlantic; R[=A]'ZOR-BLADE, -CLAM, -FISH, -SHELL, a bivalve mollusc
with an elongated, narrow shell; R[=A]'ZOR-HONE, a hone for sharpening
razors; R[=A]'ZOR-PASTE, a paste for spreading on a razor-strop;
R[=A]'ZOR-STROP, a strop for razors. [Fr. _rasoir_--L. _rad[)e]re_,
_rasum_, to scrape.]

RAZURE, r[=a]'zh[=oo]r, _n._ Same as ERASURE.

RAZZIA, rat'si-a, _n._ a pillaging incursion--Algerian.

RE, r[=a], _n._ (_mus._). Same as RAY.

RE, r[=e], _n._ a word used in the legal phrase IN RE, in the case (of).
[L., abl. of _res_, thing, case.]

REABSORB, r[=e]-ab-sorb', _v.t._ to absorb, suck in, or swallow up
again.--_n._ REABSORP'TION.

REACCOMMODATE, r[=e]-a-kom'o-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to readjust.

REACCUSE, r[=e]-a-k[=u]z', _v.t._ to accuse again.

REACH, r[=e]ch, _v.t._ to stretch or extend: to attain or obtain by
stretching out the hand: to hand over: to extend to: to arrive at: to get
at: to gain.--_v.i._ to be extended: to mount up in quantity or number: to
stretch out the hand: to try to obtain: to arrive.--_n._ act or power of
reaching: extent of stretch: extent of force: penetration: artifice:
contrivance: a straight portion of a stream between bends: (_naut._) the
distance traversed between tacks.--_adj_ REACH'ABLE, within reach.--_ns._
REACH'ER, one who reaches; REACH'ING-POST, in rope-making, a post fixed at
the lower end of a rope-walk.--_adjs_ REACH'LESS, unattainable;
REACH'-ME-DOWN, ready-made.--HEAD REACH, the distance to windward traversed
by a vessel while tacking. [A.S. _r['æ]can_; Ger. _reichen_, to reach.]

REACQUITE, r[=e]-a-kw[=i]t', _v.t._ to pay back: to requite.

REACT, r[=e]-akt', _v.t._ to act anew.--_v.i._ to return an impulse in the
opposite direction: to act mutually on each other.--_n._ REAC'TION, action
resisting other action: mutual action: backward tendency from revolution,
reform, or progress.--_adj_ REAC'TIONARY, for or implying reaction.--_n._
one who attempts to reverse political action.--_n._ REAC'TIONIST.--_adj_
REAC'TIVE.--_adv._ REAC'TIVELY.--_ns._ REAC'TIVENESS, REACTIV'ITY.

READ, r[=e]d, _v.t._ to utter aloud written or printed words: to peruse: to
comprehend: to study, as to read law, science: to teach: to make out, from
signs: to solve, as to read a dream: to interpret: to understand, as
reading the stars: to note the indication of, as to read a barometer:
impute by inference, as to read a meaning into a book.--_v.i._ to perform
the act of reading: to practise much reading: to appear on reading: to
advise: to speak: to acquire information: to utter the words of a book:
(_mus._) to render music at first sight: to put a certain expression upon
it: to be suitable for perusal:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ read (red).--_n._
READ, a reading, perusal: (_Spens._) counsel, a saying, an
interpretation.--_adj_ READ (red), versed in books: learned.--_ns._
READABIL'ITY, READ'ABLENESS.--_adj_ READABLE (r[=e]d'a-bl), that may be
read: worth reading: interesting: enabling to read.--_adv._
READ'ABLY.--_ns._ READ'ER, one who reads: one whose office it is to read
prayers in a church, or lectures in a university, &c.: one who reads or
corrects proofs: one who reads much: a reading-book; READ'ERSHIP, the
office of a reader.--_adj._ READ'ING, addicted to reading.--_n._ act of
reading: perusal: study of books: public or formal recital: the way in
which a passage reads: an interpretation of a passage or work: a version:
noting an instrument, as the reading of a barometer.--_ns._ READ'ING-BOOK,
a book of exercises in reading; READ'ING-BOY (_print._), a reader's
assistant; READ'ING-DESK, a desk for holding a book or paper while it is
read: a church-lectern; READ'ING-LAMP, a form of lamp for use in reading;
READ'ING-ROOM, a room with papers, periodicals, &c., resorted to for
reading.--READ BETWEEN THE LINES, to detect a meaning not expressed; READ
ONE'S SELF IN, in the Church of England, to read the Thirty-nine Articles
and repeat the declaration of assent prescribed by law to a new
incumbent.--PENNY READING, an entertainment consisting of readings, &c., to
which the admission is a penny. [A.S. _r['æ]dan_, to discern,
read--_r['æ]d_, counsel; Ger. _rathen_, to advise.]

READDRESS, r[=e]-ad-dres', _v.t._ to address again.

READEPTION, r[=e]-a-dep'shun, _n._ (_Bacon_) the act of regaining,
recovery.--_v.t._ READEPT'. [L. _re-_, again, _adipisci_, _adeptus_, to
obtain.]

READJOURN, r[=e]-ad-jurn', _v.t._ to adjourn again.--_n._ READJOURN'MENT.

READJUST, r[=e]-ad-just', _v.t._ to adjust or put in order again, or in a
new way.--_n._ READJUST'MENT.

READMIT, r[=e]-ad-mit', _v.t._ to admit again.--_ns._ READMIS'SION, act of
readmitting: state of being readmitted; READMIT'TANCE, admittance or
allowance to enter again.

READORN, r[=e]-a-dorn', _v.t._ to decorate again.

READY, red'i, _adj._ prepared at the moment: in proper time: prepared in
mind: willing: not slow or awkward: dexterous: prompt: quick: present in
hand: at hand: near: easy: on the point of: opportune: off-hand, as a ready
retort.--_n._ a waiter's answer to a call: the position of a soldier's
weapon after the order 'Make ready!' (_slang_) ready-money.--_v.t._ to
dispose: to arrange.--_adv._ in a state of readiness or
preparation.--_adv._ READ'ILY.--_n._ READ'INESS.--_adj._ READ'Y-MADE, made
and ready for use: not made to order.--_ns._ READ'Y-MON'EY, cash payment;
READ'Y-POLE, a bar across the chimney to support the pot-hook;
READ'Y-RECK'ONER, a book of tables giving the value of any number of things
from the lowest monetary unit upwards: also the interest on any sum of
money from a day upwards.--_adj._ READ'Y-WIT'TED, having ready wit: clever:
sharp.--MAKE READY, to prepare. [A.S. _r['æ]de_--_rídan_, to ride; Scot.
_red_, to put in order, Ger. _be-reit_, ready.]

REAFFIRM, re-af-f[.e]rm', _v.t._ to affirm again.--_n._ REAFFIRM[=A]'TION.

REAFFOREST, r[=e]-af-for'est, _v.t._ to convert anew into a forest.--_n._
REAFFOREST[=A]'TION.

REAGENT, r[=e]-[=a]'jent, _n._ a substance that reacts on and detects the
presence of other bodies: a test: one who exerts reflex influence.--_n._
RE[=A]'GENCY.

REAGGRAVATION, r[=e]-ag-rav-[=a]'shun, _n._ the last monitory before the
excommunication.

REAGREE, r[=e]-a-gr[=e]', _v.i._ to become reconciled.

REAK, r[=e]k, _n._ (_obs._) a freak: a prank.

REAL, r[=e]'al, _adj._ actually existing: not counterfeit or assumed: true:
genuine: sincere: authentic: (_law_) pertaining to things fixed, as lands
or houses.--_adj._ R[=E]'ALISABLE, that may be realised.--_n._
REALIS[=A]'TION, act of realising or state of being realised: a realising
sense or feeling.--_v.t._ R[=E]'ALISE, to make real: to bring into being or
act: to accomplish: to convert into real property or money: to obtain, as a
possession: to feel strongly: to comprehend completely: to bring home to
one's own experience.--_n._ R[=E]'ALISER, one who realises.--_p.adj._
R[=E]'ALISING, serving to make real or bring home to one as a reality:
conversion of property into money.--_ns._ R[=E]'ALISM, the medieval
doctrine that general terms stand for real existences--opp. to
_Nominalism_: the doctrine that in external perception the objects
immediately known are real existences: the tendency in art to accept and to
represent things as they really are--opp. to _Idealism_--a method of
representation without idealisation, raised by modern French writers into a
system, claiming a monopoly of truth in its artistic treatment of the facts
of nature and life; R[=E]'ALIST, one who holds the doctrine of realism: one
who believes in the existence of the external world.--_adj._ R[=E]ALIST'IC,
pertaining to the realists or to realism: life-like.--_adv._
R[=E]ALIST'ICALLY.--_n._ R[=E]AL'ITY, that which is real and not imaginary:
truth: verity: (_law_) the fixed, permanent nature of real
property.--_adv._ R[=E]'ALLY, in reality: actually: in truth.--_ns._
R[=E]'ALNESS, the condition of being real; R[=E]'ALTY, land, with houses,
trees, minerals, &c. thereon: the ownership of, or property in, lands--also
REAL ESTATE.--REAL PRESENCE (see PRESENCE); REAL SCHOOL, a modern German
preparatory, scientific, or technical school--the highest grade being the
REAL GYMNASIUM, or first-class modern school, as opp. to the _gymnasium_
proper, or classical school. [Low L. _realis_--L. _res_, a thing.]

REAL, r[=e]-al', _n._ a Spanish coin, 100 of which=£1 sterling. [Sp.,--L.
_regalis_, royal.]

REALGAR, r[=e]-al'gar, _n._ a native sulphuret of arsenic, a mineral
consisting of about 70 parts of arsenic and 30 of sulphur, and of a
brilliant red colour. [Fr.,--Ar. _rahj-al-ghar_, 'powder of the mine.']

REALLEGE, r[=e]-al-lej', _v.t._ to allege again.

REALLY, r[=e]-a-l[=i]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to bring together again: to
reform.--_v.t._ to arrange again.--_n._ REALL[=I]'ANCE, a renewed alliance.

REALM, relm, _n._ a regal or royal jurisdiction: kingdom: province:
country: dominion. [O. Fr. _realme_--Low L. _regalimen_--L. _regalis_,
royal.]

REALTY, r[=e]'al-ti, _n._ fealty: royalty (see also REAL, 1).

REAM, r[=e]m, _n._ a quantity of paper consisting of 20 quires of 24
sheets. [O. Fr. _raime_ (Fr. _rame_)--Sp. _resma_--Ar. _rizma_ (pl.
_rizam_), a bundle.]

REAM, r[=e]m, _v.i._ (_prov._) to cream: to froth.--_n._
REAM'INESS.--_adj._ REAM'Y.

REAM, r[=e]m, _v.t._ to stretch: to enlarge by a rotatory cutter.--_ns._
REAM'ER; REAM'ING-BIT.

REAME, r[=e]m, _n._ (_Spens._) a realm.

REAN, r[=e]n, _n._ a gutter. [_Run._]

REANIMATE, r[=e]-an'i-m[=a]t, _v.t._ to restore to life: to infuse new life
or spirit into: to revive.--_n._ REANIM[=A]'TION.

REANNEX, r[=e]-an-neks', _v.t._ to annex again, to reunite.--_n._
REANNEX[=A]'TION.

REANOINT, r[=e]-an-oint', _v.t._ to anoint anew.

REANSWER, r[=e]-an's[.e]r, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Shak._) to answer back, to
react.

REAP, r[=e]p, _v.t._ to cut down, as grain: to clear off a crop: to gather
by effort: to receive as a reward: to obtain a harvest.--_ns._ REAP'ER,
REAP'MAN; REAP'ING-HOOK, a hook-shaped instrument, with a handle, for
cutting grain: a sickle; REAP'ING-MACHINE', a machine for cutting grain,
drawn by horses, &c.; REAP'-SIL'VER, money paid by feudal tenants as a
commutation for their services in reaping the crops. [A.S. _rípan_, to
pluck; Goth. _raupjan_, Ger. _raufen_.]

REAPPAREL, r[=e]-ap-par'el, _v.t._ to clothe again.

REAPPEAR, r[=e]-ap-p[=e]r', _v.i._ to appear again or a second time.--_n._
REAPPEAR'ANCE, a second appearance.

REAPPLY, r[=e]-ap-pl[=i]', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to apply again.--_n._
REAPPLIC[=A]'TION.

REAPPOINT, r[=e]-ap-point', _v.t._ to appoint again.--_n._ REAPPOINT'MENT.

REAPPORTION, r[=e]-ap-p[=o]r'shun, _v.t._ to apportion again.--_n._
REAPPOR'TIONMENT.

REAPPROACH, r[=e]-ap-pr[=o]ch', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to approach again.

REAR, r[=e]r, _n._ the back or hindmost part: the last part of an army or
fleet.--_ns._ REAR'-AD'MIRAL, an officer of the third rank, who commands
the rear division of a fleet; REAR'DORSE, an open fireplace, without a
chimney, against the rear wall of a room; REAR'-FRONT, the rear-rank of a
body of troops when faced about; REAR'-GUARD, troops which protect the rear
of an army; REAR'HORSE, an insect of the family _Mantidæ_; REAR'ING-BIT, a
bit to prevent a horse from lifting his head when rearing; REAR'ING-BOX, in
fish-culture, a fish-breeder; REAR'-LINE, the last rank of a battalion,
&c., drawn up in open order; REAR'MOST, last of all; REAR'-RANK, the
hindermost rank of a body of troops; REAR'WARD, RERE'WARD, (_B._), the
rear-guard, the part which comes last. [O. Fr. _riere_--L. _retro_,
behind.]

REAR, r[=e]r, _v.t._ to bring up to maturity: to educate: to erect:
(_Milt._) to lift upward, as steps: (_Spens._) to carry off by force: to
stir up.--_v.i._ to rise on the hind-legs, as a horse.--_n._ REAR'ER, one
who rears or raises: in coal-mines, a seam having an inclination of more
than 30°. [A.S. _r['æ]ran_, to raise, the causal of _rísan_, to rise.]

REAR, r[=e]r, _adj._ early: underdone.--_adjs._ REAR'-BOILED;
REAR'-ROAST'ED. [_Rare._]

REARGUE, r[=e]-ar'g[=u], _v.t._ to argue over again.--_n._ REAR'GUMENT.

REARMOUSE. Same as REREMOUSE.

REARRANGE, r[=e]-ar-r[=a]nj', _v.t._ to arrange anew.--_n._ REARRANGE'MENT.

REASCEND, r[=e]-as-send', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to ascend, mount, or climb
again.--_ns._ REASCEN'SION, REASCENT'.

REASON, r[=e]'zn, _n._ an idea which supports or justifies an act or
belief: a motive: proof: excuse: cause: an explanation: the faculty of the
mind by which man draws conclusions, and determines right and truth: the
exercise of reason: just view of things: right conduct: propriety: justice:
that which is conformable to reason: (_logic_) a premise placed after its
conclusion.--_v.i._ to exercise the faculty of reason: to deduce inferences
from premises: to argue: to debate: (_B._) to converse.--_v.t._ to examine
or discuss: to debate: to persuade by reasoning.--_adj._ REA'SONABLE,
endowed with reason: rational: acting according to reason: agreeable to
reason: just: not excessive: moderate.--_n._ REA'SONABLENESS.--_adv._
REA'SONABLY.--_ns._ REA'SONER; REA'SONING, act of reasoning: that which is
offered in argument: course of argument.--_adj._ REA'SONLESS.--_n._
REA'SON-PIECE, a wall plate.--BY REASON OF, on account of: in consequence
of; PRINCIPLE OF SUFFICIENT REASON, the proposition that nothing happens
without a sufficient reason why it should be as it is and not otherwise;
PURE REASON, reason absolutely independent of experience. [Fr. _raison_--L.
_ratio_, _rationis_--_r[=e]ri_, _ratus_, to think.]

REASSEMBLE, r[=e]-as-sem'bl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to assemble or collect
again.--_n._ REASSEM'BLAGE.

REASSERT, r[=e]-as-sert', _v.t._ to assert again.--_n._ REASSER'TION.

REASSESS, r[=e]-as-ses', _v.t._ to assess again.--_n._ REASSESS'MENT.

REASSIGN, r[=e]-as-s[=i]n', _v.t._ to assign again: to transfer back what
has been assigned.--_n._ REASSIGN'MENT.

REASSUME, r[=e]-as-s[=u]m', _v.t._ to assume or take again.--_n._
REASSUMP'TION.

REASSURE, r[=e]-a-sh[=oo]r', _v.t._ to assure anew: to give confidence to:
to confirm: to insure an insurer.--_ns._ REASSUR'ANCE, repeated assurance:
a second assurance against loss; REASSUR'ER.--_adj._ REASSUR'ING.--_adv._
REASSUR'INGLY.

REAST, r[=e]st, _v.t._ to dry or smoke (as meat). [_Roast._]

REATA, RIATA, r[=e]-ä'ta, _n._ a rope of raw hide, used in America for
catching animals. [Sp.,--L. _re-_, back, _aptare_, to fit on.]

REATTACH, r[=e]-at-tach', _v.t._ to attach again.--_n._ REATTACH'MENT.

REATTAIN, r[=e]-at-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to attain again.

REATTEMPT, r[=e]-at-temt', _v.t._ to attempt again.

RÉAUMUR'S SCALE. See THERMOMETER.

REAVE, r[=e]v, _v.t._ to take away by violence:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
reft.--_n._ REAV'ER. [A.S. _reáfian_, to rob--_reáf_, clothing, spoil; Ger.
_rauben_, to rob.]

REAWAKE, r[=e]-a-w[=a]k', _v.i._ to awake again.

REBALLING, r[=e]-bawl'ing, _n._ the catching of eels with earthworms
fastened to a ball of lead.

REBAPTISE, r[=e]-bap-t[=i]z', _v.t._ to baptise again.--_ns._ REBAP'TISER;
REBAP'TISM, REBAPTIS[=A]'TION; REBAP'TIST, one who baptises again: an
anabaptist.

REBATE, r[=e]-b[=a]t', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to beat to obtuseness, to blunt: to
beat back: to allow as discount.--_n._ R[=E]B[=A]TE'MENT, deduction:
diminution: narrowing: (_her._) a shortening, as of one arm of a cross.
[Fr. _rebattre_, to beat back--L. _re-_, back, _battu[)e]re_, to beat.]

REBATE, r[=e]-b[=a]t', _n._ same as RABATE--also a hard freestone used in
pavements: wood fastened to a handle in beating mortar.

REBEC, REBECK, r[=e]'bek, _n._ a musical instrument of the violin kind,
with three strings played with a bow, introduced by the Moors into Spain.
[O. Fr. _rebec_ (Sp. _rabel_)--Ar. _rab[=a]ba_.]

REBECCAITE, r[=e]-bek'a-[=i]t, _n._ one of a set of rioters in South Wales,
in 1843-44, who scoured the country by night, the leaders disguised in
women's clothes, and threw down the toll-bars on the public roads; they
were called 'Rebecca and her daughters,' from Gen. xxiv. 60.--_n._
REBECC'AISM.

REBEL, reb'el, _n._ one who rebels.--_adj._ rebellious.--_v.i._ (re-bel')
to renounce the authority of the laws and government to which one owes
allegiance, or to take up arms and openly oppose them: to oppose any lawful
authority:--_pr.p._ rebel'ling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rebelled'.--_n._
REBEL'LER, one who rebels: a rebel.--_adj._ REB'EL-LIKE (_Shak._), like a
rebel.--_n._ REBELL'ION, act of rebelling: open opposition to lawful
authority: revolt: the Great Rebellion in England from 1642 to 1660: the
American civil war of 1861-65.--_adj._ REBELL'IOUS, engaged in rebellion:
characteristic of a rebel or rebellion: (of things) refractory.--_adv._
REBELL'IOUSLY, in a rebellious manner: in opposition to lawful
authority.--_n._ REBELL'IOUSNESS.--_adj._ REB'ELLY, rebellious. [Fr.
_rebelle_--L. _rebellis_, insurgent--_re-_, again, _bellum_, war.]

REBELLOW, r[=e]-bel'[=o], _v.i._ (_Spens._) to bellow in return: to echo
back a loud noise.

REBIND, r[=e]-b[=i]nd', _v.t._ to bind anew.

REBIRTH, r[=e]-b[.e]rth', _n._ a new entrance into a living form, according
to the doctrine of metempsychosis.

REBITE, r[=e]-b[=i]t', _v.t._ to freshen worn lines in a plate.

REBOANT, reb'[=o]-ant, _adj._ rebellowing: loudly resounding.--_n._
REBO[=A]'TION. [L. _reboans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _rebo[=a]re_--_re-_,
again, _bo[=a]re_, to cry aloud.]

REBOIL, r[=e]-boil', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to cause to boil again.

REBORN, r[=e]-bawrn', _adj._ endowed with fresh life.

REBOUND, r[=e]-bownd', _v.i._ to bound or start back: to bound repeatedly:
to recoil: to reverberate: to re-echo.--_v.t._ to repeat as an echo.--_n._
act of rebounding: recoil.

REBRACE, r[=e]-br[=a]s', _v.t._ to renew the strength of.

REBUFF, r[=e]-buf', _n._ a. beating back: sudden check: defeat: unexpected
refusal.--_v.t._ to beat back: to check: to repel violently: to refuse. [O.
Fr. _rebuffe_--It. _rebuffo_, a reproof--It. _ri_ (--L. _re-_), back,
_buffare_, to puff.]

REBUILD, r[=e]-bild', _v.t._ to build again: to renew.--_n._ REBUILD'ER.

REBUKE, r[=e]-b[=u]k', _v.t._ to check with reproof: to chide or reprove:
(_B._) to chasten.--_n._ direct reproof: reprimand: reprobation: (_B._)
chastisement: a severe check.--_adjs._ REB[=U]K'ABLE; REBUKE'FUL.--_adv._
REBUKE'FULLY.--_n._ REB[=U]K'ER.--_adv._ REB[=U]K'INGLY. [O. Fr.
_rebouquer_ (Fr. _reboucher_), from _re-_, back, _bouque_ (Fr. _bouche_),
the mouth--L. _bucca_, the cheek.]

REBULLITION, r[=e]-bul-ish'un, _n._ a renewed effervescence. [L.
_rebull[=i]re_, to bubble up.]

REBURSE, r[=e]-b[.e]rs', _v.t._ to pay over again. [L. _re-_, again,
_bursa_, purse.]

REBUS, r[=e]'bus, _n._ an enigmatical representation of a name or thing by
using pictorial devices for letters, syllables, or parts of words: a
riddle: (_her._) a coat of arms bearing an allusion to the name of the
bearer:--_pl._ R[=E]'BUSES. [L., _res_, a thing--prob. from the device
speaking to the beholder _non verbis sed rebus_.]

REBUT, r[=e]-but', _v.t._ to butt or drive back: to repel: to reject:
(_law_) to oppose by argument or proof.--_v.i._ (_law_) to return an
answer:--_pr.p._ rebut'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rebut'ted.--_adj._
R[=E]BUT'TABLE.--_ns._ R[=E]BUT'TAL; R[=E]BUT'TER, that which rebuts: a
plaintiff's answer to a defendant's rejoinder. [O. Fr. _rebuter_, to
repulse--L. _re-_, back, Mid. High Ger. _b[=o]zen_, to beat.]

RECALCITRANT, r[=e]-kal'si-trant, _adj._ showing repugnance or opposition:
refractory.--_v.i._ or (rarely) _v.t._ RECAL'CITRATE, to show
repugnance.--_n._ RECALCITR[=A]'TION. [L. _recalcitrans_, -antis--_re-_,
back, calcitr[=a]re, _-[=a]tum_, to kick--_calx_, _calcis_, the heel.]

RECALESCE, r[=e]-kal-es', _v.t._ to show anew a state of glowing
heat.--_n._ RECALES'CENCE (_phys._), a peculiar behaviour of iron when
cooling from a white-heat. At 1000°, e.g., it glows more brilliantly for a
short time. [L. _re-_, again, _calesc[)e]re_, to grow hot.]

RECALL, r[=e]-kawl', _v.t._ to call back: to command to return: to revoke:
to call back to mind.--_n._ act of recalling or revoking: a signal to
soldiers to return.--_adj._ RECALL'ABLE, capable of being recalled.--_n._
RECAL'MENT, revocation.

RECANT, r[=e]-kant', _v.t._ to withdraw (a former declaration): to
retract.--_v.i._ to revoke a former declaration: to unsay what has been
said, esp. to declare one's renunciation of a religious belief which one
formerly maintained.--_ns._ R[=E]CANT[=A]'TION, act of recanting: a
declaration contradicting a former one; R[=E]CANT'ER.

RECAPITULATE, r[=e]-ka-pit'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to go over again the chief
points of anything.--_n._ RECAPIT[=U]L[=A]'TION, act of recapitulating: a
summary of the main points of a preceding speech, treatise, &c.--_adjs._
RECAPIT'[=U]L[=A]TIVE; RECAPIT'[=U]L[=A]TORY, repeating again: containing a
recapitulation. [L. _recapitul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_re-_, again,
_capitulum_--caput, head.]

RECAPTION, r[=e]-kap'shun, _n._ reprisal: (_law_) taking back goods, wife,
or children from one who has no right to detain them.

RECAPTURE, r[=e]-kap't[=u]r, _v.t._ to capture back or retake, esp. a prize
from a captor.--_n._ act of retaking: a prize recaptured.--_n._ RECAP'TOR.

RECARBURISE, r[=e]-kär'b[=u]-r[=i]z, _v.t._ to restore the carbon to metal
from which it has been removed.--_n._ RECARBONIS[=A]'TION.

RECARNIFY, r[=e]-kär'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ to convert again into flesh. [L.
_re-_, again, _carnify_, to change into flesh.]

RECARRY, r[=e]-kar'i, _v.t._ to carry back or anew.--_n._ RECARR'IAGE.

RECAST, r[=e]-kast', _v.t._ to cast or throw again: to cast or mould anew:
to compute a second time.--_n._ a moulding or shaping anew, as of a book.

RECEDE, r[=e]-s[=e]d', _v.i._ to go or fall back: to retreat: to bend or
tend in a backward direction: to withdraw: to give up a claim.--_v.t._ to
cede back, as to a former possessor.--_adj._ RECED'ING, sloping backward.
[L. _reced[)e]re_, recessum--_re-_, back, _ced[)e]re_, to go.]

RECEIPT, r[=e]-s[=e]t', _n._ act of receiving: place of receiving: power of
holding: a written acknowledgment of anything received, a legal
acknowledgment of money received in discharge of a debt or demand: that
which is received: a recipe in cookery.--_v.t._ to give a receipt for: to
sign: to discharge.--_adj._ RECEIPT'ABLE, that may be receipted.--_ns._
RECEIPT'-BOOK, a book containing receipts; RECEIPT'OR, one who gives a
receipt. [O. Fr. _recete_ (Fr. _recette_)--L. _recipere_, _receptum_.]

RECEIVE, r[=e]-s[=e]v', _v.t._ to take what is offered: to accept: to
embrace with the mind: to assent to: to allow: to give acceptance to: to
give admittance to: to welcome or entertain: to hold or contain: (_law_) to
take goods knowing them to be stolen: (_B._) to bear with, to believe
in.--_v.i._ to be a recipient: to hold a reception of visitors.--_n._
RECEIVABIL'ITY, RECEIV'ABLENESS, the quality of being receivable.--_adj._
RECEIV'ABLE, that may be received: a waiting payment, as bills
receivable.--_ns._ RECEIV'EDNESS, the state or quality of being received or
current; RECEIV'ER, one who receives: an officer who receives taxes: a
person appointed by a court to hold and manage property which is under
litigation, or receive the rents of land, &c.: one who receives stolen
goods: (_chem._) a vessel for receiving and holding the products of
distillation, or for containing gases: the glass vessel of an air-pump in
which the vacuum is formed: the receiving part of a telegraph, telephone,
&c.; RECEIV'ER-GEN'ERAL, an officer who receives the public revenue;
RECEIV'ERSHIP, the office of a receiver; RECEIV'ING, the act of receiving;
RECEIV'ING-HOUSE, a depôt: a house where letters and parcels are left for
transmission; RECEIV'ING-IN'STRUMENT, an appliance by which operators at
two telegraph stations can communicate; RECEIV'ING-OFF'ICE, a branch
post-office for receipt of letters, &c.; RECEIV'ING-SHIP, a stationary ship
for recruits for the navy. [O. Fr. _recever_ (Fr. _recevoir_)--L.
_recip[)e]re_, _receptum_--_re-_, back, cap[)e]re, to take.]

RECELEBRATE, r[=e]-sel'[=e]-br[=a]t, _v.t._ to celebrate again.

RECENCY, r[=e]'sen-si, _n._ newness. [_Recent_.]

RECENSION, r[=e]-sen'shun, _n._ a critical revisal of a text: a text
established by critical revision: a review.--_n._ RECEN'SIONIST. [L.
_recensio_--_recens[=e]re_--_re-_, again, _cens[=e]re_, to value.]

RECENT, r[=e]'sent, _adj._ of late origin or occurrence: fresh: modern:
(_geol._) belonging to the present geological period.--_adv._
R[=E]'CENTLY.--_n._ R[=E]'CENTNESS. [Fr.,--L. _recens_, _recentis_.]

RECEPTACLE, r[=e]-sep'ta-kl, _n._ that into which anything is received or
in which it is contained: (_bot._) the basis of a flower: (_zool._) an
organ that receives and holds a secretion.--_n._ R[=E]'CEPT, an idea taken
into the mind from without.--_adj._ RECEPTAC'ULAR (_bot._), pertaining to
or serving as a receptacle.--_n._ RECEPTIBIL'ITY, receivability.--_adj._
RECEPT'IBLE, receivable.--_ns._ RECEP'TION, the act of receiving:
admission: state of being received: acceptance: a receiving officially:
(_Milt._) capacity for receiving: a receiving of guests for entertainment:
welcome: treatment at first coming; RECEP'TION-ROOM.--_adj._ RECEPT'IVE,
having the quality of receiving or containing: (_phil._) capable of
receiving, or quick to receive, impressions.--_ns._ RECEPT'IVENESS;
RECEPTIV'ITY, quality of being receptive. [L. _recip[)e]re_, _receptum_, to
receive.]

RECESS, r[=e]-ses', _n._ a going back or withdrawing: retirement:
seclusion: a period of remission of business: part of a room formed by a
receding of the wall: a retired spot: a nook: a sinus or depressed
par.--_v.t._ to make a recess in: to put into a recess.--_adj._ RECESSED',
having a recess.--RECESSED ARCH, one arch within another. [_Recede_.]

RECESSION, r[=e]-sesh'un, _n._ act of receding: withdrawal: the state of
being set back.--_adjs._ RECES'SIONAL; RECESS'IVE.--_adv._
RECESS'IVELY.--_n._ RECESS'US, a recess.

RECESSION, r[=e]-sesh'un, _n._ a ceding or giving back.

RECHABITE, rek'a-b[=i]t, _n._ one of the descendants of Jonadab, the son of
_Rechab_, who abstained from drinking wine, in obedience to the injunction
of their ancestor (Jer. xxxv. 6): a total abstainer from intoxicating
drinks: a member of the Rechabite order of total abstainers.--_n._
RECH'ABITISM.

RÉCHAUFFÉ, r[=a]-sh[=o]-f[=a]', _n._ a warmed-up dish: a fresh concoction
of old literary material. [Fr.]

RECHEAT, r[=e]-ch[=e]t', _n._ (_Shak._) a recall on the horn when the
hounds have lost the scent, or at the end of the chase. [O. Fr. _recet_.]

RECHERCHÉ, r[=e]-sher'sh[=a], _adj._ extremely nice: peculiar and refined:
rare. [Fr.]

RECHLESSE, rek'les, _adj._ Same as RECKLESS.

RECHRISTEN, r[=e]-kris'n, _v.t._ to name again.

RECIDIVATE, r[=e]-sid'i-v[=a]t, _v.i._ to fall again: to backslide.--_ns._
RECIDIV[=A]'TION; RECID'IVIST (_Fr. law_), a relapsed criminal.--_adj._
RECID'IVOUS, liable to backslide. [Fr.,--L. _recid[=i]vus_, falling back.]

RECIPE, res'i-p[=e], _n._ a medical prescription: any formula for the
preparation of a compound: a receipt:--_pl._ RECIPES (res'i-p[=e]z). [L.,
lit. 'take,' the first word of a medical prescription, imper. of
_recip[)e]re_.]

RECIPIENT, r[=e]-sip'i-ent, _adj._ receiving.--_n._ one who receives, that
which receives.--_ns._ RECIP'IENCE, RECIP'IENCY, a receiving:
receptiveness. [L. _recipiens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _recip[)e]re_, to
receive.]

RECIPROCAL, r[=e]-sip'r[=o]-kal, _adj._ acting in return: mutual:
alternating: interchangeable: giving and receiving.--_n._ that which is
reciprocal: (_math._) the quotient resulting from the division of unity by
any given quantity.--_n._ RECIPROCAL'ITY, the state or quality of being
reciprocal: mutual return.--_adv._ RECIP'ROCALLY, mutually:
interchangeably: inversely.--_ns._ RECIP'ROCALNESS; RECIP'ROCANT (_math._),
a contravariant expressing a certain condition of tangency: a differential
invariant.--_adj._ RECIP'ROCANTIVE, relating to a reciprocant.--_v.t._
RECIP'ROC[=A]TE, to give and receive mutually: to requite: to interchange:
to alternate.--_v.i._ to move backward and forward: (_coll._) to make a
return or response.--_ns._ RECIP'ROCATING-EN'GINE, an engine in which the
piston moves forward and backward in a straight line; RECIPROC[=A]'TION,
interchange of acts: alternation.--_adj._ RECIP'ROC[=A]TIVE, acting
reciprocally.--_n._ RECIPROC'ITY, mutual obligations: action and reaction:
equality of commercial privileges.--_adjs._ REC'IPROCK, REC'IPROQUE
(_Bacon_), reciprocal; RECIP'ROCOUS (_rare_), turning back:
reciprocal.--RECIPROCAL PROPORTION is when, of four terms taken in order,
the first has to the second the same ratio which the fourth has to the
third; RECIPROCAL RATIO, the ratio of the reciprocals of two quantities;
RECIPROCAL TERMS, those that have the same signification and consequently
are convertible; RECIPROCATING MOTION, by this the power is transmitted
from one part of a machine to another. [L. _reciprocus._]

RECIPROCORNOUS, r[=e]-sip'r[=o]-kor-nus, _adj._ having horns like a ram.

RECISION, r[=e]-sizh'un, _n._ the act of cutting off.
[Fr.,--L.,--_recid[)e]re_, _recisum_, to cut off.]

RECITE, r[=e]-s[=i]t', _v.t._ to read aloud from paper, or repeat from
memory: to narrate: to give the particulars of.--_v.i._ to rehearse in
public.--_ns._ REC[=I]'TAL, act of reciting: rehearsal: that which is
recited: a narration: a vocal or instrumental performance, as a piano
recital: (_law_) that part of a deed which recites the circumstances;
RECITATION (res-i-t[=a]'shun), act of reciting: a public reading:
rehearsal; RECIT[=A]'TIONIST, a public reciter; RECITATIVE (-t[=e]v'),
(_mus._) a style of song resembling declamation, a kind of union of song
and speech.--_adj._ in the style of recitative.--_adv._ RECITATIVE'LY, in
the manner of recitative.--_ns._ RECITATI'VO (_mus._), recitative;
RECIT'ER; RECIT'ING-NOTE, a note in chanting on which several syllables are
sung. [Fr. _réciter_--L. _recit[=a]re_--L. _re-_, again, _cit[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to call.]

RECK, rek, _v.t._ to care for: to regard.--_v.i._ (usually with _not_, and
fol. by _of_) care: heed.--_adj._ RECK'LESS, careless: heedless of
consequences: rash.--_adv._ RECK'LESSLY.--_ns._ RECK'LESSNESS; RECK'LING, a
reckless person: the weakest in a litter: a helpless babe.--_adj._
stunted.--IT RECKS (_Milt._), it concerns. [A.S. _récan_, from a root seen
in Old High Ger. _ruoh_, care, Ger. _ruchlos_, regardless.]

RECKON, rek'n, _v.t._ to count: to place in the number or rank of: to
esteem: to think, believe.--_v.i._ to calculate: to charge to account: to
make up accounts: to settle accounts (fol. by _with_): to count or rely
(with _on_ or _upon_): to have an impression: to think: to suppose.--_ns._
RECK'ONER; RECK'ONING, an account of time: settlement of accounts, &c.:
charges for entertainment: standing as to rank: (_naut._) a calculation of
the ship's position: (_B._) estimation: value.--RECKON FOR, to be
answerable for; RECKON ON, or UPON, to count or depend upon; RECKON WITHOUT
HIS HOST (see HOST).--DAY OF RECKONING, the day when an account must be
given and a settlement made: the judgment-day. [A.S. _ge-recenian_, to
explain; Ger. _rechnen_.]

RECLAIM, r[=e]-kl[=a]m', _v.t._ to demand the return of: to regain: to
bring back from a wild or barbarous state, or from error or vice: to bring
into a state of cultivation: to bring into the desired condition: to make
tame or gentle: to reform.--_v.i._ to cry out or exclaim: (_Scots law_) to
appeal from the Lord Ordinary to the inner house of the Court of
Session.--_adj._ RECLAIM'ABLE, that may be reclaimed or reformed.--_adv._
RECLAIM'ABLY.--_ns._ RECLAIM'ANT, one who reclaims; RECLAM[=A]'TION, act of
reclaiming: state of being reclaimed, as of waste land: demand: recovery.
[Fr.,--L. _re-_, again, _clam[=a]re_, to cry out.]

RECLASP, r[=e]-klasp', _v.t._ to clasp again.

RECLINATE, rek'li-n[=a]t, _adj._ reclined: (_bot._) bent downward, so as to
have the point lower than the base, as a leaf.--_n._ RECLIN[=A]'TION, the
act of reclining or leaning: the angle which the plane of a dial makes with
a vertical plane, the intersection being a horizontal line: an operation in
surgery for the cure of cataract. [L. _reclin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
recline.]

RECLINE, r[=e]-kl[=i]n', _v.t._ to lean or bend backwards: to lean to or on
one side.--_v.i._ to lean: to rest or repose.--_adjs._ RECLINE' (_Milt._),
leaning; RECLINED' (_bot._), same as RECLINATE.--_n._ RECL[=I]'NER.--_adj._
RECL[=I]'NING (_bot._), bending away from the perpendicular:
recumbent.--_ns._ RECL[=I]'NING-BOARD, a board on which persons recline to
gain erectness to the figure; RECL[=I]'NING-CHAIR, an invalid's chair.
[Fr.,--L. _reclin[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _clin[=a]re_, to bend.]

RECLOSE, r[=e]-kl[=o]z', _v.t._ to close again.

RECLOTHE, r[=e]-kl[=o]th, _v.t._ to clothe again.

RECLUSE, r[=e]-kl[=oo]s', _adj._ secluded: retired: solitary.--_n._ one
shut up or secluded: one who lives retired from the world: a religious
devotee living in a single cell, generally attached to a monastery.--_adv._
RECLUSE'LY, in retirement or seclusion from society.--_ns._ RECLUSE'NESS,
seclusion from society: retirement; RECLU'SION, religious retirement or
seclusion: the life of a recluse.--_adj._ RECLU'SIVE (_Shak._), affording
retirement or seclusion.--_n._ RECLU'SORY, a recluse's cell. [Fr.,--L.
_reclusus_, pa.p. of _reclud[)e]re_, to open, shut away--_re-_, away,
_claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

RECOCT, r[=e]-kokt', _v.t._ to cook anew, to vamp up.--_n._ RECOC'TION.

RECOGNISE, rek'og-n[=i]z, _v.t._ to know again: to recollect: to
acknowledge: to see the truth of.--_adj._ REC'OGNISABLE, that may be
recognised or acknowledged.--_adv._ REC'OGNISABLY, in a recognisable
manner.--_ns._ RECOG'NISANCE, a recognition: an avowal: a profession: a
legal obligation entered into before a magistrate to do, or not do, some
particular act: to enter into recognisances; REC'OGNISER, one who
recognises; RECOGNI'TION, act of recognising: state of being recognised:
recollection: avowal: (_Scots law_) a return of the feu to the
superior.--_adjs._ RECOG'NITIVE,  RECOG'NITORY. [L.
_recognosc[)e]re_--_re-_, again, _cognosc[)e]re_, to know.]

RECOIL, r[=e]-koil', _v.t._ to start back: to rebound: to return: to shrink
from.--_n._ a starting or springing back: rebound: an escapement in which
after each beat the escape-wheel recoils slightly.--_n._ RECOIL'ER, one who
recoils.--_adj._ RECOIL'ING.--_adv._ RECOIL'INGLY.--_n._ RECOIL'MENT. [Fr.
_reculer_--L. _re-_, back, Fr. _cul_, the hinder part--L. _culus_.]

RECOIN, r[=e]-koin', _v.t._ to coin over again.--_ns._ RECOIN'AGE;
RECOIN'ER.

RECOLLECT, r[=e]-kol-ekt', _v.t._ to collect again.

RECOLLECT, rek-ol-ekt', _v.t._ to remember: to recover composure or
resolution (with reflex. pron.).--_n._ RECOLLEC'TION, act of recollecting
or remembering: the power of recollecting: memory: that which is
recollected: reminiscence.--_adj._ RECOLLEC'TIVE, having the power of
recollecting.

RECOLLECT, rek'ol-ekt, _n._ a member of a congregation of a monastic order
following a very strict rule--mostly of the Franciscan order forming a
branch of the Observantines.--Also REC'OLLET.

RECOMBINE, r[=e]-kom-b[=i]n', _v.t._ to combine again.--_n._
RECOMBIN[=A]'TION.

RECOMFORT, r[=e]-kum'furt, _v.t._ to comfort or console again: (_Bacon_) to
give new strength.--_adj._ RECOM'FORTLESS (_Spens._), comfortless.--_n._
RECOM'FORTURE (_Shak._), restoration of comfort.

RECOMMENCE, r[=e]-kom-ens', _v.t._ to commence again.--_n._
RECOMMENCE'MENT.

RECOMMEND, rek-o-mend', _v.t._ to commend to another: to bestow praise on:
to introduce favourably: to give in charge: to commit, as in prayer: to
advise.--_adj._ RECOMMEND'ABLE, that may be recommended: worthy of
praise.--_n._ RECOMMEND'ABLENESS, the quality of being
recommendable.--_adv._ RECOMMEND'ABLY, so as to deserve
recommendation.--_n._ RECOMMEND[=A]'TION, act of recommending: act of
introducing with commendation: repute: letter of recommendation.--_adj._
RECOMMEND'[=A]TORY, that recommends: commendatory.--_n._ RECOMMEND'ER, one
who, or that which, recommends.

RECOMMIT, r[=e]-kom-it', _v.t._ to commit again: particularly, to send back
to a committee.--_ns._ RECOMMIT'MENT, RECOMMIT'TAL.

RECOMMUNICATE, r[=e]-kom-[=u]n'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to communicate
again.

RECOMPACT, r[=e]-kom-pakt', _v.t._ to join anew.

RECOMPENSE, rek'om-pens, _v.t._ to return an equivalent for anything: to
repay or requite: to reward: to compensate: to remunerate.--_n._ that which
is returned as an equivalent: repayment: reward: compensation:
remuneration.--_n._ REC'OMPENSER. [Fr. _récompenser_--L. _re-_, again,
_compens[=a]re_, to compensate.]

RECOMPILE, r[=e]-kom-p[=i]l', _v.t._ to compile anew.--_ns._
RECOMPIL[=A]'TION, RECOMPILE'MENT, a new compilation.

RECOMPLETE, r[=e]-kom-pl[=e]t', _v.t._ to complete anew.--_n._
RECOMPL[=E]'TION.

RECOMPOSE, r[=e]-kom-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to compose again or anew: to form
anew: to soothe or quiet.--_ns._ RECOMPOS'ER; RECOMPOSI'TION.

RECONCILE, rek'on-s[=i]l, _v.t._ to restore to friendship or union: to
bring to agreement: to bring to contentment: to pacify: to make consistent:
to adjust or compose.--_adj._ REC'ONCILABLE, that may be reconciled: that
may be made to agree: consistent.--_n._ REC'ONCILABLENESS, possibility of
being reconciled: consistency: harmony.--_adv._ REC'ONCILABLY, in a
reconcilable manner.--_ns._ REC'ONCILER; RECONCILI[=A]'TION,
REC'ONCILEMENT, act of reconciling: state of being reconciled: renewal of
friendship: propitiation: atonement: the bringing to agreement things at
variance.--_adj._ RECONCIL'IATORY, serving or tending to reconcile. [Fr.
_réconcilier_--L. _re-_, again, _concili[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to call
together.]

RECONDENSE, r[=e]-kon-dens', _v.t._ to condense again.--_n._
RECONDENS[=A]'TION.

RECONDITE, r[=e]-kon'dit, or rek'on-d[=i]t, _adj._ secret: abstruse:
profound.--_ns._ RECONDITE'NESS; RECON'DITORY, a storehouse. [L.
_recond[)e]re_, _-itum_, to put away--_re-_, again, _cond[)e]re_, to put
together.]

RECONDUCT, r[=e]-kon-dukt', _v.t._ to conduct back or anew.

RECONFIRM, r[=e]-kon-f[.e]rm', _v.t._ to confirm again.

RECONJOIN, r[=e]-kon-join', _v.t._ to join anew.

RECONNAISSANCE, re-kon'i-sans, _n._ the act of reconnoitring: a survey or
examination: the examination of a tract of country with a view to military
or engineering operations.--RECONNAISSANCE IN FORCE, an attack by a body of
troops to discover the strength of the enemy. [Fr.]

RECONNOITRE, rek-o-noi't[.e]r, _v.t._ to survey or examine: to survey with
a view to military operations.--_v.i._ to make preliminary
examination:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ reconnoi'tred.--_n._ a preliminary
survey. [O. Fr. _reconoistre_ (Fr. _reconnaître_)--L. _recognosc[)e]re_, to
recognise.]

RECONQUER, r[=e]-kong'k[.e]r, _v.t._ to conquer again: to recover: to
regain.--_n._ RECON'QUEST.

RECONSECRATE, r[=e]-kon's[=e]-kr[=a]t, _v.t._ to consecrate anew.--_n._
RECONSECR[=A]'TION.

RECONSIDER, r[=e]-kon-sid'[.e]r, _v.t._ to consider again, as to reconsider
a motion or vote: to review.--_n._ RECONSIDER[=A]'TION.

RECONSOLATE, r[=e]-kon's[=o]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ (_obs._) to comfort again.

RECONSOLIDATE, r[=e]-kon-sol'i-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to consolidate anew.--_n._
RECONSOLID[=A]'TION.

RECONSTITUTE, r[=e]-kon'sti-t[=u]t, _v.t._ to construct anew.--_adj._
RECONSTIT'[=U]ENT.--_n._ RECONSTIT[=U]'TION.

RECONSTRUCT, r[=e]-kon-strukt', _v.t._ to construct again: to
rebuild.--_n._ RECONSTRUC'TION.--_adj._ RECONSTRUC'TIONARY.--_n._
RECONSTRUC'TIONIST.--_adj._ RECONSTRUC'TIVE, able or tending to
reconstruct.

RECONTINUE, r[=e]-kon-tin'[=u], _v.t._ and _v.i._ to continue anew.--_n._
RECONTIN'[=U]ANCE.

RECONVALESCENCE, r[=e]-kon-val-es'ens, _n._ restoration to health.

RECONVENE, r[=e]-kon-v[=e]n', _v.t._ to convene or call together
again.--_v.i._ to come together again.

RECONVENT, r[=e]-kon-vent', _v.t._ to assemble together again.--_n._
RECONVEN'TION, a counter-action by a defendant against a plaintiff.

RECONVERT, r[=e]-kon-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to convert again.--_n._
RECONVER'SION.

RECONVEY, r[=e]-kon-v[=a]', _v.t._ to transfer back to a former owner, as
an estate.--_n._ RECONVEY'ANCE.

RECORD, r[=e]-kord', _v.t._ to write anything formally, to preserve
evidence of it: to bear witness to: to register or enrol: to
celebrate.--_adj._ RECORD'ABLE, able to be recorded, worthy of
record.--_ns._ RECORD[=A]'TION (_Shak._), remembrance; RECORD'ER, one who
records or registers, esp. the rolls, &c., of a city: a judge of a city or
borough court of quarter-sessions: an old musical instrument somewhat like
a flageolet, but with the lower part wider than the upper, and a mouthpiece
resembling the beak of a bird: a registering apparatus in telegraphy;
RECORD'ERSHIP, the office of recorder, or the time of holding it. [O. Fr.
_recorder_--L. _record[=a]re_, to call to mind--_re-_, again, _cor_,
_cordis_, the heart.]

RECORD, rek'ord, _n._ a register: a formal writing of any fact or
proceeding: a book of such writings: a witness, a memorial: memory,
remembrance: anything entered in the rolls of a court, esp. the formal
statements or pleadings of parties in a litigation.--_n._ REC'ORD-OFF'ICE,
a place where public records are kept.--BEAT, or BREAK, THE RECORD, to
outdo the highest achievement yet done; CLOSE THE RECORD, an act of a
Scottish judge after each party has said all he wishes to say by way of
statement and answer; PUBLIC RECORDS, contemporary authenticated statements
of the proceedings of the legislature, and the judgments of those higher
courts of law known as Courts of Record; TRIAL BY RECORD, a common law mode
of trial when a disputed former decision of the court is settled by
producing the record.

RECOUNT, r[=e]-kownt', _v.t._ to count again: to tell over again: to
narrate the particulars of: to detail.--_n._ a second or repeated
count.--_ns._ RECOUNT'AL, RECOUNT'MENT, relation in detail, recital. [O.
Fr. _reconter_--_re-_, again, _conter_, to tell.]

RECOUP, r[=e]-k[=oo]p', _v.t._ to make good: to indemnify.--_adj._ RECOUPÉ
(_her._), divided a second time.--_n._ RECOUP'MENT, reimbursement: (_law_)
reduction of the plaintiff's damages by keeping out a part. [Fr.
_recouper_, to cut again--_re-_, again, _couper_, to cut, _coup_, a
stroke--Low L. _colpus_--L. _colaphus_.]

RECOURE, r[=e]-k[=oo]r', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to recover.

RECOURSE, r[=e]-k[=o]rs', _n._ a going to for aid or protection:
access.--_v.i._ to return.--_adj._ RECOURSE'FUL, returning. [Fr.
_recours_--L. _recursus_--_re-_, back, _curr[)e]re_, _cursum_, to run.]

RECOVER, r[=e]-kuv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to cover again.

RECOVER, r[=e]-kuv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to get possession of again: to make up
for: to retrieve: to cure: to revive: to bring back to any former state: to
rescue: to obtain as compensation: to obtain for injury or debt: to
reconcile.--_v.i._ to regain health: to regain any former state: (_law_) to
obtain a judgment.--_n._ recovery: the forward movement in rowing, after
one stroke to take another.--_n._ RECOVERABIL'ITY, the state of being
recoverable.--_adj._ RECOV'ERABLE, that may be recovered or regained:
capable of being brought to a former condition.--_ns._ RECOV'ERABLENESS,
the state of being recoverable: capability of being recovered; RECOVEREE',
one against whom a judgment is obtained in common recovery; RECOV'ERER, one
who recovers; RECOV'EROR, one who recovers a judgment in common recovery;
RECOV'ERY, the act of recovering: the act of regaining anything lost:
restoration to health or to any former state: the power of recovering
anything: (_law_) a verdict giving right to the recovery of debts or costs.
[O. Fr. _recovrer_--L. _recuper[=a]re_--_re-_, again, and Sabine _cuprus_,
good; some suggest _cup[)e]re_, to desire.]

RECREANT, rek'r[=e]-ant, _adj._ cowardly: false: apostate: renegade.--_n._
a mean-spirited wretch: an apostate: a renegade.--_n._ REC'R[=E]ANCY, the
quality of a recreant: a yielding, mean, cowardly spirit.--_adv._
REC'R[=E]ANTLY. [O. Fr., pr.p. of _recroire_, to change belief--Low L.
(_se_) _re-cred[)e]re_, to own one's self beaten--L. _re-_, again,
_cred[)e]re_, to believe.]

RECREATE, rek'r[=e]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to revive: to reanimate: to cheer or
amuse: to refresh: to delight.--_v.i._ to take recreation.--_n._
RECRE[=A]'TION, the act of recreating or state of being recreated:
refreshment after toil, sorrow, &c.: diversion: amusement: sport.--_adjs._
RECRE[=A]'TIONAL, REC'RE[=A]TIVE, serving to recreate or refresh: giving
relief in weariness, &c.: amusing.--_adv._ REC'RE[=A]TIVELY, so as to
afford recreation or diversion.--_n._ REC'RE[=A]TIVENESS, the quality of
being refreshing or amusing.

RECREMENT, rek'r[=e]-ment, _n._ superfluous matter: dross.--_adjs._
RECREMENT'AL, RECREMENTI'TIAL, RECREMENTI'TIOUS. [L. _recrementum_, dross.]

RECRIMINATE, r[=e]-krim'in-[=a]t, _v.t._ to criminate or accuse in
return.--_v.i._ to charge an accuser with a similar crime.--_n._
RECRIMIN[=A]'TION, the act of recriminating or returning one accusation by
another: a countercharge or accusation.--_adjs._ RECRIM'IN[=A]TIVE,
RECRIM'IN[=A]TORY, recriminating or retorting accusations or charges.--_n._
RECRIM'IN[=A]TOR, one who recriminates.

RECROSS, r[=e]-kros', _v.t._ to cross again.--_adj._ RECROSSED' (_her._),
having the ends crossed.

RECRUCIFY, r[=e]-kr[=oo]s'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to crucify anew.

RECRUDESCENT, r[=e]-kr[=oo]-des'ent, _adj._ growing sore or painful
again.--_v.i._ RECRUDESCE', to become raw again: to be renewed.--_ns._
RECRUDES'CENCE, RECRU'DENCY, RECRUDES'CENCY, the state of becoming sore
again: a state of relapse: (_med._) increased activity after recovery:
(_bot._) the production of a fresh shoot from a ripened spike. [L.
_recrudescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _recrudesc[)e]re_, to become raw
again--_re-_, again, _crudesc[)e]re_, to become raw--_crudis_, crude.]

RECRUIT, r[=e]-kr[=oo]t', _v.i._ to obtain fresh supplies: to recover in
health, &c.: to enlist new soldiers.--_v.t._ to repair: to supply: to
supply with recruits.--_n._ the supply of any want: a substitute for
something wanting: a newly enlisted soldier.--_ns._ RECRUIT'AL, renewed
supply; RECRUIT'ER.--_adj._ RECRUIT'ING, obtaining new supplies: enlisting
recruits.--_n._ the business of obtaining new supplies or enlisting new
soldiers.--_ns._ RECRUIT'ING-GROUND, a place where recruits may be
obtained; RECRUIT'ING-PAR'TY, a party of soldiers engaged in enlisting
recruits; RECRUIT'ING-SER'GEANT, a sergeant who enlists recruits;
RECRUIT'MENT, the act, business, or employment of raising new supplies of
men for an army. [O. Fr. _recruter_--_re-_, _croître_--L.
_recresc[)e]re_--_re-_, again, _cresc[)e]re_, to grow.]

RECRYSTALLISATION, r[=e]-kris-tal-[=i]z-[=a]'shun, _n._ the process of
crystallising again.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ R[=E]CRYS'TALLISE.

RECTA, rek'ta, _n.pl._--_adj._ REC'TAL. See RECTUM.

RECTANGLE, rek'tang-gl, _n._ a four-sided figure with all its angles right
angles and its opposite sides equal.--_adjs._ REC'TANGLED, having right
angles; RECTANG'[=U]LAR, right-angled.--_n._ RECTANG[=U]LAR'ITY, the state
or quality of being right-angled.--_adv._ RECTANG'[=U]LARLY, with, or at,
right angles.--_n._ RECTANG'[=U]LARNESS.--RECTANGULAR HYPERBOLA, a
hyperbola whose asymptotes are at right angles to one another; RECTANGULAR
SOLID, a solid whose axis is perpendicular to its base. [Fr.,--L. _rectus_,
right, _angulus_, an angle.]

RECTIFY, rek'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make straight or right: to adjust: to
correct or redress: to purify by repeated crystallisation or sublimation,
or by distillations: (_math._) to determine the length of a curve included
between two limits: to prepare a sun-dial for an observation:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ rec'tified.--_adj._ RECTIF[=I]'ABLE, that may be rectified or set
right.--_ns._ RECTIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of rectifying or setting right:
the process of refining any substance by repeated distillation:
rectification of a globe, its adjustment preparatory to the solution of a
proposed problem; REC'TIFIER, one who corrects: one who refines a substance
by repeated distillation.--RECTIFY THE COURSE OF A VESSEL, to determine its
true course from indications of the ship's compass, and allowing for
magnetic variations, &c.; RECTIFY THE GLOBE, to bring the sun's place in
the ecliptic on a globe to the brass meridian. [Fr.,--L. _rectus_,
straight, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

RECTIGRADE, rek'ti-gr[=a]d, _adj._ walking straight forward. [L. _rectus_,
straight, _gradi_, to step.]

RECTILINEAL, rek-ti-lin'[=e]-al, _adj._ bounded by straight lines:
straight--also RECTILIN'EAR.--_adv._ RECTILIN'EALLY.--_n._ RECTILINEAR'ITY,
the state or quality of being right-lined.--_adv._ RECTILIN'EARLY, in a
right line.--_n._ RECTILIN'EARNESS. [L. _rectus_, straight, _linea_, a
line.]

RECTINERVED, rek'ti-nervd, _adj._ (_bot._) straight or parallel nerved.

RECTION, rek'shun, _n._ (_gram._) the influence of a word in regard to the
number, case, &c. of another word in a sentence.

RECTIPETALITY, rek-ti-pe-tal'i-ti, _n._ (_bot._) the natural tendency of
stems to grow in a straight line.

RECTIROSTRAL, rek'ti-ros'tral, _adj._ having a straight bill. [L. _rectus_,
straight, _rostrum_, a beak.]

RECTISERIAL, rek-ti-s[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ placed in a straight line: (_bot._)
arranged in one or more straight ranks.

RECTITIS, rek't[=i]-tis, _n._ inflammation of the rectum.--_adj._
RECTIT'IC.

RECTITUDE, rek'ti-t[=u]d, _n._ uprightness: correctness of principle or
practice: integrity: correctness. [Fr.,--L. _rectitudo_--_rectus_,
straight.]

RECTO, rek't[=o], _n._ (_print._) the right-hand page--opp. to _Reverso_ or
_Verso_: (_law_) a writ of right.

RECTOR, rek'tor, _n._ a ruler: in the Church of England, a clergyman who
has the charge and cure of a parish where the tithes are not impropriate,
and who accordingly has the whole right to the ecclesiastical dues therein:
a common name for all incumbents in the Episcopal churches of the United
States and (since 1890) Scotland: the head-master of a superior public
school in Scotland, Germany, &c.: the chief elective officer of certain
Scotch and French universities: the head of Lincoln and of Exeter Colleges,
Oxford, &c.: (_R.C._) an ecclesiastic in charge of a congregation, a
college, or religious house, esp. the head of a Jesuit seminary.--_adjs._
REC'TORAL, RECT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a rector or to a rectory--_ns._
REC'TORATE, REC'TORSHIP; REC'TORESS, a female rector: a governess;
REC'TORY, the province or mansion of a rector.--RECTOR MAGNIFICUS, the head
of a German university.--LAY RECTOR, a layman who enjoys the great tithes
of a parish; MISSIONARY RECTOR (_R.C._), a priest appointed to the charge
of some important mission in England. [L.,--_reg[)e]re_, _rectum_, to
rule.]

RECTRIX, rek'triks, _n._ one of the long tail-feathers of a bird, so called
because used in steering the bird in its flight:--_pl._ RECTRICES
(rek'tri-s[=e]z).

RECTUM, rek'tum, _n._ the lowest part of the large intestine:--_pl._
REC'TA.--_adj._ REC'TAL.--_ns._ REC'TOSCOPE, a speculum for rectal
examination; RECTOT'OMY, the operation for dividing a rectal
stricture.--_adjs._ REC'TO-UR[=E]'THRAL, pertaining to the rectum and to
the urethra; REC'TO-[=U]'TERINE, to the rectum and the uterus;
REC'TO-VAG'INAL, to the rectum and the vagina; REC'TO-VES'ICAL, to the
rectum and the bladder. [L. _rectus_, straight.]

RECTUS, rek'tus, _n._ a muscle so called from the straightness of its
course:--_pl._ REC'TI.

RECUBANT, rek'[=u]-bant, _adj._ reclining, recumbent--_n._ RECUB[=A]'TION.
[L. _recub[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to lie back.]

RECUIL, RECULE, r[=e]-k[=u]l' (_Spens._). Same as RECOIL.

RECULTIVATE, r[=e]-kul'ti-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to cultivate again.--_n._
RECULTIV[=A]'TION.

RECUMBENT, r[=e]-kum'bent, _adj._ lying back: reclining: idle.--_ns._
RECUM'BENCE, RECUM'BENCY.--_adv._ RECUM'BENTLY. [L. _recumb[)e]re_--_re-_,
back, _cub[=a]re_, to lie down.]

RECUPERATIVE, r[=e]-k[=u]'p[.e]r-a-tiv, _adj._ tending to recovery--also
REC[=U]'PERATORY.--_adj._ R[=E]C[=U]'PERABLE, recoverable.--_v.t._
REC[=U]'PER[=A]TE, to recover, to regain strength.--_ns._ RECUPER[=A]'TION,
recovery, as of something lost; REC[=U]'PER[=A]TOR, one who, or that which,
recuperates. [L. _recuperativus_--_recuper[=a]re_, to recover.]

RECUR, r[=e]-kur', _v.i._ to return, resort: to happen at a stated
interval:--_pr.p._ recur'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ recurred'.--_ns._
RECUR'RENCE, RECUR'RENCY, return.--_adj._ RECUR'RENT, returning at
intervals: (_anat._) running back in the opposite to a former direction:
(_entom._) turned back toward the base.--_adv._ RECUR'RENTLY.--RECURRING
DECIMAL, a decimal in which after a certain point the digits are
continually repeated--_repeating_, if but one recurring figure;
circulating, if more than one. [Fr.,--L. _recurr[)e]re_--_re-_, back,
_curr[)e]re_, to run.]

RECURE, r[=e]-k[=u]r', _v.t._ to cure again: to recover--also _n._--_adjs._
RECURE'FUL; RECURE'LESS, incurable.

RECURSANT, r[=e]-kur'sant, _adj._ (_her._) turned backwards, of an animal
with its back toward the spectator. [L. _re-_, back, _cursans_, _-antis_,
pr.p. of _curs[=a]re_, to run.]

RECURVE, r[=e]-kurv', _v.t._ to curve or bend back--also RECUR'VATE.--_ns._
RECURV[=A]'TION, RECUR'VITY, RECUR'VATURE, the act of recurving: the state
of being recurved: a bending backwards.--_adjs._ RECURVED';
RECURVIROS'TRAL, having a recurved bill; R[=E]CUR'VOUS, bent backward.

RECUSANT, rek'[=u]-zant, or r[=e]-k[=u]'zant, _adj._ obstinate in refusal,
esp. to comply with the Anglican ritual.--_n._ a nonconformist: one who
refuses to acknowledge the supremacy of the sovereign in religious
matters.--_ns._ REC'[=U]SANCE, REC'[=U]SANCY, state of being a recusant:
nonconformity, or its tenets; RECUS[=A]'TION.--_adj._ REC[=U]'SATIVE.
[Fr.,--L. _recusans_, pr.p. of _recus[=a]re_--_re-_, against, _causa_, a
cause.]

RECUSE, r[=e]-k[=u]z', _v.t._ (_law_) to reject.--_adj._ REC[=U]'SATIVE.

RECUSSION, r[=e]-kush'un, _n._ the act of beating or striking back. [L.
_recut[)e]re_, _recussum_, to beat back--_re-_, back, _quat[)e]re_, to
shake.]

RED, red, _adj._ (_comp._ RED'DER; _superl._ RED'DEST) of a colour like
blood: ultra-radical, revolutionary.--_n._ one of the primary colours, of
several shades, as scarlet, pink, carmine, vermilion, &c.: a red cent, the
smallest coin of the United States.--_adjs._ RED'-BACKED, having a red
back; RED'-BEAKED, -BILLED, having a red beak or bill; RED'-BELL'IED,
having the under parts red.--_n._ RED'-BELL'Y, the United States slider, a
terrapin: the Welsh torgoch, a char.--_adj._ RED'-BELT'ED, having a red
band or bands.--_n._ RED'-BIRD, the common European bullfinch: the United
States grosbeak, also the tanager.--_adj._ RED'-BLOOD'ED, having reddish
blood.--_ns._ RED'-BOOK, a book containing the names of all persons in the
service of the state: the peerage; RED'BREAST, a favourite song-bird, so
called from the red colour of its breast, the robin; RED'-BUD, the
Judas-tree of America; RED'-CABB'AGE, a variety of cabbage, with purplish
heads, used for pickling; RED'-CAP, a species of goldfinch, having a
conical crest of red feathers on the top of the head: a ghost with long
teeth who haunts some Scotch castles; RED'-CENT, a copper cent; RED'-CHALK,
-CLAY (see REDDLE); RED'-COAT, a British soldier, so called from his red
coat; RED'-COCK (_slang_), an incendiary fire; RED'-COR'AL, the most
important kind of coral in commerce, found off the coasts of Algiers and
Tunis and the Italian islands.--_adj._ RED'-CORPUS'CLED, having red
blood-discs.--_n._ RED'-CRAG, a division of the Pliocene.--_adjs._
RED'-CREST'ED, having a red crest; RED'-CROSS, wearing or distinguished by
a cross of a red colour.--_n._ the badge and flag adopted by every society,
of whatever nation, formed for the aid of the sick and wounded in time of
war, recognised by the military authorities of its own nation, and enjoying
certain privileges and immunities under the Convention of Geneva
(1864).--_n._ RED'-DEER, a species of deer which is reddish-brown in
summer: the common stag.--_v.t._ RED'DEN, to make red.--_v.i._ to grow red:
to blush.--_adj._ RED'DISH, somewhat red: moderately red.--_ns._
RED'DISHNESS; RED'-DOG, the lowest grade of flour in high milling;
RED'-DRUM, the southern red-fish, or red-bass, of the southern Atlantic
coast of the United States; RED'-EARTH, the reddish loam frequently found
in regions composed of limestones; RED'-EYE, or RUDD, a fresh-water fish of
the same genus as the roach, chub, and minnow.--_adjs._ RED'-FACED
(_Shak._), having a red face; RED'-FIG'URED, relating to an ancient Greek
ceramic ware, in which a black glaze was painted over the surface so as to
leave the design in the red of the body.--_n._ RED'-GUM, strophulus, a skin
disease usually occurring in infants about the time of teething, and
consisting of minute red pimples with occasional red patches.--_adjs._
RED'-HAIRED, RED'-HEAD'ED, having red hair.--_n._ RED'-HAND, a bloody hand:
(_her._) a sinister hand, erect, open, and 'couped,' the distinguishing
badge of baronets.--_adj._ RED'-HAND'ED, in the very act, as if with bloody
hands.--_n._ RED'-HEAD, a person with red hair: the pochard, a red-headed
duck.--_adj._ RED'-HOT, heated to redness.--_ns._ RED'-LAC, the Japan
wax-tree; RED'-LATT'ICE (_Shak._), an alehouse window, then usually painted
red; RED'-LEAD, a preparation of lead of a fine red colour, used in
painting, &c.--_adj._ RED'-LEGGED, having red legs or feet, as a
bird.--_n._ RED'-LEGS, the European red-legged partridge: the turnstone:
the red-shank: (_bot._) the bistort.--_adj._ RED'-LETT'ER, having red
letters: auspicious or fortunate, as a day, the holidays or saints' days
being indicated by red letters in the old calendars.--_n._ RED'-LIQ'UOR, a
crude aluminium acetate, used as a mordant in calico-printing.--_adjs._
RED'-LITT'EN, showing a red light; RED'-LOOKED (_Shak._), having a red
look.--_adv._ RED'LY.--_adj._ RED'-MAD (_prov._), quite mad.--_n._
RED'-MET'AL, one of several alloys of copper used in silver-ware: a
Japanese alloy used in decorative metal-work.--_adj._ RED'-NECKED, having a
red neck.--_n._ RED'NESS.--_adjs._ RED'-NOSE, -NOSED, having a red nose,
like a habitual drunkard.--_ns._ RED'-OAK, an oak with heavy and durable
reddish wood, rising to ninety feet high in eastern North America;
RED'-PLAGUE, a form of the plague marked by a red spot or bubo; RED'-POLL,
a small northern finch: the common European linnet: the North American
palm-warbler.--_adjs._ RED'-POLLED; RED'-RIBBED (_Tenn._), having red
ribs.--_ns._ RED'-ROOT, a genus of plants of the natural order
_Rhamnaceæ_--_New Jersey Tea_; REDS, or RED REPUBLICANS (see REPUBLIC);
RED'-SAUN'DERS, the sliced or rasped heart-wood of _Pterocarpus
santalinus_, used for giving colour to alcoholic liquors &c.--_v.i._
RED'SEAR, to break when too hot.--_ns._ RED'SEED, small crustaceans which
float on the sea; RED'-SHANK, an aquatic bird of the snipe family, with
legs of a bright-red colour: a name given in ridicule to the Scottish
Highlanders, and to the Irish.--_adj._ RED'-SHORT, noting iron that is
brittle at red-heat.--_ns._ RED'-SHORT'NESS; RED'SKIN, a Red Indian;
RED'-STAFF, a miller's straight-edge, used in dressing millstones;
RED'START, a bird belonging to the family of the warblers, appearing in
Britain as a summer bird of passage; RED'STREAK, an apple, so called from
the colour of its skin; RED'-TAIL, the red-tailed buzzard, one of the
commonest hawks of North America.--_adj._ RED'-TAILED (_Shak._), having a
red tail.--_ns._ RED'-THRUSH, the red-wing; RED'-TOP, a kind of bent grass;
RED'-WA'TER, a disease of cattle, named from the urine being reddened with
the red globules of the blood.--_adj._ RED'-WAT'-SHOD (_Scot._), walking in
blood over the shoes.--_ns._ RED'-WEED, the common poppy; RED'-WING, a
species of thrush well known in Britain as a winter bird of passage, having
an exquisite, clear, flute-like song; RED'WOOD, a Californian timber-tree,
growing to nearly three hundred feet high.--_adj._ RED'-WUD (_Scot._),
stark mad.--RED-CROSS KNIGHT, a knight having on his shield a red cross;
RED ENSIGN, the British flag for all vessels not belonging to the navy,
consisting of a plain red flag, having the canton filled by the Union-jack
(before 1864 also the special flag of the Red Squadron); RED-GUM TREE, a
species of Eucalyptus attaining the height of 200 feet; RED PHEASANT, a
tragopan; RED SNOW, snow coloured by the minute alga _Protococcus nivalis_,
found in large patches in arctic and alpine regions.--INDIAN RED, a
permanent red pigment, orig. a natural earth rich in oxide of iron, now
prepared artificially.--ROYAL RED CROSS, a decoration for nurses,
instituted by Queen Victoria in 1883. [A.S. _reád_; Ger. _roth_, L.
_ruber_, Gr. _e-rythros_, Gael. _ruath_.]

RED, red, _v.t._ to put in order, make tidy: to disentangle: (_coll._) to
separate two men in fighting.--_ns._ RED'DER (_Scot._), one who endeavours
to settle a quarrel; RED'DING, the process of putting in order;
RED'DING-COMB, a large-toothed comb for dressing the hair; RED'DING-STRAIK
(_Scot._), a stroke received in trying to separate fighters.

RED, REDD, red (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _read_, declared.

REDACTION, r[=e]-dak'shun, _n._ the act of arranging in systematic order,
esp. literary materials: the digest so made: an editorial staff.--_v.t._
REDACT', to edit, work up into literary form.--_n._ REDACT'OR, an
editor.--_adj._ REDACT[=O]'RIAL. [Fr.,--L. _redactus_, pa.p. of
_redig[)e]re_, to bring back.]

REDAN, r[=e]-dan', _n._ (_fort._) the simplest form of fieldwork,
consisting of two faces which form a salient angle towards the enemy,
serving to cover a bridge or causeway--quite open at the gorge. [O. Fr.
_redan_, _redent_--L. _re-_, back, _dens_, a tooth.]

REDARGUE, r[=e]-där'g[=u], _v.t._ to disprove.--_n._ REDARG[=U]'TION. [O.
Fr. _redarguer_--L. _redargu[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _argu[)e]re_, to argue.]

REDDENDUM, re-den'dum, _n._ (_law_) the clause by which the rent is
reserved in a lease:--_pl._ REDDEN'DA.--_n._ REDDEN'DO (_Scots law_), a
clause in a charter specifying the services to be rendered by a vassal to
his superior. [L., fut. part. pass. of _redd[)e]re_.]

REDDING. See RED (2).

REDDITION, re-dish'un, _n._ a giving back of anything: surrender: a
rendering of the sense: explanation.--_adj._ REDD'ITIVE, returning an
answer. [Fr.,--L. _reddition-em_--_redd[)e]re_, _redditum_, to restore.]

REDDLE, red'l, _n._ an impure peroxide of iron (ferric oxide) associated
with very variable proportions of clay or chalk--also RED'-CLAY, RADD'LE,
RED'-CHALK.--_n._ REDD'LEMAN, a dealer in red clay.

REDE, r[=e]d, _v.t._ to counsel or advise.--_n._ advice: a phrase: a
motto.--_n._ REDE'CRAFT, logic.--_adj._ REDE'LESS, without counsel or
wisdom. [_Read_.]

REDECORATE, r[=e]-dek'o-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to decorate again.

REDEDICATION, r[=e]-ded-i-k[=a]'shun, _n._ a second or renewed dedication.

REDEEM, r[=e]-d[=e]m', _v.t._ to ransom: to relieve from captivity by a
price: to rescue, deliver: to pay the penalty of: to atone for: to perform,
as a promise: to improve, put to the best advantage: to recover, as a
pledge.--_adj._ REDEEM'ABLE, that may be redeemed.--_ns._ REDEEM'ABLENESS;
REDEEM'ER, one who redeems or ransoms, esp. Jesus Christ, the Saviour of
the world.--_adjs._ REDEEM'ING, saving: good, as exceptional to what is
bad; REDEEM'LESS, incurable; REDEMP'TIVE, pertaining to redemption: serving
or tending to redeem; REDEMP'TORY, serving to redeem: paid for ransom. [O.
Fr. _redimer_--L. _redim[)e]re_--_red-_, back, _em[)e]re_, to buy.]

REDELIBERATE, r[=e]-de-lib'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.i._ to deliberate again.

REDELIVER, r[=e]-de-liv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to deliver back or again: to liberate
a second time.--_ns._ REDELIV'ERANCE; REDELIV'ERY, the act of delivering
back: a second delivery or liberation.

REDEMAND, r[=e]-d[=e]-mand', _v.t._ to demand back or again.--_n._ the
repetition of a demand: a demand for the return of a thing.

REDEMISE, r[=e]-d[=e]-m[=i]z', _v.t._ to convey back, as an estate.--_n._
such a transfer.

REDEMPTION, r[=e]-demp'shun, _n._ act of redeeming or buying back: ransom:
release: the deliverance of mankind from sin and misery by Christ.--_ns._
REDEMP'TIONARY, one who is set at liberty, or released from a bond, by
paying a compensation or fulfilling some stipulated conditions;
REDEMP'TIONER, one who redeemed himself from debt, or the like, by service;
REDEMP'TIONIST, one of an order of monks devoted to the redemption of
Christian captives from slavery; REDEMP'TORIST, one of a congregation of
R.C. missionary priests, founded by Alfonso Liguori in 1732, whose object
is the religious instruction of the people and the reform of public
morality, by periodically visiting, preaching, and hearing confessions.
[Fr.,--L.,--_redemptus_, pa.p. of _redim[)e]re_, to redeem.]

REDENTED, r[=e]-den'ted, _adj._ formed like the teeth of a saw. [O. Fr.
_redent_, a double notching--L. _re-_, again, _dens_, _dentis_, a tooth.]

REDESCEND, r[=e]-d[=e]-send', _v.i._ to descend again.--_n._ REDESCENT', a
descending again.

REDESCRIBE, r[=e]-d[=e]-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to describe again.

REDETERMINE, r[=e]-d[=e]-t[.e]r'min, _v.t._ to determine again.

REDEVELOP, r[=e]-d[=e]-vel'op, _v.t._ to intensify in photography by a
second process.--_n._ REDEVEL'OPMENT.

REDHIBITION, red-hi-bish'un, _n._ (_law_) an action to oblige the seller to
annul the sale because of a defect--also REHIBI'TION.--_adjs._
REDHIB'ITORY, REHIB'ITORY.

REDIA, r[=e]'di-a, _n._ a stage in some trematode worms immediately before
_cercaria_:--_pl._ R[=E]'DIÆ. [From _Redi_, an Italian naturalist.]

REDIFFERENTIATE, r[=e]-dif-e-ren'shi-[=a]t, _v.i._ to differentiate a
differential coefficient.--_n._ REDIFFERENTI[=A]'TION.

REDIGEST, r[=e]-di-jest', _v.t._ to reduce to form again.

REDINGOTE, red'ing-g[=o]t, _n._ a double-breasted outer coat with long full
skirts, worn by men, also a similar outer garment for women.

REDINTEGRATE, r[=e]-din't[=e]-gr[=a]t, _v.t._ to restore to integrity
again: to renew:--_pr.p._ redin'tegr[=a]ting; _pa.p._
redin'tegr[=a]ted.--_n._ REDINTEGR[=A]'TION, restoration to integrity or to
a whole or sound state: renovation. [L. _redintegr[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_re-_, again, _integr[=a]re_, to make whole--_integer_.]

REDIRECT, r[=e]-di-rekt', _v.t._ to direct anew.

REDISBURSE, r[=e]-dis-burs', _v.t._ to refund.

REDISCOVER, r[=e]-dis-kuv'[.e]r, _v.t._ to discover again.--_n._
REDISCOV'ERY.

REDISPOSE, r[=e]-dis-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to dispose or adjust again.--_n._
REDISPOSI'TION.

REDISSEIZE, r[=e]-dis-s[=e]z', _v.t._ to disseize anew.--_ns._ REDISSEIZ'IN
(_law_), a writ to recover seizin of lands; REDISSEIZ'OR.

REDISSOLVE, r[=e]-di-zolv', _v.t._ to dissolve again.--_n._
REDISSOL[=U]'TION.

REDISTRIBUTE, r[=e]-dis-trib'[=u]t, _v.t._ to apportion anew.--_n._
REDISTRIB[=U]'TION, a second or renewed distribution.

REDISTRICT, r[=e]-dis'trikt, _v.t._ to divide again, as a state into
districts.--_n._ REDIS'TRICTING (_U.S._).

REDITION, r[=e]-dish'un, _n._ the act of going back.

REDIVIDE, r[=e]-di-v[=i]d', _v.t._ to divide again or anew.

REDIVIVUS, red-i-v[=i]'vus, _adj._ alive again: restored.

REDOLENT, red'[=o]-lent, _adj._ diffusing odour or fragrance:
scented.--_ns._ RED'OLENCE, RED'OLENCY.--_adv._ RED'OLENTLY. [Fr.,--L.
_redolens_, _-entis_--_red-_, _re-_, again, _ol[=e]re_, to emit an odour.]

REDONDILLA, red-on-d[=e]'lya, _n._ an early form of versification in which
the 1st and 4th and the 2d and 3d lines of the stanza generally rhymed: in
later Spanish use, a term applied to verses of 6 and 8 syllables in
general, whether making perfect rhymes or assonances only. [Sp.,--L.
_rotundus_, round.]

REDORSE, r[=e]-dors', _n._ the reverse side of a dorsal or dorse.

REDOUBLE, r[=e]-dub'l, _v.t._ to double again or repeatedly: to increase
greatly: to multiply.--_v.i._ to become greatly increased: to become twice
as much.

REDOUBT, REDOUT, r[=e]-dowt', _n._ (_fort._) a field-work enclosed on all
sides, its ditch not flanked from the parapet: a central or retired work
within any other works, intended to afford the garrison a last
retreat--also REDUIT'.--_adj._ (_her._) bent in many angles. [Fr.
_redoute_, _réduit_, a redoubt--It. _ridotto_--L. _reduc[)e]re_,
_reductum_--to bring back.]

REDOUBT, r[=e]-dowt', _v.t._ (_arch._) to fear.--_adjs._ REDOUBT'ABLE,
valiant; REDOUBT'ED (_Spens._).--_n._ REDOUBT'ING. [O. Fr. _redouter_, to
fear greatly--L. _re-_, back, _dubit[=a]re_, to doubt.]

REDOUND, r[=e]-downd', _v.i._ to be sent back by reaction, to rebound: to
result, turn out: (_Spens._, _Milt._) to overflow, to be in excess.--_n._
the coming back, as an effect or consequence, return.--_n._ REDOUND'ING.
[Fr. _rédonder_--L. _redund[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _und[=a]re_, to
surge--_unda_, a wave.]

REDOWA, red'[=o]-a, _n._ a Bohemian round dance, one form resembling the
waltz, the other the polka: the music for such a dance, usually in quick
triple time. [Fr.,--Bohem. _rejdowák_.]

REDRAFT, r[=e]-draft', _n._ a second draft or copy: a new bill of exchange
which the holder of a protested bill draws on the drawer or endorsers, for
the amount of the bill, with costs and charges.

REDRAW, r[=e]-draw', _v.t._ to draw again: to draw a second copy: to draw a
new bill: to meet another bill of the same amount.

REDRESS, r[=e]-dres', _v.t._ to set right: to relieve from: to make amends
to: to compensate: to dress again.--_n._ relief: reparation.--_n._
REDRESS'ER, one who gives redress.--_adjs._ REDRESS'IBLE, that may be
redressed; REDRESS'IVE, affording redress; REDRESS'LESS, without
relief.--_n._ REDRESS'MENT, the act of redressing.

REDRIVE, r[=e]-dr[=i]v', _v.t._ to drive back.

RED-TAPE, red'-t[=a]p, _n._ the red tape used in public, and esp.
government, offices for tying up documents, &c.: applied satirically to the
intricate system of routine in vogue there: official formality.--_adj._
pertaining to official formality.--_ns._ RED'-T[=A]'PISM, the system of
routine in government and other public offices; RED'-T[=A]'PIST, a great
stickler for routine.

REDUB, r[=e]-dub', _v.t._ (_obs._) to make amends for.--_n._ REDUB'BER, one
who buys stolen cloth and so alters it as not to be recognised.

REDUCE, r[=e]-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to bring into a lower state, as to reduce the
ores of silver: to lessen: to impoverish: to subdue: to arrange: (_arith._
and _alg._) to change numbers or quantities from one denomination into
another: to reduce to its proper form, as to reduce a fracture: to bring
into a new form, as to reduce Latin to English: to weaken: to bring into a
class: (_Scots law_) to annul by legal means: (_mil._) to strike off the
pay-roll.--_ns._ REDUC'ER, one who reduces: a joint-piece for connecting
pipes of varying diameter; REDUCIBIL'ITY, REDUC'IBLENESS, the quality of
being reducible.--_adj._ REDUC'IBLE, that may be reduced.--_ns._
REDUC'ING-SCALE, a scale used by surveyors for reducing chains and links to
acres and roods; REDUC'TION, act of reducing or state of being reduced:
diminution: subjugation: a rule for changing numbers or quantities from one
denomination to another.--_adj._ REDUC'TIVE, having the power to
reduce.--REDUCE TO THE RANKS, to degrade, for misconduct, to the condition
of a private soldier; REDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM, the proof of a proposition by
proving the falsity of its contradictory opposite; REDUCTION WORKS,
smelting works. [L. _reduc[)e]re_, _reductum_--_re-_, back, _duc[)e]re_, to
lead.]

REDUIT. See REDOUBT (1).

REDUNDANCE, r[=e]-dun'dans, _n._ quality of being superfluous:
superabundance--also REDUN'DANCY.--_adj._ REDUN'DANT, superfluous, as in
words or images: (_Milt._) flowing back, as a wave.--_adv._ REDUN'DANTLY.
[Fr.,--L. _redund-ans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _redund[=a]re_, to redound.]

REDUPLICATE, r[=e]-d[=u]'pli-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to double again: to multiply:
to repeat.--_adj._ doubled.--_n._ REDUPLIC[=A]'TION, the act of redoubling:
the repetition of a syllable, or of the initial part, in inflection and
word-formation, as in L. _fefelli_, perf. of _fallo_, Gr. _tetupha_, perf.
of _tupt[=o]_: (_anat._) a folding or doubling of a part or organ.--_adj._
RED[=U]'PLIC[=A]TIVE.

REDUVIIDÆ, red-[=u]-v[=i]'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of predacious
bugs.--_adj._ RED[=U]'VIOID.--_n._ RED[=U]'VIUS, a genus embracing about
fifty species, mostly African--the _Fly-bug_ is European.

REDUX, r[=e]'duks, _adj._ led back, as from captivity, &c., as in Dryden's
poem on the Restoration entitled _Astræa Redux_: (_med._) noting the
reappearance of certain physical signs after interruption in consequence of
disease.

REE, r[=e], (_prov._) _v.t._ to riddle.

REE, r[=e], _adj._ (_prov._) wild, tipsy.

REEBOK, r[=e]'bok, _n._ a South African antelope.

RE-ECHO, r[=e]-ek'[=o], _v.t._ to echo back.--_v.i._ to give back echoes:
to resound.--_n._ an echo repeated.

REECHY, r[=e]ch'i, _adj._ (_Shak._) smoky, sooty, tanned.--_n._ REECH,
smoke--the Scotch _reek_ (q.v.).

REED, r[=e]d, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Spens._) to deem.

[Illustration]

REED, r[=e]d, _n._ the common English name of certain tall grasses, growing
in moist or marshy places, and having a very hard or almost woody culm: a
musical pipe anciently made of a reed: the sounding part of several musical
instruments, as the clarinet, bassoon, oboe, and bagpipe: the speaking part
of the organ, though made of metal: the appliance in weaving for separating
the threads of the warp, and for beating the weft up to the web: a tube
containing the powder-train leading to the blast-hole: a piece of
whalebone, &c., for stiffening the skirt or waist of a woman's dress:
(_poet._) a missile weapon: reeds or straw for thatch: a measuring
reed.--_v.t._ to thatch.--_ns._ REED'-BAND, a musical band including
clarinets and other reed-instruments; REED'-BIRD, the bobolink;
REED'-BUNT'ING, the black-headed bunting of Europe.--_adjs._ REED'ED,
covered with reeds: formed with reed-like ridges or channels; REED'EN,
consisting of a reed or reeds.--_ns._ REED'ER, a thatcher; REED'-GRASS, any
one of the grasses called reeds; REED'INESS, the state of being reedy;
REED'ING, the milling on the edge of a coin: (_archit._) ornamental beaded
mouldings, &c.; REED'-IN'STRUMENT, a musical instrument, the tone of which
is produced by the vibration of a reed; REED'-KNIFE, a metal implement for
adjusting the tuning wires in a pipe-organ; REED'LING, the European bearded
titmouse; REED'-MACE, any plant of the genus _Typha_, esp. either of two
species, also called _Cat's tail_, the most common of which grows to a
height of five or six feet, and is sometimes called _Bulrush_;
REED'-M[=O]'TION, the mechanism which in power-looms moves the batten;
REED'-OR'GAN, a key-board musical instrument of which the harmonium and the
American organ are the principal types; REED'-PHEAS'ANT, the bearded
titmouse or reedling; REED'-PIPE, in organ-building, a pipe whose tone is
produced by the vibration of a reed: REED'-PLANE, a concave-soled plane
used in making beads; REED'-STOP, a set of reed-pipes in organs, the use of
which is controlled by a single stop-knob; REED'-WAR'BLER, a species of the
warblers, frequenting marshy places, and building its nest on the reeds
which grow there--also REED'-THRUSH; REED'-WREN, the greater reed-warbler:
an American wren.--_adj._ REED'Y, abounding with reeds: resembling or
sounding as a reed--_n._ masses of rods of iron imperfectly welded
together. [A.S. _hreód_; Dut. _riet_, Ger. _ried_.]

RE-EDIFY, r[=e]-ed'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to rebuild.--_n._ RE-EDIFIC[=A]'TION,
the act of rebuilding: the state of being rebuilt.

REEF, r[=e]f, _n._ a chain of rocks lying at or near the surface of the
water: a shoal or elevated bank: a lode, vein, or ledge, in Australian
mining phraseology. [Dut. _rif_; Ice. _rif_.]

[Illustration]

REEF, r[=e]f, _n._ a portion of a sail rolled or folded up.--_v.t._ to
reduce the exposed surface of, as a sail: to gather up any material in a
similar way.--_ns._ REEF'-BAND, a strong strip of canvas extending across a
sail to strengthen it; REEF'ER, a reef-oyster: one who reefs: a short
jacket worn by sailors: a midshipman; REEF'-GOOSE, the common wild goose of
North America; REEF'ING, the gathering up of a curtain in short festoons;
REEF'ING-JACK'ET, a pea-jacket; REEF'-KNOT, a square knot; REEF'-LINE, a
temporary means of spilling a sail; REEF'-PEND'ANT, in fore and aft sails,
a rope through a sheave-hole in the boom; REEF'-SQUID, a lashing used
aboard the luggers on the south coast of England; REEF'-TACK'LE, a tackle
used to facilitate reefing.--_adjs._ REEF'Y, full of reefs; CLOSE'-REEFED,
the condition of a sail when all its reefs have been taken in. [Dut.
_reef_, reef; Ice. _rif_, Dan. _reb_.]

REEF, r[=e]f, _adj._ (_Scot._) scabby.--_n._ the itch. [A.S. _hreóf_,
scabby.]

REEK, r[=e]k, _n._ smoke: vapour.--_v.i._ to emit smoke or vapour: to
steam.--_adj._ REEK'Y, full of reek: smoky: soiled with steam or smoke:
foul. [A.S. _réc_; Ice. _reykr_, Ger. _rauch_, Dut. _rook_, smoke.]

REEL, r[=e]l, _n._ a lively Scottish dance for two couples or more, its
music generally written in common time of four crotchets in a measure, but
sometimes in jig time of six quavers: music for such a dance.--_v.i._ to
dance a reel. [Gael. _righil_.]

REEL, r[=e]l, _n._ a rolling or turning frame for winding yarn, &c.--_v.t._
to wind on a reel.--_adj._ REEL'ABLE, capable of being reeled.--_ns._
REEL'-CLICK, an attachment to an angler's reel, which checks the line from
running out too freely; REEL'-COTT'ON, sewing cotton thread wound on reels
or spools; REEL'ER, one who reels: the grasshopper-warbler; REEL'-HOLD'ER,
a rotatory frame to hold spools or reels of thread used in sewing: one of
the watch in a man-of-war who hauls in the line when the log is heaved to
ascertain the ship's speed; REEL'ING-MACHINE', a machine for winding thread
on spools or reels: a machine which winds into hanks the cotton yarn
received from the bobbins of the spinning-frames; REEL'-LINE, a
fishing-line used on a reel by anglers, esp. the part _reeled_, as
distinguished from that _cast;_ REEL'-PLATE, the metal plate of a
fishing-reel that fits into the reel-seat; REEL'-SEAT, the groove on an
angler's rod which receives the reel.--REEL OFF, to give out with rapidity
or fluency. [A.S. _reól_, _hreól_.]

REEL, r[=e]l, _v.i._ to stagger: to vacillate.--_n._ giddiness.--_adv._
REEL'-RALL (_Scot._), topsy-turvy. [Conn. with preceding word.]

RE-ELECT, r[=e]-[=e]-lekt', _v.t._ to elect again.--_n._ RE-ELEC'TION.

RE-ELEVATE, r[=e]-el'e-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to elevate again or anew.

RE-ELIGIBLE, r[=e]-el'i-ji-bl, _adj._ capable of re-election.--_n._
RE-ELIGIBIL'ITY.

REEM, r[=e]m, _n._ an animal mentioned in Job, xxxix. 9--unicorn, wild ox,
or ox-antelope.

RE-EMBARK, r[=e]-em-bärk', _v.t._ to embark or put on board again.--_n._
RE-EMBARK[=A]'TION.

RE-EMBATTLE, r[=e]-em-bat'l, _v.t._ (_Milt._) to range again in order of
battle.

RE-EMBODY, r[=e]-em-bod'i, _v.t._ to embody again.

RE-EMBRACE, r[=e]-em-br[=a]s', _v.t._ or _v.i._ to embrace again.

RE-EMERGE, r[=e]-[=e]-m[.e]rj', _v.i._ to emerge again.--_n._
RE-EMERG'ENCE, the act of emerging again.

REEMING, r[=e]m'ing, _n._ the act of opening the seams between the planks
of a vessel with a caulking-iron, in order to admit the oakum.

RE-ENACT, r[=e]-en-akt', _v.t._ to enact again.--_n._ RE-ENACT'MENT.

RE-ENCOURAGEMENT, r[=e]-en-kur'[=a]j-ment, _n._ renewed or repeated
encouragement.

RE-ENDOW, r[=e]-en-dow', _v.t._ to endow again or anew.

RE-ENFORCE, RE-ENFORCEMENT. Same as REINFORCE, REINFORCEMENT.

RE-ENGAGE, r[=e]-en-g[=a]j', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to engage again or a second
time.--_n._ RE-ENGAGE'MENT, a renewed or repeated engagement.

RE-ENGENDER, r[=e]-en-jen'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to regenerate.

RE-ENGRAVE, r[=e]-en-gr[=a]v', _v.t._ to engrave again or anew.

RE-ENJOY, r[=e]-en-joi', _v.t._ to enjoy anew or a second time.

RE-ENLIST, r[=e]-en-list, _v.t._ or _v.i._ to enlist again.

RE-ENTER, r[=e]-en't[.e]r, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to enter again or anew: in
engraving, to cut deeper where the aqua fortis has not bitten
sufficiently.--_p.adj._ RE-EN'TERING, entering again: turning
inwards.--_n._ RE-EN'TRANCE, the act of entering again.--_adj._ RE-EN'TRANT
(same as RE-ENTERING).--_n._ RE-EN'TRY, an entering again: the resuming a
possession lately lost.--RE-ENTERING ANGLE, an angle pointing inwards.

RE-ENTHRONE, r[=e]-en-thr[=o]n', _v.t._ to restore to the throne.--_n._
RE-ENTHRONE'MENT.

RE-ERECT, r[=e]-e-rekt', _v.t._ to erect again.

REERMOUSE. Same as REREMOUSE.

REESK, r[=e]sk, _n._ (_Scot._) rank grass, or waste land growing such.

REEST, REIST, r[=e]st, _v.i._ (_Scot._) of a horse, suddenly to refuse to
move, to baulk.--_v.t._ to arrest, stop.

RE-ESTABLISH, r[=e]-es-tab'lish, _v.t._ to establish again: to
restore.--_ns._ RE-ESTAB'LISHER, one who re-establishes; RE-ESTAB'LISHMENT.

RE-ESTATE, r[=e]-es-t[=a]t', _v.t._ to re-establish.

REEVE, r[=e]v, _n._ a steward or other officer (now used only in
composition, as in _sheriff_)--a title applied to several classes of old
English magistrates over various territorial areas, as _borough-reeves_,
over boroughs; _port-reeves_, in trading towns, in ports; _high-reeves_,
&c. [M. E. _reve_--A.S. _geréfa_--_róf_, excellent. Cf. Ger. _graf_.]

REEVE, r[=e]v, _v.t._ to pass the end of a rope through any hole, as the
channel of a block:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ reeved, also rove (_naut._).
[_Reef_ (2).]

RE-EXAMINE, r[=e]-eg-zam'in, _v.t._ to examine again or anew.--_n._
RE-EXAMIN[=A]'TION, a renewed or repeated examination.

RE-EXCHANGE, r[=e]-eks-ch[=a]nj', _v.t._ to exchange again or anew.--_n._ a
renewed exchange.

RE-EXHIBIT, r[=e]-eg-zib'it, _v.t._ to exhibit again.

RE-EXPEL, r[=e]-eks-pel', _v.t._ to expel again.

RE-EXPORT, r[=e]-eks-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to export again, as what has been
imported.--_n._  RE-EXPORT[=A]'TION, the act of exporting what has first
been imported.

REFACTION, r[=e]-fak'shun, _n._ (_obs._) _retribution_.

REFAIT, re-f[=a]', _n._ a drawn game, esp. in _rouge-et-noir_.

REFASHION, r[=e]-fash'un, _v.t._ to fashion or mould again.--_n._
REFASH'IONMENT.

REFASTEN, r[=e]-fas'n, _v.t._ to fasten again.

REFECTION, r[=e]-fek'shun, _n._ refreshment: a meal or repast.--_n._
REFEC'TIONER.--_adj._ REFEC'TIVE, refreshing.--_n._ REFEC'TORY, the place
where refections or meals are taken, esp. in convents or monasteries.
[_Fr._,--L. _refectio_--_refic[)e]re_, _refectum_--_re-_, again,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

REFEL, r[=e]-fel', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to refute, to disprove. [O. Fr.,--L.
_refell[)e]re_--_re-_, again, _fall[)e]re_, to deceive.]

REFEOFF, r[=e]-fef', _v.t._ to reinvest.

REFER, r[=e]-f[.e]r, _v.t._ to submit to another person or authority: to
assign: to reduce: to carry back: to trace back: to hand over for
consideration: to deliver over, as to refer a matter: to appeal: to direct
for information.--_v.i._ to direct the attention: to give a reference: to
have reference or recourse: to relate: to allude:--_pr.p._ refer'ring;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ referred'.--_adjs._ REF'ERABLE, REFER'RIBLE, that may
be referred or assigned to.--_ns._ REFER[=EE]', one to whom anything is
referred: an arbitrator, umpire, or judge; REF'ERENCE, the act of
referring: a submitting for information or decision: relation: allusion:
one who, or that which, is referred to: (_law_) the act of submitting a
dispute for investigation or decision: a testimonial: a direction in a
book, a quotation; REF'ERENCE-B[=I]'BLE, a Bible having references to
parallel passages; REF'ERENCE-BOOK, a book to be referred to or consulted,
as an encyclopædia; REF'ERENCE-L[=I]'BRARY, a library containing books to
be consulted only in the premises.--_n.pl._ REF'ERENCE-MARKS (_print._),
the characters *, +, &c., used to refer to notes, &c.--_ns._ REFERENDAR',
in Germany, a legal probationer who has passed the first of the two
examinations for the judicial service; REFEREN'DARY, one to whose decision
a cause is referred, a referee: formerly a public official whose duty was
to procure, execute, and despatch diplomas and charters, or who served as
the medium of communication with a sovereign: the official through whom the
patriarch of Constantinople communicates with the civil authorities;
REFEREN'DUM, in Switzerland, the right of the people to have all
legislative acts passed in the Federal or Cantonal Assemblies referred to
them _en masse_.--_adj._ REFEREN'TIAL, containing a reference: pointing or
referring to something else.--_adv._ REFEREN'TIALLY, in the way of
reference.--_ns._ REFER'MENT; REFER'RER. [O. Fr. _referer_ (_référer_)--L.
_referre_, to carry back--_re-_, back, _ferre_, to carry.]

REFERRIBLE. Same as REFERABLE.

REFIGURE, r[=e]-fig'[=u]r, _v.t._ to represent anew: (_astrol._) to restore
the parabolic figure of, as of a parabolic mirror.

REFILL, r[=e]-fil', _v.t._ to fill again.

REFIND, r[=e]-f[=i]nd', _v.t._ to find or experience again.

REFINE, r[=e]-f[=i]n', _v.t._ to separate from extraneous matter: to reduce
to a fine or pure state: to purify: to clarify: to polish: to make elegant:
to purify the manners, morals, language, &c.--_v.i._ to become fine or
pure: to affect nicety: to improve in any kind of excellence.--_p.adj._
REFINED', made fine: polished: highly cultivated.--_adv._ REFIN'EDLY, in a
refined manner: with affected elegance.--_ns._ REFIN'EDNESS, REFINE'MENT,
act of refining or state of being refined: purification: separation from
what is impure, &c.: cultivation: elegance: polish: purity: an excessive
nicety; REFIN'ER, one who refuses anything: a piece of mechanism for
refining, as a gas purifier; REFIN'ERY, a place for refining; REFIN'ING,
the act or process of refining or purifying, particularly metals. [L.
_re-_, denoting change of state, and _fine_; cf. Fr. _raffiner_.]

REFIT, r[=e]-fit', _v.t._ to fit or prepare again.--_v.i._ to repair
damages.--_ns._ REFIT', REFIT'MENT.

REFLAME, r[=e]-fl[=a]m', _v.i._ to burst again into flame.

REFLECT, r[=e]-flekt', _v.t._ to bend back: to throw back after striking
upon any surface, as light, &c.--_v.i._ to be thrown back, as light, heat,
&c.: to revolve in the mind: to consider attentively or deeply: to ponder:
to cast reproach or censure (with _on_, _upon_).--_p.adj._ REFLECT'ED, cast
or thrown back: turned upward: reflexed.--_adjs._ REFLECT'IBLE, capable of
being reflected; REFLECT'ING, throwing back light, heat, &c.: given to
reflection: thoughtful.--_adv._ REFLECT'INGLY, with reflection: with
censure.--REFLECTING TELESCOPE, a form of telescope in which the image of
the object to be viewed is produced by a concave reflector instead of a
lens, as in the refracting telescope. [Fr.,--L. _reflect[)e]re_,
_reflexum_--_re-_, again, _flect[)e]re_, to bend.]

REFLECTION, REFLEXION, r[=e]-flek'shun, _n._ the act of reflecting: the
change of direction when a ray of light, &c., strikes upon a surface and is
thrown back: the state of being reflected: that which is reflected: the
action of the mind by which it is conscious of its own operations:
attentive consideration: contemplation: censure or reproach: (_anat._) the
folding of a part, a fold.--_adj._ REFLECT'IVE, reflecting: considering the
operations of the mind: exercising thought or reflection: (_gram._)
reciprocal.--_adv._ REFLECT'IVELY.--_ns._ REFLECT'IVENESS; REFLECT'OR, one
who, or that which, reflects: a mirror or polished reflecting surface: a
censurer.--_adj._ REFLECT'ORY.

REFLET, re-fl[=a]', _n._ iridescent glaze, as on pottery: ware possessing
this property.

REFLEX, r[=e]'fleks, _adj._ bent or turned back: reflected: reciprocal:
acting and reacting, as reflex influence: (_physiol._) said of certain
movements which take place independent of the will, being sent back from a
nerve-centre in answer to a stimulus from the surface: (_paint._)
illuminated by light reflected from another part of the same picture.--_n._
reflection: light reflected from an illuminated surface: a copy.--_v.t._
REFLEX', to bend back.--_p.adj._ REFLEXED' (_bot._), bent backward or
downward.--_n._ REFLEXIBIL'ITY.--_adjs._ REFLEX'IBLE, REFLECT'IBLE, that
may be reflected or thrown back.--_n._ REFLEX'ITY.--_adj._ REFLEX'IVE,
turning backward: reflective: respecting the past: relating to a verb in
which the action turns back upon the subject, as _I bethought
myself_.--_adv._ REFLEX'IVELY.--_n._ REFLEX'IVENESS, the state or quality
of being reflexive.--_adv._ R[=E]'FLEXLY (also REFLEX'LY).--_adj._
REFLEXOGEN'IC, tending to increase reflex motions.

REFLOAT, r[=e]-fl[=o]t', _n._ ebb.

REFLORESCENCE, r[=e]-flor-es'ens, _n._ a blossoming anew.--_v.i._
REFLOUR'ISH.

REFLOW, r[=e]-fl[=o]', _v.i._ to flow back.--_ns._ REFLOW', REFLOW'ING.

REFLOWER, r[=e]-flow'[.e]r, _v.i._ to bloom again.

REFLUENT, ref'l[=oo]-ent, _adj._ flowing back: ebbing.--_ns._ REF'LUENCE,
REF'LUENCY.--_adj._ R[=E]'FLUX, flowing or returning back: reflex.--_n._ a
flowing back: ebb.--_n._ REFLUX'ING. [L. _refluens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_reflu[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _flu[)e]re_, _fluxum_, to flow.]

REFOCILLATE, r[=e]-fos'il-[=a]t, _v.t._ (_obs._) to revive.--_n._
REFOCILL[=A]'TION. [L. _re-_, again, _focill[=a]re_, to cherish--_focus_, a
hearth.]

REFOLD, r[=e]-f[=o]ld', _v.t._ to fold again.--_adj._ REFOLD'ED.

REFOOT, r[=e]-f[=oo]t', _v.t._ to supply with a new foot.

REFOREST, r[=e]-for'est, _v.t._ to plant again with trees.--_n._
REFOREST[=A]'TION.

REFORGE, r[=e]-f[=o]rj', _v.t._ to forge again or anew: to make over
again.--_n._ REFORG'ER.

REFORM, r[=e]-form', _v.t._ to form again or anew: to transform: to make
better: to remove that which is objectionable from: to repair or improve:
to reclaim.--_v.i._ to become better: to abandon evil: to be corrected or
improved.--_n._ a forming anew: change, amendment, improvement: an
extension or better distribution of parliamentary representation, as in the
Reform Bill.--_adj._ REFOR'MABLE.--_n._ REFORM[=A]'TION, the act of forming
again: the act of reforming: amendment: improvement: the great religious
revolution of the 16th century, which gave rise to the various evangelical
or Protestant organisations of Christendom.--_adjs._ REFOR'M[=A]TIVE,
forming again or anew: tending to produce reform; REFOR'M[=A]TORY,
reforming: tending to produce reform.--_n._ an institution for reclaiming
youths and children who have been convicted of crime.--_adj._ REFORMED',
formed again or anew: changed: amended: improved: denoting the churches
formed after the Reformation, esp. those in which the Calvinistic
doctrines, and still more the Calvinistic polity, prevail, in
contradistinction to the _Lutheran_.--_ns._ REFOR'MER, one who reforms: one
who advocates political reform: one of those who took part in the
Reformation of the 16th century; REFOR'MIST, a reformer.--REFORMED
PRESBYTERIANS, a Presbyterian denomination originating in Scotland (see
CAMERONIAN); REFORM SCHOOL, a reformatory. [L. _re-_, again, _form[=a]re_,
to shape--_forma_, form.]

REFORMADE, ref-or-m[=a]d', _n._ (_Bunyan_) a reduced or dismissed
soldier.--_n._ REFORM[=A]'DO, an officer without a command.--_adj._
degraded: penitent.

REFORTIFY, r[=e]-for'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to fortify again or anew.

REFOUND, r[=e]-fownd', _v.t._ to establish on a new basis: to cast
anew.--_n._ REFOUND'ER.

REFRACT, r[=e]-frakt', _v.t._ to break back or open: to break the natural
course, or bend from a direct line, as rays of light, &c.--_adj._
R[=E]FRAC'TABLE.--_p.adjs_. R[=E]FRAC'TED, turned out of its straight
course, as a ray of light: (_bot._, &c.) bent back at an acute angle;
R[=E]FRAC'TING, serving or tending to refract: refractive.--_n._
R[=E]FRAC'TION, the act of refracting: the change in the direction of a ray
of light, heat, &c., when it enters a different medium.--_adj._
R[=E]FRAC'TIVE, refracting: pertaining to refraction.--_ns._
R[=E]FRAC'TIVENESS; R[=E]FRACTIV'ITY; R[=E]FRACTOM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the refractive power of different substances; R[=E]FRAC'TOR, a
refracting telescope.--ANGLE OF REFRACTION, the angle between a
perpendicular and a ray of light after its change of direction, bearing a
constant ratio to the sine of the _angle of incidence_--the index of
refraction; ASTRONOMICAL, or ATMOSPHERIC, REFRACTION, the apparent angular
elevation of the heavenly bodies above their true places, caused by the
refraction of the rays of light in their passage through the earth's
atmosphere; DOUBLE REFRACTION, the separation of an incident ray of light
into two refracted rays, polarised in perpendicular planes. [L.
_refring[)e]re_, _refractum_--_re-_, back, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

REFRACTORY, r[=e]-frak'to-ri, _adj._ breaking through rules: unruly:
unmanageable: obstinate: perverse: difficult of fusion, as metals, &c.: not
susceptible, as to disease.--_adv._ REFRAC'TORILY.--_n._ REFRAC'TORINESS.

REFRACTURE, r[=e]-frak't[=u]r, _n._ a breaking again.

REFRAGABLE, ref'ra-ga-bl, _adj._ that may be resisted: capable of
refutation.--_ns._ REFRAGABIL'ITY, REF'RAGABLENESS.--_v.i._ REF'RAG[=A]TE
(_obs._), to be contrary in effect. [L. _refrag[=a]ri_, to resist--_re-_,
again, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

REFRAIN, r[=e]-fr[=a]n', _n._ a burden or chorus recurring at the end of
each division of a poem: the musical form to which the burden of a song is
set: an after-taste or other sense impression. [O. Fr.
_refrain_--_refraindre_--L. _refring[)e]re_ (_refrang[)e]re_).]

REFRAIN, r[=e]-fr[=a]n', _v.t._ to curb: to restrain.--_v.i._ to keep from
action: to forbear.--_ns._ REFRAIN'ER; REFRAIN'MENT. [O. Fr. _refraindre_
(Fr. _refréner_)--Low L. _refren[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _frenum_, a bridle.]

REFRAME, r[=e]-fr[=a]m', _v.t._ to frame again.

REFRANATION, r[=e]f-ra-n[=a]'shun, _n._ (_astrol._) the failure of a
planetary aspect to occur.

REFRANGIBLE, r[=e]-fran'ji-bl, _adj._ that may be refracted, or turned out
of a direct course, as rays of light, heat, &c.--_ns._ REFRANGIBIL'ITY,
REFRAN'GIBLENESS.

REFREEZE, r[=e]-fr[=e]z', _v.t._ to freeze a second time.

REFRENATION, ref-r[=e]-n[=a]'shun, _n._ (_obs_.) the act of restraining.

REFRESH, r[=e]-fresh', _v.t._ to give new strength, spirit, &c. to: to
revive after exhaustion: to enliven: to restore a fresh appearance
to.--_v.i._ to become fresh again: (_coll._) to take refreshment, as food
and drink.--_v.t._ R[=E]FRESH'EN, to make fresh again.--_n._ R[=E]FRESH'ER,
one who, or that which, refreshes: a fee paid to counsel for continuing his
attention to a case, esp. when adjourned.--_adj._ R[=E]FRESH'FUL, full of
power to refresh: refreshing.--_adv._ R[=E]FRESH'FULLY.--_p.adj._
R[=E]FRESH'ING, reviving, invigorating.--_adv._ R[=E]FRESH'INGLY, in a
refreshing manner: so as to revive.--_ns._ R[=E]FRESH'INGNESS;
REFRESH'MENT, the act of refreshing: new strength or spirit after
exhaustion: that which refreshes, as food or rest--(_pl._) usually food and
drink.--REFRESHMENT, or REFECTION, SUNDAY, the fourth Sunday in Lent.

REFRIGERANT, r[=e]-frij'[.e]-rant, _adj._ making cold: cooling:
refreshing.--_n._ that which cools.--_v.t._ R[=E]FRIG'ER[=A]TE, to make
cold: to cool: to refresh.--_n._ R[=E]FRIGER[=A]'TION.--_adjs._
R[=E]FRIG'ER[=A]TIVE, R[=E]FRIG'ER[=A]TORY, cooling: refreshing.--_ns._
R[=E]FRIG'ER[=A]TOR, an apparatus for preserving food by keeping it at a
low temperature: an ice-safe; R[=E]FRIG'ER[=A]TOR-CAR, a freight-car fitted
for preserving meat, &c., during transmission, by means of cold;
R[=E]FRIG'ER[=A]TORY, a cooler: a vessel or apparatus for cooling, used in
brewing, &c.; R[=E]FRIG[=E]'RIUM (_obs._), cooling refreshment. [Fr.,--L.
_re-_, denoting change of state, _friger[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to cool,
_frigus_, cold.]

REFRINGE, r[=e]-frinj', _v.t._ to infringe.--_n._ R[=E]FRING'ENCY,
refractive power.--_adj._ R[=E]FRIN'GENT.

REFT, reft, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _reave_.

REFUGE, ref'[=u]j, _n._ that which affords shelter or protection: an asylum
or retreat: a resource or expedient.--_v.t._ to find shelter for.--_v.i._
to take shelter.--_ns._ REFUG[=EE]', one who flees for refuge to another
country, esp. from religious persecution or political commotion;
REFUG[=EE]'ISM.--CITY OF REFUGE (see City); HOUSE OF REFUGE, an institution
for the shelter of the destitute. [Fr.,--L. _refugium_--_re-_, back,
_frug[)e]re_, to flee.]

REFULGENCE, r[=e]-ful'jens, _n._ state of being refulgent: brightness:
brilliance--also R[=E]FUL'GENCY.--_adj._ R[=E]FUL'GENT, casting a flood of
light: shining: brilliant.--_adv._ R[=E]FUL'GENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _refulgens_,
_-entis_, pr.p. of _refulg[=e]re_--_re-_, inten., _fulg[=e]re_, to shine.]

REFUND, r[=e]-fund', _v.t._ to repay: to restore: to return what has been
taken.--_ns._ REFUND'; REFUND'ER; REFUND'MENT. [Fr.,--L. _refund[)e]re_,
_refusum_--_re-_, back, _fund[)e]re_, to pour.]

REFURBISH, r[=e]-fur'bish, _v.t._ to furbish again: to polish.

REFURNISH, r[=e]-fur'nish, _v.t._ to furnish again: to supply or provide
anew.

REFUSE, r[=e]-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to reject: to deny, as a request, &c.: to
disown: to fail to receive, to repel: (_mil._) to hold troops back from the
regular alignment.--_v.i._ to decline acceptance: not to comply.--_adj._
REF[=U]'SABLE, capable of being refused.--_ns._ REF[=U]'SAL, denial of
anything requested: rejection: the right of taking in preference to others;
R[=E]F[=U]'SER. [Fr. _refuser_, prob. due to confusion of L. _refut[=a]re_,
to drive back, _recus[=a]re_, to make an objection against.]

REFUSE, ref'[=u]s, _adj._ refused: worthless.--_n._ that which is rejected
or left as worthless: dross.

REFUSE, r[=e]-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to melt again.--_n._ R[=E]F[=U]'SION,
repeated fusion or melting, as of metals: restoration.

REFUTE, r[=e]-f[=u]t', _v.t._ to repel: to oppose: to disprove.--_n._
R[=E]FUTABIL'ITY.--_adj._ R[=E]F[=U]'TABLE, that may be refuted or
disproved.--_adv._ R[=E]F[=U]'TABLY.--_n._ REFUT[=A]'TION, the act of
refuting or disproving.--_adj._ R[=E]F[=U]'T[=A]TORY, tending to refute:
refuting.--_n._ R[=E]F[=U]'TER, one who, or that which, refutes. [Fr.
_réfuter_--L. _refut[=a]re_--_re-_, back, root of _fund[)e]re_, _futilis_.]

REGAIN, r[=e]-g[=a]n, _v.t._ to gain back or again: to recover.

REGAL, r[=e]'gal, _adj._ belonging to a king: kingly: royal.--_adv._
R[=E]'GALLY. [Fr.,--L. _regalis_--_rex_, a king--_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

REGAL, r[=e]'gal, _n._ a small portable organ used to support treble
voices.--Also RIG'OLE. [Fr.,--It.,--L. _regalis_, royal.]

REGALE, r[=e]-g[=a]l', _v.t._ to entertain in a sumptuous manner: to
refresh: to gratify.--_v.i._ to feast.--_n._ a regal or magnificent
feast.--_ns._ REGALE'MENT, the act of regaling: entertainment: refreshment;
REG[=A]'LER. [Fr. _régaler_, derived by Diez, like Sp. _regalar_, from L.
_regel[=a]re_, to thaw. Scheler prefers to connect with O. Fr. _galer_, to
rejoice (cf. _Gala_), and Skeat follows him.]

REGALIA, r[=e]-g[=a]'li-a, _n.pl._ the ensigns of royalty: the crown,
sceptre, &c., esp. those used at a coronation: the rights and privileges of
kings: the distinctive symbols of a particular order.--_n._
R[=E]G[=A]'L[=E], the power of the sovereign in ecclesiastical
affairs.--_adj._ R[=E]G[=A]'LIAN, regal, sovereign.--_ns._ R[=E]'GALISM,
R[=E]GAL'ITY, state of being regal: royalty: sovereignty: (_Scot._) a
territorial jurisdiction formerly conferred by the king.--_adv._
R[=E]'GALLY. [Neut. pl. of L. _regalis_, royal.]

REGALIA, r[=e]-g[=a]'lya, _n._ a superior Cuban cigar.

REGARD, r[=e]-gärd', _v.t._ to observe particularly: to hold in respect or
affection: to pay attention to: to care for: to keep or observe: to esteem:
to consider as important or valuable: to have respect or relation to.--_n._
(_orig._) look, gaze: attention with interest: observation: respect:
affection: repute: relation: reference: (_pl._) good wishes.--_adjs._
REGAR'DABLE; REGAR'DANT, looking to: (_her._) looking behind or
backward.--_n._ REGAR'DER.--_adj._ REGARD'FUL, full of regard: taking
notice: heedful: attentive.--_adv._ REGARD'FULLY.--_n._
REGARD'FULNESS.--_prep._ REGAR'DING, respecting, concerning.--_adj._
REGARD'LESS, without regard: not attending: negligent: heedless.--_adv._
REGARD'LESSLY.--_ns._ REGARD'LESSNESS; REGARD'-RING, a ring set with stones
whose initial letters make the word _regard_, as _r_uby, _e_merald,
_g_arnet, _a_methyst, _r_uby, _d_iamond.--AS REGARDS, with regard to; IN
REGARD OF, in view of; IN THIS REGARD, in this respect. [Fr.
_regarder_--_re-_, again, _garder_, to keep.]

REGATHER, r[=e]-gath'[.e]r, _v.t._ to gather again.

REGATTA, r[=e]-gat'a, _n._ a race of yachts: any rowing or sailing match.
[It. _regatta_, _rigatta_--Old It. _regattare_, to haggle, prob. a form of
It. _recatare_, to retail--L. _re-_, again, _capt[=a]re_, to catch.]

REGELATION, r[=e]-j[=e]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of freezing anew.--_v.i._
R[=E]'GEL[=A]TE, to freeze together. [L. _re-_, again, _gel[=a]re_, to
freeze.]

REGENCY, r[=e]'jen-si, _n._ the office, jurisdiction, or dominion of a
regent: a body entrusted with vicarious government.--_n._ R[=E]'GENCE
(_obs._), government.

REGENERATE, r[=e]-jen'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to produce anew: (_theol._) to
renew the heart and turn it to the love of God.--_adj._ regenerated,
renewed: changed from a natural to a spiritual state.--_ns._
REGEN'ER[=A]CY, REGEN'ER[=A]TENESS, state of being _regenerate_.--_n._
REGENER[=A]'TION, act of regenerating: state of being regenerated:
(_theol._) new birth, the change from a carnal to a Christian life: the
renewal of the world at the second coming of Christ.--_adj._
REGEN'ER[=A]TIVE, pertaining to regeneration: renewal.--_adv._
REGEN'ER[=A]TIVELY.--_n._ REGEN'ER[=A]TOR, a chamber filled with a
checker-work of fire-bricks, in which the waste heat is, by reversal of the
draught, alternately stored up and given out to the gas and air entering
the furnace.--_adj._ REGEN'ER[=A]TORY.--_n._ REGEN'ESIS, the state of being
renewed.--BAPTISMAL REGENERATION (see BAPTISE). [L. _regener[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to bring forth again--_re-_, again, _gener[=a]re_, to
generate.]

REGENT, r[=e]'jent, _adj._ invested with interim or vicarious sovereign
authority.--_n._ one invested with interim authority: one who rules for the
sovereign: a college professor, as formerly in Scotland and elsewhere: a
master or doctor who takes part in the regular duties of instruction and
government in some universities.--_ns._ R[=E]'GENT-BIRD, an Australian bird
related to the bower-birds; R[=E]'GENTESS; R[=E]'GENTSHIP, office of a
regent: deputed authority. [Fr.,--L. _regens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

REGERMINATE, r[=e]-j[.e]r'min-[=a]t, _v.i._ to germinate or bud
again.--_n._ REGERMIN[=A]'TION.

REGEST, r[=e]-jest', _v.t._ (_obs._) to throw back.--_n._ a register.

REGET, r[=e]-get', _v.t._ to get or obtain again.

REGIAN, r[=e]'ji-an, _n._ (_obs._) a royalist.--R[=E]'GIAM MAJEST[=A]'TEM,
a collection of ancient laws bearing to have been compiled by order of
David I. of Scotland, now generally believed to be a compilation from
Glanville's _Tractatus de legibus_.

REGIBLE, rej'i-bl, _adj._ governable.

REGICIDE, rej'i-s[=i]d, _n._ the murderer of a king--applied esp. to the
members of the High Court of Justice who sentenced Charles I. to
death.--_adj._ REGIC[=I]'DAL. [Fr.,--L. _rex_, _regis_, a king,
_cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

REGIFUGIUM, r[=e]-ji-f[=u]'ji-um, _n._ an ancient Roman festival
commemorating the expulsion of the Tarquins.

REGILD, r[=e]-gild', _v.t._ to gild again or anew.

RÉGIME, r[=a]-zh[=e]m', _n._ mode of ruling one's diet: form of government:
administration.--ANCIEN RÉGIME, the political system that prevailed in
France before the Revolution of 1789. [Fr.,--L. _regimen_--_reg[)e]re_, to
rule.]

REGIMEN, rej'i-men, _n._ rule prescribed: orderly government: any
regulation for gradual improvement: (_med._) rule of diet, habit with
regard to food: (_gram._) the government of one word by another: words
governed:--_pl._ REGIM'INA.--_adj._ REGIM'INAL. [L.]

REGIMENT, rej'i-ment, _n._ a body of soldiers constituting the largest
permanent unit, commanded by a colonel: rule.--_v.t._ to form into a
regiment: to organise.--_adj._ REGIMENT'AL, relating to a
regiment.--_n.pl._ the uniform of a regiment.--_n._ REGIMENT[=A]'TION,
classification.--REGIMENTAL DISTRICT, the territory allotted to each
regiment for recruiting purposes.

REGINA, r[=e]-j[=i]'na, _n._ (_U.S._) the striped water-snake.

REGION, r[=e]'jun, _n._ a portion of land: country: any area or district,
with respect to fauna, flora, &c.: (_Shak._) rank, dignity: (_Shak._) the
elemental space between the earth and the moon's orbit.--_adj._
R[=E]'GIONAL, topical: local: topographical.--_n._ R[=E]'GIONALISM,
sectionalism.--_adv._ R[=E]'GIONALLY.--_n._ REGION[=A]'RIUS, a title given
to R.C. ecclesiastics who have jurisdiction over certain districts of
Rome.--_adjs._ R[=E]'GIONARY; R[=E]GION'IC. [O. Fr.,--L. _regio_,
_regionis_--_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

REGISTER, rej'is-t[.e]r, _n._ a written record, regularly kept: the book
containing the register: that which registers or records: one who
registers, as the Scotch 'Lord Clerk Register:' that which regulates, as
the damper of a furnace or stove: a stop or range of pipes on the organ,
&c.: the compass of a voice or of a musical instrument: (_print._) exact
adjustment of position in the presswork of books printed on both
sides.--_v.t._ to enter in a register: to record.--_adjs._ REG'ISTERABLE,
REG'ISTRABLE, capable of being registered; REG'ISTERED, enrolled, as a
registered voter.--_ns._ REG'ISTER-GRATE, a grate with a shutter behind;
REG'ISTER-OFF'ICE, a record-office: an employment office; REG'ISTER-PLATE,
in rope-making, a disc having holes so arranged as to give the yarns
passing through them their proper position for entering into the general
twist; REG'ISTRANT, one who registers, esp. a trade-mark or patent;
REG'ISTRAR, one who keeps a register or official record;
REG'ISTRAR-GEN'ERAL, an officer having the superintendence of the
registration of all births, deaths, and marriages; REG'ISTRARSHIP, office
of a registrar.--_v.t._ REG'ISTR[=A]TE.--_ns._ REGISTR[=A]'TION, act of
registering: in organ-playing, the act of combining stops for the playing
of given pieces of music; REG'ISTRY, act of registering: place where a
register is kept: facts recorded.--REGISTRATION ACT, a statute of 1885
extending the borough system of registration to county towns; REGISTRATION
OF BRITISH SHIPS, a duty imposed on ship-owners in order to secure to their
vessels the privileges of British ships; REGISTRATION OF COPYRIGHT, the
recording of the title of a book for the purpose of securing the copyright;
REGISTRATION OF TRADE-MARKS, the public system of registering such, with a
view to secure their exclusive use.--PARISH REGISTER, a book in which the
births, deaths, and marriages are inscribed; SHIP'S REGISTER, a document
showing the ownership of a vessel. [O. Fr. _registre_--Low L. _registrum_,
for L. _regestum_, pl. _regesta_--_re-_, back, _ger[)e]re_, to carry.]

REGIUS, r[=e]'ji-us, _adj._ appointed by the Crown, as R[=E]'GIUS
PROFESS'OR, one whose chair was founded by Henry VIII.; in Scotland, any
professor whose chair was founded by the Crown.--R[=E]'GIUM D[=O]'NUM, an
annual grant of public money to Presbyterian and other nonconformist
ministers in England, Scotland, and esp. Ireland, where it only ceased in
1871.

REGIVE, r[=e]-giv', _v.t._ to restore.

REGLEMENT, reg'l-ment, _n._ (_Bacon_) regulation.--_adj._ REGLEMEN'TARY.
[Fr.]

REGLET, reg'let, _n._ a flat, narrow moulding, used to separate panels,
&c.: a fillet: (_print._) a ledge of wood thicker than a lead, and used for
a like purpose.--_n._ REG'LET-PLANE, a plane for making printers' reglets.
[Fr., dim. of _règle_--L. _regula_, a rule.]

REGLOW, r[=e]-gl[=o]', _v.i._ to recalesce.--_n._ recalescence.

REGMA, reg'ma, _n._ (_bot._) a capsule with two or more lobes, each of
which dehisces at maturity:--_pl._ REG'MATA. [Gr. _rh[=e]gma_, a fracture.]

REGMACARP, reg'ma-kärp, _n._ any dehiscent fruit.

REGNAL, reg'nal, _adj._ pertaining to the reign of a monarch.--_n._
REG'NANCY, condition of being regnant: reign: predominance.--_adj._
REG'NANT, reigning or ruling: predominant: exercising regal
authority.--_ns._ REG'NICIDE, the destroyer of a kingdom; REG'NUM, a badge
of royalty, esp. the early form of the pope's tiara.--REGNAL YEAR, the year
of a sovereign's reign. [L. _regnans_, _regnantis_, pr.p. of _regn[=a]re_,
_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

REGORGE, r[=e]-gorj', _v.t._ to swallow again: (_Milt._) to swallow
eagerly: to vomit, to throw back.

REGRADE, r[=e]-gr[=a]d, _v.i._ (_obs._) to retire.

REGRAFT, r[=e]-graft', _v.t._ to graft again.

REGRANT, r[=e]-grant', _v.t._ to grant back.--_n._ a fresh grant.

REGRATE, r[=e]-gr[=a]t', _v.t._ in masonry, to remove the outer surface so
as to give a fresh appearance.

REGRATE, r[=e]-gr[=a]t', _v.t._ to buy and sell again in the same market,
thus raising the price--once a criminal offence in England.--_ns._
REGR[=A]'TER, -TOR, a huckster who buys and sells provisions in the same
fair; REGR[=A]'TING. [O. Fr. _regrater_--Low L. _recatare_, to retail--L.
_re-_, back, _capt[=a]re_, to catch.]

REGREDE, r[=e]-gr[=e]d', _v.i._ to retrograde.--_n._ REGR[=E]'DIENCE.

REGREET, r[=e]-gr[=e]t', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to greet or salute again.--_n._
(_Shak._) exchange of salutation.

REGRESS, r[=e]-gres', _n._ passage back: return: power of returning:
re-entry.--_v.i._ to go back: to return to a former place or state:
(_astron._) to move from east to west.--_n._ REGRES'SION, act of going back
or returning.--_adj._ REGRESS'IVE, going back: returning.--_adv._
REGRESS'IVELY, in a regressive manner: by return. [L. _regressus_, perf. p.
of _regredi_--_re-_, back, _gradi_, _gressus_, to step, go.]

REGRET, r[=e]-gret', _v.t._ to grieve at: to remember with sorrow:--_pr.p._
regret'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ regret'ted.--_n._ sorrow for anything:
concern: remorse: a written expression of regret.--_adj._ REGRET'FUL, full
of regret.--_adv._ REGRET'FULLY.--_adj._ REGRET'TABLE.--_adv._
REGRET'TABLY. [O. Fr. _regrater_, to desire, prob. from L. _re-_, again,
and an Old Low Ger. form, appearing in A.S. _gr['æ]tan_, Goth. _gretan_, to
weep, Scot. _greet_. Others explain as from L. _re-_, in neg. sense, and
_gratus_, pleasing.]

REGROWTH, r[=e]-gr[=o]th', _n._ a new growth.

REGUERDON, r[=e]-g[.e]r'dun, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to reward.--_n._ (_Shak._) a
reward.--_n._ REGUER'DONMENT.

REGULA, reg'[=u]-la, _n._ a book of rules for a religious house:
(_archit._) one of the bands under a Doric triglyph or between the canals
of the triglyphs:--_pl._ REG'ULÆ (-l[=e]). [L. _regula_, a rule.]

REGULAR, reg'[=u]-lar, _adj._ according to rule, or to law, order, custom,
established practice, or mode prescribed: in accordance with nature or art,
or the ordinary form or course of things: governed by rule: uniform:
periodical: unbroken: methodical, orderly, systematic: strict: pursued with
steadiness: straight: level: instituted according to established forms:
normal, natural: consistent: usual, customary: (_gram._) according to
ordinary rule, as 'regular verbs:' (_bot._) symmetrical in form: (_geom._)
having all the sides and angles equal: belonging to the permanent or
standing army--opp. to _Militia_ and _Volunteer_: (_coll._) thorough, out
and out, as 'a regular deception:' as opp. to _Secular_ in the R.C. Church,
denoting monks, friars, &c. under a monastic rule.--_n._ a soldier
belonging to the permanent army: a member of a religious order who has
taken the three ordinary vows: (_chron._) a number for each year, giving,
added to the concurrents, the number of the day of the week on which the
paschal full moon falls: a fixed number for each month serving to ascertain
the day of the week, or the age of the moon, on the first day of any
month.--_n.pl._ REGUL[=A]'RIA, the regular sea-urchins.--_n._
REGULARIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ REG'ULARISE, to make regular.--_n._
REGULAR'ITY, conformity to rule: method: uniformity.--_adv._
REG'ULARLY.--_n._ REG'ULARNESS.--_v.t._ REG'UL[=A]TE, to make regular: to
adjust by rule: to subject to rules or restrictions: to put in good
order.--_ns._ REG'ULATING-SCREW, in organ-building, a screw by which the
dip of the digitals of the keyboard of an organ may be adjusted;
REGUL[=A]'TION, act of regulating: state of being regulated: a rule or
order prescribed: precept: law.--_adj._ REG'UL[=A]TIVE, tending to
regulate.--_n._ REG'UL[=A]TOR, one who, or that which, regulates: a lever
which regulates the motion of a watch, &c.: anything that regulates
motion.--_adj._ REG'UL[=A]TORY.--_n.fem._ REG'UL[=A]TRESS. [L.
_regularis_--_regula_, a rule--_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

REGULUS, reg'[=u]-lus, _n._ an intermediate and impure product in the
smelting of metallic ores: antimony: the golden-crested wren.--_adj._
REG'ULINE.--_v.t._ REG'ULISE. [L., 'little king.']

REGUR, r[=e]'gur, _n._ the rich black cotton soil of India, full of organic
matter.--Also R[=E]'GAR. [Hind.]

REGURGITATE, r[=e]-gur'ji-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to throw or pour back from a deep
place.--_v.i._ to be thrown or poured back:--_pr.p._ regur'git[=a]ting;
_pa.p._ regur'git[=a]ted.--_n._ REGURGIT[=A]'TION, the act of pouring or
flowing back. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _regurgit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_re-_, back,
_gurges_, _gurgitis_, a gulf.]

REH, r[=a], _n._ a saline efflorescence which comes to the surface in
extensive tracts of Upper India.

REHABILITATE, r[=e]-ha-bil'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to reinstate, restore to former
privileges.--_n._ REHABILIT[=A]'TION, the act of restoring to forfeited
rights or privileges. [Fr. _réhabiliter_--L. _re-_, again,
_habilit[=a]re_--_hab[=e]re_, to have.]

REHANDLE, r[=e]-hand'l, _v.t._ to remodel.

REHASH, r[=e]-hash', _v.t._ to hash over again.--_n._ something made up of
materials formerly used.

REHEAD, r[=e]-hed', _v.t._ to furnish with a head again.

REHEAR, r[=e]-h[=e]r', _v.t._ to hear again: to try over again, as a
lawsuit.--_n._ REHEAR'ING.

REHEARSAL, r[=e]-h[.e]r'sal, _n._ act of rehearsing: recital: recital and
performance for practice previous to public representation.--_v.t._
REHEARSE', to repeat what has already been said: to narrate: to recite
before a public representation.--_ns._ REHEAR'SER; REHEAR'SING. [O. Fr.
_rehercer_, _reherser_--_re-_, again, _hercer_, to harrow--_herce_ (Fr.
_herse_), a harrow.]

REHEAT, r[=e]-h[=e]t, _v.t._ to heat anew.--_n._ REHEAT'ER, an apparatus
for restoring heat to a body.

REHEEL, r[=e]-h[=e]l', _v.t._ to supply a heel to a stocking, boot, &c.

REHIBITION. See REDHIBITION.

REHYBRIDISE, r[=e]-h[=i]'bri-d[=i]z, _v.t._ to cause to interbreed with a
different species.

REHYPOTHECATE, r[=e]-h[=i]-poth'[=e]-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to lend as security
bonds already pledged.--_n._ REHYPOTHEC[=A]'TION.

REICHSRATH, r[=i]hs'rät, _n._ the chief deliberative body in the western
part of the Austrian Empire, excluding Hungary, which has its own
parliament.

REICHSTAG, r[=i]hs'täh, _n._ the chief deliberative body in the German
Empire, exercising legislative power in conjunction with the _Bundesrath_:
the diet of the old German Empire.

REIFICATION, r[=e]-if-i-k[=a]'shun, _n._ materialisation.--_v.t._
R[=E]'IFY, to make real or material.

REIGN, r[=a]n, _n._ rule: dominion, as Reign of Terror: royal authority:
supreme power: influence: time during which a sovereign rules.--_v.i._ to
rule: to have sovereign power: to be predominant. [Fr. _règne_--L.
_regnum_--_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

REILLUMINATE, r[=e]-il-l[=u]'min-[=a]t, _v.t._ to illuminate or enlighten
again.--_n._ REILLUMIN[=A]'TION.

REIMBURSE, r[=e]-im-burs', _v.t._ to refund: to pay an equivalent to for
loss or expense.--_adj._ REIMBURS'ABLE, capable of being repaid: intended
to be repaid.--_ns._ REIMBURSE'MENT, act of reimbursing; REIMBURS'ER, one
who reimburses. [Fr. _rembourser_--_re-_, back, _embourser_, to put in a
purse--_bourse_, a purse.]

REIMPLACE, r[=e]-im-pl[=a]s', _v.t._ (_obs._) to replace.

REIMPLANT, r[=e]-im-plant', _v.t._ to implant again.--_n._
REIMPLANT[=A]'TION.

REIMPORT, r[=e]-im-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to bring back: to import again.--_n._
REIMPORT[=A]'TION.

REIMPOSE, r[=e]-im-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to retax.--_n._ REIMPOSI'TION, the act
of reimposing: a tax levied anew.

REIMPRESS, r[=e]-im-pres', _v.t._ to impress anew.--_n._ REIMPRES'SION, a
second or repeated impression: the reprint of a work.--_v.t._ REIMPRINT',
to print again.

REIMPRISON, r[=e]-im-pris'n, _v.t._ to imprison again.--_n._
REIMPRIS'ONMENT.

REIN, r[=a]n, _n._ the strap of a bridle: an instrument for curbing or
governing: government.--_v.t._ to govern with the rein or bridle: to
restrain or control: to rein in, to curb.--_v.i._ to obey the rein.--_ns._
REIN'-HOLD'ER, a clasp on the dash-board of a carriage for holding the
reins; REIN'-HOOK, a hook on a gig-saddle for holding the
bearing-rein.--_adj._ REIN'LESS, without rein or restraint.--_n._
REINS'MAN, a skilful driver.--REIN UP, to bring a horse to a stop.--GIVE
THE REINS TO, to leave unchecked; TAKE THE REINS, to take the control. [O.
Fr. _reine_ (Fr. _rêne_), through Late L. _retina_, from _retin[=e]re_, to
hold back.]

REINAUGURATE, r[=e]-in-aw'g[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to inaugurate again or anew.

REINCARNATE, r[=e]-in-kär'n[=a]t, _v.t._ to embody anew.--_n._
REINCARN[=A]'TION.

REINCENSE, r[=e]-in-sens', _v.t._ to rekindle.

REINCITE, r[=e]-in-s[=i]t', _v.t._ to reanimate.

REINCORPORATE, r[=e]-in-kor'p[=o]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to incorporate or embody
again or anew.

REINCREASE, r[=e]-in-kr[=e]s', _v.t._ to augment.

REINCRUDATION, r[=e]-in-kr[=oo]-d[=a]'shun, _n._ recrudescence.

REINDEER, r[=a]n'd[=e]r, _n._ a kind of deer in the north, valuable for the
chase and for domestic uses.--_n._ REIN'DEER-MOSS, a lichen, the winter
food of the reindeer. [Ice. _hreinn_, and Eng. _deer_.]

REINFECT, r[=e]-in-fekt', _v.t._ to infect again.--_n._ REINFEC'TION.

REINFLAME, r[=e]-in-fl[=a]m', _v.t._ to rekindle.

REINFORCE, r[=e]-in-f[=o]rs', _v.t._ to enforce again: to strengthen with
new force or support: (_Spens._) to compel.--_ns._ REINFORCE'MENT, the act
of reinforcing: additional force or assistance, esp. of troops;
REINFOR'CER, any additional strengthening added to a thing.--_adj._
REINFOR'CIBLE.

REINFORM, r[=e]-in-form', _v.t._ to inform anew.

REINFUND, r[=e]-in-fund', _v.t._ to flow in again.

REINFUSE, r[=e]-in-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to infuse again.

REINGRATIATE, r[=e]-in-gr[=a]'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to recommend again: to
favour.

REINHABIT, r[=e]-in-hab'it, _v.t._ to inhabit again.

REINOCULATION, r[=e]-in-ok-[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ subsequent inoculation.

REINS, r[=a]nz, _n.pl._ the kidneys: the lower part of the back over the
kidneys: (_B._) the inward parts: the heart. [O. Fr.,--L. _renes_.]

REINSCRIBE, r[=e]-in-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to record a second time.

REINSERT, r[=e]-in-s[.e]rt', _v.t._ to insert a second time.--_n._
REINSER'TION.

REINSPECT, r[=e]-in-spekt', _v.t._ to inspect again.--_n._ REINSPEC'TION.

REINSPIRE, r[=e]-in-sp[=i]r', _v.t._ to inspire anew.

REINSTALL, r[=e]-in-stawl', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to put again in possession:
(_Milt._) to seat again.--_n._ REINSTAL'MENT.

REINSTATE, r[=e]-in-st[=a]t', _v.t._ to place in a former state.--_ns._
REINST[=A]TE'MENT, REINST[=A]'TION, act of reinstating: re-establishment.

REINSTRUCT, r[=e]-in-strukt', _v.t._ to instruct again.

REINSURE, r[=e]-in-sh[=oo]r', _v.t._ to insure a second time by other
underwriters.--_ns._ REINSUR'ANCE; REINSUR'ER.

REINTEGRATE, r[=e]-in'te-gr[=a]t, _v.t._ to bring into harmony.--_n._
REINTEGR[=A]'TION.

REINTER, r[=e]-in-ter', _v.t._ to bury again.

REINTERROGATE, r[=e]-in-ter'[=o]-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to interrogate again.--_n._
REINTERROG[=A]'TION.

REINTRODUCE, r[=e]-in-tr[=o]-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to introduce again.--_n._
REINTRODUC'TION.

REINVENT, r[=e]-in-vent', _v.t._ to create anew or independently.--_n._
REINVEN'TION.

REINVEST, r[=e]-in-vest', _v.t._ to invest again or a second time.--_n._
REINVEST'MENT, act of reinvesting: a second investment.

REINVESTIGATE, r[=e]-in-ves'ti-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to investigate again.--_n._
REINVESTIG[=A]'TION.

REINVIGORATE, r[=e]-in-vig'or-[=a]t, _v.t._ to invigorate again.--_n._
REINVIGOR[=A]'TION.

REINVITE, r[=e]-in-v[=i]t', to repeat an invitation.--_n._
REINVIT[=A]'TION.

REINVOLVE, r[=e]-in-volv', _v.t._ to involve anew.

REIS, r[=a]s, _n._ a Portuguese money, of which 1000 make a milreis--4s.
5d. [Port., pl. of _real_.]

REISSUE, r[=e]-ish'[=oo], _v.t._ to issue again.--_n._ a second
issue.--_adj._ REIS'SUABLE.

REITER, r[=i]'t[.e]r, _n._ a German cavalry soldier. [Ger.]

REITERATE, r[=e]-it'e-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to iterate or repeat again: to repeat
again and again.--_adj._ REIT'ERANT, reiterating.--_adv._
REIT'ERATEDLY.--_n._ REITER[=A]'TION, act of reiterating.--_adj._
REIT'ER[=A]TIVE (_gram._), a word signifying repeated action.

REJECT, r[=e]-jekt', _v.t._ to throw away: to refuse: to renounce: to
despise.--_adjs._ REJEC'TABLE, REJEC'TIBLE.--_n.pl._ REJECTAMEN'TA,
excrement.--_ns._ REJEC'TER, -OR; REJEC'TION, act of rejecting:
refusal.--_adj._ REJEC'TIVE.--_n._ REJECT'MENT. [L. _rejic[)e]re_,
_rejectum_--_re-_, back, _jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

REJOICE, r[=e]-jois', _v.i._ to feel and express joy again and again: to be
glad: to exult or triumph.--_v.t._ to make joyful: to gladden.--_ns._
REJOICE'MENT, rejoicing; REJOIC'ER; REJOIC'ING, act of being joyful:
expression, subject, or experience of joy.--_adv._ REJOIC'INGLY, with joy
or exultation. [O. Fr. _resjoir_ (Fr. _réjouir_)--_re-_, again, _jouir_, to
enjoy--_joie_, joy.]

REJOIN, r[=e]-join', _v.t._ to join again: to unite what is separated: to
meet again.--_v.i._ to answer to a reply.--_ns._ REJOIN'DER, an answer
joined on to another, an answer to a reply: (_law_) the defendant's answer
to a plaintiff's _replication_; REJOIN'D[=U]RE (_Shak._), a joining again.

REJOINT, r[=e]-joint', _v.t._ to joint anew: to fill up the joints of, as
with mortar.

REJOLT, r[=e]-jolt', _v.t._ to shake anew.--_n._ a new shock.

REJOURN, r[=e]-jurn', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to adjourn or postpone, to
defer.--_n._ REJOURN'MENT. [Fr. _réajourner_.]

REJUDGE, r[=e]-juj', _v.t._ to re-examine.

REJUVENATE, r[=e]-j[=oo]'ve-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to renew: to make young
again.--_n._ REJUVEN[=A]'TION.--_v.i._ REJUVENESCE', to grow young
again.--_n._ REJUVENES'CENCE, growing young again: (_biol._) a
transformation whereby the entire protoplasm of a vegetative cell changes
into a cell of a different character.--_adj._ REJUVENES'CENT.--_v.t._
REJU'VENISE, to rejuvenate. [L. _re-_, again, and _juvenescent_.]

REKINDLE, r[=e]-kin'dl, _v.t._ to kindle again: to set on fire or arouse
anew.--_v.i._ to take fire anew.

RELAIS, re-l[=a]', _n._ (_fort._) a walk left within a rampart to keep
earth from falling into the ditch. [Fr.]

RELAPSE, r[=e]-laps', _v.i._ to slide, sink, or fall back: to return to a
former state of practice: to backslide.--_n._ a falling back into a former
bad state: (_med._) the return of a disease after convalescence.--_n._
RELAP'SER.--_adj._ RELAP'SING. [L. _relabi_, _relapsus_--_re-_, back,
_labi_, to slide.]

RELATE, r[=e]-l[=a]t', _v.t._ to describe: to tell: to ally by connection
or kindred.--_v.i._ to have reference: to refer.--_adj._ REL[=A]'TED,
allied or connected by kindred or blood.--_ns._ REL[=A]'TEDNESS;
REL[=A]'TER, -OR, one who relates; REL[=A]'TION, act of relating or
telling: recital: that which is related: mutual connection between two
things, analogy: resemblance, affinity: connection by birth or marriage: a
person related by blood or marriage, a relative.--_adj._ REL[=A]'TIONAL,
having relation: exhibiting some relation.--_ns._ REL[=A]TIONAL'ITY;
REL[=A]'TIONISM, the doctrine that relations have a real existence;
REL[=A]'TIONIST; REL[=A]'TIONSHIP; REL[=A]'TOR (_law_), an informant on
whose behalf certain writs are issued:--_fem._ REL[=A]'TRIX. [O. Fr.,--L.
_referre_, _relatum_--_re-_, back, _ferre_, to carry.]

RELATIVE, rel'a-tiv, _adj._ having relation: respecting: not absolute or
existing by itself: considered as belonging to something else: (_gram._)
expressing relation.--_n._ that which has relation to something else: a
relation: (_gram._) a pronoun which relates to something before, called its
antecedent.--_adj._ RELAT[=I]'VAL (or REL'ATIVAL).--_adv._
REL'ATIVELY.--_ns._ REL'ATIVENESS, RELATIV'ITY.--RELATIVITY OF HUMAN
KNOWLEDGE, the doctrine that the nature and extent of our knowledge is
determined not merely by the qualities of the objects known, but
necessarily by the conditions of our cognitive powers.

RELAX, r[=e]-laks', _v.t._ to loosen one thing away from another: to
slacken: to make less close, tense, or rigid: to make less severe: to
relieve from attention or effort: to divert: to open or loosen, as the
bowels: to make languid.--_v.i._ to become less close: to become less
severe: to attend less.--_adj._ RELAX'ABLE.--_ns._ RELAX'ANT, a relaxing
medicine; RELAX[=A]'TION, act of relaxing: state of being relaxed:
remission of application: unbending: looseness.--_adj._ RELAX'ATIVE.
[Fr.,--L. _relax[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_re-_, away from, _lax[=a]re_, to
loosen--_laxus_, loose.]

RELAY, r[=e]-l[=a]', _n._ a supply of horses, &c., to relieve others on a
journey: a fresh set of dogs in hunting: a shift of men: a supplementary
store of anything: (_electr._) an apparatus by which the current of the
receiving telegraphic station is strengthened. [O. Fr.
_relais_--_relaisser_--L. _relax[=a]re_, to loosen.]

RELAY, r[=e]-l[=a]', _v.t._ to lay again, as a pavement.

RELEASE, r[=e]-l[=e]s', _v.t._ to grant a new lease of.--_ns._
RELEAS[=EE]', RELESS[=EE]', the one to whom a release is granted;
RELEAS'OR, RELESS'OR, one who grants a release.

RELEASE, r[=e]-l[=e]s', _v.t._ to let loose from: to set free: to discharge
from: to relieve: to let go, give up a right to.--_n._ a setting free:
discharge or acquittance: the giving up of a claim: liberation from
pain.--_adj._ RELEAS'ABLE.--_ns._ RELEASE'MENT (_Milt._), act of releasing
or discharging; RELEAS'ER, -OR, RELESS'OR, one who executes a release. [O.
Fr. _relaissier_--L. _lax[=a]re_, to relax.]

RELEGATE, rel'e-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to send away, to consign: to exile: to
dismiss: to remit.--_n._ RELEG[=A]'TION. [L. _releg[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_re-_, away, _leg[=a]re_, to send.]

RELENT, r[=e]-lent', _v.i._ to slacken, to soften or grow less severe: to
grow tender: to feel compassion.--_adj._ soft-hearted: yielding.--_n._
(_Spens._) relenting.--_adjs._ RELENT'ING, inclining to yield: too soft;
RELENT'LESS, without relenting: without tenderness or compassion:
merciless.--_adv._ RELENT'LESSLY.--_ns._ RELENT'LESSNESS; RELENT'MENT, the
state of relenting: relaxation: compassion. [O. Fr. _ralentir_, to
retard--L. _relentesc[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _lentus_, pliant.]

RELET, r[=e]-let', _v.t._ to let again, as a house.

RELEVANCY, rel'e-van-si, _n._ state of being relevant: pertinence:
applicability: obvious relation: (_Scots law_) sufficiency for a
decision--the arguments and evidence in point of law and of fact against
and in favour of the accused--also REL'EVANCE.--_adj._ REL'EVANT, bearing
upon, or applying to, the purpose: pertinent: related: sufficient legally.
[Fr., pr.p. of _relever_, to raise again--L. _relev[=a]re_, to relieve.]

RELEVATION, rel-e-v[=a]'shun, _n._ (_obs._) a raising up.

RELIABLE, r[=e]-l[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ that may be relied upon:
trustworthy.--_ns._ RELIABIL'ITY, REL[=I]'ABLENESS.--_adv._
REL[=I]'ABLY.--_n._ REL[=I]'ANCE, trust: confidence.--_adj._ REL[=I]'ANT,
confident in one's self. [_Rely_.]

RELIC, rel'ik, _n._ that which is left after loss or decay of the rest: a
corpse (gener. _pl._): (_R.C._) any personal memorial of a reputed saint,
to be held in reverence as an incentive to faith and piety: a memorial, a
souvenir: a monument.--_n._ REL'IC-MONG'ER, one who traffics in relics.
[Fr. _relique_--L. _reliquiæ_--_relinqu[)e]re_, _relictum_, to leave
behind.]

RELICT, rel'ikt, _n._ a woman surviving her husband, a widow. [L.
_relicta_--_relinqu[)e]re_.]

RELICTED, r[=e]-lik'ted, _adj._ (_law_) left bare, as land by the permanent
retrocession of water.--_n._ RELIC'TION, land left bare by water: the
recession of water.

RELIEF, r[=e]-l[=e]f', _n._ the removal of any evil: release from a post or
duty, replacement: one who replaces another: that which relieves or
mitigates: aid: assistance to a pauper, as _outdoor relief_: a certain fine
or composition paid by the heir of a tenant at the death of the ancestor:
(_fine art_) the projection of a sculptured design from its ground, as _low
relief_ (_bas-relief_, _basso-rilievo_), _middle relief_ (_mezzo-rilievo_),
and _high relief_ (_alto-rilievo_), according as the carved figures project
very little, in a moderate degree, or in a very considerable degree from
the background: a work of art executed in relief: (_her._) the supposed
projection of a charge from the surface of a field, indicated by shading on
the sinister and lower sides: the condition of land surfaces as regards
elevations and depressions--as indicated in a RELIEF'-MAP, in which the
form of the country is expressed by elevations and depressions of the
material used.--_ns._ RELIEF'-PERSPEC'TIVE, the art of applying the
principles of perspective to relief in painting and sculpture, in
theatrical settings, &c.; RELIEF'-WORK, public work to provide employment
for the poor in times of distress.--RELIEF CHURCH, a body who left the
Established Church of Scotland on account of the oppressive exercise of
patronage, organised in 1761, uniting with the United Secession Church in
1847 to form the United Presbyterian Church. [O. Fr. _relef_--_relever_, to
raise up--L. _re-_, again, _lev[=a]re_, to raise.]

RELIEVE, r[=e]-l[=e]v', _v.t._ to remove from that which weighs down or
depresses: to lessen: to ease: to help: to release: to support: to
mitigate: to raise the siege of: (_art_) to set off by contrast: (_law_) to
redress.--_adj._ RELIEV'ABLE.--_n._ RELIEV'ER, one who, or that which,
relieves: (_slang_) a garment kept for being lent out.--_adj._ RELIEV'ING,
serving to relieve: (_naut._) a temporary tackle attached to the tiller of
a vessel in a storm.--RELIEVING ARCH, an arch in a wall to relieve the part
below it from a superincumbent weight; RELIEVING OFFICER, a salaried
official who superintends the relief of the poor. [O. Fr. _relever_, to
raise again--L. _relev[=a]re_--_re-_, again, _lev[=a]re_, to
raise--_levis_, light.]

RELIEVO, RILIEVO, r[=e]-ly[=a]'v[=o], _n._ See ALTO-RELIEVO, BAS-RELIEF.

RELIGHT, r[=e]-l[=i]t', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to light or take light anew.

RELIGION, r[=e]-lij'un, _n._ the recognition of supernatural powers and of
the duty lying upon man to yield obedience to these: the performance of our
duties of love and obedience towards God: piety: any system of faith and
worship: sense of obligation or duty.--_ns._ RELIG'IONER,
RELIG'IONARY.--_v.t._ RELIG'IONISE, to imbue with religion.--_v.i._ to make
profession of religion.--_ns._ RELIG'IONISM, RELIGIOS'ITY, religiousness,
religious sentimentality; RELIG'IONIST, one attached to a religion: a
bigot.--_adj._ RELIG'IONLESS, having no religion.--_adv._ RELIGI[=O]'SO
(_mus._), in a devotional manner.--ESTABLISHED RELIGION, that form which is
officially recognised by the state; NATURAL RELIGION, that religion which
is derived from nature and not revelation; REVEALED RELIGION, that which is
derived from positive revelation by divinely inspired Scripture, or
otherwise. [L. _religio_, _-onis_--_re-_, back, _lig[=a]re,_ to bind.]

RELIGIOUS, r[=e]-lij'us, _adj._ pertaining to religion: concerned with or
set apart to religion, as a religious society, religious books: pious:
godly: (_R.C._) bound to a monastic life: strict.--_n._ one bound by
monastic vows.--_ns._ RELIGIEUSE (r[.e]-l[=e]-zhi-[.e]z'), a nun; RELIGIEUX
(r[.e]-l[=e]-zhi-[.e]'), a monk.--_adv._ RELIG'IOUSLY.--_n._
RELIG'IOUSNESS, the state of being religious.

RELINQUISH, r[=e]-ling'kwish, _v.t._ to abandon: to give up: to renounce a
claim to.--_adj._ RELIN'QUENT, relinquishing.--_ns._ RELIN'QUISHER;
RELIN'QUISHMENT, act of giving up. [O. Fr. _relinquir_--L. _relinqu[)e]re_,
_relictum_--_re-_, away from, _linqu[)e]re_, to leave.]

RELIQUARY, rel'i-kw[=a]-ri, _n._ a small chest or casket for holding
relics: (_law_) one who owes a balance.--Also RELIQUAIRE'. [Fr.
_reliquaire_; cf. _Relic_.]

RELIQUE, re-l[=e]k', _n._ a relic.--_n.pl._ RELIQUIÆ (r[=e]-lik'wi-[=e]),
remains, esp. of fossil organisms: (_archæology_) artifacts, or things made
or modified by human art.

RELIQUIDATE, r[=e]-lik'wi-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to adjust anew.--_n._
RELIQUID[=A]'TION.

RELISH, rel'ish, _v.t._ to like the taste of: to be pleased with: to
enjoy.--_v.i._ to have an agreeable taste: to give pleasure.--_n._ an
agreeable peculiar taste or quality: enjoyable quality: power of pleasing:
inclination or taste for: appetite: just enough to give a flavour: a
sauce.--_adj._ REL'ISHABLE. [O. Fr. _relecher_, to lick again, from _re-_,
again, _lecher_--L. _re-_, again, and Old High Ger. _lech[=o]n_, lick.]

RELISTEN, r[=e]-lis'n, _v.i._ to listen again or anew.

RELIVE, r[=e]-liv', _v.i._ to live again.--_v.t._ (_Spens._) to bring back
to life.

RELOAD, r[=e]-l[=o]d', _v.t._ to load again.

RELOCATE, r[=e]-l[=o]'k[=a]t, _v.t._ to locate again.--_n._ RELOC[=A]'TION,
the act of relocating: renewal of a lease.

RELOVE, r[=e]-luv', _v.t._ to love in return.

RELUCENT, r[=e]-l[=u]'sent, _adj._ shining: bright.

RELUCTANT, r[=e]-luk'tant, _adj._ struggling or striving against:
unwilling: disinclined.--_v.i._ R[=E]LUCT', to make resistance.--_ns._
RELUC'TANCE, RELUC'TANCY, state of being reluctant: unwillingness.--_adv._
RELUC'TANTLY.--_v.i._ RELUC'T[=A]TE, to be reluctant.--_n._
RELUCT[=A]'TION, repugnance. [L. _reluctans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_reluct[=a]ri_--_re-_, against, _luct[=a]ri_, to struggle.]

RELUME, r[=e]-l[=u]m', _v.t._ to light anew, to rekindle:--_pr.p._
rel[=u]m'ing; _pa.p._ rel[=u]med'.--_v.t._ REL[=U]'MINE (_Shak._), to
relume, light anew. [Fr. _relumer_--L. _re-_, again, _lumen_, light.]

RELY, r[=e]-l[=i]', _v.i._ to rest or repose: to have full confidence in:
to lean:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ relied'.--_n._ REL[=I]'ER. [Acc. to Skeat,
compounded from _re-_, back, and _lie_, to rest. Others explain as O. Fr.
_relier_--L. _relig[=a]re_, to bind back.]

REMAIN, r[=e]-m[=a]n', _v.i._ to stay or be left behind: to continue in the
same place: to be left after or out of a greater number: to continue in an
unchanged form or condition: to last.--_n._ stay: abode: what is left, esp.
in _pl._ REMAINS', a corpse: the literary productions of one dead.--_n._
REMAIN'DER, that which remains or is left behind after the removal of a
part: the balance: an interest in an estate to come into effect after a
certain other event happens: that which remains of an edition when the sale
of a book has practically ceased.--_adj._ left over. [O. Fr.
_remaindre_--L. _reman[=e]re_--_re-_, back, _man[=e]re_, to stay.]

REMAKE, r[=e]-m[=a]k', _v.t._ to make anew.

REMANATION, r[=e]-ma-n[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of returning: reabsorption.
[L. _reman[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to flow back.]

REMAND, r[=e]-mand, _v.t._ to recommit or send back.--_n._ state or act of
being remanded or recommitted, as a prisoner.--_n._ REM'ANENCE, REM'ANENCY,
permanence.--_adj._ REM'ANENT, remaining: (_Scot._) additional.--_ns._
REMANES'CENCE, a residuum; REM'ANET, a postponed case. [O. Fr.
_remander_--L. _remand[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _mand[=a]re_, to order.]

REMARK, r[=e]-märk', _v.t._ to mark or take notice of: to express what one
thinks or sees: to say.--_n._ words regarding anything: notice: any
distinguishing mark on an engraving or etching indicating a certain state
of the plate before completion, also a print or proof bearing this special
remark--also REMARQUE'.--_adj._ REMARK'ABLE, deserving remark or notice:
distinguished: famous: that may excite admiration or wonder: strange:
extraordinary.--_n._ REMARK'ABLENESS.--_adv._ REMARK'ABLY.--_adj._
REMARKED', conspicuous: bearing a remark, as an etching.--_n._ REMARK'ER.
[O. Fr. _remarquer_--_re-_, inten., _marquer_, to mark.]

RE-MARK, r[=e]-märk', _v.t._ to mark a second time.

REMARRY, r[=e]-mar'i, _v.t._ to marry again.--_n._ REMARR'IAGE.

REMASTICATE, r[=e]-mas'ti-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to ruminate.--_n._
REMASTIC[=A]'TION.

REMBLAI, rong-bl[=a]', _n._ (_fort._) the materials used to form the
rampart and parapet: the mass of earth brought to form a railway
embankment, &c. [Fr.]

REMBLE, rem'bl, _v.t._ (_prov._) to remove.

REMBRANDTESQUE, rem-bran-tesk', _adj._ like _Rembrandt_ (1607-1669), esp.
in his characteristic contrast of high lights and deep shadows, and in his
treatment of chiaroscuro.--Also REM'BRANDTISH.

REMEANT, r[=e]'m[=e]-ant, _adj._ (_rare_) coming back. [L.
_reme[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _me[=a]re_, to go.]

REMEASURE, r[=e]-mezh'[=u]r, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to measure anew.

REMEDY, rem'e-di, _n._ any medicine, appliance, or particular treatment
that cures disease: that which counteracts any evil or repairs any
loss--(_obs._) REM[=E]DE'.--_v.t._ to remove, counteract, or
repair:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rem'edied.--_adj._ REM[=E]'DIABLE, that may be
remedied: curable.--_n._ REM[=E]'DIABLENESS.--_adv._
REM[=E]'DIABLY.--_adj._ REM[=E]'DIAL, tending to remedy or remove.--_adv._
REM[=E]'DIALLY.--_adjs._ REM[=E]'DI[=A]TE (_Shak._), remedial; REM'EDILESS,
without remedy: incurable.--_adv._ REM'EDILESSLY.--_n._
REM'EDILESSNESS.--_p.adj._ REM'EDYING. [O. Fr. _remede_--L.
_remedium_--_re-_, back, _med[=e]ri_, to restore.]

REMEMBER, r[=e]-mem'b[.e]r, _v.t._ to keep in mind: to recall to mind: to
recollect: (_B._) to meditate on: (_Shak._) to mention: to bear in mind
with gratitude and reverence: to attend to: to give money for service
done.--_adj._ REMEM'BERABLE, that may be remembered.--_adv._
REMEM'BERABLY.--_ns._ REMEM'BERER; REMEM'BRANCE, memory: that which serves
to bring to or keep in mind: a memorial: the power of remembering: the
length of time a thing can be remembered; REMEM'BRANCER, that which
reminds: a recorder: an officer of exchequer.--REMEMBER ONE TO, to commend
one to. [O. Fr. _remembrer_--L. _rememor[=a]re_--_re-_, again,
_memor[=a]re_, to call to mind--_memor_, mindful.]

REMERCIE, REMERCY, r[=e]-m[.e]r'si, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to thank. [O. Fr.
_remercier_, _re-_, again, _mercier_, to thank, _merci_, thanks.]

REMERGE, r[=e]-m[.e]rj', _v.t._ (_Tenn._) to merge again.

REMEX, r[=e]'meks, _n._ one of the flight-feathers of a bird:--_pl._
REM'IG[=E]S. [L., 'a rower'--_remus_, an oar, _ag[)e]re_, to move.]

REMIFORM, rem'i-form, _adj._ shaped like an oar.--_adj._ REM'IGABLE,
capable of being rowed upon. [L. _remus_, an oar, _forma_, form,
_ag[)e]re_, to move.]

REMIGIA, r[=e]-mij'i-a, _n._ a genus of noctuid moths.--_adj._ REMIG'IAL.

REMIGRATE, r[=e]-m[=i]'gr[=a]t, _v.i._ to migrate again.--_n._
REMIGR[=A]'TION.

REMIND, r[=e]-m[=i]nd', _v.t._ to bring to the mind of again: to bring
under the notice or consideration of.--_n._ REMIND'ER, one who, or that
which, reminds.--_adj._ REMIND'FUL, tending to remind: calling to mind.

REMINISCENCE, rem-i-nis'ens, _n._ recollection: an account of what is
remembered: the recurrence to the mind of the past.--_n._ REMINIS'CENT, one
who calls past events to mind.--_adj._ capable of calling to mind.--_adjs._
REMINISCEN'TIAL, REMINIS'CITORY, tending to remind. [Fr.,--Low L.
_reminiscentiæ_, recollections--L. _reminisci_, to recall to mind.]

REMIPED, rem'i-ped, _adj._ oar-footed.--_n._ one of an order of insects
having feet adapted for swimming. [L. _remus_, an oar, _pes_, _pedis_, a
foot.]

REMISE, r[=e]-m[=i]z', _v.t._ to send or give back: to release, as a
claim.--_n._ (_law_) return or surrender, as of a claim: an effective
second thrust after the first has missed: a livery-carriage. [O. Fr.,--Low
L. _remissa_, a pardon--L. _remitt[)e]re_, _remissum_, to remit.]

REMISS, r[=e]-mis', _adj._ remitting in attention, &c.: negligent: not
punctual: slack: not vigorous.--_adj._ REMISS'FUL, tending to remit or
forgive: lenient.--_n._ REMISSIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ REMISS'IBLE, that may be
remitted or pardoned.--_n._ REMIS'SION, slackening: abatement:
relinquishment of a claim: release: pardon: remission of sins: the
forgiveness of sins.--_adj._ REMISS'IVE, remitting: forgiving.--_adv._
REMISS'LY.--_n._ REMISS'NESS.--_adj._ REMISS'ORY, pertaining to remission.
[O. Fr. _remis_--L. _remissus_, slack--_remitt[)e]re_, to remit.]

REMIT, r[=e]-mit', _v.t._ to relax: to pardon: to resign: to restore: to
transmit, as money, &c.: to put again in custody: to transfer from one
tribunal to another: to refer for information.--_v.i._ to abate in force or
violence:--_pr.p._ remit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ remit'ted.--_n._ (_law_)
a communication from a superior court to one subordinate.--_ns._
REMIT'MENT, act of remitting; REMIT'TAL, a remitting: surrender;
REMIT'TANCE, that which is remitted: the sending of money, &c., to a
distance: also the sum or thing sent; REMITT[=EE]', the person to whom a
remittance is sent.--_adj._ REMIT'TENT, increasing and remitting, or
abating alternately, as a disease.--_ns._ REMIT'TER, one who makes a
remittance; REMIT'TOR (_law_), a remitting to a former right or
title--(_obs._) REMIT'TER. [O. Fr. _remettre_--L. _remitt[)e]re_,
_remissum_--_re-_, back, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

REMNANT, rem'nant, _n._ that which remains behind after a part is removed,
of a web of cloth, &c.: remainder: a fragment. [O. Fr. _remenant_,
remainder.]

REMOBOTH, rem'[=o]-both, _n._ a class of isolated hermit societies in Syria
which would be bound by no rule, after the regulation of monasticism by
Pachomius and Basil--like the Sarabaites in Egypt.

REMODEL, r[=e]-mod'l, _v.t._ to model or fashion anew.

REMODIFICATION, r[=e]-mod-i-fi-k[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of modifying
again.--_v.t._ REMOD'IFY, to mould anew.

REMOLADE, r[=e]-mo-lad', _n._ a kind of salad-dressing. [Fr.]

REMOLECULISATION, r[=e]-mol-ek'u-l[=i]-z[=a]-shun, _n._ a rearrangement of
the molecules leading to the formation of new compounds.

REMOLLIENT, r[=e]-mol'i-ent, _adj._ mollifying.

REMOLTEN, r[=e]-m[=o]lt'n, _p.adj._ melted again.

REMONETISE, r[=e]-mon'e-t[=i]z, _v.t._ to restore to circulation in the
form of money.--_n._ REMONETIS[=A]'TION.

REMONSTRANCE, r[=e]-mon'strans, _n._ strong statement of reasons against an
act: expostulation.--_adj._ REMON'STRANT, inclined to remonstrate.--_n._
one who remonstrates.--_adv._ REMON'STRANTLY.--_n.pl._ REMON'STRANTS, the
Dutch Arminians whose divergence from Calvinism was expressed in five
articles in the Remonstrance of 1610.--_v.i._ REMON'STR[=A]TE, to set forth
strong reasons against a measure.--_n._ REMONSTR[=A]'TION.--_adjs._
REMON'STRATIVE, REMON'STRATORY, expostulatory.--_n._
REMON'STR[=A]TOR.--GRAND REMONSTRANCE, a famous statement of abuses
presented to Charles I. by the House of Commons in 1641. [L. _re-_, again,
_monstr[=a]re_, to point out.]

REMONTANT, r[=e]-mon'tant, _adj._ blooming a second time.--_n._ a flower
which blooms twice in a season.

REMORA, rem'[=o]-ra, _n._ the sucking-fish, a genus not far removed from
mackerel: an obstacle: a stoppage: (_her._) a serpent.

REMORSE, r[=e]-mors', _n._ the gnawing pain of anguish or guilt: (_obs._)
pity, softening.--_v.t._ REMORD' (_obs._), to strike with remorse.--_n._
REMORD'ENCY, compunction.--_adj._ REMORSE'FUL, full of remorse:
compassionate.--_adv._ REMORSE'FULLY.--_n._ REMORSE'FULNESS, the state of
being remorseful.--_adj._ REMORSE'LESS, without remorse: cruel.--_adv._
REMORSE'LESSLY.--_n._ REMORSE'LESSNESS. [O. Fr. _remors_ (Fr.
_remords_)--Low L. _remorsus_--L. _remord[=e]re_, _remorsum_, to bite
again--_re-_, again, _mord[=e]re_, to bite.]

REMOTE, r[=e]-m[=o]t', _adj._ moved back to a distance in time or place:
far: distant: primary, as a cause: not agreeing: not nearly
related.--_adv._ REMOTE'LY.--_ns._ REMOTE'NESS; REM[=O]'TION (_Shak._), act
of removing: remoteness. [_Remove._]

REMOULD, r[=e]-m[=o]ld', _v.t._ to mould or shape anew.

REMOUNT, r[=e]-mownt', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to mount again.--_n._ a fresh
horse, or supply of horses.

REMOVE, r[=e]-m[=oo]v', _v.t._ to put from its place: to take away: to
withdraw: to displace: to make away with.--_v.i._ to go from one place to
another.--_n._ any indefinite distance: a step in any scale of gradation,
as promotion from one class to another, also a class or division: a dish to
be changed while the rest remain: (_Shak._) the raising of a siege, a
posting-stage.--_n._ REMOVABIL'ITY.--_adj._ REMO'VABLE, that may be
removed.--_adv._ REMO'VABLY.--_n._ REMO'VAL, the act of taking away:
displacing: change of place: a euphemism for murder.--_adj._ REMOVED'
(_Shak._), remote: distant by degrees of relationship.--_ns._ REMO'VEDNESS
(_Shak._), the state of being removed: remoteness; REMO'VER, one who
removes: (_Bacon_) an agitator.--REMOVAL TERMS (_Scot._), Whitsunday and
Martinmas. [O. Fr.,--L. _remov[=e]re_, _rem[=o]tum_--_re-_, away,
_mov[=e]re_, to move.]

REMPLI, rong-pl[=e]', _adj._ (_her._) having another tincture than its own
covering the greater part. [Fr.]

REMPLISSAGE, rong-pl[=e]-säzh', _n._ padding. [Fr.]

REMUNERATE, r[=e]-m[=u]'n[.e]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to render an equivalent for
any service: to recompense.--_n._ REMUNERABIL'ITY, capability of being
rewarded.--_adj._ REM[=U]'NERABLE, that may be remunerated: worthy of being
rewarded.--_n._ REMUNER[=A]'TION, reward: recompense: requital.--_adj._
REM[=U]'NERATIVE, fitted to remunerate: lucrative: yielding due
return.--_n._ REM[=U]'NERATIVENESS.--_adj._ REM[=U]'NERATORY, giving a
recompense. [L. _remuner[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_re-_, in return,
_muner[=a]re_, to give something--_munus_, _mun[)e]ris_, a gift.]

REMURMUR, r[=e]-mur'mur, _v.t._ to murmur again: to repeat in low
sounds.--_v.i._ to murmur back.

REMUTATION, r[=e]-m[=u]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ alteration to a previous form.

RENAISSANCE, re-n[=a]'sans, _n._ a new birth: the period (in the 15th
century) at which the revival of arts and letters took place, marking the
transition from the Middle Ages to the modern world--hence 'Renaissance
architecture,' &c.--_adj._ relating to the foregoing. [Fr.; cf.
_Renascent_.]

RENAL, r[=e]-nal, _adj._ pertaining to the reins or kidneys.--_n._ REN, the
kidney:--_pl._ RENES (r[=e]'nez). [L. _renalis_--_renes_, the kidneys.]

RENAME, r[=e]-n[=a]m', _v.t._ to give a new name to.

RENARD=_Reynard_ (q.v.).

RENASCENT, r[=e]-nas'ent, _adj._ rising again into being.--_ns._
RENAS'CENCE, RENAS'CENCY, the same as RENAISSANCE.--_adj._ RENAS'CIBLE,
capable of being reproduced. [L. _renascens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_renasci_--_re-_, again, _nasci_, to be born.]

RENATE, r[=e]-n[=a]t', _adj._ (_obs._) born again: renewed.

RENAVIGATE, re-nav'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to navigate again.

RENCOUNTER, ren-kownt'[.e]r, RENCONTRE, räng-kong'tr, _n._ a meeting in
contest: a casual combat: a collision.--_v.t._ to encounter. [Fr.
_rencontre_.]

REND, rend, _v.t._ to tear asunder with force: to split: to tear
away.--_v.i._ to become torn: _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rent. [A.S. _rendan_, to
tear.]

RENDER, ren'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to give up: to make up: to deliver, furnish,
present: to cause to become: to translate into another language: to perform
officially, as judgment: to cause to be: to reproduce, as music: to
clarify: to plaster without the use of lath.--_n._ a surrender: a payment
of rent: an account given.--_adj._ REN'DERABLE.--_ns._ REN'DERER;
REN'DERING, the act of rendering: version: translation: interpretation;
RENDI'TION, the act of surrendering, as fugitives from justice:
translation.--_adj._ REND'IBLE, capable of being yielded up, or of being
translated. [O. Fr. _rendre_--L. _redd[)e]re_--_re-_, away, _d[)a]re_, to
give.]

RENDEZVOUS, ren'de-v[=oo], or räng'-, _n._ an appointed place of meeting,
esp. for troops or ships: a place for enlistment: a refuge:--_pl._
REN'DEZVOUS.--_v.i._ to assemble at any appointed place. [Fr. _rendez
vous_, render yourselves--_rendre_, to render.]

RENEGADE, ren'[=e]-g[=a]d, _n._ one faithless to principle or party: an
apostate: a deserter--also RENEG[=A]'DO.--_n._ REN'EGATE, a
renegade.--_adj._ apostate, traitorous.--_n._ RENEG[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ REN[=E]GE' (_Shak._), to deny, disown: to revoke at cards--also
RENIG' (_U.S._).--_n._ REN[=E]'GER (_obs._). [Sp.,--Low L. _renegatus_--L.
_re-_, inten., _neg[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to deny.]

RENERVE, r[=e]-n[.e]rv', _v.t._ to reinvigorate.

RENEW, r[=e]-n[=u]', _v.t._ to renovate: to transform to new life, revive:
to begin again: to make again: to invigorate: to substitute: to
regenerate.--_v.i._ to be made new: to begin again.--_n._
RENEWABIL'ITY.--_adj._ RENEW'ABLE, that may be renewed.--_ns._ RENEW'AL,
renovation: regeneration: restoration; RENEW'EDNESS; RENEW'ER; RENEW'ING.

RENFIERSE, ren-f[=e]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to reinforce.--_pa.p._
RENFORST'.

RENIDIFY, r[=e]-nid'i-f[=i], _v.i._ to build another nest.--_n._
RENIDIFIC[=A]'TION.

RENIFORM, ren'i-form, _adj._ (_bot._) kidney-shaped. [L. _renes_, the
kidneys, _forma_, form.]

RENITENCE, ren'i-tens, or r[=e]-n[=i]'tens, _n._ the resistance of a body
to pressure: disinclination--also REN'ITENCY.--_adj._ REN'ITENT. [Fr.,--L.
_renitens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _reniti_, to resist.]

RENNE, ren, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to run.

RENNET, ren'et, _n._ prepared inner membrane of a calf's stomach, used to
make milk coagulate--also RUNN'ET.--_v.t._ to treat with rennet.--_n._
RENN'ET-BAG, the fourth stomach of a ruminant. [A.S. _rinnan_, to run; Old
Dut. _rinsel_, curds.]

RENNET, ren'et, _n._ a sweet kind of apple. [O. Fr. _reinette_, dim. of
_reine_, queen--L. _regina_, a queen; or _rainette_, dim. of _raine_, a
frog--L. _rana_.]

RENOMINATE, r[=e]-nom'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to nominate again.--_n._
RENOMIN[=A]'TION.

RENOUNCE, r[=e]-nowns', _v.t._ to disclaim: to disown: to reject publicly
and finally: to forsake.--_v.i._ to fail to follow suit at cards.--_n._ a
failure to follow suit at cards.--_ns._ RENOUNCE'MENT, act of renouncing,
disclaiming, or rejecting; RENOUN'CER. [O. Fr.,--L. _renunti[=a]re_--_re-_,
away, _nunti[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to announce--_nuntius_, a messenger.]

RENOVATE, ren'[=o]-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to renew or make new again: to restore to
the original state.--_ns._ RENOV[=A]'TION, renewal: state of being renewed:
(_theol._) regeneration: RENOV[=A]'TIONIST, one who believes in the
improvement of society by the spiritual renovation of the individual;
REN'OV[=A]TOR. [L. _re-_, again, _nov[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to make
new--_novus_, new.]

RENOWN, r[=e]-nown', _n._ a great name: celebrity: éclat.--_v.t._ to make
famous.--_adj._ RENOWNED', celebrated: illustrious: famous.--_adv._
RENOWN'EDLY.--_n._ RENOWN'ER, one who gives renown: a swaggerer.--_adj._
RENOWN'LESS. [O. Fr. _renoun_ (Fr. _renom_)--L. _re-_, again, _nomen_, a
name.]

RENT, rent, _n._ an opening made by rending: fissure: break: tear: a
schism, as a rent in a church. [_Rend._]

RENT, rent, _n._ annual payment in return for the use of property held of
another, esp. houses and lands: revenue.--_v.t._ to hold or occupy by
paying rent: to let, or to hire, for a rent.--_v.i._ to be let for rent: to
endow.--_adj._ RENT'ABLE.--_ns._ RENT'AL, a schedule or account of rents,
with the tenants' names, &c.: a rent-roll: rent; RENT'ALLER; RENT'-CHARGE,
a rent on a conveyance of land in fee simple; RENT'-DAY, the day on which
rents are paid; RENTE (Fr.), annual income; RENT'ER, one who holds by
paying rent for; RENT'ER-WARD'EN, the warden of a company who receives
rents.--_adj._ RENT'-FREE, without payment of rent.--_ns._ RENT'-GATH'ERER,
a collector of rents; RENT'-ROLL, a roll or account of rents: a rental or
schedule of rents. [Fr. _rente_--L. _reddita_ (_pecunia_), money
paid--_redd[)e]re_, to pay.]

RENT, rent, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _rend_.

RENTER, ren't[.e]r, _v.t._ to sew together edge to edge, without
doubling.--_n._ RENT'ERER. [Fr. _rentraire_, to sew together.]

RENTIER, rong-ty[=a]', _n._ one who has a fixed income from stocks, &c.: a
fund holder.

RENUENT, ren'[=u]-ent, _adj._ (_anat._) applied to muscles which throw back
the head. [L. _renuens_, pr.p. of _renu[)e]re_, to nod the head.]

RENULE, ren'[=u]l, _n._ a small kidney. [L. _ren_, kidney.]

RENUMBER, r[=e]-num'b[.e]r, _v.t._ to affix a new number.--_v.t._
REN[=U]'MER[=A]TE, to count again.

RENUNCIATION, re-nun-si-[=a]'shun, _n._ disowning: rejection: abandonment:
(_law_) the legal act by which a person abandons a right acquired, but
without transferring it to another: in the Anglican baptismal service, the
part in which the candidate in person or by his sureties renounces the
devil and all his works.--_n._ RENUN'CIANCE, renunciation.--_adj._
RENUN'CI[=A]TORY.--RENUNCIATION OF A LEASE, the surrender of a lease.
[_Renounce._]

RENVERSE, ren-v[.e]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to reverse: to upset.--_adj._
(_her._) reversed.--_n._ RENVERSE'MENT.

RENVOY, ren-voi', _v.t._ (_obs._) to send back.--Also _n._

REOBTAIN, r[=e]-ob-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to obtain again.--_adj._ REOBTAIN'ABLE.

REOCCUPY, r[=e]-ok'[=u]-p[=i], _v.t._ to occupy anew.--_n._
REOCCUP[=A]'TION.

REOPEN, r[=e]-[=o]'pn, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to open again.

REOPPOSE, r[=e]-[=o]-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to oppose again.

REORDAIN, r[=e]-or-d[=a]n', _v.t._ to ordain again, when the first
ordination is defective.--_n._ REORDIN[=A]'TION, a second ordination.

REORDER, r[=e]-or'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to repeat a command: to arrange anew.

REORGANISE, r[=e]-or'gan-[=i]z, _v.t._ to organise anew: to
rearrange.--_n._ REORGANIS[=A]'TION, the act of reorganising, as of troops.

REORIENT, r[=e]-[=o]'ri-ent, _adj._ arising again.

REOSSIFY, r[=e]-os'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to ossify again.

REP, REPP, rep, _n._ a kind of cloth having a finely corded surface. [Prob.
a corruption of _rib_.]

REP, rep, _n._ a slang abbreviation of _reputation_.

REPACE, r[=e]-p[=a]s', _v.t._ to pace again, retrace.

REPACIFY, r[=e]-pas'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to pacify again.

REPACK, r[=e]-pak', _v.t._ to pack a second time.--_n._ REPACK'ER.

REPAID, r[=e]-p[=a]d', _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _repay_.

REPAINT, r[=e]-p[=a]nt', _v.t._ to paint anew.

REPAIR, r[=e]-p[=a]r', _v.i._ to betake one's self to: to go: to
resort.--_n._ a retreat or abode. [O. Fr. _repairer_, to return to a
haunt--Low L. _répatri[=a]re_, to return to one's country--L. _re-_, back,
_patria_, native country.]

REPAIR, r[=e]-p[=a]r', _v.t._ to restore after injury: to make amends for:
to make good, as a loss: to mend: (_Spens._) to recover into position, as a
weapon.--_n._ restoration after injury or decay: supply of loss.--_ns._
REPAIR'ER, one who restores or amends; REPAIR'MENT; REPARABIL'ITY.--_adj._
REP'ARABLE, that may be repaired.--_adv._ REP'ARABLY.--_n._ REPAR[=A]'TION,
repair: supply of what is wasted: amends.--_adj._ REPAR'ATIVE, amending
defect or injury.--_n._ that which restores to a good state: that which
makes amends. [O. Fr. _reparer_--L. _repar[=a]re_--_re-_, again,
_par[=a]re_, to prepare.]

REPAND, r[=e]-pand', _adj._ bent or curved backward or upward: (_bot._) of
leaves with uneven, slightly sinuous margin.--_adjs._ REPANDODEN'T[=A]TE,
repand and toothed; REPAND'OUS, curved convexly upward. [L.
_repandus_--_re-_, back, _pandus_, bent.]

REPART, r[=e]-part', _v.t._ to divide, share.

REPARTEE, rep-ar-t[=e]', _n._ a smart, ready, and witty reply.--_v.i._ to
make witty replies. [O. Fr. _repartie_--_repartir_, to go back
again--_re-_, back, _partir_, to set out--L. _part[=i]ri_, to divide.]

REPARTIMIENTO, re-pär-ti-mi-en't[=o], _n._ a division: an assessment:
allotment. [Sp.]

REPARTITION, r[=e]-par-tish'un, _n._ a second partition: a division into
smaller parts.

REPASS, r[=e]-pas', _v.t._ to pass again: to travel back.--_v.i._ to pass
or move back.--_n._ REPASS'AGE, the process of passing a second coat of
glue as a finish over unburnished surfaces.

REPASSION, r[=e]-pash'un, _n._ the reception of an effect from one body to
another.

REPAST, r[=e]-past', _n._ a meal: the food taken: victuals:
repose--(_obs._) REPAS'TURE.--_v.t._ to feed.--_v.i._ to take food.--_n._
REPAST'ER, one who takes repast. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _repastus_ (whence Fr.
_repas_)--L. _re-_, inten. _pastus_, food--_pasc[)e]re_, _pastum_, to
feed.]

REPASTINATION, r[=e]-pas-tin-[=a]'shun, _n._ (_obs._) a second digging up,
as of a garden.

REPATRIATE, r[=e]-p[=a]'tri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to restore to one's
country.--_n._ REPATRI[=A]'TION.

REPAY, r[=e]-p[=a]', _v.t._ to pay back: to make return for: to recompense:
to pay again or a second time.--_v.i._ to requite.--_adj._ REPAY'ABLE, that
is to be repaid: due, as a bill due in thirty days.--_n._ REPAY'MENT, act
of repaying: the money or thing repaid.

REPEAL, r[=e]-p[=e]l', _v.t._ to revoke by authority, as a law: to
abrogate: to recall: to dismiss.--_n._ a revoking or annulling.--_ns._
REPEALABIL'ITY, REPEAL'ABLENESS.--_adj._ REPEAL'ABLE, that may be
repealed.--_ns._ REPEAL'ER, one who repeals: one who seeks for a repeal,
esp. of the union between Great Britain and Ireland; REPEAL'MENT,
recall.--REPEAL AGITATION, a movement for the repeal of the legislative
union between Great Britain and Ireland. [O. Fr. _rapeler_--_re-_, back,
_apeler_--L. _appell[=a]re_, to call.]

REPEAT, r[=e]-p[=e]t', _v.t._ to do again: to speak again, to iterate: to
quote from memory: to rehearse: (_Scots law_) to refund.--_v.i._ to strike
the hours, as a watch: to recur: the act of repeating.--_n._ (_mus._) a
part performed a second time: a mark directing a part to be
repeated.--_adjs._ REPEAT'ABLE; REPEAT'ED, done again: frequent.--_adv._
REPEAT'EDLY, many times repeated: again and again: frequently.--_ns._
REPEAT'ER, one who, or that which, repeats: a decimal in which the same
figure or figures are continually repeated: a watch that strikes again the
previous hour at the touch of a spring: a frigate appointed to attend an
admiral in a fleet, and to repeat any signal he makes: (_teleg._) an
instrument for automatically retransmitting a message: in calico-printing,
a figure repeated at equal intervals in a pattern; REPEAT'ING, the fraud of
voting at an election for the same candidate more than once.--REPEATING
FIREARM, a firearm that may be discharged many times in quick succession;
REPEAT ONE'S SELF, to say again what one has said already; REPEAT SIGNALS,
to repeat those of the senior officer: to make a signal again. [O. Fr.
_repeter_ (Fr. _répéter_)--L. _repet[)e]re_, _repetitum_--_re-_, again,
_pet[)e]re_, to seek.]

REPEL, r[=e]-pel', _v.t._ to drive back: to repulse: to check the advance
of, to resist.--_v.i._ to act with opposing force: (_med._) to check or
drive inwards:--_pr.p._ repel'ling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ repelled'.--_ns._
REPEL'LENCE, REPEL'LENCY.--_adj._ REPEL'LENT, driving back: able or tending
to repel.--_n._ that which repels.--_n._ REPEL'LER.--_adj._ REPEL'LESS. [O.
Fr.,--L. _repell[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _pell[)e]re_, to drive.]

REPENT, r[=e]-pent', _v.i._ to regret or sorrow for what one has done or
left undone: to change from past evil: (_theol._) to feel such sorrow for
sin as produces newness of life.--_v.t._ to remember with sorrow--often
used impersonally, as 'it repenteth me.'--_adj._ REPENT'ABLE.--_n._
REPENT'ANCE, sorrow for what has been done or left undone: contrition for
sin, producing newness of life.--_adj._ REPENT'ANT, repenting or sorry for
past conduct: showing sorrow for sin.--_n._ a penitent.--_adv._
REPENT'ANTLY.--_n._ REPENT'ER.--_adv._ REPENT'INGLY.--_adj._ REPENT'LESS.
[O. Fr. _repentir_--_re-_, and O. Fr. _pentir_--L. _poenit[=e]re_, to cause
to repent.]

REPENT, r[=e]'pent, _adj._ (_bot._) creeping. [L. _rep[)e]re_, to creep.]

REPEOPLE, r[=e]-p[=e]'pl, _v.t._ to people anew.

REPERCEPT, r[=e]-p[.e]r-sept', _n._ a represented percept.--_n._
REPERCEP'TION.

REPERCOLATION, r[=e]-p[.e]r-ko-l[=a]'shun, _n._ in pharmacy, the successive
application of the same menstruum to fresh parts of the substance to be
percolated.

REPERCUSSION, r[=e]-p[.e]r-kush'un, _n._ a striking or driving back:
reverberation: (_mus._) frequent repetition of the same sound.--_v.t._
REPERCUSS'.--_adj._ REPERCUSS'IVE, driving back: causing to reverberate.
[L. _repercussio_--_re-_, back, _percut[)e]re_--_per_, through,
_quat[)e]re_, to strike.]

REPERTOIRE, rep'[.e]r-twor, _n._ the list of musical works which a
performer is ready to perform.

REPERTOR, r[=e]-p[.e]r'tor, _n._ a finder.

REPERTORY, rep'[.e]r-t[=o]-ri, _n._ a place where things are kept to be
brought forth again: a treasury: a magazine. [Fr.,--Low L.
_repertorium_--L. _reper[=i]re_, to find--_re-_, again, _par[)e]re_, to
bring forth.]

REPERUSE, r[=e]-p[.e]r-[=u]z', _v.t._ to peruse again.--_n._ REPER[=U]S'AL.

REPET=L. _repetatur_, used in prescriptions=Let it be repeated.

REPETITION, rep-[=e]-tish'un, _n._ act of repeating: recital from
memory.--_ns._ REP'ETEND, that part of a repeating decimal which recurs
continually: the burden of a song; REPETENT', a tutor or private teacher in
Germany.--_adjs._ REPETI'TIONAL, REPETI'TIONARY.--_n._
REPETI'TIONER.--_adj._ REPETI'TIOUS, using undue repetitions.--_n._
REPETI'TIOUSNESS.--_adj._ REPET'ITIVE.--_n._ REPET'ITOR, a repetent.

REPINE, r[=e]-p[=i]n', _v.i._ to fret one's self (with _at_ or _against_):
to feel discontent: to murmur: to envy.--_n._ (_Shak._) a repining.--_ns._
REP[=I]'NER; REP[=I]'NING, the act of one who repines: (_Spens._) a
failing, as of courage.--_adv._ REP[=I]'NINGLY.

REPIQUE, r[=e]-p[=e]k', _n._ at piquet, the winning of thirty points or
more from combinations or in one's own hand, before playing begins.--_v.t._
to score a repique.

REPLACE, r[=e]-pl[=a]s', _v.t._ to place back: to put again in a former
place, condition, &c.: to repay: to provide a substitute for: to take the
place of.--_adj._ REPLACE'ABLE.--_ns._ REPLACE'MENT, act of replacing: the
removal of an edge of crystal, by one plane or more; REPLAC'ER, a
substitute; CAR'-REPLAC'ER, a device on American railways for replacing
derailed wheels on the track.--REPLACING SWITCH, a pair of iron plates
fitting over the rails, used as a bridge to replace on the track derailed
railway stock.

REPLAIT, r[=e]-pl[=a]t', _v.t._ to plait or fold again.

REPLANT, r[=e]-plant', _v.t._ to plant anew: to reinstate.--_adj._
REPLANT'ABLE.--_n._ REPLANT[=A]'TION.

REPLEAD, r[=e]-pl[=e]d', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to plead again.--_n._
REPLEAD'ER, a second course allowed for the correction of mispleading.

REPLEDGE, r[=e]-plej', _v.t._ to pledge again: to demand judicially.--_n._
REPLED'GER.

REPLENISH, r[=e]-plen'ish, _v.t._ to fill again: to fill completely: to
stock abundantly.--_p.adj._ REPLEN'ISHED (_Shak._), complete,
consummate.--_ns._ REPLEN'ISHER, one who replenishes: (_electr._) a static
induction machine used for maintaining the charge of a quadrant
electrometer; REPLEN'ISHMENT. [O. Fr. _replenir_, from _replein_,
full--_re-_, again, _plenus_, full.]

REPLETE, r[=e]-pl[=e]t', _adj._ full: completely filled, abounding.--_v.t._
to fill to repletion.--_ns._ REPLETE'NESS, REPL[=E]'TION, superabundant
fullness: surfeit: (_med._) fullness of blood: plethora.--_adj._
REPL[=E]'TIVE.--_adv._ REPL[=E]'TIVELY.--_adj._ REPL[=E]'TORY. [O. Fr.,--L.
_repletus_, pa.p. of _repl[=e]re_--_re-_, again, _pl[=e]re_, to fill.]

REPLEVY, r[=e]-plev'i, _v.t._ (_law_) to recover goods distrained upon
giving a pledge or security to try the right to them at law.--_n._
replevin.--_adjs._ REPLEV'IABLE, REPLEV'ISABLE.--_ns._ REPLEV'IN, an action
for replevying; REPLEV'ISOR, a plaintiff in replevin. [O. Fr.
_replevir_--_re-_, back, _plevir_, to pledge.]

REPLICA, rep'li-ka, _n._ (_paint._) a copy of a picture done by the same
hand that did the original: (_mus._) the same as repeat. [It.,--L.
_replic[=a]re_, to repeat.]

REPLICANT, rep'li-kant, _n._ one who makes a reply.

REPLICATE, rep'li-k[=a]t, _adj._ folded: (_bot._) folded outward as in
vernation, inward as in æstivation: (_mus._) a tone one or more octaves
from a given tone.--_adj._ REP'LIC[=A]TILE.--_n._ REPLIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._
REP'LIC[=A]TIVE.

REPLIER, r[=e]-pl[=i]'[.e]r, _n._ a respondent.

REPLUM, rep'lum, _n._ (_bot._) the frame-like placenta across which the
septum stretches.

REPLUME, r[=e]-pl[=oo]m', _v.t._ to preen, as feathers.

REPLUNGE, r[=e]-plunj', _v.t._ to immerse anew.

REPLY, r[=e]-pl[=i]', _v.t._ to fold back: to answer.--_v.i._ to make
response: to meet an attack, as to reply to the enemy's fire--(_law_) to a
defendant's plea.--_n._ an answer: the power of answering: a
counter-attack: (_mus._) the answer of a figure.--_ns._ REP'LICANT;
REPLIC[=A]'TION, a reply: repetition: (_law_) the plaintiff's answer to a
plea.--_adj._ REPLIC[=A]'TIVE. [O. Fr. _replier_--L. _replic[=a]re_, _re-_,
back, _plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

REPOLISH, r[=e]-pol'ish, _v.t._ to polish again.

REPONE, r[=e]-p[=o]n', _v.t._ to replace: to reply. [O. Fr.,--L.
_repon[)e]re_, _re-_, back, _pon[)e]re_, to put.]

REPOPULATE, r[=e]-pop'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to repeople.--_n._
REPOPUL[=A]'TION.

REPORT, r[=e]-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to bring back, as an answer or account of
anything: to give an account of: to relate: to circulate publicly: to write
down or take notes of, esp. for a newspaper: to lay a charge against: to
echo back.--_v.i._ to make a statement: to write an account of
occurrences.--_n._ a statement of facts: description: a formal or official
statement, esp. of a judicial opinion or decision: rumour: sound: noise:
(_B._) repute: hearsay: reputation.--_adj._ REPORT'ABLE, fit to be reported
on.--_ns._ REPORT'AGE, report; REPORT'ER, one who reports, esp. for a
newspaper; REPORT'ERISM, the business of reporting; REPORT'ING, the act of
drawing up reports--newspaper reporting.--_adv._ REPORT'INGLY (_Shak._), by
common report.--_adj._ REPORT[=O]'RIAL.--REPORT ONE'S SELF, to give
information about one's self, one's whereabouts, &c.--BE REPORTED OF, to be
spoken well or ill of. [O. Fr.,--L. _report[=a]re_--_re-_, back,
_port[=a]re_, to carry.]

REPOSE, r[=e]-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to lay at rest: to compose: to place in trust
(with _on_ or _in_): to deposit: to tranquillise.--_v.i._ to rest: to
sleep: to rest in confidence (with _on_ or _upon_): to lie.--_n._ a lying
at rest: sleep: quiet: rest of mind: (_fine art_) that harmony which gives
rest to the eye.--_n._ REP[=O]'SAL (_Shak._), the act of reposing: that on
which one reposes.--_adj._ REP[=O]SED', calm: settled.--_adv._
REP[=O]'SEDLY.--_n._ REP[=O]'SEDNESS.--_adj._ REP[=O]SE'FUL.--_n._
REP[=O]'SER.--_v.t._ REPOS'IT, to lodge, as for safety--also _n._--_ns._
REP[=O]SI'TION, reduction; REPOS'ITOR, an instrument for restoring a
displaced organ; REPOS'ITORY, a place where anything is laid up for safe
keeping: a place where things are kept for sale: a shop. [Fr.
_reposer_--_re-_, back, _poser_, to pose.]

REPOSSESS, r[=e]-poz-zes', _v.t._ to possess again: to regain possession
of.--_n._ REPOSSES'SION.

REPOSURE, r[=e]-p[=o]'zhur, _n._ quiet repose.

REPOT, r[=e]-pot', _v.t._ to shift plants from pot to pot.

REPOUR, r[=e]-p[=o]r', _v.i._ to pour again.

REPOUSSAGE, r[=e]-p[=oo]'säj, _n._ the hammering from behind of ornamental
patterns upon a metal plate: or of etched plates making hollows which would
show as spots in printing.

REPOUSSÉ, r[=e]-p[=oo]'s[=a], _adj._ raised in relief by means of the
hammer.--REPOUSSÉ WORK, vessels ornamented by hammering on the reverse
side.

REPPED, rept, _adj._ corded transversely. [_Rep._]

REPREHEND, rep-r[=e]-hend', _v.t._ to blame: to reprove.--_n._
REPREHEN'DER.--_adj._ REPREHEN'SIBLE, worthy of being reprehended or
blamed.--_n._ REPREHEN'SIBLENESS.--_adv._ REPREHEN'SIBLY, culpably.--_n._
REPREHEN'SION, reproof: censure.--_adj._ REPREHEN'SIVE, containing reproof:
given in reproof.--_adv._ REPREHEN'SIVELY.--_adj._ REPREHEN'SORY. [O.
Fr.,--L. _reprehend[)e]re_, _-hensum_--_re-_, inten., _prehend[)e]re_, to
lay hold of.]

REPRESENT, rep-r[=e]-zent', _v.t._ to exhibit the image of: to serve as a
sign of: to personate or act the part of: to stand in the place of: to
bring before the mind: to describe: to portray: to exemplify.--_n._
REPRESENTABIL'ITY.--_adj._ REPRESENT'ABLE, that may be represented.--_ns._
REPRESENT[=A]'MEN, representation; REPRESENT'ANCE (_obs._),
likeness.--_adj._ REPRESENT'ANT, having vicarious power.--_n._
REPRESENT[=A]'TION, act of representing or exhibiting: that which
represents: an image: picture: dramatic performance: part performed by a
representative: share, participation: statement: delegation.--_adj._
REPRESENT[=A]'TIONAL.--_ns._ REPRESENT[=A]'TIONISM, the doctrine of
Descartes, that in the perception of the external world the immediate
object represents another object beyond the sphere of consciousness;
REPRESENT[=A]'TIONIST.--_adj._ REPRESENT'ATIVE, representing: showing a
likeness: bearing the character or power of others: replacing: presenting
the full character of a class: (_logic_) mediately known.--_n._ one who
stands for another, a deputy, delegate: (_law_) an heir.--_adv._
REPRESENT'ATIVELY.--_ns._ REPRESENT'ATIVENESS; REPRESENT'ER;
REPRESENT'MENT.--REPRESENTATIVE FACULTY, the imagination.--HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES, the lower branch of the United States Congress, consisting
of members chosen biennially by the people. [O. Fr.,--L. _repræsent[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_re-_, again, _præsent[=a]re_, to place before.]

REPRESS, r[=e]-pres', _v.t._ to restrain, quell--also _n._--_ns._
REPRESS'ER, -OR.--_adj._ REPRESS'IBLE, that may be restrained.--_adv._
REPRESS'IBLY.--_n._ REPRES'SION, act of repressing.--_adj._ REPRESS'IVE,
tending or able to repress.--_adv._ REPRESS'IVELY.

REPRESS, r[=e]-pres', _v.t._ to press a second time.--_n._
REPRESS'ING-MACHINE', a machine for making pressed bricks: a press for
compressing cotton bales.

REPRIEF, r[=e]-pr[=e]f, _n._ (_Spens._) reproof.

REPRIEVE, r[=e]-pr[=e]v', _v.t._ to delay the execution of a criminal: to
give a respite to: (_obs._) acquit, release.--_n._ a suspension of a
criminal sentence: interval of ease or relief.--_n._ REPRIEV'AL. [O. Fr.
_reprover_ (Fr. _réprouver_)--L. _reprob[=a]re_, to reprove.]

REPRIMAND, rep'ri-mand, or -mand', _n._ a severe reproof.--_v.t._ to chide:
to reprove severely: to administer reproof publicly or officially. [O.
Fr.,--L. _reprimendum_--_reprim[)e]re_, _repressum_, to press back--_re-_,
back, _prim[)e]re_, to press.]

REPRIMER, r[=e]-pr[=i]'m[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for setting a cap upon a
cartridge shell.

REPRINT, r[=e]-print', _v.t._ to print again: to print a new impression of:
printed matter from some other publication.--_n._ R[=E]'PRINT, another
impression of a printed book or paper.

REPRISAL, r[=e]-pr[=i]'zal, _n._ a seizing back or in retaliation: the
retaking of goods captured by an enemy: anything seized, or inflicted, in
retaliation: that which is seized for injury inflicted: (_rare_) a
restitution. [O. Fr. _represaille_--It. _ripresaglia_--_ripreso_ (Fr.
_reprise_), retaken--L. _re-pre(he)nd[)e]re_, to seize again.]

REPRISE, r[=e]-pr[=i]z', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to take again, retake.--_n._ in
maritime law, a ship recaptured from an enemy: in masonry, the return of a
moulding in an internal angle: (_law_) yearly deductions, as annuities,
&c.: (_mus._) the act of repeating a passage. [Fr.
_reprise_--_reprendre_--L. _reprehend[)e]re_.]

REPRIVE, r[=e]-pr[=i]v', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to deprive, take away.

REPROACH, r[=e]-pr[=o]ch', _v.t._ to cast in one's teeth: to censure
severely: to upbraid: to revile: to treat with contempt.--_n._ the act of
reproaching: reproof: censure: blame in opprobrious language: disgrace:
occasion of blame: an object of scorn.--_adj._ REPROACH'ABLE, deserving
reproach: opprobrious.--_n._ REPROACH'ABLENESS.--_adv._
REPROACH'ABLY.--_n._ REPROACH'ER.--_adj._ REPROACH'FUL, full of reproach or
blame: abusive: scurrilous: bringing reproach: shameful:
disgraceful.--_adv._ REPROACH'FULLY.--_n._ REPROACH'FULNESS.--_adj._
REPROACH'LESS, without reproach.--THE REPROACHES, antiphons chanted in R.C.
churches on Good Friday after the prayers which succeed the Gospel of the
Passion, their subject the ingratitude of the Jews in rejecting and
crucifying Christ. [Fr. _reprocher_--_re-_, back, _proche_, near--L.
_propius_, comp. of _prope_, near.]

REPROBATE, rep'r[=o]-b[=a]t, _adj._ condemned: base: given over to sin:
depraved: vile: (_B._) that will not stand proof or trial: (_Sterne_)
condemnatory.--_n._ an abandoned or profligate person: one lost to
shame.--_v.t._ to disapprove: to censure: to disown.--_ns._
REP'R[=O]B[=A]CY, state of being a reprobate; REP'ROBANCE (_Shak._),
reprobation; REP'ROB[=A]TENESS; REP'ROB[=A]TER; REPROB[=A]'TION, the act of
reprobating: rejection: the act of abandoning to destruction: state of
being so abandoned: the doctrine of the fore-ordination of the impenitent
to eternal perdition: (_mil._) disqualification to bear office;
REPROB[=A]'TIONER, one who maintains the doctrine of reprobation by divine
decree.--_adj._ REPROB[=A]'TIVE, criminatory.--_n._ REP'ROB[=A]TOR (_Scots
law_), an old form of action to prove a witness to be perjured or
biassed.--_adj._ REP'ROB[=A]TORY, reprobative. [L. _reprobatus_, pa.p. of
_reprob[=a]re_, to reprove.]

REPRODUCE, r[=e]-pr[=o]-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to produce again: to form anew: to
propagate: to represent.--_n._ REPROD[=U]'CER, one who reproduces: the
diaphragm used in producing speech in the phonograph.--_adj._
REPROD[=U]'CIBLE.--_n._ REPRODUC'TION, the act of producing new
organisms--the whole process whereby life is continued from generation to
generation: repetition.--_adj._ REPRODUC'TIVE, tending to reproduce.--_ns._
REPRODUC'TIVENESS, REPRODUCTIV'ITY.--_adj._ REPRODUC'TORY.--REPRODUCTIVE
FACULTY, the faculty of the association of ideas; REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS
(_bot._), the organs appropriate to the production of seeds or spines:
(_zool._) the generative system.

REPROMISSION, r[=e]-pr[=o]-mish'un, _n._ (_obs._) a promise.

REPROMULGATE, r[=e]-pr[=o]-mul'g[=a]t, _v.t._ to republish.--_n._
REPROMULG[=A]'TION.

REPROOF, r[=e]-pr[=oo]f', _n._ a reproving or blaming: rebuke: censure:
reprehension.--_adj._ REPROVABLE (-[=oo]v'-), deserving reproof, blame, or
censure.--_n._ REPROV'ABLENESS.--_adv._ REPROV'ABLY.--_n._ REPRO'VAL, the
act of reproving: reproof.--_v.t._ REPROVE', to condemn: to chide: to
convict: to censure: to disprove or refute.--_ns._ REPRO'VER;
REPRO'VING.--_adv._ REPRO'VINGLY. [O. Fr. _reprover_ (Fr. _réprouver_)--L.
_reprob[=a]re_, the opposite of _approb[=a]re_ (cf. _Approve_)--_re-_, off,
_prob[=a]re_, to try.]

REPRUNE, r[=e]-pr[=oo]n', _v.t._ to trim again.

REPTANT, rep'tant, _adj._ crawling: pertaining to the _Reptantia_, those
gasteropod mollusca adapted for crawling.--_n._ REPT[=A]'TION, the act of
creeping: (_math._) the motion of one plane figure around another, so that
the longest diameter of one shall come into line with the shortest of the
other.--_adjs._ REPTAT[=O]'RIAL, creeping or crawling; REP'TATORY
(_zool._), creeping.

REPTILE, rep't[=i]l, _adj._ moving or crawling on the belly or with very
short legs: grovelling: low.--_n._ an animal that moves or crawls on its
belly or with short legs: an oviparous quadruped: one of the class of
REPTIL'IA (_n.pl._) occupying a central position in the Vertebrate series,
beneath them Amphibians and Fishes, above them Birds and Mammals: a
grovelling, low person.--_adjs._ REPTIL'IAN, belonging to reptiles;
REPTILIF'EROUS, producing reptiles; REPTIL'IFORM, related to reptiles;
REPTIL'IOUS, like a reptile.--_n._ REPTIL'IUM, a place where reptiles are
kept.--_adjs._ REPTILIV'OROUS, feeding upon reptiles; REP'TILOID, reptile
form.--REPTILIAN AGE (_geol._), the Mesozoic age, during which reptiles
attained great development. [Fr.,--L. _reptilis_--_rep[)e]re_, to creep.]

REPUBLIC, r[=e]-pub'lik, _n._ a commonwealth: a form of government without
a monarch, in which the supreme power is vested in representatives elected
by the people.--_adj._ REPUB'LICAN, belonging to a republic: agreeable to
the principles of a republic.--_n._ one who advocates a republican form of
government: a democrat: one of the two great political parties in the
United States, opposed to the _Democrats_, favouring a high protective
tariff, a liberal expenditure, and an extension of the powers of the
national government.--_v.t._ REPUB'LICANISE.--_n._ REPUB'LICANISM, the
principles of republican government: attachment to republican
government.--_n._ REPUBLIC[=A]'RIAN.--REPUBLIC OF LETTERS, a name for the
general body of literary and learned men.--REPUBLICAN ERA, the era adopted
by the French after the downfall of the monarchy, beginning with 22d
September 1792.--RED REPUBLICAN, a violent republican, from the red cap
affected by such. [Fr. _république_--L. _respublica_, commonwealth.]

REPUBLISH, r[=e]-pub'lish, _v.t._ to publish again or anew.--_ns._
REPUBLIC[=A]'TION, act of republishing: that which is republished, esp. a
reprint of a book, &c.: a second publication of a former will;
REPUB'LISHER.

REPUDIATE, r[=e]-p[=u]'di-[=a]t, _v.t._ to reject: to disclaim, as
liability for debt: to disavow: to divorce.--_adj._ REP[=U]'DIABLE, that
may be repudiated: fit to be rejected.--_ns._ REPUDI[=A]'TION, the act of
repudiating: rejection: an unprincipled method for the extinction of a debt
by simply refusing to acknowledge the obligation: the state of being
repudiated; REPUDI[=A]'TIONIST; REP[=U]'DI[=A]TOR. [L. _repudi[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_repudium_--_re-_, away, _pud[=e]re_, to be ashamed.]

REPUGN, r[=e]-p[=u]n', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to fight against, to
oppose.--_adj._ REPUGNABLE (r[=e]-p[=u]'-, or r[=e]-pug'-na-bl), capable of
being resisted.--_ns._ REPUGNANCE (r[=e]-pug'-, like all the succeeding
words), the state of being repugnant: resistance: aversion: reluctance;
REPUG'NANCY.--_adj._ REPUG'NANT, hostile: adverse: contrary: distasteful:
at variance.--_adv._ REPUG'NANTLY.--_n._ REPUG'NANTNESS.--_v.t._
REPUG'NATE, to oppose: to fight against.--_adj._ REPUGNAT[=O]'RIAL, serving
as a means of defence.--_n._ REPUGNER (r[=e]-p[=u]'n[.e]r), one who rebels.
[Fr.,--L. _repugn[=a]re_--_re-_, against, _pugn[=a]re_, to fight.]

REPULLULATE, r[=e]-pul'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to sprout again.--_n._
REPULLUL[=A]'TION.--_adj._ REPULLULES'CENT.

REPULPIT, r[=e]-p[=oo]l'pit, _v.t._ to restore to the pulpit.

REPULSE, r[=e]-puls', _v.t._ to drive back: to repel: to beat off: to
refuse, reject.--_n._ the state of being repulsed or driven back: the act
of repelling: refusal.--_ns._ REPUL'SER; REPUL'SION, act of repulsing or
driving back: state of being repelled: aversion: the action by which bodies
or their particles repel each other.--_adj._ REPUL'SIVE, that repulses or
drives off: repelling: cold, reserved, forbidding: causing aversion and
disgust.--_adv._ REPUL'SIVELY.--_n._ REPUL'SIVENESS.--_adj._ REPUL'SORY.
[L. _repulsus_, pa.p. of _repell[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _pell[)e]re_, to
drive.]

REPURCHASE, r[=e]-pur'ch[=a]s, _v.t._ to purchase or buy back or
again.--_n._ the act of buying again: that which is bought again.

REPURGE, r[=e]-purj', _v.t._ to cleanse again.

REPURIFY, r[=e]-p[=u]'ri-f[=i], _v.t._ to purify again.

REPUTATION, rep-[=u]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ state of being held in repute:
estimation: character in public opinion: credit: fame.--_adj._
REP'[=U]TABLE, in good repute: respectable: honourable: consistent with
reputation.--_n._ REP'[=U]TABLENESS.--_adv._ REP'[=U]TABLY.--_adj._
REP'[=U]T[=A]TIVE, reputed: putative.--_adv._ REP'[=U]T[=A]TIVELY, by
repute. [Fr.,--L. _reputation-em_, consideration--_re-put[=a]re_, to think
over.]

REPUTE, r[=e]-p[=u]t', _v.t._ to account or estimate: to hold.--_n._
estimate: established opinion: character.--_adv._ REP[=U]T'EDLY, in common
repute or estimation.--_adj._ REPUTE'LESS (_Shak._), without good repute,
disreputable.--REPUTED OWNER, a person who has to all appearance the title
to the property. [Fr.,--L. _reput[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_re-_, again,
_put[=a]re_, to reckon.]

REQUERE, r[=e]-kw[=e]r', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to require.

REQUEST, r[=e]-kwest', _v.t._ to ask for earnestly: to entreat: to
desire.--_n._ petition: prayer: desire: demand: that which is requested: a
want: a question: the state of being desired.--_n._ REQUEST'ER.--REQUEST
NOTE, in the inland revenue, an application to obtain a permit for removing
excisable articles: programme.--COURT OF REQUESTS, a former Court of Equity
in England, inferior to the Court of Chancery, abolished in 1641: a local
tribunal instituted in London by Henry VIII. for the recovery of small
debts--called also _Court of Conscience_: LETTERS OF REQUEST, the formal
instrument by which in English ecclesiastical law an inferior judge waives
his jurisdiction over a cause, and refers it to a higher court. [O. Fr.
_requeste_ (Fr. _requête_)--L. _requisitum_, pa.p. of
_requir[)e]re_--_re-_, away, _quær[)e]re_, to seek.]

REQUICKEN, r[=e]-kwik'n, _v.t._ to give new life to.

REQUIEM, r[=e]'kwi-em, _n._ a hymn or mass sung for the rest of the soul of
the dead: a grand musical composition in honour of the dead: (_obs._) rest,
peace.--_n._ REQUIES'CENCE, repose.--REQUIESCAT IN PACE, may he (or she)
rest in peace, often abbreviated _R.I.P._ [L., accus. of _requies_--(_re-_,
inten., _quies_, rest); so called from the initial words of the introit,
_Requiem æternam dona eis, Domine!_ 'Give eternal rest to them, O Lord!']

REQUIRE, r[=e]-kw[=i]r', _v.t._ to ask: to demand: to need: to exact: to
direct.--_adj._ REQUIR'ABLE, that may be required: fit or proper to be
required.--_ns._ REQUIRE'MENT, act of requiring: claim: demand; REQUIR'ER;
REQUIR'ING. [Fr.,--L. _requir[)e]re_.]

REQUISITE, rek'wi-zit, _adj._ required: needful: indispensable.--_n._ that
which is required: anything necessary or indispensable.--_adv._
REQ'UISITELY.--_ns._ REQ'UISITENESS, state of being requisite;
REQUISI'TION, the act of requiring: an application--for a public meeting,
for a person to become a candidate for Parliament, &c.: a demand, as for
necessaries for a military force: a written request or invitation.--_v.t._
to make a requisition or demand upon, to seize.--_n._ REQUISI'TIONIST, one
who makes a requisition.--_adj._ REQUIS'ITIVE.--_n._ REQUIS'ITOR.--_adj._
REQUIS'ITORY.--_n._ REQUIS'ITUM, that which a problem asks for.

REQUITE, r[=e]-kw[=i]t', _v.t._ to repay: to retaliate.--_adjs._ REQUIT'
(_Spens._), requited, returned; REQU[=I]'TABLE.--_ns._ REQU[=I]'TAL, the
act of requiting: payment in return: recompense: reward; REQUITE',
requital.--_adjs._ REQUITE'FUL; REQUITE'LESS, without requital:
free.--_ns._ REQUITE'MENT; REQU[=I]'TER.

RERAIL, r[=e]-r[=a]l', _v.t._ to replace on the rails.

REREAD, r[=e]-r[=e]d', _v.t._ to read again.

REREBRACE, r[=e]r'br[=a]s, _n._ the armour of the upper arm from shoulder
to elbow.--Also _Arrière-bras_.

REREBRAKE, r[=e]r-br[=a]k', _n._ an appurtenance of a mounted warrior in
the fifteenth century.

REREDOS, r[=e]r'dos, _n._ the wall or screen at the back of an altar,
usually in the form of a screen detached from the east wall, adorned with
niches, statues, &c., or with paintings or tapestry: the back of an open
fire-hearth, in medieval halls. [O. Fr., _rere_, rear, _dos_--L. _dorsum_,
back.]

REREFIEF, r[=e]r'f[=e]f, _n._ (_Scot._) an under-fief.

RE-REITERATED, r[=e]-r[=e]-it'[.e]r-[=a]t-ed, _p.adj._ (_Tenn._) reiterated
or repeated again and again.

REREMOUSE, r[=e]r'mows, _n._ a bat. [A.S. _hréremús_--_hréran_, to move,
_mús_, a mouse.]

RERESUPPER, r[=e]r'sup-[.e]r, _n._ a late supper.

REREWARD. Same as REARWARD.

RES, r[=e]z, _n._ a thing, a point.--RES ANGUSTA DOMI, straitened
circumstances; RES GESTÆ, things done; RES JUDIC[=A]TA, a matter decided.

RESAIL, r[=e]-s[=a]l', _v.i._ to sail back.

RESALE, r[=e]-s[=a]l', _n._ a second sale.

RESALUTE, r[=e]-sa-l[=u]t', _v.t._ to salute anew or in return.

RESAW, r[=e]-saw', _v.t._ to saw into still thinner pieces.

RESCIND, r[=e]-sind', _v.t._ to cut away or off: to annul: to repeal: to
reverse.--_adj._ RESCIND'ABLE.--_ns._ RESCIND'MENT; RESCIS'SION, the act of
rescinding: the act of annulling or repealing.--_adj._
RESCIS'SORY.--RESCISSORY ACTIONS (_law_), those actions whereby deeds are
declared void. [Fr.,--L. _rescind[)e]re_, _rescissum_--_re-_, back,
_scind[)e]re_, to cut.]

RESCORE, r[=e]-sk[=o]r', _v.t._ to rearrange music for voices and
instruments.

RESCRIBE, r[=e]-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to write again.--_n._ RESCRIB'END[=A]RY,
a papal official who determines what documents are to be copied and
registered, &c.

RESCRIPT, r[=e]'skript, _n._ the official answer of a pope or an emperor to
any legal question: an edict or decree.--_n._ RESCRIP'TION, the answering
of a letter.--_adj._ RESCRIP'TIVE.--_adv._ RESCRIP'TIVELY. [Fr.,--L.
_rescriptum_--_re-_, back, _scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_, to write.]

RESCUE, res'k[=u], _v.t._ to free from danger or violence: to deliver: to
liberate:--_pr.p._ res'c[=u]ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ res'c[=u]ed.--_n._ the
act of rescuing: deliverance from violence or danger: forcible release from
arrest or imprisonment.--_adj._ RES'CUABLE.--_ns._ RES'CUER;
RESC[=U]SS[=EE]', the party rescued; RESCUS'SOR, one who makes an unlawful
rescue. [M. E. _rescous_, a rescue--O. Fr. _rescousse_--_rescourre_--L.
_re-_, away, _excut[)e]re_, to shake out--_ex_, out, _quat[)e]re_, to
shake.]

RESCUE-GRASS, res'k[=u]-gras, _n._ a species of brome-grass, native to
South America.

RESEARCH, r[=e]-s[.e]rch', _n._ a careful search: diligent examination or
investigation: scrutiny.--_v.i._ to examine anew.--_n._
RESEARCH'ER.--_adj._ RESEARCH'FUL, inquisitive, prone to investigation.

RESEAT, r[=e]-s[=e]t', _v.t._ to furnish with new seats.

RÉSEAU, r[=a]-z[=o]', _n._ a fine meshed ground for lace-work.

RESECTION, r[=e]-sek'shun, _n._ act of cutting off: removal of a bone's
articular extremity.--_v.t._ RESECT', to cut off. [L. _resec[=a]re_, _re-_,
again, _sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

RESEDA, r[=e]-s[=e]'da, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants, the mignonette
family.

RESEEK, r[=e]-s[=e]k', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to seek again.

RESEIZE, r[=e]-s[=e]z', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to seize again: to
reinstate.--_ns._ RESEIZ'ER; RESEIZ'[=U]RE.

RESELL, r[=e]-sel', _v.t._ to sell again.

RESEMBLE, r[=e]-zem'bl, _v.t._ to be similar to: to have the likeness of:
to possess similar qualities or appearance: to compare: to make
like.--_adj._ RESEMBLABLE, admitting of being compared.--_n._ RESEM'BLANCE,
the state of resembling: similitude: likeness: similarity: that which is
similar.--_adj._ RESEM'BLANT.--_n._ RESEM'BLER.--_adj._
RESEM'BLING.--_adv._ RESEM'BLINGLY. [O. Fr. _resembler_ (Fr.
_ressembler_)--re-, again, _sembler_, to seem--L. _simul[=a]re_, to make
like--_similis_, like.]

RESEMINATE, r[=e]-sem'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to propagate again.

RESEND, r[=e]-send', _v.t._ to send again or back.

RESENT, r[=e]-zent', _v.t._ to take ill: to consider as an injury or
affront: to be indignant at: to express indignation: to have a strong
perception of: to perceive by the sense of smell--_v.i._ to be
indignant.--_n._ RESENT'ER.--_adj._ RESENT'FUL, full of, or prone to,
resentment.--_advs._ RESENT'FULLY; RESENT'INGLY.--_adj._ RESENT'IVE.--_n._
RESENT'MENT, the act of resenting: displeasure: anger. [O. Fr. _resentir_,
_ressentir_--L. _re-_, in return, _sent[=i]re_, to feel.]

RESERVE, r[=e]-z[.e]rv', _v.t._ to keep back: to keep for future or other
use: to retain, except: to keep safe.--_n._ that which is reserved: that
which is kept for future use: a part of an army or a fleet reserved to
assist those engaged in action: that which is kept back in the mind: mental
concealment: absence of freedom in words or action: caution: that part of
capital which is retained to meet average liabilities.--_n._
RESERV[=A]'TION, the act of reserving or keeping back: the withholding from
a statement of a word or clause necessary to convey its real meaning:
something withheld: safe keeping: a clause, proviso, or limitation by which
something is reserved: (_U.S._) a tract of public land reserved for some
special purpose, as for Indians, schools, &c.: the practice of reserving
part of the consecrated bread of the eucharist for the communion of the
sick: the act of the pope to reserve to himself the right to nominate to
certain benefices.--_adj._ RESERV'ATIVE.--_n._ RESERV'ATORY.--_n.pl._
RESERVES', the reserve forces of a country, the men composing such.--_n._
RESER'VIST, a soldier who belongs to the reserves.--MENTAL RESERVATION, the
act of reserving or holding back some word or clause which is necessary to
convey fully the meaning really intended by the speaker--distinct from
equivocation (L. _equivocatio_ or _amphibolia_).--WITHOUT RESERVE, a phrase
implying that a property will be sold absolutely, neither the vendor nor
any one acting for him bidding it in. [O. Fr. _reserver_--L.
_reserv[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _serv[=a]re_, to save.]

RESERVED, r[=e]-z[.e]rvd', _adj._ characterised by reserve: not free or
frank in words or behaviour: shy: cold.--_adv._ RESER'VEDLY.--_ns._
RESER'VEDNESS; RESER'VER.--RESERVED CASE, a sin, the power to absolve from
which is reserved to the pope, or his legate, &c.; RESERVED LIST, formerly
a list of officers on half-pay, who might be called upon in an emergency;
RESERVED POWER, a reservation made in deeds, &c.; RESERVED POWERS (_U.S._),
powers pertaining to sovereignty, but not delegated to a representative
body.

RESERVOIR, rez'[.e]r-vwor, _n._ a place where anything is kept in store: a
place where water and other liquids are stored for use.--Also _v.t._ [Fr.]

RESET, r[=e]-set', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to set again.--_n._ printed matter set
over again.--_adj._ RESET'TABLE (_Tenn._), that may be reset.

RESET, re-set', _v.t._ (_Scot._) to receive and hide, as stolen goods, or a
criminal.--_n._ RESET'TER, one who receives and hides stolen goods. [Perh.
_receipt_.]

RESETTLE, r[=e]-set'l, v.t, and _v.i._ to settle again.--_n._
RESETT'LEMENT.

RESHAPE, r[=e]-sh[=a]p', _v.t._ to give a new shape to.

RESHIP, r[=e]-ship', _v.t._ to ship again.--_n._ RESHIP'MENT, the act of
reshipping: things reshipped.

RESIANT, rez'i-ant, _adj._ (_obs._) resident, always residing in a
place.--_n._ RES'IANCE. [Doublet of _resident_.]

RESIDE, r[=e]-z[=i]d', _v.i._ to remain sitting: to dwell permanently: to
abide: to live: to inhere.--_ns._ RES'IDENCE, act of dwelling in a place:
place where one resides, a domicile: that in which anything permanently
inheres: the settling of liquors; RES'IDENCY, residence: the official
dwelling of a government officer in India.--_adj._ RES'IDENT, dwelling in a
place for some time: residing on one's own estate: residing in the place of
one's duties: not migratory.--_n._ one who resides: a public minister at a
foreign court.--_n._ RES'IDENTER (_Scot._).--_adjs._ RESIDEN'TIAL,
residing: having actual residence--(_rare_) RESIDENT'AL; RESIDEN'TIARY,
residing, esp. of one bound to reside for a certain time every year at a
cathedral church.--_n._ one who keeps a certain residence, esp. an
ecclesiastic.--_ns._ RESIDEN'TIARYSHIP; RES'IDENTSHIP; RES[=I]'DER. [O.
Fr.,--L. _resid[=e]re_--_re-_, back, _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

RESIDUE, rez'i-d[=u], _n._ that which is left behind after a part is taken
away: the remainder: the residuum of an estate after payment of debts and
legacies.--_adj._ RESID'UAL, remaining as residue.--_n._ that which remains
after a subtraction, as the difference between one of a series of observed
values and the mean of the series, &c.--_ns._ RESID'UAL-AIR, that portion
of air which cannot be expelled by the most violent efforts from the lungs;
RESID'UAL-CHARGE, a charge of electricity spontaneously acquired by coated
glass; RESID'UAL-MAG'NETISM, remanent magnetism; RESID'UAL-QUAN'TITY, a
binomial connected with the sign - (_minus_).--_adj._ RESID'UARY,
pertaining to the residue: receiving the remainder, as residuary
estate.--_ns._ RESID'UARY-CLAUSE, that part of a will which disposes of
whatever may be left after satisfying the other provisions of the will;
RESID'UARY-LEGAT[=EE]', the legatee to whom is bequeathed the
residuum.--_v.t._ RESID'UATE, to find the residual of.--_ns._
RESIDU[=A]'TION, the act of finding the residual; RESID'UENT, a by-product
left after the removal of a principal product.--_adj._ RESID'UOUS,
residual.--_n._ RESID'[=U]UM, that which is left after any process of
purification: a residue. [O. Fr. _residu_--L. _residuum_--_resid[=e]re_, to
remain behind.]

RESIGN, r[=e]-s[=i]n', _v.t._ to sign again.

RESIGN, r[=e]-z[=i]n', _v.t._ to yield up to another: to submit calmly: to
relinquish: to entrust.--_v.i._ to submit one's self: to give up an office,
&c.--_n._ RESIGN[=A]'TION, act of giving up: state of being resigned or
quietly submissive: acquiescence: patience: (_Scots law_) the form by which
a vassal returns the feu into the hands of a superior.--_p.adj._ RESIGNED',
calmly submissive: uncomplaining.--_adv._ RESIGNED'LY, with
submission.--_ns._ RESIGN[=EE]', the person to whom a thing is resigned;
RESIGN'ER; RESIGN'MENT. [O. Fr.,--L. _resign[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
annul--_re-_, sig. reversal, _sign[=a]re_--_signum_, a mark.]

RESILE, r[=e]-z[=i]l', _v.i._ to leap back: to fly from: to recoil, to
recede:--_pr.p._ res[=i]l'ing; _pa.p._ res[=i]led'.--_ns._ RESILE'MENT;
RESIL'IENCE, RESIL'IENCY, act of springing back or rebounding.--_adj._
RESIL'IENT, springing back or rebounding.--_ns._ RESILI'TION;
RESILU[=A]'TION, renewed attack. [O. Fr.,--L. _resil[=i]re_, to leap
back--_re-_, back, _sal[=i]re_, to leap.]

RESIN, rez'in, _n._ an amorphous substance that exudes from plants,
supposed to be the product of oxidation of volatile oils secreted by the
plant: the precipitate obtained from a vegetable tincture by treatment with
water.--_v.t._ to coat with resin.--_adj._ RESIN[=A]'CEOUS, resinous.--_n._
RES'IN[=A]TE, a salt of the acids obtained from turpentine.--_adj._
RESINIF'EROUS, yielding resin.--_n._ RESINIFIC[=A]'TION, the process of
treating with resin.--_adj._ RES'INIFORM.--_vs.t._ RES'INIFY, to change
into resin; RES'INISE, to treat with resin.--_adjs._ RES'INO-ELEC'TRIC,
containing negative electricity; RES'INOID; RES'INOUS, having the qualities
of, or resembling, resin.--_adv._ RES'INOUSLY.--_n._ RES'INOUSNESS.--_adj._
RES'INY, like resin.--GUM RESINS, the milky juices of certain plants
solidified by exposure to air; HARD RESINS, at ordinary temperatures solid
and brittle, easily pulverised, containing little or no essential oil
(_copal_, _lac_, _jalap_, &c.); SOFT RESINS, mouldable by the hand--some
are viscous and semi-fluid _balsams_ (_turpentine_, _storax_, _Canada
balsam_, &c.). [Fr.,--L. _res[=i]na_.]

RESINATA, rez-i-n[=a]'ta, _n._ the common white wine in Greece, its
peculiar odour due to the resin of the wine.--_v.t._ RES'IN[=A]TE.

RESIPISCENCE, res-i-pis'ens, _n._ change to a better frame of mind.--_adj._
RESIPIS'CENT, right-minded. [Fr.,--L. _resipiscentia_--_resipisc[)e]re_, to
repent--_re-_, again, _sap[)e]re_, to be wise.]

RESIST, r[=e]-zist', _v.t._ to strive against: to oppose.--_v.i._ to make
opposition.--_n._ a composition applied to a surface to enable it to resist
chemical action: a material, as a paste, applied to a fabric to prevent the
action of a dye or mordant from affecting the parts not to be
coloured.--_ns._ RESIS'TAL (_obs._); RESIS'TANCE, act of resisting:
opposition: (_mech._) the power of a body which acts in opposition to the
impulse of another: (_electr._) that property of a conductor in virtue of
which the passage of a current through it is accompanied with a dissipation
of energy; RESIS'TANCE-BOX, a box containing one or more resistance-coils;
RESIS'TANCE-COIL, a coil of wire which offers a resistance to the passage
of a current of electricity; RESIS'TANT, one who, or that which,
resists.--_adjs._ RESIS'TANT, RESIS'TENT, making resistance.--_ns._
RESIS'TER; RESISTIBIL'ITY, RESIS'TIBLENESS.--_adj._ RESIS'TIBLE.--_advs._
RESIS'TIBLY; RESIS'TINGLY.--_adj._ RESIS'TIVE.--_adv._ RESIS'TIVELY.--_n._
RESISTIV'ITY.--_adj._ RESIST'LESS, irresistible: unresisting, unable to
resist.--_adv._ RESIST'LESSLY.--_ns._ RESIST'LESSNESS; RESIST'-STYLE, in
calico printing, the process of dyeing in a pattern by the use of a resist;
RESIST'-WORK, calico printing, in which the pattern is produced by means of
resist which preserves parts uncoloured. [Fr.,--L. _resist[)e]re_--_re-_,
against, _sist[)e]re_, to make to stand.]

RESMOOTH, r[=e]-sm[=oo]_th_', _v.t._ to smooth again.

RESOLDER, r[=e]-sol'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to solder again.

RESOLUBLE, rez'[=o]-l[=u]-bl, _adj._ that may be resolved, soluble.--_n._
RES'OLUBLENESS.

RESOLUTE, rez'[=o]-l[=u]t, _adj._ resolved: determined: having a fixed
purpose: constant in pursuing a purpose: bold.--_n._ a determined
person.--_adv._ RES'OL[=U]TELY.--_n._ RES'OL[=U]TENESS.

RESOLUTION, rez-o-l[=u]'shun, _n._ act of resolving: analysis: solution:
state of being resolved: fixed determination: steadiness: that which is
resolved: certainty: (_mus._) the relieving of a discord by a following
concord: a formal proposal put before a public assembly, or the formal
determination of such on any matter: (_math._) reduction, solution:
(_med._) the disappearance or dispersion of a tumour or inflammation.--_n._
RESOL[=U]'TIONER, one of a party in Scotland who approved of the
resolutions of the Commission of General Assembly (1650) admitting to take
part in the struggle against Cromwell all persons except those
excommunicate and hostile to the Covenant--opp. to the
_Protesters_.--_adj._ RES'OL[=U]TIVE.--RESOLUTION OF FORCES, OR OF
VELOCITIES, the application of the principle of the parallelogram of forces
or velocities to the separation of a force or velocity into parts.

RESOLVE, r[=e]-zolv', _v.t._ to separate into parts: to analyse: to free
from doubt or difficulty: to explain: to decide: to fix by resolution or
formal declaration: (_math._) to solve: (_med._) to disperse, as a tumour:
(_mus._) to carry a discord into a concord.--_v.i._ to determine.--_n._
anything resolved or determined: resolution: fixed purpose.--_n._
RESOLVABIL'ITY.--_adj._ ROSOL'VABLE, that may be resolved or reduced to its
elements.--_n._ RESOL'VABLENESS.--_adv._ RESOL'VABLY.--_adj._ RESOLVED',
fixed in purpose.--_adv._ RESOL'VEDLY, firmly: clearly.--_n._
RESOL'VEDNESS.--_adj._ RESOL'VENT, having power to resolve.--_n._ that
which causes solution: (_med._) a substance which resolves tumours:
(_math._) an equation upon whose solution the solution of a given problem
depends.--_n._ RESOL'VER. [Fr.,--L. _resolv[)e]re_, _resolutum_--_re-_,
inten., _solv[)e]re_, to loose.]

RESONANCE, rez'[=o]-nans, _n._ act of resounding: the returning of sound by
reflection or by the production of vibrations in other bodies: the sound
discovered by means of auscultation--also RES'ONANCY.--_n._ RES'ONANCE-BOX,
a chamber in a musical instrument for increasing its sonority.--_adj._
RES'ONANT, returning sound: vibrating.--_adv._ RES'ONANTLY.--_v.i._
RES'ON[=A]TE, to resound.--_n._ RESON[=A]'TOR, a vessel for the analysis of
complex sounds. [L. _reson[=a]re_, _re-_, back, _son[=a]re_, to sound.]

RESORB, r[=e]-sorb', _v.t._ to reabsorb, to swallow up.--_adj._ RESORB'ENT.
[L. _resorb[)e]re_, to suck back.]

RESORCIN, r[=e]-sor'sin, _n._ a colourless crystalline phenol.--_adj._
RESOR'CINAL.--_n._ RESOR'CINISM. [Fr.]

RESORPTION, r[=e]-sorp'shun, _n._ the disappearance of an organ by
absorption.--_adj._ RESORP'TIVE.

RESORT, r[=e]-zort', _v.i._ to go: to betake one's self: to have recourse:
to apply.--_n._ act of resorting: a place much frequented: a haunt:
resource: company.--_n._ RESORT'ER, a frequenter.--LAST RESORT, the last
means of relief, the final tribunal--the French _dernier ressort_. [Fr.
_ressortir_--L. _re-_, back, _sort[=i]ri_, to cast lots--_sors_, _sortis_,
a lot.]

RESOUND, r[=e]-zownd', _v.t._ to sound back: to echo: to praise or
celebrate with sound: to spread the fame of.--_v.i._ to be sent back or
echoed: to echo: to sound loudly: to be much mentioned.--_ns._ RESOUND';
RESOUND'ER, a monotelephone.

RESOURCE, re-s[=o]rs', _n._ a source of help: an expedient: (_pl._) means
of raising money: means of any kind: funds.--_adj._ RESOURCE'FUL,
shifty.--_n._ RESOURCE'FULNESS.--_adj._ RESOURCE'LESS. [O. Fr.
_resource_--_resourdre_--L. _resurg[)e]re_, to rise again.]

RESOW, r[=e]-s[=o]', _v.t._ to sow again.

RESPEAK, r[=e]-sp[=e]k', _v.i._ to speak again, echo.

RESPECT, r[=e]-spekt', _v.t._ to esteem for merit: to honour: to relate to:
to regard unduly: to heed.--_n._ act of esteeming highly: regard:
expression of esteem: deportment arising from esteem: relation: reference:
point of view, any particular: (_B._) good-will, also undue regard:
partiality: reflection: decency: reputation.--_n._ RESPECTABIL'ITY, state
or quality of being respectable.--_adj._ RESPEC'TABLE, worthy of respect or
regard: moderate in excellence or number: not mean or despicable:
reputable: moderately well-to-do.--_n._ RESPEC'TABLENESS.--_adv._
RESPEC'TABLY, moderately: pretty well.--_adj._ RESPEC'TANT (_her._), facing
one another--said of figures of animals.--_n._ RESPEC'TER.--_adj._
RESPECT'FUL, full of respect: marked by civility.--_adv._
RESPECT'FULLY.--_n._ RESPECT'FULNESS.--_prep._ RESPEC'TING, regarding:
considering.--_n._ RESPEC'TION, respect.--_adj._ RESPEC'TIVE, having
respect or reference to: relative: relating to a particular person or
thing: particular.--_adv._ RESPEC'TIVELY.--_ns._ RESPEC'TIVENESS;
RESPEC'TIVIST (_obs._), a captious critic.--_adjs._ RESPECT'LESS,
regardless; RESPEC'T[=U]OUS (_obs._), causing respect: respectful.--HAVE
RESPECT OF PERSONS, unduly to favour certain persons, as for their wealth,
&c.; IN RESPECT OF, in comparison with; WITH RESPECT TO, with regard to.
[O. Fr.,--L. _respic[)e]re_, _respectum_--_re-_, back, _spec[)e]re_, to
look.]

RESPELL, r[=e]-spel', _v.t._ to spell again, or in new form.

RESPERSE, r[=e]-spers', _v.t._ to sprinkle.--_n._ RESPER'SION.

RESPIRE, r[=e]-sp[=i]r', _v.i._ to breathe again and again: to breathe: to
take rest.--_v.t._ to breathe out--in the higher animals there is an
absorption of oxygen and a discharge of carbonic acid, also in
plants.--_n._ RESP[=I]RABIL'ITY, quality of being respirable.--_adj._
RESP[=I]R'ABLE, that may be breathed: fit for respiration.--_n._
RESP[=I]R'ABLENESS; RESPIR[=A]'TION, the function of breathing: relief from
toil.--_adjs._ RESPIR[=A]'TIONAL; RESP[=I]R'ATIVE.--_ns._ RES'PIR[=A]TOR, a
network of fine wire for respiring or breathing through; RESPIRAT[=O]'RIUM,
a gill-like organ used by certain insects to draw water from the
air.--_adj._ R[=E]SPI'RATORY (or res'pi-r[=a]-t[=o]-ri), pertaining to, or
serving for, respiration.--_ns._ RESP[=I]R'ING; RESPIROM'ETER, an apparatus
for supplying air to a diver under water.--Artificial respiration,
respiration induced by artificial means. [Fr.,--L. _respir[=a]re_--_re-_,
sig. repetition, _spir[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to breathe.]

RESPITE, res'pit, _n._ temporary cessation of anything: pause: interval of
rest: (_law_) temporary suspension of the execution of a criminal.--_v.t._
to grant a respite to: to relieve by a pause: to delay.--_adj._
RES'PITELESS. [O. Fr. _respit_ (Fr. _répit_)--L. _respectus_, respect.]

RESPLENDENT, r[=e]-splen'dent, _adj._ very splendid, shining brilliantly:
very bright: (_her._) issuing rays.--_ns._ RESPLEN'DENCE, RESPLEN'DENCY,
state of being resplendent.--_adv._ RESPLEN'DENTLY. [L.
_resplend[=e]re_--_re-_, inten., _splend[=e]re_, to shine.]

RESPLIT, r[=e]-split', _v.t._ to split again.

RESPOND, r[=e]-spond', _v.i._ to answer or reply: to correspond to or suit:
to be answerable: to make a liturgical response: to be liable for
payment.--_v.t._ to satisfy.--_n._ a versicle, &c., occurring at intervals,
as in the responses to the commandments in the Anglican service:
(_archit._) a pilaster, &c., in a wall for receiving the impost of an
arch.--_ns._ RESPON'DENCE, RESPON'DENCY, act of responding: reply:
(_Spens._) correspondence.--_adj._ RESPON'DENT, answering: corresponding to
expectation.--_n._ one who answers, esp. in a law-suit: one who refutes
objections.--_ns._ RESPONDEN'TIA, a loan on the cargo of a vessel;
RESPON'SAL, a liturgical response: a proctor for a monastery; RESPONSE', a
reply: an oracular answer: the answer made by the congregation to the
priest during divine service: reply to an objection in a formal
disputation: a short anthem sung at intervals during a lection;
RESPONSIBIL'ITY, RESPON'SIBLENESS, state of being responsible: what one is
responsible for: a trust.--_adj._ RESPON'SIBLE, liable to be called to
account or render satisfaction: answerable: capable of discharging duty:
able to pay.--_adv._ RESPON'SIBLY.--_n.pl._ RESPON'SIONS, the first of the
three examinations for the B.A. degree at Oxford, familiarly called
'smalls.'--_adj._ RESPON'SIVE, inclined to respond: answering:
correspondent.--_adv._ RESPON'SIVELY.--_n._ RESPON'SIVENESS, the state of
being responsive.--_adj._ RESPONS[=O]'RIAL, responsive.--_n._ an
office-book containing the responsories.--_adj._ RESPON'SORY, making
answer.--_n._ a portion of a psalm sung between the missal lections: the
answer of the people to the priest in church service: a response
book.--_n._ RESPON'S[=U]RE (_obs._), response. [Fr.,--L. _respond[=e]re_,
_responsum_--_re-_, back, _spond[=e]re_, to promise.]

RESSAUT, res-awt', _n._ (_archit._) a projection of one part from another.
[Fr.,--L. _resil[=i]re_, to leap back.]

REST, rest, _n._ cessation from motion or disturbance: peace: quiet: sleep:
the final sleep, or death: place of rest, as an inn, &c.: repose: release:
security: tranquillity: stay: that on which anything rests or is supported:
a pause of the voice in reading: (_mus._) an interval between tones, also
its mark: in ancient armour, a projection from the cuirass to support the
lance: a quick and continued returning of the ball at tennis: in the game
of primero, the final stake made by the player.--_v.i._ to cease from
action or labour: to be still: to repose: to sleep: to be dead: to be
supported: to lean or trust: to be satisfied: to come to an end: to be
undisturbed: to take rest: to lie: to trust: (_law_) to terminate
voluntarily the adducing of evidence: to be in the power of, as 'it rests
with you.'--_v.t._ to lay at rest: to quiet: to place on a support.--_n._
REST'-CURE, the treatment of exhaustion by isolation in bed.--_adj._
REST'FUL (_Shak._), being at rest, quiet, giving rest.--_adv._ REST'FULLY,
in a state of rest.--_ns._ REST'FULNESS, the state or quality of being
restful: quietness; REST'-HOUSE a house of rest for travellers in India, a
dak-bungalow REST'INESS (_obs._), sluggishness.--_adj._ REST'ING-OW'ING
(_Scots law_), indebted.--_ns._ REST'ING-PLACE, a place of security, or of
rest, the grave: in building, a landing in a staircase; REST'ING-SPORE, a
spore which germinates after a period of dormancy; REST'ING-STAGE, -STATE,
a state of suspended activity, as of woody plants, bulbs; REST'ING-WHILE, a
period of leisure.--AT REST, applied to a body, means, having no velocity
with respect to that on which the body stands. [A.S. _rest_, _ræst_; Ger.
_rast_, Dut. _rust_.]

REST, rest, _n._ that which remains after the separation of a part:
remainder: others: balance of assets above liabilities.--_v.i._ to
remain.--FOR THE REST, as regards other matters. [Fr. _reste_--L.
_rest[=a]re_, to remain--_re-_, back, _st[=a]re_, to stand.]

REST, rest, _v.t._ (_coll._) to arrest.

RESTANT, res'tant, _adj._ remaining persistent.

RESTATE, r[=e]-st[=a]t', _v.t._ to state again.--_n._ RESTATE'MENT.

RESTAUR, res-tawr', _n._ the remedy which assurers have against each other,
or a person has against his guarantor. [Fr.]

RESTAURANT, res't[=o]-rang, or res't[=o]-rant, _n._ a house for the sale of
refreshments: an eating-house.--_n._ RESTAURATEUR (res-t[=o]'ra-t[.e]r),
the keeper of a restaurant. [Fr.,--restaurer, to restore.]

RESTEM, r[=e]-stem', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to force back against the current: to
move back against, as a current.

REST-HARROW, rest'-har'[=o], _n._ a half-shrubby plant with a spiny stem
and tough, woody roots, common in ill-cleaned land: a small moth.

RESTIBRACHIUM, res-ti-br[=a]'ki-um, _n._ (_anat._) the inferior peduncle of
the cerebellum.--_adj._ RESTIBR[=A]'CHIAL.

RESTIFF, an obsolete form of _restive_.

RESTIFORM, res'ti-form, _adj._ cord-like.--RESTIFORM BODY, the inferior
peduncle of the cerebellum. [L. _restis_, a net, _forma_, form.]

RESTILY, res'ti-li, _adv._ stubbornly, sluggishly.

RESTINCTION, r[=e]-stingk'shun, _n._ the act of extinguishing.--_v.t._
RESTING'UISH, to quench.

RESTIO, res'ti-[=o], _n._ a genus of glumaceous plants.--_n._ RESTIOI'DEÆ.

RESTIPULATE, r[=e]-stip'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to stipulate anew.--_n._
RESTIPUL[=A]'TION.

RESTITUTION, res-ti-t[=u]'shun, _n._ act of restoring what was lost or
taken away: indemnification: making good: (_law_) the restoration of what a
party had gained by a judgment.--_v.t._ RES'TIT[=U]TE (_obs._), to
restore.--_adj._ RES'TIT[=U]TIVE.--_n._ RES'TIT[=U]TOR. [L.
_restitutio_--_restitu[)e]re_, to set up again--_re-_, again,
_statu[)e]re_, to make to stand.]

RESTIVE, res'tiv, _adj._ unwilling to go forward: obstinate: jibbing back
like a restive horse.--_adv._ RES'TIVELY.--_n._ RES'TIVENESS. [O. Fr.
_restif_--L. _rest[=a]re_, to rest.]

RESTLESS, rest'les, _adj._ in continual motion: uneasy: passed in
unquietness: seeking change or action: unsettled: turbulent.--_adv._
REST'LESSLY.--_n._ REST'LESSNESS. [_Rest_, cessation from motion.]

RESTORE, r[=e]-st[=o]r', _v.t._ to repair: to replace: to return: to bring
back to its former state: to revive: to cure: to compensate: to mend:
(_mus._) to bring a note back to its original signification.--_adj._
REST[=O]R'ABLE, that may be restored to a former owner or condition.--_ns._
REST[=O]R'ABLENESS, the state or quality of being restorable;
REST[=O]R[=A]'TION, act of restoring: replacement: recovery: revival:
reparation: renewal: restoration of a building to its original design:
(_theol._) receiving of a sinner to the divine favour: the final recovery
of all men: (_palæont._) the proper adjustment of the bones of an extinct
animal; REST[=O]R[=A]'TIONIST, one who holds the belief that after a
purgation all wicked men and angels will be restored to the favour of God,
a universalist.--_adj._ REST[=O]R'ATIVE, able or tending to restore, esp.
to strength and vigour.--_n._ a medicine that restores.--_adv._
REST[=O]R'ATIVELY.--_ns._ REST[=O]RE'MENT; REST[=O]R'ER.--THE RESTORATION,
the re-establishment of the monarchy with the return of Charles II. in
1660. [Fr. _restaurer_--L. _restaur[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_re-_, again, root
_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

RESTRAIN, r[=e]-str[=a]n', _v.t._ to hold back: to check: to withhold, to
forbid: to hinder: to limit.--_adj._ RESTRAIN'ABLE, capable of being
restrained.--_adv._ RESTRAIN'EDLY.--_n._ RESTRAIN'ER (_phot._), a chemical
used to retard the act of the developer in an overexposed plate,
&c.--_p.adj._ RESTRAIN'ING.--_ns._ RESTRAIN'MENT; RESTRAINT', act of
restraining: state of being restrained: want of liberty: limitation:
hinderance: reserve; RESTRAINT'-BED, -CHAIR, used for the insane. [O. Fr.
_restraindre_--L. _restring[)e]re_, _restrictum_--_re-_, back,
_string[)e]re_, to draw tightly.]

RESTRENGTHEN, r[=e]-strength'n, _v.t._ to strengthen anew.

RESTRIALL, r[=e]-str[=i]'al, _adj._ (_her._) divided barwise, palewise, and
pilewise.

RESTRICT, r[=e]-strikt', _v.t._ to limit: to confine: to repress: to attach
limitations.--_adv._ RESTRIC'TEDLY.--_n._ RESTRIC'TION, act of restricting:
limitation: confinement.--_adj._ RESTRIC'TIVE, having the power or tendency
to restrict: astringent.--_adv._ RESTRIC'TIVELY.--_n._ RESTRIC'TIVENESS,
the state or quality of being restrictive. [_Restrain._]

RESTRIKE, r[=e]-str[=i]k', _v.t._ to strike again, as a coin.

RESTRINGE, r[=e]-strinj', _v.t._ to contract: to astringe.--_ns._
RESTRIN'GEND, RESTRIN'GENT, an astringent.

RESTY, rest'i, _adj._ (_Spens._) restive: (_Milt._) disposed to rest,
indolent.

RESUBLIME, r[=e]-sub-l[=i]m', _v.t._ to sublime again.--_n._
RESUBLIM[=A]'TION.

RESUDATION, r[=e]-s[=u]-d[=a]'shun, _n._ a sweating again.

RESULT, r[=e]-zult', _v.i._ to issue (with _in_): to follow as a
consequence from facts: to rebound: to be the outcome: to terminate.--_n._
consequence: conclusion: decision: resolution, as the result of a
council.--_n._ RESUL'TANCE, act of resulting.--_adj._ RESUL'TANT, resulting
from combination.--_n._ (_phys._) a force compounded of two or more
forces.--_n._ RESUL'T[=A]TE (_obs._), a result.--_adjs._ RESULT'FUL, having
results or effect; RESUL'TIVE; RESULT'LESS, without result.--_n._
RESULT'LESSNESS.--RESULTANT TONE, a tone produced by the simultaneous
sounding of two sustained tones; RESULTING FORCE, a motion which is the
result of two or more motions combined. [Fr.,--L.
_result[=a]re_--_resil[=i]re_. Cf. _Resilient_.]

RESUME, r[=e]-z[=u]m', _v.t._ to take back what has been given: to take up
again: to begin again after interruption.--_adj._ RES[=U]'MABLE, liable to
be taken back again, or taken up again. [L. _resum[)e]re_--_re-_, back,
_sum[)e]re_, _sumptum_, to take.]

RÉSUMÉ, r[=a]-z[=u]-m[=a]', _n._ a summing up: a summary.--_v.t._ RESUME'.
[Fr.,--L. _resum[)e]re_, to resume.]

RESUMMON, r[=e]-sum'un, _v.t._ to summon again: to recover.--_n._
RESUMM'ONS, a second summons.

RESUMPTION, r[=e]-zump'shun, _n._ act of resuming or taking back again, as
the resumption of a grant: the return to special payments.--_adj._
RESUMP'TIVE.--_n._ a restoring medicine.

RESUPINATE, r[=e]-s[=u]'pin-[=a]t, _adj._ lying on the back: (_bot._)
inverted in position by a twisting of the stalk upside down--also
RES[=U]PINE'.--_n._ RESUPIN[=A]'TION. [L. _resupinatus_, pa.p. pass. of
_resupin[=a]re_, to bend back--_re-_, back, _supinus_, bent backward.]

RESURGE, r[=e]-surj', _v.i._ to rise again.--_n._ RESUR'GENCE.--_adj._
RESUR'GENT, rising again or from the dead.--_v.t._ RESURRECT' (_coll._), to
restore to life.--_n._ RESURREC'TION, the rising again from the dead: the
life thereafter: a restoration: body-snatching.--_adj._
RESURREC'TIONARY.--_v.t._ RESURREC'TIONISE.--_ns._ RESURREC'TIONIST,
RESURREC'TION-MAN, one who steals bodies from the grave for dissection. [L.
_re-_, again, _surg[)e]re_, _surrectum_, to rise.]

RESURPRISE, r[=e]-sur-pr[=i]z', _n._ a second surprise.

RESURVEY, r[=e]-sur-v[=a]', _v.t._ to survey again, to review.--_n._ a
second or renewed survey.

RESUSCITATE, r[=e]-sus'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to revive, to revivify.--_v.i._ to
revive: to awaken and come to life again.--_adjs._ RESUS'CITABLE;
RESUS'CITANT.--_n._ one who, or that which, resuscitates.--_n._
RESUSCIT[=A]'TION, act of reviving from a state of apparent death: state of
being revivified.--_adj._ RESUS'CIT[=A]TIVE, tending to resuscitate:
reviving: revivifying: reanimating.--_n._ RESUS'CIT[=A]TOR, one who
resuscitates.--RESUSCITATIVE FACULTY, the reproductive faculty of the mind.
[L. _re-_, again, _suscit[=a]re_--_sus-_, _sub-_, from beneath,
_cit[=a]re_, to put into quick motion--_ci[=e]re_, to make to go.]

RET, ret, _v.t._ to expose hemp, jute, &c. to moisture.

RETABLE, r[=e]-t[=a]'bl, _n._ a shelf behind the altar for the display of
lights, vases of flowers, &c. [Fr.]

RETAIL, r[=e]-t[=a]l', _v.t._ to sell or deal out in small parts: to sell
in broken parts, or at second hand: to hand down by report.--_adj._
pertaining to retail.--_ns._ R[=E]'TAIL, the sale of goods in small
quantities; RETAIL'ER; RETAIL'MENT. [Fr. _retailler_, to cut again--_re-_,
again, _tailler_, to cut.]

RETAILLE, r[.e]-ta-ly[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) cut or divided twice.

RETAIN, r[=e]-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to keep in possession: to detain: to employ
by a fee paid: to restrain: to keep up, as to retain a custom: to keep in
mind.--_adj._ RETAIN'ABLE, that may be retained.--_ns._ RETAIN'ER, one who
is retained or kept in service: a dependant, but higher than a servant: a
sutler: a retaining fee; RETAIN'ERSHIP; RETAIN'MENT.--RETAINING FEE, the
advance fee paid to a lawyer to defend a cause; RETAINING WALL, a wall to
prevent a bank from slipping down.--GENERAL RETAINER, a fee to secure a
priority of claim on a counsel's services; SPECIAL RETAINER, a fee for a
particular case. [Fr.,--L. _retin[=e]re_--_re-_, back, _ten[=e]re_, to
hold.]

RETAKE, r[=e]-t[=a]k', _v.t._ to take or receive again: to recapture.

RETALIATE, r[=e]-tal'i-[=a]t, _v.t._ to return like for like: to
repay.--_v.i._ to return like for like.--_n._ RETALI[=A]'TION, act of
retaliating: 'lex talionis:' retribution.--_adjs._ RETAL'I[=A]TIVE,
RETAL'I[=A]TORY, returning like for like. [L. _retali[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_re-_, in return, _talio_, _-onis_, like for like--_talis_, of
such a kind.]

RETAMA, re-tä'mä, or re-t[=a]'mä, _n._ a group of yellow-flowered shrubs,
with rush-like branches.

RETARD, r[=e]-tärd', _v.t._ to keep back: to delay: to defer.--_adj._
RETAR'DANT.--_n._ RETARD[=A]'TION, delay: hinderance: obstacle: (_phys._) a
continuous decrement in velocity: in acoustics, the distance by which one
wave is behind another: (_mus._) the act of diminishing the rate of speed:
(_teleg._) decrease in the speed of telegraph signalling.--_adjs._
RETAR'D[=A]TIVE, tending or serving to retard; RETAR'D[=A]TORY.--_ns._
RETAR'DER; RETARD'MENT.--RETARDATION OF MEAN SOLAR TIME, the change of the
sun's right ascension in a sidereal day. [Fr.,--L. _retard[=a]re_--_re-_,
inten., _tard[=a]re_, to make slow--_tardus_, slow.]

RETCH, rech, _v.i._ to try to vomit: to strain: to reach. [A.S.
_hr['æ]can_--_hr['æ]c_, a cough; Ice. _hrækja_.]

RETCHLESS, rech'les, _adj._ (_obs._) reckless.--_adv._ RETCH'LESSLY.--_n._
RETCH'LESSNESS.

RETE, r[=e]'t[=e], _n._ a network of blood-vessels, a plexus.--_adjs._
RET[=E]'CIOUS; R[=E]'TIAL.

RETECTION, r[=e]-tek'shun, _n._ the act of disclosing something concealed.

RETELL, r[=e]-tel', _v.t._ to tell again.

RETENTION, r[=e]-ten'shun, _n._ act or power of retaining: memory:
restraint: custody: preservation: (_med._) power of retaining, inability to
void: (_Scots law_) a lien, the right of withholding a debt until a debt
due to the claimant is paid.--_n._ RETENT', that which is retained.--_adj._
RETEN'TIVE, having power to retain.--_adv._ RETEN'TIVELY.--_ns._
RETEN'TIVENESS, RETENTIV'ITY; RETEN'TOR, a muscle which serves to retain an
organ in place.--MAGNETIC RETENTIVENESS, coercive force.

RETEPORE, r[=e]'te-p[=o]r, _n._ a coral of the genus _Reteporidæ_.

RETEX, r[=e]-teks', _v.t._ to annul.

RETEXTURE, r[=e]-tekst'[=u]r, _n._ a second or new texture.

RETIARY, r[=e]'shi-[=a]-ri, _adj._ net-like: constructing a web to catch
prey: provided with a net.--_n._ a gladiator who fights with a net--also
RETI[=A]'RIUS.--_n.pl._ R[=E]'TI[=A]RIÆ, the spinning spiders. [L.
_retiarius_--_rete_, a net.]

RETICENCE, ret'i-sens, _n._ concealment by silence: reserve in speech--also
RET'ICENCY.--_adj._ RET'ICENT, concealing by silence: reserved in speech.
[Fr.,--L. _retic[=e]re_--_re-_, _tac[=e]re_, to be silent.]

RETICLE, ret'i-kl, _n._ Same as RETICULE.

RETICULE, ret'i-k[=u]l, RETICLE, ret'i-kl, _n._ a little network bag: a
lady's workbag: an attachment to a telescope consisting of a network of
lines ruled on glass.--_adj._ RETIC'ULAR, having the form of network:
formed with interstices: (_anat._) cellular.--_ns._ RETICUL[=A]'R[=E];
RETICUL[=A]'RIA, a genus of the myxomycetous fungi.--_n.pl._
RETICULARI[=A]'CEÆ.--_adjs._ RETICUL[=A]'RIAN; RETICUL[=A]'RIOUS.--__adv.__
RETIC'ULARLY.--_adjs._ RETIC'ULARY; RETIC'UL[=A]TE, -D, netted: having the
form or structure of a net: having veins crossing like network, as a
reticulate leaf.--_n._ RETICUL[=A]'TION, a method of copying a painting by
the help of threads stretched across a frame.--_adj._ RETIC'UL[=O]SE,
finely reticulate.--_n._ RETIC'ULUM, a network: the second stomach of a
ruminant: a southern constellation.--RETICULAR CARTILAGE, a cartilage in
which the matrix is permeated with elastic fibres; RETICULAR LAYER OF SKIN,
the deeper part of the corium; RETICULATED GLASS, ware made from glass, in
which one set of coloured lines meets with another; RETICULATED MICROMETER,
a micrometer for an optical instrument with a reticule in the focus of an
eyepiece; RETICULATED MOULDING, a fillet interlaced in various ways;
RETICULATED WORK, masonry constructed with diamond-shaped stones. [L.
_reticulum_--_rete_, net.]

RETIERCÉ, r[=e]-ty[=a]r's[=a], _adj._ (_her._) divided fesswise into three
equal parts.

RETIFERA, r[=e]-tif'er-a, _n._ the true limpet.

RETIFORM, r[=e]'ti-form, _adj._ having the form or structure of a net. [L.
_rete_, net, _forma_, form.]

RETINA, ret'i-na, _n._ the innermost coating of the eye, consisting of a
fine network of optic nerves.--_adj._ RET'INAL, pertaining to the retina of
the eye.--_n._ RETIN[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the retina. [Fr.,--L. _rete_,
a net.]

RETINACULUM, ret-i-nak'[=u]-lum, _n._ (_anat._) a connecting band: one of
the annular ligaments which hold the tendons close to the bones of the
larger joints: (_zool._) one of the retractor muscles of the proboscis of
certain worms: (_bot._) a small viscid gland.

RETINALITE, r[=e]-tin'a-l[=i]t, _n._ a green translucent variety of
serpentine.

RETINERVED, r[=e]'ti-n[.e]rvd, _adj._ netted, veined.

RETINITE, ret'i-n[=i]t, _n._ pitch-stone or obsidian.

RETINOID, ret'i-noid, _adj._ resin-like.

RETINOL, ret'i-nol, _n._ a hydro-carbon oil used in printers' ink.

RETINOPHORA, ret-i-nof'[=o]-ra, _n._ a cell of the embryonic eye of
anthropods.

RETINOSCOPY, ret'in-[=o]-sk[=o]-pi, _n._ examination of the retina with an
ophthalmoscope.

RETINOSPORA, ret-in-os'p[=o]-ra, _n._ a genus of coniferous trees, in use
for lawn decoration.

RETINUE, ret'i-n[=u], _n._ the body of retainers who follow a person of
rank: a suite: a cortege. [_Retain._]

RETINULA, r[=e]-tin'[=u]-la, _n._ (_entom._) a group of pigmented
cells.--_adj._ RETIN'ULAR.

RETIPED, r[=e]'tip-ed, _n._ having reticulated tarsi.

RETIRACY, r[=e]-t[=i]r'[=a]-si, _n._ retirement.

RETIRADE, ret-i-räd', _n._ a retrenchment in the body of a bastion which a
garrison may defend. [Fr.]

RETIRE, r[=e]-t[=i]r', _v.i._ to draw back: to retreat: to recede: to go to
bed.--_v.t._ to withdraw from circulation, as to retire a bill: to cause to
retire.--_n._ a call sounded on a bugle: act of retiring: retreat: (_obs._)
a place of retreat.--_n._ RET[=I]'RAL, the act of taking up a bill when
due.--_adj._ RETIRED', withdrawn: secluded: private: withdrawn from
business.--__adv.__ RETIRED'LY.--_ns._ RETIRED'NESS; RETIRE'MENT, act of
retiring or withdrawing from society or from public life, or of an army:
state of being retired: solitude: privacy.--_p.adj._ RETIR'ING, reserved:
unobtrusive: retreating: modest: given to one who retires from a public
office or service.--RETIRED LIST, a list of officers who are relieved from
active service but receive a certain amount of pay. [O. Fr.
_retirer_--_re-_, back, _tirer_, to draw.]

RETITELÆ, ret-i-t[=e]'l[=e], _n.pl._ a group of spiders which spin
irregular webs.--_n._ RETITEL[=A]'RIAN.

RETOLD, r[=e]-t[=o]ld', _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _retell_.

RETORQUE, r[=e]-t[=o]rk', _v.t._ (_obs._) to turn back.

RETORSION, r[=e]-t[=o]r'shun, _n._ retaliation.

[Illustration]

RETORT, r[=e]-tort', _v.t._ to throw back: to return: to retaliate: to
separate by means of a retort.--_v.i._ to make a sharp reply.--_n._ a ready
and sharp reply: a witty answer: a vessel used in distillation, properly a
spiral tube.--_p.adj._ RETOR'TED (_her._), interlaced.--_ns._ RETOR'TER;
RETOR'TION.--_adj._ RETOR'TIVE.--_n._ RETORT'-SEAL'ER, an instrument for
removing the encrustation in coal-gas retorts. [Fr.,--L. _retortum_, pa.p.
of _retorqu[=e]re_--_re-_, back, _torqu[=e]re_, to twist.]

RETOSS, r[=e]-tos', _v.t._ to toss back.

RETOUCH, r[=e]-tuch', _v.t._ to improve, as a picture, by new
touches.--_n._ the reapplication of the artist's hand to a work: (_phot._)
the act of finishing and correcting.--_ns._ RETOUCH'ER;
RETOUCH'MENT.--RETOUCHING FRAME, a desk formed of fine ground glass, used
for retouching negatives.

RETOUR, r[=e]-t[=oo]r', _n._ a returning: (_Scots law_) an extract from
chancery of the service of an heir to his ancestor.--_adj._ RETOURED'.

RETOURN, r[=e]-turn', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to turn back.

RETRACE, r[=e]-tr[=a]s', _v.t._ to trace back: to go back by the same
course: to renew the outline of: to repeat.--_adj._ RETRACE'ABLE.

RETRACT, r[=e]-trakt', _v.t._ to retrace or draw back: to recall: to
recant.--_v.i._ to take back what has been said or granted.--_adjs._
RETRAC'TABLE, RETRAC'TIBLE, capable of being retracted or recalled.--_n._
RETRACT[=A]'TION.--_p.adj._ RETRAC'TED (_her._), couped by a line diagonal
to the main direction: (_bot._) bent back.--_adj._ RETRAC'TILE, that may be
drawn back, as claws.--_n._ RETRAC'TION, act of retracting or drawing back:
recantation.--_adj._ RETRAC'TIVE, able or ready to retract.--_adv._
RETRAC'TIVELY.--_n._ RETRAC'TOR, one who, or that which, retracts or draws
back: in breech-loading firearms, a device for withdrawing a
cartridge-shell from the barrel: (_surg._) an instrument for holding apart
the edges of a wound during operation: a bandage to protect the soft parts
from injury by the saw: (_zool._) a muscle serving to draw in any part.
[Fr.,--L. _retrah[)e]re_, _retractum_--_re-_, back, _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

RETRAD, r[=e]'trad, _adv._ (_anat._) backward.

RETRAHENS, r[=e]'tr[=a]-henz, _n._ (_anat._) a muscle which draws the ear
backward.--_adj._ R[=E]'TR[=A]HENT.

RETRAIT, r[=e]-tr[=a]t', _n._ (_Spens._) a picture, a portrait:
aspect.--_adj._ retired. [O. Fr.,--_retraire_, to draw back, to take a
portrait--L. _retrah[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

RETRAL, r[=e]'tral, _adj._ back, posterior.

RETRANCHÉ, re-trong-sh[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) divided bend-wise twice or
into three parts.

RETRANSFER, r[=e]-trans-f[.e]r', _v.t._ to transfer back.--_n._
RETRANS'FER.

RETRANSFORM, r[=e]-trans-form', _v.t._ to transform or change back
again.--_n._ RETRANSFORM[=A]'TION, a second or renewed transformation: a
change back to a former state.

RETRANSLATE, r[=e]-trans-l[=a]t', _v.t._ to translate anew: to translate
back into the original languages.--_n._ RETRANSL[=A]'TION.

RETRANSMISSION, r[=e]-trans-mish'un, _n._ a repeated transmission.--_v.t._
R[=E]'TRANSMIT.

RETRATE, r[=e]-tr[=a]t', _n._ (_Spens._)=_retreat_.

RETRAVERSE, r[=e]-trav'[.e]rs, _v.t._ to traverse again.

RETRAXIT, r[=e]-trak'sit, _n._ (_law_) the open renunciation of a suit in
court.

RETREAT, r[=e]-tr[=e]t', _n._ a drawing back or retracing one's steps:
retirement: place of privacy: withdrawal: a place of security: a shelter:
(_mil._) the act of retiring in order from before the enemy, or from an
advanced position: the signal for retiring from an engagement or to
quarters: a special season of religious meditation.--_v.i._ to draw back:
to recede: to consider: to retire, esp. to a place of shelter: to retire
before an enemy or from an advanced position: in fencing, to move back so
as to avoid the point of the adversary's sword: to slope back, as a
retreating forehead.--_ns._ RETREAT'ER; RETREAT'MENT. [O. Fr. _retrete_--L.
_retractus_, pa.p. of _retrah[)e]re_.]

RETREE, r[=e]-tr[=e]', _n._ in paper-making, broken or imperfect paper.

RETRENCH, r[=e]-trensh', _v.t._ to cut off or away: to render less: to
curtail.--_v.i._ to live at less expense: to economise.--_n._
RETRENCH'MENT, cutting off: lessening or abridging: reduction: economy:
(_fort._) a work within another for prolonging the defence. [O. Fr.
_retrencher_ (Fr. _retrancher_)--_re-_, off, _trencher_, to cut, which,
acc. to Littré, is from L. _trunc[=a]re_, to cut off.]

RETRIAL, r[=e]-tr[=i]'al, _n._ a repetition of trial.

RETRIBUTE, r[=e]-trib'[=u]t, _v.t._ to give back: to make repayment
of.--_ns._ R[=E]TRIB'[=U]TER, -OR; RETRIB[=U]'TION, repayment: suitable
return: reward or punishment: retaliation.--_adjs._ R[=E]TRIB'[=U]TIVE,
repaying: rewarding or punishing suitably; R[=E]TRIB'[=U]TORY. [L.
_retributio_--_retribu[)e]re_, to give back--_re-_, back, _tribu[)e]re_, to
give.]

RETRIEVE, r[=e]-tr[=e]v', _v.t._ to recover: to recall or bring back: to
bring back to a former state: to repair: to search for and fetch, as a dog
does game--also _n._ (_obs._).--_adj._ RETRIEV'ABLE, that may be
recovered.--_n._ RETRIEV'ABLENESS, the state of being retrievable.--_adv._
RETRIEV'ABLY.--_ns._ RETRIEV'AL; RETRIEVE'MENT; RETRIEV'ER, a dog trained
to find and fetch game that has been shot. [O. Fr. _retreuver_ (Fr.
_retrouver_)--_re-_, again, _trouver_, to find--Low L. _tropare_--L.
_tropus_, a song--Gr. _tropos_, a trope.]

RETRIM, r[=e]-trim', _v.t._ to trim again.

RETRIMENT, ret'ri-ment, _n._ dregs. [L. _retrimentum._]

RETROACT, r[=e]-tr[=o]-akt', _v.i._ to act backward, or in return or
opposition, or on something past or preceding.--_n._ RETROAC'TION.--_adj._
RETROAC'TIVE.--_adv._ RETROAC'TIVELY, in a retroactive manner: by operating
on something past.--RETROACTIVE LAW, a retrospective law. [L. _retroactus_,
_retroag[)e]re_--_retro_, backward, _ag[)e]re_, _actum_, to do.]

RETROBULBAR, r[=e]-tr[=o]-bul'bär, _adj._ being behind the eyeball.

RETROCEDE, r[=e]-tr[=o]-s[=e]d', _v.t._ to go back: to relapse: to retire:
to give back.--_adj._ RETROC[=E]'DENT.--_n._ RETROCES'SION (_med._), the
disappearance of a tumour inwardly: a retreating outline: (_Scots law_) the
act of retroceding, or giving back, as of a right by an assignee. [Fr.,--L.
_retroced[)e]re_, _-cessum_--_retro_, backward, _ced[)e]re_, to go.]

RETROCHOIR, r[=e]'tr[=o]-kw[=i]r, _n._ (_archit._) an extension of a church
behind the high altar, as a chapel.

RETROCLUSION, r[=e]-tr[=o]-kl[=oo]'zhun, _n._ a method of using the pin in
acupressure.

RETROCOLLIC, r[=e]-tr[=o]-kol'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the back of the
neck.

RETRODATE, r[=e]'tr[=o]-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to assign a date to a book earlier
than its actual publication.

RETRODUCT, r[=e]-tr[=o]-dukt', _v.t._ to draw back: to withdraw.--_n._
RETRODUC'TION.

RETROFLEX, r[=e]'tr[=o]-fleks, _adj._ reflexed, bent backward--also
R[=E]'TROFLEXED.--_n._ RETROFLEC'TION. [L. _retro_, backward,
_flect[)e]re_, _flexum_, to bend.]

RETROFRACT, -ED, r[=e]'tr[=o]-frakt, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) bent sharply
back, so as to appear as if broken. [L. _retro_, backward, _fractus_, pa.p.
of _frang[)e]re_, _fractum_, to break.]

RETROGRADE, ret'r[=o]-, or r[=e]'tr[=o]-gr[=a]d, _adj._ going backward:
falling from better to worse: contrary: (_biol._) becoming less highly
organised, as 'a retrograde theory:' swimming backwards, as many animals:
(_astron._) moving westwards relatively to the fixed stars.--_v.i._ to go
backwards.--_ns._ RETROGRAD[=A]'TION, deterioration; R[=E]'TROGRESS,
falling off; R[=E]TROGRES'SION, a going backward: a decline in quality or
merit.--_adjs._ R[=E]TROGRES'SIONAL, R[=E]TROGRESS'IVE.--_adv._
R[=E]TROGRESS'IVELY.--_n._ R[=E]TROGRESS'IVENESS. [L. _retrogradus_, going
backward--_retro_, backward, _gradi_, _gressus_, to go.]

RETROLINGUAL, r[=e]-tr[=o]-ling'gwal, _adj._ serving to retract the tongue.

RETROMINGENT, r[=e]-tr[=o]-min'jent, _adj._ urinating backward.--_n._
RETROMIN'GENCY.--_adv._ RETROMIN'GENTLY.

RETRO-OCULAR, r[=e]-tr[=o]-ok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated behind the eyeball.

RETRO-OPERATIVE, r[=e]-tr[=o]-op'e-r[=a]-tiv, _adj._ retrospective in
effect.

RETROPOSITION, r[=e]-tr[=o]-p[=o]-zish'un, _n._ displacement backward.

RETROPULSION, r[=e]-tr[=o]-pul'shun, _n._ a disorder of locomotion:
repulsion.--_adj._ RETROPUL'SIVE.

RETRORSE, r[=e]-trors', _adj._ turned back or downward--_adv._ RETRORSE'LY.

RETROSERRATE, r[=e]-tr[=o]-ser'[=a]t, _adj._ (_entom._) armed with minute
retrorse teeth.

RETROSPECT, ret'r[=o]-spekt, or r[=e]'-, _n._ a looking back: a
contemplation of the past: the past.--_n._ RETROSPEC'TION, the act or
faculty of looking back on the past.--_adj._ RETROSPEC'TIVE.--_adv._
RETROSPEC'TIVELY. [L. _retrospectus_, pa.p. of _retrospic[)e]re_--_retro_,
back, _spec[)e]re_, to look.]

RETROSTERNAL, r[=e]-tr[=o]-ster'nal, _adj._ being behind the sternum.

RETROTARSAL, r[=e]-tr[=o]-tar'sal, _adj._ being behind the tarsus of the
eye.

RETROTRACHEAL, r[=e]-tr[=o]-tr[=a]'k[=e]-al, _adj._ being at the back of
the trachea.

RETROUSSAGE, re-tr[=oo]-sazh', _n._ a method of producing effective tones
in the printing of etchings by skilful treatment of the ink in certain
parts.

RETROUSSÉ, re-tr[=oo]-s[=a]', _adj._ turned up: pug.

RETROVACCINATE, r[=e]-tr[=o]-vak'si-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to vaccinate a cow with
human virus.--_ns._ RETROVACCIN[=A]'TION; RETROVAC'CINE.

RETROVENE, r[=e]'tr[=o]-v[=e]n, _adj._ inclined backward.

RETROVERT, r[=e]'tr[=o]-v[.e]rt, _v.t._ to turn back.--_n._ one who returns
to his original creed.--_n._ RETROVER'SION, a turning or falling back. [L.
_retro_, backward, _vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

RETROVISION, r[=e]-tr[=o]-vizh'un, _n._ the power of mentally seeing past
events.

RETRUDE, r[=e]-tr[=oo]d', _v.t._ to thrust back.--_adj._ RETRUSE'.--_n._
RETRU'SION. [L. _retrud[)e]re_, _retrusum_.]

RETRY, r[=e]-tr[=i]', _v.t._ to try again: to put on trial a second time.

RETTING, ret'ing, _n._ the act or process of preparing flax for use by
rotting the useless part of the plant.--_n._ RETT'ERY. [Conn. with _rot_.]

RETUND, r[=e]-tund', _v.t._ to blunt, as the edge of a weapon.

RETURN, r[=e]-turn', _v.i._ to come back to the same place or state: to
answer: to retort: to turn back: to repeat: to revert: to recur: to
reappear.--_v.t._ to bring or send back: to transmit: to give back: to
repay: to give back in reply: to report: to give an account: to cast back:
to reflect: to re-echo: to revolve: to restore: to requite: to return a
call: to elect, as a member of parliament: in card-playing, to lead back in
response to the lead of one's partner: in tennis, to bat the ball back over
the net: in fencing, to give a thrust or cut after parrying a
sword-thrust.--_n._ the act of going back: revolution: periodic renewal:
the act of bringing or sending back: restitution: repayment: the profit on
capital or labour: a reply: a report or account, esp. official: (_pl._) a
light-coloured and mild kind of tobacco: (_law_) the rendering back of a
writ to the proper officer: (_mil._) the return of the men fit for duty:
(_archit._) the continuation in a different direction of the face of a
building, as a moulding.--_adj._ RETUR'NABLE, legally requiring to be
returned.--_ns._ RETURN'-BEND, a pipe-coupling in the shape of the letter
[U shape]; RETURN'-CAR'GO, a cargo brought back in place of merchandise
previously sent out; RETURN'-CHECK, a ticket for readmission; RETURN'-DAY,
the day fixed when the defendant is to appear in court; RETUR'NER;
RETUR'NING-OFF'ICER, the officer who makes returns of writs, &c.: the
presiding officer at an election.--_adj._ RETURN'LESS.--_ns._
RETURN'-MATCH, a second match played by the same set of players;
RETURN'-SHOCK, an electric shock due to the action of induction sometimes
felt after a lightning-flash; RETURN'-TAG, a tag attached to a railway-car
as evidence of its due arrival; RETURN'-TICK'ET, a ticket issued by a
company for a journey and its return, usually at a reduced charge;
RETURN'-VALVE, a valve which opens to allow reflux of a fluid in case of
overflow. [Fr. _retourner_--_re-_, back, _tourner_, to turn--L.
_torn[=a]re_, to turn.]

RETUSE, r[=e]-t[=u]s', _adj._ (_bot._) terminating in a round end, with a
centre somewhat depressed. [L. _retusus_--_retund[)e]re_, to blunt.]

RETYRE, r[=e]-t[=i]r', _n._ (_Spens._) retirement.

RETZIA, ret'si-a, _n._ a genus of brachiopods.

REUNE, r[=e]-[=u]n', _v.t._ (_obs._) to reunite.--_v.i._ to hold a
reunion.--_adjs._ RE[=U]'NIENT; RE[=U]'NITIVE.

REUNION, r[=e]-[=u]n'yun, _n._ a union after separation: an assembly or
social gathering. [Fr. _réunion_--_re-_, again, _union_, union.]

REUNITE, r[=e]-[=u]-n[=i]t', _v.t._ to join after separation: to reconcile
after variance.--_v.i._ to become united again: to join again.--_v.t._
RE[=U]'NIFY.--_adv._ REUN[=I]'TEDLY.--_n._ REUNI'TION.--_adj._
RE[=U]'NITIVE.

REURGE, r[=e]-urj', _v.t._ to urge again.

REUS, r[=e]'us, _n._ (_law_) a defendant. [L.]

REUSE, r[=e]-[=u]z', _v.t._ to use again.--_n._ (r[=e]-[=u]s') repeated
use.

REUTILISE, r[=e]-[=u]'til-[=i]z, _v.t._ to make use of a second time.

REUTTER, r[=e]-ut'[.e]r, _v.t._ to utter again.

REV., an abridgment of _Reverend_, in addressing clergymen, as 'Rev. Thomas
Davidson;' deans are styled 'Very Reverend,' also principals of
universities in Scotland, if clergymen, and the moderator of the General
Assembly for the time being; bishops are styled 'Right Reverend,' and
archbishops, 'Most Reverend.'

REVACCINATE, r[=e]-vak'si-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to vaccinate again.--_n._
REVACCIN[=A]'TION.

REVALENTA, rev-a-len'ta, _n._ the ordinary name of lentil-meal.

REVALESCENT, rev-a-les'ent, _adj._ beginning to grow well.--_n._
REVALES'CENCE.

REVALUE, r[=e]-val'[=u], _v.t._ to value again.--_n._ REVALU[=A]'TION.

REVAMP, r[=e]-vamp', _v.t._ to patch up again.

REVE, rev, _v.i._ (_obs._) to dream. [_Rave._]

REVEAL, r[=e]-v[=e]l', _v.t._ to unveil: to make known, as by divine
agency: to disclose.--_n._ REVEALABIL'ITY.--_adj._ REVEAL'ABLE.--_ns._
REVEAL'ABLENESS; REVEAL'ER; REVEAL'MENT, revelation.--REVEALED RELIGION,
that which has been supernaturally revealed. [O. Fr. _reveler_ (Fr.
_révéler_)--L. _revel[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _vel[=a]re_, to veil--_velum_, a
veil.]

REVEAL, r[=e]-v[=e]l', _n._ (_archit._) the square ingoing of a window,
doorway, or the like, between the frame and the outer surface of the
wall.--Also REVEL'.

REVEHENT, r[=e]'v[=e]-hent, _adj._ carrying forth: taking away.

REVEILLE, re-v[=a]l'ye, _n._ the sound of the drum or bugle at daybreak to
awaken soldiers. [O. Fr. _reveil_--_re-_, again, _esveiller_, to awake--L.
_vigil[=a]re_, to watch.]

REVEL, rev'el, _v.i._ to feast in a riotous or noisy manner: to
carouse.--_v.i._ to draw back:--_pr.p._ rev'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
rev'elled.--_n._ a riotous feast: carousal: a kind of dance: a wake.--_ns._
REV'EL-COIL, REV'EL-DASH (_obs._), a wild revel; REV'ELLER, one who takes
part in carousals: a low liver; REV'EL-MAS'TER, the director of Christmas
revels: the lord of misrule; REV'ELMENT; REV'EL-ROUT, lawless revelry;
REV'ELRY, riotous or noisy festivity. [O. Fr. _reveler_--L. _rebell[=a]re_,
to rebel.]

REVELATION, rev-[=e]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of revealing: that which is
revealed: the revealing divine truth: that which is revealed by God to man:
the Apocalypse or last book of the New Testament.--_adj._
REVEL[=A]'TIONAL.--_n._ REVEL[=A]'TIONIST.--_adj._ REV'EL[=A]TORY.
[Fr.,--L. _revelatio_--_revel[=a]re_, to reveal.]

REVELLENT, r[=e]-vel'ent, _adj._ causing revulsion.

REVENANT, rev'[=e]-nant, _n._ one who returns after a long absence, esp.
from the dead: a ghost. [Fr.]

REVENGE, r[=e]-venj', _v.t._ to punish in return: to avenge.--_v.i._ to
take vengeance.--_n._ the act of revenging: injury inflicted in return: a
malicious injuring in return for an injury received: the passion for
retaliation.--_adj._ REVENGE'FUL, full of revenge or a desire to inflict
injury in return: vindictive: malicious.--_adv._ REVENGE'FULLY.--_n._
REVENGE'FULNESS.--_adj._ REVENGE'LESS.--_ns._ REVENGE'MENT;
REVENG'ER.--_adv._ REVENG'INGLY.--GIVE ONE HIS REVENGE, to play a return
match with a defeated opponent. [O. Fr. _revenger_, _revencher_ (Fr.
_revancher_)--L. _re-_, in return, _vindic[=a]re_, to lay claim to.]

REVENUE, rev'en-[=u] (earlier r[=e]-ven'[=u]), _n._ the receipts or rents
from any source: return, as a revenue of praise: income: the income of a
state.--_n._ REV'ENUE-CUT'TER, an armed vessel employed by custom-house
officers in preventing smuggling.--_adj._ REV'ENUED.--_ns._
REV'ENUE-EN'SIGN, a distinctive flag authorised in 1798 in United States;
REV'ENUE-OFF'ICER, an officer of the customs or excise; IN'LAND-REV'ENUE,
revenue derived from stamps, excise, income-tax, &c. [Fr. _revenue_, pa.p.
of _revenir_, to return--L. _reven[=i]re_--_re-_, back, _ven[=i]re_, to
come.]

REVERBERATE, r[=e]-v[.e]r'b[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to send back, echo: to
reflect: to drive from side to side: to fuse.--_v.i._ to echo: to resound:
to bound back: to be repelled: to use heat, as in the fusion of
metals.--_v.t._ REVERB' (_Shak._).--_adj._ REVER'BERANT, resounding,
beating back.--_n._ REVERBER[=A]'TION, the reflection of sound, &c.--_adj._
REVER'BER[=A]TIVE.--_n._ REVER'BER[=A]TOR.--_adj._
REVER'BER[=A]TORY.--REVERBERATORY FURNACE, a furnace in which the flame is
reflected on the substance to be burned. [L.,--_re-_, back, _verber[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to beat--_verber_, a lash.]

REVERDURE, r[=e]-ver'd[=u]r, _v.t._ to cover again with verdure.

REVERE, r[=e]-v[=e]r', _v.t._ to regard with respectful awe: to
venerate.--_adj._ REV[=E]R'ABLE, worthy of reverence.--_n._ REV'ERENCE,
fear arising from high respect: respectful awe: veneration: honour: an act
of revering or obeisance: a bow or courtesy: a title of the clergy.--_v.t._
to regard with reverence: to venerate or honour.--_n._
REV'ERENCER.--_adjs._ REV'EREND, worthy of reverence: a title of the clergy
(see REV.): (_B._) awful: venerable; REV'ERENT, showing reverence:
submissive: humble; REVEREN'TIAL, proceeding from reverence: respectful:
submissive.--_advs._ REVEREN'TIALLY; REV'ERENTLY.--_n._ RE'VERER, one who
reveres.--DO REVERENCE, to do honour; MAKE REVERENCE, to worship; SAVING
YOUR REVERENCE, with all due respect to you. [O. Fr. _reverer_ (Fr.
_révérer_)--L. _rever[=e]ri_--_re-_, inten., _ver[=e]ri_, to feel awe.]

REVERIE, REVERY, rev'e-ri, _n._ an irregular train of thoughts or fancies
in meditation: voluntary inactivity of the external senses to the
impressions of surrounding objects during wakefulness: mental abstraction:
a waking dream: a brown study.--_n._ REV'ERIST. [O. Fr. _resveri_ (Fr.
_rêverie_)--_resver_, _rever_, to dream.]

REVERS, re-v[=a]r' (gener. r[=e]-v[=e]r'), _n._ that part of a garment
which is turned back, as the lapel of a coat.

REVERSE, r[=e]-v[.e]rs', _v.t._ to place in the contrary order or position:
to change wholly: to overthrow: to change by an opposite decision: to
annul: to revoke, as a decree: to recall.--_n._ that which is reversed: the
opposite: the back, esp. of a coin or medal: change: misfortune: a
calamity: in fencing, a back-handed stroke: (_her._) the exact contrary of
what has been described just before, as an escutcheon.--_adj._ turned
backward: having an opposite direction: upset.--_n._ REVER'SAL, act of
reversing.--_adj._ REVERSED', turned or changed to the contrary: inside
out: (_bot._) resupinate.--_adv._ REVER'SEDLY.--_adj._ REVERSE'LESS,
unalterable.--_adv._ REVERSE'LY, in a reverse order: on the other hand: on
the opposite.--_ns._ REVER'SER (_Scots law_), a mortgager of land;
REVER'SI, a game played by two persons with sixty-four counters;
REVERSIBIL'ITY, the capability of being reversed, as of heat into work and
work into heat.--_adj._ REVER'SIBLE, that may be reversed, as in a fabric
having both sides well finished.--_ns._ REVER'SING-CYL'INDER, the cylinder
of a small auxiliary steam-engine; REVER'SING-GEAR, those parts of a
steam-engine by which the direction of the motion is changed;
REVER'SING-L[=E]'VER, a lever in a steam-engine which operates the
slide-valve; REVER'SING-MACHINE', a moulding-machine in founding, in which
the flask can be reversed; REVER'SING-M[=O]'TION, any mechanism for
changing the direction of motion of an engine; REVER'SING-SHAFT, a shaft
which permits a reversal of the order of steam passage through the ports;
REVER'SING-VALVE, the valve of a reversing-cylinder; REVER'SION, the act of
reverting or returning: that which reverts or returns: the return or future
possession of any property after some particular event: the right to future
possession: (_biol._) return to some type of ancestral character: return to
the wild state after domestication.--_adj._ REVER'SIONARY, relating to a
reversion: to be enjoyed in succession: atavic.--_ns._ REVER'SIONER;
REVER'SIS, an old French game of cards in which the aim was to take the
fewest tricks.--_adj._ REVER'SIVE.--_n._ REVER'SO (_print._), any one of
the left-hand pages of a book.--REVERSE A BATTERY, to turn the current of
electricity by means of a commutator; REVERSE SHELL, a univalve shell which
has its volutions the reversed way of the common screw; REVERSIONARY
ANNUITY, a deferred annuity. [L. _reversus_, pa.p. of _revert[)e]re_, to
turn back--_re-_, back, _vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

REVERT, r[=e]-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to turn or drive back: to reverse.--_v.i._
to return: to fall back: to refer back: to return to the original owner or
his heirs.--_adjs._ R[=E]VER'TANT (_her._), flexed, bent twice at a sharp
angle; R[=E]VER'TED, reversed; R[=E]VER'TIBLE, that may revert or be
reverted; R[=E]VER'TIVE, tending to revert: changing: turning to the
contrary.--_adv._ R[=E]VER'TIVELY, by way of reversion. [Fr.,--L.
_revert[)e]re_.]

REVERY. Same as REVERIE.

REVEST, r[=e]-vest', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to clothe again: to vest again in a
possession or office.--_v.i._ to take effect again: to return to a former
owner. [Fr.,--L.,--_revest[=i]re_--_re-_, again, _vest[=i]re_, to clothe.]

REVESTIARY, r[=e]-ves'ti-[=a]-ri, _n._ an apartment in a church in which
ecclesiastical garments are kept.

REVESTU, r[=e]-ves't[=u], _adj._ (_her._) covered by a square set
diagonally, the corners of which touch the edges of the space covered. [O.
Fr.]

REVESTURE, r[=e]-ves't[=u]r, _n._ (_obs._) vesture.

REVET, r[=e]-vet', _v.t._ (_fort._) to face with masonry, &c., as an
embankment with a steep slope.--_n._ REVET'MENT, a retaining wall, a facing
of stone, wood, &c. [Fr. _revêtir_, to reclothe.]

REVIBRATE, r[=e]-v[=i]'br[=a]t, _v.i._ to vibrate back or in return.--_n._
REVIBR[=A]'TION.

REVICT, r[=e]-vikt', _v.t._ (_obs._) to reconquer.--_n._ REVIC'TION, return
to life, revival.

REVICTUAL, r[=e]-vit'l, _v.t._ to furnish again with provisions.

REVIE, r[=e]-v[=i]', _v.t._ to vie with, or rival: to stake a larger sum at
cards: to outdo.--_v.i._ to exceed an adversary's wager in card-playing: to
retort.

REVIEW, r[=e]-v[=u]', _v.t._ to re-examine: to revise: to examine
critically: to see again: to retrace: to inspect, as a body of
troops.--_n._ a viewing again: a reconsideration: a revision: a careful or
critical examination: a critique: a written discussion: a periodical with
critiques of books, &c.: the inspection of a body of troops or a number of
ships: (_law_) the judicial revision of a higher court.--_adj._
REVIEW'ABLE, capable of being reviewed.--_ns._ REVIEW'AGE, the work of
reviewing; REVIEW'AL, a review of a book: a critique on a new publication;
REVIEW'ER, an inspector: a writer in a review.--COURT OF REVIEW, the court
of appeal from the commissioners of bankruptcy. [Fr. _revue_, pa.p. of
_revoir_--L. _re-_, again, _vid[=e]re_, to see.]

REVIGORATE, r[=e]-vig'or-[=a]t, _v.t._ to give new vigour to:--_pr.p._
revig'or[=a]ting: _pa.p._ revig'or[=a]ted.--_p.adj._ REVIG'OR[=A]TED,
endued with new vigour or strength. [L. _re-_, again, _vigor[=a]tus_,
_vigor[=a]re_--_vigor_, vigour.]

REVILE, r[=e]-v[=i]l', _v.t._ to reproach: to calumniate.--_v.i._ to speak
contemptuously.--_ns._ REVILE'MENT, the act of reviling, reproach;
REVIL'ER.--_adv._ REVIL'INGLY. [Pfx. _re-_, again, O. Fr. _aviler_, to make
vile, from _a_--L. _ad_, _vil_--L. _vilis_, cheap.]

REVINCE, r[=e]-vins', _v.t._ (_obs._) to refute, to disprove.

REVINDICATE, r[=e]-vin'di-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to reclaim, to claim what has been
illegally taken away.--_n._ REVINDIC[=A]'TION. [Low L. _revindic[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--L. _re-_, again, _vindic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to lay claim to.]

REVIRE, r[=e]-v[=i]r', _v.t._ (_obs._) to revive.--_n._ REVIRES'CENCE
(_Swinburne_), renewal of youth or vigour.

REVISE, r[=e]-v[=i]z', _v.t._ to review and amend: to examine with a view
to correction.--_n._ review: a second proof-sheet.--_ns._ REV[=I]'SAL,
REVI'SION, review: re-examination; REV[=I]SED'-VER'SION, a fresh English
translation of the Bible, issued, the New Testament in 1881, the Old in
1885; REV[=I]'SER, -OR (_print._), one who examines proofs;
REV[=I]'SING-BARR'ISTER, a barrister appointed annually by the English
judges to revise the list of voters for members of parliament, the revision
generally taking place between August and October of each year.--_adjs._
REVI'SIONAL, REVI'SIONARY, pertaining to revision.--_n._
REVI'SIONIST.--_adj._ REV[=I]'SORY. [Fr. _reviser_--L.
_revis[)e]re_--_re-_, back, _vis[)e]re_, inten. of _vid[=e]re_, to see.]

REVISIT, r[=e]-viz'it, _v.t._ to visit again.--_ns._ REVIS'IT;
REVIS'ITANT.--_adj._ revisiting.--_n._ REVISIT[=A]'TION.

REVITALISE, r[=e]-v[=i]'tal-[=i]z, _v.t._ to restore vitality to.--_n._
REVITALIS[=A]'TION.

REVIVE, re-v[=i]v', _v.i._ to return to life, vigour, or fame: to recover
from neglect, oblivion, or depression: to regain use or currency: to have
the memory refreshed.--_v.t._ to restore to life again: to reawaken in the
mind: to recover from neglect or depression: to bring again into public
notice, as a play: to recall, to restore to use: to reproduce: (_chem._) to
restore to its natural state.--_n._ REV[=I]VABIL'ITY.--_adj._
REV[=I]'VABLE, capable of being revived.--_adv._ REV[=I]'VABLY.--_ns._
REV[=I]'VAL, recovery from languor, neglect, depression, &c.: renewed
performance of, as of a play: renewed interest in or attention to: a time
of extraordinary religious awakening: restoration: quickening: renewal, as
of trade: awakening, as revival of learning: (_law_) reinstatement of an
action; REV[=I]'VALISM; REV[=I]'VALIST, one who promotes religious
revivals: an itinerant preacher.--_adj._ REV[=I]VALIS'TIC.--_ns._
REV[=I]VE'MENT; REV[=I]'VER, one who, or that which, revives: a compound
for renovating clothes; REVIVIFIC[=A]'TION (_chem._), the reduction of a
metal from a state of combination to its natural state.--_v.t._ REVIV'IFY,
to cause to revive: to reanimate: to enliven.--_v.i._ to become efficient
again as a reagent.--_adv._ REV[=I]'VINGLY.--_n._ REVIVIS'CENCE, an
awakening from torpidity, after hibernation.--_adj._ REVIVIS'CENT.--_n._
REV[=I]'VOR (_law_), the revival of a suit which was abated by the death of
a party or other cause.--THE ANGLO-CATHOLIC REVIVAL, a strong reaction
within the Church of England towards the views of doctrine and practice
held by Laud and his school (see TRACTARIANISM). [O. Fr. _revivre_--L.
_re-_, again, _viv[)e]re_, to live.]

REVOKE, r[=e]-v[=o]k', _v.t._ to annul by recalling: to repeal: to reverse:
to neglect to follow suit (at cards).--_n._ revocation, recall: act of
revoking at cards.--_adj._ REV'OCABLE, that may be revoked.--_ns._
REV'OCABLENESS, REVOCABIL'ITY.--_adv._ REV'OCABLY.--_n._ REVOC[=A]'TION,
_a_ recalling: repeal: reversal.--_adj._ REV'OC[=A]TORY.--_n._ REVOKE'MENT
(_Shak._), revocation.--REVOCATION OF THE EDICT OF NANTES, the taking away
by Louis IV., in 1685, of the Huguenot privileges granted by Henry IV. in
1598. [Fr.,--L. _revoc[=a]re_--_re-_, back, _voc[=a]re_, to call.]

REVOLT, r[=e]-v[=o]lt', _v.i._ to renounce allegiance: to be grossly
offended: to mutiny: to be shocked.--_v.t._ to cause to rise in revolt: to
shock.--_n._ a rebellion: insurrection, desertion: a change of sides:
fickleness.--_n._ REVOL'TER.--_adj._ REVOL'TING, causing a turning away
from: shocking: repulsive.--_adv._ REVOL'TINGLY. [O. Fr. _revolte_--It.
_rivolta_--L. _revolv[)e]re_, to roll back, _re-_, back, _volv[)e]re_,
_volutum_, to turn.]

REVOLUTION, rev-[=o]-l[=u]'shun, _n._ act of revolving: motion round a
centre: course which brings to the same point or state: space measured by a
revolving body: a radical change, as of one's way of living: fundamental
change in the government of a country: a revolt: a complete rotation
through 360°: a round of periodic changes, as the revolutions of the
seasons: the winding of a spiral about its axis: change of circumstances:
consideration.--_adj._ REVOL[=U]'TIONARY, pertaining to, or tending to, a
revolution in government.--_v.t._ REVOL[=U]'TIONISE, to cause a revolution
or entire change of anything.--_ns._ REVOL[=U]'TIONISM; REVOL[=U]'TIONIST,
one who promotes or favours a revolution.--THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, the
change from the position of colonies to that of national independence
effected by the thirteen American colonies of England in 1776; THE FRENCH
REVOLUTION, the downfall of the old French monarchy and the old absolutism
(1789); THE REVOLUTION, the expulsion of James II. from the throne of
England (1689), and the establishment of a really constitutional government
under William III. and Mary. [_Revolve._]

REVOLVE, r[=e]-volv', _v.i._ to roll back: to roll round on an axis: to
move round a centre: to rotate, as the planets: to meditate.--_v.t._ to
cause to turn: to consider.--_n._ a radical change.--_v.i._ REV'OLUTE, to
revolve.--_adj._ rolled backward.--_adjs._ REV'OL[=U]TIVE, cogitating;
REVOL'VABLE.--_ns._ REVOLVE'MENT, reflection; REVOL'VENCY,
revolution.--_adj._ REVOL'VING, turning, moving round.--_ns._
REVOL'VING-FUR'NACE, a furnace used in making black ash; REVOL'VING-LIGHT,
a lamp in a lighthouse so arranged as to appear and disappear at intervals.
[Fr.,--L. _revolv[)e]re_, _revol[=u]tum_--_re-_, back, _volv[)e]re_, to
roll.]

REVOLVER, r[=e]-volv'[.e]r, _n._ that which revolves: a firearm having
barrels or chambers which revolve upon a common centre, and are fired in
turn by one lock mechanism: a revolving cannon.

REVOMIT, r[=e]-vom'it, _v.t._ to reject from the stomach.

REVULSION, r[=e]-vul'shun, _n._ disgust: the diverting of a disease from
one part to another: forced separation: a sudden change, esp. of feeling: a
counter-irritant.--_adj._ REVUL'SIVE, tending to revulsion.--_n._
REVUL'SOR, an apparatus for applying heat and cold in turns for medical
purposes. [L. _revulsio_--_revell[)e]re_, _revulsum_--_re-_, away,
_vell[)e]re_, to tear.]

REW, r[=oo], _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as RUE.

REW, r[=oo], _n._ (_Spens._). Same as ROW.

REWAKEN, r[=e]-w[=a]'kn, _v.i._ to waken again.

REWARD, r[=e]-wawrd', _n._ that which is given in return for good or evil:
recompense: retribution: the fruit of one's own labour: regard: requital:
remuneration: guerdon: consideration.--_v.t._ to give in return: to
requite, whether good or evil: to punish: (_B._) to recompense: to
compensate: to notice carefully: to watch over.--_adj._ REWAR'DABLE,
capable or worthy of being rewarded.--_n._ REWAR'DABLENESS.--_adv._
REWAR'DABLY.--_n._ REWAR'DER, one who rewards.--_adjs._ REWARD'FUL,
yielding reward; REWARD'LESS, having or receiving no reward. [O. Fr.
_rewarder_, _reswarder_, _regarder_--_re-_, again, _warder_, _guarder_, to
guard; of Teut. origin.]

REWEIGH, r[=e]-w[=a]', _v.t._ to weigh again.

REWET, r[=oo]'et, _n._ the revolving part of a wheel-lock.

REWIN, r[=e]-win', _v.t._ to win back or again.

REWOOD, r[=e]-w[=oo]d', _v.t._ to plant again.

REWORD, r[=e]-wurd', _v.t._ to repeat in the same words, to re-echo: to put
into different words.

REWRITE, r[=e]-r[=i]t', _v.t._ to write a second time.

REX, reks, _n._ a king.--PLAY REX (_obs._), to handle roughly. [L.; cf.
Sans. _r[=a]jan_, Gael. _righ_.]

REYNARD, r[=a]'nard, or ren'ard, _n._ a fox, from the name given to the fox
in the famous beast epic of Low Ger. origin, _Reynard the Fox_--also
REN'ARD.--_adj._ REN'ARDINE. [Fr.,--Old Flem. _Reinaerd_, _Reinaert_--Mid.
High Ger. _Reinhart_ (Old High Ger. _Reginhart_), lit. 'strong in
counsel.']

RHABARBARATE, ra-bär'ba-r[=a]t, _adj._ (_obs._) impregnated with
rhubarb.--_n._ RHABAR'BARUM, rhubarb.

RHABARBARINE, ra-bär'ba-rin, _n._ chrysophanic acid.

RHABDAMMININA, rab-da-mi-n[=i]'na, _n._ a group of marine imperforate
foraminiferous protozoans. [Gr. _rhabdos_, a rod, _ammos_, sand.]

RHABDITE, rab'd[=i]t, _n._ a smooth, rod-like structure found in the cells
of the integument of most turbellarian worms: one of the hard parts
composing the ovipositor of some insects.--_adj._ RHABDIT'IC. [Gr.
_rhabdos_, a rod.]

RHABDOCOELA, rab-d[=o]-s[=e]'la, _n._ a prime division of turbellarian
worms.--_adjs._ RHABDOCOE'LIDAN, RHABDOCOE'LOUS. [Gr. _rhabdos_, a rod,
_koilos_, hollow.]

RHABDOCREPIDA, rab-d[=o]-krep'i-da, _n._ a sub-order of lithistidan
sponges. [Gr. _rhabdos_, a rod, _kr[=e]pis_, a foundation.]

RHABDOID, rab'doid, _n._ a spindle-shaped body chemically related to the
plastids, found in certain cells of irritable plants like _Drosera_,
_Dionæa_, &c.--_adj._ RHABDOID'AL, rod-like: (_anat._) sagittal. [Gr.
_rhabdos_, a rod.]

RHABDOLITH, rab'd[=o]-lith, _n._ a minute rhabdoidal concretion of
calcareous matter forming the armature of a rhabdosphere.--_adj._
RHABDOLITH'IC.

RHABDOLOGY, rab-dol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the art of computing by Napier's bones or
rods.--Also RABDOL'OGY.

RHABDOM, rab'dom, _n._ (_entom._) a tubular rod-like structure in the eye,
the central axis of a retinula.--_adj._ RHAB'D[=O]MAL.

RHABDOMANCY, rab'd[=o]-man-si, _n._ divination by means of rods, esp. the
impudent imposture of finding water, &c., by means of the
divining-rod.--_n._ RHAB'DOMANCER.--_adj._ RHABDOMAN'TIC. [Gr. _rhabdos_,
rod, _manteia_, divination.]

RHABDOME, rab'd[=o]m, _n._ in sponges, the shaft of a cladose rhabdus,
bearing the cladome.

RHABDOMESODON, rab-d[=o]-mes'[=o]-don, _n._ a genus of polyzoans. [Gr.
_rhabdos_, a rod, _mesos_, middle, _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

RHABDOMYOMA, rab-d[=o]-m[=i]-[=o]'ma, _n._ a myoma consisting of striated
muscular fibres.

RHABDONEMA, rab-d[=o]-n[=e]'ma, _n._ a genus of small nematoid worms. [Gr.
_rhabdos_, a rod, _n[=e]ma_, a thread.]

RHABDOPHANE, rab'd[=o]-f[=a]n, _n._ a rare phosphate of the yttrium and
cerium earths. [Gr. _rhabdos_, a rod, _phan[=e]s_, appearing.]

RHABDOPHORA, rab-dof'[=o]-ra, _n._ a group of fossil organisms.--_adjs._
RHABDOPH'[=O]RAN, RHABDOPH'[=O]ROUS.

RHABDOPLEURA, rab-d[=o]-pl[=oo]'ra, _n._ a marine polyzoan. [Gr. _rhabdos_,
a rod, _pleuron_, a rib.]

RHABDOSPHERE, rab'd[=o]-sf[=e]r, _n._ a minute spherical body found in the
depths of the Atlantic. [Gr. _rhabdos_, a rod, _sphaira_, sphere.]

RHABDOSTEIDÆ, rab-dos-t[=e]'i-d[=e], _n._ a family of fossil-toothed
cetaceans--its typical genus, RHABDOS'T[=E]US. [Gr. _rhabdos_, rod,
_osteon_, bone.]

RHABDOSTYLA, rab-d[=o]-st[=i]'la, _n._ a genus of peritrichous ciliate
infusorians. [Gr. _rhabdos_, rod, _stylos_, pillar.]

RHABDUS, rab'dus, _n._ a simple, straight spicule.--_adj._ RHAB'DOUS. [Gr.
_rhabdos_, a rod.]

RHACHIOMYELITIS, r[=a]-ki-[=o]-m[=i]-e-l[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the
spinal cord--_myelitis._--_ns._ RHACHIOT'OMY, incision into the spinal
canal; RHACHIS'CHISIS, defective formation of the spinal canal--_spina
bifida._ [Gr. _rhachis_, the spine, _myelos_, marrow.]

RHACHITIS=_Rachitis_ (q.v.).

RHACOCHILUS, rak-[=o]-k[=i]'lus, _n._ a genus of embiotocoid fishes. [Gr.
_rhakos_, a rag, _cheilos_, the lip.]

RHACOPHORUS, r[=a]-kof'[=o]-rus, _n._ a genus of batrachians, with long and
webbed feet, adapting it for long leaps. [Gr. _rhakos_, a rag, _pherein_,
to bear.]

RHADAMANTHINE, ra-da-man'thin, _n._ of _Rhadamanthus_, judge of the lower
world, with Minos and Æacus--applied generally to a solemn and final
judgment.--Also RHADAMAN'TINE.

RHÆTIAN, r[=e]'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the ancient Rhætians or their
country _Rhætia_, a Roman province between the Po and the Danube--also
RHÆ'TIC.--_adj._ and _n._ RHÆ'TO-ROMAN'IC, pertaining to a group of Romance
dialects spoken in south-eastern Switzerland.--RHÆTIC BEDS, a series of
strata forming the uppermost portion of the Trias, extensively developed in
the _Rhætian_ Alps.

RHAGADES, rag'a-d[=e]z, _n.pl._ fissures of the skin. [Gr. _rhagas_ (pl.
_rhagades_), a crack.]

RHAGODIA, ra-g[=o]'di-a, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants. [Gr.
_rhag[=o]d[=e]s_, like grapes--_rhax_, _rhagos_, a grape.]

RHAGON, rag'on, _n._ a form of sponge with clustered spherical flagellated
endodermal chambers.--_adjs._ RHAG'ON[=A]TE, RHAG'OSE. [Gr. _rhax_,
_rhagos_, a grape.]

RHAMNACEÆ, ram-n[=a]'s[=e]-[=e], _n._ an order of polypetalous
plants.--_adj._ RHAMN[=A]'CEOUS.

RHAMNUS, ram'nus, _n._ a genus of polypetalous shrubs and trees, including
the buckthorn. [Gr.]

RHAMPHASTIDÆ, ram-fas'ti-d[=e], _n._ a family of picarian birds, toucans.
[Gr. _rhamphos_, a beak.]

RHAMPHOCELUS, ram-f[=o]-c[=e]'lus, _n._ a remarkable genus of tanagers,
native to South America.

RHAMPHODON, ram'f[=o]-don, _n._ the saw-billed humming-bird. [Gr.
_rhamphos_, a curved beak, _odous_, a tooth.]

RHAMPHOID, ram'foid, _adj._ beak-shaped.

RHAMPHOLEON, ram-f[=o]'l[=e]-on, _n._ a genus of chameleons. [Gr.
_rhamphos_, a curved beak, _le[=o]n_, lion.]

RHAMPHOMICRON, ram-f[=o]-mik'ron, _n._ a genus of humming-birds. [Gr.
_rhamphos_, a beak, _mikros_, little.]

RHAMPHORHYNCHUS, ram-f[=o]-ring'kus, _n._ a genus of pterodactyls. [Gr.
_rhamphos_, a curved beak, _rhyngchos_, a beak.]

RHAMPHOTHECA, ram-f[=o]-th[=e]'ka, _n._ (_ornith._) the integument of the
whole beak. [Gr. _rhamphos_, a curved beak, _th[=e]k[=e]_, a sheath.]

RHAPIDOPHYLLUM, ra-pi-d[=o]-fil'um, _n._ a genus of palms--the blue
palmetto of Florida.--_n._ RH[=A]'PIS, a genus of Chinese palms. [Gr.
_rhapis_, rod, _phyllon_, leaf.]

RHAPONTIC, r[=a]-pon'tik, _n._ rhubarb. [L., 'Pontic rha.']

RHAPSODIC, -AL, rap-sod'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to, consisting of, or
resembling rhapsody: gushing.--_adv._ RHAPSOD'ICALLY.--_v.t._ and _v.i._
RHAP'SODISE, to write or utter rhapsodies: to express with poetic
feeling:--_pr.p._ rhap'sod[=i]sing; _pa.p._ rhap'sod[=i]sed.--_n._
RHAP'SODIST, one who recites or sings rhapsodies, esp. one of a class of
men in ancient Greece who travelled from place to place reciting Homer and
other epic poetry--also RHAP'SODE: one who composes verses extempore: one
who speaks or writes disjointedly.--_adj._ RHAPSODIS'TIC.--_ns._
RHAP'SODOMANCY, divination by means of verses; RHAP'SODY, any wild
unconnected composition: a part of an epic poem for recitation at one time:
a jumble: (_mus._) composition irregular in form. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_rhaps[=o]dia_, _rhaptein_, to sew, _[=o]d[=e]_, a song.]

RHEA, r[=e]'a, _n._ the ramie plant or fibre.

RHEA, r[=e]'a, _n._ the daughter of Uranus and Ge, wife and sister of
Kronos: the only three-toed ostrich: the fifth satellite of Jupiter.

RHEIC, r[=e]'ik, _adj._ pertaining to rhubarb.--_n._ RH[=E]'INE, rheic
acid.

RHEIN-BERRY, r[=i]n'ber-i, _n._ the common buckthorn.--Also RHINE'-BERR'Y.

RHEMATIC, r[=e]-mat'ik, _adj._ derived from a verb.--_n._ the doctrine of
propositions.

RHEMISH, r[=e]'mish, _adj._ pertaining to _Rheims_ in north-eastern
France.--RHEMISH VERSION, the English translation of the New Testament used
by Roman Catholics, prepared at Rheims in 1582, forming part of the Douay
Bible--Old Testament part prepared at _Douay_ in 1609-10.

RHENISH, ren'ish, _adj._ pertaining to the river _Rhine_.--_n._ Rhine wine,
hock, light and still. [L. _Rhenus_.]

RHEOCORD, r[=e]'[=o]-kord, _n._ a metallic wire used in measuring the
resistance of an electric current. [Gr. _rhein_, to flow, _chord[=e]_, a
cord.]

RHEOMETER, REOMETER, r[=e]-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring
the strength of currents, as of electricity: a galvanometer.--_adj._
RHEOMET'RIC.--_n._ RHEOM'ETRY, fluxions. [Gr. _rhein_, to flow, _metron_,
measure.]

RHEOSCOPE, r[=e]'[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an electroscope.--_adj._ RHEOSCOP'IC.
[Gr. _rhein_, to flow, _skopein_, to view.]

RHEOSTAT, r[=e]'o-stat, _n._ the name given by Wheatstone to an instrument
for varying an electric resistance between given limits.--_adj._
RHEOSTAT'IC.--_n._ RHEOSTAT'ICS, the statics of fluids. [Gr. _rhein_, to
flow, _statos_, verbal adj. of _histanai_, to stand.]

RHEOTOME, r[=e]'[=o]-t[=o]m, _n._ a means by which an electric current can
be periodically interrupted. [Gr. _rhein_, to flow, _temnein_, to cut.]

RHEOTROPE, r[=e]'[=o]-tr[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for periodically changing
the direction of an electric current.--_n._ RHEOT'R[=O]PISM, the effect of
a current of water upon the direction of plant growth. [Gr. _rhein_, to
flow, _trepein_, to turn.]

RHESUS, r[=e]'sus, _n._ the boonder, one of the most widely distributed
Indian monkeys, much venerated by the natives: (_entom._) a genus of
coleopterous insects.--_adj._ RH[=E]'SIAN. [Gr.]

RHETORIC, ret'or-ik, _n._ the theory and practice of eloquence, whether
spoken or written, the whole art of using language so as to persuade
others: the art of speaking with propriety, elegance, and force: artificial
oratory: declamation.--_adj._ RHETOR'ICAL, pertaining to rhetoric:
oratorical.--_adv._ RHETOR'ICALLY.--_v.i._ RHETOR'IC[=A]TE (_obs._), to act
the orator.--_ns._ RHETORIC[=A]'TION (_obs._); RHETORI'CIAN, one who
teaches the art of rhetoric: an orator.--_v.i._ RHET'ORISE, to play the
orator. [Fr.,--L. _rhetorica_ (_ars_)--Gr. _rh[=e]torik[=e]_ (_techn[=e]_),
the rhetorical (art)--_rh[=e]t[=o]r_, a public speaker--_erein_, to speak.]

RHEUM, r[=oo]m, _n._ the mucous discharge from the lungs or nostrils caused
by cold: (_obs._) spleen, choler: a genus of apetalous plants.--_n._
RHEUMAT'IC, one who suffers from rheumatism: (_pl._) rheumatic pains
(_coll._).--_adjs._ RHEUMAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to or affected with
rheumatism: choleric.--_n._ RHEUM'ATISM, a name still used somewhat
loosely, but applying specially to an acute febrile disease, with swelling
and pain in and around the larger joints.--_adjs._ RHEUMATIS'MAL;
RHEUM'ATOID, resembling rheumatism.--_n._ RHEUMOPHTHAL'MIA, rheumatic
ophthalmia.--_adj._ RHEUM'Y, full of or causing rheum. [L.,--Gr.
_rheuma_--_rhein_, to flow.]

RHEXIA, rek'si-a, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants, native to North
America, of the tribe RHEXIEÆ (rek-s[=i]'[=e]-[=e]). [L.,--Gr.
_rh[=e]xis_--_rh[=e]gnynai_, to break.]

RHIGOLENE, rig'[=o]-l[=e]n, _n._ a volatile product of petroleum
distillation. [Gr. _rhigos_, cold, _elaion_, oil.]

RHINACANTHUS, r[=i]-na-kan'thus, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants in
tropical Africa, India, &c. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _akanthos_,
acanthus.]

RHINÆ, r[=i]'n[=e], _n.pl._ one of the main divisions of sharks. [L.,--Gr.
_rhin[=e]_, a file.]

RHINÆSTHESIA, r[=i]-nez-th[=e]'si-a, _n._ sense of smell. [Gr. _rhis_,
_rhinos_, nose, _aisth[=e]sis_, perception.]

RHINAL, r[=i]'nal, _adj._ pertaining to the nose. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_,
nose.]

RHINALGIA, r[=i]-nal'ji-a, _n._ neuralgic pains in the nose. [Gr. _rhis_,
_rhinos_, nose, _algos_, pain.]

RHINANTHUS, r[=i]-nan'thus, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _anthos_, flower.]

RHINARIUM, r[=i]-n[=a]'ri-um, _n._ (_entom._) the nostril-piece. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose.]

RHINASTER, r[=i]-nas't[.e]r, _n._ the two-horned rhinoceros: the star-nosed
moles. [Gr. _rhis_, nose, _ast[=e]r_, star.]

RHINENCEPHALON, r[=i]-nen-sef'a-lon, _n._ the olfactory lobe of the
brain.--_adjs._ RHINENCEPHAL'IC, RHINENCEPH'ALOUS. [Gr. _rhis_, nose,
_enkephalos_, brain.]

RHINESTONE, r[=i]n'st[=o]n, _n._ an imitation gem-stone made of paste or
strass.

RHINEURYNTER, r[=i]-n[=u]-rin't[.e]r, _n._ a small inflatable bag used for
plugging the nose. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _eurynein_, to widen.]

RHINICHTHYS, r[=i]-nik'this, _n._ a North American genus of cyprinoid
fishes. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _ichthys_, fish.]

RHINIDÆ, r[=i]'ni-d[=e], _n._ a family of plagiostomous fishes. [L.
_rhina_, shark--Gr. _rhin[=e]_.]

RHINITIS, ri-n[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the nose. [Gr. _rhis_,
_rhinos_, nose.]

RHINO, r[=i]'n[=o], _n._ (_slang_) money, cash.--Also R[=I]'NO.

RHINOBATUS, r[=i]-nob'a-tus, _n._ the typical genus of the _Rhinobatidæ_,
or shark-rays: (_entom._) a genus of coleopterous insects.

RHINOBLENNORRHEA, r[=i]-n[=o]-blen-[=o]-r[=e]'a, _n._ mucous discharges
from the nose. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _blennos_, mucus, _rhoia_,
flow.]

RHINOCAUL, r[=i]'n[=o]-kawl, _n._ the support of the olfactory bulb. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _kaulos_, stalk.]

RHINOCEROS, r[=i]-nos'[.e]r-os, _n._ a genus forming a family of ungulate
mammals, found in Africa and India, having a very thick skin lying in
enormous folds, clumsy, and with one or two horns on the nose:--_pl._
RHINOC'EROSES.--_adjs._ RHINOC[=E]'RIAL, RHINOC[=E]'RICAL.--_ns._
RHINOC'EROS-AUK, a bird belonging to the family _Alcidæ_;
RHINOC'EROS-BEE'TLE, a beetle of the genus _Dynastes_ having a large
up-curved horn on the head; RHINOC'EROS-BIRD, a beefeater, the hornbill;
RHINOC'EROS-TICK, the tick which infests rhinoceroses; RHINOC'EROT
(_obs._), a rhinoceros.--_adjs._ RHINOCEROT'IC; RHINOCEROT'IFORM, shaped
like a rhinoceros. [L.,--Gr. _rhinoker[=o]s_--_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose,
_keras_, a horn.]

RHINOCHILUS, r[=i]-n[=o]-k[=i]'lus, _n._ a genus of harmless serpents. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _cheilos_, a lip.]

RHINOCLEISIS, r[=i]-n[=o]-kl[=i]'sis, _n._ nasal obstruction. [Gr. _rhis_,
_rhinos_, nose, _kleisis_, _kl[=e]sis_, a closing.]

RHINOCRYPTA, r[=i]-n[=o]-krip'ta, _n._ a remarkable genus of rock-wrens.
[Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _kryptos_, hidden.]

RHINODERMA, r[=i]-n[=o]-der'ma, _n._ a genus of batrachians, some species
bearing a large pouch for the young. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _derma_,
skin.]

RHINODON, r[=i]'n[=o]-don, _n._ an immense shark in the Indian Ocean. [Gr.
_rhin[=e]_, a shark, _odous_, tooth.]

RHINODYNIA, r[=i]-n[=o]-din'i-a, _n._ pain in the nose. [Gr. _rhis_,
_rhinos_, nose, _odyn[=e]_, pain.]

RHINOLITH, r[=i]'n[=o]-lith, _n._ a stony concretion found in the
nose.--_n._ RHINOLITH[=I]'ASIS. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _lithos_, a
stone.]

RHINOLOGY, r[=i]-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the knowledge of the nose.--_adj._
RHINOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ RHINOL'OGIST, a specialist in diseases of the nose.
[Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose--_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

RHINOLOPHUS, r[=i]-nol'[=o]-fus, _n._ a genus of horse-shoe bats. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _lophos_, crest.]

RHINOMACER, r[=i]-nom'a-s[.e]r, _n._ a genus of rhynchophorous beetles.
[Gr. _rhis_, nose, _makros_, long.]

RHINOPHARYNGITIS, r[=i]-n[=o]-far-in-j[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the
mucous membrane of the nose. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _pharyngx_.]

RHINOPHIS, r[=i]'n[=o]-fis, _n._ a genus of shield-tailed serpents. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _ophis_, a serpent.]

RHINOPHORE, r[=i]'n[=o]-f[=o]r, _n._ an organ bearing an olfactory sense.
[Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _pherein_, to bear.]

RHINOPHRYNE, r[=i]-n[=o]-fr[=i]'n[=e], _n._ a genus of spade-footed toads.
[Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _phryn[=e]_, a toad.]

RHINOPHYLLA, r[=i]-n[=o]-fil'a, _n._ a genus of South American small
tailless bats. [Gr. _rhis_, nose, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

RHINOPHYMA, r[=i]-n[=o]-f[=i]'ma, _n._ hyperemia of nose-skin. [Gr. _rhis_,
_rhinos_, nose, _phyma_, a tumour.]

RHINOPLASTIC, r[=i]-n[=o]-plas'tik, _adj._ noting a surgical operation for
affixing an artificial nose.--_ns._ RH[=I]'NOPLAST, one who undergoes this
operation; RH[=I]'NOPLASTY, plastic surgery of the nose. [Gr. _rhis_, nose,
_plastikos_, moulding--_plassein_, to mould.]

RHINOPOMA, r[=i]-n[=o]-p[=o]'ma, _n._ a genus of Old World bats. [Gr.
_rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _p[=o]ma_, a cover.]

RHINOPOMASTES, r[=i]-n[=o]-p[=o]-mas't[=e]z, _n._ a genus of African
wood-hoopoes. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _p[=o]mat[=e]rion_, dim. of
_p[=o]ma_, a cover.]

RHINOPTERA, r[=i]-nop'te-ra, _n._ a genus of rays. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_,
nose, _pteron_, wing.]

RHINORRHAGIA, r[=i]-n[=o]-r[=a]'ji-a, _n._ hæmorrhage from the nose. [Gr.
_rhis_, nose, _rhagia_--_rhegnynai_, break.]

RHINORRHEA, r[=i]-n[=o]-r[=e]'a, _n._ mucous discharge from the
nose.--_adj._ RHINORRH[=E]'AL. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose,
_rhoia_--_rhein_, to flow.]

RHINORTHA, r[=i]-nor'tha, _n._ a genus of cuckoos: a genus of hemipterous
insects. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _orthos_, straight.]

RHINOSCLEROMA, r[=i]-n[=o]-skl[=e]-r[=o]'ma, _n._ a disease with reddish
swelling and thickening of nose, lips, and pharynx. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_,
nose, _skl[=e]ros_, hard.]

RHINOSCOPE, r[=i]'n[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for examining the
nose.--_adj._ RHINOSCOP'IC.--_n._ RH[=I]'NOSCOPY. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_,
nose, _skopein_, to see.]

RHINOTHECA, r[=i]-n[=o]-th[=e]'ka, _n._ the integument of a bird's upper
mandible. [Gr. _rhis_, _rhinos_, nose, _th[=e]k[=e]_, a sheath.]

RHIPICERA, r[=i]-pis'e-ra, _n._ a genus of serricorn beetles native to
South America and Australia. [Gr. _rhipis_, a fan, _keras_, horn.]

RHIPIDATE, rip'i-d[=a]t, _adj._ fan-shaped.--_n._ RH[=I]PID'ION, in the
Greek Church, the eucharistic fan or flabellum. [Gr. _rhipis_, _rhipidos_,
a fan.]

RHIPIDISTIA, rip-i-dis'ti-a, _n._ an order of rhipidopterygian
fishes.--_adj._ RHIPIDIS'TIOUS. [Gr. _rhipis_, a fan, _histion_, a sail.]

RHIPIDOGLOSSA, rip-i-d[=o]-glos'a, _n._ a group of prosobranchiate
gasteropods. [Gr. _rhipis_, _rhipidos_, a fan, _gl[=o]ssa_, the tongue.]

RHIPIDOGORGIA, rip-i-d[=o]-gor'ji-a, _n._ a genus of alcyonarian polyps of
fan-like shape. [Gr. _rhipis_, _rhipidos_, a fan, _gorgos_, fierce.]

RHIPIDOPTERA, rip-i-dop'te-ra, _n.pl._ fan-winged insects--a group of the
coleoptera.--_adj._ RHIPIDOP'TEROUS. [Gr. _rhipis_, _rhipidos_, a fan,
_pteron_, a wing.]

RHIPIDOPTERYGIA, rip-i-dop-te-rij'i-a, _n.pl._ a superorder of teleostomous
fishes.--_adj._ RHIPIDOPTERYG'IAN. [Gr. _rhipis_, a fan, _pteryx_, a wing.]

RHIPIDURA, rip-i-d[=u]'ra, _n._ the posterior pair of pleopods of a
crustacean: the fan-tailed fly-catcher. [Gr. _rhipis_, _rhipidos_, a fan,
_oura_, a tail.]

RHIPIPHORUS, r[=i]-pif'o-rus, _n._ a genus of heteromerous beetles. [Gr.
_rhipis_, a fan, _pherein_, to carry.]

RHIPIPTERA, r[=i]-pip'te-ra, _n.pl._ an order of insects.--_n._
RHIPIP'TERAN, a rhipipter.--_adj._ RHIPIP'TEROUS. [_Rhipidoptera_.]

RHIPSALIS, rip'sa-lis, _n._ a genus of Cacti. [Gr. _rhips_, a mat.]

RHIPTOGLOSSA, rip-t[=o]-glos'a, _n._ a sub-order of lizards.--_adj._
RHIPTOGLOSS'ATE. [Gr. _rhiptein_, to throw, _gl[=o]ssa_, the tongue.]

RHIZANTH, r[=i]'zanth, _n._ a plant that seems to flower from the
root.--_n.pl._ RHIZANTHEÆ (r[=i]-zan'th[=e]-[=e]), one of the five classes
into which Lindley divides the vegetable kingdom.

RHIZIC, r[=i]'zik, _adj._ pertaining to the root of an equation. [Gr.
_rhizikos_--_rhiza_, a root.]

RHIZINA, ri-z[=i]'na, _n._ a rhizoid.--Also RH[=I]'ZINE.

RHIZOCARPIC, r[=i]-z[=o]-kär'pik, _adj._ with annual stem and perennial
root--also RHIZOCAR'POUS.--_n.pl._ RHIZOCAR'PEÆ, a group of
cryptogams.--_adj._ RHIZOCAR'P[=E]AN. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _karpos_, fruit.]

RHIZOCAUL, r[=i]'z[=o]-kawl, _n._ the root-stock of a polyp. [Gr. _rhiza_,
root, _kaulos_, stalk.]

RHIZOCEPHALA, r[=i]-z[=o]-sef'a-la, _n._ a group of small parasitic
crustaceans.--_adj._ RHIZOCEPH'ALOUS. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _kephal[=e]_,
head.]

RHIZOCRINUS, r[=i]-zok'ri-nus, _n._ a genus of crinoids.--_n._
RHIZOC'RINOID, a crinoid of this genus. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _krinon_,
lily.]

RHIZODONT, r[=i]'z[=o]-dont, _n._ having teeth rooted or ankylosed to the
jaw in sockets, as crocodiles. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _odous_, _odontos_, a
tooth.]

RHIZOFLAGELLATA, r[=i]-z[=o]-flaj-e-l[=a]'ta, _n._ an order of flagellate
infusoria.--_adj._ RHIZOFLAG'ELLATE. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, and Eng.
_flagellum_.]

RHIZOGEN, r[=i]'z[=o]-jen, _n._ a parasitic plant growing on the root of
another plant.--_adjs._ RHIZOGEN'IC, RHIZOG'ENOUS. [Gr. _rhiza_, root,
_gen[=e]s_, producing.]

RHIZOID, r[=i]'zoid, _adj._ root-like.--_n._ a filamentous organ like a
root developed on all kinds of thalli, and on moss-stems.--_adjs._
RHIZOI'DAL, RHIZOI'D[=E]OUS. [Gr. _rhiz[=o]-d[=e]s_, root-like--_rhiza_, a
root.]

RHIZOMANIA, r[=i]-z[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ an abnormal development of
adventitious roots, as in the ivy, fig, &c. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _mania_,
madness.]

RHIZOME, r[=i]'z[=o]m, _n._ a root-stock, an underground stem when its
shape is cylindrical, ending in a bud and bearing leaves or scales.--Also
RHIZ[=O]'MA. [Gr. _rhiz[=o]ma_--_rhiza_, root.]

RHIZOMORPH, r[=i]'z[=o]-morf, _n._ (_bot._) a term for the peculiar
mycelial growths by which certain fungi attach themselves to higher
plants.--_adjs._ RHIZOMOR'PHOID, RHIZOMOR'PHOUS. [Gr. _rhiza_, root,
_morph[=e]_, form.]

RHIZOMYS, r[=i]'z[=o]-mis, _n._ a genus of mole-rats, including the Asian
bay bamboo-rat. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _mys_, mouse.]

RHIZONYCHIUM, r[=i]-z[=o]-nik'i-um, _n._ a claw-joint.--_adj._
RHIZONYCH'IAL. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _onyx_, a claw.]

RHIZOPHAGOUS, r[=i]-zof'a-gus, _adj._ root-eating: pertaining to the
Rhizophaga.--_n._ RHIZOPH'AGA, a class of marsupials, as the wombat. [Gr.
_rhiza_, root, _phagein_, to eat.]

RHIZOPHORA, r[=i]-zof'[=o]-ra, _n._ a small genus of trees, the mangroves.

RHIZOPHORE, r[=i]'z[=o]-f[=o]r, _n._ the structure bearing the true roots
in certain species of _Selaginella_.--_adj._ RHIZOPH'OROUS. [Gr. _rhiza_,
root, _pherein_, to bear.]

RHIZOPHYDIUM, r[=i]-z[=o]-fid'i-um, _n._ a genus of unicellular
fungi.--_adj._ RHIZOPHYD'IAL. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _pheidos_, sparing.]

RHIZOPOD, r[=i]'z[=o]-pod, _n._ one of the RHIZOP'ODA, a division of the
_Protozoa_, esp. a class with pseudopodia for locomotion and the ingestion
of food.--_adjs._ RHIZOP'ODAL, RHIZOP'ODOUS. [Gr. _rhiza_, a root, _pous_,
_podos_, a foot.]

RHIZORISTIC, r[=i]-z[=o]-ris'tik, _adj._ (_math._) pertaining to the
separation of the roots of an equation. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _horizein_, to
limit.]

RHIZOSTOMATA, r[=i]-z[=o]-st[=o]'ma-ta, _n.pl._ an order of
discomedusans:--_sing._ RHIZOS'TOMA.--_adjs._ RHIZOST[=O]'MATOUS,
RHIZOST[=O]'MEAN. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _stoma_, _stomatos_, mouth.]

RHIZOTA, r[=i]-z[=o]'ta, _n._ an order of _Rotifera_.--_adj._ RH[=I]'ZOTE,
rooted. [Gr. _rhiza_, root.]

RHIZOTAXIS, r[=i]-z[=o]-tak'sis, _n._ the arrangement of roots.--Also
RH[=I]'ZOTAXY. [Gr. _rhiza_, root, _taxis_, order.]

RHIZOTROGUS, r[=i]-z[=o]-tr[=o]'gus, _n._ a genus of melolonthine beetles.
[Gr. _rhiza_, root, _tr[=o]gein_, to gnaw.]

RHODANIC, r[=o]-dan'ik, _adj._ (_chem._) producing a rose-red colour. [Gr.
_rhodon_, a rose.]

RHODEINA, r[=o]-d[=e]-[=i]'na, _n._ a group of cyprinoid fishes--its
typical genus, RH[=O]'D[=E]US. [Gr. _rhodon_, rose.]

RHODEORETIN, r[=o]-d[=e]-or'e-tin, _n._ one of the elements of resin of
jalap.--_adj._ RHODEORETIN'IC. [Gr. _rhodon_, rose, _rh[=e]tin[=e]_,
resin.]

RHODIAN, r[=o]'di-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Rhodes._--RHODIAN LAWS, the
earliest system of marine law; RHODIAN SCHOOL, a school of Hellenistic
sculpture, of which the Laocoon is the greatest product.

RHODITES, r[=o]-d[=i]'t[=e]z, _n._ a genus of gallflies infesting the rose.
[Gr. _rhodit[=e]s_, rosy--_rhodon_, a rose.]

RHODIUM, r[=o]'di-um, _n._ a white, very hard metal, resembling aluminium,
extracted from the ore of platinum, and so called from the rose-colour of
its salts. [Gr. _rhodon_, a rose.]

RHODIUM-WOOD, r[=o]'di-um-w[=oo]d, _n._ a sweet-scented wood.

RHODOCRINUS, r[=o]-dok'ri-nus, _n._ a genus of paleozoic encrinites. [Gr.
_rhodon_, rose, _krinon_, lily.]

RHODODENDRON, r[=o]-d[=o]-den'dron, _n._ a genus of trees and shrubs of the
natural order _Ericaceæ_, having evergreen leaves and large, beautiful
flowers like roses. [Gr. _rhodon_, rose, _dendron_, tree.]

RHODOMELA, r[=o]-dom'e-la, _n._ a genus of marine algæ. [Gr. _rhodon_,
rose, _melas_, black.]

RHODOMONTADE. Same as RODOMONTADE.

RHODONITE, r[=o]'d[=o]-n[=i]t, _n._ a native manganese silicate. [Gr.
_rhodon_, a rose.]

RHODOPE, r[=o]'d[=o]-p[=e], _n._ a genus of the family _Rhodopidæ_, marine
invertebrates of dubious relationships. [_Rhodop[=e]_, a Thracian nymph.]

RHODOPHANE, r[=o]'d[=o]-f[=a]n, _n._ a red pigment found in the retinal
cones of the eyes of certain fishes, reptiles, and birds. [Gr. _rhodon_,
rose, _phan[=e]s_, appearing.]

RHODOPHYL, r[=o]'d[=o]-fil, _n._ the compound pigment found in the red
algæ.--_adj._ RHODOPHYL'LOUS. [Gr. _rhodon_, rose, _phyllon_, leaf.]

RHODOPSIN, r[=o]-dop'sin, _n._ a purple pigment found in the retina. [Gr.
_rhodon_, rose, _opsis_, view.]

RHODORA, r[=o]-d[=o]'ra, _n._ a handsome shrub with terminal clusters of
pale purple flowers preceding the deciduous leaves: a genus of _Ericaceæ_,
now included in Rhododendron. [Gr. _rhodon_, a rose.]

RHODOSTAUROTIC, r[=o]-d[=o]-staw-rot'ik, _adj._ (_obs._) rosicrucian. [Gr.
_rhodon_, rose, _stauros_, a cross.]

RHODOSTETHIA, r[=o]-d[=o]-st[=e]'thi-a, _n._ a genus of _Laridæ_, with
rose-tinted breast and wedge-shaped tail. [Gr. _rhodon_, rose,
_st[=e]thos_, the breast.]

RHODOTHAMNUS, r[=o]-d[=o]-tham'nus, _n._ a genus of small shrubs, the
ground Cistus. [Gr. _rhodon_, rose, _thamnos_, bush.]

RHODYMENIA, r[=o]-di-m[=e]'ni-a, _n._ a genus of marine algæ. [Gr.
_rhodon_, rose, _hym[=e]n_, membrane.]

RHOEADIC, r[=e]-ad'ik, _adj._ pertaining, to or derived from, the red
poppy, _Papaver Rhoeas_.--_n._ RHOE'ADINE, a non-poisonous alkaloid found
in the same. [Gr. _rhoias_, _rhoiados_, a poppy.]

RHOMB, romb, _n._ a quadrilateral figure having its sides equal but its
angles not right angles: (_crystal._) a rhombohedron: (_Milt._) a material
circle--also RHOM'BUS.--_adj._ RHOM'BIC.--_ns._ RHOMBICOSIDODECAH[=E]'DRON,
a solid having sixty-two faces; RHOMBICUBOCTAH[=E]'DRON, a solid having
twenty-six faces.--_adjs._ RHOM'BIFORM, RHOM'BOID, shaped like a
rhomb.--FRESNEL'S RHOMB, a rhomb of crown glass so cut that a ray of light
entering one of its faces at right angles shall emerge at right angles at
the opposite face, after undergoing two total reflections. [L.
_rhombus_--Gr. _rhombos_--_rhembein_, to turn round and round.]

RHOMBOCOELIA, rom-b[=o]-s[=e]'li-a, _n._ a dilatation of the spinal cord in
the sacral region.--_adj._ RHOMBOCOE'LIAN. [Gr. _rhombos_, rhomb, _koilia_,
a cavity.]

RHOMBOGEN, rom'b[=o]-jen, _n._ the infusoriform embryo of a nematoid
worm.--_adjs._ RHOMBOGEN'IC, RHOMBOG'ENOUS. [Gr. _rhombos_, rhomb,
_gen[=e]s_, producing.]

RHOMBOHEDRON, rom-b[=o]-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a solid bounded by six rhombic
planes.--_adj._ RHOMBOH[=E]'DRAL.--_adv._ RHOMBOH[=E]'DRALLY. [Gr.
_rhombos_, rhomb, _hedra_, a base.]

RHOMBOID, rom'boid, _n._ a figure of the form of a rhomb: a quadrilateral
figure having only its opposite sides and angles equal.--_adj._
RHOMBOID'AL, having the shape of a rhomboid. [Gr. _rhombos_, rhomb,
_eidos_, form.]

RHOMBOIDEUM, rom-boi'd[=e]-um, _n._ (_anat._) the ligament which unites the
sternal end of the clavicle with the cartage of the first rib.

RHOMBUS. Same as RHOMB.

RHONCHUS, rong'kus, _n._ a râle, esp. when bronchial.--_adjs._ RHONCH'AL,
RHONCH'IAL. [L.,--Gr. _rhengchos_, a snoring--_rhengkein_, to snore.]

RHOPALIC, r[=o]-pal'ik, _n._ a hexameter in which each succeeding word
contains one syllable more than what precedes it. [Gr. _rhopalikos_,
club-like, _rhopalon_, a club.]

RHOPALOCERA, r[=o]-pa-los'e-ra, _n.pl._ an order of _Lepidoptera_, with
clubbed antennæ.--_adjs._ RHOPALOC'ERAL, RHOPALOC'EROUS. [Gr. _rhopalon_, a
club, _keras_, a horn.]

RHOPALODINIDÆ, r[=o]-pa-l[=o]-din'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ the sea-gourds.

RHOTACISM, r[=o]'ta-sizm, _n._ erroneous pronunciation of the letter _r_:
burring: the tendency of _s_ to change into _r_.--_v.i._ RH[=O]'TACISE.

RHUBARB, r[=oo]'bärb, _n._ a plant, the tender acidulous leaf-stalks of
which are much used in cooking, and the root in medicine: the root of any
medicinal rhubarb, with cathartic properties.--_adj._ RHU'BARBY.--MONK'S
RHUBARB, the patience dock. [O. Fr. _rheubarbe_--Low L. _rheubarbarum_--Gr.
_rh[=e]on barbaron_--_rh[=e]on_, adj. of _rha_, the rha-plant, from the
_Rha_, the Volga.]

RHUMB, rumb, or rum, _n._ any vertical circle, hence any point of the
compass.--_ns._ RHUMB'-LINE, a line which cuts all the meridians at the
same angle; RHUMB'-SAIL'ING, the course of a vessel keeping straight on a
rhumb-line. [Fr. _rumb_, a by-form of _rhombe_, through L., from Gr.
_rhombos_, rhomb.]

RHUS, rus, _n._ a genus of shrubs and trees, the cashew-nut family.
[L.,--Gr. _rhous_, sumac.]

RHUSMA, rus'ma, _n._ a mixture of quicklime and orpiment, used as a
depilatory.--Also RUS'MA.

RHYACOLITE, r[=i]-ak'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a glassy feldspar found at Mt. Somma
in Italy. [Gr. _rhyax_, _rhyakos_, a stream, _lithos_, stone.]

RHYACOPHILIDÆ, r[=i]-a-k[=o]-fil'i-d[=e], _n._ a family of neuropterous
insects.--_n._ RHYACOPH'ILUS, a genus of _Scolopacidæ_--the green or
solitary sandpiper. [Gr. _rhyax_, a stream, _philein_, to love.]

RHYME, RIME, r[=i]m, _n._ the recurrence of similar sounds at certain
intervals: (_orig._) words arranged in numbers or verse: poetry: metre: a
short poem.--_v.i._ to correspond in sound: to harmonise: to chime: to make
rhymes or verses.--_v.t._ to put into rhyme.--_adj._ RHYME'LESS, without
rhyme or reason: without sound or sense: neither pleasant to the mind nor
to the ear.--_ns._ RHYME'-LETT'ER, the repeated letters in alliteration
(q.v.); RHY'MER, RHY'MIST, R[=I]'MIST, an inferior poet: a minstrel;
RHYME'-ROY'AL (so called from its use by King James I. of Scotland in the
_King's Quair_), a seven-line stanza borrowed by Chaucer from the
French--its formula, _a b a b b c c_; RHYME'STER, a poetaster: a would-be
poet.--_adjs._ RHY'MIC, R[=I]'MIC.--FEMININE RHYME (see FEMININE); MALE, or
MASCULINE, RHYME, a rhyme in which the accent and rhyme fall on the final
syllable only.--NEITHER RHYME NOR REASON, without either sound or
sense.--THE RHYMER, Thomas the Rhymer, the earliest poet of Scotland
(_flor._ 1286). [Properly _rime_ (the _hy_ being due to the influence of
_Rhythm_)--A.S. _rim_, number, cog. with Old High Ger. _r[=i]m_ (Ger.
_reim_).]

RHYNCHÆNUS, ring-k[=e]'nus, _n._ a genus of coleopterous insects, of the
family of snout-beetles. [Gr. _rhyngchaina_, having a large snout.]

RHYNCHEA, ring-k[=e]'a, _n._ the painted snipe.--_adj._ RHYNCHÆ'AN. [Gr.
_rhyngchos_, snout.]

RHYNCHETIDÆ, ring-ket'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of suctorial
infusorians--its typical genus, RHYNCH[=E]'TA. [Gr. _rhyngchos_, snout,
_chait[=e]_, a mane.]

RHYNCHITES, ring-k[=i]'t[=e]z, _n.pl._ a genus of weevils. [Gr.
_rhyngchos_, a snout.]

RHYNCHOCOELA, ring-k[=o]-s[=e]'la, _n.pl._ a group of proctuchous
turbellarians, the nemerteans.--_adj._ RHYNCHOCOE'LAN. [Gr. _rhyngchos_,
snout, _koilos_, hollow.]

RHYNCHOCYONIDÆ, ring-k[=o]-s[=i]-on'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of small
insectivorous mammals, native to eastern Africa.--_n._ RHYNCHOC'YON. [Gr.
_rhyngchos_, snout, _ky[=o]n_, a dog.]

RHYNCHODONT, ring'k[=o]-dont, _adj._ having the beak toothed, as the
falcon. [Gr. _rhyngchos_, snout, _odous_, _odontos_, tooth.]

RYNCHOFLAGELLATE, ring-k[=o]-flaj'e-l[=a]t, _adj._ having a flagellum like
a snout.

RHYNCHOLITE, ring'k[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ the fossil beak of a tetrabranchiate
cephalopod. [Gr. _rhyngchos_, snout, _lithos_, stone.]

RHYNCHONELLA, ring-k[=o]-nel'a, _n._ a typical genus of _Rhynchonellidæ_, a
family of arthropomatous brachiopods. [Gr _rhyngchos_, a snout.]

RHYNCHOPHORA, ring-kof'[=o]-ra, _n.pl._ a section of tetramerous
coleopterous insects: the weevils.--_adjs._ RHYNCHOPH'ORAN,
RHYNCHOPH'OROUS. [Gr. _rhyngchos_, snout, _pherein_, to bear.]

RHYNCHOPS, ring'kops, _n._ the skimmers or scissor-bills. [Gr. _rhyngchos_,
snout, _[=o]ps_, _[=o]pos_, an eye.]

RHYNCHOSIA, ring-k[=o]'si-a, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants. [Gr.
_rhyngchos_, a snout.]

RHYNCHOSPORA, ring-kos'p[=o]-ra, _n._ a genus of sedge-like plants--the
beak-rush or beak-sedge. [Gr. _rhyngchos_, snout, _sporos_, seed.]

RHYNCHOTA, ring-k[=o]'ta, _n._ an order of true hexapod insects.--_adjs._
RHYNCH'[=O]TE, beaked; RHYNCH[=O]'TOUS, belonging to the Rhynchota. [Gr.
_rhyngchos_, a snout.]

RHYNCHOTUS, ring-k[=o]'tus, _n._ a genus of the South American tinamous,
including the ynambu. [Gr. _rhyngchos_, a snout.]

RHYNE, r[=i]n, _n._ the best kind of Russian hemp.

RHYOLITE, r[=i]'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ an igneous rock, called also _Liparite_
and _Quartz-trachyte_.--_adj._ RHYOLIT'IC. [Gr. _rhyax_, a stream,
_lithos_, a stone.]

RHYPAROGRAPHY, rip-a-rog'ra-fi, _n._ _genre_ or still-life pictures, esp.
of low subjects.--_adj._ RHYPAROGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _rhyparos_, dirty,
_graphein_, to write.]

RHYPHUS, r[=i]'fus, _n._ a genus of gnats.

RHYPTICUS, rip'ti-kus, _n._ a genus of serranoid fishes--the soap-fishes.
[Gr. _rhyptikos_--_rhypein_, to cleanse--_rhypos_, dirt.]

RHYSIMETER, r[=i]-sim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
velocity of fluids and the speed of ships. [Gr. _rhysis_, a flowing,
_metron_, a measure.]

RHYSSA, ris'a, _n._ a genus of long-tailed ichneumon flies. [Gr. _rhyssos_,
wrinkled, _eryein_, to draw.]

RHYSSODES, ri-s[=o]'d[=e]z, _n.pl._ a genus of clavicorn beetles. [Gr.
_rhyssod[=e]s_, wrinkled-looking--_rhyssos_, wrinkled, _eidos_, form.]

RHYTHM, ri_th_m, or rithm, _n._ flowing motion: metre: regular recurrence
of accents: harmony of proportion: a measure, or foot: (_mus._) the regular
succession of heavy and light accents: (_phys._) the succession of
alternate and opposite states.--_adjs._ RHYTH'MIC, -AL, having or
pertaining to rhythm or metre.--_adv._ RHYTH'MICALLY.--_n._ RHYTH'MICS, the
science of rhythm.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ RHYTH'MISE, to subject to rhythm: to
observe rhythm.--_n._ RHYTH'MIST, one who composes in rhythm.--_adj._
RHYTHM'LESS, destitute of rhythm.--_ns._ RHYTHMOM'ETER, an instrument for
marking rhythms for music, a metronome; RHYTHMOPOE'IA, the art of composing
rhythmically. [L.,--Gr. _rhythmos_--_rhein_, to flow.]

RHYTINA, ri-t[=i]'na, _n._ a genus of _Sirenia_, akin to the dugong and the
manatee, once plentiful in the northern Pacific. [Gr. _rhytis_, a wrinkle.]

RHYTON, r[=i]'ton, _n._ a Greek drinking-vase, with one handle, generally
ending in a beast's head:--_pl._ RHY'TA. [Gr.]

RIALTO, ri-al't[=o], _n._ a famous bridge over the Grand Canal, Venice,
[It., _rio_, stream--L. _rivus_, a stream--It. _alto_, deep--L. _altus_,
deep.]

RIANT, r[=i]'ant, _adj._ laughing: gay.--_n._ R[=I]'ANCY. [Fr.,--L.
_ridens_, pr.p. of _rid[=e]re_, to laugh.]

RIATA. See REATA.

RIB, rib, _n._ one of the bones from the backbone which encircle the chest:
anything like a rib in form or use: a piece of meat containing one or more
ribs: a piece of timber which helps to form or strengthen the side of a
ship: a vein of a leaf, or an insect's wing: a prominence running in a
line: a ridge: (_archit._) a moulding or projecting band on a ceiling: one
of the rods on which the cover of an umbrella is extended: (_coll._) a wife
(from Gen. ii., 21-23).--_v.t._ to furnish or enclose with ribs: to form
with rising lines--as corduroy: to enclose:--_pr.p._ rib'bing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ ribbed.--_ns._ RIB'-BAND, a piece of timber bolted longitudinally
to the ribs of a vessel to hold them in position; RIB'BING, an arrangement
of ribs; RIB'-GRASS, the ribwort plantain.--_adj._  RIB'LESS, having no
ribs.--_n._ RIB'LET, a rudimentary rib.--_adjs._ RIB'-LIKE, like a rib:
resembling a rib; RIB'-NOSED, having the snout ribbed, as a baboon.--_v.t._
RIB'-ROAST, to beat soundly.--_ns._ RIB'-ROAST'ER (_coll._), a severe blow
on the ribs; RIB'-ROAST'ING, a severe beating; RIB'-VAULT'ING. [A.S.
_ribb_; Ger. _rippe_.]

RIB, rib, _n._ hound's tongue: water-cress. [A.S. _ribbe_.]

RIBALD, rib'ald, _n._ a loose, low character.--_adj._ low, base, mean:
licentious: foul-mouthed--also RIB'AUD (_Spens._).--_adjs._ RIB'ALDISH,
RIB'ALDROUS, ribald.--_n._ RIB'ALDRY, obscenity: filthiness: low and vulgar
scurrility--also RIB'AUDRY (_obs._). [O. Fr. _ribald_, _ribaut_ (Fr.
_ribaud_, It. _ribaldo_)--Old High Ger. _hr[=i]p[=a]_, Mid. High Ger.
_ribe_, a whore.]

RIBAND, rib'and, _n._ Same as RIBBON.

RIBATTUTA, r[=e]-bat-t[=oo]'ta, _n._ (_mus._) a melodic embellishment.
[It.]

RIBAUDEQUIN, ri-baw'de-kin, _n._ a movable cheval-de-frise. [O. Fr.; of
doubtful origin.]

RIBBLE-RABBLE, rib'l-rab'l, _n._ a mob: indecent language.--_n._
RIBB'LE-ROW, a list of rabble.

RIBBON, rib'on, _n._ a fillet or strip of silk: a narrow strip: (_pl._)
reins for driving: a shred: a watch-spring: an endless saw: (_her._) a
bearing considered usually as one of the subordinaries: (_naut._) a painted
moulding on the side of a ship--also RIB'AND, RIBB'AND.--_adj._ made of
ribbon: having bands of different colours.--_v.t._ to adorn with ribbons:
to stripe: to streak.--_ns._ RIBB'ON-BRAKE, a brake having a band which
nearly surrounds the wheel whose motion is to be checked; RIBB'ON-FISH, a
long, slender, compressed fish, like a ribbon; RIBB'ON-GRASS, a variety of
striped canary-grass: Lady's Garter; RIBB'ONISM, a system of secret
associations among the lower classes in Ireland, at its greatest height
from about 1835 to 1855--from the green badge worn; RIBB'ONMAN, a member of
a Ribbon society; RIBB'ON-MAP, a map printed on a long strip which winds on
an axis within a case; RIBB'ON-SEAL, a North Pacific seal, banded and
striped; RIBB'ON-SNAKE, a harmless striped snake abundant in the United
States; RIBB'ON-STAMP, a simple form of printing-press for transferring
colours to paper; RIBB'ON-WAVE, a common geometrid moth; RIBB'ON-WEED, a
seaweed whose frond has a long, flat blade; RIBB'ON-WIRE, a strong tape
with wire threads for strengthening garments; RIBB'ON-WORM, tapeworm.--BLUE
RIBBON, the ribbon of the Order of the Garter: anything which marks the
attainment of some ambition, also the object itself: the badge adopted by a
teetotal society; RED RIBBON, the ribbon of the Order of the Bath. [O. Fr.
_riban_ (Fr. _ruban_), perh. Celt.; cf. Ir. _ribin_, Gael. _ribean_. Diez
suggests Dut. _ring-band_, necktie, collar.]

RIBES, ribz, _n.sing._ and _pl._ a currant, currants.--_n.sing._  RIBES
(r[=i]'b[=e]z), a genus of shrubs belonging to the natural order
_Ribesiaceæ_, familiar examples of which are the garden Gooseberry and the
Currant. [O. Fr. _ribes_--Low L. _ribus_--Ar. _r[=i]b[=e]s_,
_r[=i]b[=a]s_.]

RIBIBE, rib-[=i]b', _n._ (_obs._) a rebec: an old woman.--_v.i._ to play on
a ribibe. [_Rebec._]

RIBSTON-PIPPIN, rib'ston-pip'in, _n._ a fine variety of winter apple--from
_Ribston_ in Yorkshire, where Sir Henry Goodricke (1642-1705) first
introduced them.

RICARDIAN, ri-kär'di-an, _adj._ pertaining to the political economist David
_Ricardo_ (1772-1823), or his theory.

RICASSO, ri-kas'[=o], _n._ that part of a rapier-blade next to the hilt.
[Ety. unknown.]

RICCIA, rik'si-a, _n._ a genus of cryptogamous plants. [From the Italian
botanist P. Francisco _Ricci_.]

RICE, r[=i]s, _n._ one of the most useful and extensively cultivated of
grains, like oats when ripe.--_ns._ RICE'-BIRD, the reed-bird: the paddy
bird or Java sparrow; RICE'-BIS'CUIT, a sweet biscuit made of flour mixed
with rice; RICE'-DUST, RICE'-MEAL, the refuse of rice, a valuable food for
cattle; RICE'-FIELD-MOUSE, the rice-rat; RICE'-FLOUR, a ground rice for
puddings, for a face-powder, &c.; RICE'-GLUE, a cement made by boiling
rice-flour in soft water; RICE'-HEN, the common American gallinule;
RICE'-MILK, milk boiled and thickened with rice; RICE'-P[=A]'PER, a white
smooth paper, made by the Chinese from the pith of _Fatsia (Aralia)
papyrifera_, a tree peculiar to Formosa; RICE'-PLANT'ER, an implement for
sowing rice; RICE'-POUND'ER, a rice-mill; RICE'-PUDD'ING, a pudding made of
rice and milk, sweetened, often with eggs, raisins, &c.; RICE'-SOUP, a soup
of rice with flour, &c.; RICE'-STITCH, an embroidery-stitch resembling rice
in grain; RICE'-WA'TER, water in which rice has been boiled--a nourishing
drink for invalids; RICE'-WEE'VIL, a weevil that destroys stored rice, &c.
[O. Fr. _ris_--L. _oryza_--Gr. _oryza_, from Old Pers., whence also Ar.
_uruzz_, _ruzz_.]

RICERCATA, r[=e]-cher-kä'ta, _n._ a very elaborate form of fugue. [It.
_ricercare_, to search out.]

RICH, rich (_comp._ RICH'ER, _superl._ RICH'EST), _adj._ abounding in
possessions: wealthy: valuable: sumptuous: fertile: full of agreeable or
nutritive qualities: affluent: productive, as a rich mine: costly: mighty:
ruling: ample: of superior quality: luxurious: of great moral worth: highly
seasoned or flavoured, as rich pastry: bright, as a colour: full of
harmonious sounds, as a rich voice: full of beauty, as a rich landscape: of
a vivid colour: extravagant, as a rich joke.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
enrich.--_v.i. to_ grow rich.--_v.i._ RICH'EN, to become rich, or of higher
quality of any kind.--_adj._ RICH'-LEFT (_Shak._), left with much wealth,
richly endowed.--_adv._ RICH'LY.--_n._ RICH'NESS, wealth: abundance:
fruitfulness: value: costliness: abundance of imagery. [A.S. _ríce_, rich;
Ger. _reich_, Dut. _rijk_, Goth. _reiks_.]

RICHARDIA, ri-chär'di-a, _n._ a small genus of South African herbs of the
Arum family, including the calla-lily. [From the French botanists, L. C. M.
_Richard_ (1754-1821) and his son.]

RICHARDSONIA, rich-ärd-s[=o]'ni-a, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants,
belonging to the madder family, native to the warmer parts of America.
[Named from the 17th-cent. Eng. botanist, Richard _Richardson_.]

RICHEL-BIRD, rich'el-b[.e]rd, _n._ (_prov._) the least tern.

RICHES, rich'ez, _n.pl._ (in _B._ sometimes _n.sing._) wealth: richness:
abundance: an intellectual treasure, as the riches of wisdom: the pearl,
flower, or cream of anything. [M. E. _richesse_ (n.sing.)--O. Fr.
_richesse_--Mid. High Ger. _ríche_.]

RICINIÆ, r[=i]-sin'i-[=e], _n._ a division of mites or acarines. [L.
_ricinus_, a tick.]

RICINIUM, r[=i]-sin'i-um, _n._ a mantle, chiefly worn by women, among the
ancient Romans.

RICINUS, ris'i-nus, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants, whose one species is
_Ricinus communis_, the castor-oil plant.--_adj._ RICINOL'IC, pertaining
to, or obtained from, castor-oil. [L. _ricinus_, the castor-oil plant.]

RICK, rik, _n._ a pile or heap, as of hay.--_n.pl._ RICK'ERS, the stems of
young trees cut up for spars, &c.--_ns._ RICK'LE (_Scot._), a pile of
stones loosely thrown together: a small rick of grain; RICK'-RACK, a kind
of open-work edging made of serpentine braid; RICK'-STAND, a flooring on
which a rick is made; HAY'-RICK'ER, a horse-rake for cocking up hay. [A.S.
_hreác_; Ice. _hraukr._]

RICKETS, rik'ets, _n.sing._ a disease of children, characterised by
softness and curvature of the bones.--_adv._ RICK'ETILY, shakily.--_n._
RICK'ETINESS, unsteadiness.--_adjs._ RICK'ETLY, shaky; RICK'ETY, affected
with rickets: feeble, unstable. [From M. E. _wrikken_, to twist, allied to
A.S. _wringan_, to twist. The medical term _rachitis_ was coined about
1650, with a punning allusion to Gr. _rhachis_, the spine.]

RICOCHET, rik-[=o]-sh[=a]', or -shet', _n._ a rebound along the ground, as
of a ball fired at a low elevation.--_v.i._ to skip along the
ground:--_pr.p._ ricochet'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ ricochet'ted. [Fr.;
ety. unknown.]

RICOLITE, r[=e]'k[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a stratified ornamental stone. [_Rico_
in New Mexico, Gr. _lithos_, a stone.]

RICTUS, rik'tus, _n._ the gape of the bill: the throat of the
calyx.--_adj._ RIC'TAL. [L., a gaping.]

RID, rid, _v.t._ to free: to deliver: to remove by violence: to clear: to
disencumber: to expel: to separate: to despatch: (_obs._) to banish, to
kill:--_pr.p._ rid'ding; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rid.--_ns._ RID'DANCE, act of
ridding or freeing: destruction: the earth thrown up by a burrowing animal;
RID'DER, one who rids or relieves.--A GOOD RIDDANCE, a welcome relief; GET
RID OF, to get deliverance from. [A.S. _hreddan_, to snatch away; Ger.
_retten_.]

RIDDLE, rid'l, _n._ an obscure description of something which the hearer is
asked to name: a puzzling question: an enigma: anything puzzling, even a
person.--_v.i._ to make riddles: to speak obscurely: to plait.--_adj._
RIDD'LE-LIKE (_Shak._), like a riddle or enigma.--_ns._ RIDD'LER; RIDD'LING
(_Spens._), skill in explaining riddles.--_adv._ RIDD'LINGLY. [A.S.
_r['æ]delse_--_r['æ]dan_, to guess, to read--_r['æ]d_, counsel; cog. with
Dut. _raad_, Ger. _rath_.]

RIDDLE, rid'l, _n._ a large sieve for separating coarser materials from
finer.--_v.t._ to separate with a riddle, as grain from chaff: to make full
of holes like a riddle, as with shot.--_n.pl._ RIDD'LINGS, siftings. [A.S.
_hridder_; Gael. _criathar_.]

RIDDLEMEREE, rid'l-me-r[=e]', _n._ rigmarole.

RIDE, r[=i]d, _v.i._ to be borne, as on horseback or in a carriage: to
practise riding: to manage a horse: to float, as a ship at anchor: to move
easily: to domineer: to overlap.--_v.t._ to do or perform by riding, as a
race: to be carried through: to gallop through: to rest on so as to be
carried: to control, esp. harshly:--_pa.t._ r[=o]de; _pa.p._ rid'den.--_n._
act of riding: an excursion on horseback or in a vehicle: the course passed
over in riding, a place for riding: a district inspected by an
excise-officer: (_print._) a fault caused by the overlapping of leads,
&c.--_adjs._ R[=I]'DABLE, R[=I]'DEABLE, capable of being ridden: passable
on horseback.--_n._ R[=I]'DER, one who rides on a horse: one who manages a
horse: one who breaks a horse: a commercial traveller: an addition to a
document after its completion, on a separate piece of paper: an additional
clause: a mounted robber: a knight: a small forked weight which straddles
the beam of a balance to measure the weight: a Dutch gold coin.--_adjs._
R[=I]'DERED, having stakes laid across the bars; R[=I]'DERLESS, without a
rider; R[=I]'DING, used to ride or travel: suitable for riding on, as a
horse.--_n._ a road for riding on: a district visited by an
excise-officer.--_n.pl._ R[=I]'DING-BITTS, the bitts to which a ship's
cable is secured when riding at anchor.--_ns._ R[=I]'DING-BOOT, a high boot
worn in riding; R[=I]'DING-CLERK, a mercantile traveller;
R[=I]'DING-COMMIT'TEE, a committee of ministers sent by the General
Assembly to carry out an ordination or induction, where the local
presbytery refused to act, under the Moderate domination in Scotland in the
18th century; R[=I]'DING-GLOVE, a gauntlet; R[=I]'DING-HAB'IT, the long
upper habit, garment, or skirt worn by ladies when riding; R[=I]'DING-HOOD,
a hood formerly worn by women when riding.--_n.pl._ R[=I]'DING-IN'TERESTS
(_Scots law_), interests depending on other interests.--_ns._
R[=I]'DING-LIGHT, a light hung out in the rigging at night when a vessel is
riding at anchor; R[=I]'DING-MAS'TER, one who teaches riding;
R[=I]'DING-RHYME, the iambic pentameter, heroic verse--from its use in
Chaucer's _Tales_ of the Canterbury pilgrims; R[=I]'DING-ROBE, a
riding-habit; R[=I]'DING-ROD, a light cane for equestrians;
R[=I]'DING-SAIL, a triangular sail; R[=I]'DING-SCHOOL, a place where riding
is taught, esp. a military school; R[=I]'DING-SKIRT, a skirt fastened round
a woman's waist in riding; RI'DING-SPEAR, a javelin; R[=I]'DING-SUIT, a
suit adapted for riding; R[=I]'DING-WHIP, a switch with short lash, used by
riders; BUSH'-R[=I]'DER, in Australia, a cross-country rider.--RIDE A
HOBBY, to pursue to excess a favourite theory; RIDE AND TIE, to ride and go
on foot alternately; RIDE DOWN, to overthrow, treat with severity; RIDE
EASY, when a ship does not pitch--opp. to RIDE HARD, when she pitches
violently; RIDE IN THE MARROW-BONE COACH(_slang_), to go on foot; RIDE OUT,
to keep afloat throughout a storm; RIDE OVER, to domineer; RIDE ROUGH-SHOD,
to pursue a course regardless of the consequences to others; RIDE SHANK'S
MARE (_slang_), to walk; RIDE THE HIGH HORSE, to have grand airs; RIDE THE
MARCHES (see MARCH); RIDE THE SPANISH MARE, to be put astride a boom as a
punishment; RIDE THE WILD MARE (_Shak._), to play at see-saw; RIDE TO
HOUNDS, to take part in a fox-hunt, esp. to ride close behind the hounds;
RIDING THE FAIR, the ceremony of proclaiming a fair. [A.S. _ridan_; Dut.
_rijden_, Ger. _reiten_.]

RIDEAU, r[=e]-d[=o]', _n._ an eminence commanding a plain, covering the
entrance to a camp, &c. [Fr.]

RIDGE, rij, _n._ the back, or top of the back: anything like a back, as a
long range of hills: an extended protuberance: a crest: the earth thrown up
by the plough between the furrows, a breadth of ground running the whole
length of the field, divided from those on either side by broad open
furrows, helping to guide the sowers and reapers and effecting drainage in
wet soils: the upper horizontal timber of a roof: the highest portion of a
glacis.--_v.t._ to form into ridges: to wrinkle.--_ns._ RIDGE'-BAND, that
part of the harness of a cart which goes over the saddle; RIDGE'-BONE, the
spine.--_adj._ RIDGED, having ridges on a surface: ridgy.--_ns._
RIDGE'-FILL'ET, a fillet between two flutes of a column; RIDGE'-HARR'OW, a
harrow made to lap upon the sides of a ridge over which it passes;
RIDGE'-PLOUGH, a plough with a double mould-board; RIDGE'-POLE, the timber
forming the ridge of a roof; RIDGE'-ROPE, the central rope of an
awning.--_adj._ RIDG'Y, having ridges. [A.S. _hrycg_; Ice. _hryggr_, Ger.
_rücken_, back.]

RIDGEL, rij'el, _n._ a male animal with but one testicle.--Also RIDG'IL,
RIDG'LING--(_Scot._) RIG'LAN, RIG'GOT.

RIDICULE, rid'i-k[=u]l, _n._ wit exposing one to laughter: derision:
mockery.--_v.t._ to laugh at: to expose to merriment: to deride: to
mock.--_n._ RID'I C[=U]LER.--_v.t._ RIDIC'[=U]LISE.--_n._
RIDIC[=U]LOS'ITY.--_adj._ RIDIC'[=U]LOUS, deserving or exciting ridicule:
absurd: (_obs._) outrageous.--_adv._ RIDIC'[=U]LOUSLY.--_n._
RIDIC'[=U]LOUSNESS. [L. _ridiculus_--_rid[=e]re_, to laugh.]

RIDING, r[=i]'ding, _n._ one of the three divisions of the county of York.
[A corr. of _thriding_--Ice. _þridjungr_, the third, _þriði_, third,
_þrir_, three.]

RIDOTTO, ri-dot'[=o], _n._ a house of public entertainment: a dancing
party.--_v.i._ to frequent such. [It.]

RIE, an old spelling of _rye_.

RIEM, r[=e]m, _n._ a raw-hide thong. [Dut.]

RIESEL-IRON, r[=e]'zel-[=i]'urn, _n._ a kind of nipper used to remove
irregularities from the edges of glass.

RIEVE, RIEVER. Same as REAVE, REAVER.

RIFACIMENTO, r[=e]-fä-chi-men't[=o], _n._ a recasting of literary
works:--_pl._ RIFACIMEN'TI. [It.]

RIFE, r[=i]f, _adj._ prevailing: abundant: plentiful: well supplied:
current: manifest.--_adv._ RIFE'LY.--_n._ RIFE'NESS. [A.S. _rífe_; Dut.
_rijf_, Ice. _rífr_.]

RIFFLE, rif'l, _n._ in mining, the lining of the bottom of a sluice: in
seal engraving, a small iron disc at the end of a tool.--_n._ RIFF'LER, a
curved file for working in depressions. [Dan. _rifle_, a groove.]

RIFF-RAFF, rif'-raf, _n._ sweepings: refuse: the rabble, the mob.
[Explained by Skeat as M. E. _rif and raf_--O. Fr. _rif et raf_, also
_rifle et rafle_. _Rifler_, to rifle, ransack--Ice. _hrífa_, to catch;
_rafler_--Teut., cf. Ger. _raffen_, to seize.]

RIFLE, r[=i]'fl, _v.t._ to carry off by force: to strip, to rob: to whet,
as a scythe.--_n._ R[=I]'FLER. [O. Fr. _rifler_--Scand., Ice. _hrífa_, to
seize.]

RIFLE, r[=i]'fl, _v.t._ to groove spirally, as a gun-barrel.--_n._ a musket
with a barrel spirally grooved--many varieties, the _Enfield_, _Minié_,
_Martini-Henry_, _Chassepot_, _Mannlicher-repeating_, _Remington_,
_Lee-Metford_, &c.--_ns._ R[=I]'FLE-BIRD, an Australian bird-of-Paradise;
R[=I]'FLE-CORPS, a body of soldiers armed with rifles; R[=I]'FLEMAN, a man
armed with a rifle; R[=I]'FLE-PIT, a pit dug to shelter riflemen;
R[=I]'FLE-RANGE, a place for practice with the rifle; R[=I]'FLING, the act
of cutting spiral grooves in the bore of a gun; R[=I]'FLING-MACHINE'.
[Scand.; Dan. _rifle_, to groove, freq. of _rive_, to tear.]

RIFT, rift, _n._ an opening split in anything: a fissure: a veil: a
fording-place.--_v.t._ to rive: to cleave.--_v.i._ to split: to burst open.
[_Rive._]

RIG, rig, _v.t._ to clothe, to dress: to put on: to equip: (_naut._) to fit
with sails and tackling:--_pr.p._ rig'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
rigged.--_n._ sails and tackling: an equipage, or turn-out, for driving,
&c.: fishing-tackle: (_coll._) costume, dress.--_ns._ RIG'GER, one who rigs
or dresses: in machinery, a large cylindrical pulley, or narrow drum;
RIG'GING, tackle: the system of cordage which supports a ship's masts and
extends the sails: the roof; RIG'GING-LOFT, the place in a theatre from
which the scenery is raised; RIG'GING-SCREW, a machine formed of a clamp
worked by a screw; RIG'GING-TREE, a roof-tree; RIG'-OUT, an outfit.--RIG
OUT, to furnish with complete dress, &c.; RIG THE MARKET, to raise or lower
prices artificially. [Scand.; Norw. _rigga_, to bandage, to put on sails,
_rigg_, rigging.]

RIG, rig, _n._ (_Scot._) a ridge: a path. [_Ridge._]

RIG, rig, _n._ a frolic, trick: (_obs._) a wanton.--_v.i._ to romp, act the
wanton.--_adj._ RIG'GISH (_Shak._), wanton, lewd.--_n._ RIG'GITE, one who
plays rigs, a jester.--RUN A RIG, to play a trick; RUN THE RIG UPON, to
play a trick upon. [Prob. _wriggle_.]

RIGADOON, rig-a-d[=oo]n', _n._ a lively dance for one couple, or its music:
formerly in the French army, a beat of drum while culprits were being
marched to punishment. [Fr. _rigaudon_.]

RIGATION, r[=i]-g[=a]'shun, _n._ irrigation. [_Irrigation._]

RIGESCENT, r[=i]-jes'ent, _n._ growing stiff.

RIGGLE, rig'l, _n._ a species of sand-eel.

RIGHT, r[=i]t, _adj._ straight: most direct: upright: erect: according to
truth and justice: according to law: true: correct: just: fit: proper:
exact: most convenient: well performed: most dexterous, as the hand: on the
right-hand: on the right-hand of one looking towards the mouth of a river:
righteous: duly genuine: correct in judgment: equitable: not crooked: to be
preferred: precise: in good health: denoting the side designed to go
outward, as cloth: opposed to left, as the right-hand: (_math._) upright
from a base: containing 90 degrees.--_n._ RIGHT'NESS. [A.S. _riht_; Ger.
_recht_, L. _rectus_.]

RIGHT, r[=i]t, _adv._ in a straight or direct line: in a right manner:
according to truth and justice: correctly: very: in a great degree.

RIGHT, r[=i]t, _n._ that which is right or correct: truth: justice: virtue:
freedom from error: what one has a just claim to: privilege: property: the
right side.--_n._ RIGHT'-ABOUT', in the opposite direction.--_adj._
RIGHT'-ANG'LED, having a right angle or angles; RIGHT'-DRAWN (_Shak._),
drawn in a right or just cause.--_v.t._ RIGHT'EN, to set right.--_n._
RIGHT'ER, one who sets right or redresses wrong.--_adj._ RIGHT'FUL, having
a just claim: according to justice: belonging by right.--_adv._
RIGHT'FULLY.--_ns._ RIGHT'FULNESS, righteousness: justice; RIGHT'-HAND, the
hand which is more used, convenient, and dexterous than the other.--_adj._
chiefly relied on.--_adj._ RIGHT'-HAND'ED, using the right-hand more easily
than the left: dextral: clockwise.--_ns._ RIGHT'-HAND'EDNESS;
RIGHT'-HAND'ER, a blow with the right-hand.--_adjs._ RIGHT'-HEART'ED,
having right or kindly dispositions: good-hearted; RIGHT'LESS, without
right.--_adv._ RIGHT'LY, uprightly: suitably: not erroneously.--_adj._
RIGHT'-MIND'ED, having a right or honest mind.--_ns._ RIGHT'-MIND'EDNESS,
the state of being right-minded; RIGHT'NESS, the character of being right,
correctness: the state of being on the right-hand; RIGHT-OF-WAY, the right
which the public has to the free passage over roads or tracks, esp. such as
are not statutory roads.--_advs._ RIGHTS (_obs._); RIGHT'WARD.--_n._
RIGHT'-WHALE, the Greenland whale, the most important species of the true
whales.--RIGHT AND LEFT, on both sides; RIGHT ASCENSION (see ASCENSION);
RIGHT BANK OF A RIVER, the bank on the right hand of a person looking in
the direction the water flows; RIGHT DOWN, plainly; RIGHT OF ACTION, a
right which will sustain a civil action; RIGHT OFF, immediately; RIGHT THE
HELM, to put it amidships, in a line with the keel.--ABSOLUTE RIGHTS, those
which belong to human beings as such; AT ALL RIGHTS, in all points; BASE
RIGHT (_Scots law_), the right which a disposer acquires when he disposes
of feudal property; BY RIGHT, or RIGHTS, rightfully; CLAIM OF RIGHT, the
statement of the right of the church to spiritual independence and liberty
from the interference of the civil courts in her spiritual functions,
adopted by an immense majority of the General Assembly in 1842; CONTINGENT
RIGHTS, such as are distinguished from vested rights; DECLARATION AND BILL
OF RIGHTS, the instrument drawn up by the Convention Parliament which
called the Prince and Princess of Orange to the throne of England in 1689,
stating the fundamental principles of the constitution; DECLARATION OF THE
RIGHTS OF MAN, a famous statement of the constitution and principles of
civil society and government adopted by the French National Assembly in
August 1789; DO ONE RIGHT, to do one justice; HAVE A RIGHT, to be under a
moral necessity; HAVE RIGHT, to be right; IN ONE'S OWN RIGHT, by absolute
and personal right; IN THE RIGHT, free from error; NATURAL RIGHTS, those
which exist by virtue of natural law--liberty, security of person and
property; PETITION OF RIGHT, an action by which a subject vindicates his
rights against the Crown; PUBLIC RIGHTS, the rights which the state has
over the subject, and the subject against the state; PUT TO RIGHTS, to
arrange; THE RIGHT, among continentals, the conservatives, from their
usually sitting on the president's right in legislative assemblies; THE
RIGHT SIDE, the place of honour; WRIT OF RIGHT, an action to establish the
title to real property.

RIGHTEOUS, r[=i]'tyus, _adj._ living and acting according to right and
justice: free from guilt or sin: equitable: merited.--_adv._ RIGHT'EOUSLY,
in a righteous manner: (_arch._) justly.--_n._ RIGHT'EOUSNESS, purity of
life: rectitude: conformity to a right standard: a righteous act or
quality: holiness: the coming into spiritual reconciliation with God by
means of the righteousness of Christ being imputed to a man in consequence
of faith.--ORIGINAL RIGHTEOUSNESS, the condition of man before the Fall as
made in the image of God. [A.S. _rihtwís_--_riht_, right, _wís_, wise.]

RIGID, rij'id, _adj._ not easily bent: stiff: severe: strict: unyielding:
harsh: without delicacy: wanting in ease.--_n._ RIGID'ITY, the quality of
resisting change of form: stiffness of manner.--_adv._ RIG'IDLY.--_n._
RIG'IDNESS.--_adj._ RIGID'[=U]LOUS, rather stiff. [L.
_rigidus_--_rig[=e]re_, to be stiff with cold.]

RIGMAROLE, rig'ma-r[=o]l, _n._ a repetition of foolish words: a long story:
balderdash.--_adj._ prolix, tedious. [A corr. of _ragman-roll_, a document
with a long list of names, or with numerous seals pendent.]

RIGOL, rig'ol, _n._ (_Shak._) a ring, a circle of a crown or coronet. [It.
_rigolo_--Teut.; Ger. _ringel_, a ring.]

RIGOLETTE, rig-[=o]-let', _n._ a light head-wrap.

RIGOR, r[=i]'gur, _n._ the same as RIGOUR: (_med._) a sense of chilliness
with contraction of the skin, a preliminary symptom of many diseases.--_n._
R[=I]'GOR-MOR'TIS, the characteristic stiffening of the body caused by the
contraction of the muscles after death.

RIGOUR, rig'ur, _n._ the quality of being rigid or severe: stiffness of
opinion or temper: strictness: exactness: violence: relentlessness:
severity of climate: _(med._, spelt RIGOR; see above).--_adj._ RIG'OROUS,
exercising rigour: allowing no abatement: marked by severity: harsh:
scrupulously accurate: very severe.--_adv._ RIG'OROUSLY.--_ns._
RIG'OROUSNESS; RIG'OURISM (_R.C._), the opposite of _Probalilism_;
RIG'OURIST, a person of strict principles: a purist. [L.
_rigor_--_rig[=e]re._]

RIGSDAG, rigz'dag, _n._ the parliament of Denmark.

RIGVEDA, rig-v[=a]'da, _n._ the first of the four Vedas. [Sans., _rich_, a
hymn, _veda_, knowledge.]

RIGWIDDIE, rig-wid'i, _n._ (_Scot._) the rope that goes over a horse's back
to support the shafts of the vehicle it draws. [_Rig_, the back, _widdie_,
_withy_, a rope.]

RILE, r[=i]l, _v.t._ to make angry, to vex--a form of _roil_.

RILIEVO, or RELIEVO. See ALTO-RELIEVO.

RILL, ril, _n._ a small murmuring brook: a streamlet.--_v.i._ to flow in
small streams.--_ns._ RILL'ET (_Tenn._), a rivulet, a little rill;
RILL'-MARK, a marking produced by the oozing of water on sand. [Low Ger.
_rille_, a channel; Ger. _rille_, a furrow.]

RIM, rim, _n._ a raised margin, border, brim: in a wheel, the circular part
farthest from the nave.--_v.t._ to put a rim to:--_pr.p._ rim'ming; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ rimmed.--_n._ RIM'-FIRE, a cartridge which has a detonating
substance placed in some part of the rim of its base.--_adjs._ RIM'IFORM;
RIM'LESS.--_ns._ RIM'MER, an instrument for ornamenting pastry;
RIM'-PL[=A]N'ER, a machine for dressing wheel-fellies; RIM'-SAW, a saw, the
cutting part of which is annular. [A.S. _rima_.]

RIM, rim, _n._ a membrane: the peritoneum. [A.S. _reóma_.]

RIMBASE, rim'b[=a]s, _n._ a short cylinder connecting a trunnion with the
body of a cannon.

RIME, r[=i]m, _n._ hoar-frost: frozen dew.--_adj._ R[=I]'MY. [A.S. _hrím_;
Dut. _rijm_, Ger. _reif_.]

RIME, r[=i]m, _n._ a rent, chink, or fissure--also R[=I]'MA:--_pl._
R[=I]'MÆ.--_adj._ R[=I]MOSE', full of rimes or chinks: having numerous
minute fissures, mostly parallel, like the bark of a tree.--_n._ RIMOS'ITY,
state of being rimose or chinky.--_adj._ R[=I]'MOUS, rimose. [L. _rima_.]

RIMPLE, rim'pl, _v.i._ to wrinkle.

RIMULA, rim'[=u]-la, _n._ (_conch._) a genus of fossil keyhole
limpets.--_adjs._ RIM'[=U]LIFORM, shaped like a crack; RIM'[=U]LOSE. [L.,
dim. of _rima_, a crack.]

RINABOUT, rin'a-bowt, _n._ (_Scot._) a vagrant.

RIND, r[=i]nd, _n._ the external covering, as the skin of fruit, the bark
of trees, &c.--_v.t._ to strip the rind from.--_adj._ RIND'ED.--_n._
RIND'-GALL, a defect in timber. [A.S. _rinde_; Dut. and Ger. _rinde_; prob.
Old High Ger. _rinta_, _rinda_.]

RINDERPEST, rin'd[.e]r-pest, _n._ a malignant and contagious disease of
cattle. [Ger., 'cattle-plague.']

RINE, r[=i]n, _v.t._ to touch.--_n._ the same as RIND. [A.S. _hrínan_; Ice.
_hrína_, to hurt.]

RINE, r[=i]n, _n._ (_prov._) a ditch or water-course.--Also RHINE, RONE,
RUNE. [A.S. _ryne_, a run, flow--_rinnan_, to run; Ger. _ronne_, a
channel.]

RINFORZANDO, rin-for-tsan'd[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) with special emphasis.
[It.]

RING, ring, _n._ a circle: a small hoop, usually of metal, worn on the
finger or in the ear as an ornament: a circular area for races, &c.: a
circular course, a revolution: a clique organised to control the market: an
arena or prize-ring: the commercial measure of staves for casks:
(_archit._) a cincture round a column: (_anat._) an annulus: a group or
combination of persons.--_v.t._ to encircle: to fit with a ring: to
surround: to wed with a ring: (_hort._) to cut out a ring of bark from a
tree.--_v.i._ to move in rings.--_ns._ RING'-AR'MATURE, an armature in
which the coils of wire are wound round a ring; RING'-ARM'OUR, armour made
of metal rings (see CHAIN-MAIL).--_v.t._ RING'-BARK, to strip a ring of
bark round a tree to kill it.--_ns._ RING'BILL, the ring-necked duck;
RING'-BOLT, an iron bolt with a ring through a hole at one end; RING'BONE,
in farriery, a bony callus on a horse's pastern-bone, the result of
inflammation: the condition caused by this; RING'-BUNT'ING, the
reed-bunting; RING'-CARR'IER, a go-between; RING'-D[=I]'AL, a portable
sun-dial; RING'-DOG, an iron apparatus for hauling timber; RING'-DOTT'EREL,
the ringed plover; RING'DOVE, the cushat or wood-pigeon, so called from a
white ring or line on the neck; RING'-DROP'PING, a trick practised by
rogues upon simple people.--_adj._ RINGED, surrounded as with a ring,
annulose, annulate: wearing a wedding-ring.--_ns._ RINGED'-CAR'PET, a
British geometrid moth; RING'-FENCE, a fence continuously encircling an
estate, a limit; RING'-FING'ER, the third finger of the left hand, on which
women wear their marriage-ring.--_adj._ RING'-FORMED, annular.--_ns._
RING'-FRAME, any one of a class of spinning-machines with vertical
spindles; RING'-GAUGE, a measure consisting of a ring of fixed size used
for measuring spherical objects; RING'LEADER, the head of a riotous body:
one who opens a ball; RING'LET, a little ring: a curl, esp. of
hair.--_adj._ RING'LETED.--_ns._ RING'LOCK, a puzzle-lock; RING'-MAIL,
chain-armour; RING'MAN, the third finger of the hand: one interested in the
prize-ring; RING'-MAS'TER, one who has charge of a circus-ring and the
performances in it; RING'-MON'EY, rudely formed rings anciently used for
money; RING'-NECK, a kind of ring-plover: the ring-necked duck; RING'-NET,
a net for catching butterflies; RING'-OU'SEL, a species of thrush, with a
white band on the breast; RING'-PARR'OT, a common Indian parrot;
RING'-PERCH, the perch of North America; RING'-PLOV'ER, a ring-necked
plover; RING'-ROPE, a rope for hauling the cable in rough weather;
RING'-SAW, a scroll-saw with annular web; RING'-SMALL, broken stones of
such a size as to pass through a ring two inches in diameter; RING'-SNAKE,
the collared snake, a harmless serpent of the United States; RING'STER, a
member of a ring; RING'-STOP'PER, a piece of rope by which the ring of an
anchor is secured to the cat-head.--_adjs._ RING'-STRAKED (_B._),
-STREAKED, streaked with rings.--_n._ RING'-TAIL (_naut._), a studding-sail
set upon the gaff of a fore-and-aft sail: a light sail set abaft and beyond
the spanker: the female of the hen-harrier, named from a rust-coloured ring
formed by the tips of the tail-feathers when expanded.--_adj._
RING'-TAILED, having the tail marked with bars or rings of colour, as a
lemur: having a tail curled at the end.--_ns._ RING'-THRUSH, the
ring-ousel; RING'-TIME (_Shak._), time for marrying; RING'-VALVE, a hollow
cylindrical valve; RING'-WORK, a material composed of rings interlinked;
RING'WORM, a skin disease in which itchy pimples appear in rings.--RING THE
CHANGES (see CHANGE).--RIDE, or TILT, AT THE RING, to practise the sport of
riding rapidly, spear in hand, and carrying off with it a ring hung up; THE
RING, pugilism and the persons connected with it. [A.S. _hring_; Ice.
_hring-r_, Ger., Dan., and Sw. _ring_.]

RING, ring, _v.i._ to sound as a bell when struck: to tinkle: to practise
the art of ringing bells: to continue to sound: to be filled with report:
to resound: to echo.--_v.t._ to cause to sound, as a metal: to produce by
ringing:--_pa.t._ rang, rung; _pa.p._ rung.--_n._ a sound, esp. of metals:
the sound of many voices: a chime of many bells.--_ns._ RING'ER; RING'ING,
the act of causing to sound, as music-bells: resounding.--_adv._
RING'INGLY.--RING BACKWARD, to change the order of ringing; RING DOWN, to
conclude; RING IN (_theat._), to signal the conductor to begin; RINGING OF
THE EARS, a sound in the ears; RING UP, to rouse by the ringing of a bell.
[A.S. _hringan_; cog. with Ice. _hringja_, to ring bells, _hringla_, to
clink, Dan. _ringle_, to tinkle.]

RINGE, rinj, _n._ a whisk made of heather.

RINGENT, rin'jent, _adj._ gaping.

RINGICULA, rin-jik'[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of tectibranchiates.

RINK, ringk, _n._ the area where a race is run or games are played: a place
artificially prepared for skating: a certain piece of ice marked off for
curling--about 40 yards in length, and 9 in breadth. [Simply a variant of
_ring_, a circle.]

RINSE, rins, _v.t._ to cleanse by introducing water: to cleanse with clean
water.--_ns._ RINS'ER; RINS'ING-MACHINE', in cotton manufacture, a series
of tanks for cleansing. [O. Fr. _rinser_ (Fr. _rincer_)--Ice. _hreinsa_;
Ger. and Dut. _rein_, pure.]

RINTHEREOUT, rin'th[=a]r-[=oo]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a vagrant: a vagabond.

RIO, RIYO, r[=a]-[=o]', _n._ a Japanese ounce, esp. of silver: a tael.

RIOT, r[=i]'ot, _n._ uproar: tumult: a disturbance of the peace: excessive
feasting: luxury.--_v.i._ to brawl: to raise an uproar: to run to excess in
feasting, behaviour, &c.: to be highly excited: to throw into a tumult: to
annoy.--_ns._ R[=I]'OTER; R[=I]'OTING; R[=I]'OTISE (_Spens._), riot,
extravagance.--_adj._ R[=I]'OTOUS, engaging in riot: seditious: tumultuous:
luxurious: wanton.--_adv._ R[=I]'OTOUSLY.--_ns._ R[=I]'OTOUSNESS;
R[=I]'OTRY.--RIOT ACT, a statute designed to prevent riotous
assemblies.--RUN RIOT, to act without restraint or control. [Fr. _riotte_;
ety. dub.]

RIP, rip, _v.t._ to divide by cutting or tearing: to cut open: to take out
by cutting or tearing: to tear up for search or alteration: to explode,
give vent to.--_v.i._ to break out violently.--_v.t._ to utter violently
(with _out_):--_pr.p._ rip'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ ripped.--_n._ a tear:
a rent: a place torn: (_slang_) a vicious person: a worthless horse: a
ripple. [Scand., Norw. _ripa_, to scratch; Ice. _rífa_, to rive.]

RIP, rip, _n._ (_Scot._) a handful of grain not thrashed.

RIPARIAN, r[=i]-p[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ belonging to a river-bank: of animals,
shore-loving.--_adj._ RIP[=A]'RIAL.--RIPARIAN NATIONS, nations possessing
opposite banks of the same river; RIPARIAN PROPRIETOR, an owner who has
property in the soil to the centre of the stream; RIPARIAN RIGHTS, the
right of fishery belonging to the proprietor of a stream. [L. _ripa_, a
river-bank.]

RIPE, r[=i]p, _adj._ ready for harvest: arrived at perfection: fit for use:
developed to the utmost: finished: ready: resembling ripe fruit: mature, as
ripe judgment.--_v.i._ to grow ripe, to ripen.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to make
ripe.--_adv._ RIPE'LY.--_v.i._ R[=I]'PEN, to grow ripe: to approach or
reach perfection.--_v.t._ to make ripe: to bring to perfection.--_n._
RIPE'NESS. [A.S. _ripe_, conn. with _rip_, harvest; cog. with Dut. _riip_,
Ger. _reif_; akin to A.S. _ripan_, to reap.]

RIPE, r[=i]p, _v.t._ to search, to rummage. [_Rip._]

RIPIDOLITE, r[=i]-pid'[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ the commonest member of the
chlorite family of minerals.

RIPIENO, ri-py[=a]'n[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) supplementary.--_n._ a
supplementary instrument or performer:--_pl._ RIPIE'NI.--_n._ RIPIENIST
(ri-py[=a]'nist), a supplementary instrumentalist. [It.]

RIPON, RIPPON, rip'on, _n._ a spur. [_Ripon_, city.]

RIPOSTE, ri-p[=o]st', _n._ a quick short thrust in fencing: a repartee.
[Fr.]

RIPPER, rip'[.e]r, _n._ a tool used in shaping roof-slates: a ripping-tool:
one who does his work well: a robber.

RIPPER, rip'[.e]r, _n._ one who brings fish from the coast inland. [L.
_riparius_.]

RIPPER, rip'[.e]r, _n._ a fog-horn.

RIPPLE, rip'l, _n._ the light fretting of the surface of water: a little
curling wave.--_v.t._ to cause a ripple in.--_v.i._ to curl on the surface,
as running water.--_ns._ RIPP'LE-BARR'EL, a drum used in theatres;
RIPP'LE-GRASS, the rib-grass; RIPP'LE-MARK, a mark produced on sand at the
bottom by the gentle flow of water: (_geol._) the mark left on a sea-beach
by receding waves, and left impressed on the surface of rocks.--_adj._
RIPP'LE-MARKED.--_ns._ RIPP'LET, a small ripple: rippling: an eddy;
RIPP'LING, an eddy caused by conflicting currents or tides--also
_adj._--_adv._ RIPP'LINGLY.--_adj._ RIPP'LY, rippling. [Variant of earlier
_rimple_, A.S. _hrimpan_, to wrinkle, pa.p. _hrumpen_.]

RIPPLE, rip'l, _v.t._ to pluck the seeds from stalks of flax by drawing
them through an iron comb.--_n._ the comb for rippling.--_n._ RIPP'LER, an
apparatus for rippling flax. [Low Ger. _repel_, _reppel_, a ripple, hoe,
Ger. _riffel_.]

RIPRAP, rip'rap, _n._ broken stones used for walls.

RIPSACK, rip'sak, _n._ the Californian gray whale.

RIP-SAW, rip'-saw, _n._ a hand-saw, with large but narrow-set teeth, for
sawing timber lengthwise.

RIPT=ripped. See RIP.

RIPUARIAN, rip-[=u]-[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ riparian.

RISALDAR, ris-al-där', _n._ the native commander of a troop of cavalry in
the British Indian army.--_n._ RIS'ALA, a troop of native irregular
cavalry.

RISBAN, ris'ban, _n._ a piece of ground upon which a fort is constructed
for defence of a post. [Fr.,--Ger. _rissbank_.]

RISBERM, ris-berm', _n._ a glacis in jetties to withstand the violence of
the sea.

RISE, r[=i]z, _v.i._ to move from a lower to a higher position: to stand
up: to ascend: to grow upward: to swell in quantity or extent: to take an
upright position: to leave the place of rest: to tower up: to appear above
the horizon: to break forth: to appear: to have its source: to increase in
size, value, &c.: to become excited or hostile: to break forth into
commotion or insurrection: to increase in rank, fortune, or fame: to be
promoted: to be perceptible to other senses: to excavate upward: to come to
mind: to close a session: (_B._) to ascend from the grave:--_pa.t._
r[=o]se; _pa.p._ risen (riz'n).--_n._ act of rising: ascent: degree of
elevation: a steep: origin: increase: (_archit._) the upright piece of a
step from tread to tread: (_mining_) a shaft excavated from below: (_mus._)
elevation of the voice.--_n._ R[=I]'SER, a rebel: one who, or that which,
rises.--RISE FROM THE RANKS, to win a commission; RISE TO THE OCCASION, to
be equal to an emergency.--TAKE A RISE OUT OF, to take the conceit out of a
person by making him ridiculous. [A.S. _rísan_; Ice. _rísa_, Goth.
_reisan_, Ger. _reisen_.]

RISE, r[=i]s, _n._ a twig, a small bush.--_ns._ RISE'BUSH, a faggot;
R[=I]'SEL, a support for a climbing vine; RISE'-WOOD, small wood cut for
hedging. [A.S. _hrís_; Ger. _reis_.]

RISHI, rish'i, _n._ a sage or poet, the author of a Vedic hymn.--THE SEVEN
RISHIS, the stars of the Great Bear. [Sans.]

RISIBLE, riz'i-bl, _adj._ capable of exciting laughter: laughable:
amusing.--_ns._ RISIBIL'ITY, quality of being risible;
RIS'IBLENESS.--_adv._ RIS'IBLY. [L. _risibilis_--_rid[=e]re_, _risum_, to
laugh.]

RISING, r[=i]'zing, _n._ act of rising: a revolt: resurrection: the
quantity of dough set to rise at one time: (_B._) a tumour.--_adj._
increasing in importance: advancing: approaching a specified amount, as
rising three years old.--_ns._ R[=I]'SING-LARK, the skylark;
R[=I]'SING-LINE, a line drawn to determine the sweep of the floor-heads
throughout the ship's length; R[=I]'SING-MAIN, the column of pumps in a
mine through which water is lifted to the surface; R[=I]'SING-SEAT, in a
Friends' meeting, that occupied by ministers and elders.

RISK, risk, _n._ hazard: chance of loss or injury.--_v.t._ to expose to
hazard: to venture, to take the chance of.--_n._ RISK'ER, one who
risks.--_adj._ RISK'Y, dangerous: venturesome.--RUN A RISK, to incur
hazard. [Fr. _risque_ (It. _risico_)--Sp. _risco_, a rock--L.
_resec[=a]re_, to cut off--_re-_, off, _sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

RISLEY, riz'li, _n._ a Risley performer is an acrobat who lies on his back
and carries burdens on his feet.

RISORIAL, r[=i]-s[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ risible, causing laughter.--_n._
RIS[=O]'RIUS, the laughing muscle. [_Risible_.]

RISOTTO, ri-zot't[=o], _n._ a stew of onions, butter, rice. [It.]

RISP, risp, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to rasp.

RISP, risp, _n._ a branch, green stalks.

RISSA, ris'a, _n._ the genus of birds including the kittiwakes.

RISSOLE, ris'[=o]l, _n._ fish or meat minced and fried with bread-crumbs
and egg. [Fr.]

RISTORI, ris-t[=o]'ri, _n._ a woman's loose open jacket--from Madame
_Ristori_, the famous actress.

RISUS, r[=i]'sus, _n._ a laugh: a grin. [L.]

RIT, rit, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to strike.--_n._ a scratch, tear, &c. [Dut.
_ritten_, to tear.]

RITARDANDO, r[=e]-tar-dan'd[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) diminishing in speed.
[It.]

RITE, r[=i]t, _n._ a religious usage or ceremony.--_adv._ RITE'LY, with due
rites.--AMBROSIAN RITE, the Ambrosian office and liturgy; MOZARABIC RITE
(see MOZARABIC). [L. _ritus_.]

RITHE, r[=i]_th_, _n._ (_prov._) a small stream. [A.S. _ríth_.]

RITORNELLE, r[=e]-tor-nel', _n._ (_mus._) an instrumental prelude belonging
to a vocal work.--Also RITORNEL'LO. [It.]

RITTER, rit'[.e]r, _n._ a knight.--_n._ RITT'-MAS'TER, a captain of
cavalry. [Ger. _ritter_.]

RITTOCK, rit'ok, _n._ the common tern.--Also RÍPP'OCK.

RITUAL, rit'[=u]-al, _adj._ consisting of or prescribing rites.--_n._
manner of performing divine service, or a book containing it: the body of
rites employed in the church: the code of ceremonies observed by an
organisation, as the ritual of the Freemasons.--_ns._ RIT'[=U]ALISM,
systems of rituals or prescribed forms of religion: the observance of them:
the name popularly given to the great increase of ceremonial and symbolism
by means of special vestments, &c., in the Church of England since about
1860-65: RIT'[=U]ALIST, one skilled in or devoted to a ritual: one of the
party devoted to ritualism in the Church of England.--_adj._
RIT[=U]ALIST'IC, pertaining to the ritual.--_adv._ RIT'[=U]ALLY. [L.
_ritualis_; cf. _Rite_.]

RIVA, r[=i]'va, _n._ a rift or cleft. [Ice. _rifa_.]

RIVAGE, riv'[=a]j, _n._ a bank, shore. [Fr.,--L. _ripa_, a bank.]

RIVAL, r[=i]'val, _n._ one pursuing the same object as another: one who
strives to equal or excel another: a competitor.--_adj._ having the same
claims: standing in competition.--_v.t._ to stand in competition with: to
try to gain the same object as another: to try to equal or excel:--_pr.p._
r[=i]'valling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ r[=i]'valled.--_n._ R[=I]'VALESS, a
female rival.--_adj._ R[=I]'VAL-H[=A]T'ING, jealous.--_v.i._ R[=I]'VALISE,
to enter into rivalry.--_ns._ RIVAL'ITY (_Shak._), rivalry, equality in
rank or authority; R[=I]'VALRY, act of rivalling: competition: emulation;
R[=I]'VALSHIP, emulation. [Fr.,--L. _rivalis_--_rivus_, a brook.]

RIVE, r[=i]v, _v.t._ to tear asunder: to split: to pierce: to
explode.--_v.i._ to be split asunder:--_pa.t._ r[=i]ved; _pa.p._ r[=i]ved,
riv'en.--_n._ that which is torn. [Scand., Ice. _rífa_, to rive; Dut.
_rijven_, Ger. _reiben_.]

RIVE, r[=i]v, _n._ a bank: shore.--_v.i._ to land.

RIVEL, riv'el, _v.t._ to wrinkle. [A.S. _rifian_, to wrinkle.]

RIVELING, riv'ling, _n._ a rough shoe once worn in Scotland: (_obs._) a
Scotchman. [A.S. _rifeling_.]

RIVER, riv'[.e]r, _n._ a large running stream of water.--_adj._ RIV'ERAIN,
riparian.--_ns._ RIV'ER-BANK, the bank of a river; RIV'ER-B[=A]S'IN, the
whole region drained by a river and its affluents; RIV'ER-BED, the channel
in which a river flows; RIV'ER-BIRCH, the red birch; RIV'ER-BOTT'OM, the
alluvial land along the margin of a river; RIV'ER-CARP, the common carp;
RIV'ER-CHUB, the horny-head or jerker; RIV'ER-COURSE, the bed of a river;
RIV'ER-CRAB, a fresh-water crab; RIV'ER-CRAFT, small vessels which ply on
rivers; RIV'ER-CRAY'FISH, a crayfish proper; RIV'ER-DOL'PHIN, a Gangetic
dolphin; RIV'ER-DRAG'ON (_Milt._), a crocodile; RIV'ER-DUCK, a fresh-water
duck; RIV'ERET, RIV'ERLING, a small river; RIV'ER-FLAT, alluvial land along
a river; RIV'ER-GOD, the tutelary deity of a river; RIV'ER-HEAD, the spring
of a river; RIV'ER-HOG, the capybara; RIV'ER-HORSE, the
hippopotamus.--_adj._ RIV'ERINE, pertaining to, or resembling, a
river.--_ns._ RIV'ER-JACK, the common water-snake of Europe; RIV'ER-MAN,
one who makes his livelihood by dragging the river for sunken goods;
RIVER-MUSS'EL, a fresh-water mussel; RIV'ER-OTT'ER, the common European
otter; RIV'ER-PERCH, a Californian surf-fish; RIV'ER-PIE, the water-ousel;
RIV'ER-SHORE, the shore or bank of a river; RIV'ER-SIDE, the bank of a
river; RIV'ER-SMELT, the gudgeon; RIV'ER-SNAIL, a pond snail;
RIV'ER-SWALL'OW, the sand-martin; RIV'ER-TIDE, the tide from the sea rising
or ebbing in a river; RIV'ER-TOR'TOISE, a soft-shelled turtle; RIV'ER-WALL,
a wall made to confine the waters of a river within definite
bounds.--_adj._ RIV'ERY, pertaining to rivers, like rivers. [Fr. _rivière_
(It. _riviera_, shore, river)--Low L. _riparia_, a shore district--L.
_ripa_, a bank.]

RIVESALTES, r[=e]v'salt, _n._ a sweet wine made from Muscat grapes.
[_Rivésaltes_ in southern France.]

RIVET, riv'et, _n._ bearded wheat.

[Illustration]

RIVET, riv'et, _n._ a bolt of metal fastened by being hammered at both
ends.--_v.t._ to fasten with a rivet: to make firm or immovable:--_pr.p._
riv'eting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ riv'eted.--_ns._ RIV'ET-CUT'TER, a tool for
cutting off the ends of rivets; RIV'ETER, RIV'ETTER; RIV'ET-HEARTH, a light
portable furnace for heating rivets; RIV'ETING; RIV'ETING-HAMM'ER;
RIV'ETING-MACHINE', a power-machine for forcing hot rivets into position in
metal-work, and heading them; RIV'ETING-SET, a hollow-faced punch for
swaging rivet-heads; RIV'ET-KNOB, a tool for swaging rivet-heads;
RIV'ET-MACHINE', a machine for making rivets from rod-iron. [O. Fr.
_rivet_; acc. to Diez from the root of Ice. _rífa_, Dan. _rive_, Ger.
_reiben_, Eng. _rive_.]

RIVIÈRE, r[=e]-vi[=a]r, _n._ a necklace of precious stones, particularly
diamonds. [Fr.]

RIVINA, ri-v[=i]'na, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants, the pokeweed family.

RIVING, r[=i]'ving, _n._ the act of separating.--_ns._ RI'VING-KNIFE, a
tool for splitting shingles; R[=I]'VING-MACHINE', a machine for splitting
wood for hoops.

RIVO, r[=i]'v[=o], _interj._ (_Shak._) a drinking cry.

RIVOSE, r[=i]'v[=o]s, _adj._ furrowed. [L. _rivus_, a stream.]

RIVULARIA, riv-[=u]-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of fresh-water algæ.

RIVULET, riv'[=u]-let, _n._ a small stream, brook: a geometrid
moth.--_adj._ RIV'[=U]LOSE (_bot._), marked with irregular lines. [L.
_rivulus_--_rivus_, a stream.]

RIX-DOLLAR, riks'-dol'ar, _n._ the rigs-daler of Denmark, &c.

RIXY, rik'si, _n._ (_prov._) the sea-swallow.

RIXY, rik'si, _adj._ quarrelsome.--_n._ RIX[=A]'TION, a brawl. [Fr.
_rixe_--L. _rixa_, a quarrel.]

RIZOM, riz'om, _n._ a plume, as of oats.--_adj._ RIZ'OMED (_her._), having
grains, as an oat-stalk.

RIZZER, riz'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to dry in the sun.--_n._ a rizzered
haddock.

RIZZER, riz'[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a red currant.

RIZZLE, riz'l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to roast imperfectly.

RIZZLE, riz'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to creep, as ivy.

ROACH, r[=o]ch, _n._ a silvery fresh-water fish: a concave curve in the
foot of a square sail.--_v.t._ to arch: to cut short. [O. Fr.
_roche_--Teut.; Ger. _roche_.]

ROACH, r[=o]ch, _n._ a rock: refuse gritty stone.--AS SOUND AS A ROACH,
perfectly sound.

ROAD, r[=o]d, _n._ a highway for traffic: (_B._) a plundering
excursion.--_ns._ ROAD, ROAD'STEAD, ROADS, a place where ships ride at
anchor; ROAD'-[=A]G'ENT, a highwayman: a commercial traveller; ROAD'-BED,
the bed or foundation of a road: the whole superstructure thereon;
ROAD'-BOOK, a guide-book; ROAD'-CAR, a kind of omnibus; ROAD'-HARR'OW, a
machine for dragging over roads out of repair; ROAD'ING, the act of running
races with teams; ROAD'-LEV'EL, a plumb-level used in the construction of
roads; ROAD'-LOCOM[=O]'TIVE, a road-steamer; ROAD'-MACHINE', a scraper used
in road-making; ROAD'MAN, ROADS'MAN, one who keeps a road in repair;
ROAD'-MET'AL, broken stones for roads; ROAD'-ROLL'ER, a heavy roller used
on a macadamised road; ROAD'-RUN'NER, a large ground-cuckoo;
ROAD'-SCR[=A]P'ER, an implement for levelling roads and clearing them of
loose stones, &c.; ROAD'SIDE, footpath: wayside; ROAD'STEAD, a place near a
shore where vessels may anchor; ROAD'-STEAM'ER, a locomotive with broad
wheels for roads; ROAD'STER, a horse for driving or riding on the road: a
coach-driver: a bicycle, or tricycle; ROAD'-SURVEY'OR, one who supervises
roads; ROAD'WAY, the way or part of a road or street travelled by
carriages; ROAD'-WEED, a plant of the genus Plantago.--_adj._ ROAD'WORTHY,
fit for the road.--BY THE ROAD, by the highway; ON THE ROAD, travelling;
RULE OF THE ROAD, the custom of the country in passing on a highway; TAKE
TO THE ROAD, to become a highwayman. [A.S. _rád_, a riding--_rád_, pa.t. of
_rídan_, to ride.]

ROAM, r[=o]m, _v.i._ to rove about: to ramble.--_v.t._ to wander over: to
range.--_n._ ROAM'ER, a wanderer. [M. E. _romen_, _ramen_; allied to A.S.
_á-r['æ]man_, to spread out, Old High Ger. _r[=a]man_, _r[=a]men_, to
direct one's course; the meaning influenced by M. E. _Rome-rennere_, a
pilgrim.]

ROAN, r[=o]n, _adj._ having a bay or dark colour, with spots of gray and
white: of a mixed colour, with a decided shade of red.--_n._ a roan colour:
a roan horse: grained sheepskin leather. [O. Fr. _roan_ (Fr. _rouan_)--Low
L. _rufanus_--L. _rufus_, red.]

ROAN-TREE, r[=o]n'-tr[=e]. See _Rowan_.

ROAR, r[=o]r, _v.i._ to utter a full, loud sound: to bellow, as a beast: to
cry aloud: to bawl: to guffaw.--_n._ a full, loud sound: the cry of a
beast: an outcry of mirth, esp. of laughter.--_ns._ ROAR'ER; ROAR'ING, act
or sound of roaring: a disease of horses causing them to roar in
breathing.--_adv._ ROAR'INGLY.--ROARING BOYS, swaggerers; ROARING FORTIES,
the stormy tract between 49° and 50° N. latitude; ROARING GAME, curling.
[A.S. _rárian_; Mid. High Ger. _r[=e]ran_, Ger. _röhren_, to cry as a stag,
to bellow.]

ROAST, r[=o]st, _v.t._ to cook before a fire, or in an oven: to expose a
person to ridicule: to parch by exposure to heat: to heat to excess: to
dissipate the volatile parts of by heat.--_n._ that which is
roasted.--_ns._ ROAS'TER, anything suitable for roasting: a furnace used in
making ball soda; ROAS'TER-SLAG, slag from the fifth stage of
copper-smelting; ROAS'TING; ROAS'TING-CYL'INDER, a furnace for roasting
ore; ROAS'TING-EAR, an ear of maize fit for roasting; ROAS'TING-JACK, an
apparatus for turning the spit on which meat is roasted; ROAS'TING-KILN;
ROAS'TING-OV'EN; ROAST'-[=I]'RON, a gridiron.--ROASTBEEF PLANT, an iris of
Western Europe.--RULE THE ROAST, to domineer. [A.S. _róstian_; cog. with
Dut. _roosten_, Ger. _rösten_; or O. Fr. _rostir_ (Fr. _rôtir_)--Old High
Ger. _r[=o]stan_; or Celt., as Gael. _rost_, W. _rhostio_, Bret. _rosta_,
all meaning to roast.]

ROB, rob, _v.t._ to take away from by force or theft: to plunder: to steal:
to deprive: (_B._) to withhold what is due.--_v.i._ to commit
robbery:--_pr.p._ rob'bing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ robbed.--_ns._ ROB'BER, one
who robs; ROB'BER-COUN'CIL (_Latrocinium Ephesinum_), the council which met
at Ephesus in August 449, under the presidency of Dioscurus, whose horde of
fanatical monks by sheer violence carried the restoration of Eutyches--its
resolutions were annulled at Chalcedon in 451; ROB'BER-CRAB, a hermit-crab;
ROB'BER-FLY, any dipterous insect of the family _Asilidæ_; ROB'BER-GULL,
the skua; ROB'BERY, theft from the person, aggravated by violence or
intimidation: plundering.--ROBBING PETER TO PAY PAUL, paying and repaying
out of the same fund: taking what is due to one to pay another. [O. Fr.
_rober_--Old High Ger. _roub[=o]n_, Ger. _rauben_.]

ROB, rob, _n._ the juice of ripe fruit mixed with honey or sugar.
[Fr.,--Sp.,--Ar. _robb_, purified syrup of boiled fruit.]

ROBALO, rob'a-l[=o], _n._ a fish of the genus _Centropomus_. [Sp.,--L.
_labrus_--Gr. _labrax_.]

ROBBIN, rob'in, _n._ a short piece of spun-yarn to fasten the head of a
sail: the spring of a carriage: the package in which spices, &c., are
exported from the East Indies.

ROBE, r[=o]b, _n._ a gown or outer garment: a dress of dignity or state: a
rich dress: a dressed skin: the largest and strongest tobacco-leaves: the
early form of the chasuble.--_v.t._ to dress, clothe.--_v.i._ to assume
official vestments.--_ns._ ROBE'-DE-CHAM'BRE, a dressing-gown;
ROBE'-M[=A]K'ER, a maker of official robes; ROB'ING, the act of putting on
ceremonious apparel: a trimming on women's garments; ROB'ING-ROOM, a room
in which those wearing official robes, as lawyers, &c., put them
on.--MASTER OF THE ROBES, an officer having the charge of the sovereign's
robes; THE ROBE, or THE LONG ROBE, the legal profession. [Fr. _robe_,
_robbe_; from Old High Ger. _raup_ (Ger. _raub_), booty.]

ROBERD, rob'[.e]rd, _n._ the chaffinch.

ROBERTSMAN, rob'[.e]rts-man, _n._ a stout robber.--Also ROB'ERDSMAN.

ROBIN, rob'in, _n._ the ROB'IN-RED'BREAST, a well-known and widely-spread
singing bird of the family _Sylviidæ_, with a reddish-orange breast: the
red-breasted thrush of North America: the sea-robin or red-breasted
merganser: a trimming in front of a dress.--_ns._ ROB'IN-BREAST, the
robin-snipe; ROB'IN-DIP'PER, the buffle-headed duck; ROB'INET, a chaffinch:
a little robin: a tap; ROB'IN-GOOD'FELLOW, the English name of a domestic
spirit or brownie, described as the offspring of a woman and Oberon, king
of the fairies: an elf or fairy generally, Puck; ROB'IN-RUN-IN-THE-HEDGE,
the ground-ivy: the bed-straw; ROB'IN-SNIPE, the red-breasted sandpiper;
ROB'IN'S-RYE, the hair-cap moss. [A familiar form of _Robert_; cf.
_Jack_-daw, _Mag_-pie.]

ROBINIA, r[=o]-bin'i-a, _n._ a genus of leguminous trees and shrubs--the
_Locust-tree_, the _False Acacia_, _Thorn Acacia_, often simply Acacia.
[From the Paris gardener Jean _Robin_ (1550-1629).]

ROBLE, r[=o]'bl, _n._ one of the white oaks of California. [Sp.,--L.
_robur_, oak.]

ROBORANT, rob'or-ant, _adj._ giving strength.--_n._ a strengthening
medicine.--_adj._ ROB[=O]'REOUS, like oak, strong. [L. _robor[=a]re_, to
strengthen.]

ROBURITE, rob'[=u]-r[=i]t, _n._ a flameless explosive, composed of
chlorinated dinitro-benzene mixed with sufficient ammonium nitrate to
completely oxidise it.

ROBUST, r[=o]-bust', _adj._ of great strength or vigour: requiring
strength: rude, rough.--_adj._ ROBUST'IOUS (_Milt._), violent,
rough.--_adv._ ROBUST'IOUSLY.--_n._ ROBUST'IOUSNESS.--_adv._
ROBUST'LY.--_n._ ROBUST'NESS. [Fr.,--L. _robustus_--_robur_, oak.]

ROC, rok, _n._ an immense fabulous bird, able to carry off an
elephant--also ROK, RUC, RUKH.--ROC'S EGG, a mare's nest. [Pers. _rukh_.]

ROCAILLE, r[=o]-kal'-ye, _n._ a scroll ornament of the eighteenth century.

ROCAMBOLE, rok'am-b[=o]l, _n._ a plant of the same genus with garlic,
onion, leek, &c., long cultivated in kitchen-gardens.--Also ROK'AMBOLE.

ROCCELLA, rok-sel'a, _n._ a genus of parmeliaceous lichens, yielding dyers'
archil or orchil.--_adjs._ ROCCEL'LIC, ROCCEL'LINE. [Cf. _Archil._]

ROCCUS, rok'us, _n._ a genus of serranoid fishes, including the rock-fish
or striped bass of the United States.

ROCHEA, r[=o]'k[=e]-a, _n._ a genus of plants of the order _Crassulaceæ_.
[From the botanist _Laroche_.]

ROCHELLE-POWDER, r[=o]-shel'-pow'd[.e]r, _n._ seidlitz-powder.--_n._
ROCHELLE'-SALT, the popular name of the tartrate of soda and potash
discovered in 1672 by a _Rochelle_ apothecary named Seignette.

ROCHET, roch'et, _n._ a close-fitting fine linen or lawn vestment proper to
bishops and abbots: a mantlet worn by the peers of England during
ceremonies. [O. Fr., dim. of Low L. _roccus_--Old High Ger. _roch_ (A.S.
_rocc_, Ger. _rock_), a coat.]

ROCHES MOUTONNÉES, rosh m[=oo]-to-n[=a], _n.pl._ smooth, rounded, hummocky
bosses and undulating surfaces of rock, common in regions overflowed by
glacier-ice. [Fr., _roche_, a rock, _moutonnée_, masc. _moutonné_, rounded
like a sheep's back.]

ROCK, rok, _n._ a large mass of stone: (_geol._) a natural deposit of sand,
earth, or clay: that which has the firmness of a rock, foundation, support,
defence: (_Scot._) a distaff: a hard sweetmeat.--_v.t._ to throw stones
at.--_ns._ ROCK'-AL'UM, alum stone; ROCK'-AWAY, a four-wheeled North
American pleasure-carriage; ROCK'-BAD'GER, a ground-squirrel of North
America; ROCK'-B[=A]S'IN, a lacustrine hollow in a rock, excavated by
glacier-ice; ROCK'-BASS, a centrarchoid fish, the goggle-eye; ROCK'-BIRD, a
cock of the rock.--_adj._ ROCK'-BOUND, hemmed in by rocks.--_ns._
ROCK'-BREAK'ER, a machine for breaking stones for road-metal;
ROCK'-BUTT'ER, an impure alum efflorescence of a butter-like consistency
found oozing from some alum slates; ROCK'-CAN'DY, pure sugar in large
crystals: candy-sugar; ROCK'-CIST, a plant of the genus _Helianthemum_;
ROCK'-COOK, the small-mouthed wrasse; ROCK'-CORK, mountain cork, a variety
of asbestos; ROCK'-CRAB, a crab found at rocky sea-bottoms.--_adj._
ROCK'-CROWNED, surmounted with rocks.--_ns._ ROCK'-CRYS'TAL, the finest and
purest quartz, the name being generally applied, however, only to crystals
in which the six-sided prism is well developed; ROCK'-DOL'PHIN, the
sea-scorpion; ROCK'-DOVE, the rock-pigeon or blue-rock; ROCK'-DRILL, a
machine-drill worked by steam, &c.; ROCK'-EEL, a fish of the family
_Xiphidiontidæ_; ROCK'-ELM, an American elm; ROCK'ER, the rock-dove;
ROCK'ERY, ROCK'WORK, a mound made with pieces of rock, earth, &c. for the
cultivation of ferns, &c.; ROCK'-F[=E]'VER, intermittent fever; ROCK'-FIRE,
in pyrotechny, a composition of resin, sulphur, nitre, regulus of antimony,
and turpentine, burning slowly; ROCK'-FISH, a name applied to various
different varieties of wrasse, the striped bass, black goby, &c.;
ROCK'-GOAT, an ibex; ROCK'-HAWK, the merlin; ROCK'-HEAD, bed-rock;
ROCK'-HOP'PER, a curl-crested penguin; ROCK'IE (_Scot._), the rock-lintie
or twite; ROCK'INESS; ROCK'-LEATH'ER, rock-cork; ROCK'-LIL'Y, a tropical
American cryptogamous plant: a white-flowered Australian orchid;
ROCK'-LIM'PET, a limpet which adheres to rocks; ROCK'LING, a genus of
fishes of the cod family _Gadidæ_, of which several species frequent the
British seas; ROCK'-LIN'TIE (_Scot._), the twite: the ROCK'-LARK;
ROCK'-MAN'IKIN, a rock-bird; ROCK'-MOSS, lichen which yields archil;
ROCK'-OIL, petroleum; ROCK'-OU'SEL, the ring-ousel; ROCK'-OYS'TER, an
oyster-like bivalve; ROCK'-PI'GEON, a pigeon inhabiting rocks and caves:
the sand-pigeon; ROCK'-PIP'IT, the British tit-lark.--_n.pl._ ROCK'-PLANTS,
a term applied in gardening to a very miscellaneous group of plants which
by their habit of growth are adapted to adorn rockeries.--_ns._
ROCK'-PLOV'ER, the rock-snipe; ROCK'-RABB'IT, a hyrax; ROCK'-ROSE, a plant
of either of the genera _Cistus_ and _Helianthemum_ of the rock-rose family
(_Cistaceæ_); ROCK'-RU'BY, a ruby-red garnet; ROCK'-SALM'ON, the coal-fish:
an amber-fish; ROCK'-SALT, salt in solid form; ROCK'-SER'PENT, a venomous
Indian serpent, allied to the cobra; ROCK'-SL[=A]T'ER, a wood-louse;
ROCK'-SNAKE, a python or anaconda; ROCK'-SNIPE, the purple sandpiper;
ROCK'-SOAP, a deep-black mineral used for crayons, consisting of silica,
alumina, peroxide of iron, and water; ROCK'-SPARR'OW, a finch: the
ring-sparrow; ROCK'-STAR'LING, the rock-ousel; ROCK'-SWIFT, the
white-throated rock-swift of North America; ROCK'-TAR, petroleum;
ROCK'-TEM'PLE, a temple hewn out of the solid rock; ROCK'-THRUSH, any bird
of the genus _Monticola_ or _Petrocincla_; ROCK'-TRIPE, lichens of the
genus _Umbilicaria_; ROCK'-TROUT, the common American brook-trout:
sea-trout; ROCK'-V[=I]'OLET, an alga growing on moist rocks in the Alps;
ROCK'-WAR'BLER, a small Australian bird; ROCK'-WIN'KLE, a periwinkle;
ROCK'-WOOD, ligniform asbestos; ROCK'WORK (_archit._), masonry in imitation
of masses of rock: a rockery; ROCK'-WREN, a wren which frequents
rocks.--_adj._ ROCK'Y, full of rocks: resembling a rock: hard: unfeeling.
[O. Fr. _roke_, roche; prob. Celt., as in Gael. _roc_, W. _rhwg_, a
projection.]

ROCK, rok, _n._ a distaff.--_n._ ROCK'ING, an evening party in the country.
[Ice. _rokkr_; Ger. _rocken_.]

ROCK, rok, _v.t._ to move backward and forward: to lull or quiet.--_v.i._
to be moved backward and forward, to reel.--_ns._ ROCK'ER, the curved
support on which a cradle or rocking-chair rocks: a rocking-horse or chair:
a mining cradle; ROCK'-CAM, a cam keyed to a rock-shaft; ROCK'ING, a
swaying backward and forward: the abrading of a copper plate with a rocker,
preparatory to mezzo-tinting: the motion by which the design on a steel
mill is transferred to a copper cylinder; ROCK'ING-BEAM, an oscillating
beam in an automatic transmitter; ROCK'ING-CHAIR, a chair mounted on
rockers; ROCK'ING-HORSE, the figure of a horse, of wood or other material,
mounted on rockers for children: a hobby-horse; ROCK'ING-PIER, a pier
fastened by a movable joint so as to allow it to rock slightly;
ROCK'ING-STONE, a logan, or large mass of rock so finely poised as to move
backward and forward with the slightest impulse; ROCK'ING-TREE, in weaving,
the axle from which the lay of a loom is suspended; ROCK'-SHAFT, in
steam-engines, a shaft that oscillates instead of revolving.--_adj._
ROCK'Y, disposed to rock: tipsy. [A.S. _roccian_; cf. Dan. _rokke_, to
rock, Ger. _rücken_, to pull.]

ROCKEL, rok'el, _n._ (prov.) a woman's cloak.

ROCKET, rok'et, _n._ a firework which is projected through the air, used
for making signals in war, and for saving life at sea by conveying a line
over a stranded vessel.--_v.i._ to fly straight up rapidly when
flushed.--_ns._ ROCK'ET-CASE, a case for holding the materials of a rocket;
ROCK'ETER. [Old It. _rocchetto_; of Teut. origin. Cf. _Rock_, a distaff.]

ROCKET, rok'et, _n._ any one of several ornamental Old World herbs of the
genus Hesperis, of the mustard family. [O. Fr. _roquette_--L. _eruca_,
cole-wort.]

ROCOCO, r[=o]-k[=o]'k[=o], _n._ a debased style of architecture and
decoration in the 18th century, marked by endless multiplication of
ornamental details. [Fr., prob. from Fr. _rocaille_, rockwork.]

ROCTA, rok'ta, _n._ a medieval musical instrument, resembling the violin.

ROD, rod, _n._ a long twig: a slender stick: anything long and slender, as
a magic rod, a lightning-rod, a fishing-rod, &c.: an instrument of
correction: an emblem of power or authority: a pole or perch (5½ yards, or
16½ feet)--the square rod, generally called rood, is employed in estimating
masonry-work, and contains 16½ × 16½, or 272¼ sq. feet: (_fig._)
punishment: authority: oppression: (_B._) race or tribe: one of the layers
of rods composing the retina of the eye: any bar connecting parts of a
machine.--_v.t._ to furnish with rods, esp. lightning-rods.--_ns._
ROD'-FISH'ER; ROD'-FISH'ING, fly-fishing: angling; ROD'-LINE, a
fishing-line not wound on a reel; ROD'-MACHINE', in wood-working, a machine
for cutting cylindrical sticks such as broom-handles; ROD'-RING, one of the
rings along a fishing-rod through which the line runs; ROD'STER, an
angler.--NAPIER'S RODS (see NAPIERIAN). [A.S. _ród_; Dut. _roede_, Ger.
_ruthe_; L. _rudis_.]

RODDIN, rod'in, _n._ (_Scot._) rowan-tree.

RODE, r[=o]d, _pa.t._ of ride.

RODE, r[=o]d, _n._ (_Spens._) a raid, an incursion: also, a roadstead.
[_Road._]

RODENT, r[=o]'dent, _adj._ gnawing: belonging to the _Rodentia_.--_n._ a
rodent mammal.--_n.pl._ RODEN'TIA, an order of mammals including squirrels,
beavers, rats, rabbits, &c. [L. _rod[)e]re_, to gnaw.]

RODEO, r[=o]-d[=a]'[=o], _n._ a gathering of cattle to be branded. [Sp.,
_rodar_, to go round--L. _rot[=a]re_, to wheel.]

RODGE, roj, _n._ (prov.) the gray duck.--Also RADGE.

RODOMEL, rod'[=o]-mel, _n._ the juice of roses mixed with honey. [Gr.
_rhodon_, rose, _meli_, honey.]

RODOMONTADE, rod-[=o]-mon-t[=a]d', _n._ vain boasting, like that of
_Rodomonte_ in the _Orlando Furioso_ of Ariosto (earlier
ROD'OMONT).--_v.i._ to bluster or brag.--_ns._ RODOMONT[=A]'DIST,
RODOMONT[=A]'DO (_obs._).

ROE, r[=o], _n._ the eggs or spawn of fishes: a mottled appearance in wood,
esp. mahogany.--_adj._ ROED, containing roe. [Ice. _hrogn_; Ger. _rogen_.]

ROE, r[=o], _n._ a species of deer, smaller than the fallow-deer: also the
female of the hart.--_ns._ ROE'BUCK, the male of the roe, having usually
one front antler and two hinder ones; ROE'BUCK-BERR'Y, the stone-bramble;
ROE'-DEER, a roebuck or roe. [A.S. _ráh_; Ger. _reh_, Dut. _ree_.]

ROE-STONE, r[=o]'-st[=o]n, _n._ the same as _Oolite_ (q.v.).

ROG, rog, _v.t._ (_obs._) to shake.

ROGATION, r[=o]-g[=a]'shun, _n._ an asking: supplication.--_n.pl._
ROG[=A]'TION-DAYS, the three days before the festival of Ascension, the
Litany being anciently recited in procession then.--_ns._
ROG[=A]'TION-FLOW'ER, the milk-wort; ROG[=A]'TION-SUN'DAY, that before
Ascension-day; ROG[=A]'TION-WEEK, the week in which the rogation-days
occur.--_adj._ ROG'ATORY. [L.,--_rog[=a]re_, to ask.]

ROGER, roj'[.e]r, _n._ (prov.) ram: a rogue.--(SIR) ROGER-DE-COVERLEY, an
English country-dance.

ROGGAN, rog'an, _n._ (_prov._) a rocking-stone.

ROGGENSTEIN, rog'en-st[=i]n, _n._ a kind of oolite in which the grains are
cemented by argillaceous matter. [Ger., _roggen_, rye, _stein_, stone.]

ROGGLE, rog'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to shake.

ROGUE, r[=o]g, _n._ a dishonest person: a knave: a mischievous or
frolicsome person: a vagrant, a sturdy beggar: a wag: a playful person: a
plant that falls short of a standard.--_v.i._ to play the rogue.--_v.t._ to
cheat.--_ns._ ROGUE'-EL'EPHANT, one which lives solitarily, and is of
dangerous temper; ROGUE'-HOUSE, a lock-up; ROGUE'-MON'EY, an assessment
formerly levied in every county in Scotland for the expenses of catching
and prosecuting criminals; ROG'UERY, knavish tricks: fraud:
mischievousness: waggery; ROGUE'SHIP; ROGUE'S'-MARCH, music played when
drumming a soldier from a regiment, or driving any one away in
disgrace.--_adj._ ROG'UISH, knavish: mischievous: waggish.--_adv._
ROG'UISHLY.--_n._ ROG'UISHNESS.--_adj._ R[=O]'GUY (_obs._).--ROGUES'
GALLERY, a collection of photographs of criminals kept at police
headquarters. [O. Fr. _rogue_, proud; either from Bret. _rok_, proud, or
acc. to Diez, from Ice. _hrók-r_, proud.]

ROHAN, r[=o]'han, _n._ an East Indian timber-tree--called also _Red-wood_
and _East Indian mahogany_.

ROIL, roil, _v.t._ to render turbid: to vex: to rile: to salt fish with a
machine called a ROIL'ER--also ROYLE.--_adj._ ROIL'Y, muddy. [O. Fr.
_roeler_, _roler_, to disturb, cog. with _roll_; or O. Fr. _roille_--L.
_robigo_, rust.]

ROINISH, roi'nish, _adj._ (_Shak._) mangy, mean.--Also ROI'NOUS. [O. Fr.
_roigneux_--L. _robiginosus_, rusty--_robigo_, rust.]

ROIST, roist, ROISTER, rois't[.e]r, _v.i._ to bluster, swagger,
bully.--_ns._ ROIS'TER (_arch._), ROIS'TERER.--_adj._ ROIS'TEROUS.--_p.adj.
_ ROIS'TING (_Shak._), blustering, bullying. [O. Fr. _rustre_, a rough,
rude fellow--O. Fr. _ruste_--L. _rusticus_, rustic.]

ROITELET, roi'te-let, _n._ a petty king: (_ornith._) a kinglet or
gold-crest.

ROKE, r[=o]k, _n._ (_prov_.) mist: smoke.--_adj._ R[=O]'KY, misty, foggy.

ROKEAGE, r[=o]'k[=a]j, _n._ parched and sweetened Indian corn--also
R[=O]'KEE.--Also called _Pinole_.

ROKELAY, rok'e-l[=a], _n._ Same as ROQUELAURE.

ROKER, r[=o]k'[.e]r, _n._ the thornback ray.

ROLAND, r[=o]'land, _n._ a chivalrous hero, from _Roland_ in the
Charlemagne legend, slain by the Gascons at Roncesvalles in 778.--A ROLAND
FOR AN OLIVER, a blow for a blow, anything done or said to match something
else.

RÔLE, r[=o]l, _n._ the part performed by an actor in a play: any important
part played in public life. [Fr.]

ROLE, r[=o]l, _n._ an ancient unit of quantity, seventy-two sheets of
parchment.

ROLL, r[=o]l, _v.i._ to turn like a wheel: to turn on an axis: to be formed
into a roll or cylinder: to move, as waves: to be tossed about: to move
tumultuously: to be hurled: to rock, or move from side to side: to wallow:
to spread under a roller: to sound as a drum beaten rapidly: to move
onward.--_v.t._ to cause to roll: to turn on an axis: to wrap round on
itself: to enwrap: to drive forward: to move upon wheels: to press or
smooth with rollers: to beat rapidly, as a drum.--_n._ act of rolling: that
which rolls: a revolving cylinder making sheets, plates, &c.: a roller:
that which is rolled up--hence parchment, paper, &c. wound into a circular
form: a document: a register: a kind of fancy bread: the continued sound of
a drum, of thunder, &c.: a swagger or rolling gait.--_adj._ ROLL'-ABOUT',
podgy.--_ns._ ROLL'-CALL, the calling of the roll or list of names, as in
the army; ROLL'-C[=U]'M[=U]LUS, a form of strato-cumulus cloud; ROLL'ER,
that which rolls: a cylinder used for rolling, grinding, &c.: one of a
family of Picarian birds: a long, broad bandage: (_pl._) long heavy waves;
ROLL'ER-SKATE, a skate mounted on wheels or rollers for use on asphalt or
some other smooth surface.--_adj._ ROLL'ING, modulating: moving on wheels:
making a continuous sound.--_ns._ ROLL'ING-MILL, a place in which metal is
made into sheets, bars, rails, or rods, by working it between pairs of
rolls: a machine for rolling metal, &c., into any required form, or for
crushing materials between rollers; ROLL'ING-PIN, a cylindrical piece of
wood for rolling dough, paste, &c. to any required thickness;
ROLL'ING-PRESS, a press of two cylinders for rolling or calendering cloth;
ROLL'ING-STOCK, the stock or store of locomotive-engines, carriages, &c. of
a railway; ROLL'WAY, an incline: a shoot.--MASTER OF THE ROLLS, the head of
the Record-office. [O. Fr. _roler_, _roeler_ (Fr. _rouler_)--Low L.
_rotul[=a]re_--L. _rotula_, a little wheel--_rota_, a wheel.]

ROLLICK, rol'lik, _v.i._ to move or act with a careless, swaggering,
frolicsome air:--_pr.p._ rol'licking; _pa.p._ rol'licked.--_adj._
ROL'LICKING, careless, swaggering. [Prob. _roll_, with dim. suffix.]

ROLLOCK. See _Rowlock_.

ROLY-POLY, r[=o]l'i-p[=o]l'i, _n._ a pudding made of a sheet of paste,
covered with sweetmeats, and rolled up: a stout podgy person: an old game
in which balls are bowled into holes or thrown into hats placed on the
ground.--_adj._ round, podgy.

ROM, rom, _n._ a gipsy. [Gipsy _rom_, man, husband.]

ROMAGE, rum'[=a]j, _n._ (_Shak._) tumult. [_Rummage._]

ROMAIC, ro-m[=a]'ik, _n._ modern Greek, the language of the descendants of
the Eastern Romans: Hellenic.--_adj._ pertaining to the foregoing.--_n._
ROM[=A]'IKA, a modern Greek dance. [Fr. _Romaïque_--modern Gr.
_Rh[=o]maikos_--_Rh[=o]m[=e]_, Rome.]

ROMAL, r[=o]-mal', _n._ a braided thong of leather, serving as a horseman's
whip. [Sp. _ramal_--L. _ramale_--_ramus_, a branch.]

ROMALEA, r[=o]-m[=a]'l[=e]-a, _n._ a genus of large-bodied, short-winged
locusts. [Gr. _rh[=o]m[=e]_, strength.]

ROMAN, r[=o]'man, _adj._ pertaining to _Rome_ or to the Romans: pertaining
to the Roman Catholic religion, papal: (_print._) noting the letters
commonly used, as opposed to Italics: written in letters (as IV.), not in
figures (as 4).--_n._ a native or citizen of Rome: a Romanist in religion:
a Roman letter or type.--_adj._ ROMAN'IC, pertaining to Rome or its
people.--_n._ ROMANIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ R[=O]'MAN[=I]SE, to convert to the
Roman Catholic religion: to Latinise: to represent by Roman letters or
types.--_v.i._ to conform to Roman Catholic opinions or practices: to print
in Roman letters.--_n._ ROMAN[=I]'SER.--_adj._ R[=O]'MANISH, pertaining to
Romanism.--_ns._ R[=O]'MANISM, the tenets of the Roman Catholic Church;
R[=O]'MANIST, a Roman Catholic.--_adj._ ROMAN CATHOLIC.--_adj._
R[=O]'MANO-BYZAN'TINE, pertaining to an early medieval style of
architecture in which Byzantine and Western elements are combined.--_ns._
ROME'-PENN'Y, -SCOT, Peter's pence.--_adv._ ROME'WARD, toward the Roman
Catholic Church.--_adj._ R[=O]'MISH, belonging to Rome, or to the Roman
Catholic Church.--_n._ R[=O]'MIST.--ROMAN ARCHITECTURE, a style
characterised by the size and boldness of its round arches and vaults,
&c.--baths, aqueducts, basilicas, amphitheatres, &c.; ROMAN CANDLE, a
firework discharging a succession of white or coloured stars; ROMAN
CATHOLIC, denoting those who recognise the spiritual supremacy of the Pope
or Bishop of Rome--as a noun, a member of the Roman Catholic Church; ROMAN
CATHOLICISM, the doctrines and polity of the Roman Catholic Church
collectively; ROMAN CEMENT, a cement which hardens under water; ROMAN
COLLAR, a collar made of lawn or fine linen, bound and stitched, worn by
priests over a black collar, by bishops over a purple, and cardinals over a
scarlet; ROMAN EMPIRE, the ancient empire of Rome, divided in the 4th
century into the Eastern and Western Empires; ROMAN LAW, the civil
law.--HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE (see HOLY). [L. _Romanus_--_Roma_, Rome.]

ROMANCE, r[=o]-mans', _n._ a general name for those modern languages in
southern Europe which sprang from a corruption of the Roman or Latin
language--Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Provençal, French, Roumanian,
Romansch, &c.: a tale written in one of these dialects: any fictitious and
wonderful tale: a fictitious narrative in prose or verse which passes
beyond the limits of real life: a ballad.--_adj._ belonging to the dialects
called Romance.--_v.i._ to write or tell romances: to talk extravagantly:
to build castles in the air.--_ns._ ROMAN'CER, ROMAN'CIST.--_adjs._
ROMAN'CICAL (_Lamb_), dealing with romance; ROMAN'IC, Romance: derived from
the Roman alphabet. [O. Fr. _romans_--Low L. adv. (_loqui_) _romanice_, (to
speak) in the Roman or Latin tongue--L. _Romanicus_, Roman.]

ROMANESQUE, r[=o]-man-esk', _n._ that which pertains to romance:
(_archit._) the style of round-arched and vaulted architecture which
succeeded Roman architecture, from about the time of Constantine (c. 350
A.D.) till it was gradually superseded by Gothic in the 12th century: the
dialect of Languedoc. [Fr.,--Sp. _Romanesco_--L. _Romanicus_.]

ROMANSCH, r[=o]-mansh', _n._ the language spoken from the Grisons to Friuli
on the Adriatic.--Also RHÆ'TO-ROMAN'IC.

ROMANT, r[=o]-mant', _v.i._ to romance: to exaggerate.--_n._ a
romance--generally R[=O]MAUNT'.

ROMANTIC, r[=o]-man'tik, _adj._ pertaining to or resembling romance:
fictitious: extravagant, wild: fantastic: sentimental: imaginative.--_adv._
ROMAN'TICALLY.--_ns._ ROMAN'TICISM, the revolt from the severity,
pedanticism, and commonplaceness of a classical or pseudo-classical to a
more picturesque, original, free and imaginative style in literature and
art, marking the close of the 18th century: romantic feeling; ROMAN'TICIST;
ROMAN'TICNESS.

ROMANY, ROMMANY, rom'a-ni, _n._ a gipsy: the language of the
gipsies.--_adj._ belonging to the gipsies.--ROMANY RYE, a gentleman who
affects the society of gipsies. [Gipsy, _rom_, man.]

ROMERO, r[=o]-m[=a]'r[=o], _n._ the pilot-fish.

ROMIC, r[=o]'mik, _n._ a phonetic notation devised by Henry Sweet, based
upon the original _Roman_ values of the letters, supplemented by turned and
ligatured letters and diagraphs--in part a recasting of Ellis's Glossic.

ROMP, romp, _v.i._ to play noisily: to skip about in play.--_n._ a girl who
romps: rude frolic.--_adv._ ROMP'INGLY, in a romping manner: boisterously:
rudely.--_adj._ ROMP'ISH, fond of romping or noisy play.--_adv._
ROMP'ISHLY.--_n._ ROMP'ISHNESS. [Ramp.]

ROMPU, rom-p[=u]', _adj._ (_her._) fracted. [Fr.]

RONCADOR, rong'ka-d[=o]r, _n._ one of several sciænoid fishes of the
Pacific coast. [Sp.,--L. _rhonchus_, a snoring.]

RONCHIL. See RONQUIL.

RONDACHE, ron-dash', _n._ a buckler. [O. Fr. _rond_.]

RONDE, rond, _n._ (_print._) an angular writing-type.

RONDEAU, ron'd[=o], _n._ a form of poem characterised by closely-knit
rhymes and a refrain, and, as defined in the 17th century, consisting of
thirteen lines, divided into three unequal strophes--the two or three first
words of the first line serving as the burden, recurring after the eighth
and thirteenth lines--brought into vogue by Swinburne: (_mus._) a
rondo.--_ns._ RON'DEL, a form of French verse, earlier than the rondeau,
consisting of thirteen octosyllabic or decasyllabic lines on two
rhymes--practised by Charles of Orleans, &c.; RON'DELET, a poem of five
lines and two refrains; RON'DO, a musical composition of several strains,
during which the first part or subject is repeated several times--often
occurring as one of the movements of a sonata: the musical setting of a
rondeau: a game of hazard played with small balls; RONDOLET'TO, a simple
rondo. [Fr., from _rond_, round.]

RONDELLE, ron-del', _n._ anything round: one of the successive crusts
formed on molten metal when cooling, a rosette.--_n._ ROND'LE, a round,
step of a ladder (same as RONDELLE). [O. Fr., dim. of _rond_, round.]

RONDURE, ron'd[=u]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a round, a circle, the globe. [Fr.
_rondeur_--_rond_, round.]

RONE, r[=o]n, _n._ (_Scot._) a shrub, a thicket.

RONE, r[=o]n, _n._ the gutter which collects the rain from the roof--a
dial. form of _rine_.

RONG, rong (_Spens._), _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of ring.

RONGEUR, rong-zh[.e]r, _n._ a forceps for gouging bones.

RONIN, r[=o]'nin, _n._ a discharged Japanese samurai, an outcast or outlaw.
[Jap., lit. 'wave-man.']

RONION, RONYON, run'yun, _n._ a mangy, scabby animal or person. [Fr.
_rogneux_--_rogne_, mange.]

RONQUIL, rong'kil, _n._ a fish of the North Pacific.--Also RON'CHIL. [Sp.
_ronquillo_--_ronco_--L. _raucus_, hoarse.]

RONT, ront. Same as _Runt_ (q.v.).

RÖNTGEN RAYS. See X-RAYS.

ROOD, r[=oo]d, _n._ the fourth part of an acre, or forty perches--from the
rod used in measuring: a figure of Christ's cross, and often of the
crucifix, esp. that placed at the entrance to the choir in medieval
churches.--_ns._ ROOD'-BEAM (_archit._), a beam across the chancel of a
church for supporting the rood; ROOD'-LOFT, a gallery over the rood-screen;
ROODMAS-DAY, Holy-rood-day; ROOD'-SCREEN, an ornamental partition
separating the choir from the nave; ROOD'-STEEP'LE, a spire built over the
entrance to the chancel; ROOD'-TREE, the cross; H[=O]'LY-ROOD, a crucifix.
[Same as _rod_. A.S. _ród_.]

ROODEBOK, r[=oo]d'e-bok, _n._ the bush-buck. [Dut. _rood_, red, _bok_,
buck.]

ROOF, r[=oo]f, _n._ the top covering of a house or building: a vault or
arch, or the inner side of it: a house or dwelling: the upper part of the
palate: the loftiest part, the roof and crown of things: the top of a
subterraneous excavation: (_geol._) the overlying stratum.--_v.t._ to cover
with a roof: to shelter.--_ns._ ROOF'ER, one who roofs; ROOF'ING, covering
with a roof: materials for a roof: the roof itself: shelter.--_adj._
ROOF'LESS, without a roof: having no house or home: unsheltered.--_ns._
ROOF'LET, a small roof or covering; ROOF'-PLATE, a wall-plate which
receives the lower ends of the rafters of a roof.--_adj._ ROOF'-SHAPED,
shaped like a gable roof.--_ns._ ROOF'-ST[=A]'GING, a scaffold used in
working on an inclined roof; ROOF'-TREE, the beam at the peak of a roof:
the roof.--_adj._ ROOF'Y, having a roof or roofs.--FRENCH ROOF, a form of
roof with almost vertical sides; GOTHIC ROOF, a very high-pitched roof;
MANSARD ROOF (see MANSARD); SQUARE ROOF, one in which the chief rafters
meet at a right angle. [A.S. _hróf_; Dut. _roef_.]

ROOK, rook, _n._ a species of crow--from its croak: the ruddy duck: a
cheat: a simpleton.--_v.i._ to cheat.--_ns._ ROOK'ER, a swindler; ROOK'ERY,
a group of trees on which rooks build: a cluster of mean tenements: a
resort of thieves: a disturbance.--_adj._ ROOK'Y (_Shak._), inhabited by
rooks. [A.S. _hróc_; Goth. _hrukjan_, to croak.]

ROOK, rook, _n._ a castle or piece used in playing chess. [O. Fr.
_roc_--Pers. _rokh_.]

ROOKLE, r[=oo]k'l, _v.i._ to poke about like a pig. [_Rootle._]

ROOL, r[=oo]l, _v.t._ to raggle, to ruffle.

ROOM, r[=oo]m, _n._ space: a chamber: extent of place: space unoccupied:
freedom to act: fit occasion: place of another: stead: (_B._) a seat: a
particular place: a box in a theatre: office: the inner room of a cottage:
a garret.--_v.i._ to occupy a room, to lodge.--_adv._ (_naut._) off from
the wind.--_n._ ROOM'AGE, capacity.--_adj._ ROOMED, containing
rooms.--_ns._ ROOM'ER, a lodger; ROOM'FUL, as much or as many as a room
will hold.--_adv._ ROOM'ILY.--_n._ ROOM'INESS.--_adsj._ ROOM'-RID'DEN,
confined to one's room; ROOM'SOME, roomy.--_adv._ ROOM'Y, having ample
room: wide: spacious.--GIVE ROOM, to withdraw so as to leave space for
others; MAKE ROOM, to open a way. [A.S. _rúm_; Ger. _raum_, Dut. _ruim_.]

ROOM, r[=oo]m, _n._ a deep-blue dye.--Also ROUM.

ROON, r[=oo]n, _n._ (_Scot._) a rim or border.

ROOP, r[=oo]p, _v.i._ (_obs._) to roar.--_n._ hoarseness.--_adsj._ ROOP'IT,
ROOP'Y (_Scot._), hoarse. [A.S. _hrópan_, pa.t. _hreóp_; cf. Ger. _rufen_,
to cry out.]

ROOSE, r[=oo]z, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to praise highly. [M. E. _rosen_--Scand.,
Ice. _hrósa_, to praise.]

ROOST, r[=oo]st, _n._ a pole or support on which a bird rests at night: a
number of fowls resting together: (_Scot._) the inner roof of a
cottage.--_v.i._ to sit or sleep on a roost.--_n._ ROOST'ER, the male of
the domestic fowl, cock: any bird that roosts.--AT ROOST, roosting, asleep.
[A.S. _hróst_; Dut. _roest_.]

ROOT, r[=oo]t, _n._ the part of a plant which is fixed in the earth, and
which draws up sap from the soil: an edible root: anything like a root, a
growing plant together with its root: the bottom: a word from which others
are derived: the cause, occasion, or basis of anything: the source: the
lowest place: the first ancestor, or progenitor: (_math._) the factor of a
quantity which multiplied by itself produces that quantity: any value of
the unknown quantity in an equation which will render both sides of it
identical.--_v.i._ to fix the root: to be firmly established: to tear up:
to eradicate: to exterminate.--_v.t._ to plant in the earth: to implant
deeply.--_ns._ ROOT'AGE, the act of striking roots; ROOT'-BEER, a drink
made from roots of dandelion, sassafras, &c.; ROOT'-B[=O]R'ER, an insect
which bores the roots of plants.--_adj._ ROOT'-BOUND (_Milt._), fixed in
the earth by, or as by, the root.--_ns._ ROOT'-CAP, a cap-like layer of
cells at the tip of roots; ROOT'-CROP, a crop of esculent roots, esp. of
single-rooted plants, as turnips, &c.; ROOT'-DIG'GER, a form of tongs for
raising carrots, &c.; ROOT'-EAT'ER, any animal feeding habitually on
roots.--_adj._ ROOT'ED, firmly planted: fixed by the roots: deep-seated, as
a rooted dislike.--_adv._ ROOT'EDLY.--_ns._ ROOT'EDNESS; ROOT'ER.--_adj._
ROOT'-FAST, firmly rooted.--_ns._ ROOT'-F[=I]'BRIL, one of the fine
divisions of a root; ROOT'-FORM, a form assumed by an insect when feeding
on roots; ROOT'-GRAFT'ING, the process of grafting scions on a part of the
root of some appropriate stock; ROOT'-HAIR, a delicate filament developed
from a single cell.--_adj._ ROOT'-HEAD'ED, fixed as if rooted by the
head.--_ns._ ROOT'-HOUSE, a rustic-house: a storehouse for potatoes, &c.;
ROOT'-KNOT, an abnormal knot of a root.--_adj._ ROOT'LESS, destitute of
roots.--_ns._ ROOT'LET, a little root: a radicle; ROOT'-LOUSE, one of the
plant-lice; ROOT'-PAR'ASITE, a plant which grows upon, and derives its
nourishment from, the root of another plant; ROOT'-PRES'SURE, an upward
flow of sap, 'bleeding;' ROOT'-PULP'ER, a mill for grinding roots;
ROOT'-SHEATH, the sheath of the root of a hair or feather; ROOT'-STOCK
(_bot._), a prostrate rooting stem, either fleshy or woody, which yearly
produces young branches or plants: origin.--_adj._ ROOT'Y, abounding in
roots: rank.--ROOT AND BRANCH, completely; ROOT OF BITTERNESS, a dangerous
error drawing away to apostasy; ROOT OF THE MATTER, that which is
essential.--STRIKE, or TAKE, ROOT, to root, to become fixed. [Scand.; Ice.
_rót_; Dan. _rod_; Goth. _waurts_, A.S. _wyrt_.]

ROOT, r[=oo]t, _v.t._ to turn up with the snout.--_v.i_. to turn up the
earth with the snout.--_n._ ROOT'ER.--_v.t._ ROOT'LE. [A.S.
_wrótan_--_wrót_, a snout.]

ROPALIC=_Rhopalic_ (q.v.).

ROPE, showing method of construction.

[Illustration]

ROPE, r[=o]p, _n._ a thick twisted cord: a string consisting of a number of
things united, as a rope of pearls: anything glutinous and stringy: a local
lineal measure, 20 feet.--_v.i._ to fasten with a rope, to restrain: to
catch with a noosed rope: to tether: to enclose: to extend into a thread,
as by a glutinous quality.--_ns._ ROPE'-CLAMP, a pair of clamping jaws for
securing the end of a cord; ROPE'-DANC'ER, one who performs acrobatic feats
on a rope: a rope-walker; ROPE'-DRILL'ING, a method of boring holes in
which a rope is used; ROPE'-HOUSE, an evaporating-house in salt
manufacture; ROPE'-LADD'ER, a ladder made of ropes; ROPE'-MACHINE', a
machine for making ropes from yarn; ROPE'-M[=A]K'ER, R[=O]'PER, a maker of
ropes; ROPE'-M[=A]K'ING; ROPE'-POR'TER, a pulley to save the ropes of
steam-ploughs from friction; ROPE'-PULL'ING, the sport of pulling at a
rope, each party endeavouring to draw the other over a line; ROPE'-PUMP, a
machine for raising water by an endless rope; R[=O]'PER, a crafty fellow:
one who throws the lasso; ROPE'-RAIL'WAY, a cable-railway.--_adj._
ROPE'-RIPE, deserving to be hanged.--_ns._ ROPE'-RUN'NER, a railway
brakesman; R[=O]'PERY, a place where ropes are made; ROPE'-SPIN'NER, one
who spins ropes by a revolving wheel; ROPE'-STITCH, a kind of work in which
the stitches are laid diagonally side by side; ROPE'-TRICK, a juggling
trick in which a man is firmly tied with ropes from which he extricates
himself: (_Shak._) a trick deserving the gallows; ROPE'-WALK, a long narrow
shed used for the spinning of ropes; ROPE'-WINCH, a set of three whirlers
for twisting simultaneously the three yarns of a rope; ROPE'-YARN, a yarn
of many fibres for ropes.--_adv._ R[=O]'PILY.--_n._ R[=O]'PINESS,
stringiness: viscosity.--_adjs._ R[=O]'PING, R[=O]'PISH, R[=O]'PY, stringy,
glutinous.--ROPE IN, to gather in, to enlist; ROPE OF SAND, a tie easily
broken; ROPE'S END, an instrument of punishment.--BE AT THE END OF ONE'S
ROPE, to have exhausted one's powers or resources; GIVE A PERSON ROPE, to
allow a person full scope; ON THE HIGH ROPE, elated, arrogant. [A.S. _ráp_;
Ice. _reip_, Dut. _reep_, Ger. _reif_.]

ROQUELAURE, rok'e-l[=o]r, _n._ a short cloak worn in the 18th century.
[Fr.]

ROQUET, r[=o]-k[=a]', _n._ in the game of croquet, a stroke by which a
player strikes another's ball.--_v.t._ to make this shot. [Prob. formed
from _croquet_.]

RORIC, r[=o]'rik, _adj._ pertaining to dew: dewy--(_obs._) R[=O]'RAL.--_n._
RORID'ULA, a genus of polypetalous plants of the Sundew family.--_adjs._
RORIF'EROUS, producing dew; RORIF'LUENT, flowing with dew; R[=O]'RULENT,
full of dew: covered with bloom which may be rubbed off. [L. _ros_,
_roris_, dew.]

RORQUAL, ror'kwal, _n._ a genus of whales of the largest size. [Sw.
_rörhval_--_rör_, round, _hval_, whale.]

ROSACEOUS, r[=o]-z[=a]'shus, _adj._ (_bot._) pertaining to the rose family:
with the petals arranged like the rose.--_ns._ ROS[=A]'RIAN, a
rose-fancier; ROS[=A]'RIUM, a rose-garden; R[=O]'SA-S[=O]'LIS, a cordial
made with spirits and various flavourings.--_adj._ R[=O]'S[=A]TED, crowned
with roses. [L. _rosaceous_--_rosa_, a rose.]

ROSALIA, r[=o]-z[=a]'li-a, _n._ a form of melody in which a phrase is
repeated, each time being transposed a step forward. [It.]

ROSANILINE, r[=o]-zan'i-lin, _n._ a derivative of aniline: magenta:
roseine.

ROSARY, r[=o]'za-ri, _n._ the string of beads by which Roman Catholics
count their prayers: a series of devotions, aves, paternosters, and
glorias: a rose-garden: a chaplet: an anthology.--FESTIVAL OF THE ROSARY, a
festival on the first Sunday in October, commemorating the victory over the
Turks at Lepanto in 1571. [O. Fr. _rosarie_--Low L. _rosarium_--L. _rosa_,
a rose.]

ROSCID, ros'id, _adj._ dewy. [L.,--_ros_, _roris_, dew.]

ROSE, _pa.t._ of _rise_.

ROSE, r[=o]z, _n._ any shrub of the genus _Rosa_, having stems generally
prickly, flowers terminal, often corymbose, in colour white, yellow, pink,
or red: a flower of one of these shrubs: any one of various plants
resembling the true rose: a rosette: a perforated nozzle of a pipe, &c.:
light crimson, the colour of the rose: an ornamental tie: erysipelas:
(_her._) a conventional representation of the flower.--_v.t._ to
flush.--_n._ ROSE'-AC[=A]'CIA, the moss-locust, a tree with deep
rose-coloured flowers.--_adjs._ R[=O]'SEAL, like a rose in smell or colour;
R[=O]'SE[=A]TE, rosy: full of roses: blooming: red.--_ns._ ROSE'-BEE'TLE,
-BUG, a coleopterous insect about an inch long, which is destructive to
flowers, esp. roses: the rose-chafer; ROSE'-BERR'Y, the fruit of the rose:
a hip; ROSE'-BIT, a cylindrical bit, the oblique surface of which is cut
into teeth.--_adj._ ROSE'-BREAST'ED, having rose-colour on the
breast.--_ns._ ROSE'-BUD, the bud of the rose: a young girl; ROSE'-BURN'ER,
ROSETTE'-BURN'ER, a gas-burner in which the gas issues from a series of
openings arranged radially round a centre; ROSE'-BUSH, the shrub which
bears roses; ROSE'-CAM'PHOR, one of the two volatile oils composing
attar-of-roses; ROSE'-CAM'PION, a red flower, _Lychnis coronaria_;
ROSE'-CARN[=A]'TION, a carnation striped with rose-colour;
ROSE'-CH[=A]F'ER, an injurious beetle whose grubs destroy the roots of
strawberries, &c.; ROSE'-COL'OUR, the colour of a rose, pink: fancied
beauty or attractiveness.--_adj._ ROSE'-COL'OURED, having the colour of a
rose.--_n._ ROSE'-CROSS, a cross within a circle: a Rosicrucian.--_adj._
ROSE'-CUT, cut with a smooth, round surface, as a precious stone, and not
in facets.--_p.adj._ ROSED (_Shak._), crimsoned, flushed.--_ns._
ROSE'-D[=I]'AMOND, a diamond nearly hemispherical, cut into twenty-four
triangular facets; ROSE'-DROP, a rose-flavoured orange: a pimply eruption
on the nose caused by tippling; ROSE'-EN'GINE, a form of lathe combining
the rotary motion of the mandrel with a radial movement of the tool-rest;
ROSE'-FES'TIVAL, a festival celebrated on 8th June, at Salency in France;
ROSE'-FLY'CATCHER, an American fly-catching warbler; ROSE'-GALL, a gall
produced on roses by an insect; ROSE'-GER[=A]'NIUM, a house-plant with
rose-scented leaves; ROSE'-HAW, the fruit of the wild-rose: a
ROSE'-HIP.--_adj._ ROSE'-HUED, rose-coloured.--_n._ ROSE'-KNOT, a rosette
of ribbon or other soft material.--_adj._ ROSE'-LIPPED, having red
lips.--_ns._ ROSE'-MALL'OW, a plant of the same genus, but larger, and
having a finer flower than the common mallow, the hollyhock;
ROSE'-MOULD'ING (_archit._), a moulding ornamented with roses;
ROSE'-N[=O]'BLE, an ancient English gold coin, stamped with the figure of a
rose, and current at the value of 6s. 8d. (see NOBLE, a coin).--_adj._
ROSE'-PINK, having a pink or rose colour: sentimental.--_n._ a crimson-pink
colour.--_ns._ ROSE'-QUARTZ, a transparent quartz; ROSE'-RASH (see
ROSEOLA).--_adjs._ ROSE'-RED, red as a rose; ROSE'-RINGED, with a collar of
red feathers, as a parrot.--_ns._ ROSE'-ROOT, a succulent herb, having a
rose-scented root; R[=O]'SERY, a place where roses are cultivated;
ROSE'-SAW'FLY, a sawfly which attacks the rose; ROSE'-TAN'AGER, the summer
red-bird; ROSE'-T[=O]'PAZ, an artificial colour of the true topaz produced
by heat; ROSE'-TREE, a standard rose; ROSE'-VIN'EGAR, an infusion made by
steeping roses in vinegar; ROSE'-WA'TER, water distilled from
rose-leaves.--_adj._ sentimental, as 'rose-water philosophy.'--_ns._
ROSE'-WIN'DOW, a circular window with its compartments branching from a
centre, like a rose; ROSE'WOOD, the wood of a Brazilian tree having a
fragrance like that of roses; ROSE'WOOD-OIL, oil obtained from rosewood;
ROSE'-WORM, the larva of a moth which feeds on the leaves of the rose, &c.;
ROSE'-YARD, a rose-garden.--_adj._ R[=O]'SIED, decorated with roses or the
colour of roses.--_n._ R[=O]'SIER (_Spens._), a rose tree or bush.--_adv._
R[=O]'SILY.--_n._ R[=O]'SINESS.--_adjs._ R[=O]'SY, like a rose: red:
blooming: blushing: charming; R[=O]'SY-BOS'OMED, -COL'OURED;
R[=O]'SY-BRIGHT, bright like a rose: blooming.--_n._ R[=O]'SY-DROP, _acne
rosacea_: a grog-blossom.--_adjs._ R[=O]'SY-FING'ERED, Homer's favourite
epithet of the dawn: with rosy fingers; R[=O]'SY-KIN'DLED, blushing with a
rosy colour; R[=O]'SY-MAR'BLED, marbled with rosy colour.--_ns._
R[=O]'SY-MARSH, -RUS'TIC, -WAVE, names of moths.--_adj._ R[=O]'SY-TINT'ED,
tinted of a rose-colour.--UNDER THE ROSE (L., _sub rosâ_), under the pledge
of secrecy, the rose being, among the ancients, the symbol of secrecy; WARS
OF THE ROSES, a disastrous dynastic struggle between the Houses of
Lancaster and York, which desolated England during the 15th century, from
the first battle of St Albans (1455) to that of Bosworth (1485). [A.S.
_róse_--L. _rosa_, Gr. _rhodon_.]

ROSELET, roz'let, _n._ the summer fur of the ermine.

ROSELITE, r[=o]'ze-l[=i]t, _n._ a mineral occurring in small red crystals,
being a native arseniate of cobalt. [Ger. _roselith_, from the mineralogist
Gustav _Rose_ (1798-1873), Gr. _lithos_, a stone.]

ROSELLA, r[=o]-zel'a, _n._ the Australian rose-parrakeet.

ROSELLE, r[=o]-zel', _n._ an East Indian rose-mallow.

ROSEMARY, r[=o]z'm[=a]-ri, _n._ a small fragrant evergreen shrub of a
pungent taste, growing in the countries round the Mediterranean--an ancient
emblem of fidelity. [O. Fr. _rosmarin_--L. _ros-marinus_--_ros_, dew,
_marinus_--_mare_, the sea.]

ROSEOLA, r[=o]-z[=e]'[=o]-la, _n._ a rash of rose-coloured patches.

ROSET, r[=o]'zet, _n._ a red colour used by painters.

ROSET, ros'et, _n._ (_Scot._) rosin.

ROSETTA-STONE, r[=o]-zet'a-st[=o]n, _n._ a slab of black basalt found at
_Rosetta_ in Egypt in 1799, having inscribed upon it, in hieroglyphics,
demotic or enchorial, and Greek, a decree in honour of Ptolemy V.--the
first clue to the decipherment of hieroglyphics.

ROSETTA-WOOD, r[=o]-zet'a-w[=oo]d, _n._ a handsome orange-wood used in
cabinet-making.

ROSETTE, r[=o]-zet', _n._ an imitation of a rose by means of a ribbon: a
form of knot: (_archit._) a rose-shaped ornament: a disc formed by throwing
water on melted metal.--_adj._ ROSET'TED.--RED ROSETTE, or button, the
rosette worn by officers of the Legion of Honour. [Fr., dim. of _rose_.]

ROSICRUCIAN, roz-i-kr[=oo]'shi-an, _n._ one of a secret society of the 17th
century, the members of which made great pretensions to an acquaintance
with the secrets of Nature, the transmutation of metals, power over
elemental spirits, magical signatures, &c.--_n._ ROSICRU'CIANISM. [Prob.
Latinised from Christian _Rosenkreuz_ ('rose cross,' L. _rosa_, rose,
_crux_, cross), the alleged founder in 1459; or from L. _roscidus_,
dewy--_ros_, dew, _crux_, _crucis_, a cross.]

ROSIN, roz'in, _n._ the solid left after distilling off the oil from crude
turpentine.--_v.t._ to rub or cover with rosin.--_adj._ ROS'INED.--_ns._
ROS'IN-OIL, an oil from pine resin for lubricating machinery; ROS'IN-WOOD,
any plant of the genus _Silphium_.--_adj._ ROS'INY, like or containing
rosin. [_Resin._]

ROSING, r[=o]'zing, _n._ the operation of imparting a pink tint to raw
white silk.

ROSLAND, ros'land, _n._ (_prov._) moorish land.--_n._ ROSS, a swamp.

ROSMARINE, roz'ma-r[=e]n, _n._ (_Spens._) a sea-monster supposed to lick
dew off the rocks: rosemary: the walrus. [_Rosemary._]

ROSMARUS, ros'ma-rus, _n._ the genus containing the walruses.

ROSMINIANISM, ros-min'i-an-izm, _n._ the philosophical system of Antonio
_Rosmini_-Serbati (1797-1855), founder of the Institute of the Brethren of
Charity--its fundamental conception, _being_ considered as the form of the
intelligence.--_n._ ROSMIN'IAN, a member of the foregoing.

ROSOLIO, ROSOGLIO, r[=o]-z[=o]'li-[=o], _n._ a red wine of Malta: a sweet
cordial from raisins. [Fr.,--It.,--L. _ros solis_, dew of the sun.]

ROSS, ros, _n._ the scaly matter on the surface of trees: (_Scot._) the
refuse of plants.--_v.t._ to strip the bark from.--_n._ ROSS'ING-MACHINE',
a machine for removing the bark of a tree. [Norw. _ros_, scale.]

ROSSIGNOL, ros'i-nyol, _n._ the nightingale. [Fr.]

ROSTELLARIA, ros-te-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of marine univalves.--_adj._
and _n._ ROSTELL[=A]'RIAN.--_adjs._ ROS'TELLATE; ROSTEL'LIFORM.--_n._
ROSTEL'LUM, any small beak-shaped process, as in the stigma of many
violets: the forepart of the head of tapeworms--also ROS'TEL. [L.
_rostellum_, a little beak.]

ROSTER, ros't[.e]r, _n._ the list of individuals, or corps, kept by the
various staff officers of the army to ensure the allotment of duties in
proper rotation: (_coll._) any roll of names. [Dut. _rooster_--L.
_register_, a list.]

ROSTRUM, ros'trum, _n._ in ancient Rome, an erection for public speakers in
the Forum, adorned with the beaks or heads of ships taken in war: the
platform from which a speaker addresses his audience: the snout of an
animal, or the beak of a bird: the beak of a ship, an ancient form of
ram:--_pl._ ROS'TRUMS, ROS'TRA.--_adjs._ ROS'TRAL, like a rostrum or beak;
ROS'TR[=A]TE, -D, beaked.--_n.pl._ ROSTRIF'ERA, a suborder of gasteropods,
with contractile rostrum or snout.--_adjs._ ROSTRIF'EROUS, having a
rostrum; ROS'TRIFORM, shaped like a rostrum; ROS'TRO-ANTEN'NARY, pertaining
to the rostrum and antennæ of a crustacean; ROS'TROID, resembling a
rostrum; ROSTROLAT'ERAL, situated alongside the rostrum.--_n._ ROS'TRULUM,
the mouth part of a flea. [L. _rostrum_, the beak--_rod[)e]re_, _rosum_, to
gnaw.]

ROSULA, roz'[=u]-la, _n._ a small rose: a genus of Echinoderms.--_adjs._
ROS'[=U]LAR, ROS'[=U]LATE, having the leaves in rose-like clusters.

ROT, rot, _v.i._ to putrefy: to become decomposed: to become morally
corrupt: to become affected with sheep-rot.--_v.t._ to cause to rot: to
bring to corruption:--_pr.p._ rot'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rot'ted.--_n._
decay: putrefaction: a special disease of the sheep, as of the potato: a
decay (called _dry-rot_) which attacks timber: (_slang_) rant, bosh.--_ns._
ROT'-GRASS, the soft grass: the butterwort: the penny-rot; ROT'GUT, bad
liquor; ROT'-STEEP, the process of steeping cottons to remove impurities.
[A.S. _rotian_, pa.p. _rotod_; cf. Ice. _rotinn_, putrid.]

ROTA, r[=o]'ta, _n._ a wheel: a course: a school or military roll: an
ecclesiastical tribunal in the R.C. Church, consisting of twelve prelates
called auditors, having its seat at the papal court.--_adj._
R[=O]'TAL.--_n.pl._ ROT[=A]'LIA, the typical genus of _Rotaliidæ_, small
foraminifers of rotate figure.--_adjs._ ROT[=A]'LIAN; ROTAL'IFORM;
R[=O]'TALINE.--_n._ R[=O]'TALITE, a fossil rotalian.--_adj._ R[=O]'TARY,
turning round like a wheel: rotatory: held in rotation.--_v.t._
R[=O]'T[=A]TE, to turn anything round like a wheel: to cause to turn or to
pass in rotation.--_v.i._ to turn round like a wheel: to go round in
succession.--_adj._ wheel-shaped.--_ns._ ROT[=A]'TING-RING, a band of
brass, &c., placed round a projectile to give it rotation; ROT[=A]'TION, a
turning round like a wheel: series or appropriate succession, as of crops:
recurrent order.--_adjs._ ROT[=A]'TIONAL, R[=O]'T[=A]TIVE.--_adv._
R[=O]'T[=A]TIVELY.--_n._ ROT[=A]'TOR, any rotational agency: a muscle
producing rotatory motion.--_n.pl._ ROTAT[=O]'RIA, the
wheel-animalcules--also ROTIF'ERA.--_adjs._ ROTAT[=O]'RIAL, ROTAT[=O]'RIAN;
R[=O]'TATORY, turning round like a wheel: following in succession. [L.
_rota_, a wheel.]

ROTCHE, roch, _n._ the little auk, or sea-dove.--Also ROTCH'IE. [Prob. Dut.
_rotje_, a petrel.]

ROTE, r[=o]t, _n._ the mechanical repetition of words without knowledge of
the meaning: a row or rank.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to learn by rote. [O. Fr.
_rote_, a track--Low L. _rupta_, a road--_rump[)e]re_, to break.]

ROTE, r[=o]t, _n._ a musical instrument with strings.--_n._ R[=O]'TOUR. [O.
Fr. _rote_, a fiddle (cf. Old High Ger. _hrot[=a]_), from Celt.; W.
_crwth_, Gael. _cruit_.]

ROTE, r[=o]t, _n._ the sound of the surf.

ROTELLA, r[=o]-tel'a, _n._ a disc, a round shield: a genus of gasteropods.
[Dim. of L. _rota_, a wheel.]

ROTHER, roth'[.e]r, _adj._ (_Shak._) roaring, lowing, denoting cattle
generally, or horned or black cattle.--_n._ ROTH'ER-BEAST. [A.S. _hrýther_,
an ox, a cow; cf. Ger. pl. _rinder_, horned cattle.]

ROTHESAY HERALD, one of the six Scottish heralds.

ROTIFER, r[=o]t'if-[.e]r, _n._ one of a class of minute aquatic animals,
popularly called wheel-animalcules, with an anterior equipment of cilia
whose movements suggest a rapidly rotating wheel:--_pl._
ROTIF'ERA.--_adjs._ ROTIF'ERAL; ROTIF'EROUS; R[=O]'TIFORM, wheel-shaped:
(_bot._) having a short tube and spreading limb. [L. _rota_, a wheel,
_ferre_, to carry.]

ROTL, rot'l, _n._ an Arabian pound of twelve ounces.

ROTONDE, r[=o]-tond', _n._ a ruff worn during the beginning of the 17th
century: a cope. [Fr.]

ROTOR, r[=o]'tor, _n._ a quantity having magnitude, direction, and
position. [_Rotator._]

ROTTEN, rot'n, _adj._ putrefied: corrupt: decomposed: unsound: treacherous:
fetid: friable, as rottenstone.--_adv._ ROTT'ENLY, in a rotten manner:
defectively.--_ns._ ROTT'ENNESS; ROTT'ENSTONE, a soft and earthy stone
powdered to polish brass, &c.--_v.t._ to polish with rottenstone. [_Rot._]

ROTTLERA, rot'ler-a, _n._ a genus of Indian euphorbiaceous plants now
included under _Mallotus_, yielding kamila (q.v.) dye.

ROTTOLO, rot'[=o]-l[=o], _n._ a Levantine weight. [It.]

ROTULA, rot'[=u]-la, _n._ the patella or knee-pan: one of the five radial
pieces in the dentary apparatus of the sea-urchin.--_adjs._ ROT'[=U]LAR;
ROT'[=U]LIFORM.

ROTUND, r[=o]-tund', _adj._ round: spherical: convexly protuberant.--_ns._
ROTUN'DA, ROTUN'DO, a round building, esp. with a dome, as the Pantheon at
Rome.--_adjs._ ROTUN'D[=A]TE, rounded off, specifically noting bodies
rounded off at the end; ROTUNDIF[=O]'LIOUS, having round leaves;
ROTUN'DIOUS, ROTUND[=O]'VATE (_bot._), egg-shaped.--_ns._ ROTUND'NESS,
ROTUN'DITY, globular form.--_adj._ ROTUND'-POINT'ED, bluntly pointed. [L.
_rotundus_--_rota_, a wheel.]

ROTURE, r[=o]-t[=u]r', _n._ in Canadian law, a grant made of feudal
property: plebeian rank in France.--_n._ ROTURIER (ro-tü-ri-[=a]'), a
plebeian. [Fr.,--Low L. _ruptura_, ground broken by the plough--L.
_rump[)e]re_, _ruptum_, to break.]

ROUBLE. Same as RUBLE.

ROUCHED, rowcht, _adj._ wrinkled, puckered. [_Ruck_, a wrinkle.]

ROUCOU, r[=oo]'k[=oo], _n._ a dye--arnotto. [Fr.,--Braz.]

ROUÉ, r[=oo]-[=a]', _n._ a fashionable profligate: a rake, debauchee.--_n._
ROU'ERIE, debauchery. [A name given by Philippe, Duke of Orléans, Regent of
France 1715-23, to his dissolute companions--Fr. _roué_, one broken on the
wheel--pa.p. of _rouer_--_roue_--L. _rota_, a wheel.]

ROUELLE, r[=oo]-el', _n._ a wheel-like amulet of the ancient Gauls,
intended to symbolise the sun.--_n._ ROUELLE'-GUARD, a guard having the
shape of a disc, as on some old daggers. [Fr.]

ROUEN-CROSS. See CROSS.

ROUGE, r[=oo]zh, _n._ a powder used to give artificial colour to the cheeks
or lips.--_v.t._ to colour with rouge.--_v.i._ to use rouge: to
blush.--_ns._ ROUGE'-BERR'Y, a shrub of tropical America, whose berries
supply a cosmetic; ROUGE'-DISH, a saucer containing a thin layer of dry
rouge; ROUGE-ET-NOIR, a modern game of chance, played by the aid of packs
of cards on a table covered with green cloth--also _Trente-un_ and
_Trente-et-quarante_.--ROUGE CROIX, one of the four pursuivants of the
English College of Heralds; ROUGE DRAGON, one of the pursuivants of the
Heralds' College. [Fr. _rouge_ (It. _roggio_, _robbio_)--L. _rubeus_, red.]

ROUGET, r[=oo]-zh[=a]', _n._ an infectious disease of swine.
[Fr.,--_rouge_, red.]

ROUGH, ruf, _adj._ not smooth: uneven: uncut: unpolished: unfinished:
boisterous: tempestuous: violent: harsh: severe: rude: coarse: disordered
in appearance: hasty, as a rough guess: stale: astringent: in Greek
grammar, marking the stronger aspiration, equivalent to Eng. _h_.--_n._
rough condition, crudeness: a piece inserted in a horse's shoe to keep him
from slipping: a bully, a ruffian, a rowdy.--_v.t._ to make rough: to
roughen a horse's shoes to keep him from slipping: to shape roughly: to
roughen.--_v.i._ to break the rules in boxing by too great violence.--_n._
ROUGH'AGE, coarse material for bedding cattle, &c.--_adj._ ROUGH'-BILLED,
having a rough, horny excrescence on the beak.--_v.t._ ROUGH'-CAST, to
mould in a rough, unfinished way: to form anything in its first
rudiments.--_n._ a rude model: a form in its rudiments: a kind of
semi-fluid mortar containing fine gravel, thrown in a thin coating on outer
walls.--_vs.t._ ROUGH'-CULL, to cull oysters hastily; ROUGH'-DRAFT, -DRAW,
to trace roughly; ROUGH'-DRY, to dry without smoothing.--_adj._ dry without
having been smoothed.--_v.t._ ROUGH'EN, to make rough.--_v.i._ to become
rough.--_n._ ROUGH'ER, a workman who shapes something preparatory to a
finishing operation: a piece of woollen cloth in preparation for
fulling.--_adjs._ ROUGH'-FOOT'ED, having feathered feet, as a grouse;
ROUGH'-GRAINED, coarse-grained.--_v.t._ ROUGH'-GRIND, to grind
roughly.--_n._ ROUGH'-HEAD, the iguanoid lizard.--_v.t._ ROUGH'-HEW, to hew
coarsely: (_Shak._) to give to anything the first appearance of form.--_n._
ROUGH'-HEW'ER.--_p.adj._ ROUGH'-HEWN, not yet nicely finished: unpolished:
unrefined.--_ns._ ROUGH'-HOUND, the dogfish: a kind of shark; ROUGH'IE
(_Scot._), dried heath; ROUGH'ING-MILL, a metal disc charged with wet
emery, &c., for grinding gems.--_adjs._ ROUGH'ISH, rather rough;
ROUGH'-LEGGED, having legs covered with feathers.--_adv._ ROUGH'LY,
coarsely: harshly: rudely.--_ns._ ROUGH'NESS, crudeness: rawness:
harshness: asperity: physical or mental rudeness: (_U.S._) fodder
consisting of dried corn-stalks: (_Scot._) plenty, esp. of food.--_adj._
ROUGH'-PER'FECT, of an actor when nearly perfect in the memorising of a
part.--_ns._ ROUGH'-RID'ER, one who rides rough or untrained horses: a
horse-breaker; ROUGH'-SCUFF, a coarse fellow: the rabble.--_adj._
ROUGH'-SHOD, shod with roughened shoes, as a horse in frosty weather.--_n._
ROUGH'-SLANT, a shed partially enclosed, for shelter.--_adj._ ROUGH'-SPUN,
rude, homely.--_ns._ ROUGH'-STRING, one of the supports for the steps of a
wooden stairway; ROUGH'-STUFF, coarse paint laid on after the priming, and
before the finish; ROUGH'-TAIL, a shield-tail snake.--_adj._
ROUGH'-TAILED.--_n._ ROUGH'-WING, a British moth: a rough-winged
swallow.--_adj._ ROUGH'-WINGED.--_v.t._ ROUGH'-WORK, to work over hastily
without attention to execution in detail--also _n._--ROUGH AND READY, rough
in manner but prompt in action; ROUGH AND TUMBLE, said of fighting in any
style or by any means: indiscriminate, confused, not too particular about
decorum, fairness, &c.; ROUGH DIAMOND (see DIAMOND); ROUGH IT, to take what
comes.--CUT UP ROUGH, to become quarrelsome or violent; IN THE ROUGH, in an
unwrought or rude condition; RIDE ROUGH-SHOD (see RIDE). [A.S. _rúh_,
rough; Ger. _rauch_, _rauh_, Dut. _ruig_.]

ROUGHT, rawt, an obsolete pret. of _reck_.

ROULADE, r[=oo]-lad', _n._ (_mus._) a melodic embellishment: a run.
[Fr.,--_rouler_, to roll.]

ROULE, r[=oo]l, _n._ an obsolete form of _roll_.

ROULEAU, r[=oo]-l[=o]', _n._ a roll of paper containing a certain number of
coins: a large piping or trimming: one of a bundle of fascines to cover
besiegers:--_pl._ ROULEAUX'. [Fr.]

ROULETTE, r[=oo]l-et', _n._ a little ball or roller: a game of chance
played on an oblong table divided into numbered and coloured spaces, and
having in the centre a rotating disc on which a ball is rolled until it
drops into one of the spaces, the player winning if he has staked his money
on that space or its colour: an engraver's tool: a cylindrical object used
to curl hair upon: (_geom._) a particular kind of curve. [Fr.,--_rouler_,
to roll.]

ROUM. See ROOM (2).

ROUNCE, rowns, _n._ a wheel-pulley in a hand printing-press: a game of
cards.

ROUNCEVAL, rown'se-val, _n._ (_obs._) a giant: anything large and strong:
the marrow-fat pea.

ROUNCY, rown'si, _n._ (_obs._) a common hackney: a nag: a vulgar woman.

ROUND, rownd, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to address in a whisper. [A.S. _runian_, to
whisper.]

ROUND, rownd, _adj._ circular: globular: cylindrical: whole: complete:
plump: large: not inconsiderable, as a sum: whole, unbroken:
smooth-flowing, continuous, as a sound: full, expressive: open: plain:
positive: bold, brisk, without hesitation or delicacy, plain-spoken:
candid, as a 'round unvarnished tale': severe: well turned, in a literary
sense: periodic: (_archit._) vaulted.--_adv._ on all sides: every way:
circularly: in a revolution: from one side or party to another: not in a
direct line, circuitously: in a round manner: from beginning to
end.--_prep._ around: on every side of: all over.--_n._ that which is
round: a circle or globe: a series of actions: the time of such a series: a
turn: routine: revolution: cycle: an accustomed walk: a rundle or step of a
ladder: a song or dance having a frequent return to the same point: a
volley or general discharge of firearms, a single charge of ammunition for
a musket or field-piece: that in which a whole company takes part, as a
treat of liquor, &c.: prescribed circuit, as a policeman's round: the whole
scope, as the round of science: one of a series, as rounds of applause: a
bout in a boxing match: a brewer's vessel for holding beer while undergoing
fermentation.--_v.t._ to make round: to surround: to go round: to complete:
to make full and flowing: to encircle: to make a course round.--_v.i._ to
grow or become round or full: to go round: to go the rounds, as a
guard.--_adj._ ROUND'ABOUT, encircling: circuitous: indirect.--_n._ a
horizontal revolving wheel on which children ride: a round-dance: a short
jacket.--_adv._ ROUND'ABOUTLY.--_ns._ ROUND'ABOUTNESS; ROUND'-ALL, an
acrobatic feat.--_adjs._ ROUND'-ARCHED, of a style characterised by
semicircular arches; ROUND'-ARM, in cricket, swinging the arm more or less
horizontally; ROUND'-BACKED, having a round or curved back:
round-shouldered; ROUND'-CREST'ED, fan-crested.--_ns._ ROUND'-DANCE, a
dance in a circle, or in which the couples wheel; ROUND'ER, one that
frequents a place: a tool for making an edge round: (_pl._) an English game
out of which base-ball grew, played with a small ball and a bat about two
feet long.--_adj._ ROUND'-FACED, having a round face.--_ns._ ROUND'-FISH,
the common carp: the shadwaiter; ROUND'HAND, a style of penmanship in which
the letters are well rounded and free; ROUND'HEAD, a Puritan, so called in
the time of Charles I. from the Puritan fashion of having the hair cut
close to the head.--_adj._ ROUND'HEADED.--_ns._ ROUND'-HOUSE, in ships, a
cabin or house on the after-part of the quarterdeck: on American railways,
an engine-house; ROUND'ING, in bookbinding, the shaping the folded and
sewed sheets into a convex form at the back; ROUND'ING-MACHINE', various
machines for producing round forms, as a machine for sawing out circular
heads for casks; ROUND'ING-PLANE, a woodworking tool for rounding the
handles of rakes, &c.; ROUND'ING-TOOL, an instrument used in forging for
rounding a rod: a kind of draw-plate in saddlery for shaping round leather
straps; ROUND'-[=I]'RON, a plumber's tool for finishing soldered
work.--_adj._ ROUND'ISH, somewhat round.--_ns._ ROUND'ISHNESS; ROUND'LE
(_Spens._), a roundelay; ROUND'LET, a little circle.--_adv._ ROUND'LY, in a
round manner: fully: completely: boldly: openly: plainly: briskly:
generally.--_adj._ ROUND'-MOUTHED (_zool._), having a mouth without any
lower jaw.--_n._ ROUND'NESS, quality of being round, globular, or
cylindrical: cylindrical form: fullness: smoothness of flow: plainness:
boldness: a kind of muff.--_n.pl._ ROUND'-NUM'BERS, an indefinite or
approximate statement of a number, as a population, say, of 10,000.--_v.t._
ROUND'-RIDGE, to plough into round ridges.--_ns._ ROUNDS'MAN (_U.S._), a
policeman who acts as inspector; ROUND'-STONE, small stones used for
paving; ROUND'-T[=A]'BLE, the group of twelve knights, the bravest of all
the throng, who form the centre of the mythical King Arthur's retinue,
sitting with the king at a round table; ROUND'-TOP, a round platform at the
mast-head.--_n.pl._ ROUND'-TOW'ERS, tall narrow circular towers tapering
gradually from the base to the summit, found abundantly in Ireland, and
occasionally in Scotland, now generally believed to be the work of
Christian architects and built for religious purposes.--_n._ ROUND'-UP, the
forming of upward curves: the bringing together of all the cattle in a
ranch: a finishing of an arrangement: the convexity of a deck.--_adj._
ROUND'-WINGED, having rounded wings, as some British moths.--_n._
ROUND'-WORM, one of a class of worms (_Nematoda_) in which the body is
elongated and more or less cylindrical, most of them parasitic--opposed to
the flatworms or _Plathelminthes_, such as tapeworms and flukes.--ROUND
ABOUT, in an opposite direction: an emphatic form of round; ROUND OF BEEF,
a cut of the thigh, through and across the bone; ROUND OFF, to finish
completely; ROUND TO, to turn the head of a ship to the wind.--ALL ROUND,
in all respects; BRING ROUND (see BRING); COME ROUND (see COME); SCOLD
ROUNDLY, to bring to book. [O. Fr. _roond_ (Fr. _rond_)--L.
_rotundus_--_rota_, a wheel.]

ROUNDEL, rown'del, _n._ anything of a round form or figure: a circle: a
ring-dance, a rondel.--_n._ ROUN'DELAY, a round: a song in which parts are
repeated: a dance in a ring. [O. Fr. _rondel_ (Fr. _rondeau_), dim. of
_rond_, round.]

ROUNDROBIN, rownd-rob'in, _n._ a name given to a protest signed by a number
of persons in a circular form, so that no one shall be obliged to head the
list. [Fr. _rond ruban_, round ribbon.]

ROUNDURE, rown'd[=u]r, _n._ (_Shak._)=RONDURE.

ROUP, rowp, _n._ (_Scot._) a sale by auction.--_v.t._ to sell by auction.

ROUP, r[=oo]p, _n._ an infectious disease of the respiratory passages of
poultry.

ROUSE, rowz, _v.t._ to raise up: to stir up: to awaken: to excite to
anything: to put into action: to startle or start, as an animal: to work
about in salt, to roil.--_v.i._ to awake: to be excited to action.--_n._
the reveille.--_adv._ (_obs._) vehemently.--_adj._ ROUS'ANT (_her._),
starting up, as a bird in the attitude of rising.--_ns._ ROUSE'MENT, an
awakening religious discourse; ROUS'ER, one who, or that which, rouses,
anything astonishing.--_adj._ ROUS'ING, having power to awaken: great,
violent.--_adv._ ROUS'INGLY.--_adj._ ROUS'Y, noisy, riotous. [Scand., Sw.
_rusa_, Dan. _ruse_, to rush.]

ROUSE, rowz, _n._ a carousal: a bumper. [Scand., Sw. _rus_, drunkenness,
Ice. _rúss_; cf. Dut. _roes_, Ger. _rausch_.]

ROUSSETTE, r[=oo]-set', _n._ a fruit-eating bat: a dogfish. [Fr.]

ROUST, rowst, _v.t._ to stir up.--_v.i._ to move energetically.

ROUST, r[=oo]st, _n._ a current in the sea.--_v.i._ to drive strongly.

ROUSTABOUT, rowst'a-bowt', _n._ (_Amer._) a common wharf labourer: a
shiftless vagrant.--Also ROUS'TER.

ROUT, rowt, _n._ a tumultuous crowd, a rabble: a large party: a fashionable
evening assembly.--_n._ ROUT'-CAKE, a rich sweet cake for evening
parties.--_adjs._ ROUT'ISH, clamorous: disorderly; ROUT'OUS. [O. Fr.
_route_, a band--Low L. _rupta_, thing broken--L. _rump[)e]re_, _ruptum_,
to break.]

ROUT, rowt, _n._ the defeat of an army or body of troops: the disorder of
troops defeated: a pack of wolves.--_v.i._ to assemble together.--_v.t._ to
put to disorderly flight: to defeat and throw into confusion: to conquer:
to drag out, or into the light.--PUT TO ROUT, to put to flight. [O. Fr.
_route_--L. _ruptus_, _rupta_, pa.p. of _rump[)e]re_, to break.]

ROUT, rowt, _v.i._ to roar like a cow: to snore: to howl like the wind.
[A.S. _hrútan_, to roar.]

ROUT, rowt, _v.t._ to root up, as a pig: to scoop out.--_v.i._ to poke
about--also WROUT.--_n._ ROUT'ER, a sash-plane, as ROUT'ER-GAUGE, for
inlaid work.--_v.t._ ROUT'ER, to cut out, leaving some parts in
relief.--_ns._ ROUT'ER-PLANE, a plane for the bottoms of rectangular
cavities; ROUT'ER-SAW; ROUT'ING-MACHINE', a shaping-machine for wood,
metal, or stone. [_Root._]

ROUT, rowt, _n._ the brent goose. [Ice. _hrota_.]

ROUTE, r[=oo]t, _n._ a course to be traversed: a line of march: road:
track.--_n._ ROUTE'-STEP, an order of march in which soldiers are not
required to keep step.--STAR ROUTE, in the United States, a post route by
means other than steam, the blank contracts for which have three groups of
four stars. [Fr.,--L. _rupta_ (_via_), 'a broken way.']

ROUTH, rowth, _adj._ (_Scot._) plentiful, abundant--also _n._--_adj._
ROUTH'IE, plentiful, well filled.

ROUTIER, r[=oo]-ti-[=a]', _n._ a French brigand of the 12th century: any
brigand or armed robber.

ROUTINE, r[=oo]-t[=e]n', _n._ course of duties: regular course of action:
an unvarying round.--_adj._ keeping an unvarying round.--_adj._ ROUTI'NARY,
customary, ordinary.--_ns._ ROUTINEER'; ROUTI'NISM; ROUTI'NIST. [Fr.]

ROUTLE, row'tl, _v.t._ (_dial._) to disturb: to root out.

ROUX, r[=oo], _n._ a mixture of melted butter and flour for soups, &c.
[Fr.]

ROVE, r[=o]v, _v.t._ to wander over: to plough into ridges.--_v.i._ to
wander about: to ramble: to range: to aim, as in archery, at some casual
mark: to be light-headed: to be full of fun.--_n._ a wandering.--_ns._
R[=O]'VER, one who roves: a robber or pirate: a wanderer: an inconstant
person: in archery, a person shooting with a long bow and arrow: an arrow
used by a rover: an irregular point to be aimed at: in croquet, a ball that
has gone through all the hoops; R[=O]'VERY; R[=O]'VING, the act of
wandering.--_adv._ R[=O]'VINGLY.--_n._ R[=O]'VINGNESS.--SHOOT AT ROVERS, to
shoot at random. [M. E. _rover_, a robber--Dut. _roover_, a pirate,
_rooven_, to rob--_roof_. The verb _rove_ is from the noun _roof_,
plunder.]

ROVE, r[=o]v, _v.t._ to draw through an eye: to bring wool into the form it
receives before being spun into thread: to ravel out thread: to undo what
has been knit: to card.--_n._ a roll of wool or cotton drawn out and
twisted.--_ns._ R[=O]'VING, the process of giving the first twist to yarn:
a slightly twisted sliver of carded fibre; R[=O]'VING-FRAME, a machine for
the manufacture of cotton and worsted; R[=O]'VING-MACHINE', a machine for
winding on bobbins; R[=O]'VING-PLATE, a scraper used for giving a
grindstone a true circular form; R[=O]'VING-REEL, a device for measuring a
hank of yarn. [Prob. a variant of _reeve_ or of _rive_.]

ROVE-BEETLE, r[=o]v'-b[=e]'tl, _n._ a brachelytrous coleopterous insect, as
the devil's coach-horse.--_n._ R[=O]'VER-BEE'TLE, a salt-water insect.

ROW, r[=o], _n._ a line: a rank: persons or things in a line.--_v.t._ to
arrange in a line. [A.S. _ráw_, _ráwe_; Ger. _reihe_, Dut. _rij_.]

ROW, r[=o], _v.t._ to impel with an oar: to transport by rowing.--_v.i._ to
work with the oar: to be moved by oars.--_n._ an excursion in a
rowing-boat.--_adj._ ROW'ABLE.--_ns._ ROW'BOAT, a boat moved by rowers;
ROW'ER; ROW'-PORT, a small square hole in small vessels near the water-line
for the oars in a calm. [A.S. _rówan_; Ger. _rudern_, Ice. _róa_.]

ROW, row, _n._ a noisy squabble: uproar: an outbreak: a brawl.--_v.t._ to
injure by wild treatment: to abuse, scold.--_v.i._ to behave in a riotous
way.--_adj._ ROW'DY, noisy and turbulent, given to quarrelling.--_n._ a
rough, disreputable fellow.--_n._ ROW'DY-DOW, a sustained noise or hubbub,
a row.--_adjs._ ROW'DY-DOW'DY, given to raising rows, uproarious;
ROW'DYISH.--_ns._ ROW'DYISM, the conduct of a rowdy or rough, turbulence;
ROW'ER, one given to quarrels. [Put for _rouse_ (q.v.).]

ROW, row, _n._ (_Scot._) a form of _roll_.--_n._ ROW'-CLOTH, a folding
cloak of warm cloth.

ROWAN, row'an, _n._ the mountain-ash, or quicken-tree, a British tree
belonging to the natural order _Rosaceæ_, whose acid fruit--ROWAN
BERRIES--is sometimes used for preserves.--Also ROAN-TREE. [Scand., Sw.
_röun_, Dan. _rön_, Ice. _reynir_.]

ROWEL, row'el, _n._ the little wheel in a spur, set with sharp points: a
little flat wheel or ring on horses' bits: a seton inserted in the flesh of
an animal.--_v.t._ to put spurs on: to apply the spur to.--_ns._
ROW'EL-HEAD, the axis on which a rowel turns; ROW'ELING-NEED'LE, a needle
used for inserting a rowel or seton; ROW'ELING-SCIS'SORS, a farrier's
instrument for inserting rowels; ROW'EL-SPUR, a spur having several
radiating points. [Fr. _rouelle_--Low L. _rotella_, dim. of L. _rota_, a
wheel.]

ROWEN, row'en, _n._ the aftermath, or second crop of hay: (_prov._) a
stubble-field.

ROWLOCK, r[=o]'lok, or rul'uk, _n._ a contrivance on the wale of a boat, to
rest the oar in rowing.--Also ROLL'OCK, RULL'OCK. [Prob. A.S. _árlóc_.]

ROWME, rowm, _n._ (_Spens._) room, space, place.

ROXBURGHE, roks'bur-[=o], _n._ a style of binding for books, with cloth or
paper sides, plain leather back, gilt-top, other sides untrimmed, named
from the Duke of _Roxburghe_ (1740-1804).

ROY, roi, _n._ (_obs._) a king. [O. Fr.,--L. _rex_, _regis_.]

ROYAL, roi'al, _adj._ regal, kingly: magnificent: illustrious: magnanimous:
enjoying the favour or patronage of the sovereign: of more than common size
or excellence.--_n._ a large kind of paper (19 by 24 in. for writing-paper,
20 by 25 for printing-paper): (_obs._) a royal person, a king: a gold coin:
a sail immediately above the topgallant sail: one of the shoots of a stag's
head: a small mortar: a tuft of beard on the lower lip, an imperial.--_n._
ROY'ALET, a petty king.--_v.t._ ROY'ALISE (_Shak._), to make royal.--_ns._
ROY'ALISM, attachment to kings or to kingly government; ROY'ALIST, an
adherent of royalism: a cavalier during the English civil war: in American
history, an adherent of the British government: in French history, a
supporter of the Bourbons--also _adj._--_adv._ ROY'ALLY.--_n._ ROY'AL-MAST,
the fourth and highest part of the mast from the deck, commonly made in one
piece with the topgallant mast.--_adj._ ROY'AL-RICH (_Tenn._), rich as a
king.--_n._ ROY'ALTY, kingship: the character, state, or office of a king:
majesty: the person of the king or sovereign: fixed sum paid to the Crown
or other proprietor, as on the produce of a mine, &c.: kingdom: royal
authority: a royal domain: (_Scot._) the bounds of a royal burgh.--ROYAL
BOUNTY, a fund from which the sovereign grants money to the female
relatives of officers who die of wounds; ROYAL CASHMERE, a thin material of
pure wool; ROYAL FERN (_Osmunda regalis_), the most striking of British
ferns; ROYAL HORNED CATERPILLAR, a large bombycid moth of the United
States; ROYAL HOUSEHOLD, the body of persons in the service of the
sovereign.--THE ROYALS, a name formerly given to the first regiment of foot
in the British army. [Fr.,--L. _regalis_, regal.]

ROYENA, roi'e-na, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants of the ebony family.
[From the 18th-century Dutch botanist Adrian van _Royen_.]

ROYNE, roin, _v.t._ to bite, to gnaw.--_adj._ ROY'NISH (_Shak._), scurvy,
mangy: mean. [O. Fr. _rogne_, mange--L. _rubigo_, rust.]

ROYNE, roin, _v.i._ to whisper, mutter.--Also ROIN, ROWND. [Cf. _Round_, to
whisper.]

ROYSTERER, roist'[.e]r-[.e]r, _n._ Same as ROISTERER.

ROYTISH, roi'tish, _adj._ (_obs._) wild: irregular.

RUB, rub, _v.t._ to move something over the surface of with pressure or
friction: to clean, polish, or smooth, by passing something over: to wipe:
to scour: to remove by friction (with _off_, _out_): to erase or obliterate
(with _out_): to touch hard, fret: at bowls, to touch the jack with the
bowl.--_v.i._ to move along with pressure, friction, or difficulty: to get
through difficulties: to grate, to fret:--_pr.p._ rub'bing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ rubbed.--_n._ the act of rubbing: that which rubs: a collision: an
obstruction: difficulty: a pinch: a joke: a sarcasm: a flaw: a rubber at
cards.--_ns._ RUB'-A-DUB, the sound of the drum when beaten; RUB'-[=I]'RON,
a wheel-guard, or wheel-guard plate; RUB'STONE, a whetstone: a
coarse-grained sandstone used for sharpening instruments.--RUBBED WORK,
work in stone smoothed by rubbing with gritstone; RUB DOWN, to rub from top
to bottom; RUB IN, to force into the pores of by friction: to reiterate or
emphasise; RUB OUT, to erase; RUB THE WRONG WAY, to irritate by opposition;
RUB UP, to polish: to freshen the memory. [Most prob. Celt.; Gael. _rub_,
W. _rhwbio_, to rub, to grind.]

RUBASSE, r[=oo]-bas', _n._ a beautiful variety of rock-crystal. [Fr.,--L.
_rubeus_, reddish.]

RUBATO, r[=oo]-bä'to, _adj._ (_mus._) in modified or distorted rhythm.
[It., pa.p. of _rubare_, to steal.]

RUBBER, rub'[.e]r, _n._ one who rubs down horses: one who practises
massage: a coarse towel for rubbing the body: a piece of caoutchouc for
erasing pencil-marks, india-rubber: a brush for erasing marks of chalk: the
cushion of an electric machine: a whetstone, a file: an emery-cloth: an
overshoe: a rub, as 'One who plays with bowls must expect to meet with
rubbers': a contest of three games, as at whist--also the deciding game in
such a series.--_adj._ made of caoutchouc or india-rubber.--_ns._
RUBB'ER-CLOTH, a fabric coated with caoutchouc; RUBB'ER-DAM, a sheet of
caoutchouc used by dentists to keep saliva out of a tooth while being
filled; RUBB'ER-GAUGE, a device for measuring the amount of india-rubber
needed to make a given article; RUBB'ER-MOULD, a vulcanite mould used by
dentists in shaping the plates for artificial teeth; RUBB'ER-MOUNT'ING, in
saddlery, harness-mounting with vulcanite in imitation of
leather-work.--_n.pl._ RUBB'ERS, a disease in sheep, with great heat and
itchiness.--_ns._ RUBB'ER-SAW, a circular rotatory knife for cutting
india-rubber; RUBB'ER-STAMP, an instrument for stamping by hand with ink,
the letters, &c., being in flexible vulcanised rubber; RUBB'ER-TYPE, a type
cast in rubber; RUBB'ING, an application of friction: a copy of an
inscribed surface produced by rubbing heel-ball or plumbago upon paper laid
over it.--_ns._ RUBB'ING-MACHINE', a machine used in linen bleaching;
RUBB'ING-POST, a stone or wooden post set up for cattle to rub themselves
against; RUBB'ING-STONE, a gritstone for erasing the marks on a stone.

RUBBISH, rub'ish, _n._ waste matter: the fragments of ruinous buildings:
any mingled mass: nonsense: trash: trumpery: litter.--_n._ RUBB'ISH-HEAP, a
pile of rubbish.--_adj._ RUBB'ISHING, trashy: paltry.--_n._
RUBB'ISH-PULL'EY, a gin-block.--_adj._ RUBB'ISHY, worthless. [M. E.
_robows_, _robeux_--O. Fr. _robeux_, pl. of _robel_, dim. of _robe_,
_robbe_, trash, whence also _rubble_; cf. It. _roba_, rubbish, spoil.]

RUBBLE, rub'l, _n._ the upper fragmentary decomposed matter of a mass of
rock: water-worn stones: small, undressed stones used in coarse
masonry.--_ns._ RUBB'LE-STONE (same as RUBBLE): also (_geol._) a kind of
conglomerate rock; RUBB'LE-WORK, a coarse kind of masonry of stones left
almost as they come from the quarry, or only dressed a little with the
hammer.--_adj._ RUBB'LY. [O. Fr. _robel_, pl. _robeux_, dim. of _robe_,
_robbe_, _rubbish_; cf. It. _roba_, and the cognate _rob_.]

RUBECULA, r[=oo]-bek'[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of birds, such as the robin
redbreast. [L. _rub[=e]re_, to be red.]

RUBEDITY, r[=oo]-bed'i-ti, _n._ ruddiness.--_adj._ RUBED'INOUS. [L.
_rubedo_, redness--_rub[=e]re_, to be red.]

RUBEFACIENT, r[=oo]b-e-f[=a]'shent, _adj._ making ruby or red.--_n._
(_med._) an external application which stimulates and consequently reddens
the skin.--_n._ RUBEFAC'TION, the effect or action of a rubefacient. [L.
_rub[=e]re_, to be red, _faciens_, _-entis_, _pr.p._ of _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

RUBELLA, r[=oo]-bel'a, _n._ a contagious disease, with rose-coloured
eruption.--Also RUB[=E]'OLA, and _German measles_.

RUBESCENT, r[=oo]-bes'ent, _adj._ tending to a red colour.--_n._
RUBES'CENCE, a growing or becoming red: tendency to redness. [L.
_rubesc[)e]re_, to grow red--_ruber_, red.]

RUBIA, r[=oo]'bi-a, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants, including the
madder.--_n._ RU'BIAN, a colour-producing matter of madder.--_adj._
RUBIAN'IC.--_n._ RU'BIATE. [L.,--_rubeus_, reddish, _rub[=e]re_, to be
red.]

RUBICAN, r[=oo]'bi-kan, _adj._ of a bay, sorrel, or black colour, with some
light-gray or white on the flanks: of a red predominant over gray colour.
[Fr.,--L. _rubric[=a]re_, to colour red.]

RUBICEL, RUBICELLE, r[=oo]'bi-sel, _n._ an orange or flame-coloured variety
of spinel.

RUBICON, r[=oo]b'i-kon, _n._ a stream of Central Italy, forming the
boundary in the republican period of ancient Roman history between the
province of Gallia Cisalpina and Italia proper.--PASS THE RUBICON, to take
a decisive, irrevocable step, as Julius Cæsar's crossing this stream, the
limit of his province--a virtual declaration of war against the republic.

RUBICUND, r[=oo]'bi-kund, _adj._ inclining to redness: ruddy.--_n._
RUBICUN'DITY. [Fr.,--L. _rubicundus_, very red--_rub[=e]re_, to be red.]

RUBIDIUM, r[=oo]-bid'i-um, _n._ a soft silvery-white metallic element. [L.
_rubidus_, red.]

RUBIFY, r[=oo]'bi-f[=i], _v.t._ to make red.--_adj._ RUBIF'IC.--_n._
RUBIFIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ RU'BIFORM. [Fr.,--L.
_rubefac[)e]re_--_rub[=e]re_, to be red, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

RUBIGO, r[=oo]-b[=i]'g[=o], _n._ a kind of rust on plants: mildew.--_adjs._
RUBIG'INOSE, brown-red; RUBIG'INOUS. [L., rust.]

RUBINE, r[=oo]'bin, _n._ an aniline dye.--_adj._ RUBIN'EOUS, of a glassy
semi-transparent crimson. [L. _rubeus_, red.]

RUBIRETIN, r[=oo]-bi-ret'in, _n._ a resinous colouring matter in madder.
[L. _rubeus_, red, Gr. _hr[=e]tin[=e]_, resin.]

RUBLE, ROUBLE, r[=oo]'bl, _n._ the unit of the Russian money system,
divided into 100 copecks--the present silver ruble is equivalent to 2s.
1½d. [Russ. _rubl[)i]_--_rubit[)i]_, cut off, prob. from Pers.
_r[=u]p[=i]ya_, a rupee.]

RUBRIC, r[=oo]'brik, _n._ the directions for the service, in office-books,
formerly in red letters: any heading, guiding, rule, &c. printed
conspicuously in red: a flourish after a signature: a thing definitely
settled: red ochre.--_v.t._ to enjoin services.--_adjs._ RU'BRIC, -AL,
agreeing with a rubric.--_adv._ RU'BRICALLY, over formally.--_v.t._
RU'BRICATE, to illuminate with red letters: to formulate as a
rubric.--_adj._ represented in red.--_ns._ RUBRIC[=A]'TION, that which is
illuminated; RUBRIC[=A]'TOR, one who rubricates; RUBRIC'IAN, one versed in
the rubric; RUBRIC'ITY, accordance with the rubric.--_adj._ RU'BRICOSE
(_bot._), marked with red.--_n._ RU'BRISHER (_obs._), a painter of
ornamental letters in early manuscripts. [L. _rubrica_, red earth--_ruber_,
red.]

RUBUS, r[=oo]'bus, _n._ a genus of rosaceous plants including the
raspberry, &c. [L., a bramble-bush.]

RUBY, r[=oo]'bi, _n._ a pure transparent red-coloured corundum, inferior in
hardness to the diamond only among gems: redness, anything red: (_her._)
the tincture red or gules: (_print._) a type smaller than nonpareil and
larger than pearl--5½ points in the new system: the red bird of Paradise:
the ruby hummer of Brazil.--_adj._ red.--_v.t._ to make red:--_pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ ru'bied.--_adj._ RU'BIED (_Shak._), red as a ruby.--_n._ RU'BINE
(_Spens._), same as RUBY.--_adj._ RU'BIOUS (_Shak._), ruby, red,
ruddy.--_ns._ RU'BY-BLENDE, a clear red variety of zinc sulphide: ruby
silver; RU'BY-TAIL, a gold-wasp, or cuckoo-fly.--_adj._ RU'BY-THROAT'ED,
like a humming-bird, with a ruby gorget.--_ns._ RU'BY-T[=I]'GER, a British
moth; RU'BY-WOOD, red sandalwood.--ROCK RUBY, a ruby-red garnet. [O. Fr.
_rubi_--L. _rubeus_--_ruber_, red.]

RUCERVUS, r[=oo]-ser'vus, _n._ a genus of East Indian _Cervidæ_.--_adj._
RUCER'VINE.

RUCHE, r[=oo]sh, _n._ a plaited frilling.--Also RUCH'ING. [Fr., prob.
Celt., Bret. _rusk_.]

RUCK, ruk, _n._ a wrinkle, fold, or crease.--_v.t._ to wrinkle, to crease:
to annoy, ruffle.--_v.i._ to have a folded, wrinkled, or ridgy surface.
[Ice. _hrukka_, a wrinkle.]

RUCK, ruk, _v.i._ to squat: to crouch down: to cower: to huddle
together.--_v.t._ to perch, to roost.

RUCK, ruk, _n._ a crowd: a press: the common run: trash, nonsense.--_v.t._
to gather in heaps. [Prob. Scand.; Old Sw. _ruka_, a heap.]

RUCK, ruk, _n._ a small heifer.

RUCKLE, ruk'l, _n._ (_Scot._) a rattling noise in the throat, as from
suffocation.--_v.i._ to emit such a sound. [Prob. cog. with Dut.
_rogchelen_, to hawk.]

RUCTATION, ruk-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of belching: eructation. [L.
_ruct[=a]re_, to belch.]

RUCTION, ruk'shun, _n._ (_slang_) a vexation: a disturbance: a rumpus.
[Prob. a corr. of _eruption_.]

RUD, rud, _n._ redness: blush: flush: red ochre for marking sheep.--_v.t._
to make red. [A.S. _rudu_, redness, _reódan_, to redden.]

RUD, rud, _v.t._ (_prov._) to rub: to polish.

RUDAS, r[=oo]'das, _n._ (_Scot._) a foul-mouthed old woman: a randy, a
hag.--_adj._ bold, coarse.

RUDBECKIA, rud-bek'i-a, _n._ a genus of composite plants, abundant in the
eastern and central United States, the cone-flowers. [Named from the
Swedish botanist Olaus _Rudbeck_ (1630-1702).]

RUDD, rud, _n._ the fish red-eye.

RUDDER, rud'[.e]r, _n._ the instrument by which a ship is rowed or steered,
its primitive form an oar working at the stern: that which guides anything:
a bird's tail-feather.--_ns._ RUDD'ER-BAND, a gearing with which the rudder
is braced when the ship is at anchor; RUDD'ER-BRACE, a strap to receive a
pintle of the rudder; RUDD'ER-BRAKE, a compressor for controlling the
rudder in a seaway; RUDD'ER-CHAIN, a strong chain often shackled to the
after-part of a rudder to prevent its loss; RUDD'ER-COAT, a covering of
tarred canvas used to prevent water rushing in at the rudder-hole;
RUDD'ER-FISH, the pilot-fish: the amber-fish: the barrel-fish.--_adj._
RUDD'ERLESS, having no rudder.--_ns._ RUDD'ER-POST, the shank of a rudder,
having the blade at one end and the attachments at the other;
RUDD'ER-STOCK, the blade of the rudder, connected by hinges with the
sternpost of a vessel; RUDD'ER-TRUNK, a casing of wood fitted into the
post, through which the rudder-stock is inserted; RUDD'ER-WHEEL, a small
wheel at the end of a plough helping to guide it. [A.S. _róther_; Ger.
_ruder_, an oar.]

RUDDER, rud'[.e]r, _n._ a riddle or sieve.--_v.t._ RUDD'LE, to sift
together: to mix, as through a sieve.

RUDDLE, rud'l, _v.t._ to interweave: to cross-plait, as in making
lattice-work. [_Raddle_.]

RUDDLE, rud'l, _n._ a species of red earth, red ochre: (_obs._)
ruddiness.--_v.t._ to mark with ruddle--also RADD'LE, REDD'LE.--_n._
RUDD'LEMAN=_Reddleman_. [A.S. _rudu_, redness--_reád_, red.]

RUDDOC, RUDDOCK, rud'uk, _n._ (_Spens._) the redbreast: a gold coin: a kind
of apple. [A.S. _rudduc_--_rudu_, redness--_reád_, red.]

RUDDY, rud'i (_comp._ RUDD'IER, _superl._ RUDD'IEST), _adj._ red: of the
colour of the skin in high health: rosy, glowing, bright.--_v.t._ to make
red.--_adv._ RUDD'ILY.--_ns._ RUDD'INESS; RUDD'Y-DIV'ER, -DUCK, an American
duck with wedge-shaped tail; RUDD'Y-RUDD'ER, the long-eared sun-fish. [A.S.
_rudig_, _rudi_--_rudu_, redness--_reád_, red.]

RUDE, r[=oo]d (_comp._ RU'DER, _superl._ RU'DEST), _adj._ crude:
uncultivated: barbarous: rough: harsh: ignorant: uncivil: not smoothed: of
low rank: mean: savage: brutal: ferocious: ill-bred: boorish: stormy:
robust: not in good taste.--_adj._ RUDE'-GROW'ING, rough: wild.--_adv._
RUDE'LY.--_ns._ RUDE'NESS; RUDES'BY (_Shak._), an uncivil fellow. [Fr.,--L.
_rudis_, rough.]

RUDENTURE, r[=oo]-den't[=u]r, _n._ the figure of a rope with which the
flutings of columns are sometimes filled.--_adj._ RUDEN'TED. [Fr.]

RUDERAL, r[=oo]'de-ral, _adj._ (_bot._) growing in waste places or among
rubbish.--_n._ RUDER[=A]'TION, the act of paving with small stones and
mortar. [L. _rudus_, rubbish.]

RUDESHEIMER, rü'des-h[=i]-m[.e]r, _n._ one of the white Rhine wines highly
esteemed--named from _Rüdesheim_ on the Rhine, opposite Bingen.

RUDGE, ruj, _n._ (_prov._) a partridge.

RUDGE-WASH, ruj'-wash, _n._ kersey cloth made of fleece wool as it comes
from the sheep's back.

RUDIMENT, r[=oo]d'i-ment, _n._ anything in its rude or first state: a first
principle or element: (_pl._) the introduction to any science: (_biol._)
that which is in its first stage of development: the beginning of any part
or organ, that which is vestigial, an aborted part.--_v.t._ to ground: to
settle in first principles.--_adjs._ RUDIMEN'TAL, RUDIMEN'TARY, pertaining
to, consisting in, or containing rudiments or first principles: initial:
elementary: undeveloped: (_biol._) beginning to be formed: arrested in
development.--_adv._ RUDIMEN'TARILY.--_n._ RUDIMENT[=A]'TION.

RUDMAS-DAY, rud'mas-d[=a], _n._ Holy Rood Day.

RUE, r[=oo], _n._ a plant of any species of genus _Ruta_, with bitter
leaves and greenish-yellow flowers--an emblem of bitterness and
grief--called _Herb of grace_: any bitter infusion.--_ns._ RUE'-ANEM'ONE,
an American wild-flower; RUE'-WORT, a plant of the rue family. [Fr.
_rue_--L. _ruta_--Gr. _rhyt[=e]_.]

RUE, r[=oo], _v.t._ to be sorry for: to lament: to repent of: to
compassionate: to try to withdraw from, as a bargain.--_v.i._ to be
sorrowful: to suffer: to have pity upon:--_pr.p._ rue'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ rued.--_n._ sorrow.--_n._ RUE'-BAR'GAIN, a forfeit for withdrawing
from a bargain.--_adj._ RUE'FUL, sorrowful: piteous: deplorable: mournful:
melancholy.--_adv._ RUE'FULLY.--_ns._ RUE'FULNESS; RU'ING, repentance.
[A.S. _hreówan_, to be sorry for--_hreów_, sorrow; Ger. _reue_, Old High
Ger. _hriuwa_, mourning.]

RUELLE, r[=oo]-el', _n._ the space between the bed and the wall, a
bed-chamber where great French ladies held receptions in the morning in the
17th and 18th centuries. [Fr., a lane--L. _ruga_, a wrinkle.]

RUELLIA, r[=oo]-el'i-a, _n._ a genus of gamopetalous plants, tropical and
American--the _manyroot_, _spiritleaf_, _Christmas-pride_ of Jamaica, &c.
[From the 16th-century French botanist, Jean _Ruel_.]

RUFESCENCE, r[=oo]-fes'ens, _n._ reddishness.--_adj._ RUFES'CENT. [L.
_rufesc[)e]re_, to grow reddish--_rufus_, red.]

RUFF, ruf, _n._ an ornament of frills formerly worn round the neck:
anything plaited: a bird belonging to the sandpiper sub-family of the Snipe
family, the male with an erectile ruff during the breeding season--_fem._
REEVE: a band of long hair growing round the neck of some dogs: (_mach._)
an annular ridge formed on a shaft to prevent motion endwise: a breed of
domestic pigeons: (_obs._) a display.--_v.t._ to pucker: to draw up in
folds: to ruffle, disorder: in falconry, to hit without trussing: (_Scot._)
to applaud by making noise with hands or feet.--_adj._ RUFFED, having a
ruff, as the ruffed grouse. [Prob. _ruffle_.]

RUFF, ruf, _n._ an old game at cards: the act of trumping when the player
has no cards of the suit left.--_v.t._ to trump in this way. [Perh. conn.
with It. _ronfa_, a card-game.]

RUFF, ruf, _n._ ruggedness.--_v.t._ to heckle flax on a coarse heckle: to
nap hats.--_n._ RUFF'ER, a coarse heckle for flax.--_adj._ RUFF'Y-TUFF'Y,
disordered, rough.--_adv._ helter-skelter, pell-mell.

RUFF, ruf, _n._ a low vibrating beat of a drum.

RUFF, ruf, _n._ a small fresh-water fish of the Perch family, abundant in
England, about six inches long, with only one dorsal fin.--Also _Pope_.

RUFFIAN, ruf'i-an, _n._ a brutal, boisterous fellow: a robber: a murderer:
a pander.--_adj._ brutal: boisterous: licentious: stormy.--_v.i._ to play
the ruffian, to rage.--_n._ RUFF'IANAGE.--_adj._ RUFF'IANISH, having the
qualities or manners of a ruffian.--_n._ RUFF'IANISM, conduct of a
ruffian.--_adjs._ RUFF'IANLY, like a ruffian: violent; RUFF'INOUS (_obs._),
ruffianly, outrageously. [O. Fr. _ruffian_ (Fr. _rufien_; It. _rufiano_),
prob. from Old Dut. _roffen_, _roffelen_, a pander.]

RUFFIN, ruf'in, _n._ (_Spens._) the ruff-fish.

RUFFLE, ruf'l, _v.t._ to make like a ruff, to wrinkle: to form into plaits:
to form with ruffles: to disorder: to agitate.--_v.i._ to grow rough: to
flutter.--_n._ annoyance: a quarrel: a plaited article of dress: a tumult:
agitation.--_adj._ RUFF'LED.--_ns._ RUFF'LEMENT; RUFF'LER, a machine for
making ruffles; RUFF'LING, ruffles generally.--RUFFLE ONE'S FEATHERS, to
make one angry. [Cf. Dut. _ruifelen_, to wrinkle, _ruyffel_, a wrinkle.]

RUFFLE, ruf'l, _v.i._ to act turbulently: to swagger.--_v.t._ to
bully.--_n._ RUFF'LER, a bully. [_Ruffian._]

RUFOUS, r[=oo]'fus, _adj._ reddish or brownish-red: having reddish
hair.--_adj._ RU'F[=U]LOUS, somewhat rufous. [L. _rufus_, akin to _ruber_,
red.]

RUG, rug, _n._ a coarse, rough woollen cloth or coverlet: a soft, woolly
mat: a cover for a bed: a blanket or coverlet: a covering for the floor: a
travelling robe: a rough, shaggy dog: a kind of strong liquor.--_n._
RUG'GING, heavy napped cloth for rugs: a coarse cloth for horse-boots.
[Scand., Sw. _rugg_; cf. _Rough_.]

RUG, rug, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to pull roughly.--_n._ a tug.--GET A RUG, to get
a haul at something desirable.

RUG, rug, _adj._ (_prov._) snug: warm.

RUGA, r[=oo]'ga, _n._ a fold: a crease: a corrugation.--_adj._ RU'GATE.
[L., a fold.]

RUGBY, rug'bi, _n._ the game of football according to the rules of the
_Rugby_ Football Union (1871), the sides numbering 15 each, played on
ground 110 by 75 yards.

RUGGED, rug'ed, _adj._ rough: uneven: shaggy: sour: stormy: grating to the
ear: wrinkled: ruffled: homely: unpolished: rough: ungentle: (_U.S._)
robust.--_adv._ RUGG'EDLY.--_n._ RUGG'EDNESS.--_adjs._ RUGG'Y, rough:
uneven; RUG'-HEAD'ED, shock-headed. [Scand.; cf. _Rug_.]

RUGINE, r[=oo]'jin, _n._ a surgeon's rasp, a nappy cloth.--_v.t._ to use a
rugine. [Fr.]

RUGOSA, r[=oo]-g[=o]'sa, _n._ an order of sclerodermatous stone corals.

RUGOSE, r[=oo]'g[=o]s, _adj._ wrinkled: full of wrinkles: (_bot._) having
the veinlets sunken and the spaces between them elevated, as the leaves of
the sage--also RU'GOUS.--_adv._ RU'GOSELY.--_n._ RUGOS'ITY.--_adj._
RU'G[=U]LOSE. [L. _rugosus_--_ruga_, a wrinkle.]

RUIN, r[=oo]'in, _n._ a rushing or falling down violently: destruction:
overthrow: that which destroys: the remains of a building demolished or
decayed (usually in _pl._): the state of being ruined: wreck, material or
moral.--_v.t._ to demolish: to destroy: to defeat: to impoverish: to bring
to ruin: to undo: to spoil: to seduce, debauch.--_v.i._ to run to ruin: to
fall into decay: to do irreparable harm.--_adj._ RU'INABLE (_Bacon_),
capable of being ruined.--_v.t._ RU'IN[=A]TE (_Shak._), to ruin, to
destroy: to demolish: to reduce to poverty.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to
fall:--_pr.p._ ru'in[=a]ting; _pa.p._ ru'in[=a]ted.--_adj._ (_obs._)
falling to ruin: ruined.--_ns._ RUIN[=A]'TION, overthrow: subversion;
RU'INER.--_adjs._ RU'INIFORM, having the appearance of ruins; RU'INOUS,
fallen to ruins: decayed: pernicious.--_adv._ RU'INOUSLY.--_n._
RU'INOUSNESS, the state or quality of being ruinous: mischievousness.
[Fr.,--L. _ruina_--_ru[)e]re_, to tumble down.]

RULE, r[=oo]l, _n._ government: a principle: a standard: a statute, a
maxim, formula, or order: an instrument used in drawing lines or making
calculations mechanically: a minor law, something established for guidance
and direction, esp. the regulations of monasteries, corporate societies,
&c.: the limits of a prison (esp. in _pl._): conformity to rule,
uniformity: in American parliamentary law, the regulations adopted by a
deliberative body for the regulation of its proceedings: (_gram._) the
expression of some established form of construction: the description of a
process for solving a problem: a general proposition, as 'Failure is the
rule, success the exception': (_law_) an order regulating the court:
(_print._) a thin strip of rolled brass, cut type high, used for printing:
in plastering, a strip of wood on the face of the wall as a guide to assist
in keeping the plane surface.--_v.t._ to dispose: to regulate: to dominate:
to govern: to manage: to prevail upon: to settle as by a rule: to establish
by decision: to determine, as a court: to mark with lines.--_v.i._ to
exercise power (with _over_): to decide: to lay down and settle: to stand
or range, as prices.--_adj._ RU'LABLE, governable: allowable.--_ns._
RULE'-CASE (_print._), a tray with partitions for rules; RULE'-CUT'TER
(_print._), a machine for cutting brass rules into short lengths;
RULE'-DRILL'ER, a teacher who teaches by rote; RULE'-JOINT, a pivoted joint
used by surveyors, &c.--_adj._ RULE'LESS, lawless.--_ns._ RULE'LESSNESS;
RULE'-MONG'ER, a stickler for rules; RU'LER, a sovereign: a governor: an
instrument used in drawing lines: in engraving, a straight steel bar
employed in engraving the lines; RU'LERSHIP; RULE'-WORK (_print._), work
with many rules, as tables of figures, &c.--_adj._ RU'LING, predominant:
prevailing: reigning.--_n._ the determination by a judge, esp. an oral
decision: the act of making ruled lines.--_n._ RU'LING-EN'GINE, a machine
for ruling diffraction gratings.--_adv._ RU'LINGLY.--_ns._
RU'LING-MACHINE', a machine used by engravers for ruling in flat tints: a
machine for ruling parallel coloured lines upon writing-paper; RU'LING-PEN,
a form of pen for drawing lines of even thickness; SLID'ING-RULE, a rule
having one or more scales which slide over others for the purpose of
facilitating calculations.--RULE OF FAITH, not the sum of the Christian
faith as laid down in creeds and confessions, but, in polemical theology,
the sources whence the doctrines of the faith are to be authoritatively
derived--the Scriptures, the tradition of the Church, the teaching of the
Fathers, &c.; RULE OF THE ROAD, the regulations to be observed in the
movements of conveyances either on land or at sea--thus in England drivers,
riders, and cyclists take the left side in meeting, and the right in
passing; RULE OF THREE, the method of finding the fourth term when three
are given; RULE OF THUMB, any rough process of measurement.--A RULE TO SHOW
CAUSE, or A RULE NISI, a rule which is conditional (see NISI); As a rule,
on the whole; ONE HOUR RULE, a rule prohibiting members of the United
States House of Representatives speaking more than an hour. [O. Fr. _reule_
(Fr. _règle_)--L. _regula_--_reg[)e]re_, to rule.]

RULE, r[=oo]l, _n._ revelry.--_v.i._ to revel. [_Revel._]

RULLION, rul'yon, _n._ a shoe made of untanned leather: a coarse woman:
(_Scot._) an ill-conditioned beast. [A.S. _rifeling_, a kind of shoe.]

RUM, rum, _n._ a spirit distilled from the fermented juice of the
sugar-cane, or from molasses.--_ns._ RUM'-BARGE, a warm drink;
RUM'-BLOSS'OM, -BUD, a pimple on the nose; RUM'-CHERR'Y, the wild black
cherry of North America; RUM'-SELL'ER (_U.S._), the keeper of a rum-shop;
RUM'-SHOP; RUM'-SHRUB, a liqueur of rum, sugar, lime or lemon juice, &c.
[Abbrev. of _rumbullion_; prob. related to _rumble_.]

RUM, rum, _adj._ good: queer, droll, odd.--_n._ any odd person or
thing.--_adv._ RUM'LY, finely (used ironically). [A Gipsy word, _rom_, a
husband.]

RUMAL, r[=oo]'mal, _n._ a handkerchief: a small shawl or veil.--Also
ROO'MAL, RO'MAL. [Hind.]

RUMBLE, rum'bl, _v.i._ to make a confused noise from rolling heavily: to
roll about.--_v.t._ to rattle.--_n._ a low, heavy, continued sound: a
jarring roar, rumour: confusion: a seat for servants behind a carriage: a
revolving box in which articles are polished by mutual attrition.--_ns._
RUM'BLER; RUM'BLE-TUM'BLE, a rumble-seat; RUM'BLING, a low, heavy,
continued sound.--_adv._ RUM'BLINGLY. [Teut.; found in Dut. _rommelen_,
_rummeln_.]

RUMBO, rum'b[=o], _n._ a strong liquor.--_n._ RUMBOOZE', a tipple: a mixed
drink. [_Rum._]

RUMBULLION, rum-bul'yon, _n._ a great tumult: a strong liquor.--Also
RUMBOUL'ING.

RUMEN, r[=oo]'men, _n._ the paunch and first stomach of a ruminant:--_pl._
RU'MINA. [L.]

RUMEX, r[=oo]'meks, _n._ a genus of apetalous plants to which belong dock
and sorrel, &c.

RUMFUSTIAN, rum-fus'tyan, _n._ a hot drink of sherry, eggs, &c.

RUMGUMPTION, rum-gump'shun, _n._ (_Scot._) rough and homely common-sense:
shrewdness of intellect--also RUM'BLEGUMP'TION.--_adj._ RUMGUMP'TIOUS,
shrewd: sharp.

RUMINANT, r[=oo]'mi-nant, _adj._ having the power of ruminating or chewing
the cud--also RU'MINAL.--_n._ an animal that chews the cud, as the ox,
&c.--_n.pl._ RUMINAN'TIA, the even-toed or Artiodactyl Ungulates, which
chew the cud--the _Tragulidæ_, often called musk-deer; the _Cotylophora_,
including antelopes, sheep, goats, oxen, giraffes, deer; the _Camelidæ_, or
camels and llamas.--_adv._ RU'MINANTLY.--_v.i._ RU'MIN[=A]TE, to chew the
cud: to meditate.--_v.t._ to chew over again: to muse on.--_adj._ (_bot._)
appearing as if chewed, as in the nutmeg, &c.--_adv._
RU'MIN[=A]TINGLY.--_n._ RUMIN[=A]'TION, act of chewing the cud: calm
reflection.--_adj._ RU'MINATIVE, well-considered.--_n._ RU'MIN[=A]TOR. [L.
_rumin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_rumen_, the gullet.]

RUMKIN, rum'kin, _n._ (_obs._) a kind of drinking-vessel.

RUMKIN, rum'kin, _n._ a tailless fowl.

RUMMAGE, rum'[=a]j, _v.t._ to turn things over in search: to clear a ship's
hold of goods: to pack: to stow closely: to ransack: to explore: to bring
to light: to stir.--_v.i._ to make a search.--_n._ a careful search: an
upheaval.--_n._ RUMM'AGER.--RUMMAGE SALE, a sale of unclaimed goods.
[_Room-age._]

RUMMER, rum'[.e]r, _n._ a large drinking-glass. [Dut. _roemer_; Ger.
_römer_--prob. from such being used in the _Römersaal_ at Frankfurt.]

RUMMY, rum'i, _adj._ rum: queer.

RUMOUR, r[=oo]'mur, _n._ flying report; a current story.--_v.t._ to report:
to circulate by report.--_adj._ RU'MOROUS, vaguely heard.--_n._ RU'MOURER
(_Shak._), a reporter, a spreader of news. [Fr.,--L. _rumor_, a noise.]

RUMP, rump, _n._ the end of the backbone of an animal with the parts
adjacent.--_n._ RUM'PER.--_adj._ RUMP'-FED (_Shak._), fattened in the rump,
fat-bottomed.--_adj._ RUMP'LESS, having no tail.--_ns._ RUMP'-POST, the
share bone or pygostyle of a bird; RUMP'-STEAK, steak cut from the thigh
near the rump.--THE RUMP, the remnant of the Long Parliament, after Col.
Pryde's expulsion of about a hundred Presbyterian royalist members. [Ice.
_rumpr_, Ger. _rumpf_, Dut. _rumpe_.]

RUMPLE, rum'pl, _v.t._ to crush out of shape: to make uneven.--_n._ a fold
or wrinkle. [A variant of _rimple_. A.S. _hrimpan_, to wrinkle; Dut.
_rompelen_.]

RUMPUS, rum'pus, _n._ an uproar: a disturbance.

RUMSWIZZLE, rum'swiz'l, _n._ a cloth made in Ireland from pure wool undyed.

RUN, run, _v.i._ to move swiftly on the legs, to hasten, rush on: to move,
travel, ply regularly to: to pass by: to have a certain form: (_law_) to
have legal authority: to be current, as money: to average: to reach, have
course in any direction: to make a fault, to slip, as thread in knitting:
to stand as a candidate: to pass from one state to another: to pass quickly
in thought, to dwell repeatedly upon in thought: to continue in operation,
be in constant motion, to be carried, to extend: to move swiftly: to pass
quickly on the ground: to flee: to go, as ships, &c.: to have course in any
direction, to extend, spread: to flow: to dart: to turn: to extend through
a period: to pierce: to fuse or melt: to turn or rotate: to be busied: to
become: to be in force: to discharge matter, as a sore: to have a general
tendency: to pass, fall: to creep: to press with immediate demands for
payment, as a bank.--_v.t._ to cause to move swiftly, to keep running: to
force forward: to push: to cause to pass: to fuse: to discharge, as a sore:
to pursue in thought: to incur: to pour forth: to execute: to chase: to
break through, as to run the blockade: to pierce: to sew: to fish in: to
evade: to manage: to tease:--_pr.p._ run'ning; _pa.t._ ran; _pa.p._ run, as
'_run_ brandy,' that which has been smuggled in.--_n._ act of running:
course: flow: discharge from a sore: distance sailed: voyage: continued
series: general reception: prevalence: popular clamour: an unusual
pressure, as on a bank, for payment: a trip: the run of events: a small
stream: the quantity run: the act of migrating: in base-ball, the complete
circuit made by the player which enables him to score one: in cricket, a
passing from one wicket to another, by which one point is scored: a range
of pasturage: a pair of millstones: the aftermost part of a ship's bottom:
(_mus._) a succession of consecutive notes: a roulade.--_ns._ RUN'ABOUT, a
gadabout: a vagabond: an open wagon; RUN'AWAY, one who runs away from
danger or restraint: a fugitive.--_adj._ fleeing from danger or restraint:
done by or in flight.--_ns._ RUN'LET, RUN'NEL, a little run or stream: a
brook; RUN'MAN, a deserter from a ship-of-war; RUN'NER, one who, or that
which, runs: a racer: a messenger, agent, one employed to solicit
patronage: a rooting stem that runs along the ground: a rope to increase
the power of a tackle: a deserter: a smuggler: a manager of an engine: a
Bow Street officer: in saddlery, a loop of metal through which a rein is
passed: that on which anything slides: in moulding, a channel cut in a
mould: the rotating-stone of a grinding-mill: the movable piece to which
the ribs of an umbrella are attached: a tool in which lenses are fastened
for polishing: a vessel for conveying fish, oysters, &c.--_adj._ RUN'NING,
kept for the race: successive: continuous: flowing: easy: cursive:
discharging matter.--_prep._ (_coll._) approaching or about.--_n._ act of
moving swiftly: that which runs or flows, the quantity run: a discharge
from a wound: the act of one who risks dangers, as in running a blockade:
strength to run: the ranging of any animal.--_n._ RUN'NING-BLOCK, a block
in an arrangement of pulleys.--_n.pl._ RUN'NING-DAYS, the days occupied on
a voyage, &c., under a charter, including Sundays.--_ns._ RUN'NING-FIGHT, a
fight kept up between one party that flees and another that pursues;
RUN'NING-FIRE (_mil._), a rapid succession of firing; RUN'NING-GEAR, the
wheels and axles of a vehicle; RUN'NING-HAND, a style of rapid writing
without lifting the pen; RUN'NING-KNOT, a knot made so as to form a noose
when the rope is pulled.--_n.pl._ RUN'NING-LIGHTS, the lights shown by
vessels between sunset and sunrise.--_adv._ RUN'NINGLY.--_ns._
RUN'NING-OR'NAMENT, an ornament in which the design is continuous;
RUN'NING-REIN, a form of driving-rein; RUN'NING-RIG'GING, all the rigging
except the shrouds, stays, and lower mast-head pendants; RUN'NING-THRUSH, a
disease in the feet of horses; RUN'NING-T[=I]'TLE, the title of a book,
&c., continued from page to page on the upper margin; RUN'NING-TRAP, a pipe
so formed as to be a seal against the passage of gases; RUN'WAY, a trail,
track, or passage-way.--RUN ACROSS, to come upon by accident; RUN AWAY
WITH, to carry away in uncontrollable fright: to carry off in fleeing; RUN
DOWN, to chase to exhaustion: to run against and sink, as a ship: to
overbear, to crush; RUN DOWN A COAST, to sail along it; RUN HARD, to press
hard behind in a race or other competition; RUN IN, to go in: to arrest and
take to a lock-up: (_print._) to insert a word, &c., without making a break
or new paragraph: to alter the position of matter to fill vacant space; RUN
INTO DEBT, to get into debt; RUN IN THE BLOOD, family, to belong to one by
natural descent; RUN OFF, to cause to flow out: to take impressions of, to
print: to repeat, recount; RUN ON (_print._), to continue in the same line,
and not a new paragraph; RUN OUT, to come to an end; RUN OVER, to overflow:
to go over cursorily; RUN RIOT (see RIOT); RUN THE CHANCE, to encounter all
risks; RUN THROUGH, to expend, to waste, to pierce through and through; RUN
TOGETHER, to mingle or blend; RUN TO SEED, to shoot up too rapidly, to
become exhausted, to go to waste; RUN UP, to make or mend hastily: to build
hurriedly: to string up, hang.--IN THE LONG-RUN, in the end or final
result; IN THE RUNNING, or OUT OF THE RUNNING, competing, or not competing,
in a contest, with good hopes of success in a candidature, &c., or the
opposite; MAKE GOOD ONE'S RUNNING, to keep abreast with others; TAKE UP THE
RUNNING, to go off at full speed; THE COMMON RUN, THE RUN, or THE RUN OF
MANKIND, ordinary people. [A.S. _rinnan_; Ger. _rennen_, Ice. _renna_, to
run.]

RUNAGATE, run'a-g[=a]t, _n._ a vagabond: renegade: an apostate: a fugitive.
[A corr. of _renegade_, but modified both in form and meaning by _run_.]

RUNCH, runch, _n._ the charlock: the wild radish.--_n.pl._ RUNCH'-BALLS,
dried charlock.

RUNCH, runch, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to grind, as with the teeth.

RUNCINATE, runs'in-[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having the lobes convex before
and straight behind, or pointing backward as in the dandelion. [L.
_runcinatus_, pa.p. of _runcin[=a]re_, to plane off--_runcina_, a plane.]

RUNDALE, run'd[=a]l, _n._ a system of holding land in single holdings made
up of detached pieces.

RUNDLE, run'dl, _n._ a round, a rung or step of a ladder: a ring, an orbit:
a ball.--_adj._ RUN'DLED. [_Roundel._]

RUNDLET, rund'let, _n._ a small barrel.--Also RUN'LET.

RUNE, r[=oo]n, _n._ one of the characters or letters used by the peoples of
northern Europe down to the 16th century: (_pl._) the ancient Scandinavian
alphabet or _futhorc_--from its first six letters _f_, _u_, _th_, _o_, _r_,
_c_ (the writing is called _Runic_, the individual letters _Rune-staves_,
or less correctly _Runes_): a secret, a mystic sentence: any song
mystically expressed.--_n._ RUNE'CRAFT.--_adj._ RUNED.--_n._
RU'NER.--_adj._ RU'NIC, relating to runes, to the ancient Teutonic nations,
or to their characters.--_ns._ RUNOL'OGIST, one versed in Runic remains;
RUNOL'OGY.--RUNIC KNOTS, a form of interlaced ornament. [A.S. _rún_, a
secret. The word is found in M. E. _rounen_, to whisper, and is cog. with
Old High Ger. _runa_, a secret, Goth. _runa_, secret.]

RUNG, rung, _n._ one of the floor-timbers of a ship: one of the rounds of a
ladder: a bar: a heavy staff: a cudgel: one of the radial handles of a
steering-wheel. [A.S. _hrung_, a beam; Ger. _runge_.]

RUNG, rung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of ring.--_adj._ having a ring through the
nose, as a hog.

RUNKLE, runk'l, _v.i._ to wrinkle: to crease.

RUNN, run, _n._ in India, a tract of sandy or boggy land--often overflowed
by the tide. [Hind. _r[=a]n_.]

RUNNEL, run'el, _n._ a little brook. [A.S. _rynel_, dim. of _ryne_, a
stream--_rinnan_, to run.]

RUNRIG, run'rig, _n._ a species of ownership under which the alternate
ridges of a field belong to different owners--also RUN'RIDGE, RUN'DALE, a
survival of the simple form of open-field husbandry, under the tribal
system once universally prevalent in the western districts of Britain.

RUNT, runt, _n._ a young ox or cow: an undersized animal: a dwarf: a bow: a
breed of domestic pigeons: the dead stump of a tree: the stem of a
cabbage.--_adj._ RUNT'Y.

RUPEE, r[=oo]-p[=e]', _n._ an East Indian silver coin, nominally worth
about 2s.--at present about 1s. 4½d. [Hind. _r[=u]p[=i]yah_--Sans.
_r[=u]pya_, silver.]

RUPERT'S-DROP, r[=oo]'perts-drop, _n._ a detonating bulb, or glass
bubble--probably discovered by Prince _Rupert_ (1619-82).

RUPESTRINE, r[=oo]-pes'trin, _adj._ rock-inhabiting. [L. _rupes_, a rock.]

RUPIA, r[=oo]'pi-a, _n._ a severe form of skin disease, with flattish
distinct _bullæ_ or blebs, containing a serous, purulent, or sanious fluid,
becoming thick scabs. [Gr. _hrypos_, filth.]

RUPICAPRA, r[=oo]-pi-kap'ra, _n._ a genus of antelopes--the chamois.

RUPICOLA, r[=oo]-pik'[=o]-la, _n._ a genus of rock-manikins or cocks of the
rock.--_adjs._ RUPIC'OLINE, RUPIC'OLOUS, growing or living among rocks. [L.
_rupes_, a rock, _col[)e]re_, to inhabit.]

RUPPIA, rup'i-a, _n._ a genus of monocotyledonous plants of the order
_Naiadaceæ_--to which _Ditch_ or _Tassel grass_ belongs. [From the
18th-cent. German botanist H. B. _Ruppius_.]

RUPTURE, rup't[=u]r, _n._ the act of breaking or bursting: the state of
being broken: a breach of the peace: hernia (q.v.), esp. abdominal.--_v.t._
to break or burst: to part by violence.--_v.i._ to suffer a breach:
(_bot._) to dehisce irregularly.--_adj._ RUP'TILE (_bot._), dehiscent by an
irregular splitting of the walls.--_n._ RUP'TION, a breach.--_adj._
RUP'TIVE.--_n._ RUP'T[=U]ARY, a member of the plebeian class. [Fr.,--Low L.
_ruptura_--L. _rump[)e]re_, _ruptum_, to break.]

RURAL, r[=oo]'ral, _adj._ of or belonging to the country: suiting the
country: rustic: pertaining to agriculture.--_n._ (_obs._) a
countryman.--_ns._ RU'RAL-DEAN, an ecclesiastic under the bishop and
archdeacon, with the peculiar care of the clergy of a district;
RU'RAL-DEAN'ERY.--_v.t._ RU'RALISE, to render rural.--_v.i._ to become
rural: to rusticate.--_ns._ RU'RALISM; RU'RALIST; RURAL'ITY.--_adv._
RU'RALLY.--_n._ RU'RALNESS.--_adj._ RURIDEC'ANAL, pertaining to a rural
dean or deanery. [Fr.,--L. _ruralis_--_rus_, _ruris_, the country.]

RUSA, r[=oo]'za, _n._ a genus of East Indian stags. [Malay.]

RUSALKA, r[=oo]-sal'ka, _n._ a Russian water-nymph.

RUSCUS, rus'kus, _n._ a genus of monocotyledonous plants of the order
_Liliaceæ_--containing _Butcher's broom_, _Shepherd's myrtle_, &c. [L.
_ruscum_.]

RUSE, r[=oo]z, _n._ a turning or doubling, as of animals to get out of the
way of dogs: a trick, fraud, or the use of such.--_n._ RUSE-DE-GUERRE, a
stratagem of war. [O. Fr. _ruse_--_ruser_, _re[=u]ser_, to get out of the
way--L. _recus[=a]re_, to decline.]

RUSH, rush, _v.i._ to move with a shaking, rustling noise, as the wind: to
move forward violently: to enter rashly and hastily.--_v.t._ to drive: to
push, to secure by rushing.--_n._ a rushing or driving forward: an eager
demand: urgent pressure, as of business: a stampede of cattle: in football,
when a player forces his way by main strength.--_n._ RUSH'ER, in football,
a player whose special duty it is to force the ball toward his opponents'
goal: a go-ahead person. [Skeat explains M. E. _ruschen_ as from Sw.
_ruska_, to rush, to shake, an extension of Old Sw. _rusa_, to rush. Cf.
_Rouse_.]

RUSH, rush, _n._ a genus (_Juncus_) of marshy plants, some absolutely
destitute of leaves, but with barren scapes resembling leaves: the name
esp. of those species with no proper leaves, the round stems known as
rushes: a wick: the merest trifle.--_n._ RUSH'-BEAR'ING, a country feast,
when the parish church was strewn with rushes, between haymaking and
harvest: the day of the festival.--_adj._ RUSH'-BOTT'OMED, having a seat or
bottom made with rushes.--_ns._ RUSH'-BUCK'LER (_obs._), a swash-buckler;
RUSH'-CAN'DLE, -LIGHT, a candle or night-light having a wick of rush-pith:
a small, feeble light.--_adj._ RUSH'EN, made of rushes.--_ns._
RUSH'-HOLD'ER, a clip-candlestick used for rush-lights; RUSH'INESS.--_adj._
RUSH'-LIKE, resembling a rush: weak.--_ns._ RUSH'-LIL'Y, a plant of the
species of blue-eyed grass; RUSH'-NUT, the _Cyperus esculentus_, whose
tubers are eaten in southern Europe; RUSH'-TOAD, the natterjack.--_adjs._
RUSH'Y, full of, or made of, rushes; RUSH'Y-FRINGED.--_n._ RUSK'IE, any
utensil made of straw, &c., as a basket, &c.--FLOWERING RUSH, an aquatic
plant; MARRY WITH A RUSH, to wed in jest. [A.S. _risce_, like Ger. _risch_,
from L. _ruscum_, _rustum_.]

RUSK, rusk, _n._ a kind of light hard cake: a kind of light soft cake or
sweetened biscuit. [Sp. _rosca_, a roll; cf. _Rosca de mar_, a sea-rusk;
origin unknown.]

RUSMA. See RHUSMA.

RUSSEL, rus'el, _n._ (_obs._) a fox: a twilled woollen material.--_n._
RUSS'EL-CORD, a kind of rep made of cotton and wool. [O. Fr. _roussel_--L.
_russus_, red.]

RUSSET, rus'et, _adj._ rusty or reddish-brown: coarse: rustic: of
russet-leather.--_n._ a coarse homespun dress.--_ns._ RUSS'ETING, an apple
of a russet colour and rough skin; RUSS'ET-LEATH'ER.--_adj._ RUSS'ETY. [O.
Fr. _rousset_--L. _russus_, red.]

RUSSIAN, rush'yan, _adj._ relating to _Russia_, a country of Europe, or to
its people.--_n._ a native of Russia: the Russian language.--_adj._ RUSS,
belonging to the Russians.--_n._ a Russian: the Russian language.--_v.t._
RUSS'IANISE, to give Russian characteristics to.--_n._
RUSSIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ RUS'SIFY, to Russianise.--_ns._
RUS'SO-BYZAN'TINE, the national art of Russian architecture; RUS'SOPHILE,
one who favours Russian policy (also _adj._); RUS'SOPHILISM; RUS'SOPHILIST;
RUS'SOPHOBE, one who dreads or hates the Russians--also RUS'SOPHOBIST;
RUSSOPH[=O]'BIA, the dread of Russian policy.--RUSSIA LEATHER (see
LEATHER).

RUSSULA, rus'[=u]-la, _n._ a genus of hymenomycetous fungi--so called from
the colour of the pileus in some. [Low L. _russulus_, reddish--L. _russus_,
red.]

RUST, rust, _n._ the reddish-brown coating on iron exposed to moisture:
anything resembling rust: a disease of cereals and grasses, with brown
spots on the leaves, caused by fungi: a corrosive: an injurious habit: any
foul matter.--_v.i._ to become rusty: to become dull by inaction.--_v.t._
to make rusty: to impair by time and inactivity.--_adjs._ RUST'-COL'OURED;
RUST'FUL.--_adv._ RUST'ILY.--_ns._ RUST'INESS; RUST'-MITE, certain mites of
the family of gall-mites.--_adjs._ RUST'-PROOF, not liable to rust; RUST'Y,
covered with rust: impaired by inactivity, out of practice: dull: affected
with rust-disease: time-worn: of a rusty black: rough: obstinate:
discoloured.--_ns._ RUST'Y-BACK, a fern; RUST'Y-BLACK'BIRD, the grackle;
BLACK'-RUST, a fungus with dark-coloured spores.--RIDE, or TURN, RUSTY, to
become obstinate or stubborn in opposition. [A.S. _rust_; Ger. _rost_.]

RUSTIC, rus'tik, _adj._ pertaining to the country: rural: rude: awkward:
simple: coarse: artless: unadorned: made of rustic-work.--_n._ a peasant: a
clown: a noctuoid moth.--_adj._ RUS'TICAL.--_adv._ RUS'TICALLY.--_n._
RUS'TICALNESS.--_v.t._ RUS'TICATE, to send into the country: to banish for
a time from town or college.--_v.i._ to live in the country.--_n._
RUSTIC[=A]'TION.--_v.i._ RUS'TICISE.--_ns._ RUSTIC'ITY, rustic manner:
simplicity: rudeness; RUSTIC'OLA, the European woodcock; RUS'TIC-WARE, a
terra-cotta of a light-brown paste, having a brown glaze; RUS'TIC-WORK,
various stonework, as frosted work, punctured work, &c.: in woodwork,
summer-houses, &c. [Fr. _rustique_--L. _rusticus_--_rus_, the country.]

RUSTLE, rus'l, _v.i._ to make a soft, whispering sound, as silk, straw,
&c.: (_U.S._) to stir about.--_n._ a quick succession of small sounds, as
that of dry leaves: a rustling, a movement with rustling sound.--_ns._
RUS'TLER, one who, or that which, rustles: (_U.S._) an active fellow;
RUS'TLING, a quick succession of small sounds, as that of dry
leaves.--_adv._ RUS'TLINGLY. [Skeat makes it a freq. of Sw. _rusta_, to
stir, a variant of Old Sw. _ruska_, to shake. Cf. _Rush_; and cf. Ger.
_rauschen_, _ruschen_, to rustle.]

RUSTRE, rus't[.e]r, _n._ (_her._) a lozenge pierced with a circular
opening.--_adj._ RUS'TRED. [Fr.]

RUSURE, r[=oo]'zh[=u]r, _n._ (_prov._) the sliding down of a bank.

RUT, rut, _n._ a track left by a wheel: an established course.--_v.t._ to
form ruts in:--_pr.p._ rut'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ rut'ted.--_adj._
RUT'TY, full of ruts. [O. Fr. _route_--Low L. _rupta_, a way.]

RUT, rut, _n._ the noise made by deer during sexual excitement: the
periodic time of heat of animals.--_v.i._ to be in heat.--_v.t._ (_rare_)
to copulate with.--_adj._ RUT'TISH, inclined to rut: lustful.--_n._
RUT'TISHNESS, libidinousness. [O. Fr. _ruit_, _rut_--L.
_rugitus_--_rug[=i]re_, to roar.]

RUTA, r[=oo]'ta, _n._ a genus of polypetalous plants--the general name of
the species is _Rue_.--_adj._ RUT[=A]'CEOUS. [Gr. _hryt[=e]_, rue.]

RUTABAGA, r[=oo]-ta-b[=a]'ga, _n._ the Swedish turnip. [Fr.; ety. unknown.]

RUTELA, r[=oo]'te-la, _n._ a genus of lamellicorn beetles. [L. _rutilus_,
red.]

RUTH, r[=oo]th, _n._ pity, tenderness, sorrow: cruelty.--_adj._ RUTH'FUL,
pitiful, sorrowful: piteous, causing pity.--_adv._ RUTH'FULLY, in a
sorrowful manner.--_adj._ RUTH'LESS, without pity: insensible to misery:
cruel.--_adv._ RUTH'LESSLY.--_n._ RUTH'LESSNESS. [M. E. _ruthe_,
_reuth_--Scand.; Ice. _hryggth_, _hrygth_, sorrow.]

RUTHENIAN, r[=oo]-th[=e]'ni-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the
_Ruthenians_, a branch of the little Russian division of the Slav race, on
both sides of the Carpathians.--_n._ one of this race.

RUTHENIUM, r[=oo]-th[=e]'ni-um, _n._ a hard brittle metal discovered in
1843 by Claus in the ore of platinum, forming no fewer than four different
oxides. [_Ruthenia_, a name of Russia.]

RUTIC, r[=oo]'tik, _adj._ pertaining to, or derived from, _rue_.

RUTICILLA, r[=oo]-ti-sil'a, _n._ the redstart.

RUTILANT, r[=oo]'ti-lant, _adj._ shining: glittering.--_v.i._ RU'TIL[=A]TE,
to emit rays of light. [L. _rutilans_, pr.p. of _rutil[=a]re_, to be
reddish.]

RUTILE, r[=oo]'til, _n._ one of the three forms in which titanium dioxide
occurs. [Fr.,--L. _rutilus_, red.]

RUTTER, rut'[.e]r, _n._ (_obs._) a trooper: a mercenary horse-soldier: a
man of fashion. [O. Fr. _routier_--Low L. _ruptarius_--_rupta_, a troop.]

RUTTER, rut'[.e]r, _n._ a direction specially for a course by sea: a marine
chart. [O. Fr. _routier_, a chart.]

RUTTLE, rut'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to gurgle. [M. E. _rotelen_, _ratelen_, to
rattle.]

RUVID, r[=oo]'vid, _adj._ rough. [L. _ruidus_, rough.]

RYAL, r[=i]'al, _n._ an old English gold coin worth about ten shillings,
called a _Rose-noble_.--Also R[=I]'AL.

RYE, r[=i], _n._ a genus of grasses allied to wheat and barley, one species
of which is cultivated as a grain: (_her._) a bearing representing a stalk
of grain with the ear bending down.--_ns._ RYE'-GRASS, a variety of grass
cultivated for pasture and fodder; RYE'-MOTH, an insect whose larva feeds
on stems of rye; RYE'-WOLF, an evil creature of German folklore lurking in
the rye-fields; RYE'-WORM, an insect which devours the stems of rye. [A.S.
_ryge_; Ice. _rúgr_, Ger. _rocken_, _roggen_.]

RYFE, r[=i]f, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as RIFE.

RYKE, r[=i]k, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to reach.

RYND, rind, _n._ in a burstone mill, the iron which supports the upper
stone. [A.S. _hrindan_, to thrust.]

RYOT, r[=i]'ut, _n._ a Hindu cultivator or peasant.--_ns._ RY'OTWAR,
RY'OTWARI, the arrangement about rent made annually in India, esp. in
Madras, between the government officials and the ryots. [Hind.
_raiyat_--Ar. _ra`iya_, a subject.]

RYPE, r[=i]p, _n._ a ptarmigan. [Dan.]

RYPECK, r[=i]'pek, _n._ (_prov._) a pole used to move a punt while
fishing.--Also R[=I]'PECK, R[=E]'PECK.

RYVE, r[=i]v, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to pierce. [_Rive._]

       *       *       *       *       *


Corrections made to printed original.

Under "Octagon" (in etymology):--"angle", printed as "agle" in original.

Under "Paraclete":--"Paracl[=e]t'ice", printed as "Paracl[=e]t'i-ce" in
original.

Under "Paraclete":--"Paracl[=e]t'icon", printed as "Paracl[=e]t'i-con" in
original.

Under "Pavonine" (in etymology):--"pavonis", printed as "panonis" in
original.

Under "Potable" (in etymology):--"potabilis", printed as "potablilis" in
original.

Under "Pyxidium":--"pod", printed as "pool." in original.

Under "Road":--"plumb-level", printed as "plum-level" in original.

Under "Rosminianism":--"1797", printed as "1737" in original.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Twentieth Century
Dictionary (part 3 of 4: N-R), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S 20TH CENT. DICTIONARY (N-R) ***

***** This file should be named 38699-8.txt or 38699-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/8/6/9/38699/

Produced by Colin Bell, Keith Edkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
