The Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary
(part 2 of 4: E-M), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary (part 2 of 4: E-M)

Author: Various

Editor: Thomas Davidson

Release Date: January 10, 2012 [EBook #38538]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S 20TH CENT DICTIONARY (E-M) ***




Produced by Colin Bell, Keith Edkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net





Transcriber's note: A few typographical errors have been corrected: they
are listed at the end of the text.

       *       *       *       *       *


In this version [=e] signifies "e macron"; [)e] "e breve"; [.e] "e with dot
above"; and so forth.

CHAMBERS'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY DICTIONARY
OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE

PRONOUNCING, EXPLANATORY, ETYMOLOGICAL, WITH COMPOUND PHRASES,
TECHNICAL TERMS IN USE IN THE ARTS AND SCIENCES,
COLLOQUIALISMS, FULL APPENDICES, AND
COPIOUSLY ILLUSTRATED

EDITED BY
REV. THOMAS DAVIDSON
ASSISTANT-EDITOR OF 'CHAMBERS'S ENCYCLOPÆDIA'
EDITOR OF 'CHAMBERS'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY'

LONDON: 47 Paternoster Row
W. & R. CHAMBERS, LIMITED
EDINBURGH: 339 High Street
1908

EXPLANATIONS TO THE STUDENT.

THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE WORDS.--Every word is given in its _alphabetical_
order, except in cases where, to save space, derivatives are given after
and under the words from which they are derived. Each uncompounded verb has
its participles, when irregular, placed after it. Exceptional plurals are
also given. When a word stands after another, with no meaning given, its
meanings can be at once formed from those of the latter, by adding the
signification of the affix: thus the meanings of _Darkness_ are obtained by
prefixing the meaning of _ness_, _state of being_, to those of _Dark_.

Many words from French and other tongues, current in English usage, but not
yet fairly Anglicised, are inserted in the list of Foreign Phrases, &c., at
the end, rather than in the body of the Dictionary.

THE PRONUNCIATION.--The Pronunciation is given immediately after each word,
by the word being spelled anew. In this new spelling, every consonant used
has its ordinary unvarying sound, _no consonant being employed that has
more than one sound_. The same sounds are always represented by the same
letters, no matter how varied their actual spelling in the language. No
consonant used has any mark attached to it, with the one exception of _th_,
which is printed in common letters when sounded as in _thick_, but in
italics when sounded as in _th_en. _Unmarked vowels_ have always their
short sounds, as in _lad_, _led_, _lid_, _lot_, _but_, _book_. The _marked
vowels_ are shown in the following line, which is printed at the top of
each page:--

f[=a]te, fär; m[=e], h[.e]r; m[=i]ne; m[=o]te; m[=u]te; m[=oo]n; _th_en.

The vowel _u_ when marked thus, _ü_, has the sound heard in Scotch _bluid_,
_gude_, the French _du_, almost that of the German _ü_ in _Müller_. Where
more than one pronunciation of a word is given, that which is placed first
is more accepted.

THE SPELLING.--When more than one form of a word is given, that which is
placed first is the spelling in current English use. Unfortunately our
modern spelling does not represent the English we actually speak, but
rather the language of the 16th century, up to which period, generally
speaking, English spelling was mainly phonetic, like the present German.
The fundamental principle of all rational spelling is no doubt the
representation of every sound by an invariable symbol, but in modern
English the usage of pronunciation has drifted far from the conventional
forms established by a traditional orthography, with the result that the
present spelling of our written speech is to a large extent a mere exercise
of memory, full of confusing anomalies and imperfections, and involving an
enormous and unnecessary strain on the faculties of learners. Spelling
reform is indeed an imperative necessity, but it must proceed with a wise
moderation, for, in the words of Mr Sweet, 'nothing can be done without
unanimity, and until the majority of the community are convinced of the
superiority of some one system unanimity is impossible.' The true path of
progress should follow such wisely moderate counsels as those of Dr J. A.
H. Murray:--the dropping of the final or inflexional silent _e_; the
restoration of the historical _-t_ after breath consonants; uniformity in
the employment of double consonants, as in _traveler_, &c.; the discarding
of _ue_ in words like _demagogue_ and _catalogue_; the uniform levelling of
the agent _-our_ into _-or_; the making of _ea = [)e]_ short into _e_ and
the long _ie_ into _ee_; the restoration of _some_, _come_, _tongue_, to
their old English forms, _sum_, _cum_, _tung_; a more extended use of _z_
in the body of words, as _chozen_, _praize_, _raize_; and the correction of
the worst individual monstrosities, as _foreign_, _scent_, _scythe_,
_ache_, _debt_, _people_, _parliament_, _court_, _would_, _sceptic_,
_phthisis_, _queue_, _schedule_, _twopence-halfpenny_, _yeoman_, _sieve_,
_gauge_, _barque_, _buoy_, _yacht_, &c.

Already in America a moderate degree of spelling reform may be said to be
established in good usage, by the adoption of _-or_ for _-our_, as _color_,
_labor_, &c.; of _-er_ for _-re_, as _center_, _meter_, &c.; _-ize_ for
_-ise_, as _civilize_, &c.; the use of a uniform single consonant after an
unaccented vowel, as _traveler_ for _traveller_; the adoption of _e_ for
_oe_ or _æ_ in _hemorrhage_, _diarrhea_, &c.

THE MEANINGS.--The current and most important meaning of a word is usually
given first. But in cases like _Clerk_, _Livery_, _Marshal_, where the
force of the word can be made much clearer by tracing its history, the
original meaning is also given, and the successive variations of its usage
defined.

THE ETYMOLOGY.--The Etymology of each word is given after the meanings,
within brackets. Where further information regarding a word is given
elsewhere, it is so indicated by a reference. It must be noted under the
etymology that whenever a word is printed thus, BAN, BASE, the student is
referred to it; also that here the sign--is always to be read as meaning
'derived from.' Examples are generally given of words that are cognate or
correspond to the English words; but it must be remembered that they are
inserted merely for illustration. Such words are usually separated from the
rest by a semicolon. For instance, when an English word is traced to its
Anglo-Saxon form, and then a German word is given, no one should suppose
that our English word is derived from the German. German and Anglo-Saxon
are alike branches from a common Teutonic stem, and have seldom borrowed
from each other. Under each word the force of the prefix is usually given,
though not the affix. For fuller explanation in such cases the student is
referred to the list of Prefixes and Suffixes in the Appendix.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS DICTIONARY.

  _aor._                    aorist.
  _abbrev._                 abbreviation.
  _abl._                    ablative.
  _acc._                    according.
  _accus._                  accusative.
  _adj._                    adjective.
  _adv._                    adverb.
  _agri._                   agriculture.
  _alg._                    algebra.
  _anat._                   anatomy.
  _app._                    apparently.
  _arch._                   archaic.
  _archit._                 architecture.
  _arith._                  arithmetic.
  _astrol._                 astrology.
  _astron._                 astronomy.
  _attrib._                 attributive.
  _augm._                   augmentative.
  _B._                      Bible.
  _biol._                   biology.
  _book-k._                 book-keeping.
  _bot._                    botany.
  _c._ (_circa_)            about.
  _c._, _cent._             century.
  _carp._                   carpentry.
  _cf._                     compare.
  _chem._                   chemistry.
  _cog._                    cognate.
  _coll._, _colloq._        colloquially.
  _comp._                   comparative.
  _conch._                  conchology.
  _conj._                   conjunction.
  _conn._                   connected.
  _contr._                  contracted.
  _cook._                   cookery.
  _corr._                   corruption.
  _crystal._                crystallography.
  _dat._                    dative.
  _demons._                 demonstrative.
  _der._                    derivation.
  _dial._                   dialect, dialectal.
  _Dict._                   Dictionary.
  _dim._                    diminutive.
  _dub._                    doubtful.
  _eccles._                 ecclesiastical history.
  _e.g._                    for example.
  _elect._                  electricity.
  _entom._                  entomology.
  _esp._                    especially.
  _ety._                    etymology.
  _fem._                    feminine.
  _fig._                    figuratively.
  _fol._                    followed; following.
  _fort._                   fortification.
  _freq._                   frequentative.
  _fut._                    future.
  _gen._                    genitive.
  _gener._                  generally.
  _geog._                   geography.
  _geol._                   geology.
  _geom._                   geometry.
  _ger._                    gerundive.
  _gram._                   grammar.
  _gun._                    gunnery.
  _her._                    heraldry.
  _hist._                   history.
  _hort._                   horticulture.
  _hum._                    humorous.
  _i.e._                    that is.
  _imit._                   imitative.
  _imper._                  imperative.
  _impers._                 impersonal.
  _indic._                  indicative.
  _infin._                  infinitive.
  _inten._                  intensive.
  _interj._                 interjection.
  _interrog._               interrogative.
  _jew._                    jewellery.
  _lit._                    literally.
  _mach._                   machinery.
  _masc._                   masculine.
  _math._                   mathematics.
  _mech._                   mechanics.
  _med._                    medicine.
  _metaph._                 metaphysics.
  _mil._                    military.
  _Milt._                   Milton.
  _min._                    mineralogy.
  _mod._                    modern.
  _Mt._                     Mount.
  _mus._                    music.
  _myth._                   mythology.
  _n._, _ns._               noun, nouns.
  _nat. hist._              natural history.
  _naut._                   nautical.
  _neg._                    negative.
  _neut._                   neuter.
  _n.pl._                   noun plural.
  _n.sing._                 noun singular.
  _N.T._                    New Testament.
  _obs._                    obsolete.
  _opp._                    opposed.
  _opt._                    optics.
  _orig._                   originally.
  _ornith._                 ornithology.
  _O.S._                    old style.
  _O.T._                    Old Testament.
  _p._, _part._             participle.
  _p.adj._                  participial adjective.
  _paint._                  painting.
  _paleog._                 paleography.
  _paleon._                 paleontology.
  _palm._                   palmistry.
  _pa.p._                   past participle.
  _pass._                   passive.
  _pa.t._                   past tense.
  _path._                   pathology.
  _perf._                   perfect.
  _perh._                   perhaps.
  _pers._                   person.
  _pfx._                    prefix.
  _phil._, _philos._        philosophy.
  _philol._                 philology.
  _phon._                   phonetics.
  _phot._                   photography.
  _phrenol._                phrenology.
  _phys._                   physics.
  _physiol._                physiology.
  _pl._                     plural.
  _poet._                   poetical.
  _pol. econ._              political economy.
  _poss._                   possessive.
  _Pr.Bk._                  Book of Common
                            Prayer.
  _pr.p._                   present participle.
  _prep._                   preposition.
  _pres._                   present.
  _print._                  printing.
  _priv._                   privative.
  _prob._                   probably.
  _Prof._                   Professor.
  _pron._                   pronoun;
                            pronounced;
                            pronunciation.
  _prop._                   properly.
  _pros._                   prosody.
  _prov._                   provincial.
  _q.v._                    which see.
  _R.C._                    Roman Catholic.
  _recip._                  reciprocal.
  _redup._                  reduplication.
  _refl._                   reflexive.
  _rel._                    related; relative.
  _rhet._                   rhetoric.
  _sculp._                  sculpture.
  _Shak._                   Shakespeare.
  _sig._                    signifying.
  _sing._                   singular.
  _spec._                   specifically.
  _Spens_.                  Spenser.
  _subj._                   subjunctive.
  _suff._                   suffix.
  _superl._                 superlative.
  _surg._                   surgery.
  _term._                   termination.
  _teleg._                  telegraphy.
  _Tenn._                   Tennyson.
  _Test._                   Testament.
  _theat._                  theatre; theatricals.
  _theol._                  theology.
  _trig._                   trigonometry.
  _ult._                    ultimately.
  _v.i._                    verb intransitive.
  _voc._                    vocative.
  _v.t._                    verb transitive.
  _vul._                    vulgar.
  _zool._                   zoology.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Amer.       American.
  Ar.         Arabic.
  A.S.        Anglo-Saxon.
  Austr.      Australian.
  Bav.        Bavarian.
  Beng.       Bengali.
  Bohem.      Bohemian.
  Braz.       Brazilian.
  Bret.       Breton.
  Carib.      Caribbean.
  Celt.       Celtic.
  Chal.       Chaldean.
  Chin.       Chinese.
  Corn.       Cornish.
  Dan.        Danish.
  Dut.        Dutch.
  Egypt.      Egyptian.
  Eng.        English.
  Finn.       Finnish.
  Flem.       Flemish.
  Fr.         French.
  Fris.       Frisian.
  Gael.       Gaelic.
  Ger.        German.
  Goth.       Gothic.
  Gr.         Greek.
  Heb.        Hebrew.
  Hind.       Hindustani.
  Hung.       Hungarian.
  Ice.        Icelandic.
  Ind.        Indian.
  Ion.        Ionic.
  Ir.         Irish.
  It.         Italian.
  Jap.        Japanese.
  Jav.        Javanese.
  L.          Latin.
  Lith.       Lithuanian.
  L. L.       Low or Late Latin.
  M. E.       Middle English.
  Mex.        Mexican.
  Norm.       Norman.
  Norw.       Norwegian.
  O. Fr.      Old French.
  Pers.       Persian.
  Peruv.      Peruvian.
  Pol.        Polish.
  Port.       Portuguese.
  Prov.       Provençal.
  Rom.        Romance.
  Russ.       Russian
  Sans.       Sanskrit.
  Scand.      Scandinavian.
  Scot.       Scottish.
  Singh.      Singhalese.
  Slav.       Slavonic.
  Sp.         Spanish.
  Sw.         Swedish.
  Teut.       Teutonic.
  Turk.       Turkish.
  U.S.        United States.
  W.          Welsh.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAMBERS'S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
DICTIONARY.

       *       *       *       *       *

E the fifth letter in our own and the cognate alphabets, with four
sounds--e.g. _e_ in _e_vil, _i_ in _E_ngland, _u_ in the last syllable of
elev_e_n, Italian _e_ in pr_e_y. A subscript _e_ is commonly used to
lengthen the previous vowel, as in not, not_e_; bit, bit_e_; (_mus._) the
third note or sound of the natural diatonic scale, and the third above the
tonic C.

EACH, [=e]ch, _adj._ every one in any number separately considered.--_adv._
EACH'WHERE, everywhere. [A.S. _['æ]lc_, supposed to be for _á-ge-líc_, from
_á_ (=_aye_), pfx. _ge-_, and _líc_, like--i.e. aye-like.]

EADISH, obsolete form of EDDISH.

EAGER, [=e]'g[.e]r, _adj._ excited by desire: ardent to do or obtain:
(_obs._) earnest: keen, severe, sour, acid, bitter.--_adv._ EA'GERLY.--_n._
EA'GERNESS. [O. Fr. _aigre_--L. _acer_, _acris_, sharp.]

EAGER. Same as EAGRE.

EAGLE, [=e]'gl, _n._ a name given to many birds of prey in the family
_Falconidæ_: a military standard carrying the figure of an eagle: a gold
coin of the United States, worth ten dollars.--_adjs._ EA'GLE-EYED,
EA'GLE-SIGHT'ED, having a piercing eye: discerning; EA'GLE-FLIGHT'ED,
mounting high.--_ns._ EA'GLE-HAWK, a name applied to several eagles of
comparatively small size; EA'GLE-OWL, a genus of large owls, the largest in
Europe; EA'GLE-STONE, a variety of argillaceous oxide of iron occurring in
egg-shaped masses; EA'GLET, a young or small eagle.--_adj._ EA'GLE-WINGED,
having an eagle's wings.--_ns._ EA'GLE-WOOD, another name for agalloch or
calambac; SPREAD'-EA'GLE (see Spread). [O. Fr. _aigle_--L. _aquila_.]

EAGRE, [=e]'g[.e]r, _n._ rise of the tide in a river (same as Bore). [Ety.
dub.; hardly from A.S. _égor_, flood.]

EALDORMAN. See ALDERMAN.

EAN, [=e]n, _v.t._ or _v.i._ (_Shak._) to bring forth young.--_n._
EAN'LING, a young lamb. [A.S. _éanian_.]

EAR, [=e]r, _n._ a spike, as of corn.--_v.i._ to put forth ears.--_n._
EAR'-COCK'LE, a disease of wheat.--_adj._ EARED, of corn, having ears.
[A.S. _éar_; Ger. _ähre_.]

EAR, [=e]r, _v.t._ (_obs._) to plough or till.--_n._ EAR'ING (_obs._),
ploughing. [A.S. _erian_; cf. L. _ar[=a]re_, Gr. _aroein_.]

EAR, [=e]r, _n._ the organ of hearing, or the external part merely: the
sense or power of hearing: the faculty of distinguishing sounds: attention:
anything like an ear.--_ns._ EAR'ACHE, an ache or pain in the ear; EAR'BOB,
an earring; EAR'-CAP, a covering to protect the ear from cold; EAR'DROP, an
ornamental pendant hanging from the ear; EAR'DRUM, the drum or middle
cavity of the ear, tympanum (q.v.).--_adj._ EARED, having ears.--_n._
EAR'-HOLE, the aperture of the ear.--_adj._ EAR'-KISS'ING, whispered.--_n._
EAR'LAP, the tip of the ear: an ear-cap.--_adj._ EAR'LESS, wanting
ears.--_ns._ EAR'LOCK, a curl near the ear worn by Elizabethan dandies;
EAR'MARK, a mark set on the ears of sheep whereby their owners may
distinguish them: a distinctive mark.--_v.t._ to put an earmark on.--_n._
EAR'-PICK, an instrument for clearing the ear.--_adj._ EAR'-PIERC'ING,
shrill, screaming.--_ns._ EAR'RING, an ornamental ring worn in the ear;
EAR'-SHELL, any shell of the family _Haliotidæ_; EAR'SHOT, the distance at
which a sound can be heard; EAR'-TRUM'PET, a tube to aid in hearing;
EAR'WAX, a waxy substance secreted by the glands of the ear; EAR'WIG, an
insect which was supposed to creep into the brain through the ear: a
flatterer.--_v.t._ to gain the ear of: to bias: to torment by private
importunities (A.S. _éarwicga_, _éare_, ear, _wicga_, earwig).--_n._
EAR'WITNESS, a witness that can testify from his own hearing.--ABOUT ONE'S
EARS, said of a house falling, &c.; BE ALL EARS, to give every attention;
GIVE EAR, to attend; GO IN AT ONE EAR AND OUT AT THE OTHER, used of words
which make no permanent impression; HAVE A PERSON'S EAR, to be secure of
his favourable attention; HAVE ITCHING EARS, to be desirous of hearing
novelties (2 Tim. iv. 3); LEND AN EAR, to listen; OVER HEAD AND EARS,
overwhelmed: deeply engrossed or involved; SET BY THE EARS, to set at
strife; SPEAK IN THE EAR, to whisper; TICKLE THE EAR, to flatter; TURN A
DEAF EAR, to refuse to listen; WALLS HAVE EARS, a proverbial phrase
implying that there may be listeners behind the wall. [A.S. _éare_; cf. L.
_auris_, Ger. _ohr_.]

[Illustration]

EARL, [.e]rl, _n._ an English nobleman ranking between a marquis and a
viscount:--_fem._ COUNT'ESS.--_ns._ EARL'DOM, the dominion or dignity of an
earl; EARL'-MAR'SHAL, an English officer of state, president of the
Heralds' College--the Scotch form _Earl-marischal_. [A.S. _eorl_, a
warrior, hero; cf. Ice. _jarl_.]

EARLES-PENNY. See ARLES.

EARLY, [.e]r'li, _adj._ in good season: at or near the beginning of the
day: relating to the beginning: happening in the near future.--_adv._ near
the beginning: soon.--_n._ EAR'LINESS.--EARLY AND LATE, at all times; EARLY
BIRD, an early riser; EARLY ENGLISH (_archit._), generally applied to the
form of Gothic in which the pointed arch was first employed in Britain. The
Early English succeeded the _Norman_ towards the end of the 12th century,
and merged into the _Decorated_ at the end of the 13th.--KEEP EARLY HOURS,
to rise and go to bed betimes; SMALL AND EARLY (_coll._), applied to
evening parties; THE EARLY BIRD CATCHES THE WORM, a proverb in favour of
early rising. [A.S. _árlíce_--_['æ]r_, before.]

EARN, [.e]rn, _v.t._ to gain by labour: to acquire: to deserve.--_n.pl._
EARN'INGS, what one has earned: money saved. [A.S. _earnian_, to earn; cog.
with Old High Ger. _aran_, to reap; Ger. _ernte_, harvest.]

EARN, [.e]rn, _v.i._ to yearn. [A variant of _yearn_.]

EARNEST, [.e]r'nest, _adj._ showing strong desire: determined: eager to
obtain: intent: sincere: serious.--_n._ seriousness: reality.--_adv._
EAR'NESTLY.--_n._ EAR'NESTNESS. [A.S. _eornost_, seriousness; Ger.
_ernst_.]

EARNEST, [.e]r'nest, _n._ money given in token of a bargain made--also
EAR'NEST-MON'EY, EAR'NEST-PENN'Y: a pledge: first-fruits. [ETY. obscure;
possibly conn. with _arles_.]

EARST, obsolete form of ERST.

EARTH, [.e]rth, _n._ the name applied to the third planet in order from the
sun: the matter on the surface of the globe: soil: dry land, as opposed to
sea: the world: the inhabitants of the world: dirt: dead matter: the human
body: a fox's hole: (_pl._) the name applied by the alchemists and earlier
chemists to certain substances now known to be oxides of metal, which were
distinguished by being infusible, and by insolubility in water.--_v.t._ to
hide or cause to hide in the earth: to bury.--_v.i._ to burrow: to
hide.--_ns._ EARTH'-BAG, a sack of earth used in fortifications;
EARTH'-BATH, a bath of earth or mud; EARTH'-BOARD, the board of a plough,
or other implement, that turns over the earth.--_adjs._ EARTH'-BORN, born
from or on the earth; EARTH'-BOUND, bound or held by the earth, as a tree;
EARTH'-BRED, mean, grovelling.--_n._ EARTH'-CLOS'ET, a system consisting of
the application of earth to the deodorisation of fæcal matters.--_adjs._
EARTH'-CRE[=A]'TED, made of earth; EARTH'EN, made of earth or clay:
earthly.--_ns._ EARTH'ENWARE, crockery; EARTH'-FALL, a landslide.--_adj._
EARTH'-FED, contented with earthly things.--_ns._ EARTH'FLAX, asbestos;
EARTH'-HOG (see AARDVARK); EARTH'-HOUSE, the name given to the ancient
underground dwellings in Ireland and Scotland, also called _Picts' houses_;
EARTH'-HUNG'ER, the passion for acquiring land; EARTH'INESS; EARTH'LINESS;
EARTH'LING, a dweller on the earth.--_adjs._ EARTH'LY, belonging to the
earth: vile: worldly; EARTH'LY-MIND'ED, having the mind intent on earthly
things.--_ns._ EARTH'LY-MIND'EDNESS; EARTH'-NUT, the popular name of
certain tuberous roots growing underground; EARTH'-PEA, the hog-peanut;
EARTH'-PLATE, a buried plate of metal forming the earth-connection of a
telegraph-wire, lightning-conductor, &c.; EARTH'QUAKE, a quaking or shaking
of the earth: a heaving of the ground; EARTH'-SHINE, the faint light
visible on the part of the moon not illuminated by the sun; EARTH'-TREM'OR,
a slight earthquake.--_adv._ EARTH'WARD, toward the earth.--_ns._
EARTH'WORK, a fortification of earth; EARTH'-WORM, the common worm: a mean
person, a poor creature.--_adj._ EARTH'Y, consisting of, relating to, or
resembling earth: inhabiting the earth: gross: unrefined. [A.S. _eorthe_;
cf. Dut. _aarde_, Ger. _erde_.]

EASE, [=e]z, _n._ freedom from pain or disturbance: rest from work: quiet:
freedom from difficulty: naturalness.--_v.t._ to free from pain, trouble,
or anxiety: to relieve: to calm.--_adj._ EASE'FUL, ease-giving: quiet, fit
for rest.--_n._ EASE'MENT, relief: assistance: support:
gratification.--_adv._ EAS'ILY.--_n._ EAS'INESS.--_adj._ EAS'Y, at ease:
free from pain: tranquil: unconstrained: giving ease: not difficult:
yielding: not straitened (in circumstances): not tight: not strict, as in
'easy virtue.'--_interj._ EASY! a command to lower, or to go gently, to
stop rowing, &c.--_n._ EAS'Y-CHAIR, an arm-chair for ease or rest.--_adj._
EAS'Y-G[=O]'ING, good-natured: indolent.--EASE ONE'S SELF, to relieve
nature.--CHAPEL OF EASE (see CHAPEL); FREE AND EASY (see FREE).--HONOURS
EASY, when the honours are evenly divided at whist: ILL AT EASE,
uncomfortable; STAND AT EASE, used of soldiers, when freed from
'attention;' TAKE IT EASY, to be quite unconcerned: to be in no hurry; TAKE
ONE'S EASE, to make one's self comfortable. [O. Fr. _aise_; cog. with It.
_agio_; Prov. _ais_, Port. _azo_.]

EASEL, [=e]z'l, _n._ the frame on which painters support their pictures
while painting. [Dut. _ezel_, or Ger. _esel_, an ass.]

EASLE, [=e]s'l, _n._ (_Burns_) hot ashes. [A.S. _ysle_; cf. Ice. _usli_.]

EASSEL, a Scotch form for _eastward_, easterly.

EAST, [=e]st, _n._ that part of the heavens where the sun first shines or
rises: one of the four cardinal points of the compass.--_adj._ toward the
rising of the sun.--_ns._ EAST'-END, the eastern part of London, the
habitation of the poorer classes; EAST'-END'ER.--_adjs._ EAST'ER, EAST'ERN,
toward the east: connected with the east: dwelling in the east.--_n._
EAST'ERLING, a native of the East: a trader from the shores of the
Baltic.--_adj._ EAST'ERLY, coming from the eastward: looking toward the
east.--_adv._ on the east: toward the east.--_adjs._ EAST'ERNMOST,
EAST'MOST, situated farthest east.--_ns._ EAST'-IN'DIAMAN, a vessel used in
the East India trade; EAST'ING, the course gained to the eastward: distance
eastward from a given meridian; EAST'LAND, the land in the East.--_adv._
EAST'WARD, toward the east.--EAST-BY-SOUTH (NORTH), 11¼ degrees from due
east; EAST-SOUTH (NORTH)-EAST, 22½ degrees from due east.--EASTWARD
POSITION, the position of the celebrant at the Eucharist, when he stands in
front of the altar and facing it, instead of the usual practice of standing
at the north end of the altar, facing southward.--ABOUT EAST (_slang_), in
proper manner; THE EAST, the countries to the east of Europe; TURNING TO
THE EAST, a practice for both clergy and laity during service, esp. while
singing the creeds, the _Gloria Patri_, and the _Gloria in Excelsis._ [A.S.
_east_; Ger. _ost_; akin to Gr. _[=e][=o]s_, the dawn.]

EASTER, [=e]st'[.e]r, _n._ a Christian festival commemorating the
resurrection of Christ, held on the Sunday after Good-Friday.--_n._
EAST'ER-DAY, Easter Sunday.--_ns.pl._ EAST'ER-DUES, -OFF'ERINGS, 'customary
sums' which from time immemorial have been paid to the parson by his people
at Easter.--_ns._ EAST'ER-EGG, eggs stained of various colours, given as
presents on Easter; EAST'ERTIDE, Eastertime, either Easter week or the
fifty days between Easter and Whitsuntide. [A.S. _éastre_; Ger. _ostern_.
Bede derives the word from _Eastre_, a goddess whose festival was held at
the spring equinox.]

EAT, [=e]t, _v.t._ to chew and swallow: to consume: to corrode.--_v.i._ to
take food:--_pr.p._ eat'ing; _pa.t._ ate ([=a]t or et); _pa.p._ eaten
([=e]tn) or (_obs._) eat (et).--_adj._ EAT'ABLE, fit to be eaten.--_n._
anything used as food (chiefly _pl._).--_ns._ EAT'AGE, grass or fodder for
horses, &c.: the right to eat; EAT'ER, one who, or that which, eats or
corrodes; EAT'ING, the act of taking food.--_p.adj._ that eats:
corroding.--_ns._ EAT'ING-HOUSE, a place where provisions are sold ready
dressed: a restaurant; GOOD'-EAT'ING, something good for food.--EAT AWAY,
to destroy gradually: to gnaw; EAT IN, used of the action of acid; EAT ITS
HEAD OFF, used of an animal which costs as much for food as it is worth;
EAT ONE'S HEART, to pine away, brooding over misfortune; EAT ONE'S TERMS,
to study for the bar, with allusion to the number of times in a term that a
student must dine in the hall of an Inn of Court; EAT ONE'S WORDS, to
retract: to recant; EAT OUT, to finish eatables: to encroach upon; EAT THE
AIR (_Shak._) to be deluded with hopes; EAT UP, to devour: to consume,
absorb; EAT WELL, to have a good appetite. [A.S. _etan_; cf. Ger. _essen_,
Ice. _eta_, L. _ed[)e]re_, Gr. _edein_.]

EATH, [=e]th, _adj._ (_obs._) easy.--_adv._ EATH'LY. [A.S. _éathe_, easily;
cf. Old High Ger. _odi_, easy.]

EAU, [=o], _n._ the French word for water, used in English in various
combinations.--EAU CRÉOLE, a fine Martinique liqueur, made by distilling
the flowers of the mammee-apple with spirit of wine; EAU DE COLOGNE (see
under COLOGNE-EARTH); EAU DE VIE, brandy.

EAVES, [=e]vz, _n.pl._ the projecting edge of the roof: anything
projecting.--_ns._ EAVES'DRIP, EAVES'DROP, the water which falls from the
eaves of a house: the place where the drops fall.--_v.i._ and _v.t._
EAVES'DROP, to stand under the eaves or near the windows of a house to
listen: to listen for secrets.--_ns._ EAVES'DROPPER, one who thus listens:
one who tries to overhear private conversation; EAVES'DROPPING. [A.S.
_efes_, the clipped edge of thatch; cf. Ice. _ups_.]

EBB, eb, _n._ the going back or retiring of the tide: a decline or
decay.--_v.i._ to flow back: to sink: to decay.--_n._ EBB'-TIDE, the ebbing
or retiring tide. [A.S. _ebba_; Ger. _ebbe_; cog. with _even_.]

EBENEZER, eb-en-[=e]z'er, _n._ a memorial stone set up by Samuel after the
victory of Mizpeh (1 Sam. vii. 12): a name sometimes applied to a chapel or
meeting-house. [Heb., 'stone of help.']

EBIONITE, [=e]'bi-on-[=i]t, _n._ a name applied to Jewish Christians who
remained outside the Catholic Church down to the time of Jerome. They held
the Mosaic laws binding on Christians, and denied the apostolate of Paul
and the miraculous birth of Jesus.--_v.t._ E'BIONISE.--_adj._
EBIONIT'IC.--_ns._ EBION[=I]T'ISM, E'BIONISM. [Heb. _eby[=o]n_, poor.]

EBLIS, eb'lis, _n._ the chief of the fallen angels or wicked jinns in
Mohammedan mythology.--Also IB'LEES.

EBON, eb'on, EBONY, eb'on-i, _n._ a kind of wood almost as heavy and hard
as stone, usually black, admitting of a fine polish.--_adj._ made of ebony:
black as ebony.--_v.t._ EB'ONISE, to make furniture look like ebony.--_ns._
EB'ONIST, a worker in ebony; EB'ONITE, vulcanite (see under VULCAN).
[L.,--Gr. _ebenos_; cf. Heb. _hodn[=i]m_, pl. of _hobni_, _obni_--_eben_, a
stone.]

ÉBOULEMENT, [=a]-bool'mong, _n._ the falling in of the wall of a
fortification: a landslide or landslip. [Fr.]

EBRACTEATE, -D, e-brak't[=e]-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) without bracts.

EBRIATED, [=e]'bri-[=a]t-ed, _adj._ intoxicated.--_n._ EBR[=I]'ETY,
drunkenness.--_adj._ E'BRI[=O]SE, drunk.--_n._ EBRIOS'ITY. [L.
_ebri[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to make drunk.]

ÉBRILLADE, [=a]-br[=e]-lyad', _n._ the sudden jerking of a horse's rein
when he refuses to turn. [Fr.]

EBULLIENT, e-bul'yent, _adj._ boiling up or over: agitated:
enthusiastic.--_ns._ EBULL'IENCE, EBULL'IENCY, a boiling over; EBULLI'TION,
act of boiling: agitation: an outbreak. [L. _ebullient-em_,
_ebull[=i]re_--_e_, out, and _bull[=i]re_, to boil.]

EBURNINE, eb-ur'nin, _adj._ of or like ivory--also EBUR'NEAN.--_ns._
EBURN[=A]'TION, a morbid change of bone by which it becomes very hard and
dense; EBURNIFIC[=A]'TION, art of making like ivory. [L. _ebur_.]

ÉCARTÉ, [=a]-kär't[=a], _n._ a game for two, played with the thirty-two
highest cards, one feature being the right to discard or throw out certain
cards for others. [Fr.,--_e_, out, _carte_, a card.]

ECAUDATE, [=e]-kaw'd[=a]t, _adj._ tailless.

ECBASIS, ek'ba-sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure in which the speaker treats of
things according to their consequences.--_adj._ ECBAT'IC, denoting a mere
result, not an intention. [Gr.]

ECBLASTESIS, ek-blas-t[=e]'sis, _n._ (_bot._) the production of buds within
flowers.

ECBOLE, ek'bo-l[=e], _n._ (_rhet._) a digression: (_mus._) the raising or
sharping of a tone.--_adj._ ECBOL'IC, promoting parturition.--_n._ a drug
with this quality. [Gr.]

ECCALEOBION, ek-kal-e-[=o]'bi-on, _n._ a machine for the artificial
hatching of eggs. [Gr., 'I call out life.']

ECCE, ek'si, Latin word for 'behold.'--ECCE HOMO, behold the man (John,
xix. 5)--in art, a Christ crowned with thorns.

ECCENTRIC, -AL, ek-sen'trik, -al, _adj._ departing from the centre: not
having the same centre as another, said of circles: out of the usual
course: not conforming to common rules: odd.--_n._ ECCEN'TRIC, a circle not
having the same centre as another: (_mech._) a contrivance for taking an
alternating rectilinear motion from a revolving shaft: an eccentric
fellow.--_adv._ ECCEN'TRICALLY.--_n._ ECCENTRIC'ITY, the distance of the
centre of a planet's orbit from the centre of the sun: singularity of
conduct: oddness. [Fr.,--Low L. _eccentricus_--Gr. _ek_, out of, _kentron_,
centre.]

ECCHYMOSIS, ek-ki-m[=o]'sis, _n._ a discoloration of the surface produced
by blood effused below or in the texture of the skin.--_adjs._ EC'CHYMOSED,
ECCHYMOT'IC. [Gr.,--_ek_, out of, and _chymos_, juice.]

ECCLESIA, e-kl[=e]'zi-a, _n._ a popular assembly, esp. of Athens, where the
people exercised full sovereignty, and all above twenty years could vote:
applied by the Septuagint commentators to the Jewish commonwealth, and from
them to the Christian Church.--_adj._ ECCL[=E]'SIAL.--_ns._
ECCL[=E]'SIARCH, a ruler of the church; ECCL[=E]'SIAST, the
preacher--Solomon formerly considered as the author of Ecclesiastes: an
ecclesiastic; ECCL[=E]'SIASTES, one of the books of the Old Testament,
traditionally ascribed to Solomon; ECCLESIAS'TIC, one consecrated to the
church, a priest, a clergyman.--_adjs._ ECCL[=E]'SIASTIC, -AL, belonging to
the church.--_adv._ ECCLESIAS'TICALLY, in an ecclesiastical manner.--_ns._
ECCLESIAS'TICISM, attachment to ecclesiastical observances, &c.: the
churchman's temper or spirit; ECCLESIAS'TICUS, name of a book of the
Apocrypha; ECCLESIOL'ATRY, excessive reverence for church forms and
traditions.--_adj._ ECCLESIOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ ECCLESIOL'OGIST, a student of
church forms and traditions; ECCLESIOL'OGY, the science of building and
decorating churches: the science relating to the church. [Low L.,--Gr.
_ekklesia_, an assembly called out of the world, the church--_ek_, out, and
_kalein_, to call.]

ECCOPROTIC, ek-[=o]-prot'ik, _adj._ laxative, mildly cathartic.--_n._ a
laxative.

ECCRINOLOGY, ek-ri-nol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the branch of physiology relating to
the secretions.

ECCRISIS, ek'ri-sis, _n._ expulsion of waste or morbid matter.--_n._
ECCRIT'IC, a medicine having this property. [Gr.]

ECDYSIS, ek'di-sis, _n._ the act of casting off an integument, as in
serpents. [Gr.]

ECHE, [=e]k, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to eke out: to augment. [A.S. _écan_; akin to
L. _aug[=e]re_, to increase. See EKE.]

ECHELON, esh'e-long, _n._ an arrangement of troops in battalions or
divisions placed parallel to one another, but no two on the same alignment,
each having its front clear of that in advance. [Fr., from _échelle_, a
ladder or stair. See SCALE.]

ECHIDNA, ek-id'na, _n._ a genus of Australian toothless burrowing
monotremate mammals, armed with porcupine-like spines, laying eggs instead
of bringing forth the young.--_n._ ECHID'NINE, serpent-poison. [Formed from
Gr. _echidna_, a viper.]

ECHINATE, -D, ek'in-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ prickly like a hedgehog: set with
prickles or bristles.--_ns._ ECH[=I]'NITE, a fossil sea-urchin;
ECH[=I]'NODERM, one of the ECHINODER'MATA, a class of animals having the
skin strengthened by calcareous plates, or covered with spikes.--_adjs._
ECHINODER'MATOUS, relating to the Echinodermata; ECH'INOID, like a
sea-urchin.--_n._ one of the ECHINOI'DEA.--_n._ ECH[=I]'NUS, a sea-urchin:
(_archit._) the convex projecting moulding of eccentric curve in Greek
examples, supporting the abacus of the Doric capital. [Gr. _echinos_, a
hedgehog, and _derma_, skin.]

ECHO, ek'[=o], _n._ the repetition of sound caused by a sound-wave coming
against some opposing surface, and being reflected: a device in verse in
which a line ends with a word which recalls the sound of the last word of
the preceding line: imitation: an imitator:--_pl._ ECHOES
(ek'[=o]z).--_v.i._ to reflect sound: to be sounded back: to
resound.--_v.t._ to send back the sound of: to repeat a thing said: to
imitate: to flatter slavishly:--_pr.p._ ech'[=o]ing; _pa.p._
ech'[=o]ed.--_ns._ ECH'OISM, the formation of imitative words; ECH'OIST,
one who repeats like an echo.--_adj._ ECH'OLESS, giving no echo,
unresponsive.--_ns._ ECHOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the length of
sounds; ECHOM'ETRY, the art of measuring such.--CHEER TO THE ECHO, to
applaud most heartily, so that the room resounds. [L.,--Gr. _[=e]ch[=o]_, a
sound.]

ÉCLAIRCISSEMENT, ek-l[=a]r-sis'mong, _n._ the act of clearing up anything:
explanation.--COME TO AN ÉCLAIRCISSEMENT, to come to an understanding: to
explain conduct that seemed equivocal. [Fr. _éclaircir_, pr.p. _-cissant_,
_é_--L. _ex_, out, _clair_--L. _clarus_, clear.]

ECLAMPSIA, ek-lamp'si-a, _n._ a term often erroneously applied as
synonymous with epilepsy, while it is really the equivalent of convulsions,
but usually restricted to such as are due to such local or general causes
as teething, child-bearing, &c.--also ECLAMP'SY.--_adj._ ECLAMP'TIC.
[Formed from Gr. _eklampein_, to shine forth.]

ÉCLAT, [=a]-klä', _n._ a striking effect: applause: splendour: social
distinction, notoriety. [Fr. _éclat_, from O. Fr. _esclater_, to break, to
shine.]

ECLECTIC, ek-lek'tik, _adj._ selecting or borrowing: choosing the best out
of everything: broad, the opposite of exclusive.--_n._ one who selects
opinions from different systems, esp. in philosophy.--_adv._
ECLEC'TICALLY.--_n._ ECLEC'TICISM, the practice of an eclectic: the
doctrine of the ECLEC'TICS, a name applied to certain Greek thinkers in the
2d and 1st centuries B.C., later to Leibnitz and Cousin. [Gr.
_eklektikos_--_ek_, out, _legein_, to choose.]

ECLIPSE, e-klips', _n._ an obscuration of one of the heavenly bodies by the
interposition of another, either between it and the spectator, or between
it and the sun: loss of brilliancy: darkness.--_v.t._ to hide a luminous
body wholly or in part: to darken: to throw into the shade, to cut out,
surpass.--_p.adjs._ ECLIPSED', darkened, obscured; ECLIPS'ING, darkening,
obscuring.--_n._ ECLIP'TIC, the name given to the great circle of the
heavens round which the sun _seems_ to travel, from west to east, in the
course of a year: a great circle on the globe corresponding to the
celestial ecliptic.--_adj._ pertaining to an eclipse or the ecliptic.
[Through O. Fr. and L. from Gr. _ekleipsis_--_ek_, out, _leipein_, to
leave.]

ECLOGITE, ek'loj-[=i]t, _n._ a crystalline rock, composed of smaragdite and
red garnet. [Gr. _eklog[=e]_, selection--_ek_, out, _legein_, to choose.]

ECLOGUE, ek'log, _n._ a short pastoral poem like Virgil's _Bucolics_. [L.
_ecloga_--Gr. _eklog[=e]_, a selection, esp. of poems--_ek_, out of,
_legein_ to choose.]

ECONOMY, ek-on'o-mi, _n._ the management of a household or of money
matters: a frugal and judicious expenditure of money: a system of rules or
ceremonies: a dispensation, as 'the Christian economy:' regular operations,
as of nature.--_adjs._ ECONOM'IC, -AL, pertaining to economy: frugal:
careful.--_adv._ ECONOM'ICALLY.--_ns._ ECONOM'ICS, the science of household
management: political economy; ECONOMIS[=A]'TION, act of
economising.--_v.i._ ECON'OMISE, to manage with economy: to spend money
carefully: to save.--_v.t._ to use prudently: to spend with
frugality.--_ns._ ECONOM[=I]'SER, ECON'OMIST, one who is economical: one
who studies political economy.--POLITICAL ECONOMY (see under POLITIC). [L.
_oeconomia_--Gr. _oikonomia_--_oikos_, a house, _nomos_, a law.]

ÉCORCHÉ, [=a]-kor'sh[=a], _n._ a figure in which the muscles are
represented stripped of the skin, for purposes of artistic study. [Fr.
_écorcher_, to flay.]

ÉCOSSAISE, [=a]-ko-s[=a]z', _n._ a kind of country-dance of Scotch origin,
or music appropriate to such.--DOUCHE ÉCOSSAISE, the alternation of hot and
cold douches. [Fr., fem. of _Écossais_, Scotch.]

ECOSTATE, [=e]-kos't[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) not costate: ribless.

ECPHLYSIS, ek'fli-sis, _n._ (_path._) vesicular eruption.

ECPHONESIS, ek-f[=o]-n[=e]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure of speech which
uses questions, interjections, &c., for variety: in Greek use, the part of
the service spoken in an audible tone.

ECPHRACTIC, ek-frak'tik, _adj._ (_med._) serving to remove
obstructions.--_n._ a drug with such properties.

ECRASEUR, [=a]-kra-z[.e]r, _n._ (_surg._) an instrument for removing
tumours. [Fr.]

ECSTASY, ek'sta-si, _n._ a word applied to states of mind marked by
temporary mental alienation and altered or diminished consciousness:
excessive joy: enthusiasm, or any exalted feeling.--_v.t._ to fill with
joy.--_adjs._ EC'STASIED, enraptured; ECSTAT'IC, causing ecstasy: amounting
to ecstasy: rapturous.--_n._ one given to ecstasy: something spoken in a
state of ecstasy.--_adv._ ECSTAT'ICALLY. [Through O. Fr. and Low L. from
Gr. _ekstasis_--_ek_, aside, _histanai_, to make to stand.]

ECTAL, ek'tal, _adj._ (_anat._) outer, external--opp. to _Ental._--_adv._
EC'TAD. [Gr. _ektos_, without.]

ECTASIS, ek'ta-sis, _n._ the pronunciation of a vowel as long.

ECTHLIPSIS, ek-thlip'sis, _n._ omission or suppression of a letter. [Gr.]

ECTHYMA, ek-th[=i]'ma, _n._ a pustular disease of the skin, in which the
pustules often reach the size of a pea, and have a red, slightly elevated,
hardish base. [Gr., _ek_, _thyein_, to boil.]

ECTOBLAST, ek'to-blast, _n._ the outer wall of a cell.--_adj._
ECTOBLAS'TIC.

ECTODERM, ek'to-d[.e]rm, _n._ the external germinal layer of the embryo.
[Gr. _ektos_, outside, _derma_, skin.]

ECTOPARASITE, ek-t[=o]-par'a-s[=i]t, _n._ an external parasite.

ECTOPIA, ek-t[=o]'pi-a, _n._ (_path._) morbid displacement of
parts.--_adj._ ECTOP'IC.

ECTOPLASM, ek'to-plasm, _n._ the exterior protoplasm or sarcode of a
cell.--_adjs._ ECTOPLAS'MIC, ECTOPLAS'TIC.

ECTOZOA, ek-t[=o]-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ external parasites generally--opp. to
_Entozoa_.--_n._ ECTOZ[=O]'AN, one of the Ectozoa.

ECTROPION, -UM, ek-tr[=o]p'i-on, -um, _n._ eversion of the margin of the
eyelid, so that the red inner surface is exposed.--_adj._ ECTROP'IC. [Gr.
_ek_, out, and _trepein_, to turn.]

ECTYPE, ek't[=i]p, _n._ a reproduction or copy.--_adj._ EC'TYPAL.--_n._
ECTYPOG'RAPHY. [Gr. _ek_, out, and _typos_, a figure.]

ÉCU, [=a]'kü, or [=a]-k[=u]', _n._ a French silver coin, usually considered
as equivalent to the English crown--there were also gold _écus_ weighing
about 60 grains: a common name for the five-franc piece. [Fr.,--L.
_scutum_, a shield.]

ECUMENIC, -AL, ek-[=u]-men'ik, -al, _adj._ general, universal, belonging to
the entire Christian Church.--Also OECUMEN'IC, -AL.

ECZEMA, ek'ze-ma, _n._ a common skin disease, in which the affected portion
of the skin is red, and is covered with numerous small papules, which
speedily turn into vesicles.--_adj._ ECZEM'ATOUS. [Gr., from
_ekzein_--_ek_, out, _zeein_, to boil.]

EDACIOUS, e-d[=a]'shus, _adj._ given to eating: gluttonous.--_adv._
ED[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ ED[=A]'CIOUSNESS; EDAC'ITY. [L. _edax_,
_ed[=a]cis_--_ed[)e]re_, to eat.]

EDDA, ed'a, _n._ the name of two Scandinavian books--the 'Elder' Edda, a
collection of ancient mythological and heroic songs (9th-11th century); and
the 'Younger' or prose Edda, by Snorri Sturluson (_c._ 1230), mythological
stories, poetics, and prosody. [Ice., 'great-grandmother.']

EDDISH, ed'dish, _n._ pasturage, or the eatable growth of grass after
mowing. [Dubiously referred to A.S. _edisc_, a park.]

EDDY, ed'i, _n._ a current of water or air running back, contrary to the
main stream, thus causing a circular motion: a whirlpool: a
whirlwind.--_v.i._ to move round and round:--_pr.p._ edd'ying; _pa.p._
edd'ied.--_n._ EDD'YING, the action of the verb _eddy_. [Prob. from A.S.
_ed_, back; cf. Ice. _ida_--_id_, back.]

EDELWEISS, [=a]'del-v[=i]s, _n._ a small white composite, with pretty white
flower, found growing in damp places at considerable altitudes (5000-7000
feet) throughout the Alps. [Ger. _edel_, noble, _weiss_, white.]

EDEMATOSE, -OUS. Same as OEDEMATOSE, -OUS (q.v. under OEDEMA).

EDEN, [=e]'den, _n._ the garden where Adam and Eve lived: a
paradise.--_adj._ EDEN'IC. [Heb. _[=e]den_, delight, pleasure.]

EDENTATE, -D, e-den't[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ without teeth: wanting front
teeth--also EDEN'TAL.--_ns._ EDENT[=A]'TA, a Cuvierian order of mammals,
having no teeth or very imperfect ones; EDENT[=A]'TION,
toothlessness.--_adj._ EDEN'TULOUS, edentate. [L. _edent[=a]tus_,
toothless--_e_, out of, _dens_, _dentis_, a tooth.]

EDGE, ej, _n._ the border of anything: the brink: the cutting side of an
instrument: something that wounds or cuts: sharpness of mind or appetite:
keenness.--_v.t._ to put an edge on: to place a border on: to exasperate:
to urge on: to move by little and little.--_v.i._ to move sideways.--_n._
EDGE'-BONE, the haunch-bone.--_adjs._ EDGED; EDGE'LESS, without an edge:
blunt.--_ns._ EDGE'-RAIL, a rail of such form that the carriage-wheels roll
on its edges, being held there by flanges; EDGE'-TOOL, EDGED TOOL, a tool
with a sharp edge.--_advs._ EDGE'WAYS, EDGE'WISE, in the direction of the
edge: sideways.--_ns._ EDG'INESS, angularity, over-sharpness of outline;
EDG'ING, any border or fringe round a garment: a border of box, &c., round
a flower-bed.--_adj._ EDG'Y, with edges, sharp, hard in outline.--EDGE IN A
WORD, to get a word in with difficulty; EDGE OF THE SWORD, a rhetorical
phrase for the sword as the symbol of slaughter.--OUTSIDE EDGE, figure in
skating, made on the outer edge of the skate.--PLAY WITH EDGE-TOOLS, to
deal carelessly with dangerous matters.--SET ON EDGE, to excite; SET THE
TEETH ON EDGE, to cause a strange grating feeling in the teeth; to rouse an
instinctive dislike. [A.S. _ecg_; cf. Ger. _ecke_, L. _acies_.]

EDIBLE, ed'i-bl, _adj._ fit to be eaten.--_n._ something for food.--_ns._
EDIBIL'ITY, ED'IBLENESS, fitness for being eaten. [L.
_edibilis_--_ed[)e]re_, to eat.]

EDICT, [=e]'dikt, _n._ something proclaimed by authority: an order issued
by a king or lawgiver.--_adj._ EDICT'AL.--_adv._ EDICT'ALLY. [L.
_edictum_--_e_, out, _dic[)e]re_, _dictum_, to say.]

EDIFY, ed'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to build: to build up the faith of: to strengthen
spiritually towards faith and holiness: to comfort: to improve the
mind:--_pr.p._ ed'ifying; _pa.p._ ed'ified.--_n._ EDIFIC[=A]'TION,
instruction: progress in knowledge or in goodness.--_adj._ ED'IFICATORY,
tending to edification.--_n._ ED'IFICE, a large building or house.--_adj._
EDIFIC'IAL, structural.--_n._ ED'IFIER, one who edifies.--_adj._ ED'IFYING,
instructive: improving.--_adv._ ED'IFYINGLY. [Fr. _édifier_--L.
_ædific[=a]re_--_ædes_, a house, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

EDILE. See ÆDILE.

EDIT, ed'it, _v.t._ to prepare the work of an author for publication: to
superintend the publication of (a newspaper, &c.): to compile, garble, or
cook up materials into literary shape.--_ns._ EDI'TION, the publication of
a book: the number of copies of a book printed at a time; ED'ITOR, one who
edits a book: one who conducts a newspaper or journal:--_fem._
ED'ITRESS.--_adj._ EDIT[=O]'RIAL, of or belonging to an editor.--_n._ an
article in a newspaper written by the editor, a leading article.--_adv._
EDIT[=O]'RIALLY.--_n._ ED'ITORSHIP. [L. _ed[)e]re_, _ed[)i]tum_--_e_, out,
_d[)a]re_, to give.]

EDUCATE, ed'[=u]-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to bring up children: to train: to teach:
to cultivate any power.--_adj._ ED'UCABLE.--_n._ EDUC[=A]'TION, the
bringing up or training, as of a child: instruction: strengthening of the
powers of body or mind.--_adj._ EDUC[=A]'TIONAL.--_adv._
EDUC[=A]'TIONALLY.--_n._ EDUC[=A]'TIONIST, one skilled in methods of
educating or teaching: one who promotes education.--_adj._ ED'UCATIVE, of
or pertaining to education: calculated to teach.--_n._ ED'UCATOR. [L.
_educ[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_educ[)e]re_--_e_, out, _duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

EDUCE, [=e]-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to draw out: to extract: to cause to
appear.--_n._ inference.--_adj._ EDUC'IBLE, that may be educed or brought
out and shown.--_ns._ E'DUCT, what is educed; EDUC'TION, the act of
educing; EDUC'TION-PIPE, the pipe by which the exhaust steam is led from
the cylinder of a steam-engine into the condenser or the atmosphere;
EDUC'TOR, he who, or that which, educes. [L. _educ[)e]re_, _eductum_--_e_,
out, and _duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

EDULCORATE, [=e]-dul'k[=o]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to sweeten: to free from acids,
&c.--_adj._ EDUL'CORANT.--_n._ EDULCOR[=A]'TION.--_adj._
EDUL'COR[=A]TIVE.--_n._ EDUL'COR[=A]TOR.

EE, [=e], Scotch form of _eye_:--_pl._ EEN.

EEL, _n._ a name widely applied in popular usage, but justifiably extended
to all the members of the family _Murænidæ_--the body is much elongated,
cylindrical or ribbon-shaped.--_ns._ EEL'-BAS'KET, a basket for catching
eels; EEL'-POUT, in England, a Burbot (q.v.); in parts of Scotland, a
Blenny (q.v.): a well-known fish, with a slimy body, living chiefly in mud;
EEL'-SPEAR, an instrument with broad prongs for catching eels. [A.S.
_['æ]l_; Ger., Dut. _aal_.]

E'EN, [=e]n, a contraction of _even_.

E'ER, [=a]r, a contraction of _ever_.

EERIE, EERY, [=e]'ri, _adj._ exciting fear: weird: affected with fear:
timorous.--_adv._ EE'RILY.--_n._ EE'RINESS (_Scot._). [M. E. _arh_,
_eri_--A.S. _earg_, timid.]

EFFABLE, ef'a-bl, _adj._ capable of being expressed. [Fr.,--L.
_eff[=a]ri_--_ex_, out, _f[=a]ri_, to speak.]

EFFACE, ef-f[=a]s', _v.t._ to destroy the surface of a thing: to rub out:
to obliterate, wear away.--_adj._ EFFACE'ABLE, that can be rubbed
out.--_n._ EFFACE'MENT. [Fr. _effacer_--L. _ex_, out, _facies_, face.]

EFFECT, ef-fekt', _n._ the result of an action: impression produced:
reality: the consequence intended: (_pl._) goods: property.--_v.t._ to
produce: to accomplish.--_ns._ EFFEC'TER, EFFEC'TOR.--_adjs._ EFFEC'TIBLE,
that may be effected; EFFEC'TIVE, having power to effect: causing
something: powerful: serviceable.--_adv._ EFFEC'TIVELY.--_n._
EFFEC'TIVENESS.--_adjs._ EFFECT'LESS, without effect, useless; EFFEC'TUAL,
successful in producing the desired effect: (_Shak._) decisive.--_n._
EFFECTUAL'ITY.--_adv._ EFFEC'TUALLY.--_v.t._ EFFEC'TUATE, to
accomplish.--_n._ EFFECTUA'TION.--EFFECTUAL CALLING (_theol._), the
invitation to come to Christ which the elect receive.--FOR EFFECT, so as to
make a telling impression; GENERAL EFFECT, the effect produced by a
picture, &c., as a whole; GIVE EFFECT TO, to accomplish, perform; IN
EFFECT, in truth, really: substantially.--LEAVE NO EFFECTS, to die without
property to bequeath.--TAKE EFFECT, to begin to operate: to come into
force. [Fr.,--L. _effic[)e]re_, _effectum_, to accomplish--_ex_, out,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

EFFEIR, EFFERE, e-f[=e]r', _n._ Scotch form of _affair_.

EFFEMINATE, ef-fem'in-[=a]t, _adj._ womanish: unmanly: weak: cowardly:
voluptuous.--_n._ an effeminate person.--_v.t._ to make womanish: to unman:
to weaken.--_v.i._ to become effeminate.--_n._ EFFEM'INACY, womanish
softness or weakness: indulgence in unmanly pleasures.--_adv._
EFFEM'INATELY.--_n._ EFFEM'INATENESS. [L. _effemin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
make womanish--_ex_, out, and _femina_, a woman.]

EFFENDI, ef-fen'di, _n._ a Turkish title for civil officials and educated
persons generally. [Turk.; from Gr. _authent[=e]s_, an absolute master.]

EFFERENT, ef'e-rent, _adj._ conveying outward or away.

EFFERVESCE, ef-f[.e]r-ves', _v.i._ to boil up: to bubble and hiss: to froth
up.--_ns._ EFFERVES'CENCE; EFFERVES'CENCY.--_adjs._ EFFERVES'CENT, boiling
or bubbling from the disengagement of gas; EFFERVES'CIBLE. [L.
_effervesc[)e]re_--_ex_, inten., and _ferv[=e]re_, to boil.]

EFFETE, ef-f[=e]t', _adj._ exhausted: worn out with age. [L. _eff[=e]tus_,
weakened by having brought forth young--_ex_, out, _fetus_, a bringing
forth young.]

EFFICACIOUS, ef-fi-k[=a]'shus, _adj._ able to produce the result
intended.--_adv._ EFFIC[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ EFFIC[=A]'CIOUSNESS;
EFFICAC'ITY; EF'FICACY, virtue: energy. [Fr.,--L. _efficax_,
_efficacis_--_effic[)e]re_.]

EFFICIENT, ef-fish'ent, _adj._ capable of producing the desired result:
effective.--_n._ the person or thing that effects.--_ns._ EFFI'CIENCE,
EFFI'CIENCY, power to produce the result intended, adequate
fitness.--_adv._ EFFI'CIENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _efficiens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_effic[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

EFFIERCE, ef-f[=e]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to make fierce.

EFFIGY, ef'fi-ji, _n._ a likeness or figure of a person: the head or
impression on a coin: resemblance--(_arch._) EFFIG'IES.--BURN IN EFFIGY, to
burn a figure of a person, expressing dislike or contempt. [Fr.,--L.
_effigies_--_effing[)e]re_--_ex_, inten., _fing[)e]re_, to form.]

EFFLORESCE, ef-flo-res', _v.i._ to blossom forth: (_chem._) to become
covered with a white dust: to form minute crystals.--_ns._ EFFLORES'CENCE,
EFFLORES'CENCY, production of flowers: the time of flowering: a redness of
the skin: the formation of a white powder on the surface of bodies, or of
minute crystals.--_adj._ EFFLORES'CENT, forming a white dust on the
surface: shooting into white threads. [L. _effloresc[)e]re_--_ex_, out,
_floresc[)e]re_, to blossom--_flos_, _floris_, a flower.]

EFFLUENT, ef'floo-ent, _adj._ flowing out.--_n._ a stream that flows out of
another stream or lake.--_n._ EF'FLUENCE, a flowing out: that which flows
from any body: issue. [L. _effluens_, _-entis_, _pr.p._ of
_efflu[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

EFFLUVIUM, ef-fl[=oo]'vi-um, _n._ minute particles that flow out from
bodies: disagreeable vapours rising from decaying matter:--_pl._
EFFLU'VIA.--_adj._ EFFLU'VIAL. [Low L.,--L. _efflu[)e]re_.]

EFFLUX, ef'fluks, _n._ act of flowing out: that which flows out.--Also
EFFLUX'ION. [L. _efflu[)e]re_, _effluxum_.]

EFFODIENT, e-f[=o]'di-ent, _adj._ (_zool._) habitually digging.

EFFOLIATION, e-f[=o]-li-[=a]'shun, _n._ the removal or fall of the leaves
of a plant.

EFFORCE, ef-f[=o]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to compel. [Fr. _efforcer_--Late L.
_efforti[=a]re_--_ex_, out, _fortis_, strong.]

EFFORT, ef'fort, _n._ a putting forth of strength: attempt:
struggle.--_adj._ EF'FORTLESS, making no effort: passive. [Fr.,--L. _ex_,
out, _fortis_, strong.]

EFFRAY, an obsolete form of _affray_.

EFFRONTERY, ef-frunt'[.e]r-i, _n._ shamelessness: impudence: insolence. [O.
Fr.,--L. _effrons_, _effrontis_--_ex_, out, _frons_, _frontis_, the
forehead.]

EFFULGE, ef-fulj', _v.i._ to shine forth: to beam:--_pr.p._ effulg'ing;
_pa.p._ effulged'.--_n._ EFFUL'GENCE, great lustre or brightness: a flood
of light.--_adj._ EFFUL'GENT, shining forth: extremely bright:
splendid.--_adv._ EFFUL'GENTLY. [L. _effulg[=e]re_, to shine out, pr.p.
_effulgens_, _-entis_--_ex_, out, _fulg[=e]re_, to shine.]

EFFUSE, ef-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to pour out: to pour forth, as words: to
shed.--_n._ effusion, loss.--_adj._ loosely spreading, not compact,
expanded.--_n._ EFF[=U]'SION, act of pouring out: that which is poured out
or forth: quality of being effusive.--_adj._ EFF[=U]'SIVE, pouring forth
abundantly: gushing: expressing emotion in a pronounced manner.--_adv._
EFF[=U]'SIVELY.--_n._ EFF[=U]'SIVENESS. [L. _effund[)e]re_,
_effusum_--_ex_, out, _fund[)e]re_, to pour.]

EFT, eft, _n._ a kind of lizard: a newt. [A.S. _efeta_. Origin obscure. See
NEWT.]

EFT, eft, _adj._ ready (_Shak._, _Much Ado_, IV. ii. 38).

EFT, eft, _adv._ (_Spens._) afterwards, again, forthwith, moreover.--_adv._
EFTSOONS' (_obs._), soon afterwards, forthwith. [A.S. _æft_, _eft_, after,
again. See AFT.]

EGAD, [=e]-gad', _interj._ a minced oath. [_By God_.]

EGAL, [=e]'gal, _adj._ (_Shak._) equal.--_n._ EGAL'ITY, equality. [Fr.
_égalité_--_égal_--L. _æquus_, equal.]

EGER, [=e]'g[.e]r, _n._ Same as EAGRE.

EGENCE, [=e]'jens, _n._ exigence.

EGESTION, ej-est'yun, _n._ the passing off of excreta from within the
body.--_v.t._ EGEST', to discharge.--_n.pl._ EGEST'A, things thrown out,
excrements.--_adj._ EGEST'IVE. [L. _eger[)e]re_--_e_, out, _ger[)e]re_, to
carry.]

EGG, eg, _n._ an oval body laid by birds and certain other animals, from
which their young are produced: anything shaped like an egg.--_ns._
EGG'-APP'LE, or PLANT, the brinjal or aubergine, an East Indian annual with
egg-shaped fruit; EGG'-BIRD, a sooty tern; EGG'-C[=O]'SY, a covering put
over boiled eggs to keep in the heat after being taken from the pot:
EGG'-CUP, a cup for holding an egg at table; EGG'ER, EGG'LER, one who
collects eggs; EGG'ERY, a place where eggs are laid; EGG'-FLIP, a hot drink
made of ale, with eggs, sugar, spice, &c.; EGG'-GLASS, a small sand-glass
for regulating the boiling of eggs; EGG'-NOG, a drink compounded of eggs
and hot beer, spirits, &c.; EGG'-SHELL, the shell or calcareous substance
which covers the eggs of birds; EGG'-SLICE, a kitchen utensil for lifting
fried eggs out of a pan; EGG'-SPOON, a small spoon used in eating eggs from
the shell.--A BAD EGG (_coll._), a worthless person; PUT ALL ONE'S EGGS
INTO ONE BASKET, to risk all on one enterprise; TAKE EGGS FOR MONEY, to be
put off with mere promises of payment; TEACH YOUR GRANDMOTHER TO SUCK EGGS,
spoken contemptuously to one who would teach those older and wiser than
himself; TREAD UPON EGGS, to walk warily, to steer one's way carefully in a
delicate situation. [A.S. _æg_; cf. Ice. _egg_, Ger. _ei_, perh. L. _ovum_,
Gr. _[=o]on_.]

EGG, eg, _v.t._ to instigate. [Ice. _eggja_--_egg_, an edge; cog. with A.S.
_ecg_. See EDGE.]

EGIS. See ÆGIS.

EGLANDULAR, [=e]-glan'd[=u]-lar, _adj._ having no glands.

EGLANTINE, eg'lan-t[=i]n, _n._ a name given to the sweet-brier, and some
other species of rose, whose branches are covered with sharp prickles.
[Fr.,--O. Fr. _aiglent_, as if from a L. _aculentus_, prickly--_acus_, a
needle, and suff. _lentus_.]

EGLATERE, eg-la-t[=e]r', _n._ (_Tenn._) eglantine.

EGMA, eg'ma, _n._ (_Shak._) a corruption of _enigma_.

EGO, [=e]'g[=o], _n._ the 'I,' that which is conscious and thinks.--_ns._
E'G[=O]ISM (_phil._), the doctrine that we have proof of nothing but our
own existence: (_ethics_), the theory of self-interest as the principle of
morality: selfishness; E'G[=O]IST, one who holds the doctrine of egoism:
one who thinks and speaks too much of himself.--_adjs._ EG[=O]IST'IC, -AL,
pertaining to or manifesting egoism.--_ns._ EG[=O]'ITY, the essential
element of the ego; E'G[=O]THEISM, the deification of self.--_v.i._
E'GOTISE, to talk much of one's self.--_ns._ E'GOTISM, a frequent use of
the pronoun I: speaking much of one's self: self-exaltation; E'GOTIST, one
full of egotism.--_adjs._ EGOTIST'IC, -AL, showing egotism: self-important:
conceited.--_adv._ EGOTIST'ICALLY. [L. _ego_, I.]

EGOPHONY, [=e]-gof'o-ni, _n._ a tremulous resonance heard in auscultation
in cases of pleurisy.--Also ÆGOPH'ONY. [Gr. _aix_, a goat, _phon[=e]_,
voice.]

EGREGIOUS, e-gr[=e]'ji-us, _adj._ prominent: distinguished: outrageous:
enormous (in bad sense).--_adv._ EGR[=E]'GIOUSLY.--_n._ EGR[=E]'GIOUSNESS.
[L. _egregius_, chosen out of the flock--_e_, out, _grex_, _gregis_, a
flock.]

EGRESS, [=e]'gres, _n._ act of going out: departure: the way out: the power
or right to depart.--_n._ EGRES'SION, the act of going out. [L. _egredi_,
_egressus_--_e_, out, forth, and _gradi_, to go.]

EGRET, [=e]'gret, _n._ a form of _aigrette_.

EGYPTIAN, [=e]-jip'shi-an, _adj._ belonging to Egypt.--_n._ a native of
Egypt: a gipsy.--_adj._ EGYPTOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ EGYPTOL'OGIST; EGYPTOL'OGY,
the science of Egyptian antiquities.--EGYPTIAN DARKNESS, darkness like that
of Exod. x. 22.

EH, [=a], _interj._ expressing inquiry or slight surprise.--_v.i._ to say
'Eh.'

EIDENT, [=i]'dent, _adj._ busy: (_Scot._) diligent. [M. E. _ithen_--Ice.
_iðinn_, diligent.]

EIDER, [=i]'d[.e]r, _n._ the eider-duck, a northern sea-duck, sought after
for its fine down.--_n._ EI'DER-DOWN, the soft down of the eider-duck, used
for stuffing quilts. [Prob. through Sw. from Ice. _æðar_, gen. of _æðr_, an
eider-duck.]

EIDOGRAPH, [=i]'do-graf, _n._ an instrument for copying drawings. [Gr.
_eidos_, form, _graphein_, to write.]

EIDOLON, [=i]-d[=o]'lon, _n._ an image: a phantom or apparition: a
confusing reflection or reflected image:--_pl._ EID[=O]'LA. [Gr. See IDOL.]

EIFFEL-TOWER, [=i]f'el-tow'[.e]r, _n._ a colossal building--from the iron
structure, 985 feet high, erected (1887-89) in the Champ-de-Mars at Paris
by Gustave _Eiffel_.

EIGHT, [=a]t, _n._ the cardinal number one above seven: the figure (8 or
viii.) denoting eight.--_adj._ noting the number eight.--_adjs._ and _ns._
EIGHT'EEN, eight and ten, twice nine; EIGHT'EENM[=O], same as OCTODECIMO
(q.v.); EIGHT'EENTH, the ordinal number corresponding to eighteen.--_n._
EIGHT'FOIL (_her._), an eight-leaved grass.--_adjs._ EIGHT'FOLD, eight
times any quantity; EIGHTH, the ordinal number corresponding to
eight.--_n._ an eighth part.--_adv._ EIGHTH'LY, in the eighth
place.--_adjs._ and _ns._ EIGHT'IETH, the ordinal number corresponding to
eighty; EIGHT'Y, eight times ten, fourscore.--AN EIGHT, a crew of a
rowing-boat, consisting of eight oarsmen; AN EIGHT-OAR, or simply EIGHT,
the boat itself; AN EIGHT DAYS, a week; FIGURE OF EIGHT, a figure shaped
like an 8 made in skating; PIECE OF EIGHT, a Spanish coin; THE EIGHTS,
annual bumping boat-races which take place in the summer term in Oxford and
Cambridge between the various colleges. [A.S. _eahta_; Ger. _acht_, L.
_octo_, Gr. _okt[=o]_.]

EIGNE, [=a]n, _adj._ first-born. [Corrupt spelling of _ayne_--Fr. _aîné_.]

EIKON, [=i]'kon, _n._ Same as ICON.

EILD, [=e]ld, _adj._ (_Scot._) not yielding milk. [See YELD.]

EILD. Same as ELD (q.v.).

EINE, [=e]n, _n.pl._ (_obs._) eyes. [See EEN, under EE.]

EIRACK, [=e]'rak, _n._ (_Scot._) a young hen.

EIRENICON, [=i]-r[=e]'ni-kon, _n._ a proposal calculated to promote
peace.--_adj._ EIR[=E]'NIC. [Gr.,--_eir[=e]n[=e]_, peace.]

EIRIE, [=e]'ri, _n._ Same as EERIE.

EISTEDDFOD, es-teth'vod, _n._ a congress of Welsh bards and musicians held
in various towns for the preservation and cultivation of national poetry
and music. [W.; lit. 'session,' _eistedd_, to sit.]

EITHER, _[=e]'_th_[.e]r_, or _[=i]'_th_[.e]r_, _adj._ or _pron._ the one or
the other: one of two: each of two.--_conj._ correlative to _or_: (_B._)
or. [A.S. _['æ]gðer_, a contr. of _['æ]ghthwæðer_=_á_, aye, the pfx. _ge-_,
and _hwæther_, the mod. _whether_. See also EACH.]

EJACULATE, e-jak'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to eject: to utter with
suddenness.--_v.i._ to utter ejaculations.--_n._ EJACUL[=A]'TION, a sudden
utterance in prayer or otherwise: what is so uttered.--_adjs._
EJAC'ULATIVE; EJAC'ULATORY, uttered in short, earnest sentences. [L. _e_,
out, and _jacul[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

EJECT, e-jekt', _v.t._ to cast out: to dismiss: to dispossess of: to
expel.--_ns._ E'JECT, a coinage of Prof. Clifford for an inferred
existence, a thing thrown out of one's own consciousness, as distinguished
from _object_, a thing presented in one's consciousness; EJEC'TION,
discharge: expulsion: state of being ejected: vomiting: that which is
ejected.--_adj._ EJEC'TIVE.--_ns._ EJECT'MENT, expulsion; dispossession:
(_law_) an action for the recovery of the possession of land; EJECT'OR, one
who ejects or dispossesses another of his land: any mechanical apparatus
for ejecting. [L. _eject[=a]re_, freq. of _ejic[)e]re_, _ejectum_--_e_,
out, _jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

EKE, [=e]k, _v.t._ to add to or increase: to lengthen.--_n._ E'KING, act of
adding: what is added.--EKE OUT, to supplement: to prolong. [A.S. _écan_,
akin to L. _aug[=e]re_, to increase.]

EKE, [=e]k, _adv._ in addition to: likewise. [A.S. _éac_; Ger. _auch_; from
root of _eke_, _v.t_.]

ELABORATE, e-lab'or-[=a]t, _v.t._ to labour on: to produce with labour: to
take pains with: to improve by successive operations.--_adj._ wrought with
labour: done with fullness and exactness: highly finished.--_adv._
ELAB'ORATELY.--_ns._ ELAB'ORATENESS; ELABOR[=A]'TION, act of elaborating:
refinement: the process by which substances are formed in the organs of
animals or plants.--_adj._ ELAB'ORATIVE.--_ns._ ELAB'ORATOR, one who
elaborates; ELAB'ORATORY=LABORATORY. [L. _elabor[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_,
out, _labor[=a]re_--_labor_, labour.]

ÉLAN, [=a]-long', _n._ impetuosity, dash. [Fr.]

ELANCE, e-lans', _v.t._ to throw out, as a lance. [Fr. _élancer_.]

ELAND, [=e]'land, _n._ the South African antelope, resembling the elk in
having a protuberance on the larynx. [Dut.; Ger. _elend_, the elk--Lith.
_élnis_, the elk.]

ELAPSE, e-laps', _v.i._ to slip or glide away: to pass silently, as
time.--_n._ ELAP'SION. [L. _elapsus_, _elabi_--_e_, out, away, _labi_,
_lapsus_, to slide.]

ELASMOBRANCHIATE, e-las-mo-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ pertaining to a class,
subclass, or order of fishes including sharks and skates, having lamellar
branchiæ or plate-like gills.

ELASTIC, e-las'tik, _adj._ having a tendency to recover the original form:
springy: able to recover quickly a former state or condition after a shock:
flexible: yielding.--_n._ a piece of string, cord, &c. made elastic by
having india-rubber woven in it.--_adv._ ELAS'TICALLY.--_ns._ ELASTIC'ITY,
springiness: power to recover from depression; ELAS'TICNESS. [Coined from
Gr. _elastikos_, _elaunein_, fut. _elasein_, to drive.]

ELATE, e-l[=a]t', _adj._ lifted up: puffed up with success:
exalted.--_v.t._ to raise or exalt: to elevate: to make proud.--_adv._
ELAT'EDLY.--_ns._ ELAT'EDNESS; EL'ATER, an elastic filament in certain
liverworts and scale-mosses: a skip-jack beetle; ELAT[=E]'RIUM, a substance
contained in the juice of the fruit of the squirting cucumber, yielding the
purgative ELAT'ERIN; EL[=A]'TION, pride resulting from success. [L.
_el[=a]tus_, pa.p. of _efferre_--_e_, out, _ferre_, to carry.]

ELBOW, el'b[=o], _n._ the joint where the arm bows or bends: any sharp turn
or bend.--_v.t._ to push with the elbow: to jostle.--_ns._ EL'BOW-CHAIR, an
arm-chair; EL'BOW-GREASE, humorously applied to vigorous rubbing;
EL'BOW-ROOM, room to extend the elbows: space enough for moving or acting:
freedom.--AT ONE'S ELBOW, close at hand; BE OUT AT ELBOW, to wear a coat
ragged at the elbows; UP TO THE ELBOWS, completely engrossed. [A.S.
_elnboga_--_el-_, allied to L. _ulna_, the arm, _boga_, a bend--_bugan_, to
bend. See ELL; BOW, _n._ and _v.t._]

ELCHEE, elt'shi, _n._ an ambassador.--Also EL'CHI, ELT'CHI. [Turk.]

ELD, eld, _n._ old age, senility: former times, antiquity.

ELDER, eld'[.e]r, _n._ a genus of plants consisting chiefly of shrubs and
trees, with pinnate leaves, small flowers (of which the corolla is
wheel-shaped and five-cleft), and three-seeded berries--the Common Elder is
the Scotch _Bourtree_.--_ns._ ELD'ER-BERR'Y, the acidulous purple-black
drupaceous fruit of the elder; ELD'ER-GUN, a popgun made of elder-wood by
extracting the pith; ELD'ER-WINE, a pleasant wine made from
elder-berries.--ELDER-FLOWER WATER, distilled water, with an agreeable
odour, made from the flowers. [A.S. _ellærn_, _ellen_.]

ELDER, eld'[.e]r, _adj._ older: having lived a longer time: prior in
origin.--_n._ one who is older: an ancestor: one advanced to office on
account of age: one of a class of office-bearers in the Presbyterian
Church--equivalent to the _presbyters_ of the New Testament.--_n._
ELD'ERLINESS.--_adj._ ELD'ERLY, somewhat old: bordering on old age.--_n._
ELD'ERSHIP, state of being older: the office of an elder.--_adj._ ELD'EST,
oldest. [A.S. _eldra_, _yldra_, comp. of _eald_, old.]

ELDING, el'ding, _n._ (_prov._) fuel. [Ice.,--_eldr_, fire.]

EL DORADO, el d[=o]-rä'd[=o], the golden land of imagination of the Spanish
conquerors of America: any place where wealth is easily to be made. [Sp.
_el_, the, _dorado_, pa.p. of _dorar_, to gild.]

ELDRITCH, el'drich, _adj._ (_Scot._) weird, hideous. [Der. obscure: perh.
conn. with _elf_.]

ELEATIC, el-e-at'ik, _adj._ noting a school of philosophers, specially
connected with _Elea_, a Greek city of Lower Italy, and including
Zenophanes, Parmenides, and Zeno.--_n._ one belonging to this school.

ELECAMPANE, el'e-kam-p[=a]n', _n._ a composite plant allied to Aster,
formerly much cultivated for its medicinal root. [Formed from Low L. _enula
campana_.]

ELECT, e-lekt', _v.t._ to choose out: to select for any office or purpose:
to select by vote.--_adj._ chosen: taken by preference from among others:
chosen for an office but not yet in it (almost always after the noun, as
'consul elect').--_n._ one chosen or set apart.--_n._ ELEC'TION, the act of
electing or choosing: the public choice of a person for office, usually by
the votes of a constituent body: freewill: (_theol._) the exercise of God's
sovereign will in the predetermination of certain persons to salvation:
(_B._) those who are elected.--_v.i._ ELECTIONEER', to labour to secure the
election of a candidate.--_n._ ELECTIONEER'ER.--_n._ and _adj._
ELECTIONEER'ING, the soliciting of votes and other business of an
election.--_adj._ ELECT'IVE, pertaining to, dependent on, or exerting the
power of choice.--_adv._ ELECT'IVELY.--_ns._ ELECTIV'ITY; ELECT'OR, one who
elects: one who has a vote at an election: the title formerly belonging to
those princes and archbishops of the German Empire who had the right to
elect the Emperor:--_fem._ ELECT'RESS, ELECT'ORESS.--_adjs._ ELECT'ORAL,
ELECT[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to elections or to electors: consisting of
electors.--_ns._ ELECT'ORATE, the dignity or the territory of an elector:
the body of electors; ELECT'ORSHIP.--THE ELECT (_theol._), those chosen by
God for salvation. [L. _e_, out, _leg[)e]re_, to choose.]

ELECTRIC, e-lek'trik, _adj._ pertaining to or produced by
electricity.--_n._ any electric substance: a non-conductor of electricity,
as amber, glass, &c.--_adj._ ELEC'TRICAL.--_adv._ ELEC'TRICALLY.--_ns._
ELEC'TRIC-EEL (see GYMNOTUS); ELECTRI'CIAN, one who studies, or is versed
in, the science of electricity; ELECTRIC'ITY, name of the cause of certain
phenomena of attraction and repulsion: the phenomena themselves: the
science which investigates the nature and laws of these phenomena.--_adj._
ELEC'TRIF[=I]ABLE.--_n._ ELECTRIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ ELEC'TRIFY, to
communicate electricity to: to excite suddenly: to astonish: to adapt to
electricity as the motive power:--_pa.p._ elec'trified.--_n._
ELEC'TRISATION.--_v.t._ ELEC'TR[=I]SE, to electrify.--_ns._ ELEC'TRODE,
either of the poles of a galvanic battery; ELEC'TROLIER, a device for
suspending a group of incandescent lamps; ELEC'TRUM, amber: an alloy of
gold and silver.--ELECTRIC RAILWAY, a railway on which electricity is the
motive-power; ELECTRIC SPARK, one of the forms in which accumulated
electricity discharges itself; ELECTRIC STORM, a violent disturbance in the
electrical condition of the earth. [L. _electrum_--Gr. _elektron_, amber,
in which electricity was first observed.]

ELECTRO-BIOLOGY, e-lek'tro-b[=i]-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science which treats of
the electricity developed in living organisms: that view of animal
magnetism according to which the actions, feelings, &c. of a person are
controlled by the will of the operator.--_adj._ ELEC'TRO-BALLIS'TIC, of an
apparatus for determining by electricity the velocity of a
projectile.--_ns._ ELEC'TRO-BIOL'OGIST; ELEC'TRO-CHEM'ISTRY, that branch of
chemical science which treats of the agency of electricity in effecting
chemical changes.--_v.t._ ELEC'TROCUTE, to inflict a death penalty by means
of electricity.--_ns._ ELECTROC[=U]'TION, capital punishment by
electricity; ELEC'TRO-DYNAM'ICS, the branch of physics which treats of the
action of electricity; ELEC'TRO-DYNAMOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring
the strength of electro-dynamic action; ELEC'TRO-ENGRAV'ING, an etching
process in which the etched plate is placed in an electro-bath to deepen
the 'bite;' ELEC'TRO-GILD'ING, electroplating with gold;
ELEC'TRO-KINET'ICS, that branch of science which treats of electricity in
motion; ELECTROL'OGY, the science of applied electricity.--_v.t._
ELEC'TROLYSE, to subject to electrolysis.--_ns._ ELECTROL'YSIS, the process
of chemical decomposition by electricity; ELEC'TROLYTE, a body which admits
of electrolysis.--_adj._ ELECTROLYT'IC.--_n._ ELEC'TRO-MAG'NET, a piece of
soft iron rendered magnetic by a current of electricity passing through a
coil of wire wound round it.--_adj._ ELEC'TRO-MAGNET'IC.--_ns._
ELEC'TRO-MAG'NETISM, a branch of science which treats of the relation of
electricity to magnetism; ELEC'TRO-MET'ALLURGY, a name given to certain
processes by which electricity is applied to the working of metals, as in
electroplating and electrotyping; ELECTROM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the quantity of electricity.--_adjs._ ELECTROMET'RIC, -AL,
pertaining to the measurement of electricity.--_ns._ ELECTROM'ETRY, the
science of electrical measurements; ELEC'TRO-M[=O]'TION, the passage of an
electric current in a voltaic circuit: motion produced by electricity
employed as power.--_adjs._ ELEC'TRO-M[=O]'TIVE, pertaining to the motion
of electricity or the laws governing it.--_n._ ELEC'TRO-M[=O]'TOR, an
apparatus for applying electricity as a motive-power.--_adj._
ELEC'TRO-NEG'ATIVE, appearing, as an element in electrolysis, at the
positive electrode: having the property of becoming negatively electrified
by contact with a dissimilar substance.--_ns._ ELEC'TROPH[=O]NE, an
instrument for producing sounds resembling trumpet-tones by electric
currents of high tension; ELECTROPH'ORUS, an instrument for obtaining
statical electricity by means of induction; ELEC'TRO-PHYSIOL'OGY, the study
of the electric phenomena of living organisms.--_v.t._ ELEC'TROPLATE, to
plate or cover with silver by electrolysis.--_n._ ELEC'TROPLATING.--_adjs._
ELEC'TRO-P[=O]'LAR, having, as an electrical conductor, one end or surface
positive and the other negative; ELEC'TRO-POS'ITIVE, attracted by bodies
negatively electrified, or by the negative pole of a voltaic battery:
assuming positive potential when in contact with another substance.--_ns._
ELEC'TROSCOPE, an instrument for detecting the presence of electricity in a
body and the nature of it; ELEC'TRO-STAT'ICS, that branch of science which
treats of electricity at rest; ELEC'TRO-TINT, a style of etching by means
of galvanism; ELEC'TROTYPE, the art of copying an engraving or type on a
metal deposited by electricity.--_adj._ ELECTROTYP'IC.--_ns._
ELEC'TROTYPIST; ELEC'TROTYPY, the art of copying.--_adj._
ELEC'TRO-V[=I]'TAL, electrical and dependent upon vital processes.

ELECTUARY, e-lek't[=u]-ar-i, _n._ a composition of medicinal powders with
honey or sugar. [Low L. _electuarium_--Gr. _ekleikton_--_ekleichein_, to
lick up.]

ELECTRON. See page 1208.

ELEEMOSYNARY, el-e-mos'i-nar-i, _adj._ relating to charity or almsgiving:
dependent on charity: given in charity. [Gr. _ele[=e]mosyn[=e]_,
compassionateness, alms--_eleos_, pity. See ALMS.]

ELEGANT, el'e-gant, _adj._ pleasing to good taste: graceful: neat: refined:
nice: richly ornamental.--_ns._ EL'EGANCE, EL'EGANCY, the state or quality
of being elegant: the beauty of propriety: refinement: that which is
elegant; ELEGANTE (el-e-gangt'), a lady of fashion.--_adv._ EL'EGANTLY.
[Fr.,--L. _elegans_, _-antis_--_e_, out, and root of _leg[)e]re_, to
choose.]

ELEGY, el'e-ji, _n._ a song of mourning: a funeral-song: a poem written in
elegiac metre.--_adj._ ELEG[=I]'AC, belonging to elegy: mournful: used in
elegies, esp. noting the kind of metre, alternate hexameter and pentameter
lines.--_n._ elegiac verse.--_adj._ ELEG[=I]'ACAL.--_ns._ EL[=E]'GIAST,
EL'EGIST, a writer of elegies.--_v.i._ EL'EG[=I]SE, to write an
elegy.--_v.t._ to write an elegy on. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _elegos_, a lament.]

ELEMENT, el'e-ment, _n._ a first principle: one of the essential parts of
anything: an ingredient: the proper state or sphere of any thing or being:
(_pl._) the rudiments of learning: the bread and wine used in the
Eucharist: fire, air, earth, and water, supposed by the ancients to be the
foundation of everything: (_chem._) the simplest known constituents of all
compound substances: (_astron._) those numerical quantities, and those
principles deduced from astronomical observations and calculations, which
are employed in the construction of tables exhibiting the planetary
motions.--_adj._ ELEMENT'AL, pertaining to elements or first principles:
fundamental: belonging to or produced by elements.--_n._ ELEMENT'ALISM, the
theory which resolves the divinities of antiquity into the elemental
powers.--_adv._ ELEMENT'ALLY.--_adj._ ELEMENT'ARY, of a single element:
primary: uncompounded: pertaining to the elements: treating of first
principles.--ELEMENTAL SPIRITS, beings in medieval belief who presided over
the four 'elements,' living in and ruling them. [Fr.,--L. _elementum_, pl.
_elementà_, first principles.]

ELEMI, el'em-i, _n._ a fragrant resinous substance, obtained from the
Manila pitch-tree, Arbol de la Brea.--_n._ EL'EMIN, the crystallisable
portion of elemi. [Cf. Fr. _élémi_, Sp. _elemi_; perh. Ar.]

ELENCH, e-lengk', ELENCHUS, e-lengk'us, _n._ refutation: a
sophism.--_adjs._ ELENCH'IC, -AL, ELENC'TIC. [L.,--Gr.
_elengchos_--_elengchein_, to refute.]

ELEPHANT, el'e-fant, _n._ the largest quadruped, having a very thick skin,
a trunk, and two ivory tusks: a special size of paper.--_ns._ ELEPHAN'TIAC,
one affected with elephantiasis; ELEPHANT[=I]'ASIS, a disease chiefly of
tropical climates, consisting of an overgrowth of the skin and connective
tissue of the parts affected, with occasional attacks of inflammation
resembling erysipelas.--_adjs._ ELEPHANT'INE, pertaining to an elephant:
like an elephant: very large or ungainly; ELEPHANT'OID,
elephant-like.--_ns._ EL'EPHANT-SEAL, the largest of the seals, the male
measuring about 20 feet in length; EL'EPHANT'S-FOOT, a plant of which the
root-stock forms a large fleshy mass resembling an elephant's foot, used as
food by the Hottentots; EL'EPHANT-SHREW, name applied to a number of
long-nosed, long-legged Insectivora, natives of Africa, and notable for
their agile jumping over loose sand.--A WHITE ELEPHANT, a gift which
occasions the recipient more trouble than it is worth--a white elephant
being a common gift of the kings of Siam to a courtier they wished to ruin.
[M. E. _olifaunt_--O. Fr. _olifant_--L. _elephantum_, _elephas_,
_-antis_--Gr. _elephas_, acc. to some from Heb. _eleph_, _aleph_, an ox.]

ELEUSINIAN, el-[=u]-sin'i-an, _adj._ relating to _Eleusis_ in
Attica.--ELEUSINIAN MYSTERIES, the mysteries of Demeter celebrated at
Eleusis.

ELEUTHERIAN, el-[=u]-th[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ bountiful.

ELEUTHEROMANIA, el-[=u]th-er-o-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ mad zeal for freedom.--_n._
ELEUTHEROM[=A]'NIAC (_Carlyle_), one possessed with such. [Formed from Gr.
_eleutheros_, free, and _mania_.]

ELEVATE, el'e-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to raise to a higher position: to raise in
mind and feelings: to improve: to cheer: to exhilarate: to
intoxicate.--_p.adjs._ EL'EVATE, -D, raised: dignified: exhilarated.--_ns._
ELEV[=A]'TION, the act of elevating or raising, or the state of being
raised: exaltation: an elevated place or station: a rising ground: height:
(_archit._) a representation of the flat side of a building, drawn with
mathematical accuracy, but without any attention to effect: (_astron._,
_geog._) the height above the horizon of an object on the sphere, measured
by the arc of a vertical circle through it and the zenith: (_gun._) the
angle made by the line of direction of a gun with the plane of the horizon;
EL'EVATOR, the person or thing that lifts up: a lift or machine for raising
grain, &c., to a higher floor: a muscle raising a part of the body.--_adj._
EL'EVATORY, able or tending to raise. [L. _elev[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_,
out, up, _lev[=a]re_, to raise--_levis_, light. See LIGHT (2).]

ELÈVE, [=a]-lev', _n._ a pupil. [Fr.]

ELEVEN, e-lev'n, _n._ the cardinal number next above ten: the figure (11 or
xi.) denoting eleven: a team of eleven cricketers.--_adj._ noting the
number eleven.--_adj._ and _n._ ELEV'ENTH, the ordinal number corresponding
to eleven.--ELEVENTH HOUR, the very last moment, referring to Matt. xx. 6,
9. [A.S. _endleofon_; cf. Goth. _ainlif_.]

ELF, elf, _n._ in European folklore, a supernatural being, generally of
human form but diminutive size, more malignant than a fairy: a dwarf: a
tricky being:--(_pl._) ELVES.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) of the hair, to
entangle.--_n._ ELF'-CHILD, a changeling, or a child supposed to have been
left by elves in place of one stolen by them.--_adj._ ELF'IN, of or
relating to elves.--_n._ a little elf: a child.--_adjs._ ELF'ISH, ELV'AN,
ELV'ISH, elf-like, mischievous: tricky: disguised.--_n._ ELF'-LAND, the
land of the elves or fairies.--_n.pl._ ELF'-LOCKS (_Shak._) locks of hair
clotted together, supposed to have been done by elves.--_ns._ ELF'-SHOT,
ELF'-BOLT, ELF'-AR'ROW, an arrow-head of flint or stone. [A.S. _ælf_; cf.
Ice. _álfr_, Sw. _elf_.]

ELGIN MARBLES. See MARBLE.

ELICIT, e-lis'it, _v.t._ to entice: to bring to light: to deduce.--_n._
ELICIT[=A]'TION. [L. _elic[)e]re_, _elicitum_.]

ELIDE, e-l[=i]d', _v.t._ to rebut: to cut off, as a syllable.--_n._
ELI'SION, the suppression of a vowel or syllable. [L. _elid[)e]re_,
_elisum_--_e_, out, _læd[)e]re_, to strike.]

ELIGIBLE, el'i-ji-bl, _adj._ fit or worthy to be chosen: legally qualified:
desirable.--_n._ (_coll._) a person or thing eligible.--_ns._
EL'IGIBLENESS, ELIGIBIL'ITY, fitness to be elected or chosen: the state of
being preferable to something else: desirableness.--_adv._ EL'IGIBLY.
[Fr.,--L. _elig[)e]re_. See ELECT, _v.t._]

ELIMINATE, [=e]-lim'in-[=a]t, _v.t._ to thrust out: to remove, cancel: to
leave out of consideration.--_adj._ ELIM'INABLE.--_n._ ELIMIN[=A]'TION. [L.
_elimin[)a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _limen_, _liminis_, a threshold.]

ELIQUATION, same as LIQUATION. See LIQUATE.

ELISION. See ELIDE.

ELITE, [=a]-l[=e]t, _n._ a chosen or select part: the best of anything.
[Fr. _élite_--L. _electa_ (_pars_, a part, understood). See ELECT, _v.t._]

ELIXIR, e-liks'[.e]r, _n._ more fully, ELIXIR VITÆ, or ELIXIR OF LIFE, a
liquor once supposed to have the power of indefinitely prolonging life or
of transmuting metals: the quintessence of anything: a substance which
invigorates: (_med._) a compound tincture. [Low L.,--Ar. _al-iks[=i]r_, the
philosopher's stone, from _al-_, the, _iks[=i]r_, prob. from Late Gr.
_x[=e]rion_, a desiccative powder for wounds--Gr. _x[=e]ros_, dry.]

ELIZABETHAN, e-liz-a-beth'an, _adj._ pertaining to Queen _Elizabeth_
(1533-1603) or her time--of dress, manners, literature, &c.--_n._ a poet or
dramatist of that age.--ELIZABETHAN ARCHITECTURE, a name applied to the
mixed style which sprang up on the decline of Gothic, marked by Tudor
bow-windows and turrets decorated with classic cornices and pilasters, long
galleries, enormous square windows, large apartments, plaster ceilings
wrought into compartments, &c.

ELK, elk, _n._ the largest species of deer, found in the north of Europe
and in North America.--IRISH ELK, a giant deer now extinct, known from the
remains found in the Pleistocene diluvium, esp. of Ireland. [Perh. from the
Scand., Ice. _elgr_, Sw. _elg_.]

ELL, el, _n._ a measure of length originally taken from the arm: a cloth
measure equal to 1¼ yd.--_n._ ELL'WAND, a measuring rod.--GIVE HIM AN INCH
AND HE'LL TAKE AN ELL, a proverb, signifying that to yield one point
entails the yielding of all. [A.S. _eln_; Dut. _el_, Ger. _elle_, L.
_ulna_, Gr. _[=o]len[=e]_.]

ELLAGIC, e-laj'ik, _adj._ pertaining to gall-nuts.

ELLEBORIN, el'[=e]-b[=o]-rin, _n._ a very acrid resin found in winter
hellebore.

ELLIPSE, el-lips', _n._ an oval: (_geom._) a figure produced by the section
of a cone by a plane passing obliquely through the opposite sides.--_ns._
ELLIP'SIS (_gram._), a figure of syntax by which a word or words are left
out and implied:--_pl._ ELLIP'S[=E]S; ELLIP'SOGRAPH, an instrument for
describing ellipses; ELLIP'SOID (_math._), a surface every plane section of
which is an ellipse.--_adjs._ ELLIPSOI'DAL; ELLIP'TIC, -AL, pertaining to
an ellipse: oval: pertaining to ellipsis: having a part understood.--_adv._
ELLIP'TICALLY.--_n._ ELLIPTIC'ITY, deviation from the form of a circle or
sphere: of the earth, the difference between the equatorial and polar
diameters. [L.,--Gr. _elleipsis_--_elleipein_, to fall short--_en_, in,
_leipein_, to leave.]

ELLOPS, el'ops, _n._ a kind of serpent or fish. [Gr.]

ELM, elm, _n._ a genus of trees of the natural order _Ulmaceæ_, with
serrated leaves unequal at the base, and small flowers growing in clusters
appearing before the leaves.--_adjs._ ELM'EN, made of elm; ELM'Y, abounding
with elms. [A.S. _elm_; Ger. _ulme_, L. _ulmus_.]

ELMO'S FIRE, el'm[=o]z f[=i]r, _n._ the popular name of an electric
appearance sometimes seen like a brush or star of light at the tops of
masts, spars, &c.--Also known as the Fire of St Elias, of St Clara, of St
Nicholas, and of Helena, as well as _composite_ or _composant_ (_corpus
sanctum_) on the Suffolk sea-board. [Explained as a corr. of _Helena_, name
of the sister of Castor and Pollux, or of St Erasmus, a 3d-cent. bishop,
Italianised as _Ermo_, _Elmo_.]

ELOCUTION, el-o-k[=u]'shun, _n._ the art of effective speaking, more esp.
of public speaking, regarding solely the utterance or delivery:
eloquence.--_adj._ ELOC[=U]'TIONARY.--_n._ ELOC[=U]'TIONIST, one versed in
elocution: a teacher of elocution. [Fr.,--L. _elocution-em_, _eloqui_,
_eloc[=u]tus_--_e_, out, _loqui_, to speak.]

ÉLOGE, [=a]-l[=o]zh', ELOGIUM, [=e]-l[=o]'ji-um, ELOGY, el'o-ji, _n._ a
funeral oration: a panegyric.--_n._ EL'OGIST, one who delivers an éloge.
[Fr. _éloge_--L. _elogium_, a short statement, an inscription on a tomb,
perh. confused with _eulogy_.]

ELOHIM, e-l[=o]'him, _n._ the Hebrew name for God.--_n._ EL[=O]'HIST, the
writer or writers of the Elohistic passages of the Old Testament.--_adj._
ELOHIST'IC, relating to Elohim--said of those passages in the Old Testament
in which Elohim is used as the name for the Supreme Being instead of
Jehovah. [Heb., pl. of _Eloah_--explained by Delitzsch as a plural of
intensity.]

ELOIN, ELOIGN, e-loin', _v.t._ to convey to a distance, to separate and
remove.--_ns._ ELOIN'MENT, ELOIGN'MENT. [O. Fr. _esloignier_ (Fr.
_éloigner_)--Low L. _elong[=a]re_. See ELONGATE.]

ELONGATE, e-long'g[=a]t, _v.t._ to make longer: to extend.--_p.adjs._
ELONG'ATE, -D.--_n._ ELONG[=A]'TION, act of lengthening out: distance. [Low
L. _elong[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _longus_, long.]

ELOPE, e-l[=o]p, _v.i._ to escape privately, said esp. of a woman, either
married or unmarried, who runs away with a lover: to run away, bolt.--_n._
ELOPE'MENT, a secret departure, esp. of a woman with a man. [Cf. Old Dut.
_ontl[=o]pen_, Ger. _entlaufen_, to run away.]

ELOQUENT, el'o-kwent, _adj._ having the power of speaking with fluency,
elegance, and force: containing eloquence: persuasive.--_n._ EL'OQUENCE,
the utterance of strong emotion in correct, appropriate, expressive, and
fluent language: the art which produces fine speaking: persuasive
speech.--_adv._ EL'OQUENTLY. [L. _eloquens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _eloqui_.]

ELSE, els, _pron._ other.--_adv._ otherwise: besides: except that
mentioned.--_advs._ ELSE'WHERE, in or to another place; ELSE'WISE, in a
different manner: otherwise. [A.S. _elles_, otherwise--orig. gen. of _el_,
other; cf. Old High Ger. _alles_ or _elles_.]

ELSIN, el'sin, _n._ (_Scot._) an awl. [From Old Dut. _elssene_ (mod.
_els_), from same root as _awl_.]

ELTCHI. Same as ELCHEE.

ELUCIDATE, e-l[=u]'si-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to make lucid or clear: to throw light
upon: to illustrate.--_n._ ELUCID[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ EL[=U]'CIDATIVE,
EL[=U]'CIDATORY, making clear: explanatory.--_n._ EL[=U]'CIDATOR. [Low L.
_elucid[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, inten., _lucidus_, clear.]

ELUCUBRATION. Same as LUCUBRATION.

ELUDE, e-l[=u]d', _v.t._ to escape by stratagem: to baffle.--_adj._
EL[=U]'DIBLE.--_n._ EL[=U]'SION, act of eluding: evasion.--_adj._
EL[=U]'SIVE, practising elusion: deceptive.--_adv._ EL[=U]'SIVELY.--_n._
EL[=U]'SORINESS.--_adj._ EL[=U]'SORY, tending to elude or cheat: evasive:
deceitful. [L. _elud[)e]re_, _elusum_--_e_, out, _lud[)e]re_, to play.]

ELUL, [=e]'lul, _n._ the 12th month of the Jewish civil year, and 6th of
the ecclesiastical. [Heb.,--_âlal_, to reap.]

ELUTRIATE, e-l[=u]'tri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to separate by means of water the
finer particles of earth and pigments from the heavier portions.--_ns._
EL[=U]'TION, washing from impurity; ELUTRI[=A]'TION. [L. _elutri[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to wash out, _elu[)e]re_--_e_, out, _lu[)e]re_, to wash.]

ELVAN, elv'an, _n._ the miner's name in the south-west of England for a
granular crystalline rock, composed of quartz and orthoclase, which forms
veins associated with granite.--Also ELV'ANITE. [Prob. Corn. _elven_,
spark.]

ELVAN, ELVES, ELVISH. See under ELF.

ELYSIUM, e-lizh'i-um, _n._ (_myth._) among the Greeks, the abode of the
blessed after death: any delightful place.--_adj._ ELYS'IAN, pertaining to
Elysium: delightful: glorious. [L.,--Gr. _[=e]lysion_ (_pedion_), the
Elysian (plain).]

ELYTRUM, el'it-rum, _n._ the fore-wing of beetles, modified to form more or
less hard coverings for the hind pair--also EL'YTRON:--_pl._
EL'YTRA.--_adjs._ EL'YTRAL; ELYT'RIFORM; ELYTRIG'EROUS. [Gr. _elytron_, a
sheath.]

ELZEVIR, el'ze-vir, _adj._ published by the _Elzevirs_, a celebrated family
of printers at Amsterdam, Leyden, and other places in Holland, whose small
neat editions were chiefly published between 1592 and 1681: pertaining to
the type used in their 12mo and 16mo editions of the Latin classics.--_n._
a special form of printing types.

EM, em, _n._ the name of the letter M: (_print._) the unit of measurement
in estimating how much is printed on a page.

'EM, [.e]m, _pron._ him: (_coll._) them. [Orig. the unstressed form of
_hem_, dat. and accus. pl. of _he_; but now used coll. as an abbreviation
of _them_.]

EMACIATE, e-m[=a]'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make meagre or lean: to deprive of
flesh: to waste.--_v.i._ to become lean: to waste away.--_p.adjs._
EM[=A]'CIATE, -D.--_n._ EMACI[=A]'TION, the condition of becoming emaciated
or lean: leanness. [L. _emaci[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, inten.,
_maci[=a]re_, to make lean--_macies_, leanness.]

EMANATE, em'a-n[=a]t, _v.i._ to flow out or from: to proceed from some
source: to arise.--_adj._ EM'ANANT, flowing from.--_ns._ EMAN[=A]'TION, a
flowing out from a source, as the universe considered as issuing from the
essence of God: the _generation_ of the Son and the _procession_ of the
Spirit, as distinct from the origination of created beings: that which
issues or proceeds from some source; EM'ANATIST.--_adjs._ EM'ANATIVE,
EM'ANATORY, EMAN[=A]'TIONAL. [L. _eman[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out from,
_man[=a]re_, to flow.]

EMANCIPATE, e-man'si-p[=a]t, _v.t._ to set free from servitude: to free
from restraint or bondage of any kind.--_ns._ EMANCIP[=A]'TION, the act of
setting free from bondage or disability of any kind: the state of being set
free; EMANCIP[=A]'TIONIST, an advocate of the emancipation of slaves;
EMAN'CIPATOR; EMAN'CIPIST, a convict who has served his time of punishment
in a penal colony. [L. _emancip[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, away from,
_mancip[=a]re_, to transfer property--_manceps_, _-cipis_, one who gets
property, from _manus_, the hand, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

EMARGINATE, e-mär'jin-[=a]t, _v.t._ to take away the margin of.--_p.adj._
(_bot._) depressed and notched instead of pointed at the summit, as a leaf:
(_min._) having all the edges of the primitive form crossed by a face:
(_zool._) having the margin broken by a notch or segment of a circle.--_n._
EMARGIN[=A]'TION. [L. _emargin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out,
_margin[=a]re_, to provide with a margin--_margo_, a margin.]

EMASCULATE, e-mas'k[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to deprive of the properties of a
male: to castrate: to deprive of masculine vigour: to render
effeminate.--_ns._ EMASCUL[=A]'TION; EMAS'CUL[=A]TOR.--_adj._
EMAS'CUL[=A]TORY. [Low L. _emascul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, neg.,
_masculus_, dim. of _mas_, a male.]

EMBACE, em-b[=a]s', _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as EMBASE.

EMBALE, em-b[=a]l', _v.t._ to make up, as into a bale: to bind up: to
enclose. [Fr. _emballer_--_em_--L. _in_, _balle_, a bale.]

EMBALL, em-bawl', _v.t._ to encircle: ensphere.--_n._ EMBALL'ING.

EMBALM, em-bäm', _v.t._ to preserve from decay by aromatic drugs, as a dead
body: to perfume: to preserve with care and affection.--_ns._ EMBALM'ER;
EMBALM'ING; EMBALM'MENT. [Fr. _embaumer_, from _em_, in, and _baume_. See
BALM.]

EMBANK, em-bangk', _v.t._ to enclose or defend with a bank or dike.--_n._
EMBANK'MENT, the act of embanking: a bank or mound made to keep water
within certain limits: a mound constructed so as to carry a level road or
railway over a low-lying place. [Coined from _em_, in, and _bank_.]

EMBAR, em-bär', _v.t._ to shut in; to hinder or stop:--_pr.p._ embar'ring;
_pa.p._ embarred'.--_n._ EMBAR'RING.

EMBARCATION. Same as EMBARKATION.

EMBARGO, em-bär'g[=o], _n._ a temporary order from the Admiralty to prevent
the arrival or departure of ships: a stoppage of trade for a short time by
authority:--_pl._ EMBAR'GOES.--_v.t._ to lay an embargo on: to
seize.--_pr.p._ embar'g[=o]ing; _pa.p._ embar'g[=o]ed. [Sp.,--_embargar_,
to impede, to restrain--Sp. _em_, in, _barra_, a bar. See BARRICADE and
EMBARRASS.]

EMBARK, em-bärk', _v.t._ to put on board ship: to engage in any
affair.--_v.i._ to go on board ship: to engage in a business: to
enlist.--_n._ EMBARK[=A]'TION, a putting or going on board: that which is
embarked: (_obs._) a vessel.--_p.adjs._ EMBARKED'; EMBARK'ING.--_n._
EMBARK'MENT. [Fr. _embarquer_, from _em_, in, _barque_, a bark.]

EMBARRASS, em-bar'as, _v.t._ to encumber: to involve in difficulty, esp. in
money matters: to perplex.--_p.adj._ EMBARR'ASSED, perplexed:
constrained.--_n._ EMBARR'ASSMENT, perplexity or confusion: difficulties in
money matters.--EMBARRAS DES RICHESSES, a superabundance of materials, an
abundance so great that choice is difficult. [Fr. _embarrasser_--_em_, in,
_barre_, bar.]

EMBASE, em-b[=a]z', _v.t._ (_obs._) to bring down: to degrade.--_p.adj._
EMBASED'.--_n._ EMBASE'MENT. [_Em_ and _base_.]

EMBASSY, em'bas-i, _n._ the charge or function of an ambassador: the person
or persons sent on an undertaking.--_ns._ EM'BASSADE, EM'BASSAGE (same as
AMBASSAGE); EMBASS'ADOR (same as AMBASSADOR).

EMBATHE, em-b[=a]_th_' _v.t._ to bathe.

EMBATTLE, em-bat'l, _v.t._ to furnish with battlements.--_p.adj._
EMBATT'LED, furnished with battlements: (_her._) having the outline like a
battlement.--_n._ EMBATT'LEMENT (same as BATTLEMENT). [_Em_, and O. Fr.
_bastiller_, from the same root as _battlement_, _bastille_, and _baste_,
to sew. The form of this word is due to a confusion with Eng. _battle_.]

EMBATTLE, em-bat'l, _v.t._ to range in order of battle: to arm--_p.adj._
EMBATT'LED, arranged for battle. [O. Fr. _embataillier_--_en_, in,
_bataille_, battle.]

EMBAY, em-b[=a]', _v.t._ to enclose in a bay: to land-lock.--_n._
EMBAY'MENT, a bay. [_Em_, in, into, and _bay_.]

EMBAY, em-b[=a]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to bathe. [_Em_, in, and Fr. _baigner_.
See BAGNIO.]

EMBED, em-bed', IMBED, im-, _v.t._ to place in a mass of matter: to lay, as
in a bed.--_n._ EMBED'MENT, the act of embedding: state of being embedded.

EMBELLISH, em-bel'ish, _v.t._ to make beautiful with ornaments: to
decorate: to make graceful: to illustrate pictorially, as a book.--_n._
EMBELL'ISHER.--_adv._ EMBELL'ISHINGLY.--_n._ EMBELL'ISHMENT, act of
embellishing or adorning: decoration: ornament. [Fr. _embellir_,
_embellissant_--_em_, in, _bel_, _beau_, beautiful.]

EMBER, em'b[.e]r, _n._ a live piece of coal or wood: chiefly in _pl._
red-hot ashes: smouldering remains of a fire. [A.S. _['æ]merge_; Ice.
_eimyrja_. The _b_ is simply euphonic.]

EMBER-DAYS, em'b[.e]r-d[=a]z, _n.pl._ the three Fast-days in each quarter
(Wednesday, Friday, Saturday)--following the first Sunday in Lent,
Whitsunday, Holy Cross Day (Sept. 14th), and St Lucia's Day (Dec.
13th).--_n._ EM'BER-WEEK, the week in which the ember-days occur. [A.S.
_ymbryne_, a circuit--_ymb_, round (Ger. _um_, L. _ambi-_), and _ryne_, a
running, from _rinnan_, to run.]

EMBER-GOOSE, em'b[.e]r-g[=oo]s, _n._ a kind of sea-fowl, the Great Northern
Diver. [Norw. _emmer_; Ger. _imber_.]

EMBEZZLE, em-bez'l, _v.t._ to appropriate fraudulently what has been
entrusted.--_ns._ EMBEZZ'LEMENT, fraudulent appropriation of another's
property by the person to whom it was entrusted; EMBEZZ'LER. [Perh. from
root of _imbecile_, the primary sense being to weaken: (_obs._) BEZZ'LE, to
squander, from O. Fr. _besiler_, to destroy, is the same word.]

EMBITTER, em-bit'[.e]r, _Imbitter_, im-, _v.t._ to make bitter: to increase
(ill-feeling).--_p.adj._ EMBITT'ERED, soured.--_n._ EMBITT'ERER.--_p.adj._
EMBITT'ERING.--_n._ EMBITT'ERMENT.

EMBLAZON, em-bl[=a]'zn, _v.t._ to deck in blazing colours: (_her._) to
blazon or adorn with figures: to depict heraldically.--_v.t._ EMBLAZE', to
illuminate.--_ns._ EMBL[=A]'ZONER; EMBL[=A]'ZONMENT, an emblazoning;
EMBL[=A]'ZONRY, the art of emblazoning or adorning: devices on shields.
[_Em_, and _blaze_, _blazon_.]

EMBLEM, em'blem, _n._ a picture representing to the mind something
different from itself: a type or symbol: (_Milton_) an inlaid
ornament.--_v.t._ to symbolise.--_n._ EMBL[=E]'MA, an inlaid
ornament:--_pl._ EMBL[=E]'MATA.--_adjs._ EMBLEMAT'IC, -AL, pertaining to or
containing emblems: symbolical: representing.--_adv._
EMBLEMAT'ICALLY.--_v.t._ EMBLEM'ATISE, EM'BLEMISE, to represent by an
emblem:--_pr.p._ emblem'at[=i]sing; _pa.p._ emblem'at[=i]sed.--_n._
EMBLEM'ATIST, a writer or inventor of emblems. [L. _embl[=e]ma_--Gr. _em_
(=_en_), in, _ballein_, to cast.]

EMBLEMENTS, em'bl-ments, _n.pl._ crops raised by the labour of the
cultivator, but not fruits nor grass. [O. Fr. _emblaer_, to sow with
corn--Low L. _imblad[=a]re_--_in_, in, _bladum_, wheat.]

EMBLOOM, em-bl[=oo]m', _v.t._ to cover with bloom.

EMBLOSSOM, em-blos'om, _v.t._ to cover with blossom.

EMBODY, em-bod'i, IMBODY, im-, _v.t._ to form into a body: to make
corporeal: to make tangible: to express (an idea in words): to
organise.--_v.i._ to unite in a body or mass.--_p.adj._ EMBOD'IED.--_n._
EMBOD'IMENT, act of embodying: state of being embodied: that in which
something is embodied. [_Em_, in, and _body_.]

EMBOGUE, em-b[=o]g', _v.i._ to discharge itself.

EMBOIL, em-boil', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to burn with anger.--_v.t._ to cause to
burn with anger: to irritate.

EMBOLDEN, em-b[=o]ld'n, IMBOLDEN, im-, _v.t._ to make bold or courageous.
[_Em_, to make, and _bold_.]

EMBOLISM, em'bo-lizm, _n._ the insertion of days in an account of time to
produce regularity: an intercalated prayer for deliverance from evil coming
after the Lord's Prayer: (_med._) the presence of obstructing clots in the
blood-vessels.--_adjs._ EMBOLIS'MAL, EMBOLIS'MIC.--_n._ EM'BOLUS, the clot
of fibrin obstructing a blood-vessel, causing embolism. [Fr.,--Gr.
_embolismos_--_emballein_, to cast in.]

EMBONPOINT, ang-bong-pwang', _adj._ stout, plump, full in figure, mostly of
women: well-fed.--_n._ stoutness, plumpness, well-fed condition. [Fr.,--_en
bon point_, in good form.]

EMBORDER, em-bord'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Milton_) to border.

EMBOSCATA, em-bos-k[=a]'ta, _n._ an erroneous form of It. _imboscáta_, an
ambuscade.

EMBOSOM, em-booz'um, IMBOSOM, im-, _v.t._ to take into the bosom: to
receive into the affections: to enclose or surround. [_Em_, in, into, and
_bosom_.]

EMBOSS, em-bos', _v.t._ to produce (a raised pattern) by pressure upon
sheet-metal, leather, cloth, &c.: to ornament with raised-work: (_Spens._)
to cover with armour: to be wrapped in.--_p.adj._ EMBOSSED', formed or
covered with bosses: raised, standing out in relief: (_bot._) having a
protuberance in the centre.--_ns._ EMBOSS'ER; EMBOSS'MENT, a prominence
like a boss: raised-work. [_Em_, in, into, and _boss_.]

EMBOSS, em-bos', _v.i._ (_Milton_) to plunge into the depths of a
wood.--_v.t._ to make to foam at the mouth. [O. Fr. _embosquer_, _em_--L.
_in_, in, _bosc_, a wood. See AMBUSH.]

EMBOUCHURE, ang-boo-shür', _n._ the mouth of a river: the mouth-hole of a
wind musical instrument. [Fr.,--_em-boucher_, to put to the mouth--_en_,
in, _bouche_, a mouth.]

EMBOUND, em-bownd', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to bound, enclose.

EMBOW, em-b[=o]', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to bow or arch.--_p.adj._ EMBOWED',
arched, vaulted: bent like a bow: the heraldic term noting anything bent
like a bow--as, e.g., the arm of a man. [_Em_ and _bow_.]

EMBOWEL, em-bow'el, _v.t._ properly, to enclose in something else; but also
used for disembowel, to remove the entrails from:--_pr.p._ embow'elling;
_pa.p._ embow'elled.--_n._ EMBOW'ELMENT. [_Em_, in, into, and _bowel_.]

EMBOWER, em-bow'er, IMBOWER, im-, _v.t._ to place in a bower: to shelter,
as with trees.--_p.adjs._ EMBOW'ERED; EMBOW'ERING.--_n._ EMBOW'ERMENT.
[_Em_, in, and _bower_.]

EMBOX, em-boks', _v.t._ to set in a box. [_Em_, in, _box_.]

EMBRACE, em-br[=a]s', _v.t._ to take in the arms: to press to the bosom
with affection: to take eagerly or willingly: to comprise: to admit, adopt,
or receive.--_v.i._ to join in an embrace.--_n._ an embracing: fond
pressure in the arms.--_ns._ EMBRACE'MENT; EMBRAC'ER.--_adjs._ EMBRAC'ING,
EMBRAC'IVE.--_adv._ EMBRAC'INGLY.--_n._ EMBRAC'INGNESS. [O. Fr. _embracer_
(Fr. _embrasser_)--L. _in_, in, into, _bracchium_, an arm. See BRACE.]

EMBRACE, em-br[=a]s', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to brace, to fasten, or
bind:--_pr.p._ embrac'ing; _pa.p._ embraced'. [_Em_, in, and _brace_.]

EMBRACER, em-br[=a]'ser, _n._ (_law_) one who influences jurors by corrupt
means to deliver a partial verdict--also EMBR[=A]'CEOR, EMBR[=A]'SOR.--_n._
EMBRAC'ERY, the offence of an embracer. [O. Fr. _embraceor_, from
_embraser_, to set on fire.]

EMBRAID, em-br[=a]d', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to braid.

EMBRANCHMENT, em-bransh'ment, _n._ a branching off, as an arm of a river, a
spur of a mountain, &c. [Fr.]

EMBRANGLE, em-brang'gl, IMBRANGLE, im-, _v.t._ to confuse, perplex.--_n._
EMBRAN'GLEMENT. [_Em_, in, and _brangle_.]

EMBRASURE (_Shak._)=EMBRACEMENT.

EMBRASURE, em-br[=a]'zh[=u]r, _n._ a door or window with the sides slanted
on the inside: an opening in a wall for cannon. [Fr.,--O. Fr. _embraser_,
to slope the sides of a window, _em_--L. _in_, _braser_, to skew.]

EMBRAVE, em-br[=a]v', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to make brave or showy, to
decorate: to inspire with bravery.

EMBREAD, _v.t._ (_Spens._) embraid.

EMBREATHE, em-br[=e]_th_', _v.t._ to breathe into, to inspire with. [_En_
and _breathe_.]

EMBROCATE, em'br[=o]-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to moisten and rub, as a sore with a
lotion.--_n._ EMBROC[=A]'TION, act of embrocating: the lotion used. [Low L.
_embroc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, from Gr. _embroch[=e]_, a lotion--_embrechein_,
to soak in--_em_ (=_en_), in, into, _brechein_, to wet.]

EMBROGLIO=IMBROGLIO.

EMBROIDER, em-broid'[.e]r, _v.t._ to ornament with designs in needlework,
originally on the border.--_ns._ EMBROID'ERER; EMBROID'ERY, the art of
producing ornamental patterns by means of needlework on textile fabrics,
&c.: ornamental needlework: variegation or diversity: artificial ornaments.
[M. E. _embrouderie_--O. Fr. _embroder_, _em_, and _broder_, prob. Celt.,
acc. to Skeat. Bret. _brouda_, to pierce; confused with Fr. _border_, to
border.]

EMBROIL, em-broil', _v.t._ to involve in a broil, or in perplexity
(_with_): to entangle: to distract: to throw into confusion.--_n._
EMBROIL'MENT, a state of perplexity or confusion: disturbance. [Fr.
_embrouiller_--_em_, in, _brouiller_, to break out.]

EMBRONZE, em-bronz', _v.t._ to form in bronze.

EMBROWN, em-brown', IMBROWN, im-, _v.t._ to make brown: to darken,
obscure.--_p.adj._ EMBROWN'ING.

EMBRUE, em-br[=oo]', _v.t._ Same as IMBRUE.

EMBRYO, em'bri-[=o], EMBRYON, em'bri-on, _n._ the young of an animal in its
earliest stages of development: the part of a seed which forms the future
plant: the beginning of anything:--_pl._ EM'BRYOS, EM'BRYONS.--_ns._
EMBRYOC'TOMY, destruction of the fetus in the uterus; EMBRYOG'ENY, the
formation and development of the embryo; EMBRYOG'RAPHY, description of the
embryo.--_adjs._ EMBRYOLOG'IC, -AL, of or pertaining to embryology.--_ns._
EMBRYOL'OGIST; EMBRYOL'OGY, science of the embryo or fetus of
animals.--_adjs._ EM'BRYONATE, -D, in the state of an embryo; EMBRYON'IC,
EMBRYOT'IC, of or relating to anything in an imperfect state:
rudimentary.--_ns._ EMBRYOT'OMY, the division of a fetus to effect
delivery; EMBRYUL'CIA, forcible extraction of a fetus. [Low L.,--Gr.
_embryon_--_em_ (=_en_), in, _bryein_, to swell.]

EME, [=e]m, _n._ (_obs._) an uncle. [A.S. _éam_; Dut. _oom_.]

EMEND, e-mend', _v.t._ to remove faults or blemishes from: to correct or
improve.--_adj._ EMEND'ABLE, that may be emended.--_n.pl._ EMEND'ALS, funds
set apart for repairs in the accounts of the Inner Temple.--_v.t._
EM'ENDATE, to correct errors.--_ns._ EMEND[=A]'TION, removal of an error or
fault: correction; EM'END[=A]TOR, a corrector of errors in writings: one
who corrects or improves.--_adj._ EMEN'D[=A]TORY, mending or contributing
to correction. [L. _emend[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _menda_, a fault.]

EMERALD, em'[.e]r-ald, _n._ a very highly esteemed mineral of the same
species with the beryl, from which it differs in scarcely anything but its
colour, a beautiful velvety green.--_n._ EM'ERALD-COPP'ER (see
DIOPTASE).--EMERALD ISLE, a name for Ireland, owing to its greenness;
EMERALD TYPE (_print._), a small size of type. [O. Fr. _esmeralde_--L.
_smaragdus_--Gr. _smaragdos_.]

EMERGE, e-m[.e]rj', _v.i._ to rise out of: to issue or come forth: to
reappear after being concealed: to come into view: to result.--_ns._
EMER'GENCE, EMER'GENCY, act of emerging: sudden appearance: an unexpected
occurrence: pressing necessity; EMER'GENCY-MAN, a man provided for any
special service, esp. in Irish evictions, and in saving the crops and other
property of men boycotted.--_adj._ EMER'GENT, emerging: suddenly appearing:
arising unexpectedly: urgent.--_adv._ EMER'GENTLY.--_n._ EMER'SION, act of
emerging: (_astron._) the reappearance of a heavenly body after being
eclipsed by another or by the sun's brightness. [L. _emerg[)e]re_,
_emersum_--_e_, out of, _merg[)e]re_, to plunge.]

EMERITUS, e-mer'i-tus, _adj._ honourably discharged from the performance of
public duty, esp. noting a retired professor.--_n._ one who has been
honourably discharged from public duties:--_pl._ EMER'ITI. [L. _emeritus_,
having served one's time--_emer[=e]ri_, to deserve, do one's duty--_e_,
sig. completeness, and _mer[=e]re_, to deserve.]

EMERODS, em'e-rodz, _n.pl._ (_B._) now HEMORRHOIDS.

EMERY, em'[.e]r-i, _n._ a very hard mineral, a variety of corundum, used as
powder for polishing, &c.--_v.t._ to rub or coat with emery.--_ns._
EM'ERY-P[=A]'PER, paper covered with emery-powder for polishing;
EM'ERY-POW'DER, ground emery; EM'ERY-WHEEL, a wheel coated with emery for
polishing. [O. Fr. _esmeril_, _emeril_--Low L. _smericulum_--Gr.
_sm[=e]ris_--_smaein_, to rub.]

EMETIC, e-met'ik, _adj._ causing vomiting.--_n._ a medicine that causes
vomiting.--_n._ EM'ESIS, vomiting.--_adj._ EMET'ICAL.--_adv._
EMET'ICALLY.--_n._ EM'ETIN, the alkaloid forming the active principle of
ipecacuanha-root, violently emetic.--_adj._ EM'ETO-CATHART'IC, producing
both vomiting and purging.--_n._ EMETOL'OGY, the study of emesis and
emetics, [Through L., from Gr. _emetikos_--_emeein_, to vomit.]

EMEU. See EMU.

ÉMEUTE, em-üt', _n._ a popular rising or uproar. [Fr.]

EMICANT, em'i-kant, _adj._ beaming forth.--_n._ EMIC[=A]'TION.

EMICTION, e-mik'shun, _n._ the discharging of urine: urine.--_adj._
EMIC'TORY, promoting the flow of urine. [L. _eming[)e]re_, _emictum_--_e_,
out, _ming[)e]re_, to make water.]

EMIGRATE, em'i-gr[=a]t, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to remove from one country to
another as a place of abode.--_adj._ EM'IGRANT, emigrating or having
emigrated.--_n._ one who emigrates.--_n._ EMIGR[=A]'TION.--_adj._
EMIGR[=A]'TIONAL.--_n._ EMIGR[=A]'TIONIST, an advocate or promoter of
emigration.--_adj._ EMIGR[=A]'TORY.--_n._ EMIGRÉ ([=a]-m[=e]-gr[=a]), a
royalist who quitted France during the Revolution. [L. _emigr[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_e_, from, _migr[=a]re_, to remove.]

EMINENT, em'i-nent, _adj._ rising above others: conspicuous: distinguished:
exalted in rank or office.--_ns._ EM'INENCE, EM'INENCY, a part eminent or
rising above the rest: a rising ground: height: distinction: a title of
honour: homage: a title given in 1631 to cardinals, till then styled Most
Illustrious.--_adj._ EMINEN'TIAL.--_adv._ EM'INENTLY.--EMINENT DOMAIN
(_dominium eminens_), the right by which the supreme authority in a state
may compel a proprietor to part with what is his own for the public use.
[L. _eminens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _emin[=e]re_--_e_, out, _min[=e]re_, to
project.]

EMIR, em-[=e]r', or [=e]'mir, _n._ a title given in the East and in the
north of Africa to all independent chieftains, and also to all the supposed
descendants of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima.--_n._ EM'IRATE, the
office of an emir. [Ar. _am[=i]r_, ruler.]

EMIT, e-mit', _v.t._ to send out: to throw or give out: in issue: to utter
(a declaration):--_pr.p._ emit'ting; _pa.p._ emit'ted.--_n._ EM'ISSARY, one
sent out on a secret mission: a spy: an underground channel by which the
water of a lake escapes.--_adj._ that is sent forth.--_n._ EMIS'SION, the
act of emitting: that which is issued at one time.--_adjs._ EMIS'SIVE,
EMIS'SORY, emitting, sending out.--EMISSION THEORY, the theory that all
luminous bodies emit with equal velocities a number of elastic corpuscles,
which travel in straight lines, are reflected, and are refracted. [L.
_emitt[)e]re_, _emissum_--_e_, out of, _mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

EMMANUEL, em-an'[=u]-el, IMMANUEL, im-, _n._ the symbolical name of the
child announced by Isaiah (Isa. vii. 14), and applied to the Messiah (Matt.
i. 23). [Heb.,--_im_, with, _anu_, us, _el_, God.]

EMMARBLE, em-mär'bl, _v.t._ to turn to marble, to petrify. [_Em_ and
_marble_.]

EMMENAGOGUES, em-en'a-gogz, _n.pl._ medicines intended to restore, or to
bring on for the first time, the menses.--_adj._ EMMENAGOG'IC
(-goj'ik).--_n._ EMMENOL'OGY, knowledge about menstruation. [Gr.
_emm[=e]na_, menses, _ag[=o]gos_, drawing forth.]

EMMET, em'et, _n._ (_prov._) the ant. [A.S. _['æ]mete_.]

EMMETROPIA, em-e-tr[=o]'pi-a, _n._ the normal condition of the refractive
media of the eye.--_adj._ EMMETROPI'C. [Gr., _en_, in, _metron_, measure,
_[=o]ps_, the eye.]

EMMEW, e-m[=u]', _v.t._ to confine.--Also IMMEW'.

EMMOVE, em-m[=oo]v', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to move, to excite.

EMMOLLIENT, e-mol'yent, _adj._ softening: making supple.--_n._ (_med._) a
substance used to soften the textures to which they are applied, as
poultices, fomentations, &c.--_n._ EMOLLES'CENCE, incipient fusion.--_v.t._
EMMOLL'IATE, to soften: to render effeminate.--_n._ EMOLLI'TION, the act of
softening or relaxing. [L. _emoll[=i]re_, _emollitum_--_e_, inten.,
_moll[=i]re_, to soften--_mollis_, soft.]

EMOLUMENT, e-mol'[=u]-ment, _n._ advantage: profit arising from employment,
as salary or fees.--_adj._ EMOLUMEN'TAL. [L. _emolimentum_--_emol[=i]ri_,
to work out--_e_, sig. completeness, _mol[=i]re_, to toil.]

EMONG, e-mung', _prep._ (_obs._) among.--Also EMONGST'.

EMOTION, e-m[=o]'shun, _n._ a moving of the feelings: agitation of mind:
(_phil._) one of the three groups of the phenomena of the mind.--_adj._
EM[=O]'TIONAL.--_n._ EM[=O]'TIONALISM, tendency to emotional excitement,
the habit of working on the emotions, the indulgence of superficial
emotion.--_adv._ EM[=O]'TIONALLY.--_adjs._ EM[=O]'TIONLESS; EM[=O]'TIVE,
pertaining to the emotions. [L. _emotion-em_--_emov[=e]re_, _em[=o]tum_, to
stir up--_e_, forth, _mov[=e]re_, to move.]

EMP-. For words not found under this, see IMP-.

EMPÆSTIC, em-p[=e]'stik, _adj._ pertaining to the art of embossing,
stamped. [Gr. _empaiein_, to emboss.]

EMPACKET, em-pak'et, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to pack up.

EMPAIR, em-p[=a]r', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to impair.

EMPANEL, em-pan'el, IMPANEL, im-, _v.t._ to enter the names of a jury on a
panel.--_n._ EMPAN'ELMENT.

EMPANOPLY, em-pan'[=o]-pli, _v.t._ to invest in full armour.

EMPATRON, em-p[=a]'trun, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to patronise.

EMPEOPLE, em-p[=e]'pl, _v.t._ (_obs._) to fill with people: to form into a
people or community.

EMPERISH, em-per'ish, _v.t._ (_obs._) to impair.

EMPEROR, em'p[.e]r-or, _n._ the head of the Roman Empire: the highest title
of sovereignty:--_fem._ EM'PRESS.--_ns._ EM'PEROR-MOTH, except the
Death's-head, the largest British moth, its expanse of wings being about
three inches; EM'PERORSHIP; EM'PERY, empire, power. [O. Fr. _emperere_--L.
_imperator_ (fem. _imperatrix_)--_imper[=a]re_, to command.]

EMPHASIS, em'fa-sis, _n._ stress of the voice on particular words or
syllables to make the meaning clear: impressiveness of expression or weight
of thought: intensity:--_pl._ EM'PHASES (-s[=e]z).--_v.t._ EM'PHAS[=I]SE,
to make emphatic.--_adjs._ EMPHAT'IC, -AL, uttered with or requiring
emphasis: forcible: impressive.--_adv._ EMPHAT'ICALLY.--_n._
EMPHAT'ICALNESS. [L.,--Gr.,--_em_ (=_en_), in, into, and
_phasis_--_phaein_, _phainein_, to show.]

EMPHLYSIS, em'fli-sis, _n._ a vesicular tumour. [Gr., _en_, in,
_phlysis_--_phlyein_, to break out.]

EMPHRACTIC, em-frak'tik, _adj._ stopping the pores of the skin.--_n._ a
substance with this property. [Gr., _en_, in, _phrassein_, to stop.]

EMPHYSEMA, em-fis-[=e]'ma, _n._ (_med._) an unnatural distention of a part
with air.--_adj._ EMPHYSEM'ATOUS. [Gr.,--_emphysaein_, to inflate.]

EMPHYTEUSIS, em-fit-[=u]'sis, _n._ in Roman law, a perpetual right in a
piece of land, for which a yearly sum was paid to the proprietor.--_adj._
EMPHYTEU'TIC. [L.,--Gr.,--_emphyteuein_, to implant.]

EMPIERCE, em-p[=e]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to pierce.

EMPIGHT, em-p[=i]t', _p.adj._ (_Spens._) fixed. [_Em_ and _pitch_.]

EMPIRE, em'p[=i]r, _n._ supreme control or dominion: the territory under
the dominion of an emperor. [Fr.,--L. _imperium_--_imper[=a]re_, to
command.]

EMPIRIC, -AL, em-pir'ik, -al, _adj._ resting on trial or experiment: known
only by experience.--_n._ EMPIR'IC, one who makes trials or experiments:
one whose knowledge is got from experience only: a quack.--_adv._
EMPIR'ICALLY.--_ns._ EMPIR'ICISM (_phil._) the system which, rejecting all
_a priori_ knowledge, rests solely on experience and induction: dependence
of a physician on his _experience_ alone without a regular medical
education: the practice of medicine without a regular education: quackery:
EMPIR'ICIST, one who practises empiricism.--_adj._ EMPIRIC[=U]T'IC
(_Shak._), empirical. [Fr.,--L. _empiricus_--Gr. _empeirikos_--_em_, in,
_peira_, a trial.]

EMPLACEMENT, em-pl[=a]s'ment, _n._ the act of placing: (_mil._) a platform
placed for guns.

EMPLASTER, em-plas't[.e]r, _n._ and _v._ same as PLASTER.--_adj._
EMPLAS'TIC, glutinous: adhesive.--_n._ a medicine causing constipation.

EMPLECTON, em-plek'ton, _n._ masonry in which the outsides of the walls are
ashlar and the insides filled up with rubbish.--Also EMPLEC'TUM. [Gr.]

EMPLOY, em-ploy', _v.t._ to occupy the time or attention of: to use as a
means or agent: to give work to.--_n._ a poetical form of
_employment_.--_adj._ EMPLOY'ABLE, that may be employed.--_ns._ EMPLOY'É,
one who is employed:--_fem._ EMPLOY'ÉE; EMPLOY[=EE]', a person employed;
EMPLOY'ER; EMPLOY'MENT, act of employing: that which engages or occupies:
occupation. [Fr. _employer_--L. _implic[=a]re_, to infold--_in_, in, and
_plic[=a]re_, to fold. _Imply_ and _implicate_ are parallel forms.]

EMPLUME, em-pl[=oo]m', _v.t._ to furnish with a plume.

EMPOISON, em-poi'zn, _v.t._ to put poison in: to poison.--_p.adj._
EMPOI'SONED.--_n._ EMPOI'SONMENT.

EMPORIUM, em-p[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a place to which goods are brought from
various parts for sale: a shop: a great mart:--_pl._ EMP[=O]'RIA. [L.,--Gr.
_emporion_--_emporos_, a trader, _em_ (=_en_), in, _poros_, a way.]

EMPOVERISH, em-pov'[.e]r-ish, _v.t._ See IMPOVERISH.

EMPOWER, em-pow'[.e]r, _v.t._ to authorise.

EMPRESS. See EMPEROR.

EMPRESSEMENT, ang-pres'mang, _n._ cordiality. [Fr.]

EMPRISE, em-pr[=i]z', _n._ (_Spens._) an enterprise: a hazardous
undertaking. [O. Fr. _emprise_--L. _in_, in, _prehend[)e]re_, to take.]

EMPTION, emp'shun, _n._ act of buying, purchase.--_adj._ EMP'TIONAL. [L.
_em[)e]re_, to buy.]

EMPTY, emp'ti, _adj._ having nothing in it: unfurnished: without effect:
unsatisfactory: wanting substance: foolish.--_v.t._ to make empty: to
deprive of contents.--_v.i._ to become empty: to discharge its
contents:--_pa.p._ emp'tied.--_n._ an empty vessel, box, sack, &c.:--_pl._
EMP'TIES.--_ns._ EMP'TIER: EMP'TINESS, state of being empty: want of
substance: unsatisfactoriness: inanity.--_adj._ EMP'TY-HAND'ED, carrying
nothing, esp. of a gift.--_n._ EMP'TYING.--COME AWAY EMPTY, to come away
without having received anything. [A.S. _['æ]metig_--_['æ]metta_, leisure,
rest. The _p_ is excrescent.]

EMPTYSIS, emp'ti-sis, _n._ hemorrhage from the lungs.

EMPURPLE, em-pur'pl, _v.t._ to dye or tinge purple.

EMPUSA, em-p[=u]'za, _n._ a goblin or spectre sent by Hecate.--Also
EMPUSE'. [Gr. _empousa_.]

EMPYEMA, em-pi-[=e]'ma, _n._ a collection of pus in the pleura. [Gr.,--_em_
(=_en_), in, and _pyon_, pus.]

EMPYESIS, em-pi-[=e]'sis, _n._ pustulous eruption. [Gr.]

EMPYREAL, em-pir'[=e]-al, or em-pir-[=e]'al, _adj._ formed of pure fire or
light: pertaining to the highest and purest region of heaven:
sublime.--_adj._ EMPYREAN (em-pi-r[=e]'an, or em-pir'e-an), empyreal.--_n._
the highest heaven, where the pure element of fire was supposed by the
ancients to subsist: the heavens. [Coined from Gr. _empyros_, fiery--_em_
(=_en_), in, and, _pyr_, fire.]

EMPYREUMA, em-pir-[=u]'ma, _n._ the burned smell and acrid taste which
result when vegetable or animal substances are burned:--_pl._
EMPYREU'MATA.--_adjs._ EMPYREUMAT'IC, -AL.--_v.t._ EMPYREU'MATISE.
[Gr.,--_empyreuein_, to kindle.]

EMRODS (_obs._), for EMERODS.

EMU, EMEU, [=e]'m[=u], _n._ a genus of running birds or _Ratitæ_ in the
cassowary family, belonging to Australia.--_n._ E'MU-WREN, a small
Australian bird of genus _Stipiturus_. [Port. _ema_, an ostrich.]

EMULATE, em'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to strive to equal or excel: to imitate,
with a view to equal or excel: to rival.--_adj._ (_Shak._) ambitious.--_n._
EMUL[=A]'TION, act of emulating or attempting to equal or excel: rivalry:
competition: contest: (_obs._) jealous rivalry.--_adj._ EM'ULATIVE,
inclined to emulation, rivalry, or competition.--_n._ EM'ULATOR:--_fem._
EM'ULATRESS.--_adj._ EM'ULATORY, arising from or expressing
emulation.--_v.t._ EM'ULE (_obs_), to emulate.--_adj._ EM'ULOUS, eager to
emulate: desirous of like excellence with another: engaged in competition
or rivalry.--_adv._ EM'ULOUSLY--_n._ EM'ULOUSNESS. [L. _æmul[=a]ri_,
_æmul[=a]tus_--_æmulus_, striving with.]

EMULGENT, e-mul'jent, _adj._ milking or draining out, chiefly referring to
the action of the kidneys. [L. _emulgens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_emulg[=e]re_, to milk.]

EMULSION, e-mul'shun, _n._ a milky liquid prepared by mixing oil and water
by means of another substance that combines with both.--_adj._ EMUL'SIC,
pertaining to emulsion.--_v.t._ EMUL'SIFY.--_n._ EMUL'SIN, a peculiar
ferment present in the bitter and sweet almond, which forms a constituent
of all almond emulsions.--_adj._ EMUL'SIVE. [Fr.,--L. _emulg[=e]re_,
_emulsum_, to milk out--_e_, out, and _mulg[=e]r_e, to milk.]

EMUNCTORY, e-mungk'tor-i, _n._ an organ of the body that carries off waste:
an excretory duct.--_v.t._ EMUNGE', to clean. [L. _emung[)e]re_,
_emunctum_, to blow the nose, to cleanse.]

EMURE, a variant of _immure_.

EMYS, em'is, _n._ a genus of marsh tortoises, found in South and Middle
Europe, North Africa, and South-west Asia. [Gr. _emys_.]

ENABLE, en-[=a]'bl, _v.t._ to make able: to give power, strength, or
authority to.

ENACT, en-akt', _v.t._ to perform: to act the part of: to establish by
law.--_n._ (_Shak._) that which is enacted.--_adjs._ ENACT'ING, ENACT'IVE,
that enacts.--_ns._ ENACT'MENT, the passing of a bill into law: that which
is enacted: a law; ENACT'OR, one who practises or performs anything: one
who forms decrees or establishes laws; ENACT'URE (_Shak._), action.

ENALLAGE, en-al'a-j[=e], _n._ (_gram._) the exchange of one case, mood, or
tense for another. [Gr.,--_en_, and _allassein_, to change.]

ENAMEL, en-am'el, _n._ the name given to vitrified substances applied
chiefly to the surface of metals: any smooth hard coating, esp. that of the
teeth: anything enamelled.--_v.t._ to coat with or paint in enamel: to form
a glossy surface upon, like enamel:--_pr.p._ enam'elling; _pa.p._
enam'elled.--_adj._ EN-AM'ELLAR.--_ns._ ENAM'ELLER, ENAM'ELLIST;
ENAM'ELLING. [O. Fr. _enameler_--_en_, in, _esmail_, enamel. Cf. Eng.
_Smelt_, _Melt_.]

ENAMOUR, en-am'ur, _v.t._ to inflame with love: to charm.--_p.adjs._
ENAM'OURED; ENAM'OURING.--BE ENAMOURED (with _of_, _with_), to be in love.
[O. Fr. _enamourer_--_en_, to make, _amour_--L. _amor_, love.]

ENANTHESIS, en-an-th[=e]'sis, _n._ an eruption on the skin from internal
disease. [Gr.]

ENANTIOPATHY, en-an-ti-op'a-thi, _n._ a synonym of allopathy. [Gr.
_enantios_, opposite, _pathos_, suffering.]

ENANTIOSIS, e-nan-ti-[=o]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) the expression of an idea by
negation of its contrary, as 'he is no fool'='he is wise.' [Gr.]

ENARCHED, en-ärcht', _adj._ (_her._) arched, like an arch.

ENARCHING, a variant of _inarching_.

ENARMED, en-ärmed', _adj._ (_her._) having horns, hoofs, &c. of a different
colour from the body.

ENARRATION, [=e]-na-r[=a]'shun, _n._ narration.

ENARTHROSIS, en-ar-thr[=o]'sis, _n._ (_anat._) a joint of 'ball-and-socket'
form, allowing motion in all directions.--_adj._ ENARTHR[=O]'DIAL.
[Gr.,--_en_, in, and _arthroein_, _arthr[=o]sein_, to fasten by a
joint--_arthron_, a joint.]

ENATE, [=e]'n[=a]t, _adj._ growing out.

ENAUNTER, en-än't[.e]r, _conj._ (_obs._) lest by chance. [Contr. from _in
adventure_.]

ENCÆNIA, en-s[=e]'ni-a, _n._ the annual commemoration of founders and
benefactors at Oxford, held in June.--Also ENC[=E]'NIA. [L.,--Gr.
_egkainia_, a feast of dedication--_en_, in, _kainos_, new.]

ENCAGE, en-k[=a]j', _v.t._ to shut up in a cage.

ENCAMP, en-kamp', _v.t._ to form into a camp.--_v.i._ to pitch tents: to
halt on a march.--_n._ ENCAMP'MENT, the act of encamping: the place where
an army or company is encamped: a camp.

ENCANTHIS, en-kan'this, _n._ a small tumour of the inner angle of the eye.
[Gr.]

ENCARNALISE, en-kär'nal-[=i]z, _v.t._ to embody: to make carnal.

ENCARPUS, en-kar'pus, _n._ a festoon ornamenting a frieze. [Gr.]

ENCASE, en-k[=a]s', INCASE, in-, _v.t._ to enclose in a case: to surround,
cover.--_n._ ENCASE'MENT, the enclosing substance: a covering.

ENCASHMENT, en-kash'ment, _n._ payment in cash of a note, draft, &c.

ENCAUSTIC, en-kaws'tik, _adj._ having the colours burned in.--_n._ an
ancient method of painting in melted wax.--ENCAUSTIC TILE, a decorative
glazed and fired tile, having patterns of different coloured clays inlaid
in it and burnt with it. [Fr.,--Gr.,--_egkaiein_, _egkausein_--_en_, in,
_kaiein_, to burn.]

ENCAVE, en-k[=a]v', _v.t._ to hide in a cave.

ENCEINTE, äng-sangt', _n._ (_fort._) an enclosure, generally the whole area
of a fortified place. [Fr.,--_enceindre_, to surround--L. _in_, in,
_cing[)e]re_, _cinctum_, to gird.]

ENCEINTE, äng-sangt', _adj._ pregnant, with child. [Fr.,--L. _incincta_,
girt about.]

ENCEPHALON, en-sef'al-on, _n._ the brain.--_adj._ ENCEPHAL'IC, belonging to
the head or brain.--_ns._ ENCEPHAL[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the brain;
ENCEPH'ALOCELE, a protrusion of portion of the brain through the skull,
where the bones are incomplete in infancy.--_adj._ ENCEPH'ALOID, resembling
the matter of the brain.--_n._ ENCEPHALOT'OMY, dissection of the
brain.--_adj._ ENCEPH'ALOUS, cephalous. [Gr.,--_en_, in, _kephal[=e]_, the
head.]

ENCHAFE, en-ch[=a]f', _v.t._ (_obs._) to make warm.

ENCHAIN, en-ch[=a]n', _v.t._ to put in chains: to hold fast: to link
together.--_n._ ENCHAIN'MENT [Fr. _enchainer_--_en_, and _chaîne_, a
chain--L. _catena_.]

ENCHANT, en-chant', _v.t._ to act on by songs or rhymed formulas of
sorcery: to charm: to delight in a high degree.--_p.adj._ ENCHANT'ED, under
the power of enchantment: delighted: possessed by witches or spirits.--_n._
ENCHANT'ER, one who enchants: a sorcerer or magician: one who charms or
delights:--_fem._ ENCHANT'RESS.--_adv._ ENCHANT'INGLY, with the force of
enchantment: in a manner to charm or delight.--_n._ ENCHANT'MENT, act of
enchanting: use of magic arts: that which enchants. [Fr. _enchanter_--L.
_incant[=a]re_, to sing a magic formula over--_in_, on, _cant[=a]re_, to
sing.]

ENCHARGE, en-chärj', _v.t._ to enjoin: to entrust. [O. Fr. _encharger_. See
CHARGE.]

ENCHASE, en-ch[=a]s', _v.t._ to fix in a border: to set with jewels: to
engrave: to adorn with raised or embossed work.--_p.adj._ ENCHASED'. [Fr.
_enchâsser_--_en_, in, _châssis_, _caisse_, a case--L. _capsa_, a case. See
CHASE, _n._ CHASE, _v.t._, is a contraction.]

ENCHEASON, en-ch[=e]'zn, _n._ (_Spens._) reason, cause, occasion. [O. Fr.
_encheson_, _encheoir_, to fall in; influenced by L. _occasio_, occasion.]

ENCHEER, en-ch[=e]r', _v.t._ to cheer, comfort.

ENCHIRIDION, en-ki-rid'i-on, _n._ a book to be carried in the hand for
reference: a manual. [Gr. _encheiridion_--_en_, in, and _cheir_, the hand.]

ENCHONDROMA, en-kon-dr[=o]'ma, _n._ (_path._) an abnormal cartilaginous
growth. [Formed from Gr. _en_, in, _chondros_, cartilage.]

ENCHORIAL, en-k[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ belonging to or used in a country: used
by the people, noting esp. the written characters used by the common people
in Egypt as opposed to the hieroglyphics.--Also ENCHOR'IC. [Gr.
_ench[=o]rios_--_en_, in, and _ch[=o]ra_, a place, country.]

ENCHYMATOUS, en-kim'a-tus, _adj._ infused, distended by infusion.

ENCINCTURE, en-singk't[=u]r, _v.t._ to surround with a girdle.--_n._ an
enclosure.

ENCIRCLE, en-s[.e]rk'l, _v.t._ to enclose in a circle: to embrace: to pass
round.--_n._ ENCIRC'LING.

ENCLASP, en-klasp', _v.t._ to clasp.

ENCLAVE, en-kl[=a]v', or äng-kl[=a]v', _n._ a territory entirely enclosed
within the territories of another power.--_v.t._ to surround in this way.
[Fr.,--Late L. _inclav[=a]re_--L. _in_, and _clavis_, a key.]

ENCLITIC, en-klit'ik, _adj._ that inclines or leans upon.--_n._ (_gram._) a
word or particle which always follows another word, so united with it as to
seem a part of it.--_n._ EN'CLISIS.--_adv._ ENCLIT'ICALLY. [Gr.
_engklitikos_--_en_, in, _klinein_, to bend.]

ENCLOISTER, en-klois't[.e]r, _v.t._ to immure.

ENCLOSE, en-kl[=o]z', INCLOSE, in-, _v.t._ to close or shut in: to confine:
to surround: to put in a case, as a letter in an envelope, &c.: to fence,
esp. used of waste land.--_ns._ ENCLOS'ER; ENCLOS'URE, the act of
enclosing: state of being enclosed: that which is enclosed: a space fenced
off: that which encloses: a barrier. [Fr.,--L. _includ[)e]re_,
_inclusum_--_in_, in, _claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

ENCLOTHE, en-kl[=o]_th_', _v.t._ to clothe.

ENCLOUD, en-klowd', _v.t._ to cover with clouds.

ENCOLOUR, en-kul'ur, _v.t._ to colour, tinge.

ENCOLPION, en-kol'pi-on, _n._ an amulet: a Greek pectoral cross.--Also
ENCOL'PIUM. [Gr.]

ENCOLURE, engk-ol-[=u]r', _n._ (_Browning_) a horse's mane.

ENCOMIUM, en-k[=o]'mi-um, _n._ high commendation: a eulogy:--_pl._
ENC[=O]'MIUMS.--_n._ ENC[=O]'MIAST, one who utters or writes encomiums: a
praiser.--_adjs._ ENCOMIAS'TIC, -AL, bestowing praise.--_adv._
ENCOMIAS'TICALLY. [L.,--Gr. _egk[=o]mion_, a song of praise--_en_, in,
_k[=o]mos_, festivity.]

ENCOMPASS, en-kum'pas, _v.t._ to surround or enclose: (_obs._) to go
round.--_n._ ENCOM'PASSMENT.

ENCORE, äng-k[=o]r', _adv._ again: once more.--_n._ a call for the
repetition of a song, &c.: the repetition of a song, &c.--_v.t._ to call
for a repetition of. [Fr. (It. _ancora_)--perh. from L. (_in_) _hanc
horam_, till this hour, hence=still.]

ENCOUNTER, en-kown'ter, _v.t._ to meet face to face, esp. unexpectedly: to
meet in contest: to oppose.--_n._ a meeting unexpectedly: an interview: a
fight: (_Shak._) behaviour. [O. Fr. _encontrer_--L. _in_, in, _contra_,
against.]

ENCOURAGE, en-kur'[=a]j, _v.t._ to put courage in: to inspire with spirit
or hope: to incite: to patronise: to cherish.--_ns._ ENCOUR'AGEMENT, act of
encouraging: that which encourages; ENCOUR'AGER,--_p.adj._ ENCOUR'AGING,
giving ground to hope for success.--_adv._ ENCOUR'AGINGLY. [O. Fr.
_encoragier_ (Fr. _encourager_)--_en_, to make, _corage_, courage.]

ENCRADLE, en-kr[=a]'dl, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to lay in a cradle.

ENCRATITE, en'kra-t[=i]t, _n._ one of a heretical sect in the early church,
who abstained from marriage, and from flesh and wine.--_n._ EN'CRATISM.
[Formed from Gr. _egkrat[=e]s_, continent--_en_, in, _kratos_, strength.]

ENCREASE, obsolete form of _increase_.

ENCRIMSON, en-krim'zn, _v.t._ to tinge with a crimson colour.--_p.adj._
ENCRIM'SONED.

ENCRINITE, en'kri-n[=i]t, _n._ a common fossil crinoid, found thick in
limestone and marble--called also _Stone-lily_.--_adjs._ ENCR[=I]'NAL,
ENCRIN'IC, ENCRIN[=I]'TAL, ENCRINIT'IC, relating to or containing
encrinites. [Formed from Gr. _en_, in, _krinon_, a lily.]

ENCROACH, en-kr[=o]ch', _v.i._ to seize on the rights of others: to
intrude: to trespass.--_n._ ENCROACH'ER.--_adv._ ENCROACH'INGLY.--_n._
ENCROACH'MENT, act of encroaching: that which is taken by encroaching. [O.
Fr. _encrochier_, to seize--_en-_, and _croc_, a hook.]

ENCRUST, en-krust', INCRUST, in-, _v.t._ to cover with a crust or hard
coating: to form a crust on the surface of.--_v.i._ to form a crust.--_n._
ENCRUST[=A]'TION, act of encrusting: a crust or layer of anything: an
inlaying of marble, mosaic, &c. [Fr.,--L. _incrust[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_in_, on, _crusta_, crust.]

ENCUMBER, en-kum'b[.e]r, _v.t._ to impede the motion of: to hamper: to
embarrass: to burden: to load with debts.--_ns._ ENCUM'BERMENT, the act of
encumbering: the state of being encumbered; ENCUM'BRANCE, that which
encumbers or hinders: a legal claim on an estate: one dependent on
another--e.g. 'a widow without encumbrances'=a widow without children;
ENCUM'BRANCER. [O. Fr. _encombrer_, from _en-_, and _combrer_.]

ENCURTAIN, en-kur'tin, _v.t._ to curtain, to veil.

ENCYCLICAL, en-sik'lik-al, _adj._ sent round to many persons or
places.--_n._ a letter addressed by the pope to all his bishops condemning
current errors or advising the Christian people how to act in regard to
great public questions.--Also ENCYC'LIC. [Gr. _engkyklios_--_en_, in,
_kyklos_, a circle.]

ENCYCLOPÆDIA, ENCYCLOPEDIA, en-s[=i]-klo-p[=e]'di-a, _n._ the circle of
human knowledge: a work containing information on every department, or on a
particular department, of knowledge, generally in alphabetical order: a
name specially given to the work of the French writers Diderot, D'Alembert,
and others in the third quarter of the 18th century.--_adjs._
ENCYCLOPÆ'DIAN, embracing the whole circle of learning; ENCYCLOPÆ'DIC, -AL,
pertaining to an encyclopædia: full of information.--_ns._ ENCYCLOPÆ'DISM,
knowledge of everything; ENCYCLOPÆ'DIST, the compiler, or one who assists
in the compilation, of an encyclopædia: esp. a writer for the French
Encyclopédie (1751-65). [Formed from Gr. _engkyklopaideia_--_engkyklios_,
circular, _paideia_, instruction.]

ENCYST, en-sist', _v.t._ or _v.i._ to enclose or become enclosed in a cyst
or vesicle.--_ns._ ENCYST[=A]'TION, ENCYST'MENT.--_adj._ ENCYST'ED.

[Illustration]

END, end, _n._ the last point or portion: termination or close: death:
consequence: object aimed at: a fragment.--_v.t._ to bring to an end: to
destroy.--_v.i._ to come to an end: to cease.--_n._ END'-ALL, that which
ends all.--_adj._ END'ED, brought to an end: having ends.--_n._ END'ING,
termination: conclusion: that which is at the end: (_gram._) the
terminating syllable or letter of a word.--_adj._ END'LESS, without end:
everlasting: objectless.--_adv._ END'LESSLY.--_n._ END'LESSNESS.--_adv._
END'LONG, lengthwise: continuously: on end.--_adj._ END'MOST,
farthest.--_n._ END'SHIP (_obs._) a village.--_advs._ END'WAYS, END'WISE,
on the end: with the end forward.--END FOR END, with the position of the
ends reversed; ENDLESS SCREW, an arrangement for producing slow motion in
machinery, consisting of a screw whose thread gears into a wheel with skew
teeth; END ON, having the end pointing directly to an object--(_naut._)
opp. to _Broadside on_: (_min._) opp. to _Face on_.--A SHOEMAKER'S END, a
waxed thread ending in a bristle.--AT LOOSE ENDS, in disorder; AT ONE'S
WITS' END, at the end of one's ability to decide or act.--BEGIN AT THE
WRONG END, to manage badly; BE THE END OF, to cause the death of.--COME TO
THE END OF ONE'S TETHER, to go as far as one's powers permit.--HAVE AT
ONE'S FINGER-ENDS, to be thoroughly acquainted, to have in perfect
readiness.--IN THE END, after all: at last.--LATTER END, the end of
life.--MAKE BOTH ENDS MEET, to live within one's income (both ends meaning
both ends of the year).--NO END (_coll._), very much, a great deal.--ON
END, erect.--ROPE'S END (see ROPE). [A.S. _ende_; cf. Ger. and Dan. _ende_,
Goth. _andeis_; Sans. _ánta_.]

ENDAMAGE, en-dam'[=a]j, _v.t._ same as DAMAGE.--_n._ ENDAM'AGEMENT, damage,
injury, loss.

ENDANGER, en-d[=a]n'j[.e]r, _v.t._ to place in danger: to expose to loss or
injury.--_ns._ ENDAN'GERER; ENDAN'GERMENT, hazard, peril.

ENDEAR, en-d[=e]r', _v.t._ to make dear or more dear.--_adjs._ ENDEARED',
beloved; ENDEAR'ING.--_adv._ ENDEAR'INGLY.--_n._ ENDEAR'MENT, act of
endearing: state of being endeared: that which excites or increases
affection: a caress.

ENDEAVOUR, en-dev'ur, _v.i._ to strive to accomplish an object: to attempt
or try.--_v.t._ to attempt.--_n._ an exertion of power towards some object:
attempt or trial.--_n._ ENDEAV'OURMENT (_Spens._), endeavour.--DO ONE'S
ENDEAVOUR, to do one's utmost. [Fr. _en devoir_--_en_, in (with force of
'to do' or 'make,' as in _en-amour_, _en-courage_), and _devoir_, duty.]

ENDECAGON, en-dek'a-gon, _n._ a plane figure of eleven sides--also
HENDEC'AGON.--_adjs._ ENDECAG'YNOUS, having eleven pistils;
ENDECAPHYL'LOUS, having eleven leaflets; ENDECASYLLAB'IC, having eleven
syllables.

ENDEICTIC, en-d[=i]k'tik, _adj._ showing, exhibiting.--_n._ ENDEIX'IS, an
indication. [Gr.]

ENDEMIC, -AL, en-dem'ik, -al, ENDEMIAL, en-d[=e]'mi-al, _adj._ peculiar to
a people or a district, as a disease.--_n._ ENDEM'IC, a disease affecting a
number of persons simultaneously, in such manner as to show a distinct
connection with certain localities.--_adv._ ENDEM'ICALLY.--_ns._
ENDEMI'CITY, state of being endemic; ENDEMIOL'OGY, knowledge of endemic
diseases. [Gr. _end[=e]mios_--_en_, in, and _d[=e]mos_, a people, a
district.]

ENDENIZEN, en-den'i-zn, _v.t._ to naturalise, to make a denizen.

ENDERMIC, -AL, en-d[.e]rm'ik, -al, _adj._ through or applied directly to
the skin--also ENDERMAT'IC.--_n._ EN'DERON, the corium, derma, or true
skin. [Gr. _en_, in, and _derma_, the skin.]

ENDEW, en-d[=u]', _v.t._ (_obs._) to endow.--Also ENDUE'.

ENDIRON. See ANDIRON.

ENDITE, obsolete form of _indite_.

ENDIVE, en'div, _n._ an annual or biennial plant of the same genus as
chicory, used as a salad. [Fr.,--L. _intubus_.]

ENDOCARDIUM, en-do-kar'di-um, _n._ the lining membrane of the
heart.--_adjs._ ENDOCAR'DIAC, ENDOCAR'DIAL.--_n._ ENDOCARD[=I]'TIS, disease
of the internal surface of the heart, resulting in the deposit of fibrin on
the valves. [Gr. _endon_, within, _kardia_, heart.]

ENDOCARP, en'do-kärp, _n._ the inner coat or shell of a fruit. [Gr.
_endon_, within, and _karpos_, fruit.]

ENDOCHROME, en'd[=o]-kr[=o]m, _n._ the colouring matter, other than green,
of vegetable cells, esp. of algæ: (_zool._) the coloured endoplasm of a
cell. [Gr. _endon_, within, _chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

ENDODERM, en'do-derm, _n._ the inner layer of the Blastoderm (q.v.). [Gr.
_endon_, within, _derma_, skin.]

ENDOGAMY, en-dog'am-i, _n._ the custom forbidding a man to marry any woman
who is not of his kindred.--_adj._ ENDOG'AMOUS. [Gr. _endon_, within,
_gamos_, marriage.]

ENDOGEN, en'do-jen, _n._ a plant that grows from within, or by additions to
the inside of the stem, as the palm, grasses, &c.--_adj._ ENDOG'ENOUS,
increasing by internal growth. [Gr. _endon_, within, and _gen[=e]s_, born.]

ENDOLYMPH, en'd[=o]-limf, _n._ the fluid within the membranous labyrinth of
the ear.

ENDOMORPH, en'do-morf, _n._ a mineral enclosed within another mineral, the
latter being termed a _perimorph_. [Gr. _endon_, within, _morph[=e]_,
form.]

ENDOPHAGY, en-d[=o]'faj-i, _n._ in cannibalism, the practice of eating one
of the same stock. [Gr. _endon_, within, _phagos_, an eater.]

ENDOPARASITE, en-d[=o]-par'a-s[=i]t, _n._ an internal parasite.

ENDOPHLOEUM, en-d[=o]-fl[=e]'um, _n._ (_bot._) the inner bark.

ENDOPHYLLOUS, en-d[=o]-fil'us, _adj._ (_bot._) being or formed within a
sheath, as the young leaves of monocotyledons.

ENDOPLASM, en'd[=o]-plazm, _n._ (_bot._) the granular and fluid part of the
protoplasm of a cell--opp. to _Ectoplasm_: (_zool._) the interior
protoplasm of a protozoan.--Also EN'DOSARC.

ENDOPLEURA, en-d[=o]-pl[=oo]'ra, _n._ (_bot._) the innermost coat of a
seed.

ENDORHIZAL, en-d[=o]-r[=i]'zal, _adj._ (_bot._) having the radicle of the
embryo enclosed within a sheath, as in endogenous plants.--Also
ENDORH[=I]'ZOUS.

ENDORSE, en-dors', INDORSE, in-, _v.t._ to write one's name on the back of:
to assign by writing on the back of: to give one's sanction to: to lay on
the back, to load.--_adj._ ENDORS'ABLE.--_ns._ ENDORS[=EE]', the person to
whom a bill, &c., is assigned by endorsement; ENDORSE'MENT, act of
endorsing: that which is written on a bill: sanction; ENDORS'ER. [Changed
from M. E. _endosse_ under the influence of Low L. _indors[=a]re_--_in_,
on, _dorsum_, the back.]

ENDOSKELETON, en-d[=o]-skel'e-ton, _n._ the internal skeleton or framework
of the body.--_adj._ ENDOSKEL'ETAL.

ENDOSMOSIS, en-dos-m[=o]'sis, _n._ the passage of a fluid inwards through
an organic membrane, to mix with another fluid inside--also
EN'DOSMOSE.--_n._ ENDOSMOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring endosmotic
action.--_adjs._ ENDOSMOMET'RIC; ENDOSMOT'IC, pertaining to or of the
nature of endosmosis.--_adv._ ENDOSMOT'ICALLY. [Gr. _endon_, within, and
_[=o]smos_.]

ENDOSOME, en'd[=o]-s[=o]m, _n._ the innermost part of the body of a
sponge.--_adj._ EN'DOS[=O]MAL.

ENDOSPERM, en'd[=o]-sperm, _n._ (_bot._) the albumen of a seed.--_adj._
ENDOSPER'MIC.

ENDOSS, en-dos', _v.t._ (_obs._) to endorse: (_Spens._) to write. [M. E.
_endosse_--O. Fr. _endosser_.]

ENDOSTEUM, en-dos't[=e]-um, _n._ (_anat._) the internal periosteum.--_adj._
ENDOS'T[=E]AL.--_n._ ENDOST[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the endosteum.

ENDOSTOME, en'd[=o]-st[=o]m, _n._ (_bot._) the foramen of the inner
integument of an ovule: the inner peristome of mosses.

ENDOW, en-dow', _v.t._ to give a dowry or marriage-portion to: to settle a
permanent provision on: to enrich with any gift or faculty: to
present.--_ns._ ENDOW'ER; ENDOW'MENT, act of endowing: that which is
settled on any person or institution: a quality or faculty bestowed on any
one. [Fr. _en_ (=L. _in_), _douer_, to endow--L. _dot[=a]re_--_dos_,
_dotis_, a dowry.]

ENDUE, en-d[=u]', INDUE, in-, _v.t._ to put on, as clothes: to invest or
clothe with: to supply with.--_n._ ENDUE'MENT, adornment. [O. Fr.
_enduire_--L. _induc[)e]re_--_in_, into, _duc[)e]re_, to lead. In certain
senses the word is closely related to _indu[)e]re_, to put on.]

ENDURE, en-d[=u]r', _v.t._ to remain firm under: to bear without sinking:
to tolerate.--_v.i._ to remain firm: to last.--_adj._ ENDUR'ABLE, that can
be endured or borne.--_n._ ENDUR'ABLENESS.--_adv._ ENDUR'ABLY.--_ns._
ENDUR'ANCE, state of enduring or bearing: continuance: a suffering
patiently without sinking: patience; ENDUR'ER.--_adv._ ENDUR'INGLY. [O. Fr.
_endurer_--L. _indur[=a]re_--_in_, in, _durus_, hard.]

ENDYMION, en-dim'i-on, _n._ a beautiful youth whom Selene (the moon)
wrapped in perpetual sleep that she might kiss him without his knowledge.

ENE, [=e]n, _adv._ (_Spens._) once. [A.S. _['æ]ne_--_án_, one.]

ENEID, e-n[=e]'id, _n._ Same as ÆNEID.

ENEMA, en'e-ma, or e-n[=e]'ma, _n._ a liquid medicine thrown into the
rectum: an injection. [Gr.,--_enienai_, to send in--_en_, in, and _hienai_,
to send.]

ENEMY, en'e-mi, _n._ one who hates or dislikes: a foe: a hostile
army.--_adj._ (_obs._) hostile.--HOW GOES THE ENEMY? (_slang_) what o'clock
is it?--THE ENEMY, THE OLD ENEMY, the Devil; THE LAST ENEMY, death. [O. Fr.
_enemi_ (mod. Fr. _ennemi_)--L. _inimicus_--_in_, neg., _amicus_, a
friend.]

ENEMY, a prov. form of _anemone_.

ENERGUMEN, en-er-g[=u]'men, _n._ one possessed: a demoniac. [Low L.,--Gr.
_energoumenos_--_energein_--_en_, in, _ergon_, work.]

ENERGY, en'[.e]r-ji, _n._ power of doing work: power exerted: vigorous
operation: strength: (_physics_) the term, as applied to a material system,
used to denote the power of doing work possessed by that system.--_adjs._
ENERGET'IC, -AL, having or showing energy: active: forcible:
effective.--_adv._ ENERGET'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ ENERGET'ICS, the science of the
general laws of energy.--_adj._ ENER'GIC, exhibiting energy.--_v.t._
EN'ERGISE, to give strength or active force to.--_v.i._ to act with
force:--_pr.p._ en'erg[=i]sing; _pa.p._ en'erg[=i]sed.--CONSERVATION OF
ENERGY (see CONSERVATION). [Gr. _energeia_--_en_, in, _ergon_, work.]

ENERVATE, en-[.e]r'v[=a]t, _v.t._ to deprive of nerve, strength, or
courage: to weaken.--_adj._ weakened: spiritless.--_n._
ENERV[=A]'TION.--_adj._ ENER'VATIVE.--_v.t._ ENERVE' (_obs._), to enervate.
[L. _enerv[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out of, _nervus_, a nerve.]

ENEW, e-n[=u]', _v.t._ in falconry, to drive back to the water: to pursue.
[O. Fr. _enewer_--_en_, in, _eau_, water.]

ENFEEBLE, en-f[=e]'bl, _v.t._ to make feeble: to weaken.--_n._
ENFEE'BLEMENT, weakening: weakness.

ENFELON, en-fel'on, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to make fierce.

ENFEOFF, en-fef', _v.t._ to give a fief to: to invest with a possession in
fee: to surrender.--_n._ ENFEOFF'MENT, act of enfeoffing: the deed which
invests with the fee of an estate. [O. Fr. _enfeffer_--_en-_, and _fief_.
See FIEF, FEOFF.]

ENFEST, en-fest, _v.t._ (_Spens._). Same as INFEST.

ENFETTER, en-fet'[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to bind in fetters.

ENFIERCE, en-f[=e]rs', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to make fierce.

ENFILADE, en-fi-l[=a]d', _n._ a number of rooms with the doors opening into
a common passage: a fire that rakes a line of troops, &c., from end to end;
a situation or a body open from end to end.--_v.t._ to rake with shot
through the whole length of a line. [Fr.,--_enfiler_--_en_ (=L. _in_), and
_fil_, a thread. See FILE, a line or wire.]

ENFILED, en-f[=i]ld', _p.adj._ (_her._) thrust through with a sword. [See
ENFILADE.]

ENFIRE, en-f[=i]r', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to set on fire, inflame.

ENFLESH, en-flesh', _v.t._ to turn into flesh.

ENFLOWER, en-flow'[.e]r, _v.t._ to cover with flowers.

ENFOLD, en-f[=o]ld', INFOLD, in-, _v.t._ to wrap up.--_n._ ENFOLD'MENT, act
of enfolding: that which enfolds.

ENFORCE, en-f[=o]rs', _v.t._ to gain by force: to give force to: to put in
force: to give effect to: to urge: (_Spens._) to attempt.--_adj._
ENFORCE'ABLE.--_adv._ ENFORC'EDLY, by violence, not by choice.--_n._
ENFORCE'MENT, act of enforcing: compulsion: a giving effect to: that which
enforces. [O. Fr. _enforcer_--_en_ (=L. _in_), and _force_.]

ENFOREST, en-for'est, _v.t._ to turn into forest.

ENFORM, en-form', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to fashion.

ENFOULDERED, en-fowl'd[.e]rd, _p.adj._ (_Spens._) mixed with lightning or
fire. [_En_, in, and O. Fr. _fouldre_ (Fr. _foudre_)--L. _fulgur_,
lightning, _fulg[)e]re_, to flash.]

ENFRAME, en-fr[=a]m', _v.t._ to put in a frame.

ENFRANCHISE, en-fran'chiz, _v.t._ to set free: to give a franchise or
political privileges to.--_n._ ENFRAN'CHISEMENT, act of enfranchising:
liberation: admission to civil or political privileges. [O. Fr.
_enfranchir_--_en_, and _franc_, free. See FRANCHISE.]

ENFREE, en-fr[=e]', ENFREEDOM, en-fr[=e]'dum, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to set free,
to give freedom to.

ENFREEZE, en-fr[=e]z', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to freeze: turn to ice:--_pr.p._
enfreez'ing: _pa.p._ enfr[=o]z'en, enfr[=o]z'ened.

ENGAGE, en-g[=a]j', _v.t._ to bind by a gage or pledge: to render liable:
to gain for service: to enlist: to gain over: to betroth: (_archit._) to
fasten: to win: to occupy: to enter into contest with: (_obs._) to
entangle.--_v.i._ to pledge one's word: to become bound: to take a part: to
enter into conflict.--_p.adj._ ENGAGED', pledged: promised, esp. in
marriage: greatly interested: occupied: (_archit._) partly built or sunk
into, or so appearing: geared together, interlocked.--_n._ ENGAGE'MENT, act
of engaging: state of being engaged: that which engages: betrothal:
promise: employment: a fight or battle.--_p.adj._ ENGAG'ING, winning:
attractive.--_adv._ ENGAG'INGLY.--ENGAGE FOR, to answer for. [Fr.
_engager_--_en gage_, in pledge. See GAGE.]

ENGAOL, en-j[=a]l', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to put in gaol.

ENGARLAND, en-gär'land, _v.t._ to put a garland round.

ENGARRISON, en-gar'i-sn, _v.t._ to establish as a garrison.

ENGENDER, en-jen'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to beget: to bear: to breed: to sow the
seeds of: to produce.--_v.i._ to be caused or produced.--_ns._ ENGEN'DRURE,
ENGEN'DURE, act of engendering: generation. [Fr. _engendrer_--L.
_ingener[=a]re_--_in_, and _gener[=a]re_, to generate.]

ENGILD, en-gild', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to gild.

ENGINE, en'jin, _n._ a complex and powerful machine, esp. a prime mover: a
military machine: anything used to effect a purpose: a device: contrivance:
(_obs._) ability, genius.--_v.t._ to contrive: to put into action.--_ns._
EN'GINE-DRIV'ER, one who manages an engine, esp. who drives a locomotive;
ENGINEER', an engine maker or manager: one who directs works and engines: a
soldier belonging to the division of the army called Engineers, consisting
of men trained to engineering work.--_v.i._ to act as an engineer.--_v.t._
to arrange, contrive.--_ns._ ENGINEER'ING, the art or profession of an
engineer; EN'GINE-MAN, one who drives an engine; EN'GINE-ROOM, the room in
a vessel in which the engines are placed; EN'GINERY, the art or business of
managing engines: engines collectively: machinery; EN'GINE-TURN'ING, a kind
of ornament made by a rose-engine, as on the backs of watches, &c.--CIVIL
ENGINEER (see CIVIL). [O. Fr. _engin_--L. _ingenium_, skill. See
INGENIOUS.]

ENGIRD, en-g[.e]rd', _v.t._ to gird round.

ENGIRDLE, en-g[.e]rd'l, ENGIRT, en-g[.e]rt', _v.t._ to surround, as with a
girdle: to encircle.

ENGLISH, ing'glish, _adj._ belonging to _England_ or its inhabitants.--_n._
the language of the people of England.--_v.t._ to translate a book into
English: to make English.--_ns._ ENG'LANDER, an Englishman; ENG'LISHER,
ENG'LISHMAN, a native or naturalised inhabitant of England; ENG'LISHRY, the
fact of being an Englishman; in Ireland, the population of English
descent.--OLD ENGLISH, or _Anglo-Saxon_, the language spoken in England
from 450 till about 1150; MIDDLE ENGLISH till 1500; MODERN ENGLISH from
1500 onwards (EARLY ENGLISH often means Early Middle English; (_archit._),
see EARLY).--PRESENTMENT OF ENGLISHRY, the offering of proof that a person
murdered belonged to the English race, to escape the fine levied on the
hundred or township for the murder of a Norman. [A.S. _Englisc_, from
_Engle_, _Angle_, from the Angles who settled in Britain.]

ENGLOBE, en-gl[=o]b', _v.t._ to enclose as in a globe.

ENGLOOM, en-gl[=oo]m', _v.t._ to make gloomy.

ENGLUT, en-glut', _v.t._ to glut, to fill: to swallow.

ENGORE, en-g[=o]r', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to gore: to wound.

ENGORGE, en-gorj', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to devour, to glut.--_v.i._ (_Milton_)
to feed voraciously.--_adj._ ENGORGED', filled to excess with blood.--_n._
ENGORGE'MENT, the act of swallowing greedily: (_med._) an obstruction of
the vessels in some part of the system.

ENGOUEMENT, ang-g[=oo]'mang, _n._ excessive fondness. [Fr.]

ENGOULED, en-g[=oo]ld', _adj._ (_her._) of bends, crosses, &c., the
extremities of which enter the mouths of animals.--Also ENGOUL'EE.

ENGRACE, en-gr[=a]s', _v.t._ to put grace into.

ENGRAFF, obsolete form of _engraft_.

ENGRAFT, en-graft', INGRAFT, in-, _v.t._ to graft (a shoot of one tree)
into another: to introduce something: to fix deeply.--_ns._
ENGRAFT[=A]'TION, act of engrafting: ENGRAFT'MENT, engrafting: the thing
engrafted: a scion.

ENGRAIL, en-gr[=a]l', _v.t_ (_her._) to make a border composed of a series
of little semicircular indents: to make rough.--_v.i._ to form an edging or
border: to run in indented lines.--_n._ ENGRAIL'MENT, the ring of dots
round the edge of a medal: (_her._) indentation in curved lines. [O. Fr.
_engresler_ (Fr. _engrêler_)--_gresle_, hail. See GRAIL.]

ENGRAIN, en-gr[=a]n', INGRAIN, in-, _v.t._ to dye of a fast or lasting
colour: to dye in the raw state: to infix deeply.--_n._ ENGRAIN'ER. [Orig.
'to dye in grain' (meaning _with grain_)--i.e. cochineal.]

ENGRASP, en-grasp', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to grasp.

ENGRAVE, en-gr[=a]v', _v.t._ to cut out with a graver a representation of
anything on wood, steel, &c.: to imprint: to impress deeply.--_ns._
ENGRAV'ER; ENGRAV'ERY, the art of the engraver; ENGRAV'ING, act or art of
cutting or incising designs on metal, wood, &c., for the purpose of
printing impressions from them in ink on paper, or other similar
substance--in metal, the lines to be printed are sunk or incised; in wood,
the lines to be printed appear in relief, the wood between them being cut
away: an impression taken from an engraved plate: a print. [Fr. _en_ (=L.
_in_), and _grave_, _v._]

ENGRAVE, en-gr[=a]v', _v.t._ to deposit in the grave.

ENGRIEVE, en-gr[=e]v', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to grieve.

ENGROOVE, en-gr[=oo]v', INGROOVE, in-, _v.t._ to cut a groove or furrow in:
to make into a groove.

ENGROSS, en-gr[=o]s', _v.t._ to occupy wholly, monopolise: to absorb: to
copy a writing in a large hand or in distinct characters: to write in legal
form: to make gross.--_ns._ ENGROSS'ER; ENGROSS'ING, the conduct of those
who buy merchandise in large quantities to obtain command of the market;
ENGROSS'MENT, act of engrossing: that which has been engrossed: a fair
copy.--ENGROSSING A DEED, the writing it out in full and regular form on
parchment or paper for signature. [From Fr. _en gros_, in large--L. _in_,
in, _grossus_, large. See GROSS.]

ENGUARD, en-gärd', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to guard or defend.

ENGUICHÉ, äng-g[=e]-sh[=a]', _adj._ (_her._) having a different tincture
inside the mouth, of trumpets, &c. [Fr.]

ENGULF, en-gulf', INGULF, in-, _v.t._ to swallow up wholly, as in a gulf:
to cast into a gulf: to overwhelm.--_n._ ENGULF'MENT.

ENGYSCOPE, en'ji-sk[=o]p, _n._ a kind of reflecting microscope.--Also
EN'GISCOPE. [Gr. _enggys_, near, _skopein_, to view.]

ENHALO, en-h[=a]'l[=o], _v.t._ to surround with a halo.

ENHANCE, en-hans', _v.t._ to heighten: to add to, increase.--_n._
ENHANCE'MENT, act of enhancing: state of being enhanced: aggravation.
[Prob. from O. Fr. _enhaucer_--L. _in_, and _altus_, high.]

ENHARMONIC, -AL, en-har-mon'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to music constructed
on a scale containing intervals less than a semitone: pertaining to that
scale of music current among the Greeks, in which an interval of 2½ tones
was divided into two quarter tones and a major third.--_adv._
ENHARMON'ICALLY. [L.,--Gr.,--_en_, in, _harmonia_, harmony.]

ENHEARSE, en-h[.e]rs', INHEARSE, in-, _v.t._ to put in a hearse.

ENHEARTEN, en-härt'n, _v.t._ to encourage: to cheer.

ENHUNGER, en-hung'g[.e]r, _v.t._ to make hungry.

ENHYDROUS, en-h[=i]'drus, _adj._ containing water or other fluid.--_n._
ENHY'DRITE, a mineral containing water. [Gr. _en_, in, and _hyd[=o]r_,
water.]

ENHYPOSTATIC, en-h[=i]-p[=o]-stat'ik, _adj._ possessing substantial or
personal existence, possessing personality not independently but by union
with a person.--_n._ ENHYPOST[=A]'SIA.--_v.t._ ENHYPOS'TATISE.

ENIGMA, en-ig'ma, _n._ a statement with a hidden meaning to be guessed:
anything very obscure: a riddle.--_adjs._ ENIGMAT'IC, -AL, relating to,
containing, or resembling an enigma: obscure: puzzling.--_adv._
ENIGMAT'ICALLY.--_v.t._ ENIG'MATISE, to utter or deal in riddles.--_ns._
ENIG'MATIST, one who enigmatises; ENIGMATOG'RAPHY, science of enigmas and
their solution. [L. _ænigma_--Gr. _ainigma_--_ainissesthai_, to speak
darkly--_ainos_, a fable.]

ENISLE, en-[=i]l', INISLE, in-, _v.t._ to isolate.

ENJAMBMENT, en-jamb'ment, _n._ in verse, the continuation of a sentence
beyond the end of the line. [Fr.,--_enjamber_--_en_, in, _jambe_, leg.]

ENJOIN, en-join', _v.t._ to lay upon, as an order: to order or direct with
authority or urgency.--_n._ ENJOIN'MENT. [Fr. _enjoindre_--L.
_injung[)e]re_--_in_, and _jung[)e]re_, to join.]

ENJOY, en-joi', _v.t._ to joy or delight in: to feel or perceive with
pleasure: to possess or use with satisfaction or delight: to have the use
of: to have sexual intercourse with.--_adj._ ENJOY'ABLE, capable of being
enjoyed or of giving joy.--_n._ ENJOY'MENT, state or condition of enjoying:
satisfactory possession or use of anything; pleasure: happiness. [O. Fr.
_enjoier_, to give joy to--_en_ (=L. _in_), and _joie_, joy; or O. Fr.
_enjoir_, to enjoy--_en_, and _joir_--L. _gaud[=e]re_, to rejoice.]

ENKERNEL, en-k[.e]r'nel, _v.t._ to enclose in a kernel.

ENKINDLE, en-kin'dl, _v.t._ to kindle or set on fire: to inflame: to
rouse.--_p.adj._ ENKIN'DLED.

ENLACE, en-l[=a]s', _v.t._ to encircle, surround: to embrace.--_n._
ENLACE'MENT.

ENLARD, en-lärd', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to grease, to baste.

ENLARGE, en-lärj', _v.t._ to make larger: to increase in size or quantity:
to expand: to amplify discourse: to set free.--_v.i._ to grow large or
larger: to be diffuse in speaking or writing: to expatiate.--_adj._
ENLARGED'.--_adv._ ENLAR'GEDLY.--_ns._ ENLAR'GEDNESS; ENLARGE'MENT, act of
enlarging: state of being enlarged: increase: extension: diffuseness of
speech or writing: a setting at large: release. [O. Fr. _enlarger_--_en_
(=L. _in_), _large_, large.]

ENLEVEMENT, en-l[=e]v'ment, _n._ (_Scots law_) abduction of a woman or
child.

ENLIGHTEN, en-l[=i]t'n, _v.t._ to lighten or shed light on: to make clear
to the mind: to impart knowledge to: to elevate by knowledge or
religion--(_obs._) ENLIGHT'.--_n._ ENLIGHT'ENMENT, act of enlightening:
state of being enlightened: the spirit of the French philosophers of the
18th century.

ENLINK, en-lingk', _v.t._ to connect closely.

ENLIST, en-list', _v.t._ to enrol: to engage as a soldier, &c.: to employ
in advancing an object.--_v.i._ to engage in public service, esp. as a
soldier: to enter heartily into a cause.--_n._ ENLIST'MENT, act of
enlisting: state of being enlisted.

ENLIVEN, en-l[=i]v'n, _v.t._ to put life into: to excite or make active: to
make sprightly or cheerful: to animate.--_ns._ ENLIV'ENER; ENLIV'ENMENT.

ENLOCK, en-lok', _v.t._ to lock up, enclose.

ENLUMINE, en-l[=oo]'min, _v.t._ (_Spens._). See ILLUMINE.

ENMARBLE, en-mär'bl, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to turn to marble, to harden.

ENMESH, en-mesh', EMMESH, em-, IMMESH, im-, _v.t._ to catch in a mesh or
net, to entangle.

ENMEW, en-m[=u]', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to coop up, as in a cage.

ENMITY, en'mi-ti, _n._ the quality of being an enemy: unfriendliness:
ill-will: hostility. [O. Fr. _enemistié_--L. _inimicus_. See ENEMY.]

ENMOSSED, en-most', _p.adj._ covered with moss.

ENMOVE, en-m[=oo]v', _v.t._ Same as EMMOVE.

ENMURE. Same as IMMURE.

ENNEA, en'[=e]-a, a prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying nine.--_n._
EN'NEAD, the number nine, a system of nine objects.--_adj._
ENNEAD'IC.--_n._ EN'NEAGON, a polygon with nine angles.--_adjs._
ENNEAG'ONAL; ENNEAG'YNOUS, having nine pistils or styles; ENNEAH[=E]'DRAL,
having nine faces.--_n._ ENNEAN'DRIA, the ninth Linnæan class of plants,
with nine stamens.--_adjs._ ENNEAN'DRIAN; ENNEAPHYL'LOUS, nine-leaved;
ENNEASPER'MOUS, having nine seeds.

ENNOBLE, en-n[=o]'bl, _v.t._ to make noble: to elevate, distinguish: to
raise to nobility.--_n._ ENN[=O]'BLEMENT, the act of making noble: that
which ennobles. [Fr. _ennoblir_--Fr. _en_ (=L. _in_), and _noble_.]

ENNUI, äng-nw[=e]', _n._ a feeling of weariness or disgust from satiety,
&c.: the occasion of ennui.--_v.t._ to weary: to bore.--_adj._ ENNUYÉ
(äng-nw[=e]-y[=a]'), bored. [Fr.,--O. Fr. _anoi_--L. _in odio_, as _in odio
habeo_, lit. 'I hold in hatred,' i.e. I am tired of. See ANNOY.]

ENODAL, [=e]-n[=o]'dal, _adj._ without nodes.

ENOMOTY, e-nom'[=o]-ti, _n._ a band of sworn soldiers, esp. the smallest
Spartan subdivision. [Gr.]

ENORMOUS, e-nor'mus, _adj._ excessive: immense: atrocious--(_obs._)
ENORM'.--_n._ ENOR'MITY, state or quality of being enormous: that which is
enormous: a great crime: great wickedness.--_adv._ ENOR'MOUSLY.--_n._
ENOR'MOUSNESS. [L. _enormis_--_e_, out of, _norma_, rule.]

ENORTHOTROPE, en-or'th[=o]-tr[=o]p, _n._ a toy consisting of a card on
which confused objects are transformed into various pictures, by causing it
to revolve rapidly. [Gr. _en_, in, _orthos_, upright, _tropos_, turning.]

ENOUGH, e-nuf', _adj._ sufficient: giving content: satisfying want.--_adv._
sufficiently.--_n._ sufficiency: as much as satisfies desire or want. [A.S.
_ge-nóh_, _ge-nóg_; Goth. _ga-nóhs_; Ger. _ge-nug_; Ice. _g-nóg-r_.]

ENOUNCE, e-nowns', _v.t._ to enunciate: to proclaim: to utter or
articulate. [Fr. _énoncer_--L. _enunti[=a]re_.]

ENOW=ENOUGH, but often used as its plural.

ENOW, e-now', _adv._ just now: (_Scot._) soon. [Contr. from 'even now.']

EN PASSANT, äng pas'ang, _adv._ in passing: by the way. [Fr.]

ENQUIRE. See INQUIRE.

ENRACE, en-r[=a]s', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to give race or origin to.

ENRAGE, en-r[=a]j', _v.t._ to make angry.--_p.adj._ ENRAGED', angered:
furious.--_n._ ENRAGE'MENT, act of enraging, state of being enraged,
excitement. [O. Fr. _enrager_--_en_ (=L. _in_), and _rage_, rage.]

ENRANGE, en-r[=a]nj', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to arrange: to rove over.

ENRANK, en-rangk', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to place in order.

ENRAPTURE, en-rap't[=u]r, _v.t._ to put in rapture: to transport with
pleasure or delight.--_p.adjs._ ENRAP'TURED, ENRAPT', delighted:
transported.

ENRAVISH, en-rav'ish, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to enrapture.

ENREGIMENT, en-rej'i-ment, _v.t._ to form in a regiment.

ENREGISTER, en-rej'is-t[.e]r, _v.t._ to register: to enrol.

ENRICH, en-rich', _v.t._ to make rich: to fertilise: to adorn: to
enhance.--_n._ ENRICH'MENT, act of enriching; that which enriches.

ENRIDGE, en-rij', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to form into ridges.

ENRING, en-ring', _v.t._ to encircle: to put a ring on.

ENROBE, en-r[=o]b', _v.t._ to dress, clothe, or invest.

ENROL, ENROLL, en-r[=o]l', _v.t._ to insert in a roll or register: to
enlist: to record: to leave in writing:--_pr.p._ enr[=o]l'ling; _pa.p._
enr[=o]lled'.--_ns._ ENROL'LER; ENROL'MENT, act of enrolling: that in which
anything is enrolled: a register. [O. Fr. _enroller_ (Fr. _enrôler_)--_en_,
and _rolle_, roll.]

ENROOT, en-r[=oo]t', _v.t._ to fix by the root: to implant firmly:
(_Shak._) to join firmly, as root by root.

ENROUGH, en-ruf', _v.t._ to make rough.

ENROUND, en-rownd', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to surround.

ENS, enz, _n._ an entity, as opposed to an attribute. [A late _pr.p._ form,
from L. _esse_, to be.]

ENSAMPLE, en-sam'pl, _n._ example.--_v.t._ to give an example of. [O. Fr.
_essample_. See EXAMPLE.]

ENSANGUINE, en-sang'gwin, _v.t._ to stain or cover with blood.--_p.adj._
ENSAN'GUINED, bloody.

ENSATE, en's[=a]t, _adj._ ensiform.

ENSCHEDULE, en-shed'[=u]l, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to insert in a schedule.

ENSCONCE, en-skons', _v.t._ to cover or protect as with a sconce or
earth-work: to hide safely.

ENSEAL, en-s[=e]l', _v.t._ to put one's seal to: to seal up.

ENSEAM, en-s[=e]m', _v.t._ to mark as with a seam.

ENSEAM, en-s[=e]m', _v.t._ to cover with grease. [_Seam_, grease.]

ENSEAM, en-s[=e]m', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to contain. [Der. obscure; cf. Ice.
_semja_, to put together.]

ENSEAR, en-s[=e]r', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to dry up.

ENSEMBLE, äng-sangb'l, _n._ all the parts of a thing taken together.--TOUT
ENSEMBLE, general appearance or effect. [Fr. _ensemble_, together--L. _in_,
in, _simul_, at the same time.]

ENSEPULCHRE, en-sep'ul-k[.e]r, _v.t._ to put in a sepulchre.

ENSEW (_Spens._). Same as ENSUE.

ENSHIELD, en-sh[=e]ld', _v.t._ to shield or protect.--_adj._ (_Shak._)
shielded or protected.

ENSHRINE, en-shr[=i]n', _v.t._ to enclose in or as in a shrine: to preserve
with affection.

ENSHROUD, en-shrowd', _v.t._ to cover with a shroud: to cover up.

ENSIFORM, en'si-form, _adj._ having the shape of a sword. [L. _ensis_, a
sword, and _forma_, form.]

ENSIGN, en's[=i]n, _n._ a sign or mark: the sign or flag distinguishing a
nation or a regiment: one who carries the colours: until 1871, the title
given to officers of the lowest commissioned rank in the British
infantry.--_ns._ EN'SIGN-BEAR'ER; EN'SIGNCY, EN'SIGNSHIP, the rank or
commission of an ensign in the army. [O. Fr. _enseigne_--L. _insignia_, pl.
of _insigne_, a distinctive mark--_in_, and _signum_, a mark.]

ENSILAGE, en'sil-[=a]j, _n._ the storing of green fodder, &c., in
pits.--_v.t._ EN'SILE, to store by ensilage. [Fr.,--Sp. _en_, and
_silo_--L.,--Gr. _siros_, pit for corn.]

ENSKY, en-sk[=i]', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to place in the sky.

ENSLAVE, en-sl[=a]v', _v.t._ to make a slave of: to subject to the
influence of.--_p.adj._ ENSLAVED'.--_ns._ ENSLAVE'MENT, act of enslaving:
state of being enslaved: slavery: bondage; ENSLAV'ER.

ENSNARE, en-sn[=a]r', INSNARE, in-, _v.t._ to catch in a snare: to entrap:
to entangle.

ENSNARL, en-snärl', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to entangle.

ENSORCELL, en-s[=o]r'sel, _v.t._ to bewitch. [O. Fr. _ensorceler_--_en_,
and _sorcier_, a sorceror.]

ENSOUL, en-s[=o]l', INSOUL, in-, _v.t._ to join with the soul: to animate
as a soul.

ENSPHERE, en-sf[=e]r', INSPHERE, in-, _v.t._ to enclose in a sphere: to
give a spherical form.

ENSTAMP, en-stamp', _v.t._ to mark as with a stamp.

ENSTEEP, en-st[=e]p', _v.t._ to steep: to lay under water.

ENSTYLE, en-st[=i]l', _v.t._ to style, call.

ENSUE, en-s[=u]', _v.i._ to follow, to come after: to result (with
_from_).--_v.t._ (_B._, _arch._) to follow after:--_pr.p._ ens[=u]'ing;
_pa.p._ ens[=u]ed'. [O. Fr. _ensuir_ (Fr. _ensuivre_)--L. _in_, after,
_sequi_, to follow.]

ENSURE, en-sh[=oo]r', _v.t._ to make sure. [See INSURE.]

ENSWATHE, en-sw[=a]th', INSWATHE, in-, _v.t._ to wrap in a swathe.--_n._
ENSWATHE'MENT.

ENSWEEP, en-sw[=e]p', _v.t._ to sweep over.

ENTABLATURE, en-tab'lat-[=u]r, _n._ that part of a design in classic
architecture which surmounts the columns and rests upon the capitals.
[Prob. through Fr. from It. _intavolatura_--_in_, in, _tavola_, a table.]

ENTAIL, en-t[=a]l', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to carve. [O. Fr. _entailler_--Low L.
_en_, into, _tale[=a]re_, to cut.]

ENTAIL, en-t[=a]l', _v.t._ to settle an estate on a series of heirs, so
that the immediate possessor may not dispose of it: to bring on as an
inevitable consequence:--_pr.p._ entail'ing; _pa.p._ entailed'.--_n._ an
estate entailed: the rule of descent of an estate.--_ns._ ENTAIL'ER;
ENTAIL'MENT, act of entailing: state of being entailed. [O. Fr.
_entailler_, to cut into--_en_, in, into, _tailler_, to cut--L. _talea_, a
twig.]

ENTAL, en'tal, _adj._ internal. [Gr. _entos_, within.]

ENTAME, en-t[=a]m', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to tame.

ENTANGLE, en-tang'gl, _v.t._ to twist into a tangle, or so as not to be
easily separated: to involve in complications: to perplex: to
ensnare.--_n._ ENTANG'LEMENT, a confused state: perplexity.

ENTASIS, en'ta-sis, _n._ (_archit._) the swelling outline of the shaft of a
column--also ENT[=A]'SIA: constrictive or tonic spasm.--_adj._ ENTAS'TIC.
[Gr.,--_en_, in, _teinein_, to stretch.]

ENTELECHY, en-tel'ek-i, _n._ (_phil._) actuality: distinctness of realised
existence. [Gr. _entelecheia_--_en_, in, _telos_, perfection, _echein_, to
have.]

ENTELLUS, en-tel'us, _n._ the hanuman of India.

ENTENDER, en-tend'[.e]r, _v.t._ to make tender: to weaken.

ENTER, en't[.e]r, _v.i._ to go or come in: to penetrate: to engage in: to
form a part of.--_v.t._ to come or go into: to join or engage in: to begin:
to put into: to enrol or record: to cause to be inscribed, as a boy's name
at school, a horse for a race, &c.--_n._ (_Shak._) ingoing.--_adj._
EN'TERABLE.--_ns._ EN'TERCLOSE, a passage between two rooms; EN'TERER;
EN'TERING.--ENTER A PROTEST, to write it in the books: thence simply, to
protest; ENTER INTO, to become a party to: to be interested in: to be part
of; ENTER ON, to begin: to engage in. [Fr. _entrer_--L. _intrare_, to go
into, related to _inter_, between.]

ENTERDEAL, obsolete form of _interdeal_.

ENTERIC, en-ter'ik, _adj._ of or pertaining to the intestines.--_ns._
ENTERADENOG'RAPHY, description of the intestinal glands; ENTERADENOL'OGY,
the branch of anatomy relating to the intestinal glands; ENTERAL'GIA,
intestinal neuralgia; ENTER[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the intestines;
EN'TEROCELE, a hernial tumour containing part of the intestines;
ENTEROGASTR[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the stomach and bowels; EN'TEROLITE,
EN'TEROLITH, an intestinal concretion or calculus; ENTEROL'OGY, a treatise
on the internal parts of the body; EN'TERON, the entire intestine or
alimentary canal:--_pl._ EN'TERA; ENTEROP'ATHY, disease of the intestines;
ENTEROPNEUST'A, a class of worm-like animals, having the paired respiratory
pouches opening from the front part of the alimentary canal; ENTEROT'OMY,
dissection or incision of the intestines. [Gr. _enterikos_--_enteron_,
intestine.]

ENTERPRISE, en't[.e]r-pr[=i]z, _n._ that which is attempted: a bold or
dangerous undertaking: an adventure: daring.--_v.t._ to undertake.--_n._
EN'TERPRISER, an adventurer.--_p.adj._ EN'TERPRISING, forward in
undertaking: adventurous.--_adv._ EN'TERPRISINGLY. [O. Fr. _entreprise_,
pa.p. of _entreprendre_--_entre_, in, _prendre_--L. _prehend[)e]re_, to
seize.]

ENTERTAIN, en-t[.e]r-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to receive and treat hospitably: to
hold the attention of and amuse by conversation: to amuse: to receive and
take into consideration: to keep or hold in the mind: to harbour.--_n._
ENTERTAIN'ER.--_p.adj._ ENTERTAIN'ING, affording entertainment:
amusing.--_adv._ ENTERTAIN'INGLY.--_n._ ENTERTAIN'MENT, act of
entertaining: hospitality at table: that which entertains: the provisions
of the table: a banquet: amusement: a performance which delights. [Fr.
_entretenir_--L. _inter_, among, _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

ENTERTAKE, en-t[.e]r-t[=a]k', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to entertain.

ENTERTISSUE. See INTERTISSUE.

ENTHEASM, en'th[=e]-azm, _n._ divine inspiration, ecstasy.--_adj._
ENTHEAS'TIC.--_adv._ ENTHEAS'TICALLY.

ENTHELMINTHA, en-thel-min'tha, _n.pl._ a general name of intestinal worms.

ENTHRAL, en-thrawl', INTHRAL, in-, _v.t._ to bring into thraldom or
bondage: to enslave: to shackle.--_ns._ ENTHRAL'DOM, condition of being
enthralled; ENTHRAL'MENT, act of enthralling: slavery.

ENTHRONE, en-thr[=o]n', _v.t._ to place on a throne: to exalt to the seat
of royalty: to install as a bishop: to exalt.--_ns._ ENTHRONE'MENT,
ENTHRONIS[=A]'TION, the act of enthroning or of being enthroned.--_v.t._
ENTHR[=O]'NISE, to enthrone, as a bishop: to exalt.

ENTHUSIASM, en-th[=u]'zi-azm, _n._ intense interest: intensity of feeling:
passionate zeal.--_n._ ENTH[=U]'SIAST, one inspired by enthusiasm: one who
admires or loves intensely.--_adjs._ ENTHUSIAS'TIC, -AL, filled with
enthusiasm; zealous: ardent.--_adv._ ENTHUSIAS'TICALLY. [Through L., from
Gr. _enthusiasmos_, a god-inspired zeal--_enthousiazein_, to be inspired by
a god--_en_, in, _theos_, a god.]

ENTHYMEME, en'thi-m[=e]m, _n._ (_rhet._) an argument consisting of only two
propositions, an antecedent and a consequent: a syllogism in which the
major proposition is suppressed.--_adj._ ENTHYMEMAT'ICAL. [From L. from Gr.
_enthym[=e]ma_, a consideration--_enthymeesthai_, to consider--_en_, in,
_thymos_, the mind.]

ENTICE, en-t[=i]s', _v.t._ to induce by exciting hope or desire: to tempt:
to lead astray.--_adj._ ENTICE'ABLE.--_ns._ ENTICE'MENT, act of enticing:
that which entices or tempts: allurement; ENTIC'ER.--_p.adj._
ENTIC'ING.--_adv._ ENTIC'INGLY. [O. Fr. _enticier_, provoke; prob. related
to L. _titio_, a firebrand.]

ENTIRE, en-t[=i]r', _adj._ whole: complete: unmingled: not castrated,
specially of a horse.--_n._ the whole: completeness: a stallion: porter or
stout as delivered from the brewery.--_adv._ ENTIRE'LY.--_ns._ ENTIRE'NESS,
ENTIRE'TY, completeness: the whole.--IN ITS ENTIRETY, in its completeness.
[O. Fr. _entier_--L. _integer_, whole, from _in_, not, _tang[)e]re_, to
touch.]

ENTITLE, en-t[=i]'tl, _v.t._ to give a title to: to style: to give a claim
to. [O. Fr. _entiteler_--Low L. _intitul[=a]re_--_in_, in, _titulus_,
title.]

ENTITY, en'ti-ti, _n._ being: existence: a real substance. [Low L.
_entitat-em_--_ens_ (q.v.).]

ENTOBLAST, en't[=o]-blast, _n._ the nucleolus of a cell.

ENTOCELE, en't[=o]-s[=e]l, _n._ morbid displacement of parts.

ENTOIL, en-toil', _v.t._ to entangle or ensnare.

ENTOMB, en-t[=oo]m', _v.t._ to place in a tomb: to bury.--_n._ ENTOMB'MENT,
burial. [O. Fr. _entoumber_--_en_, in, _tombe_, a tomb.]

ENTOMOLOGY, en-to-mol'o-ji, _n._ the science which treats of
insects.--_adjs._ ENTOM'IC, -AL, relating to insects.--_n._ ENTOMOG'RAPHY,
descriptive entomology.--_adj._ EN'TOMOID, insect-like.--_n._ ENTOM'OLITE,
a fossil insect.--_adj._ ENTOMOLOG'ICAL.--_adv._ ENTOMOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.t._
ENTOMOL'OGISE.--_ns._ ENTOMOL'OGIST, one learned in entomology.--_n.pl._
ENTOMOPH'AGA, a sub-section of _Hymenoptera terebrantia_, or boring
hymenopterous insects.--_adjs._ ENTOMOPH'AGAN, ENTOMOPH'AGOUS,
insectivorous; ENTOMOPH'ILOUS, insect-loving--of such flowers as are
specially adapted for fertilisation by the agency of insects.--_ns._
EN'TOMOTAXY, preparation of insects for preservation; ENTOMOT'OMIST;
ENTOMOT'OMY, dissection of insects. [Gr. _entoma_, insects, _logia_, a
discourse, _phagein_, to eat, _philein_, to love, _taxis_, arrangement,
_temnein_, to cut.]

ENTOMOSTOMATA, en-to-mo-stom'a-ta, _n.pl._ a family of mollusca. [Gr.
_entomos_, cut into--_en_, in, _temnein_, to cut, _stoma_, a mouth.]

ENTOMOSTRACA, en-to-mos'tra-ka, _n.pl._ a general name for the lower orders
of crustacea--_Phyllopods_, _Ostracods_, _Copepods_, and
_Cirripedes_:--_sing._ ENTOMOS'TRACAN.--_adj._ ENTOMOS'TRACOUS. [Gr.
_entomos_, cut in--_en_, in, _temnein_, to cut, _ostrakon_, a shell.]

ENTONIC, en-ton'ik, _adj._ showing high tension.

ENTOPERIPHERAL, en-t[=o]-pe-rif'e-ral, _adj._ situated or originated within
the periphery or external surface of the body.

ENTOPHYTE, en'to-f[=i]t, _n._ a parasitic plant which grows in a living
animal.--_adj._ ENTOPHYT'IC.--_adv._ ENTOPHYT'ICALLY.--_adj._ EN'TOPHYTOUS.
[Gr. _enton_, within, and _phyton_, a plant.]

ENTOTIC, en-tot'ik, _adj._ of the interior of the ear.

ENTOURAGE, äng-t[=oo]-razh', _n._ surroundings: followers.
[Fr.,--_entourer_, to surround--_en_, in, _tour_, a circuit.]

ENTOZOA, en-to-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ animals that live inside of other animals:
internal parasites such as Tapeworms (q.v.):--_sing._
ENTOZ[=O]'ON.--_adjs._ ENTOZ[=O]'AL, ENTOZ[=O]'IC.--_ns._ ENTOZOOL'OGIST;
ENTOZOOL'OGY.--_adj._ ENTOZOOT'IC. [Gr. _entos_, within, _z[=o]on_, an
animal.]

ENTR'ACTE, äng-trakt', _n._ the time between two acts in a play: (_mus._)
an instrumental piece performed between acts. [Fr., _entre_, between,
_acte_, an act.]

ENTRAIL, en-tr[=a]l', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to interlace, entwine.--_n._
(_Spens._) twisting, entanglement. [O. Fr. _entreillier_--_en_, and
_treille_, trellis-work.]

ENTRAILS, en'tr[=a]lz, _n.pl._ the internal parts of an animal's body, the
bowels: the inside of anything: (_obs._) the seat of the emotions. [O. Fr.
_entraille_--Low L. _intralia_--_inter_, within.]

ENTRAIN, en-tr[=a]n', _v.t._ to put into a railway train, esp. used of
troops.

ENTRAIN, en-tr[=a]n', _v.t._ to draw after. [Fr. _entraîner_.]

ENTRAMMEL, en-tram'el, _v.t._ to trammel, fetter.

ENTRANCE, en'trans, _n._ act of entering: power or right to enter: the
place for entering, the door: the beginning.--_n._ EN'TRANT, one who, or
that which, enters. [Fr. _entrer_--L. _intr[=a]re_, to enter.]

ENTRANCE, en-trans', _v.t._ to put into a trance: to fill with rapturous
delight.--_n._ ENTRANCE'MENT, state of trance or of excessive
joy.--_p.adj._ ENTRANC'ING, charming, transporting.

ENTRAP, en-trap', _v.t._ to catch, as in a trap: to ensnare: to
entangle.--_ns._ ENTRAP'MENT, act of entrapping: the state of being
entrapped: ENTRAP'PER. [O. Fr. _entraper_--_en_, in, _trappe_, a trap.]

ENTREASURE, en-trezh'[=u]r, _v.t._ to lay up, as in a treasury.

ENTREAT, en-tr[=e]t', _v.t._ to ask earnestly: to beseech: to pray for:
(_orig._) to treat, to deal with--so in _B._--_v.i._ to pray.--_adjs._
ENTREAT'ABLE; ENTREAT'FUL (_Spens._); ENTREAT'ING, that entreats.--_adv._
ENTREAT'INGLY, in an entreating manner: with solicitation.--_adj._
ENTREAT'IVE, pleading.--_ns._ ENTREAT'MENT, act of entreating: (_Shak._)
discourse; ENTREAT'Y, act of entreating; earnest prayer. [O. Fr.
_entraiter_--_en_, and _traiter_, to treat.]

ENTRÉE, äng-tr[=a]', _n._ entry, freedom of access, admittance: a made dish
served at dinner between the chief courses: (_mus._) an introduction or
prelude: the act of entering, a formal entrance. [Fr.]

ENTREMETS, äng-tr'm[=a]', _n._ any dainty served at table between the chief
courses--formerly ENTREMES, ENTREMESSE. [O. Fr. _entremes_--_entre_,
between, _mes_ (mod. _mets_), a dish.]

ENTRENCH, en-trensh', INTRENCH, in-, _v.t._ to dig a trench around: to
fortify with a ditch and parapet.--_v.i._ to encroach.--_n._ ENTRENCH'MENT,
an earthen parapet thrown up to give cover against an enemy's fire and the
ditch or trench from which the earth is obtained: any protection: an
encroachment.--ENTRENCH UPON, to encroach upon.

ENTREPAS, äng'tr'pä, _n._ a gait between a walk and a trot, an amble. [Fr.]

ENTREPÔT, äng'tr'p[=o], _n._ a storehouse: a bonded warehouse: a seaport
through which exports and imports pass. [Fr.]

ENTRESOL, en'ter-sol, or äng'tr'sol, _n._ a low story between two main
stories of a building, generally above the first story; in London, usually
between the ground-floor and the first story. [Fr.,--_entre_, between,
_sol_, the ground.]

ENTROCHITE, en'tr[=o]-k[=i]t, _n._ a wheel-like joint of an encrinite or
fossil crinoid--also EN'TROCHUS.--_adj._ EN'TROCHAL. [Gr. _en_, in,
_trochos_, a wheel.]

ENTROPION, -UM, en-tr[=o]'pi-on, -um, _n._ inversion of the edge of the
eyelid. [Gr. _entrop[=e]_.]

ENTROPY, en'trop-i, _n._ a term in physics signifying 'the available
energy.'

ENTRUST, en-trust', INTRUST, in-, _v.t._ to give in trust: to commission:
to commit to another, trusting his fidelity.--_n._ ENTRUST'MENT.

ENTRY, en'tri, _n._ act of entering: a passage into a short lane leading
into a court: act of committing to writing: the thing written: (_law_) the
taking possession of.--_n._ EN'TRY-MON'EY, the money paid on entering a
society, club, &c.--PORT OF ENTRY (see PORT).

ENTWINE, en-tw[=i]n', _v.t._ to interlace: to weave.

ENTWIST, en-twist', _v.t._ to twist round.

ENUBILATE, [=e]-n[=u]'bi-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to clear from clouds.--_adj._
EN[=U]'BILOUS.

ENUCLEATE, en-[=u]'kle-[=a]t, _v.t._ to lay bare, explain: to
extract.--_n._ ENUCLE[=A]'TION. [L. _enucle[=a]re_--_e_, out, _nucleus_, a
kernel.]

ENUMERATE, e-n[=u]'mer-[=a]t, _v.t._ to count the number of: to name
over.--_n._ ENUMER[=A]'TION, act of numbering: a detailed account: a
summing up.--_adj._ EN[=U]'MERATIVE.--_n._ EN[=U]'MERATOR, one who
enumerates. [L. _e_, out, _numer[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to number.]

ENUNCIATE, e-nun'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to state formally: to pronounce
distinctly.--_adj._ ENUN'CIABLE, capable of being enunciated.--_n._
ENUNCI[=A]'TION, act of enunciating: manner of uttering or pronouncing: a
distinct statement or declaration: the words in which a proposition is
expressed.--_adjs._ ENUN'CI[=A]TIVE, ENUN'CI[=A]TORY, containing
enunciation or utterance: declarative.--_n._ ENUN'CI[=A]TOR, one who
enunciates. [L. _enunti[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _nunti[=a]re_, to
tell--_nuntius_, a messenger.]

ENURE, e-n[=u]r', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to practise.--_v.i._ to belong. [_En-_,
and _ure_--O. Fr. _oeuvre_--work.]

ENURESIS, en-[=u]-r[=e]'sis, _n._ incontinence of urine.

ENVASSAL, en-vas'al, _v.t._ to reduce to vassalage.

ENVAULT, en-vawlt', _v.t._ to enclose in a vault.

ENVEIGLE. See INVEIGLE.

ENVELOP, en-vel'up, _v.t._ to cover by wrapping: to surround entirely: to
hide.--_n._ ENVELOPE (en'vel-[=o]p, sometimes, but quite unnecessarily,
äng'vel-[=o]p), that which envelops, wraps, or covers, esp. the cover of a
letter.--_adj._ ENVEL'OPED (_her._), entwined, as with serpents, laurels,
&c.--_n._ ENVEL'OPMENT, a wrapping or covering on all sides. [O. Fr.
_enveloper_; origin obscure. Skeat refers it to the assumed Teut. root of
M. E. _wlappen_, Eng. _lap_.]

ENVENOM, en-ven'um, _v.t._ to put venom into: to poison: to taint with
bitterness or malice. [O. Fr. _envenimer_--_en_, and _venim_, venom.]

ENVERMEIL, en-v[.e]r'mil, _v.t._ (_Milt._) to dye red, to give a red colour
to. [O. Fr. _envermeiller_--_en_, in, _vermeil_, red, vermilion.]

ENVIRON, en-v[=i]'run, _v.t._ to surround: to encircle: to invest:--_pr.p._
env[=i]'roning; _pa.p._ env[=i]'roned.--_n._ ENV[=I]'RONMENT, a
surrounding: conditions influencing development or growth.--_n.pl._
ENVIRONS (en-v[=i]'runz, or en'vi-), the places that environ: the outskirts
of a city: neighbourhood. [Fr. _environner_--_environ_, around--_virer_, to
turn round; cf. _veer_.]

ENVISAGE, en-viz'[=a]j, _v.t._ to face: to consider.--_n._ ENVIS'AGEMENT.
[Fr. _envisager_--_en_, and _visage_, the visage.]

ENVOY, en'voi, _n._ a messenger, esp. one sent to transact business with a
foreign government: a diplomatic minister of the second order.--_n._
EN'VOYSHIP. [For Fr. _envoyé_--_envoyer_, to send.]

ENVOY, ENVOI, en'voi, _n._ the concluding part of a poem or a book: the
author's final words, esp. now the short stanza concluding a poem written
in certain archaic metrical forms. [O. Fr. _envoye_--_envoiier_, to
send--_en voie_, on the way--L. _in_, on, _via_, a way.]

ENVY, en'vi, _v.t._ to look upon with a grudging eye: to hate on account of
prosperity:--_pr.p._ en'vying; _pa.p._ en'vied.--_n._ grief at the sight of
another's success: a wicked desire to supplant one: a desire for the
advantages enjoyed by another: (_B._) ill-will.--_adj._ EN'VIABLE, that is
to be envied.--_n._ EN'VIABLENESS, the state or quality of being
enviable.--_adv._ EN'VIABLY.--_n._ EN'VIER, one who envies.--_adj._
EN'VIOUS, feeling envy: directed by envy: (_Spens._) enviable.--_adv._
EN'VIOUSLY.--_ns._ EN'VIOUSNESS; EN'VYING (_B._), jealousy, ill-will. [Fr.
_envie_--L. _invidia_--_in_, on, _vid[=e]re_, to look.]

ENWALL, en-wawl', INWALL, in-, _v.t._ to enclose within a wall.

ENWALLOW, en-wol'[=o], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to roll about, to wallow.

ENWHEEL, en-hw[=e]l', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to encircle.

ENWIND, en-w[=i]nd', INWIND, in-, _v.t._ to wind itself round.

ENWOMB, en-w[=oo]m', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to make pregnant: (_Shak._) to
conceive in the womb: to contain.

ENWRAP, en-rap', INWRAP, in-, _v.t._ to cover by wrapping: to perplex: to
engross.--_n._ ENWRAP'MENT.--_p.adj._ ENWRAP'PING.

ENWREATHE, en-r[=e]_th_', INWREATHE, in-, _v.t._ to wreathe: to encircle as
with a wreath.

ENZONE, en-z[=o]n', _v.t._ to enclose as with a zone.

ENZOOTIC, en-z[=o]-ot'ik, _adj._ endemic among animals in a particular
district.--_n._ a disease of this character.

ENZYM, ENZYME, en'zim, _n._ any of the unorganised ferments: leavened
bread--opp. to _Azym_ (q.v.).--_adj._ ENZYMOT'IC. [Gr. _en_, in, _zym[=e]_,
leaven.]

EOAN, [=e]-[=o]'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to dawn. [L.,--Gr. _[=e][=o]s_,
dawn.]

EOCENE, [=e]'[=o]-s[=e]n, _adj._ (_geol._) first in time of the three
subdivisions of the Tertiary formation. [Gr. _[=e][=o]s_, daybreak,
_kainos_, new.]

EOLIAN, EOLIC, EOLIPILE. Same as ÆOLIAN, ÆOLIC, ÆOLIPILE.

EON. See ÆON.

EOTHEN, [=e]-[=o]'then, _adv._ from the east--the name given by Kinglake to
his book of travel in the East (1844). [Gr., lit. 'from morn,' 'at earliest
dawn.']

EOZOÖN, [=e]-[=o]-z[=o]'on, _n._ an assumed organism whose remains
constitute reefs of rocks in the Archæan system in Canada.--_adj._
EOZ[=O]'IC. [Gr. _[=e][=o]s_, dawn, _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

EPACRID, ep'a-krid, _n._ a plant of order _Epacridaceæ_, a small order of
heath-like shrubs or small trees. [Gr. _epi_, upon, _akris_, a summit.]

EPACT, [=e]'pakt, _n._ the moon's age at the beginning of the year: the
excess of the solar month or year above the lunar: (_pl._) a set of
nineteen numbers used for fixing the date of Easter and other church
festivals, by indicating the age of the moon at the beginning of each civil
year in the lunar cycle. [Fr.,--Gr. _epaktos_, brought on--_epi_, on,
_agein_, to bring.]

EPAGOGE, ep-a-g[=o]'j[=e], _n._ induction, proof by example.

EPALPATE, [=e]-pal'p[=a]t, _adj._ having no palps or feeders.

EPANADIPLOSIS, ep-a-na-di-pl[=o]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure by which a
sentence begins and ends with the same word, as in Phil. iv. 4. [Gr.]

EPANALEPSIS, ep-a-na-lep'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) repetition or resumption, as
in 1 Cor. xi. 18 and 20. [Gr.]

EPANODOS, e-pan'[=o]-dos, _n._ recapitulation of the chief points in a
discourse. [Gr.]

EPANORTHOSIS, ep-an-or-th[=o]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) the retracting of a
statement in order to correct or intensify it, as 'For Britain's guid! for
her destruction!' [Gr.]

EPANTHOUS, ep-an'thus, _adj._ growing upon flowers. [Gr. _epi_, upon,
_anthos_, a flower.]

EPARCH, ep'ärk, _n._ the governor of a Greek province.--_n._ EP'ARCHY, the
province or territory ruled over by an eparch. [Gr. _eparchos_--_epi_,
upon, _arch[=e]_, dominion.]

EPAULEMENT, e-pawl'ment, _n._ a side-work of a battery or earthwork to
protect it from a flanking fire.--_n._ EPAULE', the shoulder of a bastion.
[Fr.,--_épauler_, to protect--_épaule_, shoulder.]

EPAULET, EPAULETTE, ep'ol-et, _n._ a shoulder-piece: a badge of a military
or naval officer (now disused in the British army): an ornament on the
shoulder of a lady's dress. [Fr. _épaulette_--_épaule_, the shoulder.]

EPEIRA, ep-[=i]r'a, _n._ a genus of spiders, the type of the _Epeiridæ_,
including the common garden spider. [Gr. _epi_, on, _eiros_, wool.]

EPENCEPHALON, ep-en-sef'a-lon, _n._ the hindmost of the divisions of the
brain.--_adj._ EPENCEPHAL'IC.

EPENTHESIS, e-pen'the-sis, _n._ the insertion of a letter or syllable
within a word.--_adj._ EPENTHET'IC. [Gr.]

EPEOLATRY, ep-e-ol'a-tri, _n._ worship of words. [Gr. _epos_, word,
_latreia_, worship.]

EPERGNE, e-p[.e]rn', _n._ an ornamental stand for a large dish for the
centre of a table. [Perh. from Fr. _épargne_, saving--_épargner_, to save.]

EPEXEGESIS, ep-eks-e-j[=e]'sis, _n._ the addition of words to make the
sentence more clear.--_adjs._ EPEXEGET'IC, -AL.--_adv._ EPEXEGET'ICALLY.
[Gr. _epi_, in addition, _ex[=e]geisthai_, to explain.]

EPHA, EPHAH, [=e]'fa, _n._ a Hebrew measure for dry goods. [Heb.; prob. of
Egyptian origin.]

EPHEBE, ef-[=e]b', _n._ (_Greek antiquities_) a young citizen from 18 to 20
years of age. [L. _eph[=e]bus_--Gr. _eph[=e]bos_--_epi_, upon,
_h[=e]b[=e]_, early manhood.]

EPHEMERA, ef-em'er-a, _n._ the Mayfly, a genus of short-lived insects: that
which lasts a short time.--_adj._ EPHEM'ERAL, existing only for a day:
daily: short-lived.--_n._ anything lasting a short time.--_ns._
EPHEMERAL'ITY; EPHEM'ERID, an insect belonging to the group
_Ephemeridæ_.--_adj._ EPHEMERID'IAN.--_ns._ EPHEM'ERIS, an account of daily
transactions: a journal: an astronomical almanac:--_pl._ EPHEMERIDES
(ef-e-mer'i-d[=e]z); EPHEM'ERIST, one who studies the daily motions of the
planets; EPHEM'ERON, an insect that lives but a day.--_adj._ EPHEM'EROUS.
[Through L.,--Gr. _eph[=e]meros_, living a day--_epi_, for, _h[=e]mera_, a
day.]

EPHESIAN, ef-[=e]'zi-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Ephesus_.--_n._ an
inhabitant of Ephesus: (_Shak._) 'a jolly companion.'

EPHOD, ef'od, _n._ a kind of linen surplice worn by the Jewish priests: a
surplice, generally. [Heb. _aphad_, to put on.]

EPHOR, ef'or, _n._ a class of magistrates whose office apparently
originated at Sparta, being peculiar to the Doric states.--_n._ EPH'ORALTY.
[Gr. _epi_, upon, and root of _horaein_, to see.]

EPIBLAST, ep'i-blast, _n._ Same as ECTODERM.

EPIC, ep'ik, _adj._ applied to a poem which recounts a great event in an
elevated style: lofty: grand.--_n._ an epic or heroic poem: a story
comparable to those in epic poems.--_ns._ EP'ICISM; EP'ICIST.--EPIC
DIALECT, the Greek in which the books of Homer are written. [L.
_epicus_--Gr. _epikos_--_epos_, a word.]

EPICALYX, ep-i-k[=a]'liks, _n._ an external or accessory calyx outside of
the true calyx, as in _Potentilla_.

EPICARP, ep'i-kärp, _n._ (_bot._) the outermost layer of the pericarp or
fruit. [Gr. _epi_, upon, _karpos_, fruit.]

EPICEDIUM, ep-i-s[=e]'di-um, _n._ a funeral ode.--_adjs._ EPIC[=E]'DIAL,
EPIC[=E]'DIAN, elegiac. [L.,--Gr. _epik[=e]deion_--_epi_, upon, _k[=e]dos_,
care.]

EPICENE, ep'i-s[=e]n, _adj._ and _n._ common to both sexes: (_gram._) of
either gender. [Through L.,--Gr. _epikoinos_--_epi_, upon, _koinos_,
common.]

EPICHEIREMA, ep-i-k[=i]-r[=e]'ma, _n._ a syllogism confirmed in its major
or minor premise, or in both, by an incidental proposition. [Gr.
_epicheir[=e]ma_, attempt--_epi_, upon, _cheir_, the hand.]

EPICLINAL, ep-i-kl[=i]'nal, _adj._ (_bot._) placed on the torus or
receptacle of a flower.

EPICURE, ep'i-k[=u]r, _n._ a follower of _Epicurus_ (341-270 B.C.), a Greek
philosopher, who taught that pleasure was the chief good: one given to
sensual enjoyment: one devoted to the luxuries of the table.--_adj._
EPICUR[=E]'AN, pertaining to Epicurus: given to luxury.--_n._ a follower of
Epicurus: one given to the luxuries of the table.--_n._ EPICUR[=E]'ANISM,
the doctrine of Epicurus: attachment to these doctrines.--_v.i._
EP'ICURISE, to play the epicure, to feast, riot: to profess the philosophy
of Epicurus.--_n._ EP'ICURISM, the doctrines of Epicurus: luxury: sensual
enjoyment.

EPICYCLE, ep'i-s[=i]-kl, _n._ a circle having its centre on the
circumference of a greater circle on which it moves.--_adj._
EPICY'CLIC.--_n._ EPICY'CLOID, a curve described by every point in the
plane of a circle moving on the convex circumference of another
circle.--_adj._ EPICYCLOI'DAL. [Gr. _epi_, upon, _kyklos_, a circle.]

EPIDEICTIC, -AL, ep-i-d[=i]k'tik, -al, _adj._ done for show or display.
[Gr. _epi_, upon, _deiknynai_, to show.]

EPIDEMIC, -AL, ep-i-dem'ik, -al, _adj._ affecting a community at a certain
time: general.--_n._ EPIDEM'IC, a disease falling on great numbers in one
place, simultaneously or in succession.--_adv._ EPIDEM'ICALLY.--_n._
EPIDEMIOL'OGY, the science of epidemics. [Gr. _epid[=e]mos_,
general--_epi_, among, _d[=e]mos_, the people.]

EPIDERMIS, ep-i-d[.e]r'mis, _n._ scarf-skin or cuticle, forming an external
covering of a protective nature for the true skin or corium.--_adjs._
EPIDER'MATOID; EPIDER'MIC, EPIDER'MAL, EPIDER'MIDAL. [Gr.
_epidermis_--_epi_, upon, _derma_, the skin.]

EPIDOTE, ep'i-d[=o]t, _n._ a silicate of aluminium, iron, and calcium.

EPIGASTRIUM, ep-i-gas'tri-um, _n._ the part of the abdomen which chiefly
corresponds to the situation of the stomach, extending from the sternum
towards the navel.--_adj._ EPIGAS'TRIC. [Gr. _epi_, upon, _gast[=e]r_, the
stomach.]

EPIGENE, ep'i-j[=e]n, _adj._ applied to the geological agents of change
which affect chiefly the superficial position of the earth's crust, as the
atmosphere, water, &c.--_adjs._ EPIG'ENOUS, growing on the surface of a
part; EPIG[=E]'OUS, growing on the earth--also EPIG[=E]'AL. [Gr. _epi_,
upon, _gennaein_, to produce.]

EPIGENESIS, ep-i-jen'e-sis, _n._ the development of the organism by the
growth and differentiation of a single germ--i.e. by the division or
segmentation of a fertilised egg-cell.--_n._ EPIGEN'ESIST.--_adj._
EPIGENET'IC. [Gr. _epi_, upon, _genesis_, genesis.]

EPIGLOTTIS, ep-i-glot'is, _n._ the cartilage at the root of the tongue that
partly closes the aperture of the larynx.--_adj._ EPIGLOTT'IC. [Gr. _epi_,
upon, _gl[=o]tta_ (_gl[=o]ssa_), the tongue.]

EPIGRAM, ep'i-gram, _n._ any concise and pointed or sarcastic saying: a
short poem on one subject ending with an ingenious thought.--_adjs._
EPIGRAMMAT'IC, -AL, relating to or dealing in epigrams: like an epigram:
concise and pointed.--_adv._ EPIGRAMMAT'ICALLY.--_v.t._ EPIGRAM'MATISE, to
make an epigram on.--_n._ EPIGRAM'MATIST, one who writes epigrams. [Through
Fr. and L., from Gr. _epigramma_--_epi_, upon, _gramma_, a
writing--_graphein_, to write.]

EPIGRAPH, ep'i-graf, _n._ an inscription, esp. on a building: a citation or
motto at the commencement of a book or its parts.--_v.t._ to provide with
an epigraph.--_ns._ EPIG'RAPHER, EPIG'RAPHIST.--_adj._ EPIGRAPH'IC.--_n._
EPIG'RAPHY. [Gr. _epi-graph[=e]_--_epi_, upon, _graphein_, to write.]

EPIGYNOUS, e-pij'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) growing upon the top of the ovary.

EPILEPSY, ep'i-lep-si, _n._ a chronic functional disease of the nervous
system, manifested by recurring attacks of sudden insensibility or
impairment of consciousness, commonly accompanied by peculiar convulsive
seizures.--_n._ EPILEP'TIC, an epileptic patient.--_adjs._ EPILEP'TIC, -AL;
EPILEP'TOID. [Gr. _epilepsia_--_epi_, upon, _lambanein_, _l[=e]psesthai_,
to seize.]

EPILOGUE, ep'i-log, _n._ the conclusion of a book: a speech or short poem
at the end of a play.--_adjs._ EPILOG'IC (-loj'ik), EPILOGIS'TIC.--_v.i._
EPIL'OGISE ('o-j[=i]z), to write an epilogue. [Fr.--L.--Gr. _epilogos_,
conclusion--_epi_, upon, _legein_, to speak.]

EPINASTY, ep'i-nas-ti, _n._ (_bot._) curvature of an organ, caused by a
more active growth on its upper side.--_adj._ EPINAS'TIC.--_adv._
EPINAS'TICALLY.

EPIPERIPHERAL, ep-i-pe-rif'e-ral, _adj._ situated on the periphery or outer
surface of the body.

EPIPETALOUS, ep-i-pet'a-lus, _adj._ (_bot._) inserted or growing on a
petal.

EPIPHANY, e-pif'an-i, _n._ a church festival celebrated on Jan. 6, in
commemoration of the manifestation of Christ to the wise men of the East:
the manifestation of a god. [Gr. _epiphaneia_, appearance--_epi_, to,
_phainein_, to show.]

EPIPHLOEUM, ep-i-fl[=e]'um, _n._ (_bot._) the corky envelope of the bark
next the epidermis.

EPIPHRAGM, ep'i-fram, _n._ (_bot._) the dilated apex of the columella in
urn-mosses: the disc with which certain molluscs close the aperture of
their shell.

EPIPHYLLOSPERMOUS, ep-i-fil-[=o]-sper'mus, _adj._ (_bot._) bearing fruit on
the back of the fronds, as ferns.

EPIPHYLLOUS, ep-i-fil'us, _adj._ (_bot._) growing upon a leaf, esp. on its
upper surface.

EPIPHYSIS, ep-if'i-sis, _n._ any portion of a bone having its own centre of
ossification: the pineal gland: a small upper piece of each half of an
alveolus of a sea-urchin:--_pl._ EPIPH'YSES. [Gr.]

EPIPHYTE, ep'i-f[=i]t, _n._ one of a species of plants attached to trees,
and deriving their nourishment from the decaying portions of the bark, and
perhaps also from the air.--_adjs._ EPIPHY'TAL, EPIPHYT'IC. [Gr. _epi_,
upon, and _phyton_, a plant.]

EPIPLASTRON, ep-i-plas'tron, _n._ the anterior lateral one of the nine
pieces of which the plastron of a turtle may consist.

EPIPLOON, e-pip'l[=o]-on, _n._ the great omentum.--_adj._ EPIPL[=O]'IC.
[Gr.]

EPIPOLISM, e-pip'[=o]-lizm, _n._ fluorescence.--_adj._ EPIPOL'IC. [Gr.]

EPIRHIZOUS, ep-i-r[=i]'zus, _adj._ growing on a root.

EPISCOPACY, e-pis'ko-pas-i, _n._ the government of the church by bishops:
the office of a bishop: the period of office: the bishops, as a
class.--_adj._ EPIS'COPAL, governed by bishops: belonging to or vested in
bishops.--_adj._ EPISCOP[=A]'LIAN, belonging to bishops, or government by
bishops.--_n._ one who belongs to the Episcopal Church.--_n._
EPISCOP[=A]'LIANISM, episcopalian government and doctrine.--_adv._
EPIS'COPALLY.--_ns._ EPIS'COPANT (_Milt._); EPIS'COPATE, a bishopric: the
office of a bishop: the order of bishops.--_v.i._ (_Milt._) to act as a
bishop.--_v.t._ EPIS'COP[=I]SE.--_n._ EPIS'COPY (_Milt._), survey,
superintendence. [L. _episcopatus_--Gr. _episkopos_, an overseer.]

EPISEMON, ep-i-s[=e]'mon, _n._ the characteristic device of a city, &c.:
one of three obsolete Greek letters used as numerals--[vau], vau; [koppa],
koppa; and [san], san, sampi.

EPISODE, ep'i-s[=o]d, _n._ a story introduced into a narrative or poem to
give variety: an interesting incident.--_adjs._ EP'IS[=O]DAL,
EPIS[=O]'DIAL, EPIS[=O]D'IC, EPIS[=O]D'ICAL, pertaining to or contained in
an episode: brought in as a digression.--_adv._ EPIS[=O]D'ICALLY, by way of
episode: incidentally. [Gr. _epeisodion_--_epi_, upon, _eisodos_, a coming
in--_eis_, into, _hodos_, a way.]

EPISPASTIC, ep-i-spas'tik, _adj._ producing a blister on the skin.--_n._ a
blister.

EPISPERM, ep'i-sp[.e]rm, _n._ the outer integument of a seed. [Gr. _epi_,
upon, and _sperma_, seed.]

EPISTAXIS, ep-is-tak'sis, _n._ bleeding from the nose.

EPISTEMOLOGY, ep-is-t[=e]-mol'oj-i, _n._ the theory of knowledge.--_adj._
EPISTEMOLOG'ICAL. [Gr. _epist[=e]m[=e]_, knowledge, _logia_, discourse.]

EPISTERNUM, ep-i-ster'num, _n._ the interclavicle: the epiplastron: the
presternum of mammals.--_adj._ EPISTER'NAL.

EPISTILBITE, ep-i-stil'b[=i]t, _n._ a whitish hydrous silicate of
aluminium, calcium, and sodium.

EPISTLE, e-pis'l, _n._ a writing sent to one, a letter: esp. a letter to an
individual or church from an apostle, as the Epistles of Paul: the extract
from one of the apostolical epistles read as part of the communion
service.--_v.i._ (_Milt._) to preface.--_ns._ EPIS'TLER, EPIS'TOLER, a
letter-writer; EPIS'TLER, one who reads the liturgical epistle in the
communion service.--_adjs._ EPIS'TOLARY, EPIS'TOLATORY, EPISTOL'IC, -AL,
pertaining to or consisting of epistles or letters: suitable to an epistle:
contained in letters.--_n._ EPIS'TOLET, a short letter.--_v.i._
EPIS'TOLISE, to write a letter.--_ns._ EPIS'TOLIST, a writer of letters;
EPISTOLOG'RAPHY, letter-writing. [O. Fr.,--L. _epistola_--Gr.
_epistol[=e]_--_epi_, _stellein_, to send.]

EPISTROPHE, e-pis'tr[=o]-f[=e], _n._ (_rhet._) a form of repetition in
which successive clauses end with the same word, as in 2 Cor. xi. 22: a
refrain in music.

EPISTYLE, ep'i-st[=i]l, _n._ Same as ARCHITRAVE. [Gr. _epi_, upon,
_stylos_, a pillar.]

EPITAPH, ep'i-taf, _n._ a commemorative inscription on a tombstone or
monument.--_v.t._ to write an epitaph upon.--_adjs._ EPITAPH'IAN,
EPITAPH'IC.--_n._ EP'ITAPHIST, a writer of epitaphs. [Gr.
_epitaphion_--_epi_, upon, _taphos_, a tomb.]

EPITASIS, e-pit'a-sis, _n._ the main action of a Greek drama, leading to
the catastrophe--opp. to _Protasis_.

EPITHALAMIUM, ep-i-tha-l[=a]'mi-um, _n._ a song or poem in celebration of a
marriage.--_adj._ EPITHALAM'IC. [Gr. _epithalamion_--_epi_, upon,
_thalamos_, a bedchamber, marriage.]

EPITHELIUM, ep-i-th[=e]'li-um, _n._ the cell-tissue which invests the outer
surface of the body and the mucous membranes connected with it, and also
the closed cavities of the body.--_adj._ EPITH[=E]'LIAL.--_n._
EPITHELI[=O]'MA, carcinoma of the skin.--_adj._ EPITHELIOM'ATOUS.
[Gr.,--_epi_, upon, _th[=e]l[=e]_, nipple.]

EPITHEM, ep'i-them, _n._ (_med._) a soft external application. [Gr.
_epithema_--_epi_, upon, _tithenai_, to place.]

EPITHET, ep'i-thet, _n._ an adjective expressing some real quality of the
thing to which it is applied, or an attribute expressing some quality
ascribed to it: (_Shak._) term, expression.--_v.t._ to term.--_adj._
EPITHET'IC, pertaining to an epithet: abounding with epithets.--_n._
EPITH'ETON (_Shak._), epithet. [Gr. _epithetos_, added--_epi_, on,
_tithenai_, to place.]

EPITHYMETIC, ep-i-thim-et'ik, _adj._ pertaining to desire. [Gr.,--_epi_,
upon, _thymos_, the soul.]

EPITOME, e-pit'o-me, _n._ an abridgment or short summary of anything, as of
a book.--_adj._ EPITOM'ICAL, like an epitome.--_v.t._ EPIT'OMISE, to make
an epitome of: to shorten: to condense.--_ns._ EPIT'OMISER, EPIT'OMIST, one
who abridges.--IN EPITOME, on a small scale. [Gr.,--_epi_, _temnein_, to
cut.]

EPITONIC, ep-i-ton'ik, _adj._ overstrained. [Gr.,--_epi_, upon, _teinein_,
to stretch.]

EPITRITE, ep'i-tr[=i]t, _n._ (_pros._) a foot made up of three long
syllables and one short. [L.,--Gr.,--_epi_, in addition, _tritos_, the
third.]

EPIZEUXIS, ep-i-z[=u]k'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) the immediate repetition of a
word for emphasis. [Gr.]

EPIZOON, ep-i-z[=o]'on, _n._ a parasitic animal that lives on the bodies of
other animals and derives its nourishment from the skin--also
EPIZ[=O]'AN:--_pl._ EPIZ[=O]'A.--_adj._ EPIZOOT'IC, pertaining to epizoa:
(_geol._) containing fossil remains: epidemic, as applied to animals. [Gr.
_epi_, upon, _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

EPOCH, ep'ok, or [=e]'-, _n._ a point of time fixed or made remarkable by
some great event from which dates are reckoned: a period remarkable for
important events: (_astron._) the mean heliocentric longitude of a planet
in its orbit at any given time.--_adjs._ EP'OCHAL;
EP'OCH-M[=A]'KING.--MAKE, MARK, AN EPOCH, to begin an important era. [Gr.
_epoch[=e]_--_epechein_, to stop--_epi_, upon, _echein_, to hold.]

EPODE, ep'[=o]d, _n._ a kind of lyric poem invented by Archilochus, in
which a longer verse is followed by a shorter one: the last part of a lyric
ode, sung after the strophe and antistrophe.--_adj._ EPOD'IC. [Gr.
_ep[=o]dos_--_epi_, on, _[=o]d[=e]_, an ode.]

EPONYM, ep'o-nim, _n._ a mythical personage created to account for the name
of a tribe or people: a special title.--_adj._ EPON'YMOUS. [Gr. _epi_,
upon, to, _onoma_, a name.]

EPOPEE, ep'o-p[=e], EPOPOEIA, ep-o-p[=e]'ya, _n._ epic poetry: an epic
poem. [Formed from Gr. _epopoiia_--_epos_, a word, an epic poem, _poiein_,
to make.]

EPOPT, ep'opt, _n._ one initiated into the Eleusinian mysteries. [Gr.
_epi_, upon, and root _op-_, to see.]

EPOS, ep'os, _n._ the elementary stage of epic poetry: an epic poem: a
series of events such as are treated in epic poetry. [L.,--Gr. _epos_, a
word.]

EPROUVETTE, ep-roov-et', _n._ a machine for testing the strength of
gunpowder. [Fr.,--_éprouver_, to try.]

EPSOM, ep'sum, _n._ a useful purgative medicine, acting as a refrigerant,
and sometimes as a diuretic.--Also EP'SOM-SALT. [From _Epsom_, a town in
Surrey.]

EPULOTIC, ep-[=u]-lot'ik, _adj._ cicatrising.--_n._ a cicatrising
medicament.

EQUABLE, [=e]'kwa-bl, or ek'wa-bl, _adj._ equal and uniform: smooth: not
variable: of even temper.--_ns._ EQUABIL'ITY, E'QUABLENESS, the state or
condition of being equable.--_adv._ E'QUABLY. [L.
_æquabilis_--_æqu[=a]re_--_æquus_, equal.]

EQUAL, [=e]'kwal, _adj._ identical: of the same value: adequate: in just
proportion: fit: equable: uniform: equitable: evenly balanced: just.--_n._
one of the same age, rank, &c.--_v.t._ to be, or to make, equal
to:--_pr.p._ [=e]'qualling; _pa.p._ [=e]'qualled.--_n._ EQUALIS[=A]'TION,
the act of making equal: state of being equalised.--_v.t._ E'QUALISE, to
make equal.--_adj._ and _n._ EQUALIT[=A]R'IAN, of or pertaining to the
equality of mankind.--_n._ EQUAL'ITY, the condition of being equal:
sameness: evenness.--_adv._ E'QUALLY.--_n._ E'QUALNESS, the state of being
equal: evenness: uniformity.--_v.t._ EQU[=A]TE', to reduce to an average or
to a common standard of comparison: to regard as equal:--_pr.p._
equ[=a]t'ing; _pa.p._ equ[=a]t'ed.--_ns._ EQU[=A]'TION, the act of making
equal: (_alg._) a statement of the equality of two quantities: reduction to
a mean proportion; EQU[=A]'TOR (_geog._), a great circle passing round the
middle of the globe and dividing it into two equal parts: (_astron._) the
equinoctial.--_adj._ EQUAT[=O]'RIAL, of or pertaining to the equator.--_n._
an instrument for observing and following a celestial body in any part of
its diurnal course.--_adv._ EQUAT[=O]'RIALLY, so as to have motion or
direction parallel to the equator.--EQUAL TO THE OCCASION, fit or able for
an emergency.--EQUATION OF TIME, the reduction from mean solar time to
apparent solar time.--AN EQUAL (_Spens._), a state of equality.--PERSONAL
EQUATION, any error common to all the observations of some one person, any
tendency to error or prejudice due to the personal characteristics of some
person for which allowance must be made. [L. _æqualis_--_æqu[=a]re_, to
make equal--_æquus_, equal.]

EQUANIMITY, [=e]-kwa-nim'i-ti, _n._ equality or evenness of mind or
temper.--_adj._ EQUAN'IMOUS.--_adv._ EQUAN'IMOUSLY. [L.
_æquanimitas_--_æquus_, equal, _animus_, the mind.]

EQUERRY, ek'we-ri, _n._ in the royal household, an official under the
Master of the Horse, whose main duty is to accompany the sovereign when
riding in state. [Fr. _écurie_--Low L. _scuria_, a stable--Old High Ger.
_scûr_ (Ger. _scheuer_), a shed.]

EQUESTRIAN, e-kwes'tri-an, _adj._ pertaining to horses or horsemanship: on
horseback.--_n._ one who rides on horseback:--_fem._ EQUESTRIENNE'.--_n._
EQUES'TRIANISM, horsemanship. [L. _equester_, _equestris_--_eques_, a
horseman--_equus_, a horse.]

EQUI-, [=e]'kwi, a prefix meaning equal, from L. _æquus_.--_adj._
EQUIAN'GULAR, consisting of or having equal angles.--_n._ EQUIBAL'ANCE,
equal weight.--_adjs._ EQUIDIFF'ERENT, having equal differences;
EQUIDIS'TANT, equally distant.--_adv._ EQUIDIS'TANTLY.--_adj._
EQUILAT'ERAL, having all sides equal.--_v.t._ EQUIL[=I]'BR[=A]TE, to
balance: to counterpoise.--_ns._ EQUILIBR[=A]'TION; EQUILIB'RITY,
EQUILIB'RIUM, equal balancing: equality of weight or force: level position;
EQUIMUL'TIPLE, a number multiplied by the same number as another.--_adj._
EQUIP[=E]'DAL, equal-footed.--_ns._ EQUIPEN'DENCY, act of hanging in
equipoise; E'QUIPOISE, equality of weight or force: the state of a balance
when the two weights are equal.--_v.t._ to counterbalance.--_n._
EQUIS[=O]'NANCE, the consonance which exists between octaves.--_adj._
E'QUIVALVE, having valves equal in size or form.

EQUINE, [=e]'kw[=i]n, EQUINAL, [=e]-kw[=i]n'al, _adj._ pertaining to a
horse or horses.--_n._ EQUIN'IA, horse-pox, glanders, farcy. [L.
_equinus_--_equus_, a horse.]

EQUINOX, [=e]'kwi-noks, _n._ the time when the sun crosses the equator,
making the night equal in length to the day, about 21st March and 23d
Sept.--_adj._ EQUINOC'TIAL, pertaining to the equinoxes, the time of the
equinoxes, or to the regions about the equator.--_n._ a great circle in the
heavens corresponding to the equator of the earth.--_adv._ EQUINOC'TIALLY,
in the direction of the equinox.--EQUINOCTIAL GALES, high gales popularly
supposed to prevail about the times of the equinoxes--the belief is
unsupported by observation. [L. _æquus_, equal, _nox_, _noctis_, night.]

EQUIP, e-kwip', _v.t._ to fit out: to furnish with everything needed for
any service or work:--_pr.p._ equip'ping; _pa.p._ equipped'.--_n._
E'QUIP[=A]GE, that with which one is equipped: furniture required for any
service, as that of a soldier, &c.: a carriage and attendants,
retinue.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to furnish with an equipage.--_n._ EQUIP'MENT,
the act of equipping: the state of being equipped: things used in equipping
or furnishing: outfit. [Fr. _équiper_, prob. Ice. _skipa_, to set in order,
_skip_, a ship.]

EQUIPOLLENT, e-kwi-pol'ent, _adj._ having equal power or force:
equivalent.--_n._ an equivalent.--_ns._ EQUIPOLL'ENCE, EQUIPOLL'ENCY. [L.
_æquus_, equal, _pollens_, _pollentis_, pr.p. of _poll[=e]re_, to be able.]

EQUIPONDERATE, [=e]-kwi-pon'd[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.i._ to be equal in weight: to
balance.--_adj._ equal in weight.--_n._ EQUIPON'DERANCE.--_adj._
EQUIPON'DERANT. [L. _æquus_, equal, _pondus_, _ponderis_, weight.]

EQUISETUM, ek-wi-s[=e]'tum, _n._ a genus of herbaceous plants having
leafless articulated and whorled stems and branches--also
_Horse-tail_.--_adjs._ EQUISET[=A]'CEOUS; EQUISET'IC; EQUISET'IFORM.
[L.,--_equus_, a horse, _seta_, a bristle.]

EQUITATION, ek-wi-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the art of riding on horseback.--_adjs._
EQ'UITANT, riding: straddling, overlapping; EQUIV'OROUS, eating
horse-flesh. [L.,--_equit[=a]re_--_equus_, a horse.]

EQUITY, ek'wi-ti, _n._ right as founded on the laws of nature: moral
justice, of which laws are the imperfect expression: the spirit of justice
which enables us to interpret laws rightly: fairness.--_adj._ EQ'UITABLE,
possessing or showing equity: held or exercised in equity.--_n._
EQ'UITABLENESS.--_adv._ EQ'UITABLY. [Fr. _equité_--L. _æquitas_--_æquus_,
equal.]

EQUIVALENT, e-kwiv'a-lent, _adj._ equal in value, power, meaning, &c.--_n._
a thing equivalent.--_n._ EQUIV'ALENCE.--_adv._ EQUIV'ALENTLY. [Fr.,--L.
_æquus_, equal, _valens_, _valentis_, pr.p. of _val[=e]re_, to be worth.]

EQUIVOCAL, e-kwiv'[=o]-kal, _adj._ capable of meaning two or more things:
of doubtful meaning: capable of a double explanation: suspicious:
questionable.--_adv._ EQUIV'OCALLY.--_n._ EQUIV'OCALNESS.--_v.i._
EQUIV'OC[=A]TE, to use equivocal or doubtful words in order to
mislead.--_ns._ EQUIVOC[=A]'TION, act of equivocating or using ambiguous
words to mislead; EQUIV'OC[=A]TOR.--_adj._ EQUIV'OC[=A]TORY, containing or
characterised by equivocation.--_ns._ E'QUIVOKE, E'QUIVOQUE, an equivocal
expression: equivocation: a quibble. [L. _æquus_, equal, _vox_, _vocis_,
the voice, a word.]

ERA, [=e]'ra, _n._ a series of years reckoned from a particular point, or
that point itself: an important date. [Late L. _æra_, a number, orig.
'counters,' pieces of copper used in counting, being the neut.pl. of _æs_,
_æris_, copper.]

ERADIATE, e-r[=a]'di-[=a]t, _v.i._ to shoot out like a ray of
light:--_pr.p._ er[=a]'diating; _pa.p._ er[=a]'diated.--_n._
ERADI[=A]'TION, the act of eradiating; emission of radiance. [L. _e_, out,
_radius_, a ray.]

ERADICATE, e-rad'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to pull up by the roots: to
destroy.--_adj._ ERAD'ICABLE, that may be eradicated.--_p.adj._
ERAD'IC[=A]TED, rooted up: (_her._) said of a tree, or part of a tree, torn
up by the roots.--_n._ ERADIC[=A]'TION, the act of eradicating: state of
being eradicated.--_adj._ ERAD'IC[=A]TIVE, serving to eradicate or drive
thoroughly away.--_n._ ERAD'IC[=A]TOR. [L. _eradic[=a]re_, to root
out--_e_, out, _radix_, _radicis_, a root.]

ERASE, e-r[=a]s', _v.t._ to rub or scrape out: to efface: to
destroy.--_adj._ ER[=A]'SABLE.--_p.adj._ ERASED', rubbed out: effaced:
(_her._) torn off, so as to leave jagged edges.--_ns._ ER[=A]'SER, one who,
or that which, erases, as _ink-eraser_; ER[=A]'SION, ERASE'MENT,
ER[=A]'SURE, the act of erasing: a rubbing out: the place where something
written has been rubbed out. [L. _erad[)e]re_--_e_, out, _rad[)e]re_,
_rasum_, to scrape.]

ERASTIAN, e-rast'yan, _n._ a follower of Thomas _Erastus_ (1524-83), a
Swiss physician, who denied the church the right to inflict excommunication
and disciplinary penalties: one who minimises the spiritual independence of
the church, subordinating her jurisdiction to the state--a position not
held by Erastus at all.--_adj._ relating to the Erastians or their
doctrines.--_n._ ERAST'IANISM, control of church by state.

ERATO, er'a-t[=o], _n._ the Muse of lyric poetry.

ERBIUM, er'bi-um, _n._ a rare metal, the compounds of which are present in
the mineral gadolinite, found at Ytterby in Sweden. [From Ytt_erby_.]

ERE, [=a]r, _adv._ before, sooner.--_prep._ before.--_conj._ sooner
than.--_advs._ ERELONG', before long: soon; ERENOW', before this time;
EREWHILE', formerly: some time before. [A.S. _['æ]r_; cf. Dut. _eer_.]

EREBUS, er'e-bus, _n._ (_myth._) the dark and gloomy cavern between earth
and Hades: the lower world, hell. [L.,--Gr. _Erebos_.]

ERECT, e-rekt', _v.t._ to set upright: to raise: to build: to exalt: to
establish.--_adj._ upright: directed upward.--_adj._ ERECT'ED.--_ns._
ERECT'ER, ERECT'OR, one who, or that which, erects or raises: a muscle
which assists in erecting a part or an organ: an attachment to a compound
microscope for making the image erect instead of inverted.--_adj._
ERECT'ILE, that may be erected.--_ns._ ERECTIL'ITY, quality of being
erectile; EREC'TION, act of erecting: state of being erected: exaltation:
anything erected: a building of any kind.--_adj._ ERECT'IVE, tending to
erect.--_adv._ ERECT'LY.--_n._ ERECT'NESS. [L. _erectus_, _erig[)e]re_, to
set upright--_e_, out, _reg[)e]re_, to direct.]

EREMACAUSIS, er-e-ma-kaw'sis, _n._ (_chem._) slow combustion or oxidation.
[Gr. _erema_, slowly, _kausis_--_kaiein_, to burn.]

EREMITE, er'e-m[=i]t, _n._ a recluse who lives apart, from religious
motives: a hermit.--_adjs._ EREMIT'IC, -AL.--_n._ ER'EMITISM, state of
being an eremite. [Late L.,--Gr. _er[=e]mos_, desert.]

ERETHISM, er'e-thizm, _n._ excitement or stimulation of any organ.--_adjs._
ERETHIS'MIC, ERETHIS'TIC, ERETHIT'IC. [Gr.]

ERF, erf, _n._ a garden-plot in South Africa. [Dut.]

ERG, erg, _n._ the unit of work in the centimetre-gramme-second
system--that is, the quantity of work done by a force which, acting for one
second upon a mass of one gramme, produces a velocity of one centimetre per
second. [Gr. _erg-on_, work.]

ERGO, [.e]r'go, _adv._ (_logic_) therefore, used to mark the conclusion of
a syllogism.--_v.i._ ER'GOTISE, to wrangle. [L. _ergo_, therefore.]

ERGOT, [.e]r'got, _n._ a disease, consisting of a parasitical fungus, found
on the seed of certain plants, esp. rye and some other grasses.--_ns._
ER'GOTINE, the active principle of ergot of rye; ER'GOTISM, poisoning
caused by eating bread made of rye diseased with ergot;
ERGOTIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ ER'GOTISE. [Fr.]

ERIC, er'ik, _n._ the blood-fine paid by a murderer to his victim's family
in old Irish law.--Also ER'IACH, ER'ICK.

ERICA, e-r[=i]'ka, _n._ the scientific name for heath.--_adj._
ERIC[=A]'CEOUS, belonging to plants of the genus _Erica_. [L.,--Gr.
_ereik[=e]_, heath.]

ERINGO. Same as ERYNGO.

ERINITE, er'i-n[=i]t, _n._ native arseniate of copper found in Cornwall and
Ireland. [_Erin_, old name of Ireland.]

ERINYS, e-r[=i]'nis, _n._ one of the Furies:--_pl._ ERINYES
(e-rin'i-[=e]z).

ERIOMETER, er-i-om'e-ter, _n._ an optical instrument for measuring small
diameters of fibres, &c. [Gr. _erion_, wool, _metron_, a measure.]

ERISTIC, -AL, er-is'tik, -al, _adj._ of or pertaining to controversy. [Gr.
_erizein_, to strive--_eris_, strife.]

ERL-KING, [.e]rl'-king, _n._ for German _erl-könig_, a mistranslation
(meaning 'alder-king') of the Danish _ellerkonge_ (i. e. _elverkonge_, king
of the elves).

ERMELIN, [.e]r'me-lin, _n._ (_arch._) ermine.

ERMINE, [.e]r'min, _n._ a well-known carnivore belonging to the genus which
includes polecat, weasel, ferret, &c.--its white fur often used as an
emblem of purity: ermine fur used for the robes of judges and
magistrates.--_adj._ ER'MINED, adorned with ermine. [O. Fr. _ermine_ (Fr.
_hermine_), perh. from L. (_mus_) _Armenius_, lit. mouse of Armenia, whence
it was brought to Rome; but acc. to Skeat from Old High Ger. _harmin_ (Ger.
_hermelin_), ermine-fur.]

ERNE, [.e]rn, _n._ the eagle. [A.S. _earn_; cf. Ice. _orn_, Dut. _arend_.]

ERNE, [.e]rn, _v.i._ obsolete form of _earn_, to yearn.

ERODE, e-r[=o]d', _v.t._ to eat away: to wear away.--_n._ ER[=O]'DENT, a
caustic drug.--_adj._ ER[=O]SE', gnawed.--_n._ ER[=O]'SION, act or state of
eating or being eaten away.--_adj._ ER[=O]'SIVE, having the property of
eating away. [L. _e_, out, _rod[)e]re_, _rosum_, to gnaw.]

EROSTRATE, e-ros'tr[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having no beak.

EROTESIS, er-[=o]-t[=e]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure consisting of an
oratorical question.--_adj._ EROTET'IC. [Gr.]

EROTIC, er-ot'ik, _adj._ pertaining to love: amatory.--_n._ an amatory
poem.--_ns._ EROTOM[=A]'NIA, morbid sexual passion; EROTOM[=A]'NIAC, one
affected with this. [Gr. _er[=o]tikos_--_er[=o]s_, _er[=o]tos_, love.]

ERR, er, _v.i._ to wander from the right way: to go astray: to mistake: to
sin.--_adj._ ERR'ABLE, capable of erring.--_n._ ERRAT'IC, a wanderer: an
erratic boulder.--_adjs._ ERRAT'IC, -AL, wandering: having no certain
course: not stationary: irregular.--_adv._ ERRAT'ICALLY.--_n._ ERR[=A]'TUM,
an error in writing or printing, esp. one noted in a list at the end of a
book:--_pl._ ERR[=A]'TA.--_adj._ ERR[=O]'NEOUS, erring: full of error:
wrong: mistaken: (_obs._) wandering.--_adv._ ERR[=O]'NEOUSLY.--_ns._
ERR[=O]'NEOUSNESS; ERR'OR, a deviation from truth, right, &c.: a blunder or
mistake: a fault: sin; ERR'ORIST. [Fr. _errer_--L. _err[=a]re_, to stray;
cog. with Ger. _irren_, and _irre_, astray.]

ERRAND, er'and, _n._ a message: a commission to say or do something.--A
FOOL'S ERRAND, a useless undertaking; GO AN ERRAND, to go with messages;
MAKE AN ERRAND, to invent a reason for going. [A.S. _['æ]rende_; Ice.
_eyrindi_; prob. conn. with Goth. _áirus_, Ice. _árr_, a messenger.]

ERRANT, er'ant, _adj._ wandering: roving: wild: (_obs._) thorough (cf.
ARRANT).--_n._ a knight-errant.--_adv._ ERR'ANTLY.--_n._ ERR'ANTRY, an
errant or wandering state: a rambling about like a knight-errant. [Fr.,--L.
_errans_, _errantis_, pr.p. of _err[=a]re_.]

ERRHINE, er'in, _adj._ affecting the nose.--_n._ a sternutatory. [Gr.,
_en_, in, _rhis_, _rhinos_, the nose.]

ERSE, [.e]rs, _n._ the name given by the Lowland Scotch to the language of
the people of the West Highlands, as being of Irish origin--now sometimes
used for Irish, as opposed to Scotch, Gaelic. [_Irish_.]

ERST, [.e]rst, _adv._ at first: formerly.--_adv._ ERST'WHILE, formerly.
[A.S. _['æ]rest_, superl. of _['æ]r_. See ERE.]

ERUBESCENT, er-[=oo]-bes'ent, _adj._ growing red: blushing.--_ns._
ERUBES'CENCE, ERUBES'CENCY. [L. _erubescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_erubesc[)e]re_, to grow red--_e_, out, and _rubesc[)e]re_--_rub[=e]re_, to
be red. See RUBY.]

ERUCTATE, e-ruk't[=a]t, _v.t._ to belch out, as wind from the
stomach.--_n._ ERUCT[=A]'TION, the act of belching: a violent ejection of
wind or other matter from the earth, as a volcano, &c. [L. _eruct[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _ruct[=a]re_, to belch forth.]

ERUDITE, er'[=oo]-d[=i]t, _adj._ learned.--_n._ a learned person.--_adv._
ER'UDITELY.--_n._ ERUDI'TION, state of being erudite or learned: knowledge
gained by study: learning, esp. in literature. [L. _erud[=i]re_,
_erud[=i]tum_, to free from rudeness--_e_, from, _rudis_, rude.]

ERUPT, e-rupt', _v.i._ to break out or through, as a volcano.--_n._
ERUP'TION, a breaking or bursting forth: that which bursts forth: a
breaking out of spots on the skin.--_adjs._ ERUP'TIONAL; ERUPT'IVE,
breaking forth: attended by or producing eruption: produced by
eruption.--_n._ ERUPT'IVENESS. [L. _erump[)e]re_, _eruptum_.--_e_, out,
_rump[)e]re_, to break.]

ERYNGO, e-ring'go, _n._ a genus of evergreen plants resembling thistles,
the young leaves of _E. maritimum_ (sea-holly) being sometimes eaten as a
salad. [L. _eryngion_--Gr. _[=e]ryngos_.]

ERYSIMUM, er-is'i-mum, _n._ a genus of _Cruciferæ_, allied to Hedge-mustard
and Dame's Violet. [Formed through L. from Gr. _erysimon_.]

ERYSIPELAS, er-i-sip'e-las, _n._ an inflammatory disease, generally in the
face, marked by a bright redness of the skin.--_adj._ ERYSIPEL'ATOUS. [Gr.;
prob. from the root of _erythros_, red, _pella_, skin.]

ERYTHEMA, er-i-th[=e]'ma, _n._ a name applied to certain skin diseases, but
scarcely used by any two writers in exactly the same sense.--_adjs._
ERYTHEMAT'IC, ERYTHEM'ATOUS. [Gr.,--_erythainein_, to redden--_erythros_,
red.]

ERYTHRITE, e-rith'r[=i]t, _n._ a reddish hydrous arseniate of
cobalt.--_adj._ ERYTHRIT'IC.

ESCALADE, es-ka-l[=a]d', _n._ the scaling of the walls of a fortress by
means of ladders.--_v.t._ to scale: to mount and enter by means of
ladders--sometimes written ESCAL[=A]'DO. [Fr.,--Sp. _escalada_--_escala_, a
ladder--L. _scala_.]

ESCALLOP, es-kal'up, _n._ a variant of _scallop_.--_adj._ ESCALL'OPED.
(_her._), covered with scallop-shells.

[Illustration]

ESCAPE, es-k[=a]p', _v.t._ to free from: to pass unobserved: to evade: to
issue.--_v.i._ to flee and become safe from danger: to be passed without
harm.--_n._ act of escaping: flight from danger or from prison.--_adj._
ESCAP'ABLE.--_ns._ ESCAP[=A]DE', an escape: a mischievous freak;
ESC[=A]PE'MENT, act of escaping: means of escape: part of a timepiece
connecting the wheelwork with the pendulum or balance, and allowing a tooth
to escape at each vibration; ESCAPE'-VALVE, a valve on a boiler so as to
let the steam escape when wanted. [O. Fr. _escaper_ (Fr. _échapper_)--L.
_ex cappa_, (lit.) 'out of one's cape or cloak.']

ESCARMOUCHE, e-skär'moosh, _n._ (_obs._) a skirmish. [Fr.]

ESCARP, es-kärp', _v.t._ to make into a scarp or sudden slope.--_n._ a
scarp or steep slope: (_fort._) the side of the ditch next the
rampart.--_n._ ESCARP'MENT, the precipitous side of any hill or rock:
escarp. [Fr. _escarper_, to cut down steep, from root of _scarp_.]

ESCHALOT, esh-a-lot'. See SHALLOT.

ESCHAR, es'kär, _n._ a slough or portion of dead or disorganised tissue,
gen. of artificial sloughs produced by the application of caustics.--_adj._
ESCHAROT'IC, tending to form an eschar: caustic.--_n._ a caustic substance.
[L.,--Gr. _eschara_, a hearth.]

ESCHATOLOGY, es-ka-tol'o-ji, _n._ (_theol._) the doctrine of the last or
final things, as death, judgment, the state after death.--_adjs._
ESCHATOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ ESCHATOL'OGIST. [Gr. _eschatos_, last, _logia_, a
discourse.]

ESCHEAT, es-ch[=e]t', _n._ property which falls to the state for want of an
heir, or by forfeiture: (_Spens._) plunder.--_v.t._ to confiscate.--_v.i._
to fall to the lord of the manor or the state.--_adj._ ESCHEAT'ABLE.--_ns._
ESCHEAT'AGE; ESCHEAT'OR. [O. Fr. _eschete_--_escheoir_ (Fr. _échoir_)--Low
L.,--L. _ex_, out, _cad[)e]re_, to fall.]

ESCHEW, es-ch[=oo]', _v.t._ to shun: to flee from: to abstain from. [O. Fr.
_eschever_; cog. with Ger. _scheuen_, to shun.]

ESCLANDRE, e-sklang'dr, _n._ notoriety: any unpleasantness. [Fr.,--L.
_scandalum_.]

ESCORT, es'kort, _n._ a body of men, or a single man, accompanying any one
on a journey, for protection, guidance, or merely courtesy:
attendance.--_v.t._ ESC[=O]RT', to attend as guide or guard. [Fr.
_escorte_--It. _scorta_--_scorgere_, to guide--L. _ex_, out,
_corrig[)e]re_, to set right.]

ESCOT, es-kot', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to pay a reckoning for, to maintain. [O.
Fr. _escoter_, _escot_=_scot_, a tax.]

ESCRITOIRE, es-kri-twor', _n._ a writing-desk.--_adj._ ESCRIT[=O]'RIAL.
[Fr. _escritoire_--Low L. _scriptorium_--L. _scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_, to
write.]

ESCROLL, es-kr[=o]l', _n._ (_her._). Same as SCROLL.

ESCUAGE, es'k[=u]-[=a]j, _n._ scutage.

ESCULAPIAN, es-k[=u]-l[=a]'pi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Esculapius_, and
hence to the art of healing.--Also ÆSCUL[=A]'PIAN. [_Æsculapius_, god of
medicine.]

ESCULENT, es'k[=u]-lent, _adj._ eatable: fit to be used for food by
man.--_n._ something that is eatable. [L. _esculentus_, eatable--_esca_,
food--_ed[)e]re_, to eat.]

ESCUTCHEON, es-kuch'un, _n._ a shield on which a coat of arms is
represented: a family shield: the part of a vessel's stern bearing her
name.--_adj._ ESCUTCH'EONED ('und), having an escutcheon.--ESCUTCHEON OF
PRETENCE, an escutcheon placed with the arms of an heiress in the centre of
her husband's coat.--A BLOT ON THE ESCUTCHEON, a stain on one's good name.
[O. Fr. _escuchon_--L. _scutum_, a shield.]

ESEMPLASTIC, es-em-plas'tik, _adj._ shaping into one.

ESKAR, ESKER. Same as ASAR (q.v.).

ESKIMO, es'ki-m[=o], _n._ and _adj._ one of a nation constituting the
aboriginal inhabitants of the whole northern coast of America, and spread
over the Arctic islands, Greenland, and the nearest Asiatic coast.--_n._
ESKIMO DOG, a half-tamed variety, widely distributed in the Arctic regions,
and indispensable for drawing the sledges. [Said by Dr Rink to be from an
Indian word=eaters of raw flesh.]

ESLOIN, es-loin'. See ELOIN.

ESNECY, es'ne-si, _n._ the right of first choice belonging to the eldest.

ESOPHAGUS. See OESOPHAGUS.

ESOTERIC, es-o-ter'ik, _adj._ inner: secret: mysterious: (_phil._) taught
to a select few--opp. to _Exoteric_.--_adv._ ESOTER'ICALLY.--_ns._
ESOTER'ICISM, ESOT'ERISM, the holding of esoteric opinions.--ESOTERIC
BUDDHISM (see THEOSOPHY). [Gr. _es[=o]terikos_--_es[=o]ter[=o]_, inner, a
comp. form from _es[=o]_, within.]

ESPALIER, es-pal'y[.e]r, _n._ a lattice-work of wood on which to train
fruit-trees: a fruit-tree trained on stakes: (_obs._) a row of trees so
trained.--_v.t._ to train as an espalier. [Fr.,--It. _spalliera_, a support
for the shoulders--_spalla_, a shoulder. Cf. EPAULET.]

ESPARTO, es-par't[=o], _n._ a strong kind of grass found in the south of
Europe, esp. in Spain, used for making baskets, cordage, paper, &c.
[Sp.,--L. _spartum_--Gr. _sparton_, a kind of rope.]

ESPECIAL, es-pesh'al, _adj._ special: particular: principal:
distinguished.--_adv._ ESPEC'IALLY.--IN ESPECIAL, in particular. [O.
Fr.,--L. _specialis_--_species_.]

ESPERANCE, es'p[.e]r-ans, _n._ (_Shak._) hope. [Fr.,--L. _sperans_, pr.p.
of _sper[=a]re_, to hope.]

ESPIÈGLE, es-pi-[=a]'gl, _adj._ roguish, frolicsome.--_n._ ESPIÈG'LERIE,
raillery: frolicsomeness. [Fr.]

ESPIONAGE, es'pi-on-[=a]j, _n._ practice or employment of spies.
[Fr.,--_espionner_--_espion_, a spy.]

ESPLANADE, es-pla-n[=a]d', _n._ a level space between a citadel and the
first houses of the town: any level space for walking or driving in.
[Fr.,--Sp. _esplanada_--L. _explan[=a]re_--_ex_, out, _planus_, flat.]

ESPOUSE, es-powz', _v.t._ to give in marriage: to take as spouse: to wed:
to take with a view to maintain: to embrace, as a cause.--_ns._ ESPOUS'AL,
the act of espousing or betrothing: the taking upon one's self, as a cause:
(_pl._) a contract or mutual promise of marriage; ESPOUS'ER. [O. Fr.
_espouser_ (Fr. _épouser_)--L. _spons[=a]re_--_spond[=e]re_, _sponsum_, to
promise.]

ESPRIT, es-pr[=e]', _n._ spirit: liveliness.--ESPRIT DE CORPS (es-pr[=e]'
d' k[=o]r), regard for the character of that body to which one belongs;
ESPRIT FORT (es-pr[=e]' f[=o]r), a person of strong character. [Fr.
_esprit_, spirit, _corps_, body, _fort_, strong.]

ESPY, es-p[=i]', _v.t._ to watch: to see at a distance: to catch sight of:
to observe: to discover unexpectedly.--_n._ ESP[=I]'AL, the act of espying:
observation. [O. Fr. _espier_, from root of _spy_.]

ESQUIMAU, es'ki-m[=o] (_pl._ ESQUIMAUX, es'ki-m[=o]z). Same as ESKIMO.

ESQUIRE, es-kw[=i]r', _n._ (_orig._) a squire or shield-bearer: an
attendant on a knight: a landed proprietor: a title of dignity next below a
knight: a title given to younger sons of noblemen, &c.: a general title of
respect in addressing letters. [O. Fr. _esquier_ (Fr. _écuyer_)--L.
_scutarius_--_scutum_, a shield.]

ESS, the name of the letter S (q.v.).

ESSAY, es'[=a], _n._ a trial: an experiment: a written composition less
elaborate than a treatise.--_v.t._ ESSAY', to try: to attempt: to make
experiment of:--_pr.p._ essay'ing; _pa.p._ essayed'.--_ns._ ESSAY'ER,
ES'SAYIST, one who essays: a writer of essays; ESSAYETTE', ES'SAYKIN, a
little essay.--_adjs._ ES'SAYISH; ESSAYIS'TIC. [O. Fr. _essai_--L.
_exagium_, weighing--_exag[)e]re_, to try, examine.]

ESSE, es'i, _n._ used in phrase IN ESSE, in existence, opposed to _In
posse_, in potentiality. [L. _esse_, to be.]

ESSENCE, es'ens, _n._ the inner distinctive nature of anything: the
qualities which make any object what it is: a being: the extracted virtues
of any drug: the solution in spirits of wine of a volatile or essential
oil: a perfume.--_adj._ ESSEN'TIAL, relating to or containing the essence:
necessary to the existence of a thing: indispensable or important in the
highest degree: highly rectified: pure.--_n._ something necessary: a
leading principle.--_n._ ESSENTIAL'ITY, the quality of being essential: an
essential part.--_adv._ ESSEN'TIALLY.--_n._ ESSEN'TIALNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_essentia_--_essens_, _-entis_, assumed pr.p. of _esse_, to be.]

ESSENE, es-s[=e]n', _n._ one of a small religious fraternity among the
ancient Jews leading retired ascetic lives and holding property in
common.--_n._ ESSEN'ISM. [Bishop Lightfoot prefers the der. from Heb.
_ch[=a]sh[=a]_, to be silent, whence _chashsh[=a][=i]m_, 'the silent ones'
who meditate on mysteries.]

ESSOIN, es-soin', _n._ (_law_) excuse for not appearing in court:
(_Spens._) excuse.--_n._ ESSOIN'ER. [O. Fr. _essoine_ (Fr. _exoine_),
_es_--L. _ex_, out, _soin_, care.]

ESSORANT, es'[=o]-rant, _adj._ (_her._) about to soar.

ESTABLISH, es-tab'lish, _v.t._ to settle or fix: to confirm: to prove a
point: to ordain: to found: to set up in business: to institute by law as
the recognised state church, and to support officially and
financially.--_p.adj._ ESTAB'LISHED, fixed: ratified: instituted by law and
supported by the state.--_ns._ ESTAB'LISHER; ESTAB'LISHMENT, act of
establishing: fixed state: that which is established: a permanent civil or
military force: one's residence and style of living: the church established
by law.--_adj._ ESTABLISHMENT[=A]R'IAN, maintaining the principle of the
established church.--_n._ one who maintains this principle. [O. Fr.
_establir_, pr.p. _establissant_--L. _stabil[=i]re_--_stabilis_,
firm--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

ESTACADE, es-ta-k[=a]d', _n._ a dike of piles in a morass, river, &c.,
against an enemy. [Fr.,--Sp.]

ESTAFETTE, es-ta-fet', _n._ a military courier or express. [Fr.,--It.
_staffetta_--Old High Ger. _stapho_, a step.]

ESTAMINET, es-tam-in-[=a]', a restaurant where smoking is allowed. [Fr.]

ESTATE, es-t[=a]t', _n._ condition or rank: position: property, esp. landed
property: fortune: an order or class of men in the body-politic: (_pl._)
dominions: possessions.--_v.t._ to give an estate to: (_arch._) to bestow
upon.--_n._ ESTATES'MAN, statesman.--MAN'S ESTATE, the state of manhood;
THE ESTATES OF THE REALM are three--Lords Spiritual, Lords Temporal, and
Commons; but often misused for the legislature--king, lords, and
commons.--The ancient parliament of Scotland consisted of the king and the
THREE ESTATES--viz.: (1) archbishops, bishops, abbots, and mitred priors;
(2) the barons and the commissioners of shires and stewartries; (3) the
commissioners from the royal burghs;--in France, the nobles, clergy, and
THIRD ESTATE (_tiers état_) remained separate down to 1789; THE FOURTH
ESTATE, often used humorously for the press. [O. Fr. _estat_ (Fr.
_état_)--L. _status_, a state.]

ESTEEM, es-t[=e]m', _v.t._ to set a high estimate or value on: to regard
with respect or friendship: to consider or think.--_n._ high estimation or
value: favourable regard.--_p.adj._ ESTEEMED', respected.--_adj._
ES'TIMABLE, that can be estimated or valued: worthy of esteem: deserving
our good opinion.--_adv._ ES'TIMABLY.--_v.t._ ES'TIM[=A]TE, to judge of the
worth of a thing: to calculate.--_n._ reputation: a valuing in the mind:
judgment or opinion of the worth or size of anything: a rough calculation:
estimation.--_n._ ESTIM[=A]'TION, act of estimating: a reckoning of value:
esteem, honour: importance: conjecture.--_adj._ ES'TIM[=A]TIVE.--_n._
ES'TIM[=A]TOR.--HOLD IN ESTIMATION, to esteem highly.--THE ESTIMATES,
accounts given before parliament showing the probable expenditure for the
year. [Fr. _estimer_--L. _æstim[=a]re_.]

ESTHETIC, ESTHETICS. See ÆSTHETIC, ÆSTHETICS.

ESTHONIAN, es-th[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Esthonia_, the most
northerly of the Baltic provinces of Russia, or its population, language,
or customs.--_ns._ ESTH, an Esthonian of the original Finnish stock;
ESTH'LANDER, an Esthonian of the mixed race, in which the German element
preponderates.

ESTIVAL, ESTIVATION. See ÆSTIVAL, ÆSTIVATION.

ESTOP, es-top', _v.t._ to stop or bar: (_law_) to hinder,
preclude:--_pr.p._ estop'ping; _pa.p._ estop'ped.--_ns._ ESTOP'P[=A]GE, the
state of being estopped; ESTOP'PEL, a conclusive admission, which cannot be
denied by the party whom it affects. [O. Fr. _estoper_--_estoupe_--L.
_stuppa_, tow. See STOP.]

ESTOVERS, es-t[=o]'v[.e]rz, _n.pl._ (_law_) necessaries allowed by law, as
wood to a tenant for necessary repairs, &c.--COMMON OF ESTOVERS, the right
of taking necessary wood from another's estate for household use and the
making of implements of industry. [O. Fr. _estovoir_, necessaries.]

ESTRADE, es-träd', _n._ a low platform. [Fr.,--Sp. _estrado_.]

ESTRANGE, es-tr[=a]nj', _v.t._ to treat as an alien: to alienate: to divert
from its original use or possessor.--_p.adj._ ESTRANGED', alienated:
disaffected.--_ns._ ESTRANG'EDNESS; ESTRANGE'MENT; ESTRANG'ER. [O. Fr.
_estranger_ (Fr. _étranger_)--L. _extrane[=a]re_--_extraneus_. See
STRANGE.]

ESTRAY, e-str[=a]', _n._ a beast found within a manor or lordship, and not
owned.--_v.i._ to stray. [See ASTRAY.]

ESTREAT, e-str[=e]t', _n._ (_law_) a true extract, copy, or note of some
original writing or record, esp. of fines and amercements to be levied by
bailiffs or other officers.--_v.t._ to extract from the records of a court,
as a forfeited recognisance: to levy fines under an estreat. [O. Fr.
_estraite_--L. _extrah[)e]re_--_ex_, out, and _trah[)e]re_, to draw. See
EXTRACT.]

ESTRICH, es'trich, ESTRIDGE, es'trij, _n._ (_obs._) the ostrich.

ESTUARY, es't[=u]-ar-i, _n._ the wide lower part of a river where it
becomes tidal.--_adjs._ ESTU[=A]'RIAN, ES'T[=U]ARINE. [L.
_æstuarium_--_æstus_, tide.]

ESURIENT, es-[=u]'ri-ent, _adj._ hungry: penurious.--_n._ ES[=U]'RIENCE,
hunger: neediness. [L. _esuriens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _esur[=i]re_, to be
hungry--_ed[)e]re_, to eat.]

ET CETERA, et set'er-a, usually written ETC. or &C., a phrase meaning 'and
so on.'--_n._ something in addition, which can easily be understood. [L.
_et_ and, _cetera_, the rest.]

ETCH, ech, _v.t._ or _v.i._ to make designs on metal, glass, &c. by eating
out the lines with an acid.--_ns._ ETCH'ER, one who etches; ETCH'ING, the
act or art of etching or engraving: the impression from an etched plate;
ETCH'ING-GROUND, the coating of wax or varnish on a plate prepared for
etching; ETCH'ING-NEED'LE, a fine-pointed steel instrument used in etching.
[From Ger. _ätzen_, to corrode by acid; from same root as Ger. _essen_. See
EAT.]

ETERNAL, [=e]-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ without beginning or end of existence:
everlasting: ceaseless: unchangeable--(_arch._) ETERNE'.--_v.t._
ETER'NALISE, ETER'NISE, to make eternal: to immortalise.--_n._ ETER'NALIST,
one who thinks that matter has existed from eternity.--_adv._
ETER'NALLY.--_n._ ETER'NITY, eternal duration: the state or time after
death.--THE ETERNAL, an appellation of God; THE ETERNITIES, the eternal
reality or truth. [Fr. _éternel_--L. _æternus_, _æviternus_--_ævum_--Gr.
_aion_, a period of time, an age.]

ETESIAN, e-t[=e]'zhan, _adj._ periodical: blowing at stated seasons, as
certain winds. [L. _etesius_--Gr. _et[=e]sios_, annual--_etos_, a year.]

ETHE, [=e]th, _adj._ (_Spens._) easy. [A.S. _eath._]

ETHER, [=e]'th[.e]r, _n._ the clear, upper air: the subtile medium supposed
to fill all space: a colourless, transparent, volatile liquid of great
mobility and high refractive power, and possessing a fragrant odour and a
fiery, passing to a cooling, taste.--_adj._ ETH[=E]'REAL, consisting of
ether: heavenly: airy: spirit-like.--_n._ ETHEREALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
ETH[=E]'REALISE, to convert into ether, or the fluid ether: to render
spirit-like.--_n._ ETHEREAL'ITY.--_adv._ ETH[=E]'REALLY.--_adj._
ETH[=E]'REOUS (_Milt._), ethereal.--_n._ ETHERIFIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._
E'THERIFORM.--_n._ ETHERIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ E'THERISE, to convert into
ether: to stupefy with ether.--_n._ E'THERISM, the condition induced by
using ether. [L.,--Gr. _aith[=e]r_, _aithein_, to light up.]

ETHIC, eth'ik, _adj._ relating to morals: treating of morality or
duty.--_n._ (more commonly in _pl._ ETH'ICS) the science of morals, that
branch of philosophy which is concerned with human character and conduct: a
treatise on morals.--_adj._ ETH'ICAL, relating to the science of
ethics.--_adv._ ETH'ICALLY.--_n._ ETH'ICIST, one versed in ethics.--ETHICAL
DATIVE, the dative of a first or second personal pronoun implying an
indirect interest in the fact stated, used colloquially to give a livelier
tone to the sentence. [Gr. _[=e]thikos_--_[=e]thos_, custom.]

ETHIOPIAN, [=e]-thi-[=o]'pi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Ethiopia_, a name
given to the countries south of Egypt inhabited by the negro races.--_n._ a
native of Ethiopia: a blackamoor--(_arch._) ETHIOP.--_adj._
ETHIOP'IC.--_n.pl._ [=E]'THIOPS, a term applied by the ancient chemists to
certain oxides and sulphides of the metals which possessed a dull, dingy,
or black appearance. [Gr. _Aithiops_, sun-burnt, Ethiopian--_aithein_, to
burn, _[=o]ps_, the face.]

ETHMOID, -AL, eth'moid, -al, _adj._ resembling a sieve.--ETHMOID BONE, one
of the eight somewhat cubical bones which collectively form the cranial
box. [Gr. _[=e]thmos_, a sieve, and _eidos_, form.]

ETHNIC, -AL, eth'nik, -al, _adj._ concerning nations or races: pertaining
to the heathen.--_ns._ ETH'NIC, a heathen; ETH'NICISM, heathenism;
ETHNOG'RAPHER.--_adj._ ETHNOGRAPH'IC.--_n._ ETHNOG'RAPHY, the scientific
description of the races of the earth.--_adj._ ETHNOLOG'ICAL.--_adv._
ETHNOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ ETHNOL'OGIST; ETHNOL'OGY, the science that treats
of the varieties of the human race. [L.,--Gr. _ethnos_, a nation; Gr.
_graph[=e]_, writing, _logia_, discourse.]

ETHOLOGY, [=e]-thol'o-ji, _n._ a discourse on ethics: the science of
character.--_adjs._ ETHOLOG'IC, -AL, relating to ethology: treating of
morality.--_ns._ ETHOL'OGIST, one versed in ethology or ethics; [=E]'THOS,
habitual character and disposition: the quality of a work of art which
produces a high moral impression. [Gr. _[=e]thos_, custom, _logia_, a
discourse.]

ETHYL, [=e]'thil, _n._ a colourless, inflammable gas, insoluble in water,
soluble in alcohol--supposed base of ether. [Gr. _aith[=e]r_, ether,
_hyl[=e]_, base.]

ETIOLATE, [=e]-ti-o-l[=a]t', _v.t._ (_med._, _bot._) to cause to grow pale
from want of light and fresh air.--_v.i._ to become pale from disease or
absence of light.--_n._ ETIOL[=A]'TION. [Fr. _étioler_, to become pale, to
grow into stubble, _éteule_, stubble--L. _stipula_, a stalk.]

ETIOLOGY, [=e]-ti-ol'o-ji, _n._ Same as ÆTIOLOGY.

ETIQUETTE, et-i-ket', _n._ forms of ceremony or decorum: ceremony: the
unwritten laws of courtesy observed between members of the same profession,
as 'medical etiquette.' [Fr. See TICKET.]

ETNA, et'na, _n._ a vessel for heating water, &c., at table or in the
sick-room, in a cup placed in a saucer is which alcohol is burned.--_adj._
ÆTN[=E]'AN. [From the volcano, Mount _Ætna_.]

ETONIAN, et-[=o]n'i-an, _n._ and _adj._ one educated at _Eton_
College.--ETON JACKET, a boy's dress-coat, untailed.

ETRURIAN, et-r[=u]'ri-an, _adj._ and _n._ of or belonging to
_Etruria_.--_adj._ and _n._ ETRUS'CAN, of or belonging to ancient Etruria
or its people, language, art, &c.--sometimes jocularly put for Tuscan.

ETTLE, et'l, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to purpose, intend.--_v.t._ to guess.--_n._
purpose, intent. [Ice., _ætla_, to think, from root of Goth. _aha_,
understanding.]

ÉTUDE, [=a]-tüd', _n._ (_mus._) a composition intended either to train or
to test the player's technical skill. [Fr.]

ETUI, ETWEE, et-w[=e]', _n._ a small case for holding valuables. [Fr.]

ETYMOLOGY, et-i-mol'o-ji, _n._ the investigation of the derivation and
original signification of words: the science that treats of the origin and
history of words: the part of grammar relating to inflection.--_adjs._
ETYM'IC; ETYMOLOG'ICAL.--_adv._ ETYMOLOG'ICALLY.--_ns._ ETYMOLOG'ICON,
-CUM, an etymological dictionary.--_v.t._ ETYMOL'OGISE, to give, or search
into, the etymology of a word.--_ns._ ETYMOL'OGIST, one skilled in or who
writes on etymology; ET'YMON, the origin of a word: an original root: the
genuine or literal sense of a word. [O. Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _etymos_, true,
_logia_, an account.]

ETYPIC, -AL, [=e]-tip'ik, -al, _adj._ unconformable to type.

EUCALYPTUS, [=u]-kal-ip'tus, _n._ the 'gum-tree,' a large Australian
evergreen, beneficial in destroying the miasma of malarious
districts.--_ns._ EU'CALYPT, a eucalyptus; EUCALYP'TOL, a volatile,
colourless, limpid oil. [Coined from Gr. _eu_, well, _kalyptos_,
covered--_kalyptein_, to cover.]

EUCHARIST, [=u]'ka-rist, _n._ the sacrament of the Lord's Supper: the
elements of the sacrament, as 'to receive the Eucharist.'--_adjs._
EUCHARIST'IC, -AL. [Gr. _eucharistia_, thanksgiving--_eu_, well, and
_charizesthai_, to show favour--_charis_, grace, thanks.]

EUCHLORINE, [=u]-kl[=o]'rin, _n._ a very explosive green-coloured gas,
prepared by the action of strong hydrochloric acid on chlorate of
potash.--_adj._ EUCHL[=O]'RIC. [Gr. _eu_, well, _chloros_, green.]

EUCHOLOGION, [=u]-ko-l[=o]'ji-on, _n._ a formulary of prayers, primarily
that of the Greek Church.--Also EUCHOL'OGY. [Gr. _euchologion_--_euch[=e]_,
a prayer, _logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

EUCHRE, [=u]'k[.e]r, _n._ an American game at cards for two, three, or four
persons, with the 32, 28, or 24 highest cards of the pack--if a player
fails to make three tricks he is _euchred_, and his adversary scores
against him.--_v.t._ to outwit. [Ety. uncertain; prob. Ger., like the term
_bower_ (q.v.), used in the game; some have suggested a Sp. _yuca_.]

EUCLASE, [=u]'kl[=a]s, _n._ a silicate of aluminium and glucinum occurring
in pale-green transparent crystals. [Fr.,--Gr. _eu_, well, _klasis_,
breaking.]

EUCLIDEAN, [=u]-klid'e-an, or [=u]-kli-d[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to
Euclid, a mathematician of Alexandria about 300 B.C.

EUDEMONISM, EUDÆMONISM, [=u]-d[=e]'mon-izm, _n._ the system of ethics that
makes happiness the test of rectitude--whether _Egoistic_, as Hobbes, or
_Altruistic_, as Mill.--_ns._ EUD[=E]'MONIST, EUDÆ'MONIST. [Gr.
_eudaimonia_, happiness--_eu_, well, _daim[=o]n_, a god.]

EUDIOMETER, [=u]-di-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
purity of, or the quantity of oxygen contained in, the air.--_adjs._
EUDIOMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._ EUDIOM'ETRY. [Gr. _eudios_, clear, _metron_,
measure.]

EUGE, [=u]'j[=e], _interj._ well! well done! [L.]

EUGENIC, [=u]-jen'ik, _adj._ pertaining to race culture.--_n.pl._
EUGEN'ICS, the science of such.--_n._ EU'GENISM.

EUGENIN, [=u]'je-nin, _n._ a substance procured from the distilled water of
cloves.

EUGH, EUGHEN, obsolete forms of _yew_, _yewen_.

EUGUBINE, [=u]'g[=u]-bin, _adj._ pertaining to the ancient town of
_Eugubium_ or _Iguvium_ (mod. _Gubbio_), or to its famous seven tablets of
bronze, the chief monument of the ancient Umbrian tongue.

EUHARMONIC, [=u]-har-mon'ik, _adj._ producing perfectly concordant sounds.

EUHEMERISM, [=u]-h[=e]'me-rizm, _n._ the system which explains mythology as
growing out of real history, its deities as merely magnified men.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ EUH[=E]'MERISE.--_n._ and _adj._ EUH[=E]'MERIST.--_adj._
EUHEMERIS'TIC.--_adv._ EUHEMERIS'TICALLY. [From _Euhemerus_, a 4th-cent.
(B.C.) Sicilian philosopher.]

EULOGIUM, [=u]-l[=o]'ji-um, EULOGY, [=u]'lo-ji, _n._ a speaking well of: a
speech or writing in praise of.--_adjs._ EULOG'IC, -AL, containing eulogy
or praise.--_adv._ EULOG'ICALLY.--_v.t._ EU'LOG[=I]SE, to speak well of: to
praise.--_n._ EU'LOGIST, one who praises or extols another.--_adj._
EULOGIST'IC, full of praise.--_adv._ EULOGIST'ICALLY. [Late L.
_eulogium_--Gr. _eulogion_ (classical _eulogia_)--_eu_, well, _logia_, a
speaking.]

EUMENIDES, [=u]-men'i-d[=e]z, _n.pl._ the Erinyes or Furies--the
euphemistic name for these. [Gr. _eu_, well, _menos_, mind.]

EUNOMY, [=u]'n[=o]-mi, _n._ equal, righteous law. [Gr.]

EUNUCH, [=u]'nuk, _n._ a castrated man--often employed as chamberlain in
the East.--_v.t._ EU'NUCHATE.--_n._ EU'NUCHISM, the state of being a
eunuch. [Gr. _eunouchos_--_eun[=e]_, a couch, _echein_, to have charge of.]

EUONYM, [=u]'[=o]-nim, _n._ a fitting name for anything. [Gr.]

EUPATRID, [=u]-pat'rid, _n._ a member of the Athenian aristocracy. [Gr.
_eupatrid[=e]s_--_eu_, well--_pat[=e]r_, father.]

EUPEPSY, [=u]-pep'si, _n._ good digestion--opp. to _Dyspepsia_.--_adj._
EUPEP'TIC, having good digestion.--_n._ EUPEPTIC'ITY. [Gr.
_eupepsia_--_eu_, well, _pepsis_, digestion--_peptein_, to digest.]

EUPHEMISM, [=u]'fem-izm, _n._ a figure of rhetoric by which an unpleasant
or offensive thing is designated by an indirect and milder term.--_v.t._ or
_v.i._ EU'PHEMISE, to express by a euphemism: to use euphemistic
terms.--_adj._ EUPHEMIST'IC.--_adv._ EUPHEMIST'ICALLY. [Gr.
_euph[=e]mismos_--_euph[=e]mos_--_eu_, well, _ph[=e]m[=e]_--_phanaí_, to
speak.]

EUPHONY, [=u]'fo-ni, _n._ an agreeable sound: a pleasing, easy
pronunciation--also EUPH[=O]'NIA.--_adjs._ EUPHON'IC, -AL, EUPH[=O]'NIOUS,
pertaining to euphony: agreeable in sound.--_adv._
EUPH[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_v.t._ EU'PHON[=I]SE, to make euphonious.--_n._
EUPH[=O]'NIUM, the bass instrument of the saxhorn family: a variation of
the harmonica, invented by Chladni in 1790. [Gr. _euph[=o]nia_--_eu_, well,
_ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

EUPHORBIA, [=u]-for'bi-a, _n._ the _Spurge_ genus.--_n._ EUPHOR'BIUM, a gum
resin. [L.,--_Euphorbus_, a physician to Juba, king of Mauritania.]

EUPHRASY, [=u]'fra-zi, _n._ (_bot._) the plant eyebright, formerly regarded
as beneficial in disorders of the eyes. [Gr. _euphrasia_,
delight--_euphrainein_, to cheer--_eu_, well, _phr[=e]n_, the heart.]

EUPHROSYNE, [=u]-fros'i-n[=e], _n._ one of the three Charities or Graces:
merriment. [Gr. _euphr[=o]n_, cheerful.]

EUPHUISM, [=u]'f[=u]-izm, _n._ an affected and bombastic style of language:
a high-flown expression.--_v.i._ EU'PHUISE.--_n._ EU'PHUIST.--_adj._
EUPHUIST'IC. [From _Euphues_, a popular book by John Lyly (1579-80).--Gr.
_euphy[=e]s_, graceful--_eu_, well, _phy[=e]_, growth--_phyesthai_, to
grow.]

EURASIAN, [=u]-r[=a]'zi-an, _adj._ descended from a European on the one
side and an Asiatic on the other: of or pertaining to Europe and Asia taken
as one continent. [From the combination of _Europe_ and _Asia_.]

EUREKA, [=u]-r[=e]'ka, _n._ a brilliant discovery. [Gr. perf. indic. of
_euriskein_, to find; the cry of Archimedes as he ran home naked from the
bath, where a method of detecting the adulteration of Hiero's crown had
suddenly occurred to him.]

EURIPUS, [=u]-r[=i]'pus, _n._ an arm of the sea with strong currents: the
water-channel between the arena and cavea of a Roman hippodrome. [Gr.]

EUROCLYDON, [=u]-rok'li-don, _n._ the tempestuous wind by which St Paul's
ship was wrecked (Acts, xxvii. 14). [Gr., from _euros_, the east wind,
_klyd[=o]n_, a wave--_klyzein_, to dash over.]

EUROPEAN, [=u]-ro-p[=e]'an, _adj._ belonging to _Europe_.--_n._ a native or
inhabitant of Europe.

EURUS, [=u]'rus, _n._ the east wind. [L.,--Gr. _euros_, the east wind.]

EUSEBIAN, [=u]-s[=e]'bi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Eusebius_ of Cæsarea,
father of ecclesiastical history (died 340), or to the Arian _Eusebius_ of
Nicomedia (died 342).

EUSKARIAN, [=u]s-k[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ Basque. [Basque _Euskara_, the Basque
language.]

EUSTACHIAN, [=u]-st[=a]'ki-an, _adj._ pertaining to the tube leading from
the middle ear to the pharynx, or to the rudimentary valve at the entrance
of the inferior vena cava in the heart. [Named from the Italian physician
Bartolommeo _Eustachio_ (died 1574).]

EUTAXY, [=u]'tak-si, _n._ good order.--_adj._ EUTAXIT'IC. [Gr.]

EUTERPEAN, [=u]-t[.e]r'pe-an, _adj._ relating to EUTER'PE, the muse who
presided over music--hence relating to music. [Gr. _Euterp[=e]_--_eu_,
well, _terpein_, to delight.]

EUTHANASIA, [=u]-than-[=a]'zi-a, _n._ an easy mode of death.--Also
EUTHAN'ASY. [Gr. _euthanasia_--_eu_, well, _thanatos_, death.]

EUTROPHY, [=u]'tr[=o]-fi, _n._ healthy nutrition. [Gr.]

EUTYCHIAN, [=u]-tik'i-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the doctrine of
_Eutyches_, a 5th-cent. archimandrite of Constantinople, who held that
after the incarnation of Christ all that was human in Him became merged in
the divine, and that Christ had but one nature.--_n._ a follower of
Eutyches.

EVACUATE, e-vak'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to throw out the contents of: to
discharge: to withdraw from.--_adj._ EVAC'UANT, purgative.--_n._
EVACU[=A]'TION, act of emptying out: a withdrawing from: that which is
discharged.--_adj._ EVAC'U[=A]TIVE.--_n._ EVAC'U[=A]TOR, one who evacuates:
(_law_) one who nullifies or makes void. [L. _e_, out, _vacu[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to empty--_vacuus_, empty.]

EVADE, e-v[=a]d', _v.t._ to escape or avoid artfully: to baffle. [L.
_evad[)e]re_--_e_, out, _vad[)e]re_, to go.]

EVAGATION, e-vag-[=a]'shun, _n._ wandering: a digression. [Fr.,--L.
_evag[=a]ri_--_e_, out, _vag[=a]ri_, to wander.]

EVAGINATE, [=e]-vaj'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to draw from a sheath.--_n._
EVAGIN[=A]'TION.

EVALUATE, e-val'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to determine the value of.--_n._
EVALU[=A]'TION.

EVANESCENT, ev-an-es'ent, _adj._ fleeting; imperceptible.--_v.i._
EVANESCE', to fade away.--_n._ EVANES'CENCE.--_adv._ EVANES'CENTLY. [L.
_evanescens_, _-entis_--_e_, _vanesc[)e]re_, to vanish--_vanus_, empty.]

EVANGEL, e-van'jel, _n._ (_poet._) good news, esp. the gospel: a salutary
principle, esp. relating to morals, politics, &c.--_adjs._ EVANGEL'IC, -AL,
of or pertaining to the gospel: relating to the four gospels: according to
the doctrine of the gospel: maintaining the truth taught in the gospel:
Protestant: applied to the school which insists especially on the total
depravity of unregenerate human nature, the justification of the sinner by
faith alone, the free offer of the gospel to all, and the plenary
inspiration and exclusive authority of the Bible.--_n._ EVANGEL'ICAL, one
who belongs to the evangelical school.--_adv._ EVANGEL'ICALLY.--_ns._
EVANGEL'ICALNESS; EVANGEL'ICISM, EVANGEL'ICALISM, evangelical principles;
EVANGELIS[=A]'TION, act of proclaiming the gospel.--_v.t._ EVAN'GEL[=I]SE,
to make known the good news: to make acquainted with the gospel.--_v.i._ to
preach the gospel from place to place.--_ns._ EVAN'GELISM; EVAN'GELIST, one
who evangelises: one of the four writers of the gospels: an assistant of
the apostles: one authorised to preach, but without a fixed charge;
EVANGELIS'TARY, a book containing passages from the gospels to be read at
divine service--also EVANGELIST[=A]'RION, EVAN'GELIARY.--_adj._
EVANGELIS'TIC, tending or intended to evangelise.--_n._ EVAN'GELY (_obs._),
the gospel. [L. _evangelicus_--Gr. _euangelikos_--_eu_, well, _angellein_,
to bring news.]

EVANISH, e-van'ish, _v.i._ to vanish: to die away.--_ns._ EVAN'ISHMENT,
EVANI'TION. [See EVANESCE.]

EVAPORATE, e-vap'or-[=a]t, _v.i._ to fly off in vapour: to pass into an
invisible state: to depart, vanish.--_v.t._ to convert into steam or
gas.--_adj._ EVAP'ORABLE, able to be evaporated or converted into
vapour.--_n._ EVAPOR[=A]'TION, act of evaporating or passing off in steam
or gas: the process by which a substance changes into the state of
vapour.--_adj._ EVAP'OR[=A]TIVE.--_ns._ EVAP'ORATOR; EVAPOROM'ETER. [L.
_e_, off, _vapor[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_vapor_, vapour.]

EVASION, e-v[=a]-'zhun, _n._ act of evading or eluding: an attempt to
escape the force of an argument or accusation: an excuse.--_adjs._
EV[=A]'SIBLE, capable of being evaded; EV[=A]'SIVE, that evades or seeks to
evade: not straightforward: shuffling.--_adv._ EV[=A]'SIVELY.--_n._
EV[=A]'SIVENESS.

EVE, [=e]v, EVEN, [=e]v'n, _n._ (_poet._) evening: the night before a day
of note: the time just preceding a great event. [A.S. _['æ]fen_; Dut.
_avond_; Ger. _abend_.]

EVECTION, e-vek'shun, _n._ (_astron._) a lunar inequality resulting from
the combined effect of the irregularity of the motion of the perigee, and
alternate increase and decrease of the eccentricity of the moon's orbit.
[L. _evection-em_--_e_, out, _veh[)e]re_, _vectum_, to carry.]

EVEN, [=e]v'n, _adj._ flat: level: uniform: (_Shak._) straightforward:
parallel: equal on both sides: not odd, able to be divided by 2 without a
remainder.--_v.t._ to make even or smooth: to put on an equality: (_Shak._)
to act up to.--_adv._ exactly so: indeed: so much as: still.--_n._
EV'EN-CHRIS'TIAN (_obs._), fellow-Christian.--_adj._ EV'EN-DOWN,
straight-down (of rain): downright, honest.--_adv._ thoroughly.--_adj._
EV'EN-HAND'ED, with an equal, fair, or impartial hand: just.--_adv._
EV'ENLY.--_adj._ EV'EN-MIND'ED, having an even or calm mind: equable.--_n._
EV'ENNESS.--BE EVEN WITH, to be revenged on: to be quits with. [A.S.
_efen_; Dut. _even_, Ger. _eben_.]

EVENING, [=e]v'ning, _n._ the close of the daytime: the decline or end of
life: an evening party or gathering.--_ns._ EV'ENFALL, early evening,
twilight; EVE'NING-DRESS, the dress worn by ladies and gentlemen at evening
parties; EVE'NING-PRIM'ROSE, a species of _Oenothera_, native of Virginia,
but now naturalised in many parts of Europe on river-banks, in thickets,
&c.--eaten after dinner it incites to wine-drinking; EVE'NING STAR, applied
to Venus, when seen in the west setting soon after the sun; EV'ENSONG,
evening prayer, the Anglican form appointed to be said or sung at evening:
the time proper for such; EV'ENTIDE, the time of evening, evening. [A.S.
_['æ]fnung_, from _['æ]fen_, even.]

EVENT, e-vent', _n._ that which happens: the result: any incident or
occurrence: an item in a programme or series of sports.--_adjs._ EVENT'FUL,
full of events: momentous; EVENT'[=U]AL, happening as a consequence:
final.--_n._ EVENT[=U]AL'ITY, a contingency: (_phren._) the propensity to
take notice of events, changes, or facts.--_adv._ EVENT'[=U]ALLY, finally:
at length. [L. _eventus_--_even[)i]re_--_e_, out, _ven[=i]re_, to come.]

EVENTRATION, e-ven-tr[=a]'shun, _n._ act of opening the belly; protrusion
of an organ from the abdomen.

EVER, ev'[.e]r, _adv._ always: eternally: at any time: at all times:
continually: in any degree.--_n._ EV'ERGLADE, a large shallow lake or
marsh: chiefly in _pl._ such a marsh in southern Florida, enclosing
thousands of islets covered with dense thickets.--_adj._ EV'ERGREEN, always
green.--_n._ a plant that remains green all the year.--_adv._ EVERMORE',
unceasingly: eternally.--EVER AND ANON, now and then.--EVERGLADE STATE,
Florida.--EVER SO, to any extent; FOR EVER, to all eternity; SELDOM OR
EVER, used for seldom if ever, or seldom or never. [A.S. _['æ]fre_, always;
der. uncertain; perh. cog. with Goth. _aiws_.]

EVERLASTING, ev-[.e]r-last'ing, _adj._ endless: eternal.--_n._
eternity.--_adv._ EVERLAST'INGLY.--_n._ EVERLAST'INGNESS.--EVERLASTING
FLOWER, the popular name of certain plants, whose flowers may be kept for
years without much diminution of beauty; FROM, or TO, EVERLASTING, from, or
to, all eternity; THE EVERLASTING, God.

EVERT, e-vert', _v.t._ to turn inside out.--_n._ EVER'SION. [L.
_evert[)e]re_--_e_, out, _vert[)e]re_, _versum_, to turn.]

EVERY, ev'[.e]r-i, _adj._ each one of a number: all taken
separately.--_pron._ EV'ERYBODY, every person.--_adj._ EV'ERYDAY, of or
belonging to every day, daily: common, usual: pertaining to week-days, in
opposition to Sunday.--_pron._ EV'ERYTHING, all things: all.--_advs._
EV'ERYWAY, in every way or respect; EV'ERYWHEN, at all times; EV'ERYWHERE,
in every place.--EVERY BIT, the whole; EVERY NOW AND THEN, or AGAIN, at
intervals; EVERY OTHER, every second--e.g. every other day, every alternate
day. [A.S. _['æ]fre_, ever, and _['æ]lc_, each.]

EVICT, e-vikt', _v.t._ to dispossess by law: to expel from.--_ns._
EVIC'TION, the act of evicting from house or lands: the dispossession of
one person by another having a better title of property in land; EVIC'TOR.
[L. _evictus_, pa.p. of _evinc[)e]re_, to overcome.]

EVIDENT, ev'i-dent, _adj._ that is visible or can be seen: clear to the
mind: obvious.--_n._ EV'IDENCE, that which makes evident: means of proving
an unknown or disputed fact: information in a law case, as 'to give
evidence:' a witness.--_v.t._ to render evident: (_obs._) to attest,
prove.--_adjs._ EVIDEN'TIAL, EVIDEN'TIARY, furnishing evidence: tending to
prove.--_advs._ EVIDEN'TIALLY; EV'IDENTLY (_N.T._), visibly.--IN EVIDENCE,
received by the court as competent evidence: plainly visible,
conspicuous--a penny-a-liner's phrase adopted from the Fr. _en evidence_;
TURN KING'S (QUEEN'S) EVIDENCE (of an accomplice in a crime), to give
evidence against his partners. [L. _evidens_, _-entis_--_e_, out,
_vid[=e]re_, to see.]

EVIL, [=e]'vl, _adj._ wicked: mischievous: disagreeable:
unfortunate.--_adv._ in an evil manner: badly.--_n._ that which produces
unhappiness or calamity: harm: wickedness: depravity: sin.--_ns._
E'VIL-DO'ER, one who does evil; E'VIL-EYE, a supposed power to cause evil
or harm by the look of the eye.--_adj._ E'VIL-F[=A]'VOURED, having a
repulsive appearance: ugly.--_n._ E'VIL-F[=A]'VOUREDNESS (_B._), ugliness:
deformity.--_adv._ E'VILLY, in an evil manner: not well.--_adj._
E'VIL-MIND'ED, inclined to evil: malicious: wicked.--_ns._ E'VILNESS, state
of being evil: wickedness; E'VIL-SPEAK'ING, the speaking of evil:
slander.--_adj._ E'VIL-STARRED (_Tenn._), born under the influence of an
unpropitious star, unfortunate.--_n._ E'VIL-WORK'ER, one who works or does
evil.--THE EVIL ONE, the devil.--SPEAK EVIL OF, to slander. [A.S. _yfel_;
Dut. _euvel_; Ger. _übel_. _Ill_ is a doublet.]

EVINCE, e-vins', _v.t._ to prove beyond doubt: to show clearly: to make
evident.--_n._ EVINCE'MENT.--_adj._ EVINC'IBLE, that may be evinced or made
evident.--_adv._ EVINC'IBLY.--_adj._ EVINC'IVE, tending to evince, prove,
or demonstrate. [L. _evinc[)e]re_--_e_, inten., _vinc[)e]re_, to overcome.]

EVIRATE, [=e]'vir-[=a]t, _v.t._ to castrate: to render weak or unmanly. [L.
_evir[=a]re_--_e_, out, _vir_, a man.]

EVISCERATE, e-vis'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to tear out the viscera or bowels: to
gut.--_n._ EVISCER[=A]'TION. [L. _e_, out, _viscera_, the bowels.]

EVITE, e-v[=i]t', _v.i._ to avoid.--_v.t._ EV'ITATE (_Shak._) to
avoid.--_n._ EVIT[=A]'TION, the act of shunning. [L. _evit[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _vit[=a]re_, to shun.]

EVITERNAL, ev-i-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ eternal.--_adv._ EVITER'NALLY.--_n._
EVITER'NITY.

EVOKE, e-v[=o]k', _v.t._ to call out: to draw out or bring forth.--_v.t._
EV'OCATE, to call up (spirits) from the dead.--_n._ EVOC[=A]'TION. [L.
_evoc[=a]re_--_e_, out, and _voc[=a]re_, to call.]

EVOLUTION, ev-ol-[=u]'shun, _n._ the act of unrolling or unfolding: gradual
working out or development: a series of things unfolded: the doctrine
according to which higher forms of life have gradually arisen out of lower:
(_arith._, _alg._) the extraction of roots: (_pl._) the orderly movements
of a body of troops or of ships of war.--_adjs._ EVOL[=U]'TIONAL,
EVOL[=U]'TIONARY, of or pertaining to evolution.--_ns._ EVOL[=U]'TIONISM,
the theory of evolution; EVOL[=U]'TIONIST, one skilled in evolutions or
military movements: one who believes in evolution as a principle in
science.--_adj._ EV'OL[=U]TIVE. [L. _evolutionem_--_evolv[)e]re_.]

EVOLVE, e-volv', _v.t._ to unroll: to disclose: to develop: to
unravel.--_v.i._ to disclose itself: to result.--_n._ EV'OL[=U]TE
(_math._), an original curve from which another curve (the _involute_) is
described by the end of a thread gradually unwound from the former.--_adj._
EVOLV'ABLE, that can be drawn out.--_n._ EVOLVE'MENT.--_adj._ EVOLV'ENT.
[L. _evolv[)e]re_--_e_, out, _volv[)e]re_, _vol[=u]tum_, to roll.]

EVULGATE, e-vul'g[=a]t, _v.t._ to divulge: to publish. [L. _evulg[=a]re_,
_[=a]tum_--_e_, out, _vulgus_, the people.]

EVULSION, e-vul'shun, _n._ a plucking out by force. [L. _e_, out,
_vell[)e]re_, _vulsum_, to pluck.]

EWE, [=u], _n._ a female sheep.--_ns._ EWE'-CHEESE, cheese made from the
milk of ewes; EWE'-LAMB, a female lamb: a poor man's one possession--used
in reference to 2 Sam. xii.; EWE'-NECK, of horses, a thin hollow
neck.--_adj._ EWE'-NECKED. [A.S. _eowu_; cf. L. _ovis_, Gr. _oïs_, Sans,
_avi_, a sheep.]

EWER, [=u]'[.e]r, _n._ a large jug with a wide spout, placed on a washstand
to hold water. [Through Fr. from L. _aquarium_--_aqua_, water, whence also
Fr. _eau_.]

EWEST, [=u]'est, _adj._ (_Scot._) near.

EWFT, eft, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as EFT (1).

EWHOW, [=a]'hwow, _interj._ (_Scot._) an exclamation of sorrow.

EWIGKEIT, [=a]'vih-k[=i]t, _n._ eternity. [Ger.]

EX, eks, used adjectively in words like _ex_-emperor, to signify _late_.
See Prefixes in Appendix.

EXACERBATE, egz-as'[.e]r-b[=a]t, or eks-, _v.t._ to embitter: to provoke:
to render more violent or severe, as a disease.--_ns._ EXACERB[=A]'TION,
EXACERBES'CENCE, increase of irritation or violence, esp. the increase of a
fever or disease: embitterment. [L. _exacerb[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, and
_acerb[=a]re_, from _acerbus_, bitter.]

EXACT, egz-akt', _v.t._ to force from: to compel full payment of: to make
great demands, or to demand urgently: to extort: to inflict.--_v.i._ to
practice extortion.--_adj._ precise: careful: punctual: true: certain or
demonstrable.--_p.adj._ EXACT'ING, compelling full payment of: unreasonable
in making demands.--_ns._ EXAC'TION, act of exacting or demanding strictly:
an oppressive demand: that which is exacted, as excessive work or tribute;
EXACT'ITUDE, exactness: correctness.--_adv._ EXACT'LY.--_ns._ EXACT'MENT;
EXACT'NESS, quality of being exact: accuracy; EXACT'OR, -ER, one who
exacts: an extortioner: one who claims rights, often too strictly:--_fem._
EXACT'RESS.--EXACT SCIENCES, the mathematical sciences, of which the
results are demonstrable. [L. _exig[)e]re_, _exactum_--_ex_, out,
_ag[)e]re_, to drive.]

EXAGGERATE, egz-aj'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to magnify unduly: to represent too
strongly: to intensify.--_n._ EXAGGER[=A]'TION, extravagant representation:
a statement in excess of the truth.--_adjs._ EXAGG'ERATIVE, EXAGG'ERATORY,
containing exaggeration or tending to exaggerate.--_n._ EXAGG'ERATOR. [L.
_exagger[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, _agger[=a]re_, to heap up--_agger_, a
heap.]

EXALBUMINOUS, eks-al-b[=u]'min-us, _adj._ (_bot._) without albumen.--Also
EXALB[=U]'MINOSE.

EXALGIN, eks-al'jin, _n._ an anodyne obtained from coal-tar products.
[Gr.,--_ex_, out, _algos_, pain.]

EXALT, egz-awlt', _v.t._ to elevate to a higher position: to elate or fill
with the joy of success: to extol: (_chem._) to refine or subtilise.--_n._
EXALT[=A]'TION, elevation in rank or dignity: high estate: elation:
(_astrol._) the position of a planet in the zodiac where it was supposed to
wield the greatest influence.--_p.adj._ EXALT'ED, elevated: lofty:
dignified.--_n._ EXALT'EDNESS. [L. _exalt[=a]re_--_ex_, _altus_, high.]

EXAMINE, egz-am'in, _v.t._ to test: to inquire into: to question.--_n._
EX[=A]'MEN, examination.--_adj._ EXAM'INABLE.--_ns._ EXAM'INANT, an
examiner; EXAM'INATE, one who is examined; EXAMIN[=A]'TION, careful search
or inquiry: trial: testing of capacity of pupils, also contracted to EXAM.;
EXAMIN[=EE]', one under examination; EXAM'INER, EXAM'IN[=A]TOR, one who
examines.--_p.adj._ EXAM'INING, that examines, or is appointed to examine.
[Fr.,--L. _examin[=a]re_--_examen_ (=_exagmen_), the tongue of a balance.]

EXAMPLE, egz-am'pl, _n._ that which is taken as a specimen of the rest, or
as an illustration of the rule, &c.: the person or thing to be imitated or
avoided: a pattern: a warning: a former instance.--_v.t._ to exemplify: to
instance.--_n._ EXAM'PLAR, a pattern, model.--_adj._ EXAM'PLARY, serving
for an example. [O. Fr.,--L. _exemplum_--_exim[)e]re_, to take out--_ex_,
out of, _em[)e]re_, _emptum_, to take.]

EXANIMATE, egz-an'i-m[=a]t, _adj._ lifeless: spiritless: depressed.--_n._
EXANIM[=A]'TION.--_adj._ EXAN'IMOUS [L. _exanim[=a]tus_--_ex_, neg.,
_animus_, spirit, life.]

EXANTHEMA, eks-an-th[=e]'ma, _n._ one of a class of febrile diseases with
distinctive eruptions on the skin, appearing at a definite period and
running a recognisable course:--_pl._ EXANTH[=E]'MATA.--_adjs._
EXANTHEMAT'IC, EXANTHEM'ATOUS.--_ns._ EXANTHEMATOL'OGY; EXANTH[=E]'SIS, the
appearing of an exanthema. [Gr.,--_ex_, out, _antheein_, to blossom.]

EXARCH, eks'ärk, _n._ name formerly given to the vicegerent of the
Byzantine empire in Italy: a bishop: (_Gr. Church_) an ecclesiastical
inspector.--_n._ EXARCH'ATE, the office of an exarch. [Gr.
_exarchos_--_ex_, and _archein_, to lead.]

EXASPERATE, egz-as'p[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make very angry: to irritate in
a high degree.--_p.adj._ irritated.--_adjs._ EXAS'PERATING, EXAS'PERATIVE,
provoking.--_ns._ EXASPER[=A]'TION, act of irritating; state of being
exasperated: provocation: rage: aggravation; EXAS'PERATOR. [L. _ex_,
inten., _asper[=a]re_, to make rough--_asper_, rough.]

EXCALIBUR, eks-kal'ib-[.e]r, _n._ the name of King Arthur's sword. [O. Fr.
_escalibor_--_caliburn_; cf. Ir. _caladbolg_, a famous sword.]

EXCAMBION, eks-kam'bi-on, _n._ legal term for the exchange of lands--also
EXCAM'BIUM.--_v.t._ EXCAMB', to exchange. [Low L. _excambi[=a]re_.]

EXCAVATE, eks'ka-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to hollow or scoop out: to dig out.--_ns._
EXCAV[=A]'TION, act of excavating: a hollow or cavity made by excavating;
EX'CAVATOR, one who excavates: a machine used for excavating. [L.
_excav[=a]re_--_ex_, out, _cavus_, hollow.]

EXCEED, ek-s[=e]d', _v.t._ to go beyond the limit or measure of: to surpass
or excel.--_v.i._ to go beyond a given or proper limit.--_p.adj._
EXCEED'ING, surpassing, excessive.--_adv._ EXCEED'INGLY, very much:
greatly. [L. _ex_, beyond, _ced[)e]re_, _cessum_, to go.]

EXCEL, ek-sel', _v.t._ to be superior to: to exceed: to surpass.--_v.i._ to
have good qualities in a high degree: to perform very meritorious actions:
to be superior:--_pr.p._ excel'ling; _pa.p._ excelled'.--_ns._ EX'CELLENCE,
EX'CELLENCY, great merit: any excellent quality: worth: greatness: a title
of honour given to persons high in rank or office.--_adj._ EX'CELLENT,
surpassing others in some good quality: of great virtue, worth, &c.:
superior: valuable.--_adv._ EX'CELLENTLY.--_adj._ EXCEL'SIOR (L. _comp._),
higher still. [L. _excell[)e]re_--_ex_, out, up, and a word from the root
of _celsus_, high.]

EXCEPT, ek-sept', _v.t._ to take or leave out: to exclude.--_v.i._ to
object.--_prep._ leaving out: excluding: but.--_adj._ and _n._
EXCEPT'ANT.--_prep._ EXCEPT'ING, with the exception of, except.--_n._
EXCEP'TION, the act of excepting: that which is excepted: exclusion:
objection: offence.--_adj._ EXCEP'TIONABLE, objectionable.--_adv._
EXCEP'TIONABLY.--_adj._ EXCEP'TIONAL, peculiar.--_adv._
EXCEP'TIONALLY.--_adjs._ EXCEP'TIOUS, disposed to take exception;
EXCEPT'IVE, including, making, or being an exception; EXCEPT'LESS
(_Shak._), making an exception, usual.--_n._ EXCEPT'OR. [L. _excip[)e]re_,
_exceptum_--_ex_, out, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

EXCERPT, ek's[.e]rpt, or ek-s[.e]rpt', _n._ a passage selected from a book,
an extract.--_v.t._ EXCERPT', to select: to extract.--_ns._ EXCERPT'ING,
EXCERP'TION; EXCERP'TOR. [L. _excerptum_, pa.p. of _excerp[)e]re_--_ex_,
out, _carp[)e]re_, to pick.]

EXCESS, ek-ses', _n._ a going beyond what is usual or proper: intemperance:
that which exceeds: the degree by which one thing exceeds another.--_adj._
EXCES'SIVE, beyond what is right and proper: immoderate: violent.--_adv._
EXCES'SIVELY.--_n._ EXCES'SIVENESS.--CARRY TO EXCESS, to do too much. [L.
_excessus_--_exced[)e]re_, _excessum_, to go beyond.]

EXCHANGE, eks-ch[=a]nj', _v.t._ to give or leave one place or thing for
another: to give and take mutually: to barter.--_n._ the giving and taking
one thing for another: barter: the thing exchanged: process by which
accounts between distant parties are settled by bills instead of money: the
difference between the value of money in different places: the building
where merchants, &c., meet for business.--_n._ EXCHANGEABIL'ITY.--_adj._
EXCHANGE'ABLE, that may be exchanged.--_n._ EXCHAN'GER, one who exchanges
or practises exchange: (_B._) a money-changer, a banker. [O. Fr.
_eschangier_ (Fr. _échanger_)--Low L. _excambi[=a]re_--L. _ex_, out,
_camb[=i]re_, to barter.]

EXCHEAT, eks-ch[=e]t', _n._ (_Spens._). Same as ESCHEAT.

EXCHEQUER, eks-chek'[.e]r, _n._ a superior court which had formerly to do
only with the revenue, but now also with common law, so named from the
chequered cloth which formerly covered the table, and on which the accounts
were reckoned.--_v.t._ to proceed against a person in the Court of
Exchequer.--EXCHEQUER BILL, bill issued at the Exchequer, under the
authority of acts of parliament, as security for money advanced to the
government.--CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (see CHANCELLOR); COURT OF
EXCHEQUER, originally a revenue court, became a division of the High Court
of Justice in 1875, and is now merged in the Queen's Bench Division. [From
root of _check_, _checker_.]

EXCIDE, ek-sid', _v.t._ to cut off. [L. _excid[)e]re_--_ex_, out,
_cæd[)e]re_, to cut.]

EXCIPIENT, ek-sip'i-ent, _n._ a substance mixed with a medicine to give it
consistence, or used as a vehicle for its administration.

EXCISE, ek-s[=i]z', _n._ a tax on certain home commodities and on licenses
for certain trades; the department in the civil administration which is
concerned with this tax.--_v.t._ to subject to excise duty.--_adj._
EXCIS'ABLE, liable to excise duty.--_n._ EXCISE'MAN, an officer charged
with collecting the excise. [Old Dut. _excijs_--O. Fr. _acceis_, tax--Low
L. _accens[=a]re_, to tax--_ad_, to, _census_, tax.]

EXCISE, ek-s[=i]z', _v.t._ to cut off or out.--_n._ EXCI'SION, a cutting
out or off of any kind: extirpation. [L. _excid[)e]re_, to cut out--_ex_,
out, _cæd[)e]re_, to cut.]

EXCITE, ek-s[=i]t', _v.t._ to call into activity: to stir up: to rouse: to
irritate.--_ns._ EXC[=I]TABIL'ITY, EXC[=I]T'ABLENESS.--_adj._
EXC[=I]T'ABLE, capable of being excited, easily excited.--_ns._ EXCITANT
(ek'sit-ant, or ek-s[=i]t'ant), that which excites or rouses the vital
activity of the body: a stimulant; EXCIT[=A]'TION, act of exciting: means
of excitement: state of excitement.--_adjs._ EXC[=I]T'[=A]TIVE,
EXC[=I]T'[=A]TORY, tending to excite.--_p.adj._ EXC[=I]T'ED,
agitated.--_ns._ EXCITE'MENT, agitation: that which excites;
EXC[=I]T'ER.--_p.adj._ EXC[=I]T'ING, tending to excite.--_adj._
EXC[=I]'TO-M[=O]'TOR, exhibiting muscular contraction. [Fr.,--L.
_excit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_exci[=e]re_--_ex_, out, _ci[=e]re_, to set in
motion.]

EXCLAIM, eks-kl[=a]m', _v.i._ to cry out: to utter or speak
vehemently.--_n._ an exclamation, outcry.--_n._ EXCLAM[=A]'TION, vehement
utterance: outcry: an uttered expression of surprise, and the like: the
mark expressing this (!): an interjection.--_adjs._ EXCLAM'ATIVE,
EXCLAM'ATORY, containing or expressing exclamation. [Fr. _exclamer_--L.
_exclam[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out, _clam[=a]re_, to shout.]

EXCLAVE, eks'kl[=a]v, _n._ a part of a country, province, &c. disjoined
from the main part--opp. to _Enclave_.

EXCLUDE, eks-kl[=oo]d', _v.t._ to close or shut out: to thrust out: to
hinder from entrance: to hinder from participation: to except.--_ns._
EXCLU'SION, a shutting or putting out: ejection: exception; EXCLU'SIONISM;
EXCLU'SIONIST, one who excludes, or would exclude, another from a
privilege.--_adj._ EXCLU'SIVE, able or tending to exclude: debarring from
participation: sole: not taking into account.--_n._ one of a number who
exclude others from their society.--_adv._ EXCLU'SIVELY.--_ns._
EXCLU'SIVENESS; EXCLU'SIVISM.--_adj._ EXCLU'SORY, exclusive.--EXCLUSIVE
DEALING, the act of abstaining deliberately from any business or other
transactions with persons of opposite political or other convictions to
one's own--a euphemism for _boycotting_ (q.v.). [L. _exclud[)e]re_--_ex_,
out, _claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

EXCOGITATE, eks-koj'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to discover by thinking: to think
earnestly or laboriously.--_n._ EXCOGIT[=A]'TION, laborious thinking:
invention: contrivance. [L. _excogit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out,
_cogit[=a]re_, to think.]

EXCOMMUNICATE, eks-kom-[=u]n'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to put out of or expel from
the communion of the church: to deprive of church privileges.--_adj._
EXCOMMUN'ICABLE.--_ns._ EXCOMMUNIC[=A]'TION, act of expelling from the
communion of a church--(_Milt._) EXCOMMUN'ION.--_adj._ EXCOMMUN'ICATORY, of
or pertaining to excommunication. [From Late L. _excommunic[=a]re_--L.
_ex_, out, _communis_, common.]

EXCORIATE, eks-k[=o]'ri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to strip the skin from.--_n._
EXCORI[=A]'TION, the act of excoriating: the state of being excoriated. [L.
_excori[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, from, _corium_, the skin.]

EXCORTICATE, eks-kor'ti-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to strip the bark off.--_n._
EXCORTIC[=A]'TION.

EXCREMENT, eks'kre-ment, _n._ useless matter discharged from the animal
system: dung.--_adjs._ EXCREMENT'AL, EXCREMENTI'TIAL, EXCREMENTI'TIOUS,
pertaining to or containing excrement. [L.
_excrementum_--_excern[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _cern[)e]re_, to sift.]

EXCRESCENCE, eks-kres'ens, _n._ that which grows out unnaturally from
anything else: an outbreak: a wart or tumour: a superfluous part.--_ns._
EX'CREMENT, an outgrowth; EXCRES'CENCY, state of being excrescent:
excrescence.--_adjs._ EXCRES'CENT, growing out: superfluous;
EXCRESCEN'TIAL. [Fr.,--L.,--_excresc[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _cresc[)e]re_, to
grow.]

EXCRETE, eks-kr[=e]t', _v.t._ to separate from: to eject.--_ns.pl._
EXCR[=E]'TA, EXCR[=E]TES', matters discharged from the animal body.--_n._
EXCR[=E]'TION, act of excreting matter from the animal system: that which
is excreted.--_adjs._ EXCR[=E]'TIVE, able to excrete; EXCR[=E]'TORY, having
the quality of excreting.--_n._ a duct that helps to receive and excrete
matter. [L. _ex_, from, _cern[)e]re_, _cretum_, to separate.]

EXCRUCIATE, eks-kr[=oo]'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to torture: to rack: to pain,
grieve.--_p.adj._ EXCRU'CI[=A]TING, extremely painful: racking: torturing:
agonising.--_adv._ EXCRU'CIATINGLY.--_n._ EXCRUCI[=A]'TION, torture:
vexation. [L. _ex_, out, _cruci[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to crucify--_crux_,
_crucis_, a cross.]

EXCULPATE, eks-kul'p[=a]t, _v.t._ to clear from the charge of a fault or
crime: to absolve: to vindicate.--_n._ EXCULP[=A]'TION.--_adj._
EXCUL'PATORY, tending to free from the charge of fault or crime. [L. _ex_,
from, _culpa_, a fault.]

EXCURSION, eks-kur'shun, _n._ a going forth: an expedition: a trip for
pleasure or health: a wandering from the main subject: a
digression.--_adj._ EXCUR'RENT (_bot._), projecting beyond the edge or
point.--_vs.i._ EXCURSE', to digress; EXCUR'SIONISE, to go on an
excursion.--_n._ EXCUR'SIONIST, one who goes on a pleasure-trip.--_adj._
EXCUR'SIVE, rambling: deviating.--_adv._ EXCUR'SIVELY.--_ns._
EXCUR'SIVENESS; EXCUR'SUS, a dissertation on some particular point appended
to a book or chapter.--EXCURSION TRAIN, a special train, usually with
reduced fares, for persons making an excursion. [L. _excursio_--_ex_, out,
_curr[)e]re_, _cursum_, to run.]

EXCUSE, eks-k[=u]z', _v.t._ to free from blame or guilt: to forgive: to
free from an obligation: to release, dispense with: to make an apology or
ask pardon for.--_n._ (eks-k[=u]s') a plea offered in extenuation of a
fault: indulgence.--_adj._ EXCUS'ABLE, admitting of justification.--_n._
EXCUS'ABLENESS.--_adv._ EXCUS'ABLY.--_adj._ EXCUS'ATORY, making or
containing excuse: apologetic.--EXCUSE ME, an expression used as an apology
for any slight impropriety, or for controverting a statement that has been
made. [L. _excus[=a]re_--_ex_, from, _causa_, a cause, accusation.]

EXEAT, eks'[=e]-at, _n._ formal leave, as for a student to be out of
college for more than one night. [L., 'let him go out.']

EXECRATE, eks'e-kr[=a]t, _v.t._ to curse: to denounce evil against: to
detest utterly.--_adj._ EX'ECRABLE, deserving execration: detestable:
accursed.--_adv._ EX'ECRABLY.--_n._ EXECR[=A]'TION, act of execrating: a
curse pronounced: that which is execrated.--_adj._ EX'ECR[=A]TIVE, of or
belonging to execration.--_adv._ EX'ECR[=A]TIVELY.--_adj._ EX'ECR[=A]TORY.
[L. _exsecr[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to curse--_ex_, from, _sacer_, sacred.]

EXECUTE, eks'e-k[=u]t, _v.t._ to perform: to give effect to: to carry into
effect the sentence of the law: to put to death by law.--_adj._
EXEC'UTABLE, that can be executed.--_ns._ EXEC'UTANT, one who executes or
performs; EX'ECUTER; EXEC[=U]'TION, act of executing or performing:
accomplishment: completion: carrying into effect the sentence of a court of
law: the warrant for so doing: the infliction of capital punishment;
EXEC[=U]'TIONER, one who executes, esp. one who inflicts capital
punishment.--_adj._ EXEC'UTIVE, designed or fitted to execute: active:
qualifying for or pertaining to the execution of the law.--_n._ the power
or authority in government that carries the laws into effect: the persons
who administer the government.--_adv._ EXEC'UTIVELY.--_n._ EXEC'UTOR, one
who executes or performs: the person appointed to see a will carried into
effect:--_fem._ EXEC'UTRESS, EXEC'UTRIX.--_adj._ EXECUT[=O]'RIAL.--_n._
EXEC'UTORSHIP.--_adj._ EXEC'UTORY, executing official duties: designed to
be carried into effect. [Fr. _exécuter_--L. _exsequi_, _exsecutus_--_ex_,
out, _sequi_, to follow.]

EXEDRA, eks'e-dra, _n._ a raised platform with steps, in the open air: an
apse, recess, niche--also EX'HEDRA:--_pl._ EX'EDRÆ. [L.]

EXEGESIS, eks-e-j[=e]'sis, _n._ the science of interpretation, esp. of the
Scriptures.--_ns._ EX'EGETE, EXEGET'IST, one who interprets the
Scriptures.--_adjs._ EXEGET'IC, -AL, pertaining to exegesis:
explanatory.--_adv._ EXEGET'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ EXEGET'ICS, the science of
exegesis. [Gr. _ex[=e]gesis_--_ex[=e]geesthai_, to explain--_ex_, out,
_h[=e]geesthai_, to guide.]

EXEME, eks-[=e]m', _v.t._ (_Scot._) to release, exempt. [L.
_exim[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _em[)e]re_, to take.]

EXEMPLAR, egz-em'plar, _n._ a person or thing to be imitated: the ideal
model of an artist: a type: an example.--_adv._ EX'EMPLARILY.--_ns._
EXEM'PLARINESS, the state or quality of being exemplary; EXEMPLAR'ITY,
exemplariness: exemplary conduct.--_adj._ EXEMPLARY (egz-em'plar-i, or
egz'em-plar-i), worthy of imitation or notice. [O. Fr. _exemplaire_--Low L.
_exemplarium_--_exemplum_, example.]

EXEMPLIFY, egz-em'pli-f[=i], _v.t._ to illustrate by example: to make an
attested copy of: to prove by an attested copy:--_pr.p._ exem'plifying;
_pa.p._ exem'plified.--_adj._ EXEM'PLIF[=I]ABLE.--_n._ EXEMPLIFIC[=A]'TION,
act of exemplifying: that which exemplifies: a copy or transcript. [L.
_exemplum_, example, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

EXEMPT, egz-emt', _v.t._ to free, or grant immunity (with _from_).--_adj._
taken out: not liable to: released: unaffected by.--_n._ EXEMP'TION, act of
exempting: state of being exempt: freedom from any service, duty, &c.:
immunity. [Fr.,--L. _exim[)e]re_, _exemptum_--_ex_, out, _em[)e]re_, to
buy.]

EXENTERATE, eks-en't[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to disembowel.--_p.adj._
disembowelled.--_n._ EXENTER[=A]'TION. [L. _exenter[=a]re_--Gr. _ex_, out,
_enteron_, intestine.]

EXEQUATUR, eks-e-kw[=a]'tur, _n._ an official recognition of a consul or
commercial agent given by the government of the country in which he is to
be. [L. _exequatur_='let him execute'--the opening word.]

EXEQUY, eks'e-kwi (only in _pl._ EXEQUIES, eks'e-kwiz), _n._ a funeral
procession: funeral rites.--_adj._ EX[=E]'QUIAL. [L. _exequiæ_--_ex_, out,
_sequi_, to follow.]

EXERCISE, eks'[.e]r-s[=i]z, _n._ a putting in practice: exertion of the
body for health or amusement: discipline: a lesson, task, academical
disputation, &c.: (_Shak._) skill: (_pl._) military drill: an act of
worship or devotion: a discourse, the discussion of a passage of Scripture,
giving the coherence of text and context, &c.--the _addition_, giving the
doctrinal propositions, &c.: the Presbytery itself.--_v.t._ to train by
use: to improve by practice: to afflict: to put in practice: to use: to
wield.--_adj._ EX'ERCISABLE. [O. Fr. _exercice_--L. _exercitium_--L.
_exerc[=e]re_, _-citum_--_ex_, out, _arc[=e]re_, to shut up.]

EXERCITATION, egz-er-sit-[=a]'shun, _n._ the putting into practice:
employment: exercise: a discourse. [L. _exercit[=a]re_--_exerc[=e]re_, to
exercise.]

EXERGUE, eks'erg, or egz-erg', _n._ the part on the reverse of a coin,
below the main device, often filled up by the date, &c.--_adj._ EXER'GUAL.
[Fr.,--Gr. _ex_, out, _ergon_, work.]

EXERT, egz-[.e]rt', _v.t._ to bring into active operation: to do or
perform.--_n._ EXER'TION, a bringing into active operation: effort:
attempt.--_adj._ EXERT'IVE, having the power or tendency to exert: using
exertion. [L. _exser[)e]re_, _exsertum_--_ex_, out, _ser[)e]re_, to put
together.]

EXEUNT, eks'[=e]-unt. See EXIT.

EXFOLIATE, eks-f[=o]'li-[=a]t, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to come off, or send off,
in scales.--_n._ EXFOLI[=A]'TION.--_adj._ EXF[=O]'LIATIVE. [L.
_exfoli[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, off, _folium_, a leaf.]

EXHALE, egz-h[=a]l', _v.t._ to emit or send out as vapour: to
evaporate.--_v.i._ to rise or be given off as vapour.--_adjs._ EXHAL'ABLE,
that can be exhaled; EXHAL'ANT, having the quality of exhaling.--_n._
EXHAL[=A]'TION, act or process of exhaling: evaporation: that which is
exhaled: vapour: steam. [Fr. _exhaler_--L. _exhal[=a]re_--_ex_, out,
_hal[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to breathe.]

EXHALE, egz-h[=a]l', _v.t._ to draw out: (_Shak._) to cause to flow. [Pfx.
_ex-_, and _hale_, to draw.]

EXHAUST, egz-awst', _v.t._ to draw out the whole of: to use the whole
strength of: to wear or tire out: to treat of or develop completely.--_n._
the exit of steam from the cylinder when it has done its work in propelling
the piston--escaping by the _exhaust-pipe_ and regulated by the
_exhaust-valve_.--_p.adj._ EXHAUST'ED, drawn out: emptied: consumed: tired
out.--_n._ EXHAUST'ER, he who or that which exhausts.--_adj._ EXHAUST'IBLE,
that may be exhausted.--_n._ EXHAUST'ION, act of exhausting or consuming:
state of being exhausted: extreme fatigue.--_adjs._ EXHAUST'IVE, tending to
exhaust; EXHAUST'LESS, that cannot be exhausted. [L. _exhaur[=i]re_,
_exhaustum_--_ex_, out, _haur[=i]re_, to draw.]

EXHEREDATE, eks-her'i-d[=a]t, _v.t._ (_rare_) to disinherit.--_n._
EXHERED[=A]'TION. [L. _exhered[=a]re_--_ex_, out, _heres_, _-edis_, heir.]

EXHIBIT, egz-ib'it, _v.t._ to hold forth or present to view: to present
formally or publicly.--_n._ (_law_) a document produced in court to be used
as evidence: something exhibited: an article at an exhibition.--_ns._
EXHIB'ITER, EXHIB'ITOR; EXHIBI'TION, presentation to view: display: a
public show, esp. of works of art, manufactures, &c.: that which is
exhibited: an allowance or bounty to scholars in a university;
EXHIBI'TIONER, one who enjoys an exhibition at a university;
EXHIBI'TIONIST.--_adjs._ EXHIB'ITIVE, serving for exhibition:
representative; EXHIB'ITORY, exhibiting.--MAKE AN EXHIBITION OF ONE'S SELF,
to behave foolishly, exciting ridicule. [L. _exhib[=e]re_, _-itum_--_ex_,
out, _hab[=e]re_, _-itum_, to have.]

EXHILARATE, egz-il'a-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to make hilarious or merry: to enliven:
to cheer.--_adj._ EXHIL'ARANT, exhilarating: exciting joy, mirth, or
pleasure.--_n._ an exhilarating medicine.--_p.adj._ EXHIL'AR[=A]TING,
cheering: gladdening.--_adv._ EXHIL'AR[=A]TINGLY.--_n._ EXHILAR[=A]'TION,
state of being exhilarated: joyousness.--_adjs._ EXHIL'AR[=A]TIVE,
EXHIL'AR[=A]TORY. [L. _exhilar[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, inten., _hilaris_,
cheerful.]

EXHORT, egz-hort', or egz-[=o]rt', _v.t._ to urge strongly to good deeds,
esp. by words or advice: to animate: to advise or warn.--_n._
EXHORT[=A]'TION, act of exhorting: language intended to exhort: counsel: a
religious discourse.--_adjs._ EXHORT'ATIVE, EXHORT'ATORY, tending to exhort
or advise. [L. _exhort[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_ex_, inten., _hort[=a]ri_, to
urge.]

EXHUME, eks-h[=u]m', _v.t._ to take out of the ground or place of burial:
to disinter: to bring to light--also EX'HUMATE.--_ns._ EXHUM[=A]'TION, act
of exhuming: disinterment; EXHUM'ER, one who exhumes. [L. _ex_, out of,
_humus_, the ground.]

EXIES, ek'siz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) ecstasy: hysterics. [Perh. from _access_,
an attack, a fit.]

EXIGENT, eks'i-jent, _adj._ pressing: demanding immediate attention or
action.--_n._ end, extremity: (_Browning_) a needed amount.--_adj._
EXIGEANT', exacting.--_n.fem._ EXIGEANTE'.--_ns._ EX'IGENCE, EX'IGENCY,
pressing necessity: emergency: distress.--_adj._ EX'IGIBLE, capable of
being exacted.--_ns._ EXIG[=U]'ITY, EXIG'UOUSNESS.--_adj._ EXIG'UOUS,
small: slender. [L. _exigens_, _-entis_--_exig[)e]re_--_ex_, out,
_ag[)e]re_, to drive.]

EXILE, eks'[=i]l, or egz'[=i]l, _n._ state of being sent out of one's
native country: expulsion from home: banishment: one away from his native
country.--_v.t._ to expel from one's native country, to banish.--_n._
EX'[=I]LEMENT, banishment.--_adj._ EXIL'IC, pertaining to exile, esp. that
of the Jews in Babylon. [O. Fr. _exil_--L. _exsilium_, banishment--_ex_,
out of, and root of _sal[=i]re_, to leap.]

EXILITY, eks-il'i-ti, _n._ slenderness, smallness: refinement. [L.
_exilis_, slender, contraction for _exigilis_.]

EXIMIOUS, eg-zim'i-us, _adj._ excellent, distinguished. [L.
_eximius_--_exim[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _em[)e]re_, to take.]

EXIST, egz-ist', _v.i._ to have an actual being: to live: to continue to
be.--_n._ EXIST'ENCE, state of existing or being: continued being: life:
anything that exists: a being.--_adjs._ EXIST'ENT, having being: at present
existing; EXISTEN'TIAL. [L. _exist[)e]re_, _exsist[)e]re_--_ex_, out,
_sist[)e]re_, to make to stand.]

EXIT, eks'it, _n._ a direction in playbooks to an actor to go off the
stage: the departure of a player from the stage: any departure: a way of
departure: a passage out: a quitting of the world's stage, or life:
death:--_pl._ EX'EUNT.--_v.i._ to make an exit. [L. _exit_, he goes out,
_exeunt_, they go out--_ex[=i]re_, to go out--_ex_, out, and _[=i]re_,
_itum_, to go.]

EX LIBRIS, eks l[=i]'bris, _n._ a book-plate--lit. 'from the books of.'
[L.]

EXODE, ek's[=o]d, _n._ the concluding part of a Greek drama: a farce or
afterpiece. [Gr.]

EXODUS, eks'o-dus, _n._ a going out or departure, esp. that of the
Israelites from Egypt (1491 B.C., Usher): the second book of the Old
Testament.--_adj._ EXOD'IC.--_n._ EX'ODIST, one who goes out: an emigrant.
[L.,--Gr. _exodos_--_ex_, out, _hodos_, a way.]

EXOGAMY, eks-og'a-mi, _n._ the practice of marrying only outside of one's
own tribe.--_adj._ EXOG'AMOUS. [Gr. _exo_, out, _gamos_, marriage.]

EXOGEN, eks'o-jen, _n._ a plant belonging to the great class that increases
by layers growing on the outside of the wood.--_adj._ EXOG'ENOUS (-oj'),
growing by successive additions to the outside. [L. _ex[=o]_, outside, and
_gen_, root of _gignesthai_, to be produced.]

EXOMIS, eks-[=o]'mis, _n._ a sleeveless vest, worn by workmen and
slaves--(_Browning_) EX[=O]'MION. [Gr. _ex[=o]mis_--_ex_, out, _[=o]mos_,
shoulder.]

EXON, eks'on, _n._ one of the four officers of the yeomen of the Royal
Guard. [App. intended to express the pronunciation of Fr. _exempt_ (Dr
Murray).]

EXONERATE, egz-on'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to free from the burden of blame or
obligation: to acquit.--_n._ EXONER[=A]'TION, act of exonerating or freeing
from a charge or blame.--_adj._ EXON'ERATIVE, freeing from a burden or
obligation. [L. _exoner[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, from, _onus_, _oneris_,
burden.]

EXOPHAGY, eks-of'a-ji, _n._ the custom among cannibals of eating only the
flesh of persons not of their own tribe.--_adj._ EXOPH'AGOUS. [Formed from
Gr. _ex[=o]_, outside, _phagein_, to eat.]

EXORABLE, ek's[=o]-ra-bl, _adj._ capable of being moved by entreaty.--_n._
EXOR[=A]'TION, entreaty.

EXORBITANT, egz-or'bi-tant, _adj._ going beyond the usual limits:
excessive.--_ns._ EXOR'BITANCE, EXOR'BITANCY, extravagance:
enormity.--_adv._ EXOR'BITANTLY.--_v.i._ EXOR'BIT[=A]TE, to stray. [L.
_exorbitans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _exorbit[=a]re_--_ex_, out of, _orbita_, a
track--_orbis_, a circle.]

EXORCISE, eks'or-s[=i]z, or eks-or'-, _v.t._ to adjure by some holy name:
to call forth or drive away, as a spirit: to deliver from the influence of
an evil spirit.--_ns._ EX'ORCISM, act of exorcising or expelling evil
spirits by certain ceremonies: a formula for exorcising; EX'ORCIST, one who
exorcises or pretends to expel evil spirits by adjurations: (_R.C. Church_)
the third of the minor orders. [Through Late L., from Gr.
_exorkizein_--_ex_, out, _horkos_, an oath.]

EXORDIUM, egz-or'di-um, _n._ the introductory part of a discourse or
composition.--_adj._ EXOR'DIAL, pertaining to the exordium: introductory.
[L. _exord[=i]ri_--_ex_, out, _ord[=i]ri_, to begin.]

EXOSKELETON, ek-s[=o]-skel'e-tun, _n._ any structure produced by the
hardening of the integument, as the scales of fish, but esp. when bony, as
the carapace of the turtle, &c.--_adj._ EXOSKEL'ETAL. [Gr. _ex[=o]_,
outside, _skeleton_.]

EXOSMOSE, eks'os-m[=o]z, _n._ the passage outward of fluids, gases, &c.
through porous media, esp. living animal membranes--also
EXOSM[=O]'SIS.--_adj._ EXOSMOT'IC. [L.,--Gr. _ex_, out, _[=o]smos_,
pushing.]

EXOSTOME, eks'os-t[=o]m, _n._ the small opening in the outer coating of the
ovule of a plant. [Gr. _ex[=o]_, without, _stoma_, a mouth.]

EXOSTOSIS, eks-os-t[=o]'sis, _n._ (_anat._) morbid enlargement of a bone.
[Gr. _ex_, out, _osteon_, a bone.]

EXOTERIC, -AL, eks-o-ter'ik, -al, _adj._ external: fit to be communicated
to the public or multitude--opp. to _Esoteric_.--_n._ EXOTER'ICISM. [Gr.
_ex[=o]terikos_--comp. formed from _ex[=o]_, outside.]

EXOTIC, egz-ot'ik, _adj._ introduced from a foreign country--the opposite
of _indigenous_.--_n._ anything of foreign origin: something not native to
a country, as a plant, a word, a custom.--_ns._ EXOT'ICISM, EX'OTISM.
[L.,--Gr. _ex[=o]tikos_--_ex[=o]_, outside.]

EXPAND, eks-pand', _v.t._ to spread out: to lay open: to enlarge in bulk or
surface: to develop, or bring out in fuller detail.--_v.i._ to become
opened: to enlarge.--_ns._ EXPANSE', a wide extent of space: the firmament;
EXPANSIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ EXPANS'IBLE, capable of being expanded.--_adv._
EXPANS'IBLY.--_adj._ EXPANS'ILE, capable of expansion.--_n._ EXPAN'SION,
act of expanding: state of being expanded: enlargement: that which is
expanded: immensity: extension.--_adj._ EXPANS'IVE, widely extended:
diffusive.--_adv._ EXPANS'IVELY.--_ns._ EXPANS'IVENESS; EXPANSIV'ITY. [L.
_expand[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _pand[)e]re_, _pansum_, to spread.]

EX PARTE, eks pär'ti, _adj._ on one side only: partial: prejudiced. [L.
_ex_, out, _pars_, _partis_, part.]

EXPATIATE, eks-p[=a]'shi-[=a]t, _v.i._ to range at large: to enlarge in
discourse, argument, or writing.--_n._ EXPATI[=A]'TION, act of expatiating
or enlarging in discourse.--_adjs._ EXP[=A]'TIATIVE, EXP[=A]'TIATORY,
expansive.--_n._ EXP[=A]'TIATOR. [L. _exspati[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_ex_, out
of, _spati[=a]ri_, to roam--_spatium_, space.]

EXPATRIATE, eks-p[=a]'tri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to send out of one's native
country: to banish, or exile.--_n._ EXPATRI[=A]'TION, act of expatriating:
exile, voluntary or compulsory. [Low L. _expatri[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_,
out of, _patria_, fatherland.]

EXPECT, eks-pekt', _v.t._ to wait for: to look forward to as something
about to happen: to anticipate: to hope.--_n._ (_Shak._)
expectation.--_ns._ EXPECT'ANCE, EXPECT'ANCY, act or state of expecting:
that which is expected: hope.--_adj._ EXPECT'ANT, looking or waiting
for.--_n._ one who expects: one who is looking or waiting for some benefit
or office.--_adv._ EXPECT'ANTLY.--_ns._ EXPECT[=A]'TION, act or state of
expecting: prospect of future good: that which is expected: the ground or
qualities for anticipating future benefits or excellence: promise: the
value of something expected: (_pl._) prospect of fortune or profit by a
will; EXPECT[=A]'TION-WEEK, the period between Ascension Day and
Whitsunday--during this time the Apostles continued praying in expectation
of the Comforter.--_adj._ EXPECT'ATIVE, giving rise to expectation:
reversionary.--_n._ an expectancy.--_n._ EXPECT'ER (_Shak._), one who waits
for a person or thing.--_adv._ EXPECT'INGLY, in a state of expectation. [L.
_exspect[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out, _spect[=a]re_, to look, freq. of
_spec[)e]re_, to see.]

EXPECTORATE, eks-pek'to-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to expel from the breast or lungs by
coughing, &c.: to spit forth.--_v.i._ to discharge or eject phlegm from the
throat.--_adj._ EXPEC'TORANT, tending to promote expectoration.--_n._ a
medicine which promotes expectoration.--_n._ EXPECTOR[=A]'TION, act of
expectorating: that which is expectorated: spittle.--_adj._
EXPEC'TOR[=A]TIVE, having the quality of promoting expectoration. [L.
_expector[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out of, from, _pectus_, _pectoris_, the
breast.]

EXPEDIENT, eks-p[=e]'di-ent, _adj._ suitable: advisable: (_Shak._)
hasty.--_n._ that which serves to promote: means suitable to an end:
contrivance.--_ns._ EXP[=E]'DIENCE (_Shak._), haste, despatch: expediency;
EXP[=E]'DIENCY, fitness: desirableness: self-interest.--_adj._
EXPEDIEN'TIAL.--_adv._ EXP[=E]'DIENTLY. [L. _expediens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_exped[=i]re_.]

EXPEDITE, eks'pe-d[=i]t, _v.t._ to free from impediments: to hasten: to
send forth: to despatch.--_adj._ free from impediment: unencumbered: quick:
prompt.--_adv._ EX'PEDITELY.--_n._ EXPEDI'TION, speed: promptness: any
undertaking by a number of persons: a hostile march or voyage: those who
form an expedition.--_adjs._ EXPEDI'TIONARY; EXPEDI'TIOUS, characterised by
expedition or rapidity: speedy: prompt.--_adv._ EXPEDI'TIOUSLY.--_n._
EXPEDI'TIOUSNESS, quickness.--_adj._ EXPED'ITIVE. [L. _exped[=i]re_,
_-itum_--_ex_, out, _pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

EXPEL, eks-pel', _v.t._ to drive out: eject: to discharge: to banish:
(_Shak._) to keep off:--_pr.p._ expel'ling; _pa.p._ expelled'. [L.
_expell[)e]re_, _expulsum_--_ex_, out, _pell[)e]re_, to drive.]

EXPEND, eks-pend', _v.t._ to lay out: to employ or consume in any way: to
spend.--_ns._ EXPEND'ITURE, act of expending or laying out: that which is
expended: the process of using up: money spent; EXPENSE' (_Shak._),
expenditure: outlay: cost: (_pl._) the cost of a lawsuit (_Scots
law_).--_adj._ EXPENS'IVE, causing or requiring much expense:
extravagant.--_adv._ EXPENS'IVELY.--_n._ EXPENS'IVENESS.--BE AT THE EXPENSE
OF, to pay the cost of. [L. _expend[)e]re_--_ex_, out, _pend[)e]re_,
_pensum_, to weigh.]

EXPERIENCE, eks-p[=e]'ri-ens, _n._ thorough trial of: practical
acquaintance with any matter gained by trial: repeated trial: long and
varied observation, personal or general: wisdom derived from the changes
and trials of life.--_v.t._ to make trial of, or practical acquaintance
with: to prove or know by use: to suffer, undergo.--_p.adj._
EXP[=E]'RIENCED, taught by experience: skilful: wise.--_adjs._
EXP[=E]'RIENCELESS, having no experience; EXPERIEN'TIAL, pertaining to or
derived from experience.--_ns._ EXPERIEN'TIALISM;
EXPERIEN'TIALIST.--EXPERIENCE MEETING, a religious meeting, where those
present relate their religious experiences. [Fr.,--L. _experientia_, from
_exper[=i]ri_--_ex_, inten., and old verb _per[=i]ri_, to try.]

EXPERIMENT, eks-per'i-ment, _n._ a trial: something done to prove some
theory, or to discover something unknown.--_v.i._ to make an experiment or
trial: to search by trial.--_adj._ EXPERIMENT'AL, founded or known by
experiment: taught by experience: tentative.--_v.i._
EXPERIMENT'ALISE.--_ns._ EXPERIMENT'ALIST, EXPER'IMENTIST, one who makes
experiments.--_adv._ EXPERIMENT'ALLY.--_n._ EXPERIMENT[=A]'TION.--_adj._
EXPERIMENT'ATIVE. [L. _experimentum_, from _exper[=i]ri_, to try
thoroughly.]

EXPERT, eks-p[.e]rt', _adj._ taught by practice: having a familiar
knowledge: having a facility of performance: skilful, adroit.--_n._
EX'PERT, one who is expert or skilled in any art or science: a specialist:
a scientific or professional witness.--_adv._ EXPERT'LY.--_n._ EXPERT'NESS.
[Fr.,--L. _expertus_--_exper[=i]ri_, to try thoroughly.]

EXPIATE, eks'pi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make complete atonement for: to make
satisfaction or reparation for.--_p.adj._ (_Shak._) expired.--_adj._
EX'PIABLE, capable of being expiated, atoned for, or done away.--_ns._
EXPI[=A]'TION, act of expiating or atoning for: the means by which
atonement is made: atonement; EX'PI[=A]TOR, one who expiates.--_adj._
EX'PI[=A]TORY, having the power to make expiation or atonement. [L.
_expi[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, inten., _pi[=a]re_, to appease, atone for.]

EXPIRE, eks-p[=i]r', _v.t._ to breathe out: to emit or throw out from the
lungs: to emit in minute particles.--_v.i._ to breathe out the breath of
life: to die out (of fire): to die: to come to an end.--_adj._
EXP[=I]'RABLE, that may expire or come to an end.--_ns._ EXP[=I]'RANT, one
expiring; EXPIR[=A]'TION, the act of breathing out: (_obs._) death: end:
that which is expired.--_adj._ EXP[=I]'RATORY, pertaining to expiration, or
the emission of the breath.--_p.adj._ EXP[=I]'RING, dying: pertaining to or
uttered at the time of dying.--_n._ EXP[=I]'RY, the end or termination:
expiration. [Fr. _expirer_--L. _ex_, out, _spir[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
breathe.]

EXPISCATE, eks-pis'k[=a]t, _v.t._ to find out by skilful means or by strict
examination.--_n._ EXPISC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ EXPIS'CATORY. [L.
_expisc[=a]ri_, _expisc[=a]tus_--_ex_, out, _pisc[=a]ri_, to
fish--_piscis_, a fish.]

EXPLAIN, eks-pl[=a]n', _v.t._ to make plain or intelligible: to unfold and
illustrate the meaning of: to expound: to account for.--_adj._
EXPLAIN'ABLE, that may be explained or cleared up.--_ns._ EXPLAIN'ER, one
who explains; EXPLAN[=A]'TION, act of explaining or clearing from
obscurity: that which explains or clears up: the meaning or sense given to
anything: a mutual clearing up of matters.--_adv._ EXPLAN'ATORILY.--_adj._
EXPLAN'ATORY, serving to explain or clear up: containing
explanations.--EXPLAIN AWAY, to modify the force of by explanation,
generally in a bad sense. [O. Fr. _explaner_--L. _explan[=a]re_--_ex_, out,
_plan[=a]re_--_planus_, plain.]

EXPLETIVE, eks'ple-tiv, _adj._ filling out: added for ornament or merely to
fill up.--_n._ a word or syllable inserted for ornament or to fill up a
vacancy: an oath.--_adj._ EX'PLETORY, serving to fill up: expletive. [L.
_expletivus_--_ex_, out, _pl[=e]re_, to fill.]

EXPLICATE, eks'pli-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to unfold, develop: to lay open or
explain the meaning of.--_adj._ EX'PLICABLE, capable of being explicated or
explained.--_n._ EXPLIC[=A]'TION, act of explicating or explaining:
explanation.--_adjs._ EX'PLIC[=A]TIVE, EX'PLIC[=A]TORY, serving to
explicate or explain. [L. _explic[=a]re_, _explic[=a]tum_ or
_explicitum_--_ex_, out, _plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

EXPLICIT, eks-plis'it, _adj._ not implied merely, but distinctly stated:
plain in language: outspoken: clear: unreserved.--_adv._ EXPLIC'ITLY.--_n._
EXPLIC'ITNESS. [L. _explicitus_, from _explic[=a]re_.]

EXPLICIT, eks'plis-it, _n._ a term formerly put at the end of a book,
indicating that it is finished. [Contr. from L. _explicitus_ est liber, the
book is unrolled.]

EXPLODE, eks-pl[=o]d', _v.t._ to cry down, as an actor: to bring into
disrepute, and reject: to cause to blow up.--_v.i._ to burst with a loud
report: to burst into laughter.--_p.adj._ EXPL[=O]'DED, rejected,
discarded.--_n._ EXPL[=O]'SION, act of exploding: a sudden violent burst
with a loud report: a breaking out of feelings, &c.--_adj._ EXPL[=O]'SIVE,
liable to or causing explosion: bursting out with violence and noise.--_n._
something that will explode.--_adv._ EXPL[=O]'SIVELY.--_n._
EXPL[=O]'SIVENESS. [L. _explod[)e]re_, _explosum_--_ex_, out,
_plaud[)e]re_, to clap the hands.]

EXPLOIT, eks-ploit', _n._ a deed or achievement, esp. an heroic one: a
feat.--_v.t._ to work up: to utilise for one's own ends.--_adj._
EXPLOIT'ABLE.--_ns._ EXPLOIT'AGE, EXPLOIT[=A]'TION, the act of successfully
applying industry to any object, as the working of mines, &c.: the act of
using for selfish purposes. [O. Fr. _exploit_--L. _explicitum_, ended.]

EXPLORE, eks-pl[=o]r', _v.t._ to search for the purpose of discovery: to
examine thoroughly.--_n._ EXPLOR[=A]'TION, act of searching
thoroughly.--_adjs._ EXPLOR'ATIVE, EXPLOR'ATORY, serving to explore:
searching out.--_n._ EXPLOR'ER, one who explores.--_p.adj._ EXPLOR'ING,
employed in or intended for exploration. [Fr.,--L. _explor[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to search out--prob. from _ex_, out, _plor[=a]re_, to make to
flow.]

EXPONENT, eks-p[=o]'nent, _n._ he who, or that which, points out, or
represents: (_alg._) a figure which shows how often a quantity is to be
multiplied by itself, as _a_^3: an index: an example, illustration.--_adj._
EXPONEN'TIAL (_alg._), pertaining to or involving exponents.--_n._ an
exponential function.--EXPONENTIAL CURVE, a curve expressed by an
exponential equation; EXPONENTIAL EQUATION, one in which the _x_ or _y_
occurs in the exponent of one or more terms, as 5^{_x_} = 800; EXPONENTIAL
FUNCTION, a quantity with a variable exponent; EXPONENTIAL SERIES, a series
in which exponential quantities are developed; EXPONENTIAL THEOREM gives a
value of any number in terms of its natural logarithm, and from it can at
once be derived a series determining the logarithm. [L. _exponens_--_ex_,
out, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

EXPONIBLE, eks-p[=o]'ni-bl, _adj._ able to be, or requiring to be,
explained.

EXPORT, eks-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to carry or send out of a country, as goods in
commerce.--_n._ EX'PORT, act of exporting: that which is exported: a
commodity which is or may be sent from one country to another, in
traffic.--_adj._ EXPORT'ABLE, that may be exported.--_ns._ EXPORT[=A]'TION,
act of exporting, or of conveying goods from one country to another;
EXPORT'ER, the person who exports, or who ships goods to a foreign or
distant country for sale--opp. to _Importer_. [L. _export[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out of, _port[=a]re_, to carry.]

EXPOSE, eks-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to lay forth to view: to deprive of cover,
protection, or shelter: to make bare: to abandon (an infant): to explain:
to make liable to: to disclose: to show up.--_ns._ EXPOSÉ
(eks-p[=o]-z[=a]'), an exposing: a shameful showing up: a formal recital or
exposition; EXPOS'EDNESS, the act of exposing: the state of being exposed;
EXPOS'ER; EXPOSI'TION, act of exposing: a setting out to public view: the
abandonment of a child: a public exhibition: act of expounding, or laying
open of the meaning of an author: explanation: commentary.--_adj._
EXPOS'ITIVE, serving to expose or explain: explanatory: exegetical.--_n._
EXPOS'ITOR, one who, or that which, expounds: an interpreter:--_fem._
EXPOS'ITRESS.--_adj._ EXPOS'ITORY, serving to explain: explanatory.--_n._
EXP[=O]'SURE (_Shak._, EXPOS'TURE), act of laying open or bare: act of
showing up an evil: state of being laid bare: openness to danger: position
with regard to the sun, influence of climate, &c. [Fr. _exposer_--L.
_expon[)e]re_, to expose.]

EXPOSTULATE, eks-post'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to reason earnestly with a person
on some impropriety of his conduct: to remonstrate: (_Shak._) to discuss:
(_Milt._) to claim.--_n._ EXPOSTUL[=A]'TION, act of expostulating, or
reasoning earnestly with a person against his conduct:
remonstrance.--_adjs._ EXPOST'ULATIVE, EXPOST'ULATORY, containing
expostulation.--_n._ EXPOST'ULATOR. [L. _expostul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_,
inten., _postul[=a]re_, to demand.]

EXPOUND, eks-pownd', _v.t._ to expose, or lay open the meaning of: to
explain: to interpret: to explain in a certain way.--_n._ EXPOUND'ER, one
who expounds: an interpreter. [O. Fr. _espondre_--L. _expon[)e]re_--_ex_,
out, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

EXPRESS, eks-pres', _v.t._ to press or force out: to emit: to represent or
make known by a likeness or by words: to declare, reveal: to out into
words: to state plainly: to designate.--_adj._ pressed or clearly brought
out: exactly representing: directly stated: explicit: clear: intended or
sent for a particular purpose.--_adv._ with haste: specially: with an
express train.--_n._ a messenger or conveyance sent on a special errand: a
regular and quick conveyance: (_U.S._) a system organised for the speedy
and safe transmission of parcels or merchandise.--_n._ EXPRESS'AGE, the
system of carrying by express.--_adj._ EXPRESS'IBLE.--_ns._ EXPRES'SION,
act of expressing or forcing out by pressure: act of representing or giving
utterance to: faithful and vivid representation by language, art, the
features, &c.: that which is expressed: look: feature: the manner in which
anything is expressed: tone of voice or sound in music.--_adjs._
EXPRES'SIONAL, of or pertaining to expression; EXPRES'SIONLESS.--_n._
EXPRES'SION-STOP, a stop in a harmonium, by which the performer can
regulate the air to produce expression.--_adj._ EXPRES'SIVE, serving to
express or indicate: full of expression: vividly representing: emphatic:
significant.--_adv._ EXPRES'SIVELY.--_n._ EXPRES'SIVENESS.--_adv._
EXPRESS'LY.--_ns._ EXPRESS'-R[=I]'FLE, a modern sporting rifle for large
game at short range, with heavy charge of powder and light bullet;
EXPRESS'-TRAIN, a railway-train at high speed and with few stops;
EXPRES'SURE, the act of expressing: (_Shak._) expression. [O. Fr.
_expresser_--L. _ex_, out, _press[=a]re_, freq. of _prem[)e]re_, _pressum_,
to press.]

EXPROMISSION, eks-pr[=o]-mish'un, _n._ the intervention of a new debtor,
substituted for the former one, who is consequently discharged by the
creditor.--_n._ EXPROMIS'SOR.

EXPROPRIATE, eks-pr[=o]'pri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to dispossess.--_n._
EXPROPRI[=A]'TION. [L. _expropri[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out, _proprium_,
property.]

EXPUGNABLE, eks-pug'na-bl, or eks-p[=u]'-, _adj._ (_rare_) capable of being
stormed.--_v.t._ EXP[=U]GN', to overcome.--_n._ EXPUGN[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L.
_expugn[=a]re_.]

EXPULSION, eks-pul'shun, _n._ the act of expelling: banishment.--_v.t._
EXPULSE' (_obs._), to expel forcibly, eject.--_adj._ EXPUL'SIVE, able or
serving to expel. [L. _expulsio_. See EXPEL.]

EXPUNGE, eks-punj', _v.t._ to wipe out: to efface.--_n._ EXPUNC'TION. [L.
_expung[)e]re_, to prick out, erase--_ex_, out, _pung[)e]re_, to prick.]

EXPURGATE, eks'pur-g[=a]t, or eks-pur'-, _v.t._ to purge out or render
pure: to purify from anything noxious or erroneous.--_ns._ EXPURG[=A]'TION,
act of expurgating or purifying: the removal of anything hurtful or evil:
exculpation; EXPURGATOR (eks'pur-g[=a]-tor, or eks-pur'ga-tor), one who
expurgates or purifies.--_adjs._ EXPURGAT[=O]'RIAL, EXPUR'GATORY, tending
to expurgate or purify.--_v.t._ EXPURGE', to purify, expurgate. [L.
_expurg[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out, _purg[=a]re_, to purge.]

EXQUISITE, eks'kwi-zit, _adj._ of superior quality: excellent: of delicate
perception or close discrimination: not easily satisfied: fastidious:
exceeding, extreme, as pain or pleasure.--_n._ one exquisitely nice or
refined in dress: a fop.--_adv._ EX'QUISITELY.--_n._ EX'QUISITENESS. [L.
_exquisitus_--_ex_, out, _quær[)e]re_, _quæsitum_, to seek.]

EXSANGUINOUS, eks-sang'gwin-us, _adj._ without blood: anæmic--also
EXSANG'UINE, -D, EXSANGUIN'EOUS.--_n._ EXSANGUIN'ITY. [L. _ex_, neg.,
_sanguis_, blood.]

EXSCIND, ek-sind', _v.t._ to cut off. [L. _ex_, off, _scind[)e]re_, to
cut.]

EXSECT, ek-sekt', _v.t._ to cut out.--_n._ EXSEC'TION. [L. _ex_, out,
_sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

EXSERT, eks-sert', _v.t._ to protrude.--_p.adj._ EXSERT'ED,
projecting.--_adj._ EXSER'TILE.--_n._ EXSER'TION.

EXSICCATE, ek'si-k[=a]t, or ek-sik'-, _v.t._ to dry up.--_adj._
EXSICC'ANT.--_n._ EXSICC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ EXSICC'ATIVE.--_n._
EX'SICC[=A]TOR. [L. _exsicc[=a]re_--_ex-_, _siccus_, dry.]

EXSPUTORY, ek-sp[=u]'t[=o]-ri, _adj._ that is spit out or rejected. [L.
_expu[)e]re_, _exsputum_, to spit out.]

EXSTIPULATE, ek-stip'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) without stipules.

EXSUCCOUS, eks-suk'us, _adj._ destitute of sap.

EXSUFFLICATE, eks-suf'fli-k[=a]t, _adj._ (_Shak._) puffed out,
contemptible, abominable.--_v.t._ EXSUF'FL[=A]TE, to exorcise. [Prob. from
L. _ex_, out, and _suffl[=a]re_, to blow out--_sub_, under, _fl[=a]re_, to
blow.]

EXTANT, eks'tant, _adj._ standing out, or above the rest: still standing or
existing. [L. _extans_, _antis_--_ex_, out, _st[=a]re_, to stand.]

EXTASY, EXTATIC. Same as ECSTASY, ECSTATIC.

EXTEMPORE, eks-tem'po-re, _adv._ on the spur of the moment: without
preparation: suddenly.--_adj._ sudden: rising at the moment: of a speech
delivered without help of manuscript.--_adjs._ EXTEM'PORAL,
EXTEMPOR[=A]'NEOUS, EXTEM'PORARY, done on the spur of the moment: hastily
prepared: speaking extempore: done without preparation: off-hand.--_advs._
EXTEMPOR[=A]'NEOUSLY; EXTEM'PORARILY.--_ns._ EXTEM'PORINESS;
EXTEMPORIS[=A]'TION, the act of speaking extempore.--_v.i._ EXTEM'PORISE,
to speak extempore or without previous preparation: to discourse without
notes: to speak off-hand. [L. _ex_, out of, _tempus_, _temporis_, time.]

EXTEND, eks-tend', _v.t._ to stretch out: to prolong in any direction: to
enlarge, expand: to widen: to hold out: to bestow or impart: (_law_) to
seize: to make a valuation of property by the oath of a jury.--_v.i._ to
stretch: to be continued in length or breadth.--_adj._ EXTEND'ANT (_her._),
displayed.--_adv._ EXTEND'EDLY.--_adjs._ EXTEND'IBLE; EXTENSE' (_obs._),
extensive.--_n._ EXTENSIBIL'ITY.--_adjs._ EXTENS'IBLE, EXTENS'ILE, that may
be extended.--EXTEN'SION, a stretching out, prolongation, or enlargement:
that property of a body by which it occupies a portion of space: (_logic_)
a term, opposed to _Intension_, referring to the extent of the application
of a term or the number of objects included under it (UNIVERSITY EXTENSION,
the enlargement of the aim of a university, in providing instruction for
those unable to become regular students).--_adj._ EXTEN'SIONAL.--_ns._
EXTEN'SIONIST; EXTEN'SITY, sensation from which perception of extension is
derived.--_adj._ EXTENS'IVE, large: comprehensive.--_adv._
EXTENS'IVELY.--_ns._ EXTENS'IVENESS; EXTEN'SOR, a muscle which extends or
straightens any part of the body; EXTENT', the space or degree to which a
thing is extended: bulk: compass: scope: the valuation of property: (_law_)
a writ directing the sheriff to seize the property of a debtor, for the
recovery of debts of record due to the Crown: (_Shak._) seizure, attack:
(_Shak._) maintenance: (_Shak._) behaviour.--_adj._ stretched out. [L.
_extend[)e]re_, _extentum_, or _extensum_--_ex_, out, _tend[)e]re_, to
stretch.]

EXTENUATE, eks-ten'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to lessen: to underrate: to weaken
the force of: to palliate.--_p.adj._ EXTEN'UATING, palliating.--_adv._
EXTEN'UATINGLY.--_n._ EXTENU[=A]'TION, act of representing anything as less
wrong or criminal than it is: palliation: mitigation.--_adjs._
EXTEN'UATIVE, EXTEN'UATORY, tending to extenuate: palliative.--_n._
EXTEN'UATOR. [L. _extenu[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, inten., _tenuis_, thin.]

EXTERIOR, eks-t[=e]'ri-or, _adj._ outer: outward, external: on or from the
outside: foreign.--_n._ outward part or surface: outward form or
deportment: appearance.--_n._ EXTERIOR'ITY.--_adv._ EXT[=E]'RIORLY,
outwardly. [L. _exterior_, comp. of _exter_, outward--_ex_, out.]

EXTERMINATE, eks-t[.e]r'mi-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to destroy utterly: to put an end
to: to root out.--_adj._ EXTER'MINABLE, that can be exterminated: used in
the sense of 'illimitable' by Shelley.--_n._ EXTERMIN[=A]'TION, complete
destruction or extirpation.--_adjs._ EXTER'MIN[=A]TIVE, EXTER'MIN[=A]TORY,
serving or tending to exterminate.--_n._ EXTER'MIN[=A]TOR.--_v.t._
EXTER'MINE (_Shak._), to exterminate. [L. _extermin[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out of, _terminus_.]

EXTERNAL, eks-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ exterior: lying outside: outward:
belonging to the world of outward things: that may be seen: not innate or
intrinsic: accidental: foreign.--_n._ exterior: (_pl._) the outward parts:
outward or non-essential forms and ceremonies.--_n._ EXT[=E]'RIOR, an
exterior thing, the outside.--_adj._ EXTERN', external, outward.--_n._ a
day-scholar.--_n._ EXTERNALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ EXTER'NALISE, to give form
to.--_ns._ EXTER'NALISM, undue regard to mere externals or non-essential
outward forms, esp. of religion; EXTERNAL'ITY, external character:
superficiality: undue regard to externals.--_adv._ EXTER'NALLY.--_n._
EXTER'NAT, a day-school. [L. _externus_--_exter_.]

EXTERRANEOUS, eks-ter-r[=a]'ne-us, _adj._ belonging to or coming from
abroad, foreign.--_adjs._ EXTERRIT[=O]'RIAL, EXTRATERRIT[=O]'RIAL, exempt
from territorial jurisdiction. [L. _exterraneus_--_ex_, out of, _terra_,
the earth.]

EXTERSION, eks-ter'shun, _n._ the act of rubbing out.

EXTINCT, eks-tingkt', _adj._ put out: extinguished: no longer existing:
dead.--_adj._ EXTINCT'ED, extinguished.--_ns._ EXTINCTEUR (eks-tang'tür,
eks-tingk'tür--see EXTINGUISHER); EXTINC'TION, a quenching or destroying:
destruction: suppression.--_adj._ EXTINCT'IVE, tending to extinguish.--_n._
EXTINCT'URE (_Shak._), extinction.

EXTINE, eks'tin, _n._ (_bot._) the outer coat of the pollen-grain or of a
spore.

EXTINGUISH, eks-ting'gwish, _v.t._ to quench: to destroy, annihilate: to
obscure by superior splendour.--_v.i._ to die out.--_adj._
EXTING'UISHABLE.--_ns._ EXTING'UISHER, one who, or that which,
extinguishes: a small hollow conical instrument for putting out a
candle--also in Fr. form EXTINCTEUR; EXTING'UISHMENT, the act of
extinguishing: (_law_) putting an end to a right by consolidation or union.
[L. _extingu[)e]re_, _extinctum_--_ex_, out, _stingu[)e]re_, to quench.]

EXTIRPATE, eks't[.e]r-p[=a]t, _v.t._ to root out: to destroy totally: to
exterminate--(_obs._) EXTIRP'.--_adj._ EXTIRP'ABLE.--_ns._ EXTIRP[=A]'TION,
extermination: total destruction; EXTIRP'ATOR.--_adj._ EXTIRP'ATORY. [L.
_exstirp[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out, and _stirps_, a root.]

EXTOL, eks-tol', _v.t._ to magnify: to praise:--_pr.p._ extolling; _pa.p._
extolled'.--_n._ EXTOL'MENT, the act of extolling: the state of being
extolled. [L. _extoll[)e]re_--_ex_, up, _toll[)e]re_, to lift or raise.]

EXTORT, eks-tort', _v.t._ to gain or draw from by compulsion or
violence.--_p.adj._ wrongfully obtained.--_adj._ EXTORS'IVE, serving or
tending to extort.--_adv._ EXTORS'IVELY.--_n._ EXTOR'TION, illegal or
oppressive exaction: that which is extorted.--_adjs._ EXTOR'TIONARY,
pertaining to or implying extortion; EXTOR'TION[=A]TE, oppressive.--_ns._
EXTOR'TIONER, one who practises extortion; EXTOR'TIONIST.--_adj._
EXTOR'TIONOUS. [L. _extorqu[=e]re_, _extortum_--_ex_, out, _torqu[=e]re_,
to twist.]

EXTRA, eks'tra, _adj._ beyond or more than the usual or the necessary:
extraordinary: additional.--_adv._ unusually.--_n._ what is extra or
additional, as an item above and beyond the ordinary school curriculum:
something over and above the usual course or charge in a bill, &c.: a
special edition of a newspaper containing later news, &c.--_adjs._
EX'TRA-CONDENSED' (_print._), extremely narrow in proportion to the height;
EX'TRA-CON'STELLARY, outside of the constellations; EXTRAD[=O]'TAL, not
forming part of the dowry; EX'TRA-FOLI[=A]'CEOUS (_bot._), situated outside
of or away from the leaves; EX'TRA-FOR[=A]'NEOUS, outdoor;
EX'TRA-JUDI'CIAL, out of the proper court, or beyond the usual course of
legal proceeding.--_adv._ EX'TRA-JUDI'CIALLY.--_adjs._ EX'TRA-LIM'ITAL, not
found within a given faunal area: lying outside a prescribed area--also
EXTRALIM'ITARY; EX'TRA-MUN'DANE, beyond the material world;
EX'TRA-M[=U]'RAL, without or beyond the walls; EX'TRA-OFFI'CIAL, not being
within official rights, &c.; EX'TRA-PAR[=O]'CHIAL, beyond the limits of a
parish; EX'TRA-PHYS'ICAL, not subject to physical laws;
EX'TRA-PROFES'SIONAL, outside the usual limits of professional duty;
EXTR'A-PRO'VINCIAL, outside the limits of a particular province;
EX'TRA-REG'ULAR, unlimited by rules; EX'TRA-S[=O]'LAR, beyond the solar
system; EX'TRA-TROP'ICAL, situated outside the tropics; EX'TRA-[=U]'TERINE,
situated outside the uterus; EXTRAVAS'CULAR, situated outside of the
vascular system. [Perh. a contraction for _extraordinary_.]

EXTRACT, eks-trakt', _v.t._ to draw out by force or otherwise: to choose
out or select: to find out: to distil.--_n._ EX'TRACT, anything drawn from
a substance by heat, distillation, &c., as an essence: a passage taken from
a book or writing.--_adjs._ EXTRACT'ABLE, EXTRACT'IBLE;
EXTRACT'IFORM.--_n._ EXTRAC'TION, act of extracting: derivation from a
stock or family: birth: lineage: that which is extracted.--_adj._
EXTRACT'IVE, tending or serving to extract.--_n._ an extract.--_n._
EXTRACT'OR, he who, or that which, extracts.--EXTRACT THE ROOT OF A
QUANTITY, to find its root by a mathematical process; EXTRACTIVE MATTER,
the soluble portions of any drug. [L. _extrah[)e]re_, _extractum_--_ex_,
out, _trah[)e]re_, to draw.]

EXTRADITION, eks-tra-dish'un, _n._ a delivering up by one government to
another of fugitives from justice.--_adj._ EXTRAD[=I]'TABLE.--_v.t._
EX'TRADITE, to hand over to justice. [L. _ex_, from,
_traditio_--_trad[)e]re_, _traditum_, to deliver up.]

EXTRADOS, eks-tr[=a]'dos, _n._ the convex surface of an arch or vault.
[Fr.]

EXTRANEOUS, eks-tr[=a]n'yus, _adj._ external: foreign: not belonging to or
dependent on a thing: not essential.--_n._ EXTRAN[=E]'ITY.--_adv._
EXTRAN'EOUSLY. [L. _extraneus_, external, _ex_, from, _extra_, outside.]

EXTRAORDINARY, eks-tror'di-nar-i, or eks-trä-or'-, _adj._ beyond ordinary:
not usual or regular: wonderful: special or supernumerary, as 'physician
extraordinary' in a royal household, and 'extraordinary professor' in a
German university, both being inferior to the ordinary official.--_n.pl._
EXTRAOR'DINARIES, things that exceed the usual order, kind, or
method.--_adv._ EXTRAOR'DINARILY.--_n._ EXTRAOR'DINARINESS. [L. _extra_,
outside, _ordo_--_inis_, order.]

EXTRAUGHT, eks-trawt' (_Shak._), _pa.p._ of EXTRACT.

EXTRAVAGANT, eks-trav'a-gant, _adj._ wandering beyond bounds: irregular:
unrestrained: excessive: profuse in expenses: wasteful.--_ns._
EXTRAV'AGANCE, excess: lavish expenditure: (_Milt._) digression;
EXTRAV'AGANCY (_Shak._), vagrancy: extravagance.--_adv._
EXTRAV'AGANTLY.--_v.i._ EXTRAV'AG[=A]TE, to wander: to exceed proper
bounds. [L. _extra_, beyond, _vagans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _vag[=a]ri_, to
wander.]

EXTRAVAGANZA, eks-trav-a-gan'za, _n._ an extravagant or eccentric piece of
music or literary production: extravagant conduct or speech. [It.]

EXTRAVASATE, eks-trav'a-s[=a]t, _v.t._ to let out of the proper
vessels.--_adj._ let out of its proper vessel: extravasated.--_n._
EXTRAVAS[=A]'TION, act of extravasating: the escape of any of the fluids of
the living body from their proper vessels through a rupture in their walls.
[L. _extra_, out of, _vas_, a vessel.]

EXTREAT, eks-tr[=e]t', _n._ (_Spens._) extraction.

EXTREME, eks-tr[=e]m', _adj._ outermost: most remote: last: highest in
degree: greatest: excessive: most violent: most urgent: stringent.--_n._
the utmost point or verge: end: utmost or highest limit or degree: great
necessity.--_adv._ EXTR[=E]ME'LY.--_ns._ EXTR[=E]'MISM;
EXTR[=E]'MIST.--_adj._ EXTREM'ITAL.--_n._ EXTREM'ITY, the utmost limit: the
highest degree: greatest necessity or distress: (_pl._) the hands and
feet.--EXTREME UNCTION (see UNCTION).--GO TO EXTREMES, to go too far: to
use extreme measures.--IN EXTREMIS (L.), at the point of death; IN THE
EXTREME, in the last, highest degree: extremely; THE LAST EXTREMITY, the
utmost pitch of misfortune: death. [O. Fr. _extreme_--L. _extremus_,
superl. of _exter_, on the outside.]

EXTRICATE, eks'tri-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to free from hinderances or perplexities:
to disentangle: to set free.--_adj._ EX'TRICABLE.--_n._ EXTRIC[=A]'TION,
disentanglement: act of setting free. [L. _extric[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_ex_,
out, _tricæ_, hinderances.]

EXTRINSIC, -AL, eks-trin'sik, -al, _adj._ external: not contained in or
belonging to a body: foreign: not essential--opp. to _Intrinsic_.--_n._
EXTRINSICAL'ITY.--_adv._ EXTRIN'SICALLY. [Fr.,--L. _extrinsecus_--_exter_,
outside, _secus_, beside.]

EXTRORSE, eks-trors', _adj._ turned outward.--Also EXTROR'SAL. [L. _extra_,
outside, _versus_, turned.]

EXTRUDE, eks-tr[=oo]d', _v.t._ to force or urge out: to expel: to drive
off.--_n._ EXTRU'SION, act of extruding, thrusting, or throwing out:
expulsion.--_adjs._ EXTRU'SIVE, EXTRU'SORY. [L. _extrud[)e]re_,
_extrusum_--_ex_, out, _trud[)e]re_, to thrust.]

EXUBERANT, eks-[=u]'b[.e]r-ant, _adj._ plenteous: overflowing: happy:
lavish.--_ns._ EX[=U]'BERANCE, EX[=U]'BERANCY, quality of being exuberant:
an overflowing quantity: superfluousness: outburst.--_adv._
EX[=U]'BERANTLY.--_v.i._ EX[=U]'BER[=A]TE, to be exuberant. [L.
_exuberans_, pr.p. of _exuber[=a]re_--_ex_, inten., _uber_, rich.]

EXUDE, eks-[=u]d', _v.t._ to discharge by sweating: to discharge through
pores or incisions, as sweat, moisture, &c.--_v.i._ to flow out of a body
through the pores.--_n._ EXUD[=A]'TION, act of exuding or discharging
through pores: that which is exuded. [L. _exud[=a]re_--_ex_, out,
_sud[=a]re_, to sweat.]

EXUL, eks'ul, _n._ (_Spens._) an exile.

EXULCERATE, egz-ul'ser-[=a]t, _v.t._ to exasperate, afflict.--_n._
EXULCER[=A]'TION, ulceration: exasperation. [L. _exculcer[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_ex_, out, _ulcer[=a]re_.]

EXULT, egz-ult', _v.i._ to rejoice exceedingly: to triumph.--_ns._
EXULT'ANCE, EXULT'ANCY, exultation: triumph.--_adj._ EXULT'ANT, exulting:
triumphant.--_n._ EXULT[=A]'TION, rapturous delight: transport.--_adv._
EXULT'INGLY. [L. _exsult[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, from _exsil[=i]re_--_ex_, out
or up, _sal[=i]re_, to leap.]

EXUVIÆ, eks-[=u]'vi-[=e], _n.pl._ cast-off skins, shells, or other
coverings of animals: (_geol._) fossil shells and other remains of
animals.--_adj._ EX[=U]'VIAL.--_v.i._ EX[=U]'VI[=A]TE, to lay aside an old
covering or condition for a new one.--_n._ EXUVI[=A]'TION, the act of
exuviating. [L., from _exu[)e]re_, to draw off.]

EYALET, [=i]'a-let, _n._ a division of the Turkish Empire--_vilayet_.
[Turk.,--Ar. _iy[=a]lah[=a]l_, to govern.]

EYAS, [=i]'as, _n._ an unfledged hawk.--_adj._ (_Spens._) unfledged.--_n._
EY'AS-MUS'KET, an unfledged male hawk: (_Shak._) a child. [_Eyas_, a corr.
of _nyas_--Fr. _niais_--L. _nidus_, nest.]

EYE, [=i], _n._ (_obs._) a brood. [For _nye_, _neye_; _a neye_=an eye. See
EYAS.]

EYE, [=i], _n._ the organ of sight or vision, more correctly the globe or
movable part of it: the power of seeing: sight: regard: aim: keenness of
perception: anything resembling an eye, as the hole of a needle, loop or
ring for a hook, &c.: the seed-bud of a potato: (_pl._) the foremost part
of a ship's bows, the hawse-holes.--_v.t._ to look on: to observe
narrowly.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to appear:--_pr.p._ ey'ing or eye'ing; _pa.p._
eyed ([=i]d).--_ns._ EYE'-BALL, the ball, globe, or apple of the eye;
EYE'-BEAM, a glance of the eye; EYE'BRIGHT, a beautiful little plant of the
genus _Euphrasia_, formerly used as a remedy for diseases of the eye (see
EUPHRASY); EYE'BROW, the hairy arch above the eye.--_v.t._ to provide with
artificial eyebrows.--_adj._ EYE'BROWLESS, without eyebrows.--_p.adj._
EYED, having eyes: spotted as if with eyes.--_ns._ EYE'-DROP (_Shak._), a
tear; EYE'-FLAP, a blinder on a horse's bridle; EYE'-GLANCE, a quick look;
EYE'GLASS, a glass to assist the sight, esp. such as stick on the nose by
means of a spring: the eye-piece of a telescope and like instrument:
(_Shak._) the lens of the eye; EYE'LASH, the line of hairs that edges the
eyelid.--_adj._ EYE'LESS, without eyes or sight: deprived of eyes:
blind.--_ns._ EYE'LET, EYE'LET-HOLE, a small eye or hole to receive a lace
or cord, as in garments, sails, &c.: a small hole for seeing through: a
little eye.--_v.i._ to make eyelets.--_ns._ EYE'LIAD, obsolete form of
_oeillade_; EYE'LID, the lid or cover of the eye: the portion of movable
skin by means of which the eye is opened or closed at pleasure;
EYE'-[=O]'PENER, something that opens the eyes literally or figuratively, a
startling story: a drink, esp. in the morning; EYE'-PIECE, the lens or
combination of lenses at the eye-end of a telescope; EYE'-PIT, the socket
of the eye; EYE'-SALVE, salve or ointment for the eyes; EYE'-SERV'ANT, a
servant who does his duty only when under the eye of his master;
EYE'-SERV'ICE, service performed only under the eye or inspection of an
employer: formal worship; EYE'-SHOT, the reach or range of sight of the
eye: a glance; EYE'SIGHT, power of seeing: view: observation; EYE'SORE,
anything that is offensive to the eye or otherwise; EYE'-SPLICE, a kind of
eye or loop formed by splicing the end of a rope into itself; EYE'-SPOT, a
spot like an eye.--_adj._ EYE'-SPOT'TED (_Spens._), marked with spots like
eyes.--_ns._ EYE'-STONE, a small calcareous body used for removing
substances from under the eyelid; EYE'-STRING, the muscle which raises the
eyelid; EYE'-TOOTH, one of the two canine teeth of the upper jaw, between
the incisors and premolars; EYE'-WA'TER, water flowing from the eye: a
lotion for the eyes; EYE'-WINK (_Shak._), a rapid lowering and raising of
the eyelid: a glance: the time of a wink; EYE'-WIT'NESS, one who sees a
thing done.--EYE FOR EYE, _lex talionis_ (Ex. xxi. 24); EYE OF DAY, the
sun.--ALL MY EYE (_slang_) unreal; BE ALL EYES, to give all attention; BE A
SHEET IN THE WIND'S EYE, to be intoxicated; CLAP, LAY, SET, EYES ON
(_coll._), to see; CRY ONE'S EYES OUT, to weep bitterly; CUT ONE'S
EYE-TOOTH, to cease to be a child: to be shrewd; GIVE AN EYE TO, to attend
to; GREEN EYE, jealousy; HAVE AN EYE TO, to contemplate: to have regard to;
IN EYE, in sight; IN ONE'S MIND'S EYE, in contemplation; IN THE EYES OF, in
the estimation, opinion, of; IN THE WIND'S EYE, against the wind; KEEP
ONE'S EYE ON, to observe closely: to watch; MAKE A PERSON OPEN HIS EYES, to
cause him astonishment; MAKE EYES AT, to look at in an amorous way: to
ogle; MIND YOUR EYE (_slang_), take care; MY EYE! a mild asseveration;
NAKED EYE (see NAKED); OPEN A PERSON'S EYES, to make him see: to show him
something of which he is ignorant; PIPE, or PUT THE FINGER IN, THE EYE, to
weep; SEE EYE TO EYE, from Is. lii. 8, but used in the sense of 'to think
alike;' SEE WITH HALF AN EYE, to see without difficulty; UNDER THE EYE OF,
under the observation of; UP TO THE EYES, deeply engaged. [A.S. _éage_; cf.
Goth. _augo_, Ger. _auge_, Dut. _oog_, Ice. _auga_.]

EYNE, [=i]n, _n.pl._ (_arch._) eyes.

EYOT, [=i]'ot, _n._ a little island. [A variant of _ait_.]

EYRE, [=a]r, _n._ a journey or circuit: a court of itinerant
justices.--JUSTICES IN EYRE, itinerant judges who went on circuit. [O. Fr.
_eire_, journey, from L. _iter_, a way, a journey--_[=i]re_, _itum_, to
go.]

EYRY, EYRIE, old spellings of _aerie_.

       *       *       *       *       *

F the sixth letter in the English and Latin alphabets--its sound called a
labio-dental fricative, and formed by bringing the lower lip into contact
with the upper teeth: (_mus._) the fourth note of the natural diatonic
scale of C: as a medieval Roman numeral=40; [=F]=40,000.--THE THREE F'S,
fair rent, fixity of tenure, and free sale.

FA', fä, _v._ and _n._ a Scotch form of _fall_.

FA'ARD, färd, _adj._ a Scotch form of _favoured_.

FABACEOUS, f[=a]-b[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ bean-like. [L. _faba_, a bean.]

FABIAN, f[=a]'bi-an, _adj._ delaying, avoiding battle, cautious, practising
the policy of delay.--_n._ a member of a small group of Socialists in
England, called by this name. [From Q. _Fabius_ Maximus, surnamed Cunctator
('delayer'), from the masterly tactics with which he wore out the strength
of Hannibal, whom he dared not meet in battle.]

FABLE, f[=a]'bl, _n._ a narrative in which things irrational, and sometimes
inanimate, are, for the purpose of moral instruction, feigned to act and
speak with human interests and passions: any tale in literary form, not
necessarily probable in its incidents, intended to instruct or amuse: the
plot or series of events in an epic or dramatic poem: a fiction or myth: a
ridiculous story, as in 'old wives' fables,' a falsehood: subject of common
talk.--_v.i._ to tell fictitious tales: (_obs._) to tell
falsehoods.--_v.t._ to feign: to invent.--_p.adj._ F[=A]'BLED,
mythical.--_n._ F[=A]'BLER, a writer or narrator of fictions.--_adj._
FAB'ULAR.--_v.i._ FAB'UL[=I]SE, to write fables, or to speak in
fables.--_ns._ FAB'ULIST, one who invents fables; FABULOS'ITY,
FAB'ULOUSNESS.--_adj._ FAB'ULOUS, feigned, false: related in fable:
immense, amazing.--_adv._ FAB'ULOUSLY. [Fr. _fable_--L. _fabula_,
_f[=a]ri_, to speak.]

FABLIAU, fab-li-[=o]', _n._ one of a group of over a hundred metrical
tales, usually satirical in quality, produced in France from about the
middle of the 12th to the end of the 13th century:--_pl._ FAB'LIAUX. [Fr.]

FABRIC, fab'rik, or f[=a]'brik, _n._ workmanship: texture: anything framed
by art and labour: building, esp. the construction and maintenance of a
church, &c.: manufactured cloth: any system of connected parts.--_v.t._
(_Milt._) to construct.--_n._ FAB'RICANT, a manufacturer. [Fr.
_fabrique_--L. _fabrica_--_faber_, a worker in hard materials.]

FABRICATE, fab'ri-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to put together by art and labour: to
manufacture: to produce: to devise falsely.--_n._ FABRIC[=A]'TION,
construction: manufacture: that which is fabricated or invented: a story: a
falsehood.--_adj._ FAB'RICATIVE.--_n._ FAB'RICATOR. [L. _fabric[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_--_fabrica_, fabric.]

FAÇADE, fa-s[=a]d', _n._ the exterior front or face of a building.
[Fr.,--_face_, after It. _facciata_, the front of a building--_faccia_, the
face.]

FACE, f[=a]s, _n._ the front part of the head, including forehead, eyes,
nose, mouth, cheeks, and chin: the outside make or appearance: front or
surface of anything: the edge of a cutting-tool, &c.: the part of a
coal-seam actually being mined: cast of features, any special appearance or
expression of the countenance: look, configuration: boldness, effrontery;
presence: (_B._) anger or favour.--_v.t._ to meet in the face or in front:
to stand opposite to: to resist: to put an additional face or surface on;
to cover in front.--_v.i._ to turn the face, as in military tactics--'right
face,' &c.--_ns._ FACE'-ACHE, neuralgia in the nerves of the face;
FACE'-CARD, a playing-card bearing a face (king, queen, or knave);
FACE'-CLOTH, a cloth laid over the face of a corpse.--_adj._ FACED, having
the outer surface dressed, with the front, as of a dress, covered
ornamentally with another material.--_n._ FACE'-GUARD, a kind of mask to
guard or protect the face.--_adj._ FACE'LESS, without a face.--_ns._
FAC'ER, one who puts on a false show: a bold-faced person: (_slang_) a
severe blow on the face, anything that staggers one; FAC'ING, a covering in
front for ornament or protection.--FACE DOWN, to abash by stern looks; FACE
OUT, to carry off by bold looks; FACE THE MUSIC (_U.S. slang_), to accept
the situation at its worst; FACE-TO-FACE, in front of, in actual presence
of.--ACCEPT ONE'S FACE, to show him favour or grant his request; FLY IN THE
FACE OF, to set one's self directly against; HAVE TWO FACES, or BE
TWO-FACED, to be disingenuous; ON THE FACE OF IT, on its own showing:
palpably plain; PULL A LONG FACE, to look dismal and unhappy; PUT A GOOD
FACE ON, to assume a bold or contented bearing as regards; RIGHT FACE! LEFT
FACE! RIGHT ABOUT FACE! words of command, on which the soldiers
individually turn to the side specified; RUN ONE'S FACE (_U.S. slang_), to
obtain things on credit by sheer impudence; SET ONE'S FACE AGAINST, to
oppose strenuously; SHOW ONE'S FACE, to appear, to come in view; SHUT THE
DOOR IN HIS FACE, to shut the door before him, refusing him admittance; TO
HIS FACE, in his presence, openly. [Fr. _face_--L. ''facies'', form, face;
perh. from _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FACET, fas'et, _n._ a small surface, as of a crystal.--_v.t._ to cut a
facet upon, or cover with facets.--_adj._ FAC'ETED, having or formed into
facets. [Fr. _facette_, dim. of _face_.]

FACETIOUS, fa-s[=e]'shus, _adj._ witty, humorous, jocose: bawdy--(_obs._ or
_arch._) FACETE'.--_n.pl._ FACETIÆ (fa-s[=e]'shi-[=e]), witty or humorous
sayings or writings: a bookseller's term for improper books--of all degrees
of indecency.--_adv._ FAC[=E]'TIOUSLY.--_n._ FAC[=E]'TIOUSNESS. [Fr., from
L. _fac[=e]tia_--_facetus_, merry, witty.]

FACIAL, f[=a]'shal, _adj._ of or relating to the face.--_adv._
F[=A]'CIALLY.--FACIAL ANGLE, in craniometry, the angle formed by lines
drawn to show to what extent the jaws are protruding and the forehead
receding.

FACIES, f[=a]'shi-[=e]z, _n._ general aspect of anything: the face,
features. [L.]

FACILE, fas'il, _adj._ easily persuaded: affable: yielding: easy of access
or accomplishment: courteous: easy.--_n._ FAC'ILENESS.--_v.t._
FACIL'IT[=A]TE, to make easy: to lessen difficulty.--_ns._
FACILIT[=A]'TION; FACIL'ITY, quality of being facile; dexterity: easiness
to be persuaded: pliancy: easiness of access: affability: (_Scots law_) a
condition of mental weakness short of idiocy, but such as makes a person
easily persuaded to do deeds to his own prejudice:--_pl._ FACIL'ITIES,
means that render anything easily done. [Fr.,--L. _facilis_,
easy--_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

FACINOROUS, fa-sin'o-rus, _adj._ atrociously wicked.--_n._ FACIN'OROUSNESS.
[L. _facinorosus_--_facinus_, a crime--_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

FAC-SIMILE, fak-sim'i-l[=e], _n._ an exact copy, as of handwriting, a coin,
&c.--_adj._ exactly corresponding.--_v.t._ to make a fac-simile of, to
reproduce.--_n._ FAC-SIM'ILIST. [L. _fac_, imper. of _fac[)e]re_, to make,
_simile_, neut. of _similis_, like.]

FACT, fakt, _n._ a deed or anything done: anything that comes to pass:
reality, or a real state of things, as distinguished from a mere statement
or belief, a datum of experience: truth: the assertion of a thing done: an
evil deed, a sense now surviving only in 'to confess the fact,' 'after' or
'before the fact.'--_adj._ FACT'UAL, pertaining to facts: actual.--_ns._
FACTUAL'ITY; FACT'UM, a thing done, a deed.--AS A MATTER OF FACT, in
reality.--THE FACT OF THE MATTER, the plain truth about the subject in
question. [L. _factum_--_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FACTION, fak'shun, _n._ a company of persons associated or acting together,
mostly used in a bad sense: a contentious party in a state or society:
dissension.--_adj._ FAC'TIONAL.--_ns._ FAC'TIONARY, a member of a faction;
FAC'TIONIST.--_adj._ FAC'TIOUS, turbulent: disloyal.--_adv._
FAC'TIOUSLY.--_n._ FAC'TIOUSNESS. [L. _factionem_--_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

FACTITIOUS, fak-tish'us, _adj._ made by art, in opposition to what is
natural or spontaneous: conventional.--_adv._ FACTI'TIOUSLY.--_n._
FACTI'TIOUSNESS.--_adjs._ FAC'TITIVE, causative; FAC'TIVE (_obs._), making.
[L. _factitius_--_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FACTOR, fak'tor, _n._ a doer or transactor of business for another: one who
buys and sells goods for others, on commission: (_Scot._) an agent managing
heritable estates for another: (_math._) one of two or more parts, which,
when multiplied together, result in a given number--e.g. 6 and 4 are
factors of 24: an element in the composition of anything, or in bringing
about a certain result.--_ns._ FAC'TORAGE, the fees or commission of a
factor.--_adj._ FACT[=O]'RIAL, of or pertaining to a factor.--_v.t._
FAC'TORISE (_U.S._), to warn not to pay or give up goods: to attach the
effects of a debtor in the hands of a third person.--_ns._ FAC'TORSHIP;
FAC'TORY, a manufactory: a trading settlement in a distant
country.--JUDICIAL FACTOR, a person appointed by the Court to manage the
estate of a person under some incapacity. [L.,--_fac[)e]re_.]

FACTOTUM, fak-t[=o]'tum, _n._ a person employed to do all kinds of work for
another. [Low L.,--L. _fac_, imper. of _fac[)e]re_, to do, _totum_, all.]

FACTURE, fak't[=u]r, _n._ the act or the result of making, workmanship.

FACULA, fak'[=u]-la, _n._ a spot brighter than the rest of the surface,
sometimes seen on the sun's disc:--_pl._ FAC'ULÆ. [L., 'a torch,' dim. of
_fax_, torch.]

FACULTY, fak'ul-ti, _n._ facility or power to act: any particular ability
or aptitude: an original power of the mind: any physical capability or
function: personal quality or endowment: right, authority, or privilege to
act: license: a department of learning at a university, or the professors
constituting it: the members of a profession: executive ability.--_adj._
FAC'ULT[=A]TIVE, optional: of or pertaining to a faculty.--COURT OF
FACULTIES, a court established by Henry VIII., whereby authority is given
to the Archbishop of Canterbury to grant dispensations and faculties.
[Fr.,--L. _facultatem_--_facilis_, easy.]

FACUNDITY, fa-kun'di-ti, _n._ (_obs._) eloquence.

FAD, fad, _n._ a weak or transient hobby, crotchet, or craze: any
unimportant belief or practice intemperately urged.--_adjs._ FAD'DISH,
given to fads--also FAD'DY.--_ns._ FAD'DISNNESS; FAD'DISM; FAD'DIST, one
who is a slave to some fad. [Ety. dub.]

FADAISE, fa-d[=a]z', _n._ a trifling thought or expression. [Fr.]

FADDLE, fad'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to trifle.--_n._ nonsense,
trifling--usually in _fiddle-faddle_.

FADE, f[=a]d, _v.i._ to lose strength, freshness, or colour gradually: to
vanish.--_adj._ insipid: weak.--_adv._ F[=A]'DEDLY.--_adj._
FADE'LESS.--_adv._ FADE'LESSLY.--_n._ F[=A]'DING (_Shak._), the burden of a
song.--_adj._ F[=A]'DY, wearing away. [O. Fr. _fader_--_fade_--L.
_vapidum_, acc. to Gaston Paris.]

FADGE, faj, _v.i._ to agree: to succeed, turn out well. [Ety. dub.; not
conn. with A.S. _fégan_, to join.]

FÆCES, FECES, f[=e]'s[=e]z, _n.pl._ sediment after infusion or
distillation: dregs: the solid excrements.--_adj._ FÆ'CAL, of or pertaining
to fæces. [L., pl. of _fæx_, _fæcis_, grounds.]

FAERIE, FAERY, f[=a]'[.e]r-i, _n._ (_arch._) the world of fairies,
fairyland: (_obs._) a fairy. [A variant of _fairy_.]

FAG, fag, _v.i._ to become weary or tired out: to work hard: to be a
fag.--_v.t._ to weary: to use as a fag:--_pr.p._ fag'ging; _pa.p._
fagged.--_n._ at Eton, Winchester, &c., a schoolboy forced to do menial
offices for one older, who in turn protects him: a tiresome piece of work:
drudgery.--_ns._ FAG'GERY, drudgery: fagging; FAG'GING, laborious drudgery:
a usage in virtue of which senior boys are authorised to exact a variety of
services from the junior boys.--TO FAG OUT, to field, as a fag, in cricket.
[Ety. dub.; perh. a corr. of _flag_, to droop, which see.]

FAG-END, fag'-end, _n._ the end of a web of cloth that hangs loose: the
untwisted end of a rope: the refuse or meaner part of a thing.

FAGGOT, FAGOT, fag'ut, _n._ a bundle of sticks for fuel, fascines, &c.: a
stick: anything like a faggot: a bundle of pieces of iron or steel cut off
into suitable lengths for welding: a soldier numbered on the muster-roll,
but not really existing: a voter who has obtained his vote expressly for
party purposes, on a spurious or sham qualification.--_adj._ got up for a
purpose, as in 'Faggot vote.'--_v.t._ to tie together.--_ns._ FAGG'OTING,
FAG'OTING, a kind of embroidery in which some of the cross-threads are
drawn together in the middle. [Fr. _fagot_, a bundle of sticks, perh. from
L. _fax_, a torch.]

FAGOTTO, fag-ot'o, _n._ a bassoon.--_n._ FAGOTT'IST, one who plays on the
bassoon. [It.]

FAHLERZ, fäl'erts, _n._ gray copper, or gray copper ore. [Ger.]

FAHRENHEIT, fä'ren-h[=i]t, or far'en-[=i]t, _n._ the name applied to a
thermometer, the freezing-point of which is marked at 32, and the
boiling-point at 212 degrees (see THERMOMETER for the relations between the
two scales). [Named from the inventor, Gabriel D. _Fahrenheit_
(1686-1736).]

FAIENCE, f[=a]'yäns, _n._ a fine kind of pottery, glazed and painted. [Fr.;
prob. from _Faenza_ in Italy.]

FAIK, f[=a]k, _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_Scot._) to abate: to excuse.

FAIL, f[=a]l, _n._ a turf, sod.--_n._ FAIL'-DIKE (_Scot._), a turf-wall.
[Perh. from Gael. _fàl_, a sod.]

FAIL, f[=a]l, _v.i._ to fall short or be wanting (with _in_): to fall away:
to decay: to die: to prove deficient under trial, examination, pressure,
&c.: to miss: to be disappointed or baffled: to be unable to pay one's
debts.--_v.t._ to be wanting to: not to be sufficient for: to leave undone,
omit: to disappoint or desert any one:--_pr.p._ fail'ing; _pa.p._
failed.--_n._ (_Shak._) failure.--_p.adj._ FAILED, decayed, worn out:
bankrupt.--_n._ FAIL'ING, a fault, weakness: a foible.--_prep._ in default
of.--_n._ FAIL'URE, a falling short, or cessation: omission: decay:
bankruptcy.--FAIL OF, to come short of accomplishing any purpose; WITHOUT
FAIL, infallibly. [O. Fr. _faillir_--L. _fall[)e]re_, to deceive; cf. Dut.
_feilen_, Ger. _fehlen_, Ice. _feila_.]

FAIN, f[=a]n, _adj._ glad or joyful: inclined (with _to_): content to
accept, for want of better: compelled: (_Spens._) wont.--_v.i._ (_Spens._)
to delight.--_adv._ gladly.--_adv._ FAIN'LY, gladly.--_n._ FAIN'NESS,
eagerness. [A.S. _fægen_, joyful: cf. Ice. _feginn_, glad.]

FAIN, f[=a]n, _v.i._ (_Spens._). Same as FEIGN.

FAINÉANT, f[=a]-nyang', _adj._ and _n._ do-nothing, applied esp. to the
later Merovingian kings of France, mere puppets, under whom the mayors of
the Palace really governed the country.--_ns._ FAI'NEANCE (_Kingsley_),
FAI'NEANCY, FAINEANT'ISE. [Fr., _faire_, to do, _néant_, nothing.]

FAINT, f[=a]nt, _adj._ wanting in strength: fading: lacking distinctness:
not bright or forcible: weak in spirit: lacking courage: depressed: done in
a feeble way.--_v.i._ to become feeble or weak: to lose strength, colour,
&c.: to swoon: to fade or decay: to vanish: to lose courage or spirit: to
become depressed.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to render faint.--_n._ a
swoon.--_p.adj._ FAINT'ED (_Milt._), exhausted.--_adjs._ FAINT'-HEART,
FAINT'-HEART'ED, cowardly: timorous.--_adv._ FAINT'-HEART'EDLY.--_ns._
FAINT'-HEART'EDNESS; FAINT'ING.--_adj._ FAINT'ISH, slightly faint.--_n._
FAINT'ISHNESS.--_adv._ FAINT'LY.--_n._ FAINT'NESS, want of strength:
feebleness of colour, light, &c.: dejection.--_adj._ FAINT'Y, faintish. [O.
Fr. _feint_ (Fr. _feindre_), feigned--L. _fing[)e]re_, to feign.]

FAIR, f[=a]r, _adj._ bright: clear: free from blemish: pure: pleasing to
the eye: beautiful: free from a dark hue: of a light shade: free from
clouds or rain: favourable: unobstructed: open: prosperous: frank:
impartial: just: pleasing: plausible: hopeful: moderate: pretty good.--_n._
that which is fair: (_arch._) a woman.--_v.t._ to make fair.--_v.i._ to
clear up, as the weather from rain.--_adv._ kindly, honestly, clearly:
straight: (_Shak._) favourably.--_adjs._ FAIR'-AND-SQUARE, honest--also
used adverbially; FAIR'-BOD'ING (_Shak._), auspicious.--_n._ FAIR'-COP'Y,
the state of a document copied after final correction.--_adjs._
FAIR'-FACED, with a light complexion: beautiful: specious; FAIR'-HAIRED,
having fair or light-coloured hair; FAIR'-HAND, having a fair appearance;
FAIR'ISH, somewhat fair: pretty well, pretty drunk.--_adv._
FAIR'LY.--_adj._ FAIR'-MIND'ED, judging fairly.--_ns._ FAIR'NESS;
FAIR'-PLAY, honest dealing: justice.--_adjs._ FAIR'-SEEM'ING, appearing
fair; FAIR'-SPOK'EN, bland and civil in language and address.--_ns._
FAIR'-TRADE, free-trade: a euphemism for smuggling: a mild form of the
protective system, in which the basis of economic policy is supposed to be
reciprocity or free-trade only with such nations as grant similar
privileges--also used adverbially; FAIR'-WAY, the part of a river,
roadstead, &c. by which vessels enter or leave.--_adj._ FAIR'-WEATH'ER,
suitable only for fair weather or favourable circumstances.--BE IN A FAIR
WAY TO, to be likely to succeed in; KEEP FAIR WITH, to keep on amiable
terms with; STAND FAIR WITH, to be in the good graces of.--THE FAIR, THE
FAIR SEX, the female sex. [A.S. _fæger_.]

FAIR, f[=a]r, _n._ a great periodical market for one kind of merchandise,
or for the general sales and purchases of a district: a collection of
miscellaneous goods for sale on behoof of charity at a bazaar, &c.--_n._
FAIR'ING, a present given at a fair, any complimentary gift.--A DAY AFTER
THE FAIR, too late; GET ONE'S FAIRING (_Scot._), to get one's deserts. [O.
Fr. _feire_--L. _feria_, holiday.]

FAIRY, f[=a]r'i, _n._ an imaginary being, generally of diminutive and
graceful human form, capable of kindly or unkindly acts towards man:
fairy-folk collectively: an enchantress, or creature of overpowering
charm.--_adj._ like a fairy, fanciful, whimsical, delicate.--_adv._
FAIR'ILY.--_n.pl._ FAIR'Y-BEADS, the separate joints of the stems of fossil
crinoids found in carboniferous limestone.--_ns._ FAIR'Y-BUTT'ER, a name
applied in northern England to certain gelatinous fungi; FAIR'YDOM;
FAIR'YHOOD, FAIR'YISM; FAIR'YLAND, the country of the fairies.--_adj._
FAIR'Y-LIKE, like or acting like fairies.--_n._ FAIR'Y-MON'EY, money given
by fairies, which quickly changes into withered leaves, &c.: money
found.--_ns.pl._ FAIR'Y-RINGS, -CIR'CLES, spots or circles in pastures,
either barer than the rest of the field, or greener--due to the outwardly
spreading growth of various fungi.--_ns._ FAIR'Y-STONE, a fossil echinite
found abundantly in chalk-pits; FAIR'Y-TALE, a story about fairies: an
incredible tale. [O. Fr. _faerie_, enchantment--_fae_ (mod. _fée_). See
FAY.]

FAITH, f[=a]th, _n._ trust or confidence in any person: belief in the
statement of another: belief in the truth of revealed religion: confidence
and trust in God: the living reception by the heart of the truth as it is
in Christ: that which is believed: any system of religious belief, esp. the
religion one considers true--'the faith;' fidelity to promises: honesty:
word or honour pledged.--_adjs._ FAITHED (_Shak._), credited; FAITH'FUL,
full of faith, believing: firm in adherence to promises, duty, allegiance,
&c.: loyal: conformable to truth: worthy of belief: true.--_adv._
FAITH'FULLY, sincerely, truthfully, exactly.--_ns._ FAITH'FULNESS;
FAITH'-HEAL'ING, a system of belief based on James, v. 14, that sickness
may be treated without any medical advice or appliances, if the prayer of
Christians be accompanied in the sufferer by true faith.--_adj._
FAITH'LESS, without faith or belief: not believing, esp. in God or
Christianity: not adhering to promises, allegiance, or duty:
delusive.--_adv._ FAITH'LESSLY.--_ns._ FAITH'LESSNESS; FAITH'WORTHINESS,
trustworthiness.--_adj._ FAITH'WORTHY, worthy of faith or belief.--BAD
FAITH, treachery.--FATHER OF THE FAITHFUL, Abraham: the caliph.--IN GOOD
FAITH, with sincerity.--THE FAITHFUL, believers. [M. E. _feith_,
_feyth_--O. Fr. _feid_--L. _fides_--_fid[)e]re_, to trust.]

FAITOR, f[=a]'tor, _n._ an impostor: an evil-doer, a scoundrel.--Often
FAI'TOUR. [O. Fr. _faitor_--L. _factor_.]

FAKE, f[=a]k, _v.t._ to fold, coil.--_n._ a coil of rope, &c.

FAKE, f[=a]k, _v.t._ to steal: to make up an article so as to hide its
defects.--_n._ FAKE'MENT, any swindling device. [Prof. Skeat thinks it
merely the Mid. Dut. _facken_, to catch; Mr Bradley suggests the earlier
_feak_, _feague_, Ger. _fegen_, to furbish up.]

FAKIR, fa-k[=e]r', or f[=a]'k[.e]r, _n._ a member of a religious order of
mendicants or penitents in India, &c.--_n._ FAKIR'ISM, religious
mendicancy. [Ar. _faqîr_, a poor man, _fakr_, _faqr_, poverty.]

FA-LA, fä-lä, _n._ an old kind of madrigal.

FALBALA, fal'ba-la, _n._ a trimming for women's petticoats: a furbelow.
[Ety. dub.; cf. _furbelow_.]

FALCADE, fal'k[=a]d', _n._ the motion of a horse when he throws himself on
his haunches in a very quick curvet. [Fr.,--L. _fulcatus_, bent.]

FALCATE, -D, fal'k[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_astron._, _bot._) bent like a
sickle, as the crescent moon, and certain leaves.--_ns._ FALC[=A]'TION;
FAL'CULA, a falcate or falciform claw.--_adj._ FAL'CULATE. [L. _falx_, a
sickle.]

FALCHION, fawl'shun, _n._ a short, broad sword, bent somewhat like a
sickle.--_adj._ FAL'CIFORM, sickle-shaped. [O. Fr. _fauchon_, through Low
L., from L. _falx_, a sickle.]

FALCON, fol'kon, or faw'kn, _n._ a bird of prey formerly trained to the
pursuit of game: a kind of cannon.--_ns._ FAL'CONER, one who sports with,
or who breeds and trains, falcons or hawks for taking wild-fowl; FAL'CONET,
a small field-gun in use till the 16th century.--_adj._ FAL'CON-EYED,
keen-eyed.--_ns._ FAL'CON-GEN'TIL, -GEN'TLE, the female and young of the
goshawk.--_adj._ FAL'CONINE.--_n._ FAL'CONRY, the art of training or
hunting with falcons. [O. Fr. _faucon_--Low L. _falc[=o]n-em_--L. _falx_, a
hook or sickle.]

FALDAGE, fal'd[=a]j, _n._ the right, often reserved by the lord of a manor,
of folding his tenant's sheep in his own fields for the sake of the manure:
a fee paid for exemption from the foregoing.

FALDERAL, fäl'der-al, _n._ a meaningless refrain in songs: any kind of
flimsy trifle--also FOL'DEROL and FAL DE ROL.--FALDERAL IT, to sing
unmeaning sounds.

FALDETTA, fal-det'a, _n._ a Maltese woman's combined hood and cape. [It.]

FALDSTOOL, fawld'st[=oo]l, _n._ a folding or camp stool: a kind of stool
for the king at his coronation: a bishop's armless seat: a small desk in
churches in England, at which the litany should be sung or said.--_n._
FALD'ISTORY, a bishop's seat within the chancel. [Low L.
_faldistolium_--Old High Ger. _faldan_ (Ger. _falten_), to fold, _stuol_
(Ger. _stuhl_), stool.]

FALERNIAN, fa-ler'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to a district (_Falernus ager_)
in Campania, famous of old for its wine.--_n._ FALER'NE, a modern sweet
white wine, produced near Naples.

FALL, fawl, _v.i._ to drop down: to descend by the force of gravity: to
become prostrate: (of a river) to discharge itself: to slope down: to sink
as if dead: to vanish: to die away: to lose strength, subside: to decline
in power, wealth, value, or reputation: to be overthrown: to be compelled
to yield: to become downcast: to sink into sin, to yield to temptation: to
depart from the faith: to become dejected: to pass gently into any state,
as 'to fall in love,' 'to fall asleep:' to befall: to issue, occur: to
enter upon with haste or vehemence: to rush: to be dropped in birth: to be
required or necessary: to fall away:--_pr.p._ fall'ing; _pa.t._ fell;
_pa.p._ fallen (faw'ln).--_n._ the act of falling, in any of its senses:
descent by gravity, a dropping down: that which falls--a trap-door, &c.: as
much as comes down at one time, as 'a fall of snow,' &c.: overthrow: death:
descent from a better to a worse position: slope or declivity: descent of
water: a cascade: length of a fall: outlet of a river: decrease in value: a
sinking of the voice: the time when the leaves fall, autumn: a bout at
wrestling: the yielding of a city or stronghold to the enemy: that which
falls: a lapse into sin, esp. that of Adam and Eve, called 'the Fall:' a
kind of collar worn in the 17th century.--_adj._ FALL'EN, in a degraded
state, ruined.--_ns._ FALL'ING, that which falls; FALL'ING-BAND (see BAND);
FALL'ING-SICK'NESS, epilepsy; FALL'ING-STAR, a meteor; FALL'ING-STONE, a
portion of an exploded meteor; FALL'TRANK, a medicine compounded of certain
aromatic and astringent Swiss plants, of repute for accidents; FALL'-TRAP,
a trap which operates by falling.--FALL-A, to begin; FALL ACROSS, to meet
by chance; FALL AMONG, to come into the midst of; FALL AWAY, to decline
gradually, to languish: to grow lean: to revolt or apostatise; FALL BACK,
to retreat, give way; FALL BACK, FALL EDGE, no matter what may happen; FALL
BACK UPON, to have recourse to some expedient or resource in reserve; FALL
BEHIND, to slacken, to be outstripped; FALL FLAT, to fail completely, as a
shopman in attracting attention or purchasers, a new book, &c.; FALL FOUL,
to come in collision: to quarrel (with _of_); FALL IN (_with_), to concur
or agree: to comply: to place themselves in order, as soldiers; FALL OFF,
to separate or be broken: to die away, to perish: to revolt or apostatise;
FALL ON, to begin eagerly: to make an attack: to meet; FALL ON ONE'S FEET,
to come well out of a difficulty, to gain any unexpected good fortune; FALL
OUT, to quarrel: to happen or befall; FALL OVER (_Shak._), to go over to
the enemy; FALL SHORT, to be deficient (with _of_); FALL THROUGH, to fail,
come to nothing; FALL TO, to begin hastily and eagerly: to apply one's self
to; FALL UPON, to attack: to attempt: to rush against.--TRY A FALL, to take
a bout at wrestling. [A.S. _feallan_; Ger. _fallen_; prob. conn. with L.
_fall[)e]re_, to deceive.]

FALL, fawl, _n._ the cry given when a whale is sighted, or harpooned: the
chase of a whale.--LOOSE FALL, the losing of a whale. [Prob. from the
north-eastern Scotch pronunciation of _whale_.]

FALLACY, fal'a-si, _n._ something fallacious: deceptive appearance: an
apparently genuine but really illogical argument: (_obs._)
deception.--_adj._ FALL[=A]'CIOUS, calculated to deceive or mislead: not
well founded: causing disappointment: delusive.--_adv._
FALL[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ FALL[=A]'CIOUSNESS. [O. Fr. _fallace_, deceit--L.
_fallacia_, from _fallax_, deceptive--_fall[)e]re_, to deceive.]

FALLAL, fal'lal', or fal-lal', _n._ a piece of ribbon worn as a streamer,
any trifling ornament.--_adj._ foppish, trifling.--_n._ FALLAL'ERY.--_adv._
FALLAL'ISHLY.

FALLIBLE, fal'i-bl, _adj._ liable to error or mistake.--_n._ FALLIBIL'ITY,
liability to err.--_adv._ FALL'IBLY. [Fr.,--Low L. _fallibilis_, from
_fall[)e]re_, to deceive.]

FALLOPIAN, fal-l[=o]'pi-an, _adj._ denoting two tubes or ducts through
which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus in the human subject. [So
called because supposed to have been discovered by the Italian anatomist
_Fallopius_ (1523-62).]

FALLOW, fal'[=o], _adj._ left untilled or unsowed for a time.--_n._ land
that has lain a year or more untilled or unsown after having been
ploughed.--_v.t._ to plough land without seeding it.--_ns._ FALL'OWNESS,
state of being fallow or untilled; GREEN FALL'OW, fallow where land is
cleaned by a green crop, as turnips. [Ety. dub.; prob. an assumed A.S.
_fealgian_, that may be confounded with the following word, from the
reddish colour of unsown land.]

FALLOW, fal'[=o], _adj._ of a brownish-yellow colour.--_ns._ FALL'OW-CHAT,
FALL'OW-FINCH, the wheatear or stonechat; FALL'OW-DEER, a yellowish-brown
deer smaller than the red-deer, with broad flat antlers. [A.S. _falu_; cf.
Ger. _fahl_, Ice. _folr_.]

FALSE, fawls, _adj._ deceptive or deceiving: untruthful: unfaithful to
obligations: untrue: not genuine or real, counterfeit: hypocritical: not
well founded, or not according to rule: artificial, as opposed to natural,
of teeth, &c.--_adv._ incorrectly: faithlessly.--_n._ (_Shak._) falsehood:
untruth.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to betray.--_ns._ FALSE CONCEPTION, a uterine
growth consisting of some degenerate mass instead of a foetus; FALSE'FACE,
a mask.--_adjs._ FALSE'-FACED (_Shak._), hypocritical; FALSE'-HEART'ED,
treacherous, deceitful.--_n._ FALSE'HOOD, state or quality of being false:
want of truth: want of honesty: deceitfulness: false appearance: an untrue
statement: a lie.--_adv._ FALSE'LY.--_ns._ FALSE'NESS; FALS'ER (_Spens._),
a deceiver, a liar.--_adjs._ FALSID'ICAL, deceptive; FALS'ISH, somewhat
false.--_ns._ FALS'ISM, a self-evident falsity; FALS'ITY, quality of being
false: a false assertion.--PLAY ONE FALSE, to act falsely or treacherously
to a person; PUT IN A FALSE POSITION, to bring any one into a position in
which he must be misunderstood. [O. Fr. _fals_ (mod. _faux_)--L. _falsus_,
pa.p. of _fall[)e]re_, to deceive.]

FALSETTO, fawl-set'o, _n._ a forced voice of a range or register above the
natural, the head voice. [It. _falsetto_, dim. of _falso_, false.]

FALSIFY, fawls'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to forge or counterfeit: to prove
untrustworthy: to break by falsehood:--_pr.p._ fals'ifying; _pa.p._
fals'ified.--_adj._ FALS'IF[=I]ABLE, capable of being falsified.--_ns._
FALSIFIC[=A]'TION, the act of making false: the giving to a thing the
appearance of something which it is not; FALS'IFIER, one who falsifies.
[Fr.,--Low L. _falsific[)a]re_--L. _falsus_, false, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FALSTAFFIAN, fal'staf-i-an, _adj._ like Shakespeare's
_Falstaff_--corpulent, jovial, humorous, and dissolute.

FALTER, fawl't[.e]r, _v.i._ to stumble: to fail or stammer in speech: to
tremble or totter: to be feeble or irresolute.--_n._ any
unsteadiness.--_n._ FAL'TERING, feebleness, deficiency.--_adv._
FAL'TERINGLY, in a faltering or hesitating manner. [Prob. a freq. of
_falden_, fold. The conn. with _fault_, in which the _l_ is late, is
untenable.]

FALX, falks, _n._ a sickle-shaped part or process, as of the dura mater of
the skull: a chelicera: a poison-fang of a snake: a rotula of a
sea-urchin:--_pl._ FALCES (fal's[=e]z). [L., a sickle.]

FAMBLE, fam'bl, _n._ (_slang_) the hand--also FAM.--_v.t._ to feel or
handle. [Der. obscure; perh. from the obs. verb _famble_, in its probable
original sense, 'to grope, fumble.']

FAME, f[=a]m, _n._ public report or rumour: renown or celebrity, chiefly in
good sense.--_v.t._ to report: to make famous.--_n._ F[=A]'MA, report,
rumour, fame.--_adjs._ FAMED, renowned; FAME'LESS, without renown.--FAMA
CLAMOSA (_Scot._), any notorious rumour ascribing immoral conduct to a
minister or office-bearer in a church.--HOUSE OF ILL FAME, a brothel.
[Fr.,--L. _fama_, from _f[=a]ri_, to speak; cog. with Gr. _ph[=e]m[=e]_,
from _phanai_, to say.]

FAMILIAR, fa-mil'yar, _adj._ well acquainted or intimate: showing the
manner of an intimate: free: unceremonious: having a thorough knowledge of:
well known or understood: private, domestic: common, plain.--_n._ one well
or long acquainted: a spirit or demon supposed to attend an individual at
call: a member of a pope's or bishop's household: the officer of the
Inquisition who arrested the suspected.--_v.t._ FAMIL'IARISE, to make
thoroughly acquainted: to accustom: to make easy by practice or
study.--_n._ FAMILIAR'ITY, intimate acquaintanceship: freedom from
constraint: any unusual or unwarrantable freedom in act or speech toward
another, acts of license--usually in _pl._--_adv._ FAMIL'IARLY. [O. Fr.
_familier_--L. _familiaris_, from _familia_, a family.]

FAMILY, fam'i-li, _n._ the household, or all those who live in one house
under one head, including parents, children, servants: the children of a
person: the descendants of one common progenitor: race: honourable or noble
descent: a group of animals, plants, languages, &c. more comprehensive than
a genus.--_ns._ FAM'ILISM, the family feeling; FAM'ILIST, one of the
16th-cent. mystical sect known as the Family of Love, which based religion
upon love independently of faith.--FAMILY BIBLE, a large Bible for family
worship, with a page for recording family events; FAMILY COACH, a large
carriage able to carry a whole family; FAMILY MAN, a man with a family: a
domesticated man.--BE IN THE FAMILY WAY, to be pregnant; IN A FAMILY WAY,
in a domestic manner. [L. _familia_--_famulus_, a servant.]

FAMINE, fam'in, _n._ general scarcity of food: extreme scarcity of
anything, as in 'famine prices,' &c.: hunger: starvation. [Fr., through an
unrecorded Low L. _famina_, from L. _fames_, hunger.]

FAMISH, fam'ish, _v.t._ to starve.--_v.i._ to die or suffer extreme hunger
or thirst.--_n._ FAM'ISHMENT, starvation. [Obs. _fame_, to starve--L.
_fames_, hunger.]

FAMOUS, f[=a]'mus, _adj._ renowned: noted.--_v.t._ to make famous.--_adv._
F[=A]'MOUSLY.--_n._ F[=A]'MOUSNESS. [O. Fr.,--L. _famosus_--_fama_.]

FAMULUS, fam'[=u]-lus, _n._ a private secretary or factotum: an attendant,
esp. on a magician or scholar.--_n._ FAM'ULIST, a collegian of inferior
position (Dr Murray doubts the word). [L. _famulus_, a servant.]

[Illustration]

FAN, fan, _n._ an instrument for winnowing grain: a broad, flat instrument
used by ladies to cool themselves: a wing: a small sail to keep a windmill
to the wind: the agitation of the air caused by a fan.--_v.t._ to cool with
a fan: to winnow: to ventilate: to remove by waving a fan:--_pr.p._
fan'ning; _pa.p._ fanned.--_ns._ FAN'-BLAST, in ironworks the blast
produced by a fan, as distinguished from that produced by a blowing-engine;
FAN'-CRICK'ET, the mole-cricket, fen-cricket, or churr-worm.--_adj._
FAN'-NERVED, in entomology, having a fan-like arrangement of the nervures
or veins of the wings.--_ns._ FAN'LIGHT, a window resembling in form an
open fan; FAN'NER, a machine with revolving fans, used for winnowing grain,
&c.; FAN'-PALM, a species of palm 60 or 70 feet high, with fan-shaped
leaves, used for umbrellas, tents, &c.; FAN'-TAIL, an artificial fan-tailed
variety of the domestic pigeon; FAN'-TR[=A]C'ERY (_archit._), tracery
rising from a capital or a corbel, and diverging like the folds of a fan
over the surface of a vault; FAN'-WHEEL, a wheel with fans on its rim for
producing a current of air. [A.S. _fann_, from L. _vannus_, a fan; cf. Fr.
_van_.]

FANAL, f[=a]'nal, _n._ (_arch._) a lighthouse, a beacon. [Fr.,--Gr.
_phanos_, a lantern, _phainein_, to show.]

FANATIC, fa-nat'ik, _adj._ extravagantly or unreasonably zealous, esp. in
religion: excessively enthusiastic.--_n._ a person frantically or
excessively enthusiastic, esp. on religious subjects.--_adj._ FANAT'ICAL,
fanatic, (_Shak._) extravagant.--_adv._ FANAT'ICALLY.--_v.t._ FANAT'ICISE,
to make fanatical.--_v.i._ to act as a fanatic.--_n._ FANAT'ICISM, wild and
excessive religious enthusiasm. [Fr.,--L. _fanaticus_, belonging to a
temple, inspired by a god, _fanum_, a temple.]

FANCY, fan'si, _n._ that faculty of the mind by which it recalls,
represents, or makes to appear past images or impressions: an image or
representation thus formed in the mind: an unreasonable or capricious
opinion: a whim: capricious inclination or liking: taste: (_Shak._)
love.--_adj._ pleasing to, or guided by, fancy or caprice: elegant or
ornamental.--_v.t._ to portray in the mind: to imagine: to have a fancy or
liking for: to be pleased with: to breed animals:--_pr.p._ fan'cying;
_pa.p._ fan'cied.--_p.adj._ FAN'CIED, formed or conceived by the fancy:
imagined.--_n._ FAN'CIER, one who has a special liking for anything, or who
keeps a special article for sale: one who is governed by fancy.--_adj._
FAN'CIFUL, guided or created by fancy: imaginative: whimsical:
wild.--_adv._ FAN'CIFULLY.--_n._ FAN'CIFULNESS.--_adj._ FAN'CILESS,
destitute of fancy.--_ns._ FAN'CY-BALL, a ball at which fancy-dresses in
various characters are worn; FAN'CY-DRESS, dress arranged according to the
wearer's fancy, to represent some character in history or fiction;
FAN'CY-FAIR, a special sale of fancy articles for some charitable
purpose.--_adj._ FAN'CY-FREE (_Shak._), free from the power of
love.--_n.pl._ FAN'CY-GOODS, fabrics of variegated rather than simple
pattern, applied generally to articles of show and ornament.--_n._
FAN'CY-MONG'ER (_Shak._), one who deals in tricks of imagination.--_adj._
FAN'CY-SICK (_Shak._), of distempered mind, love-sick.--_ns._
FAN'CY-STITCH, a more intricate and decorative stitch than _plain-stitch_;
FAN'CY-STROKE (_billiards_), an unusual stroke, or one made to show off
one's skill; FAN'CY-WORK, ornamental needlework.--THE FANCY, sporting
characters generally, esp. pugilists: pugilism. [Contracted from
_fantasy_.]

FAND, fand (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of FIND.

FAND, fand, FOND, fond, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to try, attempt. [A.S.
_fandian_.]

FANDANGO, fan-dan'go, _n._ an old Spanish dance for two, in ¾ time, with
castanets, proceeding gradually from a slow and uniform to the liveliest
motion: a gathering for dancing, a ball. [Sp.]

FANE, f[=a]n, _n._ (_obs._) a flag: weathercock. [_Vane_.]

FANE, f[=a]n, _n._ a temple. [L. _fanum_.]

FANFARE, fan-f[=a]r', _n._ a flourish of trumpets or bugles--also
FANFARADE'.--_ns._ FAN'FARON, one who uses bravado: a blusterer, braggart;
FAN'FARONADE, vain boasting: bluster: ostentation.--_v.i._ to bluster. [Fr.
_fanfare_, perh. from the sound.]

FANG, fang, _n._ the tooth of a ravenous beast: a claw or talon: the
venom-tooth of a serpent: (_Shak._) a grip, catch.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to
seize upon, catch.--_adjs._ FANGED, having fangs, clutches, or anything
resembling them; FANG'LESS, having no fangs or tusks: toothless.--LOSE THE
FANG (of a pump), to be dry, to have no water (_Scot._). [A.S. _fang_, from
_fón_, to seize; Ger. _fangen_, to catch, Dut. _vangen_.]

FANGLE, fang'gl, _n._ (_Milt._) fancy.--_adj._ FANG'LED (_obs._ save in
_newfangled_, q.v.), newly made, new-fashioned: showy, gaudy.--_n._
FANG'LENESS.

FANION, fan'yun, _n._ a small marking-flag used at a station in surveying.
[O. Fr.,--Low L. _fano_.]

FANNEL, fan'el, _n._ a vexillum or banner.

FANON, fan'on, _n._ a cloth for handling the holy vessels or the offertory
bread: a maniple or napkin used by the celebrant at mass: an orale: a
fannel: one of the lappets of a mitre: (_surg._) a fold of linen laid under
a splint. [O. Fr.]

FANTASIA, fan-tä'zi-a, _n._ a musical composition, not governed by the
ordinary musical rules. [It., from Gr. _phantasia_. See FANCY.]

FANTASY, PHANTASY, fan'ta-si, _n._ fancy: imagination: mental image: love:
whim, caprice.--_v.t._ to fancy, conceive mentally.--_adj._ FAN'TASIED,
filled with fancies.--_n._ FAN'TASM (same as PHANTASM).--_adj._ FAN'TASQUE,
fantastic.--_ns._ FAN'TAST, a person of fantastic ideas; FANTAS'TIC, one
who is fantastical.--_adjs._ FANTAS'TIC, -AL, fanciful: not real:
capricious: whimsical: wild.--_adv._ FANTAS'TICALLY.--_n._
FANTAS'TICALNESS.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ FANTAS'TICATE.--_ns._ FANTAS'TICISM;
FANTAS'TICO (_Shak._), a fantastic. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _phantasticus_--Gr.
_phantastikos_, _phantazein_, to make visible. _Fancy_ is a doublet.]

FANTOCCINI, fan-to-ch[=e]'n[=e], _n.pl._ puppets worked by machinery:
dramatic performances by puppets. [It., pl. of _fantoccino_, dim. of
_fantoccio_, a puppet--_fante_, a boy.]

FANTOM, fan'tom, _n._ Same as PHANTOM.

FAP, fap, _adj._ (_Shak._) fuddled, drunk.

FAQUIR, fak-[=e]r', _n._ Same as FAKIR.

FAR, fär, _adj._ remote: more distant of two: remote from or contrary to
purpose or design.--_adv._ to a great distance in time, space, or
proportion: remotely: considerably or in great part: very much: to a great
height: to a certain point, degree, or distance.--_v.t._ (_prov._) to
remove to a distance.--_adjs._ FAR'-AWAY', distant: abstracted,
absent-minded; FAR'-FETCHED, fetched or brought from a remote place:
forced, unnatural--(_obs._) FAR'FET.--_advs._ FAR'-FORTH (_Spens._), very
far; FAR'MOST, most distant or remote.--_n._ FAR'NESS, the state of being
far: remoteness, distance.--_adj._ and _adv._ FAR'-OFF, distant.--_adjs._
FAR'-REACH'ING, exerting influence to a great distance and for a long time;
FAR'-SIGHT'ED, seeing to a great distance: having defective eyesight for
near objects; FAR'-SOUGHT, sought for at a distance; FAR'-SPENT, far
advanced.--FAR AND AWAY, by a great deal; BY FAR, in a very great degree;
I'LL SEE YOU FAR (or FARTHER) FIRST, I will not do it by any means; IN SO
FAR AS, to the extent that. [A.S. _feor_; Dut. _ver_; Ice. _fiarre_; Ger.
_fern_.]

FAR, fär, _n._ (_prov._) a litter of pigs.

FARAD, far'ad, _n._ the name of the practical unit of electrical
capacity--the capacity of a conductor which when raised to a potential of
one volt has a charge of one coulomb.--_adj._ FARAD'IC.--_n._
FARADIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ FAR'ADISE.--_ns._ FAR'ADISM; MICROFAR'AD, the
millionth part of a farad. [From Michael _Faraday_ (1791-1867).]

FARAND, FARRAND, far'and, _adj._ (_Scot._) having a certain favour or
appearance, esp. in such compound forms as _auld-farand_, old-fashioned;
_ill-faured_, ill-favoured, &c. [M. E. _farand_, comely. Origin obscure;
most prob. the verb _fare_ (q.v.).]

FARCE, färs, _n._ a style of comedy marked by low humour and extravagant
wit: ridiculous or empty show.--_n._ FAR'CEUR, a joker.--_adj._
FAR'CICAL.--_n._ FARCICAL'ITY, farcical quality.--_adv._
FAR'CICALLY.--_v.t._ FAR'CIFY, to turn into a farce. [Fr. _farce_,
stuffing, from L. _farc[=i]re_, to stuff, applied, acc. to H. Bradley, to
words put between _Kyrie_ and _Eleison_ in religious services, then to the
interpolated _gag_ in a religious play, next a buffoon performance.]

FARCE, färs, _v.t._ to cram: to stuff, fill with stuffing: (_Shak._) to
swell out.--_n._ FAR'CING, stuffing. [O. Fr. _farsir_--L. _farc[=i]re_, to
cram.]

FARCY, fär'si, _n._ a disease of horses like glanders--(_obs._)
FAR'CIN.--_adj._ FAR'CIED.--_n._ FAR'CY-BUD, a swollen lymphatic gland, as
in farcy. [Fr. _farcin_--Low L. _farciminum_.]

FARD, färd, _n._ white paint for the face.--_v.t._ to paint with such, to
embellish. [Fr., of Teut. origin, Old High Ger. _farwjan_, to colour.]

FARDAGE, fär'd[=a]j, _n._ (_naut._) loose wood or other material stowed
among the cargo to keep it from shifting, or put under it to keep it above
the bilge. [Fr.]

FARDEL, fär'del, _n._ a pack: anything cumbersome or irksome.--_adj._
FAR'DEL-BOUND, constipated, esp. of cattle and sheep, by the retention of
food in the third stomach. [O. Fr. _fardel_ (Fr. _fardeau_), dim. of
_farde_, a burden--Ar. _fardah_, a package (Devic).]

FARDING-BAG, fär'ding-bag, _n._ the first stomach of a cow or other
ruminant.

FARE, f[=a]r, _v.i._ to get on or succeed: to happen well or ill to: to be
in any particular state, to be, to go on: to feed.--_n._ the price of
passage--(_orig._) a course or passage: those conveyed in a carriage: food
or provisions for the table.--_interj._ FAREWELL', may you fare well! a
wish for safety or success.--_n._ well-wishing at parting: the act of
departure.--_adj._ parting: final. [A.S. _faran_; Ger. _fahren_.]

FARINA, fa-r[=i]'na, or fa-r[=e]'na, _n._ ground corn: meal: starch: pollen
of plants.--_adjs._ FARIN[=A]'CEOUS, mealy; FARINOSE', yielding farina.
[L.,--_far_.]

FARL, färl, _n._ (_Scot._) the quarter of a round cake of flour or oatmeal.
[_Fardel_, a fourth part.]

FARM, färm, _n._ land let or rented for cultivation or pasturage, with the
necessary buildings: (_Spens._) habitation: (_Shak._) a lease.--_v.t._ to
let out as lands to a tenant: to take on lease: to grant certain rights in
return for a portion of what they yield, as to farm the taxes: to
cultivate, as land.--_adj._ FARM'ABLE.--_ns._ FARM'-BAI'LIFF; FARM'ER, one
who farms or cultivates land: the tenant of a farm: one who collects taxes,
&c., for a certain rate per cent.:--_fem._ FARM'ERESS; FARM'ERING, the
business of a farmer.--_n.pl._ FARM'ERS-GEN'ERAL, the name given before the
French Revolution to the members of a privileged association in France, who
leased the public revenues of the nation.--_ns._ FARM'ERY, the buildings of
a farm; FARM'-HOUSE, a house attached to a farm in which the farmer lives;
FARM'ING, the business of cultivating land; FARM'-L[=A]'BOURER.--_n.pl._
FARM'-OFF'ICES, the offices or outbuildings on a farm.--_ns._ FARM'STEAD, a
farm with the buildings belonging to it; FARM'-YARD, the yard or enclosure
surrounded by the farm buildings. [A.S. _feorm_, goods, entertainment, from
Low L. _firma_--L. _firmus_, firm. The Low L. _firma_ meant a fixed
payment, also a signature (whence our 'firm' in business); from 'rent'
_farm_ passed to 'lease,' then to 'a tract of land held on lease.' _Farm_
is therefore a doublet of _firm_.]

FARO, f[=a]r'o, _n._ a game of chance played by betting on the order in
which certain cards will appear when taken singly from the top of the pack.
[Perh. from King _Pharaoh_ on one of the cards.]

FARRAGO, far-r[=a]'g[=o], _n._ a confused mass.--_adj._ FARR[=A]'GINOUS,
miscellaneous, jumbled. [L., _far_, grain.]

FARRIER, far'i-[.e]r, _n._ one who shoes horses: one who cures the diseases
of horses.--_n._ FARR'IERY, the art of curing the diseases of cattle. [O.
Fr. _ferrier_, through Low L. _ferrarius_, from L. _ferrum_, iron.]

FARROW, far'[=o], _n._ a litter of pigs.--_v.i._ or _v.t._ to bring forth
pigs. [A.S. _fearh_, a pig; Ger. _ferkel_.]

FARROW, far'r[=o], _adj._ not producing young in a particular season, said
of cows. [Ety. dub.; with _farrow cow_ cf. Flem. _verwekoe_, _varwekoe_.]

FARSE, färs, _n._ an explanation of the Latin epistle in the
vernacular.--_v.t._ to extend by interpolation.

FART, fart, _v.i._ to break wind.--_n._ a noisy expulsion of wind. [A.S.
_feortan_; Ger. _farzen_.]

FARTHER, fär'_th_[.e]r, _adj._ (_comp._ of FAR) more far or distant:
tending to a greater distance: longer: additional.--_adv._ at or to a
greater distance; more remotely: beyond: moreover.--_adjs._ and _advs._
FAR'THERMORE, furthermore; FAR'THERMOST, furthermost.--_adj._ FARTHEST
(_superl._ of FAR), most far, distant, or remote.--_adv._ at or to the
greatest distance. [A rather recent form, comp. of _far_, the euphonic _th_
being inserted from the analogy of _further_.]

FARTHING, fär'_th_ing, _n._ the fourth of a penny: anything very small:
(_B._) the rendering for two names of coins, one the fourth part of the
other--_assarion_, used as the Gr. equivalent of the L. _as_, and
_kodrantes_ (L. _quadrans_), a coin equivalent to two _lepta_.--_n._
FAR'THINGFUL. [A.S. _féorthing_, a fourth part--_féortha_, fourth, and dim.
_-ing_, or _-ling_.]

FARTHINGALE, fär'_th_ing-g[=a]l, _n._ a kind of crinoline of whalebone for
distending women's dress. [O. Fr. _verdugale_--Sp. _verdugado_, hooped,
_verdugo_, rod.]

FASCES, fas'[=e]z, _n.pl._ a bundle of rods with an axe in the middle,
borne before the ancient Roman principal magistrates. [L. _fascis_, a
bundle.]

FASCIA, fash'i-a, _n._ (_archit._) a flat space or band between mouldings:
(_anat._) a layer of condensed connective tissue between some muscle and
any other tissue.--_adjs._ FAS'CIAL; FAS'CIATED.--_n._ FASCI[=A]'TION
(_bot._), a form of monstrosity by the flattening of a single stem, or the
lateral union of several stems. [L.]

FASCICLE, fas'i-kl, _n._ a little bundle: (_bot._) a close cluster, the
flowers crowded together, as in the sweet-william--also
FAS'CICULE.--_adjs._ FAS'CICLED, FASCIC'ULAR, FASCIC'ULATE, -D, united as
in a bundle.--_n._ FASCIC'ULUS, a fascicle: a part of a book issued in
parts. [L. _fasciculus_, dim. of _fascis_, a bundle.]

FASCINATE, fas'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to control by the glance: to charm: to
captivate: to enchant, esp. by the evil eye.--_adj._ FAS'CINATING,
charming, delightful.--_n._ FASCIN[=A]'TION, the act of charming: power to
harm by looks or spells: mysterious attractive power exerted by a man's
words or manner: irresistible power of alluring: state of being fascinated.
[L. _fascin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_; perh. allied to Gr. _baskainein_, to
bewitch.]

FASCINE, fas-s[=e]n', _n._ (_fort._) a brushwood faggot bound together with
wire, yarn, or withes, used to fill ditches, &c. [Fr.,--L.
_fascina_--_fascis_, a bundle.]

FASH, fash, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to trouble, annoy.--_v.i._ to be vexed at, to
take trouble or pains.--_n._ pains, trouble.--_adj._ FASH'IOUS,
troublesome, vexatious.--_ns._ FASH'IOUSNESS, FASH'ERY. [O. Fr. _fascher_
(Fr. _fâcher_)--L. _fastidium_, _fastidiosus_, fastidious.]

FASHION, fash'un, _n._ the make or cut of a thing: form or pattern:
prevailing mode or shape of dress: a prevailing custom: manner: genteel
society: appearance.--_v.t._ to make: to mould according to a pattern: to
suit or adapt.--_adj._ FASH'IONABLE, made according to prevailing fashion:
prevailing or in use at any period: observant of the fashion in dress or
living: moving in high society: patronised by people of fashion.--_n._ a
person of fashion.--_n._ FASH'IONABLENESS.--_adv._ FASH'IONABLY.--_ns._
FASH'IONER; FASH'IONIST.--_adjs._ FASH'IONMONGERING, FASH'IONMONGING
(_Shak._), behaving like a fop.--AFTER, or IN, A FASHION, in a way: to a
certain extent; IN THE FASHION, in accordance with the prevailing style of
dress, &c.--opp. to _Out of fashion_. [O. Fr. _fachon_--L.
_faction-em_--_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FAST, fast, _adj._ firm: fixed: steadfast: fortified: (of sleep) sound
(_Shak._).--_adv._ firmly, unflinchingly: soundly or sound (asleep):
quickly: close, near.--_n._ FAST-AND-LOOSE, the name of a cheating game
practised at fairs--called also _Prick-the-garter_.--_adj._ FAST'-HAND'ED,
close-fisted.--_adv._ FAST'LY (_Shak._), firmly.--_n._ FAST'NESS,
fixedness: a stronghold, fortress, castle.--FAST BY, close to.--PLAY FAST
AND LOOSE (from the foregoing), to be unreliable, to say one thing and do
another; HARD-AND-FAST (see HARD). [A.S. _fæst_; Ger. _fest_.]

FAST, fast, _adj._ quick: rapid: rash: dissipated.--_adv._ swiftly: in
rapid succession: extravagantly.--_adj._ FAST'ISH, somewhat fast. [A
special use of _fast_, firm, derived from the Scand., in the sense of
urgent.]

FAST, fast, _v.i._ to keep from food: to go hungry: to abstain from food in
whole or part, as a religious duty.--_n._ abstinence from food: special
abstinence enjoined by the church: the day or time of fasting.--_ns._
FAST'-DAY, a day of religious fasting: (_Scot._) a day for humiliation and
prayer, esp. before celebrations of the Lord's Supper; FAST'ENS, short for
_Fastens-eve_ (Scot. _Fasten-e'en_ and _Fastern's-e'en_), _Fastens
Tuesday_, Shrove Tuesday; FAST'ER, one who fasts: FAST'ING, religious
abstinence. [A.S. _fæstan_, to fast; Ger. _fasten_, to keep: perh. allied
with _fast_, firm, in the sense of making strict.]

FASTEN, fas'n, _v.t._ to make fast or tight: to fix securely: to attach
firmly one thing to another: to confirm.--_v.i._ to fix itself.--_n._
FAS'TENING, that which fastens.

FASTI, fas't[=i], _n.pl._ those days among the ancient Romans on which it
was lawful to transact legal or public business--opp. to _Nefasti_: an
enumeration of the days of the year, a calendar. [L.]

FASTIDIOUS, fas-tid'i-us, _adj._ affecting superior taste: over-nice:
difficult to please.--_adv._ FASTID'IOUSLY.--_n._ FASTID'IOUSNESS. [L.
_fastidiosus_--_fastidium_, loathing--_fastus_, pride, _tædium_, loathing.]

FASTIGIATE, fas-tij'i-[=a]t, _adj._ pointed, sloping to a point or
edge--also FASTIG'IATED.--_n._ FASTIG'IUM, the apex of a building: the
pediment of a portico. [L. _fastig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_fastigium_, a
gable-end, roof.]

FAT, fat, _adj._ plump, fleshy: fruitful, esp. profitable: gross: thick,
full-bodied, esp. of printing-types.--_n._ an oily substance under the
skin: solid animal oil: the richest part of anything.--_v.t._ to make
fat.--_v.i._ to grow fat:--_pr.p._ fat'ting; _pa.p._ fat'ted.--_adj._
FAT'BRAINED (_Shak._), dull of apprehension.--_ns._ FAT'-HEN (_prov._), any
one of various plants of thick succulent foliage, esp. pigweed, orach, and
ground-ivy; FAT'LING, a young animal fattened for slaughter.--_adj._ small
and fat.--_n._ FAT'-LUTE, a mixture of pipe-clay and linseed-oil, for
filling joints, &c.--_adv._ FAT'LY, grossly: in a lumbering manner.--_n._
FAT'NESS, quality or state of being fat: fullness of flesh: richness:
fertility: that which makes fertile.--_v.t._ FAT'TEN, to make fat or
fleshy: to make fertile.--_v.i._ to grow fat.--_ns._ FAT'TENER, he who, or
that which, fattens; FAT'TENING, the process of making fat: state of
growing fat; FAT'TINESS.--_adjs._ FAT'TISH, somewhat fat; FAT'-WITTED,
dull, stupid; FAT'TY, containing fat or having the qualities of fat.--FAT
IMAGES, those in relief.--THE FAT IS IN THE FIRE, things have gone to
confusion. [A.S. _fæt_; Ger. _fett_.]

FAT, fat, _n._ a vessel for holding liquids: a vat: a dry measure of nine
bushels. [See VAT.]

FATA MORGANA, fä'tä mor-gä'nä, a striking kind of mirage seen most often in
the Strait of Messina. [Supposed to be caused by the fairy (_fata_)
_Morgana_ of Arthurian romance.]

FATE, f[=a]t, _n._ inevitable destiny or necessity: appointed lot:
ill-fortune: doom: final issue: (_pl._) the three goddesses of fate,
Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, who determined the birth, life, and death of
men--the FATAL SISTERS.--_adj._ F[=A]T'AL, belonging to or appointed by
fate: causing ruin or death: mortal: calamitous.--_ns._ F[=A]T'ALISM, the
doctrine that all events are subject to fate, and happen by unavoidable
necessity; F[=A]T'ALIST, one who believes in fatalism.--_adj._
F[=A]T'ALISTIC, belonging to or partaking of fatalism.--_n._ FATAL'ITY, the
state of being fatal or unavoidable: the decree of fate: fixed tendency to
disaster or death: mortality: a fatal occurrence.--_adv._
F[=A]T'ALLY.--_adjs._ F[=A]T'ED, doomed: destined: (_Shak._) invested with
the power of destiny: (_Dryden_) enchanted; FATE'FUL, charged with
fate.--_adv._ FATE'FULLY.--_n._ FATE'FULNESS. [L. _fatum_, a
prediction--_fatus_, spoken--_f[=a]ri_, to speak.]

FATHER, fä'_th_[.e]r, _n._ a male parent: an ancestor or forefather: a
fatherly protector: a contriver or originator: a title of respect applied
to a venerable man, to confessors, monks, priests, &c.: a member of certain
fraternities, as 'Fathers of the Oratory,' &c.: the oldest member of any
profession or other body: one of a group of ecclesiastical writers of the
early centuries, usually ending with Ambrose, Jerome, and Augustine: the
first person of the Trinity.--_v.t._ to adopt: to ascribe to one as his
offspring or production.--_ns._ FA'THERHOOD, state of being a father:
fatherly authority; FA'THER-IN-LAW, the father of one's husband or wife;
FA'THERLAND, the land of one's fathers--from the Ger. _Vaterland_;
FA'THER-LASH'ER, a name applied to two bull-heads found on the British
coasts, belonging to the Gurnard family.--_adj._ FA'THERLESS, destitute of
a living father: without a known author.--_ns._ FA'THERLESSNESS;
FA'THERLINESS.--_adj._ FA'THERLY, like a father in affection and care:
paternal.--_n._ FA'THERSHIP.--HOLY FATHER, the Pope.--BE GATHERED TO ONE'S
FATHERS (_B._), to die and be buried. [A.S. _fæder_; Ger. _vater_, L.
_pater_, Gr. _pat[=e]r_.]

FATHOM, fa_th_'um, _n._ a nautical measure=6 feet: depth: (_Shak._)
penetration.--_v.t._ to try the depth of: to comprehend or get to the
bottom of.--_adjs._ FATH'OMABLE; FATH'OMLESS.--_n._ FATH'OM-LINE, a
sailor's line and lead for taking soundings. [A.S. _faethm_; Dut. _vadem_,
Ger. _faden_.]

FATIDICAL, fa-tid'ik-al, _adj._ having power to foretell future events:
prophetical.--_adv._ FATID'ICALLY. [L. _fatidicus_--_fatum_, fate,
_dic[)e]re_, to tell.]

FATIGUE, fa-t[=e]g', _n._ weariness from labour of body or of mind: toil:
military work, distinct from the use of arms.--_v.t._ to reduce to
weariness: to exhaust one's strength: to harass.--_pr.p._ fatigu'ing;
_pa.p._ fatigued'.--_adj._ FAT'IGATE (_Shak._), fatigued.--_n._
FATIGUE'-D[=U]'TY, the part of a soldier's work distinct from the use of
arms--also in _fatigue-dress_, &c.--_adv._ FATIGU'INGLY. [Fr.,--L.
_fatig[=a]re_, to weary.]

FATISCENT, f[=a]-tis'ent, _adj._ gaping.--_n._ FATIS'CENCE.

FATTRELS, fat'relz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) ends of ribbon. [O. Fr. _fatraille_,
trumpery.]

FATUOUS, fat'[=u]-us, _adj._ silly: imbecile: without reality--also
FAT[=U]'ITOUS.--_n._ FAT[=U]ITY, unconscious stupidity: imbecility. [L.
_fatuus_.]

FAUBOURG, f[=o]'b[=oo]rg, _n._ a suburb just beyond the walls, or a
district recently included within a city. [O. Fr. _forbourg_, lit.
'out-town'--_fors_ (Fr. _hors_)--L. _foris_, out of doors, and O. Fr.
_bourg_, town.]

FAUCES, faw's[=e]z, _n.pl._ the upper part of the throat, from the root of
the tongue to the entrance of the gullet.--_adj._ FAU'CAL, produced in the
fauces, as certain Semitic guttural sounds. [L.]

FAUCET, faw'set, _n._ a pipe inserted in a barrel to draw liquid. [Fr.
_fausset_.]

FAUGH, faw, _interj._ an exclamation of contempt or disgust. [Prob. from
the sound.]

FAULCHION, an obsolete form of _falchion_.

FAULT, fawlt, _n._ a failing: error: blemish: imperfection: a slight
offence: (_geol._, _min._) a displacement of strata or veins: (_tennis_) a
stroke in which the player fails to serve the ball into the proper
place.--_adj._ FAULT'FUL (_Shak._), full of faults or crimes.--_adv._
FAULT'ILY.--_n._ FAULT'INESS.--_adj._ FAULT'LESS, without fault or
defect.--_adv._ FAULT'LESSLY.--_n._ FAULT'LESSNESS.--_adj._ FAULT'Y,
imperfect, defective: guilty of a fault: blamable.--AT FAULT, open to
blame: (of dogs) unable to find the scent; FIND FAULT (_with_), to censure
for some defect. [O. Fr. _faute_, _falte_--L. _fall[)e]re_, to deceive.]

FAUNA, fawn'a, _n._ animals collectively, or those of a particular country,
or of a particular geological period:--_pl._ FAUN'Æ, FAUN'AS.--_n._ FAUN, a
Roman rural deity, protector of shepherds.--_adj._ FAUN'AL.--_n._ FAUN'IST,
one who studies a fauna. [L. _faunus_, from _fav[=e]re_, _fautum_, to
favour.]

FAUTEUIL, f[=o]-tey', _n._ an arm-chair, esp. a president's chair, the seat
of one of the forty members of the French Academy. [Fr.]

FAUTOR, faw'tor, _n._ a favourer or supporter. [O. Fr. _fauteur_--L.
_fautor_--_fav[=e]re_, to favour.]

FAVEOLATE, f[=a]-v[=e]'[=o]-l[=a]t, _adj._ honeycombed.--Also FAVOSE'.

FAUVETTE, f[=o]-vet', _n._ a name applied to warblers in general. [Fr.]

FAVONIAN, fav-[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to the west wind, favourable.
[L. _Favonius_, the west wind.]

FAVOUR, f[=a]'vur, _n._ countenance: good-will: a kind deed: an act of
grace or lenity: indulgence: partiality: advantage: a knot of ribbons worn
at a wedding, or anything worn publicly as a pledge of a woman's favour:
(_arch._) countenance, appearance: a letter or written communication:
(_Shak._) an attraction or grace.--_v.t._ to regard with good-will: to be
on the side of: to treat indulgently: to afford advantage to: (_coll._) to
resemble.--_adj._ F[=A]'VOURABLE, friendly: propitious: conducive to:
advantageous.--_n._ F[=A]'VOURABLENESS.--_adv._ F[=A]'VOURABLY.--_p.adj._
F[=A]'VOURED, having a certain appearance, featured--as in _ill-favoured_,
_well-favoured_.--_ns._ F[=A]'VOUREDNESS; F[=A]'VOURER; F[=A]'VOURITE, a
person or thing regarded with favour or preference: one unduly loved: a
kind of curl of the hair, affected by ladies of the 18th century.--_adj._
esteemed, preferred.--_n._ F[=A]'VOURITISM, the practice of showing
partiality.--_adj._ F[=A]'VOURLESS, without favour: (_Spens._) not
favouring.--FAVOURS TO COME, favours still expected; CURRY FAVOUR (see
CURRY). [O. Fr.,--L. _favor_--_fav[=e]re_, to favour, befriend.]

FAVUS, f[=a]v'us, _n._ a disease of the skin, chiefly of the hairy scalp.
[L. 'a honeycomb.']

FAW, faw, _n._ a gipsy. [From the surname _Faa_.]

FAWN, fawn, _n._ a young deer.--_adj._ resembling a fawn in colour.--_v.i._
to bring forth a fawn. [O. Fr. _faon_, through Low L. from L. _foetus_,
offspring.]

FAWN, fawn, _v.i._ to cringe, to flatter in a servile way (with
_upon_).--_n._ (_rare_) a servile cringe or bow: mean flattery.--_ns._
FAWN'ER, one who flatters to gain favour; FAWN'ING, mean flattery:
sycophancy.--_adv._ FAWN'INGLY.--_n._ FAWN'INGNESS. [A variant of _fain_,
to rejoice--A.S. _fægen_, glad.]

FAY, f[=a], _n._ a fairy. [O. Fr. _fee_--L. _fata_, a fairy--L. _fatum_,
fate.]

FAY, f[=a], _n._ (_Shak._) faith.

FAY, f[=a], _v.i._ to fit, unite closely.--_v.t._ to fit together closely.
[A.S. _fégan_; Ger. _fügen_.]

FAY, FEY, f[=a], _v.t._ (_prov._) to clean out, as a ditch.

FEAGUE, f[=e]g, _v.t._ (_obs._) to whip: to perplex. [Cog. with Dut.
_vegen_, Ger. _fegen_.]

FEAL, f[=e]'al, _adj._ (_obs._) loyal, faithful.

FEAL, f[=e]l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to conceal.

FEALTY, f[=e]'al-ti, or f[=e]l'ti, _n._ the vassal's oath of fidelity to
his feudal lord: loyalty. [O. Fr. _fealte_--L. _fidelitat-em_--_fidelis_,
faithful--_fid[)e]re_, to trust.]

FEAR, f[=e]r, _n._ a painful emotion excited by danger: apprehension of
danger or pain: alarm: the object of fear: aptness to cause fear: (_B._)
deep reverence: piety towards God.--_v.t._ to regard with fear: to expect
with alarm: (_B._) to stand in awe of: to venerate: (_obs._) to terrify: to
make afraid.--_v.i._ to be afraid: to be in doubt.--_adj._ FEAR'FUL,
timorous: exciting intense fear: terrible.--_adv._ FEAR'FULLY.--_n._
FEAR'FULNESS.--_adj._ FEAR'LESS, without fear: daring: brave.--_adv._
FEAR'LESSLY.--_ns._ FEAR'LESSNESS; FEAR'NOUGHT (same as
DREADNAUGHT).--_adj._ FEAR'SOME, causing fear, frightful.--_adv._
FEAR'SOMELY. [A.S. _f['æ]r_, fear, _f['æ]ran_, to terrify; cf. Ger.
_gefahr_, Ice. _fár_, harm, mischief.]

FEAR, f[=e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a companion. [See FERE.]

FEASIBLE, f[=e]z'i-bl, _adj._ practicable.--_ns._ FEAS'IBLENESS,
FEASIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ FEAS'IBLY. [Fr. _faisable_, that can be
done--_faire_, _faisant_--L. _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

FEAST, f[=e]st, _n._ a day of unusual solemnity or joy: a festival in
commemoration of some event--_movable_, such as occurs on a specific day of
the week succeeding a certain day of the month, as _Easter_; _immovable_,
at a fixed date, as Christmas: a rich and abundant repast: rich enjoyment
for the mind or heart.--_v.i._ to hold a feast: to eat sumptuously: to
receive intense delight.--_v.t._ to entertain sumptuously.--_ns._
FEAST'-DAY; FEAST'ER.--_adj._ FEAST'FUL, festive, joyful, luxurious.--_ns._
FEAST'ING; FEAST'-RITE, a rite or custom observed at feasts.--_adj._
FEAST'-WON (_Shak._), won or bribed by feasting.--FEAST OF FOOLS, FEAST OF
ASSES, medieval festivals, held between Christmas and Epiphany, in which a
burlesque bishop was enthroned in church, and a burlesque mass said by his
orders, and an ass driven round in triumph.--DOUBLE FEAST (_eccles._), one
on which the antiphon is doubled. [O. Fr. _feste_ (Fr. _fête_)--L.
_festum_, a holiday, _festus_, solemn, festal.]

FEAT, f[=e]t, _n._ a deed manifesting extraordinary strength, skill, or
courage.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to fashion.--_adj._ neat, deft.--_adj._
FEAT'EOUS, dexterous, neat.--_adv._ FEAT'LY, neatly,
dexterously--(_Spens._) FEAT'EOUSLY. [Fr. _fait_--L. _factum_--L.
_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

FEATHER, fe_th_'[.e]r, _n._ one of the growths which form the covering of a
bird: a feather-like ornament: the feathered end of an arrow: nature, kind,
as in 'birds of a feather:' birds collectively: anything light or
trifling.--_v.t._ to furnish or adorn with feathers.--_ns._ FEATH'ER-BED, a
mattress filled with feathers; FEATH'ER-BOARD'ING (same as
WEATHER-BOARDING, q.v.).--_p.adj._ FEATH'ERED, covered or fitted with
feathers, or anything feather-like: like the flight of a feathered animal,
swift: smoothed as with feathers.--_ns._ FEATH'ER-EDGE, an edge of a board
or plank thinner than the other edge; FEATH'ER-GRASS, a perennial grass, so
called from the feathery appearance of its awns; FEATH'ER-HEAD,
FEATH'ER-BRAIN, a frivolous person; FEATH'ERINESS; FEATH'ERING, plumage:
the fitting of feathers to arrows: (_archit._) an arrangement of small arcs
or foils separated by projecting cusps, frequently forming the feather-like
ornament on the inner mouldings of arches; FEATH'ER-STAR, a crinoid of
feathery appearance and radiate structure; FEATH'ER-WEIGHT, the lightest
weight that may be carried by a racing-horse: a boxer, wrestler, &c., of a
class below the light-weights--hence one of small importance or
ability.--_adj._ FEATH'ERY, pertaining to, resembling, or covered with
feathers.--FEATHER AN OAR, to turn the blade of the oar horizontally as it
comes out of the water, thus lessening the resistance of the air; FEATHER
ONE'S NEST, to accumulate wealth for one's self while serving others in a
position of trust.--A FEATHER IN ONE'S CAP, some striking mark of
distinction; BE IN HIGH FEATHER, to be greatly elated or in high spirits;
MAKE THE FEATHERS FLY, to throw into confusion by a sudden attack; SHOW THE
WHITE FEATHER, to show signs of cowardice--a white feather in a gamecock's
tail being considered as a sign of degeneracy. [A.S. _feðer_; Ger. _feder_;
L. _penna_, Gr. _pteron_.]

FEATURE, f[=e]t'[=u]r, _n._ the marks by which anything is recognised: the
prominent traits of anything: the cast of the face: (_pl._) the
countenance.--_v.t._ (_coll._) to have features resembling.--_adjs._
FEAT'URED, with features well marked; FEAT'URELESS, destitute of distinct
features; FEAT'URELY, handsome. [O. Fr. _faiture_, from fut. part. of L.
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FEBRICULE, feb'ri-k[=u]l, _n._ a slight fever.--_adj._ FEBRI'CULOSE.--_n._
FEBRICULOS'ITY. [L. _febricula_, dim. of _febris_, fever.]

FEBRIFIC, fe-brif'ik, _adj._ producing fever, feverish.--Also
FEBRIF[=A]'CIENT. [L. _febris_, fever, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FEBRIFUGE, feb'ri-f[=u]j, _n._ a medicine for removing fever.--_adj._
FEBRIF'UGAL (or feb'-). [L. _febris_, fever, _fug[=a]re_, to put to
flight.]

FEBRILE, f[=e]'bril, or feb'ril, _adj._ pertaining to fever:
feverish.--_n._ FEBRIL'ITY. [Fr.,--L. _febris_, fever.]

FEBRONIANISM, feb-r[=o]'ni-an-izm, _n._ a system of doctrine antagonistic
to the claims of the Pope and asserting the independence of national
churches, propounded in 1763 by Johann Nikolaus von Hontheim under the
pseudonym 'Justinus _Febronius_.'

FEBRUARY, feb'r[=oo]-ar-i, _n._ the second month of the year. [L.
_Februarius_ (_mensis_), the month of expiation, _februa_, the feast of
expiation.]

FECES, FECAL. See FÆCES, FÆCAL.

FECIAL. See FETIAL.

FECK, fek, _n._ (_Scot._) strength, value, quantity, number: the bulk of
anything.--_adj._ FECK'LESS, spiritless.--_adv._ FECK'LY, mostly. [Corr. of
_effect_.]

FECULA, fek'[=u]-la, _n._ starch obtained as a sediment by breaking down
certain plants or seeds in water. [L. _fæcula_, dim. of _fæx_, dregs.]

FECULENT, fek'[=u]-lent, _adj._ containing fæces or sediment: muddy:
foul.--_ns._ FEC'ULENCE, FEC'ULENCY.

FECUND, fek'und, _adj._ fruitful: fertile: prolific.--_v.t._ FEC'UND[=A]TE,
FECUND'[=A]TE, to make fruitful: to impregnate.--_ns._ FECUND[=A]'TION, the
act of impregnating: the state of being impregnated; FECUND'ITY,
fruitfulness: prolificness in female animals. [Fr.,--L. _fecundus_,
fruitful.]

FED, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of FEED.

FEDARY, fed'ar-i (_Shak._). Same as FEDERARY.

FEDERAL, fed'[.e]r-al, _adj._ pertaining to or consisting of a treaty or
covenant: confederated, founded upon mutual agreement: of a union or
government in which several states, while independent in home affairs,
combine for national or general purposes, as in the United States (in the
American Civil War, _Federal_ was the name applied to the states of the
North which defended the Union against the _Confederate_ separatists of the
South).--_n._ a supporter of federation: a Unionist soldier in the American
Civil War.--_n._ FED'ERACY.--_v.t._ FED'ERALISE.--_ns._ FED'ERALISM, the
principles or cause maintained by federalists; FED'ERALIST, a supporter of
a federal constitution or union; FED'ERARY (_Shak._), a
confederate.--_adj._ FED'ER[=A]TE, united by league: confederated.--_n._
FEDER[=A]'TION, the act of uniting in league: a federal union.--_adj._
FED'ER[=A]TIVE, united in league.--FEDERAL (or COVENANT) THEOLOGY, that
first worked out by Cocceius (1603-69), based on the idea of two covenants
between God and man--of Works and of Grace (see COVENANT). [Fr.
_fédéral_--L. _foedus_, _foederis_, a treaty, akin to _fid[)e]re_, to
trust.]

FEE, f[=e], _n._ price paid for services, as to a lawyer or physician:
recompense, wages: the sum exacted for any special privilege: a grant of
land for feudal service: an unconditional inheritance--FEE'-SIM'PLE,
possession: ownership.--_v.t._ to pay a fee to: to hire:--_pr.p._ fee'ing;
_pa.p._ feed.--_ns._ FEE'-GRIEF (_Shak._), a private grief; FEE'ING-MAR'KET
(_Scot._), a fair or market at which farm-servants are hired for the year
or half-year following; FEE'-TAIL, an entailed estate, which on failure of
heirs reverts to the donor.--BASE FEE, a qualified fee, a freehold estate
of inheritance to which a qualification is annexed; CONDITIONAL FEE, a fee
granted on condition, or limited to particular heirs: the estate of a
mortgagee of land, possession of which is conditional on payment; GREAT
FEE, the holding of a tenant of the Crown. [A.S. _feoh_, cattle, property:
a special kind of property, property in land; Ger. _vieh_, Ice. _fé_;
allied to L. _pecus_, cattle, _pecunia_, money.]

FEEBLE, f[=e]'bl, _adj._ weak: wanting in strength of body, energy, or
efficiency: showing weakness or incapacity: faint: dull.--_adj._
FEE'BLE-MIND'ED, weak-minded: irresolute.--_n._ FEE'BLENESS--(_Spens._)
FE'BLESSE.--_adv._ FEE'BLY. [O. Fr. _foible_, for _floible_--L. _flebilis_,
lamentable, from _fl[=e]re_, to weep.]

FEED, f[=e]d, _v.t._ to give food to: to nourish: to furnish with necessary
material: to foster.--_v.i._ to take food: to nourish one's self by
eating:--_pr.p._ feed'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ fed.--_n._ an allowance of
provender, esp. to cattle: the motion forward of anything being fed to a
machine: (_Milt._) a meal: (_Shak._) pasture land.--_ns._ FEED'ER, he who
feeds, or that which supplies: an eater: one who abets another: one who
fattens cattle: (_obs._) a parasite; FEED'-HEAD, the cistern that supplies
water to the boiler of a steam-engine; FEED'-HEAT'ER, an apparatus for
heating the water supplied to a steam-boiler; FEED'ING, act of eating: that
which is eaten: pasture: the placing of the sheets of paper in position for
a printing or ruling machine; FEED'ING-BOTT'LE, a bottle for supplying
liquid food to an infant; FEED'-PIPE, a pipe for supplying a boiler or
cistern with water; FEED'-PUMP, a force-pump for supplying a steam-engine
boiler with water. [A.S. _fédan_, to feed.]

FEE-FAW-FUM, f[=e]'-faw'-fum', _n._ a nursery word for anything frightful.

FEEL, f[=e]l, _v.t._ to perceive by the touch: to handle or try by touch:
to be conscious of: to be keenly sensible of: to have an inward persuasion
of.--_v.i._ to know by the touch: to have the emotions excited: to produce
a certain sensation when touched, as to feel hard or hot:--_pr.p._
feel'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ felt.--_n._ the sensation of touch.--_ns._
FEEL'ER, a remark cautiously dropped, or any indirect stratagem, to sound
the opinions of others: (_pl._) jointed fibres in the heads of insects,
&c., possessed of a delicate sense of touch, termed _antennæ_; FEEL'ING,
the sense of touch: perception of objects by touch: consciousness of
pleasure or pain: tenderness: emotion: sensibility, susceptibility,
sentimentality: opinion as resulting from emotion: (_pl._) the affections
or passions.--_adj._ expressive of great sensibility or tenderness: easily
affected.--_adv._ FEEL'INGLY.--FEEL AFTER (_B._), to search for. [A.S.
_félan_, to feel; Ger. _fühlen_; prob. akin to L. _palp[=a]re_, to quiver.]

FEER, f[=e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a companion, a spouse. [A.S. _ge-féra_, a
companion--_ge-féran_, to travel.]

FEE-SIMPLE, FEE-TAIL. See under FEE.

FEET, f[=e]t, _pl._ of FOOT.--_adj._ FEET'LESS, without feet.

FEIGN, f[=a]n, _v.t._ to invent: to imagine: to make a show or pretence of,
to counterfeit, simulate.--_adj._ FEIGNED, pretended: simulating.--_adv._
FEIGN'EDLY.--_ns._ FEIGN'EDNESS; FEIGN'ING. [Fr. _feindre_, pr.p.
_feignant_, to feign.--L. _fing[)e]re_, _fictum_, to form.]

FEINT, f[=a]nt, _n._ a false appearance: a pretence: a mock-assault: a
deceptive movement in fencing, boxing, &c.--_v.i._ to make a feint. [Fr.,
see above.]

FELDSPAR, feld'spär, _n._ (_min._) a general term for the most important
rock-forming group of minerals--all anhydrous silicates of alumina--divided
into those in which the minerals crystallise in _monoclinic_ and in
_triclinic_ forms--also FEL'SPAR, FELD'SPATH.--_adjs._ FELDSPATH'IC,
FELD'SPATHOSE. [Ger. _feldspath_--_feld_, a field, _spath_, spar.]

FELICITY, fe-lis'i-ti, _n._ happiness: delight: a blessing: a happy
event.--_v.t._ FELIC'IT[=A]TE, to express joy or pleasure to: to
congratulate.--_n._ FELICIT[=A]'TION, the act of congratulating.--_adj._
FELIC'ITOUS, happy: prosperous: delightful: appropriate.--_adv._
FELIC'ITOUSLY. [Fr.,--L. _felicitat-em_, from _felix_, _-icis_, happy.]

FELINE, f[=e]'l[=i]n, _adj._ pertaining to the cat or the cat kind: like a
cat.--_ns._ FELIN'ITY; F[=E]'LIS, the cats as a genus, the typical genus of
family F[=E]'LIDÆ and subfamily F[=E]L[=I]'NÆ. [L. _felinus_--_felis_, a
cat.]

FELL, fel, _n._ a barren hill. [Ice. _fjall_; Dan. _fjeld_.]

FELL, fel, _pa.t._ of FALL.

FELL, fel, _v.t._ to cause to fall: to bring to the ground: to cut
down.--_adj._ FELL'ABLE.--_n._ FELL'ER, a cutter of wood. [A.S. _fellan_,
causal form of _feallan_, to fall.]

FELL, fel, _n._ a skin.--_n._ FELL'MONGER, a dealer in skins. [A.S. _fel_;
cf. L. _pellis_, Gr. _pella_, Ger. _fell_.]

FELL, fel, _n._ (_Spens._) anger, melancholy. [L. _fel_, bile.]

FELL, fel, _adj._ cruel: fierce: bloody: deadly: keen, eager, spirited:
(_Scot._) very great, huge.--_adj._ FELL'-LURKING (_Shak._), lurking with
treacherous purpose.--_n._ FELL'NESS.--_adv._ FELL'Y. [O. Fr. _fel_,
cruel--L. _fello_. See FELON.]

FELLAH, fel'ä, _n._ an Arabic name applied contemptuously by the Turks to
the labouring or agricultural population of Egypt--descendants of the
ancient Egyptian, intermingled with Syrians, Arabs, &c.:--_pl._ FELL'AHS,
FELL'AHÎN. [Ar., 'tiller of the soil.']

FELLIC, fel'ik, _adj._ obtained from bile--also FELLIN'IC.--_adj._
FELLIF'LUOUS, flowing with gall. [L. _fel_, gall.]

FELLOE. See FELLY.

FELLONOUS, fel'lon-us, _adj._ (_Spens._) fell.--_adj._ FEL'LONEST, most
fell.

FELLOW, fel'[=o], _n._ an associate: a companion and equal: one of a pair,
a mate: a member of a university who enjoys a fellowship: a member of a
scientific or other society: an individual, a person generally: a worthless
person.--_ns._ FELL'OW-CIT'IZEN, one belonging to the same city;
FELL'OW-COMM'ONER, at Cambridge and elsewhere, a privileged class of
undergraduates, dining at the Fellows' table; FELL'OW-CREA'TURE, one of the
same race; FELL'OW-FEEL'ING, feeling between fellows or equals: sympathy;
FELL'OW-HEIR, a joint-heir.--_adv._ FELL'OWLY (_Shak._),
companionable.--_ns._ FELL'OW-MAN, a man of the same common nature with
one's self; FELL'OW-SERV'ANT, one who has the same master; FELL'OWSHIP, the
state of being a fellow or partner: friendly intercourse: communion: an
association: an endowment in a college for the support of graduates called
Fellows: the position and income of a fellow: (_arith._) the proportional
division of profit and loss among partners.--GOOD FELLOWSHIP,
companionableness; RIGHT HAND OF FELLOWSHIP, the right hand given by one
minister or elder to another at an ordination in some churches. [M. E.
_felawe_--Ice. _félagi_, a partner in goods, from _fé_ (Ger. _vieh_),
cattle, property, and _lag_, a laying together, a law. Cf. Eng. FEE, and
LAW.]

FELLY, fel'[=i], FELLOE, fel'[=o], _n._ one of the curved pieces in the
circumference of a wheel: the circular rim of the wheel. [A.S. _felg_; Ger.
_felge_.]

FELON, fel'on, _n._ one guilty of felony: a convict: a wicked person: an
inflamed sore.--_adj._ wicked or cruel.--_adj._ FEL[=O]'NIOUS, wicked:
depraved: done with the deliberate intention to commit crime.--_adv._
FEL[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_n._ FEL[=O]'NIOUSNESS, the quality of being
felonious.--_adj._ FEL'ONOUS (_Spens._), felonious.--_ns._ FEL'ONRY, a body
of felons; FEL'ONY, (_orig._) a crime punished by total forfeiture of
lands, &c.: a grave crime, beyond a misdemeanour, as that punishable by
penal servitude or death. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _fellonem_, _fello_, a traitor,
prob. L. _fel_, gall.]

FELSITE, fel's[=i]t, _n._ a fine-grained, compact rock, a variety of
quartz-porphyry--also FEL'STONE.--_adj._ FELSIT'IC. [Fr.,--Ger. _fels_,
rock.]

FELSPAR. Same as FELDSPAR.

FELT, felt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of FEEL.

FELT, felt, _n._ a fabric formed without weaving, by means of the natural
tendency of the fibres of wool and certain kinds of hair to interlace with
and cling to each other.--_v.t._ to make into felt: to cover with
felt.--_v.t._ FELT'ER, to mat together like felt.--_n._ FELT'ING, the art
or process of making felt: the felt itself. [A.S. _felt_; cf. Dut. _vilt_,
Ger. _filz_.]

FELUCCA, fe-luk'a, _n._ a class of small merchant-vessels, used in the
Mediterranean, with two masts, lateen sails, and often a rudder at each
end. [It. _feluca_, which, like Fr. _felouque_, is from Ar. _fulk_, a
ship.]

FEMALE, f[=e]'m[=a]l, _adj._ of the sex that produces young: pertaining to
females: (_bot._) having a pistil or fruit-bearing organ.--_n._ one of the
female sex, a woman.--_ns._ FEMAL'ITY, FEMINAL'ITY, the female
nature.--_adj._ FEM'INAL.--_n._ FEMIN[=E]'ITY, the quality of being
female.--_adj._ FEM'ININE, pertaining to women: tender: womanly: (_gram._)
the gender denoting females.--_adv._ FEM'ININELY.--_ns._ FEM'ININENESS;
FEMININ'ITY, the nature of the female sex.--FEMALE SCREW, a screw cut upon
the inward surface of a cylindrical hole in wood or metal; FEMININE RHYME,
a rhyme between words that terminate each in an unaccented syllable. [Fr.
_femelle_--L. _femella_, dim. of _femina_, a woman.]

FEMERELL, fem'er-el, _n._ a louvre or covering on the roof of a kitchen,
&c., to allow the smoke to escape.

FEMUR, f[=e]'mer, _n._ the thigh-bone.--_adj._ FEM'ORAL, belonging to the
thigh.--FEMORAL ARTERY, the main artery of the thigh. [L.
_femoralis_--_femur_, thigh.]

FEN, fen, _n._ a kind of low marshy land often, or partially, covered with
water: a morass or bog.--_ns._ FEN'-BERR'Y, the cranberry; FEN'-FIRE, the
Will-o'-the-wisp.--_adjs._ FEN'NY, FEN'NISH; FEN'-SUCKED (_Shak._), drawn
out of bogs. [A.S. _fenn_; Ice. _fen_.]

FEN, fen, _v.t._ an exclamatory phrase in boys' games, meaning 'Check!'
'Bar!' [Cf. FEND.]

FENCE, fens, _n._ a wall or hedge for enclosing animals or for protecting
land: the art of fencing: defence: a receiver of stolen goods, also a
receiving-house.--_v.t._ to enclose with a fence: to fortify.--_v.i._ to
practise fencing: to conceal the truth by equivocal answers.--_adjs._
FENCED, enclosed with a fence; FENCE'LESS, without fence or enclosure,
open.--_n._ FENC'ER, one who practises fencing with a sword.--_adj._
FENC'IBLE, capable of being fenced or defended.--_n.pl._ FENC'IBLES,
volunteer regiments raised for local defence during a special crisis:
militia enlisted for home service.--_p.adj._ FENC'ING, defending or
guarding.--_n._ the act of erecting a fence: the art of attack and defence
with a sword or other weapon.--_n._ FENC'ING-MAS'TER, one who teaches
fencing.--FENCE THE TABLES, in the ancient usage of Scotland, to debar from
partaking in communion those guilty of any known sin.--SIT ON THE FENCE, to
be still hesitating as between two opinions; SUNK FENCE, a ditch or
water-course. [Abbrev. of _defence_.]

FEND, fend, _v.t._ to ward off: to shut out: to defend.--_v.i._ to offer
resistance: to make provision for.--_n._ self-support, the shift one makes
for one's self.--_adj._ FEND'Y, shifty. [Abbrev. of _defend_.]

FENDER, fend'[.e]r, _n._ a metal guard before a fire to confine the ashes:
a protection for a ship's side against piers, &c., consisting of a bundle
of rope, &c.--_ns._ FEND'ER-BEAM, a fender of wood, protecting a ship's
side in dock: a permanent buffer at the end of a railway siding;
FEND'ER-BOARD, a board protecting the steps of a carriage from the dust
thrown up by the wheels. [_Fend_.]

FENESTELLA, fen-es-tel'a, _n._ a niche on the south side of an altar,
containing the piscina, and sometimes the credence: a genus of Polyzoa,
like the recent 'lace coral,' very common in Palæozoic rocks. [L., dim. of
_fenestra_, a window.]

FENESTRAL, fe-nes'tral, _adj._ belonging to or like a window: with
transparent spots--also FENES'TR[=A]TE.--_n._ FENESTR[=A]'TION, the
arrangement of windows in a building. [L. _fenestralis_--_fenestra_,
window.]

FENGITE, fen'j[=i]t, _n._ a transparent alabaster for window panes.

FENIAN, f[=e]'ne-an, _n._ a member of an association of Irishmen founded in
New York in 1857 for the overthrow of the English government in
Ireland.--_adj._ belonging to the legendary Fenians, or to the modern
conspirators.--_n._ F[=E]'NIANISM. [Old Ir. _Féne_, one of the names of the
ancient population of Ireland, confused in modern times with _fíann_, the
militia of Finn and other ancient Irish kings.]

FENKS, fengks, _n._ the refuse of whale-blubber.--Also FINKS.

FENNEC, fen'ek, _n._ a little African fox with large ears. [Moorish.]

FENNEL, fen'el, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous plants, allied to Dill, but
distinguished by the cylindrical, strongly-ribbed fruit, the flower
yellow.--_n._ FENN'EL-FLOW'ER, the _Nigella Damascena_, or ragged lady.
[A.S. _finul_--L. _foeniculum_, fennel--_fenum_, hay.]

FENT, fent, _n._ (_prov._) a slit, crack: a remnant or odd piece. [O. Fr.
_fente_--L. _find[)e]re_, to cleave.]

FENUGREEK, fen'[=u]-gr[=e]k, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants, allied to
clover and melilot. [L. _fenum-græcum_, 'Greek hay.']

FEOD, FEODAL, FEODARY. Same as FEUD, FEUDAL, FEUDARY.

FEOFF, fef, _n._ a fief.--_v.t._ to grant possession of a fief or property
in land.--_ns._ FEOFFEE', the person invested with the fief; FEOFF'ER,
FEOFF'OR, he who grants the fief; FEOFF'MENT, the gift of a fief or feoff.
[O. Fr. _feoffer_ or _fiefer_--O. Fr. _fief_. See FEE.]

FERACIOUS, fe-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ fruitful.--_n._ FERAC'ITY (_rare_). [L.
_ferax_, _-acis_--_ferre_, to bear.]

FER-DE-LANCE, f[=a]r'de-längs', _n._ the lance-headed or yellow viper of
tropical America.

FERE, f[=e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a mate, companion, equal. [A.S. _geféra_, a
companion, _ge-féran_, to travel.]

FERETORY, fer'e-tor-i, _n._ a shrine for relics carried in processions. [L.
_feretrum_--_ferre_, to bear.]

FERIAL, f[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ pertaining to holidays (_feriæ_), belonging to
any day of the week which is neither a fast nor a festival. [Fr.,--L.
_feria_, a holiday.]

FERINE, f[=e]'rin, _adj._ pertaining to, or like, a wild beast:
savage.--_n.pl._ FERÆ (f[=e]'r[=e]), wild animals.--_adj._ F[=E]'RAL, wild,
run wild.--_n._ FER'ITY, wildness.--F[=E]RÆ NATURÆ, those animals that are
wild or not domesticated, including game animals--deer, hares, pheasants,
&c. [L. _ferinus_--_fera_, a wild beast--_ferus_; akin to Gr. _th[=e]r_,
Ger. _thier_, a beast.]

FERINGHEE, fer-ing'g[=e], _n._ a Hindu name for an Englishman.--Also
FARIN'GEE. [A corr. of _Frank_.]

FERLY, fer'li, _adj._ fearful: sudden: singular.--_n._ a wonder.--_v.i._ to
wonder. [A.S. _f['æ]rlic_, sudden; cf. Ger. _ge-fährlich_, dangerous.]

FERM, f[.e]rm, _n._ a farm: (_Spens._) abode, lodging.

FERMATA, fer-mä'ta, _n._ (_mus._) a pause or break. [It.]

FERMENT, f[.e]r'ment, _n._ what excites fermentation, as yeast, leaven:
internal motion amongst the parts of a fluid: agitation: tumult.--_v.t._
FERMENT', to excite fermentation: to inflame.--_v.i._ to rise and swell by
the action of fermentation: to work, used of wine, &c.: to be in excited
action: to be stirred with anger.--_n._ FERMENTABIL'ITY.--_adj._
FERMENT'ABLE, capable of fermentation.--_n._ FERMENT[=A]'TION, the act or
process of fermenting: the change which takes place in liquids exposed to
air: the kind of spontaneous decomposition which produces alcohol: restless
action of the mind or feelings.--_adj._ FERMENT'ATIVE, causing or
consisting in fermentation.--_n._ FERMENT'ATIVENESS.--_adj._
FERMENTES'CIBLE, capable of being fermented. [Fr.,--L. _fermentum_, for
_fervimentum_--_ferv[=e]re_, to boil.]

FERMETURE, fer'me-t[=u]r, _n._ a mechanism for closing the chamber of a
breech-loading gun. [Fr.,--L. _firm[=a]re_, to make fast.]

FERN, fern, _n._ one of the beautiful class of higher or vascular
cryptogamous plants--the natural order _Filices_.--_ns._ FERN'ERY, a place
for rearing ferns; FERN'-OWL, the European goatsucker or night-jar;
FERN'-SEED, the spores of ferns, which, properly gathered, render the
bearers invisible; FERN'SHAW, a thicket of ferns; FERN'TICLE, a
freckle.--_adjs._ FERN'TICLED; FERN'Y. [A.S. _fearn_; Ger. _farn_.]

FEROCIOUS, fe-r[=o]'shus, _adj._ savage, fierce: cruel.--_adv._
FER[=O]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ FER[=O]'CIOUSNESS; FEROC'ITY, savage cruelty of
disposition: untamed fierceness. [L. _ferox_, _ferocis_, wild--_ferus_,
wild.]

FERRANDINE, fer'an-din, _n._ a silk and wool or silk and hair cloth.--Also
FARR'ANDINE. [Fr.]

FERRARA, fer-ä'ra, _n._ a make of sword-blade highly esteemed in Scotland
from about the close of the 16th century--often ANDREA FERRARA--said to
have been made at Belluno in Venetia by Cosmo, Andrea, and Gianantonio
_Ferrara_. [Perh. a native of _Ferrara_, or prob. merely the It. _ferrajo_,
a cutler--L. _ferrarius_, a smith.]

FERREOUS, fer'e-us, _adj._ pertaining to, or made of, iron. [L.
_ferreus_--_ferrum_, iron.]

FERRET, fer'et, _n._ ribbon woven from spun silk. [Corr. from It.
_fioretto_--L. _flos_, _floris_, a flower.]

FERRET, fer'et, _n._ a half-tamed albino variety of the polecat, employed
in unearthing rabbits.--_v.t._ to drive out of a hiding-place: to search
out cunningly:--_pr.p._ ferr'eting; _pa.p._ ferr'eted.--_n._ FERR'ETER, one
who uses a ferret to catch rabbits, &c.: one who searches minutely. [O. Fr.
_furet_, a ferret--Low L. _furon-em_, robber--L. _fur_, a thief.]

FERRIAGE, fer'ri-[=a]j, _n._ See FERRY.

FERRIC, fer'ik, _adj._ pertaining to or obtained from iron: noting an acid
compounded of iron and oxygen.--_ns._ FERR'ATE, a salt formed by the union
of ferric acid with a base; FERROCYANOGEN (fer-o-s[=i]-an'[=o]-jen), a
compound radical supposed by chemists to exist in ferrocyanic acid and the
ferrocyanides, the chief of which is potassium ferrocyanide, yielding
Prussian blue; FERR'OTYPE, a photographic process in which the negative was
developed by a saturated solution of protosulphate of iron. [L. _ferrum_,
iron.]

FERRIFEROUS, fer-rif'[.e]r-us, _adj._ bearing or yielding iron. [L.
_ferrum_, iron, _ferre_, to bear.]

FERRUGINOUS, fer-r[=oo]'jin-us, _adj._ of the colour of iron-rust
impregnated with iron.--_n._ FERRU'GO, a disease of plants, commonly called
rust. [L. _ferrugineus_--_ferrugo_, _-inem_, iron-rust--_ferrum_, iron.]

FERRULE, fer'il, or fer'[=oo]l, _n._ a metal ring or cap on a staff, &c.,
to keep it from splitting.--Also FERR'EL. [O. Fr. _virole_--L. _viriola_, a
bracelet.]

FERRY, fer'i, _v.t._ to carry or convey over a water in a boat:--_pr.p._
ferr'ying; _pa.p._ ferr'ied.--_n._ a place where one is carried by boat
across a water: the right of conveying passengers: the ferry-boat.--_ns._
FERR'IAGE, provision for ferrying: the fare paid for such; FERR'Y-BOAT;
FERR'Y-MAN. [A.S. _ferian_, to convey, _faran_, to go; Ger. _fähre_, a
ferry--_fahren_, to go, to carry.]

FERTILE, f[.e]r'til, _adj._ able to bear or produce abundantly: rich in
resources: inventive: fertilising.--_adv._ FER'TILELY.--_n._
FERTILIS[=A]'TION, the act or process of fertilising.--_v.t._ FER'TILISE,
to make fertile or fruitful: to enrich.--_ns._ FER'TILISER, one who, or
that which, fertilises; FERTIL'ITY, fruitfulness: richness: abundance.
[Fr.,--L. _fertilis_--_ferre_, to bear.]

FERULE, fer'[=oo]l, _n._ a cane or rod used for striking children in
punishment.--_n._ FER'ULA, a staff of command.--_adj._ FERUL[=A]'CEOUS,
pertaining to canes or reeds. [L. _ferula_, a cane--_fer[=i]re_, to
strike.]

FERVENT, f[.e]r'vent, _adj._ ardent: zealous: warm in feeling.--_n._
FER'VENCY, eagerness: warmth of devotion.--_adv._ FER'VENTLY.--_adjs._
FERVES'CENT, growing hot; FER'VID, very hot: having burning desire or
emotion: zealous.--_n._ FERVID'ITY.--_adv._ FER'VIDLY.--_ns._ FER'VIDNESS;
FER'VOUR, heat: heat of mind, zeal. [Fr.,--L. _ferv[=e]re_, to boil.]

FESCENNINE, fes'e-nin, _adj._ scurrilous.--FESCENNINE VERSES consisted of
dialogues in rude extempore verses, generally in Saturnian measure, in
which the parties rallied and ridiculed one another. The style, afterwards
popular at Rome, originated in the Etruscan town _Fescennium_.

FESCUE, fes'k[=u], _n._ a genus of grasses, very nearly allied to
Brome-grass, and including many valuable pasture and fodder grasses: a
small straw or wire used to point out letters to children when learning to
read. [O. Fr. _festu_--L. _fest[=u]ca_, a straw.]

FESSE, FESS, fes, _n._ (_her._) one of the ordinaries--a band over the
middle of an escutcheon, one-third its breadth. [Fr. _fasce_--L. _fascia_,
a band.]

FESTAL, fes'tal, _adj._ pertaining to a feast or holiday: joyous:
gay.--_adv._ FES'TALLY.--_n._ FESTIL'OGY, a treatise on ecclesiastical
festivals.

FESTER, fes't[.e]r, _v.i._ to become corrupt or malignant: to
suppurate.--_v.t._ to cause to fester or rankle.--_n._ a wound discharging
corrupt matter. [O. Fr. _festre_--L. _fistula_, an ulcer.]

FESTINATE, fes'ti-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to accelerate.--_adj._ (_Shak._) hurried,
hasty.--_adv._ FES'TINATELY (_Shak._), hastily.--_n._ FESTIN[=A]'TION. [L.
_festina[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to hurry.]

FESTIVE, fes'tiv, _adj._ festal: mirthful.--_n._ FES'TIVAL, a joyful
celebration: a feast.--_adv._ FES'TIVELY.--_n._ FESTIV'ITY, social mirth:
joyfulness: gaiety.--_adj._ FES'TIVOUS, festive. [L. _festivus_--_festus_.]

FESTOON, fes-t[=oo]n', _n._ a garland suspended between two points:
(_archit._) an ornament like a wreath of flowers, &c.--_v.t._ to adorn with
festoons.--_n._ FESTOON'-BLIND, a window-blind of cloth gathered into rows
of festoons in its width. [Fr. _feston_--Low L. _festo_(_n-_), a
garland--L. _festum_.]

FET, FETT, fet, _v.t._ obsolete form of _fetch_.

FETAL. See FOETUS.

FETCH, fech, _v.t._ to bring: to go and get: to obtain as its price: to
accomplish in any way: to bring down, to cause to yield: to reach or
attain.--_v.i._ to turn: (_naut._) to arrive at.--_n._ the act of bringing:
space carried over: a stratagem.--_adj._ FETCH'ING, fascinating.--FETCH AND
CARRY, to perform humble services for another; FETCH A PUMP, to pour water
in so as to make it draw; FETCH OUT, to draw forth, develop; FETCH TO, to
revive, as from a swoon; FETCH UP, to recover: to come to a sudden stop.
[A.S. _feccan_, an altered form of _fetian_, to fetch; cf. Ger. _fassen_,
to seize.]

FETCH, fech, _n._ the apparition, double, or wraith of a living
person.--_n._ FETCH'-CAN'DLE, a nocturnal light, supposed to portend a
death. [Ety. unknown.]

FÊTE, f[=a]t, _n._ a festival: a holiday.--_v.t._ to entertain at a
feast.--_n._ FÊTE'-DAY, a birthday.--FÊTE CHAMPÊTRE, an outdoor
entertainment. [Fr.]

FETIAL, f[=e]'shal, _adj._ pertaining to the Roman _fetiales_, heraldic,
ambassadorial.--Also F[=E]'CIAL.

FETICH, FETISH, f[=e]'tish, _n._ an object, either natural or artificial,
capable of being appropriated by an individual whose possession of it
procures the services of a spirit lodged within it.--_ns._ F[=E]'TICHISM,
F[=E]'TISHISM, the worship of a fetich: a belief in charms.--_adjs._
FETICHIST'IC, FETISHIST'IC. [Fr. _fétiche_--Port. _feitiço_, magic: a name
given by the Portuguese to the gods of West Africa--Port. _feitiço_,
artificial--L. _factitius_--_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FETICIDE. See FOETUS.

FETID, f[=e]'tid, or fet'id, _adj._ stinking: having a strong offensive
odour.--_ns._ F[=E]'TIDNESS, F[=E]'TOR, FOE'TOR. [L.
_foetidus_--_foet[=e]re_, to stink.]

FETLOCK, fet'lok, _n._ a tuft of hair that grows behind on horses' feet:
the part where this hair grows.--_adj._ FET'LOCKED, tied by the fetlock.
[History obscure; often explained as compounded of _foot_ and _lock_ (of
hair); cf. Ger. _fiszloch_.]

FETTER, fet'[.e]r, _n._ a chain or shackle for the feet: anything that
restrains--used chiefly in _pl._--_v.t._ to put fetters on: to
restrain.--_adjs._ FETT'ERED, bound by fetters: (_zool._) of feet bent
backward and apparently unfit for walking; FETT'ERLESS, without fetters,
unrestrained.--_n._ FETT'ERLOCK (_her._) a shackle or lock. [A.S.
_feter_--_fét_, feet, pl. of _fót_, foot.]

FETTLE, fet'l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to arrange, mend.--_v.i._ to potter fussily
about.--_n._ preparedness, ready condition. [Prob. A.S. _fetel_, a belt.]

FETUS. See FOETUS.

FEU, f[=u], _n._ (_Scot._) a tenure where the vassal, in place of military
services, makes a return in grain or in money: a right to the use of land,
houses, &c., in perpetuity, for a stipulated annual payment
(FEU'-D[=U]'TY).--_v.t._ to vest in one who undertakes to pay the
feu-duty--_n._ FEU'AR, one who holds real estate in consideration of a
payment called feu-duty. [O. Fr. _feu_. See the variant FEE.]

FEUD, f[=u]d, _n._ a war waged by private individuals, families, or clans
against one another on their own account: a bloody strife.--RIGHT OF FEUD,
the right to protect one's self and one's kinsmen, and punish injuries. [O.
Fr. _faide_, _feide_--Low L. _faida_--Old High Ger. _f[=e]hida_. See FOE.]

FEUD, f[=u]d, _n._ a fief or land held on condition of service.--_adj._
FEUD'AL, pertaining to feuds or fiefs: belonging to feudalism.--_n._
FEUDALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ FEUD'ALISE.--_ns._ FEUD'ALISM, the system,
during the Middle Ages, by which vassals held lands from lords-superior on
condition of military service; FEUD'ALIST; FEUDAL'ITY, the state of being
feudal: the feudal system.--_adv._ FEUD'ALLY.--_adjs._ FEUD'ARY,
FEUD'ATORY, holding lands or power by a feudal tenure--also _ns._--_ns._
FEUD'IST, a writer on feuds: one versed in the laws of feudal tenure. [Low
L. _feudum_, from root of _fee_.]

FEUILLETON, f[.e]'lye-tong, _n._ the portion of a newspaper set apart for
intelligence of a non-political character--criticisms on art or letters, or
a serial story--usually marked off by a line.--_n._ FEUIL'LETONISM,
superficial qualities in literature, &c. [Fr. dim. of _feuillet_, a
leaf--L. _folium_, a leaf.]

FEVER, f[=e]'v[.e]r, _n._ disease marked by great bodily heat and
quickening of pulse: extreme excitement of the passions, agitation: a
painful degree of anxiety.--_v.t._ to put into a fever.--_v.i._ to become
fevered.--_adj._ F[=E]'VERED, affected with fever, excited.--_ns._
F[=E]'VER-FEW, a composite perennial closely allied to camomile, so called
from its supposed power as a febrifuge; F[=E]'VER-HEAT, the heat of fever:
an excessive degree of excitement.--_adj._ F[=E]'VERISH, slightly fevered:
indicating fever: fidgety: fickle: morbidly eager.--_adv._
F[=E]'VERISHLY.--_n._ F[=E]'VERISHNESS.--_adj._ F[=E]'VEROUS, feverish:
marked by sudden changes. [A.S. _féfor_--L. _febris_.]

FEW, f[=u], _adj._ small in number: not many.--_n._ FEW'NESS.--A FEW, used
colloquially for 'a good bit;' A GOOD FEW, a considerable number; IN FEW=in
a few (words), briefly; SOME FEW, an inconsiderable number; THE FEW, the
minority. [A.S. _féa_, pl. _féawe_; Fr. _peu_; L. _paucus_, small.]

FEWTER, f[=u]'t[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to set close, to fix in rest, as a
spear. [O. Fr. _feutre_--_feutre_, felt.]

FEWTRILS, f[=u]'trilz, _n.pl._ (_prov._) little things, trifles. [See
FATTRELS.]

FEY, FAY, f[=a], _adj._ doomed, fated soon to die, under the shadow of a
sudden or violent death--often marked by extravagantly high spirits. [M. E.
_fay_, _fey_--A.S. _f['æ]ge_, doomed; cf. Dut. _veeg_, about to die.]

FEZ, fez, _n._ a red brimless cap of wool or felt, fitting closely to the
head, with a tassel of black or blue, worn in Turkey, Egypt, &c.--in Africa
usually called _tarbûsh_. [From _Fez_ in Morocco.]

FIACRE, f[=e]-ä'kr, _n._ a hackney-coach. [Fr., from the Hôtel de St
_Fiacre_ in Paris, where first used.]

FIANCÉE, f[=e]-ong-s[=a]', _n._ a woman betrothed:--_masc._ FIANCÉ. [Fr.,
_fiancer_, to betroth--L. _fidentia_, confidence, _fid[)e]re_, to trust.]

FIARS, f[=i]'arz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) the prices of grain legally _struck_ or
fixed for the year at the _Fiars_ Court, so as to regulate the payment of
stipend, rent, and prices not expressly agreed upon. [Conn. with _fiar_,
the holder of a _fee_ (q.v.).]

FIASCO, fi-as'ko, _n._ a failure in a musical performance: a failure of any
kind. [It. _fiasco_, bottle, perh. from L. _vasculum_, a little vessel,
_vas_, a vessel.]

FIAT, f[=i]'at, _n._ a formal or solemn command: a short order or warrant
of a judge for making out or allowing processes, letters-patent,
&c.--(_Spens._) F[=I]'AUN.--_v.t._ to sanction, [L. 'let it be done,' 3d
pers. sing. pres. subj. of _fi[)e]ri_, passive of _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

FIB, fib, _n._ something said falsely: a mild expression for a lie.--_v.i._
to tell a fib or lie: to speak falsely:--_pr.p._ fib'bing; _pa.p._
fibbed.--_ns._ FIB'BER, one who fibs; FIB'BERY (_rare_), the habit of
fibbing; FIB'STER, a fibber. [An abbrev. of _fable_.]

FIBRE, f[=i]'b[.e]r, _n._ a conglomeration of thread-like tissue such as
exists in animals or vegetables: any fine thread, or thread-like substance:
material, substance.--_adjs._ F[=I]'BRED, having fibres; F[=I]'BRELESS,
having no fibres; F[=I]'BRIFORM, fibrous in form or structure.--_ns._
F[=I]'BRIL, a small fibre; one of the extremely minute threads composing an
animal fibre; FIBRIL'LA, a fibril, filament.--_n.pl._ FIBRIL'LÆ.--_n._
FIBRILL[=A]'TION, the process of becoming fibrillated.--_adj._
F[=I]'BRILLOUS, formed of small fibres.--_ns._ F[=I]'BRIN, a proteid
substance which appears in the blood after it is shed, and by its
appearance gives rise to the process of coagulation or clotting;
FIBRIN[=A]'TION, the process of adding fibrin to the blood.--_adj._
F[=I]'BRINOUS, of or like fibrin.--_n._ FIBROCAR'TILAGE, a firm elastic
material like fibrous tissue and cartilage.--_adj._ F[=I]'BROID, of a
fibrous character.--_ns._ F[=I]'BROIN, the chief chemical constituent of
silk, cobwebs, and the horny skeleton of sponges; FIBR[=O]'MA, a tumour or
growth consisting largely of fibrous matter; FIBR[=O]'SIS, a morbid growth
of fibrous matter.--_adj._ F[=I]'BROUS, composed of fibres.--_n._
F[=I]'BROUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _fibra_, a thread.]

FIBROLINE, fib'r[=o]-l[=e]n, _n._ a yarn manufactured from the waste in
hemp, flax, and jute spinning works, for backs of carpets, &c.

FIBULA, fib'[=u]-la, _n._ a clasp or buckle; the outer of the two bones
from the knee to the ankle.--_adjs._ FIB'ULAR, FIB'ULATE, FIB'ULOUS. [L.]

FICHU, f[=e]-shü', _n._ a three-cornered cape worn over the shoulders, the
ends crossed upon the bosom: a triangular piece of muslin, &c., for the
neck. [Fr.]

FICKLE, fik'l, _adj._ inconstant: changeable.--_n._ FICK'LENESS. [A.S.
_ficol_; _gefic_, fraud.]

FICO, f[=e]'ko, _n._ (_Shak._) a motion of contempt by placing the thumb
between two fingers. [It.,--L.]

FICTILE, fik'til, _adj._ used or fashioned by the potter, plastic. [L.
_fictilis_--_fing[)e]re_, to form or fashion.]

FICTION, fik'shun, _n._ a feigned or false story: a falsehood: romance: the
novel, story-telling as a branch of literature: a supposition of law that a
thing is true, which is either certainly not true, or at least is as
probably false as true.--_adj._ FIC'TIONAL.--_n._ FIC'TIONIST, a writer of
fiction.--_adj._ FICTI'TIOUS, imaginary: not real: forged.--_adv._
FICTI'TIOUSLY.--_adj._ FIC'TIVE, fictitious, imaginative.--_n._ FIC'TOR,
one who makes images of clay, &c. [Fr.,--L. _fiction-em_--_fictus_, pa.p.
of _fing[)e]re_.]

FID, fid, _n._ a conical pin of hard wood, used by sailors to open the
strands of a rope in splicing: a square bar of wood or iron, with a
shoulder at one end, used to support the weight of the topmast or
top-gallant-mast when swayed up into place.

FIDDLE, fid'l, _n._ a stringed instrument of music, called also a
_Violin_.--_v.t._ or _v.i._ to play on a fiddle: to be busy over trifles,
to trifle:--_pr.p._ fidd'ling; _pa.p._ fidd'led.--_ns._ FIDD'LE-BLOCK, a
long block having two sheaves of different diameters in the same plane;
FIDD'LE-BOW, a bow strung with horse-hair, with which the strings of the
fiddle are set vibrating.--_interjs._ FIDD'LE-DE-DEE, FIDD'LESTICK (often
_pl._), nonsense!--_v.i._ FIDD'LE-FADD'LE, to trifle, to dally.--_n._
trifling talk.--_adj._ fussy, trifling.--_interj._ nonsense!--_n._
FIDD'LE-FADD'LER.--_adj._ FIDD'LE-FADD'LING.--_ns._ FIDD'LE-HEAD, an
ornament at a ship's bow, over the cut-water, consisting of a scroll
turning aft or inward; FIDD'LER, one who fiddles: a small crab of genus
_Gelasimus_; FIDD'LE-STRING, a string for a fiddle; FIDD'LE-WOOD, a
tropical American tree yielding valuable hard wood.--_adj._ FIDD'LING,
trifling, busy about trifles.--FIDDLER'S GREEN, a sailor's name for a place
of frolic on shore.--PLAY FIRST, or SECOND, FIDDLE, to take the part of the
first, or second, violin-player in an orchestra: to take a leading, or a
subordinate, part in anything; SCOTCH FIDDLE, the itch. [A.S. _fiðele_;
Ger. _fiedel_. See VIOLIN.]

FIDELITY, fi-del'i-ti, _n._ faithful performance of duty: faithfulness to a
husband or wife: honesty: firm adherence. [L. _fidelitat-em_--_fidelis_,
faithful--_fid[)e]re_, to trust.]

FIDGET, fij'et, _v.i._ to be unable to rest: to move uneasily:--_pr.p._
fidg'eting; _pa.p._ fidg'eted.--_n._ irregular motion: restlessness:
(_pl._) general nervous restlessness, with a desire of changing the
position.--_v.i._ FIDGE, to move about restlessly: to be eager.--_n._
FIDG'ETINESS.--_adj._ FIDG'ETY, restless: uneasy. [Perh. related to _fike_
(q.v.).]

FIDUCIAL, fi-d[=u]'shi-al, _adj._ showing confidence or reliance: of the
nature of a trust.--_adv._ FID[=U]'CIALLY.--_adj._ FID[=U]'CIARY,
confident: unwavering: held in trust.--_n._ one who holds anything in
trust: (_theol._) one who depends for salvation on faith without works, an
Antinomian. [L. _fiducia_, confidence, from _fid[)e]re_, to trust.]

FIE, f[=i], _interj._ denoting disapprobation or disgust. [Scand., Ice.
_fý_, _fei_, fie! cf. Ger. _pfui_.]

FIEF, f[=e]f, _n._ land held of a superior in fee or on condition of
military service: a feud. [Fr.,--Low L. _feudum_.]

FIELD, f[=e]ld, _n._ country or open country in general: a piece of ground
enclosed for tillage or pasture: the range of any series of actions or
energies: the locality of a battle: the battle itself: room for action of
any kind: a wide expanse: (_her._) the surface of a shield: the background
on which figures are drawn: the part of a coin left unoccupied by the main
device: those taking part in a hunt: all the entries collectively against
which a single contestant has to compete: all the parties not individually
excepted, as 'to bet on the field' in a horse-race.--_v.t._ at cricket and
base-ball, to catch or stop and return to the fixed place.--_v.i._ to stand
in positions so as to catch the ball easily in cricket.--_ns._
FIELD'-ALLOW'ANCE, a small extra payment to officers on active service;
FIELD'-ARTILL'ERY, light ordnance suited for active operations in the
field; FIELD'-BED, a camp or trestle bedstead; FIELD'-BOOK, a book used in
surveying fields.--_n.pl._ FIELD'-COL'OURS, small flags used for marking
the position for companies and regiments, also any regimental headquarters'
flags.--_n._ FIELD'-DAY, a day when troops are drawn out for instruction in
field exercises: any day of unusual bustle.--_adj._ FIELD'ED (_Shak._),
encamped.--_ns._ FIELD'ER, one who fields; FIELD'FARE, a species of thrush,
having a reddish-yellow throat and breast spotted with black; FIELD'-GLASS,
a binocular telescope slung over the shoulder in a case; FIELD'-GUN, a
light cannon mounted on a carriage; FIELD'-HAND, an outdoor farm labourer;
FIELD'-HOS'PITAL, a temporary hospital near the scene of battle;
FIELD'-ICE, ice formed in the polar seas in large surfaces, distinguished
from icebergs; FIELD'ING, the acting in the field at cricket as
distinguished from batting; FIELD'-MAR'SHAL, an officer of the highest rank
in the army; FIELD'-MEET'ING, a conventicle; FIELD'-MOUSE, a species of
mouse that lives in the fields; FIELD'-NIGHT, a night marked by some
important gathering, discussion, &c.; FIELD'-OFF'ICER, a military officer
above the rank of captain, and below that of general; FIELD'PIECE, a cannon
or piece of artillery used in the field of battle; FIELD'-PREACH'ER, one
who preaches in the open air; FIELD'-PREACH'ING; FIELDS'MAN, a
fielder.--_n.pl._ FIELD'-SPORTS, sports of the field, as hunting, racing,
&c.--_n._ FIELD'-TRAIN, a department of the Royal Artillery responsible for
the safety and supply of ammunition during war.--_advs._ FIELD'WARD,
-WARDS, toward the fields.--_n.pl._ FIELD'WORKS, temporary works thrown up
by troops in the field, either for protection or to cover an attack upon a
stronghold.--FIELD OF VISION, the compass of visual power.--KEEP THE FIELD,
to keep the campaign open: to maintain one's ground. [A.S. _feld_; cf. Dut.
_veld_, the open country, Ger. _feld_.]

FIEND, f[=e]nd, _n._ the devil: one actuated by the most intense wickedness
or hate.--_adj._ FIEND'ISH, like a fiend; malicious.--_n._
FIEND'ISHNESS.--_adj._ FIEND'LIKE, like a fiend: fiendish. [A.S. _feónd_,
pr.p. of _feón_, to hate; Ger. _feind_, Dut. _vijand_.]

FIERCE, f[=e]rs, _adj._ ferocious: violent: angry.--_adv._ FIERCE'LY.--_n._
FIERCE'NESS. [O. Fr. _fers_ (Fr. _fier_)--L. _ferus_, wild, savage.]

FIERY, f[=i]r'i, or f[=i]'[.e]r-i, _adj._ ardent: impetuous:
irritable.--_adv._ FIER'ILY.--_ns._ FIER'INESS; FIER'Y-CROSS (see
CROSS).--_adjs._ FIER'Y-FOOT'ED, swift in motion; FIER'Y-HOT, impetuous;
FIER'Y-NEW, hot from newness; FIER'Y-SHORT, short and passionate.

FIFE, f[=i]f, _n._ a smaller variety of the flute, usually with only one
key.--_v.i._ to play on the fife.--_ns._ FIFE'-M[=A]'JOR (_obs._), the
chief fifer in a regiment; FIF'ER, one who plays on a fife; FIFE'-RAIL, the
rail round the mainmast for belaying-pins. [Fr. _fifre_, Ger. _pfeife_,
both, acc. to Littré, from L. _pip[=a]re_, to chirp.]

FIFISH, f[=i]'fish, _adj._ (_Scot._) whimsical, cranky. [_Fife_.]

FIFTEEN, fif't[=e]n, _adj._ and _n._ five and ten.--_adj._ FIF'TEENTH, the
fifth after the tenth: being one of fifteen equal parts.--_n._ a fifteenth
part.--THE FIFTEEN, the Jacobite rising of 1715. [A.S. _fíftyne_--_fíf_,
five, _týn_, ten.]

FIFTH, fifth, _adj._ next after the fourth.--_n._ one of five equal parts:
(_mus._) a tone five diatonic degrees above or below any given
tone.--_adv._ FIFTH'LY, in the fifth place.--_ns._ FIFTH'-MON'ARCHISM;
FIFTH'-MON'ARCHIST.--FIFTH-MONARCHY MEN, an extreme sect of the time of the
Puritan revolution, who looked for the establishment of a new reign of
Christ on earth, in succession to Daniel's four great monarchies of
Antichrist. [A.S. _fífta_.]

FIFTY, fif'ti, _adj._ and _n._ five tens or five times ten.--_adj._
FIF'TIETH, the ordinal of fifty.--_n._ a fiftieth part. [A.S.
_fíftig_--_fíf_, five, _tig_, ten.]

FIG, fig, _n._ the fig-tree (_Ficus_), or its fruit, growing in warm
climates: a thing of little consequence.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to insult by a
contemptuous motion of the fingers.--_ns._ FIG'-LEAF, the leaf of the
fig-tree: an imitation of such a leaf for veiling the private parts of a
statue or picture: any scanty clothing (from Gen. iii. 7): a makeshift;
FIG'-TREE, the tree which produces figs. [Fr. _figue_--L. _ficus_, a fig.]

FIG, fig, _n._ (_coll._) figure: dress.--_v.t._ to dress, get up.--_n._
FIG'GERY, dressy ornament.

FIGARO, fig'ar-o, _n._ a type of cunning and dexterity from the dramatic
character, first barber and then valet-de-chambre, in the _Barbier de
Seville_ and the _Mariage de Figaro_, by Beaumarchais: the name adopted by
a famous Paris newspaper founded 1854.

FIGHT, f[=i]t, _v.i._ to strive with: to contend in war or in single
combat.--_v.t._ to engage in conflict with: to gain by fight: to cause to
fight:--_pr.p._ fight'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ fought (fawt).--_n._ a
struggle: a combat: a battle or engagement.--_n._ FIGHT'ER.--_adj._
FIGHT'ING, engaged in or fit for war.--_n._ the act of fighting or
contending.--_ns._ FIGHT'ING-COCK, a gamecock, a pugnacious fellow;
FIGHT'ING-FISH (_Betta pugnax_), a small Siamese fresh-water fish, kept for
its extraordinary readiness for fighting, bets being laid on the
issue.--FIGHT IT OUT, to struggle on until the end; FIGHT SHY OF, to avoid
from mistrust.--LIVE LIKE FIGHTING-COCKS, to get the best of meat and
drink. [A.S. _feohtan_; Ger. _fechten_.]

FIGMENT, fig'ment, _n._ a fabrication or invention. [L.
_figmentum_--_fing[)e]re_, to form.]

FIGULINE, fig'[=u]-lin, _adj._ such as is made by the potter,
fictile.--_n._ an earthen vessel:--_pl._ pottery.
[L.--_figulinus_--_figulus_, potter.]

FIGURE, fig'[=u]r, _n._ the form of anything in outline: the representation
of anything in drawing, &c.: a drawing: a design: a statue: appearance: a
character denoting a number: value or price: (_rhet._) a deviation from the
ordinary mode of expression, in which words are changed from their literal
signification or usage: (_logic_) the form of a syllogism with respect to
the position of the middle term: steps in a dance: a type or
emblem.--_v.t._ to form or shape: to make an image of: to mark with figures
or designs: to imagine: to symbolise: to foreshow: to note by
figures.--_v.i._ to make figures: to appear as a distinguished
person.--_n._ FIGURABIL'ITY, the quality of being figurable.--_adjs._
FIG'URABLE; FIG'URAL, represented by figure.--_n._ FIG'URANTE, a ballet
dancer, one of those dancers who dance in troops, and form a background for
the solo dancers:--_masc._ FIG'URANT.--_adj._ FIG'URATE, of a certain
determinate form: (_mus._) florid.--_n._ FIGUR[=A]'TION, act of giving
figure or form: (_mus._) mixture of chords and discords.--_adj._
FIG'URATIVE (_rhet._), representing by, containing, or abounding in
figures: metaphorical: flowery: typical.--_adv._ FIG'URATIVELY.--_ns._
FIG'URATIVENESS, state of being figurative; FIG'URE-CAST'ER, an astrologer;
FIG'URE-CAST'ING, the art of preparing casts of animal or other
forms.--_adj._ FIG'URED, marked or adorned with figures.--_ns._
FIG'URE-DANCE, a dance consisting of elaborate figures; FIG'UREHEAD, the
figure or bust under the bowsprit of a ship; FIG'URE-WEAV'ING, the weaving
of figured fancy fabrics; FIG'URINE, a small carved or sculptured figure,
often specially such as are adorned with painting and gilding; FIG'URIST,
one who uses or interprets figures.--FIGURATE NUMBERS, any series of
numbers beginning with unity, and so formed that if each be subtracted from
the following, and the series so formed be treated in the same way, by a
continuation of the process, equal differences will be obtained. [Fr.,--L.
_figura_, _fing[)e]re_, to form.]

FIKE, f[=i]k, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to fidget restlessly.--_n._ restlessness:
any vexatious requirement or detail in work.--_n._ FIK'ERY, fuss.--_adj._
FIK'Y. [Prob. Ice. _fíkja_.]

FILACEOUS, fil-[=a]'shus, _adj._ composed of threads. [L. _filum_, a
thread.]

FILACER, fil'[=a]-ser, _n._ an officer in the Court of Common Pleas who
formerly filed original writs and made out processes on them.--Also
FIL'AZER. [O. Fr. _filacier_--_filace_, a file for papers--L. _filum_.]

FILAMENT, fil'a-ment, _n._ a slender or thread-like object: a fibre:
(_bot._) the stalk of the stamen which supports the pollen-containing
anther.--_adjs._ FILAMENT'ARY, FILAMENT'OSE; FILAMENT'OID, like a filament;
FILAMENT'OUS, thread-like. [Fr.,--L. _filum_, a thread.]

FILANDERS, fil-an'd[.e]rz, _n.pl._ a disease in hawks caused by a small
intestinal worm, the _filander_. [Fr. _filandres_--L. _filum_.]

FILAR, f[=i]'lar, _adj._ pertaining to a thread.

FILATURE, fil'a-t[=u]r, _n._ the reeling of silk, or the place where it is
done.--_n._ FIL'ATORY, a machine for forming or spinning threads. [Fr.,--L.
_filum_, a thread.]

FILBERT, fil'bert, _n._ the nut of the cultivated hazel--(_obs._) FIL'BERD.
[Prob. from St _Philibert_, whose day fell in the nutting season, Aug. 22
(O.S.).]

FILCH, filch, _v.t._ to steal: to pilfer.--_n._ FILCH'ER, a thief.--_adv._
FILCH'INGLY. [Ety. unknown.]

FILE, f[=i]l, _n._ a line or wire on which papers are placed in order: the
papers so placed: a roll or list: a line of soldiers ranged behind one
another: the number of men forming the depth of a battalion.--_v.t._ to put
upon a file: to arrange in an orderly manner: to put among the records of a
court: to bring before a court.--_v.i._ to march in a file.--_n._
FILE'-LEAD'ER.--FILE OFF, to wheel off at right angles to the first
direction; FILE WITH, to rank with, to be equal to.--SINGLE FILE, INDIAN
FILE, of men marching one behind another. [Fr. _file_--L. _filum_, a
thread.]

FILE, f[=i]l, _n._ a steel instrument with sharp-edged furrows for
smoothing or rasping metals, &c.: any means adopted to polish a thing, as a
literary style: a shrewd, cunning person, a deep fellow: a
pickpocket.--_v.t._ to cut or smooth with, or as with, a file: to polish,
improve.--_n._ FILE'-CUT'TER, a maker of files.--_adj._ FILED, polished,
smooth.--_ns._ FILE'-FISH, a fish of genus _Balistes_, the skin granulated
like a file; FIL'ER, one who files; FIL'ING, a particle rubbed off with a
file. [A.S. _feól_; Ger. _feile_; Dut. _vijl_.]

FILE, f[=i]l, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to defile, pollute.

FILEMOT, fil'e-mot, _adj._ of a dead-leaf colour--also _n._ the colour
itself. [Fr. _feuillemorte_, a dead leaf.]

FILIAL, fil'yal, _adj._ pertaining to or becoming a son or daughter:
bearing the relation of a child.--_adv._ FIL'IALLY. [Fr.,--Low L.
_filialis_--L. _filius_, a son.]

FILIATE, FILIATION. Same as AFFILIATE, AFFILIATION.

FILIBUSTER, FILLIBUSTER, fil'i-bus-t[.e]r, _n._ a lawless military or
piratical adventurer, as in the West Indies: a buccaneer.--_v.i._ to
obstruct legislation wantonly by endless speeches, motions, &c.--_n._
FIL'IBUSTERISM, the character or actions of a filibuster. [Sp.
_filibustero_, through Fr. _flibustier_, _fribustier_, from Dut.
_vrijbueter_, _vrijbuiter_ (cf. Eng. _freebooter_, Ger. _freibeuter_), from
_vrij_, free, _buit_, booty.]

FILICES, fil'i-sez, _n.pl._ the ferns.--_adjs._ FIL'ICAL; FILIC'IFORM;
FIL'ICOID.

FILIFORM, fil'i-form, _adj._ having the form of a filament: long and
slender. [L. _filum_, thread, _forma_, form.]

FILIGREE, fil'i-gr[=e], _n._ a kind of ornamental metallic lacework of gold
and silver, twisted into convoluted forms, united and partly consolidated
by soldering--earlier forms, FIL'IGRAIN, FIL'IGRANE.--_adj._ FIL'IGREED,
ornamented with filigree. [Fr. _filigrane_--It. _filigrana_--L. _filum_,
thread, _granum_, a grain.]

FILIOQUE, fil-i-[=o]'kwe, _n._ the clause inserted into the Nicene Creed at
Toledo in 589, which asserts that the Holy Ghost proceeds from the Son, as
well as from the Father--not accepted by the Eastern Church. [L., 'and from
the son.']

FILL, fil, _v.t._ to make full: to put into until all the space is
occupied: to supply abundantly: to satisfy: to glut: to perform the duties
of: to supply a vacant office.--_v.i._ to become full: to become
satiated.--_n._ as much as fills or satisfies: a full supply: a single
charge of anything.--_ns._ FILL'ER, he who, or that which, fills: a vessel
for conveying a liquid into a bottle; FILL'ING, anything used to fill up,
stop a hole, to complete, &c., as the woof, in weaving: supply. [A.S.
_fyllan_, _fullian_--_ful_, full.]

FILL, fil, _n._ (_Shak._) the thill or shaft of a cart or carriage. [See
THILL.]

FILLET, fil'et, _n._ a little string or band, esp. to tie round the head:
meat or fish boned and rolled, roasted or baked: a piece of meat composed
of muscle, esp. the fleshy part of the thigh: (_archit._) a small space or
band used along with mouldings.--_v.t._ to bind or adorn with a
fillet:--_pr.p._ fill'eting; _pa.p._ fill'eted. [Fr. _filet_, dim. of
_fil_, from L. _filum_, a thread.]

FILLIBEG, PHILIBEG, fil'i-beg, _n._ the kilt, the dress or petticoat
reaching nearly to the knees, worn by the Highlanders of Scotland. [Gael.
_feileadhbeag_--_feileadh_, plait, fold, _beag_, little.]

FILLIP, fil'ip, _v.t._ to strike with the nail of the finger, forced from
the ball of the thumb with a sudden jerk: to incite, drive:--_pr.p._
fill'iping; _pa.p._ fill'iped.--_n._ a jerk of the finger from the thumb:
anything which excites. [A form of _flip_.]

FILLISTER, fil'is-ter, _n._ a rabbeting plane used in making window-sashes.

FILLY, fil'i, _n._ a young mare: a lively, wanton girl. [Dim. of _foal_.]

FILM, film, _n._ a thin skin or membrane: a very slender thread: the
coating on a plate prepared to act as a medium for taking a
picture.--_v.t._ to cover with a film, or thin skin.--_n._
FILM'INESS.--_adj._ FILM'Y, composed of film or membranes. [A.S. _filmen_,
extended from _fell_, a skin.]

FILOPLUME, f[=i]'lo-pl[=oo]m, _n._ a long slender feather. [Formed from L.
_filum_, thread, _pluma_, a feather.]

FILOSE, f[=i]'l[=o]s, _adj._ ending in a thread-like process.--_n._
FILOSELLE', ferret or floss silk. [L. _filum_, thread.]

FILTER, fil'ter, _n._ a contrivance arranged for purifying a liquid of
solid insoluble matter by passing it through some porous substance which
does not allow the solid particles to pass through.--_v.t._ to purify
liquor by a filter.--_v.i._ to pass through a filter: to percolate.--_ns._
FIL'TER-P[=A]'PER, porous paper for use in filtering; FIL'TER-PUMP, a
contrivance devised by the chemist Bunsen for accelerating the filtering
process. [O. Fr. _filtre_--Low L. _filtrum_, felt.]

FILTH, filth, _n._ foul matter: anything that defiles, physically or
morally.--_adv._ FILTH'ILY.--_n._ FILTH'INESS.--_adj._ FILTH'Y, foul:
unclean: impure. [A.S. _fýldh_--_fúl_, foul.]

FILTRATE, fil'tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to filter or percolate.--_n._ FILTR[=A]'TION,
act or process of filtering.

FIMBLE, fim'bl, _n._ the male plant of hemp, yielding a weaker and shorter
fibre than the _Carl hemp_ or female plant. [Dut. _femel_.]

FIMBRIATE, -D, fim'bri-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ fringed.--_n._ FIM'BRIA, a
fringing filament.--_v.t._ FIM'BRIATE, to fringe: to hem.--_adj._
FIM'BRICATE, fimbriate. [L. _fimbri[=a]tus_--_fimbriæ_, fibres.]

FIMETARIOUS, fim-[=e]-t[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ growing on dung.

[Illustration]

FIN, fin, _n._ the organ by which a fish balances itself and swims.--_n._
FIN'-BACK, a finner or fin-whale.--_adjs._ FIN'-FOOT'ED, having feet with
toes connected by a membrane; FINNED, having fins; FIN'NY, furnished with
fins.--_n._ FIN'-RAY, one of the rods or rays supporting a fish's
fin.--_adj._ FIN'-TOED, having feet with membranes connecting the toes, as
aquatic birds. [A.S. _finn_; L. _pinna_, a fin.]

FINABLE, f[=i]n'a-bl, _adj._ liable to a fine.

FINAL, f[=i]'nal, _adj._ last: decisive, conclusive: respecting the end or
motive: of a judgment ready for execution.--_ns._ F[=I]'NALISM;
F[=I]'NALIST; FINAL'ITY, state of being final: completeness or
conclusiveness.--_adv._ F[=I]'NALLY.--FINAL CAUSE (see CAUSE). [Fr.,--L.
_finalis_--_finis_, an end.]

FINALE, fi-nä'l[=a], _n._ the end: the last passage in a piece of music:
the concluding piece in a concert. [It. _finale_, final--L. _finis_.]

FINANCE, fi-nans', _n._ money affairs or revenue, esp. of a ruler or state:
public money: the art of managing or administering the public
money.--_v.t._ to manage financially, to furnish with sums of
money.--_adj._ FINAN'CIAL, pertaining to finance.--_n._ FINAN'CIALIST, a
financier.--_adv._ FINAN'CIALLY.--_n._ FINANCIER', one skilled in finance:
an officer who administers the public revenue.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to
finance. [Fr.,--Low L. _financia_--Low L. _fin[=a]re_, to pay a
fine--_finis_. See FINE (2).]

FINCH, finsh, _n._ a name applied to many Passerine birds, esp. to those of
the genus _Fringilla_ or family _Fringillidæ_--_bullfinch_, _chaffinch_,
_goldfinch_, &c.--_adjs._ FINCH'-BACKED, FINCHED, striped or spotted on the
back. [A.S. _finc_; Ger. _fink_.]

FIND, f[=i]nd, _v.t._ to come upon or meet with: to discover or arrive at:
to perceive: to experience: to supply: to determine after judicial
inquiry:--_pr.p._ f[=i]nd'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ found.--_ns._ FIND'ER;
FIND'-FAULT (_Shak._), one who finds fault with another; FIND'ING, act of
one who finds: that which is found: a judicial verdict: (_pl._) the
appliances which some workmen have to supply, esp. of
shoemakers--everything save leather.--FIND ONE IN (something), to supply
one with something; FIND ONE'S ACCOUNT (in anything), to find satisfactory
profit or advantage in it; FIND ONE'S LEGS, to rise, or to recover the use
of one's legs, as after being drunk, &c.; FIND ONE'S SELF, to feel, as
regards health, happiness, &c.; FIND OUT, to discover. [A.S. _findan_; Ger.
_finden_.]

FINDON-HADDOCK. See FINNAN-HADDOCK.

FINE, f[=i]n, _adj._ excellent: beautiful: not coarse or heavy: subtle:
thin: slender: exquisite: nice: delicate: overdone: showy: splendid:
striking or remarkable (often _ironically_): pure, refined: consisting of
small particles; sharp, keen.--_v.t._ to make fine: to refine: to purify:
to change by imperceptible degrees.--_adv._ (_Scot._) for finely,
well.--_v.t._ FINE'-DRAW, to draw or sew up a rent so finely that it is not
seen.--_p.adj._ FINE'-DRAWN, drawn out too finely.--_adj._ FINE'ISH,
somewhat fine.--_adv._ FINE'LY.--_ns._ FINE'NESS; FIN'ER (same as REFINER);
FIN'ERY, splendour, fine or showy things: a place where anything is fined
or refined: a furnace for making iron malleable.--_adjs._ FINE'-SPOK'EN,
using fine phrases; FINE'-SPUN, finely spun out: artfully contrived.--FINE
ARTS, as painting, sculpture, music, those chiefly concerned with the
beautiful--opp. to the _Useful_ or _Industrial arts_. [Fr.,--L. _finitus_,
finished, from _fin[=i]re_, to finish, _finis_, an end.]

FINE, f[=i]n, _n._ a composition: a sum of money imposed as a
punishment.--_v.t._ to impose a fine on: to punish by fine: (_Shak._) to
pledge or pawn.--_adj._ FINE'LESS (_Shak._), endless.--IN FINE, in
conclusion. [Low L. _finis_, a fine--L. _finis_, an end.]

FINEER, fi-n[=e]r', _v.i._ to get goods on credit by fraudulent artifice.
[Prob. Dut.; cog. with FINANCE.]

FINESSE, fi-nes', _n._ subtlety of contrivance: artifice: an endeavour by a
player holding (say) queen and ace to take the trick with the lower
card.--_v.i._ to use artifice.--_ns._ FINES'SER; FINES'SING. [Fr.]

FINGER, fing'g[.e]r, _n._ one of the five terminal parts of the hand: a
finger-breadth: skill in the use of the hand or fingers: execution in
music.--_v.t._ to handle or perform with the fingers: to pilfer: to toy or
meddle with.--_v.i._ to use lightly with the fingers, as a musical
instrument.--_ns._ FING'ER-AL'PHABET, a deaf and dumb alphabet;
FING'ER-BOARD, the board, or part of a musical instrument, on which the
keys for the fingers are placed; FING'ER-BOWL, -GLASS, a bowl for holding
the water used to cleanse the fingers after a meal; FING'ER-BREADTH, the
breadth of a finger, the fourth part of a palm, forming 1/16 of a
foot.--_adj._ FING'ERED, having fingers, or anything like fingers.--_ns._
FING'ER-GRASS, grass of genus _Digitaria_; FING'ER-HOLE, a hole in the side
of the tube of a flute, &c., capable of being closed by the player's finger
to modify the pitch of tone; FING'ERING, act or manner of touching with the
fingers, esp. a musical instrument: a thick woollen yarn for stockings;
FING'ERLING, a very diminutive being: the parr; FING'ER-MARK, a mark, esp.
a soil made by the finger; FING'ER-PLATE, a thin plate of metal or
porcelain laid along the edge of a door at the handle, to prevent soiling
by the hand; FING'ER-POST, a post with a finger pointing, for directing
passengers to the road; FING'ER-STALL, a covering of leather for protecting
the finger.--FINGER-AND-TOE (see ANBURY).--A FINGER IN THE PIE, a share in
the doing of anything, often of vexatious meddling; HAVE AT ONE'S
FINGER-ENDS, to be perfect master of a subject; HAVE ONE'S FINGERS ALL
THUMBS, to have awkward fingers. [A.S. _finger_; Ger. _finger_.]

[Illustration]

FINIAL, fin'i-al, _n._ the bunch of foliage, &c., at the termination of the
pinnacles, gables, spires, &c., in Gothic architecture. [From L.
_fin[=i]re_--_finis_.]

FINICAL, fin'i-kal, _adj._ affectedly fine or precise in trifles: nice:
foppish.--_n._ FINICAL'ITY, state of being finical: something
finical.--_adv._ FIN'ICALLY.--_ns._ FIN'ICALNESS, the quality of being
finical: foppery; FIN'ICKING, fussiness and fastidiousness.--_adjs._
FIN'ICKING, FIN'IKIN, particular about trifles.

FINING, f[=i]n'ing, _n._ process of refining or purifying.--_n._
FIN'ING-POT, a pot or vessel used in refining.

FINIS, f[=i]'nis, _n._ the end: conclusion. [L.]

FINISH, fin'ish, _v.t._ to end or complete the making of anything: to
perfect: to give the last touches to: to put an end to, to destroy.--_n._
that which finishes or completes: the end of a race, hunt, &c.: last touch,
careful elaboration, polish: the last coat of plaster to a wall.--_p.adj._
FIN'ISHED, brought to an end or to completion: complete: perfect.--_n._
FIN'ISHER, one who finishes, completes, or perfects: in bookbinding, the
one who puts the last touches to the book in the way of gilding and
decoration. [Fr. _finir_, _finissant_--L. _fin[=i]re_--_finis_, an end.]

FINITE, f[=i]'n[=i]t, _adj._ having an end or limit: subject to limitations
or conditions, as time, space--opp. to _Infinite_ (q.v.).--_adj._
F[=I]'N[=I]TELESS, without end or limit.--_adv._ F[=I]'N[=I]TELY.--_ns._
F[=I]'N[=I]TENESS, FIN'IT[=U]DE. [L. _fin[=i]tus_, pa.p. of _fin[=i]re_.]

FINN, fin, _n._ a native of _Finland_ in the north-west of Russia.--_adjs._
FIN'NIC, FIN'NISH, pertaining to the Finns in the widest sense.

FINNAN-HADDOCK, fin'an-had'uk, _n._ a kind of smoked haddock, esp. that
prepared at _Findon_, near Aberdeen.--Also FIN'DON-HADD'OCK.

FIORD, FJORD, fyord, _n._ name given in Scandinavia to a long, narrow,
rock-bound inlet. [Norw.]

FIORIN, f[=i]'o-rin, _n._ a species of creeping bent-grass.

FIORITE, f[=i]-[=o]'r[=i]t, _n._ a kind of siliceous incrustation found in
the vicinity of volcanoes and hot springs. [From Santa _Fiore_ in Tuscany.]

FIR, f[.e]r, _n._ the name of several species of cone-bearing, resinous
trees, valuable for their timber.--_adj._ FIR'RY, abounding in firs. [A.S.
_furh_ (_wudu_); cf. Ger. _föhre_.]

FIRE, f[=i]r, _n._ the heat and light caused by burning: flame: anything
burning, as fuel in a grate, &c.: a conflagration: torture or death by
burning: severe trial: anything inflaming or provoking: ardour of passion:
vigour: brightness of fancy: enthusiasm: sexual passion.--_v.t._ to set on
fire: to inflame: to irritate: to animate: to cause the explosion of: to
discharge.--_v.i._ to take fire: to be or become irritated or inflamed: to
discharge firearms.--_n._ FIRE'-ALARM', an alarm of fire, an apparatus for
giving such.--_n.pl._ FIRE'ARMS, arms or weapons which are discharged by
fire exploding gunpowder.--_ns._ FIRE'-AR'ROW, a small iron dart or arrow
furnished with a combustible for setting fire to ships; FIRE'BALL, a ball
filled with combustibles to be thrown among enemies: a meteor;
FIRE'-BALLOON', a balloon carrying a fire placed in the lower part for
rarefying the air to make itself buoyant: a balloon sent up arranged to
ignite at a certain height; FIRE'-BAS'KET, a portable grate for a bedroom;
FIRE'-BLAST, a blast or blight affecting plants, in which they appear as if
scorched by the sun; FIRE'-BOAT, a steamboat fitted up to extinguish fires
in docks; FIRE'BOX, the box or chamber (usually copper) of a steam-engine,
in which the fire is placed; FIRE'BRAND, a brand or piece of wood on fire:
one who inflames the passions of others; FIRE'BRICK, a brick so made as to
resist the action of fire, used for lining furnaces, &c.; FIRE'-BRIGADE', a
brigade or company of men for extinguishing fires or conflagrations;
FIRE'-BUCK'ET, a bucket for carrying water to extinguish a fire; FIRE'CLAY,
a kind of clay, capable of resisting fire, used in making firebricks;
FIRE'COCK, a cock or spout to let out water for extinguishing fires;
FIRE'DAMP, a gas, carburetted hydrogen, in coal-mines, apt to take fire and
explode when mixed with atmospheric air; FIRE'-DOG (same as ANDIRON);
FIRE'-DRAKE, a fiery meteor, a kind of firework; FIRE'-EAT'ER, a juggler
who pretends to eat fire: one given to needless quarrelling, a professed
duellist; FIRE'-EN'GINE, an engine or forcing-pump used to extinguish fires
with water; FIRE'-ESCAPE', a machine used to enable people to escape from
fires.--_adj._ FIRE'-EYED (_Shak._), having fiery eyes.--_ns._ FIRE'-FLAG
(_Coleridge_), FIRE'FLAUGHT (_Swinburne_), a flash of lightning; FIRE'-FLY,
a name applied to many phosphorescent insects, all included with the
_Coleoptera_ or beetles, some giving forth a steady light, others flashing
light intermittently (glow-worms, &c.); FIRE'-GUARD, a framework of wire
placed in front of a fireplace.--_n.pl._ FIRE'-[=I]'RONS, the irons--poker,
tongs, and shovel--used for a fire.--_ns._ FIRE'LIGHT'ER, a composition of
pitch and sawdust, or the like, for kindling fires; FIRE'LOCK, a gun in
which the fire is caused by a lock with steel and flint; FIRE'MAN, a man
whose business it is to assist in extinguishing fires: a man who tends the
fires, as of a steam-engine; FIRE'-MAS'TER, the chief of a
fire-brigade.--_adj._ FIRE'-NEW, new from the fire: brand new:
bright.--_ns._ FIRE'-PAN, a pan or metal vessel for holding fire;
FIRE'PLACE, the place in a house appropriated to the fire: a hearth;
FIRE'PLUG, a plug placed in a pipe which supplies water in case of fire;
FIRE'-POL'ICY, a written instrument of insurance against fire up to a
certain amount; FIRE'-POT, an earthen pot filled with combustibles, used in
military operations.--_adj._ FIRE'PROOF, proof against fire.--_ns._
FIRE'-PROOFING, the act of rendering anything fireproof: the materials
used; FIR'ER, an incendiary; FIRE'-RAIS'ING, the crime of arson.--_adj._
FIRE'-ROBED (_Shak._), robed in fire.--_ns._ FIRE'-SCREEN, a screen for
intercepting the heat of the fire; FIRE'-SHIP, a ship filled with
combustibles, to set an enemy's vessels on fire; FIRE'SIDE, the side of the
fireplace: the hearth: home.--_adj._ homely, intimate.--_ns._ FIRE'-STICK,
the implement used by many primitive peoples for obtaining fire by
friction; FIRE'STONE, a kind of sandstone that bears a high degree of heat;
FIRE'-WA'TER, ardent spirits; FIRE'WOOD, wood for burning.--_n.pl._
FIRE'WORKS, artificial works or preparations of gunpowder, sulphur, &c., to
be fired chiefly for display or amusement.--_ns._ FIRE'-WOR'SHIP, the
worship of fire, chiefly by the Parsees in Persia and India;
FIRE'-WOR'SHIPPER; FIR'ING, a putting fire to: discharge of guns: firewood:
fuel: cauterisation; FIR'ING-PAR'TY, a detachment told off to fire over the
grave of one buried with military honours, or to shoot one sentenced to
death; FIR'ING-POINT, the temperature at which an inflammable oil will take
fire spontaneously.--FIRE OFF, to discharge a shot; FIRE OUT (_Shak._), to
expel; FIRE UP, to start a fire: to fly into a passion.--SET THE THAMES ON
FIRE, to do something striking; TAKE FIRE, to begin to burn: to become
aroused about something. [A.S. _fýr_; Ger. _feuer_; Gr. _pyr_.]

FIRK, f[.e]rk, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to whip or beat: to rouse.

FIRKIN, f[.e]r'kin, _n._ a measure equal to the fourth part of a barrel: 9
gallons: 56 lb. of butter. [With dim. suff. _-kin_, from Old Dut. _vierde_,
fourth.]

FIRLOT, f[.e]r'lot, _n._ an old Scotch dry measure, the fourth part of a
boll.

FIRM, f[.e]rm, _adj._ fixed: compact: strong: not easily moved or
disturbed: unshaken: resolute: decided.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to fix, establish,
confirm.--_adj._ FIRM'LESS, wavering.--_adv._ FIRM'LY.--_n._ FIRM'NESS. [O.
Fr. _ferme_--L. _firmus_.]

FIRM, f[.e]rm, _n._ the title under which a company transacts business: a
business house or partnership. [It. _firma_, from L. _firmus_. See FARM.]

FIRMAMENT, f[.e]r'ma-ment, _n._ the solid sphere in which the stars were
thought to be fixed: the sky.--_adj._ FIRMAMENT'AL, pertaining to the
firmament: celestial. [Fr.,--L. _firmamentum_--_firmus_, firm.]

FIRMAN, f[.e]r'man, or fer-män', _n._ any decree emanating from the Turkish
government. [Pers. _fermán_; Sans. _pramâna_, command.]

FIRN, firn, or fern, _n._ snow on high glaciers while still granular--the
French _névé_. [Ger. _firn_, of last year; cf. obs. Eng. _fern_, former.]

FIRST, f[.e]rst, _adj._ foremost: preceding all others in place, time, or
degree: most eminent: chief.--_adv._ before anything else, in time, space,
rank, &c.--_adjs._ FIRST'-BEGOT'TEN, begotten or born first: eldest;
FIRST'-BORN, born first.--_n._ the first in the order of birth: the eldest
child.--_adj._ FIRST'-CLASS, of the first class, rank, or quality.--_ns._
FIRST'-DAY, Sunday; FIRST'-FLOOR (see FLOOR); FIRST'-FOOT (_Scot._), the
first person to enter a house after the beginning of the new year;
FIRST'-FRUIT, FIRST'-FRUITS, the fruits first gathered in a season: the
first profits or effects of anything, bishoprics, benefices, &c.--_adj._
FIRST'-HAND, obtained without the intervention of a second party.--_n._
FIRST'LING, the first produce or offspring, esp. of animals.--_adv._
FIRST'LY, in the first place.--_adjs._ FIRST'-RATE, of the first or highest
rate or excellence: pre-eminent in quality, size, or estimation;
FIRST'-WA'TER, the first or highest quality, purest lustre--of diamonds and
pearls. [A.S. _fyrst_; the superl. of _fore_ by adding _-st_.]

FIRTH, f[.e]rth. Same as FRITH.

FISC, fisk, _n._ the state treasury: the public revenue: one's
purse.--_adj._ FISC'AL, pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.--_n._
a treasurer: a public prosecutor, the chief law officer of the crown under
the Holy Roman Empire: (_Scot._) an officer who prosecutes in petty
criminal cases--fully, _Procurator-fiscal_. [O. Fr.,--L. _fiscus_, a
purse.]

FISGIG. See FIZGIG.

[Illustration]

FISH, fish, _n._ a vertebrate that lives in water, and breathes through
gills: the flesh of fish: a piece of wood fixed alongside another for
strengthening:--_pl._ FISH, or FISH'ES.--_v.t._ to search for fish: to
search by sweeping: to draw out or up: (_naut._) to strengthen, as a weak
spar: to hoist the flukes of: to seek to obtain by artifice.--_ns._
FISH'-BALL, -CAKE, a ball of chopped fish and mashed potatoes,
fried.--_adj._ FISH'-BELL'IED, swelled out downward like the belly of a
fish.--_ns._ FISH'-CARV'ER, a large flat implement for carving fish at
table--also _Fish'-knife_, _Fish'-slice_, and _Fish'-trow'el_; FISH'-COOP,
a square box with a hole in its bottom, used in fishing through a hole in
the ice; FISH'-CREEL, an angler's basket, a wicker-basket used for carrying
fish; FISH'-DAY, a day on which fish is eaten instead of meat; FISH'ER, one
who fishes, or whose occupation is to catch fish: a North American
carnivore--a kind of marten or sable, the pekan or wood-shock; FISH'ERMAN,
a fisher; FISH'ERY, the business of catching fish: a place for catching
fish; FISH'-FAG, a woman who sells fish; FISH'-GARTH, an enclosure on a
river for the preserving or taking of fish--also FISH'-WEIR; FISH'-GOD, a
deity in form wholly or partly like a fish, like the Philistine Dagon;
FISH'-HOOK, a barbed hook for catching fish.--_v.t._ FISH'IFY (_Shak._), to
turn to fish.--_n._ FISH'INESS.--_adj._ FISH'ING, used in fishery.--_n._
the art or practice of catching fish.--_ns._ FISH'ING-FROG, the
angler-fish; FISH'ING-ROD, a long slender rod to which a line is fastened
for angling; FISH'ING-TACK'LE, tackle--nets, lines, &c.--used in fishing;
FISH'-JOINT, a joint or splice made with fish-plates; FISH'-KETT'LE, a long
oval dish for boiling fish; FISH'-LADD'ER, FISH'-WAY, an arrangement for
enabling a fish to ascend a fall, &c.; FISH'-LOUSE, a name widely applied
to any of the Copepod crustaceans which occur as external parasites, both
on fresh-water and marine fishes; FISH'-MEAL (_Shak._), a meal of fish:
abstemious diet; FISH'MONGER, a dealer in fish; FISH'-PACK'ING, the process
of packing or canning fish for the market; FISH'-PLATE, an iron plate
fitted to the web of a rail, used in pairs, one on each side of the
junction of two rails; FISH'-POND, a pond in which fish are kept;
FISH'-SALES'MAN, one who receives consignments of fish for sale by auction
to retail dealers; FISH'-SAUCE, sauce proper to be eaten with fish, as
anchovy, &c.; FISH'-SCRAP, fish or fish-skins from which oil or glue has
been extracted; FISH'-SPEAR, a spear or dart for striking fish;
FISH'-STRAIN'ER, a metal colander for taking fish from a boiler.--_adj._
FISH'-TAIL, shaped like the tail of a fish.--_ns._ FISH'-TORP[=E]'DO, a
self-propelling torpedo; FISH'-WIFE, FISH'-WOM'AN, a woman who sells fish
about the streets.--_adj._ FISH'Y, consisting of fish: like a fish:
abounding in fish: dubious, as a story: equivocal, unsafe.--_ns._
BAIT'-FISH, such fish as are used for bait, fish that may be caught with
bait; BOTT'OM-FISH, those that feed on the bottom, as halibut, &c.--FISH
FOR, to seek to gain by cunning or indirect means; FISHERMAN'S LUCK,
getting wet and catching no fish; FISHERMAN'S RING, a signet-ring with the
device of St Peter fishing, used in signing papal briefs.--A QUEER FISH, a
person of odd habits; BE NEITHER FISH NOR FLESH, or NEITHER FISH, FLESH,
NOR FOWL, to be neither one thing nor another, in principle, &c.; HAVE
OTHER FISH TO FRY, to have something else to do, or to take up one's mind;
MAKE FISH OF ONE AND FLESH (or FOWL) OF ANOTHER, to make invidious
distinctions, show undue partiality. [A.S. _fisc_; Ger. _fisch_; Ice.
_fiskr_; L. _piscis_; Gr. _ichthys_; Gael. _iasg_.]

FISKERY, fisk'er-i, _n._ (_Carlyle_) friskiness.--_v.i._ FISK (_obs._), to
jump about. [Prob. a freq. of A.S. _fýsan_, to hurry, or of _fésian_, to
feeze; Sw. _fjäska_, to fidget.]

FISSILE, fis'il, _adj._ that may be cleft or split in the direction of the
grain.--_adjs._ FISSICOS'TATE, having the ribs divided; FISSILING'UAL,
having the tongue cleft.--_ns._ FISSIL'ITY, cleavableness; FIS'SION, a
cleaving or breaking up into two parts.--_adj._ FISS'IVE. [L. _fissilis_,
from _find[)e]re_, _fissum_, to cleave.]

FISSIPAROUS, fis-sip'a-rus, _adj._ propagated by spontaneous fission or
self-division.--_ns._ FISSIP'ARISM, FISSIPA'RITY.--_adv._ FISSIP'AROUSLY.
[L. _fissus_, pa.p. of _find[)e]re_, to cleave, _par[)e]re_, to bring
forth.]

FISSIPED, fis'i-ped, _adj._ cloven-footed--also _n._

FISSIROSTRAL, fis-i-ros'tral, _adj._ having a deeply cleft or gaping beak,
as swallows, &c. [L. _fissus_, cleft, _rostrum_, a beak.]

FISSLE, fis'l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to rustle: to whistle.

FISSURE, fish'[=u]r, _n._ a narrow opening or chasm: a cleft, slit, or
furrow: any groove or sulcus, esp. one of the furrows on the surface of the
brain, as the longitudinal fissure separating the hemispheres.--_adj._
FISS'[=U]RED, cleft, divided. [Fr.,--L. _fiss[=u]ra_, from _find[)e]re_,
_fissum_, to cleave.]

FIST, fist, _n._ the closed or clenched hand.--_v.t._ to strike or grip
with the fist.--_n._ FISTI[=A]'NA, anecdotes about boxing and
boxers.--_adj._ FIST'IC (_Dickens_), pugilistic.--_ns._ FIST'ICUFF, a blow
with the fist: (_pl._) boxing, blows; FIST'-LAW, the law of brute
force.--_adj._ FIST'Y. [A.S. _fýst_; Ger. _faust_.]

FISTULA, fist'[=u]-la, _n._ a narrow passage or duct: the tube through
which the wine of the eucharist was once sucked from the chalice--also
_Calamus_.--_adjs._ FIST'ULAR, hollow like a pipe; FIST'ULATE, -D, hollowed
like a fistula.--_v.i._ FIST'ULATE, to assume such a form.--_adjs._
FIST'ULIFORM; FIST'ULOSE, FIST'ULOUS, of the form of a fistula. [L.
_fistula_, a pipe.]

FIT, fit, _adj._ adapted to any particular end or standard, prepared for:
qualified: convenient: proper: properly trained and ready, as for a
race.--_v.t._ to make fit or suitable: to suit one thing to another: to be
adapted to: to qualify.--_v.i._ to be suitable or becoming:--_pr.p._
fit'ting; _pa.p._ fit'ted.--_advs._ FIT'LIEST (_Milt._), most fitly;
FIT'LY.--_ns._ FIT'MENT (_Shak._), something fitted to an end; FIT'NESS;
FIT'TER, he who, or that which, makes fit.--_adj._ FIT'TING, fit:
appropriate.--_n._ anything used in fitting up, esp. in _pl._--_adv._
FIT'TINGLY.--_ns._ FIT'TING-OUT, a supply of things, fit and necessary;
FIT'TING-SHOP, a shop in which pieces of machinery are fitted
together.--FIT OUT, to furnish, supply with stores, as a ship; FIT UP, to
provide with things suitable.--NOT FIT TO HOLD A CANDLE TO (see CANDLE).
[First recorded about 1440; app. cog. with FIT, _n._]

FIT, fit, _n._ a sudden attack by convulsions, as apoplexy, epilepsy, &c.:
convulsion or paroxysm: a temporary attack of anything, as laughter, &c.: a
sudden effort or motion: a passing humour.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to wrench, as
by a fit.--_adj._ FIT'FUL, marked by sudden impulses: spasmodic.--_adv._
FIT'FULLY.--_n._ FIT'FULNESS.--FIT OF THE FACE, a grimace; FITS AND STARTS,
spasmodic and irregular bursts of activity; BY FITS, irregularly. [A.S.
_fitt_, a struggle--prob. orig. 'juncture,' 'meeting;' cf. Ice. _fitja_, to
knit, Dut. _vitten_, to accommodate.]

FIT, fit, _n._ a song, or part of a song or ballad.--Also FITT, FITTE,
FYTTE. [A.S. _fitt_, a song.]

FITCH, fich, _n._ now _vetch_: (_B._) Isa. xxviii. 25, black cummin
(_Nigella sativa_): in Ezek. iv. 9, a kind of bearded wheat, spelt. [See
VETCH.]

FITCHÉ, FITCHÉE, fich'[=a], _adj._ (_her._) cut to a point. [Fr. _ficher_,
to fix.]

FITCHEW, fich'[=oo], _n._ a polecat.--Also FITCH'ET. [O. Fr. _fissel_, from
root of Dut. _visse_, nasty.]

FITZ, fits, _n._ (a prefix) son of: used in England, esp. of the
illegitimate sons of kings and princes, as _Fitzclarence_, &c. [Norman Fr.
_fiz_ (Fr. _fils_)--L. _filius_.]

FIVE, f[=i]v, _adj._ and _n._ four and one.--_n._ FIVE'-FING'ER, a name for
various plants (cinque-foil, oxlip, &c.): a species of starfish.--_adj._
FIVE'FOLD, five times folded, or repeated in fives.--_ns._ FIV'ER
(_coll._), a five-pound note; FIVE'-SQUARE (_B._), having five corners or
angles.--FIVE ARTICLES, FIVE POINTS, statements of the distinctive
doctrines of the Arminians and Calvinists respectively--the former
promulgated in 1610, the latter sustained by the Synod of Dort in 1619 (see
CALVINISM).--BUNCH OF FIVES, the fist. [A.S. _fíf_; Ger. _fünf_; Goth.
_fimf_; W. _pump_; L. _quinque_; Gr. _pente_, _pempe_; Sans. _pancha_.]

FIVES, f[=i]vz, _n._ (_Shak._) vives, a disease of horses.

FIVES, f[=i]vz, _n.pl._ a game of handball played in a roomy court against
a wall, chiefly at the great public schools of England.

FIX, fiks, _v.t._ to make firm or fast: to establish: to drive into: to
settle: to put into permanent form: to establish as a fact: to direct
steadily: to regulate: to deprive of volatility.--_v.i._ to settle or
remain permanently: to become firm: to congeal.--_n._ (_coll._) a
difficulty: a dilemma.--_adj._ FIX'ABLE, capable of being fixed.--_ns._
FIX[=A]'TION, act of fixing, or state of being fixed: steadiness, firmness:
state in which a body does not evaporate; FIX'ATIVE, that which fixes or
sets colours; FIX'ATURE, a gummy preparation for fixing the hair.--_adj._
FIXED, settled: not apt to evaporate: steadily directed towards: fast,
lasting, permanent: substantively for fixed stars (_Par. Lost_, III.
481).--_adv._ FIX'EDLY.--_ns._ FIX'EDNESS; FIX'ER; FIXID'ITY, FIX'ITY,
fixedness.--_n.pl._ FIX'INGS, things needed for putting in order,
arrangement.--_adj._ FIX'IVE.--_ns._ FIX'TURE, a movable that has become
fastened to anything, as to land or to a house: a fixed article of
furniture: a fixed or appointed time or event, as a horse-race; FIX'URE
(_Shak._), stability, position, firmness.--FIXED AIR, the name given by Dr
Joseph Black in 1756 to what in 1784 was named by Lavoisier carbonic acid;
FIXED BODIES (_chem._), a term applied to those substances which remain
fixed, and are not volatilised at moderately high temperatures; FIXED OILS,
those which, on the application of heat, do not volatilise without
decomposition; FIXED STARS, stars which appear always to occupy the same
position in the heavens--opp. to _Planets_. [L., _fixus_, _fig[)e]re_, to
fix, prob. through O. Fr. _fix_, or Low L. _fix[=a]re_.]

FIZGIG, fiz'gig, _n._ a giddy girl: a firework of damp powder: a gimcrack:
a crotchet.--Also FIS'GIG.

FIZZ, fiz, _v.i._ to make a hissing or sputtering sound.--_n._ any frothy
drink, as soda-water, or esp. champagne.--_adj._ FIZ'ZENLESS (_Scot._),
pithless--also F[=U]'SIONLESS.--_v.i._ FIZ'ZLE, to hiss or sputter: to come
to a sudden stop, to fail disgracefully.--_n._ a state of agitation or
worry: an abortive effort.--_adj._ FIZ'ZY, given to fizz. [Formed from the
sound.]

FLABBERGAST, flab'[.e]rgast, _v.t._ (_coll._) to stun, confound. [Prob.
conn. with _flabby_, and _gast_, to astonish.]

FLABBY, flab'i, _adj._ easily moved: soft, yielding: hanging loose.--_n._
FLABB'INESS. [From _flap_.]

FLABELLATE, flä-bel'[=a]t, _adj._ fan-shaped--also FLABELL'IFORM.--_ns._
FLABELL[=A]'TION, the action of fanning; FLAB'ELLUM (_eccles._), a fan,
anciently used to drive away flies from the chalice during the celebration
of the eucharist. [L., a fan.]

FLACCID, flak'sid, _adj._ flabby: lax: easily yielding to pressure: soft
and weak.--_adv._ FLAC'CIDLY.--_ns._ FLAC'CIDNESS, FLACCID'ITY, want of
firmness. [Fr.,--L. _flaccidus_--_flaccus_, flabby.]

FLACK, flak, _v.i._ (_prov._), to flap, flutter.--_v.t._ to flap or flick
with something.

FLACKER, flak'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_prov._) to flap, flutter.

FLACKET, flak'et, _n._ a flask, bottle.

FLACON, flak-ong', _n._ a scent-bottle, &c. [Fr.]

FLAFF, flaf, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to flap: to pant.--_n._ a flutter of the
wings: a puff.--_v.i._ FLAF'FER, to flutter. [Imit.]

FLAG, flag, _v.i._ to grow languid or spiritless.--_pr.p._ flag'ging;
_pa.p._ flagged.--_n._ FLAG'GINESS.--_adj._ FLAG'GY, limp, flabby. [Perh.
O. Fr. _flac_--L. _flaccus_; prob. influenced by imit. forms as _flap_.]

FLAG, flag, _n._ a popular name for many plants with sword-shaped leaves,
mostly growing in moist situations, sometimes specially the species of iris
or flower-de-luce--esp. the yellow flag: the acorus or sweet flag: (_B._)
reed-grass.--_ns._ FLAG'-BAS'KET, a basket made of reeds for carrying
tools; FLAG'GINESS.--_adj._ FLAG'GY, abounding in flags.--_n._ FLAG'-WORM,
a worm or grub bred among flags or reeds. [Ety. obscure; cf. Dut. _flag_.]

FLAG, flag, _n._ the ensign of a ship or of troops: a banner.--_v.t._ to
decorate with flags: to inform by flag-signals.--_ns._ FLAG'-CAP'TAIN, in
the navy, the captain of the ship which bears the admiral's flag;
FLAG'-LIEUTEN'ANT, an officer in a flag-ship, corresponding to an
aide-de-camp in the army; FLAG'-OFF'ICER, a naval officer privileged to
carry a flag denoting his rank--admiral, vice-admiral, rear-admiral, or
commodore; FLAG'-SHIP, the ship in which an admiral sails, and which
carries his flag; FLAG'STAFF, a staff or pole on which a flag is
displayed.--FLAG OF DISTRESS, a flag displayed as a signal of
distress--usually upside down or at half-mast; FLAG OF TRUCE, a white flag
displayed during war when some pacific communication is intended between
the hostile parties; BLACK FLAG, a pirate's flag, pirates generally; DIP
THE FLAG, to lower the flag and then hoist it--a token of respect; HANG OUT
THE RED FLAG, to give a challenge to battle; STRIKE, or LOWER, THE FLAG, to
pull it down as a token of respect, submission, or surrender; WHITE FLAG,
an emblem of peace; YELLOW FLAG, hoisted to show pestilence on board, also
over ships, &c., in quarantine, and hospitals, &c., in time of war. [Prob.
Scand.; Dan. _flag_; Dut. _vlag_, Ger. _flagge_.]

FLAG, flag, _n._ a stone that separates in flakes or layers: a flat stone
used for paving--also FLAG'STONE.--_v.t._ to pave with flagstones.--_n._
FLAG'GING, flagstones: a pavement of flagstones. [A form of _flake_; Ice.
_flaga_, a flag or slab.]

FLAGELLATE, flaj'el-[=a]t, _v.t._ to whip or scourge.--_ns._
FLAGEL'LANTISM; FLAGELL[=A]'TION; FLAG'ELL[=A]TOR, FLAGEL'LANT (also
flaj'-), one who scourges himself in religious discipline.--_adjs._
FLAG'ELLATORY; FLAGELLIF'EROUS; FLAGEL'LIFORM.--_n._ FLAGEL'LUM, a scourge:
(_bot._) a runner: (_biol._) a large cilium or appendage to certain
infusorians, &c. [L. _flagell[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_flagellum_, dim. of
_flagrum_, a whip.]

FLAGEOLET, flaj'o-let, _n._ the modern form of the old flute-à-bec, or
straight flute, the simplest kind of which is the tin whistle with six
holes. [Fr., dim. of O. Fr. _flageol_, _flajol_, a pipe; not through a
supposed Low L. _flaut[=i]olus_--from _flauta_, a flute.]

FLAGITATE, flaj'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ (_Carlyle_) to entreat, importune.--_n._
FLAGIT[=A]'TION.

FLAGITIOUS, fla-jish'us, _adj._ grossly wicked: guilty of enormous
crimes.--_adv._ FLAGI'TIOUSLY.--_n._ FLAGI'TIOUSNESS. [L.
_flagitiosus_--_flagitium_, a disgraceful act--_flagr[=a]re_, to burn.]

FLAGON, flag'un, _n._ a vessel with a narrow neck for holding liquids. [Fr.
_flacon_ for _flascon_--Low L. _flasco_. See FLASK.]

FLAGRANT, fl[=a]'grant, _adj._ glaring: notorious: enormous.--_ns._
FL[=A]'GRANCE, FL[=A]'GRANCY.--_adv._ FL[=A]'GRANTLY. [L. _flagrans_,
_pr.p._ of _flagr[=a]re_, to burn.]

FLAIL, fl[=a]l, _n._ an implement for threshing corn, consisting of a
wooden bar (the _swingle_) hinged or tied to a handle: a medieval weapon
with spiked iron swingle.--_v.t._ to strike with, or as if with, a flail.
[A.S. _fligel_, prob. from L. _flagellum_, a scourge.]

FLAIR, fl[=a]r, _n._ perceptiveness, discernment. [Fr.]

FLAKE, fl[=a]k, _n._ a small flat layer or film of anything: a very small
loose mass, as of snow or wool.--_v.t._ to form into flakes.--_ns._
FLAKE'-WHITE, the purest white-lead for painting, in the form of scales or
plates; FLAK'INESS.--_adj._ FLAK'Y. [Prob. Scand.; Ice. _flóke_, flock of
wool; Old High Ger. _floccho_.]

FLAKE, fl[=a]k, _n._ (_Scot._) a movable hurdle for fencing; (_naut._) a
stage hung over a ship's side for caulking, &c. [Scand.; cf. Ice. _flake_;
Dut. _vlaak_.]

FLAM, flam, _n._ a whim: an idle fancy: a falsehood.--_v.t._ to impose upon
with such. [Prob. from _flim-flam_ or _flamfew_, a trifle, a corr. of Fr.
_fanfelue_.]

FLAMBEAU, flam'b[=o], _n._ a flaming torch:--_pl._ FLAM'BEAUX ('b[=o]z).
[Fr., _flambe_--L. _flamma_.]

FLAMBOYANT, flam-boi'ant, _adj._ of the latest style of Gothic architecture
which prevailed in France in the 15th and 16th centuries, corresponding to
the Perpendicular in England--from the flame-like forms of the tracery of
the windows, &c.: of wavy form: gorgeously coloured. [Fr. _flamboyer_, to
blaze.]

FLAME, fl[=a]m, _n._ gaseous matter undergoing combustion: the gleam or
blaze of a fire: rage: ardour of temper: vigour of thought: warmth of
affection: love: (_coll._) the object of love.--_v.i._ to burn as flame: to
break out in passion.--_adjs._ FL[=A]ME'-COL'OURED (_Shak._), of the colour
of flame, bright yellow; FL[=A]ME'LESS.--_n._ FL[=A]ME'LET, a small
flame.--_adj._ FL[=A]M'ING, red: gaudy: violent.--_adv._
FL[=A]M'INGLY.--_n._ FLAMMABIL'ITY.--_adjs._ FLAMMIF'EROUS, producing
flame; FLAMMIV'OMOUS, vomiting flames.--_n._ FLAM'MULE, the flames in
pictures of Japanese deities.--_adj._ FL[=A]M'Y, pertaining to, or like,
flame. [O. Fr. _flambe_--L. _flamma_--_flagr[=a]re_, to burn.]

FLAMEN, fl[=a]'men, _n._ a priest in ancient Rome devoted to one particular
god.--_adj._ FLAMIN'ICAL. [L., from same root as _fla-gr[=a]re_, to burn.]

FLAMINGO, fla-ming'g[=o], _n._ a tropical bird of a flaming or bright-red
colour, with long legs and neck. [Sp. _flamenco_--L. _flamma_, a flame.]

FLANCH, flansh, _n._ a flange: (_her._) an ordinary formed on each side of
a shield by the segment of a circle.--_adj._ FLANCHED, charged with a pair
of flanches. [Prob. related to _flank_.]

FLANCONADE, flang-ko-n[=a]d', _n._ (_fencing_) a thrust in the flank or
side. [Fr., from _flanc_, the side.]

FLÂNEUR, flä-nür', _n._ one who saunters about with gossip.--_n._
FLÂN'ERIE. [Fr. _flâner_, to lounge.]

FLANGE, flanj, _n._ a projecting or raised edge or flank, as of a wheel or
of a rail.--_adj._ FLANGED.--_n._ FLANGE'-RAIL, a rail having a flange on
one side to prevent wheels running off. [Corr. of _flank_.]

FLANK, flangk, _n._ the side of an animal from the ribs to the thigh: the
side or wing of anything, esp. of an army or fleet: a body of soldiers on
the right and left extremities.--_v.t._ to attack or pass round the side
of: to protect the flanks of one's own army by detached bodies of troops,
or field-works, or to threaten those of the enemy by directing troops
against them.--_v.i._ to be posted on the side: to touch.--_n._ FLANK'ER, a
fortification which commands the flank of an assailing force.--_v.t._
(_obs._) to defend by flankers: to attack sideways.--FLANK COMPANY, the
company on the right or left when a battalion is in line; FLANK FILES, the
soldiers marching on the extreme right and left of a company, &c. [Fr.
_flanc_, perh. L. _flaccus_, flabby.]

FLANNEL, flan'el, _n._ a soft woollen cloth of loose texture for
undergarments, &c.: the garment itself: (_pl._) the garb of cricketers,
&c.--_v.t._ to wrap in or rub with flannel.--_n._ FLANNELETTE', a cotton
fabric, made in imitation of flannel.--_adjs._ FLANN'ELLED; FLANN'ELLY.
[Orig. _flannen_, acc. to Skeat, from W. _gwlanen_--_gwlan_, wool; acc. to
Diez, the equivalent Fr. _flanelle_ is from the O. Fr. _flaine_, a
pillow-case.]

FLAP, flap, _n._ the blow or motion of a broad loose object: anything broad
and flexible hanging loose, as the tail of a coat: a portion of skin or
flesh detached from the underlying part for covering and growing over the
end of an amputated limb.--_v.t._ to beat or move with a flap.--_v.i._ to
move, as wings: to hang like a flap:--_pr.p._ flap'ping; _pa.p._
flapped.--_ns._ FLAP'DOODLE, the food of fools: transparent nonsense, gross
flattery, &c.; FLAP'-DRAG'ON, a play in which small edibles, as raisins,
are snatched from burning brandy, and swallowed.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
swallow or devour, as in flap-dragon.--_adj._ FLAP'-EARED (_Shak._), having
ears hanging like a flap.--_n._ FLAP'-JACK (_Shak._), a kind of broad, flat
pancake.--_adj._ FLAP'-MOUTHED.--_n._ FLAP'PER. [Prob. imit.]

FLARE, fl[=a]r, _v.i._ to burn with a glaring, unsteady light: to glitter
or flash: to display glaringly.--_n._ an unsteady light.--_p.adj._
FL[=A]'RING, giving out an unsteady light: gaudy.--_adv._
FL[=A]'RINGLY.--_adj._ FL[=A]'RY. [Prob. Scand.; cf. Norw. _flara_, to
blaze.]

FLASH, flash, _n._ a momentary gleam of light: a sudden burst, as of
merriment: a short transient state.--_v.i._ to break forth, as a sudden
light: to break out into intellectual brilliancy: to burst out into
violence.--_v.t._ to cause to flash: to expand, as blown glass, into a
disc: to send by some startling or sudden means.--_n._ FLASH'-HOUSE, a
brothel.--_adv._ FLASH'ILY.--_ns._ FLASH'INESS; FLASH'ING, the act of
blazing: a sudden burst, as of water; FLASH'-POINT, the temperature at
which an inflammable liquid takes fire--in the case of petroleum, &c.,
ascertained by placing oil in a vessel called a tester (used open and
closed), and heating it up to a point at which sufficient vapour is
generated as to give off a small flash when a light is applied to
it.--_adj._ FLASH'Y, dazzling for a moment: showy but empty: (_Milt._)
vapid: gay--also FLASH, vulgarly showy, gay but tawdry: pertaining to
thieves, vagabonds, &c., as the '_flash_ language'=thieves' cant or slang:
'_flash_ notes'=counterfeit notes.--FLASH IN THE PAN (see PAN). [Prob.
imit.; cf. Sw. prov. _flasa_, to blaze.]

FLASK, flask, _n._ a narrow-necked vessel for holding liquids: a bottle: a
pocket-bottle: a horn or metal vessel for carrying powder.--_n._ FLASK'ET,
a vessel in which viands are served: (_Spens._) a basket.--FLORENCE FLASK,
a narrow-necked globular glass bottle of thin glass, as those in which
olive-oil is brought from Italy. [A.S. _flasce_; Ger. _flasche_; prob. not
Teut. acc. to Diez, but from Low L. _flasco_--L. _vasculum_, a flask.]

FLAT, flat, _adj._ smooth: level: wanting points of prominence and
interest: monotonous: vapid, insipid: dejected: unqualified, positive:
(_mus._) opposite of sharp.--_n._ a level plain: a tract covered by shallow
water: something broad: a story or floor of a house, esp. when fitted up as
a separate residence for a family: a simpleton, a gull: (_mus._) a
character (b) which lowers a note a semitone.--_ns._ FLAT'BOAT, a large
flat-bottomed boat for floating goods down the Mississippi, &c.;
FLAT'-FISH, a name applied to marine bony fishes that have a flat body,
such as the flounder, turbot, &c.--_adj._ FLAT'-FOOT'ED, having flat feet:
resolute.--_adj._ and _n._ FLAT'-HEAD, having an artificially flattened
head, as some American Indians of the Chinooks--the name is officially but
incorrectly applied to the Selish Indians in particular.--_n._
FLAT'-[=I]'RON, an iron for smoothing cloth.--_advs._ FLAT'LING, FLAT'LONG
(_Spens._, _Shak._), with the flat side down: not edgewise; FLAT'LY.--_ns._
FLAT'NESS; FLAT'-RACE, a race over open or clear ground.--_v.t._ FLAT'TEN,
to make flat.--_v.i._ to become flat.--_n._ FLAT'TING, a mode of
house-painting in which the paint is left without gloss.--_adj._ FLAT'TISH,
somewhat flat.--_adj._ or _adv._ FLAT'WISE, flatways, or with the flat side
downward.--_n._ FLAT'-WORM, a tapeworm. [From a Teut. root found in Ice.
_flatr_, flat, Sw. _flat_, Dan. _flad_, Old High Ger. _flaz_.]

FLATTER, flat'[.e]r, _v.t._ to soothe with praise and servile attentions:
to please with false hopes or undue praise.--_n._ FLATT'ERER.--_adj._
FLATT'ERING, uttering false praise: pleasing to pride or vanity.--_adv._
FLATT'ERINGLY.--_n._ FLATT'ERY, false praise. [O. Fr. _flater_ (Fr.
_flatter_); Teut.; cf. Ice. _fladhra_.]

FLATULENT, flat'[=u]-lent, _adj._ affected with air in the stomach: apt to
generate such: empty: vain.--_ns._ FLAT'ULENCE, FLAT'ULENCY, distension of
the stomach or bowels by gases formed during digestion: windiness,
emptiness.--_adv._ FLAT'ULENTLY.--_n._ FL[=A]'TUS, a puff of wind: air
generated in the stomach or intestines. [Fr.,--Low L. _flatulentus_--L.
_fl[=a]re_, _flatum_, to blow.]

FLAUGHT, flaht, _n._ (_Scot._) a flight, a flapping.--_n._ FLAUGH'TER, a
fluttering motion.--_v.i._ to flutter, flicker. [See FLIGHT.]

FLAUNT, flawnt, _v.i._ to fly or wave in the wind: to move or display
ostentatiously: to carry a gaudy or saucy appearance.--_n._ (_Shak._)
anything displayed for show.--_n._ FLAUNT'ER.--_adj._ FLAUNT'ING.--_adv._
FLAUNT'INGLY, in a flaunting or showy manner.--_adj._ FLAUNT'Y, showy.
[Prob. imit.; Skeat suggests Sw. prov. _flanka_, to waver.]

FLAUTIST. Same as FLUTIST.

FLAVESCENT, fla-ves'ent, _adj._ yellowish or turning yellow. [L.
_flavescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _flavesc[)e]re_, to become
yellow--_flavus_, yellow.]

FLAVIAN, fl[=a]v'i-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the Flavian emperors of
Rome--_Flavius_ Vespasian and his sons Titus and Domitian (69-96 A.D.).

FLAVINE, fl[=a]'vin, _n._ a concentrated preparation of quercitron bark,
till recently an important yellow dye. [L. _flavus_, yellow.]

FLAVOUR, fl[=a]'vur, _n._ that quality of anything which affects the smell
or the palate: a smack or relish.--_v.t._ to impart flavour to.--_adj._
FL[=A]'VOROUS.--_n._ FL[=A]'VOURING, any substance used to give a
flavour.--_adj._ FL[=A]'VOURLESS. [O. Fr. _flaur_; prob. related to L.
_fragr[=a]re_ or to _fl[=a]re_.]

FLAW, flaw, _n._ a gust of wind: a sudden rush, uproar. [Cf. Dut. _vlaag_,
Sw. _flaga_.]

FLAW, flaw, _n._ a break, a crack: a defect.--_v.t._ to crack or
break.--_adjs._ FLAW'LESS; FLAW'Y. [Ice. _flaga_, a slab.]

FLAWN, flawn, _n._ a custard, pancake. [O. Fr. _flaon_--Low L.
_fladon-em_--Old High Ger. _flado_.]

FLAX, flax, _n._ the fibres of the plant Linum, which are woven into linen
cloth: the flax-plant.--_ns._ FLAX'-COMB, a toothed instrument or heckle
for cleaning the fibres of flax; FLAX'-DRESS'ER, one who prepares flax for
the spinner by the successive processes of rippling, retting, grassing,
breaking, and scutching.--_adj._ FLAX'EN, made of or resembling flax: fair,
long, and flowing.--_ns._ FLAX'-MILL, a mill for working flax into linen;
FLAX'-SEED, linseed; FLAX'-WENCH, a female who spins flax.--_adj._ FLAX'Y,
like flax: of a light colour.--NEW ZEALAND FLAX, a valuable fibre, quite
different from common flax, obtained from the leaf of _Phormium tenax_, the
flax lily or flax bush. [A.S. _fleax_; Ger. _flachs_.]

FLAY, fl[=a], _v.t._ to strip off the skin:--_pr.p._ flay'ing; _pa.p._
flayed.--_ns._ FLAY'ER; FLAY'-FLINT, a skinflint. [A.S _fléan_; Ice. _flá_,
to skin.]

FLEA, fl[=e], _n._ a well-known wingless insect of great agility,
ectoparasitic on warm-blooded animals.--_ns._ FLEA'-BANE, a genus of plants
which emit a strong smell said to have the power of driving away fleas;
FLEA'-BITE, the bite of a flea: a small mark caused by the bite: (_fig._) a
trifle.--_adj._ FLEA'-BIT'TEN, bitten by fleas: (_fig._) mean: having small
reddish spots on a lighter ground, of horses.--A FLEA IN ONE'S EAR, a
caution, rebuff, anything specially irritating. [A.S. _fléah_; cf. Ger.
_floh_, Dut. _vloo_.]

FLEAM, fl[=e]m, _n._ an instrument for bleeding cattle. [Fr. _flamme_--Gr.
_phlebotomon_, a lancet--_phleps_, _phlebos_, a vein, and _tem-nein_, to
cut.]

FLÈCHE, fl[=a]sh, _n._ a spire generally: the slender spire rising from the
intersection of the nave and transepts in some large churches: (_fort._) a
parapet with two faces forming a salient angle at the foot of a glacis.
[Fr., 'an arrow.']

FLECK, flek, _n._ a spot or speckle: a little bit of a thing.--_vs.t._
FLECK, FLECK'ER, to spot: to streak.--_adjs._ FLECKED, spotted, dappled;
FLECK'LESS, without spot. [Ice. _flekkr_, a spot; Ger. _fleck_, Dut.
_vlek_.]

FLECTION. Same as FLEXION.

FLED, fled, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of FLEE.

FLEDGE, flej, _v.t._ to furnish with feathers or wings.--_v.i._ to acquire
feathers for flying.--_n._ FLEDG'LING, a little bird just fledged.--_adj._
FLEDG'Y (_Keats_), feathery. [M. E. _fligge_, _flegge_--A.S. _flycge_,
fledged (cf. Ger. _flügge_)--_fléogan_, to fly (Ger. _fliegen_).]

FLEE, fl[=e], _v.i._ to run away, as from danger: to disappear.--_v.t._ to
keep at a distance from:--_pr.p._ flee'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ fled.--_n._
FL[=E]'ER. [A.S. _fléon_, akin to _fléogan_, to fly; Ger. _fliehen_, akin
to _fliegen_, to fly.]

FLEECE, fl[=e]s, _n._ the coat of wool shorn from a sheep at one time:
anything like a fleece.--_v.t._ to clip wool from: to plunder: to cover, as
with wool.--_adjs._ FLEECED, having a fleece; FLEECE'LESS.--_ns._ FLEE'CER,
one who strips or plunders; FLEECE'-WOOL, that shorn from the living
animal.--_adj._ FLEEC'Y, woolly. [A.S. _fléos_; Dut. _vlies_, Ger.
_fliess_.]

FLEECH, fl[=e]ch, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to flatter, coax, beg.--_ns._
FLEECH'ING, FLEECH'MENT.

FLEER, fl[=e]r, _v.t._ or _v.i._ to make wry faces in contempt, to
mock.--_n._ mockery.--_n._ FLEER'ING.--_adv._ FLEER'INGLY. [Cf. Norw.
_flira_, Sw. _flissa_, to titter.]

FLEET, fl[=e]t, _n._ a number of ships in company, esp. ships of war: a
division of the navy, commanded by an admiral. [A.S. _fléot_, a
ship--_fléotan_, to float; conn. with Dut. _vloot_, Ger. _flotte_.]

FLEET, fl[=e]t, _adj._ swift: nimble: transient: (_prov._)
shallow.--_adjs._ FLEET'-FOOT (_Shak._), fleet or swift of foot; FLEET'ING,
passing quickly: temporary.--_advs._ FLEET'INGLY; FLEET'LY.--_n._
FLEET'NESS. [Prob. Ice. _fliótr_, swift; but ult. cog. with succeeding
word.]

FLEET, fl[=e]t, _v.i._ to flit, pass swiftly.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to make to
pass quickly:--_pr.p._ fleet'ing; _pa.p._ fleet'ed. [A.S. _fléotan_, to
float.]

FLEET, fl[=e]t, _n._ a shallow creek or bay, as in North_fleet_,
_Fleet_-ditch, &c.--THE FLEET, or FLEET PRISON, a London gaol down to 1842,
long a place of confinement for debtors--clandestine marriages were
solemnised here down to 1754 by broken-down clergymen confined for debt.
[A.S. _fléot_, an inlet.]

FLEMISH, flem'ish, _adj._ of or belonging to the _Flemings_ or people of
Flanders, or their language.--_n._ FLEM'ING, a native of Flanders.--FLEMISH
SCHOOL, a school of painting formed by the brothers Van Eyck, reaching its
height in Rubens, Vandyck, and Teniers; FLEMISH STITCH, a stitch used in
making certain kinds of point-lace. [Dut. _Vlaamsch_.]

FLENCH, flensh, _v.t._ to cut up the blubber of, as a whale.--Also FLENSE,
FLINCH. [Dan. _flense_.]

FLESH, flesh, _n._ the soft substance which covers the bones of animals:
animal food: the bodies of beasts and birds, not fish: the body, not the
soul: animals or animal nature: mankind: kindred: bodily appetites: the
present life: the soft substance of fruit: the part of a fruit fit to be
eaten: (_B._) man's visible nature (as opposed to _Pneuma_ or _Spirit_),
his human or bodily nature, the seat of sin, but not originally or
necessarily evil.--_v.t._ to train to an appetite for flesh, as dogs for
hunting: to accustom: to glut: to use upon flesh, as a sword, esp. for the
first time.--_ns._ FLESH'-BROTH, broth made by boiling flesh; FLESH'-BRUSH,
a brush used for rubbing the skin to excite circulation; FLESH'-COL'OUR,
pale red, like the normal colour of the cheek of a child.--_adj._ FLESHED
(flesht), having flesh: fat.--_ns._ FLESH'ER (_Scot._), a butcher;
FLESH'-FLY, a fly that deposits its eggs in and feeds on flesh; FLESH'HOOD
(_Mrs Browning_), the state of being in the flesh; FLESH'-HOOK, a hook for
drawing flesh from a pot; FLESH'INESS.--_n.pl._ FLESH'INGS, thin
flesh-coloured dress worn by dancers, actors, &c.--_adj._ FLESH'LESS,
without flesh: lean.--_ns._ FLESH'LINESS; FLESH'LING (_Spens._), one wholly
devoted to sensuality.--_adj._ FLESH'LY, corporeal: carnal: not
spiritual--also _adv._ FLESH'LY-MIND'ED, given to sensual pleasures:
carnally-minded.--_ns._ FLESH'-MEAT, flesh of animals used for food;
FLESH'MENT (_Shak._), act of fleshing or initiating, excitement arising
from success; FLESH'MONGER, one who deals in flesh: (_Shak._) a procurer, a
pimp; FLESH'-POT, a pot or vessel in which flesh is cooked: (_fig._)
abundance of flesh, high living; FLESH'-POTTERY, sumptuous living;
FLESH'-TINT, the tint or colour that best represents the human body;
FLESH'-WORM, a worm that feeds on flesh; FLESH'-WOUND, a wound not reaching
beyond the flesh.--_adj._ FLESH'Y, fat: pulpy: plump.--AN ARM OF FLESH,
human strength or help; IN THE FLESH, in life, alive: (_B._) under control
of the lower nature. [A.S. _fl['æ]sc_; cog. forms in all Teut. languages;
Ger. _fleisch_, &c.]

FLETCH, flech, _v.i._ to feather.--_n._ FLETCH'ER, one who makes arrows.
[Fr. _flèche_, an arrow.]

[Illustration]

FLEUR-DE-LIS, fl[=oo]r'-de-l[=e]', _n._ the flower of the lily: (_her._) a
bearing explained as representing three flowers of the white lily joined
together, or the white iris--commonly called _Flower-de-luce_:--_pl._
FLEURS'-DE-LIS'--the arms of the Bourbons and of France.--_ns._ FLEUR'ET,
an ornament like a small flower: a fencing-foil; FLEUR'Y (_her._),
decorated with a fleur-de-lis, or with the upper part only. [Fr., _lis_
being for L. _lilium_, a lily.]

FLEW, fl[=oo], _pa.t._ of FLY.

FLEWED, fl[=oo]d, _adj._ (_Shak._) having large chops (of dogs). [Ety.
unknown.]

FLEXIBLE, fleks'i-bl, FLEXILE, fleks'il, _adj._ easily bent: pliant:
docile.--_v.t._ FLEX, to bend or make a flexure of.--_adjs._ FLEXAN'IMOUS,
influencing the mind; FLEXED, bent.--_ns._ FLEX'IBLENESS, FLEXIBIL'ITY,
pliancy: easiness to be persuaded.--_adv._ FLEX'IBLY.--_ns._ FLEX'ION,
FLEC'TION, a bend: a fold: the action of a flexor muscle; FLEX'OR, a muscle
which bends a joint, as opposed to _Extensor_.--_adjs._ FLEX'[=U]OUS,
FLEX'[=U]OSE, of windings and turnings: variable.--_n._ FLEX'[=U]RE, a bend
or turning: (_math._) the curving of a line or surface: the bending of
loaded beams: (_Shak._) obsequious bowing. [L. _flexibilis_,
_flexilis_--_flect[)e]re_, _flexum_, to bend.]

FLEY, FLAY, fl[=a], _v.t._ to cause to fly: to frighten.--_v.i._ to be
frightened. [M. E. _flayen_--A.S. _flégan_, _fléogan_, to fly; Ice.
_fleyja_, Goth. _flaugjan_.]

FLIBBERTIGIBBET, flib'er-ti-jib'et, _n._ a flighty person: an imp. [Most
prob. jargon.]

FLICK, flik, _v.t._ to strike lightly.--_n._ a flip.

FLICKER, flik'[.e]r, _v.i._ to flutter and move the wings, as a bird: to
burn unsteadily, as a flame.--_n._ an act of flickering, a flickering
movement.--_v.i._ FLICHT'ER, (_Scot._), to flutter, quiver.--_adv._
FLICK'ERINGLY. [A.S. _flicorian_; imit.]

FLIER, FLYER, fl[=i]'[.e]r, _n._ one who flies or flees: a part of a
machine with rapid motion.

FLIGHT, fl[=i]t, _n._ a passing through the air: a soaring: excursion: a
sally: a series of steps: a flock of birds flying together: the birds
produced in the same season: a volley or shower: act of fleeing: hasty
removal.--_adj._ FLIGHT'ED (_Milt._), flying.--_adv._ FLIGHT'ILY.--_n._
FLIGHT'INESS.--_adj._ FLIGHT'Y, fanciful: changeable: giddy. [A.S.
_flyht_--_fléogan_.]

FLIM-FLAM, flim'-flam, _n._ a trick. [Formed like _skimble-skamble_,
_whim-wham_, &c.]

FLIMP, flimp, _v.t._ (_slang_) to snatch a watch while a confederate prods
the victim in the back.

FLIMSY, flim'zi, _adj._ thin: without solidity, strength, or reason:
weak.--_n._ transfer-paper: (_slang_) a bank-note: reporters' copy written
on thin paper.--_adv._ FLIM'SILY, in a flimsy manner.--_n._ FLIM'SINESS.
[First in 18th century. Prob. an onomatopoeic formation suggested by
_film_.]

FLINCH, flinsh, _v.i._ to shrink back: to fail.--_ns._ FLINCH'ER;
FLINCH'ING, the act of flinching or shrinking.--_adv._ FLINCH'INGLY. [M. E.
_flecchen_--O. Fr. _fléchir_, prob. from L. _flect[)e]re_, to bend.]

FLINDER, flin'der, _n._ a splinter or small fragment--usually in _pl._
[Norw. _flindra_, a splinter.]

FLINDERSIA, flin-der'si-a, _n._ a genus of Australian and African trees,
yielding African and Madeira mahogany, or Calcedra wood. [From the
Australian explorer, Captain Matthew _Flinders_, 1774-1814.]

FLING, fling, _v.t._ to strike or throw from the hand: to dart: to send
forth: to scatter: to throw (of a horse).--_v.i._ to act in a violent and
irregular manner: to kick out with the legs: to upbraid: to sneer:--_pr.p._
fling'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ flung.--_n._ a cast or throw: a taunt:
complete freedom, full enjoyment of pleasure: a lively Scotch
country-dance.--FLING OUT, to speak or act recklessly.--FULL FLING, at the
utmost speed, recklessly. [Ice. _flengja_; Sw. _flänga_.]

FLINT, flint, _n._ a hard mineral, a variety of quartz, from which fire is
readily struck with steel: anything proverbially hard.--_adj._ made of
flint, hard.--_n._ FLINT'-GLASS, a very fine and pure kind of glass, so
called because originally made of calcined flints.--_adjs._ FLINT'-HEART,
-ED (_Shak._), having a hard heart.--_v.t._ FLINT'IFY, to turn to
flint.--_ns._ FLINT'INESS; FLINT'-LOCK, a gun-lock having a flint fixed in
the hammer for striking fire and igniting the priming.--_adj._ FLINT'Y,
consisting of or like flint: hard: cruel.--FLINT IMPLEMENTS, arrow, axe,
and spear heads, &c. made by man before the use of metals, commonly found
in prehistoric graves, &c. [A.S. _flint_; Dan. _flint_; Gr. _plinthos_, a
brick.]

FLIP, flip, _n._ a hot drink of beer and spirits sweetened.

FLIP, flip, _v.t._ to fillip, to touch lightly: to toss up with a motion of
the thumb.--_v.i._ to flap.--_n._ a fillip, a snap.--_adv._ FLIP'-FLAP,
with a repeated flapping movement.--_n._ a coster's dance: a form of
somersault: a cracker.--_ns._ FLIP'-FLOP, the sound of a regular footfall;
FLIP'PER, a fin: (_slang_) hand.--_adj._ FLIP'PERTY-FLOP'PERTY, that goes
flip-flap, loose, dangling. [Attenuated from _flap_.]

FLIPE, fl[=i]p, _v.t._ to fold back, as a sleeve. [Prob. Scand.; cf. Dan.
_flip_, a flap.]

FLIPPANT, flip'ant, _adj._ quick and pert of speech: thoughtless.--_ns._
FLIPP'ANCY, FLIPP'ANTNESS, pert fluency of speech: pertness.--_adv._
FLIPP'ANTLY. [Skeat explains as for _flipp_ _-and_ (Old Northumbrian
_pr.p._ ending)--Ice. _fleipa_, to prattle.]

FLIRT, fl[.e]rt, _v.t._ to move about quickly like a fan, to flick,
rap.--_v.i._ to trifle with love: to play at courtship: to move briskly
about.--_n._ a pert, giddy girl: one who coquets for amusement, usually of
a woman.--_n._ FLIRT[=A]'TION the act of flirting.--_adj._ FLIRT[=A]'TIOUS
(_coll._), giving to flirting.--_ns._ FLIRT'-GILL (_Shak._), a pert or
wanton woman; FLIRT'ING.--_adv._ FLIRT'INGLY, in a flirting manner.--_adj._
FLIRT'ISH, betokening a flirt. [Onomatopoeic, like _flick_, _flip_, _flirk_
(a jerk), _spurt_, _squirt_.]

FLISK, flisk, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to skip or caper about: to fret at the
yoke.--_n._ a whim: a large-tooth comb.--_adj._ FLISK'Y. [Onomatopoeic.]

FLIT, flit, _v.i._ to flutter on the wing: to fly quickly: to be unsteady
or easily moved: (_Scot._) to remove from place to place:--_pr.p._
flit'ting; _pa.p._ flit'ted.--_n._ FLIT'TING, a removal from one house to
another: a wandering. [Ice. _flytja_; Sw. _flytta_.]

FLITCH, flich, _n._ the side of a hog salted and cured. [A.S. _flicce_;
Ice. _flikki_.]

FLITTER, flit'[.e]r, _v.i._ to flutter.--_n._ FLITT'ER-MOUSE, a bat.

FLITTERN, flit'ern, _n._ (_prov._) a young oak.

FLITTERS, flit'ers, _n.pl._ fragments, tatters.

FLIX, fliks, _n._ fur, beaver-down.

FLOAT, fl[=o]t, _v.i._ to swim on a liquid: to be buoyed up: to move
lightly and irregularly: to circulate, as a rumour: to drift about
aimlessly.--_v.t._ to cause to swim: to cover with water: to set
agoing.--_n._ anything swimming on water: a raft: the cork or quill on a
fishing-line: a plasterer's trowel.--_adj._ FLOAT'ABLE.--_ns._ FLOAT'AGE,
FLOT'AGE, the floating capacity of a thing: anything that floats;
FLOAT'-BOARD, a board on the rim of an undershot water-wheel on which the
water acts and moves the wheel; FLOAT'ER.--_adj._ FLOAT'ING, swimming: not
fixed: circulating.--_n._ action of the verb _float_: the spreading of
plaster on the surface of walls.--_ns._ FLOAT'ING-BATT'ERY, a vessel or
hulk heavily armed, used in the defence of harbours or in attacks on marine
fortresses; FLOAT'ING-BRIDGE, a bridge of rafts or beams of timber lying on
the surface of the water; FLOAT'ING-DOCK (see DOCK); FLOAT'ING-IS'LAND, an
aggregation of driftwood, roots, &c., capable of bearing soil, floated out
from a river delta or the like; FLOAT'ING-LIGHT, a ship, bearing a light,
moored on sunken rocks, to warn seamen of danger.--_adv._
FLOAT'INGLY.--_n._ FLOAT'-STONE, a porous, sponge-like variety of quartz,
so light as to float for a while on water.--_adj._ FLOAT'Y. [A.S.
_flotian_, to float; Ice. _flota_.]

FLOCK, flok, _n._ a company of animals, as sheep, birds, &c.: a company
generally: a Christian congregation.--_v.i._ to gather in flocks or in
crowds.--_n._ FLOCK'-MAS'TER, an owner or overseer of a flock. [A.S.
_flocc_, a flock, a company; Ice. _flokkr_.]

FLOCK, flok, _n._ a lock of wool.--_n._ FLOCCILL[=A]'TION, a delirious
picking of the bed-clothes by a patient.--_adjs._ FLOC'COSE, woolly;
FLOC'C[=U]LAR; FLOC'C[=U]LATE.--_n._ FLOC'C[=U]LENCE.--_adj._
FLOC'C[=U]LENT, woolly, flaky.--_ns._ FLOC'C[=U]LUS, a small flock or tuft:
a small lobe of the inferior surface of the cerebellum; FLOC'CUS, a flock
or tuft of wool or wool-like hairs: the downy plumage of unfledged
birds:--_pl._ FLOCCI (flok'si); FLOCK'-BED, a bed stuffed with flock or
refuse wool; FLOCK'-P[=A]'PER, wall-paper covered with a rough surface
formed of flock.--_adj._ FLOCK'Y. [O. Fr. _floc_--L. _floccus_, a lock of
wool.]

FLOE, fl[=o], _n._ a field of floating ice. [Prob. Norse _flo_, layer. The
usual Danish word is _flage_.]

FLOG, flog, _v.t._ to beat or strike: to lash: to chastise with
blows:--_pr.p._ flog'ging; _pa.p._ flogged.--_n._ FLOG'GING. [Late; prob.
an abbrev. of _flagellate_.]

FLOOD, flud, _n._ a great flow of water: (_B._) a river: an inundation: a
deluge: the rise or flow of the tide: any great quantity.--_v.t._ to
overflow: to inundate: to bleed profusely, as after parturition:--_pr.p._
flood'ing; _pa.p._ flood'ed.--_ns._ FLOOD'-GATE, a gate for letting water
flow through, or to prevent it: an opening or passage: an obstruction;
FLOOD'ING, an extraordinary flow of blood from the uterus; FLOOD'MARK, the
mark or line to which the tide rises; FLOOD'-TIDE, the rising or inflowing
tide.--THE FLOOD, the deluge in the days of Noah. [A.S. _flód_; Dut.
_vloed_, Ger. _fluth_. Cog. with _flow_.]

FLOOR, fl[=o]r, _n._ the part of a room on which we stand: a platform: the
rooms in a house on the same level, a story: any levelled area.--_v.t._ to
furnish with a floor: (_coll._) to vanquish, stump.--_ns._ FLOOR'CLOTH, a
covering for floors made of canvas oil-painted on both sides; FLOOR'ER, a
knock-down blow; a decisive retort, &c.: an examination question one cannot
answer; FLOOR'ING, material for floors: a platform.--_n.pl._
FLOOR'-TIM'BERS, the timbers placed immediately across a ship's keel, on
which her bottom is framed.--_ns._ FIRST'-FLOOR, the floor in a house above
the ground-floor--in United States mostly identical with GROUND-FLOOR, the
floor of a house on a level with the ground. [A.S. _flór_; Dut. _vloer_, a
flat surface, Ger. _flur_, flat land; W. _llawr_.]

FLOP, flop, _v.t._ to cause to hang down.--_v.i._ to plump down suddenly:
to break down.--_n._ a fall plump on the ground.--_adv._ FLOP'PILY.--_n._
FLOP'PINESS.--_adj._ FLOP'PY. [A form of _flap_.]

FLORA, fl[=o]'ra, _n._ the collective plants or vegetable species of a
region, country, or district: a work containing a descriptive enumeration
of these.--_adj._ FL[=O]'RAL, pertaining to Flora or to flowers: (_bot._)
containing the flower.--_adv._ FL[=O]'RALLY.--_n._ FLORÉAL
(fl[=o]-r[=a]-al'), the 8th month of the French revolutionary calendar,
April 20-May 20.--_adj._ FL[=O]'RE[=A]TED, decorated with floral
ornament.--_n._ FLORES'CENCE, a bursting into flower: (_bot._) the time
when plants flower.--_adj._ FLORES'CENT, bursting into flowers.--_n._
FL[=O]'RET (_bot._), the flowers of any small and closely crowded
inflorescence which resembles at first sight a single flower--e.g.
composites, teasels, grasses, &c.--_adj._ FL[=O]RICUL'TURAL.--_ns._
FL[=O]'RICULTURE, the culture of flowers or plants; FL[=O]RICUL'TURIST, a
florist.--_adj._ FLOR'ID, bright in colour: flushed with red: containing
flowers of rhetoric or lively figures: richly ornamental.--_adv._
FLOR'IDLY.--_n._ FLOR'IDNESS.--_adjs._ FL[=O]RIF'EROUS, bearing or
producing flowers; FL[=O]'RIFORM, flower-shaped.--_ns._ FL[=O]RIL[=E]'GIUM,
an anthology or collection of choice extracts; FLOR'IST, a cultivator of
flowers: one who writes an account of plants. [L. _Flora_, the goddess of
flowers.]

FLORENTINE, flor'en-tin, _adj._ pertaining to _Florence_ in Tuscany.--_n._
a native or inhabitant thereof: a durable silk textile fabric--also
FLOR'ENCE: a pie with no crust beneath the meat.

FLORIN, flor'in, _n._ an English silver coin worth 2s., first minted in
1849: in Austria the unit of account, otherwise called _gulden_, with a
value about 2s.: in Holland sometimes called _guilder_, and worth about 1s.
8d.: (_orig._) a Florentine gold coin with a lily stamped on one side,
first struck in the 11th century. [Fr., from It. _fiorino_--_fiore_, a
lily--L. _flos_.]

FLORUIT, fl[=o]'r[=u]-it, _n._ the period during which a person flourished.
[L., 3d pers. sing. perf. of _flor[=e]re_, to flourish.]

FLOSCULE, flos'k[=u]l, _n._ a floret.--_adjs._ FLOS'CULAR, FLOS'CULOUS,
composed of many floscules or tubular florets. [L. _flosculus_, dim. of
_flos_, a flower.]

FLOSS, flos, _n._ the loose downy or silky substance in the husks of
certain plants, as the bean--also FLOSH.--_n._ FLOSS'-SILK, very fine silk
fibre extremely soft and downy and with a high lustre, used chiefly for
embroidery.--_adj._ FLOSS'Y. [Prob. O. Fr. _flosche_, down: or from some
Teut. word cog. with _fleece_--cf. Ice. _flos_, nap.]

FLOTA, fl[=o]'ta, _n._ a commercial fleet: formerly the fleet which
annually conveyed the produce of America to Spain. [Sp., 'a fleet.']

FLOTAGE. See FLOATAGE.

FLOTANT, fl[=o]t'ant, _adj._ (_her._) floating in air or in water.

FLOTATION, flo-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of floating: the science of
floating bodies: act of floating a company or commercial
enterprise.--PLANE, or LINE, OF FLOTATION, the plane or line in which the
horizontal surface of a fluid cuts a body floating in it.

FLOTILLA, flo-til'a, _n._ a fleet of small ships. [Sp., dim. of _flota_, a
fleet.]

FLOTSAM, flot'sam, _n._ goods lost by shipwreck, and found floating on the
sea (see JETSAM). [Anglo-Fr. _floteson_ (Fr. _flottaison_)--O. Fr.
_floter_, to float.]

FLOUNCE, flowns, _v.i._ to move abruptly or impatiently--_n._ an impatient
gesture. [Prob. cog. with Norw. _flunsa_, to hurry, Sw. prov. _flunsa_, to
souse.]

FLOUNCE, flowns, _n._ a plaited strip sewed to the skirt of a
dress.--_v.t._ to furnish with flounces.--_n._ FLOUN'CING, material for
flounces. [Earlier form _frounce_--O. Fr. _fronce_, _fronche_, prob. from
L. _frons_, forehead; or Old High Ger. _runza_, a wrinkle, Ger. _runze_.]

FLOUNDER, flown'd[.e]r, _v.i._ to struggle with violent and awkward motion:
to stumble helplessly in thinking or speaking. [Prob. an onomatopoeic
blending of the sound and sense of earlier words like _founder_, _blunder_.
Skeat compares Dut. _flodderen_, to splash.]

FLOUNDER, flown'd[.e]r, _n._ a small flat-fish, generally found in the sea
near the mouth of rivers. [Anglo-Fr., _floundre_, O. Fr. _flondre_, most
prob. of Scand. origin; cf. Ice. _flyðra_, Sw. _flundra_.]

FLOUR, flowr, _n._ the finely-ground meal of wheat or other grain: the fine
soft powder of any substance.--_v.t._ to reduce into or sprinkle with
flour.--_v.i._ to break up into fine globules of mercury in the
amalgamation process.--_ns._ FLOUR'-BOLT, a machine for bolting flour;
FLOUR'-MILL, a mill for making flour.--_adj._ FLOUR'Y, covered with flour.
[Fr. _fleur_ (_de farine_, of meal), fine flour--L. _flos_, _floris_, a
flower.]

FLOURISH, flur'ish, _v.i._ to thrive luxuriantly: to be prosperous: to use
copious and flowery language: to move in fantastic figures: to display
ostentatiously: (_mus._) to play ostentatious passages, or ostentatiously:
to play a trumpet-call: to make ornamental strokes with the pen: to boast
or brag.--_v.t._ to adorn with flourishes or ornaments: to swing about by
way of show or triumph: (_Shak._) to gloss over.--_n._ decoration: showy
splendour: a figure made by a bold stroke of the pen: the waving of a
weapon or other thing: a parade of words: a musical prelude: a
trumpet-call.--_adjs._ FLOUR'ISHED, decorated with flourishes;
FLOUR'ISHING, thriving: prosperous: making a show.--_adv._
FLOUR'ISHINGLY.--_adj._ FLOUR'ISHY, abounding in flourishes.--FLOURISH OF
TRUMPETS, a trumpet-call sounded on the approach of great persons; any
ostentatious introduction. [O. Fr. _florir_, L. _flos_, flower.]

FLOUSE, flows, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_prov._) to splash.--Also FLOUSH.

FLOUT, flowt, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to jeer, mock, or insult: to treat with
contempt.--_n._ a mock: an insult.--_adv._ FLOUT'INGLY, with flouting:
insultingly.--_n._ FLOUT'ING-STOCK (_Shak._), an object for flouting.
[Prob. a specialised use of _floute_, M. E. form of _flute_, to play on the
flute. So with Dut. _fluiten_.]

FLOW, fl[=o], _v.i._ to run, as water: to rise, as the tide: to move in a
stream, as air: to glide smoothly: to circulate, as the blood: to abound:
to hang loose and waving: (_B._) to melt.--_v.t._ to cover with
water.--_n._ a stream or current: the setting in of the tide: abundance:
copiousness: free expression.--_n._ FLOW'AGE, act of flowing: state of
being flooded.--_adj._ FLOW'ING, moving, as a fluid: fluent or smooth:
falling in folds or in waves.--_adv._ FLOW'INGLY.--_n._ FLOW'INGNESS. [A.S.
_flówan_; Ger. _fliessen_.]

FLOW, flow, _n._ a morass: (_Scot._) a flat, moist tract of land. [Ice.
_floi_, a marsh--_flóa_, to flood.]

FLOWER, flow'[.e]r, _n._ a growth comprising the reproductive organs of
plants: the blossom of a plant: the best of anything: the prime of life:
the person or thing most distinguished: a figure of speech: ornament of
style: (_pl._) menstrual discharge (_B._).--_v.t._ to adorn with figures of
flowers.--_v.i._ to blossom: to flourish.--_ns._ FLOW'ERAGE, a gathering of
flowers; FLOW'ER-BELL, a blossom shaped like a bell; FLOW'ER-BUD, a bud
with the unopened flower; FLOW'ER-CLOCK, a collection of flowers so
arranged that the time of day is indicated by their times of opening and
closing; FLOW'ER-DE-LUCE, the old name for the common species of iris
(q.v.), or for the heraldic emblem conventionalised therefrom (see
FLEUR-DE-LIS); FLOW'ERET, a little flower: a floret; FLOW'ER-HEAD, a
compound flower in which all the florets are sessile on the receptacle;
FLOW'ERINESS; FLOW'ERING-RUSH, a monocotyledonous plant usually reckoned
under the order _Alismaceæ_, with large linear three-edged leaves and an
umbel of rose-coloured flowers.--_adjs._ FLOW'ER-KIR'TLED,
FLOW'ERY-KIR'TLED (_Milt._), dressed in robes or garlands of flowers;
FLOW'ERLESS (_bot._) having no flowers.--_ns._ FLOW'ER-POT, a utensil in
culture whereby plants are rendered portable;, FLOW'ER-SERV'ICE, a church
service where offerings of flowers are made, to be afterwards sent to
hospitals; FLOW'ER-SHOW, an exhibition of flowers; FLOW'ER-STALK, the stem
that supports the flower.--_adj._ FLOW'ERY, full of, or adorned with,
flowers: highly embellished, florid.--FLOWER OF JOVE, a caryophyllaceous
plant, with heads of purple or scarlet flowers, and leaves silky-white with
hairs. [O. Fr. _flour_ (Fr. _fleur_)--L. _flos_, _floris_, a flower.]

FLOWN, fl[=o]n, _pa.p._ of _fly_.

FLOWN, fl[=o]n, _adj._ inflated, flushed: (_Milt._) overflown.

FLUATE, fl[=oo]'[=a]t, _n._ Same as FLUORIDE.

FLUCTUATE, fluk't[=u]-[=a]t, _v.i._ to float backward and forward: to roll
hither and thither: to be irresolute.--_v.t._ to cause to move hither and
thither.--_adjs._ FLUC'TUANT; FLUC'TU[=A]TING.--_ns._ FLUCTU[=A]'TION, a
rising and falling like a wave: motion hither and thither: agitation:
unsteadiness; FLUCTUOS'ITY.--_adj._ FLUC'TUOUS. [L. _fluctu[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_fluctus_, a wave--_flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

FLUE, fl[=oo], _n._ a smoke-pipe or small chimney. [Prob. related to
_flue_, to expand, splay out.]

FLUE, fl[=oo], _n._ light down: soft down or fur.--_adj._ FLU'EY. [Ety.
unknown; conn. with _fluff_.]

FLUE, fl[=oo], _adj._ (_prov._) shallow, flat.--Also FLEW.

FLUENT, fl[=oo]'ent, _adj._ ready in the use of words: voluble: marked by
copiousness.--_n._ the variable quantity in fluxions.--_ns._ FLU'ENCE
(_Milt._), FLU'ENCY, FLU'ENTNESS, readiness or rapidity of utterance:
volubility.--_adv._ FLU'ENTLY. [L. _fluens_, _fluentis_, pr.p. of
_flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

FLUFF, fluf, _n._ a soft down from cotton, &c.: anything downy.--_n._
FLUFF'INESS.--_adj._ FLUFF'Y. [Perh. conn. with _flue_, light down.]

FLUGELMAN, fl[=oo]'gl-man', _n._ Same as FUGLEMAN.--_n._ FLÜ'GEL-HORN, a
hunting-horn, a kind of keyed bugle.

FLUID, fl[=oo]'id, _adj._ that flows, as water: liquid or gaseous.--_n._ a
substance in which the particles can move about with greater or less
freedom from one part of the body to another.--_adjs._ FLU'IDAL; FLUID'IC;
FLUID'IFORM.--_vs.t._ FLUID'IFY, FLU'IDISE, to make fluid.--_ns._
FLU'IDISM; FLUID'ITY, FLU'IDNESS, a liquid or gaseous state.--_adv._
FLU'IDLY. [Fr.,--L. _fluidus_, fluid--_flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

FLUKE, fl[=oo]k, _n._ a flounder: a parasitic trematoid worm which causes
the liver-rot in sheep, so called because like a miniature flounder: a
variety of kidney potato. [A.S. _flóc_, a plaice; cf. Ice. _flóke_.]

FLUKE, fl[=oo]k, _n._ the part of an anchor which fastens in the
ground.--_adj._ FLUK'Y. [Prob. a transferred use of the foregoing.]

FLUKE, fl[=oo]k, _n._ a successful shot made by chance, as at billiards:
any unexpected advantage.

FLUME, fl[=oo]m, _n._ an artificial channel for water to be applied to some
industrial purpose: (_U.S._) a narrow defile with upright walls, the bottom
occupied by a torrent.--BE, or GO, UP THE FLUME, to come to grief, to be
done for. [O. Fr. _flum_--L. _flumen_, a river--_flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

FLUMMERY, flum'[.e]r-i, _n._ an acid jelly made from the husks of oats: the
Scotch sowens: anything insipid: empty compliment. [W. _llymru_--_llymrig_,
harsh, raw--_llym_, sharp, severe.]

FLUMMOX, flum'oks, _v.t._ (_slang_) to perplex: defeat.

FLUMP, flump, _v.t._ (_coll._) to throw down violently.--_v.i._ to throw
one's self down heavily.--_n._ the dull sound so produced. [Imit.]

FLUNG, flung, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _fling_.

FLUNKEY, flung'ki, _n._ a livery servant: a footman: a mean, cringing
fellow.--_n._ FLUN'KEYDOM.--_adj._ FLUN'KEYISH.--_n._ FLUN'KEYISM. [Perh.
orig. _flanker_, one who runs along by the side of.]

FLUOR, fl[=oo]'or, _n._ a mineral often described as chemically fluate of
lime, but really calcium fluoride, found abundantly in Derbyshire--also
FLU'OR-SPAR, FLU'ORITE.--_ns._ FLUORES'CEIN, a coal-tar product, little
used in dyeing, the colour not being fast; FLUORES'CENCE, a peculiar blue
appearance exhibited by certain substances exposed to sunlight, and
especially observable in a dilute solution of sulphate of quinine.--_adjs._
FLUORES'CENT, having the property of fluorescence; FLUOR'IC.--_ns._
FLU'ORIDE, a binary compound of fluorine with another element; FLU'ORINE,
an elementary substance allied to chlorine, obtained chiefly from fluor;
FLU'OROTYPE, a photographic process in which salts of fluoric acid were
employed for the purpose of producing images in the camera; FLUOSIL'ICATE,
a compound of fluosilicic acid with some base.--_adj._ FLUOSILIC'IC,
composed of silicon and fluorine. [A name given by the alchemists to all
mineral acids because of their _fluidity_, from L. _flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

FLURRY, flur'i, _n._ a sudden blast or gust: agitation: bustle: the
death-agony of the whale: a fluttering assemblage of things, as
snowflakes.--_v.t._ to agitate, to confuse:--_pr.p._ flurr'ying; _pa.p._
flurr'ied.--_v.t._ FLURR, to scatter.--_v.i._ to fly up. [Prob.
onomatopoeic, suggested by _flaw_, _hurry_, &c.]

FLUSH, flush, _n._ a flow of blood to the face causing redness: sudden
impulse: bloom, freshness, vigour: abundance.--_v.i._ to become red in the
face: to flow swiftly.--_v.t._ to make red in the face: to cleanse by a
copious flow of water: to elate, excite the spirits of: mostly in the
_pa.p._ flushed (with victory).--_adj._ (of weather) hot and heavy:
abounding: well supplied, as with money: (_Shak._) in full bloom.--_n._
FLUSH'-BOX, a rectangular tank supplied with water for flushing the bowls
of water-closets.--_adj._ FLUSHED, suffused with ruddy colour:
excited.--_ns._ FLUSH'ER, one who flushes sewers; FLUSH'ING, action of the
verb _flush_: sudden reddening; FLUSH'NESS, quality of being flush.--_adj._
FLUSH'Y, reddish. [Prob. orig. identical with succeeding word, but meaning
influenced by phonetic association with _flash_, the senses relating to
colour by _blush_.]

FLUSH, flush, _v.i._ to start up like an alarmed bird.--_v.t._ to rouse and
cause to start off.--_n._ the act of starting: (_Spens._) a bird, or a
flock of birds so started. [Prob. onomatopoeic; suggested by _fly_,
_flutter_, and _rush_.]

FLUSH, flush, _v.t._ to make even: to fill up to the level of a surface
(often with _up_).--_adj._ having the surface level with the adjacent
surface. [Prob. related to _flush_ above.]

FLUSH, flush, _n._ in card-playing, a hand in which all the cards or a
specified number are of the same suit.--_adj._ in poker, consisting of
cards all of the same suit.--STRAIGHT, or ROYAL, FLUSH, in poker, a
sequence of five cards of the same suit. [Prob. Fr. _flux_--L. _fluxus_,
flow.]

FLUSTER, flus't[.e]r, _n._ hurrying: confusion: heat.--_v.t._ to make hot
and confused: to fuddle.--_v.i._ to bustle: to be agitated or
fuddled.--_v.t._ FLUS'TER[=A]TE, to fluster.--_n._
FLUSTER[=A]'TION.--_adj._ FLUS'TERED, fuddled: flurried.--_n._
FLUS'TERMENT.--_adj._ FLUS'TERY, confused. [Ice. _flaustr_, hurry.]

FLUSTRA, flus'tra, _n._ one of the commonest genera of marine Polyzoa.

FLUTE, fl[=oo]t, _n._ a musical pipe with finger-holes and keys sounded by
blowing: in organ-building, a stop with stopped wooden pipes, having a
flute-like tone: one of a series of curved furrows, as on a pillar, called
also _Fluting_: a tall and narrow wine-glass: a shuttle in
tapestry-weaving, &c.--_v.i._ to play the flute.--_v.t._ to play or sing in
soft flute-like tones: to form flutes or grooves in.--_adj._ FLUT'ED,
ornamented with flutes, channels, or grooves.--_ns._ FLUT'ER; FLUTI'NA
(t[=e]'-), a kind of accordion; FLUT'ING-MACHINE', a machine for
corrugating sheet-metal, also a wood-turning machine for forming twisted,
spiral, and fluted balusters; FLUT'IST.--_adj._ FLUT'Y, in tone like a
flute. [O. Fr. _fleüte_; ety. dub.]

FLUTTER, flut'[.e]r, _v.i._ to move about with bustle: to vibrate: to be in
agitation or in uncertainty: (_obs._) to be frivolous.--_v.t._ to throw
into disorder: to move in quick motions.--_n._ quick, irregular motion:
agitation: confusion: a hasty game at cards, &c. [A.S. _flotorian_, to
float about, from _flot_, the sea, stem of _fléotan_, to float.]

FLUVIAL, fl[=oo]'vi-al, _adj._ of or belonging to rivers.--_n._
FLU'VIALIST.--_adjs._ FLUVIAT'IC, FLU'VIATILE, belonging to or formed by
rivers. [L. _fluvialis_--_fluvius_, a river, _flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

FLUX, fluks, _n._ act of flowing: a flow of matter: quick succession: a
discharge generally from a mucous membrane: matter discharged: excrement:
the term given to the substances employed in the arts to assist the
reduction of a metallic ore and the fusion of a metal.--_v.t._ to
melt.--_v.i._ to flow.--_ns._ FLUX'[=A]TION, the act of flowing or passing
away; FLUXIBIL'ITY, FLUX'IBLENESS.--_adjs._ FLUX'IBLE, FLUX'IDE, that may
be melted.--_ns._ FLUXIL'ITY; FLUX'ION, a flowing or discharge: a
difference or variation: (_math._) the rate of change of a continuously
varying quantity: (_pl._) the name given after Newton to that branch of
mathematics which with a different notation is known after Leibnitz as the
differential and integral calculus.--_adjs._ FLUX'IONAL, FLUX'IONARY,
variable: inconstant.--_n._ FLUX'IONIST, one skilled in fluxions.--_adj._
FLUX'IVE (_Shak._), flowing with tears. [O. Fr.,--L. _fluxus_--_flu[)e]re_,
to flow.]

FLY, fl[=i], _v.i._ to move through the air on wings: to move swiftly: to
pass away: to flee: to burst quickly or suddenly: to flutter.--_v.t._ to
avoid, flee from: to cause to fly, as a kite:--_pr.p._ fly'ing; _pa.t._
flew (fl[=oo]); _pa.p._ flown (fl[=o]n).--_n._ a popular name best
restricted in its simplicity to the insects forming the order _Diptera_,
but often so widely used with a prefix--e.g. _butterfly_, _dragon-fly_,
_May-fly_--as to be virtually equivalent to insect: a fish-hook dressed
with silk, &c., in imitation of a fly: a light double-seated carriage, a
hackney-coach: (_mech._) a flywheel: (_pl._) the large space above the
proscenium in a theatre, from which the scenes, &c., are
controlled.--_adj._ wide-awake: (_slang_) knowing.--_adjs._ FLY'AWAY,
flighty; FLY'-BIT'TEN, marked by the bite of flies.--_n._ FLY'BLOW, the egg
of a fly.--_adj._ FLY'BLOWN, tainted with the eggs which produce
maggots.--_ns._ FLY'BOAT, a long, narrow, swift boat used on canals;
FLY'BOOK, a case like a book for holding fishing-flies; FLY'-CATCH'ER, a
small bird, so called from its catching flies while on the wing;
FLY'-FISH'ER, one who fishes with artificial flies as bait; FLY'-FISH'ING,
the art of so fishing; FLY'-FLAP'PER, one who drives away flies with a
fly-flap; FLY'ING-BRIDGE, a kind of ferry-boat which is moved across a
river by the action of the combined forces of the stream and the resistance
of a long rope or chain made fast to a fixed buoy in the middle of the
river; FLY'ING-BUTT'RESS, an arch-formed prop which connects the walls of
the upper and central portions of an aisled structure with the vertical
buttresses of the outer walls; FLY'ING-CAMP, a body of troops for rapid
motion from one place to another; FLY'ING-DUTCH'MAN, a Dutch black spectral
ship, whose captain is condemned for his impieties to sweep the seas around
the Cape of Storms unceasingly, without ever being able to reach a haven;
FLY'ING-FISH, a fish which can leap from the water and sustain itself in
the air for a short time, by its long pectoral fins, as if flying;
FLY'ING-FOX, a large frugivorous bat; FLY'ING-L[=E]'MUR, a galeopithecoid
insectivore whose fore and hind limbs are connected by a fold of skin,
enabling it to make flying leaps from tree to tree; FLY'ING-PAR'TY, a small
body of soldiers, equipped for rapid movements, used to harass an enemy;
FLY'ING-PHALAN'GER, a general popular name for the petaurists;
FLY'ING-SHOT, a shot fired at something in motion; FLY'ING-SQUID, a squid
having broad lateral fins by means of which it can spring high out of the
water; FLY'ING-SQUIRR'EL, a name given to two genera of squirrels, which
have a fold of skin between the fore and hind legs, by means of which they
can take great leaps in the air; FLY'LEAF, a blank leaf at the beginning
and end of a book; FLY'-LINE, a line for angling with an artificial fly;
FLY'-MAK'ER, one who ties artificial flies for angling; FLY'MAN, one who
works the ropes in the flies of a theatre; FLY'P[=A]PER, a porous paper
impregnated with poison for destroying flies; FLY'-POW'DER, a poisonous
powder used for killing flies; FLY'-RAIL, that part of a table which turns
out to support the leaf.--_adj._ (_Shak._) moving slow as a fly on its
feet.--_ns._ FLY'-ROD, a light flexible rod used in fly-fishing, usually in
three pieces--butt, second-joint, and tip; FLY'-TRAP, a trap to catch
flies: (_bot._) the spreading dog-bane, also the Venus's fly-trap;
FLY'WHEEL, a large wheel with a heavy rim applied to machinery to equalise
the effect of the driving effort.--FLY AT, to attack suddenly; FLY IN THE
FACE OF, to insult: to oppose; FLY OPEN, to open suddenly or violently; FLY
OUT, to break out in a rage; FLY THE KITE, to obtain money as by
accommodation bills, the endorser himself having no money; FLY UPON, to
seize: to attack.--A FLY IN THE OINTMENT, some slight flaw which corrupts a
thing of value (Eccles. x. i.); BREAK A FLY ON THE WHEEL, to subject to a
punishment out of all proportion to the gravity of the offence; LET FLY, to
attack: to throw or send off; MAKE THE FEATHERS FLY (see FEATHERS). [A.S.
_fléogan_, pa.t. _fleáh_; Ger. _fliegen_.]

FLYTE, FLITE, fl[=i]t, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to scold, to brawl.--_n._ FLYTE,
FLYT'ING, a scolding, or heated dispute. [A.S. _flítan_, to strive; Ger.
_be-fleissen_.]

FOAL, f[=o]l, _n._ the young of a mare or of a she-ass.--_v.i._ and _v.t._
to bring forth a foal.--_ns._ FOAL'FOOT, colts-foot; FOAL'ING, bringing
forth of a foal or young. [A.S. _fola_; Ger. _fohlen_, Gr. _p[=o]los_; L.
_pullus_.]

FOAM, f[=o]m, _n._ froth: the bubbles which rise on the surface of liquors:
fury.--_v.i._ to gather foam: to be in a rage.--_v.t._ (_B._) to throw out
with rage or violence (with _out_).--_adv._ FOAM'INGLY.--_adjs._ FOAM'LESS,
without foam; FOAM'Y, frothy. [A.S. _fám_; Ger. _feim_, prob. akin to L.
_spuma_.]

FOB, fob, _n._ a trick.--_v.t._ to cheat. [Prob. a corr. of O. Fr. _forbe_,
a rogue; or Ger. _foppen_, to jeer.]

FOB, fob, _n._ a small pocket in the waistband of trousers for a watch: a
chain with seals, &c., hanging from the fob. [If orig. a secret pocket,
perh. connected with the above.]

FOCUS, f[=o]'kus, _n._ (_opt._) a point in which several rays meet and are
collected after being reflected or refracted, while a _virtual_ focus is a
point from which rays tend after reflection or refraction--the _principal_
focus is the focus of parallel rays after reflection or refraction: any
central point:--_pl._ F[=O]'CUSES, FOCI (f[=o]'s[=i]).--_v.t._ to bring to
a focus: to concentrate:--_pa.p._ f[=o]'cussed.--_adj._ F[=O]'CAL, of or
belonging to a focus.--_v.t._ F[=O]'CALISE, to bring to a focus: to
concentrate.--_n._ FOCIMETER (f[=o]-sim'e-t[.e]r), an instrument for
assisting in focussing an object in or before a photographic
camera--usually a lens of small magnifying power.--FOCUSSING CLOTH, a cloth
thrown over a photographic camera and the operator's head and shoulders to
exclude all light save that coming through the lens.--CONJUGATE FOCI, two
points so situated that if a light be placed at one, its rays will be
reflected to the other; IN FOCUS, placed or adjusted so as to secure
distinct vision, or a sharp, definite image. [L. _focus_, a hearth.]

FODDER, fod'[.e]r, _n._ food for cattle, as hay and straw.--_v.t._ to
supply with fodder.--_ns._ FODD'ERER; FODD'ERING. [A.S. _fódor_; Ger.
_futter_.]

FODIENT, f[=o]'di-ent, _adj._ and _n._ digging.

FOE, f[=o], _n._ an enemy: one who, or that which, injures or hinders
anything: an ill-wisher.--_ns._ FOE'MAN, an enemy in war:--_pl._ FOE'MEN;
F[=O]'EN (_Spens._), pl. of foe. [M. E. _foo_--A.S. _fáh_, _fá_ (adj.),
allied to the compound n. _gefá_; cf. _féogan_, to hate.]

FOETUS, FETUS, f[=e]'tus, _n._ the young of animals in the egg or in the
womb, after its parts are distinctly formed, until its birth.--_adjs._
FOE'TAL, F[=E]'TAL, pertaining to a foetus; FOE'TICIDAL.--_ns._ FOE'TICIDE,
F[=E]'TICIDE, destruction of the foetus. [L., from obs. _feu[=e]re_, to
bring forth, whence _femina_, _fecundus_, &c.]

FOG, fog, _n._ a thick mist: watery vapour rising from either land or
water.--_v.t._ to shroud in fog.--_v.i._ to become coated with a uniform
coating.--_ns._ FOG'-BANK, a dense mass of fog sometimes seen at sea
appearing like a bank of land; FOG'-BELL, a bell rung by the motion of the
waves or wind to warn sailors from rocks, shoals, &c. in foggy
weather.--_adj._ FOG'-BOUND, impeded by fog.--_ns._ FOG'-BOW, a whitish
arch like a rainbow, seen in fogs.--_adv._ FOG'GILY.--_n._
FOG'GINESS.--_adj._ FOG'GY, misty: damp: clouded in mind: stupid.--_n._
FOG'-HORN, a horn used as a warning signal by ships in foggy weather: a
sounding instrument for warning ships off the shore during a fog: a
siren.--_adj._ FOG'LESS, without fog, clear.--_ns._ FOG'-RING, a bank of
fog in the form of a ring; FOG'-SIG'NAL, an audible signal used on board
ship, &c., during a fog, when visible signals cease to be of use;
FOG'-SMOKE, fog. [The origin of the word is hopelessly misty; Mr Bradley
connects with succeeding word; Prof. Skeat connects with Dan. _fog_, as in
_snee-fog_, thick falling snow; cf. Ice. _fok_, a snowdrift.]

FOG, fog, FOGGAGE, fog'[=a]j, _n._ grass which grows in autumn after the
hay is cut: (_Scot._) moss.--_v.i._ to become covered with fog. [Origin
unknown; W. _ffwg_, dry grass, is borrowed.]

FOGY, FOGEY, f[=o]'gi, _n._ a dull old fellow; a person with antiquated
notions.--_adjs._ F[=O]'GRAM, antiquated.--_n._ a fogy.--_ns._
F[=O]'GRAMITE; FOGRAM'ITY; F[=O]GYDOM.--_adj._ F[=O]'GYISH.--_n._
F[=O]'GYISM. [Prob. a substantive use of _foggy_ in sense of 'fat,'
'bloated,' 'moss-grown.']

FOH, f[=o], _interj._ an exclamation of abhorrence or contempt.

FOIBLE, foi'bl, _n._ a weak point in one's character: a failing. [O. Fr.
_foible_, weak.]

FOIL, foil, _v.t._ to defeat: to puzzle: to disappoint: (_Spens._) to beat
down or trample with the feet:--_pr.p._ foil'ing; _pa.p._ foiled.--_n._
failure after success seemed certain: defeat: a blunt sword used in
fencing, having a button on the point.--PUT TO THE FOIL, to blemish. [O.
Fr. _fuler_, to stamp or crush--Low L. _fullare_--_fullo_, a fuller of
cloth.]

FOIL, foil, _n._ a leaf or thin plate of metal, as tin-foil: a thin leaf of
metal put under precious stones to increase their lustre or change their
colour: anything that serves to set off something else: a small arc in the
tracery of a window, &c. (_trefoiled_, _cinquefoiled_, _multifoiled_,
&c.).--_adj._ FOILED.--_n._ FOIL'ING. [O. Fr. _foil_ (Fr. _feuille_)--L.
_folium_, a leaf.]

FOIN, foin, _v.i._ to thrust with a sword or spear.--_n._ a thrust with a
sword or spear.--_adv._ FOIN'INGLY. [O. Fr. _foine_--L. _fuscina_, a
trident.]

FOISON, foi'zn, _n._ plenty: autumn.--_adj._ FOI'SONLESS, weak,
feeble--(_Scot._) FIZZ'ENLESS. [O. Fr.,--L. _fusion-em_--_fund[)e]re_,
_fusum_, to pour forth.]

FOIST, foist, _v.t._ to bring in by stealth: to insert wrongfully: to pass
off as genuine (with _in_ or _into_ before the thing affected, and _upon_
before the person).--_n._ FOIST'ER. [Prob. Dut. prov. _vuisten_, to take in
the hand; _vuist_, fist.]

FOLD, f[=o]ld, _n._ the doubling of any flexible substance: a part laid
over on another: (_pl._) complex arrangements, intricacy.--_v.t._ to lay
one part over another: to enclose in a fold or folds, to wrap up: to
embrace.--FOLD, in composition with numerals=times, as in TEN'FOLD.--_n._
FOLD'ER, the person or thing that folds: a flat knife-like instrument used
in folding paper.--_adj._ FOLD'ING, that folds, or that can be folded, as
_folding-bed_, _-chair_, _-joint_, _-net_, _-table_, &c.--_ns._ FOLD'ING, a
fold or plait; FOLD'ING-DOOR, a door consisting of two parts hung on
opposite jambs, so that their edges come into contact when the door is
closed; FOLD'ING-MACHINE', a mechanism that automatically folds printed
sheets. [A.S. _fealdan_, to fold; pa.t. _feóld_; Ger. _falten_.]

FOLD, f[=o]ld, _n._ an enclosure for protecting domestic animals, esp.
sheep: a flock of sheep: (_fig._) a church: the Christian Church.--_v.t._
to confine in a fold.--_n._ FOLD'ING. [A.S. _fald_, a fold, stall.]

FOLDEROL, fol'de-rol, _n._ mere nonsense: silly trifle: (_pl._) trivial
ornaments. [Formed from meaningless syllables, the refrain of old songs.]

FOLIACEOUS, f[=o]-li-[=a]'shus, _adj._ pertaining to or consisting of
leaves or laminæ. [L. _foliaceus_--_folium_, a leaf.]

FOLIAGE, f[=o]'l[=i]-[=a]j, _n._ leaves: a cluster of leaves: (_archit._) a
representation of leaves, flowers, and branches used for
ornamentation.--_adjs._ F[=O]'LIAGED, worked like foliage; F[=O]'LIAR,
pertaining to leaves: resembling leaves.--_v.t._ F[=O]'LI[=A]TE (_orig._),
to beat into a leaf: to cover with leaf-metal.--_adj._ F[=O]'LI[=A]TED,
beaten into a thin leaf: decorated with leaf ornaments: (_mus._) having
notes added above or below, as in a plain-song melody.--_ns._
F[=O]'LI[=A]TION, the leafing, esp. of plants: the act of beating a metal
into a thin plate, or of spreading foil over a piece of glass to form a
mirror: (_geol._) the alternating and more or less parallel layers or folia
of different mineralogical nature, of which the crystalline schists are
composed: (_archit._) decoration with cusps, lobes, or foliated tracery;
F[=O]'LIATURE, foliation. [O. Fr. _fueillage_--L. _folium_, a leaf.]

FOLIO, f[=o]'li-[=o], _n._ a sheet of paper once folded: a book of such
sheets: the size of such a book: one of several sizes of paper adapted for
folding once into well-proportioned leaves: (_book-k._) a page in an
account-book, or two opposite pages numbered as one: (_law_) a certain
number of words taken as a basis for computing the length of a document: a
wrapper for loose papers.--_adj._ pertaining to or containing paper only
once folded.--_v.t._ to number the pages of: to mark off the end of every
folio in law copying.--IN FOLIO, in sheets folded but once: in the form of
a folio. [Abl. of L. _folium_, the leaf of a tree, a leaf or sheet of
paper.]

FOLIOLE, f[=o]'li-[=o]l, _n._ (_bot._) a single leaflet of a compound
leaf.--_adj._ F[=O]'LIOLATE, of or pertaining to leaflets. [Fr., dim. of L.
_folium_, a leaf.]

FOLK, f[=o]k, _n._ people, collectively or distributively: a nation or race
(rarely in _pl._): (_arch._) the people, commons: (_pl._) those of one's
own family, relations (_coll._):--generally used in _pl._ FOLK or FOLKS
(f[=o]ks).--_ns._ FOLKE'THING, the lower house of the Danish parliament or
Rigsdag; FOLK'LAND, among the Anglo-Saxons, public land as distinguished
from _boc-land_ (bookland)--i.e. land granted to private persons by a
written charter; FOLK'LORE, a department of the study of antiquities or
archæology, embracing everything relating to ancient observances and
customs, to the notions, beliefs, traditions, superstitions, and prejudices
of the common people--the science which treats of the survivals of archaic
beliefs and customs in modern ages (the name _Folklore_ was first suggested
by W. J. Thoms--'Ambrose Merton'--in the _Athenæum_, August 22, 1846);
FOLK'LORIST, one who studies folklore; FOLK'MOTE, an assembly of the people
among the Anglo-Saxons; FOLK'-RIGHT, the common law or right of the people;
FOLK'-SONG, any song or ballad originating among the people and
traditionally handed down by them: a song written in imitation of such;
FOLK'-SPEECH, the dialect of the common people of a country, in which
ancient idioms are embedded; FOLK'-TALE, a popular story handed down by
oral tradition from a more or less remote antiquity. [A.S. _folc_; Ice.
_fólk_; Ger. _volk_.]

FOLLICLE, fol'i-kl, _n._ (_anat._) a gland: (_bot._) a
seed-vessel.--_adjs._ FOLLIC'ULAR, pertaining to or consisting of
follicles; FOLLIC'ULATED; FOLLIC'ULOUS. [Fr.,--L. _folliculus_, dim. of
_follis_, a wind-bag.]

FOLLOW, fol'[=o], _v.t._ to go after or behind: to come after, succeed: to
pursue: to attend: to imitate: to obey: to adopt, as an opinion: to keep
the eye or mind fixed on: to pursue, as an object of desire: to result
from, as an effect from a cause: (_B._) to strive to obtain.--_v.i._ to
come after another: to result.--_n._ (_billiards_) a stroke which causes
the ball to follow the one which it has struck.--_ns._ FOLL'OW-BOARD, in
moulding, the board on which the pattern is laid; FOLL'OWER, one who comes
after: a copier: a disciple: a servant-girl's sweetheart; FOLL'OWING, the
whole body of supporters.--_adj._ coming next after.--FOLLOW HOME, to
follow closely: to follow to the end; FOLLOW ON (_B._), to continue
endeavours; FOLLOW SUIT, in card-playing, to play a card of the same suit
as the one which was led: to do anything on the same lines as another;
FOLLOW UP, to pursue an advantage closely. [A.S. _folgian_, _fylgian_, app.
a compound, but obscure; Ger. _folgen_.]

FOLLY, fol'i, _n._ silliness or weakness of mind: a foolish act: criminal
weakness: (_B._) sin: a monument of folly, as a great structure left
unfinished, having been begun without a reckoning of the cost.--_v.i._ to
act with folly. [O. Fr. _folie_--_fol_, foolish.]

FOMENT, fo-ment', _v.t._ to bathe with warm water: to encourage: to
instigate (usually to evil).--_ns._ FOMENT[=A]'TION, a bathing or lotion
with warm water: encouragement; FOMENT'ER. [Fr.,--L.
_foment[=a]re_--_fomentum_ for _fovimentum_--_fov[=e]re_, to warm.]

FOMES, f[=o]'miz, _n._ any porous substance capable of absorbing and
retaining contagious effluvia:--_pl._ FOM[=I]'TES. [L., touchwood.]

FON, fon, _n._ (_Spens._) a fool, an idiot.--_v.i._ to be foolish, play the
fool.--_adv._ FON'LY, foolishly.

FOND, fond, _adj._ foolishly tender and loving: weakly indulgent: prizing
highly (with _of_): very affectionate: kindly disposed: (_obs._)
foolish.--_v.i._ to dote.--_v.t._ FOND'LE, to treat with fondness: to
caress.--_ns._ FOND'LER; FOND'LING, the person or thing fondled.--_adv._
FOND'LY, in a fond manner, foolishly.--_n._ FOND'NESS. [For _fonned_, pa.p.
of M. E. _fonnen_, to act foolishly, _fon_, a fool; fondly conn. by some
with Sw. _fåne_, fool, Ice. _fáni_, swaggerer.]

FOND. See FAND (2).

FONE, f[=o]n, _n._ (_Spens._) _pl._ of _foe_.

FONT, font, _n._ the vessels used in churches as the repository of the
baptismal water, usually a basin or cup hollowed out of a solid block of
marble, &c.--_adj._ FONT'AL, pertaining to a font or origin.--_ns._
FONT'LET, a little font; FONT'-STONE, a baptismal font of stone. [L.
_font-em_, _fons_, a fountain.]

FONT, font, FOUNT, fownt, _n._ a complete assortment of types of one sort,
with all that is necessary for printing in that kind of letter. [Fr.
_fonte_--_fondre_--L. _fund[)e]re_, to cast.]

FONTANELLE, fon-ta-nel', _n._ a gap between the bones of the skull of a
young animal: an opening for the discharge of pus.--Also FONTANEL'. [Fr.]

FONTANGE, fong-tanzh', _n._ a tall head-dress worn in the 17th and 18th
centuries. [Fr., from _Fontanges_, the territorial title of one of Louis
XIV.'s drabs.]

FONTARABIAN, fon-ta-r[=a]'bi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Fontarabia_ or
Fuenterrabia on the Pyrenees, where Roland was overpowered and slain by the
Saracens.

FONTICULUS, fon-tik'[=u]-lus, _n._ a small ulcer produced by caustics, &c.:
the depression just over the top of the breast-bone. [L., dim. of _fons_.]

FONTINALIS, fon-tin-[=a]'lis, _n._ a genus of aquatic mosses allied to
_Hypnum_, almost without stalk. [Formed from L. _fons_.]

FOOD, f[=oo]d, _n._ what one feeds on: that which, being digested,
nourishes the body: whatever sustains or promotes growth.--_adjs._
FOOD'FUL, able to supply food abundantly; FOOD'LESS, without food. [A.S.
_fóda_; Goth. _fódeins_, Sw. _föda_.]

FOOD, f[=oo]d, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as FEUD.

FOOL, f[=oo]l, _n._ one who acts stupidly: a person of weak mind: a jester:
a tool or victim, as of untoward circumstances: (_B._) a wicked
person.--_v.t._ to deceive: to treat with contempt.--_v.i._ to play the
fool: to trifle.--_adjs._ FOOL'-BEGGED (_Shak._), taken for a fool,
idiotical, absurd; FOOL'-BORN (_Shak._), foolish from one's birth, arising
from folly.--_n._ FOOL'ERY, an act of folly: habitual folly.--_adj._
FOOL'-HAPP'Y, happy or lucky without contrivance or judgment.--_n._
FOOL'-HARD'INESS--(_Spens._) FOOL'-HARD'ISE.--_adjs._ FOOL'-HARD'Y,
foolishly bold: rash or incautious; FOOL'ISH, weak in intellect: wanting
discretion: ridiculous: marked with folly: deserving ridicule: (_B._)
sinful, disregarding God's laws.--_adv._ FOOL'ISHLY.--_ns._ FOOL'ISHNESS,
FOOL'ING, foolery.--_adj._ FOOL'ISH-WIT'TY (_Shak._), wise in folly and
foolish in wisdom.--_ns._ FOOL'S'-ERR'AND, a silly or fruitless enterprise:
search for what cannot be found; FOOL'S'-PARS'LEY, an umbelliferous plant
in Britain, not to be mistaken for parsley, being poisonous.--FOOL AWAY, to
spend to no purpose or profit; FOOL'S CAP, a kind of head-dress worn by
professional fools or jesters, usually having a cockscomb hood with bells;
FOOL'S PARADISE, a state of happiness based on fictitious hopes or
expectations; FOOL WITH, to meddle with officiously; MAKE A FOOL OF, to
bring a person into ridicule: to disappoint; PLAY THE FOOL, to behave as a
fool: to sport. [O. Fr. _fol_ (Fr. _fou_), It. _folle_--L. _follis_, a
wind-bag.]

FOOL, f[=oo]l, _n._ crushed fruit scalded or stewed, mixed with cream and
sugar, as 'gooseberry fool.' [Prob. a use of preceding suggested by
_trifle_.]

FOOLSCAP, f[=oo]lz'kap, _n._ a long folio writing or printing paper,
varying in size (17×13½ in., 16¾×13½ in., &c.), so called from having
originally borne the water-mark of a fool's cap and bells.

FOOT, foot, _n._ that part of its body on which an animal stands or walks
(having in man 26 bones): the lower part or base: a measure=12 in.,
(_orig._) the length of a man's foot: foot-soldiers: a division of a line
of poetry:--_pl._ FEET.--_v.i._ to dance: to walk:--_pr.p._ foot'ing;
_pa.p._ foot'ed.--_ns._ FOOT'BALL, a large ball for kicking about in sport:
play with this ball; FOOT'-BATH, act of bathing the feet: a vessel for this
purpose; FOOT'-BOARD, a support for the foot in a carriage or elsewhere:
the foot-plate of a locomotive engine; FOOT'BOY, an attendant in livery;
FOOT'BREADTH, the breadth of a foot, an area of this size; FOOT'BRIDGE, a
narrow bridge for foot-passengers; FOOT'CLOTH (_Shak._), a sumpter-cloth
which reached to the feet of the horse.--_p.adj._ FOOT'ED, provided with a
foot or feet: (_Shak._) having gained a foothold, established.--_ns._
FOOT'FALL, a setting the foot on the ground: a footstep; FOOT'GEAR, shoes
and stockings.--_n.pl._ FOOT'GUARDS, guards that serve on foot, the élite
of the British infantry.--_ns._ FOOT'HILL, a minor elevation distinct from
the higher part of a mountain and separating it from the valley (usually in
_pl._); FOOT'HOLD, space on which to plant the feet: that which sustains
the feet; FOOT'ING, place for the foot to rest on: firm foundation:
position: settlement: tread: dance: plain cotton lace.--_adj._ FOOT'LESS,
having no feet.--_ns._ FOOT'-LICK'ER (_Shak._), a fawning, slavish
flatterer; FOOT'LIGHT, one of a row of lights in front of and on a level
with the stage in a theatre, &c.; FOOT'MAN, a servant or attendant in
livery: (_B._) a soldier who serves on foot: a runner:--_pl._ FOOT'MEN;
FOOT'MARK, FOOT'PRINT, the mark or print of a foot: a track; FOOT'NOTE, a
note of reference at the foot of a page; FOOT'PAD, a highwayman or robber
on foot, who frequents public paths or roads; FOOT'-PASS'ENGER, one who
travels on foot; FOOT'PATH, a narrow way which will not admit carriages;
FOOT'-PLATE, the platform on which the driver and stoker of a locomotive
engine stand; FOOT'-POST, a post or messenger that travels on foot;
FOOT'-POUND, the force needed to raise one pound weight the height of one
foot--the usual unit in measuring mechanical force; FOOT'-RACE, a race on
foot; FOOT'-ROPE, a rope stretching along under a ship's yard for the men
standing on when furling the sails: the rope to which the lower edge of a
sail is attached; FOOT'ROT, a name applied to certain inflammatory
affections about the feet of sheep; FOOT'RULE, a rule or measure a foot in
length; FOOT'-SOL'DIER, a soldier that serves on foot.--_adj._ FOOT'-SORE,
having sore or tender feet, as by much walking.--_ns._ FOOT'-STALK
(_bot._), the stalk or petiole of a leaf; FOOT'-STALL, a woman's stirrup;
FOOT'STEP, the step or impression of the foot: a track: trace of a course
pursued.--_n.pl._ FOOT'STEPS, course, example.--_ns._ FOOT'STOOL, a stool
for placing one's feet on when sitting: anything trodden upon;
FOOT'-WARM'ER, a contrivance for keeping the feet warm; FOOT'WAY, a path
for passengers on foot.--_p.adj._ FOOT'WORN, worn by many feet, as a stone:
foot-sore.--FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE (see MURRAIN).--FOOT IT, to walk: to
dance.--COVER THE FEET (_B._), a euphemism for, to ease nature.--PUT ONE'S
BEST FOOT FOREMOST, to appear at greatest advantage; PUT ONE'S FOOT IN IT,
to spoil anything by some indiscretion; SET ON FOOT, to originate. [A.S.
_fót_, pl. _fét_; Ger. _fuss_, L. _pes_, _pedis_, Gr. _pous_, _podos_,
Sans. _p[=a]d_.]

FOOTY, foot'i, _adj._ (_prov._) mean.--Also FOUGHT'Y. [Prob. an A.S.
_fúhtig_; cog. with Dut. _vochtig_.]

FOOZLE, f[=oo]z'l, _n._ (_coll._) a tedious fellow: a bungled stroke at
golf, &c.--_v.i._ to fool away one's time.--_n._ FOOZ'LER.--_p.adj._
FOOZ'LING. [Cf. Ger. prov. _fuseln_, to work slowly.]

FOP, fop, _n._ an affected dandy.--_ns._ FOP'LING, a vain affected person;
FOP'PERY, vanity in dress or manners: affectation: folly.--_adj._ FOP'PISH,
vain and showy in dress: affectedly refined in manners.--_adv._
FOP'PISHLY.--_n._ FOP'PISHNESS. [Cf. Ger. _foppen_, to hoax.]

FOR, for, _prep._ in the place of: for the sake of: on account of: in the
direction of: with respect to, by reason of: appropriate or adapted to, or
in reference to: beneficial to: in quest of: notwithstanding, in spite of:
in recompense of: during.--FOR ALL (_N.T._), notwithstanding; FOR IT, to be
done for the case, usually preceded by a negative; FOR TO (_B._), in order
to.--AS FOR, as far as concerns. [A.S. _for_; Ger. _für_, _vor_, akin to L.
and Gr. _pro_, Sans. _pra_, before in place or time.]

FOR, for, _conj._ the word by which a reason is introduced: because: on the
account that.--FOR BECAUSE and FOR THAT=because; FOR WHY=why.

FORAGE, for'aj, _n._ fodder, or food for horses and cattle: provisions: the
act of foraging.--_v.i._ to go about and forcibly carry off food for horses
and cattle, as soldiers.--_v.t._ to plunder.--_ns._ FOR'AGE-CAP, the
undress cap worn by infantry soldiers; FOR'AGER. [Fr. _fourrage_, O. Fr.
_feurre_, fodder, of Teut. origin.]

FORAMEN, fo-r[=a]'men, _n._ a small opening:--_pl._ FORAM'INA.--_adjs._
FORAM'INATED, FORAM'INOUS, pierced with small holes: porous.--_n.pl._
FORAMINIF'ERA, an order of _Rhizopoda_, furnished with a shell or test,
usually perforated by pores (_foramina_).--_n._ FORAMIN'IFER, one of
such.--_adjs._ FORAMINIF'ERAL, FORAMINIF'EROUS.--FOR[=A]MEN MAGNUM, the
great hole in the occipital bone for the passage of the medulla oblongata
and its membranes. [L.,--_for[=a]re_, to pierce.]

FORASMUCH, for'az-much, _conj._ because that.

FORAY, for'[=a], _n._ a sudden incursion into an enemy's country.--_v.t._
to ravage.--_n._ FOR'AYER. [Ety. obscure, but ult. identical with _forage_
(q.v.).]

FORBADE, for-bad', _pa.t._ of _forbid_.

FORBEAR, for-b[=a]r', _v.i._ to keep one's self in check: to
abstain.--_v.t._ to abstain from: to avoid voluntarily: to spare, to
withhold.--_n._ FORBEAR'ANCE, exercise of patience: command of temper:
clemency.--_adjs._ FORBEAR'ANT, FORBEAR'ING, long-suffering:
patient.--_adv._ FORBEAR'INGLY. [A.S. _forberan_, pa.t. _forbær_, pa.p.
_forboren_. See pfx. _for-_ and _bear_.]

FORBID, for-bid', _v.t._ to prohibit: to command not to do: (_Shak._) to
restrain.--_n._ FORBID'DANCE, prohibition: command or edict against a
thing.--_adj._ FORBID'DEN, prohibited: unlawful.--_adv._ FORBID'DENLY
(_Shak._), in a forbidden or unlawful manner.--_adj._ FORBID'DING,
repulsive: raising dislike: unpleasant.--_adv._ FORBID'DINGLY.--_n._
FORBID'DINGNESS.--FORBIDDEN, or PROHIBITED, DEGREES, degrees of
consanguinity within which marriage is not allowed; FORBIDDEN FRUIT, or
_Adam's apple_, a name fancifully given to the fruit of various species of
Citrus, esp. to one having tooth-marks on its rind. [A.S. _forbéodan_,
pa.t. _forbéad_, pa.p. _forboden_. See pfx. _for-_, and _bid_; cf. Ger.
_verbieten_.]

FORBORE, for-b[=o]r', _pa.t._ of _forbear_.--_pa.p._ FORBORNE'.

FORBY, for-b[=i]', _prep._ (_Spens._) near, past: (_Scot._) besides.

FORÇAT, for-sä', _n._ in France, a convict condemned to hard labour. [Fr.]

[Illustration]

FORCE, f[=o]rs, _n._ strength, power, energy: efficacy: validity:
influence: vehemence: violence: coercion or compulsion: military or naval
strength (often in _pl._): an armament: (_mech._) any cause which changes
the direction or speed of the motion of a portion of matter.--_v.t._ to
draw or push by main strength: to compel: to constrain: to compel by
strength of evidence: to take by violence: to ravish: (_hort._) to cause to
grow or ripen rapidly: to compel one's partner at whist to trump a trick by
leading a card of a suit of which he has none: to make a player play so as
to reveal the strength of his hand.--_v.i._ to strive: to hesitate.--_p._
and _adj._ FORCED, accomplished by great effort, as a forced march:
strained, excessive, unnatural.--_n._ FORC'EDNESS, the state of being
forced: distortion.--_adj._ FORCE'FUL, full of force or might: driven or
acting with power: impetuous.--_adv._ FORCE'FULLY.--_adj._ FORCE'LESS,
weak.--_ns._ FORCE'-PUMP, FORC'ING-PUMP, a pump which delivers the water
under pressure through a side-pipe; FORC'ER, the person or thing that
forces, esp. the piston of a force-pump.--_adj._ FORC'IBLE, active:
impetuous: done by force: efficacious: impressive.--_adj._ and _n._
FORC'IBLE-FEE'BLE, striving to look strong while really weak.--_n._
FORC'IBLENESS.--_adv._ FORC'IBLY.--_ns._ FORC'ING (_hort._), the art of
hastening the growth of plants; FORC'ING-HOUSE, a hothouse for forcing
plants; FORC'ING-PIT, a frame sunk in the ground over a hotbed for forcing
plants.--FORCE AND FEAR (_Scot._), that amount of constraint or compulsion
which is enough to annul an engagement or obligation entered into under its
influence; FORCE THE PACE, to keep the speed up to a high pitch by
emulation with one not competing for a place: to hasten unduly, or by any
expedient; FORCIBLE DETAINER, and ENTRY, detaining property or forcing an
entry into it by violence or intimidation. [Fr.,--Low L., _fortia_--L.
_fortis_, strong.]

FORCE, f[=o]rs, FOSS, fos, _n._ a waterfall. [Ice. _foss_, _fors_.]

FORCE, f[=o]rs, _v.t._ (_cook._) to stuff, as a fowl.--_n._ FORCE'MEAT,
meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, used as a stuffing or alone. [A
corr. of _farce_.]

FORCEPS, for'seps, _n._ a pair of tongs, pincers, or pliers for holding
anything difficult to be held with the hand.--_adj._ FOR'CIP[=A]TED, formed
and opening like a forceps.--_n._ FORCIP[=A]'TION, torture by pinching with
forceps. [L., from _formus_, hot, and _cap[)e]re_, to hold.]

FORD, f[=o]rd, _n._ a place where water may be crossed on foot: a stream
where it may be crossed.--_v.t._ to cross water on foot.--_adj._ FORD'ABLE.
[A.S. _ford_--_faran_, to go; Ger. _furt_--_fahren_, to go on foot; akin to
Gr. _poros_, and to Eng. _fare_, _ferry_, and _far_.]

FORDO, for-d[=oo]', _v.t._ (_arch._) to ruin: to overcome, to
exhaust:--_pr.p._ fordo'ing; _pa.t._ fordid'; _pa.p._ fordone'. [A.S.
_f[=o]rdón_; Ger. _verthun_, to consume.]

FORE, f[=o]r, _adj._ in front of: advanced in position: coming
first.--_adv._ at the front: in the first part: previously: (_golf_) a
warning cry to any person in the way of the ball to be played.--FORE AND
AFT, lengthwise of a ship.--AT THE FORE, displayed on the foremast (of a
flag); TO THE FORE, forthcoming: (_Scot._) in being, alive. [A.S. _fore_,
radically the same as _for_, prep.--to be distinguished from pfx. _for-_
(Ger. _ver-_ in _vergessen_, L. _per_).]

FORE-ADMONISH, f[=o]r-ad-mon'ish, _v.t._ to admonish beforehand.

FORE-ADVISE, f[=o]r-ad-v[=i]z', _v.t._ to advise beforehand.

FOREANENT, f[=o]r-a-nent', _prep._ (_Scot._), opposite to.

FOREARM, f[=o]r'ärm, _n._ the part of the arm between the elbow and the
wrist.

FOREARM, f[=o]r-ärm', _v.t._ to arm or prepare beforehand.

FOREBEAR, f[=o]r-b[=a]r', _n._ (_Scot._) an ancestor, esp. in _pl._

FOREBODE, f[=o]r-b[=o]d', _v.t._ to feel a secret sense of something
future, esp. of evil.--_ns._ FOREBODE'MENT, feeling of coming evil;
FOREBOD'ER; FOREBOD'ING, a boding or perception beforehand; apprehension of
coming evil.--_adv._ FOREBOD'INGLY.

FORE-BODY, f[=o]r'-bod'i, _n._ the part of a ship in front of the mainmast.

FORE-BRACE, f[=o]r'-br[=a]s, _n._ a rope attached to the fore yard-arm, for
changing the position of the foresail.

FORE-BY, f[=o]r-b[=i]' (_Spens._). Same as FORBY.

FORECABIN, f[=o]r-kab'in, _n._ a cabin in the forepart of the vessel.

FORECAST, f[=o]r-kast', _v.t._ to contrive or reckon beforehand: to
foresee: to predict.--_v.i._ to form schemes beforehand.--_ns._ FORE'CAST,
a previous contrivance: foresight: a prediction; FORECAST'ER.

FORECASTLE, f[=o]r'kas-l, FO'C'SLE, f[=o]k'sl, _n._ a short raised deck at
the fore-end of a vessel: the forepart of the ship under the maindeck, the
quarters of the crew.

FORECHOSEN, f[=o]r-ch[=o]z'n, _p.adj._ chosen beforehand.

FORE-CITED, f[=o]r-s[=i]t'ed, _p.adj._ quoted before or above.

FORECLOSE, f[=o]r-kl[=o]z', _v.t._ to preclude: to prevent: to stop.--_n._
FORECLOS'URE, a foreclosing: (_law_) the process by which a mortgager,
failing to repay the money lent on the security of an estate, is compelled
to forfeit his right to redeem the estate. [O. Fr. _forclos_, pa.p. of
_forclore_, to exclude--L. _foris_, outside, and _claud[)e]re_, _clausum_,
to shut.]

FOREDAMNED, f[=o]r-damd', _p.adj._ (_Spens._) utterly damned.

FOREDATE, f[=o]r-d[=a]t', _v.t._ to date before the true time.

FOREDAY, f[=o]r'd[=a], _n._ (_Scot._) forenoon.

FOREDECK, f[=o]r'dek, _n._ the forepart of a deck or ship.

FOREDOOM, f[=o]r-d[=oo]m', _v.t._ to doom beforehand.

FORE-END, f[=o]r'-end, _n._ the early or fore part of anything.

FOREFATHER, f[=o]r'fä-th[.e]r, _n._ an ancestor.

FOREFEEL, f[=o]r-f[=e]l', _v.t._ to feel beforehand.--_adv._
FOREFEEL'INGLY.--_adj._ FOREFELT'.

FOREFINGER, f[=o]r'fing-g[.e]r, _n._ the finger next the thumb.

FOREFOOT, f[=o]r'foot, _n._ one of the anterior feet of a quadruped.

FOREFRONT, f[=o]r'frunt, _n._ the front or foremost part.

FOREGLEAM, f[=o]r'gl[=e]m, _n._ a glimpse into the future.

FOREGO, f[=o]r-g[=o]', _v.t._ to go before, precede: chiefly used in its
_pr.p._ foreg[=o]'ing and _pa.p._ foregone'.--_ns._ FOREG[=O]'ER;
FOREG[=O]'ING.--_p.adj_. FOREGONE'.--_n._ FOREGONE'NESS.--FOREGONE
CONCLUSION, a conclusion come to before examination of the evidence.

FOREGO, f[=o]r-g[=o]', _v.t._ to give up: to forbear the use of.--Better
FORG[=O]'.

FOREGROUND, f[=o]r'grownd, _n._ the part of a picture nearest the
observer's eye, as opposed to the _background_ or _distance_.

FOREHAMMER, f[=o]r'häm-[.e]r, _n._ a sledge-hammer.

FOREHAND, f[=o]r'hand, _n._ the part of a horse which is in front of its
rider.--_adj._ done beforehand.--_adj._ FORE'HANDED, forehand, as of
payment for goods before delivery, or for services before rendered:
seasonable: (_U.S._) well off: formed in the foreparts.

FOREHEAD, f[=o]r'hed, _n._ the forepart of the head above the eyes, the
brow: confidence, audacity.

FORE-HORSE, f[=o]r'-hors, _n._ the foremost horse of a team.

FOREIGN, for'in, _adj._ belonging to another country: from abroad: alien:
not belonging to, unconnected: not appropriate.--_adj._ FOR'EIGN-BUILT,
built in a foreign country.--_ns._ FOR'EIGNER, a native of another country;
FOR'EIGNNESS, the quality of being foreign: want of relation to something:
remoteness. [O. Fr. _forain_--Low L. _foraneus_--L. _foras_, out of doors.]

FOREJUDGE, f[=o]r-juj', _v.t._ to judge before hearing the facts and
proof.--_n._ FOREJUDG'MENT.

FOREKING, f[=o]r'king, _n._ (_Tenn._) a preceding king.

FOREKNOW, f[=o]r-n[=o]', _v.t._ to know beforehand: to foresee.--_adj._
FOREKNOW'ING.--_adv._ FOREKNOW'INGLY.--_n._ FOREKNOWL'EDGE, knowledge of a
thing before it happens.--_adj._ FOREKNOWN'.

FOREL, for'el, _n._ a kind of parchment for covering books. [O. Fr.
_forrel_, a sheath, _forre_, _fuerre_.]

FORELAND, f[=o]r'land, _n._ a point of land running forward into the sea, a
headland.

FORELAY, f[=o]r-l[=a]', _v.t._ to contrive antecedently: to lay wait for in
ambush.

FORELEG, f[=o]r'leg, _n._ one of the front legs of a quadruped, chair, &c.

FORELIE, f[=o]r-l[=i], _v.t._ (_Spens._) to lie before.

FORELIFT, f[=o]r-lift', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to raise any anterior part.

FORELOCK, f[=o]r'lok, _n._ the lock of hair on the forehead.--TAKE TIME BY
THE FORELOCK, to seize the occasion promptly, so as to anticipate
opposition.

FOREMAN, f[=o]r'man, _n._ the first or chief man, one appointed to preside
over, or act as spokesman for, others: an overseer:--_pl._ FORE'MEN.

FOREMAST, f[=o]r'mast, _n._ the mast that is forward, or next the bow of a
ship.--_n._ FORE'MASTMAN, any sailor below the rank of petty officer.

FOREMEAN, f[=o]r-m[=e]n', _v.t._ to intend beforehand.--_pa.p._ FORE'MEANT.

FORE-MENTIONED, f[=o]r-men'shund, _adj._ mentioned before in a writing or
discourse.

FOREMOST, f[=o]r'm[=o]st, _adj._ first in place: most advanced: first in
rank or dignity. [A.S. _forma_, first, superl. of _fore_, and superl.
suffix _-st_. It is therefore a double superl.; the old and correct form
was _formest_, which was wrongly divided _for-mest_ instead of _form-est_,
and the final _-mest_ was mistaken for _-most_.]

FORENAME, f[=o]r'n[=a]m, _n._ the first or Christian name.

FORE-NAMED, f[=o]r'-n[=a]md, _adj._ mentioned before.

FORENENST, f[=o]r-nenst', _prep._ (_Scot._) opposite.

FORENIGHT, f[=o]r'n[=i]t, _n._ (_Scot._) the early part of the night before
bedtime, the evening.

FORENOON, f[=o]r'n[=oo]n, _n._ the part of the day before noon or
midday.--_adj._ pertaining to this part of the day.

FORENOTICE, f[=o]r-n[=o]'tis, _n._ notice of anything before it happens.

FORENSIC, fo-ren'sik, _adj._ belonging to courts of law, held by the Romans
in the forum: used in law pleading: appropriate to, or adapted to,
argument.--FORENSIC MEDICINE, medical jurisprudence, the application of
medical knowledge to the elucidation of doubtful questions in a court of
justice. [L. _forensis_--_forum_, market-place, akin to _fores_.]

FORE-ORDAIN, f[=o]r-or-d[=a]n', _v.t._ to arrange beforehand: to
predestinate.--_n._ FORE-ORDIN[=A]'TION.

FOREPART, f[=o]r'pärt, _n._ the part before the rest: the front: the
beginning: (_B._) the bow of a ship.

FOREPAST, f[=o]r'past, _p.adj._ (_Shak._) former.

FOREPAYMENT, f[=o]r'p[=a]-ment, _n._ payment beforehand.

FOREPEAK, f[=o]r'p[=e]k, _n._ the contracted part of a ship's hold, close
to the bow.

FOREPLAN, f[=o]r'plan, _v.t._ to plan beforehand.

FOREPOINT, f[=o]r'point, _v.t._ to foreshadow.

FORE-QUOTED, f[=o]r-kw[=o]t'ed, _p.adj._ quoted or cited before in the same
writing.

FORERAN, f[=o]r-ran', _pa.t._ of _forerun_.

FORE-RANK, f[=o]r'-rangk, _n._ the rank which is before all the others: the
front.

FOREREACH, f[=o]r'r[=e]ch, _v.i._ (_naut._) to glide ahead, esp. when going
in stays (with _on_).--_v.t._ to sail beyond.

FORE-READ, f[=o]r'-r[=e]d, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to signify by tokens: to
foretell:--_pa.p._ fore-read'.--_n._ FORE'-READ'ING.

FORE-RECITED, f[=o]r'-re-s[=i]t'ed, _p.adj._ (_Shak._) recited or named
before.

FORE-RENT, f[=o]r'-rent, _n._ (_Scot._) rent due before the first crop is
reaped.

FORERUN, f[=o]r-run', _v.t._ to run or come before: to precede.--_n._
FORERUN'NER, a runner or messenger sent before: a sign that something is to
follow.

FORESAID, f[=o]r'sed, _adj._ described or spoken of before.

FORESAIL, f[=o]r's[=a]l, _n._ a sail attached to the foreyard on the
foremast. See SHIP.

FORE-SAY, f[=o]r-s[=a]', _v.t._ to predict or foretell: (_Shak._) to
prognosticate.

FORESEE, f[=o]r-s[=e]', _v.t._ or _v.i._ to see or know
beforehand.--_p.adj._ FORESEE'ING.--_adv._ FORESEE'INGLY.

FORESHADOW, f[=o]r-shad'[=o], _v.t._ to shadow or typify beforehand.--_n._
FORESHAD'OWING.

FORESHIP, f[=o]r'ship, _n._ (_B._) the forepart of a ship.

FORESHORE, f[=o]r'sh[=o]r, _n._ the part immediately before the shore: the
sloping part of a shore included between the high and low water marks.

FORESHORTENING, f[=o]r-short'n-ing, _n._ a term in drawing signifying that
a figure or portion of a figure projecting towards the spectator is so
represented as to truly give the idea of such projection.--_v.t._
FORESHORT'EN.

FORESHOW, f[=o]r-sh[=o]', _v.t._ to show or represent beforehand: to
predict.--Also FORESHEW'.

FORESIDE, f[=o]r's[=i]d, _n._ the front side.

FORESIGHT, f[=o]r's[=i]t, _n._ act of foreseeing: wise forethought,
prudence: the sight on the muzzle of a gun: a forward reading of a
levelling staff.--_adjs._ FORE'SIGHTED, FORE'SIGHTFUL; FORE'SIGHTLESS.

FORESIGNIFY, f[=o]r-sig'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ to betoken beforehand: to
foreshow: to typify.

FORESKIN, f[=o]r'skin, _n._ the skin that covers the glans penis: the
prepuce.

FORESKIRT, f[=o]r'sk[.e]rt, _n._ (_Shak._) the loose part of a coat before.

FORESLACK. See FORSLACK.

FORESLOW, f[=o]r-sl[=o]', _v.i._ (_Shak._) to delay.--_v.t._ (_Spens._) to
hinder.--Better FORSLOW'.

FORESPEAK, f[=o]r-sp[=e]k', _v.t._ to predict: (_Shak._) to gainsay:
(_Scot._) to engage beforehand.

FORESPEND. Same as FORSPEND.

FORESPURRER, f[=o]r-spur'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) one who rides before.

FOREST, for'est, _n._ a large uncultivated tract of land covered with trees
and underwood: woody ground and rude pasture: a preserve for large game, as
a deer forest: a royal preserve for hunting, governed by a special code
called the FOREST LAW.--_adj._ pertaining to a forest: silvan:
rustic.--_v.t._ to cover with trees.--_n._ FOR'ESTAGE, an ancient service
paid by foresters to the king: the right of foresters.--_adjs._ FOR'ESTAL;
FOR'EST-BORN (_Shak._), born in a wild.--_ns._ FOR'ESTER, one who has
charge of a forest: an inhabitant of a forest; FOR'EST-FLY, a dipterous
insect sometimes called _Horse-fly_, from the annoyance it causes
horses.--_adj._ FOR'ESTINE.--_ns._ FOR'EST-MAR'BLE, a fissile limestone
belonging to the middle division of the Jurassic System, so called because
the typical beds are found in Wychwood _Forest_, Oxfordshire; FOR'EST-OAK,
the timber of the Australian beefwood trees; FOR'ESTRY, the art of
cultivating forests; FOR'EST-TREE, a timber-tree. [O. Fr. _forest_ (Fr.
_forêt_)--Low L. _forestis_ (_silva_), the outside wood, as opposed to the
_parcus_ (park) or walled-in wood--L. _foris_, out of doors.]

FORESTALL, f[=o]r-stawl', _v.t._ to buy up the whole stock of goods before
they are brought to market, so as to sell again at higher prices: to
anticipate.--_ns._ FORESTALL'ER, one who forestalls; FORESTALL'ING, the act
of buying provisions before they come to the market, in order to raise the
price: anticipation: prevention.

FORESTAY, f[=o]r'st[=a], _n._ a rope reaching from the foremast-head to the
bowsprit end to support the mast.

FORETASTE, f[=o]r-t[=a]st', _v.t._ to taste before possession: to
anticipate: to taste before another.--_n._ FORE'TASTE, a taste beforehand:
anticipation.

FORETEACH, f[=o]r-t[=e]ch', _v.t._ to teach beforehand.

FORETELL, f[=o]r-tel', _v.t._ to tell before: to prophesy.--_v.i._ to utter
prophecy.--_n._ FORETELL'ER.

FORETHINK, f[=o]r-thingk', _v.t._ to anticipate in the mind: to have
prescience of.--_n._ FORE'THOUGHT, thought or care for the future:
provident care.

FORETOKEN, f[=o]r't[=o]-kn, _n._ a token or sign beforehand.--_v.t._
FORET[=O]'KEN, to signify beforehand.

FORETOOTH, f[=o]r't[=oo]th, _n._ a tooth in the forepart of the
mouth:--_pl._ FORE'TEETH.

FORETOP, f[=o]r'top, _n._ (_naut._) the platform at the head of the
foremast: a lock of natural hair or in a wig, lying on the forehead, or
brushed up straight.--_n._ FORETOP'MAST, in a ship, the mast erected at the
head of the foremast, at the top of which is the FORE'TOP-GALL'ANT-MAST.

FOREVER, for-ev'[.e]r, _adv._ for ever, for all time to come: to
eternity.--_adv._ FOREV'ERMORE, for ever hereafter.

FOREVOUCHED, f[=o]r-vowcht', _p.adj._ (_Shak._) affirmed or told before.

FOREWARD, f[=o]r'wawrd, _n._ advance-guard: (_Shak._) the front.

FOREWARN, f[=o]r-wawrn', _v.t._ to warn beforehand: to give previous
notice.--_n._ FOREWARN'ING, warning beforehand.

FOREWEIGH, f[=o]r-w[=a]', _v.t._ to estimate beforehand.

FOREWIND, f[=o]r'wind, _n._ (_Shak._) a favourable wind.

FOREWOMAN, f[=o]r'woom-an, _n._ a woman who oversees the employees in any
shop or factory, a head-woman:--_pl._ FORE'WOMEN.

FOREWORD, f[=o]r'wurd, _n._ a preface.

FORFAIRN, f[=o]r-f[=a]rn', _adj._ (_Scot._) worn out: exhausted.

FORFEIT, for'fit, _v.t._ to lose the right to by some fault or
crime:--_pr.p._ for'feiting; _pa.p._ for'feited.--_n._ that which is
forfeited: a penalty for a crime, or breach of some condition: a fine:
something deposited and redeemable by a sportive fine or penalty, esp. in
_pl._, a game of this kind.--_adj._ forfeited.--_adj._ FOR'FEITABLE.--_ns._
FOR'FEITER (_Shak._), one who incurs punishment by forfeiting his bond;
FOR'FEITURE, act of forfeiting: state of being forfeited: the thing
forfeited. [O. Fr. _forfait_--Low L. _forisfactum_--L. _forisfac[)e]re_, to
transgress.]

FORFEND, for-fend', _v.t._ (_arch._) to ward off, avert.

FORFEX, f[=o]r'feks, _n._ a pair of scissors.

FORFOUGHTEN, for'fäh-ten, _adj._ (_Scot._) exhausted, as by fighting.

FORGAT, for-gat', old _pa.t._ of _forget_.

FORGATHER, for-ga_th_'er, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to meet, to take up company
with.

FORGAVE, for-g[=a]v', _pa.t._ of _forgive_.

FORGE, f[=o]rj, _n._ the workshop of a workman in iron, &c.: a furnace,
esp. one in which iron is heated: a smithy: a place where anything is
shaped or made.--_v.t._ to form by heating and hammering: to form: to make
falsely: to fabricate: to counterfeit or imitate for purposes of
fraud.--_v.i._ to commit forgery.--_ns._ FORGE'MAN; FORG'ER, one who forges
or makes one guilty of forgery; FORG'ERY, fraudulently making or altering
any writing: that which is forged or counterfeited.--_adj._ FORG'ETIVE
(_Shak._), that may forge or produce.--_n._ FORG'ING, a piece of metal
shaped by hammering: act of one who forges: a form of overreaching in which
the horse strikes the fore shoe with the toe of the hind one, clicking. [O.
Fr. _forge_--L. _fabrica_--_faber_, a workman.]

FORGE, f[=o]rj, _v.t._ to move steadily on (with _ahead_).

FORGET, for-get', _v.t._ to lose or put away from the memory: to
neglect:--_pr.p._ forget'ting; _pa.t._ forgot'; _pa.p._ forgot',
forgot'ten.--_adjs._ FORGET'ABLE, FORGET'TABLE; FORGET'FUL, apt to forget:
inattentive.--_adv._ FORGET'FULLY.--_ns._ FORGET'FULNESS; FORGET'-ME-NOT, a
small herb (_Myosotis palustris_) with beautiful blue flowers, regarded as
the emblem of friendship: a keepsake [a word adapted by Coleridge from the
German _Vergissmeinnicht_]; FORGET'TER, one who fails to bear in mind: a
heedless person.--_adv._ FORGET'TINGLY.--FORGET ONE'S SELF, to lose one's
self-control or dignity, to descend to words and deeds unworthy of one's
self. [A.S. _forgietan_--pfx. _for-_, away, _gitan_, to get.]

FORGIVE, for-giv', _v.t._ to pardon: to overlook an offence or debt:
(_Spens._) to give up.--_v.i._ to be merciful or forgiving.--_adj._
FORGIV'ABLE, capable of being forgiven.--_n._ FORGIVE'NESS, pardon:
remission: disposition to pardon.--_adj._ FORGIV'ING, ready to pardon:
merciful: compassionate. [A.S. _forgiefan_--pfx. _for-_, away, _giefan_, to
give; cf. Ger. _ver-geben_.]

FORGO. See FOREGO.

FORGOT, FORGOTTEN. See FORGET.

FORHAIL, for-h[=a]l', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to overtake.

FORHENT, for-hent', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to overtake.

FORHOW, for-how', _v.t._ (_Scot._) to desert or abandon. [A.S. _forhogian_,
pfx. _for-_, away, _hogian_, to care.]

FORISFAMILIATE, f[=o]-ris-fa-mil'i-[=a]t, _v.t._ to put a son in possession
of land which he accepts as his whole portion of his father's property,
said of a father.--_v.i._ to renounce one's title to a further share of the
paternal estate, said of a son:--_pr.p._ f[=o]risfamil'i[=a]ting; _pa.p._
f[=o]risfamil'i[=a]ted.--_n._ F[=O]RISFAMILI[=A]'TION. [Low L.
_forisfamili[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--L. _foris_, out of doors, _familia_, a
family.]

FORJESKIT, for-jes'kit, _adj._ (_Scot._) tired out.

FORK, fork, _n._ an instrument with two or more prongs at the end: one of
the points or divisions of anything fork-like: the bottom of a sump into
which the water of a mine drains--also FORCQUE: (_pl._) the branches into
which a road or river divides, also the point of separation.--_v.i._ to
divide into two branches: to shoot into blades, as corn.--_v.t._ to form as
a fork: to pitch with a fork: to bale a shaft dry.--_n._ FORK'-CHUCK, a
forked lathe-centre used in wood-turning.--_adjs._ FORKED, FORK'Y, shaped
like a fork.--_adv._ FORK'EDLY.--_ns._ FORK'EDNESS, FORK'INESS; FORK'ER;
FORK'HEAD, the forked end of a rod in a knuckle-joint or the like;
FORK'-TAIL, a fish with forked tail: the kite.--FORK OUT, OVER (_slang_),
to hand or pay over. [A.S. _forca_--L. _furca_.]

FORLORN, for-lorn', _adj._ quite lost: forsaken; wretched.--_v.t._ FORLORE'
(_Spens._).--_adv._ FORLORN'LY.--_n._ FORLORN'NESS. [A.S. _forloren_, pa.p.
of _forléòsan_, to lose--pfx. _for-_, away, and _léòsan_, to lose; Ger.
_verloren_, pa.p. of _verlieren_, to lose.]

FORLORN-HOPE, for-lorn'-h[=o]p, _n._ a body of soldiers selected for some
service of uncommon danger. [From the Dut. _verloren hoop_, the lost
troop.]

FORM, form, _n._ shape of a body: the boundary-line of an object: a model:
a mould: mode of being: mode of arrangement: order: regularity: system, as
of government: beauty or elegance: established practice: ceremony: fitness
or efficiency for any undertaking: a blank schedule to be filled in with
details: a specimen document to be copied or imitated: (_phil._) the
inherent nature of an object, that which the mind itself contributes as the
condition of knowing, that in which the essence of a thing consists:
(_print._) the type from which an impression is to be taken arranged and
secured in a chase--often FORME:--(_in the fol. senses pron._ f[=o]rm), a
long seat, a bench: the pupils on a form, a class: the bed of a hare, which
takes its shape from the animal's body.--_v.t._ to give form or shape to:
to make: to contrive: to settle, as an opinion: to combine: to go to make
up: to establish: (_gram._) to make by derivation.--_v.i._ to assume a
form.--_adj._ FORM'AL, according to form or established mode: ceremonious,
punctilious, methodical: having the form only: (_Shak._) embodied in a
form: having the power of making a thing what it is: essential:
proper.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ FORM'ALISE.--_ns._ FORM'ALISM, excessive
observance of form or conventional usage, esp. in religion: stiffness of
manner; FORM'ALIST, one having exaggerated regard to rules or established
usages; FORMAL'ITY, the precise observance of forms or ceremonies:
established order: sacrifice of substance to form.--_adv._ FORM'ALLY.--_n._
FORM[=A]'TION, a making or producing: structure: (_geol._) a group of
strata of one period.--_adj._ FORM'ATIVE, giving form, determining,
moulding: (_gram._) inflectional, serving to form, not radical.--_n._ a
derivative.--_p.adj._ FORMED, trained, mature.--_n._ FORM'ER.--_adj._
FORM'LESS, shapeless.--FORMAL LOGIC (see LOGIC).--GOOD, or BAD, FORM,
according to good social usage, or the opposite; TAKE FORM, to assume a
definite appearance. [O. Fr. _forme_--L. _forma_, shape.]

FORMALIN, for'ma-lin, _n._ a formic aldehyde used as an antiseptic,
germicide, or preservative in foods.

FORMAT, for'ma, _n._ of books, &c., the size, form, shape in which they are
issued. [Fr.]

FORMATE, form'[=a]t, _n._ a salt composed of formic acid and a base.--Also
FOR'MIATE.

FORMER, form'[.e]r, _adj._ (_comp._ of _fore_) before in time or order:
past: first mentioned.--_adv._ FORM'ERLY, in former times: heretofore.
[Formed late on analogy of M. E. _formest_ by adding comp. suff. _-er_ to
base of A.S. _forma_, first, itself a superlative form.]

FORMIC, for'mik, _adj._ pertaining to ants, as formic acid, originally
obtained from ants.--_adj._ FOR'MICANT, crawling like an ant: very small
and unequal, of a pulse.--_n._ FOR'MICARY, an ant-hill.--_adj._ FOR'MICATE,
resembling an ant.--_n._ FORMIC[=A]'TION, a sensation like that of ants
creeping on the skin. [L. _formic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to creep like an
ant--_formica_.]

FORMIDABLE, for'mi-da-bl, _adj._ causing fear: adapted to excite
fear.--_ns._ FORMIDABIL'ITY; FOR'MIDABLENESS.--_adv._ FOR'MIDABLY.
[Fr.,--L. _formidabilis_--_formido_, fear.]

FORMULA, form'[=u]-la, _n._ a prescribed form: a formal statement of
doctrines: (_math._) a general expression for solving problems: (_chem._) a
set of symbols expressing the components of a body:--_pl._ FORMULÆ
(form'[=u]-l[=e]), FORM'ULAS.--_adjs._ FORM'ULAR, FORMULARIS'TIC.--_ns._
FORMULARIS[=A]'TION, FORMUL[=A]'TION; FORM'ULARY, a formula: a book of
formulæ or precedents.--_adj._ prescribed: ritual.--_vs.t._ FORM'UL[=A]TE,
FORM'ULISE, to reduce to or express in a formula: to state or express in a
clear or definite form. [L., dim. of _forma_.]

FORNENT, for-nent', _adv._ and _prep._ (_Scot._) right opposite to.

FORNICATE, for'ni-k[=a]t, _adj._ arched: (_bot._) arching over.--_n._
FORNIC[=A]'TION. [L. _fornicatus_--_fornix_, an arch.]

FORNICATE, for'ni-k[=a]t, _v.i._ to commit lewdness: to have unlawful
sexual intercourse.--_ns._ FORNIC[=A]'TION, sexual intercourse between two
unmarried persons, or an unmarried and married person: (_B._) adultery, and
applied frequently by a figure to idolatry; FOR'NICATOR, an unmarried
person guilty of lewdness:--_fem._ FOR'NICATRESS. [L. _fornix_, an arch,
brothel.]

FORNIX, for'niks, _n._ something resembling an arch: an arched formation of
the brain. [L.]

FORPINE, for-p[=i]n', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to waste away.

FORPIT, for'pit, _n._ (_Scot._) the fourth part of some other measure, now
of a peck.--Also FOR'PET.

FORRIT, for'it, _adv._ (_Scot._) forward.

FORSAKE, for-s[=a]k', _v.t._ to desert: to abandon:--_pr.p._ fors[=a]k'ing;
_pa.t._ forsook'; _pa.p._ fors[=a]k'en.--_adj._ FORS[=A]K'EN.--_adv._
FORS[=A]K'ENLY.--_ns._ FORS[=A]K'ENNESS; FORS[=A]K'ING, abandonment. [A.S.
_forsacan_--_for-_, away, _sacan_, to strive.]

FORSAY, for-s[=a]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to forbid, to renounce. [A.S.
_forsecgan_--_for_, against, _secgan_, to say.]

FORSLACK, for-slak', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to relax, delay.

FORSLOW, for-sl[=o]', _v.t._ See FORESLOW.

FORSOOTH, for-s[=oo]th', _adv._ in truth: certainly.

FORSPEAK, for-sp[=e]k', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to forbid, to prohibit: (_Scot._)
to bewitch.

FORSPEND, for-spend', _v.t._ to spend completely:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._
forspent'.

FORSTALL, for-stawl', _v.t._ Same as FORESTALL.

FORSWAT, for-swat', _adj._ (_Spens._) exhausted with heat. [Pfx. _for-_,
inten., and _swat_, old _pa.t._ of sweat.]

FORSWEAR, for-sw[=a]r', _v.t._ to deny upon oath:--_pa.t._ forswore';
_pa.p._ forsworn'.--_n._ FORSWORN'NESS.--FORSWEAR ONE'S SELF, to swear
falsely.

FORSWINK, for-swingk', _v.t._ to exhaust by labour.--_p.adj._ FORSWONK'
(_Spens._), over-laboured. [Pfx. _for-_, inten., and obs. _swink_, labour.]

FORT, f[=o]rt, _n._ a small fortress: an outlying trading-station, as in
British North America.--_adj._ FORT'ED (_Shak._), guarded by forts.
[Fr.,--L. _fortis_, strong.]

FORTALICE, fort'al-is, _n._ a small outwork of a fortification. [Low L.
_fortalitia_--L. _fortis_.]

FORTE, f[=o]rt, _n._ that in which one excels.

FORTE, f[=o]r'te, _adj._ (_mus._) strongly, loud:--_superl._
FORTIS'SIMO.--_n._ a loud passage in music. [It.]

FORTH, f[=o]rth, _adv._ before or forward in place or order: in advance:
onward in time: (_Shak._) completely, outright: abroad: (_B._)
out.--_prep._ (_Shak._) out of, forth from.--_v.i._ FORTH'COME, to come
forth.--_adj._ FORTH'COMING, just coming forth: about to appear.--_ns._
FORTH'GOING, a going forth: a proceeding out; FORTH'-ISS'UING, coming
forth; FORTH'-PUT'TING, action of putting forth: (_U.S._)
forwardness.--_adj._ forward.--_adv._ FORTH'RIGHT, straightforward.--_n._
(_Shak._) a straight path.--_adj._ straightforward: honest.--_adv._
FORTHWITH', immediately.--AND SO FORTH, and so on, and more besides. [A.S.
_forth_--_fore_, before; Dut. _voort_, Ger. _fort_.]

FORTHINK, for-thingk', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to be sorry for.

FORTHY, for'thi, _adv._ (_Spens._) therefore. [A.S. _forthý_--_for_, and
_thý_, instrumental case of _thaet_, that.]

FORTIETH. See FORTY.

FORTIFY, for'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to strengthen against attack with forts, &c.:
to invigorate: to confirm:--_pa.p._ for'tif[=i]ed.--_adj._
FORTIF[=I]'ABLE.--_ns._ FORTIFIC[=A]'TION, the art of strengthening a
military position by means of defensive works: the work so constructed:
that which fortifies; FOR'TIFIER. [Fr. _fortifier_--Low L.
_fortific[=a]re_--_fortis_, strong, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

FORTILAGE, f[=o]r'ti-l[=a]j, _n._ (_Spens._) a fort. [_Fortalice_.]

FORTISSIMO. See FORTE.

FORTITION, for-tish'un, _n._ principle of trusting to chance. [L. _fors_,
chance.]

FORTITUDE, for'ti-t[=u]d, _n._ mental power of endurance: firmness in
meeting danger: (_obs._) strength, power of resistance or attack.--_adj._
FORTIT[=U]'DINOUS. [L. _fortitudo_--_fortis_.]

FORTLET, f[=o]rt'let, _n._ a little fort.

FORTNIGHT, fort'n[=i]t, _n._ two weeks or fourteen days.--_adj._ and _adv._
FORT'NIGHTLY, once a fortnight. [Contr. of _A.S._ _féowertýne niht_,
fourteen nights.]

FORTRESS, for'tres, _n._ a fortified place: a defence.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
guard. [O. Fr. _forteresse_, another form of _fortelesce_ (q.v. under
FORTALICE).]

FORTUITOUS, for-t[=u]'i-tus, _adj._ happening by chance.--_ns._
FORT[=U]'ITISM; FORT[=U]'ITIST.--_adv._ FORT[=U]'ITOUSLY.--_ns._
FORT[=U]'ITOUSNESS, FORT[=U]'ITY. [L. _fortuitus_.]

FORTUNE, for't[=u]n, _n._ whatever comes by lot or chance: luck: the
arbitrary ordering of events: the lot that falls to one in life: success:
wealth.--_v.i._ to befall.--_v.t._ to determine.--_adj._ FOR'TUN[=A]TE,
happening by good fortune: lucky: auspicious: felicitous.--_adv._
FOR'TUN[=A]TELY.--_ns._ FOR'TUN[=A]TENESS; FOR'TUNE-BOOK, a book helpful in
telling fortunes.--_adj._ FOR'TUNED, supplied by fortune.--_n._
FOR'TUNE-HUNT'ER, a man who hunts for marriage with a woman of
fortune.--_adj._ FOR'TUNELESS, without a fortune: luckless.--_v.i._
FOR'TUNE-TELL, to reveal futurity: to tell one his fortune.--_ns._
FOR'TUNE-TELL'ER, one who pretends to foretell one's fortune;
FOR'TUNE-TELL'ING.--_v.t._ FOR'TUN[=I]SE (_Spens._), to make fortunate or
happy. [Fr.,--L. _fortuna_.]

FORTY, for'ti, _adj._ and _n._ four times ten.--_adj._ FOR'TIETH.--_n._ a
fortieth part.--FORTY WINKS, a short nap, esp. after dinner.--THE FORTY,
the French Academy. [A.S. _féowertig_--_feower_, four, _tig_, ten.]

FORUM, f[=o]'rum, _n._ a market-place, esp. the market-place in Rome, where
public business was transacted and justice dispensed: the courts of law as
opposed to the Parliament. [L., akin to _foras_, out of doors.]

FORWANDER, for-won'd[.e]r, _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_Spens._) to wander till
wearied, to weary with wandering.

FORWARD, for'ward, _adj._ near or at the forepart: in advance of something
else: ready: too ready: presumptuous: officious: earnest: early
ripe.--_v.t._ to help on, to quicken: to send on.--_advs._ FOR'WARD,
FOR'WARDS, towards what is before or in front: onward:
progressively.--_ns._ FOR'WARDER; FOR'WARDING, the act of sending forward
merchandise, &c., for others.--_adv._ FOR'WARDLY.--_n._ FOR'WARDNESS. [A.S.
_foreweard_--_fore_, and _-weard_, sig. direction. _Forwards_--M. E.
_forwardes_--was orig. the gen. form (cf. Ger. _vorwärts_).]

FORWASTE, for-w[=a]st', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to lay waste utterly.

FORWEARY, for-w[=e]'ri, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to weary out.

FORWENT, for-went' (_Spens._), _pa.t_ of _forego_.

FORWORN, for-w[=o]rn', _adj._ (_Spens._) much worn.

FORZANDO. Same as SFORZANDO (q.v.).

FOSS, FOSSE, fos, _n._ (_fort._) a ditch or moat, either with or without
water, the excavation of which has contributed material for the walls of
the fort it protects: an abyss.--_adj._ FOSSED.--_n._ FOSS'WAY, an ancient
Roman road having a ditch on either side. [Fr. _fosse_--L.
_fossa_--_fod[)e]re_, _fossum_, to dig.]

FOSSA, fos'a, _n._ (_anat._) a pit or depression in a body, esp. that in an
animal integument forming a point of attachment for an organ.--_n._
FOSSETTE', a dimple or small depression. [L., a ditch.]

FOSSET-SELLER, fos'et-sel'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) one who sells faucets.
[_Fosset_, obs. form of _faucet_.]

FOSSICK, fos'ik, _v.i._ to be troublesome: to undermine another's diggings,
or work over waste-heaps for gold: to search about for any kind of
profit.--_ns._ FOSS'ICKER, a mining gleaner who works over old diggings,
and scratches about in the beds of creeks; FOSS'ICKING. [Ety. dub.]

FOSSIL, fos'il, _n._ the petrified remains of an animal or vegetable found
embedded in the strata of the earth's crust: anything antiquated.--_adj._
dug out of the earth: in the condition of a fossil: antiquated.--_adj._
FOSSILIF'EROUS, bearing or containing fossils.--_n._ FOSSILIFIC[=A]'TION,
the act of becoming fossil.--_vs.t._ FOSSIL'IFY, FOSS'IL[=I]SE, to convert
into a fossil.--_v.i._ to be changed into a stony or fossil state.--_ns._
FOSSILIS[=A]'TION, a changing into a fossil; FOSS'ILISM, the science of
fossils; FOSS'ILIST, one skilled in fossils; FOSSILOL'OGY, FOSSIL'OGY,
paleontology. [Fr. _fossile_--L. _fossilis_--_fod[)e]re_, to dig.]

FOSSORIAL, fo-s[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ digging, burrowing.--_n._ FOSS'OR, a
grave-digger. [L. _fossor_--_fod[)e]re_, to dig.]

FOSSULATE, fos'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ (_anat._) having one or more long narrow
grooves or depressions.

FOSTER, fos't[.e]r, _v.t._ to bring up or nurse: to encourage.--_ns._
FOS'TER[=A]GE, the act of fostering or nursing; FOS'TER-BROTH'ER, a male
child, fostered or brought up with another of different parents;
FOS'TER-CHILD, a child nursed or brought up by one who is not its parent;
FOS'TER-DAUGH'TER; FOS'TERER; FOS'TER-FA'THER, one who brings up a child in
place of its father; FOS'TERLING, a foster-child; FOS'TER-MOTH'ER, one who
suckles a child not her own; FOS'TER-NURSE (_Shak._), a nurse;
FOS'TER-PAR'ENT, one who rears a child in the place of its parent;
FOS'TER-SIS'TER, one brought up as a sister by the same parents, but not a
sister by birth; FOS'TER-SON, one brought up as a son, though not a son by
birth. [A.S. _fóstrian_, to nourish, _fóstor_, food.]

FOSTER, fos't[.e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a forester.

FOTHER, fo_th_'[.e]r, _v.t._ to stop or lessen a leak in a ship's bottom
whilst afloat by means of a heavy sail closely thrummed with yarn and
oakum. [Perh. from Dut. _voederen_ (mod. _voeren_) or Low Ger. _fodern_, to
line.]

FOTHER, fo_th_'[.e]r, _n._ a load, quantity: a definite weight--of lead,
19½ cwt. [A.S. _fóðer_; Ger. _fuder_.]

FOU, f[=oo], _adj._ (_Scot._) full: drunk.

FOU, f[=oo], _n._ (_Scot._) a bushel.

FOUD, fowd, _n._ a bailiff or magistrate in Orkney and Shetland.--_n._
FOUD'RIE, his jurisdiction. [Ice. _fógeti_; Ger. _vogt_; from L.
_vocatus_--_voc[=a]re_, to call.]

FOUDROYANT, f[=oo]-droi'ant, _adj._ quick like lightning. [Fr.
_foudroyer_--_foudre_, lightning.]

FOUET, f[=oo]'et, _n._ (_Scot._) the house-leek.--Also FOU'AT.

FOUGADE, foo-gäd', _n._ (_mil._) a small mine from six to twelve feet under
ground, charged either with powder or loaded shells, and sometimes loaded
with stones.--Also FOUGASSE'. [Fr.]

FOUGHT, fawt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._--FOUGHTEN (fawt'n), old _pa.p._ of
_fight_.

FOUL, fowl, _adj._ filthy: loathsome: obscene: impure: stormy: unfair:
running against: distressing, pernicious: choked up, entangled: (_Shak._)
homely, ugly.--_v.t._ to make foul: to soil: to effect a collision.--_v.i._
to come into collision:--_pr.p._ foul'ing; _pa.p._ fouled.--_n._ act of
fouling: any breach of the rules in games or contests.--_adj._ FOUL'-FACED
(_Shak._), having a hatefully ugly face.--_n._ FOUL'-FISH, fish during the
spawning season.--_adv._ FOUL'LY.--_adjs._ FOUL'-MOUTHED, FOUL'-SPOK'EN,
addicted to the use of foul or profane language.--_ns._ FOUL-MOUTHED'NESS;
FOUL'NESS; FOUL'-PLAY, unfair action in any game or contest, dishonest
dealing generally.--CLAIM A FOUL, to assert that the recognised rules have
been broken, and that a victory is therefore invalid; FALL FOUL OF, to come
against: to assault; MAKE FOUL WATER, used of a ship, to come into such
shallow water that the keel raises the mud. [A.S. _fúl_; Ger. _faul_, Goth.
_fûls_.]

FOULARD, f[=oo]l'ard, _n._ a soft untwilled silk fabric: a silk
handkerchief. [Fr.]

FOULDER, fowl'd[.e]r, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to flame, to gleam. [O. Fr.
_fouldre_--L. _fulgur_, lightning.]

FOULÉ, f[=oo]-l[=a]', _n._ a light woollen dress material with a glossy
surface. [Fr.]

FOUMART, f[=oo]'märt, _n._ an old name for the polecat, from its offensive
smell. [M. E. _fulmard_--A.S. _fúl_, foul, _mearð_, a marten.]

FOUND, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _find_.--_n._ FOUND'LING, a little child
found deserted.--FOUNDLING HOSPITAL, an institution where such are brought
up.

FOUND, fownd, _v.t._ to lay the bottom or foundation of: to establish on a
basis: to originate: to endow.--_v.i._ to rely.--_ns._ FOUND[=A]'TION, the
act of founding: the base of a building: the groundwork or basis: a
permanent fund for a benevolent purpose or for some special object;
FOUND[=A]'TIONER, one supported from the funds or foundation of an
institution; FOUND[=A]'TION-MUS'LIN, -NET, gummed fabrics used for
stiffening dresses and bonnets; FOUND[=A]TION-STONE, one of the stones
forming the foundation of a building, esp. a stone laid with public
ceremony; FOUND'ER, one who founds, establishes, or originates: an
endower:--_fem._ FOUND'RESS. [Fr. _fonder_--L. _fund[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to
found--_fundus_, the bottom.]

FOUND, fownd, _v.t._ to form by melting and pouring into a mould: to
cast.--_ns._ FOUND'ER, one who melts and casts metal, as a brassfounder;
FOUND'ING, metal-casting; FOUND'RY, FOUND'ERY, the art of founding or
casting: the house where founding is carried on. [Fr. _fondre_--L.
_fund[)e]re_, _fusum_, to pour.]

FOUNDER, fownd'[.e]r, _v.i._ to go to the bottom: to fill with water and
sink.--_v.t._ to cause to sink: to disable by injuring the feet (of a
horse).--_adj._ FOUND'EROUS, causing to founder. [O. Fr. _fondrer_, to fall
in, _fond_, bottom--L. _fundus_, bottom.]

FOUNT. See FONT (2).

FOUNTAIN, fownt'[=a]n, _n._ a spring of water, natural or artificial: the
structure for a jet of water: the source of anything: a reservoir for
holding oil, &c., in a lamp.--_ns._ FOUNT, a spring of water: a source;
FOUNT'AIN-HEAD, the head or source of a fountain: the beginning.--_adj._
FOUNT'AINLESS, wanting fountains or springs of water.--_n._ FOUNT'AIN-PEN,
a pen having a reservoir for holding ink.--_adj._ FOUNT'FUL, full of
springs. [Fr. _fontaine_--Low L. _font[=a]na_--L. _fons_, _fontis_, a
spring---_fund[)e]re_, to pour.]

FOUR, f[=o]r, _adj._ and _n._ two and two, a cardinal number.--_adjs._
FOUR'FOLD, folded four times: multiplied four times; FOUR'-FOOT'ED, having
four feet; FOUR'-HAND'ED, having four hands: of a game, played by four
people; FOUR'-INCHED (_Shak._), four inches broad.--_ns._ FOUR'-IN-HAND, a
vehicle drawn by four horses, driven by one person: a team of four horses
drawing a carriage--also _adj._; FOUR'PENNY, a small silver coin worth
fourpence formerly coined in England.--_adj._ worth fourpence.--_n._
FOUR'-POST'ER, a large bed with four posts on which to hang
curtains.--_adjs._ FOUR'SCORE, four times a score--80; FOUR'SOME, by fours:
anything in which four act together--also _n._; FOUR'SQUARE, having four
equal sides and angles: square.--_adjs._ and _ns._ FOUR'TEEN, four and ten;
FOUR'TEENTH, four or the fourth after the tenth.--_adj._ FOURTH, next after
the third.--_n._ one of four equal parts.--_adv._ FOURTH'LY.--_adj._
FOURTH'-RATE, of the fourth class or order.--_n._ FOUR'-WHEEL'ER, a
carriage or cab with four wheels.--GO ON ALL FOURS, to go on hands and
knees. [A.S. _féower_; Ger. _vier_, L. _quatuor_, Gr. _tessares_.]

FOURCHETTE, f[=oo]r-shet', _n._ a small forked instrument used for
supporting the tongue in the operation of cutting the frenum: a forked
piece between glove fingers, uniting the front and back parts. [Fr.]

FOURCROYA, f[=oo]r-kr[=o]'ya, _n._ a neotropical genus of _Amaryllidaceæ_,
nearly allied to Agave (q.v.), and yielding a similar fibre. [Named from A.
F. de _Fourcroy_, a French chemist (1755-1809).]

FOURGON, f[=oo]r-gong', _n._ a baggage-wagon. [Fr.]

FOURIERISM, f[=oo]'ri-[.e]r-izm, _n._ the socialistic system of F. M.
Charles _Fourier_ (1772-1837), based on the harmony educed by the free-play
of his twelve radical passions.

FOUTRE, f[=oo]'t[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a gross term of contempt, used
interjectionally.--Also FOU'TER. [O. Fr. _foutre_--L. _futuere_, to
lecher.]

FOUTH, footh, _n._ (_Scot._) abundance.--Also FOWTH.

FOVEA, f[=o]'v[=e]-a, _n._ (_anat._) a depression or pit.--_adjs._
F[=O]'VEAL; F[=O]'VEATE, pitted.--_n._ FOV[=E]'OLA, a small
depression--also FOV[=E]'OLE. [L.]

FOVILLA, f[=o]-vil'a, _n._ (_bot._) the contents of a pollen-grain.

FOWL, fowl, _n._ a bird: a bird of the barn-door or poultry kind, a cock or
hen: the flesh of fowl:--_pl._ FOWLS, FOWL.--_v.i._ to kill fowls by
shooting or snaring.--_ns._ FOWL'ER, a sportsman who takes wild-fowl;
FOWL'ING; FOWL'ING-NET, a net for catching birds; FOWL'ING-PIECE, a light
gun for small-shot, used in fowling. [A.S. _fugol_; Ger. _vogel_.]

FOX, foks, _n._ an animal of the family _Canidæ_, genus _Vulpes_, of
proverbial cunning:--_fem._ VIX'EN: any one notorious for cunning.--_ns._
FOX'-BAT, a flying-fox, a fruit-bat; FOX'-BRUSH, the tail of a fox;
FOX'-EARTH, a fox's burrow.--_adj._ FOXED, discoloured, spotted.--_ns._
FOX'-[=E]'VIL, alopecia; FOX'GLOVE, a plant with glove-like flowers, whose
leaves are used as a soothing medicine; FOX'HOUND, a hound used for chasing
foxes; FOX'-HUNT; FOX'-HUNT'ER; FOX'-HUNT'ING; FOX'INESS, decay: having a
harsh, sour taste: state of being spotted, as books; FOX'-SHARK, a large
shark of over 12 feet, occasionally seen off British coasts; FOX'SHIP
(_Shak._), the character of a fox, craftiness; FOX'-TAIL, a genus of
grasses, generally characterised by a bushy head; FOX'-TERR'IER, a kind of
terrier trained to unearth foxes; FOX'-TRAP, a trap for catching foxes;
FOX'-TROT, a pace with short steps, as in changing from trotting to
walking.--_adj._ FOX'Y, of foxes: cunning, suspicious, causing suspicion:
(_paint._) having too much of the reddish-brown or fox-colour.--FOX AND
GEESE, a game played with pieces on a board, where the object is for
certain pieces called the geese to surround or corner one called the fox.
[A.S. _fox_; Ger. _fuchs_.]

FOY, foi, _n._ (_Spens._) allegiance. [Fr. _foi_, faith.]

FOY, foi, _n._ (_prov._) a parting entertainment.

FOYER, fwo-y[=a]', _n._ in theatres, a public room opening on the lobby.
[Fr.,--L. _focus_, hearth.]

FOZY, f[=o]z'i, _adj._ (_Scot._) spongy.--_n._ FOZ'INESS, softness, want of
spirit. [Cf. Dut. _voos_, spongy.]

FRAB, frab, _v.t._ to worry.--_adj._ FRAB'BIT, peevish.

FRACAS, fra-kä', _n._ uproar: a noisy quarrel. [Fr.,--It.
_fracasso_--_fracassare_, to make an uproar.]

FRACTION, frak'shun, _n._ a fragment or very small piece: (_arith._) any
part of a unit: a technical term to indicate the breaking of the bread in
the sacrifice of the Eucharist.--_v.t._ FRACT (_Shak._), to break, to
violate.--_adjs._ FRACT'ED (_her._), having a part displaced, as if broken;
FRAC'TIONAL, belonging to or containing a fraction or fractions;
FRAC'TIONARY, fractional: unimportant.--_v.t._ FRAC'TIONATE, to separate
the elements of a mixture by distillation or otherwise.--_n._
FRACTION[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ FRAC'TIONISE, to break up into fractions.--_n._
FRAC'TIONLET, a small fraction.--_adj._ FRAC'TIOUS, ready to quarrel:
cross.--_adv._ FRAC'TIOUSLY.--_ns._ FRAC'TIOUSNESS; FRAC'TURE, the breaking
of any hard body: the breach or part broken: the breaking of a
bone.--_v.t._ to break through.--COMPOUND, COMMINUTED, COMPLICATED FRACTURE
(see the respective adjectives); GREENSTICK FRACTURE, a fracture where the
bone is partly broken, partly bent, occurring in the limbs of children;
SIMPLE FRACTURE, a fracture when the bone only is divided. [O. Fr.
_fraccion_--L. _fraction-em_--_frang[)e]re_, _fractum_, to break.]

FRAGARIA, fr[=a]-g[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of perennial plants with creeping
stolons, the fruit the strawberry. [L. _fragum_, the strawberry.]

FRAGILE, fraj'il, _adj._ easily broken: frail: delicate.--_n._ FRAGIL'ITY,
the state of being fragile. [Fr.,--L. _fragilis_, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

FRAGMENT, frag'ment, _n._ a piece broken off: an unfinished
portion.--_adj._ FRAG'MENTAL (also -ment').--_adv._ FRAG'MENTARILY.--_n._
FRAG'MENTARINESS.--_adjs._ FRAG'MENTARY, FRAG'MENTED, consisting of
fragments or pieces: broken. [Fr.,--L. _fragmentum_, _frang[)e]re_, to
break.]

FRAGOR, fr[=a]'gor, _n._ a crash. [L.]

FRAGRANT, fr[=a]'grant, _adj._ sweet-scented.--_ns._ FR[=A]'GRANCE,
FR[=A]'GRANCY, pleasantness of smell or perfume: sweet or grateful
influence.--_adv._ FR[=A]'GRANTLY.--_n._ FR[=A]'GRANTNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_fragrans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _fragr[=a]re_, to smell.]

FRAIL, fr[=a]l, _adj._ wanting in strength or firmness: weak:
unchaste.--_adj._ FRAIL'ISH, somewhat frail.--_adv._ FRAIL'LY.--_ns._
FRAIL'NESS, FRAIL'TY, weakness: infirmity. [O. Fr. _fraile_--L. _fragilis_,
fragile.]

FRAIL, fr[=a]l, _n._ a rush: a basket made of rushes. [O. Fr. _frayel_; of
dubious origin.]

FRAISE, fr[=a]z, _n._ (_fort._) a palisade of pointed stakes planted in the
rampart horizontally or in an inclined position: a tool used for enlarging
a drill-hole: a 16th-cent. ruff.--_v.t._ to fence with a fraise. [Fr.]

FRAISE, fr[=a]z, _n._ (_prov._) commotion.

FRAMBOESIA, fram-b[=e]'zi-a, _n._ the yaws (q.v.). [Fr. _framboise_, a
raspberry.]

FRAME, fr[=a]m, _v.t._ to form: to shape: to construct by fitting the parts
to each other: to plan, adjust, or adapt to an end: to contrive or devise:
to constitute: to put a frame or border round, as a picture: to put into a
frame: (_Spens._) to support.--_v.i._ (_dial._) to move: (_B._) to
contrive.--_n._ the form: a putting together of parts: a case made to
enclose or support anything: the skeleton of anything: state of mind: in
gardening, a movable structure used for the cultivation or the sheltering
of plants, as a 'forcing-frame,' 'cucumber-frame,' &c.: (_Shak._) the act
of devising.--_ns._ FRAME'-BRIDGE, a bridge constructed of pieces of timber
framed together; FRAME'-HOUSE, a house consisting of a skeleton of timber,
with boards or shingles laid on; FRAME'-MAK'ER, a maker of frames for
pictures; FRAM'ER, he who forms or constructs: one who makes frames for
pictures, &c.; FRAME'-SAW, a thin saw stretched in a frame for greater
rigidity; FRAME'WORK, the work that forms the frame: the skeleton or
outline of anything; FRAM'ING, the act of constructing: a frame or setting.
[A.S. _framian_, to be helpful, _fram_, forward.]

FRAMPOLD, fram'p[=o]ld, _adj._ (_Shak._) peevish, cross-grained:
quarrelsome.--Also FRAM'PEL. [Prob. _fram_, from, _poll_, head.]

FRANC, frangk, _n._ a French silver coin, forming since 1795 the unit of
the French monetary system, and now also used in Belgium, Switzerland,
equal to fully 9½d. sterling, the equivalent of the Italian _lira_, the
Greek _drachma_. [O. Fr. _franc_, from the legend _Francorum rex_ on the
first coins.]

FRANCHISE, fran'chiz, or -ch[=i]z, _n._ liberty: a privilege or exemption
belonging to a subject by prescription or conferred by grant: the right of
voting for a member of Parliament.--_v.t._ to enfranchise: to give one the
franchise.--_ns._ FRAN'CHISEMENT (_Spens._), freedom, release; FRAN'CHISER,
one who has the franchise. [O. Fr., from _franc_, free.]

FRANCISCAN, fran-sis'kan, _adj._ belonging to the order of mendicant friars
in the R.C. Church founded by St _Francis_ of Assisi (1182-1226).--_n._ a
monk of this order. [L. _Franciscus_, Francis.]

FRANCO-, frangk'[=o], French, in combinations as _Franco-German_,
_Franco-Russian_, &c.

FRANCOLIN, frang'k[=o]-lin, _n._ a genus of birds of the grouse family,
closely allied to partridges. [Fr.]

FRANC-TIREUR, frang-t[=e]-r[.e]r', _n._ a French sharp-shooter, one of an
armed band of French peasants and others prominent in the later stages of
the Franco-Prussian war. [Fr. _franc_, free, _tireur_, a shooter.]

FRANGIBLE, fran'ji-bl, _adj._ easily broken.--_n._ FRANGIBIL'ITY. [See
FRACTION.]

FRANGIPANE, fran'ji-p[=a]n, _n._ a kind of pastry-cake, filled with cream,
almonds, and sugar: a perfume from the flower of the red jasmine, or in
imitation of it.--Also FRAN'GIPANI. [Fr., from a personal name.]

FRANION, fran'yun, _n._ (_Spens._) a paramour: a boon-companion. [Origin
uncertain.]

FRANK, frangk, _adj._ free, open: (_obs._) liberal: open or candid in
expression: (_Spens._) unrestrained.--_v.t._ to send free of expense, as a
letter.--_n._ the signature of a person who had the right to frank a
letter.--_n._ FRANK'-FEE, a species of tenure in fee-simple, the opposite
of copyhold.--_adv._ FRANK'LY, candidly: (_obs._) gratuitously.--_ns._
FRANK'NESS; FRANK'-PLEDGE, a system of mutual suretyship by which the
members of a tithing were made responsible for one another;
FRANK'-TEN'EMENT, freehold. [O. Fr. _franc_--Low L. _francus_--Old High
Ger. _Franko_, one of the tribe called Franks, a free man.]

FRANK, frangk, _n._ one of the German tribes from _Franconia_ who conquered
Gaul in the 5th century, and founded France: the name given in the East to
a native of Western Europe.--_adj._ FRANK'ISH.

FRANK, frangk, _n._ (_Shak._) a pig-sty.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to shut up in a
sty, to cram, to fatten. [O. Fr. _franc_.]

FRANKALMOIGN, frangk'al-moin, _n._ (_Eng. law_) a form of land-tenure in
which no obligations were enforced except religious ones, as praying, &c.
[O. Fr. _franc_, free, _almoigne_, alms.]

FRANKENSTEIN, frangk'en-st[=i]n, _n._ any creation which brings anxiety or
disaster to its author--from the _Frankenstein_ in Mrs Shelley's romance so
named, who by his skill forms an animate creature like a man, only to his
own torment.

FRANKINCENSE, frangk'in-sens, _n._ a sweet-smelling vegetable resin from
Arabia, used in sacrifices. [O. Fr. _franc encens_, pure incense.]

FRANKLIN, frangk'lin, _n._ an old English freeholder, free from feudal
servitude to a subject-superior. [Low L. _francus_, frank.]

FRANTIC, fran'tik, _adj._ mad, furious: wild.--_advs._ FRAN'TICALLY,
FRAN'TICLY (_Shak._).--_adj._ FRAN'TIC-MAD, raving mad.--_n._ FRAN'TICNESS,
the state of being frantic. [O. Fr. _frenetique_--L. _phreneticus_--Gr.
_phren[=e]tikos_, mad, _phren[=i]tis_, inflammation of the
brain--_phr[=e]n_, the mind; see FRENZY.]

FRANZY, fran'zi, _adj._ (_prov._) cross: particular.

FRAP, frap, _v.t._ to strike: (_naut._) to secure by many turns of a
lashing. [Fr. _frapper_, to strike.]

FRAPPÉ, fra-p[=a], _adj._ iced, cooled. [Fr.]

FRATCH, frach, _n._ (_prov._) a quarrel or brawl.--_adjs._ FRATCH'ETY,
FRATCH'Y; FRATCH'ING. [Imit.]

FRATER, fr[=a]'ter, _n._ the refectory of a monastery. [O. Fr. _fraitur_
for _refreitor_.--Low L. _refect[=o]rium_.]

FRATERNAL, fra-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ belonging to a brother or brethren:
becoming brothers.--_ns._ FRATE (frä'te), a friar:--_pl._ FRÄ'TI;
FR[=A]'TER, a friar: comrade; FRATER'CULA, a genus of marine diving-birds,
the puffins or masked auks.--_adv._ FRATER'NALLY.--_n._ FRATERNIS[=A]'TION,
the associating as brethren.--_v.i._ FRAT'ERNISE, to associate as brothers:
to seek brotherly fellowship.--_ns._ FRAT'ERNISER; FRATER'NITY, the state
of being brethren: a society formed on a principle of brotherhood; FRAT'RY,
the common-room of a monastic establishment, the chapter-house--also
FRAT'ERY: a fraternity: a convent of friars. [Fr.,--Low L.
_fraternalis_--_frater_, a brother, Eng. _brother_, Gr. _phrat[=e]r_, a
clansman, Sans. _bhr[=a]ta_.]

FRATRICIDE, frat'ri-s[=i]d, _n._ one who kills his brother: the murder of a
brother.--_adj._ FRAT'RICIDAL. [Fr.,--L. _frater_, _fratris_, _cæd[)e]re_,
to kill.]

FRAU, frow, _n._ a married woman, a wife.--_n._ FRÄU'LEIN, a young lady,
miss--often in England for a German governess. [Ger.]

FRAUD, frawd, _n._ deceit: imposture: (_Milt._) a snare: a deceptive trick:
(_coll._) a cheat: a fraudulent production.--_adj._ FRAUD'FUL,
deceptive.--_adv._ FRAUD'FULLY.--_ns._ FRAUD'ULENCE, FRAUD'ULENCY.--_adj._
FRAUD'ULENT, using fraud: dishonest.--_adv._ FRAUD'ULENTLY.--FRAUDULENT
BANKRUPTCY, a bankruptcy in which the insolvent is accessory, by
concealment or otherwise, to the diminution of the funds divisible among
his creditors.--PIOUS FRAUD, a deception practised with a good end in view:
(_coll._) a religious humbug. [O. Fr.,--L. _fraus_, _fraudis_, fraud.]

FRAUGHT, frawt, _n._ a load, cargo: the freight of a ship.--_v.t._ to fill,
store.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to form the freight of a vessel.--_p.adj._
freighted, laden: filled.--_n._ FRAUGHT'AGE (_Shak._), loading, cargo.
[Prob. Old Dut. _vracht_. Cf. FREIGHT.]

FRAXINELLA, frak-si-nel'a, _n._ a common name for cultivated species of
dittany.--_n._ FRAX'INUS, the genus of _Oleaceæ_ containing the common ash.

FRAY, fr[=a], _n._ an affray, a brawl.--_v.t._ (_B._) to frighten. [Abbrev.
of _affray_.]

FRAY, fr[=a], _v.t._ to wear off by rubbing: to ravel out the edge of a
stuff.--_v.i._ to become frayed.--_n._ FRAY'ING, the action of the verb
fray: ravellings. [Fr. _frayer_--L. _fric[=a]re_, to rub.]

FRAZIL, fräz'il, _n._ anchor-ice. [Canadian Fr.; prob. Fr. _fraisil_,
cinders.]

FRAZZLE, fraz'l, _v.t._ (_U.S._) to fray, wear out.--_n._ state of being
worn out.

FREAK, fr[=e]k, _n._ a sudden caprice or fancy: sport: an abnormal
production of nature, a monstrosity.--_ns._ FREAK'INESS,
FREAK'ISHNESS.--_adjs._ FREAK'ISH, FREAK'FUL, apt to change the mind
suddenly: capricious.--_adv._ FREAK'ISHLY. [A late word; cf. A.S.
_frícian_, to dance.]

FREAK, fr[=e]k, _v.t._ to spot or streak: to variegate.--_n._ a streak of
colour.

FRECK, frek, _adj._ (_Scot._) prompt, eager.--Also FRACK.

FRECKLE, frek'l, _v.t._ to spot: to colour with spots.--_n._ a yellowish or
brownish-yellow spot on the skin, esp. of fair-haired persons: any small
spot.--_n._ FRECK'LING, a little spot.--_adjs._ FRECK'LY, FRECK'LED, full
of freckles. [Ice. _freknur_ (pl.), Dan. _fregne_.]

FREE, fr[=e], _adj._ not bound: at liberty: not under arbitrary government:
unimpeded: set at liberty: guiltless: frank: lavish: not attached: exempt
(with _from_): having a franchise (with _of_): gratuitous: bold, indecent:
idiomatic, as a translation.--_v.t._ to set at liberty: to deliver from
what confines: to rid (with _from_, of):--_pr.p._ free'ing; _pa.p._
freed.--_ns._ FREE'-AG'ENCY, state or power of acting freely, or without
necessity or constraint upon the will; FREE'-AG'ENT; FREE'-AND-EAS'Y, a
kind of public-house club where good fellows gather to smoke and sing;
FREE'-BENCH, a widow's right to dower out of her husband's lands, so long
as unmarried and chaste; FREE'-BOARD, the space between a vessel's line of
flotation and the upper side of the deck; FREE'BOOTER (Dut. _vrijbuiter_),
one who roves about freely in search of booty: a plunderer;
FREE'BOOTERY.--_adj._ FREE'BOOTING, acting the part of a freebooter:
robbing.--_n._ the practice of a freebooter: robbery, pillage.--_n._
FREE'BOOTY.--_adj._ FREE'BORN, born of free parents.--_ns._ FREE'-CIT'Y, a
city having independent government; FREE'-COST, freedom from charges;
FREED'MAN, a man who has been a slave, and has been freed or set free;
FREE'DOM, liberty: frankness: separation: privileges connected with a city:
improper familiarity: license; FREE'-FISH'ER, one who has a right to take
fish in certain waters.--_adjs._ FREE-FOOT'ED (_Shak._) not restrained in
movement; FREE'-HAND, applied to drawing by the unguided hand;
FREE'-HAND'ED, open-handed: liberal; FREE'-HEART'ED, open-hearted:
liberal.--_ns._ FREE'-HEART'EDNESS, liberality: frankness; FREE'HOLD, a
property held free of duty except to the king; FREE'HOLDER, one who
possesses a freehold; FREE'-L[=A]'BOUR, voluntary, not slave, labour;
FREE'-LANCE, one of certain roving companies of knights and men-at-arms,
who after the Crusades wandered about Europe, selling their services to any
one; FREE'-LIV'ER, one who freely indulges his appetite for eating and
drinking: a glutton; FREE'-LOVE, the claim to freedom in sexual relations,
unshackled by marriage or obligation to aliment.--_adv._ FREE'LY.--_ns._
FREE'MAN, a man who is free or enjoys liberty: one who holds a particular
franchise or privilege:--_pl._ FREE'MEN; FREE'M[=A]SON, one of a secret
society of so-called speculative masons, united in lodges for social
enjoyment and mutual assistance, and laying dubious claim to a connection
with the medieval organisations of free operative masons.--_adj._
FREEMASON'IC.--_n._ FREEM[=A]'SONRY, the institutions, practices, &c. of
Freemasons.--_adj._ FREE'-MIND'ED, with a mind free or unperplexed: without
a load of care.--_ns._ FREE'NESS; FREE'-PORT, a port where no duties are
levied on articles of commerce; FREE'-SCHOOL, a school where no tuition
fees are exacted; FREE'-SHOT (Ger. _Freischütz_), the name given to a
legendary hunter and marksman who gets a number of bullets (_Freikugeln_)
from the devil, six of which always hit the mark, while the seventh is at
the disposal of the devil himself.--_adjs._ FREE'-SOIL, in favour of free
territory, opposed to slavery; FREE'-SP[=O]K'EN, accustomed to speak
without reserve.--_ns._ FREE'-SP[=O]K'ENNESS; FREE'STONE, an easily
quarried stone composed of sand or grit.--_adj._ having a stone from which
the pulp easily separates, as a peach--opp. to _Clingstone_.--_adj._
FREE'-SWIM'MING, swimming freely, as an aquatic animal.--_ns._
FREE'THINKER, one who professes to be free from conventional authority in
religion: a rationalist; FREE'THINKING, FREE'-THOUGHT, the habit of mind of
a freethinker.--_adj._ FREE'-TONGUED, free-spoken.--_ns._ FREE'-TRADE, free
or unrestricted trade: free interchange of commodities without protective
duties; FREE'-TRAD'ER, one who practises or advocates this; FREE'-WILL,
freedom of the will from restraint: liberty of choice: power of
self-determination.--_adj._ spontaneous.--FREE-CELL FORMATION, the
formation of several cells from and in the protoplasm of the mother-cell;
FREE CHURCH, that branch of the Presbyterians in Scotland which left the
Established Church in the Disruption of 1843, finding spiritual
independence impossible within it: a church whose sittings are open to all:
(_pl._) a term often applied to the Nonconformist churches generally; FREE
LIST, the list of persons admitted without payment to a theatre, &c., or of
those to whom a book, &c., is sent; FREE ON BOARD (F.O.B.), a phrase
meaning that goods are to be delivered on the vessel or other conveyance
without charge.--FREE STATES, in America, before the Civil War of 1861-65,
those of the United States in which slavery did not exist, as opposed to
_Slave States_.--MAKE FREE WITH, to take undue liberties with. [A.S.
_freo_; Ger. _frei_, Ice. _frí_.]

FREEMARTIN, fr[=e]'mar-tin, _n._ a cow-calf born as a twin with a
bull-calf, usually barren.

FREEZE, fr[=e]z, _v.i._ to become ice or like a solid body.--_v.t._ to
harden into ice: to cause to shiver, as with terror:--_pr.p._ freez'ing;
_pa.t._ fr[=o]ze; _pa.p._ froz'en.--_adj._ FREEZ'ABLE.--_ns._
FREEZ'ING-MIX'TURE, a mixture, as of pounded ice and salt, producing cold
sufficient to freeze a liquid by the rapid absorption of heat;
FREEZ'ING-POINT, the temperature at which water freezes, marked 32° on the
Fahrenheit thermometer, and 0° on the centigrade. [A.S. _fréosan_, pa.p.
_froren_; Dut. _vreizen_, Ger. _frieren_, to freeze.]

FREIGHT, fr[=a]t, _n._ the lading or cargo, esp. of a ship; the charge for
transporting goods by water.--_v.t._ to load a ship.--_ns._ FREIGHT'AGE,
money paid for freight; FREIGHT'ER, one who freights a vessel. [Prob. Old
Dut. _vrecht_, a form of _vracht_.]

FREISCHÜTZ. See FREE-SHOT.

FREIT, fr[=e]t, _n._ (_Scot._) any superstitious belief in things as good
or bad omens--also FREET.--_adj._ FREIT'Y, FREET'Y, superstitious. [Scand.;
Ice. _frétt_, news.]

FREMD, fremd, _adj._ and _n._ (_Scot._) strange, a stranger--Spenser has
FRENNE, a stranger.--THE FREMD, the world of strangers. [M. E. _fremd_,
_fremed_--A.S. _fremde_; cf. Dut. _vreemd_, Ger. _fremd_.]

FREMESCENT, frem-es'ent, _adj._ raging, riotous.--_n._ FREMES'CENCE. [L.
_frem[)e]re_, to roar.]

FREMITUS, frem'i-tus, _n._ a palpable vibration, as of the walls of the
chest. [L.]

FRENCH, frensh, _adj._ belonging to _France_ or its people.--_n._ the
people or language of France.--_ns._ FRENCH'-BEAN, the common kidney bean,
eaten, pods and all, as a table vegetable; FRENCH'-BERR'Y, a small berry,
the fruit of certain species of buckthorn, used in dyeing yellow;
FRENCH'-CHALK, an indurated clay, extremely dense, and of a smooth glossy
surface and white colour; FRENCH'ERY, French fashions collectively;
FRENCH'-HORN, a musical wind-instrument somewhat resembling a bugle;
FRENCHIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ FRENCH'IFY, to make French or Frenchlike: to
infect with the manner of the French.--_ns._ FRENCH'INESS; FRENCH'MAN, a
native or naturalised inhabitant of France:--_fem._ FRENCH'WOMAN;
FRENCH'-POL'ISH, a varnish for furniture, consisting chiefly of shellac
dissolved in some spirit; FRENCH'-POL'ISHER; FRENCH'-POL'ISHING, the method
of coating furniture with French-polish.--_adj._ FRENCH'Y, with an
exaggerated French manner.--FRENCH MERINO, a fine twilled cloth of merino
wool; FRENCH POX (_obs._), syphilis; FRENCH ROOF, a modified
mansard-roof--really American; FRENCH WHITE, finely pulverised talc; FRENCH
WINDOW, a long window opening like a folding-door, and serving for exit and
entrance.--TAKE FRENCH LEAVE, to depart without notice or permission, to
disappear suspiciously.

FRENETIC, -AL, fre-net'ik, -al, _adj._ frenzied: mad: distracted.--Also
PHRENET'IC, -AL. [See FRANTIC.]

FRENUM, fr[=e]'num, _n._ a ligament restraining the motion of a part.--Also
FRÆ'NUM. [L., a bridle.]

FRENZY, fren'zi, _n._ a violent excitement: mania.--_v.t._ to render
frenzied.--_adjs._ FREN'ZIED, FREN'ZICAL, partaking of frenzy. [Through O.
Fr. and L.,--from Late Gr. _phren[=e]sis_=Gr. _phrenitis_, inflammation of
the brain--_phr[=e]n_, the mind.]

FREQUENT, fr[=e]'kwent, _adj._ coming or occurring often.--_ns._
FR[=E]'QUENCE (_Milt._), a crowd, an assembly; FR[=E]'QUENCY, repeated
occurrence of anything.--_v.t._ FREQUENT', to visit often.--_ns._
FR[=E]'QUENTAGE, habit of frequenting; FREQUENT[=A]'TION, the act of
visiting often.--_adj._ FREQUENT'ATIVE (_gram._), denoting the frequent
repetition of an action.--_n._ (_gram._) a verb expressing this
repetition.--_n._ FREQUENT'ER.--_adv._ FR[=E]'QUENTLY.--_n._
FR[=E]'QUENTNESS. [L. _frequens_, _frequentis_; cog. with _farc[=i]re_, to
stuff.]

FRESCADE, fres-k[=a]d', _n._ a cool walk. [Fr.,--It. _frescata_.]

FRESCO, fres'k[=o], _n._ a painting executed with colours, consisting
chiefly of natural earths, upon walls covered with damp freshly-laid
plaster.--_v.t._ to paint in fresco:--_pr.p._ fres'c[=o]ing; _pa.p._
fres'c[=o]ed.--_adj._ FRES'COED.--_ns._ FRES'COER; FRES'COING; FRES'COIST.
[It. _fresco_, fresh.]

FRESH, fresh, _adj._ in a state of activity and health: new and strong, not
stale or faded: recently produced or obtained: untried: having renewed
vigour: healthy, refreshing, invigorating: brisk: (_slang_) tipsy: not
salt.--_n._ (_Shak._) a small stream of fresh water: (_Scot._) a thaw, open
weather.--_adj._ FRESH'-BLOWN, newly blown, as a flower.--_v.t._ FRESH'EN,
to make fresh: to take the saltness from.--_v.i._ to grow fresh: to grow
brisk or strong.--_ns._ FRESH'ENER; FRESH'ET, a pool or stream of fresh
water: the sudden overflow of a river from rain or melted snow.--_adj._
FRESH'ISH.--_adv._ FRESH'LY.--_ns._ FRESH'MAN, one in the rudiments of
knowledge, esp. a university student in his first year--also FRESH'ER;
FRESH'MANSHIP, FRESH'ERDOM.--_adj._ FRESH'-NEW (_Shak._), unpractised,
wholly unacquainted; FRESH'WA'TER, of or pertaining to water not salt:
accustomed to sail only on fresh water--hence unskilled, raw. [A.S.
_fersc_; cf. Dut. _versch_, Ger. _frisch_.]

FRET, fret, _v.t._ to wear away by rubbing, to rub, chafe, ripple, disturb:
to eat into: to vex, to irritate.--_v.i._ to wear away: to vex one's self:
to be peevish:--_pr.p._ fret'ting; _pa.p._ fret'ted, (_B._) fret.--_n._
agitation of the surface of a liquid: irritation: the worn side of the
banks of a river.--_adj._ FRET'FUL, peevish.--_adv._ FRET'FULLY.--_n._
FRET'FULNESS.--_p.adj._ FRET'TING, vexing.--_n._ peevishness. [A.S.
_fretan_, to gnaw--pfx. _for-_, inten., and _etan_, to eat; Ger.
_fressen_.]

FRET, fret, _v.t._ to ornament with raised work: to variegate:--_pr.p._
fret'ting; _pa.p._ fret'ted. [O. Fr. _freter_.]

FRET, fret, _n._ a piece of interlaced ornamental work: (_archit._) an
ornament consisting of small fillets intersecting each other at right
angles: (_her._) bars crossed and interlaced.--_ns._ FRET'-SAW, a saw with
a narrow blade and fine teeth, used for fret-work, scroll-work, &c.;
FRETTE, a hoop for strengthening a cannon shrunk on its breach.--_adjs._
FRET'TED, FRET'TY, ornamented with frets.--_n._ FRET'-WORK, ornamental work
consisting of a combination of frets, perforated work. [O. Fr. _frete_,
trellis-work.]

FRET, fret, _n._ a short wire on the finger-board of a guitar or other
instrument.--_v.t._ to furnish with frets. [Prob. same as the above.]

FRIABLE, fr[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ apt to crumble: easily reduced to
powder.--_ns._ FR[=I]'ABLENESS, FRIABIL'ITY. [Fr.,--L.
_friabilis_--_fri[=a]re_, _fri[=a]tum_, to crumble.]

FRIAR, fr[=i]'ar, _n._ a member of one of the mendicant monastic orders in
the R.C. Church--the Franciscans (_Friars Minor_ or _Gray Friars_),
Dominicans (_Friars Major_, _Friars Preachers_, or _Black Friars_),
Carmelites (_White Friars_), and Augustinians (_Austin Friars_).--_adj._
FR[=I]'ARLY, like a friar.--_n._ FR[=I]'ARY, a monastery.--FRIARS' BALSAM
(see BENZOIN); FRIAR'S CAP, the wolf's-bane; FRIAR'S COWL, the wake-robin;
FRIAR'S LANTERN, the ignis-fatuus or Will-o'-the-wisp. [O. Fr. _frere_--L.
_frater_, a brother.]

FRIBBLE, frib'l, _v.i._ to trifle.--_n._ a trifler.--_ns._ FRIBB'LEDOM;
FRIBB'LEISM; FRIBB'LER.--_adj._ FRIBB'LISH, trifling. [Onomatopoeic; prob.
influenced by _frivol_.]

FRICANDEAU, frik-an-d[=o]', _n._ a thick slice of veal, &c., larded. [Fr.,
perh. from _friand_, dainty, nice, and perh. ult. conn. with _fricassee_.]

FRICASSEE, frik-as-s[=e]', _n._ a dish made of fowl, rabbit, &c. cut into
pieces and cooked in sauce.--_v.t._ to dress as a fricassee:--_pr.p._
fricassee'ing; _pa.p._ fricasseed'. [Fr. _fricassée_; origin unknown.]

FRICTION, frik'shun, _n._ the act of rubbing: (_statics_) a force acting in
the tangent plane of two bodies, when one slides or rolls upon another, and
always in a direction opposite to that in which the moving body tends:
difficulty, unpleasantness.--_adjs._ FRIC'ATIVE, produced by friction, used
of those consonants which are produced by the breath being forced through a
narrow opening; FRIC'TIONAL, relating to, moved by, or produced by
friction.--_n._ FRIC'TION-GEAR'ING, a method of imparting the motion of one
wheel or pulley to another by mere contact.--_adj._ FRIC'TIONLESS, having
no friction.--_n.pl._ FRIC'TION-WHEELS, wheels that lessen friction.
[Fr.,--L. _frictionem_--_fric[=a]re_, _frictum_, to rub.]

FRIDAY, fr[=i]'d[=a], _n._ the sixth day of the week.--BLACK FRIDAY, Good
Friday, from the black vestments of the clergy and altar in the Western
Church: any Friday marked by a great calamity; GOOD FRIDAY, the Friday
before Easter, kept in commemoration of the Crucifixion; HOLY FRIDAY,
Friday in an ember-week--also GOLDEN FRIDAY, sometimes put for Good Friday
itself. [A.S. _Frígedæg_, day of (the goddess) _Fríg_--Latinised
_Frigga_--wife of Odin.]

FRIDGE, frij, _v.t._ (_Sterne_) to rub or fray.

FRIED, fr[=i]d, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _fry_.

FRIEND, frend, _n._ one loving or attached to another: an intimate
acquaintance: a favourer: one of a society so called: (_Scot._) a
relative.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to befriend.--_adj._ FRIEND'ED, supplied with
friends.--_n._ FRIEND'ING (_Shak._), friendliness.--_adj._ FRIEND'LESS,
without friends: destitute.--_n._ FRIEND'LESSNESS.--_adv._
FRIEND'LILY.--_n._ FRIEND'LINESS.--_adj._ FRIEND'LY, like a friend: having
the disposition of a friend: favourable: pertaining to the Friends or
Quakers.--_n._ FRIEND'SHIP, attachment from mutual esteem: friendly
assistance.--FRIENDLY SOCIETIES, or _Benefit societies_, associations,
chiefly among mechanics, &c., for relief during sickness, old age,
widowhood, by provident insurance.--BE FRIENDS WITH, to be on intimate or
friendly relations with; HAVE A FRIEND AT COURT, to have a friend in a
position where his influence is likely to prove useful; SOCIETY OF FRIENDS,
the designation proper of a sect of Christians better known as Quakers.
[A.S. _fréond_, pr.p. of _fréon_, to love; Ger. _freund_.]

FRIER, fr[=i]'[.e]r, _n._ (_Milt._) a friar.

FRIEZE, fr[=e]z, _n._ a coarse woollen cloth with a nap on one
side.--_adj._ FRIEZED, napped. [Fr. _frise_.]

FRIEZE, fr[=e]z, _n._ (_archit._) the part of the entablature between the
architrave and cornice, often ornamented with figures.--_v.t._ to put a
frieze on. [O. Fr. _frize_; It. _fregio_; perh. L. _Phrygium_, Phrygian.]

FRIGATE, frig'[=a]t, _n._ in the Royal Navy, formerly a vessel in the class
next to ships of the line, carrying 28 to 60 guns on the maindeck and a
raised quarter-deck and forecastle--not now denoting a distinct class of
vessels.--_ns._ FRIG'ATE-BIRD, a large tropical sea-bird, with very long
wings; FRIGATOON', a small Venetian vessel with square stern and two masts.
[O. Fr. _fregate_--It. _fregata_; ety. dub.]

FRIGHT, fr[=i]t, _n._ sudden fear: terror: anything inspiring terror or
alarm, a figure of grotesque or ridiculous appearance.--_vs.t._ FRIGHT,
FRIGHT'EN, to make afraid: to alarm.--_adjs._ FRIGHT'ABLE, FRIGHT'ENABLE,
timid; FRIGHT'FUL, terrible: shocking.--_adv._ FRIGHT'FULLY.--_n._
FRIGHT'FULNESS.--_adj._ FRIGHT'SOME, frightful: feeling fright. [A.S.
_fyrhto_; cf. Ger. _furcht_, fear.]

FRIGID, frij'id, _adj._ frozen or stiffened with cold: cold: without spirit
or feeling: unanimated.--_n._ FRIGID'ITY, coldness: coldness of affection:
want of animation.--_adv._ FRIG'IDLY.--_n._ FRIG'IDNESS.--_adj._
FRIGORIF'IC, causing cold.--FRIGID ZONES, the parts of the earth's surface
within the circle drawn with the poles as centre, and a radius of 23½
degrees. [L. _frigidus_--_frig[=e]re_, to be cold--_frigus_, cold.]

FRIGOT, frig'ot, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as FRIGATE.

FRIJOLE, fr[=e]-h[=o]l', _n._ the common Mexican bean. [Sp.]

FRILL, fril, _v.i._ to ruffle, as a hawk its feathers, when
shivering.--_v.t._ to furnish with a frill.--_n._ a ruffle: a ruffled or
crimped edging of linen.--_ns._ FRILLED'-LIZ'ARD, a lizard with an
extraordinary frilled membrane attached to the hinder part of the head,
neck, and chest, and covering its shoulders; FRILL'ING, frilled edging.
[Usually conn. with O. Fr. _friller_, to shiver; but prob. related to
_furl_.]

FRIMAIRE, fr[=e]-m[=a]r', _n._ the third month of the French revolutionary
calendar, Nov. 21-Dec. 20. [Fr. _frimas_, frost.]

FRINGE, frinj, _n._ loose threads forming an ornamental border: anything
like a fringe, even a girl's hair cut in front and falling over the brow:
the extremity.--_v.t._ to adorn with fringe: to border.--_adjs._ FRINGED;
FRINGE'LESS; FRING'ENT, fringing.--_n._ FRINGE'-TREE, in the United States,
a large shrub with very numerous snow-white flowers in panicled
racemes.--_adj._ FRING'Y, ornamented with fringes. [O. Fr. _frenge_--L.
_fimbria_, threads, fibres, akin to _fibra_, a fibre.]

FRINGILLACEOUS, frin-ji-l[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ pertaining to the finches or
_Fringillidæ_.--Also FRINGIL'LIFORM, FRINGIL'LINE. [L. _fringilla_.]

FRIPPERY, frip'[.e]r-i, _n._ worn-out clothes: the place where old clothes
are sold: useless trifles.--_adj._ useless: trifling.--_n._ FRIPP'ER, one
who deals in old clothes. [O. Fr. _freperie_, _frepe_, a rag.]

FRISETTE. See FRIZZLE.

FRISEUR, fris-[.e]r', _n._ a hair-dresser.--_n._ FRIS'URE, mode of curling
the hair. [Fr. _friser_, to curl.]

FRISIAN, friz'i-an, _adj._ and _n._ pertaining to the people of
_Friesland_, or to their language.--Also FRIES'IAN, FRIES'IC, FRIES'ISH.

FRISK, frisk, _v.i._ to gambol: to leap playfully.--_n._ a frolic.--_n._
FRISK'ER.--_adj._ FRISK'FUL, brisk, lively.--_adv._ FRISK'ILY.--_n._
FRISK'INESS.--_adj._ FRISK'ING.--_adv._ FRISK'INGLY.--_adj._ FRISK'Y,
lively: jumping with gaiety: frolicsome. [O. Fr. _frisque_; acc. to Skeat,
from Ice. _frískr_, Sw. and Dan. _frisk_.]

FRISKET, frisk'[.e]t, _n._ (_print._) the light frame between the tympan
and the form, to hold in place the sheet to be printed. [Fr. _frisquette_.]

FRIT, frit, _n._ the mixed materials of which glass is made, after being
heated until they fuse partially without melting.--_v.t._ to fuse partially
without melting:--_pr.p._ _frit'ting_; _pa.p._ frit'ted. [Fr. _fritte_--It.
_fritta_.--L. _frig[)e]re_, _frictum_, to roast.]

FRIT, frit, _n._ a small fly destructive to wheat.

FRITH, frith, FIRTH, f[.e]rth, _n._ a narrow inlet of the sea, esp. at a
river-mouth. [Ice. _fiörðr_; Norw. _fiord_.]

FRITH, frith, _n._ peace.--_ns._ FRITH'BORG (_A.S. law_), one of the
tithings or groups of ten men into which the hundred was divided, the
members of each being accountable for a fellow-member's misdeeds;
FRITH'GILD, a union of neighbours pledged to one another for the
preservation of peace; FRITH'SOKEN, the jurisdiction to punish for breaches
of the peace; FRITH'STOOL, a chair of sanctuary, placed near the altar in a
church--as at Hexham and Beverley. [A.S. _frith_, peace; Ger. _friede_.]

FRITH, frith, _n._ forest. [A.S. _(ge)fyrhðe_.]

FRITILLARY, frit'il-lar-i, _n._ a genus of plants of the order _Liliaceæ_,
with drooping purple flowers: a species of butterfly. [L. _fritillus_, a
dice-box.]

FRITTER, frit'[.e]r, _n._ a piece of meat fried: a kind of pancake, a slice
of some fruit sweetened, fried, and served hot: a fragment.--_v.t._ to
break into fragments.--_n._ FRITT'ERER, one who wastes time. [O. Fr.
_friture_--L. _frig[)e]re_, _frictum_, to fry.]

FRIVOLOUS, friv'ol-us, _adj._ trifling: silly.--_n._ FRIVOL'ITY, act or
habit of trifling: levity.--_adv._ FRIV'OLOUSLY.--_n._ FRIV'OLOUSNESS. [Fr.
_frivole_--L. _frivolus_.]

FRIZZ, FRIZ, friz, _v.t._ to curl: to render rough and tangled.--_n._ a
curl, a wig.--_adjs._ FRIZZED, having the hair curled or crisped into
frizzes; FRIZZ'Y. [O. Fr. _friser_, to curl; perh. conn. with _frieze_,
cloth.]

FRIZZLE, friz'l, _v.t._ to form in small short curls.--_v.i._ to go into
curls.--_n._ a curl.--_ns._ FRIZETTE', FRISETTE', a cluster of small curls
worn over the forehead.--_adj._ FRIZZ'LY. [Related to _frizz_ and
_frieze_.]

FRO, fr[=o], _adv._ from: back or backward.--_prep._ (_obs._) from. [A
shortened form of _from_; but perh. directly derived from Ice. _frá_,
from.]

FROCK, frok, _n._ a wide-sleeved garment worn by monks: a loose upper
garment worn by men: a sailor's jersey: a gown worn by females: an undress
regimental coat.--_v.t._ to furnish with a frock: to invest with priestly
office.--_n._ FROCK'-COAT, a double-breasted full-skirted coat for
men.--_adj._ FROCKED, clothed in a frock.--_n._ FROCK'ING, cloth suitable
for frocks, coarse jean.--_adj._ FROCK'LESS, wanting a frock. [O. Fr.
_froc_, a monk's frock--Low L. _frocus_--L. _floccus_, a flock of wool; or
more prob. (acc. to Brachet and Littré) from Low L. _hrocus_--Old High Ger.
_hroch_ (Ger. _rock_), a coat.]

FROG, frog, _n._ a genus of tailless amphibians, with webbed feet,
remarkable for its rapid swimming and leaping: a soft, horny substance in
the middle of the sole of a horse's foot, forking towards the heel: a
section of a rail or rails at a point where two lines cross, or of a switch
from one line to another.--_ns._ FROG'-BIT, a small aquatic plant, allied
to the water-soldier, but with floating leaves; FROG'-EAT'ER, one who eats
frogs, a Frenchman; FROG'-FISH, a name for various fishes, esp. the angler;
FROG'GERY, frogs collectively: a place where frogs abound.--_adj._ FROG'GY,
having or abounding in frogs.--_ns._ FROG'-HOP'PER, FROG'-SPIT (see
FROTH-FLY); FROG'LING, a little frog.--FROG MARCH, a method of carrying a
refractory or drunken prisoner face downwards between four men, each
holding a limb. [A.S. _frogga_, _frox_; cog. with Ice. _froskr_; Ger.
_frosch_.]

FROG, frog, _n._ an ornamental fastening or tasselled button for a frock or
cloak.--_adj._ FROGGED, in uniforms, of ornamental stripes or workings of
braid or lace, mostly on the breast of a coat.

FROISE, froiz, _n._ a kind of pancake or omelette, often with slices of
bacon.--Also _Fraise_. [Fr.]

FROLIC, frol'ik, _adj._ merry: pranky.--_n._ gaiety: a wild prank: a
merry-making.--_v.i._ to play wild pranks or merry tricks: to
gambol:--_pr.p._ frol'icking; _pa.p._ frol'icked.--_adj._ FROL'ICSOME, gay:
sportive.--_adv._ FROL'ICSOMELY.--_n._ FROL'ICSOMENESS. [Dut. _vrolijk_,
merry; cf. Ger. _fröhlich_, joyful, gay.]

FROM, from, _prep._ forth: out of, as from a source: away: at a distance:
springing out of: by reason of. [A.S. _fram_, _from_; akin to Goth. _fram_,
Ice. _frá_.]

FROND, frond, _n._ (_bot._) a leaf-like expansion in many cryptogamous
plants, organs in which the functions of stem and leaf are
combined.--_adjs._ FROND'ED, having fronds; FROND'ENT, leafy.--_n._
FRONDES'CENCE, act of putting forth leaves: the season for putting forth
leaves.--_adjs._ FRONDES'CENT, springing into leaf; FRONDIF'EROUS, bearing
or producing fronds; FRONDOSE', covered with fronds. [L. _frons_,
_frondis_, a leaf.]

FRONDE, frond, _n._ the name given to certain factions in France during the
minority of Louis XIV., hostile to the court and the minister
Mazarin.--_n._ FROND'EUR, a member of the Fronde: an irreconcilable. [Fr.,
a sling--L. _funda_.]

FRONT, frunt, _n._ the forehead: the whole face: the forepart of anything:
a kind of wig worn by ladies: the most conspicuous part: boldness:
impudence.--_adj._ of, relating to, or in the front.--_v.t._ to stand in
front of or opposite: to oppose face to face.--_v.i._ to stand in front or
foremost: to turn the front or face in any direction.--_n._ FRONT'AGE, the
front part of a building.--_adj._ FRONT'AL, of or belonging to the front or
forehead.--_n._ a front-piece: something worn on the forehead or face:
(_archit._) a pediment over a door or window: a hanging of silk, satin,
&c., embroidered for an altar--now usually covering only the top, the
_superfrontal_--formerly covering the whole of the front, corresponding to
the _antependium_.--_adjs._ FRONT'ATE, -D (_bot._), growing broader and
broader: (_zool._) having a prominent frons or forehead; FRONT'ED, formed
with a front; FRONT'LESS, void of shame or modesty.--_adv._
FRONT'LESSLY.--_n._ FRONT'LET, a band worn on the forehead.--_advs._
FRONT'WARD, -S, towards the front.--COME TO THE FRONT, to become
conspicuous: to attain an important position; IN FRONT OF, before. [O.
Fr.,--L. _frons_, _frontis_, the forehead.]

FRONTIER, front'[=e]r, _n._ the boundary of a territory: (_Shak._) an
outwork.--_adj._ lying on the frontier: bordering.--_v.t._ (_Spens._) to
place on the frontier.--_n._ FRONT'IERSMAN, one settled on the borders of a
country. [O. Fr. _frontier_--L. _frons_.]

FRONTISPIECE, front'i-sp[=e]s, _n._ (_archit._) the principal face of a
building: a figure or engraving in front of a book.--_v.t._ to put as a
frontispiece, to furnish with such. [Fr.,--Low L. _frontispicium_--frons,
forehead, _spec[)e]re_, to see; not conn. with _piece_.]

FRONTON, fron'ton, _n._ (_archit._) a pediment.--Also FRON'TOON. [Fr.]

FRORE, fr[=o]r, FROREN, fr[=o]'ren, _adj._ frozen, frosty.--_adj._
FR[=O]'RY (_Spens._), frozen. [A.S. _froren_, pa.p. of _fréosan_, to
freeze.]

FROST, frost, _n._ the state of the atmosphere in which water freezes:
state of being frozen: frozen dew, also called _hoar-frost_: (_slang_) a
disappointment, a cheat.--_v.t._ to cover with hoar-frost or with anything
resembling hoar-frost: to sharpen (the points of a horse's shoe) that it
may not slip on ice.--_n._ FROST'-BITE, the freezing or depression of
vitality in a part of the body by exposure to cold.--_v.t._ to affect with
frost.--_adjs._ FROST'-BIT'TEN, bitten or affected by frost; FROST'-BOUND,
bound or confined by frost; FROST'ED, covered by frost or any fine powder:
injured by frost.--_adv._ FROST'ILY.--_ns._ FROST'INESS; FROST'ING, the
composition, resembling hoar-frost, used to cover cake, &c.--_adj._
FROST'LESS, free from frost.--_n._ FROST'-NAIL, a projecting nail in a
horse-shoe serving as an ice-calk.--_v.t._ to put in such nails.--_ns._
FROST'-SMOKE, vapour frozen in the atmosphere, and having a smoke-like
appearance; FROST'-WORK, work resembling hoar-frost on shrubs, &c.--_adj._
FROST'Y, producing or containing frost: chill in affection: frost-like.
[A.S. _frost_, _forst_--_fréosan_; cf. Ger. _frost_.]

FROTH, froth, _n._ the foam on liquids caused by boiling, or any agitation:
(_fig._) an empty show in speech: any light matter.--_v.t._ to cause froth
on.--_v.i._ to throw up froth.--_ns._ FROTH'ERY, mere froth; FROTH'-FLY,
also FROTH'-HOP'PER, FROG'-HOP'PER, FROG'-SPIT, common names for numerous
insects parasitic on plants, on which the larvæ and pupæ are found
surrounded by a frothy spittle.--_adv._ FROTH'ILY.--_n._
FROTH'INESS.--_adjs._ FROTH'LESS, free from froth; FROTH'Y, full of froth
or foam: empty: unsubstantial. [Scand., as in Ice. _froða_, Dan. _fraade_.]

FROUNCE, frowns, _v.t._ to plait: to curl: to wrinkle up: to frown.--_n._ a
plait or curl.--_v.i._ (_obs._) to frown or wrinkle the brow. [O. Fr.
_froncier_. See FLOUNCE (2), of which it is an older form.]

FROW, frow, _n._ a Dutchwoman. [Dut. _vrouw_.]

FROWARD, fr[=o]'ward, _adj._ (_Spens._) turned from: self-willed: perverse:
unreasonable--opp. to _Toward_.--_adv._ FR[=O]'WARDLY.--_n._
FR[=O]'WARDNESS. [A.S. _fra_, away, with affix _-ward_.]

FROWN, frown, _v.i._ to wrinkle the brow as in anger: to look
angry.--_v.t._ to repel by a frown.--_n._ a wrinkling or contraction of the
brow in displeasure, &c.: a stern look.--_adj._ FROWN'ING, gloomy.--_adv._
FROWN'INGLY. [From O. Fr. _froignier_ (mod. _refrogner_), to knit the brow;
origin unknown.]

FROWY, frow'i, _adj._ (_Spens._) musty, rancid.

FROWZY, frow'zi, _adj._ rough and tangled.--Also FROW'SY. [Perh. conn. with
_frounce_.]

FROZEN, fr[=o]z'n, _pa.p._ of _freeze_.

FRUCTIDOR, fruk-ti-d[=o]r', _n._ the twelfth month in the French
revolutionary calendar, Aug. 18-Sept. 16. [Fr.,--L. _fructus_, fruit; Gr.
_d[=o]ron_, a gift.]

FRUCTIFY, fruk'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make fruitful: to fertilise.--_v.i._ to
bear fruit.--_adj._ FRUCT'ED (_her._), bearing fruit.--_n._ FRUCTES'CENCE,
the time for the ripening of fruit.--_adj._ FRUCTIF'EROUS, bearing
fruit.--_ns._ FRUCTIFIC[=A]'TION, act of fructifying, or producing fruit:
(_bot._) a term denoting sometimes the whole reproductive system, sometimes
the 'fruit' itself; FRUC'TOSE, fruit sugar or levulose; FRUC'TUARY, one
enjoying the fruits of anything.--_adj._ FRUC'TUOUS, full of fruit.
[Fr.,--L.,--_fructus_, fruit.]

FRUGAL, fr[=oo]'gal, _adj._ economical in the use of means: thrifty.--_ns._
FRU'GALIST, one who is frugal; FRUGAL'ITY, economy: thrift.--_adv._
FRU'GALLY. [L. _frugalis_--_frugi_, fit for food--_frux_, _frugis_, fruit.]

FRUGIFEROUS, fr[=oo]-jif'[.e]r-us, _adj._ fruit-bearing.--_adj._
FRUGIV'OROUS, feeding on fruits or seeds. [L. _frux_, _frugis_--_ferre_, to
carry, _vor[=a]re_, to eat.]

FRUIT, fr[=oo]t, _n._ the produce of the earth, which supplies the wants of
men and animals: the part of a plant which contains the seed: the offspring
of animals: product, consequence, effect, advantage--(_Spens._)
FRUICT.--_v.i._ to produce fruit.--_ns._ FRUIT'AGE, fruit collectively:
fruits; FRUIT'-BUD, a bud that produces fruit; FRUIT'-CAKE, a cake
containing raisins, &c.; FRUIT'ERER, one who deals in fruit:--_fem._
FRUIT'ERESS; FRUIT'ERY, a place for storing fruit: fruitage.--_adj._
FRUIT'FUL, producing fruit abundantly: productive.--_adv._
FRUIT'FULLY.--_ns._ FRUIT'FULNESS; FRUIT'ING, process of bearing fruit;
FRUIT'-KNIFE, a knife with a blade of silver, &c., for cutting
fruit.--_adj._ FRUIT'LESS, barren: without profit: useless.--_adv._
FRUIT'LESSLY.--_ns._ FRUIT'LESSNESS; FRUIT'-TREE, a tree yielding edible
fruit.--_adj._ FRUIT'Y, like, or tasting like, fruit.--SMALL FRUITS,
strawberries, currants, &c. [O. Fr. _fruit_, _fruict_--L.
_fructus_--_frui_, _fructus_, to enjoy.]

FRUITION, fr[=oo]-ish'un, _n._ enjoyment: use or possession of anything,
esp. accompanied with pleasure.--_adj._ FRU'ITIVE, of or pertaining to
fruition. [O. Fr. _fruition_--L. _frui_, to enjoy.]

FRUMENTATION, fr[=oo]-men-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a largess of grain bestowed on
the starving or turbulent people in ancient Rome.--_adjs._
FRUMENT[=A]'CEOUS, made of or resembling wheat or other grain;
FRUMENT[=A]'RIOUS, pertaining to corn. [L.
_frumentation-em_--_frument[=a]ri_, to provide with corn--_frumentum_,
corn.]

FRUMENTY, fr[=oo]'men-ti, _n._ food made of hulled wheat boiled in
milk.--Also FUR'METY. [O. Fr. _frumentee_, wheat boiled--_frument_--L.
_frumentum_.]

FRUMP, frump, _n._ a dowdy and cross-grained woman: (_obs._) a flout or
snub.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to snub.--_adjs._ FRUMP'ISH, FRUMP'Y, sour-tempered:
ill-dressed.

FRUMPLE, frum'pl, _v.t._ (_prov._) to wrinkle.

FRUSH, frush, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to break, bruise, or crush.--_adj._ broken
or crushed: brittle.--_n._ an onset, attack. [O. Fr. _froissier_, to
bruise--L. _frustum_, fragment.]

FRUSH, frush, _n._ (_prov._) the frog of a horse's foot: a disease in that
part of a horse's foot.

FRUSTRATE, frus'tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to make vain or of no effect: to bring to
nothing: to defeat.--_p.adj._ vain, ineffectual, defeated.--_adj._
FRUS'TRABLE, capable of being frustrated.--_n._ FRUSTR[=A]'TION,
disappointment: defeat.--_adjs._ FRUS'TRATIVE, tending to frustrate;
FRUS'TRATORY, disappointing. [L. _frustr[=a]ri_,
_frustr[=a]tus_--_frustra_, in vain.]

FRUSTULE, frus't[=u]l, _n._ the siliceous two-valved shell of a diatom,
with its contents.

FRUSTUM, frus'tum, _n._ a slice of a solid body: the part of a cone which
remains when the top is cut off by a plane parallel to the base. [L.
_frustum_, a bit.]

FRUTESCENT, fr[=oo]-tes'ent, _adj._ becoming shrubby; FRU'TEX, a
shrub.--_adjs._ FRU'TICOSE, FRU'TICOUS, shrub-like: shrubby; FRUTIC'ULOSE,
like a small shrub. [L. _frutesc[)e]re_--_frutex_, _fruticis_, a shrub.]

FRUTIFY, fr[=oo]'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Shak._)=FRUCTIFY.

FRY, fr[=i], _v.t._ to dress food with oil or fat in a pan over the fire:
to vex.--_v.i._ to undergo the action of heat in a frying-pan: to simmer:
(_Spens._) to boil:--_pr.p._ fry'ing; _pa.p._ fried.--_n._ a dish of
anything fried.--_n._ FRY'ING-PAN, a flat iron vessel or pan for frying
with.--OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN INTO THE FIRE, out of one evil or danger
merely to fall into a greater. [Fr. _frire_--L. _frig[)e]re_; cf. Gr.
_phrygein_.]

FRY, fr[=i], _n._ a swarm of fishes just spawned: a number of small
things.--SMALL FRY, small things collectively, persons or things of little
importance. [M. E. _fri_--Ice. _frió_; Dan. and Sw. _frö_.]

FUAR. Same as FEUAR.

FUB, fub, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to put off, to cheat: to steal.--_n._ FUB'BERY
(_obs._), deception.--FUB OFF, to put off or evade by a trick or a lie.
[See FOB.]

FUBBY, fub'i, FUBSY, fub'zi, _adj._ chubby. [Ety. dub.]

FUCHSIA, f[=u]'shi-a, a plant with long pendulous flowers, native to South
America. [Named after Leonard _Fuchs_, a German botanist, 1501-66.]

FUCUS, f[=u]'kus, _n._ a genus of seaweed containing the wrack and other
species: a dye: a disguise.--_adj._ FUCIV'OROUS, eating seaweed.--_n._
F[=U]'COID, fossil seaweed.--_adj._ containing fucoids.--_adj._
F[=U]'CUSED, painted. [L. _fucus_, seaweed.]

FUD, fud, _n._ (_Scot._) a hare's tail: the buttocks.

FUDDLE, fud'l, _v.t._ to stupefy with drink.--_v.i._ to drink to excess or
habitually:--_pr.p._ fudd'ling; _pa.p._ fudd'led.--_n._ intoxicating
drink.--_ns._ FUDD'LE-CAP, a hard drinker; FUDD'LER, a drunkard.--_adj._
FUDD'LING, tippling. [Cf. Dut. _vod_, soft, Ger. prov. _fuddeln_, to
swindle.]

FUDGE, fuj, _n._ stuff: nonsense: an exclamation of contempt.--_v.i._ and
_v.t._ to botch or bungle anything.--_adj._ FUD'GY, irritable: awkward.

FUEL, f[=u]'el, _n._ anything that feeds a fire, supplies energy,
&c.--_v.t._ (_arch._) to furnish with fuel.--_adj._ F[=U]'ELLED, furnished
with fuel.--_n._ F[=U]'ELLER, one who, or that which, supplies fuel for
fires. [O. Fr. _fowaille_--L. _focale_--L. _focus_, a fireplace.]

FUERO, fw[=a]'r[=o], _n._ the constitution of certain practically
autonomous states and communities in northern Spain and south-western
France--the Basque provinces, Navarre, Bearn, &c.: modes and tenures of
property, &c., nearly equivalent to the French customary law. [Sp.,--L.
_forum_.]

FUFF, fuf, _n._ (_Scot._) a puff: the spitting of a cat: a burst of
anger.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to puff.--_adj._ FUFF'Y, light and soft.

FUGACIOUS, f[=u]-g[=a]'shus, _adj._ apt to flee away: fleeting.--_ns._
FUG[=A]'CIOUSNESS, FUGAC'ITY. [L. _fugax_, _fugacis_, from _fug[)e]re_, to
flee.]

FUGITIVE, f[=u]j'i-tiv, _adj._ apt to flee away: uncertain: volatile:
perishable: temporary: occasional, written for some passing occasion.--_n._
one who flees or has fled from his station or country: one hard to be
caught.--_ns._ F[=U]'GIE (_Scot._), a cock that will not fight, a runaway;
F[=U]'GIE-WARR'ANT, a warrant to apprehend a debtor about to abscond, prob.
from the phrase _in meditatione fugæ_; FUGIT[=A]'TION (_Scots law_),
absconding from justice: outlawry.--_adv._ FUG'ITIVELY.--_n._
FUG'ITIVENESS. [Fr.,--L. _fugitivus_, _fug[)e]re_, to flee.]

FUGLEMAN, f[=u]'gl-man, _n._ a soldier who stands before a company at drill
as an example: a ringleader, mouthpiece of others.--_v.i._ F[=U]'GLE
(_Carlyle_), to act like a fugleman. [Ger. _flügelmann_, the leader of a
file--_flügel_, a wing, _mann_, man.]

FUGUE, f[=u]g, _n._ (_mus._) a form of composition in which the subject is
given out by one part and immediately taken up by a second, its _answer_,
during which the first part supplies an accompaniment or counter-subject,
and so on.--_n._ FUG'UIST, one who writes or plays fugues. [Fr.,--It.
_fuga_--L. _fuga_, flight.]

FULCRUM, ful'krum, _n._ (_mech._) the prop or fixed point on which a lever
moves: a prop:--_pl._ FUL'CRUMS, FUL'CRA.--_adj._ FUL'CRATE, supported with
fulcrums. [L. _fulcrum_, a prop, _fulc[=i]re_, to prop.]

FULFIL, fool-fil', _v.t._ to complete: to accomplish: to carry into
effect:--_pr.p._ fulfil'ling; _pa.p._ fulfilled'.--_ns._ FULFIL'LER;
FULFIL'LING, FULFIL'MENT, full performance: completion: accomplishment.
[A.S. _fullfyllan_--_full_, full, _fyllan_, to fill.]

FULGENT, ful'jent, _adj._ shining: bright.--_n._ FUL'GENCY.--_adv._
FUL'GENTLY.--_adj._ FUL'GID, flashing.--_ns._ FUL'GOR, FUL'GOUR,
splendour.--_adj._ FUL'GOROUS, flashing. [L. _fulgent_, pr.p. of
_fulg[=e]re_, to shine.]

FULGURATE, ful'g[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.i._ to flash as lightning.--_adjs._
FUL'GURAL, pertaining to lightning; FUL'GURANT, flashing like
lightning.--_ns._ FULGUR[=A]'TION, in assaying, the sudden and final
brightening of the fused globule; FUL'GUR[=I]TE, a tube of vitrified sand
frequent in loose sandhills--prob. due to lightning--_adj._ FUL'GUROUS,
resembling lightning.

FULHAM, ful'am, _n._ a die loaded at the corner.--Also FULL'AM, FULL'AN.
[Prob. the place-name _Fulham_.]

FULIGINOUS, f[=u]-lij'i-nus, _adj._ sooty: smoky.--_n._
FULIGINOS'ITY.--_adv._ FULIG'INOUSLY. [L., _fuligo_, soot.]

FULL, fool, _adj._ having all it can contain: having no empty space:
abundantly supplied or furnished: abounding: containing the whole matter:
complete: perfect: strong: clear: (_coll._) drunk: at poker, consisting of
three of a kind and a pair.--_n._ completest extent, as of the moon:
highest degree: the whole: time of full-moon.--_v.t._ to draw up or pucker
the cloth on one side more than on the other.--_adv._ quite: to the same
degree: with the whole effect: completely.--_adjs._ FULL'-[=A]'CORNED
(_Shak._), full-fed with acorns; FULL'-AGED, having reached one's
majority.--_n._ FULL'-BLOOD, an individual of pure blood.--_adjs._
FULL'-BLOOD'ED; FULL'-BLOOMED, in perfect bloom; FULL'-BLOWN, blown or
fully expanded, as a flower; FULL'-BOTT'OMED, having a full or large
bottom, as a wig.--_n._ FULL'-DRESS, the dress worn on occasions of state
or ceremony.--_adjs._ FULL'-EYED, with large prominent eyes; FULL'-FACED,
having a full or broad face; FULL'-FED, fed to plumpness; FULL'-FRAUGHT
(_Shak._), full-stored; FULL'-GROWN, grown to maturity; FULL'-HAND'ED,
bearing something valuable, as a gift; FULL'-HEART'ED, full of heart or
courage: elated; FULL'-HOT (_Shak._), heated to the utmost; FULL'-LENGTH,
extending the whole length (_n._ a portrait showing such); FULL-MANNED
(_Shak._), having a full crew.--_ns._ FULL'-MOON, the moon with its whole
disc illuminated, when opposite the sun; FULL'NESS, FUL'NESS, the state of
being filled so as to have no part vacant: the state of abounding in
anything: completeness: satiety: largeness: force and volume, as of sound:
(_Shak._) plenty, wealth.--_adjs._ FULL'-ORBED, having the orb or disc
fully illuminated, as the full-moon: round; FULL'-SAILED, unbounded,
absolute: moving onwards under full sail; FULL-SPLIT (_slang_), with all
one's might or speed; FULL'-SUMMED, complete in all its parts.--_n._
FULL'-SWING, the full extent or utmost limit.--_adj._ FULL'-WINGED
(_Shak._), having perfect or strong wings.--_adv._ FULL'Y, completely:
entirely.--FULL BACK (_football_), see BACK.--AT THE FULL, at the height,
as of one's good fortune, &c.; IN FULL, without reduction; IN THE FULLNESS
OF TIME, at the proper or destined time.--TO THE FULL, in full measure,
completely. [A.S. _full_; Goth. _fulls_, Ice. _fullr_, Ger. _voll_.]

FULL, fool, _v.t._ to press or pound cloth in a mill: to scour and thicken
in a mill.--_ns._ FULL'AGE, the charge for fulling cloth; FULL'ER, a
bleacher or cleanser of cloth; FULLER'S-EARTH, a soft earth or clay,
capable of absorbing grease, used in fulling or bleaching cloth;
FULLER'S-THISTLE, -WEED, the teasel; FULL'ERY, the place or works where
fulling of cloth is carried on; FULL'ING-MILL, a mill in which woollen
cloth is fulled. [O. Fr. _fuler_--Low L. _full[=a]re_--L. _fullo_, a
cloth-fuller.]

FULLER, fool'er, _n._ a half-round set-hammer.

FULMAR, ful'mar, _n._ a species of petrel inhabiting the Shetland Isles,
&c., valuable for its down, feathers, and oil. [Perh. Norse _fúll_, foul.]

FULMINATE, ful'min-[=a]t, _v.i._ to thunder or make a loud noise: to issue
decrees with violence, or with menaces of grave censure.--_v.t._ to cause
to explode: to send forth, as a denunciation--(_Milt._) FUL'MINE.--_n._ a
compound of fulminic acid with mercury, &c.--_adj._ FUL'MINANT,
fulminating: (_path._) developing suddenly.--_n._ a thunderbolt,
explosive.--_adj._ FUL'MINATING, crackling, exploding, detonating.--_n._
FULMIN[=A]'TION, act of fulminating, thundering, or issuing forth: a
chemical explosion: a denunciation.--_adjs._ FUL'MINATORY; FULMIN'EOUS,
FUL'MINOUS, pertaining to thunder and lightning; FULMIN'IC, pertaining to
an acid used in preparing explosive compounds. [L. _fulmin[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_fulmen_ (for _fulgimen_), lightning--_fulg[=e]re_, to shine.]

FULSOME, fool'sum, _adj._ cloying or causing surfeit: nauseous: offensive:
gross: disgustingly fawning.--_adj._ FUL'SOMELY.--_n._ FUL'SOMENESS. [A.S.
_full_, full, and affix _-some_.]

FULVOUS, ful'vus, _adj._ deep or dull yellow: tawny.--Also FUL'VID. [L.
_fulvus_, tawny.]

FUM, fum, _n._ a fabulous Chinese bird, one of the symbols of imperial
dignity.--Also FUNG.

FUMACIOUS, f[=u]-m[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ smoky: fond of smoking.

FUMADO, f[=u]-m[=a]'do, _n._ a smoked fish, esp. a pilchard. [Sp.,--L.
_fum[=a]re_, to smoke.]

FUMAGE, f[=u]m'[=a]j, _n._ hearth-money.

FUMAROLE, f[=u]m'a-r[=o]l, _n._ a smoke-hole in a volcano or sulphur-mine.
[Fr. _fumerole_--L. _fumus_, smoke.]

FUMBLE, fum'bl, _v.i._ to grope about awkwardly: to handle awkwardly: to
stammer in speech: to find by groping.--_v.t._ to manage awkwardly.--_n._
FUM'BLER.--_adv._ FUM'BLINGLY. [Dut. _fommelen_, to fumble; cf. Dan.
_famle_, Ice. _fâlma_, to grope about.]

FUME, f[=u]m, _n._ smoke or vapour: any volatile matter: heat of mind,
rage, a passionate person: anything unsubstantial, vain conceit.--_v.i._ to
smoke: to throw off vapour: to be in a rage: to offer incense to.--_n._
FUM'ATORY, a place for smoking or fumigation.--_adjs._ F[=U]'MID, smoky;
FUMIF'EROUS, producing fumes.--_n._ FUMOS'ITY, quality of being fumous:
(_pl._) the fumes arising from over eating or drinking.--_adjs._ FUM'OUS,
FUMOSE', FUM'Y, producing fumes. [O. Fr. _fum_--L. _fumus_, smoke.]

FUMET, f[=u]'met, _n._ the dung of deer, hares, &c. [O. Fr. _fumets_,
_fumer_--L. _fim[=a]re_, to dung.]

FUMETTE, f[=u]-met', _n._ the scent of game when high.--Also FUMET'. [Fr.]

FUMIGATE, f[=u]m'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to expose to smoke or gas, to expose to
fumes, as of sulphur, for purposes of disinfecting: to perfume.--_ns._
FUMIG[=A]'TION, act of fumigating or of applying purifying smoke, &c., to;
FUM'IGATOR, a brazier for burning disinfectants, &c.--_adj._ FUM'IGATORY.
[L. _fumig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

FUMITORY, f[=u]m'i-to-ri, _n._ a plant of a disagreeable smell.--_n._
FUM'ITER (_Shak._). [O. Fr. _fume-terre_, earth-smoke--L. _fumus_, smoke,
_terra_, earth.]

FUMMEL. Same as FUNNEL.

FUN, fun, _n._ merriment: sport.--BE GREAT FUN, to be very amusing; IN FUN,
in joke, not seriously; LIKE FUN (_coll._), in a rapid manner; NOT TO SEE
THE FUN OF, not to take as a joke. [Prob. a form of obs. _fon_, to befool.
Skeat refers to Ir. _fonn_, delight.]

FUNAMBULATE, f[=u]-nam'b[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to walk on a rope.--_ns._
FUNAMBUL[=A]'TION; FUNAM'BULATOR, FUNAM'BULUS, FUNAM'BULIST, a
rope-walker.--_adj._ FUNAM'BULATORY. [L. _funis_, a rope, _ambul[=a]re_, to
walk.]

FUNCTION, fungk'shun, _n._ the doing of a thing: duty peculiar to any
office: faculty, exercise of faculty: the peculiar office of any part of
the body or mind: power: a solemn service: (_math._) a quantity so
connected with another that any change in the one produces a corresponding
change in the other: the technical term in physiology for the vital
activity of organ, tissue, or cell.--_adj._ FUNC'TIONAL, pertaining to or
performed by functions--opp. to _Organic_ or _Structural_.--_vs.t._
FUNC'TIONALISE, FUNC'TIONATE.--_adv._ FUNC'TIONALLY.--_n._ FUNC'TIONARY,
one who discharges any duty: one who holds an office.--_adj._
FUNC'TIONLESS, having no function. [O. Fr.,--L. _function-em_--_fungi_,
_functus_, to perform.]

FUND, fund, _n._ a sum of money on which some enterprise is founded or
expense supported: a supply or source of money: a store laid up: supply:
(_pl._) permanent debts due by a government and paying interest.--_v.t._ to
form a debt into a stock charged with interest: to place money in a
fund.--_adj._ FUND'ABLE, capable of being converted into a fund or into
bonds.--_p.adj._ FUND'ED, invested in public funds: existing in the form of
bonds.--_n._ FUND'HOLD'ER, one who has money in the public funds.--_adj._
FUND'LESS, destitute of supplies or money. [Fr. _fond_--L. _fundus_, the
bottom.]

FUNDAMENTAL, fun-da-ment'al, _adj._ essential, basal, primary:
important.--_n._ that which serves as a groundwork: an essential.--_ns._
FUND'AMENT, the lower part or seat of the body; FUNDAMENTAL'ITY.--_adv._
FUNDAMENT'ALLY. [Fr.,--L. _fundamentum_, _fund[=a]re_, to found.]

FUNDUS, fun'dus, _n._ the bottom of anything: (_anat._) the rounded base of
a hollow organ. [L.]

FUNERAL, f[=u]'n[.e]r-al, _n._ burial: the ceremony, &c., connected with
burial.--_adj._ pertaining to or used at a burial.--_adjs._ FUN[=E]B'RIAL,
FUN[=E]B'RAL, FUN[=E]B'RIOUS; F[=U]'NERARY, FUN[=E]R'EAL, pertaining to or
suiting a funeral: dismal: mournful. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _funeralis_--L.
_funus_, _fun[)e]ris_, a funeral procession.]

FUNEST, f[=u]-nest', _adj._ causing or portending death, lamentable.
[Fr.,--L. _funestus_, destructive.]

FUNGIBLES, fun'ji-blz, _n.pl._ (_law_) movable effects which perish by
being used, and which are estimated by weight, number, and measure. [Low L.
_fungibilis_--L. _fungi_, to perform. See FUNCTION.]

FUNGUS, fung'gus, _n._ one of the lowest of the great groups of cellular
cryptogams, including mushrooms, toadstools, mould, &c.: proud-flesh formed
on wounds:--_pl._ FUNGI (fun'j[=i]), or FUNGUSES (fung'gus-ez).--_adjs._
FUNG'AL, FUNG[=A]'CEOUS, like a fungus; FUN'GIC ('jik), FUN'GIFORM, having
the form of a fungus; FUNGIV'OROUS, feeding on mushrooms; FUNG'OID,
resembling a mushroom.--_ns._ FUNGOL'OGIST, a student of fungi; FUNGOL'OGY,
the science of fungi; FUNGOS'ITY, quality of being fungous.--_adj._
FUNG'OUS, of or like fungus: soft: spongy: growing suddenly: ephemeral. [L.
_fungus_, a mushroom--Gr. _sphonggos_, _sponggos_, a sponge.]

FUNICLE, f[=u]'ni-kl, _n._ a small cord or ligature: a fibre.--_adj._
F[=U]NIC'[=U]LAR.--_n._ F[=U]NIC'[=U]LUS, the umbilical cord.--FUNICULAR
RAILWAY, a cable-railway, esp. one ascending a hill. [L. _funiculus_, dim.
of _funis_, a cord.]

FUNK, fungk, _n._ (_coll._) abject terror or fright.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to
shrink through fear: to shirk.--_adj._ FUNK'Y.

FUNK, fungk, _n._ touchwood: a spark. [Cf. Dut. _vonk_.]

FUNK, fungk, _v.t._ to stifle with smoke. [Ety. dub.]

FUNKIA, funk'i-a, _n._ a genus of _Liliaceæ_ allied to the day lilies,
native to China. [From the German botanist, H. C. _Funck_, 1771-1839.]

FUNNEL, fun'el, _n._ a tube or passage for the escape of smoke, &c.: an
instrument (smaller at one end than the other) for pouring fluids into
bottles, &c.--_adj._ FUNN'ELLED, provided with a funnel.--_n._ FUNN'EL-NET,
a net shaped like a funnel. [Prob. through Fr. from L.
_infundibulum_--_fund[)e]re_, to pour.]

FUNNEL, fun'el, _n._ (_prov._) the offspring of a stallion and a
she-ass.--Also FUMM'EL.

FUNNY, fun'i, _adj._ full of fun: droll: perplexing, odd.--_adv._
FUNN'ILY.--_ns._ FUNN'INESS, FUNN'IMENT.--FUNNY BONE, a popular name given
to what is really the comparatively unprotected ulnar nerve, which, when
struck by a blow, shoots a singular tingling sensation down the forearm to
the fingers; FUNNY MAN, the clown in a circus.

FUNNY, fun'i, _n._ a light clinker-built pleasure-boat, with a pair of
sculls.

FUR, fur, _n._ the short, fine hair of certain animals: their skins with
the fur prepared for garments: rabbits, hares, as opposed to partridges,
pheasants (feathers): (_Milt._) kind or class, from the idea of particular
furs being worn by way of distinction: a fur-like coating on the tongue,
the interior of boilers, &c.--_v.t._ to line with fur: to cover with morbid
fur-like matter:--_pr.p._ fur'ring; _pa.p._ furred.--_adj._ FURRED, made of
fur, provided with fur.--_ns._ FUR'RIER, a dealer in furs and fur goods;
FUR'RIERY, furs in general: trade in furs; FUR'RING, fur trimmings: a
coating on the tongue: strips of wood fastened on joists, &c., to make a
level surface or provide an air-space: strips of wood nailed on a wall to
carry lath.--_adj._ FUR'RY, consisting of, covered with, or dressed in fur.
[O. Fr. _forre_, _fuerre_, sheath.]

FURACIOUS, f[=u]-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ thievish.--_ns._ FUR[=A]'CIOUSNESS,
FURAC'ITY.

FURBELOW, fur'be-l[=o], _n._ the plaited border of a gown or petticoat, a
flounce. [Fr., It., and Sp. _falbala_; of unknown origin. The word
simulates an English form--_fur-below_.]

FURBISH, fur'bish, _v.t._ to purify or polish: to rub up until bright: to
renovate. [O. Fr. _fourbiss-_, _fourbir_, from Old High Ger. _furban_, to
purify.]

FURCATE, fur'k[=a]t, _adj._ forked: branching like the prongs of a
fork--also FUR'CATED.--_ns._ FURC[=A]'TION, a forking or branching out;
FUR'CIFER, a genus of South American deer with furcate antlers.--_adjs._
FURCIF'EROUS, of insects bearing a forked appendage; FUR'CIFORM,
fork-shaped.--_n._ FUR'C[=U]LA, the united pair of clavicles of a bird,
forming a single forked bone--the merry-thought.--_adj._ FUR'CULAR,
furcate: shaped like a fork. [L., from _furca_, a fork.]

FURFUR, fur'fur, _n._ dandruff, scurf--also FUR'FAIR.--_adj._
FURF[=U]R[=A]'CEOUS, branny: scaly--also FUR'F[=U]ROUS.--_n._
FURF[=U]R[=A]'TION, the falling of scurf. [L.]

FURFUROL, fur'fur-ol, _n._ a volatile oil obtained when wheat-bran, sugar,
or starch is acted on by dilute sulphuric acid. [L. _furfur_, bran.]

FURIOUS, f[=u]'ri-us, _adj._ full of fury: violent.--_adj._ F[=U]'RIBUND,
raging.--_ns._ FURIOS'ITY, madness; FURI[=O]'SO, a furious person.--_adv._
F[=U]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ F[=U]'RIOUSNESS. [O. Fr. _furieus_--L.
_furi[=o]sus_--_furia_, rage.]

FURL, furl, _v.t._ to draw or roll up, as a sail. [Contr. of obs. _furdle_,
from _fardel_.]

FURLONG, fur'long, _n._ 40 poles: one-eighth of a mile. [A.S.
_furlang_--_furh_, furrow, _lang_, long.]

FURLOUGH, fur'l[=o], _n._ leave of absence.--_v.t._ to grant leave of
absence. [Dut. _verlof_; cf. Ger. _verlaub_.]

FURMENTY. See FRUMENTY.

FURNACE, fur'n[=a]s, _n._ an oven or enclosed fireplace for melting ores
and other purposes: a time or place of grievous affliction or
torment.--_v.t._ to exhale like a furnace: to subject to the heat of a
furnace. [O. Fr. _fornais_--L. _fornax_--_fornus_, an oven.]

FURNIMENT, fur'ni-ment, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as FURNITURE.

FURNISH, fur'nish, _v.t._ to fit up or supply completely, or with what is
necessary: to equip (_with_).--_adj._ FUR'NISHED, stocked with
furniture.--_n._ FUR'NISHER.--_n.pl._ FUR'NISHINGS, fittings of any kind,
esp. articles of furniture, &c., within a house: (_Shak._) any incidental
part.--_n._ FUR'NISHMENT. [O. Fr. _furniss-_, _furnir_--Old High Ger.
_frummjan_, to do.]

FURNITURE, fur'ni-t[=u]r, _n._ movables, either for use or ornament, with
which a house is equipped: equipage, the trappings of a horse, &c.:
decorations: the necessary appendages in some arts, &c.: (_print._) the
pieces of wood or metal put round pages of type to make proper margins and
fill the spaces between the pages and the chase. [Fr. _fourniture_.]

FUROR, f[=u]'ror, _n._ fury: excitement, enthusiasm.--Also FUR[=O]'RE. [L.]

FURROW, fur'[=o], _n._ the trench made by a plough: any groove: a wrinkle
on the face.--_v.t._ to form furrows in: to groove: to wrinkle.--_n._
FURR'OW-WEED (_Shak._), a weed on ploughed land.---_adj._ FURR'OWY. [A.S.
_furh_; cf. Ger. _furche_, L. _porca_.]

FURTHER, fur'th[.e]r, _adv._ to a greater distance or degree: in
addition.--_adj._ more distant: additional.--_adv._ FUR'THERMORE, in
addition to what has been said, moreover, besides.--_adjs._ FUR'THERMOST,
most remote; FUR'THERSOME, tending to further or promote.--_adv._
FUR'THEST, at the greatest distance.--_adj._ most distant.--WISH ONE
FURTHER, to wish one somewhere else than here and now. [A.S. _furðor_, a
comp. of _fore_, with comp. suff.]

FURTHER, fur'_th_[.e]r, _v.t._ to help forward, promote.--_ns._
FUR'THERANCE, a helping forward; FUR'THERER, a promoter, advancer.--_adj._
FUR'THERSOME, helpful. [A.S. _fyrðran_.]

FURTIVE, fur'tiv, _adj._ stealthy: secret.--_adv._ FUR'TIVELY. [Fr.,--L.
_furtivus_--_fur_, a thief.]

FURUNCLE, f[=u]'rung-kl, _n._ an inflammatory tumour.--_adjs._ FURUN'CULAR,
FURUN'CULOUS. [L. _furunculus_.]

FURY, f[=u]'ri, _n._ rage: violent passion: madness: (_myth._) one of the
three goddesses of fate and vengeance, the Erinyes, or euphemistically
Eumenides--Tisiphone, Alecto, and Megæra--hence a passionate, violent
woman. [Fr. _furie_--L. _furia_--_fur[)e]re_, to be angry.]

FURZE, furz, _n._ the whin or gorse, a prickly evergreen bush with
beautiful yellow flowers.--_adjs._ FURZ'Y, FURZ'EN, overgrown with furze.
[A.S. _fyrs_.]

FUSAROLE, f[=u]'sa-r[=o]l, _n._ (_archit._) an astragal.--Also F[=U]'SAROL.
[Fr.,--L. _fusus_, spindle.]

FUSCOUS, fus'kus, _adj._ brown: dingy--(_Charles Lamb_) FUSC. [L. _fuscus_,
akin to _furvus_.]

FUSE, f[=u]z, _v.t._ to melt: to liquefy by heat.--_v.i._ to be melted: to
be reduced to a liquid.--_n._ FUSIBIL'ITY.--adjs. F[=U]'SIBLE, that may be
fused or melted--(_Milt._) F[=U]'SILE, F[=U]'SIL.--_ns._ F[=U]'SING-POINT,
the temperature at which any solid substance becomes liquid; F[=U]'SION,
act of melting: the state of fluidity from heat: a close union of things,
as if melted together.--AQUEOUS FUSION, the melting of certain crystals by
heat in their own water of crystallisation; DRY FUSION, the liquefaction
produced in salts by heat after the water of crystallisation has been
expelled; IGNEOUS FUSION, the melting of anhydrous salts by heat without
decomposition. [L. _fund[)e]re_, _fusum_, to melt.]

FUSE, f[=u]z, _n._ a tube filled with combustible matter for firing mines,
discharging shells, &c. [It. _fuso_--L. _fusus_, a spindle.]

FUSEE, FUZEE, f[=u]-z[=e]', _n._ the spindle in a watch or clock on which
the chain is wound: a match used for lighting a pipe or cigar in the open
air: a fuse: a fusil.--_adj._ F[=U]'SIFORM, spindle-shaped: tapering at
each end. [O. Fr. _fusée_, a spindleful--Low L. _fusata_--L. _fusus_, a
spindle.]

FUSEL-OIL, f[=u]'zel-oil, _n._ a nauseous oil in spirits distilled from
potatoes, barley, &c. [Ger. _fusel_, bad spirits.]

FUSIL, f[=u]'zil, _n._ a flint-lock musket. [O. Fr. _fuisil_, a
flint-musket, same as It. _focile_--Low L. _focile_, steel (to strike fire
with), dim. of L. _focus_, a fireplace.]

FUSIL, f[=u]'zil, _n._ (_her._) an elongated rhomboidal figure. [O. Fr.
_fusel_--L. _fusus_, a spindle.]

FUSILIER, FUSILEER, f[=u]-zil-[=e]r', _n._ formerly a soldier armed with a
fusil, now simply a historical title borne by a few regiments of the
British army (Northumberland, Royal Scots, &c.).

FUSILLADE, f[=u]z'il-[=a]d, _n._ a simultaneous or continuous discharge of
firearms.--_v.t._ to shoot down by a simultaneous discharge of
firearms.--_n._ FUSILL[=A]'TION, death by shooting. [Fr.,--_fusil_, a
musket.]

FUSS, fus, _n._ a bustle or tumult: haste, flurry.--_v.i._ to be in a
bustle.--_adv._ FUSS'ILY.--_n._ FUSS'INESS, a needless state of
bustle.--adj. FUSS'Y. [Imit.]

FUST, fust, _n._ the shaft of a column. [O. Fr. _fust_ (Fr. _fût_)--L.
_fustis_, a stick.]

FUST, _v.i._ See FUSTY.

FUSTANELLE, fus-ta-nel', _n._ a white kilt worn by Greek men. [Mod. Gr.
_phoustani_, Albanian _fustan_--It. _fustagno_, fustian.]

FUSTET, fus'tet, _n._ the smoke-tree or Venetian sumach, or its wood.
[Fr.,--L. _fustis_, a stick.]

FUSTIAN, fust'yan, _n._ a kind of coarse, twilled cotton fabric, including
moleskin, velveteen, corduroy, &c.: a pompous and unnatural style of
writing or speaking: bombast: a liquor made of white wine with yolk of
eggs, lemon, spices, &c.--adj. made of fustian: bombastic.--_v.i._
FUST'IANISE (_Holmes_), to write bombastically.--_n._ FUST'IANIST, one who
writes bombast. [O. Fr. _fustaigne_ (Fr. _futaine_)--It. _fustagno_--Low L.
_fustaneum_, from Ar. _Fostat_ (a suburb of Cairo) in Egypt, where first
made.]

FUSTIC, fus'tik, _n._ the wood of a West Indian tree, formerly much used as
a dye.--Also FUS'TOC. [Fr. _fustoc_, yellow--Sp. _fustoc_--L. _fustis_.]

FUSTIGATION, fus-ti-g[=a]'shun, _n._ a beating with a stick.--_v.t._
FUS'TIGATE, to thrash with a stick. [L. _fustig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to beat
with a stick--_fustis_, a stick.]

FUSTILARIAN, fus-ti-l[=a]'ri-an, _n._ (_Shak._) a low fellow, a
scoundrel.--_n._ FUS'TILUGS (_prov._), a frowzy woman.

FUSTY, fust'i, _adj._ smelling of the wood of the cask, as wine:
ill-smelling.--_v.i._ Fust (_Shak._) to grow or smell mouldy.--_adj._
Fust'ed, mouldy.--_n._ Fust'iness. [O. Fr. _fust_, wood of a cask--L.
_fustis_.]

FUSUS, f[=u]'sus, _n._ a genus of Gasteropods, usually referred to the
Murex family. [L.]

FUTCHEL, fuch'el, _n._ a piece of timber lengthwise of a carriage,
supporting the splinter-bar and the pole.

FUTHORC, f[=u]'thork, _n._ the Runic alphabet. [From the first six letters,
_f_, _u_, _þ_, _o_ or _a_, _r_, _k_.]

FUTILE, f[=u]'t[=i]l, _adj._ useless: unavailing: trifling.--_adv._
F[=U]'TILELY.--_ns._ FUTILIT[=A]'RIAN, one who gives himself to profitless
pursuits; FUTIL'ITY, uselessness. [Fr.,--L. _futilis_--_fund[)e]re_, to
pour.]

FUTTOCK, fut'uk, _n._ one of the separate pieces of timber composing the
frame of a ship.--_ns. pl._ FUTT'OCK-PLATES, iron plates with dead-eyes,
crossing the sides of the top-rim perpendicularly; FUTT'OCK-SHROUDS, short
pieces of rope or chain which secure the lower dead-eyes and futtock-plates
of topmast rigging to a band round a lower mast. [Perh. corrupted from
_foot-hooks_.]

FUTURE, f[=u]t'[=u]r, _adj._ about to be: that is to come: (_gram._)
expressing what will be.--_n._ time to come.--_n._ FUT'URE-PER'FECT
(_gram._), a tense expressing action viewed as past in reference to an
assumed future time (L. _amavero_=I shall have loved).--_v.i._ FUT'URISE,
to form the future tense.--_ns._ FUT'URIST, one whose chief interests are
in what is to come; FUTURITION (-ish'un), future existence: accomplishment;
FUTUR'ITY, time to come: an event or state of being yet to come. [Fr.,--L.
_futurus_, fut.p. of _esse_, to be.]

FUZE, f[=u]z, _n._ Same as FUSE.

FUZZ, fuz, _v.i._ to fly off in minute particles with a fizzing sound like
water from hot iron.--_n._ fine light particles, as dust, down, &c.--_n._
FUZZ'BALL, a kind of fungus, whose head is full of a fine dust. [Ety. dub.]

FUZZLE, fuz'l, _v.t._ (_prov._) to intoxicate.

FUZZY, fuz'i, _adj._ covered with fuzz, fluffy.--_adv._ FUZZ'ILY.--_n._
FUZZ'INESS.

FY, f[=i], _interj._ Same as FIE.

FYKE, f[=i]k, _n._ a bag-net for catching fish. [Dut. _fuik_.]

FYLFOT, FILFOT, fil'fot, _n._ an ancient symbol in the form of a Greek
cross, with each arm continued at right angles, called also _Gammadion_,
_Gammation_, and _Svastika_. [Prob. _fill-foot_, meaning a device for
filling the foot of a painted window.]

FYRD, fird, _n._ the military force of the whole nation, all males capable
of bearing arms, in Anglo-Saxon times. [A.S. _fyrd_, army.]

FYTTE. See FIT (3).

       *       *       *       *       *

G the seventh letter of our alphabet, and in the Roman not originally
differentiated from C, but substituted there for the disused Z: (_mus._)
the fifth note of the diatonic scale of C minor--also _sol_, the scale or
key having that note for its tonic: (_nat. phil._) a symbol for
acceleration of gravity, which is about 32 feet per second: in the medieval
system of Roman numerals=400, or [=G]=400,000.

GAB, gab, _v.i._ (_coll._) to chatter, prate.--_n._ idle talk, prattling: a
jest, a witticism: (_Scot._) the mouth.--_n._ GAB'BER, jabber.--_adj._
GAB'BY, garrulous.--GIFT OF THE GAB, a talent for talking.

GAB, gab, _v.i._ to brag. [O. Fr. _gabber_, to mock.]

GABBART, gab'ärt, _n._ a flat river vessel with a long hatchway.--Also
GABB'ARD. [Fr. _gabare_--Prov. and It. _gabarra_.]

GABBATHA, gab'a-thä, _n._ the place where Pilate sat at the trial of Jesus,
a tessellated pavement outside the prætorium. [Heb., 'platform.']

GABBLE, gab'l, _v.i._ to talk inarticulately: to chatter: to cackle like
geese.--_ns._ GABB'LE; GABB'LER; GABB'LING, GABB'LEMENT. [Freq. of _gab_.]

GABBRO, gab'ro, _n._ a rock composed of feldspar and diallage--also
_Euphotide_.--_n._ GABB'RONITE, a compact variety of scapolite, resembling
gabbro. [It.]

GABELLE, gab-el', _n._ a tax, impost duty, formerly in France, esp. the tax
on salt.--_n._ G[=A]'BELER. [Fr. _gabelle_--Low L. _gabella_,
_gablum_--Teut.]

GABERDINE, gab-er-d[=e]n', _n._ a loose upper garment, formerly worn by
Jews. [O. Fr. _gauvardine_; per. Mid. High Ger. _wallevart_, pilgrimage,
whence also Sp. _gabardina_, &c.]

GABERLUNZIE, gab-er-lun'zi, -yi, _n._ (_Scot._) a pouch carried by Scottish
beggars: a strolling beggar.

GABION, g[=a]'bi-un, _n._ (_fort._) a bottomless basket of wicker-work
filled with earth, used for shelter from the enemy's fire while digging
trenches, or in forming the foundation of a jetty.--_ns._ G[=A]'BIONADE, a
work formed of gabions; G[=A]'BIONAGE, gabions collectively.--_adj._
G[=A]'BIONED, furnished with gabions. [Fr.,--It. _gabbione_, a large
cage--_gabbia_--L. _cavea_, a cage.]

GABLE, g[=a]'bl, _n._ (_archit._) the triangular part of an exterior wall
of a building between the top of the side-walls and the slopes on the
roof--(_Scot._) G[=A]'VEL.--_adj._ G[=A]'BLED.--ns. G[=A]'BLE-END, the
end-wall of a building on the side where there is a gable; G[=A]'BLET
(_dim._), a small gable, as an ornament on buttresses, &c.;
G[=A]'BLE-WIN'DOW, a window in the gable-end of a building, or a window
with its upper part shaped like a gable. [The northern form _gavel_ is
prob. Ice. _gafl_; Sw. _gafvel_, Dan. _gavl_. The southern form gable is
prob. through O. Fr. _gable_, _jable_ from Ice. _gafl_.]

GABRIEL'S HOUNDS. See HOUND.

GABY, g[=a]'bi, _n._ a simpleton. [Hardly related to _gape_.]

GAD, gad, _n._ a pointed bar of steel: a tool used in mining: a graver: a
rod or stick, a goad: the bar across a Scotch condemned cell, on which the
iron ring ran which fastened the shackles--also GADE, GAID.--_n._ GAD'LING,
one of the spikes on the knuckles of a gauntlet.--UPON THE GAD (_Shak._),
upon the spur of the moment. [Ice. _gadd-r_, a spike.]

GAD, gad, _interj._ a minced form of God.--_interjs._ GAD'SO, an
exclamation of surprise; GAD'ZOOKS, an obsolete minced oath.

GAD, gad, _v.i._ to rove about restlessly: to wander or ramble in speech,
&c., to straggle in growth:--_pr.p._ gad'ding; _pa.p._ gad'ded.--_ns._ GAD,
GAD'ABOUT, one who walks idly about; GAD'DER.--_adv._ GAD'DINGLY--_n._
GAD'DISHNESS. [Prob. conn. with _gad_ in _gadfly_; or obsolete _gadling_,
vagabond.]

GADFLY, gad'fl[=i], _n._ a fly which pierces the skin of cattle in order to
deposit its eggs: a mischievous gadabout. [From _gad_, n., _fly_.]

GADGE, gaj, _n._ an instrument of torture (_Browning_).

GADHELIC, gad-el'ik, _adj._ of or belonging to that branch of the Celtic
race which comprises the Erse of Ireland, the Gaels of Scotland, and the
Manx of the Isle of Man, as distinguished from the _Cymric_. [Ir.
_Gaedheal_ (pl. _Gaedhil_), a Gael.]

GADOID, g[=a]'doid, _adj._ pertaining to the _Gadidæ_, or cod-fishes.--_n._
a fish of this family.--_n._ G[=A]'DEAN, a fish of this family.--_adj._
G[=A]'DINE.--_n._ G[=A]'DUS, the typical genus of the same. [Gr. _gados_.]

GADOLINITE, gad'[=o]-lin-[=i]t, _n._ a silicate of the yttrium and cerium
metals, containing also beryllium and iron. [From the Finnish chemist
_Gadolin_ (1760-1852).]

GADROON, gad-r[=oo]n', _n._ one of a set of convex curves or arcs joined at
their extremities to form a decorative pattern--in plate, &c.--_adj._
GADROONED'.--_n._ GADROON'ING. [Fr. _godron_.]

GADSMAN, gadz'man, _n._ (_Scot._) one who drives horses at the plough.
[_Gad_ and _man_.]

GADWALL, gad'wawl, _n._ a northern fresh-water duck.

GAE, g[=a], a Scotch form of _go_.

GAEL, g[=a]l, _n._ a Scotch Highlander.--_adj._ GAELIC (g[=a]l'ik),
pertaining to the Gaels.--_n._ the Scottish-Highland dialect.--_v.t._
GAEL'ICISE.--_n._ GAEL'ICISM. [Gael. _Gaidheal_.]

GAFF, gaf, _n._ a hook used esp. for landing large fish after they have
been hooked on the line and spent by the skill of the angler: (_naut._) the
spar to which the head of a fore-and-aft sail is bent.--_v.t._ to hook or
bind by means of a gaff.--_n._ GAFF'-TOP-SAIL, a small sail, the head of
which is extended on a small gaff which hoists on the top-mast, and the
foot on the lower gaff. [Fr. _gaffe_.]

GAFF, gaf, _n._ (_slang_) a low theatre: a fair.

GAFF, gaf, _v.i._ (_slang_) to gamble.--_ns._ GAFF'ER; GAFF'ING.

GAFFER, gaf'[.e]r, _n._ originally a word of respect applied to an old man,
now familiar: the foreman of a squad of workmen. [Corr. of _godfather_, as
_gammer_ of _godmother_.]

GAG, gag, _v.t._ to forcibly stop the mouth: to silence: to choke up: to
introduce gag into a piece:--_pr.p._ gag'ging; _pa.p._ gagged.--_n._
something thrust into the mouth or put over it to enforce silence, or
distend the jaws during an operation: the closure applied in a debate: a
mouthful which produces nausea, the fat of fresh beef boiled: (_slang_) an
actor's interpolation: a joke or hoax.--_n._ GAG'GER, one who gags. [Prob.
imitative of sound made in choking.]

GAG, gag, _v.t._ (_slang_) to deceive.--v.i. to practise imposture.--n. a
made-up story, lie: (_U.S._) a laughing-stock.

GAGE, g[=a]j, _n._ a pledge: something thrown down as a challenge, as a
glove.--_v.t._ to bind by pledge or security: offer as a guarantee: to
stake, wager. [O. Fr. _guage_, from Teut. See WED.]

GAGE. See GAUGE.

GAGE, g[=a]j, _n._ name applied to several varieties of plum. [See
GREENGAGE.]

GAGGLE, gag'l, _n._ a flock of geese, or of women.--_v.i._ to cackle.--_n._
GAGG'LING, cackling.--_adj._ garrulous.

GAG-TOOTH, gag'-t[=oo]th, _n._ a projecting tooth.--_adj._ GAG'-TOOTHED.

GAIETY, GAILY. See GAY.

GAIKWAR, g[=i]k'war, _n._ name of the ruler of Baroda in India. [Marathi
_g[=a]e_--Sans. _go_, a cow, bull.]

GAIN, g[=a]n, _v.t._ to obtain by effort: to earn: to be successful in: to
draw to one's own party, bribe: to reach: to make advance: (_N. T._) to
escape.--_n._ that which is gained: profit.--_adj._ GAIN'ABLE.--_n._
GAIN'ER.--_adj._ GAIN'FUL.--_adv._ GAIN'FULLY.--_n._ GAIN'FULNESS.--_n.pl._
GAIN'INGS.--_adj._ GAIN'LESS.--_n._ GAIN'LESSNESS.--GAIN GROUND (see
GROUND); GAIN UPON, to overtake by degrees. [O. Fr. _gain_, _gaain_,
_gaigner_, _gaaignier_, from Teut., as in _weidenen_, to graze, to seek
forage, _weida_, pasture.]

GAIN, g[=a]n, _adj._ (_prov._) near, straight. [Ice. _gegn_.]

GAINGIVING, g[=a]n'giv-ing, _n._ (_Shak._) misgiving.

GAINLY, g[=a]n'li, _adj._ agile, handsome. See UNGAINLY.

GAINSAY, g[=a]n's[=a], _v.t._ to contradict: to deny: to dispute.--_ns._
GAIN'SAYER (_B._), an opposer; GAIN'SAYING.--_v.t._ GAIN'STRIVE (_Spens._),
to strive against. [A.S. _gegn_, against, and _say_.]

GAINST, a poetic abbreviation of _against_.

GAIR, g[=a]r, _n._ (_Scot._) gore.

GAIRFOWL. See GAREFOWL.

GAIRISH. See GARISH.

GAIT, g[=a]t, _n._ way or manner of walking, step, pace.--_adj._ GAIT'ED,
having a particular gait. [A special use of _gate_.]

GAIT, g[=a]t, _n._ (_prov._) a sheaf of corn: charge for pasturage.

GAITER, g[=a]t'[.e]r, _n._ a covering of cloth, &c., for the ankle, fitting
down upon the shoe. [Fr. _guêtre_, _guietre_.]

GAL, gal, _n._ (_prov._) a girl.

GALA, g[=a]'la, _n._ festivity.--_n._ G[=A]'LA-DRESS, gay costume for a
gala-day. [Fr. _gala_, show--It. _gala_, finery.]

GALACTIC, ga-lak'tik, _adj._ pertaining to or obtained from milk:
(_astron._) pertaining to the Milky-Way.--_ns._ GALAC'TAGOGUE, a medicine
which promotes the secretion of milk; GALAC'TIA, a morbid flow or
deficiency of milk; GALAC'TIN, lactose; GALACTOM'ETER, an instrument for
finding the quality of milk by indicating its specific gravity;
GALACTOPH'AGIST, one who lives on milk.--_adjs._ GALACTOPH'AGOUS, living on
milk; GALACTOPH'OROUS, milk-carrying; GALACTOPOIET'IC,
milk-producing.--_n._ GALACTORRHOE'A, a too abundant flow of milk. [Gr.
_gala_, _galaktos_, milk.]

GALAGE, an obs. form of _galosh_.

GALAGO, ga-l[=a]'go, _n._ a genus of large-eared, long-tailed African
lemurs, arboreal and nocturnal in habit, living on fruit and insects.

GALANGAL. See GALINGALE.

GALANTINE, gal'an-t[=i]n, _n._ a dish of poultry or veal, boned, tied up
tight, cooked, and served cold. [Fr.,--Low L. _galatina_ for _gelatina_,
jelly. See GELATINE.]

GALANTY SHOW, gal-an'ti sh[=o], _n._ a shadow pantomime produced by
throwing shadows of miniature figures on a wall or screen. [Prob. It.
_galanti_, pl. of _galante_. See GALLANT.]

GALATIAN, ga-l[=a]'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Galatia_ in Asia
Minor--colonised by Gauls in the 3d century B.C.--_n._ a native of Galatia.

GALAXY, gal'ak-si, _n._ the Milky-Way, or the luminous band of stars
stretching across the heavens: any splendid assemblage. [Through Fr. and
L., from Gr. _galaxias_--_gala_, milk.]

GALBANUM, gal'ban-um, _n._ a resinous juice obtained from an Eastern plant,
used in medicine and in the arts, and by the Jews in the preparation of the
sacred incense.--Also GAL'BAN. [L.,--Gr. _chalban[=e]_, prob. an Eastern
word.]

GALE, g[=a]l, _n._ a strong wind between a stiff breeze and a hurricane:
(_coll._) a state of noisy excitement. [Prob. elliptical for _gale_ (or
_gall_) _wind_. Mr Bradley disfavours the Scand. ety., which connects with
Dan. _gal_, mad, Norw. _galen_, raging.]

GALE, g[=a]l, _n._ a shrub growing in marshy spots, usually called
SWEET-GALE. [Prob. A.S. _gagel_; cf. Ger. _gagel_, a myrtle-bush.]

GALE, g[=a]l, _n._ a periodic payment of rent. [_Gavel._]

GALEATE, -D, g[=a]'le-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._, _ornith._, and _anat._)
helmeted. [L. _gale[=a]tus_--_galea_, a helmet.]

GALENA, g[=a]-l[=e]'na, _n._ a mineral which is essentially a sulphide of
lead--also GAL[=E]'NITE.--_adjs._ GAL[=E]'NIC, -AL, GAL[=E]'NOID. [L.
_galena_, lead-ore.]

GALENIC, -AL, g[=a]-len'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to _Galen_, the 2d-cent.
Greek physician, or to his methods and theories.--_ns._ G[=A]'LENISM;
G[=A]'LENIST.

GALEOPITHECUS, g[=a]-li-o-pi-th[=e]'kus, _n._ a flying lemur.--_adjs._
GALEOPITH[=E]'CINE, GALEOPITH[=E]'COID.

GALILEAN, gal-i-l[=e]'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Galileo_, a great
Italian mathematician (1564-1642).--GALILEAN LAW, the law of the uniform
acceleration of falling bodies; GALILEAN TELESCOPE, a telescope with a
concave lens for its eye-piece.

GALILEAN, gal-i-l[=e]'an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Galilee_, one of the
Roman divisions of Palestine.--_n._ a native of Galilee: a Christian.

GALILEE, gal'i-l[=e], _n._ (_archit._) a porch or chapel at the west end of
some abbey churches, in which penitents were placed, and where
ecclesiastics met women who had business with them.--GALILEE PORCH, a
galilee which has direct communication with the exterior. [Prob. suggested
from Mark, xvi. 7, 'He goeth before you into _Galilee_.']

GALIMATIAS, gal-i-m[=a]'shi-as, _n._ nonsense, gibberish: any confused
mixture of unlike things. [Fr.]

GALINGALE, gal'in-g[=a]l, _n._ the aromatic root of certain E. Indian
plants of genera _Alpinia_ and _Kæmpferia_, formerly much used in medicine
and cookery: the tuber of _Cyperus longus_, of ancient medicinal repute:
also the whole plant.--Also GALAN'GAL. [O. Fr. _galingal_--Ar.
_khalanj[=a]n_--Chin. _ko-liang-kiang_--_Ko_, a Chinese province, _liang_,
mild, and _kiang_, ginger.]

GALIONGEE, gal-yon-j[=e]', _n._ a Turkish sailor. [Turk.
_q[=a]ly[=u]nj[=i]_, deriv. of _q[=a]ly[=u]n_--It. _galeone_, galleon.]

GALIPOT, gal'i-pot, _n._ the white resin which exudes from pine, yielding,
when refined, white, yellow, or Burgundy pitch. [Fr.]

GALL, gawl, _n._ the greenish-yellow fluid secreted from the liver, called
bile: bitterness: malignity.--_ns._ GALL-BLADD'ER, a pear-shaped bag lying
on the under side of the liver, a reservoir for the bile; GALL'-STONE, a
hard concretion in the gall-bladder or biliary ducts.--GALL AND WORMWOOD,
anything extremely disagreeable and annoying.--IN THE GALL OF BITTERNESS,
in a state of extreme hostility to God (Acts, viii. 23). [A.S. _gealla_,
gall; cf. Ger. _galle_, Gr. _chol[=e]_, L. _fel_.]

GALL, gawl, _n._ a light nut-like ball which certain insects produce on the
oak-tree, used in dyeing--also GALL'-NUT.--_v.t._ to fret or hurt the skin
by rubbing: to annoy: to enrage.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to act in a galling
manner.--_ns._ GALL'ATE, a salt of gallic acid; GALL'FLY, an insect which
occasions gall on plants by puncturing.--_adj._ GALL'ING,
irritating.--_adv._ GALL'INGLY.--GALLIC ACID, a crystalline substance
obtained from gall-nuts, and used in making ink. [Fr. _galle_--L. _galla_,
oak-apple.]

GALLANT, gal'ant, _adj._ brave: noble: (rare) gay, splendid, magnificent:
courteous or attentive to ladies: amorous, erotic (sometimes
gal-ant').--_n._ a gay, dashing person: a man of fashion: suitor,
seducer.--_adv._ GALL'ANTLY.--_ns._ GALL'ANTNESS; GALL'ANTRY, bravery:
intrepidity: attention or devotion to ladies, often in a bad sense, amorous
intrigue: (_Shak._) gallants collectively. [Fr. _galant_--O. Fr. _gale_, a
merrymaking; prob. Teut.]

GALLEASS, gal'e-as, _n._ (_Shak._) a vessel of the same construction as a
galley, but larger and heavier.--Also GALL'IASS. [O. Fr. _galeace_--It.
_galeaza_, augmented from, _galea_, galley.]

GALLEON, gal'i-un, _n._ a large Spanish vessel with lofty stem and stern,
mostly used formerly for carrying treasure. [Sp. _galeon_. Cf. GALLEY.]

GALLERY, gal'[.e]r-i, _n._ a balcony surrounded by rails: a long passage:
the upper floor of seats in a church or theatre: the persons occupying the
gallery at a theatre: a room for the exhibition of works of art: (_fort._)
a covered passage cut through the earth or masonry: a level or drive in a
mine.--_adj._ GALL'ERIED, furnished with, or arranged like, a
gallery.--PLAY TO THE GALLERY, to play so as to win the applause of the
least intelligent amongst the spectators. [O. Fr. _galerie_ (It.
_galleria_).]

GALLEY, gal'i, _n._ a long, low-built ship with one deck, propelled by
oars: a state barge: the captain's boat on a war-ship: the place where the
cooking is done on board ship: a kind of boat attached to a ship-of-war:
(_print._) a flat oblong tray in which the compositor places the type he
has set up.--_ns._ GALL'EY-PROOF, an impression taken from type on a
galley; GALL'EY-SLAVE, one condemned for crime to work like a slave at the
oar of a galley. [O. Fr. _galie_--Low L. _galea_.]

GALLIAMBIC, gal-i-am'bik, _adj._ constituting a _galliambus_, a verse
consisting of four Ionics a minore ([uu--]), with variations and
substitutions. [Used by the _Galli_, priests of the Phrygian goddess
Cybele.]

GALLIARD, gal'yard, _adj._ (_arch._) brisk, lively.--_n._ a spirited dance
for two, common in the 16th and 17th centuries: a gay fellow.--_n._
GALL'IARDISE, gaiety: a merry trick. [O. Fr. _gaillard_; cf. Sp.
_gallardo_.]

GALLIC, gal'ik, _adj._ pertaining to _Gaul_ or France.--_adj._ GALL'ICAN,
of or pertaining to France: esp. pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church in
France.--_n._ one holding Gallican doctrines.--_n._ GALL'ICANISM, the
spirit of nationalism within the French Church--as opposed to
_Ultramontanism_, or the absolute subjection of everything to the personal
authority of the pope.--_adv._ GALLICE (gal'i-s[=e]), in French.--_n._
GALL'ICISM, the use in English or any other language of a word or idiom
peculiar to the French.--_vs.t._ GALL'IC[=I]ZE, GALL'IC[=I]SE, to make
French in opinions, habits, &c. [L. _Gallicus_--_Gallia_, Gaul.]

GALLIGASKINS, gal-i-gas'kinz, _n.pl._ large open hose or trousers: leggings
worn by sportsmen. [A corr. of O. Fr. _garguesque_--It. _Grechesco_,
Greekish--L. _Græcus_, Greek.]

GALLIMAUFRY, gal-i-maw'fri, _n._ (_Shak._) any inconsistent or absurd
medley: a medley of persons. [O. Fr. _galimafrée_, a ragout, hash.]

GALLINACEOUS, gal-in-[=a]'shus, _adj._ pertaining to the order of birds to
which the domestic fowl, pheasant, &c. belong. [L. _gallina_, a
hen--_gallus_, a cock.]

GALLINULE, gal'i-n[=u]l, _n._ a genus of aquatic birds closely allied to
the coots, of which the common water-hen is a species. [L. _gallinula_,
dim. of _gallina_, a hen.]

GALLIO, gal'i-o, _n._ a careless, easy-going man who keeps himself free
from trouble and responsibility. [From the proconsul of Achaia in 53 A.D.,
Junius Annæus _Gallio_, who refused to listen to the Jewish clamour against
Paul (Acts, xviii. 12-17).]

GALLIOT, GALIOT, gal'i-ot, _n._ a small galley: an old Dutch cargo-boat,
also a bomb-ketch. [Fr. _galiote_--Low L. _galea_, galley.]

GALLIPOT, gal'i-pot, _n._ a small glazed pot for containing medicine.
[Prob. _pottery_ such as was brought in _galleys_; not likely to be the Old
Dut. _gleipot_, a glazed pot.]

GALLIUM, gal'i-um, _n._ a rare malleable metal, grayish-white, brilliant in
lustre.

GALLIVANT, gal-i-vant', _v.i._ to spend time frivolously, esp. in flirting.
[Perh. a variation of _gallant_.]

GALLIVAT, gal'i-vat, _n._ a large two-masted Malay boat.

GALLIWASP, gal'i-wasp, _n._ a West Indian lizard.

GALLIZE, gal'[=i]z, _v.t._ to treat unfermented grape-juice with water and
sugar, so as to increase the quantity of wine produced. [From Dr L. _Gall_
of Treves.]

GALLOGLASS, gal'lo-glas, _n._ a soldier or armed retainer of a chief in
ancient Ireland and other Celtic countries.--Also GAL'LOWGLASS. [Ir.
_gallóglách_--Ir. _gall_, foreign, _óglách_, youth.]

GALLOMANIA, gal-o-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ a mania for French ways.

GALLON, gal'un, _n._ the standard measure of capacity=4 quarts. [O. Fr.
_galun_, _galon_, _jalon_; app. cog. with Fr. _jale_, a bowl.]

GALLOON, ga-l[=oo]n', _n._ a kind of lace: a narrow ribbon made of silk or
worsted, or of both.--_adj._ GALLOONED', adorned with galloon. [Fr.
_galon_, _galonner_; prob. cog. with _gallant_.]

GALLOP, gal'up, _v.i._ to move by leaps, as a horse: to ride a galloping
horse: to move very fast.--_v.t._ to cause to gallop.--_n._ the pace at
which a horse runs when the forefeet are lifted together and the hindfeet
together: a ride at a gallop.--_n._ GALL'OPER, one who, or that which,
gallops.--_part._ and _adj._ GALL'OPING, proceeding at a gallop: (_fig._)
advancing rapidly, as in the phrase, 'a galloping consumption.'--CANTERBURY
GALLOP, a moderate gallop of a horse (see CANTER). [O. Fr. _galop_,
_galoper_; prob. Teut., related to _leap_. There is a Flemish and a Middle
High Ger. _walop_ (n.). The root is seen in Old Fries. _walla_, to boil;
cf. WELL (1).]

GALLOPADE, gal-up-[=a]d', _n._ a quick kind of dance--then, the music
appropriate to it: a sidewise gallop.--_v.i._ to move briskly: to perform a
gallopade. [Fr.]

GALLOVIDIAN, gal-o-vid'yan, _adj._ belonging to Galloway.--_n._ a native
thereof.

GALLOW, gal'l[=o], _v.t._ (_Shak._) to frighten or terrify. [A.S.
_a-g['æ]lwian_, to astonish.]

GALLOWAY, gal'o-w[=a], _n._ a small strong horse, 13-15 hands high,
originally from _Galloway_ in Scotland: a breed of large black hornless
cattle.

GALLOWS, gal'us, _n._ a wooden frame on which criminals are executed by
hanging--a _pl._ used as a _sing._, and having (_Shak._) the double _pl._
'gallowses' (used also _coll._ originally for a pair of braces for
supporting the trousers): (_Shak._) a wretch who deserves the gallows: any
contrivance with posts and cross-beam for suspending objects: a rest for
the tympan of a hand printing-press: the main frame of a
beam-engine.--_ns._ GALL'OWS-BIRD, a person who deserves hanging;
GALL'OWS-BITTS, a frame fixed in a ship's deck to support spare
spars.--_adj._ GALL'OWS-FREE, free from danger of hanging.--_n._
GALL'OWSNESS (_slang_), recklessness.--_adj._ GALL'OWS-RIPE, ready for the
gallows.--_n._ GALL'OWS-TREE, a tree used as a gallows.--CHEAT THE GALLOWS,
to escape hanging though deserving it. [M. E. _galwes_ (pl.)--A.S. _galga_;
Ger. _galgen_.]

GALLY, gal'i, _v.i._ (_prov._) to scare, daze.--_ns._ GALL'Y-BEG'GAR,
GALL'ICROW, GALL'YCROW, a scarecrow.

GALOOT, ga-l[=oo]t', _n._ (_U.S._) a recruit, a clumsy fellow.

GALOP, gal'op, _n._ a lively round dance of German origin: music for such a
dance. [Fr.; cf. GALLOP.]

GALOPIN, gal'o-pin, _n._ (_Scot._) a kitchen boy. [O. Fr.,--_galoper_, to
gallop.]

GALORE, ga-l[=o]r', _adv._ in abundance, plentifully.--_n._ abundance. [Ir.
_go leór_, sufficiently--_go_, an adverbialising particle, _leór_,
sufficient.]

GALOSH, ga-losh', _n._ a shoe or slipper worn over another in wet
weather--also GALOCHE', GOLOSH'. [Fr. _galoche_--Gr. _kalopodion_, dim. of
_kalopous_, a shoemaker's last--_k[=a]lon_, wood, _pous_, the foot.]

GALRAVAGE. See GILRAVAGE.

GALT. See GAULT.

GALUMPH, gal-umf', _v.i._ to march along boundingly and exultingly. [A
coinage of Lewis Carroll.]

GALVANISM, gal'van-izm, _n._ a branch of the science of electricity which
treats of electric currents produced by chemical agents.--_adj._ GALVAN'IC,
belonging to or exhibiting galvanism.--_n._ GALVANIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
GAL'VAN[=I]SE, to subject to the action of a galvanic current: to confer a
false vitality upon.--_ns._ GAL'VANIST, GAL'VAN[=I]SER; GALVAN'OGRAPH, a
printing-surface resembling an engraved copper-plate, produced by an
electrotype process from a drawing made with viscid ink on a silvered
plate: an impression taken from such a plate; GALVANOG'RAPHY;
GALVANOL'OGIST, a student of galvanology; GALVANOL'OGY, the science of
galvanic phenomena; GALVANOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the strength
of galvanic currents; GALVANOM'ETRY.--_adj._ GALVANOPLAS'TIC.--_ns._
GALVANOPLAS'TY, electrotypy; GALVAN'OSCOPE, an instrument for detecting the
existence and direction of an electric current.--GALVANIC BATTERY, a series
of zinc or copper plates susceptible of galvanic action; GALVANISED IRON,
the name given to iron coated with zinc to prevent rusting. [From Luigi
_Galvani_, of Bologna, the discoverer (1737-98).]

GALWEGIAN, gal-w[=e]'ji-an, _adj._ belonging to Galloway.--_n._ a native
thereof.--Also GALLOW[=E]'GIAN.

GAM, gam, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to make a call on, to exchange courtesies with:
to gather in a flock, as whales.--_n._ a school or herd of whales. [Prob. a
corr. of _jam_.]

GAM, gam, _n._ (_Scot._) the mouth:--_pl._ tusks.

GAM, gam, _n._ (_slang_) a leg.

GAMA-GRASS, gä'ma-gräs, _n._ a grass with very large culms, 4 to 7 feet
high, grown in Mexico.

GAMASH, gam-ash', _n._ a kind of leggings or gaiters.

GAMB, gamb, _n._ a leg or shank: (_her._) a beast's whole foreleg=GAMB'A
(_anat._), the metacarpus or metatarsus of ruminants, &c.: short for _viol
da gamba_. [Low L. _gamba_, a leg. See GAMBOL.]

GAMBADO, gam-b[=a]'do, _n._ a leather covering for the legs to defend them
from mud in riding: boots affixed to the saddle in place of stirrups. [It.
_gamba_, the leg.]

GAMBADO, gam-b[=a]'do, _n._ a bound or spring of a horse: a fantastic
movement, a caper. [Sp. _gambada_; cf. GAMBOL.]

GAMBESON, gam'be-son, _n._ an ancient coat for defence, worn under the
habergeon, of leather, or of cloth stuffed and quilted.--Also GAM'BISON.
[O. Fr.--Low L. _gambes[=o]n-em_; prob. Teut., as in _wambâ_, the belly.]

GAMBET, gam'bet, _n._ the redshank.

GAMBIER, gam'b[=e]r, _n._ an astringent substance prepared from the leaves
of a shrub of the East Indies, and largely used in tanning and
dyeing.--Also GAM'BIR. [Malayan.]

GAMBIST, gam'bist, _n._ a player on the gamba or _viol da gamba_.

GAMBIT, gam'bit, _n._ a mode of opening a game of chess by sacrificing a
pawn early in the game for the purpose of making a powerful attack. [It.
_gambetto_, a tripping up--_gamba_, leg.]

GAMBLE, gam'bl, _v.i._ to play for money in games of chance or skill: to
engage in wild financial speculations.--_v.t._ to squander away.--_n._ a
gambling transaction.--_ns._ GAM'BLER, one who gambles, esp. who makes it
his business; GAM'BLING-HOUSE, a house kept for the accommodation of people
who play at games of hazard for money. [For _gamm-le_ or _gam-le_, a freq.
which has ousted M. E. _gamenen_--A.S. _gamenian_, to play at
games--_gamen_, a game.]

GAMBOGE, gam-b[=o]j', or gam-b[=oo]j', _n._ a yellow gum-resin used as a
pigment and in medicine.--_adjs._ GAMBOG'IAN, GAMBOG'IC. [From _Cambodia_,
in Asia, whence brought about 1600.]

GAMBOL, gam'bol, _v.i._ to leap, skip: to frisk in sport:--_pr.p._
gam'bolling; _pa.p._ gam'bolled.--_n._ a skipping: playfulness. [Formerly
_gambold_--O. Fr. _gambade_--It. _gambata_, a kick--Low L. _gamba_, leg.]

GAMBREL, gam'brel, _n._ the hock of a horse: a crooked stick used by
butchers for suspending a carcass while dressing it.--GAMBREL ROOF, a
curved or hipped roof. [O. Fr. _gamberel_; cf. Fr. _gambier_, a hooked
stick; prob. Celt. _cam_, crooked.]

GAMBROON, gam-br[=oo]n', _n._ a twilled cloth of worsted and cotton, or
linen. [Prob. _Gambroon_ in Persia.]

GAME, g[=a]m, _n._ sport of any kind: an exercise or contest for recreation
or amusement, esp. athletic contests: the stake in a game: the manner of
playing a game: the requisite number of points to be gained to win a game:
jest, sport, trick, artifice: any object of pursuit or desire: (_Shak._)
gallantry: the spoil of the chase: wild animals protected by law and hunted
by sportsmen, the flesh of such--hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse,
blackcock.--_adj._ of or belonging to such animals as are hunted as game:
plucky, courageous: (_slang_) having the spirit to do something.--_v.i._ to
gamble.--_ns._ GAME'-BAG, a bag for holding a sportsman's game, also the
whole amount of game taken at one time; GAME'COCK, a cock trained to fight;
GAME'KEEPER, one who has the care of game.--_n.pl._ GAME'-LAWS, laws
relating to the protection of certain animals called game.--_adv._
GAMELY.--_ns._ GAME'NESS; GAME'-PRESERV'ER, one who preserves game on his
property for his own sport or profit.--_adj._ GAME'SOME, playful.--_ns._
GAME'SOMENESS, sportiveness: merriment; GAME'STER, one viciously addicted
to gambling: a gambler; GAME'-TEN'ANT, one who rents the privilege of
shooting or fishing over a particular estate or district; GAM'ING,
gambling; GAM'ING-HOUSE, a gambling-house, a hell; GAM'ING-T[=A]'BLE, a
table used for gambling.--_adj._ GAM'Y, having the flavour of dead game
kept till tainted: (_coll._) spirited, plucky.--BIG GAME, the larger
animals hunted; DIE GAME, to keep up courage to the last; MAKE A GAME OF,
to play with real energy or skill; MAKE GAME OF, to make sport of, to
ridicule; RED GAME, the Scotch ptarmigan; ROUND GAME, a game, as at cards,
in which the number of players is not fixed; THE GAME IS NOT WORTH THE
CANDLE (see CANDLE); THE GAME IS UP, the game is started: the scheme has
failed. [A.S. _gamen_, play; Ice. _gaman_, Dan. _gammen_.]

GAME, g[=a]m, _adj._ (_slang_) crooked, lame. [Most prob. not the Celt.
_cam_, crooked.]

GAMIC, gam'ik, _adj._ having a sexual character, of an ovum--opp. to
_Agamic_.--_ns._ GAMETE (gam-[=e]t'), a sexual protoplasmic body;
GAMOGEN'ESIS, sexual reproduction.--_adjs._ GAMOPET'ALOUS (_bot._), having
the petals united at the base; GAMOPHYL'LOUS, having cohering perianth
leaves; GAMOSEP'ALOUS, having the sepals united. [Gr. _gamos_, marriage.]

GAMIN, gam'in, _n._ a street Arab, a precocious and mischievous imp of the
pavement. [Fr.]

GAMMA, gam'a, _n._ the third letter of the Greek alphabet.--_ns._
GAMM[=A]D'ION, GAMM[=A]'TION (see FYLFOT).

GAMMER, gam'[.e]r, _n._ an old woman--the correlative of _gaffer_ (q.v.).

GAMMERSTANG, gam'er-stang, _n._ (_prov._) a tall, awkward person, esp. a
woman: a wanton girl.

GAMMOCK, gam'ok, _n._ (_prov._) a frolic, fun.--_v.i._ to frolic, to lark.

GAMMON, gam'un, _n._ (mostly _coll._) a hoax: nonsense, humbug.--_v.t._ to
hoax, impose upon.--_ns._ GAMM'ONER; GAMM'ONING. [A.S. _gamen_, a game.]

GAMMON, gam'un, _n._ the preserved thigh of a hog. [O. Fr.
_gambon_--_gambe_, a leg.]

GAMMON, gam'un, _n._ (_naut._) the lashing of the bowsprit.--_v.t._ to lash
the bowsprit with ropes.

GAMP, gamp, _n._ (_slang_) a large, clumsy, or untidily tied up
umbrella.--_adj._ GAMP'ISH, bulging. [So called from Mrs Sarah _Gamp_, a
tippling monthly nurse in Dickens's _Martin Chuzzlewit_.]

GAMUT, gam'ut, _n._ the musical scale: the whole extent of a thing. [So
called from the Gr. _gamma_, which marked the last of the series of notes
in the musical notation of Guido Aretinus, and L. _ut_, the beginning of an
old hymn to St John ('Ut queant laxis') used in singing the scale.]

GANCH, ganch, _v.t._ to impale.--Also GAUNCH. [O. Fr. _gancher_--It.
_gancio_, a hook.]

GANDER, gan'd[.e]r, _n._ the male of the goose: a simpleton: (_U.S._) a man
living apart from his wife.--_ns._ GAN'DERCLEUGH, the place of abode of the
hypothetical Jedediah Cleishbotham, editor of the _Tales of my Landlord_;
GAN'DERISM; GAN'DER-PAR'TY, a social gathering of men only. [A.S. _gandra_,
from ganra, with inserted _d_; Dut. and Low Ger. _gander_.]

GANESA, ga-n[=e]'sa, _n._ the elephant-headed Hindu god of foresight and
prudence.

GANG, gang, _n._ a number of persons or animals associated for a certain
purpose, usually in a bad sense: a number of labourers working together
during the same hours: the range of pasture allowed to cattle: a set of
tools, &c., used together for any kind of work.--_ns._ GANG'ER, GANGS'MAN,
the foreman of a squad, as of plate-layers. [A.S. _gang_ (Dan. _gang_, Ger.
_gang_, a going), _gangan_, to go.]

GANG, gang, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to go.--_n.pl._ GANG'-DAYS, the three days
preceding Ascension Day or Holy Thursday.--_n._ GANG'ER, a walker: a
fast-going horse. [A.S. _gangan_, to go.]

GANGLION, gang'gli-on, _n._ a tumour in the sheath of a tendon: an
enlargement in the course of a nerve: any special centre of nervous
action:--_pl._ GANG'LIA, GANG'LIONS.--_adjs._ GANG'LIAC, GANG'LIAL,
GANGLION'IC, pertaining to a ganglion; GANG'LIATE, -D, provided with a
ganglion or ganglia; GANG'LIFORM, GANG'LIOFORM, having the form of a
ganglion; GANG'LIONARY, composed of ganglia.--_n._ GANG'LION-CELL
(_anat._), a nerve-cell with nucleus and nucleones.--BASAL GANGLIA, ganglia
situated at the bottom of the cerebrum. [Gr.]

GANGREL, gang'rel, _n._ and _adj._ a vagrant. [From _gang_--A.S. _gangan_,
to go, walk.]

GANGRENE, gang'gr[=e]n, _n._ loss of vitality in some part of the body: the
first stage in mortification.--_v.t._ to mortify.--_v.i._ to become
putrid.--_v.i._ GANG'RENATE, to become mortified.--_adjs._ GANGRENES'CENT,
becoming mortified; GANG'RENOUS, mortified. [L. _gangræna_--Gr.
_gangraina_, _grainein_, to gnaw.]

GANG-SAW, gang-saw, _n._ an arrangement of saws set in one frame.

GANGUE, GANG, gang, _n._ in mining, the stony matrix in which metallic ores
occur. [Fr.,--Ger. _gang_, a vein.]

GANGWAY, gang'w[=a], _n._ a passage or way by which to go into or out of
any place, esp. a ship: a way between rows of seats, esp. the cross-passage
in the House of Commons, about half-way down the House, giving access to
the rear-benches. The members 'above the gangway' are the ministers and
ex-ministers, with their more immediate supporters. [A.S. _gangweg_; cf.
_gang_ and way.]

GANISTER, GANNISTER, gan'is-ter, _n._ a hard, close-grained siliceous
stone, which often forms the stratum that underlies a coal-seam.

GANJA, gan'ja, _n._ an intoxicating preparation of Indian hemp.

GANNET, gan'et, _n._ a web-footed fowl found in the northern seas, the
best-known of which is the solan goose. [A.S. _ganot_, a sea-fowl; Dut.
_gent_.]

GANOID, gän'oid, _adj._ belonging to an order of fishes once very large,
but now decadent, including only seven genera (sturgeons, &c.).--_adj_.
GANOI'DIAN. [Gr. _ganos_, brightness, _eidos_, appearance.]

GANT, gänt, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to yawn--also GAUNT.--_n._ a yawn.

GANTLET, gant'let, _n._ a glove. [Same as GAUNTLET.]

GANTLET, gant'let, GANTLOPE, gant'l[=o]p, _n._ a punishment consisting of
driving a criminal through a lane formed by two files of men, who each
strike him as he passes.--RUN THE GANTLET, to undergo the punishment of the
gantlet: to be exposed to unpleasant remarks or treatment. [Confused with
_gauntlet_, but from Sw. _gatlopp_--_gata_ (Eng. _gate_), a street, line of
soldiers, _lopp_ (Eng. _leap_), course.]

GANTRY, gan'tri, _n._ a stand for barrels: a platform for a
travelling-crane, &c.--Also GAUN'TRY.

GANYMEDE, gan'i-m[=e]d, _n._ a cup-bearer, pot-boy, from the beautiful
youth who succeeded Hebe as cup-bearer to Zeus, being carried off to
Olympus by the eagle of Zeus: a catamite.

GAOL, GAOLER, old spellings of JAIL, JAILER.

GAP, gap, _n._ an opening made by rupture or parting: a cleft: a passage: a
deep ravine in a mountain-ridge: any breach of continuity.--_v.t._ to
notch: to make a gap in.--_adjs._ GAP'PY, full of gaps; GAP-TOOTHED,
lacking some of the teeth.--STAND IN THE GAP, to stand forward in active
defence of something; STOP A GAP, to repair a defect, close a breach. [M.
E. _gappe_--Ice. _gap_, an opening.]

GAPE, g[=a]p, _v.i._ to open the mouth wide: to yawn: to stare with open
mouth: to be open, like a gap.--_n._ act of gaping: width of the mouth when
opened.--_ns._ GAP'ER; GAPES, a disease of birds, owing to the presence of
trematode worms in the windpipe, shown by their uneasy gaping.--_adj._
GAP'ING, with mouth open in admiration.--_adv._ GAP'INGLY. [Ice. _gapa_, to
open the mouth; Ger. _gaffen_, to stare.]

GAR, gär, GARFISH, gär'fish, _n._ a long slender fish of the pike family,
with a pointed head. [A.S. _gár_, a dart.]

GAR, gär, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to cause, to compel. [Norse _ger(v)a_, to make
(A.S. _gierwan_, _giarwian_), Sw. _göra_, Dan. _gjöre_; cf. YARE.]

GARANCINE, gar'an-sin, _n._ a manufactured product of madder, used as a
dye. [Fr.,--_garance_, madder.]

GARB, gärb, _n._ fashion of dress: external appearance.--_v.t._ to clothe,
array. [O. Fr. _garbe_--It. _garbo_, grace; of Teut. origin.]

GARB, gärb, _n._ a sheaf of grain, frequently used in heraldry. [O. Fr.
_garbe_--Teut., as in Old High Ger. _garba_, a handful (Ger. _garbe_, Dut.
_garf_).]

GARBAGE, gär'b[=a]j, _n._ refuse, as the bowels of an animal: any worthless
matter. [Of doubtful origin; prob. O. Fr. _garbe_, a sheaf; not conn. with
_garble_.]

GARBLE, gär'bl, _v.t._ to select what may serve our own purpose, in a bad
sense: to mutilate, corrupt, or falsify.--_n._ GAR'BLER, one who selects.
[Most prob. It. _garbellare_--Ar. _ghirbál_, a sieve.]

GARBOARD-STRAKE, gär'b[=o]rd-str[=a]k, _n._ the first range of planks laid
on a ship's bottom next the keel. [Dut. _gaarboord_.]

GARBOIL, gär'boil, _n._ (_Shak._) disorder, uproar. [O. Fr. _garbouil_--It.
_garbuglio_, conn. with L. _bull[=i]re_, to boil.]

GARÇON, gär-song', _n._ a boy: a waiter. [Fr.]

GARDANT, gärd'ant, _adj._ (_her._) said of an animal represented as
full-faced and looking forward. [Fr., pr.p. of _garder_, to look.]

GARDEN, gär'dn, _n._ a piece of ground on which flowers, &c., are
cultivated: a pleasant spot.--_ns._ GAR'DENER; GAR'DEN-GLASS, a bell-glass
for covering plants; GAR'DENING, the act of laying out and cultivating
gardens; GAR'DEN-PAR'TY, a party held on the lawn or in the garden of a
private house.--GARDEN OF EDEN (see EDEN); HANGING GARDEN, a garden formed
in terraces rising one above another--e.g. those of Nebuchadnezzar at
Babylon; MARKET GARDENER, a gardener who raises vegetables, fruits, &c. for
sale; PHILOSOPHERS OF THE GARDEN, followers of Epicurus who taught in a
garden. [O. Fr. _gardin_ (Fr. _jardin_); from Teut.]

GARDENIA, gär-d[=e]'ni-a, _n._ a genus of _Cinchonaceæ_, tropical and
subtropical trees and shrubs, with beautiful and fragrant flowers. [Named
from the American botanist, Dr Alex. _Garden_ (died 1791).]

GARDYLOO, gär'di-l[=oo], _n._ the old warning cry of housewives in
Edinburgh before throwing their slops out of the window into the street.
[Pseudo-Fr. _gare de l'eau_--should be _gare l'eau_, 'beware of the
water.']

GARE, g[=a]r, _adj._ (_Scot._) greedy, miserly.

GAREFOWL, g[=a]r'fowl, _n._ the great auk, razor-billed auk. [Ice.
_geir-fugl_.]

GARFISH. See GAR (1).

GARGANTUAN, gär-gan't[=u]-an, _adj._ like Gargantua--i.e. enormous,
prodigious.--_ns._ GARGAN'TUISM; GARGAN'TUIST. [From _Gargantua_, the hero
of Rabelais, described as a giant of vast appetite.]

GARGARISM, gär'ga-rizm, _n._ a gargle.--_v.t._ GAR'GARISE.

GARGET, gar'get, _n._ a swelling in the throat of cattle and pigs:
inflammation of a cow's udder.--Also GAR'GIL.

GARGLE, gär'gl, _v.t._ to wash the throat, preventing the liquid from going
down by expelling air against it.--_n._ a preparation for washing the
throat. [O. Fr. _gargouiller_--_gargouille_, the throat.]

[Illustration]

GARGOYLE, gär'goil, _n._ a projecting spout, conveying the water from the
roof-gutters of buildings, often representing human or other figures. [O.
Fr. _gargouille_--L. _gurgulio_, throat.]

GARIBALDI, gar-i-bal'di, _n._ a woman's loose blouse, an imitation of the
red shirts worn by the followers of the Italian patriot _Garibaldi_
(1807-1882).

GARISH, GAIRISH, g[=a]r'ish, _adj._ showy: gaudy.--_adv._ GAR'ISHLY.--_n._
GAR'ISHNESS. [Earlier _gaurish_, _gawrish_--_gaure_, to stare, perh. a
freq. of _gaw_, to stare, cf. Ice. _gá_, to heed.]

GARLAND, gär'land, _n._ a wreath of flowers or leaves: a name for a book of
extracts in prose or poetry: (_Shak._) the thing most prized.--_v.t._ to
deck with a garland.--_n._ GAR'LAND[=A]GE, a decoration of
garlands.--_adj._ GAR'LANDLESS.--_n._ GAR'LANDRY, garlands
collectively.--CIVIC GARLAND, a crown of oak-leaves bestowed on a Roman
soldier who saved a fellow-citizen's life in battle. [O. Fr. _garlande_;
prob. Old High Ger. _wiara_, fine ornament.]

GARLICK, gär'lik, _n._ a bulbous-rooted plant of genus Allium, having a
pungent taste and very strong smell.--_adj._ GAR'LICKY, like garlick. [A.S.
_gárléac_--_gár_, a spear, _léac_, a leek.]

GARMENT, gär'ment, _n._ any article of clothing, as a coat or gown.--_v.t._
to clothe with a garment.--_adjs._ GAR'MENTED; GAR'MENTLESS.--_n._
GAR'MENTURE, clothing. [O. Fr. _garniment_--_garnir_, to furnish.]

GARNER, gär'n[.e]r, _n._ a granary or place where grain is stored up: a
store of anything--e.g. experience.--_v.t._ to store as in a
garner.--_v.i._ (_rare_) to accumulate.--_n._ GAR'NERAGE, a storehouse. [O.
Fr. _gernier_ (Fr. _grenier_)--L. _granarium_, -_ia_, a granary.]

GARNET, gär'net, _n._ a precious stone belonging to a group of minerals
crystallising in the cubical system. [O. Fr. _grenat_--Low L. _granatum_,
pomegranate; or Low L. _granum_, grain, cochineal, red dye.]

GARNISH, gär'nish, _v.t._ to adorn: to furnish: to surround with ornaments,
as a dish.--_n._ entrance-money: something placed round a principal dish at
table, whether for embellishment or relish: a gift of money, esp. that
formerly paid by a prisoner to his fellow-prisoners on his first
admission.--_ns._ GAR'NISHEE, a person warned not to pay money owed to
another, because the latter is indebted to the garnisher who gives the
warning (_v.t._ to attach a debtor's money in this way); GARNISHEE'MENT;
GAR'NISHER, one who garnishes; GAR'NISHING, GAR'NISHMENT, GAR'NITURE, that
which garnishes or embellishes: ornament: apparel: trimming; GAR'NISHRY,
adornment. [O. Fr. _garniss_-, stem of _garnir_, to furnish, old form
_warnir_, from a Teut. root seen in A.S. _warnian_, Ger. _warnen_, Eng.
_warn_.]

GARRET, gar'et, _n._ (_Shak._) a watch-tower: a room next the roof of a
house.--_p.adj._ GARR'ETED, provided with garrets: lodged in a
garret.--_ns._ GARRETEER', one who lives in a garret: a poor author;
GARR'ET-MAS'TER, a cabinet-maker, locksmith, &c., working on his own
account for the dealers. [O. Fr. _garite_, a place of safety, _guarir_,
_warir_, to preserve (Fr. _guérir_)--Teut., Old High Ger. _warjan_, to
defend.]

GARRISON, gar'i-sn, _n._ a supply of soldiers for guarding a fortress: a
fortified place.--_v.t._ to furnish a fortress with troops: to defend by
fortresses manned with troops.--GARRISON TOWN, a town in which a garrison
is stationed. [O. Fr. _garison_--_garir_, _guerir_, to furnish--Teut., Old
High Ger. _warjan_, to defend.]

GARRON, gar'on, _n._ a small horse.--Also GARR'AN. [Ir.]

GARROT, gar'ot, _n._ a name applied to various ducks. [Fr.]

GARROT, gar'ot, _n._ (_surg._) a tourniquet. [Fr.]

GARROTTE, GAROTTE, gar-rot', _n._ a Spanish mode of strangling
criminals.--_v.t._ to strangle by a brass collar tightened by a screw,
whose point enters the spinal marrow: to suddenly render insensible by
semi-strangulation, and then to rob:--_pr.p._ garrott'ing, garott'ing;
_pa.p._ garrott'ed, garott'ed.--_ns._ GARROTT'ER, GAROTT'ER, one who
garrottes; GARROTT'ING, GAROTT'ING. [Sp. _garrote_; cf. Fr. _garrot_, a
stick.]

GARRULOUS, gar'[=u]-lus, _adj._ talkative.--_ns._ GARRUL'ITY,
GARR'ULOUSNESS, talkativeness: loquacity.--_adv._ GARR'ULOUSLY. [L.
_garrulus_--_garr[=i]re_, to chatter.]

GARTER, gär't[.e]r, _n._ a band used to tie the stocking to the leg: the
badge of the highest order of knighthood in Great Britain, called the
_Order of the Garter_.--_v.t._ to bind with a garter.--GARTER KING-OF-ARMS,
the chief herald of the Order of the Garter. [O. Fr. _gartier_ (Fr.
_jarretière_)--O. Fr. _garet_ (Fr. _jarret_), the ham of the leg, prob.
Celt. as Bret. _gar_, the shank of the leg.]

GARTH, gärth, _n._ an enclosure or yard: a garden: a weir in a river for
catching fish. [Ice. _garðr_, a court; cf. A.S. _geard_; Ger. _garten_,
yard.]

GARUDA, gär'[=oo]-da, _n._ a Hindu demigod, with the body and legs of a
man, the head and wings of a bird, emblem of strength and speed. [Sans.]

GARVIE, gär'vi, _n._ (_Scot._) a sprat.--Also GAR'VOCK. [Gael. _garbhag_.]

GAS, gas, _n._ a vaporous substance not condensed into a liquid at ordinary
terrestrial temperatures and pressures--esp. that obtained from coal, used
in lighting houses: (_coll._) frothy talk:--_pl._ GAS'ES.--_v.t._ to supply
with gas: (_U.S._) to impose on by talking gas.--_v.i._ to vapour, talk
boastfully.--_ns._ GASALIER', GASELIER', a hanging frame with branches for
gas-jets, formed on false analogy from _chandelier_; GAS'-BAG, a bag for
holding gas: a boastful, talkative person; GAS'-BRACK'ET, a pipe, mostly
curved, projecting from the wall of a room, used for illuminating purposes;
GAS'-BURN'ER, a piece of metal fitted to the end of a gas-pipe, with one or
more small holes so arranged as to spread out the flame; GAS'-COAL, any
coal suitable for making illuminating gas; GAS'-CONDENS'ER, an apparatus
for freeing coal-gas from tar; GAS[=E]'ITY, G[=A]'SEOUSNESS.--_adj._
GASEOUS (g[=a]'se-us).--_ns._ GAS'-EN'GINE, an engine in which motion is
communicated to the piston by the alternate admission and condensation of
gas in a closed cylinder; GAS'-FIT'TER, one who fits up the pipes and
brackets for gas-lighting; GAS'-FIX'TURE, a bracket or chandelier for gas;
GAS'-FUR'NACE, a furnace of which the fuel is gas; GAS'HOLDER, a large
vessel for storing gas; GASIFIC[=A]'TION, the process of converting into
gas.--_v.t._ GAS'IFY, to convert into gas.--_ns._ GAS'-JET, a gas-burner;
GAS'-LAMP, a lamp lighted by gas; GAS'-MAIN, one of the principal
underground pipes conveying gas from the works to the places where it is
consumed; GAS'-MAN, a man employed in the manufacture of gas: the man who
controls the lights of the stage; GAS'-M[=E]'TER, an instrument for
measuring the quantity of gas consumed at a particular place in a given
time; GAS'OGENE (same as GAZOGENE); GAS'OLENE, rectified petroleum;
GASOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring gas: a place for holding
gas.--_adjs._ GASOMET'RIC, -AL.--_ns._ GAS'-PIPE, a pipe for conveying gas;
GAS'SING, idle talking; GAS'-STOVE, an apparatus in which coal-gas is used
for heating and cooking purposes.--_adj._ GAS'SY, full of gas, gaseous:
(_slang_) given to vain and boastful talk.--_ns._ GAS'-TANK, a reservoir
for coal-gas; GAS'-TAR, coal-tar.--_adj._ GAS'-TIGHT, sufficiently close to
prevent the escape of gas.--_ns._ GAS'-WA'TER, water through which coal-gas
has been passed; GAS'-WORKS, an establishment where illuminating gas is
manufactured. [A word invented by the Dutch chemist J. B. Van Helmont
(1577-1644)--the form suggested by Gr. _chaos_.]

GASCONADE, gas-ko-n[=a]d', _n._ boasting talk.--_ns._ GAS'CON, a native of
Gascony; GAS'CONISM. [Fr.,--_Gascon_, from their proverbial boastfulness.]

GASH, gash, _v.t._ to make a deep cut into anything, esp. into flesh.--_n._
a deep, open wound. [Formerly _garse_--O. Fr. _garser_, pierce with a
lancet--Low L. _garsa_. Perh. corrupted from Gr. _charassein_, to cut.]

GASH, gash, _adj._ (_Scot._) shrewd: talkative: trim.--_v.i._ to tattle.
[Prob. a corr. of _sagacious_.]

GASH, gash, _adj._ (_Scot._) ghastly, hideous--also GASH'FUL,
GASH'LY.--_n._ GASH'LINESS.--_adv._ GASH'LY. [From _ghastful_, through
association with _gash_.]

GASKET, gas'ket, _n._ (_naut._) a canvas band used to bind the sails to the
yards when furled: a strip of tow, &c., for packing a piston, &c.--Also
GAS'KIN. [Cf. Fr. _garcette_, It. _gaschetta_; ety. dub.]

GASKINS, gas'kinz, _n._ (_Shak._). See GALLIGASKINS.

GASP, gasp, _v.i._ to gape in order to catch breath: to desire
eagerly.--_n._ the act of opening the mouth to catch the breath.--_pr.p._
and _adj._ GASP'ING, convulsive, spasmodic.--_adv._ GASP'INGLY.--THE LAST
GASP, the utmost extremity. [Ice. _geispa_, to yawn, by metathesis from
_geipsa_, cf. _geip_, idle talk.]

GAST, gast, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to make aghast, to frighten or terrify. [A.S.
_g['æ]stan_; cf. AGHAST.]

GASTEROPOD, gas'ter-o-pod, _n._ one of a class of molluscs, embracing
whelks, limpets, snails, &c., having in general a muscular disc under the
belly, which serves them as feet--also GAS'TROPOD:--_pl._
GASTEROP'ODA.--_adj._ GASTEROP'ODOUS. [Formed from Gr. _gast[=e]r_, the
stomach, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

GASTRÆA, gas-tr[=e]'a, _n._ (_biol._) a hypothetic animal form assumed by
Hæckel as the ancestor of all metazoic animals:--_pl._ GASTRÆ'Æ.--_n._
GAS'TRULA, that embryonic form of metazoic animals which consists of a
two-layered sac enclosing a central cavity and having an opening at one
end:--_pl._ GRAS'TRULÆ.--_adj._ GAS'TRULAR.

GASTRALGIA, gas-tral'ji-a, _n._ pain in the stomach or bowels. [Gr.
_gast[=e]r_, the stomach, _algos_, pain.]

GASTRIC, gas'trik, _adj._ belonging to the stomach--also GAS'TRAL.--_ns._
GASTR[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the stomach; GASTROL'OGER.--_adj._
GASTROLOG'ICAL.--_n._ GASTROL'OGY, cookery, good eating.--GASTRIC FEVER, a
bilious remittent fever; GASTRIC JUICE, the digestive liquid secreted by
the glands of the stomach. [Gr. _gast[=e]r_, the belly.]

GASTROCNEMIUS, gas-trok-n[=e]'mi-us, _n._ a superficial muscle of the
posterior tibial region helping to extend the foot. [Gr. _gast[=e]r_,
stomach, _kn[=e]m[=e]_, the leg.]

GASTROMANCY, gas'tro-man-si, _n._ a means of divination by ventriloquism:
divination by large-bellied glasses. [Gr. _gast[=e]r_, belly, _manteia_,
soothsaying.]

GASTRONOME, gas'tro-n[=o]m, _n._ one who pays great attention to his diet,
an epicure--also GASTRON'OMER, GASTRON'OMIST.--_adjs._ GASTRONOM'IC, -AL,
pertaining to gastronomy.--_ns._ GASTRON'OMY, the art or science of good
eating; GAS'TROPHILE, GAS'TROPHILIST, GAS'TROPHILITE; GAS'TROPHILISM, love
of good eating; GAS'TROSOPH, one skilled in matters of eating;
GASTROS'OPHER; GASTROS'OPHY. [Gr. _gast[=e]r_, belly, _nomos_,
law--_nemein_, to distribute.]

GASTROSTOMY, gas-tros'to-mi, _n._ an operation performed in a case of
stricture of the gullet, to introduce food into the stomach through an
external opening. [Gr. _gast[=e]r_, belly, _stoma_, mouth.]

GASTROTOMY, gas-trot'o-mi, _n._ the operation of cutting open the belly.
[Gr. _gast[=e]r_, belly, _tom[=e]_, a cutting--_temnein_, to cut.]

GASTRO-VASCULAR, gas-tr[=o]-vas'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ common to the functions
of digestion and circulation.

GAT, gat (_B._) _pa.t._ of _get_.

GAT, gat, _n._ an opening between sandbanks, a strait. [Ice.]

GATE, g[=a]t, _n._ a passage into a city, enclosure, or any large building:
a narrow opening or defile: a frame in the entrance into any enclosure: an
entrance.--_v.t._ to supply with a gate: at Oxford and Cambridge, to punish
by requiring the offender to be within the college gates by a certain
hour.--_adj._ G[=A]'TED, punished with such restriction.--_ns._ GATE'-FINE,
the fine imposed for disobedience to such orders; GATE'-HOUSE (_archit._),
a building over or near the gate giving entrance to a city, abbey, college,
&c.; GATE'-KEEP'ER, GATE'MAN, one who watches over the opening and shutting
of a gate.--_adj._ GATE'LESS, not having a gate.--_ns._ GATE'-MON'EY, the
money taken for entrance to an athletic or other exhibition, sometimes
simply 'gate;' GATE'-TOW'ER, a tower built beside or over a gate;
GATE'-VEIN, the great abdominal vein; GATE'WAY, the way through a gate: the
gate itself: any entrance.--GATE OF JUSTICE, a gate as of a city, temple,
&c., where a sovereign or judge sat to dispense justice; GATES OF DEATH, a
phrase expressing the near approach of death.--BREAK GATES, at Oxford and
Cambridge, to enter college after the prescribed hour; IVORY GATE, in
poetical imagery, the semi-transparent gate of the house of sleep, through
which dreams appear distorted into pleasant and delusive shapes; STAND IN
THE GATE (_B._), to occupy a position of defence. [A.S. _geat_, a way; Dut.
_gat_, Ice. _gat_; not in Goth. and High Ger.; prob. related to _get_ or
_gate_.]

GATE, g[=a]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a way, path: manner of doing, esp. in
adverbial phrases like 'this gate,' 'any gate,' 'some gate.' [Ice. _gata_;
Da. _gade_, Ger. _gasse_.]

GATE, g[=a]t, _n._ (_Spens._) a goat. [A.S. _gat._]

GÂTEAU, gat-[=o]', _n._ cake.--VEAL GATEAU, minced veal made up like a
pudding, and boiled in a shape or mould. [Fr.]

GATHER, ga_th_'[.e]r, _v.t._ to collect: to acquire: in sewing, to plait:
to learn by inference.--_v.i._ to assemble or muster: to increase: to
suppurate.--_n._ a plait or fold in cloth, made by drawing the thread
through (_pl._ that part of the dress which is gathered or drawn
in).--_ns._ GATH'ERER, one who collects: a gleaner: in glass manufacturing,
a workman who collects molten glass on the end of a rod preparatory to
blowing; GATH'ERING, a crowd or assembly: a tumour or collection of matter;
GATH'ERING-COAL, -PEAT, a coal, peat, put into a fire at night, with the
hot embers gathered about it, to keep the fire alive till morning;
GATH'ERING-CRY, a summons to assemble for war.--GATHER BREATH, to recover
wind; GATHER GROUND, to gain ground; GATHER ONE'S SELF TOGETHER, to collect
all one's powers, like one about to leap; GATHER TO A HEAD, to ripen: to
come into a state of preparation for action or effect; GATHER WAY, to get
headway by sail or steam so as to answer the helm. [A.S. _gaderian_,
_gæderian_, _(tó)gædere_, together; cf. _geador_, together, _g['æ]d_,
company.]

GATLING-GUN. See GUN.

GAUCHE, g[=o]sh, _adj._ left-handed: clumsy.--_n._ GAUCHE'RIE (-r[=e]),
clumsiness: awkwardness. [Fr.]

GAUCHO, gow'ch[=o], _n._ a native of the La Plata pampas of Spanish
descent, noted for marvellous horsemanship.--Less correctly GUA'CHO.

GAUCIE, GAUCY, GAWCY, GAWSY, gä'si, _adj._ _(Scot.)_ portly, jolly.

GAUD, gawd, _n._ an ornament: a piece of finery:--_pl._ showy ceremonies,
gaieties.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) make merry.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to adorn with
gauds: to paint, as the cheeks.--_ns._ GAUDE[=A]'MUS, a rejoicing,
students' merrymaking; GAUD'ERY, finery.--_adv._ GAUD'ILY.--_ns._
GAUD'INESS, showiness; GAUD'Y, an English university feast or
festival.--_adj._ showy: gay.--_n._ GAUD'Y-DAY. [L. _gaudium_,
delight--_gaud[=e]re_, to rejoice.]

GAUGE, GAGE, g[=a]j, _n._ a measuring-rod: a standard of measure:
estimate.--_v.t._ to measure the contents of any vessel: to estimate
ability.--_adj._ GAUGE'ABLE, capable of being gauged.--_ns._ GAUG'ER, an
excise officer whose business is to gauge or measure the contents of casks;
GAUG'ING, the art of measuring casks containing excisable liquors;
GAUG'ING-ROD, an instrument for measuring the contents of casks; BROAD'-,
NARR'OW-GAUGE, in railroad construction, a distance between the rails
greater or less than 56½ inches, called _standard gauge_. [O. Fr. _gauge_
(Fr. _jauge_), _gauger_; prob. related to _jale_, bowl, to _galon_, gallon,
or to _jalon_, measuring stake.]

GAUL, gawl, _n._ a name of ancient France: an inhabitant of Gaul.--_adj._
GAUL'ISH. [Fr.,--L. _Gallus_; perh. conn. with A.S. _wealh_, foreign.]

GAULT, gawlt, _n._ a series of beds of clay and marl, between the Upper and
the Lower Greensand: brick earth--also GALT.--_n._ GAULT'ER, one who digs
gault.

GAULTHERIA, gal-t[=e]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of evergreen aromatic plants--one
species, the U.S. _winter-green_, yielding a valued volatile oil. [From the
Canadian botanist M. _Gaultier_.]

GAUM, gawm, _v.t._ to smear: (_obs._) to handle clumsily.--_adj._ GAUM'Y,
dauby.

GAUN, gän, Scotch for going.

GAUNT, gänt, _adj._ thin: of a pinched appearance: causing
emaciation.--_adv._ GAUNT'LY.--_n._ GAUNT'NESS. [Skeat compares Norw.
_gand_, pointed stick, and Sw. prov. _gank_, a lean horse.]

GAUNTLET, gänt'let, _n._ the iron glove of armour, formerly thrown down in
challenge: a long glove covering the wrist.--_p.adj._ GAUNT'LETED, wearing
a gauntlet or gauntlets.--_n._ GAUNT'LET-GUARD, a guard of a sword or
dagger, protecting the hand very thoroughly.--RUN THE GAUNTLET (see
GANTLET).--THROW DOWN, TAKE UP, THE GAUNTLET, to give, to accept a
challenge. [Fr. _gantelet_, double dim. of _gant_, a glove, of Scand.
origin; cf. Old Sw. _vante_, a glove, Ice. _vöttr_, a glove, Dan. _vante_.]

GAUNTRY. See GANTRY.

GAUP, GAWP, gawp, _v.i._ (prov.) to gape in astonishment.--_ns._ GAUP'US,
GAWP'US, a silly person.

GAUR, gowr, _n._ a species of ox inhabiting some of the mountain jungles of
India. [Hindustani.]

GAUZE, gawz, _n._ a thin, transparent fabric, originally of silk, now of
any fine hard-spun fibre: material slight and open like gauze.--_adj._
GAUZE'-WINGED, having gauzy wings.--_n._ GAUZ'INESS.--_adj._ GAUZ'Y.--_n._
WIRE'-GAUZE (see WIRE). [Fr. _gaze_, dubiously referred to _Gaza_ in
Palestine.]

GAVAGE, ga-väzh', _n._ a process of fattening poultry by forcing them to
swallow food at fixed intervals: (_med._) a similar method of forced
feeding. [Fr. _gaver_--_gave_, the crop of a bird.]

GAVE, g[=a]v, _pa.t._ of _give_.

GAVEL, g[=a]'vel, a prov. form of _gable_.

GAVEL, gav'el, _n._ an old Saxon and Welsh form of tenure by which an
estate passed, on the holder's death, to all the sons equally.--_v.t._ to
divide or distribute in this way.--_ns._ GAV'ELKIND, a tenure now peculiar
to Kent by which the tenant at fifteen can sell the estate or devise it by
will, the estate cannot escheat, and on an intestacy the lands descend from
the father to all sons in equal portions; GAV'ELMAN, a tenant holding land
in gavelkind. [A.S. _gafol_, tribute; cog. with _giefan_, to give.]

GAVIAL, g[=a]'vi-al, _n._ the East Indian species of crocodile, with very
long slender muzzle. [Adapted from Hindustani _ghariy[=a]l_, a crocodile.]

GAVOTTE, ga-vot', n. a lively kind of dance, somewhat like a country-dance,
originally a dance of the _Gavotes_, the people of Gap, in the Upper Alps:
the music for such a dance.

GAWD, gawd, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as GAUD.

GAWK, gawk, _adj._ left, as in _gawk-handed_.--_ns._ GAWK'IHOOD,
GAWK'INESS, quality of being gawky.--_adj._ GAWK'Y, awkward, stupid,
ungainly.--_n._ a lout. [Prob. a contr. of _gaulick_-, _galloc_-,
_gallish_-(_handed_); most prob. not related to Fr. _gauche_.]

GAY, g[=a], _adj._ lively: bright: sportive, merry: wanton, dissipated, of
loose life: showy: (_prov._) spotted.--adv. (_Scot._) fairly,
considerably.--_ns._ GAI'ETY, GAY'ETY, GAY'NESS.--_advs._ GAI'LY, GAY'LY;
GAY'SOME, gladsome.--GAY SCIENCE, a rendering of _gai saber_, the Provençal
name for the art of poetry. [O. Fr. _gai_--Old High Ger. _wâhi_, pretty,
not _gâhi_, swift (Diez).]

GAYAL, GYAL, g[=i]'al, _n._ a kind of East Indian ox, long domesticated,
dark brown in colour, with short curved horns. [Hindi.]

GAY-YOU, g[=i]'-[=u], _n._ a narrow, flat-bottomed fishing-boat, of two or
three masts, used in Annam.

GAZE, g[=a]z, _v.i_, to look fixedly.--_n._ a fixed look: the object gazed
at--(_Spens._) GAZE'MENT.--_adj._ GAZE'FUL (_Spens._), looking
intently.--_ns._ GAZE'-HOUND, a hound that pursues by sight rather than
scent; GAZ'ER, one who gazes; GAZ'ING-STOCK, a person exposed to public
view, generally in a bad sense.--AT GAZE, in the attitude of gazing. [Prob.
cog. with obs. _gaw_, to stare, Ice. _gá_, to heed. Some compare the Sw.
_gasa_, to stare.]

GAZEBO, g[=a]-z[=e]'b[=o], _n._ a summer-house with a wide prospect.
[Humorously formed from _gaze_.]

GAZEL, gaz'el, _n._ a form of GHAZAL (q.v.).

GAZELLE, GAZEL, ga-zel', _n._ a small species of antelope with beautiful
dark eyes, found in Arabia and North Africa. [Fr.,--Ar. _ghaz[=a]l_, a
wild-goat.]

GAZETTE, ga-zet', _n._ a newspaper: one of the three official newspapers of
the United Kingdom, published in Edinburgh, London, and Dublin, with record
of every appointment in the public service.--_v.t._ to publish in a
gazette:--_pr.p._ gazett'ing; _pa.p._ gazett'ed.--_n._ GAZETTEER', a
geographical dictionary: (_orig._) a writer for a gazette, official
journalist.--_v.t._ to describe in gazetteers.--_adj._ GAZETTEE'RISH, like
a gazetteer in style.--APPEAR, HAVE ONE'S NAME, IN THE GAZETTE, to be
mentioned in one of the three official newspapers, esp. of bankrupts.
[Fr.,--It. _gazzetta_, a small coin; or from It. _gazzetta_, in the sense
of a magpie=a chatterer.]

GAZOGENE, gaz'o-j[=e]n, _n._ an instrument for manufacturing aerated
waters, usually for domestic use, by the action of an acid on an alkali
carbonate. [Fr., _gaz_, gas, Gr. _gen[=e]s_--_gignesthai_, to become.]

GAZON, ga-zon', _n._ a sod or piece of turf, used in fortification.--_n._
GAZOON', used erroneously by Hogg for a compact body of men. [Fr.,
_grass_.]

GAZY, g[=a]'zi, _adj._ affording a wide prospect: given to gazing.

GEACH, g[=e]ch, _n._ (_slang_) a thief.--_v.t._ to steal.

GEAL, j[=e]'al, adj. pertaining to the earth regarded as a planet. [Gr.
_g[=e]_, earth.]

GEAL, j[=e]l, _v.i._ to congeal.

GEAN, g[=e]n, _n._ the European wild cherry. [O. Fr. _guigne_.]

GEAR, g[=e]r, _n._ a state of preparation: dress: harness: tackle:
(_mech._) connection by means of toothed wheels: (_obs._) a matter,
affair.--_v.t._ to put in gear, as machinery.--_p.adj._ GEARED, connected
with the motor by gearing.--_ns._ GEAR'ING, harness: working implements:
(_mech._) a train of toothed wheels and pinions; GEAR'-WHEEL, a wheel with
teeth or cogs which impart or transmit motion by acting on those of another
wheel; DRIV'ING-GEAR, those parts in a machine most nearly concerned in
imparting motion.--MULTIPLYING GEARING, a combination of cog-wheels for
imparting motion from wheels of larger to wheels of smaller diameter, by
which the rate of revolution is increased; OUT OF GEAR, out of running
order, unprepared; STRAIGHT GEARING, the name given when the planes of
motion are parallel--opposed to _Bevelled gearing_, when the direction is
changed (see BEVEL). [M. E. _gere_, prob. Ice. _gervi_; cf. A.S. _gearwe_,
Old High Ger. _garawi_, Eng. _yare_ and _gar_, v.]

GEASON, g[=e]'zn, _adj._ (_Spens._) rare: wonderful. [A.S. _g['æ]sne_,
_gésne_, wanting, barren.]

GEAT, j[=e]t, _n._ the hole in a mould through which the metal is poured in
casting.

GEBBIE, geb'i, _n._ (_Scot._) the stomach.

GEBUR, ge-b[=oo]r', _n._ a tenant-farmer in the early English community.

GECK, gek, _n._ a dupe: scorn, object of scorn.--_v.t._ to mock.--_v.i._ to
scoff at. [Prob. Low Ger. _geck_; Dut. _gek_, Ger. _geck_.]

GECKO, gek'[=o], _n._ one of a family of small dull-coloured lizards called
_Geckotidæ_. [Malay _g[=e]koq_.]

GED, ged, _n._ (_prov._) the pike or luce. [Ice. _gedda_.]

GEE, g[=e], _n._ (_prov._) a fit of ill-temper, usually in phrase 'to take
the gee.'

GEE, j[=e], _v.i._ of horses, to move to the offside--the right, the driver
standing on the left.--_v.t._ to cause so to move.--_v.i._ to go, to suit,
get on well.--_n._ GEE-GEE, a horse.--GEE UP, to proceed faster.

GEESE, _pl._ of _goose_.

GEËZ, g[=e]-ez', GIZ, g[=e]z, _n._ the ancient language of Ethiopia, a
Semitic tongue closely related to Arabic.

GEGG, geg, _n._ (_Scot._) a hoax, trick.--_v.t._ to hoax.--_n._ GEG'GERY,
trickery.

GEHENNA, ge-hen'a, _n._ the valley of Hinnom, near Jerusalem, in which the
Israelites sacrificed their children to Moloch, and to which, at a later
time, the refuse of the city was conveyed to be slowly burned--hence
(_N.T._) hell. [L.,--Heb. _Ge_, valley of, and _Hinnom_.]

GEISHA, g[=a]'sha, _n._ a Japanese dancing-girl.

GEIST, g[=i]st, _n._ spirit, any inspiring or dominating principle. [Ger.]

GELASTIC, jel-as'tik, _adj._ risible.

GELATINE, GELATIN, jel'a-tin, _n._ an animal substance which dissolves in
hot water and forms a jelly when cold.--_adj._ GELATIG'ENOUS, producing
gelatine.--_vs.t._ GELAT'IN[=A]TE, GELAT'IN[=I]SE, to make into gelatine or
jelly.--_vs.i._ to be converted into gelatine or jelly.--_ns._
GELATIN[=A]'TION, GELATINIS[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ GELATIN'IFORM, having the
form of gelatine; GELA'TINOID, like gelatine; GELAT'INOUS, resembling or
formed into jelly.--_n._ GEL[=A]'TION, solidification by cold.--EXPLOSIVE
GELATINE, a powerful explosive made by gently heating nitro-glycerine in a
water-bath, then dissolving gun-cotton in it. [Fr.,--It. _gelatina_,
_gelata_, jelly.]

GELD, geld, _n._ a historical term meaning money: tribute. [A.S. _geld_,
_gyld_, payment; Ice. _giald_, money.]

GELD, geld, _v.t._ to emasculate, castrate: to spay: to deprive of anything
essential, to enfeeble: to deprive of anything objectionable.--_ns._
GELD'ER; GELD'ING, act of castrating: a castrated animal, esp. a horse.
[Ice. _gelda_; Dan. _gilde_.]

GELDER(S)-ROSE. See GUELDER-ROSE.

GELID, jel'id, _adj._ icy cold: cold.--_adv._ GEL'IDLY.--_ns._ GEL'IDNESS,
GELID'ITY. [L. _gelidus_--_gelu_, frost.]

GELOTOMETER, jel-ot-om'e-ter, _n._ (_Landor_) a gauge for measuring
laughter.

GELSEMIUM, jel-s[=e]'mi-um, _n._ the yellow or Cardina jasmine, a climbing
plant of the Atlantic Southern United States, having large fragrant
blossoms and perennial dark-green leaves. [It. _gelsomino_, jasmine.]

GELT, gelt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _geld_.

GELT, gelt, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as GILT.

GEM, jem, _n._ any precious stone, esp. when cut: anything extremely
valuable or attractive, a treasure.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to bud: to adorn with
gems: to bespangle:--_pr.p._ gem'ming; _pa.p._ gemmed.--_ns._
GEM'-CUT'TING, the art of cutting and polishing precious stones;
GEM'-ENGRAV'ING, the art of engraving figures on gems.--_adj._ GEM'MEOUS,
pertaining to gems.--_n._ GEM'MERY, gems generally.--_adj._ GEM'MY, full of
gems, brilliant. [A.S. _gim_; Old High Ger. _gimma_--L. _gemma_, a bud.]

GEMARA, ge-mär'a, _n._ the second part of the Talmud, consisting of
commentary and complement to the first part, the Mishna. [Aramaic,
'completion.']

GEMATRIA, ge-m[=a]'tri-a, _n._ a cabbalistic method of interpreting the
Hebrew Scriptures by interchanging words whose letters have the same
numerical value when added. [Rabbinical Heb.,--Gr. _ge[=o]metria_,
geometry.]

GEMEL-RING, jem'el-ring, _n._ a ring with two or more links.--_n._ GEM'EL,
a twin.--_adj._ GEMELLIP'AROUS, producing twins. [O. Fr. _gemel_ (Fr.
_jumeau_)--L. _gemellus_, dim. of _geminus_, twin, and _ring_.]

GEMINATE, jem'in-[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) in pairs.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to
double.--_n._ GEMIN[=A]'TION, a doubling: repetition of a word to add
emphasis: (_philol._) the doubling of a consonant originally single. [L.
_gemin[=a]re_, _[=a]tum_--_geminus_, twin.]

GEMINI, jem'i-n[=i], _n.pl._ the twins, a constellation containing the two
bright stars Castor and Pollux.--_adj._ GEM'INOUS (_bot._), double, in
pairs.--_n._ GEM'INY (_Shak._), twins, a pair: used as a mild oath or
interjection, from the common Latin oath _O Gemini_, or simply
_Gemini_--spelt also _geminy_, _gemony_, _jiminy_. [L., pl. of _geminus_,
twin-born.]

GEMMAN, jem'an, _n._ gentleman.--Also GEM'MAN.

GEMMATION, jem-m[=a]'shun, _n._ (_bot._) act or time of budding:
arrangement of buds on the stalk.--_n._ GEM'MA, a bud:--_pl._
GEM'MÆ.--_adjs._ GEMM[=A]'CEOUS, pertaining to leaf-buds; GEM'M[=A]TE,
having buds; GEM'MATIVE; GEMMIF'EROUS, producing buds.--_n._
GEMMIPAR'ITY.--_adj._ GEMMIP'AROUS (_zool._), reproducing by buds growing
on the body.--_n._ GEM'M[=U]LE, a little gem or leaf-bud.--_adj._
GEMMULIF'EROUS, bearing gemmules. [Fr.,--L. _gemm[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

GEMOT, GEMOTE, ge-m[=o]t', _n._ a meeting or assembly. [A.S. _gemót_. Cf.
MOOT.]

GEMSBOK, jemz'bok, _n._ a species of antelope, found in South Africa, about
the size of a stag, with long straight horns. [Dut.]

GENAPPE, je-nap', _n._ a smooth worsted yarn used with silk in fringes,
braid, &c. [_Genappe_ in Belgium.]

GENDARME, jang-darm', _n._ originally a mounted lancer, but since the
Revolution one of a corps of military police, divided into legions and
companies:--_pl._ GENDARMES', GENSDARMES'.--_n._ GENDAR'MERIE, the armed
police of France. [Fr. _gendarme_, sing. from pl. _gens d'armes_,
men-at-arms--_gens_, people, _de_, of, _armes_, arms.]

GENDER, jen'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to beget.--_v.i._ (_B._) to copulate. [An
abbrev. of _engender_.]

GENDER, jen'd[.e]r, _n._ kind, esp. with regard to sex: (_gram._) the
distinction of nouns according to sex. [Fr. _genre_--L. _genus_, _generis_,
a kind, kin.]

GENEALOGY, jen-e-al'o-ji, _n._ history of the descent of families: the
pedigree of a particular person or family.--_adj._ GENEALOG'ICAL.--_adv._
GENEALOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ GENEAL'OGISE, to investigate or treat of
genealogy.--_n._ GENEAL'OGIST, one who studies or traces genealogies or
descents.--GENEALOGICAL TREE, the lineage of a family or person under the
form of a tree with roots, branches, &c. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_genealogia_--_genea_, birth, _legein_, to speak of.]

GENERA. See GENUS.

GENERAL, jen'[.e]r-al, _adj._ relating to a genus or whole class: including
many species: not special: not restricted: common: prevalent: public:
loose: vague.--_n._ a class embracing many species: an officer who is head
over a whole department: a military officer who commands a body of men not
less than a brigade (often _general officer_): the chief commander of an
army in service: (_R.C. Church_) the head of a religious order, responsible
only to the Pope: (_Shak._) the public, the vulgar.--_n._ GENERAL'[=E],
esp. in _pl._ GENERALIA, general principles.--_adj._
GENERAL[=I]'SABLE.--_n._ GENERALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ GENERAL[=I]SE', to
include under a general term: to infer (the nature of a class) from one or
a few instances.--_v.i._ to reason inductively.--_n._ GENERAL'ITY.--_advs._
GEN'ERALLY, GEN'ERAL (_obs._), in a general or collective manner or sense:
in most cases: upon the whole.--_n._ GEN'ERALSHIP, the position of a
military commander: military tactics.--GENERAL ASSEMBLY (see ASSEMBLY);
GENERAL EPISTLE, one addressed to the whole Church (same as CATHOLIC
EPISTLE); GENERAL PRACTITIONER, a physician who devotes himself to general
practice rather than to special diseases; GENERAL PRINCIPLE, a principle to
which there are no exceptions within its range of application; GENERAL
SERVANT, a servant whose duties are not special, but embrace domestic work
of every kind.--IN GENERAL, mostly, as a general rule. [O. Fr.,--L.
_generalis_--_genus_.]

GENERALISSIMO, jen-[.e]r-al-is'i-mo, _n._ the chief general or commander of
an army of two or more divisions, or of separate armies. [It.]

GENERATE, jen'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to produce: to bring into life: to
originate.--_adj._ GEN'ERABLE, that may be generated or produced.--_ns._
GEN'ERANT (_math._), a line, point, or figure that produces another figure
by its motion; GENER[=A]'TION, a producing or originating: a single stage
in natural descent: the people of the same age or period: offspring,
progeny, race: (_pl._) genealogy, history (_B._); GENER[=A]'TIONISM,
traducianism.--_adj._ GEN'ER[=A]TIVE, having the power of generating or
producing.--_ns._ GEN'ER[=A]TOR, begetter or producer: the principal sound
in music; GEN'ER[=A]TRIX (_geom._), the point, line, or surface which, by
its motion, generates another magnitude.--_adjs._ GENET'IC, -AL, pertaining
to genesis or production.--_adv._ GENET'ICALLY.--_ns._ GEN'ETRIX,
GEN'ITRIX, a female parent; GEN'ITOR, a progenitor; GEN'ITURE,
birth.--ALTERNATION OF GENERATIONS, a complication in the life-history of
plants, when the organism produces offspring unlike itself, but giving rise
in turn to forms like the original parents; SPONTANEOUS GENERATION, the
origination of living from non-living matter: abiogenesis. [L.
_gener[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_genus_, a kind.]

GENERIC, -AL, GENERICALLY. See GENUS.

GENEROUS, jen'[.e]r-us, _adj._ of a noble nature: courageous: liberal:
bountiful: invigorating in its nature, as wine: (_obs._) nobly
born.--_adv._ GEN'EROUSLY.--_ns._ GEN'EROUSNESS, GENEROS'ITY, nobleness or
liberality of nature: (_arch._) nobility of birth. [Fr. _généreux_--L.
_generosus_, of noble birth--_genus_, birth.]

GENESIS, jen'e-sis, _n._ generation, creation, or production: the first
book of the Bible, so called from its containing an account of the
Creation:--_pl._ GEN'ES[=E]S.--_adjs._ GENES'IAC, -AL, GENESIT'IC,
pertaining to Genesis. [L.,--Gr.,--_gignesthai_, to beget.]

GENET, GENNET. Same as JENNET.

GENET, jen'et, _n._ a carnivorous animal, allied to the civet, of a gray
colour, marked with black or brown, a native of Africa, Asia, and Southern
Europe: its fur, made into muffs and tippets.--Also GEN'ETTE. [Fr.
_genette_--Sp. _gineta_--Ar. _jarnait_, a genet.]

GENETHLIAC, -AL, j[=e]-neth'li-ak, -al, _adj._ pertaining to a birthday or
nativity.--_n._ a birthday poem.--_n._ GENETHL[=I]'ACON, a birthday
ode.--_adjs._ GENETHLIALOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ GENETHLIAL'OGY, the art of
casting nativities.

GENEVA, je-n[=e]'va, _n._ a spirit distilled from grain and flavoured with
juniper-berries, also called _Hollands_.--_n._ GENEVETTE', a wine made from
wild fruits flavoured with juniper-berries. [Dut. _genever_, _jenever_, O.
Fr. _genevre_ (Fr. _genièvre_)--L. _juniperus_, the juniper; corrupted to
_Geneva_ by confusion with the town of that name. See GIN.]

GENEVAN, j[=e]-n[=e]'van, _adj._ pertaining to _Geneva_.--_n._ an
inhabitant of Geneva: an adherent of Genevan or Calvinistic
theology.--_adjs._ and _ns._ GEN[=E]'VAN, GENEV[=E]SE'.--_n._
GEN[=E]'VANISM, Calvinism.--GENEVA BIBLE, a version of the Bible with racy
notes produced by English exiles at Geneva in 1560; GENEVA CONVENTION, an
international agreement of 1865 providing for the neutrality of hospitals,
and the security of sanitary officers, naval and military chaplains; GENEVA
CROSS, a red cross on a white ground displayed for protection in war of
persons serving in hospitals, &c.; GENEVA GOWN, the dark, loose preaching
gown affected by the early Geneva reformers, and still the common form of
pulpit-gown among Presbyterians; GENEVAN THEOLOGY, so called from Calvin's
residence in Geneva and the establishment of his doctrines there.

GENIAL, j[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ pertaining to generation, producing: cheering:
kindly: sympathetic: healthful.--_v.t._ G[=E]'NIALISE, to impart geniality
to.--_ns._ GENIAL'ITY, G[=E]'NIALNESS.--_adv._ G[=E]'NIALLY. [Fr.--L.
_genialis_, from _genius_, the spirit of social enjoyment.]

GENIAL, jen'i-al, _adj._ of or pertaining to the chin. [Gr.
_geneion_--_genys_, the jaw.]

GENICULATE, -D, je-nik'[=u]-l[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) bent abruptly like
the knee: jointed: knotted.--_v.t._ GENIC'ULATE, to form joints in.--_n._
GENICUL[=A]'TION. [L. _genicul[=a]re_, -[=a]tum--_geniculum_, a little
knee--_genu_, the knee.]

GENIE, j[=e]'ni, _n._ a jinnee. [Fr. _génie_--L. _genius_.]

GENIPAP, jen'i-pap, _n._ a large West Indian tree with excellent fruit.
[Native.]

GENISTA, j[=e]-nis'ta, _n._ a large genus of shrubby, leguminous plants,
with simple leaves and yellow flowers. [L. _genista_, broom.]

GENITAL, jen'i-tal, _adj._ belonging to generation or the act of
producing.--_n.pl._ GEN'ITALS (also GENIT[=A]'LIA), the exterior organs of
generation. [L. _genitalis_--_gign[)e]re_, _genitum_, to beget.]

GENITIVE, jen'i-tiv, _adj._ (_gram._) applied to a case properly denoting
the class or kind to which a thing belongs, represented in modern English
by the possessive case.--_adj._ GENIT[=I]'VAL. [L. _genitivus_
(_gign[)e]re_, _genitum_, to beget), as if indicating origin, a
mistranslation of Gr. _genikos_--_genos_, a class.]

GENIUS, j[=e]n'yus, or j[=e]'ni-us, _n._ the special inborn faculty of any
individual: special taste or disposition qualifying for a particular
employment: a man having such power of mind: a good or evil spirit,
supposed by the ancients to preside over every person, place, and thing,
and esp. to preside over a man's destiny from his birth: prevailing spirit
or tendency: type or generic exemplification--(_obs._) G[=E]N'IO:--_pl._
GENIUSES (j[=e]n'yus-ez).--GENIUS LOCI (L.), the presiding divinity of a
place:--_pl._ GENII (j[=e]'ni-[=i]). [L. _genius_--_gign[)e]re_, _genitum_,
to beget.]

GENOESE, je-n[=o]-[=e]z', _adj._ relating to _Genoa_--also GENOVESE'.--_n._
an inhabitant of Genoa.

GENOUILLÈRE, zhe-n[=oo]-y[=a]r, _n._ the knee-piece in armour.

GENRE, zhangr, _n._ kind, style: a style of painting scenes from familiar
or rustic life. [Fr. _genre_, kind--L. _genus_.]

GENS, jenz, _n._ in ancient Rome, a clan including several families
descended from a common ancestor: a tribe:--_pl._ GEN'TES. [L.]

GENT, jent, _adj._ (_Spens._) noble. [O. Fr.,--L. _gentilis_, gentle.]

GENT, jent, _n._ familiar abbrev. of _gentleman_: one who apes the
gentleman.

GENTEEL, jen-t[=e]l', _adj._ well-bred: graceful in manners or in form:
fashionable.--_adj._ GENTEEL'ISH, somewhat genteel.--_adv._
GENTEEL'LY.--_n._ GENTEEL'NESS (same as GENTILITY).--THE GENTEEL, the
manners and usages of genteel or well-bred society. [Fr. _gentil_--L.
_gentilis_, belonging to the same _gens_, or clan--later, well-bred.]

GENTIAN, jen'shan, _n._ a plant the root of which is used in medicine, said
by Pliny to have been brought into use by _Gentius_, king of Illyria,
conquered by the Romans in 167 B.C.--_ns._ GENTIANEL'LA, a name for several
species of gentian, esp. _Gentiana acaulis_, with deep-blue flowers;
GEN'TIANINE, a yellow crystalline bitter compound obtained from the yellow
gentian.

GENTILE, jen't[=i]l, _n._ (_B._) any one not a Jew: any one not a
Christian.--_adj._ of or belonging to a _gens_ or clan: belonging to any
nation but the Jews: (_gram._) denoting a race or country.--_adjs._
GENTIL'IC, tribal; GEN'TILISH, heathenish.--_n._ GEN'TILISM,
paganism.--_adjs._ GENTILI'TIAL, GENTILI'TIAN, GENTILI'TIOUS, pertaining to
a gens. [L. _gentilis_--_gens_, a nation.]

GENTLE, jen'tl, _adj._ well-born: mild and refined in manners: mild in
disposition: amiable: soothing: moderate: gradual.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
make gentle.--_n._ (_obs._) a person of good family: (_Shak._) a trained
falcon: the larva of the flesh-fly, used as a bait in angling.--_n._
GENTILESSE', the quality of being gentle, courtesy.--_v.t._ GEN'TILISE, to
raise to the class of gentleman.--_n._ GENTIL'ITY, good birth or
extraction: good breeding: politeness of manners: genteel people: marks of
gentility.--_n.pl._ GEN'TLEFOLK, people of good family.--_adj._
GEN'TLE-HEART'ED, having a gentle or kind disposition.--_n._ GEN'TLEHOOD,
position or character attaching to gentle birth.--_n._ GEN'TLENESS.--_adv._
GENT'LY.--_n._ GEN'TRICE, gentle birth, courtesy.--GENTLE READER, courteous
reader, an old-fashioned phrase common in the prefaces of books.--THE
GENTLE CRAFT, a phrase used to specify shoe-making, also angling; THE
GENTLE (or GENTLER) SEX, women in general as opposed to the _stern_ or
_sterner sex_. [Fr.,--L. _gentilis_. See GENTEEL.]

GENTLEMAN, jen'tl-man, _n._ a man of good birth: one who without a title
wears a coat of arms: more generally every man above the rank of yeoman,
including the nobility: one above the trading classes: a man of refined
manners: a polite term used for man in general: (_Shak._) a
body-servant:--_pl._ GEN'TLEMEN--also a word of address:--_fem._
GEN'TLEWOMAN.--_ns._ GEN'TLEMAN-AT-ARMS, a member of the royal bodyguard,
instituted in 1509, and now composed of military officers of service and
distinction only; GEN'TLEMAN-COMM'ONER, a member of the higher class of
commoners at Oxford University; GEN'TLEMANHOOD, GEN'TLEMANSHIP, the
condition or character of a gentleman.--_adjs._ GEN'TLEMANLIKE,
GEN'TLEMANLY, well-bred, refined, generous; GEN'TLEMANLINESS.--_adj._
GEN'TLEWOMANLY, like a refined and well-bred woman.--_n._
GEN'TLEWOMANLINESS.--GENTLEMAN FARMER, a landowner who resides on his
estate and superintends the cultivation of his own soil; GENTLEMAN OF THE
CHAPEL-ROYAL, a lay-singer who assists the priests in the choral service of
the royal chapel; GENTLEMAN'S GENTLEMAN, a valet, or gentleman's
body-servant; GENTLEMAN USHER, a gentleman who serves as an usher at court,
or as an attendant on a person of rank.

GENTOO, jen-t[=oo]', _n._ a Hindu. [Port. _gentio_, a Gentile.]

GENTRY, jen'tri, _n._ the class of people below the rank of nobility:
(_coll._) people of a particular, esp. an inferior, stamp: (_Shak._) noble
birth. [Apparently an altered form of _gentrice_, from O. Fr. _genterise_,
_gentelise_, formed from adj. _gentil_, gentle.]

GENTY, jen'ti, _adj._ (_Scot._) neat, pretty, graceful.

GENUFLECT, jen-[=u]-flekt', _v.i._ to bend the knee in worship or
respect.--_ns._ GENUFLEC'TION, GENUFLEX'ION. [L. _genu_, the knee,
_flect[)e]re_, to bend.]

GENUINE, jen'[=u]-in, _adj._ natural, not spurious or adulterated: real:
pure: (_zool._) conformable to type.--_adv._ GEN'UINELY.--_n._
GEN'UINENESS. [L. _genuinus_--_gign[)e]re_, to beget.]

GENUS, j[=e]'nus, _n._ (_zool._) a group consisting of a number of species
closely connected by common characters or natural affinity: (_log._) a
class of objects comprehending several subordinate species:--_pl._ GENERA
(jen'[.e]ra).--_adjs._ GENER'IC, -AL, pertaining to a genus: relating to
gender: of a general nature, not special: distinctly
characteristic.--_adv._ GENER'ICALLY. [L. _genus_, _generis_, birth; cog.
with Gr. _genos_--_gignesthai_.]

GEO, GIO, gy[=o], _n._ (_prov._) a gully, creek. [Ice. _gjá_.]

GEOCENTRIC, -AL, j[=e]-o-sen'trik, -al, _adj._ having the earth for its
centre: (_astron._) as seen or measured from the earth.--_adv._
GEOCEN'TRICALLY.--_n._ GEOCEN'TRICISM. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _kentron_,
a centre.]

GEOCYCLIC, j[=e]-[=o]-sik'lik, _adj._ pertaining to the revolutions of the
earth.

GEODE, j[=e]'[=o]d, _n._ (_min._) a rounded nodule of stone with a hollow
interior.--_adj._ GEODIF'EROUS, bearing or producing geodes. [Fr.,--Gr.
_ge[=o]d[=e]s_, earth-like, earthen--_g[=e]_, earth, _eidos_, form.]

GEODESY, je-od'e-si, _n._ a science whose object is to measure the earth
and its parts on a large scale.--_ns._ GEOD[=E]'SIAN, GEOD'ESIST, one
skilled in geodesy.--_adjs._ GEODES'IC, -AL, GEODET'IC, -AL, pertaining to
or determined by geodesy. [Fr. _géodésie_--Gr. _ge[=o]daisia_--_g[=e]_, the
earth, _daiein_, to divide.]

GEOGNOSY, je-og'no-si, _n._ the study of the materials of the earth's
substance, now frequently called _Petrography_--also GEOGN[=O]'SIS.--_n._
G[=E]'OGNOST.--_adjs._ GEOGNOST'IC, -AL.--_adv._ GEOGNOST'ICALLY. [Fr.
_géognosie_--Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _gn[=o]sis_, knowledge.]

GEOGONY, je-og'o-ni, _n._ the doctrine of the production or formation of
the earth--also GEOG'ENY.--_adj._ GEOGON'IC. [Gr., _g[=e]_, the earth,
_gon[=e]_, generation.]

GEOGRAPHY, je-og'ra-fi, _n._ the science which describes the surface of the
earth and its inhabitants: a book containing a description of the
earth.--_n._ GEOG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ GEOGRAPH'IC, -AL, relating to
geography.--_adv._ GEOGRAPH'ICALLY.--GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION (see
DISTRIBUTION).--DESCRIPTIVE GEOGRAPHY, that part of geography which
consists in a statement of facts; HISTORICAL GEOGRAPHY, that part of
geography which investigates the changes which have occurred in the
governmental control of territory; PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY (see PHYSICAL);
POLITICAL GEOGRAPHY, geography that gives an account of the different
communities of mankind. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _ge[=o]graphia_--_g[=e]_, the
earth, _graph[=e]_, a description--_graphein_, to write.]

GEOLATRY, j[=e]-ol'a-tri, _n._ earth-worship. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth,
_latreia_, worship.]

GEOLOGY, je-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science relating to the history and
development of the earth's crust, together with the several floras and
faunas which have successively clothed and peopled its surface.--_ns._
GEOLO'GIAN, GEOL'OGIST.--_adjs._ GEOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to
geology.--_adv._ GEOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ GEOL'OGISE.--DYNAMICAL GEOLOGY, the
study of natural operations based on the belief that the effects of
Nature's agents in the present will further interpret the records of such
actions in the past; STRUCTURAL GEOLOGY, that geology which treats of the
mode in which rocks are built up in the earth's crust. [Fr. _géologie_--Gr.
_g[=e]_, the earth, _logia_, a discourse.]

GEOMANCY, j[=e]'o-man-si, _n._ divination by figures or lines drawn on the
earth.--_n._ G[=E]'OMANCER.--_adj._ GE'OMANTIC, pertaining to geomancy.
[Fr. _géomancie_--Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _manteia_, divination.]

GEOMETRY, je-om'e-tri, _n._ that branch of mathematics which treats of
magnitude and its relations: a text-book of geometry.--_ns._ GEOM'ETER,
GEOMETRI'CIAN, one skilled in geometry.--_adjs._ GEOMET'RIC, -AL.--_adv._
GEOMET'RICALLY.--_v.i._ GEOM'ETRISE, to study geometry.--_n._ GEOM'ETRIST.
[Fr. _géométrie_--L., Gr. _geometria_--_g[=e]_, the earth, _metron_, a
measure.]

GEOMYS, j[=e]'[=o]-mis, _n._ the typical genus of _Geomyidæ_, the pouched
rats or pocket-gophers. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _mys_, mouse.]

GEONOMY, j[=e]-on'o-mi, _n._ the science of the physical laws relating to
the earth.--_adj._ GEONOM'IC. [Gr. _g[=e]_, earth, _nomos_, law.]

GEOPHAGY, j[=e]-of'a-ji, _n._ the act or practice of eating earth--also
GEOPH'AGISM.--_n._ GEOPH'AGIST.--_adj._ GEOPH'AGOUS. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the
earth, _phagein_, to eat.]

GEOPONIC, -AL, j[=e]-o-pon'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to tilling the earth
or to agriculture.--_n.pl._ GEOPON'ICS, the science of agriculture. [Fr.
_géoponique_--Gr. _ge[=o]ponikos_--_g[=e]_, the earth, _ponos_, labour.]

GEORAMA, j[=e]-o-rä'ma, _n._ an apparatus for exhibiting the seas, lakes,
rivers, and mountains on the earth's surface. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth,
_horama_, a view--_horaein_, to see.]

GEORDIE, j[=o]r'di, _n._ a guinea, from the figure of St _George_ upon the
back: a safety-lamp for miners invented by _George_ Stephenson: a
coal-pitman, a collier-boat.

GEORGE, jorj, _n._ a jewelled figure of St _George_ slaying the dragon,
worn by Knights of the Garter.

GEORGIAN, jorj'i-an, _adj._ relating to the reigns of the four _Georges_,
kings of Great Britain: belonging to _Georgia_ in the Caucasus, its people,
language, &c.: pertaining to the American State of _Georgia_.--Also _n._

GEORGIC, jorj'ik, _adj._ relating to agriculture or rustic affairs.--_n._ a
poem on husbandry. [L. _georgicus_--Gr. _ge[=o]rgikos_--_ge[=o]rgia_,
agriculture--_g[=e]_, the earth, _ergon_, a work.]

GEOSCOPY, j[=e]-os'k[=o]-pi, _n._ knowledge of the earth or its soil gained
from observation. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _skopein_, to view.]

GEOSELENIC, j[=e]-o-se-len'ik, _adj._ relating to the earth and the moon in
their mutual relations. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _sel[=e]n[=e]_, the moon.]

GEOSTATIC, j[=e]-o-stat'ik, _adj._ capable of sustaining the pressure of
earth from all sides.--_n.pl._ GEOSTAT'ICS, the statics of rigid bodies.
[Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _statikos_, causing to stand.]

GEOTECTONIC, j[=e]-o-tek-ton'ik, _adj._ relating to the structure of the
earth. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _tekt[=o]n_, a builder.]

GEOTHERMIC, j[=e]-o-ther'mik, _adj._ pertaining to the internal heat of the
earth.--_n._ GEOTHERMOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring subterranean
temperatures. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _thermos_, heat.]

GEOTROPISM, j[=e]-ot'ro-pizm, _n._ (_bot._) tendency to growth
downward.--_adj._ GEOTROP'IC. [Gr. _g[=e]_, the earth, _tropos_, a
turning.]

GERAH, g[=e]'ra, _n._ (_B._) the smallest Hebrew weight and coin, 1/20th of
a shekel, worth about 1½d. [Heb. _g[=e]r[=a]h_.]

GERANIUM, je-r[=a]'ni-um, _n._ a genus of plants with seed-vessels like a
crane's bill. [L.,--Gr. _geranion_--_geranos_, a crane.]

GERATOLOGY, jer-at-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science of the phenomena of decadence.
[Gr. _g[=e]ras_, old age, _logia_, discourse.]

GERBE, jerb, _n._ something resembling a sheaf of wheat: a kind of
firework. [Fr.]

GERENT, j[=e]'rent, _n._ one who holds an office, a manager, ruler.--_adj._

GERFALCON, GYRFALCON, j[.e]r'fawl-kon, -fawk'n, _n._ a large falcon, found
in the northern regions of both the Old and New Worlds. [O. Fr.
_gerfaucon_--Low L. _gyrofalco_, most prob. Old High Ger. _gîr_, a vulture
(Ger. _geier_). See FALCON.]

GERM, j[.e]rm, _n._ a rudimentary form of a living thing, whether a plant
or animal: (_bot._) the seed-bud of a plant: a shoot: that from which
anything springs, the origin: a first principle.--_v.i._ to put forth buds,
sprout.--_n._ GERM'ICIDE, that which destroys germs. [Fr. _germe_--L.
_germen_, a bud.]

GERMAN, j[.e]r'man, _adj._ of the first degree, as _cousins_ _german_:
closely allied.--_n._ one from the same stock or closely allied.--_adj._
GERMANE', nearly related: relevant, appropriate. [O. Fr. _germain_--L.
_germanus_, prob. for _germinanus_--_germen_, _-inis_, origin.]

GERMAN, j[.e]r'man, _n._ a native of Germany; the German language:--_pl._
GER'MANS.--_adj._ of or from Germany.--_adjs._ GERMANESQUE', marked by
German characteristics; GERMAN'IC, pertaining to Germany.--_adv._
GERMAN'ICALLY.--_v.i._ GER'MANISE, to show German qualities.--_adj._
GER'MANISH, somewhat German in qualities.--_ns._ GER'MANISM, an idiom of
the German language; GER'MANIST.--_adj._ GERMANIS'TIC, pertaining to the
study of German.--_n._ GER'MAN-SIL'VER, an alloy of copper, nickel, and
zinc, white like silver, and first made in Germany.--HIGH GERMAN, the
variety of Teutonic speech, originally confined to 'High' or Southern
Germany, but now accepted as the literary language throughout the whole of
Germany; LOW GERMAN, properly _Plattdeutsch_, the general name for the
dialects of Germany which are not High German, but also applied by
philologists to all the West Germanic dialects except High German
(including English, Dutch, Frisian), and formerly in a still wider sense
including also Gothic and Scandinavian. [L. _Germani_, 'shouters,' from
Celt. _gairm_, a loud cry; or 'neighbours'--i.e. to the Gauls, from Celt.
(Old Ir.) _gair_, a neighbour.]

GERMANDER, j[.e]r'man-d[.e]r, _n._ a large genus of labiate herbs with
aromatic, bitter, and stomachic properties. [Low L. _germandra_--Gr.
_chamandrya_, _chamaidrys_--_chamai_, on the ground, _drys_, oak.]

GERMANIUM, j[.e]r-m[=a]'ni-um, _n._ an element discovered in 1885 in
argyrodite.

GERMEN, j[.e]rm'en, _n._ a disused botanical synonym for Ovary
(q.v.)--(_Shak._) GERM'IN.--_adj._ GERM'INAL, pertaining to a germ. [See
GERM.]

GERMINAL, zh[=a]r-m[=e]-nal', _n._ the seventh month of the French
revolutionary calendar, March 21-April 19.

GERMINATE, j[.e]rm'in-[=a]t, _v.i._ to spring from a germ: to begin to
grow.--_v.t._ to produce.--_adj._ GERM'INANT, sprouting: sending forth
germs or buds.--_n._ GERMIN[=A]'TION.--_adj._ GERM'INATIVE. [L.
_germin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_germen_, a bud.]

GERN, j[.e]rn, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to grind or yawn.

GERONTOCRACY, jer-on-tok'ra-si, _n._ government by old men. [Gr.
_ger[=o]n_, an old man, _kratos_, power.]

GEROPIGIA, jer-o-pij'i-a, _n._ a mixture of grape-juice, brandy, &c., used
to sophisticate port-wine. [Port.]

GERRYMANDER, jer-i-man'der, _v.t._ (_Amer._) to rearrange the voting
districts in the interests of a particular party or candidate: to
manipulate facts, arguments, &c. so as to reach undue conclusions.--_n._ an
arrangement of the above nature. [Formed from the name of Governor Elbridge
_Gerry_ (1744-1814) and _Salamander_, from the likeness to that animal of
the gerrymandered map of Massachusetts in 1811.]

GERUND, jer'und, _n._ a part of the Latin verb which has the value of a
verbal noun--e.g. _amandum_, loving.--_ns._ GER'UND-GRIND'ER, a teacher,
tutor; GER'UND-GRIND'ING.--_adj._ GERUND'IAL.--_n._ GERUND'IVE, the future
passive participle of a Latin verb. [L. _gerundium_--_ger[)e]re_, to bear.]

GERVAO, ger-vä'o _n._ a small medicinal verbenaceous shrub of the West
Indies, &c. [Braz.]

GESSO, jes'[=o], _n._ a plaster surface, prepared as a ground for painting.
[It.]

GEST, jest, _n._ (_Shak._). Same as GIST.

GEST, jest, _n._ an exploit: demeanour, bearing: a tale of adventure, a
romance.--GESTA ROMANORUM ('deeds of the Romans'), the title of a
collection of short stories and legends in Latin, with moralisations
appended, which probably took its present form in England about the
beginning of the 14th century. [L. _gesta_, things done--_ger[)e]re_,
_gestum_, to bear.]

GESTATION, jes-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of carrying the young in the womb,
pregnancy.--_adjs._ GES'TANT, laden; GES'TATORY, pertaining to gestation.
[Fr.,--L. _gestation-em_--_gest[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to carry--_ger[)e]re_,
to bear.]

GESTICULATE, jes-tik'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to make gestures when speaking: to
play antic tricks.--_adj._ GES'TIC, pertaining to motion, esp.
dancing.--_ns._ GESTICUL[=A]'TION, act of making gestures in speaking: a
gesture; GESTIC'UL[=A]TOR, one who makes gestures.--_adj._
GESTIC'UL[=A]TORY, representing or abounding in gesticulations. [L.
_gesticul[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_--_gesticulus_, dim. of _gestus_,
gesture--_ger[)e]re_, to carry.]

GESTURE, jes't[=u]r, _n._ a posture, or movement of the body: an action
expressive of sentiment or passion: (_Shak._) behaviour.--_adj._ GES'TURAL.
[Low L. _gestura_--L. _gestus_, from L. _ger[)e]re_, to carry.]

GET, get, _v.t._ to obtain: to seize: to procure or cause to be: to beget
offspring: to learn: to persuade: (_B._) to betake, to carry.--_v.i._ to
arrive or put one's self in any place, state, or condition: to
become:--_pr.p._ get'ting; _pa.t._ got; _pa.p._ got, (_obs._)
got'ten.--_ns._ GET'TER, one who gets or obtains: one who begets; GET'TING,
a gaining: anything gained: procreation; GET'-UP, equipment: general
appearance.--GET AHEAD, ALONG, to make progress, advance; GET AT, to reach,
attain; GET OFF, to escape; GET ON, to proceed, advance; GET OUT, to
produce: to go away; GET OVER, to surmount; GET ROUND, to circumvent: to
persuade, talk over; GET THROUGH, to finish; GET UP, to arise, to ascend:
to arrange, prepare. [A.S. _gitan_, to get.]

GEUM, j[=e]'um, _n._ a genus of perennial herbs, of order _Rosaceæ_,
contains the avens or herb-bennet, &c. [L.]

GEWGAW, g[=u]'gaw, _n._ a toy: a bauble.--_adj._ showy without value. [Acc.
to Skeat, a reduplicated form of A.S. _gifan_, to give; preserved also in
Northern Eng., as _giff-gaff_, interchange of intercourse.]

GEY (_Scot._). See GAY.

GEYSER, g[=i]s[.e]r, _n._ a hot spring, as in Iceland, which spouts water
into the air. [Ice., _geysa_, to gush.]

GHAST, gast, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to strike aghast: to affright.--_adj._
GHAST'FUL (_Spens._), dreary, dismal.--_adv._ GHAST'FULLY,
frightfully.--_ns._ GHAST'LINESS, GHAST'NESS (_Shak._).--_adj._ GHAST'LY,
death-like: hideous. [A.S. _g['æ]stlic_, terrible. See AGHAST.]

GHAT, GHAUT, gawt, _n._ in India, a mountain-pass: a chain of mountains:
landing-stairs for bathers on the sides of a river or tank. [Hind.
_gh[=a]t_.]

GHAZAL, gaz'al, _n._ a form of Persian verse in which the first two lines
rhyme, and for this rhyme a new one must be found in the second line of
each succeeding couplet: a piece of music in which a simple theme is
constantly recurring.--Also GAZ'EL, GHAZ'EL. [Pers. _arghazel_, a
love-poem.]

GHAZEL. Same as GAZELLE.

GHAZI, gä'z[=e], _n._ a veteran Mohammedan soldier, one who has fought for
the faith. [Ar., 'a warrior.']

GHEBER, GHEBRE, g[=e]'b[.e]r, _n._ Same as GUEBRE.

GHEE, g[=e], _n._ an Indian clarified butter, generally prepared from
buffaloes' milk. [Hind. _gh[=i]_.]

GHERKIN, g[.e]r'kin, _n._ a small cucumber used for pickling. [Dut.
_agurkje_, a gherkin; a word of Eastern origin, as in Pers. _khiyár_, a
cucumber, Byzantine _angourion_, a water-melon.]

GHETTO, get'[=o], _n._ the Jews' quarter in Italian cities, to which they
used to be strictly confined. [It.]

GHIBELLINE, gib'e-lin, _n._ one of a party in Italy in the Middle Ages
which supported the imperial authority, as opposed to the Guelfs. [See
GUELF.]

GHOST, g[=o]st, _n._ the soul of man: a spirit appearing after death:
(_Shak._) a dead body: (_slang_) one who writes a statesman's speeches for
him, &c.--_v.i._ to appear to.--_adj._ GHOST'-LIKE.--_n._
GHOST'LINESS.--_adj._ GHOST'LY, spiritual, religious: pertaining to
apparitions.--_ns._ GHOST'-MOTH, a species of moth very common in Britain,
its caterpillar destructive to hop-gardens; GHOST'-ST[=O]'RY, a story in
which ghosts figure; GHOST'-WORD, a fictitious word that has originated in
the blunder of a scribe or printer--common in dictionaries.--GIVE UP THE
GHOST (_B._), to die.--HOLY GHOST, the Holy Spirit, the third person in the
Trinity. [A.S. _gást_; Ger._ geist_.]

GHOUL, g[=oo]l, _n._ an Eastern demon which devours the dead.--_adj._
GHOUL'ISH. [Pers.]

GHYLL, an unnecessary variant of gill, a ravine.

GIAMBEAUX, zham'b[=o], _n.pl._ (_Spens._) armour for the legs.
[Fr.,--_jambe_, leg.]

GIANT, j[=i]'ant, _n._ an individual whose stature and bulk exceed those of
his species or race generally: a person of extraordinary powers:--_fem._
G[=i]'antess.--_adj._ gigantic.--_ns._ G[=I]'ANTISM, G[=i]'antship, the
quality or character of a giant.--_adj._ G[=I]'ANTLY, giant-like.--_n._
G[=I]'ANT-POW'DER, a kind of dynamite.--_adj._ G[=I]'ANT-RUDE (_Shak._),
enormously rude or uncivil.--_n._ G[=I]'ANTRY, giants collectively. [O. Fr.
_geant_ (Fr. _géant_)--L.,--Gr. _gigas_, _gigantos_.]

GIAOUR, jowr, _n._ infidel, a term applied by the Turks to all who are not
of their own religion. [Turk. _jawr_--Ar. _káfir_, an infidel.]

GIB, jib, _n._ the projecting arm of a crane: a wedge-shaped piece of metal
holding another in place, &c.--_v.t._ to fasten with such.

GIB, jib, _n._ a cat--Also GIB'-CAT (_Shak._). [A corr. of _Gilbert_, as
'_Tom-cat_,' hardly for _glib_=_lib_.]

GIBBE, jib, _n._ (_Shak._) an old worn-out animal.

GIBBERISH, gib'[.e]r-ish, _n._ rapid, gabbling talk: unmeaning
words.--_adj._ unmeaning.--_v.i._ GIBB'ER, to speak senselessly or
inarticulately.--_n._ GIBB'LE-GABBLE, gabble. [See GABBLE.]

GIBBET, jib'et, _n._ a gallows on which criminals were suspended after
execution: the projecting beam of a crane.--_v.t._ to expose on a gibbet.
[O. Fr. _gibet_, a stick; origin unknown.]

GIBBON, gib'un, _n._ a genus of tailless anthropoid apes, with very long
arms, natives of the East Indies.

GIBBOUS, gib'us, _adj._ hump-backed: swelling, convex, as the moon when
nearly full--also GIBB'OSE.--_ns._ GIBBOS'ITY, GIBB'OUSNESS.--_adv._
GIBB'OUSLY. [L. _gibbosus_=_gibberosus_--_gibber_, a hump.]

GIBE, JIBE, j[=i]b, _v.t._ to sneer at: to taunt.--_n._ a taunt:
contempt.--_n._ GIB'ER, one who gibes.--_adv._ GIB'INGLY. [Ice. _geipa_, to
talk nonsense.]

GIBEL, gib'el, _n._ the Prussian carp, without barbules.

GIBEONITE, gib'[=e]-on-[=i]t, _n._ a slave's slave--from Josh., ix.

GIBLETS, jib'lets, _n.pl._ the internal eatable parts of fowl, taken out
before cooking it.--_adj._ GIB'LET, made of giblets. [O. Fr. _gibelet_;
origin unknown; not a dim. of _gibier_, game.]

GIBUS, zh[=e]'bus, _n._ a crush-hat, opera-hat. [Fr.]

GID, gid, _n._ staggers in sheep.--Also STUR'DY (q.v.).

GIDDY, gid'i, _adj._ unsteady, dizzy: that causes giddiness: whirling:
inconstant: thoughtless.--_adv._ GIDD'ILY.--_n._ GIDD'INESS.--_adjs._
GIDD'Y-HEAD'ED, thoughtless, wanting reflection; GIDD'Y-PACED (_Shak._),
moving irregularly. [From A.S. _giddian_, to sing, be merry, _gid_, a
song.]

GIE, g[=e], _v._ a Scotch form of _give_.

GIER-EAGLE, j[=e]r'-[=e]'gl, _n._ (_B._) a species of eagle. [See
GYRFALCON.]

GIF, gif, _conj._ an obsolete form of _if_.

GIFT, gift, _n._ a thing given: a bribe: a quality bestowed by nature: the
act of giving.--_v.t._ to endow with any power or faculty.--_adj._ GIFT'ED,
endowed by nature: intellectual.--_ns._ GIFT'-HORSE, a horse given as a
gift; GIFT'LING, a little gift.--LOOK A GIFT HORSE IN THE MOUTH, to
criticise a gift. [_Give._]

GIG, gig, _n._ a light, two-wheeled carriage: a long, light boat: (_U.S._)
sport, fun.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ GIG'GIT (_U.S._), to convey or move
rapidly.--_ns._ GIG'MAN, one who drives or keeps a gig--a favourite term of
Carlyle's for a narrow philistinism based on the possession of a little
more money than others, whence GIG'MANESS, GIGMAN'ITY, GIG'M[=A]NIA. [M. E.
_gigge_, a whirling thing (cf. WHIRLIGIG); prob. related to Ice. _geiga_,
to turn in a wrong direction. Cf. JIG.]

GIGANTIC, j[=i]-gan'tik, _adj._ suitable to a giant: enormous--also
GIGANT[=E]'AN.--_adj._ GIGANTESQUE', befitting a giant.--_adv._
GIGAN'TICALLY.--_ns._ GIGAN'TICIDE, the act of killing a giant;
GIGANTOL'OGY, description of giants; GIGANTOM'ACHY, a war of giants. [L.
_gigas_, _gigantis_, a giant, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

GIGGLE, gig'l, _v.i._ to laugh with short catches of the breath, or in a
silly manner.--_n._ a laugh of this kind.--_ns._ GIGG'LER; GIGG'LING. [M.
E. _gagelen_, to cackle; cf. Ice. _gagl_, a goose.]

GIGLET, gig'let, _n._ a giddy girl: a wanton--also GIG'LOT.--_adj._
(_Shak._) inconstant. [Prob. Ice. _gikkr_, a pert person; perh. related to
_gig_. See JIG.]

GIGOT, jig'ut, _n._ a leg of mutton. [Fr.,--O. Fr. _gigue_, a leg: a
fiddle; a word of unknown origin.]

GILA MONSTER. See MONSTER.

GILD, gild, _v.t._ to cover or overlay with gold: to cover with any
gold-like substance: to gloss over: to adorn with lustre:--_pr.p._
gild'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ gild'ed or gilt.--_ns._ GILD'ER, one who
coats articles with gold; GILD'ING, act or trade of a gilder: gold laid on
any surface for ornament.--GILDED CHAMBER, the House of Lords; GILD THE
PILL, to do something to make a disagreeable thing seem less so. [A.S.
_gyldan_--gold. See GOLD.]

GILL, gil, _n._ one of the breathing organs in fishes and certain other
aquatic animals: the flap below the bill of a fowl. [Cf. Dan. _giælle_, a
gill; Ice. _gjölnar_ (pl.), gills; Sw. _gäl_.]

GILL, jil, _n._ a measure=¼ pint.--_n._ GILL'-HOUSE, a dram-shop. [O. Fr.
_gelle_; cf. Low L. _gillo_, a flask; allied to Fr. _jale_, a large bowl,
Eng. _gallon_.]

GILL, jil, _n._ a girl, because of the commonness of the name _Gillian_,
cf. 'Jack and Jill:' ground-ivy: beer flavoured with ground-ivy.--_n._
GILL'-FLIRT, a wanton girl. [From _Gillian_ or _Juliana_ (from _Julius_), a
female name, contracted _Gill_, _Jill_.]

GILL, gil, _n._ a small ravine, a wooded glen.--Also GHYLL. [Ice.]

GILLIE, GILLY, gil'i, _n._ a youth, a man-servant, esp. to one hunting.
[Gael. _gille_, a lad, Ir. _giolla_.]

GILLYFLOWER, jil'i-flow-[.e]r, _n._ popular English name for stock,
wallflower, &c., from its clove-like smell. [O. Fr. _giroflée_--Gr.
_karyophyllon_, the clove-tree--_karyon_, a nut, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

GILPY, GILPEY, gil'pi, _n._ (_Scot._) a boisterous boy or girl.

GILRAVAGE, gil-rav'[=a]j, _n._ (_Scot._) a noisy frolic, disorder.--_v.i._
to plunder, spoil.

GILT, gilt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p_ of _gild_.--_n._ that which is used for
gilding.--_adjs._ GILD'ED; GILT'-EDGED, having the edges gilt: of the
highest quality, as 'gilt-edged securities'=those stocks whose interest is
considered perfectly safe.--_n._ GILT'-HEAD, a popular name for several
fishes, esp. a sparoid fish with a half-moon-shaped gold spot between the
eyes.

GILT, gilt, _n._ (_Shak._) money.

GIMBAL, gim'bal, _n._ a contrivance for suspending the mariner's compass,
so as to keep it always horizontal. [Through Fr. from L. _gemelli_, twins.]

GIMBLET. Same as GIMLET.

GIMCRACK, jim'krak, _n._ a toy: a gewgaw: a trivial mechanism--also
JIM'CRACK.--_n._ GIM'CRACKERY. [Prov. _gim_ or _jim_, neat, and _crack_, a
lively boy.]

GIMLET, gim'let, _n._ a small tool for boring holes by turning it with the
hand.--_v.t._ to pierce with a gimlet: (_naut._) to turn round (an anchor)
as if turning a gimlet.--_adj._ GIM'LET-EYED, very sharp-sighted. [O. Fr.
_gimbelet_, from Teut.; cf. Eng. _wimble_.]

GIMMAL, gim'al, _n._ a gimbal: (_Shak._) anything consisting of parts
moving within each other or interlocked--a quaint piece of mechanism--also
GIMM'ER.--_adj._ (_Shak._) made or consisting of double rings.

GIMMER, gim'[.e]r, _n._ a two-year-old ewe. [Ice. _gymbr_; cf. Sw.
_gimmer_, Dan. _gimmer_.]

GIMP, gimp, _n._ a kind of trimming, &c., of silk, woollen, or cotton
twist.--_v.t._ to make or furnish with gimp. [Fr. _guimpe_, from Old High
Ger. _wimpal_, a light robe; Eng. _wimple_.]

GIN, jin, _n._ Same as _Geneva_, of which it is a contraction.--_ns._
GIN'-FIZZ, a drink of gin, lemon-juice, effervescing water, &c.;
GIN-PAL'ACE, GIN'-SHOP, a shop where gin is sold; GIN'-SLING, a cold
beverage of gin and water, sweetened and flavoured.

GIN, jin, _n._ the name of a variety of machines, esp. one with pulleys for
raising weights, &c.: a pump worked by rotary sails: (_B._) a trap or
snare.--_v.t._ to trap or snare: to clear cotton of its seeds by a
machine:--_pr.p._ gin'ning; _pa.p._ ginned.--_ns._ GIN'-HORSE, a
mill-horse; GIN'-HOUSE, a place where cotton is ginned. [Contr. from
_engine_.]

GIN, jin, _n._ an Australian native woman.

GIN, gin, _v.i._ to begin.--_n._ GIN'NING, beginning.

GIN, gin, a prov. form of _against_.

GIN, gin, a Scotch form of _gif_=_if_.

GINETE, ch[=e]-n[=a]'t[=a], _n._ a trooper, horse-soldier. [Sp.]

GING, ging, _n._ a gang or company. [A.S. _genge_, a troop, _gangan_, to
go. See GANG.]

GINGELLY-OIL, jin-jel'i-oil, _n._ the oil of Indian sesame.

GINGER, jin'j[.e]r, _n._ the root of a plant in the East and West Indies,
with a hot and spicy taste, useful as a condiment or stomachic.--_ns._
GINGERADE', an aerated drink flavoured with ginger; GIN'GERBEER, an
effervescent drink flavoured with ginger; GIN'GERBREAD, sweet bread
flavoured with ginger; GIN'GER-COR'DIAL, a cordial made of ginger,
lemon-peel, raisins, water, and sometimes spirits; GIN'GERNUT, a small cake
flavoured with ginger and sweetened with molasses.--_adj._ GIN'GEROUS, like
ginger.--_ns._ GIN'GERPOP, weak gingerbeer; GIN'GERSNAP, a thin brittle
cake spiced with ginger; GIN'GER-WINE, a liquor made by the fermentation of
sugar and water, and flavoured with various spices, chiefly
ginger.--GINGERBREAD WARE, or WORK, cheap and tawdry ornamental work.--TAKE
THE GILT OFF THE GINGERBREAD, to destroy the illusion. [M. E.
_gingivere_--O. Fr. _gengibre_--L. _zingiber_--Gr. _zingiberis_--Sans.
_çriñga-vera_--_çriñga_, horn, _vera_, shape.]

GINGERLY, jin'j[.e]r-li, _adv._ with soft steps: cautiously. [From a Scand.
root, seen in Sw. _gingla_, to totter.]

GINGHAM, ging'ham, _n._ a kind of cotton cloth, woven from coloured yarns
into stripes or checks, manufactured chiefly for dresses. [Fr. _guingan_,
acc. to Littré, a corr. of _Guingamp_, in Brittany.]

GINGING, gin'jing, _n._ (_prov._) the lining of a shaft.

GINGIVAL, jin-j[=i]'val, _adj._ pertaining to the gums.--_n._
GINGIV[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the gums. [L. _gingivæ_.]

GINGKO, ging'k[=o], _n._ a Chinese tree, allied to the yew, with edible
fruit--the Maiden-hair-tree. [Jap. _gingk[=o]_--Chin. _yin-hing_--_yin_,
silver, _hing_, apricot.]

GINGLE, jing'l. Same as JINGLE.

GINGLYMUS, jing'gli-mus (or ging'-), _n._ a joint that permits flexion and
extension in a single plane, as at the elbow and ankle:--_pl._
GING'LYM[=I]. [Gr.]

GINNET, jin'net, _n._ obsolete form of _jennet_.

GINNING. See GIN (2).

GINNY-CARRIAGE, jin'i-kar'[=a]j, _n._ a small strong carriage used for
conveying materials on a railway.

GINSENG, jin'seng, _n._ a plant of genus _Aralia_, and its root, a Chinese
panacea for exhaustion of body or mind. [Chin. _jin-tsan_.]

GIP, jip, _n._ Same as GYP.

GIPSY, GYPSEY, GYPSY, jip'si, _n._ one of a wandering race, originally from
India, now scattered over Europe: one with a dark complexion: a sly,
roguish woman.--_adj._ unconventional, outdoor.--_ns._ GIP'SYDOM;
GIP'SYISM.--GIPSY HAT, a hat for women, with large flaps at the sides;
GIPSY TABLE, a form of light fancy table; GIPSY WAGON, a wagon or van like
a dwelling on wheels, used by gipsies and travelling photographers.
[_Egyptian_, because once supposed to come from Egypt.]

GIRAFFE, ji-raf', _n._ the camelopard, an African quadruped with remarkably
long neck and legs. [Fr.,--Sp. _girafa_--Ar. _zar[=a]f_.]

GIRANDOLE, jir'an-d[=o]l, _n._ a branched chandelier, generally projecting
from a wall, and used as a stand for candles or lamps, or for flowers: a
rotating firework. [Fr.,--It. _girandola_--_girare_--L. _gyr[=a]re_, to
turn round--_gyrus_--Gr. _gyros_, a circle.]

GIRASOL, jir'a-sol, _n._ a bluish-white translucent opal with reddish
reflections. [It.,--_girare_, and _sole_--L. _sol_, the sun.]

GIRD, g[.e]rd, _v.i._ to gibe, jeer (with _at_).--_v.t._ (_obs._) to
taunt.--_n._ (_obs._) a sneer. [A.S. _gyrd_, _gierd_, rod.]

GIRD, g[.e]rd, _v.t._ to bind round: to make fast by binding: to surround:
to clothe, furnish:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ gird'ed or girt.--_n._ GIRD'ER,
one of the principal pieces of timber in a floor binding the others
together: in engineering, any simple or compound beam of wood, iron, or
steel used to support joisting, walls, arches, &c., in various kinds of
bridges.--GIRD ONE'S SELF, to tuck up loose garments under the girdle: to
brace the mind for any trial or effort. [A.S. _gyrdan_; cf. Ger. _gürten_,
_garden_, Eng. _yard_.]

GIRDING, g[.e]rd'ing, _n._ (_B._) a covering.

GIRDLE, g[.e]rd'l, _n._ that which encircles, esp. a band or belt for the
waist: an enclosure, compass, limit: in jewellery, a horizontal line
surrounding a stone.--_v.t._ to bind, as with a girdle: to enclose: to make
a circular incision, as through the bark of a tree to kill it.--_n._
GIRD'LE-BELT, a belt for girding the waist.--_p.adj._ GIRD'LED (_Shak._),
surrounded with, or as with, a girdle.--_n._ GIRD'LER, one who girdles: a
maker of girdles. [A.S. _gyrdel_--_gyrdan_, to gird.]

GIRDLE, g[.e]rd'l, _n._ a Scotch form of _griddle_.

GIRKIN, g[.e]r'kin, _n._ Same as GHERKIN.

GIRL, g[.e]rl, _n._ a female child: a young unmarried woman: a
maid-servant.--_n._ GIRL'HOOD, the state or time of being a girl.--_adj._
GIRL'ISH, of or like a girl.--_adv._ GIRL'ISHLY--_n._ GIRL'ISHNESS. [Prob.
from Old Low Ger. _gör_, a child, with dim. suffix _-l_.]

GIRLOND, obsolete form of _garland_.

GIRN, g[.e]rn, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to grin, snarl. [_Grin._]

GIRNEL, g[.e]r'nel, _n._ (_Scot._) a granary, meal-chest. [Variant of
_garner_.]

GIRONDIST, ji-rond'ist, _n._ a member of the moderate republican party
during the French Revolution, so called because its earliest leaders,
Vergniaud, Guadet, &c., were sent up to the Legislative Assembly (Oct.
1791) by the _Gironde_ department.--Also GIRON'DIN.

GIRR, gir, _n._ (_Scot._) a hoop.

GIRT, g[.e]rt, _v.t._ to gird.--_pa.p._ of a ship moored so taut by her
cables to two oppositely placed anchors as to be prevented from swinging to
the wind or tide.

GIRTH, g[.e]rth, _n._ belly-band of a saddle: measure round the
waist.--Also GIRT.

GIST, jist, _n._ the main point or pith of a matter. [From an old French
proverb, 'I know where the hare _lies_'--_i.e._ I know the main point--O.
Fr. _gist_ (Fr. _gît_)--O. Fr. _gesir_ (Fr. _gésir_), to lie--L.
_jac[=e]re_.]

GITTERN, git'ern, _n._ a kind of guitar, a cithern.--_v.i._ to play on the
gittern. [Most prob. Old Dut. _ghiterne_--L. _cithara_--Gr. _kithara_. See
GUITAR.]

GIUST, j[=oo]st, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as JOUST.

GIUSTO, j[=u]s't[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) suitable, regular. [It.,--L.
_justus_, just.]

GIVE, giv, _v.t._ to bestow: to impart: to yield: to grant: to permit: to
afford: to furnish: to pay or render, as thanks: to pronounce, as a
decision: to show, as a result: to apply, as one's self: to allow or
admit.--_v.i._ to yield to pressure: to begin to melt: to grow soft: to
open, or give an opening or view, to lead (with _upon_, _on_,
_into_):--_pr.p._ giv'ing; _pa.t._ g[=a]ve; _pa.p._ given
(giv'n).--_p.adj._ GIV'EN, bestowed: specified: addicted, disposed to:
admitted, supposed.--_ns._ GIV'ER, one who gives or bestows; GIV'ING, the
act of bestowing: (_Shak._) an alleging of what is not real.--GIVE AND
TAKE, to give and get fairly, fair measure on both sides; GIVE BIRTH TO, to
bring forth: to originate; GIVE CHASE, to pursue; GIVE EAR, to listen; GIVE
FORTH, to emit, to publish; GIVE GROUND, place, to give way, to yield; GIVE
IN TO, to yield assent or obedience to; GIVE IT TO ONE (_coll._), to scold
or beat anybody severely; GIVE LINE, HEAD, REIN, &c., to give more liberty
or scope--the metaphor from angling and driving; GIVE ONE'S SELF AWAY, to
betray one's secret by a slip of the tongue, &c.; GIVE OUT, to report, to
emit; GIVE OVER, to cease; GIVE THE LIE TO, to charge openly with
falsehood; GIVE TONGUE, to bark; GIVE UP, to abandon; GIVE WAY, to fall
back, to yield, to withdraw: to begin rowing--usually as a command to a
crew. [A.S. _giefan_; Goth. _giban_, Ger. _geben_.]

GIVES, j[=i]vz, _n._ Same as GYVES.

GIZZ, giz, _n._ (_Scot._) the face.

GIZZARD, giz'ard, _n._ the muscular stomach of a bird. [M. E. _giser_--O.
Fr. _gezier_--L. _gigerium_, only in pl. _gigeria_, cooked entrails of
poultry.]

GIZZEN, giz'n, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to shrink from dryness so as to leak: to
wither.--_adj._ leaky.

GLABROUS, gl[=a]'brus, _adj._ smooth: having no hairs or any
unevenness.--_adj._ GL[=A]'BR[=A]TE, smooth, glabrous. [L. _glaber_,
smooth.]

GLACÉ, gla-s[=a]', _adj._ iced: glossy, lustrous, esp. of a thin silk
material. [Fr.]

GLACIAL, gl[=a]'shi-al, _adj._ icy: frozen: pertaining to ice or its
action, esp. to glaciers.--_ns._ GL[=A]'CIALIST, one who attributes the
phenomena of the drift in geology to the action of glaciers;
GL[=A]CI[=A]'TION, the act of freezing: ice: the process of becoming
covered with glaciers. [Fr.,--L. _glacialis_--_glacies_, ice.]

GLACIER, gl[=a]'sh[=e]r, or glas'i-[.e]r, _n._ a field or, more properly, a
slowly moving river of ice, such as is found in the hollows and on the
slopes of lofty mountains. [Fr.,--_glace_, ice--L. _glacies_, ice.]

GLACIS, gl[=a]'sis, or gla-s[=e]', _n._ a gentle slope: (_fort._) a smooth
sloping bank. [Fr.,--O. Fr. _glacer_, to freeze--_glace_, ice.]

GLAD, glad, _adj._ pleased: cheerful: bright: giving pleasure.--_v.t._ to
make glad:--_pr.p._ glad'ding; _pa.p._ glad'ded.--_v.t._ GLAD'DEN, to make
glad: to cheer: to animate.--_adj._ GLAD'FUL (_Spens._).--_n._
GLAD'FULNESS.--_adv._ GLAD'LY.--_n._ GLAD'NESS.--_adj._ GLAD'SOME, glad:
joyous: gay.--_adv._ GLAD'SOMELY.--_n._ GLAD'SOMENESS. [A.S. _glæd_; Ger.
_glatt_, smooth, Ice. _glaðr_, bright, Dan. _glad_.]

GLADE, gl[=a]d, _n._ an open space in a wood.--_adj._ GL[=A]'DY, having
glades. [Scand.; Ice. _glaðr_, bright, Norw. _glette_, a clear spot among
clouds.]

GLADIATOR, glad'i-[=a]-tor, _n._ in ancient Rome, a professional combatant
with men or beasts in the arena.--_adjs._ GLAD'I[=A]TE, sword-shaped;
GLADIAT[=O]'RIAL, GLADI[=A]'TORY, GLADIAT[=O]'RIAN.--_ns._ GLAD'IATORSHIP;
GL[=A]'DIUS, the cuttle-bone or pen of a cuttle-fish. [L., a
swordsman--_gladius_, a sword.]

GLADIOLE, glad'i-[=o]l, GLADIOLUS, gla-d[=i]'o-lus, glad-i-[=o]'lus, _n._
the plant sword-lily:--_pl._ GLAD[=I]'OL[=I]. [L. _gladiolus_, dim. of
_gladius_.]

GLADSTONE, glad'ston, _n._ a four-wheeled two-seated carriage with driver's
seat and dickey: a kind of light travelling-bag, opening wide. [From the
great statesman, W. E. _Gladstone_ (1809-98).]

GLAGOLITIC, glag-o-lit'ik, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Glagol_, an ancient
Slavonic alphabet, apparently derived from the cursive Greek of the 9th
century, only used in the liturgical books of the Dalmatian Slavs. [Old
Bulgarian _glagolu_, a word.]

GLAIKIT, gl[=a]k'it, _adj._ (_Scot._) giddy, foolish.--_ns._ GLAIK, a
deception, a quick glance; GLAIK'ITNESS, levity.--FLING THE GLAIKS IN
FOLK'S EEN (_Scot._), to throw dust in people's eyes. [See GLEEK.]

GLAIR, gl[=a]r, _n._ the clear part of an egg used as varnish: any viscous,
transparent substance: mud.--_v.t._ to varnish with white of eggs.--_adjs._
GLAIR'Y, GLAIR'EOUS, GL[=A]R'EOUS. [Fr. _glaire_--Low L. _clara ovi_, white
of egg--L. _clarus_, clear.]

GLAIVE, gl[=a]v, _n._ a weapon like a halberd, fixed on a long shaft, its
edge on the outer curve.--Also GLAVE. [O. Fr. _glaive_--L. _gladius_, a
sword.]

GLAMOUR, glam'[.e]r, _n._ the supposed influence of a charm on the eyes,
making them see things as fairer than they are: fascination: enchantment.
[Merely a corruption of _gramarye_ or _grammar_, meaning grammar, then
magic.]

GLANCE, glans, _n._ a sudden shoot of light: a darting of the eye: a
momentary view: a term applied to minerals exhibiting a pseudo-metallic
lustre.--_v.i._ to dart a ray of light or splendour: to snatch a momentary
view: to fly off obliquely: to make a passing allusion.--_v.t._ to dart
suddenly or obliquely: to hint.--_n._ GLANCE'-COAL, any hard coal, like
anthracite, so called from its metallic lustre.--_adv._ GLANC'INGLY. [From
a Teut. root seen in Sw. _glans_, Dut. _glans_, Ger. _glanz_, lustre, and
allied to Eng. _glint_.]

GLAND, gland, _n._ a secreting structure, which in various ways alters the
material brought to it by the blood, extracting and excreting waste
products as in the kidneys, or manufacturing valuable by-products, such as
the glycogen and bile of the liver: (_bot._) a small cellular spot which
secretes oil or aroma.--_adjs._ GLANDIF'EROUS, bearing acorns or nuts;
GLAND'IFORM, resembling a gland: nut-shaped; GLAND'[=U]LAR, GLAND'[=U]LOUS,
containing, consisting of, or pertaining to glands.--_n._ GLAND'[=U]LE, a
small gland.--_adj._ GLAND[=U]LIF'EROUS. [F. _glande_--L. _glans_,
_glandis_, an acorn.]

GLANDERS, gland'[.e]rz, _n._ a malignant, contagious, and fatal disease of
the horse or ass, showing itself esp. on the mucous membrane of the nose,
upon the lungs, and on the lymphatic system.--_adj._ GLAND'ERED, affected
with glanders.

GLARE, gl[=a]r, _n._ a clear, dazzling light: overpowering lustre: a
piercing look.--_v.i._ to shine with a clear, dazzling light: to be
ostentatiously splendid: to look with piercing eyes.--_adj._ GLAR'ING,
bright and dazzling: barefaced: notorious.--_adv._ GLAR'INGLY.--_n._
GLAR'INGNESS. [Perh. from A.S. _glær_, a pellucid substance, amber.]

GLAREOUS. See GLAIR.

GLASS, glas, _n._ a combination of silica with some alkali or alkaline
earth, such as lime, &c., used for window panes, mirrors, lenses, &c.:
anything made of glass, esp. a drinking-vessel, a mirror, &c.: the quantity
of liquid a glass holds: any fused substance like glass, with a vitreous
fracture: (_pl._) spectacles.--_adj._ made of glass.--_v.t._ to case in
glass.--_ns._ GLASS'-BLOW'ER, one who blows and fashions glass;
GLASS'-BLOW'ING, the process of making glass, by taking a mass of glass
reduced by heat to a viscid state, and inflating it; GLASS'-COACH, a coach
for hire having glazed windows; GLASS'-CRAB, the larval form of rock
lobsters, &c., but formerly regarded as adults, and made into a genus or
even family; GLASS'-CUT'TER; GLASS'-CUT'TING, the act or process of
cutting, shaping, and ornamenting the surface of glass.--_adj._
GLASS'-FACED (_Shak._), reflecting the sentiments of another, as in a
mirror.--_n._ GLASS'FUL, the contents of a glass.--_adj._ GLASS'-GAZ'ING
(_Shak._), addicted to viewing one's self in a mirror.--_ns._
GLASS'-GRIND'ING, the ornamenting of glass by rubbing with sand, emery,
&c.; GLASS'-HOUSE, a glass manufactory: a house made of glass.--_adv._
GLASS'ILY.--_n._ GLASS'INESS.--_adj._ GLASS'-LIKE.--_ns._ GLASS'-PAINT'ING,
the art of producing pictures on glass by means of staining it chemically;
GLASS'-P[=A]'PER, paper coated with finely pounded glass, and used like
sand-paper; GLASS'-SOAP, an oxide of manganese and other substances used by
glass-blowers to remove colouring from glass; GLASS'WARE, articles made of
glass; GLASS'-WORK, articles made of glass; GLASS'WORT, a plant so called
from its yielding soda, used in making glass.--_adjs._ GLASS'Y, made of or
like glass; GLASS'Y-HEAD'ED (_Tenn._), having a bald, shining head.--_ns._
CUT'-GLASS, flint-glass shaped or ornamented by cutting or grinding on a
wheel; GROUND'-GLASS, any glass that has been depolished by a sand-blast,
grinding, or etching with acids, so as to destroy its transparency;
PLATE'-GLASS, glass cast in large thick plates.--LIVE IN A GLASS HOUSE=to
be open to attack or retort.--MUSICAL GLASSES (see HARMONICA).--WATER, or
SOLUBLE, GLASS, the soluble silicate of soda or of potash formed when
silica is fused with an excess of alkali, used for hardening artificial
stone, as a cement, and for rendering calico, &c., uninflammable. [A.S.
_glæs_; Dut., Ger., and Sw. _glas_; cog. with _glow_, _gleam_, _glance_,
_glare_.]

GLASSITE, glas'[=i]t, _n._ one of a religious sect founded by John _Glas_
(1695-1773), a minister of the Church of Scotland, who was deposed in 1730
for maintaining that a congregation with its eldership is, in its
discipline, subject to no jurisdiction but that of Jesus Christ. The sect
is now better known as the Sandemanians, from the name of Glas's
son-in-law.

GLASWEGIAN, glas-w[=e]j'i-an, _n._ and _adj._ a native or citizen of
_Glasgow_.

GLAUBERITE, glaw'ber-[=i]t, _n._ a grayish-white mineral, a compound of the
sulphates of sodium and calcium, found chiefly in rock-salt. [From the
German Johann Rudolf _Glauber_, 1604-68.]

GLAUBER-SALT. See SALT.

GLAUCOMA, glawk-[=o]'ma, _n._ an insidious disease of the eye, marked by
increased tension within the eyeball, growing dimness of vision, and an
excavation of the papilla of the optic nerve--also GLAUC[=O]'SIS.--_adj._
GLAUCOM'ATOUS. [See GLAUCOUS.]

GLAUCONITE, glaw'k[=o]-n[=i]t, _n._ the mineral, a silicate of iron, which
gives a green colour to some of the beds of the greensand strata, whence
their name.--_adj._ GLAUCONIT'IC. [Fr.,--Gr. _glaukos_, bluish-green.]

GLAUCOUS, glaw'kus, _adj._ sea-green: grayish-blue: (_bot._) covered with a
fine green bloom.--_n._ GLAUCES'CENCE.--_adj._ GLAUCES'CENT, somewhat
glaucous. [L. _glaucus_, bluish--Gr. _glaukos_, blue or gray.]

GLAUCUS, glaw'kus, _n._ a genus of Gasteropods, in the warmer parts of the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. [Gr. _glaukos_, a fish--_glaukos_,
bluish-green.]

GLAUM, gläm, _v.i._ and _v.t._ (_Scot._) to grasp eagerly (with _at_).

GLAUR, glär, a Scotch form of _glair_.

GLAUX, gläks, _n._ a genus of _Primulaceæ_, called also _Sea milkwort_ and
_Black saltwort_, common along sea-coasts of northern Europe--formerly used
in soda-making. [L.,--Gr. _glaux_, milk-vetch.]

GLAVE. See GLAIVE.

GLAZE, gl[=a]z, _v.t._ to furnish or set with glass: to cover with a thin
surface of glass or something glassy: to give a glassy surface to.--_n._
the glassy coating put upon pottery: any shining exterior.--_ns._
GL[=A]Z'ER, a workman who glazes pottery, paper, &c.; GL[=A]'ZIER, one who
sets glass in window-frames, &c. (for _glazer_; like _law-y-er_ for
_law-er_); GL[=A]Z'ING, the act or art of setting glass: the art of
covering with a vitreous substance: (_paint._) semi-transparent colours put
thinly over others to modify the effect. [M. E. _glasen_--_glas_, glass.]

GLEAM, gl[=e]m, _v.i._ to glow or shine: to flash.--_n._ a small stream of
light: a beam: brightness.--_n._ GLEAM'ING, a sudden shoot of
light.--_adj._ GLEAM'Y, casting beams or rays of light. [A.S. _gl['æ]m_,
gleam, brightness (see GLIMMER); akin to _glass_, _glow_.]

GLEAN, gl[=e]n, _v.t._ to gather in handfuls after the reapers: to collect
(what is thinly scattered).--_v.i._ to gather the corn left by a
reaper.--_n._ that which is gleaned: the act of gleaning.--_ns._ GLEAN'ER;
GLEAN'ING. [O. Fr. _glener_ (Fr. _glaner_), through Low L. _glen[=a]re_,
_glena_, from Teut.]

GLEBE, gl[=e]b, _n._ the land belonging to a parish church or
ecclesiastical benefice: (_mining_) a piece of earth containing ore:
(_arch._) turf.--ADJS. GLEB'OUS, GLEB'Y, cloddy, turfy. [Fr.,--L. _gleba_,
a clod.]

GLEDE, gl[=e]d, _n._ (_B._) the common kite, a rapacious bird. [A.S.
_glida_, from, _glídan_, to glide.]

GLEDGE, glej, _v.i._ to squint: to look cunningly.--_n._ a knowing look.
[See GLEY.]

GLEE, gl[=e], _n._ joy: mirth and gaiety: (_mus._) a song or catch in
parts.--_adj._ GLEE'FUL, merry.--_ns._ GLEE'MAID'EN, a female minstrel;
GLEE'MAN, a minstrel.--_adj._ GLEE'SOME, merry. [A.S. _gleó_, mirth; Ice.
_glý_.]

GLEED, gl[=e]d, _n._ a hot coal or burning ember. [A.S. _gléd_; cf. Dut.
_gloed_, Ger. _glut_, Sw. _glöd_.]

GLEEK, gl[=e]k, _n._ (_Shak._) a jest or scoff, a trick: an old game at
cards for three, each having twelve, and eight being left for the
stock.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to gibe or sneer, to spend time in sport or fun.
[Prob. cog. with A.S. _gelác_, play, Ice. _leik_.]

GLEET, gl[=e]t, _n._ a glairy discharge from a mucous surface.--_adj._
GLEET'Y. [O. Fr. _glete_, _glecte_, a flux.]

GLEG, gleg, _adj._ clever: apt: (_Scot._) sharp. [Ice. _glöggr_, clever;
cf. A.S. _gleáw_, wise, Ger. _glau_, clear.]

GLEN, glen, _n._ a narrow valley worn by a river: a depression between
hills. [Celt., as in Gael. and Ir. _gleann_, W. _glyn_.]

GLENE, gl[=e]'n[=e], _n._ the pupil, eyeball: a socket.--_adjs._
GL[=E]'NOID, -AL, slightly cupped. [Gr.]

GLENGARRY, glen-gar'i, _n._ a cap of thick-milled woollen, generally rising
to a point in front, with ribbons hanging down behind--worn by the
Highlanders of Scotland. [_Glengarry_, a glen in West Inverness-shire.]

GLENLIVET, glen-l[=e]v'et, _n._ a good Scotch whisky. [_Glenlivet_, a
valley in Banffshire.]

GLEY, gl[=i], gl[=e], _v.i._ to squint.--_p.adj._ GLEYED (_Scot._),
squint-eyed. [Ice. _gljá_, to glitter; Dan. _glo_.]

GLIADIN. See GLUTIN.

GLIB, glib, _adj._ moving easily: voluble.--_v.i._ to move freely.--_adv._
GLIB'LY.--_n._ GLIB'NESS. [A contr. of Dut. _glibberig_, slippery.]

GLIB, glib, _n._ (_Spens._) a bush of hair hanging over the eyes. [Gael., a
lock of hair.]

GLIB, glib, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to emasculate, to castrate. [Perh. an error
for _lib_, to castrate.]

GLIDE, gl[=i]d, _v.i._ to slide smoothly and easily: to flow gently: to
pass rapidly.--_n._ act of gliding: the joining of two sounds without a
break: a smooth and sliding kind of waltz-step.--_adj._ GLID'DERY,
slippery.--_n._ GL[=I]D'ER, one who, or that which, glides.--_adv._
GL[=I]D'INGLY. [A.S. _glídan_, to slip; Ger. _gleiten_.]

GLIFF, glif, _n._ a fright, a scare: (_Scot._) a moment.--Also GLIFT. [M.
E. _gliffen_, to be terrified.]

GLIM, glim, _n._ (_coll._) a light: (_slang_) an eye. [A.S. _gleomu_; cf.
Ger. _glimm_, a spark.]

GLIMMER, glim'[.e]r, _v.i._ to burn or appear faintly.--_n._ a faint light:
feeble rays of light: (_min._) mica.--_ns._ GLIMM'ER-GOWK (_Tenn._), an
owl; GLIMM'ERING, a glimmer: an inkling.--_adv._ GLIMM'ERINGLY. [M. E.
_glimeren_; most prob. directly Scand.; Dan. _glimre_, to glimmer, Sw.
prov. _glim_, a glance.]

GLIMPSE, glimps, _n._ a short gleam: a weak light: transient lustre: a
hurried view: fleeting enjoyment: the exhibition of a faint
resemblance.--_v.i._ to appear by glimpses.--_v.t._ to get a glimpse of.
[M. E. _glimsen_, to glimpse, a variant of _glimmer_.]

GLINT, glint, _v.i._ to shine, gleam: (_Burns_) to move quickly.--_v.t._ to
reflect.--_n._ a gleam. [From Scand.; Old Dan. _glinte_, to shine.]

GLISK, glisk, _n._ (_Scot._) a glimpse. [M. E. _glissen_--A.S. _glisian_,
to glance.]

GLISSADE, glis-[=a]d', _v.i._ to slide or glide down.--_n._ act of sliding
down a slope.

GLIST, glist, _n._ a dark ferruginous mineral found in lodes, micaceous
iron ore.

GLISTEN, glis'n, _v.i._ to glitter or sparkle with light: to shine.--_n._
glitter. [M. E. _glis-ien_, to shine--A.S. _glisnian_, to shine; cf. Dut.
_glinsteren_.]

GLISTER, glis't[.e]r, _v.i._ to sparkle, glitter.--_adj._ GLIS'TERING
(_Shak._), glittering. [M. E. _glistren_; see above.]

GLIT, a Scotch form of _gleet_.

GLITTER, glit'[.e]r, _v.i._ to glisten, to sparkle with light: to be
splendid: to be showy.--_n._ lustre: brilliancy.--_adjs._ GLITT'ERAND
(_Spens._), sparkling, glittering; GLITT'ERING, shining: splendid:
brilliant.--_adv._ GLITT'ERINGLY. [M. E. _gliteren_; cf. Ice. _glitra_,
Mid. High Ger. _glitzern_.]

GLOAMING, gl[=o]m'ing, _n._ twilight, dusk--(_Scot._) GLOAMIN. [A.S.
_glómung_; akin to _gloom_.]

GLOAT, gl[=o]t, _v.i._ to look eagerly, in a bad sense: to view with a
wicked joy. [Ice. _glotta_, to grin.]

GLOBATE, -D, gl[=o]b'[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ like a globe: circular. [L.
_glob[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to form into a ball--_globus_.]

GLOBE, gl[=o]b, _n._ a ball: a round body, a sphere: the earth: a sphere
representing the earth (terrestrial globe) or the heavens (celestial
globe): (_obs._) a group.--_v.t._ to form in a circle.--_ns._ GLOBE'-FISH,
one of a genus of fishes found in warm seas, remarkable for its power of
swelling out its body to a globular form; GLOBE'-FLOW'ER, a small
palæarctic genus of plants of the order _Ranunculaceæ_, with a globe of
large showy sepals enclosing the small inconspicuous linear petals;
GLOBE'-TROT'TER, one who travels for pleasure around the world;
GLOBE'-TROT'TING; GL[=O]'BIN, a proteid constituent of red blood
corpuscles.--_adjs._ GL[=O]BOSE', GL[=O]B'OUS, resembling a globe.--_n._
(_Milt._) a globe.--_n._ GL[=O]BOS'ITY.--_adjs._ GLOB'[=U]LAR,
GLOB'[=U]LOUS, GLOB'[=U]LOSE, like a globe: spherical.--_n._
GLOB[=U]LAR'ITY.--_adv._ GLOB'[=U]LARLY.--_ns._ GLOB'[=U]LE, a little globe
or round particle--also GLOB'[=U]LET; GLOB'[=U]LIN, GLOB'[=U]LINE, a
substance closely allied to albumen, which forms the main ingredient of the
blood globules, and also occurs in the crystalline lens of the eye;
GLOB'[=U]LITE, the name given by Vogelsang to minute crystallites of
spherical, drop-like form.--_adj._ GL[=O]B'Y (_Milt._), round. [O. Fr.,--L.
_globus_; _gleba_, a clod.]

GLOBIGERINA, glob-i-je-r[=i]'na, _n._ a genus typical of _Globigerinidæ_, a
pelagic family of foraminifers.

GLODE, gl[=o]d (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _glide_.

GLOME, gl[=o]m, _n._ (_bot._) a globular head of flowers.--_adj._
GLOM'EROUS. [L. _glomus_=_globus_.]

GLOMERATE, glom'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to gather into a ball: to collect into
a spherical mass.--_adj._ growing in rounded or massive forms:
conglomerate.--_n._ GLOMER[=A]'TION, act of gathering into a ball: a body
formed into a ball. [L. g_lomer[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_glomus_, _glomeris_, a
clew of yarn.]

GLOOM, gl[=oo]m, _n._ partial darkness: cloudiness: heaviness of mind,
sadness: hopelessness: sullenness.--_v.i._ to be sullen or dejected: to be
cloudy or obscure.--_v.t._ to fill with gloom.--_adv._ GLOOM'ILY.--_n._
GLOOM'INESS.--_p.adj._ GLOOM'ING (_Shak._), shining obscurely.--_n._
twilight: gloaming.--_adj._ GLOOM'Y, dim or obscure: dimly lighted: sad,
melancholy. [A.S. _glóm_, gloom; prov. Ger. _glumm_, gloomy.]

GLORIA, gl[=o]'ri-a, _n._ a doxology.--GLORIA IN EXCELSIS, the 'Greater
Doxology'--'Glory be to God on high;' GLORIA PATRI, the 'Lesser
Doxology'--'Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost,
as it was,' &c. [L. _gloria_, glory.]

GLORIFY, gl[=o]'ri-f[=i], _v.t._ to make glorious: to honour: to exalt to
glory or happiness: to ascribe honour to, to worship:--_pa.p._
gl[=o]'rified.--_n._ GLORIFIC[=A]'TION. [L. _gloria_, glory, _fac[)e]re_,
to make.]

GLORY, gl[=o]'ri, _n._ renown: honour: the occasion of praise: an object of
pride: excellency: splendour: brightness: in religious symbolism, a
combination of the nimbus and the aureola, but often erroneously used for
the nimbus: a burst of sunlight: a luminous glow of reflected light upon
clouds: vain-glory: (_B._) the presence of God: the manifestation of God to
the blessed in heaven: heaven.--_v.i._ to boast: to be proud of anything:
to exult:--_pa.p._ gl[=o]'ried.--_adj._ GL[=O]'RIED (_Milt._), illustrious,
honourable.--_ns._ GL[=O]'RIOLE, a halo or glory; GLORI[=O]'SA, a genus of
_Liliaceæ_, of which the best-known species, a native of India, is a
herbaceous perennial, with beautiful red and yellow flowers.--_adj._
GL[=O]'RIOUS, noble, splendid: conferring renown: (_coll._) elated,
tipsy.--_adv._ GL[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_ns._ GL[=O]'RIOUSNESS; GL[=O]'RY-HOLE, an
opening through which to see the inside of a furnace: a place for
concealing articles of value; GL[=O]'RYING, boasting; GL[=O]'RY-PEA, a
leguminous Australian plant with red flowers. [O. Fr. _glorie_--L. _gloria_
(for _cloria_), akin to _clarus_, from root of L. _clu[=e]re_, Gr.
_klu-ein_, to be famed; Eng. _loud_.]

GLOSS, glos, _n._ brightness or lustre, as from a polished surface:
external show.--_v.t._ to give a superficial lustre to: to render
plausible: to palliate. [Ice. _glossi_, brightness, _glóa_, to glow. See
GLASS.]

GLOSS, glos, _n._ a remark to explain a subject: a comment.--_v.i._ to
comment or make explanatory remarks.--_adj._ GLOSS[=A]'RIAL, relating to a
glossary: containing explanation.--_ns._ GLOSS'ARIST, a writer of a
glossary; GLOSS'ARY, a vocabulary of words requiring special explanation: a
dictionary; GLOSS[=A]'TOR, GLOSS'ER, a writer of glosses or comments, a
commentator; GLOSS'IC, a phonetic alphabet devised by Mr A. J. Ellis
(1814-90) for the scientific expression of speech-sounds--to be used
concurrently with the _Nomic_ or existing English orthography;
GLOSS[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the tongue; GLOSS'OCELE, swelled tongue;
GLOSSOG'RAPHER.--_adj._ GLOSSOGRAPH'ICAL.--_n._ GLOSSOG'RAPHY, the writing
of glossaries or comments.--_adj._ GLOSSOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ GLOSSOL'OGIST;
GLOSSOL'OGY, the science of language, comparative philology: the knowledge
of the definition of technical terms--also GLOTTOL'OGY; GLOSSOT'OMY,
dissection of the tongue. [L. _glossa_, a word requiring explanation--Gr.
_gl[=o]ssa_, the tongue.]

GLOSSY, glos'i, _adj._ smooth and shining: highly polished.--_adv._
GLOSS'ILY.--_n._ GLOSS'INESS.

GLOTTIS, glot'is, _n._ the opening of the larynx or entrance to the
windpipe.--_adj._ GLOTT'AL; GLOTT'IC, pertaining to the tongue or to
glottology. [Gr. _gl[=o]ttis_--_gl[=o]tta_, the tongue.]

GLOTTOLOGY. See GLOSSOLOGY.

GLOUT, glowt, _v.i._ to be sulky.--_n._ a sulky look, the sulks. [See
GLOAT.]

GLOVE, gluv, _n._ a covering for the hand, with a sheath for each finger: a
boxing-glove.--_v.t._ to cover with, or as with, a glove.--_adj._ GLOVED,
covered with a glove.--_ns._ GLOVE'-FIGHT, a boxing-match in which the
hands are gloved; GLOVE'-MON'EY, a gratuity given to servants, officers of
a court, &c.; GLOV'ER, one who makes or sells gloves; GLOVE'-SHIELD, a
shield worn by a knight on the left-hand gauntlet to parry blows;
GLOVE'-STRETCH'ER, a scissors-shaped instrument for inserting into the
fingers of gloves to stretch them.--HANDLE WITHOUT GLOVES, to treat with
vigour or with scant ceremony; THROW DOWN, TAKE UP, THE GLOVE, to offer, or
to accept, a challenge. [A.S. _glóf_; cf. Scot. _loof_, Ice. _lôfi_, palm.]

GLOW, gl[=o], _v.i._ to shine with an intense heat: to feel great heat of
body: to be flushed: to feel the heat of passion: to be ardent.--_n._
shining or white heat: unusual warmth: brightness of colour: vehemence of
passion.--_p.adj._ GLOW'ING, shining with intense light, white with heat:
ardent, fervent, fiery.--_adv._ GLOW'INGLY.--_ns._ GLOW'-LAMP, an
incandescent lamp, usually electric; GLOW'-WORM, a name given to many
beetles in the sub-family _Lampyrides_, having phosphorescent structures on
the abdomen. [A.S. _glówan_, to glow; Ger. _glühen_, Ice. _glóa_, to glow.]

GLOWER, glow'[.e]r, _v.i._ to stare frowningly: to scowl.--_n._ a fierce or
threatening stare.

GLOXINIA, glok-sin'i-a, _n._ a genus of plants of the order _Gesneraceæ_,
almost stemless, with bright bell-shaped flowers. [From _Gloxin_, a German
botanist.]

GLOZE, gl[=o]z, _v.i._ to give a false meaning to: to flatter: to wheedle:
(_obs._) to comment.--_v.t._ to palliate by specious explanation.--_n._
(_obs._) an explanation.--_n._ GL[=O]'ZING, flattery, deceit. [See GLOSS
(2).]

GLUCINUM, gl[=oo]-s[=i]'num, _n._ a white metal prepared from beryl--its
oxide, GLUC[=I]'NA, white, tasteless, insoluble in water.--_adj._
GL[=U]'CIC, pertaining to sugar.--_ns._ GLUCIDE'--Saccharin (q.v.);
GLUCOHÆ'MIA, the presence of an excessive quantity of glucose in the blood;
GLUC[=O]SE', the peculiar kind of sugar in the juice of fruits: the
sugar-syrup obtained by the conversion of starch into sugar by sulphuric
acid--grape-sugar, &c.; GLU'COSIDE, any of those vegetable products which,
on treatment with acids or alkalies, yield a sugar or some closely allied
carbohydrate; GLUCOS[=U]R'IA, the presence of glucose in the urine. [Gr.
_glykys_, sweet.]

GLUE, gl[=oo], _n._ an adhesive substance obtained by boiling the skins,
hoofs, &c. of animals.--_v.t._ to join with glue:--_pr.p._ glu'ing; _pa.p._
glued.--_ns._ GLUE'-POT, a vessel for melting glue; GLU'ER, one who cements
with glue.--_adj._ GLU'EY, containing glue: sticky: viscous.--_n._
GLU'EYNESS.--_adj._ GLU'ISH, having the nature of glue.--_n._ MARINE'-GLUE,
not a glue, but a cementing composition, used in shipbuilding, for paying
seams in ships' decks after being caulked. [Fr. _glu_--Low L. _glus_,
_glutis_--_glu[)e]re_, to draw together.]

GLUM, glum, _adj._ frowning: sullen: gloomy.--_adv._ GLUM'LY.--_n._
GLUM'NESS.--_adj._ GLUMP'ISH, glum.--_n.pl._ GLUMPS, the sulks.--_adj._
GLUMP'Y, sulky. [M. E. _glomben_, _glommen_, to frown: prob. related to Sw.
_glomma_, Low Ger. _glummen_.]

GLUME, gl[=oo]m, _n._ a term applied to certain bracts in grasses and
sedges.--_adjs._ GLUM[=A]'CEOUS, GLU'MAL, GLUMIF'EROUS, GLU'MOSE, GLU'MOUS.
[L. _gluma_, husk--_glub[)e]re_, to peel off bark.]

GLUT, glut, _v.t._ to swallow greedily: to feast to satiety: to supply in
excess:--_pr.p._ glut'ting; _pa.p._ glut'ted.--_n._ an over-supply:
anything that obstructs the passage. [L. _glut[=i]re_, to swallow.]

GLUTÆUS, GLUTEUS, gl[=oo]-t[=e]'us, _n._ one of the natal or buttock
muscles.--_adjs._ GLUT[=E]'AL, GLUT[=E]'AN. [Gr. _gloutos_, the rump.]

GLUTEN, gl[=oo]'ten, _n._ the nitrogenous part of the flour of wheat and
other grains, insoluble in water.--_ns._ GLU'TIN, GL[=I]'ADIN, the
separable viscid constituent of wheat-gluten, soluble in alcohol. [L.
_gluten_, the same as _glus_. See GLUE.]

GLUTINATE, gl[=oo]'tin-[=a]t, _v.t._ to unite, as with glue.--_n._
GLUTIN[=A]'TION.--_adj._ GLU'TINATIVE, having the quality of cementing:
tenacious.--_ns._ GLUTINOS'ITY, GLU'TINOUSNESS.--_adj._ GLU'TINOUS, gluey:
tenacious: (_bot._) covered, as a leaf, with slimy moisture. [L.
_glutin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

GLUTTON, glut'n, _n._ one who eats to excess: a popular name of the
wolverine, a carnivorous quadruped of the weasel family.--_v.i._
GLUTT'ONISE, to eat to excess, like a glutton.--_adjs._ GLUTT'ONOUS,
GLUTT'ONISH, given to, or consisting in, gluttony.--_adv._
GLUTT'ONOUSLY.--_n._ GLUTT'ONY, excess in eating. [Fr. _glouton_--L.
_gluton-em_--_glutt[=i]re_, to devour.]

GLYCERINE, glis'[.e]r-in, _n._ a colourless, viscid, neutral, inodorous
fluid, of a sweet taste, soluble in water and alcohol. [Fr.,--Gr.
_glykeros_--_glykys_, sweet.]

GLYCOCOLL, gl[=i]'k[=o]-kol, _n._ amido-acetic acid, a crystalline solid of
sweetish taste, very soluble in water, a product of various processes of
decomposition of animal matters.--Also GLY'CIN. [Formed from Gr. _glykys_,
sweet, _kolla_, glue.]

GLYCOGEN, gl[=i]'k[=o]-jen, _n._ animal starch, a substance first
discovered by Claude Bernard in the human liver--when pure, a white,
amorphous, tasteless powder, insoluble in alcohol. [Formed from Gr.
_glykys_, sweet, _gen[=e]s_, producing.]

GLYCOL, gl[=i]'kol, _n._ the type of a class of artificial compounds
forming chemically a link between alcohol and glycerine. [Formed from
_glyc_(erine) and (alcoh)_ol_.]

GLYCONIC, gl[=i]-kon'ik, _adj._ and _n._ of or pertaining to the ancient
Greek poet _Glycon_, or the verse attributed to him, consisting of four
feet--one a dactyl, the others trochees.

GLYPH, glif, _n._ (_archit._) an ornamental channel or fluting, usually
vertical.--_adjs._ GLYPH'IC; GLYPHOGRAPH'IC.--_ns._ GLYPHOG'RAPHY, a
process of taking a raised copy of a drawing by electrotype; GLYPH'OGRAPH,
a plate formed by this process.--_adj._ GLYP'TIC, pertaining to carving on
stone, &c.: (_min._) figured.--_n.pl._ GLYP'TICS, the art of engraving,
esp. on precious stones.--_adj._ GLYPTOGRAPH'IC.--_ns._ GLYPTOG'RAPHY, the
art of engraving on precious stones; GLYPTOTH[=E]'CA, a place for keeping
sculpture. [Gr. _glyph[=e]_--_glyphein_, to carve.]

GLYPTODON, glip'to-don, _n._ a gigantic fossil armadillo of South America
with fluted teeth. [Gr. _glyptos_, carved, _odous_, _odontos_, tooth.]

GMELINA, mel'i-na, _n._ a genus of verbenaceous trees. [From Samuel
Gottlieb _Gmelin_ (1744-74).]

GNAPHALIUM, na-f[=a]'li-um, _n._ a genus of composite herbs of the aster
family, the cudweed or everlasting. [L.,--Gr. _gnaphalion_, a downy plant.]

GNAR, när, _v.i._ to snarl or growl.--Also GNARR, KNAR, GNARL. [From a
Teut. root found in Ger. _knurren_, Dan. _knurre_, to growl; formed from
the sound.]

GNARL, närl, _n._ a twisted knot in wood.--_adj._ GNARLED, knotty, twisted.
[From a Teut. root, as in Ger. _knurren_, Dan. _knort_, a knot, gnarl, and
prob. akin to _gnarl_ in the sense of pressing close together.]

GNASH, nash, _v.t._ to strike the teeth together in rage or pain.--_v.i._
to grind the teeth.--_n._ a sudden snap.--_adv._ GNASH'INGLY. [M. E.
_gnasten_--Sw. _knastra_, to crash; cf. Ger. _knastern_, Dan. _knaske_.]

GNAT, nat, _n._ a genus of dipterous insects of numerous species, esp.
abundant in marshy districts--the female lives on the blood of
animals.--_n._ GNAT'LING. [A.S. _gnæt_; Ice. _gnata_, to clash.]

GNATHIC, nath'ik, _adj._ of the jaws--also GN[=A]'THAL.--_ns._ GNATH'ISM,
the classification of mankind based on measurements of the jaw;
GNATH[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the cheek or upper jaw; GNATHOPLAST'Y, the
formation of a cheek by plastic surgery; GNATHOP'ODA, the xiphosura: the
arthropoda. [Gr. _gnathos_, the jaw.]

GNATHONIC, -AL, nä-thon'ik, -al, _adj._ flattering. [From _Gnatho_, a
character in Terence's _Eunuchus_--Gr. _gnathos_, the jaw.]

GNAW, naw, _v.t._ to bite so as to make a noise with the teeth: to bite off
by degrees: to corrode or wear away: to bite in agony or rage: (_fig._) to
torment.--_v.i._ to use the teeth in biting.--_n._ GNAW'ER, a rodent. [A.S.
_gnagan_; cf. Dut. _knagen_, Ice. _naga_, prov. Eng. _nag_, to tease.]

GNEISS, n[=i]s, _n._ (_geol._) a species of stratified rock composed of
quartz, feldspar, and mica.--_adjs._ GNEISS'OID, having some of the
characters of gneiss; GNEISS'OSE, having the structure of gneiss. [Ger.
_gneiss_, a miners' word of unknown origin.]

GNOME, n[=o]m, _n._ a pithy and sententious saying, generally in verse,
embodying some moral sentiment or precept.--GNOMIC POETS, a class of
writers of this form in Greek literature. [Gr. _gn[=o]m[=e]_, an
opinion--_gn[=o]nai_, _gign[=o]skein_, to know.]

GNOME, n[=o]m, _n._ a sprite guarding the inner parts of the earth and its
treasures: a dwarf or goblin. [Fr.,--a word traced by Littré to Paracelsus,
and perh. formed from Gr. _gn[=o]m[=e]_, intelligence.]

GNOMON, n[=o]'mon, _n._ the pin of a dial, whose shadow points to the hour:
the index of the hour-circle of a globe: (_geom._) the name given to the
sum of any three of the parts of a rectangle when divided into four parts
by cross-lines parallel to its sides: interpreter, as in Bengel's _Gnomon
Novi Testamenti_.--_adjs._ GNOMON'IC, -AL, pertaining to the art of
dialling.--_adv._ GNOMON'ICALLY.--_ns._ GNOMON'ICS, the art of dialling;
GNOMONOL'OGY, a treatise on dialling. [Gr. _gn[=o]m[=o]n_, an
interpreter--_gn[=o]nai_, to know.]

GNOSTIC, nos'tik, _n._ (_theol._) one of a sect in the beginning of the
Christian era which maintained that knowledge (_gn[=o]sis_) and not faith
(_pistis_) was the way of salvation, allegorised away the great facts of
Christ's person and work, and represented individual life as the result of
a process of emanation from the original essence.--_adj._ having knowledge:
knowing, cunning: pertaining to the Gnostics.--_ns._ GN[=O]'SIS, knowledge:
mystical knowledge; GNOS'TICISM, the eclectic doctrines of the Gnostics.
[Gr. _gn[=o]stikos_, good at knowing--_gign[=o]skein_, to know.]

GNU, n[=u], _n._ a genus of antelopes native to South Africa, of which the
best-known species has characters of the ox, buffalo, and horse.
[Hottentot.]

GO, g[=o], _v.i._ to pass from one place to another: to be in motion: to
proceed: to walk: to depart from: to lead in any direction: to extend: to
tend: to be about to do: to pass in report: to pass, as in payment: to be
accounted in value: to happen in a particular way: to turn out: to fare: to
give way:--_pr.p._ g[=o]'ing; _pa.t._ went; _pa.p._ gone (gon).--_n._
affair, matter, as in 'a pretty go:' fashion, as in 'all the go:' energy,
activity.--_adj._ GO'-AHEAD', dashing, energetic.--_ns._ GO'-BETWEEN',
G[=O]'ER-BETWEEN' (_Shak._), one who is agent between two parties; GO'-BY,
escape by artifice: evasion: any intentional disregard: in coursing, the
act of passing by or ahead in motion.--_adj._ GO-TO-MEET'ING (_coll._),
used of clothes, good and fit for public use.--GO ABOUT (_B._), to set
one's self about: to seek: to endeavour; GO ABOUT ONE'S BUSINESS, to attend
to one's duties: to be off; GO ABROAD, to go to a foreign country: to leave
one's house; GO AGAINST, to invade: to be repugnant to; GO ASIDE, to err:
to withdraw, retire; GO AT, to attack; GO BEYOND (_B._), to overreach; GO
DOWN, to sink, decline: to be believed or accepted; GO FAR, to last long;
GO FOR, to pass for: to attack: to take up a line of policy; GO FOR
NOTHING, to have no value; GO HARD WITH, to be in real difficulty or
danger; GO IN AND OUT, to come and go freely; GO IN FOR, to be in favour
of: to aim after; GO IN UNTO, to have sexual intercourse with; GO IT, to
act in a striking or dashing manner--often in _imperative_ by way of
encouragement; GO OFF, to leave: to die: to explode: to fade; GO ON, to
proceed; GO ONE BETTER, to take a bet and add another more to it: to excel
another in fitness for some purpose; GO ONE'S WAY, to depart; GO OUT, to
become extinct or expire; GO OVER, to study, to examine; GO THE WHOLE HOG,
to go to the fullest extent; GO THROUGH, to perform thoroughly, to
accomplish; GO THROUGH FIRE AND WATER, to undertake any trouble or risks
for one's end (from the usage in ancient ordeals); GO TO, come now (a kind
of interjection, like the L. _agedum_, the Gr. [Greek: age nun]); GO TO
PIECES, to break up entirely, to be dismembered; GO TO THE WALL, to be
pushed aside, passed by; GO UNDER, to be called by some title or character:
to be overwhelmed or ruined, to die; GO WELL, to prosper; GO WITH, to
accompany: to agree, accord; GO WITHOUT SAYING, to be plainly self-evident
(Fr. _Cela va sans dire_).--GREAT GO, a degree examination, compared with
LITTLE GO, a preliminary examination in the university of Cambridge; LET
GO, to release, to quit hold of; NO GO, not possible: of no use. [A.S.
_gán_, contr. for _gangan_, to go; cf. Ger. _gehen_, Dut. _gaan_.]

GOAD, g[=o]d, _n._ a sharp-pointed stick, often shod with iron, for driving
oxen: a stimulus.--_v.t._ to drive with a goad: to urge forward. [A.S.
_gád_, a goad; cf. Ice. _gaddr_, a goad.]

GOAF, g[=o]f, _n._ a rick: the coal-waste left in old workings.

GOAL, g[=o]l, _n._ a mark set up to bound a race: the winning-post--also
the starting-post: the end aimed at: the two upright posts between which
the ball is kicked in the game of football: the act of sending the ball
between or over the goal-posts: an end or aim. [Fr. _gaule_, a pole; prob.
of Teut. origin, as Old Fris. _walu_, a staff, Goth. _walus_; but acc. to
Littré from L. _vallus_, a stake.]

GOAT, g[=o]t, _n._ the well-known quadruped, allied to the sheep.--_ns._
GOAT'CH[=A]FER, the dor or dung-beetle; GOAT[=EE]', a beard left on the
chin, while the rest of the face is shaven; GOAT'-HERD, one who tends
goats.--_adj._ GOAT'ISH, resembling a goat, esp. in smell: lustful:
wanton.--_ns._ GOAT'ISHNESS; GOAT'-MOTH, a large moth common throughout
Europe and Asia, having a thick heavy body, and measuring three inches or
more across the wings; GOAT'S'-BEARD, GOAT'S'-RUE, GOAT'S'-THORN, names of
plants; GOAT'SKIN, the skin of the goat, leather made from it; GOAT'SUCKER,
a kind of swallow erroneously thought to suck goats. [A.S. _gát_; Ger.
_geiss_, Dut. _geit_.]

GOB, gob, _n._ the mouth: a mouthful, lump: refuse coal.--_v.i._ to pack
away such as a support to the walls.--_ns._ GOB'BING, GOB'BIN, coal refuse.

GO-BANG, g[=o]-bang', _n._ a game played on a checker-board of 256 squares,
with fifty coloured counters, the object being to get five counters in a
row. [Jap. _goban_.]

GOBBET, gob'et, _n._ a mouthful: (_obs._) a little lump.--GOBE MOUCHE, a
silly credulous fellow. [O. Fr. _gobet_, from Celt.; Gael. _gob_, the
mouth.]

GOBBLE, gob'l, _v.t._ to swallow in lumps: to swallow hastily.--_v.i._ to
make a noise in the throat, as a turkey.--_n._ (_golf_) a rapid straight
_putt_ so strongly played that if the ball had not gone into the hole, it
would have gone a long way past.--_n._ GOBB'LER, a turkey-cock. [O. Fr.
_gober_, to devour; Celt.]

GOBELIN, gob'e-lin, _n._ a rich French tapestry. [From the _Gobelins_, a
famous family of French dyers settled in Paris as early as the 15th
century.]

GOBLET, gob'let, _n._ a large drinking-cup without a handle. [O. Fr.
_gobelet_, dim. of _gobel_--Low L. _cupellus_, a dim. of L. _cupa_, a cask.
See Cup.]

GOBLIN, gob'lin, _n._ a frightful phantom: a fairy: a mischievous sprite.
[O. Fr. _gobelin_--Low L. _gobelinus_--Gr. _kobalos_, a mischievous
spirit.]

GOBY, g[=o]'bi, _n._ a genus of small carnivorous sea-fishes, with nests of
seaweed. [L. _gobius_--Gr. _k[=o]bios_.]

GO-CART, g[=o]'-kärt, _n._ a wheeled apparatus for teaching children to
walk.

GOD, god, _n._ the Supreme Being: the Creator and Preserver of the world:
an object of worship, an idol: (_B._) a ruler:--_fem._ GOD'DESS: (_pl._)
the occupants of the gallery of a theatre.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to
deify.--_interj._ GOD'-A-MER'CY (_Shak._), probably a corruption of 'God
have mercy!'--_ns._ GOD'CHILD; GOD'DAUGHTER; GOD'DESS-SHIP (_Byron_), state
or quality of a goddess; GOD'FATHER, GOD'MOTHER, the persons who, at
baptism, guarantee a child's religious education.--_adjs._ GOD'-FORSAK'EN,
miserable, as if forsaken by God; GOD'-FEAR'ING, reverencing God.--_n._
GOD'HEAD, state of being a god: deity: divine nature--also rarely
GOD'HOOD.--_adj._ GOD'LESS, living without God: impious:
atheistical.--_adv._ GOD'LESSLY.--_n._ GOD'LESSNESS.--_adj._ GOD'LIKE, like
God: divine.--_ns._ GODLI'NESS; GOD'LING (_Dryden_), a little god.--_adj._
GOD'LY, like God in character: pious: according to God's law.--_advs._
GOD'LY, GOD'LILY.--_ns._ GOD'LY-HEAD (_Spens._), goodness; GOD'SEND, an
unexpected piece of good fortune; GOD'SHIP, the rank or character of a god:
a divinity; GOD'-SMITH (_Dryden_), a maker of idols; GOD'SON; GOD'SPEED, a
wish for good speed or success.--_adv._ GOD'WARD, toward God.--GOD'S ACRE,
a burial-ground (imitated from Ger. _Gottesacker_); GOD'S TRUTH, an
absolute truth--an emphatic asseveration.--HOUSEHOLD GODS, among the
Romans, the special gods presiding over the family: anything bound up with
home interests. [A.S. _god_; Ger. _gott_, Goth. _guth_, Dut. _god_; all
from a Teut. root _gutha_, God, and quite distinct from _good_.]

GOD-DEN, a variant of _good-den_.

GODROON, go-dr[=oo]n', _n._ (_archit._) an inverted fluting or beading.
[Fr. _godron_, a plait.]

GODWIT, god'wit, _n._ a genus of birds of the snipe family, with long bill
and long slender legs, with a great part of the tibia bare. [Perh. from
A.S. _gód_, good, _wiht_, creature.]

GOËL, g[=o]'[=a]l, _n._ the avenger of blood among the Hebrews, the nearest
relative whose duty it was to hunt down the murderer. [Heb.]

GOER, g[=o]'[.e]r, _n._ one who, or that which, goes: a horse, considered
in reference to his gait.

GOETY, g[=o]'[=e]-ti, _n._ black magic.--_adj._ GOET'IC. [Gr., _go[=e]s_, a
sorcerer.]

GOFF, a variant of _golf_.

GOFFER, gof'[.e]r, _v.t._ to plait or crimp.--_n._ GOFF'ERING, plaits or
ruffles, or the process of making them; indented tooling on the edge of a
book. [O. Fr. _gauffrer_--_goffre_, a wafer.]

GOGGLE, gog'l, _v.i._ to strain or roll the eyes.--_adj._ rolling: staring:
prominent.--_n._ a stare or affected rolling of the eye: (_pl._) spectacles
with projecting eye-tubes: blinds for shying horses.--_adj._ GOGG'LE-EYED,
having prominent, distorted, or rolling eyes. [Prob. related to Ir. and
Gael. _gog_, to nod.]

GOGLET, gog'let, _n._ a water-cooler.

GOING, g[=o]'ing, _n._ the act of moving: departure: (_B._) course of
life.--GOING FORTH (_B._), an outlet; GOINGS, or GOINGS OUT (_B._), utmost
extremity: departures or journeys; GOINGS ON, behaviour.

GOITRE, GOITER, goi't[.e]r, _n._ a tumour on the forepart of the throat,
being an enlargement of one of the glands (see CRETINISM).--_adjs._
GOI'TRED, GOI'TERED, affected with goitre; GOI'TROUS, pertaining to goitre.
[Fr. _goître_--L. _guttur_, the throat.]

GOLD, g[=o]ld, _n._ one of the precious metals much used for coin: money:
riches: anything very precious: yellow, gold colour.--_adj._ made of or
like gold.--_ns._ GOLD'-BEAT'ER, one whose trade is to beat gold into
gold-leaf; GOLD'-BEAT'ERS'-SKIN, the outer coat of the cæcum of the ox;
GOLD'-BEAT'ING.--_adj._ GOLD'-BOUND (_Shak._), encompassed with
gold.--_ns._ GOLD'-CLOTH, cloth woven with threads of gold; GOLD'-CREST, a
golden-crested bird of genus _Regulus_; GOLD'-DIG'GER, one who digs for or
mines gold, esp. a placer-miner; GOLD'-DUST, gold in dust or very fine
particles, as it is sometimes found in rivers.--_adj._ GOLD'EN, made of
gold: of the colour of gold: bright: most valuable: happy: highly
favourable.--_v.t._ to become golden.--_ns._ GOLD'EN-AGE, an early period
in history, a time of innocence and happiness; GOLD'EN-EYE, a species of
oceanic ducks which breed in the Arctic regions, and are winter visitants
of Britain.--_adj._ GOLD'EN-HILT'ED (_Tenn._), having a hilt made of, or
mounted with, gold.--_adv._ GOLD'ENLY (_Tenn._), splendidly,
delightfully.--_ns._ GOLD'EN-ROD, any herb of the genus _Solidago_, of the
aster family; GOLD'-F[=E]'VER, a mania for seeking gold; GOLD'-FIELD, a
region where gold is found; GOLD'FINCH, the most beautiful of English
finches, with very handsome plumage, in which black, crimson-red, yellow,
and white are, in the adult male, exquisitely mingled; GOLD'FISH, a Chinese
and Japanese fresh-water fish, nearly allied to the carp--in its native
waters it is brownish, but when domesticated becomes golden-yellow;
GOLD'-FOIL, gold beaten into thin sheets, used by dentists; GOLD'ILOCKS,
GOLD'YLOCKS, a common name for Ranunculus (q.v.); GOLD'-LACE, lace made of
gold-thread; GOLD'-LEAF, gold beaten extremely thin, or into leaves;
GOLD'-LIL'Y, the yellow lily; GOLD'-MINE, a mine from which gold is dug;
GOLD'-PLATE, vessels and utensils of gold collectively; GOLD'SMITH, a
worker in gold and silver; GOLD'SPINK (_Scot._), the goldfinch; GOLD'STICK,
the colonel of a regiment of life-guards who attends the sovereign on state
occasions--he receives a gold rod with his commission; GOLD'-THREAD, a
ranunculaceous plant found from Denmark to Siberia, with evergreen leaves,
resembling those of the strawberry: a thread formed of a strip of gold-leaf
laid over a thread of silk; GOLD'-WASH'ER, one who obtains gold by washing
it from sand and GRAVEL: a cradle or other implement for washing gold from
auriferous dirt; GOLD'-WIRE, wire made of or covered with gold.--Golden
beetle, the name popularly given to many members of the _Chrysomela_ genus
of coleopterous insects, marked by their metallic splendour of colour;
GOLDEN BULL (L. _bulla_ _aurea_), an edict issued by the Emperor Charles
IV. in 1356, mainly for the purpose of settling the law of imperial
elections; GOLDEN FLEECE, in Greek mythology, the fleece of the ram
Chrysomallus, the recovery of which was the object of the famous expedition
of the Argonauts--it gave its name to a celebrated order of knighthood in
Austria and Spain, founded in 1429; GOLDEN HORDE, the Kipchaks, a Turkic
people, whose empire was founded in central and southern Russia by Batu in
the 13th century; GOLDEN LEGEND (L. _aurea legenda_), a celebrated medieval
collection of lives of the greater saints, the work of Jacobus de Voragine
(1230-98); GOLDEN NUMBER for any year, the number of that year in the
Metonic Cycle, and as this cycle embraces nineteen years, the golden
numbers range from one to nineteen; GOLDEN ROSE, a rose formed of wrought
gold, and blessed by the Pope in person on the fourth Sunday in Lent,
usually presented to some Catholic prince. [A.S. _gold_; Ice. _gull_, Ger.
_gold_, Goth. _gulth_, Russ. _zlato_, Gr. _chrysos_.]

GOLF, golf, _n._ a game played with a club and ball, in which he who drives
the ball into a series of small holes in the ground with fewest strokes is
the winner.--_ns._ GOLF'ER; GOLF'ING. [Dut. _kolf_, a club; cf. Ger.
_kolbe_, Ice. _kólfr_.]

GOLGOTHA, gol'go-tha, _n._ the scene of our Lord's crucifixion, near
Jerusalem: a charnel-house. [Heb.]

GOLIARD, gol'yard, _n._ a medieval monk who amused his superiors at table
by merry jests.--_n._ GOL'IARDERY.--_adj._ GOLIAR'DIC.--_n._ GOL'IAS, the
title assumed by the authors of several medieval satirical poems--Walter
Map makes 'Bishop Golias' the type of the ribald priest. [O. Fr.]

GOLIATH, g[=o]-l[=i]'ath, _n._ a giant.--_v.i._ to exaggerate
extravagantly.--_n._ GOL[=I]'ATH-BEE'TLE, a genus of tropical beetles of
very large size, the male sometimes measuring about four inches. [From
_Goliath_, the Philistine giant in 1 Sam. xvii.]

GOLLAR, gol'ar, _v.i._ (prov.) to scold or speak loudly.

GOLOE-SHOES. See GALOSH.

GOLOMYNKA, g[=o]-l[=o]-ming'ka, _n._ a fish found only in Lake Baikal,
resembling the gobies.

GOLOSH, go-losh', _n._ Same as GALOSH.

GOMARIST, g[=o]'mar-ist, _n._ a follower of Francis _Gomarus_ (1563-1641),
a vehement opponent of the Arminians, who mainly through his influence were
expelled from the Reformed Church at the Synod of Dort in 1618.

GOMBEENISM, gom-b[=e]n'izm, _n._ the practice of depending on
money-lenders.--_n._ GOMBEEN'MAN, a grasping and usurious money-lender in
Ireland.

GOMERIL, gom'[.e]r-il, _n._ (_Scot._) a stupid fellow.

GOMPHIASIS, gom-f[=i]'a-sis, _n._ looseness of the teeth, esp. the
molars.--_n._ GOMPH[=O]'SIS, a kind of synarthrosis or immovable
articulation, as of the teeth in the jaw. [Gr., _gomphios_, a tooth.]

GOMUTI, g[=o]-m[=oo]'ti, _n._ the sago-palm: the black fibre it
yields.--Also GOMU'TO. [Malay.]

GONAD, gon'ad, _n._ (_biol._) a mass of undifferentiated generative tissue.

GONAGRA, gon'a-gra, _n._ gout in the knee.--_ns._ GONAL'GIA, any painful
affection of the knee; GONARTHR[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the knee-joint.
[Gr. _gony_, knee, _agra_, a taking, _algos_, pain.]

GONDOLA, gon'do-la, _n._ a long, narrow boat (averaging 30 feet by 4) used
chiefly on the canals of Venice--(_Spens._) GON'DELAY.--_n._ GONDOLIER
(gon'dol-[=e]r), one who rows a gondola. [It., a dim. of _gonda_--Gr.
_kondy_--a drinking-vessel, said to be a Pers. word.]

GONE, gon, _pa.p._ of go, lost, passed beyond help: weak, faint, feeling a
sinking sensation: wide of the mark, of an arrow: (_slang_) entirely given
up to (with on).--_ns._ GONE'NESS, a sinking sensation; GON'ER (_slang_),
one ruined beyond recovery.

GONFALON, gon'fa-lon, _n._ an ensign or standard with streamers--also
GON'FANON.--_n._ GONFALONIER', one who bears a gonfalon: the chief
magistrate in many Italian cities because of his bearing this flag. [O. Fr.
_gonfanon_--Mid. High Ger. _gundfano_--_gund_, battle, _fano_ (Ger.
_fahne_), a flag.]

GONG, gong, _n._ a Chinese instrument of percussion, made of a mixture of
metals, and shaped into a basin-like form, flat and large, with a rim a few
inches deep. [Malay.]

GONGORISM, gong'gor-izm, _n._ a florid, inverted, and pedantic style of
writing, introduced by the Spanish poet Luis de _Góngora_ y Argote
(1561-1627), some of whose distinctive features reappeared in Euphuism.

GONGYLUS, gon'ji-lus, _n._ a round deciduous body connected with the
reproduction of certain seaweeds. [Gr., 'round.']

GONIATITES, g[=o]-ni-a-t[=i]'t[=e]z, _n._ a genus of fossil cephalopodous
mollusca, kindred to the Ammonites. [Gr. _gonia_, an angle, _lithos_, a
stone.]

GONIDIA, g[=o]-nid'i-a, _n.pl._ an old term in lichenology for the green
cells (algal constituents) of the thallus:--_sing._ GONID'IUM, a naked or
membranous-coated propagative cell produced asexually. [Formed from Gr.
_gon[=e]_, generation, seed.]

GONIOMETER, g[=o]-ni-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring solid
angles, indispensable to the crystallographer. [_G[=o]nia_, an angle,
_metron_, measure.]

GONOPHORE, gon'o-f[=o]r, _n._ the ultimate generative zooid of a hydrozoan,
originating directly the generative elements. [Gr. _gonos_, seed,
_pherein_, to bear.]

GONORRHEA, gon-or-r[=e]'a, _n._ a specific contagious inflammatory
discharge of mucus from the membrane of the urethra or vagina. [Gr.
_gonorrhoia_--_gonos_, seed, _rheein_, to flow.]

GOOD, good, _adj._ having qualities, whether physical or moral, desirable
or suitable to the end proposed: promoting success, welfare, or happiness:
virtuous: pious: kind: benevolent: proper: fit: competent: satisfactory:
sufficient: valid: sound: serviceable: beneficial: real: serious, as in
'good earnest:' not small, considerable, as in 'good deal:' full, complete,
as in 'good measure:' unblemished, honourable, as in 'good name:'--_comp._
bett'er; _superl._ best.--_n._ that which promotes happiness, success,
&c.--opp. to _Evil_: prosperity: welfare: advantage, temporal or spiritual:
moral qualities: virtue: (_B._) possessions: (_pl._) household furniture:
movable property: merchandise (in composition, the equivalent of U.S.
_freight_).--_interj._ well! right!--_adv._ well.--_ns._ GOOD'-BREED'ING,
polite manners formed by a good breeding or education; GOOD'-BROTH'ER
(_Scot._), a brother-in-law.--_n._ or _interj._ GOOD'-BYE, contracted from
'God be with you:' farewell, a form of address at parting.--_adj._
GOOD'-CONDI'TIONED, being in a good state.--_ns._ or _interjs._ GOOD'-DAY,
a common salutation, a contraction of 'I wish you a good day;' GOOD'-DEN, a
corruption of _good-e'en_; GOOD'-E'EN, GOOD'-[=E]V'EN, GOOD'-[=E]VE'NING, a
salutation on meeting or parting in the evening.--_adj._ GOOD'-FACED
(_Shak._), having a handsome face.--_ns._ GOOD'-FELL'OW, a jolly or boon
companion: a reveller; GOOD'-FELL'OWSHIP, merry or pleasant company:
conviviality.--_n.pl._ GOOD'-FOLK, a euphemism for the fairies, of whom it
is best to speak respectfully.--_adj._ GOOD'-FOR-NOTH'ING, worthless,
useless.--_n._ an idle person.--_ns._ GOOD'-FR[=I]'DAY, a fast in memory of
our Lord's crucifixion, held on the Friday of Passion-week;
GOOD'-H[=U]'MOUR, a cheerful temper, from the old idea that temper depended
on the humours of the body.--_adj._ GOOD'-H[=U]'MOURED.--_adv._
GOOD'-H[=U]'MOUREDLY.--_n._ GOOD'INESS, weak, priggish, or canting
goodness.--_adj._ GOOD'ISH, pretty good, of fair quality or
quantity.--_interj._ GOOD'-LACK, an expression of surprise or pity--a
variation of 'Good Lord,' under the influence of _alack_.--_n._
GOOD'LINESS.--_adv._ GOOD'LY (_Spens._), excellently, kindly.--_adj._
good-like: good-looking: fine: excellent:--_comp._ GOOD'LIER; _superl._
GOOD'LIEST.--_ns._ GOOD'LYHEAD (_Spens._), goodness; GOOD'LYHOOD, grace;
GOODMAN' (_B._), the man or master of the house--the correlative to it is
GOODWIFE'.--_ns._ and _interjs._ GOOD'-MORN'ING, GOOD'-MORR'OW, a
salutation at meeting in the morning.--_n._ GOOD'-N[=A]'TURE, natural
goodness and mildness of disposition.--_adj._ GOOD'-N[=A]'TURED.--_adv._
GOOD'-N[=A]'TUREDLY.--_n._ GOOD'NESS, virtue: excellence: benevolence: a
term of emphasis, as in 'For goodness' sake;' 'Oh, goodness!'--_n._ and
_interj._ GOOD'-NIGHT, a common salutation, a contraction of 'I wish you a
good night.'--_interj._ GOOD'-NOW, an exclamation of wonder, surprise, or
entreaty.--_ns._ GOODS'-EN'GINE, an engine used for drawing goods-trains;
GOOD'-SENSE, sound judgment; GOOD'-SPEED, a contraction of 'I wish you good
speed;' GOODS'-TRAIN, a train of goods wagons.--_adj._ GOOD'-TEM'PERED,
possessing a good temper.--_ns._ GOOD'-WIFE, the mistress of a family;
GOOD'-WILL, benevolence; well-wishing: the established custom or popularity
of any business or trade--often appearing as one of its assets, with a
marketable money value; GOOD'Y, good-wife: good-woman: probably formed from
_good-wife_.--_adj._ GOOD'Y, mawkishly good: weakly benevolent or
pious--also GOOD'Y-GOOD'Y.--_n._ a sweetmeat.--GOOD FOR ANYTHING, ready for
any kind of work; GOODMAN'S CROFT, a strip of ground, or corner of a field,
once left untilled in Scotland, to avert the malice of the devil from the
crop.--GOOD TEMPLAR, a member of a temperance society founded in the United
States in 1852, and introduced into England in 1868, its organisation
modelled on that of the Freemasons, with lodges, passwords and grips, and
insignia.--AS GOOD AS, the same as, no less than; BE AS GOOD AS ONE'S WORD,
to be depended on; FOR GOOD, FOR GOOD AND ALL, finally, in conclusion, to
end the whole matter; Make good, to fulfil, perform; STAND GOOD, to be
lastingly good: to remain; THINK GOOD, to be disposed, to be willing. [A.S.
_gód_; closely akin to Dut. _goed_, Ger. _gut_, Ice. _góðr_, Goth. _gods_.]

GOORKHA, g[=oo]r'kä, _n._ one of the dominant race in Nepal, descended from
Hindu immigrants, and claiming a Rajput origin, short, thick-set men,
making excellent soldiers.

GOOROO. See GURU.

GOOSANDER, g[=oo]s-an'd[.e]r, _n._ a web-footed bird in the duck family, in
the same genus as the Mergansers, a native of the Arctic regions. [Formed
from _goose_ and _gander_.]

GOOSE, g[=oo]s, _n._ (_pl._ GEESE) a web-footed animal like a duck, but
larger and stronger: a tailor's smoothing-iron, from the likeness of the
handle to the neck of a goose: a stupid, silly person: a game of chance
once common in England, in which the players moved counters forward from
one compartment on a board to another, the right to a double move being
secured when the card bearing the picture of a goose was reached.--_v.t._
(_slang_) to hiss off the stage.--_ns._ GOOSE'-CAP, a silly person;
GOOSE'-CORN, a coarse rush; GOOSE'-EGG, a zero, denoting a miss or failure
to score at an athletic or other contest; GOOSE'-FISH, a common name in
America for the angler-fish (see ANGLER); GOOSE'-FLESH, a puckered
condition of the skin, like that of a plucked goose, through cold, fear,
&c.; GOOSE'-FOOT, pigweed; GOOSE'-GRASS, a species of Bedstraw (q.v.), a
common weed in hedges and bushy places in Britain, Europe, and America;
GOOSE'-NECK, an iron swivel forming the fastening between a boom and a
mast: a bent pipe or tube with a swivel-joint; GOOSE'-QUILL, one of the
quills or large wing-feathers of a goose, used as pens; GOOS'ERY, a place
for keeping geese: stupidity; GOOSE'-SKIN, a kind of thin soft leather;
GOOSE'-STEP (_mil._), the marking of time by raising the feet alternately
without making progress; GOOSE'-WING, one of the clews or lower corners of
a ship's mainsail or foresail when the middle part is furled or tied up to
the yard.--_adj._ GOOSE'-WINGED, having only one clew set: in fore-and-aft
rigged vessels, having the mainsail on one side and the foresail on the
other, so as to sail wing-and-wing.--_n._ GOOS'EY, a goose: a blockhead.
[A.S. _gós_; Ice. _gás_, Ger. _gans_, L. _anser_, Gr. _ch[=e]n_, Sans.
_hamsa_.]

GOOSEBERRY, g[=oo]z'ber-i, _n._ the berry or fruit of a shrub of the same
name.--PLAY GOOSEBERRY, to accompany lovers, &c., for propriety. [Prof.
Skeat says _goose-_ is for _grose-_ or _groise-_, which appears in O. Fr.
_groisele_, _grosele_, gooseberry, Scot. _grossart_, from the Mid. High
Ger. _krus_ (Ger. _kraus_), crisp, curled.]

GOOSEBERRY-FOOL, _n._ See FOOL (2).

GOPHER, g[=o]'f[.e]r, _n._ a name in America applied to the prairie dog,
the pouched rat, and to the land tortoise of the southern states.--_v.i._
to burrow, to mine in a small way. [Fr. _gaufre_.]

GOPHER, g[=o]'f[.e]r, _n._ (_B._) a kind of wood, generally supposed
identical with cypress. [Heb.]

GOPURA, g[=o]'p[=oo]-ra, _n._ in Southern India, a pyramidal tower over the
gateway of a temple.

GORAL, g[=o]'ral, _n._ a Himalayan goat-antelope.

GORAMY, g[=o]'ra-mi, _n._ a fish found in the Eastern Archipelago, highly
esteemed for the table, and used in Mauritius, the West Indies, &c.--Also
GOU'RAMI.

GOR-BELLIED, gor'-bel-id, _adj._ (_Shak._) big-bellied, gluttonous. [Obs.
_gore_--A.S. _gor_, filth, and _belly_.]

GORCOCK, gor'kok, _n._ the moorcock or red grouse:--_fem._ GOR'HEN.
[_Gor-_, from _gorse_, furze; or imit.]

GORCROW, gor'kr[=o], _n._ the carrion-crow. [A.S. _gor_, filth, carrion,
and _crow_.]

GORDIAN, gord'yan, _adj._ intricate: difficult.--_v.t._ (_Keats_) to tie
up, knot.--CUT THE GORDIAN KNOT, to overcome a difficulty by violent
measures--Alexander, unable to untie the fateful knot tied by _Gordius_,
king of Phrygia, having cut it through with his sword.

GORDIUS, gor'di-us, _n._ a genus typical of _Gordiidæ_, a family of
nematode worms with a hair-like body.

GORE, g[=o]r, _n._ clotted blood: blood.--_adv._ GOR'ILY (_Tenn._), in a
gory or bloody manner or state.--_adj._ GOR'Y, covered with gore:
bloody.--GORY DEW, a dark-red slimy film sometimes seen on damp walls and
in shady places. [A.S. _gor_, blood, dung; Sw. _gorr_, Ice. _gor_, gore.]

GORE, g[=o]r, _n._ a triangular piece let into a garment to widen it: a
triangular piece of land.--_v.t._ to shape like or furnish with gores: to
pierce with anything pointed, as a spear or horns.--_n._ GOR'ING, a piece
of cloth cut diagonally to increase its apparent width.--_adj._ cut
gradually sloping, so as to be broader at the clew than at the earing--of a
sail. [A.S. _gára_, a pointed triangular piece of land--_gár_, a spear with
triangular blade.]

GORGE, gorj, _n._ the throat: a narrow pass among hills: (_fort._) the
entrance to an outwork.--_v.t._ to swallow greedily: to glut.--_v.i._ to
feed.--_adj._ GORGED, having a gorge or throat: glutted: (_her._) having a
crown or coronet about the neck.--_n._ GORG'ET, a piece of armour for the
throat: a military ornament round the neck (see ARMOUR).--HAVE ONE'S GORGE
RISE, to be disgusted or irritated; HEAVE THE GORGE, to retch. [O. Fr.,--L.
_gurges_, a whirlpool.]

GORGEOUS, gor'jus, _adj._ showy: splendid: magnificent.--_adv._
GOR'GEOUSLY.--_n._ GOR'GEOUSNESS. [O. Fr. _gorgias_, gaudy--_gorgias_, a
ruff--_gorge_, the throat.]

GORGON, gor'gun, _n._ one of three fabled female monsters (Stheno, Euryale,
and Medusa), of horrible aspect, winged, with hissing serpents for
hair--every one who looked on Medusa was turned to stone: anything very
ugly.--_adjs._ GOR'GON, GORG[=O]'NEAN, GORGONESQUE', GORG[=O]'NIAN, like a
gorgon: very ugly or terrific.--_n._ GORGONEI'ON, a mask of the
gorgon.--_v.t._ GOR'GONISE (_Tenn._), to turn to stone. [L. _gorgon_--Gr.
_gorg[=o]_--_gorgos_, grim.]

GORGONZOLA, gor-gon-z[=o]'la, _n._ a highly esteemed cheese.

GORILLA, gor-il'a, _n._ a great African ape, the largest known anthropoid,
generally referred to the same genus with the chimpanzee. [African.]

GORMAND, older form of _gourmand_.--_v.i._ GOR'MAND[=I]SE, to eat hastily
or voraciously.--_ns._ GOR'MAND[=I]SER; GOR'MAND[=I]SING, the act or habit
of eating voraciously; GOR'MANDISM, gluttony.

GORSE, gors, _n._ a prickly shrub growing on waste places, the furze or
whin.--_adj._ GORS'Y. [A.S. _gorst_.]

GOSHAWK, gos'hawk, _n._ a short-winged hawk, once used for hunting
wild-geese and other fowl, not having a toothed bill, like the falcons
proper. [A.S. _góshafoc_--_gós_, goose, _hafoc_, hawk.]

GOSLING, goz'ling, _n._ a young goose. [A.S. _gós_, goose, double dim.
_-l-ing_.]

GOSPEL, gos'pel, _n._ the Christian revelation: the narrative of the life
of Christ, as related by Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John: the stated portion
of these read at service: the teaching of Christ: a system of religious
truth: absolute truth.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to instruct in the gospel.--_n._
GOS'PELLER, a preacher: an evangelist.--_v.t._ GOS'PELLISE, to square with
the gospel. [A.S. _godspell_; commonly derived from A.S. _gód_, good, and
_spell_, story, and so a translation of Gr. _eu-anggelion_, good news; but
more prob. from _god_, God, and _spell_, a narrative, God-story; so also
the Ice. is _guðspjall_, God-story, and not _góðspjall_, good-story; and
the Old High Ger. was _gotspell_, _got_ (God) _-spel_, not _guot_ (good)
_-spel_.]

GOSS, gos, _n._ (_Shak._). See GORSE.

GOSSAMER, gos'a-m[.e]r, _n._ very fine spider-threads which float in the
air or form webs on bushes in fine weather: any thin material.--_adj._
light, flimsy.--_adj._ GOSS'AMERY, like gossamer: flimsy. [M. E.
_gossomer_; Prof Skeat thinks it is a corr. of 'goose-summer' or
'summer-goose,' from the downy appearance of the film. Ger. _sommer-fäden_,
summer-threads, also _mädchen-sommer_, maiden-summer.]

GOSSAN, gos'an, _n._ (_prov._) decomposed rock, usually ferruginous,
forming the upper part of a metallic vein.--Also GOZZ'AN.

GOSSIP, gos'ip, _n._ one who runs about telling and hearing news: idle
talk: a familiar acquaintance: a boon-companion.--_v.i._ to run about
telling idle tales: to talk much: to chat: (_Shak._) to stand godfather
to.--_n._ GOSS'IPING, the act or practice of one who gossips or
tattles.--_p.adj._ having the character of one who gossips: tattling.--_n._
GOSS'IPRY.--_adj._ GOSS'IPY. [Orig. a sponsor in baptism, or one related in
the service of _God_; M. E. _gossib_ (earlier form, _godsib_)--_God_, and
_sib_, related; cf. Ger. _sippe_, Ice. _sif_, affinity, Scot. _sib_,
related.]

GOSSOON, go-s[=oo]n', _n._ a boy-servant in Ireland. [From Fr. _garçon_, a
boy.]

GOSSYPIUM, go-sip'i-um, _n._ a malvaceous genus of herbs and shrubs, native
to the tropics, yielding the cotton of commerce. [L. _gossypion_.]

GOT, GOTTEN. See under GET.

GOTH, goth, _n._ one of an ancient Teutonic nation, originally settled on
the southern coasts of the Baltic, which migrated to Dacia in the 3d
century, and later founded kingdoms in Italy, southern France, and Spain: a
rude or uncivilised person, a barbarian.--_adj._ GOTH'IC, belonging to the
Goths or their language: barbarous: romantic: denoting a style of
architecture with high-pointed arches, clustered columns, &c. (applied in
reproach at the time of the Renaissance).--_v.t._ GOTH'ICISE, to make
Gothic: to bring back to barbarism.--_n._ GOTH'ICISM, a Gothic idiom or
style of building: rudeness of manners. [The native names _Gutans_ (sing.
_Guta_) and _Gutôs_ (sing. _Guts_), _Gutthiuda_, 'people of the Goths;'
Latinised as _Gothi_, _Gotthi_.]

GOTHAMITE, goth'a-m[=i]t, GOTHAMIST, goth'a-mist, _n._ a simpleton: a
wiseacre. [From _Gotham_, a village of Nottinghamshire, with which name are
connected many of the simpleton stories of immemorial antiquity. So of
Gordon in Scotland, Kampan in Holland, the Schildburgers in Germany, &c.]

GOUACHE, gwash, _n._ a method of water-colour painting with opaque colours,
mixed with water, honey, and gum, presenting a dead surface: work painted
according to this method. [Fr.]

GOUDA, gow'da, _n._ a kind of cheese from _Gouda_.

GOUGE, gowj, or g[=oo]j, _n._ a chisel, with a hollow blade, for cutting
grooves or holes.--_v.t._ to scoop out, as with a gouge: to force out, as
the eye with the thumb. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _guvia_, a kind of chisel.]

GOUJEERS, g[=oo]'j[=e]rz, _n._ (_Shak._) venereal disease.--_Goujere_,
often GOOD YEAR, used as a slight imprecation, as pox; cf. 2 _Henry IV._,
II. iv. 64. [Perh. Fr. _gouge_, a prostitute, _goujat_, a blackguard.]

GOURA, gow'ra, _n._ a genus of beautifully crested, ground-loving pigeons,
native to New Guinea.

GOURAMI. See GORAMY.

GOURD, g[=o]rd, or g[=oo]rd, _n._ a large fleshy fruit: rind of a gourd
used as a drinking-cup: the gourd plant: (_pl._) hollow dice used by
cheating gamblers.--_ns._ GOURD'INESS; GOURD'-WORM, a fluke or trematode
worm, esp. the liver-fluke.--_adj._ GOURD'Y, having the legs swollen--of a
horse. [O. Fr. _gourde_, contr. from _cougourde_--L. _cucurbita_, a gourd.]

GOURMAND, g[=oo]r'mand, _n._ one who eats greedily: a glutton.--_adj._
voracious: gluttonous--also GOR'MAND.--_n._ GOURMET (goor-m[=a]', or
-met'), an epicure, originally one with a delicate taste in wines. [Fr.
_gourmand_, a glutton; origin unknown.]

GOUSTY, gows'ti, _adj._ dreary.--_adj._ GOUS'TROUS, stormy: (_Scot._) rude.
[Same as GUSTY.]

GOUT, gowt, _n._ an acute inflammation of the smaller joints, and esp. of
the great toe, in persons of luxurious habits and past middle life:
(_obs._) a drop.--_adv._ GOUT'ILY.--_ns._ GOUT'INESS; GOUT'WORT, GOUT'WEED,
an umbelliferous European plant, long supposed to be good for gout.--_adj._
GOUT'Y, relating to gout: diseased with or subject to gout. [O. Fr.
_goutte_--L. _gutta_, a drop, the disease supposed to be caused by a
defluxion of humours.]

GOUT, g[=oo], _n._ taste: relish. [Fr.,--L. _gustus_, taste.]

GOVERN, guv'[.e]rn, _v.t._ to direct: to control: to rule with authority:
(_gram._) to determine the mood, tense, or case of.--_v.i._ to exercise
authority: to administer the laws.--_adj._ GOV'ERNABLE.--_ns._ GOV'ERNALL
(_Spens._), government; GOV'ERNANCE, government: control: direction:
behaviour; GOVERNANTE (guv-[.e]r-nant', or guv'-), a governess (_obs._);
GOV'ERNESS, a lady who has charge of the instruction of young ladies: a
tutoress (_Daily-governess_, one who goes every day to her pupils' house;
_Nursery_-, having charge of young children only, tending as well as
teaching them; _Resident_-, living in the family of her pupils).--_v.i._ to
act as governess.--_n._ GOV'ERNESS-CART, a light two-wheeled vehicle with
two face-to-face seats at the sides only.--_adj._ GOV'ERNING, having
control.--_n._ GOV'ERNMENT, a ruling or managing: control: system of
governing: the body of persons authorised to administer the laws, or to
govern a state: the territory over which sovereign power extends: (_gram._)
the power of one word in determining the form of another: (_Shak._)
conduct.--_adj._ of or pursued by government.--_adj._ GOVERNMENT'AL,
pertaining to or sanctioned by government.--_ns._ GOV'ERNOR, a ruler: one
invested with supreme authority: a tutor: (_slang_) a father or master:
(_mach._) a regulator, or contrivance for maintaining uniform velocity with
a varying resistance: (_B._) a pilot; GOV'ERNOR-GEN'ERAL, the supreme
governor in a country: a viceroy; GOV'ERNORSHIP.--GOVERNMENTAL THEORY (see
GROTIAN). [O. Fr. _governer_--L. _gubern[=a]re_--Gr. _kybernan_.]

GOWAN, gow'an, _n._ (_Scot._) the wild daisy. [Ir. and Gael. _gugan_, bud,
daisy.]

GOWD, Scotch for _gold_.

GOWF, gowf, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to strike, cuff. [A modification of _golf_.]

GOWK, GOUK, gowk, _n._ a stupid fellow, a fool.

GOWL, gowl, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to cry or howl. [M. E. _goulen_--Scand., Ice.
_gaula_, to bellow.]

GOWN, gown, _n._ a woman's upper garment: a long loose robe worn officially
by clergymen, lawyers, college lecturers, &c.--_v.t._ to invest with the
gown.--_adj._ GOWNED, dressed in a gown.--_ns._ GOWN'MAN, GOWNS'MAN, one
whose professional habit is a gown, as a divine or lawyer, and esp. a
member of an English university. [M. E. _goune_--W. _gwn_, akin to _gwnio_,
to stitch; Ir. _gunn_, Gael. _gun_.]

GOWPEN, gowp'en, _n._ (_Scot._) the hollow of the hand or of the two hands
held together: a handful. [Scand.; Ice. _gaupn_, Sw. _göpen_, Dan. _gövn_;
Low Ger. _göpse_, _göpsch_, Ger. dial. _gauf_, _gaufel_.]

GRAAFIAN, grä'fi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the follicle or little sac in the
ovary in which an ovum matures--in mammals. [Named from the discoverer of
these, Regnier de _Graaf_, 1641-73.]

GRAAL. Same as GRAIL, a dish.

GRAB, grab, _n._ a vessel on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts.

GRAB, grab, _v.t._ (_coll._) to seize or grasp suddenly: to lay hands
on:--_pr.p._ grab'bing; _pa.p._ grabbed.--_n._ a sudden grasp or catch,
acquisition by violent or unjust means: that which is seized: a simple card
game.--_ns._ GRAB'-BAG, a bag containing a variety of articles to be
obtained by putting in the hand and seizing one, as at charity bazaars,
&c.: any dishonest means of seizing such profit or spoil as comes handiest;
GRAB'BER. [Scand.; Sw. _grabba_, to grasp; Ger. _greifen_, to seize.]

GRABBLE, grab'l, _v.i._ to grope. [Freq. of _grab_.]

GRACE, gr[=a]s, _n._ easy elegance in form or manner: what adorns and
commends to favour: embellishment: favour: pardon: the undeserved mercy of
God: divine influence: eternal life or salvation: a short prayer at meat:
an act or decree of the governing body of an English university: a
ceremonious title in addressing a duke or an archbishop: (_pl._) favour,
friendship (with _good_): (_myth._) the three sister goddesses in whom
beauty was deified (the Greek Charites), Euphrosyne, Aglaia,
Thalia.--_v.t._ to mark with favour: to adorn.--_n._ GRACE'-CUP, a cup or
health drunk at the last of the feast.--_adjs._ GRACED (_Shak._), virtuous,
chaste; GRACE'FUL, elegant and easy: marked by propriety or fitness,
becoming.--_adv._ GRACE'FULLY.--_n._ GRACE'FULNESS.--_adjs._ GRACE'LESS,
wanting grace or excellence: depraved: wicked.--_adv._ GRACE'LESSLY.--_n._
GRACE'LESSNESS.--_ns._ GRACE'-NOTE (_mus._), a note introduced as an
embellishment, not being essential to the harmony or melody; GRACE'-STROKE,
a finishing stroke, _coup de_ _grâce_; GRACI[=O]'SO, a clown in Spanish
comedy, a favourite.--_adj._ GR[=A]'CIOUS, abounding in grace or kindness:
benevolent: proceeding from divine favour: acceptable.--_adv._
GR[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ GR[=A]'CIOUSNESS, state or quality of being
gracious, affability; GR[=A]CIOUS'ITY, the same, but usually in a bad
sense, as implying duplicity.--DAYS OF GRACE, three days allowed for the
payment of a note or bill of exchange, after being due according to its
date; FALL FROM GRACE, to backslide, to lapse from the state of grace and
salvation--an impossibility according to Calvinists.--GOOD GRACIOUS, an
exclamation of surprise.--IN THE GOOD GRACES OF, in the friendship of;
SAVING GRACE, divine grace so bestowed as to lead to salvation; TAKE HEART
OF GRACE, to take courage from favour shown. [Fr.,--L. _gratia_,
favour--_gratus_, agreeable; Gr. _charis_, grace.]

GRACILE, gras'il, _adj._ slender, gracefully slight in form.--_n._
GRACIL'ITY. [L. _gracilis_, slender.]

GRACKLE, grak'l, _n._ the common name of many birds of the starling family,
all tropical or subtropical.--Also GRAK'LE. [L. _graculus_, a jackdaw.]

GRADE, gr[=a]d, _n._ a degree or step in rank or dignity: the degree of
slope on a road as compared with the horizontal: a class of animals
produced by crossing a common breed with one purer--also _adj._: a group of
animals branching off from a common stem.--_v.t._ GR[=A]'DATE, to cause to
blend gradually from one tint of colour to another.--_v.i._ to effect
gradation.--_adv._ GRAD[=A]'TIM, gradually.--_n._ GRAD[=A]'TION, a rising
step by step: progress from one degree or state to another: position
attained: state of being arranged in ranks: (_mus._) a diatonic succession
of chords: (_paint._) the gradual blending of tints.--_adjs._
GRAD[=A]'TIONAL; GRAD[=A]'TIONED, formed by gradations or stages;
GRAD'ATORY, proceeding step by step, adapted for walking or forward
movement; GR[=A]'DIENT, gradually rising: rising with a regular
slope.--_n._ the degree of slope on a road or railway: the difference in
the height of the barometer between one place and another place at some
distance: an incline.--_ns._ GR[=A]D'IENTER, a surveyor's instrument for
determining grades; GR[=A]D'IN, GRADINE', one of a series of rising seats,
as in an amphitheatre: a raised step or ledge behind an altar; GRADIN'O, a
decoration for the gradin.--_adj._ GRAD'[=U]AL, advancing by grades or
degrees: regular and slow.--_n._ in the Roman Church, the portion of the
mass between the epistle and the gospel, formerly always sung from the
steps of the altar: the book containing such anthems--also GRAIL.--_ns._
GRAD'[=U]ALISM, GRAD[=U]AL'ITY.--_adv._ GRAD'[=U]ALLY.--_v.t._
GRAD'[=U][=A]TE, to divide into regular intervals: to mark with degrees: to
proportion.--_v.i._ to pass by grades or degrees: to pass through a
university course and receive a degree.--_n._ one admitted to a degree in a
college, university, or society.--_p.adj._ GRAD'[=U][=A]TED, marked with
degrees, as a thermometer.--_ns._ GRAD'UATESHIP; GRAD[=U][=A]'TION;
GRAD'[=U][=A]TOR, a mathematical instrument for graduating or dividing
lines into regular intervals; GRADUC'TION (_astron._), the division of
circular arcs into degrees, minutes, &c.; GR[=A]'DUS, a dictionary of Greek
or Latin prosody--contraction of _gradus ad Parnassum_, a step or stair to
Parnassus, the abode of the Muses.--DOWN, and UP, GRADE, a descending or
ascending part, as of a road. [Fr.,--L. _gradus_, a step--_gradi_, to
step.]

GRADELY, gr[=a]d'li, _adv._ (_prov._) readily, speedily.--Also GRAITH'LY.

GRADGRIND, gräd'gr[=i]nd, _n._ one who regulates all human things by rule
and compass and the mechanical application of statistics, allowing nothing
for sentiment, emotion, and individuality. [From Thomas _Gradgrind_ in
Dickens's _Hard Times_.]

GRAF, gräf, _n._ a German title of dignity equivalent to Count:--_fem._
GRÄFIN.

GRAFF, graf, _n._ (_Scot._) a grave. A variant of grave.

GRAFF, _n._ and _v._ (_B._). Same as GRAFT.

GRAFFITO, graf-f[=e]'to, _n._ the name given to certain classes of mural
inscriptions, such as the scribblings of schoolboys and idlers, found at
Pompeii, Rome, and other ancient cities:--_pl._ GRAFFITI (-f[=e]'t[=e]).
[It.--_graffiare_, to scratch--Low L. _graphium_, a style.]

GRAFT, graft, _v.t._ to make an incision in a tree or plant, and insert in
it a small branch of another, so as to make a union of the two: to insert
in something anything not belonging to it: to incorporate one thing with
another: to transplant, as a piece of tissue, from one part to
another.--_v.i._ to insert cuttings into a tree.--_n._ a small branch used
in grafting.--_ns._ GRAFT'ER; GRAFT'ING. [O. Fr. _graffe_ (Fr.
_greffe_)--L. _graphium_--a style or pencil (which the inserted slip
resembled)--Gr. _graphein_, to write.]

GRAIL, gr[=a]l, _n._ (_Spens._) small particles of any kind, as sand. [O.
Fr. _graile_ (Fr. _grêle_), hail--L. _gracilis_, slender.]

GRAIL, See GRADUAL.

GRAIL, gr[=a]l, _n._ in medieval legend, the Holy Cup used by Christ at the
Last Supper. [Orig. the _San Greal_, 'Holy Dish' (not _Sang Real_, 'Holy
Blood'), in which it is said Joseph of Arimathea collected our Lord's
blood; from O. Fr. _graal_ or _greal_, a flat dish--Low L. _gradale_, a
flat dish, app. a corr. of Low L. _cratella_, a dim. of _crater_, a bowl.
Diez suggests as the origin a lost _cratalis_, from _cratus_, Low L. form
of _crater_.]

GRAIN, gr[=a]n, _n._ a single small hard seed: (_coll._) the seeds of
certain plants which form the chief food of man: corn, in general: a minute
particle: a very small quantity: the smallest British weight, supposed to
be the average weight of a seed or well-ripened ear of corn: the
arrangement of the particles or fibres of anything, as stone or wood:
texture, as of leather: the crimson dye made from cochineal insects, which,
in the prepared state, resemble grains of seed--hence to _dye in grain_ is
to dye deeply, also to dye in the wool: innate quality or character of
anything.--_v.t._ to form into grains, cause to granulate: to paint in
imitation of wood, marble, &c.: in tanning, to take the hair off.--_n._
GRAIN'AGE, duties on grain.--_adj._ GRAINED, rough: furrowed.--_ns._
GRAIN'ER, one who paints in imitation of the grain of wood; GRAIN'ING,
painting so as to imitate the grain of wood: a process in tanning in which
the grain of the leather is raised.--_adj._ GRAIN'Y, having grains or
kernels.--GRAINS OF PARADISE, an aromatic and pungent seed imported from
Guinea.--AGAINST THE GRAIN, against the fibre of the wood--hence against
the natural temper or inclination; WITH A GRAIN OF SALT, with reservation,
as of a story that cannot be admitted (L. _cum grano salis_). [Fr.,--L.
_granum_, seed, akin to _corn_.]

GRAIN, gr[=a]n, _n._ a prong, fork: a kind of harpoon.

GRAINING, gr[=a]n'ing, _n._ a kind of dace found in the Mersey and in Swiss
lakes: a small fish of the same genus, resembling the dace.

GRAIP, gr[=a]p, _n._ (_Scot._) a three or four pronged fork used for
lifting dung or digging potatoes. [A form of _grope_. Cf. Sw. _grepe_, Dan.
_greb_.]

GRAITH, gr[=a]th, _n._ apparatus for work, travelling, &c.,
equipment.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to make ready, to dress.--_adjs._ GRAITH,
GR[=A]DE, ready, free.--LIFT ONE'S GRAITH, to collect one's tools and leave
the mine. [Ice. _greidhr_, ready; cf. A.S. _ger['æ]de_, ready.]

GRAKLE. See GRACKLE.

GRALLÆ, gral'[=e], GRALLATORES, gral-a-t[=o]'r[=e]z, _n.pl._ an old order
of wading and running birds, including rails, snipes and curlews, cranes,
herons and bitterns, storks, and numerous other families.--_adjs._
GRALLAT[=O]'RIAL, GRALL'ATORY, GRALL'IC, GRALL'INE. [L.
_grallator_--_grallæ_, stilts, contr. of _gradulæ_, dim. of _gradus_, a
step--_gradi_, to step.]

GRALLOCH, GRALLOCK, gral'ok, _v.t._ to disembowel.

GRAM, gram, _n._ (_Rossetti_) misery.--Also GRAME. [A.S. _grama_, anger.]

GRAM, gram, _n._ a word used in commerce for chick peas exported from
British India. [Anglo-Ind., perh. from Port, _grão_--L. _granum_, a grain.]

GRAM, GRAMME, gram, _n._ the unit of mass in the metric system, equal to
15.432 troy grains. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _gramma_, a letter, a small weight.]

GRAMARY, gram'a-ri, _n._ magic: enchantment.--Also GRAM'ARYE. [M. E.
_gramery_, skill in grammar, hence magic--O. Fr. _gramaire_, grammar.]

GRAMERCY, gra-m[.e]r'si, _interj._ great thanks--an obsolete expression of
obligation, with surprise. [O. Fr. _grammerci_, _grantmerci_, great
thanks.]

GRAMINEÆ, gr[=a]-min'[=e]-[=e], _n.pl._ the order of grasses.--_adjs._
GRAMIN[=A]'CEOUS, GRAMIN'EAL, GRAMIN[=E]'OUS, like or pertaining to grass:
grassy; GRAMINIF[=O]'LIOUS, bearing leaves; GRAMINIV'OROUS, feeding or
subsisting on grass and herbs. [L. _gramen_, _graminis_, grass, _folium_, a
leaf, _vor[=a]re_, to eat greedily.]

GRAMMAR, gram'ar, _n._ the science of the right use of language: a book
which teaches grammar: any elementary work.--_ns._ GRAMM[=A]'RIAN, one
versed in, or who teaches, grammar; GRAMM'AR-SCHOOL, a school in which
grammar, esp. Latin grammar, is taught: a higher school, in which Latin and
Greek are taught.--_adjs._ GRAMMAT'IC, -AL, belonging to, or according to,
the rules of grammar.--_adv._ GRAMMAT'ICALLY.--_n._ GRAMMAT'ICASTER, a
piddling grammarian.--_v.t._ GRAMMAT'IC[=I]SE, to make grammatical.--_v.i._
to act the grammarian.--_ns._ GRAMMAT'ICISM, a point of grammar;
GRAMM'ATIST, a grammarian. [O. Fr. _gramaire_; from Low L. _gramma_, a
letter, with the termination _-arius_--Gr. _gramma_, a letter--_graphein_,
to write.]

GRAMME. See GRAM.

GRAMOPHONE, gram'o-f[=o]n, _n._ an instrument of the phonograph type for
recording and reproducing articulate speech--invented by E. Berliner. [Gr.
_gramma_, a letter, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

GRAMPUS, gram'pus, _n._ a large voracious fish of the dolphin family,
common in almost all seas. [A sailor's corr. of It. _gran pesce_, or Sp.
_gran pez_, great fish--L. _grandis piscis_, great fish.]

GRANADILLA, gran-a-dil'a, _n._ the edible fruit of a species of
passion-flower. [Sp.]

GRANARY, gran'ar-i, _n._ a storehouse for grain or threshed corn. [L.
_granaria_--_granum_.]

GRAND, grand, _adj._ of great size, extent, power, or dignity: splendid:
illustrious: noble: sublime: chief: covering the whole field, or including
all details: (_mus._) containing all the parts proper to a given form of
composition: of the second degree of parentage or descent, as
_Grand'father_, a father or mother's father; _Grand'child_, a son or
daughter's child; so _Grand'mother_, _Grand'son_, _Grand'daughter_,
&c.--_ns._ GRAN'DAM, an old dame or woman: a grandmother; GRAND'-DUKE, a
title of sovereignty over a grand-duchy, first created by the Pope in 1569
for the rulers of Florence and Tuscany, assumed by certain German reigning
princes and by the princes of the imperial family of Russia; GRANDEE',
since the 13th century the most highly privileged class of nobility in the
kingdom of Castile, in which the members of the royal family were included:
a man of high rank or station; GRANDEE'SHIP; GRANDEUR (grand'[=u]r),
vastness: splendour of appearance: loftiness of thought or deportment;
GRANDIL'OQUENCE.--_adj._ GRANDIL'OQUENT, speaking grandly or bombastically:
pompous--(_rare_) GRANDIL'OQUOUS.--_adv._ GRANDIL'OQUENTLY.--_adj._
GRAN'DIOSE, grand or imposing: bombastic.--_adv._ GRAN'DIOSELY.--_ns._
GRANDIOS'ITY; GRAND'-JU'ROR, member of a GRAND'-JU'RY, a special jury which
decides whether there is sufficient evidence to put an accused person on
trial.--_adv._ GRAND'LY.--_ns._ GRAND'MAMMA, GRAND'MA, a grandmother;
GRAND'-MAS'TER, title of the head of the religious orders of knighthood
(Hospitallers, Templars, and Teutonic Knights): the head, for the time
being, of the Freemasons, &c.--_adj._ GRAND'MOTHERLY, like a grandmother,
over-anxious to direct the whole life of another.--_ns._ GRAND'-NEPH'EW,
the grandson of a brother or sister; GRAND'NESS; GRAND'-NIECE, the
granddaughter of a brother or sister; GRAND'PAPA, GRAND'PA, a grandfather;
GRAND'-PAR'ENT, a grandfather or grandmother; GRAND'-PIÄ'NO, a large kind
of piano, of great compass and power; GRAND'SIRE, a grandfather: any
ancestor; GRAND'STAND, an elevated erection on a race-course, &c.,
affording a good view; GRAND'-UN'CLE, the brother of a grandfather or
grandmother--also GREAT'-UN'CLE.--GRAND SEIGNIOR (see SEIGNIOR); GRAND
VIZIR (see VIZIR). [Fr. _grand_--L. _grandis_, great.]

GRANDISONIAN, gran-di-s[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ like the novelist Richardson's
hero, Sir Charles _Grandison_, polite and chivalrous to an extreme and
tedious degree.

GRANGE, gr[=a]nj, _n._ a farm-house with its stables and other buildings:
(_Milt._) a granary: (_U.S._) a lodge of the order of 'Patrons of
Husbandry.'--_n._ GRAN'GER, a member of a farmer's grange.--_adj._
pertaining to such. [O. Fr. _grange_, barn--Low L. _granea_--L. _granum_,
grain.]

GRANGERISM, gr[=a]n'jer-izm, _n._ the practice of cutting plates and
title-pages out of many books to illustrate one book.--_v.t._ GRAN'GERISE,
to practise grangerism. [From James _Granger_ (1716-76), whose
_Biographical History of England_ (1769) gave an impetus to this.]

GRANIFEROUS, gran-if'[.e]r-us, _adj._ bearing seeds like grain.--_adjs._
GRAN'IFORM, formed or shaped like a grain or seed; GRANIV'OROUS, eating
grain: feeding on seeds. [L. _granum_, grain, _ferre_, to carry, _forma_,
form, _vor[=a]re_, to devour.]

GRANITE, gran'it, _n._ an igneous crystalline rock, composed of grains of
quartz, feldspar, and mica, and of a whitish, grayish, or reddish
colour.--_adj._ GRANIT'IC, pertaining to, consisting of, or like
granite.--_n._ GRANITIFIC[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ GRANIT'IFORM, GRAN'ITOID, of
the form of or resembling granite; GRANOLITH'IC, composed of cement formed
of pounded granite. [It. _granito_, granite, lit. grained--L. _granum_,
grain.]

GRANNY, gran'i, _n._ a grandmother: an old woman--also GRAND'AM.--_n._
GRANN'Y-KNOT, a knot like a reef-knot, but having the second tie across,
difficult to untie when jammed.

GRANT, grant, _v.t._ to bestow or give over: to give possession of: to
admit as true what is not yet proved: to concede.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to
consent.--_n._ a bestowing: something bestowed, an allowance: a gift:
(_Eng. law_) conveyance of property by deed.--_adj._ GRANT'ABLE.--_ns._
GRANT[=EE]' (_law_), the person to whom a grant, gift, or conveyance is
made; GRANT'ER, GRANT'OR (_law_), the person by whom a grant or conveyance
is made.--TAKE FOR GRANTED, to presuppose as certainly true. [O. Fr.
_graanter_,_ craanter_, _creanter_, to promise, as if from a Low L.
_credent[=a]re_--L. _cred[)e]re_, to believe.]

GRANULE, gran'[=u]l, _n._ a little grain: a fine particle.--_adjs._
GRAN'[=U]LAR, GRAN'[=U]LARY, GRAN'[=U]LOSE, GRAN'[=U]LOUS, consisting of or
like grains or granules.--_adv._ GRAN'[=U]LARLY.--_v.t._ GRAN'[=U]L[=A]TE,
to form or break into grains or small masses: to make rough on the
surface.--_v.i._ to be formed into grains.--_adj._ granular: having the
surface covered with small elevations.--_n._ GRAN[=U]L[=A]'TION, act of
forming into grains, esp. of metals by pouring them through a sieve into
water while hot: (_pl._) the materials of new texture as first formed in a
wound or on an ulcerated surface.--_adjs._ GRAN[=U]LIF'EROUS;
GRAN'[=U]LIFORM.--_n._ GRAN'[=U]L[=I]TE, a schistose but sometimes massive
aggregate of quartz and orthoclase with garnets. [L. _granulum_, dim. of
_granum_, grain.]

GRAPE, gr[=a]p, _v.i._ a Scotch form of _grope_.

GRAPE, gr[=a]p, _n._ the fruit of the grape-vine, or of any of the many
species of the genus _Vitis_: a mangy tumour on the legs of horses:
grapeshot.--_n._ GRAPE'-HY'ACINTH, a genus of bulbous-rooted plants, nearly
allied to the hyacinths.--_adj._ GRAPE'LESS, without the flavour of the
grape, said of wine.--_ns._ GRAP'ERY, a place where grapes are grown;
GRAPE'SHOT, shot or small iron balls clustered or piled on circular plates
round an iron pin, which scatter on being fired; GRAPE'-STONE, the stone or
seed of the grape; GRAPE'-SU'GAR, dextrose; GRAPE'-VINE, the vine that
bears grapes.--_adj._ GRAP'Y, made of or like grapes.--SOUR GRAPES, things
despised because they cannot be attained (from Æsop's fable of the fox and
the grapes). [O. Fr. _grappe_, a cluster of grapes; from Old High Ger.
_chrapho_, a hook. It properly meant a hook, then clustered fruit, hooked
on, attached to, a stem (Brachet).]

GRAPH, graf, _n._ a representation by means of lines, exhibiting the nature
of the law according to which some phenomena vary: _-graph_ is used as a
terminal in many Greek compounds to denote an agent which writes, &c., as
_telegraph_, _seismograph_, or the thing written, as in _autograph_,
&c.--_adjs._ GRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to writing, describing, or
delineating: picturesquely described: vivid.--_adv._ GRAPH'ICALLY.--_ns._
GRAPH'ICNESS; GRAPHIOL'OGY, the science or art of writing or delineating,
or a treatise thereon; GRAPH'IS, a genus of lichens, remarkable for the
resemblance which the fructification assumes to the forms of the letters of
Oriental alphabets; GRAPH'[=I]TE, a mineral, commonly called blacklead or
plumbago (though containing no lead), largely used in making
pencils.--_adj._ GRAPHIT'IC.--_ns._ GRAPH'IUM, a stylus; GRAPHOL'OGY, the
science of estimating character, &c., from handwriting.--GRAPHIC ARTS,
painting, drawing, engraving, as opposed to music, sculpture, &c.; GRAPHIC
GRANITE, a variety of granite with markings like Hebrew characters. [Gr.
_graph[=e]_, a writing--_graphein_, to write.]

GRAPHOLITE, graf'o-l[=i]t, _n._ a kind of slate for writing on.--_n._
GRAPHOM'ETER, an instrument used by surveyors for measuring
angles.--_adjs._ GRAPHOMET'RIC, -AL, pertaining to or determined by a
graphometer.--_ns._ GRAPH'OPHONE, an instrument for recording sounds, based
on the principle of the phonograph; GRAPH'OTYPE, a process intended to
supersede wood-engraving, but superseded by zincotype. [Gr. _graphein_, to
write, _lithos_, a stone, _metron_, a measure, _phon[=e]_, a sound,
_typos_, an impression.]

GRAPNEL, grap'nel, _n._ a small anchor with several claws or arms: a
grappling-iron. [Fr. _grappin_--_grappe_, a hook, with dim. suff. _-el_.]

GRAPPLE, grap'l, _v.t._ to seize: to lay fast hold of.--_v.i._ to contend
in close fight.--_ns._ GRAPP'LEMENT (_Spens._), a grappling, close fight;
GRAPP'LING-[=I]'RON, a large grapnel for seizing hostile ships in naval
engagements. [O. Fr. _grappil_--_grappe_, a hook.]

GRAPTOLITE, grap'to-l[=i]t, _n._ one of a group of fossil hydrozoa, having
simple or branched polyparies, usually strengthened by a horny-like
rod--the 'solid axis.' [Gr. _graptos_--_graphein_, to write, _lithos_, a
stone.]

GRASP, grasp, _v.t._ to seize and hold by clasping with the fingers or
arms: to catch at: to comprehend.--_v.i._ to endeavour to seize: to catch
(with _at_).--_n._ gripe of the hand: reach of the arms: power of seizing:
mental power of apprehension.--_adj._ GRASP'ABLE.--_n._ GRASP'ER.--_p.adj._
GRASP'ING, seizing: avaricious: encroaching.--_adv._ GRASP'INGLY.--_n._
GRASP'INGNESS.--_adj._ GRASP'LESS, feeble, relaxed. [M. E.
_graspen_--_grapsen_, as clasp--M. E. _claspen_; allied to _grope_,
_grapple_.]

GRASS, gras, _n._ common herbage: an order of plants (_Gramineæ_), the most
important in the whole vegetable kingdom, with long, narrow leaves and
tubular stem, including wheat, rye, oats, rice, millet, and all those which
supply food for nearly all graminivorous animals: short for
asparagus--sparrow-grass: time of grass, spring or summer: the surface of a
mine.--_v.t._ to cover with grass: to feed with grass: to bring to the
grass or ground, as a bird or a fish--(various perennial fodder grasses are
_timothy_, _fox-tail_, _cock's-foot_, and the _fescue grasses_, _Italian
rye-grass_, &c.).--_ns._ GRASS'-CLOTH, a name applied to different kinds of
coarse cloth, the fibre of which is rarely that of a grass, esp. to the
Chinese summer-cloth made from _Boehmeria nivea_, which is really a nettle;
GRASS'-CUT'TER, one of the attendants on an Indian army, whose work is to
provide provender for the baggage-cattle; GRASS'ER, an extra or temporary
worker in a printing-office.--_adjs._ GRASS'-GREEN, green with grass: green
as grass; GRASS'-GROWN, grown over with grass.--_ns._ GRASS'HOPPER, a
saltatorial, orthopterous insect, nearly allied to locusts and crickets,
keeping quiet during the day among vegetation, but noisy at night;
GRASS'INESS; GRASS'ING, the exposing of linen in fields to air and light
for bleaching purposes; GRASS'-LAND, permanent pasture; GRASS'-OIL, a name
under which several volatile oils derived from widely different plants are
grouped; GRASS'-PLOT, a plot of grassy ground; GRASS'-TREE, a genus of
Australian plants, with shrubby stems, tufts of long wiry foliage at the
summit, and a tall flower-stalk, with a dense cylindrical spike of small
flowers; GRASS'-WID'OW, a wife temporarily separated from her husband,
often also a divorced woman, or one deserted by her husband; GRASS'-WRACK,
the eel-grass growing abundantly on the sea-coast.--_adj._ GRASS'Y, covered
with or resembling grass, green.--GO TO GRASS, to be turned out to pasture,
esp. of a horse too old to work: to go into retirement, to rusticate: to
fall violently (of a pugilist); LET THE GRASS GROW UNDER ONE'S FEET, to
loiter, linger.--SPANISH GRASS (see ESPARTO). [A.S. _gærs_, _græs_; Ice.,
Ger., Dut., and Goth. _gras_; prob. allied to _green_ and _grow_.]

GRASSUM, gräs'um, _n._ (_Scots law_) a lump sum paid by persons who take a
lease of landed property--in England, 'premium' and 'fine.'

GRATE, gr[=a]t, _n._ a framework composed of bars with interstices, esp.
one of iron bars for holding coals while burning.--_adj._ GRAT'ED, having a
grating.--_ns._ GRATICUL[=A]'TION, the division of a design into squares
for convenience in making an enlarged or diminished copy; GRAT'ING, the
bars of a grate: a partition or frame of bars. [Low L. _grata_, a grate--L.
_crates_, a hurdle. See CRATE.]

GRATE, gr[=a]t, _v.t._ to rub hard or wear away with anything rough: to
make a harsh sound: to irritate or offend.--_n._ GRAT'ER, an instrument
with a rough surface for grating down a body.--_adj._ GRAT'ING, rubbing
hard on the feelings: harsh: irritating.--_adv._ GRAT'INGLY. [O. Fr.
_grater_, through Low L., from Old High Ger. _chraz[=o]n_ (Ger. _kratzen_),
to scratch, akin to Sw. _kratta_.]

GRATEFUL, gr[=a]t'f[=oo]l, _adj._ causing pleasure: acceptable: delightful:
thankful: having a due sense of benefits.--_adv._ GRATE'FULLY.--_ns._
GRATE'FULNESS; GRATIFIC[=A]'TION, a pleasing or indulging: that which
gratifies: delight; GRAT'IFIER.--_v.t._ GRAT'IFY, to do what is agreeable
to: to please: to soothe; to indulge:--_pa.p._ grat'ified.--_p.adj._
GRAT'IFYING. [O. Fr. _grat_--L. _gratus_, pleasing, thankful, and suff.
_-ful_.]

GRATILLITY, gra-til'i-ti, _n._ (_Shak._) gratuity.

GRATIS, gr[=a]'tis, _adv._ for nothing: without payment or recompense. [L.,
contr. of _gratiis_, abl. pl. of _gratia_, favour--_gratus_.]

GRATITUDE, grat'i-t[=u]d, _n._ warm and friendly feeling towards a
benefactor: thankfulness. [Fr.,--Low L. _gratitudo_---L. _gratus_.]

GRATUITY, gra-t[=u]'i-ti, _n._ a present: an acknowledgment of service,
generally pecuniary.--_adj._ GRAT[=U]'ITOUS, done or given for nothing:
voluntary: without reason, ground, or proof.--_adv._ GRAT[=U]'ITOUSLY.
[Fr.,--Low L. _gratuitatem_--L. _gratus_.]

GRATULATORY, grat'[=u]-la-tor-i, _adj._ congratulatory.--_adj._ GRAT'ULANT,
congratulatory.--_v.t._ GRAT'UL[=A]TE, to congratulate.--_n._
GRATUL[=A]'TION, congratulation.

GRAVAMEN, grav-[=a]'men, _n._ grievance: the substantial or chief ground of
complaint or accusation: the name for the statement of abuses, grievances,
&c. sent by the Lower to the Upper House of Convocation. [L.,--_gravis_,
heavy.]

GRAVE, gr[=a]v, _v.t._ to carve or cut on a hard substance: to
engrave.--_v.i._ to engrave:--_pa.p._ graved or gr[=a]v'en.--_n._ a pit
graved or dug out, esp. one in which to bury the dead: any place of burial:
the abode of the dead: (_fig._) death: destruction.--_n.pl._
GRAVE'-CLOTHES, the clothes in which the dead are buried.--_n._
GRAVE'-DIG'GER, one who digs graves.--_adj._ GRAVE'LESS (_Shak._), without
a grave, unburied.--_ns._ GRAVE'-MAK'ER (_Shak._), a grave-digger;
GRAVE'-STONE, a stone laid over, or placed at the head of, a grave as a
memorial; GRAVE'YARD, a yard or enclosure used as a burial-ground.--WITH
ONE FOOT IN THE GRAVE, on the very borders of death. [A.S. _grafan_; Dut.
_graven_, Ger. _graben_; Gr. _graphein_, to scratch, L. _scrib[)e]re_, to
write.]

GRAVE, gr[=a]v, _v.t._ to smear with graves or greaves, a mixture of
tallow, rosin, &c. boiled together.--_ns.pl._ GRAVES, GREAVES,
tallow-drippings. [See GREAVES.]

GRAVE, gr[=a]v, _adj._ of importance: serious: not gay or showy: sober:
solemn; weighty: (_mus._) not acute: low.--_n._ the grave accent, or its
sign (`).--_adv._ GRAVE'LY.--_n._ GRAVE'NESS. [Fr.,--L. _gravis_.]

GRAVE, gr[=a]v, _n._ a count, prefect, a person holding office, as in
landgrave, margrave, burgrave, &c. [Dut. _graaf_, Ger. _graf_.]

GRAVEL, grav'el, _n._ small stones often intermixed with sand: small
collections of gravelly matter in the kidneys or bladder.--_v.t._ to cover
with gravel: to puzzle, perplex:--_pr.p._ grav'elling; _pa.p._
grav'elled.--_adj._ GRAV'ELLY.--_ns._ GRAV'EL-PIT, a pit from which gravel
is dug; GRAV'EL-WALK, a footpath covered with gravel. [O. Fr. _gravele_
(Fr. _gravier_); prob. Celt., as in Bret. _grouan_, sand, W. _gro_,
pebbles.]

GRAVEN, gr[=a]v'n, _pa.p._ of _grave_, to carve, engrave.

GRAVEOLENT, grav'[=e]-o-lent, _adj._ giving forth an offensive smell.--_n._
GRAV'EOLENCE.

GRAVER, gr[=a]v'[.e]r, _n._ an engraver: a tool for engraving on hard
substances, a burin.

GRAVID, grav'id, _adj._ heavy, esp. as being with child: pregnant. [L.
_gravidus_--_gravis_, heavy.]

GRAVIGRADE, grav'i-gr[=a]d, _adj._ walking heavily.--_n._ an animal like
the megatherium, &c.

GRAVING, gr[=a]v'ing, _n._ an act of graving or cutting out on hard
substances: that which is graved or cut out: carved-work: act of cleaning a
ship's bottom.--_n._ GRAV'ING-DOCK, a dock into which ships are taken to
have their bottoms cleaned.

GRAVITY, grav'i-ti, _n._ weightiness: that attraction between bodies, or
acceleration of one toward another, of which the fall of a body to the
ground is an example: state of being grave or sober: relative importance:
(_mus._) lowness of a note.--_n._ GRAVIM'ETER, an instrument for
determining specific gravities.--_v.i._ GRAV'IT[=A]TE, to be acted on by
gravity: to tend towards the earth: to be strongly attracted towards
anything.--_n._ GRAVIT[=A]'TION, act of gravitating: the tendency of all
bodies to attract each other.--_adj._ GRAV'IT[=A]TIVE.--SPECIFIC GRAVITY
(see SPECIFIC). [Fr. _gravité_--L. _gravitat-em_--_gravis_, heavy.]

GRAVY, gr[=a]v'i, _n._ the juices from meat while cooking.--_n._
GRAV'Y-BOAT, a vessel for gravy or sauce. [Earlier _greavy_; prob.
originally an adj. formed _greaves_, the dregs of tallow.]

GRAY, GREY, gr[=a], _adj._ of a white colour mixed with black:
ash-coloured: (_fig._) aged, gray-haired, mature.--_n._ a gray colour: an
animal of a grayish colour, as a horse, &c.--_v.t._ to cause to become
gray: to give a soft effect to a photograph by covering the negative while
printing with a ground-glass plate: to depolish.--_v.i._ to grow or become
gray.--_n._ GRAY'BEARD, one with a gray beard--hence an old man: a coarse
earthenware vessel for holding liquors, a bellarmine.--_adjs._
GRAY'-COAT'ED (_Shak._), having a gray coat; GRAY'-EYED (_Shak._), having
gray eyes.--_n._ GRAY'-FLY (_Milt._), the trumpet or gad fly.--_adjs._
GRAY'-HAIRED, GRAY'-HEAD'ED, having gray hair.--_n._ GRAY'HOUND (same as
GREYHOUND).--_adj._ GRAY'ISH, somewhat gray.--_ns._ GRAY'-LAG, the common
gray or wild goose; GRAY'LING, a silvery gray fish of the salmon family,
but with a smaller mouth and teeth, and larger scales.--_adv._
GRAY'LY.--_ns._ GRAY'NESS; GRAY'-OWL, the common tawny owl; GRAY'STONE, a
grayish or greenish volcanic rock allied to basalt; GRAYWETH'ER (see
GREYWETHER).--GRAY MARE (see MARE). [A.S. _gr['æ]g_; allied to Ger. _grau_,
and L. _ravus_, tawny.]

GRAYWACKE, GREYWACKE, grä'wak-e, _n._ a kind of sandstone, consisting of
rounded pebbles and sand firmly united together. [Ger. _grauwacke_--_grau_,
gray, _wacke_, a flint.]

GRAZE, gr[=a]z, _v.t._ to eat or feed on grass: to feed or supply with
grass: (_obs._) to tend while grazing.--_v.i._ to eat grass: to supply
grass.--_ns._ GRAZ'ER, an animal which grazes; GRAZIER (gr[=a]'zh[.e]r),
one who grazes or pastures cattle and rears them for the market; GRAZ'ING,
the act of feeding on grass: the feeding or raising of cattle. [From
_grass_.]

GRAZE, gr[=a]z, _v.t._ to pass lightly along the surface. [Ety. dub.; perh.
only a special use of _graze_ above; perh. coined from _rase_ (Fr.
_raser_), the initial _g_ due to the analogy of _grate_.]

GREASE, gr[=e]s, _n._ soft thick animal fat: oily matter of any kind: an
inflammation in the heels of a horse, marked by swelling, &c.--_v.t._
(sometimes pron. gr[=e]z) to smear with grease, to lubricate--also used
figuratively, to cause to go easily: (_obs._) to bribe--as in to 'grease
the palm.'--_adv._ GREAS'ILY.--_n._ GREAS'INESS.--_adj._ GREAS'Y, of or
like grease or oil: smeared with grease: smooth: fat. [O. Fr. _gresse_,
fatness, _gras_, fat--L. _crassus_, gross.]

GREAT, gr[=a]t, _adj._ large: long continued: superior: distinguished:
highly gifted: noble: mighty: sublime: of high rank: chief: proud,
arrogant: weighty: difficult: important: pregnant, teeming: indicating one
degree more remote in the direct line of descent, as GREAT'-GRAND'FATHER,
GREAT'-GRAND'SON.--_adj._ GREAT'-BEL'LIED (_Shak._), pregnant.--_n._
GREAT'COAT, an overcoat.--_v.t._ GREAT'EN (_Browning_), to make
great.--_v.i._ to become great.--_ns._ GREAT'-GRAND'CHILD, the child of a
grandchild; GREAT'-GRAND'MOTHER, the mother of a grand-parent.--_adj._
GREAT'-HEART'ED, having a great or noble heart: high-spirited:
noble.--_adv._ GREAT'LY.--_ns._ GREAT'NESS; GREAT'-PRIM'ER (see PRIMER);
GREATS, the final examination in the Honours Schools at Oxford, &c.;
GREAT'-UN'CLE, usually grand-uncle, a grandfather's or grandmother's
brother.--GREAT DANE, one of a breed of large close-haired dogs from
Denmark, a boar-hound; GREAT POWERS, the chief countries of Europe--France,
Germany, Russia, Great Britain, Austro-Hungary; GREAT SCHISM, the division
between the Latin and Greek Churches, begun in the 9th century, and
culminating in 1054; GREAT SEA, the Mediterranean; GREAT UNWASHED, an
absurd term sometimes applied to the working classes generally.--GREATER
BRITAIN, the whole colonial empire of Great Britain.--THE GREAT, people of
rank. [A.S. _greát_; Dut. _groot_, Ger. _gross_; perh. allied to _grand_,
_gross_, _grow_.]

GREAVE, gr[=e]v, _n._ (_Spens._) a groove, a grove.

GREAVE. See GREEVE.

GREAVES, gr[=e]vz, _n.pl._ the sediment of melted tallow pressed into cakes
for dogs' food.--Also GRAVES. [Prov. Sw. _grevar_, tallow-leavings; cf.
Ger. _griebe_.]

GREAVES, gr[=e]vz, _n.pl._ ancient armour for the legs, of leather, &c. [O.
Fr. _greves_--_greve_, shin-bone.]

GREBE, gr[=e]b, _n._ an aquatic bird, having a long conical beak, short
wings, and no tail. [Fr. _grèbe_; from Celt., as in Bret. _krib_, a comb,
W. _crib_, crest.]

GRECIAN, gr[=e]'shan, _adj._ pertaining to Greece.--_n._ a native of
Greece: one well versed in the Greek language and literature: (_B._) a
Hellenising Jew, or Jew who spoke Greek: one of the senior boys of Christ's
Hospital: (_slang_) an Irish labourer newly over.--_v.t._ GR[=E]'CISE, to
make Grecian: to translate into Greek.--_v.i._ to speak Greek.--_n._
GR[=E]'CISM, an idiom of the Greek language.--_adj._ GR[=E]'CO-R[=O]'MAN,
of or pertaining to both Greece and Rome, esp. to the art cultivated by
Greeks under Roman domination (see also WRESTLING).--GRECIAN BEND, a
foolish mode of walking with a slight bend forward, at one time affected by
a few women who fondly thought to imitate the pose of a figure like the
Venus of Milo. [Fr. _Grec_--L. _Græcus_--Gr. _Graikos_.]

GRECQUE, grek, _n._ a vessel with a perforated bottom for making coffee
without grounds: a Greek fret.

GREE, gr[=e], _n._ (_Spens._) good-will, favour: the prize of the
day.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to agree. [O. Fr. _gre_--L. _gratus_, pleasing. See
AGREE.]

GREE, gr[=e], _n._ degree, rank: a step:--_pl._ GREES, GRECE, GRESE,
steps--in turn used as a sing. and spelt GREECE, GREESE, GRIECE, GRIZE, a
flight of steps, a staircase, a degree (GREES'ING, GRES'SING, and even
GR[=E]'CIAN are obs. forms).--_adj._ GRIECED, having steps. [O. Fr.
_gre_--L. _gradus_. See GRADE.]

GREEDY, gr[=e]d'i, _adj._ having a voracious appetite: covetous: eagerly
desirous.--_n._ GREED, an eager desire or longing: covetousness.--_adv._
GREED'ILY.--_n._ GREED'INESS. [A.S. _gr['æ]dig_; Dut. _gretig_.]

GREEK, gr[=e]k, _adj._ Grecian.--_n._ a Grecian: the language of Greece:
(_B._) a Greek by race, or more frequently a Gentile as opposed to a Jew, a
Hellenising Jew, a Jew naturalised in foreign countries: a cunning rogue, a
merry fellow: any language of which one is ignorant, jargon, anything
unintelligible.--_adj._ GREEK'ISH.--GREEK ARCHITECTURE, the orders
developed in ancient Greece (Corinthian, Doric, Ionic); GREEK CHURCH, the
church of those Christians who follow the ancient rite of the East and
accept the first seven councils, rejecting all later innovations and papal
supremacy--it is called Orthodox by reason of its vindications of dogma,
and Eastern from its geographical distribution; GREEK CROSS (see CROSS);
GREEK FIRE, a composition, burning either in or under water, supposed to
have been made of asphalt, nitre, and sulphur, long kept secret by the
Greeks of the Byzantine empire for their exclusive use in war; GREEK GIFT,
a treacherous gift (from Virgil's _Æneid_, ii. 49).--AT THE GREEK CALENDS,
never, the Greeks having no calends.

GREEN, gr[=e]n, _adj._ of the colour of growing plants: growing: vigorous:
new: unripe: inexperienced, simple, raw, easily imposed on: young.--_n._
the colour of growing plants: a small green or grassy plat, esp. that
common to a village or town for public or merely ornamental purposes: the
plot of grass belonging to a house or group of houses, usually at the back:
(_golf_) the whole links on which the game is played, the putting-ground
round the individual holes, generally counted as 20 yards from the hole all
round: (_pl._) fresh leaves: wreaths: the leaves and stems of green
vegetables for food, esp. plants of the cabbage kind, spinach, &c.: a
political party at Constantinople, under Justinian, opposed to the
Blues.--_ns._ GREEN'BACK, popular name for the paper money first issued by
the United States in 1862; GREEN'-CLOTH, a gaming-table: a department of
the royal household, chiefly concerned with the commissariat--from the
green cloth on the table round which its officials sat; GREEN'-CROP, a crop
of green vegetables, as grasses, turnips, &c.; GREEN'-EARTH, a mineral of a
green colour and earthy character, used as a pigment by painters in
water-colours; GREEN'ERY, green plants: verdure.--_adj._ GREEN'-EYED,
having green eyes: (_fig._) jealous--GREEN-EYED MONSTER, jealousy.--_ns._
GREEN'FINCH, GREEN LINNET, a native bird of the finch family, of a green
colour, slightly mixed with gray and brown; GREEN'GROCER, a grocer or
dealer who retails greens, or fresh vegetables and fruits; GREEN'-HAND, an
inferior sailor; GREEN'-HEART, or _Bebeeru_, a very hard variety of wood
found in the West Indies and South America; GREEN'HORN, a raw,
inexperienced youth; GREEN'HOUSE, a building, chiefly covered with glass
and artificially heated, for the protection of exotic plants, or to quicken
the cultivation of other plants or fruit; GREEN'ING (_Keats_), a becoming
green: a kind of apple green when ripe.--_adj._ GREEN'ISH, somewhat
green.--_n._ GREEN'ISHNESS.--_adv._ GREEN'LY, immaturely,
unskilfully.--_ns._ GREEN'NESS; GREEN'ROOM, the retiring-room of actors in
a theatre, which originally had the walls coloured green; GREEN'SAND, a
sandstone in which green specks of iron occur; GREEN'SHANK, a bird of the
snipe family, in the same genus as the redshank and some of the sandpipers;
GREEN'-SICK'NESS, chlorosis (see under CHLORINE); GREEN'-SNAKE, a harmless
colubrine snake common in the southern United States; GREEN'STONE, a rock
term, now disused, for any dark-green basic crystalline (trap-rock);
GREEN'SWARD, sward or turf green with grass; GREEN'-TEA (see TEA); GREENTH,
greenness, verdure; GREEN'-TUR'TLE (see TURTLE); GREEN'-VIT'RIOL (see
VIT'RIOL); GREEN'-WEED, a name given to certain half-shrubby species of
genista; GREEN'WOOD, a wood or collection of trees covered with leaves:
wood newly cut--also used as an _adj._, as in 'the greenwood
shade.'--_adj._ GREEN'Y.--GREEN IN MY EYE, in a colloquial question=Do I
look credulous or easily imposed on?--GREEN, or EMERALD, ISLE,
IRELAND.--GREENSTICK FRACTURE (see FRACTURE). [A.S. _gréne_; Ger. _grün_,
Dut. _groen_, green, Ice. _grænn_, allied to _grow_.]

GREENGAGE, gr[=e]n'g[=a]j, _n._ a green and very sweet variety of plum.
[Said to be named from Sir W. _Gage_ of Hengrave Hall, near Bury, before
1725.]

GREESE, GREESING. See GREE (2).

GREET, gr[=e]t, _v.t._ to salute or address with kind wishes: to send kind
wishes to: to congratulate.--_v.i._ to meet and salute:--_pr.p._ greet'ing;
_pa.p._ greet'ed.--_n._ GREET'ING, expression of kindness or joy:
salutation. [A.S. _grétan_, to go to meet; Dut. _groeten_, Ger. _grüssen_,
to salute.]

GREET, gr[=e]t, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to cry, weep.--_adj._ GREET'ING,
mournful.--_n._ weeping. [A.S. _gr['æ]tan_; Goth. _gretan_.]

GREEVE, gr[=e]v, _n._ (_Scot._) a reeve, a steward.--Also GREAVE, GRIEVE.
[Not like _reeve_ from A.S. _geréfa_; but from Ice. _greifi_; cf. Ger.
_graf_.]

GREFFIER, gref'ier, _n._ a registrar, a prothonotary. [Fr.]

GREGARIOUS, gre-g[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ associating or living in flocks and
herds.--_adj._ GREG[=A]'RIAN.--_n._ GREG[=A]-RIANISM.--_adv._
GREG[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ GREG[=A]'RIOUSNESS. [L. _gregarius_--_grex_,
_gregis_, a flock.]

GREGORIAN, gre-g[=o]'ri-an, _adj._ belonging to or established by Pope
_Gregory_; as the Gregorian chant or tones, introduced by Gregory I. (6th
century), and the calendar, reformed by Gregory XIII. (1582): one of an
18th-century English brotherhood.

GREIT, gr[=e]t. Same as GREET (2).

GREMIAL, gr[=e]'mi-al, _n._ a piece of cloth laid on a bishop's knees to
keep his vestments clean from oil at ordinations. [Fr.,--L. _gremium_, the
lap.]

GRENADE, gre-n[=a]d', _n._ a small shell of iron or annealed glass, filled
with powder and bits of iron, and thrown from the hand, or with a shovel
over a parapet. [Fr.,--Sp. _granada_--L. _granatus_, full of
seeds--_granum_, a grain, seed.]

GRENADIER, gren-a-d[=e]r', _n._ (_orig._) a soldier who threw grenades:
then, a member of the first company of every battalion of foot: now only
used as the title of the first three battalions of the foot-guards.

GRENADINE, gren-a-d[=e]n', _n._ a thin kind of silk used for ladies'
dresses, shawls, &c. [Fr.]

GRESSORIAL, gres-[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ adapted for walking, belonging to the
_Gressoria_, a sub-order of orthopterous insects with slender bodies and
long legs. [L. _gressus_, pa.p. of _gradi_, to walk.]

GRETNA, gret'na.--GRETNA-GREEN MARRIAGE, a runaway marriage across the
Border to _Gretna_ in Dumfriesshire.

GRÈVE, gr[=a]v, _n._ the Tyburn of ancient Paris.

GREVES, gr[=e]vz, _n.pl._ (_Milt._) armour for the legs--a form of
_greaves_.

GREW, gr[=oo], _pa.t._ of _grow_.

GREY, gr[=a]. Same as GRAY.--GREY FRIARS (see FRIAR); GREY HEN, a stone
bottle for holding liquor; GREYS=_Scots Greys_ (see SCOT).

GREYHOUND, gr[=a]'hownd, _n._ a tall and slender dog, kept for the chase,
with great powers of speed and great keenness of sight. [M. E. _greihund_;
Ice. _greyhundr_--Ice. _grey_, a dog, _hundr_, a hound.]

GREYWETHER, gr[=a]-we_th_'er, _n._ a large block of hard sandstone found
sporadically over south and south-east England.--Also GRAYWETH'ER, but not
_Grayweather_. [_Gray_ and _wether_--i.e. 'gray ram.']

GRICE, gr[=i]s, _n._ a little pig.--Also GRISE. [Ice.]

GRIDDLE, grid'l, _n._ a flat iron plate for baking cakes. [O. Fr. _gredil_,
_grëil_--Low L. _craticulum_, dim. of _cratis_, a hurdle.]

GRIDE, gr[=i]d, _v.t._ to cut with a grating sound, to pierce harshly: to
grate, jar upon:--_pr.p._ gr[=i]d'ing; _pa.p._ gr[=i]d'ed.--_n._ a harsh
grating sound. [_Gird._]

GRIDELIN, grid'e-lin, _n._ a kind of violet-gray colour. [Fr. _gris de
lin_, gray of flax.]

GRIDIRON, grid'[=i]-urn, _n._ a frame of iron bars for broiling flesh or
fish over the fire: a frame of wood or iron cross-beams to support a ship
during repairs.--_v.t._ to cover with parallel bars or lines.--_n._ GRID, a
grating of parallel bars: a gridiron: (_elect._) a battery-plate somewhat
like a grating, esp. a zinc plate in a primary battery, or a lead plate in
a secondary or storage battery. [M. E. _gredire_, a griddle. From the same
source as _griddle_; but the term. -_ire_ became confused with M. E. _ire_,
iron.]

GRIECE. See GREE (2).

GRIEF, gr[=e]f, _n._ heaviness of heart: sorrow: regret: mourning: cause of
sorrow: affliction: (_B._) bodily as well as mental pain.--_adjs._
GRIEF'FUL (_Spens._), full of grief; GRIEF'LESS, sorrowless; GRIEF'SHOT
(_Shak._), pierced with grief. [Fr.,--L. _gravis_, heavy.]

GRIEVE. See GREEVE.

GRIEVE, gr[=e]v, _v.t._ to cause grief or pain of mind to: to make
sorrowful: to vex: (_B._) also to inflict bodily pain.--_v.i._ to feel
grief: to mourn.--_n._ GRIEV'ANCE, cause of grief: burden: hardship:
injury: grief.--_adv._ GRIEV'INGLY (_Shak._), in sorrow,
sorrowfully.--_adj._ GRIEV'OUS, causing grief: burdensome: painful:
atrocious: hurtful.--_adv._ GRIEV'OUSLY, in a grievous manner: (_B._)
severely.--_n._ GRIEV'OUSNESS. [O. Fr. _grever_--L. _grav[=a]re_, _gravis_,
heavy.]

GRIFFIN, grif'in, GRIFFON, grif'un, _n._ an imaginary animal, with the body
and legs of a lion, and the crooked beak and wings of an eagle: a new-comer
in India, a novice: a watchful guardian, esp. over a young woman: a
duenna.--_adj._ GRIFF'INISH.--_n._ GRIFF'INISM. [Fr. _griffon_--L.
_gryphus_--Gr. _gryps_--_grypos_, hook-nosed.]

GRIG, grig, _n._ a cricket, grasshopper: a small lively eel, the sand-eel.
[Prob. a form of _crick_, in _cricket_.]

GRILL, gril, _v.t._ to broil on a gridiron: to torment.--_v.i._ to undergo
torment, to be in a broil.--_n._ a grated appliance for broiling meat, &c.,
a gridiron.--_ns._ GRILL'[=A]DE, anything grilled or broiled on a gridiron;
GRILL'[=A]GE, a construction of cross-beams supporting an erection on
marshy grounds.--_adj._ GRILLED, embossed with small rectangular
indentations.--_n._ GRILL'-ROOM, a restaurant, where beefsteaks, &c., are
grilled to one's order. [Fr. _griller_--_gril_, a gridiron--L. _craticula_,
dim. of _cratis_, a grate.]

GRILLE, gril, _n._ a lattice, or grating, or screen, or open-work of metal,
generally used to enclose or protect a window, shrine, &c.: a grating in a
convent or jail door. [Fr. See GRILL.]

GRILSE, grils, _n._ a young salmon on its first return from salt water.
[Skeat suggests a corr. of Dan. _graalax_, Sw. _grålax_, 'gray salmon,'
from Dan. _graa_, Sw. _grå_, gray; and Dan., Sw., Ice. _lax_, Ger. _lachs_,
a salmon. Others suggest Ir. _greal sach_.]

GRIM, grim, _adj._ of forbidding aspect: ferocious: ghastly: sullen: stern,
unyielding.--_adv._ GRIM'LY.--_n._ GRIM'NESS. [A.S. _grim_; Ger.
_grimmig_--_grimm_, fury, Dut. _grimmig_, Ice. _grimmr_.]

GRIMACE, gri-m[=a]s', _n._ a distortion of the face, in jest, &c.: a
smirk.--_v.i._ to make grimaces.--_adj._ GRIMACED', with a grimace:
distorted. [Fr.; of uncertain origin, perh. from Ice. _gríma_, a mask.]

GRIMALKIN, gri-mal'kin, _n._ an old cat, a cat generally. [_Gray_, and
_malkin_, a dim. of _Moll_=Mary.]

GRIME, gr[=i]m, _n._ ingrained dirt.--_v.t._ to soil deeply.--_adv._
GRIM'ILY.--_n._ GRIM'INESS.--_adjs._ GRIM'-LOOKED (_Shak._), having a grim
or dismal aspect; GRIM'Y, foul, dirty. [From a Teut. root seen in Dan.
_grim_, soot, Fris. _grime_, a dark spot on the face.]

GRIMM'S LAW. See LAW.

GRIN, grin, _v.i._ to set the teeth together and withdraw the lips: to
smile with some accompanying distortion of the features, expressive of
derision, stupid admiration, &c.--_v.t._ to express by grinning:--_pr.p._
grin'ning; _pa.p._ grinned.--_n._ act of grinning: a forced or sardonic
smile.--_p.adj._ GRIN'NING, making grins. [A.S. _grennian_; Ice. _grenja_,
Ger. _greinen_, Dut. _grijnen_, to grumble, Scot. _girn_; allied to Eng.
_groan_, Fr. _grogner_.]

GRIN, grin, _n._ a snare or trap. [A.S. _grín_.]

GRIND, gr[=i]nd, _v.t._ to reduce to powder by friction: to wear down or
sharpen by rubbing: to rub together: to oppress or harass: to set in motion
by a crank.--_v.i._ to be moved or rubbed together: to drudge at any
tedious task: to read hard:--_pr.p._ gr[=i]nd'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
ground.--_n._ hard or distasteful work: laborious study for a special
examination, &c.--_ns._ GRIND'ER, he who, or that which, grinds: a double
or jaw tooth that grinds food: a coach or crammer of students for
examination: a hard student; GRIND'ERY, a place where knives, &c., are
ground, or where they are sold: shoemakers' materials; GRIND'ING, act or
process of reducing to powder.--_p.adj._ harassing.--_n._ GRIND'STONE, a
circular revolving stone for grinding or sharpening tools.--KEEP ONE'S NOSE
TO THE GRINDSTONE, to subject one to severe continuous toil or
punishment.--TAKE A GRINDER (_Dickens_), to put the left thumb to the nose,
and to work a visionary coffee-mill round it with the right--a gesture of
contempt. [A.S. _grindan_.]

GRINGO, gring'g[=o], _n._ an Englishman or American among Spanish-speaking
Americans. [Sp. 'gibberish,' prob. _Griego_, Greek.]

GRIP, grip, _n._ a small ditch or trench, a drain.--Also GRIPE. [M. E.
_grip_, _grippe_; cf. Low Ger. _gruppe_.]

GRIP, grip, _n._ grasp or firm hold with the hand, &c.: the handle or part
by which anything is grasped: a mode of grasping, a particular mode of
grasping hands for mutual recognition, as by Freemasons: a clutching device
connecting a car with a moving traction-cable: oppression: pinching
distress.--_v.t._ to take fast hold of, to grasp or gripe:--_pr.p._
grip'ping; _pa.p._ gripped, gript.--_v.t._ GR[=I]PE, to grasp with the
hand: to seize and hold fast: to squeeze: to give pain to the bowels.--_n._
fast hold, grasp: forcible retention: a griffin: a usurer: (_pl._) severe
spasmodic pain in the intestines.--_n._ GR[=I]P'ER.--_p.adj._ GR[=I]P'ING,
avaricious: of a pain that catches or seizes acutely.--_adv._
GR[=I]P'INGLY, in a griping or oppressive manner.--_ns._ GRIPPE, influenza
or epidemic catarrh; GRIP'PER, one who, or that which, grips.--_adj._
GRIP'PLE (_Spens._), griping, grasping: greedy.--_n._ a gripe.--_n._
GRIP'-SACK, a hand-satchel.--LOSE ONE'S GRIP, to lose hold or control.
[A.S. _grípan_, _grap_, _gripen_; Ice. _grípa_, Ger. _grei'fen_, Dut.
_grijpen_; allied to grab.]

GRIQUA, grek'wa, _n._ one of a mixed race in South Africa, descended from
Boer fathers and Hottentot or Bush women.

GRISAILLE, gr[=e]-z[=a]l', _n._ a style of decorative painting in grayish
tints in imitation of bas-reliefs: a stained-glass window in this style.
[Fr.,--_gris_, gray.]

GRIS-AMBER, gris'-am'b[.e]r, _n._ (_Milt._)--ambergris.

GRISE, GRIZE. See GREE (_2_).

GRISELDA, gris-el'da, _n._ a woman of exemplary gentleness and patience,
from the name of the heroine of a tale retold by Boccaccio, Petrarch, and
Chaucer (_Clerkes Tale_).

GRISEOUS, gris'[=e]-us, _adj._ bluish-gray.

GRISETTE, gri-zet', _n._ a gay young Frenchwoman of the lower class. [Fr.
_grisette_, a gray gown, which used to be worn by that class--_gris_,
gray.]

GRISKIN, gris'kin, _n._ (_prov._) the spine of a hog. [Obs. _gris_,
_grice_, a pig--Ice. _griss_, a young pig.]

GRISLED, griz'ld. Same as GRIZZLED.

GRISLY, griz'li, _adj._ frightful: hideous.--_n._ GRIS'LINESS. [A.S.
_gryslíc_, _ágrísan_, to dread; Ger. _grässlich_.]

GRIST, grist, _n._ corn for grinding at one time: supply: profit.--_n._
GRIST'-MILL, a mill for grinding grain.--Bring grist to the mill, to be a
source of profit. [A.S. _grist_, _gerst_, a grinding; from root of
_grind_.]

GRISTLE, gris'l, _n._ a soft elastic substance in animal bodies--also
called _Cartilage_.--_n._ GRIST'LINESS.--_adj._ GRIST'LY. [A.S.
_gristle_--_grist_, grinding.]

GRIT, grit, _n._ the coarse part of meal: gravel: a kind of hard sandstone:
firmness of character, spirit: (_pl._) oats coarsely ground, groats.--_ns._
GRIT'STONE; GRIT'TINESS.--_adj._ GRIT'TY, having hard particles: sandy:
determined, plucky. [A.S. _greót_; Dut. _grut_, groats, Ger. _gries_,
gravel.]

GRIT, grit, a Scotch form of _great_.

GRIZE. See GREE (2).

GRIZZLE, griz'l, _n._ a gray colour.--_adjs._ GRIZZ'LED, gray, or mixed
with gray; GRIZZ'LY, of a gray colour.--_n._ the grizzly bear (_Ursus
horribilis_) of the Rocky Mountains. [M. E. _grisel_--Fr. _gris_,
gray--Mid. High Ger. _grís_, gray, Ger. _greis_.]

GROAN, gr[=o]n, _v.i._ to utter a moaning sound in distress: (_fig._) to be
afflicted: to express disapprobation of a speaker by means of audible
groans or similar sounds.--_n._ a deep moaning sound as of distress: a
sound of disapprobation.--_adj._ GROAN'FUL (_Spens._), sad,
agonising.--_n._ GROAN'ING, a deep moan as of pain: any low rumbling sound.
[A.S. _gránian_.]

GROAT, grawt, or gr[=o]t, _n._ an English silver coin, worth
fourpence--only coined after 1662 as Maundy money--the silver
fourpenny-piece, coined from 1836-56, was not called a groat: a very small
sum, proverbially. [Old Low Ger. _grote_, a coin of Bremen--orig. _grote
sware_, 'great pennies,' as compared with the smaller copper coins, five to
the groat.]

GROATS, gr[=o]ts, _n.pl._ the grain of oats deprived of the husks. [M. E.
_grotes_, prob. Ice. _grautr_, barley; cog. with A.S. _grút_, coarse meal.]

GROBIAN, gr[=o]'bi-an, _n._ a boorish rude fellow. [Ger. _grob_, coarse;
cf. _gruff_--Dut. _grof_.]

GROCER, gr[=o]s'[.e]r, _n._ a dealer in tea, sugar, &c.--_n._ GROC'ERY
(generally used in _pl._), articles sold by grocers. [Earlier _grosser_ or
_engrosser_, a wholesale dealer; O. Fr. _grossier_--_gros_, great.]

GROG, grog, _n._ a mixture of spirits and cold water, without sugar.--_ns._
GROG'-BLOSS'OM, a redness of the nose due to drinking; GROG'GERY (_U.S._),
a low public-house; GROG'GINESS, state of being groggy; GROG'GING,
extracting the spirit from the wood of empty spirit-casks with
water.--_adj._ GROG'GY, affected by grog, partially intoxicated: (_boxing_)
weak and staggering from blows: applied to a horse that bears wholly on his
heels in trotting.--_n._ GROG'-SHOP, a dram-shop. [From 'Old Grog,' the
nickname of Admiral Vernon, who introduced it about 1745--from his
_grogram_ breeches.]

GROGRAM, grog'ram, _n._ a kind of coarse cloth of silk and mohair. [O. Fr.
_grosgrain_.]

GROIN, groin, _n._ the part of the body on either side of the belly where
the thigh joins the trunk: (_archit._) the angular curve formed by the
crossing of two arches.--_v.t._ to form into groins, to build in
groins.--_n._ GROIN'-CEN'TRING, the centring of timber during
construction.--_adj._ GROINED, having angular curves made by the
intersection of two arches.--_n._ GROIN'ING.--UNDERPITCH GROINING, a kind
of vaulting used when the main vault of a groined roof is higher than the
transverse intersecting vault, as in St George's Chapel, Windsor--sometimes
called _Welsh groining_. [Ice. _grein_, division, branch--greina, to
divide; Sw. _gren_, branch, space between the legs; Scot. _graine_,
_grane_, the branch of a tree or river.]

GROIN, groin, _v.i._ (_obs._) to grunt, to growl. [O. Fr. _grogner_--L.
_grunn[=i]re_, to grunt.]

GROLIER, gr[=o]'lye, _n._ a book or a binding from the library of the
French bibliophile, Jean _Grolier_ (1479-1565).--_adj._ GROLIERESQUE',
after the style of Grolier's bindings, with geometrical or arabesque
figures and leaf-sprays in gold lines.

GROMMET, grom'et, _n._ a ring formed of a single strand of rope, laid in
three times round, fastening the upper edge of a sail to its stay: a
ship-boy. [O. Fr.]

GROMWELL, grom'wel, _n._ a herb of the borage family. [O. Fr. _grumel_--L.
_grumulus_, a hillock.]

GROOM, gr[=oo]m, _n._ one who has the charge of horses: a title of several
officers of the royal household: a bridegroom.--_v.t._ to tend, as a
horse.--_n._ GROOMS'MAN, the attendant on a bridegroom at his marriage.
[Prob. from A.S. _guma_ (in bride_groom_), a man, Goth. _guma_, Ice.
_gumi_, L. _homo_.]

GROOVE, gr[=oo]v, _n._ a furrow, or long hollow, such as is cut with a
tool.--_v.t._ to grave or cut a groove or furrow in. [Prob. Dut. _groef_,
_groeve_, a furrow; cog. with Ger. _grube_, a pit, Ice. _gróf_, Eng.
_grave_.]

GROPE, gr[=o]p, _v.i._ to search for something, as if blind or in the
dark.--_v.t._ to search by feeling.--_adv._ GROP'INGLY, in a groping
manner. [A.S. _grápian_, to seize; allied to _grab_, _gripe_.]

GROSBEAK, gr[=o]s'b[=e]k, _n._ a name applied to not a few highly
specialised finches (_Fringillidæ_), with thick, heavy, seed-crushing
bills--also to many other birds, as the cardinal grosbeaks and the
rose-breasted grosbeak. [_Gross_ and _beak_.]

GROSCHEN, gr[=o]'shen, _n._ a small silver coin till 1873-76 current in the
north of Germany, in value 1/30th of a thaler. [Ger.,--L. _grossus_,
thick.]

GROSER, gr[=o]'ser, _n._ (_prov._) a gooseberry--(_Scot._)
GROS'SART.--_adj._ GROSSUL[=A]'CEOUS, pertaining to the gooseberry. [See
GOOSEBERRY.]

GROSS, gr[=o]s, _adj._ coarse: rough: dense: palpable, glaring, shameful:
whole: coarse in mind: stupid: sensual: obscene.--_n._ the main bulk: the
whole taken together: a great hundred--i.e. twelve dozen.--_adv._
GROSS'LY.--_n._ GROSS'NESS.--IN GROSS, in bulk, wholesale. [Fr. _gros_--L.
_grossus_, thick.]

GROTESQUE, gr[=o]-tesk', _adj._ extravagantly formed: ludicrous.--_n._
(_art_) extravagant ornament, containing animals, plants, &c. not really
existing.--_adv._ GROTESQUE'LY.--_ns._ GROTESQUE'NESS; GROTESQU'ERY. [Fr.
_grotesque_--It. _grotesca_--_grotta_, a grotto.]

GROTIAN, gr[=o]'shi-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to Hugo _Grotius_
(1583-1645), the Latinised form of Huig van _Groot_, founder of the science
of international law.--GROTIAN THEORY, the theory that man is essentially a
social being, and that the principles of justice are of perpetual
obligation and in harmony with his nature; GROTIAN, or GOVERNMENTAL, THEORY
OF THE ATONEMENT, a divine acquittal for Christ's sake, rather than a real
satisfaction on the part of Christ.

GROTTO, grot'[=o], _n._ a cave: a place of shade, for pleasure--also
GROT:--_pl._ GROTT'OS--_n._ GROTT'O-WORK, a grotto-like structure. [It.
_grotta_ (Fr. _grotte_)--L. _crypta_--Gr. _krypt[=e]_, a crypt.]

GROUND, grownd, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _grind_.

GROUND, grownd, _n._ the surface of the earth: a portion of the earth's
surface: land, field, soil: the floor, &c.: position: field or place of
action: (_lit._ or _fig._) that on which something is raised: foundation:
sufficient reason: (_art_) the surface on which the figures are
represented.--_v.t._ to fix on a foundation or principle: to instruct in
first principles: to cover with a layer of plaster, &c., as a basis for
painting: to coat with a composition, as a surface to be etched.--_v.i._ to
strike the bottom and remain fixed.--_ns._ GROUND'AGE, the tax paid by a
ship for the space occupied while in port; GROUND'-ANG'LING, fishing
without a float, with a weight placed a few inches from the hook--called
also _Bottom-fishing_; GROUND'-ASH, a sapling of ash; GROUND'-BAIT, bait
dropped to the bottom of the water.--_adv._ GROUND'EDLY (_Browning_), on
good grounds.--_ns._ GROUND'ER, at baseball, &c., a ball thrown low rather
than rising into the air; GROUND'-FLOOR, the floor of a house on a level
with the street or exterior ground; GROUND'-GAME, hares, rabbits, as
distinguished from winged game; GROUND'-HOG, the American marmot, or
woodchuck: the aardvark of Africa; GROUND'-HOLD (_Spens._), ground-tackle;
GROUND-ICE, the ice formed at the bottom of a water first--also
AN'CHOR-ICE; GROUND'ING, the background of embroidery, &c.;
GROUND'-[=I]'VY, a common British creeping-plant whose leaves were once
used for flavouring ale (_gill-ale_ or _gell-ale_).--_adj._ GROUND'LESS,
without ground, foundation, or reason.--_adv._ GROUND'LESSLY.--_ns._
GROUND'LESSNESS; GROUND'LING, a fish which keeps near the bottom of the
water, esp. the spinous loach: a spectator in the pit of a theatre---hence
one of the common herd: (_pl._) the vulgar.--_adj._ (_Lamb_) base.--_ns._
GROUND'-NUT, ground-bean, or pea-nut, the fruit of the annual leguminous
plant _Arachis hypogæa_; GROUND'-OAK, a sapling of oak; GROUND'-PLAN, plan
of the horizontal section of the lowest or ground story of a building:
GROUND'-PLOT, the plot of ground on which a building stands; GROUND'-RENT,
rent paid to a landlord for the use of the ground for a specified term,
usually in England ninety-nine years.--_n.pl._ GROUNDS, dregs of drink:
sediment at the bottom of liquors (explained by Skeat as Celtic--Gael.
_grunndas_, lees, _grunnd_, bottom, Ir. _gruntas_, _grunnt_,
bottom).--_ns._ GROUND'SELL, GROUND'SILL, the timber of a building which
lies next to the ground; GROUND-SQUIRR'EL, the chipmuck or hackee;
GROUND'-SWELL, a broad, deep undulation of the ocean, proceeding from a
distant storm; GROUND'-TACK'LE, the tackle necessary for securing a vessel
at anchor; GROUND'WORK, that which forms the ground or foundation of
anything: the basis: the essential part: the first principle.--GROUND
ANNUAL, in the law of Scotland, an annual payment, sometimes called a
rent-charge, made for land--a substitute for feu-duty.--BE ON ONE'S OWN
GROUND, to be dealing with a matter in which one is specially versed; BREAK
GROUND, to take the first step in any project; FALL TO THE GROUND, to come
to nothing; GAIN GROUND, to advance, to obtain an advantage; GIVE GROUND,
to yield advantage; LOSE GROUND, to retire, to lose advantage; SLIPPERY
GROUND, an insecure footing; STAND, or HOLD, ONE'S GROUND, to stand firm.
[A.S. _grund_; most prob. _grund-en_, pa.p. of _grindan_, and orig. meaning
'earth ground small;' cog. with Ger. _grund_, Ice. _grunnr_.]

GROUNDSEL, grownd'sel, _n._ an annual plant, about a foot high, with small
yellow flowers. [A.S. _grundeswelge_--_grund_, ground, _swelgan_, to
swallow.]

GROUP, gr[=oo]p, _n._ a number of persons or things together: a number of
individual things related, in some definite way differentiating them from
others: (_art_) a combination of figures forming a harmonious
whole.--_v.t._ to form into a group or groups.--_v.i._ to fall into
harmonious combination.--_n._ GROUP'ING (_art_), the act of disposing and
arranging figures or objects in a group. [Fr. _groupe_--It. _groppo_, a
bunch, knot--Teut.; cf. Ger. _kropf_, protuberance.]

GROUSE, grows, _n._ the heathcock or moorfowl, a plump bird with a short
curved bill, short legs, and feathered feet, which frequents Scotch moors
and hills--the _Scotch ptarmigan_, _red-grouse_: any bird of the family
_Tetraonidæ_, and sub-family _Tetraoninæ_. [Prob. from the older _grice_
(on the analogy of _mouse_, _mice_)--O. Fr. _griesche_, gray.]

GROUT, growt, _n._ coarse meal: the sediment of liquor: lees: a thin coarse
mortar: a fine plaster for finishing ceilings.--_n._ GROUT'ING, the filling
up or finishing with grout: the stuff so used.--_adj._ GROUT'Y, thick,
muddy: sulky. [A.S. _grút_, coarse meal; cog. with Dut. _grut_, Ice.
_grautr_, porridge, Ger. _grütze_, groats.]

GROVE, gr[=o]v, _n._ a wood of small size, generally of a pleasant or
ornamental character: an avenue of trees: (_B._) an erroneous translation
of _Asherah_, the wooden upright image of the lewdly worshipped goddess
Ashtoreth; also of Heb. _eshel_ in Gen. xxi. 33.--GROVES OF ACADEME, the
shady walks of the Academy at Athens, any place of learned pursuits. [A.S.
_gráf_, a grove--_grafan_, pa.t. _gróf_, to dig.]

GROVEL, grov'el, _v.i._ to crawl on the earth, esp. in abject fear, &c.: to
be base or mean:--_pr.p._ grov'elling; _pa.p._ grov'elled.--_n._
GROV'ELLER.--_adj._ GROV'ELLING, mean. [Explained by Skeat as due to M. E.
_groveling_, flat on the ground, properly an _adv._, also _grofling_--Ice.
_grûfa_.]

GROW, gr[=o], _v.i._ to become enlarged by a natural process: to advance
towards maturity: to increase in size: to develop: to become greater in any
way: to extend: to improve: to pass from one state to another: to
become.--_v.t._ to cause to grow: to cultivate:--_pa.t._ grew (gr[=oo]);
_pa.p._ grown.--_ns._ GROW'ER; GROW'ING; GROWTH, a growing: gradual
increase: progress: development: that which has grown: product.--GROW ON,
to gain in the estimation of; GROW OUT OF, to issue from, result from: to
pass beyond in development, to give up; GROW TO, to advance to; GROW
TOGETHER, to become united by growth; GROW UP, to advance in growth, become
full-grown; to take root, spring up. [A.S. _grówan_; Ice. _gróa_; conn.
with _green_.]

GROWL, growl, _v.i._ to utter a deep, murmuring sound like a dog: to
grumble surlily.--_v.t._ to express by growling.--_n._ a murmuring,
snarling sound, as of an angry dog.--_ns._ GROWL'ER, one who growls: a fish
of the Perch family, abundant in North American rivers, so named from the
sound it emits: (_slang_) a four-wheeled cab: (_Amer._) a jug or pitcher
used for carrying beer; GROWL'ING, grumbling, snarling: a rumbling
sound.--_adv._ GROWL'INGLY. [Dut. _grollen_, to grumble; allied to Gr.
_gryllizein_, to grunt.]

GROYNE, groin, _n._ a wooden breakwater. [GROIN.]

GRUB, grub, _v.i._ to dig in the dirt: to be occupied meanly: (_slang_) to
eat.--_v.t._ to dig or root out of the ground (generally followed by up):
(_slang_) to supply with victuals:--_pr.p._ grub'bing; _pa.p._
grubbed.--_n._ the larva of the beetle, moth, &c.: (_slang_) something to
eat.--_n._ GRUB'BER, he who, or that which, grubs: an agricultural
implement for grubbing out weeds, &c., or for clearing and stirring up the
soil, with obliquely placed _tines_ or teeth set in a frame and moved
forward on wheels.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ GRUB'BLE, to grope.--_n._
GRUB'-STREET, a street in London inhabited by booksellers' hacks and shabby
writers generally.--_adj._ applied to any mean literary production. [Prob.
A.S. _grápian_, to grope.]

GRUDGE, gruj, _v.t._ to murmur at: to look upon with envy: to give or take
unwillingly.--_v.i._ to show discontent.--_n._ secret enmity or envy: an
old cause of quarrel.--_adjs._ GRUDGE'FUL (_Spens._), full of grudge,
envious; GRUDG'ING, given to grudge.--_adv._ GRUDG'INGLY, unwillingly. [M.
E. _grochen_, _grucchen_--O. Fr. _grocer_, _groucer_, from an imitative
root seen in Gr. _gry_, the grunt of a pig; also in _growl_, _grunt_.]

GRUEL, gr[=oo]'el, _n._ a thin food made by boiling oatmeal in water. [O.
Fr. _gruel_ (Fr. _gruau_), groats--Low L. _grutellum_, dim. of _grutum_,
meal--Old Low Ger. _grut_, groats, A.S. _grút_.]

GRUESOME, gr[=oo]'sum, _adj._ horrible: fearful: dismal,
depressing.--_vs.i._ GRUE, GREW, to shudder: to feel horror or
repulsiveness. [Scand.; Dan. _gru_, horror, with suff. _-som_; cf. Dut.
_gruwzaam_, Ger. _grausam_.]

GRUFF, gruf, _adj._ rough, stern, or abrupt in manner: churlish.--_adv._
GRUFF'LY.--_n._ GRUFF'NESS. [Dut. _grof_; cog. with Sw. _grof_, Ger.
_grob_, coarse.]

GRUM, grum, _adj._ morose: surly: deep in the throat, as a sound.--_adv._
GRUM'LY.--_n._ GRUM'NESS. [A.S. _grom_; cf. Dan. _grum_.]

GRUMBLE, grum'bl, _v.i._ to murmur with discontent: to growl: to
rumble.--_n._ the act of grumbling.--_ns._ GRUM'BLER; GRUMBLET[=O]'NIAN,
one of the country party as opposed to the court party, after 1689.--_adv._
GRUM'BLINGLY. [Old Dut. _grommelen_, freq. of _grommen_ to mutter.]

GRUME, gr[=oo]m, _n._ a thick consistence of fluid: a clot, as of
blood.--_adjs._ GRUM'OUS, GRUM'OSE, thick: clotted. [O. Fr. _grume_, a
bunch (Fr. _grumeau_, a clot)--L. _grumus_, a little heap.]

GRUMPH, grumf, _n._ (_Scot._) a grunt.--_v.i._ to grunt.--_n._ GRUMPH'IE, a
sow.

GRUMPY, grum'pi, _adj._ surly: dissatisfied: melancholic.--_adv._
GRUM'PILY. [_Grumble_.]

GRUNDY, grund'i, MRS, the invisible _censor morum_ who is frequently
appealed to in the phrase, 'But what will Mrs Grundy say?' in Thomas
Morton's play, _Speed the Plough_ (1800).

GRUNT, grunt, _v.i._ to make a sound like a pig: to utter guttural
sounds.--_n._ a short, guttural sound, as of a hog.--_ns._ GRUNT'ER;
GRUNT'ING.--_adv._ GRUNT'INGLY. [M. E. _grunten_--A.S. _grunian_; cf. Ger.
_grunzen_, L._ grunn[=i]re_; all imit.]

GRUTCH, gruch, _v.t._ or _v.i._ (_Spens._) to grudge.

GRUYÈRE, gr[=oo]-y[=a]r', _n._ a famous whole-milk cheese, made at
_Gruyère_ and many other places in the canton of Freiburg, Switzerland.

GRYDE, gr[=i]d, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to gride.

GRYFON, GRYPHON, grif'on, _n._ obsolete forms of _griffin_.--Also GRYPE.

GRYPOSIS, gri-p[=o]'sis, _n._ a curvature, esp. of the nails.

GRYSIE, gr[=i]z'i, _adj._ (_Spens._) grisly: squalid: moist.

GUACHARO, gwä'chä-r[=o], _n._ the oil-bird, a South American nocturnal
frugivorous goatsucker. [Sp.]

GUACHO, gwä'k[=o], _n._ a tropical American climbing composite: the
medicinal substance in the leaves.

GUAIACUM, gw[=a]'ya-kum, _n._ a genus of trees in the West Indies, that
yield a greenish resin used in medicine. [Sp. _guayaco_, from a Haytian
word.]

GUAN, gwän, _n._ the yacou, a South American genus of large arboreal
game-birds, giving loud cries.

GUANACO, gwä-nä'ko, _n._ a cameloid ruminant widely spread in South
America.

GUANO, gwä'n[=o], _n._ the long-accumulated excrement of certain sea-fowl,
found on certain coasts and islands, esp. about South America, much used
for manure.--_adj._ GUANIF'EROUS.--_n._ GUÄ'NIN, a yellowish-white,
amorphous substance, a constituent of guano, also of the liver and pancreas
of mammals. [Sp. _guano_, or _huano_, from Peruv. _huanu_, dung.]

GUARANA, gwä-rä'na, _n._ a paste prepared from the pounded seeds of
_Paullinia sorbilis_, a climbing Brazilian shrub, made in round or oblong
cakes--_Guarana Bread_.

GUARANTEE, gar-an-t[=e]', GUARANTY, gar'an-ti, _n._ a warrant or surety: a
contract to see performed what another has undertaken: the person who makes
such a contract, one responsible for the performance of some action, the
truth of some statement, &c.--_v.t._ to undertake that another shall
perform certain engagements: to make sure:--_pr.p._ guarantee'ing; _pa.p._
guaranteed'.--_n._ GUAR'ANTOR, one who makes a guaranty.--GUARANTEE
ASSOCIATIONS, joint-stock companies on the insurance principle, which
become security for the integrity of cashiers, &c. [O. Fr. _garantie_,
pa.p. of _garantir_, to warrant--_garant_, warrant. See WARRANT.]

GUARD, gärd, _v.t._ to ward, watch, or take care of: to protect from danger
or attack: to protect the edge of, as by an ornamental border.--_v.i._ to
watch: to be wary.--_n._ that which guards from danger: a man or body of
men stationed to protect: one who has charge of a coach or railway-train:
state of caution: posture of defence: part of the hilt of a sword: a
watch-chain: (_pl._) troops attached to the person of a sovereign:
(_cricket_) the pads which protect the legs from swift balls.--_adj._
GUARD'ABLE.--_n._ GUARD'AGE (_Shak._), wardship.--_adjs._ GUARD'ANT
(_her._), having the face turned towards the beholder; GUARD'ED, wary:
cautious: uttered with caution.--_adv._ GUARD'EDLY.--_ns._ GUARD'EDNESS;
GUARD'HOUSE, GUARD'ROOM, a house or room for the accommodation of a guard
of soldiers, where defaulters are confined; GUARD'IAN, one who guards or
takes care of: (_law_) one who has the care of an orphan minor.--_adj._
protecting.--_n._ GUARD'IANSHIP.--_adj._ GUARD'LESS, without a guard:
defenceless.--_ns._ GUARD'SHIP, a ship of war that superintends marine
affairs in a harbour and protects it: (_Swift_) guardianship; GUARDS'MAN, a
soldier of the guards.--GUARDIAN ANGEL, an angel supposed to watch over a
particular person: a person specially devoted to the interests of
another.--MOUNT GUARD, to go on guard-duty; ON, or OFF, ONE'S GUARD, on the
watch, or the opposite; RUN THE GUARD, to get past a guard or sentinel
without detection. [O. Fr. _garder_--Old High Ger. _warten_; A.S.
_weardian_, Eng. _ward_.]

GUARISH, g[=a]r'ish, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to heal. [O. Fr. _guarir_ (Fr.
_guérir_), to heal.]

GUAVA, gwä'va, _n._ a genus of trees and shrubs of tropical America, with
yellow, pear-shaped fruit made into jelly. [Sp. _guayaba_--Braz.]

GUBBINS, gub'ins, _n.pl._ a half-savage race in Devonshire, described by
the pastoral poet William Browne and by Fuller in his _Worthies_.

GUBERNATION, g[=u]-b[.e]r-n[=a]'shun, _n._ government, rule.--_adj._
GUBERNAT[=O]'RIAL. [L. _gubern[=a]re_, govern.]

GUDDLE, gud'l _v.t._ (_Scot._) to catch fish with the hands by groping
under the stones or banks of a stream.

GUDGEON, guj'un, _n._ a genus of small, carp-like fishes common in the
fresh waters of Europe--easily caught: a person easily cheated.--_adj._
foolish.--_v.t._ to impose on, cheat. [O. Fr. _goujon_--L. _gobion-em_--Gr.
_k[=o]bios_. See GOBY.]

GUDGEON, guj'un, _n._ the bearing of a shaft, esp. when made of a separate
piece: a metallic journal-piece let into the end of a wooden shaft: a pin.
[O. Fr. _goujon_, the pin of a pulley.]

GUE, g[=u], _n._ a rude kind of violin used in Shetland.

GUEBRE, GUEBER, g[=e]'b[.e]r, _n._ a follower of the ancient Persian
religion as reformed by Zoroaster. [Pers. _gabr_; see GIAOUR; cf. Ar.
_kafir_, unbeliever.]

GUELDER-ROSE, gel'd[.e]r-r[=o]z, _n._ a species of _Viburnum_ with large
white ball-shaped flowers--also called _Snowball-tree_. [From _Gueldres_ in
Holland.]

GUELF, GUELPH, gwelf, _n._ one of a papal and popular party in Italy in the
Middle Ages which was opposed to the emperors.--_adj._ GUELF'IC, belonging
to the Guelfs, in modern times the royal family of Hanover and England.
[The party names _Guelf_ and _Ghibelline_ are from _Welf_ and _Waiblingen_,
two families which in the 12th century were at the head of two rival
parties in the German Empire.]

GUERDON, g[.e]r'dun, _n._ a reward or recompense.--_v.t._ to reward. [O.
Fr. _guerdon_, _guerredon_ (It. _guidardone_)--Low L. _widerdonum_, corr.
from Old High Ger. _widarlón_ (A.S. _wiðerleán_)--_wider_ (A.S. _wiðer_),
against, and _lón_ (A.S. _leán_), reward; or more prob. the latter part of
the word is from L. _donum_, a gift.]

GUEREZA, ger'e-za, _n._ a large, long-haired, black-and-white African
monkey, with a bushy tail.

GUERILLA, GUERRILLA, g[.e]r-ril'a, _n._ a mode of harassing an army by
small bands adopted by the Spaniards against the French in the Peninsular
war: a member of such a band.--_adj._ conducted by or conducting petty
warfare. [Sp. _guerrilla_, dim. of _guerra_ (Fr. _guerre_)--Old High Ger.
_werra_.]

GUERNSEY, g[.e]rn'zi, _n._ a sailor's closely-fitting knitted woollen
shirt: one of a breed of dairy cattle from the island: the red-legged
partridge. [From _Guernsey_ in the Channel Islands.]

GUESS, ges, _v.t._ to form an opinion on uncertain knowledge: to
conjecture, to think.--_v.i._ to judge on uncertain knowledge: to
conjecture rightly.--_n._ judgment or opinion without sufficient evidence
or grounds.--_adj._ GUESS'ABLE, that may be guessed.--_n._ GUESS'ER, one
who guesses or conjectures.--_adv._ GUESS'INGLY, by way of
conjecture.--_n._ GUESS'WORK, work done by guess: random action. [M. E.
_gessen_; cog. with Dut. _gissen_; Dan. _gisse_, Ice. _giska_, for
_gitska_--_geta_, to get, think, A.S. _gitan_, whence Eng. _get_. See
FORGET.]

GUEST, gest, _n._ a visitor received and entertained.--_n._ GUEST'-CHAM'BER
(_B._), a chamber or room for the accommodation of guests.--_v.i._ GUEST'EN
(_Scot._), to stay as a guest.--_adv._ GUEST'WISE, in the manner or
capacity of a guest. [A.S. _gest_, _gæst_; allied to Dut. and Ger. _gast_,
L. _hostis_, stranger, enemy.]

GUEUX, g[=u], _n.pl._ the name assumed by the confederation (1565) of
nobles and others to resist the introduction of the Inquisition into the
Low Countries by Philip II. of Spain. [Fr., 'beggars.']

GUFFAW, guf-faw', _v.i._ to laugh loudly.--_n._ a loud laugh. [From the
sound.]

GUGGLE, gug'l, _v.i._ to make a noise with the mouth or throat, to gurgle.
[Formed from _gurgle_.]

GUICOWAR. Same as GAIKWAR.

GUIDE, g[=i]d, _v.t._ to lead or direct: to regulate: to influence.--_n._
he who, or that which, guides: one who directs another in his course of
life: a soldier or other person employed to obtain information for an army:
a guide-book: anything calculated to maintain in a certain direction or
position.--_adj._ GUID'ABLE.--_ns._ GUID'AGE, guidance; GUID'ANCE,
direction: government; GUIDE'-BOOK, a book of information for
tourists.--_adj._ GUIDE'LESS, having no guide.--_ns._ GUIDE'POST, a post
erected at a roadside to guide the traveller; GUID'ER, one who guides, a
director; GUID'ON, a forked guide-flag carried by a cavalry company or
mounted battery, also the officer bearing it. [O. Fr. _guider_; prob. from
a Teut. root, as in A.S. _witan_, to know, _wís_, wise, Ger. _weisen_, to
show, conn. with _wit_, _wise_.]

GUILD, GILD, gild, _n._ an association of men for mutual aid: a
corporation: (_orig._) an association in a town where payment was made for
mutual support and protection.--_ns._ GUILD'-BROTH'ER, a fellow-member of a
guild; GUILD'HALL, the hall of a guild, esp. in London; GUILD'RY (_Scot._),
a guild, the members of such. [A.S. _gild_, money--_gildan_, to pay.]

GUILDER, GILDER, gild'[.e]r, _n._ an old Dutch and German gold coin: now a
silver coin=1s. 8d.: (_Shak._) money generally. [Dut. _gulden_--Ger.
_gulden_, gold.]

GUILE, g[=i]l, _n._ wile, jugglery: cunning: deceit.--_v.t._ (_Spens._) to
beguile.--_p.adj._ GUILED, armed with deceit: treacherous.--_adj._
GUILE'FUL, crafty: deceitful.--_adv._ GUILE'FULLY.--_n._
GUILE'FULNESS.--_adj._ GUILE'LESS, without deceit: artless.--_adv._
GUILE'LESSLY.--_ns._ GUILE'LESSNESS; GUIL'ER (_Spens._), a deceiver. [O.
Fr. _guile_, deceit; from a Teut. root, as in A.S. _wíl_, Ice. _vel_, a
trick.]

GUILLEMOT, gil'e-mot, _n._ a genus of diving birds of the Auk family, with
long, straight, feathered bill and very short tail. [Fr., prob. Celt.;
Bret. _gwelan_, gull, and O. Fr. _moette_, a sea-mew, from Teut.]

GUILLOCHE, gil-losh', _n._ an ornament formed of two or more bands
intertwining in a continued series.--_v.t._ to decorate with intersecting
curved lines. [Fr.; said to be from the name of its inventor, _Guillot_.]

GUILLOTINE, gil'[=o]-t[=e]n, _n._ an instrument for beheading--consisting
of an upright frame down which a sharp heavy axe descends on the neck of
the victim--adopted during the French Revolution, and named after Joseph
Ignace _Guillotin_ (1738-1814), a physician, who first proposed its
adoption: a machine for cutting paper, straw, &c.: a surgical instrument
for cutting the tonsils.--_v.t._ to behead with the guillotine.--_n._
GUILL'OTINEMENT, death by the guillotine.

GUILT, gilt, _n._ punishable conduct: the state of having broken a law:
crime: wickedness.--_adv._ GUILT'ILY.--_n._ GUILT'INESS.--_adj._
GUILT'LESS, free from crime: innocent.--_adv._ GUILT'LESSLY.--_n._
GUILT'LESSNESS.--_adj._ GUILT'Y, justly chargeable with a crime: wicked:
pertaining to guilt.--_adv._ GUILT'Y-LIKE (_Shak._), guiltily.--GUILTY OF
(sometimes in _B._), deserving. [Orig. a payment or fine for an offence;
A.S. _gylt_, guilt--_gildan_, to pay, to atone.]

GUILT, gilt, _p.adj._ (_Spens._) gilded.

GUINEA, gin'i, _n._ an English gold coin, no longer used=21s., so called
because first made of gold brought from _Guinea_, in Africa.--_ns._
GUIN'EA-CORN, a cereal extensively cultivated in Central Africa and
India--also _Indian millet_; GUIN'EA-FOWL, a genus of African birds in the
pheasant family, having dark-gray plumage with round spots of white,
generally larger on the back and under surface; GUIN'EA-GRASS, a grass of
the same genus with millet, a native of _Guinea_ and Senegal; GUIN'EA-HEN
(_Shak._), a courtesan; GUIN'EA-PEPP'ER (see PEPPER); GUIN'EA-PIG, a small
South American rodent, somewhat resembling a small pig, the cavy: (_slang_)
a professional company director, without time or real qualifications for
the duties; GUIN'EA-WORM, a very slender thread-like nematode worm common
in tropical Africa.

GUIPURE, g[=e]-p[=oo]r', _n._ a kind of lace having no ground or mesh, the
pattern fixed by interlacing threads: a species of gimp. [Fr. _guipure_--O.
Fr. _guiper_, prob. Teut.; cf. Goth. _veipan_, to weave.]

GUISE, g[=i]z, _n._ manner, behaviour: external appearance: dress.--_v.t._
(_arch._) to dress.--_v.i._ to act as a guiser.--_ns._ GUIS'ER (_Scot._),
GUIS'ARD, a person in disguise: a Christmas mummer. [O. Fr. _guise_; from
Old High Ger. _wísa_ (Ger. _weise_), a way, guise, which is cog. with A.S.
_wíse_, way, _wís_, wise.]

GUITAR, gi-tär', _n._ a six-stringed musical instrument, somewhat like the
lute, well adapted for accompanying the voice. [Fr. _guitare_--L.
_cithara_--Gr. _kithara_, a lyre or lute. See CITHERN.]

GULA, g[=u]'la, _n._ a piece in some insects, esp. in the beetles, &c.,
forming the lower surface of the head, behind the mentum, bounded laterally
by the genæ or cheeks: the upper part of a bird's throat, between mentum
and jugulum.--_adj._ G[=U]'LAR. [L., 'throat.']

GULCH, gulch, _n._ (_U.S._) a ravine or narrow rocky valley, a
gully.--_v.t._ (_prov._) to swallow greedily. [Prob. the _n._ and _v._ are
connected.]

GULDEN, g[=oo]l'den, _n._ a certain gold or silver coin in Germany in the
Middle Ages: the unit of account in Austria, having the value of about 2s.
[Ger.]

GULES, g[=u]lz, _n._ (_her._) a red colour, marked in engraved figures by
perpendicular lines.--_adj._ G[=U]'LY. [O. Fr. _gueules_; acc. to Brachet,
from Pers. _ghul_, a rose; acc. to others, from L. _gula_, the throat.]

GULF, gulf, _n._ a hollow or indentation in the sea-coast: a deep place in
the earth: an abyss: a whirlpool: anything insatiable: in Oxford and
Cambridge examinations, the place of those next to the pass, but not bad
enough to fail.--_v.t._ to engulf.--_n._ GULF'-WEED, a large olive-brown
sea-weed with stalked air-bladders.--_adj._ GULF'Y, full of gulfs or
whirlpools.--GULF STREAM, a great current of warm water flowing out of the
Gulf of Mexico through the Strait of Florida, along the eastern coast of
the United States of America, then deflected near the banks of Newfoundland
diagonally across the Atlantic. [O. Fr. _golfe_--Late Gr. _kolphos_--Gr.
_kolpos_, the bosom.]

GULL, gul, _n._ a web-footed sea-fowl belonging to the family _Laridæ_.
[Celt.; Corn. _gullan_, W. _gwylan_, Bret. _gwelan_--_gwela_, to weep, to
cry.]

GULL, gul, _v.t._ to beguile: to deceive.--_n._ a trick: one easily
cheated: (_Shak._) a nestling.--_ns._ GULL'-CATCH'ER (_Shak._), a cheat;
GULL'ER; GULL'ERY, imposture; GULLIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ GULL'IBLE, easily
deceived.--_n._ GULLOS'ITY. [Same word as _gull_, a seafowl, the bird being
thought stupid.]

GULLET, gul'et, _n._ the throat: the passage in the neck by which food is
taken into the stomach.--_n._ GULOS'ITY, gluttony. [O. Fr. _goulet_, dim.
of O. Fr. _goule_ (Fr. _gueule_)--L. _gula_, the throat.]

GULLY, gul'i, _n._ (_Scot._) a big knife.--Also GULL'EY.

GULLY, gul'i, _n._ a channel worn by running water: a ditch: a
ravine.--_v.t._ to wear a gully or channel in.--_p.adj._ GULL'IED.--_ns._
GULL'Y-HOLE, a manhole into a drain, &c.; GULL'Y-HUNT'ER, one who picks up
things from gutters. [Prob. _gullet_.]

GULP, gulp, _v.t._ to swallow eagerly or in large draughts.--_n._ a
swallow: as much as is swallowed at once. [Dut. _gulpen_--_gulp_, a great
draught.]

GUM, gum, _n._ the firm fleshy tissue which surrounds the teeth: (_slang_)
insolence.--_n._ GUM'BOIL, a boil or small abscess on the gum. [A.S.
_góma_, jaws; Ice. _gómr_, Ger. _gaumen_, palate.]

GUM, gum, _n._ a substance which exudes from certain trees and plants, and
hardens on the surface, including those containing arabin, bassorin, and
gum-resins.--_v.t._ to smear or unite with gum:--_pr.p._ gum'ming; _pa.p._
gummed.--_ns._ GUM'-AR'ABIC, a gum obtained from various species of acacia;
GUM'-DRAG'ON, tragacanth; GUM'-ELAS'TIC, india-rubber or caoutchouc;
GUM'-JU'NIPER, sandarac.--_adj._ GUMMIF'EROUS, producing gum.--_ns._
GUM'MINESS; GUM'MING, act of fastening with gum, esp. the application of
gum-water to a lithographic stone: a disease, marked by a discharge of gum,
affecting stone-fruit; GUMMOS'ITY, gumminess.--_adjs._ GUM'MOUS, GUM'MY,
consisting of or resembling gum: producing or covered with gum.--_ns._
GUM'-RASH, red-gum; GUM'-RES'IN, a vegetable secretion formed of resin
mixed with more or less gum or mucilage; GUM'-TREE, a name applied to
various American and Australian trees; CHEW'ING-GUM (see CHEW). [O. Fr.
_gomme_--L. _gummi_--Gr. _kommi_; prob. Coptic _kom[=e]_, gum.]

GUMBO, gum'b[=o], _n._ the okra or its mucilaginous pods: a soup of which
okra is an ingredient, also a dish of okra-pods seasoned: Creole patois in
Louisiana.

GUMPTION, gump'shun, _n._ sense: shrewdness: common-sense.--_adj._
GUMP'TIOUS. [Doubtless conn. with A.S. _gýman_, to observe; cf. Goth.
_gaumjan_.]

GUN, gun, _n._ a firearm or weapon, from which balls or other projectiles
are discharged, usually by means of gunpowder--now generally applied to
cannon: one who carries a gun, a member of a shooting-party.--_v.i._
(_Amer._) to shoot with a gun.--_ns._ GUN'-BARR'EL, the barrel or tube of a
gun; GUN'BOAT, a boat or small vessel of light draught, fitted to carry one
or more guns; GUN'-CARR'IAGE, a carriage on which a gun or cannon is
supported; GUN'-COTT'ON, an explosive prepared by saturating cotton with
nitric acid; GUN'-FIRE (_mil._), the hour at which the morning or evening
gun is fired; GUN'-FLINT, a piece of flint fitted to the hammer of a
flint-lock musket; GUN'-MET'AL, an alloy of copper and tin in the
proportion of 9 to 1, used in making guns; GUN'NAGE, the number of guns
carried by a ship of war; GUN'NER, one who works a gun or cannon: (_naut._)
a petty officer who has charge of the ordnance on board ship; GUN'NERY, the
art of managing guns, or the science of artillery; GUN'NING, shooting game;
GUN'-PORT, a port-hole; GUN'POWDER, an explosive powder used for guns and
firearms; GUN'-ROOM, the apartment on board ship occupied by the gunner, or
by the lieutenants as a mess-room; GUN'SHOT, the distance to which shot can
be thrown from a gun.--_adj._ caused by the shot of a gun.--_adj._
GUN'-SHY, frightened by guns (of a sporting dog).--_ns._ GUN'SMITH, a smith
or workman who makes or repairs guns or small-arms; GUN'STICK, a ramrod;
GUN'STOCK, the stock or piece of wood on which the barrel of a gun is
fixed; GUN'STONE (_Shak._), a stone, formerly used as shot for a gun;
GUN'-TACK'LE (_naut._), the tackle used on board ship by which the guns are
run to and from the port-holes; GUN'-WAD, a wad for a gun; GAT'LING-GUN, a
revolving battery-gun, invented by R. J. _Gatling_ about 1861, usually
having ten parallel barrels, capable of firing 1200 shots a minute;
MACHINE'-GUN (see MACHINE).--AS SURE AS A GUN, quite sure, certainly; BLOW
GREAT GUNS, to blow tempestuously--of wind; GREAT GUN, a cannon: (_coll._)
a person of great importance; SON OF A GUN, a rogue, rascal. [M. E.
_gonne_, from W. _gwn_, a bowl, a gun, acc. to Skeat.]

GUNNEL, gun'l, _n._ Same as GUNWALE.

GUNNY, gun'i, _n._ a strong coarse cloth manufactured in India from jute,
and used as sacking. [Hind. _gon_, _goní_, sacking--Sans. _goní_, a sack.]

GUNTER'S SCALE. See SCALE.

GUNWALE, GUNNEL, gun'el, _n._ the wale or upper edge of a ship's side next
to the bulwarks, so called because the upper guns are pointed from it.

GURGE, gurj, _n._ (_Milt._) a whirlpool. [L. _gurges_.]

GURGLE, gur'gl, _v.i._ to flow in an irregular noisy current: to make a
bubbling sound. [Through an It. _gorgogliare_, from _gorgo_--L. _gurges_.]

GURGOYLE. Same as GARGOYLE.

GURLY, gur'li, _adj._ (_obs._) fierce, stormy.

GURNARD, gur'nard, _n._ a genus of fishes having the body rounded,
tapering, and covered with small scales, an angular head, the eyes near the
summit, and the teeth small and very numerous--(_obs._) GUR'NET. [From O.
Fr. _grongnard_--_grogner_, to grunt--L. _grunn[=i]re_, to grunt.]

GURRAH, gur'a, _n._ a coarse Indian muslin.

GURRY, gur'i, _n._ fish-offal.

GURU, g[=oo]'r[=oo], _n._ a spiritual teacher, any venerable person.--Also
GOO'ROO. [Hind.--Sans.]

GUSH, gush, _v.i._ to flow out with violence or copiously: to be effusive,
or highly sentimental.--_n._ that which flows out: a violent issue of a
fluid.--_n._ GUSH'ER, an oil-well not needing to be pumped.--_adj._
GUSH'ING, rushing forth with violence, as a liquid: flowing copiously:
effusive.--_adv._ GUSH'INGLY.--_adj._ GUSH'Y, effusively sentimental.
[Scand.; Ice. _gusa_, _gjósa_; Dut. _gudsen_. See GEYSER.]

GUSSET, gus'et, _n._ the piece of cloth in a shirt which covers the armpit:
an angular piece of cloth inserted in a garment to strengthen some part of
it.--_v.t._ to make with a gusset: to insert a gusset into. [O. Fr.
_gousset_--_gousse_--It. _guscio_, a pod, husk.]

GUST, gust, _n._ a sudden blast of wind: a violent burst of
passion.--_adjs._ GUST'FUL, GUST'Y, stormy: irritable.--_n._ GUST'INESS.
[Ice. _gustr_, blast.]

GUST, gust, _n._ sense of pleasure of tasting: relish: gratification.--_n._
GUST[=A]'TION, the act of tasting: the sense of taste.--_adjs._
GUST'[=A]TIVE, GUS'T[=A]TORY, of or pertaining to gustation.--_n._ GUST'O,
taste: zest. [L. _gustus_, taste; cf. Gr. _geuein_, to make to taste.]

GUT, gut, _n._ the alimentary canal: intestines prepared for
violin-strings, &c. (gut for angling, see SILKWORM-GUT): (_pl._) the
bowels.--_v.t._ to take out the bowels of: to plunder:--_pr.p._ gut'ting;
_pa.p._ gut'ted.--_n._ GUT'-SCRAP'ER, a fiddler.--_v.t._ and _v.i._
GUT'TLE, to eat greedily. [A.S. _gut_, _geótan_, to pour; prov. Eng. _gut_,
Ger. _gosse_, a drain.]

GUTTA, gut'a, _n._ a drop: one of the small drop-like ornaments on the
under side of the mutules and regulæ of the Doric entablature: a small
round colour-spot:--_pl._ GUTT'Æ.--_adjs._ GUTT'ATE, -D, containing drops:
spotted. [L.]

GUTTA-PERCHA, gut'a-p[.e]rch'a, _n._ the solidified juice of various trees
in the Malayan Islands. [Malay _gatah_, _guttah_, gum, _percha_, the tree
producing it.]

GUTTER, gut'[.e]r, _n._ a channel at the eaves of a roof for conveying away
water: a channel for water: (_print._) one of a number of pieces of wood or
metal, grooved in the centre, used to separate the pages of type in a form:
(_pl._) mud, dirt (_Scot._).--_v.t._ to cut or form into small
hollows.--_v.i._ to become hollowed: to run down in drops, as a
candle.--_ns._ GUTT'ER-BLOOD, a low-born person; GUTT'ER-SNIPE, a neglected
child, a street Arab.--_adj._ GUTTIF'EROUS, exuding gum or resin. [O. Fr.
_goutiere_--_goute_--L. _gutta_, a drop.]

GUTTURAL, gut'ur-al, _adj._ pertaining to the throat: formed in the throat:
harsh or rasping in sound.--_n._ (_gram._) a letter pronounced in the
throat or the back part of the mouth (_k_, _c_ hard, _q_, _g_,
_ng_).--_v.t._ GUTT'URALISE, GUTT'URISE, to form (a sound) in the
throat.--_adv._ GUTT'URALLY.--_n._ GUTT'URALNESS. [Fr.,--L. _guttur_, the
throat.]

GUY, g[=i], _n._ (_naut._) a rope to steady any suspended weight.--_v.t._
to keep in position by a guy. [Sp. _guia_, a guide.]

GUY, g[=i], _n._ an effigy of _Guy_ Fawkes, dressed up grotesquely on the
anniversary of the Gunpowder Plot (5th Nov.): an odd figure.

GUZZLE, guz'l, _v.i._ to eat and drink with haste and greediness.--_v.t._
to swallow with exceeding relish.--_n._ GUZZ'LER. [O. Fr. (_des-_)
_gouziller_, to swallow down; _gosier_, the throat.]

GWINIAD, gwin'i-ad, _n._ a fresh-water fish of about 10 or 12 inches in
length, found in some of the lakes of Wales and Cumberland--the
_Fresh-water Herring_. [W.,--_gwyn_, white.]

GYGIS, j[=i]'jis, _n._ a genus of small terns, white, with black bill,
long-pointed wings, and a slightly forked tail. [Gr. _gyg[=e]s_, a
water-bird.]

GYMKHANA, jim-kä'na, _n._ a place of public resort for athletic games, &c.,
also a meeting for such sports. [A factitious word, according to
Yule-Burnell, prob. based on _gend-kh[=a]na_ ('ball-house'), the usual
Hind. name for an English racket-court.]

GYMNASIUM, jim-n[=a]'zi-um, _n._ a school for gymnastics: a school for the
higher branches of literature and science: (_orig._) a public place or
building where the Greek youths exercised themselves, with running and
wrestling grounds, baths, and halls for conversation:--_pl._
GYMN[=A]'SIA.--_adj._ GYMN[=A]'SIAL.--_n._ GYMN[=A]'SIAST.--_adj._
GYMN[=A]'SIC.--_n._ GYM'NAST, one who teaches or practises
gymnastics.--_adjs._ GYMNAS'TIC, -AL, pertaining to athletic exercises:
athletic, vigorous.--_adv._ GYMNAS'TICALLY.--_n.pl._ used as _sing_.
GYMNAS'TICS, athletic exercises, devised to strengthen the muscles and
bones, esp. those of the upper half of the body: the art of performing
athletic exercises.--_adj._ GYM'NIC (_Milt._). [L.,--Gr.
_gymnasion_--_gymnazein_, _gymnos_, naked.]

GYMNOCARPOUS, jim-no-kär'pus, _adj._ (_bot._) having the fruit naked, or
not invested with a receptacle. [Gr. _gymnos_, naked, _karpos_, fruit.]

GYMNOCITTA, jim-no-sit'a, _n._ a genus of crow-like American jays with
naked nostrils. [Gr. _gymnos_, naked, _kitta_, _kissa_, a jay.]

GYMNOCLADUS, jim-nok'lad-us, _n._ a genus of North American trees, the pods
slightly aperient. [Gr. _gymnos_, naked, _klados_, a branch.]

GYMNOGYNOUS, jim-noj'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) having a naked ovary. [Gr.
_gymnos_, naked, _gyn[=e]_, female.]

GYMNORHINAL, jim-n[=o]-r[=i]'nal, _adj._ having the nostrils bare or
unfeathered, as certain jays and auks. [Gr. _gymnos_, naked, _hris_,
_hrin-os_, the nose.]

GYMNOSOPHIST, jim-nos'of-ist, _n._ the name given by the Greeks to those
ancient Hindu philosophers who wore little or no clothing, and lived
solitarily in mystical contemplation.--_n._ GYMNOS'OPHY. [Gr. _gymnos_,
naked, _sophos_, wise.]

GYMNOSPERM, jim'n[=o]-sp[.e]rm, _n._ one of the lower or more primitive
group of seed plants--also GYM'NOGEN.--_adj._ GYMNOSPER'MOUS (_bot._),
having the seeds unenclosed in a capsule.--_n._ GYM'NOSPORE, a naked spore.
[Gr. _gymnos_, naked, _sperma_, seed.]

GYMNOTUS, jim-n[=o]'tus, _n._ the most powerful of the electric fishes,
occurring in the fresh waters of Brazil and Guiana.--Also _Electric eel_.
[Formed from Gr. _gymnos_, naked, _n[=o]tos_, the back.]

GYNÆCEUM, GYNECIUM, jin-[=e]-s[=e]'um, _n._ an apartment in a large house
exclusively appropriated to women. [Gr. _gyn[=e]_, a woman, _oikos_, a
house.]

GYNANDRIA, ji-nan'dri-a, _n._ a Linnæan class of plants, in which the
stamens are united with the pistil.--_n._ GYNAN'DER, a plant of the
gynandria: a masculine woman.--_adjs._ GYNAN'DRIAN, GYNAN'DROUS. [Gr.
_gyn[=e]_, a female, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a man.]

GYNARCHY, jin'är-ki, _n._ government by a female. [Gr. _gyn[=e]_, a woman,
_arch[=e]_, rule.]

GYNECIAN, GYNÆCIAN, ji-n[=e]'shi-an, _adj._ relating to women.--_adjs._
GYN[=E]'CIC, GYNÆ'CIC, pertaining to women's diseases.--_n._ GYNOE'CIUM,
the collective pistils of a flower.

GYNECOCRACY, jin-[=e]-kok'ra-si, _n._ government by women--also
GYNOC'RACY.--_adj._ GYNECRAT'IC. [Gr. _gyn[=e]_, a woman, _kratein_, to
rule.]

GYNECOLOGY, GYNÆCOLOGY, jin-[=e]-kol'-o-ji, _n._ that branch of medicine
which treats of the diseases and affections peculiar to woman and her
physical organism.--_adj._ GYNECOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ GYNECOL'OGIST. [Gr.
_gyn[=e]_, a woman, _legein_, to speak.]

GYNEOLATRY, j[=i]n[=e]-ol'at-ri, _n._ excessive worship of woman. [Gr.
_gyn[=e]_, a woman, _latreia_, worship.]

GYNOPHORE, jin'o-f[=o]r, _n._ (_bot._) an elongation or internode of the
receptacle of a flower.

GYP, jip, _n._ a male servant who attends to college rooms at Cambridge.
[Perh. a contr. from _gypsy_; hardly from Gr. _gyps_, a vulture.]

GYPSUM, jip'sum, _n._ a valuable mineral of a comparatively soft kind,
burned in kilns, and afterwards ground to a fine powder, called _plaster of
Paris_.--_adjs._ GYP'SEOUS, of or resembling gypsum; GYPSIF'EROUS,
producing or containing gypsum. [L.,--Gr. _gypsos_, chalk.]

GYPSY, GYPSYISM. See GIPSY.

GYRATE, j[=i]'r[=a]t, _v.i._ to whirl round a central point: to move
round.--_adj._ (_bot._) winding round.--_n._ GYR[=A]'TION, act of whirling
round a central point: a spiral motion.--_adjs._ GY'RATORY, GYR[=A]'TIONAL,
moving in a circle. [L. _gyr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to move in a circle.]

GYRE, j[=i]r, _n._ a circular motion.--_n._ GY'RA, the richly embroidered
border of a robe:--_pl._ GY'RÆ.--_adjs._ GY'RAL, whirling, rotating;
GYROID'AL, spiral in arrangement or movement. [L. _gyrus_--Gr. _gyros_, a
ring, round.]

GYRE-CARLIN, g[=i]r-kar'lin, _n._ (_Scot._) a witch. [Ice. _gýgr_, a witch,
_karlinna_, a carline.]

GYRFALCON. See GERFALCON.

GYROMANCY, j[=i]'ro-man-si, _n._ divination by walking in a circle till
dizziness caused a fall towards one direction or another. [Gr. _gyros_, a
circle, _manteia_, divination.]

GYRON, GIRON, j[=i]'ron, _n._ (_her._) a bearing consisting of two straight
lines drawn from any given part of the field and meeting in an acute angle
in the fesse-point.--_adjs._ GYRONNET'TY, GYRON'NY, GIRON'NY. [Fr., acc. to
Skeat, from the Old High Ger. _gérun_, accus. of _géro_, a spear, _gér_;
cf. A.S. _gár_, a spear.]

GYROSCOPE, j[=i]'ro-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for the exhibition of
various properties of rotation, and the composition of rotations.--_adj._
GYROSCOP'IC. [Gr. _gyros_, a circle, _skopein_, to see.]

GYROSE, j[=i]'r[=o]s, _adj._ (_bot._) turned round like a crook.

GYROSTAT, j[=i]'r[=o]-stat, _n._ an instrument contrived for illustrating
the dynamics of rotating rigid bodies.--_adj._ GYROSTAT'IC. [Gr. _gyros_,
round, _statikos_, static.]

GYRUS, j[=i]'rus, _n._ one of the rounded edges into which the surface of
the cerebral hemisphere is divided by the fissures or sulci. [Gr. _gyros_,
a circle.]

GYTE, g[=i]t, _adj._ (_Scot._) crazy, mad.

GYTE, g[=i]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a child: a first year's boy at Edinburgh High
School. [Prob. a corr. of _get_, offspring.]

GYTRASH, g[=i]'trash, _n._ (_prov._) a ghost.

GYVE, j[=i]v, _v.t._ to fetter.--_n.pl._ GYVES, shackles, fetters. [M. E.
_gives_, _gyves._ Of Celt. origin; cf. W. _gefyn_, Ir. _geimheal._]

       *       *       *       *       *

H the eighth letter in our alphabet, its sound that of a strongly-marked
continuous guttural, produced at the back of the palate, not existing in
English, but heard in the Scotch _loch_ and the German _lachen_. In Old
English _h_ was a guttural, or throat sound, but it gradually softened down
to a spirant, and has now become almost a vowel: (_chem._) a symbol
denoting hydrogen: in medieval Roman notation=200, [=H]=200,000.

HA, hä, _interj._ denoting surprise, joy, or grief; and, when repeated,
laughter: in continued speech, often an involuntary sound expressive of
hesitation. [Imit.]

HA', haw, _n._ (_Scot._) hall.

HAAF, häf, _n._ a deep-sea fishing-ground off the coast of Shetland.--_n._
HAAF'-FISH'ING, deep-sea fishing, as for cod. [Ice. _haf_, sea.]

HAAR, här, _n._ (_Scot._) a fog.

HABBLE, häb'l, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to perplex.--_v.i._ to stutter or
stammer.--_n._ a perplexity, a squabble. [_Hobble_.]

HABEAS-CORPUS (_ad subjiciendum_), h[=a]'be-as-kor'pus, _n._ a writ to a
jailer to produce the body of one detained in prison, and to state the
reasons of such detention.--_n._ HABEN'DUM, the clause in a deed beginning
'habendum et tenendum' ('to have and to hold'), which determines the
interest or estate granted by the deed. [L., lit. 'have the body,' from L.
_hab[=e]re_, to have, and _corpus_, the body.]

HABENARIA, hab-[=e]-n[=a]'ri-a, _n._ a genus of tuberous orchidaceous
plants. [L. _habena_, a thong.]

HABERDASHER, hab'[.e]r-dash-[.e]r, _n._ a seller of small-wares, as
ribbons, tape, &c.--_n._ HAB'ERDASHERY, goods sold by a haberdasher. [O.
Fr. _hapertas_; ety. dub.; not Ice.]

HABERDINE, ha-ber-d[=i]n', _n._ (_obs._) dried salt cod. [Old Dut.
_abberdaan_, also _labberdaen_; prob. from Le _Labourd_, or _Lapurdum_
(Bayonne).]

HABERGEON, ha-b[.e]r'je-un, _n._ a piece of armour to defend the neck and
breast. [Fr. _haubergeon_, dim. of O. Fr. _hauberc_.]

HABILE, hab'il, _adj._ (_obs._) able, capable. [Fr.,--L. _habilis._ See
ABLE.]

HABILIMENT, ha-bil'i-ment, _n._ a garment: (_pl._) clothing,
dress.--_adjs._ HAB'ILABLE (_Carlyle_), capable of being clothed;
HABIL'ATORY, having reference to dressing. [Fr. _habillement_--_habiller_,
to dress--L. _habilis_, fit, ready--_hab[=e]re_.]

HABILITATION, ha-bil-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ (_Bacon_) qualification: (_U.S._)
the act of supplying money to work a mine.--_n._ HABILIT[=A]'TOR, one who
does so.--_v.i._ HABIL'ITATE, to acquire certain necessary qualifications,
esp. for the office of teacher in a German university (Ger. _habilitiren_).
[Low L. _habilitation -em_--L. _habilis_, able.]

HABILITY, ha-bil'i-ti, _n._ an obsolete form of _ability_.

HABIT, hab'it, _n._ ordinary course of conduct: tendency to perform certain
actions: general condition or tendency, as of the body: practice: custom:
outward appearance: dress, esp. any official or customary costume: a
garment, esp. a tight-fitting dress, with a skirt, worn by ladies on
horseback.--_v.t._ to dress:--_pr.p._ hab'iting; _pa.p._ hab'ited.--_adj._
HAB'ITED, clothed, dressed.--_ns._ HAB'IT-MAK'ER, one who makes women's
riding-habits; HAB'IT-SHIRT, a thin muslin or lace under-garment worn by
women on the neck and shoulders, under the dress.--_adj._ HABIT'[=U]AL,
formed or acquired by frequent use: customary.--_adv._
HABIT'[=U]ALLY.--_v.t._ HABIT'[=U][=A]TE, to cause to acquire a habit: to
accustom.--_ns._ HABIT[=U][=A]'TION; HAB'IT[=U]DE, tendency from acquiring
a habit: usual manner; HABITUÉ (hab-it'[=u]-[=a]), a habitual frequenter of
any place of entertainment, &c.--HABIT AND REPUTE, a phrase in Scotch law
to denote something so notorious that it affords strong and generally
conclusive evidence of the facts to which it refers; HABIT OF BODY, the
general condition of the body as outwardly apparent: any constitutional
tendency or weakness. [Fr.,--L. _habitus_, state, dress--_hab[=e]re_, to
have.]

HABITABLE, hab'it-a-bl, _adj._ that may be dwelt in.--_ns._ HABITABIL'ITY,
HAB'ITABLENESS.--_adv._ HAB'ITABLY.--_ns._ HAB'ITANT, an inhabitant;
HAB'ITAT, the natural abode or locality of an animal or plant: place of
abode generally; HABIT[=A]'TION, act of inhabiting: a dwelling or
residence: a group, lodge, company, as of the so-called 'Primrose League.'
[Fr.,--L. _habitabilis_--_habit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to inhabit, freq. of
_hab[=e]re_, to have.]

HABLE, h[=a]'bl, _adj._ (_Spens._). Same as HABILE.

HACHEL, hach'el, _n._ (_Scot._) a sloven.

HACHURE, hash'[=u]r, _n._ Same as HATCHING.

HACIENDA, as-i-en'da, _n._ an estate or establishment. [Sp.,--L.
_facienda_, things to be done, _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

HACK, hak, _v.t._ to cut: to chop or mangle: to notch: to kick (another) at
football.--_n._ a cut made by hacking: a kick on the shin.--_n._ HACK'ING,
the operation of picking a worn grindstone, &c., with a
hack-hammer.--_adj._ short and interrupted, as a broken, troublesome
cough.--_n._ HACK'-LOG, a chopping-block. [A.S. _haccian_, in composition
_tó-haccian_; cf. Dut. _hakken_, Ger. _hacken._]

HACK, hak, _n._ a horse kept for hire, esp. a poor one: any person
overworked on hire: a literary drudge.--_adj._ hired, mercenary: used
up.--_v.t._ to offer for hire: to use roughly.--_n._ HACK'-WORK, literary
drudgery for which a person is hired by a publisher, as making
dictionaries, &c. [Contr. of _hackney_.]

HACK, hak, _n._ a grated frame, as a rack for feeding cattle, a place for
drying bricks, &c. [_Hatch_.]

HACKBERRY, hak'ber-i, _n._ an American tree, allied to the elm. [See
HAGBERRY.]

HACKBUT, hak'but, _n._ an arquebuse--also HAG'BUT.--_n._ HACKBUTEER'. [O.
Fr. _haquebute_, from Dut. _haakbus._ See ARQUEBUSE.]

HACKEE, hak'[=e], _n._ the United States chipmuck or ground-squirrel.
[Imit.]

HACKERY, hak'er-i, _n._ a native bullock-cart. [Hind. _chhakr[=a]_, a
cart.]

HACKLE, hak'l, _n._ an instrument with iron teeth for sorting hemp or flax:
any flimsy substance unspun: a feather in a cock's neck: part of the
dressing of a fly-hook used by anglers.--_v.t._ to dress with a hackle, as
flax: to tear rudely asunder.--_n._ HACK'LER, a flax-dresser,
heckler.--_adj._ HACK'LY, rough and broken, as if hacked or chopped:
(_min._) covered with sharp points. [Cf. Dut. _hekel_, Ger. _hechel_.]

HACKLET, hak'let, _n._ a kind of sea-bird, prob. the shear-water--also
HAG'LET.--The HAGDEN is the Greater Shear-water (_Puffinus major_).

HACKNEY, hak'ni, _n._ a horse for general use, esp. for hire: (_obs._) a
person hired for any mean work.--_v.t._ to carry in a hackney-coach: to use
much: to make commonplace.--_adjs._ HACK'NEY, HACK'NEYED, let out for hire:
devoted to common use: much used.--_ns._ HACK'NEY-COACH, a coach let out
for hire; HACK'NEY-COACH'MAN; HACK'NEYMAN, one who keeps hackney horses.
[O. Fr. _haquenee_, an ambling nag; further history unknown.]

HACQUETON (_Spens._). A form of _acton_.

HAD, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _have_: (_B._) held.--_ns._ HAD'DING, HAD'DIN
(_Scot._), a holding, residence.

HADDOCK, had'uk, _n._ a sea-fish of the cod family--(_Scot._) HADD'IE. [M.
E. _haddoke_; ety. unknown.]

HADE, h[=a]d, _n._ (_min._) the dip or underlie of a lode or fault.--_v.i._
to underlay or incline from the vertical.

HADES, h[=a]'d[=e]z, _n._ the unseen world: the abode of the dead
indefinitely, hell. [Gr. _haid[=e]s_, _had[=e]s_, dubiously derived from
_a_, neg., and _idein_, to see.]

HADITH, had'ith, _n._ the body of traditions about Mohammed, supplementary
to the Koran. [Ar.]

HADJ, HAJJ, haj, _n._ a Mohammedan pilgrimage to Mecca or Medina.--_ns._
HADJI, HAJJI (haj'i), one who has performed a Hadj. [Ar., 'a pilgrimage.']

HADROSAURUS, had-r[=o]-sä'rus, _n._ a very large Dinosaurian of the
Cretaceous epoch--abundant in New Jersey. [Gr. _hadros_, thick, _sauros_, a
lizard.]

HAE, h[=a], a Scotch form of _have._

HÆCCEITY, hek-s[=e]'i-ti, h[=e]k-, _n._ Duns Scotus's word for that element
of existence on which individuality depends, hereness-and-nowness. [Lit.
'thisness,' L. _hæc_.]

HÆMACYTE, HEM-, h[=e]'ma-s[=i]t, _n._ a blood-corpuscle.--_n._
HÆMACYTOM'ETER, an instrument for determining the number of such in a given
quantity of blood.

HÆMADYNAMICS, HEM-, h[=e]-ma-di-nam'iks, _n._ the dynamics or theory of the
circulation of the blood.

HÆMAL, HEMAL, h[=e]'mal, _adj._ relating to the blood or blood-vessels:
ventral, the opposite of _Neural_.--_n._ HÆ'MACHROME, the colouring matter
of the blood.--_adj._ HÆ'MATOID, resembling blood.--HÆMAL ARCH, the
position of a vertebra enclosing and protecting the heart and other
viscera; HÆMAL CAVITY, the thoracic-abdominal cavity, containing the heart,
&c. [Gr. _haima_, blood.]

HÆMANTHUS, h[=e]-man'thus, _n._ a genus of bulbous plants native to Africa,
including the Cape tulip. [Gr. _haima_, blood, _anthos_, a flower.]

HÆMASTATIC, HEM-, -AL, h[=e]-ma-stat'ik, -al, _adj._ serving to stop the
flow of blood.--_n.pl._ HÆMASTAT'ICS, the statics of the blood and
blood-vessels. [Gr. _haima_, blood, _statikos_, static.]

HÆMATEIN, HEM-, h[=e]-ma-t[=e]'in, _n._ an organic principle derived from
the colouring matter of logwood.

HÆMATEMESIS, h[=e]-ma-tem'e-sis, _n._ a vomiting of blood from the stomach.
[Gr. _haima_, _haimat-os_, blood, _emein_, to vomit.]

HÆMATIN, HEM-, h[=e]'ma-tin, hem'a-tin, _n._ a brown substance associated
with hemoglobin in the blood.--_adjs._ HÆMAT'IC, HÆ'MIC--_n.pl._ HÆMAT'ICS,
that branch of medical science concerned with the blood.

HÆMATITE, HEM-, hem'a-t[=i]t, h[=e]'ma-t[=i]t, _n._ (_min._) a valuable ore
of iron, consisting chiefly of peroxide of iron--its two chief varieties,
Red Hæmatite and Brown Hæmatite.--_adj._ HÆMATIT'IC.

HÆMATOBLAST, h[=e]'ma-to-blast, hem'-, _n._ one of the minute colourless
discs, smaller than either the red or white corpuscles, found in the blood.
[Gr. _haima_, _haimat-os_, blood, _blastos_, a germ.]

HÆMATOCELE, HEM-, h[=e]'ma-to-s[=e]l, _n._ a tumour containing blood. [Gr.
_haima_, blood, _k[=e]l[=e]_, a tumour.]

HÆMATOLOGY, h[=e]-ma-tol'o-ji, _n._ the branch of biology which relates to
the blood.

HÆMATOSIS, h[=e]-ma-t[=o]'sis, _n._ the formation of blood, the conversion
of venous into arterial blood.--_n._ HÆMAT[=O]'SIN, hæmatin.

HÆMATOXYLIN, HEM-, h[=e]-ma-tok'si-lin, _n._ a dye obtained from the
logwood-tree. [Gr. _haima_, blood, _xylon_, wood.]

HÆMATOZOA, h[=e]-ma-to-z[=o]'a, _n._ parasites occurring in the blood. [Gr.
_haima_, _haimat-os_, blood, _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

HÆMATURIA, h[=e]-ma-t[=u]'ri-a, _n._ the discharge of blood with the urine,
usually from disease of the kidneys or bladder. [Gr. _haima_, blood,
_ouron_, urine.]

HÆMOGLOBIN, HEM-, h[=e]-mo-gl[=o]'bin, _n._ the red substance in the red
blood-corpuscles. [Gr. _haima_, blood, L. _globus_, a ball.]

HÆMONY, h[=e]'mo-ni, _n._ a plant with sovereign properties against magic,
&c., in Milton's _Comus_. [Prob. formed from Gr. _haim[=o]nios_,
blood-red.]

HÆMOPHILIA, h[=e]-mo-fil'i-a, hem-o-, _n._ a constitutional tendency to
excessive bleeding when any blood-vessel is even slightly injured.

HÆMOPHTHALMIA, h[=e]-mof-thal'mi-a, _n._ effusion of blood into the eye.
[Gr. _haima_, blood, _ophthalmos_, the eye.]

HÆMOPTYSIS, h[=e]-mop'ti-sis, _n._ expectoration of blood. [Gr. _haima_,
blood, _ptysis_, a spitting.]

HÆMORRHAGE, HEM-, hem'or-[=a]j, _n._ a discharge of blood from the
blood-vessels.--_adj._ HÆMORRHAG'IC. [Gr. _haimorrhagia_--_haima_, blood,
_rh[=e]gnynai_, to burst.]

HÆMORRHOIDS, HEM-, hem'or-oidz, _n.pl._ dilated veins liable to discharge
blood, esp. piles.--_adj._ HÆMORRHOID'AL. [Gr. _haimorrhoides_--_haima_,
blood, _rhein_, to flow.]

HÆMOSTASIA, h[=e]-mo-st[=a]'si-a, _n._ stagnation of blood in any part: any
operation for arresting the flow of blood, as the ligation of an
artery.--_adj._ HÆMOSTAT'IC, stopping or preventing hæmorrhage, styptic.
[Gr. _haima_, blood, _stasis_, a standing.]

HAET, HAIT, h[=a]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a whit.

HAFFET, haf'et, _n._ (_Scot._) the side of the head, the temples. [Prob.
_half-head_--A.S. _healf-héafod_.]

HAFFLIN, haf'lin, _adj._ (_Scot._) half-grown.--_n._ a fool.

HAFT, haft, _n._ a handle.--_v.t._ to set in a haft: to establish firmly.
[A.S. _hæft_; Ger. _heft_.]

HAG, hag, _n._ an ugly old woman, originally a witch: one of the Round
Mouths, allied to the lamprey.--_adj._ HAG'GISH, hag-like.--_adv._
HAG'GISHLY.--_adj._ HAG'-RID'DEN, ridden by witches, as a horse: troubled
by nightmare.--_ns._ HAG'-SEED, a witch's offspring; HAG'SHIP, the
personality of a hag; HAG'WEED, the common broom, a broomstick being
usually bestridden by a witch in her flight through the air. [A.S.
_hægtesse_, a witch; Ger. _hexe_.]

HAG, hag, _n._ (_Scot._) any broken ground in a moss or bog: brushwood to
be cut down.

HAGBERRY, hag'ber-i, _n._ the bird-cherry--sometimes HACK'BERRY. [Prob.
Scand.; Ice. _heggr_.]

HAGBUT. See HACKBUT.

HAGDEN. See HACKLET.

HAGGADA, ha-gä'da, _n._ a free Rabbinical homiletical commentary on the
whole Old Testament, forming, together with the _Halacha_, the Midrash, but
from its especial popularity often itself styled the Midrash--also
HAGGÄ'DAH, AGÄ'DAH.--_adjs._ HAGGAD'IC, HAGGADIST'IC, pertaining to the
Haggada, said of free interpretation, opposed to _Halachic_ or legal.--_n._
HAGG'ADIST. [Heb.]

HAGGARD, hag'ard, _adj._ lean: hollow-eyed: wild, applied to an untrained
hawk--(_arch._) HAGG'ED.--_n._ HAGG'ARD, a hawk.--_adv._ HAGG'ARDLY. [O.
Fr. _hagard_, prob. related to _haie_, hedge.]

HAGGARD, hag'ard, _n._ a stackyard. [_Hay-yard_.]

HAGGIS, hag'is, _n._ a Scotch dish made of the heart, lungs, and liver of a
sheep, calf, &c., chopped up with suet, onions, oatmeal, &c., seasoned and
boiled in a sheep's stomach-bag. [Ety. unknown; not Fr. _hachis_, hash,
assimilated with _hag_, _hack._]

HAGGLE, hag'l, _v.t._ to cut unskilfully: to mangle.--_v.i._ to be slow and
hard in making a bargain: to stick at trifles, to cavil.--_n._ HAGG'LER. [A
variant of _hackle_, itself a freq. of _hack_, to cut.]

HAGIARCHY, h[=a]'ji-ar-ki, _n._ government by priests.--Also HAGIOC'RACY.
[Gr. _hagios_, sacred, _arch[=e]_, rule.]

HAGIOGRAPHA, hag-i-og'ra-fa, _n.pl._ the last of the three Jewish divisions
of the Old Testament, comprehending the books of Psalms, Proverbs, Job,
Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, Ruth, Esther, Chronicles, Canticles, Lamentations,
Ecclesiastes.--_adj._ HAGIOG'RAPHAL.--_n._ HAGIOG'RAPHER, one of the
writers of the Hagiographa: a sacred writer.--_adjs._ HAGIOGRAPH'IC, -AL,
pertaining to the Hagiographa. [Gr. _hagiographa_ (_biblia_)--_hagios_,
holy, _graphein_, to write.]

HAGIOLOGY, hag-i-ol'o-ji, _n._ history of saints.--_n._ HAGIOG'RAPHER, a
writer of saints' lives.--_adjs._ HAGIOGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to the
writing of saints' lives.--_ns._ HAGIOG'RAPHY, the lives of saints as a
branch of literature; HAGIOL'ATER, one who worships saints; HAGIOL'ATRY,
the worship of saints.--_adjs._ HAGIOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ HAGIOL'OGIST, one
versed in the legends of saints. [Gr. _hagios_, holy, _logia_, discourse.]

HAGIOSCOPE, hag'-, or h[=a]'ji-o-sk[=o]p, _n._ an oblique opening in the
screen or chancel wall of a church to afford a view of the chief altar to
those in a side chapel or aisle, a squint.--_adj._ HAGIOSCOP'IC. [Gr.
_hagios_, holy, _skopein_, to look.]

HAH, hä, _interj._ Same as HA.

HA-HA, imitation of the sound of laughter.

HA-HA, HAWHAW, haw-haw', _n._ a sunk fence, or a ditch not seen till close
upon it.

HAHNEMANNIAN, hä-ne-man'i-an, _adj._ of or relating to C. F. S. _Hahnemann_
(1755-1843), founder of the homeopathic method of treatment.

HAIDUK, h[=i]'duk, _n._ one of those, from the forests of eastern Hungary,
who in the 16th century maintained a guerilla warfare against the Turks.
[Hung. _hajduk_, pl. of _hajdu_, a cowherd.]

HAIK, haik, _n._ an oblong piece of cloth which Arabs wrap round the head
and body.--Also HAICK, HAIQUE, HYKE.

HAIKH, haih, _n._ a branch of the Iranic group of Aryan languages,
including Armenian and Ossetian: the native name of Armenia.--_adj._
Armenian.

HAIL, h[=a]l, _v.t._ to greet: to call to, at a distance: to address one
passing.--_n._ a call: greeting.--_interj._ or _imper._ (_lit._) may you be
in health.--_n._ HAIL'-FELL'OW, a familiar friend.--_adj._ on hearty and
intimate terms--'Hail, fellow! well met,' often used as a kind of
descriptive adjective.--HAIL FROM, to come from. [Ice. _heill_, health.]

HAIL, h[=a]l, _n._ frozen rain or particles of ice falling from the
clouds.--_v.i._ to rain hail.--_v.t._ to pour down in rapid
succession.--_ns._ HAIL'SHOT, small shot which scatters like hail;
HAIL'STONE, a single stone or ball of hail; HAIL'-STORM, a storm
accompanied with hail.--_adj._ HAIL'Y. [A.S. _hagol_; Ger. _hagel_.]

HAIN, h[=a]n, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to save, preserve: to spare.--_adj._ HAINED,
saved, kept carefully.--_n._ HAIN'ING, an enclosure. [Ice. _hegna_, to
protect; cf. Sw. _hägna_; Dan. _hegne_.]

HAIN'T, HAINT=have not, has not.

HAIR, h[=a]r, _n._ a filament growing from the skin of an animal: the whole
mass of hairs which forms a covering for the head or the whole body:
(_bot._) minute hair-like processes on the cuticle of plants: anything very
small and fine: particular course, quality, or character: (_mech._) a
locking spring or other safety contrivance in the lock of a rifle, &c.,
capable of being released by a slight pressure on a hair-trigger.--_ns._
HAIR'BREADTH, HAIR'S'-BREADTH, the breadth of a hair (HAIRBREADTH 'SCAPE, a
very narrow escape): a very small distance; HAIR'-BRUSH, a brush for the
hair; HAIR'CLOTH, cloth made partly or entirely of hair; HAIR'DRESSER, one
who dresses or cuts hair: a barber.--_adj._ HAIRED, having hair--as
_black-haired_, _fair-haired_, &c.--_ns._ HAIR'-GRASS, a kind of grass
found generally on poor soil, the bracts of whose florets are generally
awned near the base; HAIR'INESS.--_adj._ HAIR'LESS, without hair.--_ns._
HAIR'-LINE, a line made of hair, used in fishing: a slender line made in
writing or drawing: (_print._) a very thin line on a type; HAIR'-OIL,
perfumed oil used in dressing the hair; HAIR'-PEN'CIL, an artist's brush
made of a few fine hairs; HAIR'-PIN, a pin used in hairdressing;
HAIR'-POW'DER, a white powder for dusting the hair; HAIR'-SHIRT, a
penitent's shirt of haircloth; HAIR'-SPACE, the thinnest metal space used
by compositors; HAIR'-SPLIT'TER, one who makes too nice distinctions;
HAIR'-SPLIT'TING, the art of making minute and over-nice distinctions;
HAIR'SPRING, a very fine hair-like spring coiled up within the
balance-wheel of a watch; HAIR'-STROKE, in writing, a fine stroke with the
pen: a hair-line; HAIR'-TRIGG'ER, a trigger which discharges a gun or
pistol by a hair-like spring; HAIR'-WORK, work done or something made with
hair, esp. human; HAIR'WORM, a worm, like a horse-hair, which lives in the
bodies of certain insects.--_adj._ HAIR'Y, of or resembling hair: covered
with hair.--AGAINST THE HAIR, against the grain: contrary to what is
natural; A HAIR OF THE DOG THAT BIT HIM, a smaller dose of that which
caused the trouble, esp. used of the morning glass after a night's
debauch--a homeopathic dose; COMB A PERSON'S HAIR THE WRONG WAY, to
irritate or provoke him; KEEP ONE'S HAIR ON (_slang_) to keep cool; MAKE
THE HAIR STAND ON END, to give the greatest astonishment or fright to
another; NOT TO TURN A HAIR, not to be ruffled or disturbed; PUT UP THE
HAIR, to dress the hair up on the head instead of wearing it hanging; SPLIT
HAIRS, to make superfine distinctions; TO A HAIR, TO THE TURN OF A HAIR,
exactly, with perfect nicety. [A.S. _h['æ]r_, Ger., Dut., and Dan. _haar_,
&c.]

HAIRST, h[=a]rst, a Scotch form of _harvest_.

HAITH, h[=a]th, _interj._ (_Scot._) by my faith!

HAJJ. See HADJ.

HAKE, h[=a]k, _n._ a gadoid fish resembling the cod--varieties are the
_Silver Hake_, the _Merluccio_, the _Squirrel-hake_, &c.--_ns._ H[=A]'KED,
HAC'OT (_prov._), the pike (A.S. _hacod_; Ger. _hecht_). [Prob. Scand.; cf.
Norw. _hake-fisk_, lit. 'hook-fish.']

HAKE, h[=a]k, _n._ (_prov._) a hook, esp. a pot-hook: a pike. [Prob. Ice.
_haki_; cf. Dut. _haak_.]

HAKE, h[=a]k, _v.i._ to idle or loiter about. [Cf. Dut. _haken_, to
hanker.]

HAKEEM, HAKIM, ha-k[=e]m', _n._ a physician. [Ar.]

HAKIM, h[=a]'kim, _n._ a judge or governor in Mohammedan India.

HALACHAH, HALAKAH, HALACHA, ha-lak'ä, _n._ an amplification of points not
explicitly set forth in the Mosaic law, deduced from it by analogy, and
arranged in the collection of legal precepts designated
_Halachoth_.--_adj._ HALACH'IC, pertaining to halachoth, legal as opposed
to homiletic or haggadic. [Heb.,--_h[=a]lak_, to walk.]

HALATION, ha-l[=a]'shun, _n._ a _halo_-like appearance in a photograph,
caused by reflection of light.

HALBERD, hal'b[.e]rd, _n._ a weapon consisting of a wooden shaft some six
feet long, surmounted by an axe-like instrument balanced on the opposite
side by a hook or pick.--_n._ HALBERDIER', one armed with a halberd. [O.
Fr. _halebard_--Mid. High Ger. _helmbarde_ (Ger. _hellebarde_)--_halm_,
handle, or _helm_, helmet; Old High Ger. _barta_ (Ger. _barte_), an axe.]

HALCYON, hal'si-un, _n._ the kingfisher, once believed to make a floating
nest on the sea, which remained calm while it was hatching.--_adj._ calm:
peaceful: happy--hence HALCYON-DAYS, a time of peace and happiness.
[L.,--Gr., _alky[=o]n_; as if _hals_, the sea, _kyein_, to conceive.]

HALD, a Scotch form of _hold_.

HALE, h[=a]l, _adj._ healthy: robust: sound of body.--_n._ (_Spens._)
welfare.--_n._ HALE'NESS. [Northern A.S. _hál_; the S. forms _hôl_, _hool_,
produce _whole_. There is a parallel N. form from Norse _heill_.]

HALE, h[=a]l, _v.t._ to drag. [A variant of _haul_.]

HALF, häf, _n._ one of two equal parts: a contraction of half-year, as in a
school session:--_pl._ HALVES (hävz).--_adj._ having or consisting of one
of two equal parts: being in part: incomplete, as measures.--_adv._ in an
equal part or degree: in part: imperfectly.--_v.i._ to divide into two
equal parts.--_ns._ HALF'-AND-HALF, a mixture of beer or porter and ale;
HALF'-BACK, in football, a position on the right or left side of the field,
between the quarter-back and full-back, or directly behind the forwards: a
player occupying this position.--_adj._ HALF'-BAKED, underdone: incomplete:
half-witted.--_v.t._ HALF'-BAPTISE', to baptise privately and
hastily.--_ns._ HALF'-BIND'ING, a style of bookbinding in which the backs
and corners are of leather, and the sides of paper or cloth; HALF'-BLOOD,
relation between those who are of the same father or mother, but not of
both.--_adj._ HALF'-BLOOD'ED.--_ns._ HALF'-BOARD (_naut._), a manoeuvre by
which a sailing-ship gains distance to windward by luffing up into the
wind; HALF'-BOOT, a boot reaching half-way to the knee.--_adj._
HALF'-BOUND, bound only partly in leather, as a book.--_n._ HALF'-BREED,
one that is half-blooded.--_adj._ HALF'-BRED, half or not well bred or
trained: wanting in refinement.--_ns._ HALF'-BROTH'ER, HALF'-SIS'TER, a
brother or sister by one parent only; HALF'-CAP (_Shak._), a cap only
partly taken off: a slight salute; HALF'-CASTE, a person one of whose
parents belongs to a Hindu caste, and the other is a European: any
half-breed; HALF'-CHEEK (_Shak._), a face in profile; HALF'-COCK, the
position of the cock of a gun when retained by the first notch (see COCK);
HALF'-CROWN, a silver coin in England, of the value of two shillings and
sixpence.--_adj._ HALF'-DEAD, almost dead, nearly exhausted.--_n._
HALF'-DOLL'AR, a silver coin of the United States, worth 50 cents.--_adj._
HALF'-DONE, not fully cooked, roasted, &c.--_n._ HALF'-DOZ'EN,
six.--_adjs._ HALF'-ED'UCATED, imperfectly educated; HALF'EN (_Spens._),
half.--_adv._ HALF'ENDEAL (_Spens._), half.--_adjs._ HALF'-FACED (_Shak._),
showing only part of the face: wretched-looking; HALF'-HEART'ED, cold,
ungenerous: lukewarm: indifferent.--_adv._ HALF'-HEART'EDLY.--_ns._
HALF'-HEART'EDNESS; HALF'-HOLIDAY, half of a working day for recreation;
HALF'-KIR'TLE, a kind of jacket worn by women in the 16th and 17th
centuries; HALF'-LENGTH, a portrait or photograph showing the upper part of
the body.--_adj._ of half-length.--_ns._ HALF'LING, a half-grown person,
between a boy and a man; HALF'-MAST, the position of a flag lowered
half-way down, in respect for the dead or in signal of distress;
HALF'-MEAS'URE, any means inadequate for the end proposed; HALF'-MOON, the
moon at the quarters when but half of it is illuminated: anything
semicircular; HALF'-MOURN'ING, a mourning costume less than deep or full
mournings.--_adj._ HALF'-N[=A]'KED, as nearly naked as clothed.--_ns._
HALF'-NOTE (_mus._), a minim, being one-half of a semibreve or whole note;
HALF'-ONE (_golf_), a handicap of one stroke every second hole; HALF'-PAY,
reduced pay, as of naval or military officers when not in active
service.--_adj._ receiving half-pay.--_ns._ HALFPENNY (h[=a]'pen-i), a
copper coin worth half a penny: the value of half a penny: (_Shak._)
anything very small:--_pl._ HALFPENCE (h[=a]'pens); HALF'PENNYWORTH, the
worth or value of a halfpenny; HALF'-PIKE, a pike with a shaft only half
the length of the ordinary; HALF'-PRICE, a reduced charge of admission,
&c.--_adj._ at half the usual prices.--_adj._ HALF'-ROUND (_Milt._),
semicircular.--_ns._ HALF'-ROY'AL, a special kind of millboard or
pasteboard; HALF'-SHELL, one-half of a bivalve, as in oysters 'on the
half-shell.'--_adj._ HALF'-SIGHT'ED, short-sighted.--_n._ HALF'-SOV'EREIGN,
an English gold coin, worth ten shillings.--_adj._ HALF'-STARVED, having
insufficient food.--_ns._ HALF'-SUIT, the body armour of the 17th century;
HALF'-SWORD (_Shak._), fight within half a sword's length: close fight;
HALF'-TIDE, the tide half-way between flood and ebb.--_adj._ left dry at
half-tide.--_ns._ HALF'-TIM'ER, one who works only half the usual time,
esp. a pupil in an elementary school allowed to be absent half the
school-day at some employment; HALF'-TINT, an intermediate tint;
HALF'-T[=I]'TLE, a short title of a book at the head of the first page of
the text, or a title of any subdivision of a book when printed in a full
page; HALF'-TRUTH, a statement conveying only part of the truth.--_adv._
HALF'-WAY, at half the way or distance: imperfectly.--_adj._ equally
distant from two points.--_adjs._ HALF'-WIT'TED, weak in intellect;
HALF'-YEAR'LY, occurring at every half-year or twice in a year.--_adv._
twice in a year.--_n._ BETT'ER-HALF, a wife.--HALF-SEAS-OVER,
half-drunk.--NOT HALF, to a very slight extent: (_slang_) not at all.--CRY
HALVES, to claim a half-share; GO HALVES, to share equally with a person.
[A.S. _healf_ (Ger. _halb_, Dan. _halv_); original meaning 'side.']

HALIBUT, hal'i-but, _n._ the largest kind of flat-fishes, in form more
elongated than the flounder or the turbot.--Also HOL'IBUT. [M. E. _hali_,
holy, and _butte_, a flounder, plaice, the fish being much eaten on fast or
holy days; cf. Dut. _heilbot_, Ger. _heilbutt_.]

HALICORE, hal-ik'o-ri, _n._ a dugong.

HALIDOM, hal'i-dom, _n._ (_Spens._) holiness--used chiefly as an oath.
[A.S. _hálig_, holy, and affix _-dom_.]

HALIEUTICS, hal-i-[=u]'tiks, _n._ a treatise on fishes or fishing.
[L.,--Gr.,_--hals_, the sea.]

HALIOTIS, hal-i-[=o]'tis, _n._ a genus of univalve shells, the ear-shells,
supplying mother-of-pearl.--_adj._ HAL'IOTOID. [Gr. _hals_, sea, _ous_,
_[=o]tis_, ear.]

HALITUS, hal'i-tus, _n._ a vapour.--_adj._ HALIT'UOUS. [L.]

HALL, hawl, _n._ a large room or passage at the entrance of a house: a
large chamber for public business--for meetings, or for the sale of
particular goods: an edifice in which courts of justice are held: a
manor-house: the main building of a college, and in some cases, as at
Oxford and Cambridge, the specific name of a college itself: an unendowed
college: a licensed residence for students: the great room in which the
students dine together--hence also the dinner itself: a place for special
professional education, or for conferring professional degrees or licenses,
as a Divinity Hall, Apothecaries' Hall.--_ns._ HALL'AGE, toll paid for
goods sold in a hall; HALL'-DOOR, the front door of a house.--A HALL! A
HALL! a cry at a mask or the like for room for the dance, &c.; BACHELOR'S
HALL, a place free from the restraining presence of a wife; LIBERTY HALL, a
place where every one can do as he pleases. [A.S. _heall_; Dut. _hal_, Ice.
_holl_, &c.]

HALLAN, hal'an, _n._ (_Scot._) a partition to keep out the cold between the
door of a cottage and the fireplace.--_n._ HALLANSH[=A]K'ER, a sturdy
beggar.

HALLELUJAH, HALLELUIAH, hal-e-l[=oo]'ya, _n._ the exclamation 'Praise (ye)
the Lord' (Jah or Jehovah), which occurs in many songs and anthems: a song
of praise to God, a musical composition based on the word, as the
Hallelujah (chorus) in Handel's _Messiah_.--_n._ HALLEL (hal-el', hal'el),
the hymn of praise chanted during the Passover supper, consisting of Psalms
cxiii.-cxviii. inclusive. [Heb., 'Praise ye Jehovah,' _halelu_, praise ye,
and _J[=a]h_, Jehovah.]

HALLIARD. See HALYARD.

HALLION, hal'yon, _n._ a lazy rascal.--Also HALL'IAN, HALL'YON.

HALL-MARK, hawl'-märk, _n._ the authorised impression of certain symbols
made on articles of gold and silver at the various assay offices in the
United Kingdom to indicate their true value and the fineness of the metal:
any mark of genuineness or good quality.--_v.t._ to assay and mark
authoritatively.

HALLOO, hal-l[=oo]', _n._ a hunting cry: a cry to draw attention.--_v.i._
to cry after dogs: to raise an outcry.--_v.t._ to encourage or chase with
shouts.--_interjs._ HALLO'! HALLOA'! used to call attention.--HALLOO BEFORE
ONE IS OUT OF THE WOOD, to count on safety before one is out of danger.
[Imit., A.S. _éalá_.]

HALLOW, hal'[=o], _v.t._ to make holy: to set apart for religious use: to
reverence.--_n._ a saint.--_ns._ HALL'OWE'EN, the evening before
All-Hallows or All-Saints' Day; HALL'OWMAS, the Feast of All-Saints, 1st
November. [A.S. _hálgian_--_hálig_, holy.]

HALLUCINATION, hal-l[=u]-sin-[=a]'shun, _n._ error: delusion: the
perception of things that do not externally exist.--_v.i._ HALL[=U]'CINATE,
to suffer illusion.--_adjs._ HALL[=U]'CINATIVE, HALL[=U]'CINATORY,
partaking of or tending to produce hallucination. [L.
_hallucinationem_--_alucin[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to wander in mind.]

HALLUX, hal'uks, _n._ the first or innermost digit of the foot, the great
toe. [L. _allex_.]

HALM, HAULM, hawm, _n._ the stalk of any kind of grain. [A.S. _healm_; Ger.
_halm_.]

HALMA, hal'ma, _n._ a game played on a checkered board of 256 squares, by
two or four persons, with thirteen to nineteen men each--also _Hoppity_: in
the Greek pentathlon the long jump with weights in the hands.
[Gr.,--_hallesthai_, to leap.]

HALMATURUS, hal-ma-t[=u]'rus, _n._ a genus of kangaroos.

HALO, h[=a]'l[=o], _n._ a luminous circle round the sun or moon, due to the
presence of ice-crystals in the air: (_paint._) the bright ring round the
heads of saints, hence any ideal or sentimental glory attaching to a
thing:--_pl._ HALOS (h[=a]'l[=o]z).--_v.t._ to surround with a halo.--_n._
HAL'OSCOPE, an instrument exhibiting the phenomena connected with halos,
parhelia, &c. [L. _halos_--Gr. _hal[=o]s_, threshing-floor.]

HALOGEN, hal'o-jen, _n._ a substance which by combination with a metal
forms a saline compound.--_adjs._ HALOG'ENOUS; HA'LOID, like
sea-salt.--_ns._ HAL'OMANCY, divination by means of salt; HAL'OPHYTE, the
salt-wort, found in salt-marshes, &c. [Gr. _hals_, salt, _gen[=e]s_,
producing.]

HALSE, hawls, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to clasp round the neck, to embrace.--_n._
(_obs._) the neck, throat--(_Scot._) HAWSE. [A.S. _heals_, neck; Ger.
_hals_.]

HALSER, hawz'[.e]r, _n._ See HAWSER.

HALT, hawlt, _v.i._ to stop from going on: (_mil._) to stop in a
march.--_v.t._ to stop.--_n._ (_mil._) a stop in marching. [Orig. a Ger.
military term, _halt_, stoppage.]

HALT, hawlt, _n._ a halting or limping.--_adj._ lame, crippled,
limping.--_v.i._ to be lame, to limp: to walk unsteadily: to vacillate: to
proceed lamely or imperfectly, to be at fault, as in logic, rhythm,
&c.--_ns._ HALT'ING; HALT'ING-PLACE. [A.S. _halt_, _healt_; Dan. and Sw.
_halt_.]

HALTER, hawlt'[.e]r, _n._ a head-rope for holding and leading a horse: a
rope for hanging criminals: a strong strap or cord.--_v.t._ to catch or
bind with a rope. [A.S. _hælftre_; Ger. _halfter_.]

HALVE, häv, _v.t._ to divide into halves or two equal parts: to join two
pieces of timber by notching or lapping.--_adj._ HALVED, divided into
halves: (_bot._) appearing as if one side were cut away.--_n.pl._ HALVES
(see HALF).

HALYARD, HALLIARD, hal'yard, _n._ (_naut._) a rope or purchase for hoisting
or lowering a sail, yard, or flag, named from their use or position, as
'peak-halyards,' 'signal-halyards,' &c. [Skeat explains it as _hale_ and
_yard_; more prob. merely _hale-ier_.]

HAM, ham, _n._ the back of the thigh: the thigh of an animal, esp. of a hog
salted and dried. [A.S. _hamm_; cf. dial. Ger. _hamme_.]

HAMADRYAD, ham'a-dr[=i]-ad, _n._ (_myth._) a wood-nymph who lived and died
with the tree in which she dwelt:--_pl._ HAM'ADRYADS, HAMADRY'ADES
(-[=e]z). [Gr. _hamadryas_--_hama_, together, _drys_, a tree.]

HAMARTHRITIS, ham-ar-thr[=i]'tis, _n._ gout in all the joints. [Gr. _hama_,
together, _arthritis_, gout.]

HAMARTIALOGY, ham-ar-ti-al'o-ji, _n._ that section of theology which treats
of the nature and effects of sin. [Gr. _hamartia_, sin, _logia_,
discourse.]

HAMATE, h[=a]'m[=a]t, _adj._ hooked, uncinate.--_adj._ HAM'IFORM, hamate.

HAMBLE, ham'bl, _v.t._ to mutilate, to cut out the balls of a dog's feet,
making him useless for hunting.--_v.i._ to walk lame, to limp. [A.S.
_hamelian_.]

HAMBURG, ham'burg, _n._ a black variety of grape--often _Black Hamburg_: a
small-sized variety of the domestic fowl, with blue legs, including the
_Black_, _Gold-_ and _Silver-pencilled_, and _Gold-_ and _Silver-spangled
Hamburgs_.

HAME, h[=a]m, _n._ one of the two curved bars to which the traces are
attached in the harness of a draught-horse. [Cf. Dut. _haam_, Low Ger.
_ham_.]

HAMESUCKEN, h[=a]m'suk-n, _n._ (_Scots law_) the assaulting of a man in his
own house. [A.S. _hám-sócn_, lit. 'home seeking,' an attack upon a house,
also the fine exacted for such; cf. Ger. _heimsuchung_.]

HAMILTONIAN, ham-il-t[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to James _Hamilton_
(1769-1831), or his method of teaching languages without grammar, by a
literal interlinear word-for-word translation: pertaining to the philosophy
of Sir W. _Hamilton_ (1788-1856).

HAMITIC, ham-it'ik, _adj._ pertaining to _Ham_, a son of Noah, or the races
that used to be called his descendants, or their languages.--_n.pl._
HAM'ITES, a physical and linguistic group, stretching across the north of
Africa--the African branch of the Caucasic family--comprising Berbers, the
Fellahin, &c.

HAMLET, ham'let, _n._ a cluster of houses in the country: a small
village.--_adj._ HAM'LETED, located in a hamlet. [O. Fr. _hamel_ (Fr.
_hameau_), and dim. affix _-et_--from Teut., Old Fris. _ham_, a home, Ger.
_heim_, A.S. _hám_, a dwelling.]

HAMMAL, ham'al, _n._ a Turkish porter.

HAMMAM, ham'am, _n._ an Oriental bathing establishment, a Turkish
bath.--Also HUM'MAUM, HUM'MUM. [Ar.]

[Illustration]

HAMMER, ham'[.e]r, _n._ a tool for beating metal or driving nails: a
striking-piece in the mechanism of a clock or piano: that part of the lock
of a firearm which falls with a sharp blow and causes the discharge of the
piece: the baton of an auctioneer, a knock from which signifies that an
article is sold: a small bone of the ear, the malleus.--_v.t._ to drive,
shape, or fashion with a hammer: to contrive by intellectual labour, to
excogitate (with _out_): to declare (a person) a defaulter on the Stock
Exchange: to beat down the price of (a stock), to depress (a
market).--_ns._ HAMM'ER-BEAM, a horizontal piece of timber in place of a
tie-beam at or near the feet of a pair of rafters; HAMM'ERHEAD,
HAMM'ER-FISH, a rapacious fish of the shark family--from the shape of its
head.--_adj._ HAMM'ERHEADED, with a head shaped like a hammer: dull in
intellect, stupid.--_n._ HAMM'ERING, a dented, appearance on silverware
effected by successive blows of a hammer.--_adj._ HAMM'ERLESS, without a
hammer--of a gun.--_n._ HAMM'ERMAN, a man who hammers, as a blacksmith,
goldsmith, &c.--HAMMER-AND-TONGS, with great noise and vigour,
violently.--BRING TO THE HAMMER, to sell, or cause to sell, by auction; UP
TO THE HAMMER, first-rate. [A.S. _hamor_; Ger. _hammer_, Ice. _hamarr_.]

HAMMERCLOTH, ham'[.e]r-kloth, _n._ the cloth which covers a coach-box.
[Skeat thinks it an adaptation of Dut. _hemal_, heaven, a covering, with
the addition of _cloth_, by way of giving a sort of sense.]

HAMMOCHRYSOS, ham-o-kr[=i]'sos, _n._ a sparkling stone of the ancients,
perhaps yellow micaceous schist. [Gr., _hammos_, sand, _chrysos_, gold.]

HAMMOCK, ham'uk, _n._ a piece of strong cloth or netting suspended by the
corners, and used as a bed by sailors. [Sp. _hamaca_, of Carib origin.]

HAMOSE, h[=a]'mos, _adj._ hooked--also H[=A]'MOUS.--_adjs._ HAM'ULAR, like
a small hook; HAM'ULATE, having a small hook at the tip.--_n._ HAM'ULUS, a
small hook or hook-like process. [L. _hamus_, hook.]

HAMPER, ham'p[.e]r, _v.t._ to impede or perplex: to shackle.--_n._ a chain
or fetter.--_p.adj._ HAM'PERED, fettered, impeded.--_adv._
HAM'PEREDLY.--_n._ HAM'PEREDNESS. [First about 1350, in Northern writers,
prob. rel. to Ice. _hemja_ (pt.t. _hamdi_), to restrain; Ger. _hemmen_.]

HAMPER, ham'p[.e]r, _n._ a large basket for conveying goods.--_v.t._ to put
in a hamper.--_ns._ HAN'AP, a large drinking-cup; HAN'APER, an old name for
a receptacle for treasure, paper, &c., long the name of an office in the
Court of Chancery. [For _hanaper_--O. Fr. _hanapier_--_hanap_, a
drinking-cup--Old High Ger. _hnapf_; A.S. _hnæp_, a bowl.]

HAMSHACKLE, ham'shak-l, _v.t._ to shackle a cow or horse by a rope joined
to the head and fore-leg: to fetter, restrain. [_Hamper_ and _shackle_.]

HAMSTER, ham'st[.e]r, _n._ a genus of rodent mammals of the family
_Muridæ_, having cheek-pouches reaching back almost to the shoulders.
[Ger.]

HAMSTRING, ham'string, _n._ the great tendon at the back of the knee or
hock of the hind-leg of a quadruped.--_v.t._ to lame by cutting the
hamstring.

HAN, han (_Spens._), _pl._ of _have_.

HANAPER. See HAMPER, _n._

HANASTER, HANSTER. See under HANSE.

HANCE, hans, _n._ (_naut._) a curved rise from a lower to a higher
part--sometimes HANCH, HAUNCH: (_archit._) the arc of smaller radius at the
springing of an elliptical or many-centred arch--also HAUNCH. [O. Fr.
_hauce_, _haulce_, rise.]

HANCH, hansh, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to snap at with the jaws.

HAND, hand, _n._ the extremity of the arm below the wrist: that which does
the duty of a hand by pointing, as the hand of a clock: the fore-foot of a
horse: a measure of four inches: an agent or workman: (_pl._) work-people
in a factory: performance, agency, co-operation: power or manner of
performing: skill: possession: style of handwriting, sign-manual: side:
direction: the set of cards held by a single player at whist, &c.: a single
round at a game.--_v.t._ to give with the hand: to lead or conduct:
(_naut._) to furl, as sails.--_ns._ HAND'-BAG, a bag for small articles,
carried in the hand; HAND'-BALL, the sport of throwing and catching a ball;
HAND'-BARR'OW, a barrow without a wheel, carried by men: HAND'-BAS'KET, a
small portable basket; HAND'-BELL, a small bell held by the hand when rung,
a table-bell; HAND'BILL, a pruning-hook used in the hand: a bill or loose
sheet with some announcement; HAND'BOOK, a manual or book of reference: a
guide-book for travellers; HAND'BREADTH, the breadth of a hand: a palm;
HAND'-CART, a small cart drawn by hand.--_adj._ HAND'ED (_Milt._), with
hands joined: (_Shak._) having a hand of a certain sort.--_ns._ HAND'ER;
HAND'FAST, a firm grip, handle: a contract, esp. a betrothal.--_adj._
bound, espoused: tight-fisted.--_adj._ HAND'FASTED, betrothed.--_n._
HAND'FASTING, betrothal: a private or even probationary form of
marriage.--_adj._ Hand'-foot'ed, having feet like hands, chiropod.--_ns._
HAND'FUL, as much as fills the hand: a small number or quantity:--_pl._
HAND'FULS; HAND'-GALL'OP, an easy gallop, in which the speed of the horse
is restrained by the bridle-hand; HAND'-GLASS, a glass or small glazed
frame used to protect plants: a small mirror; HAND'-GRENADE', a grenade to
be thrown by the hand; HAND'GRIP, grasp, grip, close struggle; HAND'ICUFFS,
HAND'YCUFFS, fighting hand to hand.--_adj._ HAND'LESS, awkward.--_ns._
HAND-LINE, a fishing-line worked by hand without a rod; HAND'-LIST, a list
for easy reference; HAND'-LOOM, a weaver's loom worked by hand, as
distinguished from a power-loom.--_adj._ HAND'-MADE, manufactured by hand,
not by a machine.--_ns._ HAND'MAID, HAND'MAIDEN, a female servant;
HAND'-MILL, a mill worked by hand for coffee, pepper, &c., a quern;
HAND'-OR'GAN, a portable organ, played by means of a crank turned by the
hand; HAND'-P[=A]'PER, a particular make of paper, early in use at the
Record Office, with the water-mark of a hand pointing; HAND'-POST, a
finger-post, guide; HAND'-PROM'ISE, a form of betrothal amongst the Irish
peasantry; HAND'RAIL, a rail supported by balusters, as in staircases, to
hold by.--_adv. phrase_, HAND'-RUN'NING, straight on, continuously.--_ns._
HAND'-SAW, a saw manageable by the hand--also the same as HERN'SHAW, in the
proverb, 'not to know a hawk from a handsaw;' HAND'-SCREEN, a small screen
used to protect the face from the heat of the fire or sun; HAND'-SCREW, an
appliance for raising heavy weights, a jack; HAND'SPIKE, a bar used with
the hand as a lever.--_n.pl._ HAND'STAVES (_B._), probably javelins.--_ns._
HANDS'-TURN, a helping hand, aid; HAND'WORK, work done by hand, as
distinguished from machinery; HAND'WRITING, the style of writing peculiar
to each person: writing.--_adj._ HAND'-WROUGHT, made with the hands, not by
machinery.--HAND AND [IN] GLOVE (_with_), on very intimate terms; HAND
DOWN, to transmit in succession; HAND IN HAND, in union, conjointly; HAND
OF GOD, a term used for unforeseen unpreventable accidents, as lightning,
tempest, &c.; HAND OVER HAND, by passing the hands alternately one before
or above the other; HAND OVER HEAD, rashly; HANDS DOWN, with ease; HANDS
OFF! keep off! refrain from blows! HANDS UP, a bushranger's call to
surrender; HAND TO HAND, at close quarters; HAND TO MOUTH, without thought
for the future, precariously.--A BIRD IN THE HAND, any advantage at present
held; A COOL HAND, a person not easily abashed; AT ANY HAND, IN ANY HAND
(_Shak._), at any rate, in any case; AT FIRST HAND, from the producer or
seller, or from the first source direct; AT HAND, near in place or time; AT
SECOND HAND, from an intermediate purchaser or source; BEAR A HAND, make
haste to help; BEAR IN HAND (_Shak._), to keep in expectation; BE HAND AND
GLOVE, to be very intimate and familiar; BELIEVED ON ALL HANDS, generally
believed; BLOODY, or RED, HAND, granted to baronets of Great Britain and
Ireland in 1611; BY THE STRONG HAND, by force; CAP IN HAND, humbly; CHANGE
HANDS, to pass from one owner to another; COME TO ONE'S HAND, to be easy to
do; DEAD MAN'S HAND, HAND-OF-GLORY, a charm to discover hidden treasure,
&c., made from a mandrake root, or the hand of a man who has been executed,
holding a candle; FOR ONE'S OWN HAND, on one's own account; FROM GOOD
HANDS, from a reliable source; GAIN THE UPPER HAND, to obtain the mastery;
GET ONE'S HAND IN, to become familiar with.--HANDWRITING ON THE WALL, any
sign foreshadowing disaster (from Dan. v. 5).--HAVE A HAND IN, to be
concerned in; HAVE CLEAN HANDS, to be honest and incorruptible; HAVE FULL
HANDS, to be fully occupied; HOLD HAND (_Shak._), to compete successfully;
HOLD IN HAND, to restrain; IN HAND, as present payment: in preparation:
under control; KISS THE HAND, in token of submission; LAY HANDS ON, to
seize; LAYING ON OF HANDS, the laying on of the hands of a bishop or
presbyters in ordination; LEND A HAND, to give assistance; OFF-HAND, OUT OF
HAND, at once, immediately, without premeditation; OFF ONE'S HANDS, no
longer under one's responsible charge; OLD HAND, one experienced, as
opposed to _Young hand_; ON ALL HANDS, on all sides; ON HAND, ready,
available: in one's possession; ON ONE'S HANDS, under one's care or
responsibility; POOR HAND, an unskilful one; SECOND-HAND, inferior, not
new; SET THE HAND TO, to engage in, undertake; SHOW ONE'S HAND, to expose
one's purpose to any one; STAND ONE'S HAND (_slang_), to pay for a drink to
another; STRIKE HANDS, to make a contract; TAKE IN HAND, to undertake; TAKE
OFF ONE'S HANDS, to relieve of something troublesome; TO ONE'S HAND, in
readiness; UNDER ONE'S HAND, with one's proper signature attached; WASH
ONE'S HANDS (_of_), to disclaim the responsibility for anything (Matt.
xxvii. 24); WITH A HEAVY HAND, oppressively; WITH A HIGH HAND, without
taking other people into consideration, audaciously. [A.S. _hand_; in all
Teut. tongues, perh. rel. to Goth. _hinthan_, to seize.]

HANDCUFF, hand'kuf, _n._ esp. in _pl._ HAND'CUFFS, shackles for the hand
locked upon the wrists of a prisoner.--_v.t._ to put handcuffs on:--_pr.p._
hand'cuffing; _pa.p._ hand'cuffed (-kuft). [_Hand_ and _cuff_.]

HANDICAP, hand'i-kap, _v.t._ to impose special disadvantages or impediments
upon in order to offset advantages, and make a better contest--in a
horse-race the superior horse carries a heavier weight, while foot-runners
are placed at different distances, or start at different times: (_fig._) to
place at a disadvantage by some burden or disability.--_n._ any contest so
adjusted, or the condition imposed.--_n._ HAND'ICAPPER, one who handicaps.
[_Hand_ in the _cap_, from the usage in an ancient kind of sport and method
of settling a bargain by arbitration.]

HANDICRAFT, hand'i-kraft, _n._ a manual craft or trade.--_n._
HAND'ICRAFTSMAN, a man skilled in a manual art:--_fem._ HAND'ICRAFTSWOMAN.

HANDIWORK, HANDYWORK, hand'i-wurk, _n._ work done by the hands, performance
generally: work of skill or wisdom: creation.

HANDJAR, HANJAR, hand'jar, _n._ a Persian dagger.

HANDKERCHIEF, hang'k[.e]r-chif, _n._ a piece of linen, silk, or cotton
cloth for wiping the nose, &c.: a neckerchief.--THROW THE HANDKERCHIEF, to
call upon next--from the usage in a common game.

HANDLE, hand'l, _v.t._ to touch, hold, or use with the hand: to make
familiar by frequent touching: to manage: to discuss: to practise: to trade
or do business in.--_v.i._ to use the hands.--_n._ that part of anything
held in the hand: (_fig._) that of which use is made: a tool: occasion,
opportunity, pretext.--_ns._ HAND'LER, a person skilful in any special kind
of manipulation; HAND'LING, the touching or managing with the hand: action:
manner of touch.--A HANDLE TO THE NAME, an adjunct of honour, as 'Dr,'
'Col.,' &c.; GIVE A HANDLE, to furnish an occasion to. [A.S.
_handlian_--_hand_, a hand.]

HANDSEL, HANSEL, hand'sel, han'sel, _n._ the first sale or using of
anything: earnest-money or part-payment by way of binding a bargain:
(_Scot._) a gift made on the first Monday of the year to a child or
servant: a New-year's gift.--_v.t._ to give a handsel: to use or do
anything the first time. [A.S. _handselen_, a giving into the hands of
another; or Ice. _handsal_.]

HANDSOME, han'sum, _adj._ good-looking, well-proportioned, graceful: with
dignity: liberal or noble: generous: ample.--_adv._ HAND'SOMELY.--_n._
HAND'SOMENESS. [_Hand_ and -_some_; cf. Dut. _handzaam_.]

HANDY, han'di, _adj._ dexterous: ready to the hand: convenient:
near.--_adv._ HAND'ILY.--_ns._ HANDI'NESS; HAND'Y-MAN, a man for doing odd
jobs.

HANDY-DANDY, hand'i-dand'i, _n._ (_Shak._) an old game among children, in
which something is rapidly changed from one hand into the other, while
another guesses in which hand it is. [A jingle on _hand_.]

HANG, hang, _v.t._ to hook or fix to some high point: to suspend: to
decorate with pictures, &c., as a wall: to put to death by suspending and
choking.--_v.i._ to be hanging, so as to allow of free motion: to lean, or
rest for support: to drag: to hover or impend: to be in suspense: to
linger:--_pr.p._ hang'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ hanged or hung.--_n._ action
of hanging, bending down, &c.: a declivity: mode in which anything hangs: a
slackening of motion: a hanging mass (NOT A HANG, not a bit, not in the
least).--_n._ HANGABIL'ITY.--_adj._ HANG'ABLE, liable to be hanged:
punishable by hanging.--_n._ HANG'-DOG, a low fellow.--_adj._ like such a
fellow, esp. in his sneaking look.--_ns._ HANG'ER, that on which anything
is hung: a short sword, curved near the point; HANG'ER-ON, one who hangs on
or sticks to a person or place: an importunate acquaintance: a
dependent.--_adj._ HANG'ING, deserving death by hanging.--_n._ death by the
halter: that which is hung, as drapery, &c.:--used chiefly in _pl._--_ns._
HANG'ING-BUTT'RESS, a buttress not standing solid on a foundation, but
hanging or supported on a corbel; HANG'MAN, a public executioner; HANG'NAIL
(see AGNAIL).--_n.pl._ HANG'-NESTS, a family of finch-like perching birds
peculiar to America--often called _American orioles_, many weaving curious
purse-like nests.--HANG BACK, to hesitate; HANG BY A THREAD, to be in a
very precarious position--from the sword of Damocles; HANG, DRAW, AND
QUARTER, to execute by hanging, cutting down while still alive,
disembowelling, and cutting the body in pieces for exposure at different
places; HANG FIRE, to be long in exploding or discharging, as a gun: to
hesitate; HANG IN DOUBT, to remain in a state of uncertainty; HANG IN THE
BALANCE, to be in doubt or suspense; HANG OFF, to let go, to hold off; HANG
ON, to cling to, to regard with admiration: to depend upon: to weigh down
or oppress: to be importunate; HANG OUT (_slang_), to lodge or reside; HANG
OVER, to project over; HANG TOGETHER, to keep united; HANG UP ONE'S HAT, to
make one's self completely at home in a house. [A.S. _hangian_, causal form
of _hón_, pa.t. _heng_, pa.p. _hangen_; Dut. and Ger. _hangen_, Goth.
_hahan_.]

HANGAR, hang'ar, _n._ a covered shed for carriages.

HANK, hangk, _n._ two or more skeins of thread tied together: a string,
clasp, or other means of fastening. [Ice. _hanki_, a hasp.]

HANKER, hangk'[.e]r, _v.i._ to long for with eagerness: to linger about
(with _after_, _for_).--_n._ HANK'ERING, a lingering craving for something.
[A freq. of _hang_, in sense to hang on; cf. Dut. _hunkeren_.]

HANKY-PANKY, hangk'i-pangk'i, _n._ jugglery, trickery. [A meaningless
jingle, like _hocus-pocus_, &c.]

HANOVERIAN, han-o-v[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Hanover_, as of the
brown rat, and the dynasty that came to the throne of England in
1714.--_n._ a supporter of the house of Hanover, as opposed to a Jacobite.

HANSARD, han'sard, _n._ a name applied to the printed reports of the
debates in parliament, from Luke _Hansard_ (1752-1828), whose descendants
continued to print these down to the beginning of 1889.--_v.t._
HAN'SARDISE, to confront a member with his former opinions as recorded in
his speeches in _Hansard_.

HANSE, hans, _n._ a league.--_adjs._ HANSE, HANSEAT'IC, applied to certain
commercial cities in Germany whose famous league for mutual defence and
commercial association began in a compact between Hamburg and Lübeck in
1241.--_ns._ HAN'ASTER, HAN'STER, the ancient Oxford name for persons
paying the entrance-fee of the guild-merchant, and admitted as freemen of
the city. [O. Fr. _hanse_--Old High Ger. _hansa_, a band of men (Ger.
_hanse_).]

HANSOM-CAB, han'sum-kab, _n._ a light two-wheeled cab or hackney-carriage
with the driver's seat raised behind. [From the name of the inventor,
Joseph Aloysius _Hansom_, 1803-82.]

HA'N'T, h[=a]nt, a coll. contr. for _have not_ or _has not_.

HANTLE, han'tl, _n._ (_Scot._) a considerable number. [Cf. Dan. _antal_,
Dut. _aantal_, Ger. _anzahl_. Some explain as _hand_ and _tale_, number.]

HAP, hap, _n._ chance: fortune: accident.--_v.i._ to befall.--_n._
HAP-HAZ'ARD, that which happens by hazard: chance, accident.--_adj._
chance, accidental.--_adv._ at random.--_adv._ HAP-HAZ'ARDLY.--_n._
HAP-HAZ'ARDNESS.--_adj._ HAP'LESS, unlucky: unhappy.--_adv._
HAP'LESSLY.--_n._ HAP'LESSNESS.--_adv._ HAP'LY, by hap, chance, or
accident: perhaps: it may be.--_v.i._ HAPP'EN, to fall out: to take place:
to chance to be.--_n._ HAPP'ENING. [Ice. _happ_, good luck.]

HAP, hap, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to wrap up from the cold or rain.--_n._ a cloak
or other covering.

HAPLODON, hap'l[=o]-don, _n._ a peculiar terrestrial rodent regarded as a
connecting-link between beavers and squirrels, its single species (_H.
rufus_) popularly known as the _Sewellel_, _Boomer_, and _Mountain Beaver_.
[Gr. _haploos_, single, _odous_, _odontos_, tooth.]

HAPLOGRAPHY, hap-log'raf-i, _n._ the inadvertent writing of a letter or
word, or series of letters or words, once, when it should be written twice.
[Gr. _haploos_, single, _graphia_, _graphein_, to write.]

HAP'ORTH, h[=a]'p[.e]rth, for _halfpennyworth_.

HAPPY, hap'i, _adj._ lucky, successful: possessing or enjoying pleasure or
good: secure of good: furnishing enjoyment: dexterous, apt,
felicitous.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to make happy.--_v.t._ HAPP'IFY, to make
happy.--_adv._ HAPP'ILY.--_n._ HAPP'INESS.--_adj._ HAPP'Y-GO-LUCK'Y,
easy-going: taking things as they come.--_adv._ in any way one
pleases.--HAPPY DESPATCH, a euphemism for the _Hara-kiri_ (q.v.). [_Hap_.]

HAQUETON, hak'ton, _n._ a stuffed jacket worn under the mail--same as Acton
(q.v.).

HARA-KIRI, har'a-kir'e, _n._ involuntary suicide by disembowelment,
formerly practised in Japan by daimios and members of the military class,
unable to outlive disgrace, or in order to anticipate execution. [Japanese
_hara_, belly, _kiri_, cut.]

HARANGUE, ha-rang', _n._ a loud speech addressed to a multitude: a popular,
pompous address.--_v.i._ to deliver a harangue.--_v.t._ to address by a
harangue:--_pr.p._ haranguing (-rang'ing); _pa.p._ harangued
(-rangd').--_n._ HARANG'UER. [O. Fr. _arenge_, _harangue_, from Old High
Ger. _hring_ (Ger. _ring_), a ring of auditors.]

HARASS, har'as, _v.t._ to fatigue: to annoy or torment.--_p.adj._
HAR'ASSED.--_adv._ HAR'ASSEDLY.--_n._ HAR'ASSER.--_p.adj._
HAR'ASSING.--_adv._ HAR'ASSINGLY.--_n._ HAR'ASSMENT. [O. Fr. _harasser_;
prob. from _harer_, to incite a dog.]

HARBINGER, här'bin-j[.e]r, _n._ a forerunner, pioneer, originally one who
goes forward to provide lodging.--_v.t._ to precede, as a harbinger. [M. E.
_herbergeour_. See HARBOUR.]

HARBOUR, här'bur, _n._ any refuge or shelter: a port for ships--obs. form
_Har'borough_.--_v.t._ to lodge or entertain: to protect: to possess or
indulge, as thoughts.--_v.i._ to take shelter.--_n._ HAR'BOURAGE, place of
shelter: entertainment.--_n.pl._ HAR'BOUR-DUES, charges for the use of a
harbour.--_n._ HAR'BOURER, one who harbours or entertains.--_adj._
HAR'BOURLESS.--_n._ HAR'BOUR-MAS'TER, the public officer who has charge of
a harbour.--HARBOUR OF REFUGE, a harbour constructed to give shelter to
ships on some exposed coast: any protection for one in distress. [M. E.
_herberwe_--an assumed A.S. _herebeorg_--_here_, army, _beorg_, protection;
cf. Ger. _herberge_, Ice. _herbergi_.]

HARD, härd, _adj._ not easily penetrated, firm, solid: difficult to
understand or accomplish: violent, vehement: rigorous: close, earnest,
industrious: coarse, scanty: stingy, niggardly: difficult to bear, painful:
unjust: difficult to please: unfeeling: severe: stiff: constrained:
intractable, resistant in some use, as water, &c.: strong, spirituous: (of
silk) without having the natural gum boiled off: surd or breathed, as
opposed to sonant or voiced.--_n._ a firm beach or foreshore: hard
labour.--_adv._ with urgency, vigour, &c.: earnestly, forcibly: with
difficulty: close, near, as in HARD BY.--_adv._ HARD-A-LEE, close to the
lee-side, &c.--_adj._ HARD'-AND-FAST', rigidly laid down and adhered
to.--_adv._ HARD APORT! a command instructing the helmsman to turn the
tiller to the left or port side of the ship, thus causing the ship to
swerve to the right or starboard.--_ns._ HARD'-BAKE, a sweetmeat made of
boiled sugar and almonds; HARD'BEAM, the hornbeam.--_adjs._ HARD'-BILLED,
having a hard bill or beak--of birds; HARD'-BITT'EN, given to hard biting,
tough in fight; HARD'-CURED, cured thoroughly, as fish, by drying in the
sun.--_n._ HARD'-DRINK'ER, a constant drunkard.--_adj._ HARD'-EARNED,
earned with toil or difficulty.--_v.t._ HARD'EN, to make hard or harder: to
make firm: to strengthen: to confirm in wickedness: to make
insensible.--_v.i._ to become hard or harder, either lit. or fig.--_adj._
HARD'ENED, made hard, unfeeling.--_n._ HARD'ENER.--_adj._ HARD'-FAV'OURED,
having coarse features.--_n._ HARD'-FAV'OUREDNESS.--_adj._ HARD'-FEAT'URED,
of hard, coarse, or forbidding features.--_n._
HARD'-FEAT'UREDNESS.--_adjs._ HARD'-FIST'ED, having hard or strong fists or
hands: close-fisted: niggardly; HARD'-FOUGHT, sorely contested;
HARD'-GOTT'EN, obtained with difficulty; HARD'-GRAINED, having a close firm
grain: uninviting.--_n._ HARD'-HACK, the steeple-bush, an erect shrub of
the rose family, with rose-coloured or white flowers.--_adjs._
HARD'-HAND'ED, having hard hands: rough: severe; HARD'-HEAD'ED, shrewd,
intelligent; HARD'-HEART'ED, having a hard or unfeeling heart:
cruel.--_adv._ HARD'-HEART'EDLY.--_n._ HARD'-HEART'EDNESS.--_adj._
HARD'ISH, somewhat hard.--_n._ HARD'-L[=A]'BOUR, labour imposed on certain
classes of criminals during their imprisonment.--_adv._ HARD'LY, with
difficulty: scarcely, not quite: severely, harshly.--_adj._ HARD'-MOUTHED,
having a mouth hard or insensible to the bit: not easily managed.--_n._
HARD'-PAN, the hard detritus often underlying the superficial soil: the
lowest level.--_adjs._ HARD'-RULED (_Shak._), ruled with difficulty;
HARD'-RUN, greatly pressed; HARD'-SET, beset by difficulty: rigid;
HARD'-SHELL, having a hard shell: rigidly orthodox.--_ns._ HARD'SHIP, a
hard state, or that which is hard to bear, as toil, injury, &c.;
HARD'-TACK, ship-biscuit.--_adj._ HARD'-VIS'AGED, of a hard, coarse, or
forbidding visage.--_ns._ HARD'WARE, trade name for all sorts of articles
made of the baser metals, such as iron or copper; HARD'WAREMAN.--_adj._
HARD'-WON, won with toil and difficulty.--_n.pl._ HARD'WOOD-TREES, forest
trees of comparatively slow growth, producing compact hard timber, as oak,
ash, elm, walnut, beech, birch, &c.--HARD HIT, seriously hurt, as by a loss
of money: deeply smitten with love; HARD LINES, a hard lot; HARD METAL, an
alloy of two parts of copper with one of tin for gun metal; HARD MONEY,
money emphatically, prop. coin; HARD OF HEARING, pretty deaf; HARD
SWEARING, swearing (as a witness) persistently to what is false, perjury;
HARD UP, short of money.--BE HARD PUT TO IT, to be in great straits or
difficulty; DIE HARD, to die only after a desperate struggle for life.
[A.S. _heard_; Dut. _hard_, Ger. _hart_, Goth. _hardus_; allied to Gr.
_kratys_, strong.]

HARDOCK. See HARLOCK.

HARDS, härdz, _n.pl._ also HURDS, coarse or refuse flax or hemp from which
is made the coarse fabric HARD'EN, HERD'EN, HURD'EN.

HARDY, härd'i, _adj._ daring, brave, resolute: confident: impudent: able to
bear cold, exposure, or fatigue.--_ns._ HARD'IHOOD, HARD'INESS, HARD'IMENT
(_arch._).--_adv._ HARD'ILY. [O. Fr. _hardi_--Old High Ger. _hartjan_, to
make hard.]

HARE, h[=a]r, _n._ a common and very timid animal, with a divided upper lip
and long hind-legs, which runs swiftly by leaps.--_ns._ HARE-AND-HOUNDS, a
boys' game in which some set off on a long run across country, dropping
pieces of paper (the scent) as they go, and others try to overtake,
following their trail; HARE'BELL, a plant with blue bell-shaped
flowers.--_adjs._ HARE'-BRAINED, giddy: heedless; HARE'-FOOT, swift of foot
like a hare; HAR'ISH, somewhat like a hare.--_n._ HARE'-LIP, a fissure in
the upper human lip like that of a hare.--_adj._ HARE'-LIPPED.--_n._
HARE'S'-EAR, a genus of umbelliferous plants having yellow flowers.--FIRST
CATCH YOUR HARE, make sure you have a thing first before you think what to
do with it--from a direction in Mrs Glasse's cookery-book, where catch,
however, was a misprint for 'case'=skin; HOLD WITH THE HARE AND RUN WITH
THE HOUNDS, to play a double and deceitful game, to be with both sides at
once; JUGGED HARE, hare cut into pieces and stewed with wine and other
seasoning; MAD AS A MARCH HARE, from the gambols of the hare during the
breeding season. [A.S. _hara_; Dut. _haas_, Dan. _hare_, Ger. _hase_.]

HARELD, har'eld, _n._ a genus of northern sea-ducks. [Norw.
_havella_--_hav_, sea.]

HAREM, h[=a]'rem, _n._ the portion of a Mohammedan house allotted to
females: the collection of wives and concubines belonging to one Mussulman.
[Ar. _haram_, anything forbidden--_harama_, to forbid.]

HARICOT, har'i-ko, -kot, _n._ a kind of ragout or stew of mutton and beans
or other vegetables: the kidney-bean or French bean. [Fr. _haricot_.]

HARI-KARI, an incorrect form of _hara-kiri_.

HARK, härk, _interj._ or _imper._ listen.--_n._ a whisper.--_n._
HARK'-BACK, a backward move.--HARK BACK, to revert to the original point.
[_Hearken_.]

HARL, härl, _n._ the skin of flax: any filamentous substance.

HARL, härl, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to drag along the ground: to rough-cast a wall
with lime.--_v.i._ to drag one's self: to troll for fish.--_n._ act of
dragging: a small quantity, a scraping of anything.

HARLEIAN, har-l[=e]'an, här'li-an, _adj._ pertaining to Robert _Harley_,
Earl of Oxford (1661-1724), and his son, Edward Harley, esp. in reference
to the library of books and MSS. collected by them--the latter in the
British Museum since 1753.

HARLEQUIN, här'le-kwin, or -kin, _n._ the leading character in a pantomime,
the lover of Columbine, in a tight spangled dress, with a wand, by means of
which he is supposed to be invisible and to play tricks: a buffoon.--_v.i._
to play the harlequin.--_n._ HARLEQUIN[=A]DE', the portion of a pantomime
in which the harlequin plays a chief part.--HARLEQUIN DUCK, a species of
northern sea-duck, so called from its variegated markings. [Fr.
_harlequin_, _arlequin_ (It. _arlecchino_), prob. the same as O. Fr.
_Hellequin_, a devil in medieval legend, perh. of Teut. origin.]

HARLOCK, här'lok, _n._ (_Shak._) a flower not identified, not charlock=wild
mustard, or _hardock_=burdock.

HARLOT, här'lot, _n._ a woman who prostitutes her body for hire, a
whore.--_adj._ wanton: lewd.--_n._ HAR'LOTRY, prostitution, unchastity:
(_obs._) a woman given to such: meretriciousness. [O. Fr. _herlot_,
_arlot_, a base fellow; origin dub., perh. from Old High Ger. _karl_ (A.S.
_ceorl_).]

HARM, härm, _n._ injury: moral wrong.--_v.t._ to injure.--_adj._ HARM'FUL,
hurtful.--_adv._ HARM'FULLY.--_n._ HARM'FULNESS.--_adj._ HARM'LESS, not
injurious, innocent: unharmed.--_adv._ HARM'LESSLY.--_n._ HARM'LESSNESS.
[A.S. _hearm_; Ger. _harm_.]

HARMALA, här'ma-la, _n._ wild rue--also HAR'MEL.--_ns._ HAR'MALINE, a white
crystalline alkaloid obtained from the seeds of wild rue; HAR'MALOL,
HAR'MINE, other alkaloids from the same source. [Gr., from Semitic; cf. Ar.
_harmil_.]

HARMAN, här'man, _n._ (_slang_) a policeman--also HAR'MAN-BECK: (_pl._) the
stocks.

HARMATTAN, har-mat'an, _n._ a hot, dry, noxious wind which blows
periodically from the interior of Africa to the Atlantic along the Guinea
coast during December, January, and February. [Fanti.]

HARMONIC, -AL, har-mon'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to harmony: musical:
concordant: recurring periodically.--_n._ a secondary tone, overtone; a
note on a stringed instrument produced by lightly stopping a string:
(_math._) one of a class of functions that enter into the development of
the potential of a nearly spherical mass due to its attraction.--_adv._
HARMON'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ HARMON'ICS, used as _sing._ the science of harmony
or of musical sounds--as _pl._ consonances, the component sounds included
in what appears to the ear to be a single sound.--_adj._ HARM[=O]'NIOUS,
having harmony: symmetrical, congruous: concordant.--_adv._
HARM[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_ns._ HARM[=O]'NIOUSNESS; HARMONIS[=A]'TION.--_v.i._
HAR'MON[=I]SE, to be in harmony: to agree.--_v.t._ to make in harmony: to
cause to agree: (_mus._) to provide parts to.--_ns._ HARMON[=I]S'ER;
HAR'MONIST, one skilled in harmony: a musical composer.--HARMONIC ENGINE,
an invention of Edison's, in which the energy of an electric current is
used, by means of two small electro-magnets, to keep up the vibrations of a
large and heavily-weighted tuning-fork whose arms are connected with two
pistons working a miniature pump; HARMONIC PROGRESSION, a series of numbers
the reciprocals of which are in arithmetical progression; HARMONIC
PROPORTION, the relation of three quantities in harmonic progression--the
2d a _harmonic mean_ between the 1st and 3d, as in the three numbers 2, 3,
and 6; HARMONIC TRIAD, the common chord.

HARMONIUM, har-m[=o]'ni-um, _n._ a reed-organ, esp. one in which the air is
compressed in the bellows and driven thence through the reeds.--_ns._
HARMON'ICA, the musical glasses--an instrument invented by Franklin, the
sounds of which were produced from bell-shaped glasses placed on a
framework that revolved on its centre, while the rims were touched by the
moistened finger: a musical instrument consisting of a series of glass or
metal plates played by striking with a small mallet: a mouth-organ or
harmonicon; HARMON'ICON, a mouth-organ: an acoustic apparatus by which a
musical note is evolved when a long dry tube, open at both ends, is held
over a jet of burning hydrogen; HARMON'IPHONE, a musical instrument played
with a keyboard, in which the sounds are produced by reeds set in a tube,
and vibrating under pressure from the breath; HARM[=O]'NIUMIST, one who
plays the harmonium; HARMON'OGRAPH, an instrument for tracing curves
representing sonorous vibrations; HARMONOM'ETER, one for measuring the
harmonic relations of sounds.

HARMONY, här'mo-ni, _n._ a fitting together of parts so as to form a
connected whole, agreement in relation: in art, a normal state of
completeness and order in the relations of things to each other: (_mus._) a
simultaneous combination of accordant sounds: the whole chordal structure
of a piece, as distinguished from its melody or its rhythm: concord, music
in general: a collation of parallel passages regarding the same event
arranged to demonstrate the substantial unity--as of the Gospels.--HARMONY,
or MUSIC, OF THE SPHERES, a harmony formed by the regular movements of the
heavenly bodies throughout space, determined by the relation to each other
of the intervals of separation; PRE-ESTABLISHED HARMONY, the designation of
Leibnitz for his theory of the divinely established relation between body
and mind--the movements of monads and the succession of ideas, as it were a
constant agreement between two clocks. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_harmonia_--_harmos_, a fitting--_arein_, to fit.]

HARMOST, här'most, _n._ a Spartan governor of a subject city or
province.--_n._ HAR'MOSTY; the office of such.

HARMOTOME, här'm[=o]-t[=o]m, _n._ a hydrous silicate of aluminium and
barium.--Also _Cross-stone_.

HARNESS, här'nes, _n._ the equipments of a horse: formerly, the armour of a
man or horse: equipment for any kind of labour.--_v.t._ to equip with
armour: to put the harness on a horse.--_n._ HAR'NESS-CASK, a tub, a cask
with rimmed cover on a ship's deck holding the salt meat for daily
use.--DIE IN HARNESS, to die at one's work. [O. Fr. _harneis_, armour;
dubiously referred to Celt., as in Bret. _harnez_, old iron, also armour.]

HARNS, härnz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) the brains. [A.S. _hærnes_, most prob.
Norse _hjarne_; cf. Ger. _hirn_.]

HARO, hä'ro, _n._ an old term for a form of appeal in the Channel Islands,
a demand for protection against harm, or for assistance to arrest an
adversary.--Also HA'ROW, HAR'ROW (_Spens._), a mere exclamation of
distress. [O. Fr. _haro_, _harou_, of unknown origin; not _ha Rou!_ an
appeal to Rolf, Rollo, or Rou, the first Duke of Normandy.]

HARP, härp, _n._ a musical stringed instrument much esteemed by the
ancients.--_v.i._ to play on the harp: to dwell tediously upon
anything.--_v.t._ to give voice to.--_ns._ HARP'ER, HARP'IST, a player on
the harp.--_n.pl._ HARP'INGS (_naut._), the fore-parts of the wales
surrounding the bow extensions of the rib-bands.--_n._ HARP'-SHELL, a genus
of gasteropodous molluscs with inflated shell.--HARP ON ONE STRING, to
dwell constantly on one topic. [A.S. _hearpe_; Ger. _harfe_.]

HARPOON, här-p[=oo]n', _n._ a dart for striking and killing whales.--_v.t._
to strike with the harpoon.--_ns._ HARPOON'ER, HARPOONEER', one who uses a
harpoon; HARPOON'-GUN, a gun from which a harpoon or toggle-iron may be
discharged. [Fr. _harpon_--_harpe_, a clamp--L. _harpa_, Gr. _harp[=e]_,
sickle.]

HARPSICHORD, härp'si-kord, _n._ an old-fashioned keyed musical instrument,
where the sound is produced by the twitching of the strings by a piece of
crow-quill or hard leather. [O. Fr. _harpechorde_.]

HARPY, här'pi, _n._ (_myth._) a rapacious and filthy monster, with the body
of a woman and the wings, feet, and claws of a bird of prey, considered as
a minister of the vengeance of the gods: (_her._) a vulture with the head
and breast of a woman: a South American eagle, larger than the golden
eagle, and of great strength and rapacity: a rapacious person. [L.
_harp[=y]ia_--Gr., pl. _harpyiai_, 'snatchers,' symbols of the
storm-wind--_harpazein_, to seize.]

HARQUEBUS, HARQUEBUSE, HARQUEBUSS, här'kwi-bus, _n._ Same as ARQUEBUSE.

HARRIDAN, har'i-dan, _n._ a vixenish old woman. [Prob. O. Fr. _haridelle_,
a lean horse, a jade.]

HARRIER, har'i-[.e]r, _n._ a small kind of dog with a keen smell, for
hunting hares: (_pl._) a name taken by some clubs of cross-country runners
(see HARE-AND-HOUNDS). [Formed from _hare_, like _graz-i-er_.]

HARROVIAN, har-[=o]'vi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Harrow_.--_n._ one
educated at the public school there.

HARROW, har'[=o], _n._ a frame of wood or iron toothed with spikes for
smoothing and pulverising ploughed land, and for covering seeds
sown.--_v.t._ to draw a harrow over: to harass: to tear.--_adj._
HARR'OWING, acutely distressing to the mind.--_adv._ HARR'OWINGLY.--_n._
CHAIN'-HARR'OW, a harrow composed of rings for breaking clods of
earth.--UNDER THE HARROW, in distress or anxiety. [A.S. _hearge_; cf. Ice.
_herfi_, Dan. _harv_.]

HARROW. See HARO.

HARRY, har'i, _v.t._ to plunder: to ravage: to destroy: to harass:--_pr.p._
harr'ying; _pa.p._ harr'ied.--_n._ HARR'IER, one who, or that which,
harries: a kind of hawk so named from its harrying or destroying small
animals.--HARRYING, or HARROWING, OF HELL, the spoiling of hell, the
delivery by Christ, upon His descent into hell after the crucifixion, of
the souls of patriarchs and prophets there held in bondage by Satan (1 Pet.
iii. 19)--a favourite subject of Christian art, and of our own medieval
writers of Mysteries. [A.S. _hergian_, from A.S. _here_, gen. _herg-es_, an
army; Ger. _heer_.]

HARSH, härsh, _adj._ rough: bitter: jarring: abusive: severe:
unkind.--_v.t._ HARSH'EN, to render harsh.--_adv._ HARSH'LY.--_n._
HARSH'NESS. [M. E. _harsk_, a northern word; cf. Sw. _härsk_ and Dan.
_harsk_, rancid, Ger. _harsch_, hard.]

HART, härt, _n._ the stag or male deer from the age of six years, when the
crown or sur-royal antler begins to appear:--_fem._ HIND.--_ns._
HART'EBEEST, HART'BEEST, a South African antelope; HARTS'HORN, the antlers
of the red deer: a solution of ammonia, orig. a decoction of the shavings
of a hart's horn; HARTS'TONGUE, a genus of widely distributed ferns, one
species native to Britain, common in moist woods.--HART OF GREASE, a hart
of the season when fat. [A.S. _heort_; Dut. _hert_, Ger. _hirsch_.]

HARUM-SCARUM, h[=a]'rum-sk[=a]'rum, _adj._ flighty: rash.--_n._ a giddy,
rash person. [Prob. compounded of _hare_, from the sense of haste and
fright, and _scare_.]

HARUSPEX, ha-rus'peks, _n._ (_pl._ HARUS'PICES) a soothsayer or diviner
among the Etruscans, and from them adopted by the Romans, who foretold
future events from the inspection of the entrails of animals offered in
sacrifice--also HARUS'PICE.--_ns._ HARUSPIC[=A]'TION, HARUS'PICY,
divination as by a haruspex. [L., from an assumed _haru_, cog. with Sans.
_hirâ_, entrails, and L. _spec[)e]re_, to view.]

HARVEST, här'vest, _n._ the time of gathering in the ripened crops: the
crops gathered in: fruits: the product of any labour: consequences.--_v.t._
to reap and gather in.--_ns._ HAR'VEST-BUG, -LOUSE, -TICK, a mite or tick
of minute size, abundant late in summer, and very troublesome to people
with delicate skins; HAR'VESTER, a reaper in harvests; HAR'VEST-FEAST, the
feast made at the ingathering of harvest; HAR'VEST-FIELD, a field where a
harvest is or has been; HAR'VEST-FLY, in U.S. the popular name for a
species of cicada; HAR'VEST-HOME, the bringing home of the harvest: the
feast held at the bringing home of the harvest; HAR'VEST-LORD, the
head-reaper at the harvest; HAR'VEST-MAN (_B._), a labourer in harvest;
HAR'VEST-MOON, the full moon nearest the autumnal equinox, rising nearly at
the same hour for several days; HAR'VEST-MOUSE, a very small species of
mouse, building its nest in the stalks of growing corn; HAR'VEST-QUEEN, an
image of Ceres, the queen or goddess of fruits, in ancient times carried
about on the last day of harvest. [A.S. _hærfest_; Ger. _herbs_t, Dut.
_herfst_.]

HAS, haz, 3d pers. sing. pres. ind. of _have_.

HASH, hash, _v.t._ to hack: to mince: to chop small.--_n._ that which is
hashed: a mixed dish of meat and vegetables in small pieces: a mixture and
preparation of old matter: (_Scot._) a stupid fellow.--_adj._ HASH'Y.--MAKE
A HASH OF, to spoil or ruin completely; SETTLE A PERSON'S HASH (_slang_),
to silence him: to make an end of him. [O. Fr.,--Fr. _hacher_--_hache_,
hatchet.]

HASHISH, hash'ish, -[=e]sh, _n._ name given to the leaves of the Indian
hemp, from which an intoxicating preparation is made. See BHANG and
ASSASSIN. [Ar.]

HASK, hask, _n._ (_Spens._) a fish-basket made of rushes. [Prob. from root
of _hassock_.]

HASLET, has'let, _n._ the edible entrails of an animal, esp. the hog.--Also
HARS'LET. [O. Fr. _hastelet_, _haste_, a spit--L. _hasta_, a spear.]

HASP, hasp, _n._ a clasp: the clasp of a padlock: a spindle: a skein of
yarn.--_v.t._ to fasten with a hasp. [A.S. _hæpse_; Dan. and Ger. _haspe_.]

HASSOCK, has'uk, _n._ a thick cushion used as a footstool or for kneeling
on in church: Kentish rag-stone. [A.S. _hassuc_; prob. W. _hesg_, sedge.]

HAST, hast, 2d pers. sing. pres. ind. of _have_.

HASTATE, -D, hast'[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) spear-shaped.--Also
HAST'IFORM. [L. _hast[=a]tus_--_hasta_, spear.]

HASTE, h[=a]st, _n._ speed, quickness, a hurry: rashness:
vehemence.--_vs.t._ HASTE, HASTEN (h[=a]s'n), to put to speed: to hurry on:
to drive forward.--_vs.i._ to move with speed: to be in a hurry:--_pr.p._
h[=a]st'ing, hastening (h[=a]s'ning); _pa.p._ h[=a]st'ed, hastened
(h[=a]s'nd).--_n._ HAST'ENER.--_adv._ HAST'ILY.--_n._ HAST'INESS, hurry:
rashness: irritability.--_adj._ HAST'Y, speedy: quick: rash: eager:
passionate.--_n._ HAST'Y-PUDD'ING, flour, milk, or oatmeal and water
porridge.--_adj._ HAST'Y-WIT'TED, rash.--MAKE HASTE, to hasten. [O. Fr.
_haste_ (Fr. _hâte_), from Teut.; cf. A.S. _h['æ]st_, Dut. _haast_, Ger.
_hast_.]

HAT, hat, _n._ a covering for the head, generally with crown and brim: the
dignity of a cardinal, so named from his red hat.--_v.t._ to provide with,
or cover with, a hat.--_ns._ HAT'BAND, the ribbon round a hat, often a
mourning-band; HAT'-BOX, a box in which a hat is carried; HAT'-PEG, -RACK,
-RAIL, -STAND, &c., a contrivance on which hats are hung.--_adj._ HAT'TED,
covered with a hat.--_ns._ HAT'TER, one who makes or sells hats: a miner
who works by himself; HAT'TING, giving a hat; HAT'-TRICK, any conjurer's
trick with a hat: a House of Commons mode of securing a seat by placing
one's hat on it: in cricket, the feat of a bowler who takes three wickets
by three successive balls--deserving a new hat.--CHIMNEY-POT, COCKED, and
CRUSHED HAT (see CHIMNEY, COCK, CRUSH).--HANG UP ONE'S HAT (see HANG); MAD
AS A HATTER, completely insane: very angry; PASS ROUND THE HAT, to beg for
contributions, to take up a collection. [A.S. _hæt_, Dan. _hat_.]

HATCH, hach, _n._ a door with an opening over it, a wicket or door made of
cross-bars; the covering of a hatchway.--_v.t._ to close as with a
hatch.--_ns._ HATCH'-BOAT, a kind of half-decked fishing-boat; HATCH'WAY,
the opening in a ship's deck into the hold, or from one deck to
another.--UNDER HATCHES, below deck, off duty, under arrest. [A.S. _hæc_, a
gate; Dut. _hek_, a gate.]

HATCH, hach, _v.t._ to produce, especially from eggs, by incubation: to
originate: to plot.--_v.i._ to produce young: to be advancing towards
maturity.--_n._ act of hatching: brood hatched.--_ns._ HATCH'ER, one who,
or that which, hatches; HATCH'ERY, a place for hatching eggs, esp. those of
fish, by artificial means.--COUNT THE CHICKENS BEFORE THEY ARE HATCHED, to
depend too securely on some future and uncertain event. [Early M. E.
_hacchen_, from an assumed A.S. _hæccean_; cf. Mid. High Ger. _hecken_, Sw.
_häcka_.]

HATCH, hach, _v.t._ to shade by minute lines crossing each other in drawing
and engraving.--_n._ HATCH'ING, the mode of so shading. [O. Fr. _hacher_,
to chop.]

HATCHEL, hach'el, _n._ and _v._ Same as HACKLE.

HATCHET, hach'et, _n._ a small axe used by one hand.--_adjs._
HATCH'ET-FACED, having a thin, sharp-featured face; HATCH'ETY, like a
hatchet.--BURY THE HATCHET, to put an end to war, from the habit of the
North American Indians. [Fr. _hachette_, _hacher_, to chop.]

[Illustration]

HATCHMENT, hach'ment, _n._ the arms of a deceased person within a black
lozenge-shaped frame, meant to be placed on the front of his house.
[Corrupted from _achievement_.]

HATE, h[=a]t, _v.t._ to dislike intensely: to dislike: to despise
relatively to something else.--_n._ extreme dislike: hatred.--_adjs._
HATE'ABLE, deserving to be hated; HATE'FUL, exciting hate: odious:
detestable: feeling or manifesting hate.--_adv._ HATE'FULLY.--_ns._
HATE'FULNESS; HAT'ER; HAT'RED, extreme dislike: enmity: malignity. [A.S.
_hete_, hate, _hatian_, to hate; Ger. _hasz_.]

HATE, HAET, h[=a]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a whit.

HATHOR, hath'or, _n._ name of an Egyptian goddess, ranked among the second
class of deities, who was the daughter of Ra, the sun.

HATTER, hat'[.e]r, _v.t._ to trouble, annoy: to batter.

HATTI, hat'i, _n._ a Turkish decree of the highest authority, differing
from a firman in being signed by the Sultan himself--in full, HATTI-SHERIF
(sher-[=e]f').

HAUBERK, haw'b[.e]rk, _n._ a tunic, worn by the Norman soldiers, covered
with rings or mascles, reaching to the knees, slit at the sides or in the
front and back for convenience in riding, though sometimes ending in short
trousers, originally a piece of armour for the neck. [O. Fr. _hauberc_--Old
High Ger. _halsberg_--_hals_, neck, _bergan_, to protect.]

HAUGH, häh, _n._ (_Scot._) a level plain, generally near a river. [A.S.
_healh_, _halh_, a corner.]

HAUGHTY, haw'ti, _adj._ proud: arrogant: contemptuous: (_arch._) bold:
(_Spens._) high--Shakespeare has HAUGHT.--_adv._ HAUGHT'ILY.--_n._
HAUGHT'INESS. [O. Fr. _halt_, _haut_, high--L. _altus_, high.]

HAUL, hawl, _v.t._ to drag: to pull with violence.--_v.i._ to tug, to try
to draw something: to alter a ship's course, to sail generally.--_n._ a
pulling: a draught, as of fishes: a source of interest or profit.--_ns._
HAUL'AGE, act of hauling: charge for hauling or pulling a ship or boat;
HAUL'ER, HAUL'IER.--HAUL OVER THE COALS (see COAL); HAUL OFF, or ROUND, to
turn a ship's course away from an object; HAUL UP, to come or bring to rest
after hauling. [_Hale_.]

HAULD, häld, a Scotch form of _hold_, as in the prov. phrase, 'out of house
and hauld'=homeless and completely destitute.

HAULM. See HALM.

HAULT, hawlt, _adj._ (_Spens._). HAUGHTY.

HAUNCH, hawnsh, _n._ the fleshy part of the hip and buttock: (_Shak._) the
hip, the hind-part, the rear: (_archit._) the middle part between the
vertex or crown and the springing of an arch.--_adjs._ HAUNCH'LESS;
HAUNCH'Y. [O. Fr. _hanche_; prob. Ger., Old High Ger. _anchâ_, leg.]

HAUNCH, hawnsh, _v.t._ (_prov._) to throw with an underhand movement.--_n._
a jerked underhand throw.

HAUNT, hawnt, _v.t._ to frequent: to follow importunately: to intrude upon
continually: to inhabit or visit as a ghost.--_v.i._ to be much about: to
appear or visit frequently.--_n._ a place much resorted to: (_Shak._) habit
of frequenting.--_p.adj_ HAUNT'ED, frequented, infested, esp. by ghosts or
apparitions.--_n._ HAUNT'ER.--_adv._ HAUNT'INGLY. [O. Fr. _hanter_; acc. to
Littré, a corr. of L. _habit[=a]re_.]

HAUSTELLUM, haws-tel'um, _n._ the sucking organ or proboscis of an insect
or a crustacean:--_pl._ HAUSTELLA.--_adj._ HAUS'TELLATE, provided with
such.

HAUSSMANNIZE, hows'man-[=i]z, _v.t._ to open out, widen, and straighten
streets, and generally rebuild, as Baron _Haussmann_ did to Paris when
prefect of the Seine (1853-70).--_n._ HAUSSMANNIZ[=A]'TION.

HAUSTORIUM, haws-t[=o]'ri-um, _n._ a small sucker of a parasitic plant,
penetrating the tissues of the host:--_pl._ HAUST[=O]'RIA.

HAUTBOY, h[=o]'boi, _n._ an older form of Oboe (q.v.): a large kind of
strawberry. [Fr. _hautbois_--_haut_, high, _bois_, wood.]

HAUTEUR, h[=o]-t[=a]r', _n._ haughtiness: arrogance.--_adj._ HAUT
(_Milt._), haughty.--_ns._ HAUT-GOÛT, flavour, spice, a taint: a highly
seasoned dish; HAUT-PAS, a dais; HAUT'-RELIEF', high relief.--HAUT TON,
high fashion, people of high fashion. [Fr.]

HAÜYNE, hä'win, _n._ a rock-forming mineral, a silicate of alumina and soda
or lime, with sodium and calcium sulphate. [Named from René Just _Haüy_, a
French mineralogist (1743-1822).]

HAVANA, ha-van'a, _n._ a fine quality of cigar, named from _Havana_, the
capital of Cuba, fondly supposed to be made there.--Also HAVANN'A(H).

HAVE, hav, _v.t._ to own or possess: to hold, contain: to hold control of:
to grasp the meaning of: to allow to be done, to cause: to regard, hold in
opinion, esteem: to obtain: to enjoy: to bear or beget: to effect: to be
affected by: to get the better of, outwit, to have hold upon:--_pr.p._
hav'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ had.--_ns._ HAV'ER, one who has or possesses,
a holder: (_Scots law_) a term to denote the person in whose custody a
document is; HAV'ING, act of possessing: possession, estate: behaviour:
(_Scot._ esp. in _pl._) good manners.--_adj._ greedy.--Have as good, lief,
to be as willing; HAVE AT, attack, thrust; HAVE DONE (_with_), to come to
the end of one's dealings; HAVE IT OUT, to have something finally settled;
HAVE ON, to wear; HAVE RATHER, to prefer; HAVE UP, to call to account
before a court of justice, &c. [A.S. _habban_, pa.t. _hæfde,_ pa.p.
_gehæfd_; Ger. _haben_, Dan. _have_.]

HAVELOCK, hav'lok, _n._ a white cover for a military cap, with a long rear
flap as a protection from the sun. [From Gen. Henry _Havelock_, 1795-1857.]

HAVEN, h[=a]'vn, an inlet of the sea, or mouth of a river, where ships can
get good and safe anchorage: any place of safety: an asylum.--_v.t._ to
shelter.--_p.adj._ H[=A]'VENED, sheltered, as in a haven. [A.S. _hæfen_;
Dut. _haven_, Ger. _hafen_.]

HAVER, h[=a]v'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to talk nonsense, or foolishly.--_n._
HAV'EREL, a foolish person.--_n.pl._ HAV'ERS, foolish talk.

HAVERSACK, hav'[.e]r-sak, _n._ a bag of strong linen for a soldier carrying
his rations in.--_n._ HAV'ER (_prov._), oats. [Fr. _havresac_--Ger.
_habersack_, oat-sack--_haber_, _hafer_, oats.]

HAVERSIAN, hav-er'si-an, _adj._ pertaining to or named after Clopton
_Havers_, a 17th-cent. English anatomist who investigated the
blood-vascular system of bone.

HAVILDAR, hav'il-dar, _n._ the highest rank of non-commissioned officer
among native troops in India and Ceylon. [Pers.]

HAVIOUR, h[=a]v'[=u]r, _n._ (_obs._) behaviour.

HAVOC, hav'ok, _n._ general waste or destruction: devastation.--_v.t._ to
lay waste.--_interj._ an ancient hunting or war cry. [O. Fr. _havot_,
plunder, of Teut. origin.]

HAW, haw, _n._ a hedge or enclosure: a field: the berry of the
hawthorn.--_ns._ HAW'-BUCK, a clown; HAW'FINCH, the common grosbeak;
HAW'THORN, a shrub or small tree, much planted both for hedges and for
ornament: the white flower of the hawthorn. [A.S. _haga_, a yard or
enclosure; Dut. _haag_, a hedge, Ger. _hag_, a hedge, Ice. _hagi_, a
field.]

HAW, haw, _v.i._ to speak with hesitation or a drawling manner, real or
affected--hence _adj._ HAW-HAW, in an affected tone of voice.--_n._ a
hesitation in speech: loud vulgar laughter.--_v.i._ to guffaw, to laugh
boisterously. [Imit.]

HAW, haw, _n._ the nictitating membrane or third eyelid, as of a horse;
also a disease of this membrane.

HAWK, hawk, _n._ the name of several birds of prey allied to the falcons: a
rapacious person.--_v.i._ to hunt birds with hawks trained for the purpose:
to attack on the wing.--_ns._ HAWK'-BELL, a small bell attached to a hawk's
leg; HAWK'BIT, a genus of plants of order _Compositæ_, closely related to
the dandelion; HAWK'ER.--_adj._ HAWK'-EYED.--_n._ HAWK'ING.--_adj._
HAWK'ISH.--_n._ HAWK'-MOTH, a very large kind of moth, so called from its
hovering motion.--_adj._ HAWK'-NOSED, having a nose like a hawk's
beak.--_ns._ HAWKS'BEARD, a genus of annual and biennial plants of order
_Compositæ_, closely related to hawkweed; HAWK'WEED, a genus of perennial
plants of order _Compositæ_.--KNOW A HAWK FROM A HANDSAW (prob. for
_hernshaw_), to be able to judge between things pretty well. [A.S. _hafoc_;
Dut. _havik_, Ger. _habicht_, Ice. _haukr_.]

HAWK, hawk, _v.i._ to force up matter from the throat.--_n._ the effort to
do this. [_Imit._]

HAWK, hawk, _n._ a plasterer's tool.

HAWKED, hawkt, _adj._ (_Scot._) spotted, streaked.--_ns._ HAW'KEY, HAW'KIE,
a dark cow with white-striped face.

HAWKER, hawk'[.e]r, _n._ one who carries about goods for sale on his back,
a pedlar.--_v.t._ HAWK, to carry about for sale: to cry for sale. [Cf. Low
Ger. and Ger. _höker_, Dut. _heuker_.]

HAWM, hawm, _v.i._ (_prov._) to lounge about.

HAWSE, hawz, _n._ the part of a vessel's bow in which the hawse-holes are
cut.--_n.pl._ HAWSE'-HOLES, the holes in a ship's bow through which the
cables pass.--_ns._ HAWSE'-PIPE, an iron pipe fitted into a hawse-hole, to
save the wood; HAWSE'-TIM'BER, one of the upright timbers in the bow in
which the hawse-holes are cut. [Ice. _háls_, the neck.]

HAWSER, häz'[.e]r, _n._ a small cable, a large rope used in
warping.--_adj._ HAWS'ER-LAID, made of three small ropes laid up into one.
[O. Fr. _haucier_, _haulser_, to raise--Low L. _altiare_--L. _altus_,
high.]

HAWTHORN. See HAW.

HAY, h[=a], _n._ grass cut down and dried for fodder.--_ns._ HAY'COCK, a
conical pile of hay in the field; HAY'-F[=E]'VER, an ailment mostly met
with in early summer, marked by excessive irritation of the nose, throat,
&c., and accompanied with violent sneezing and intense headache--also
called HAY'-ASTH'MA; HAY'FIELD, a field where hay is made; HAY'-FORK, a
long-handled fork used in turning over hay to dry, or in lifting it;
HAY'-KNIFE, a broad knife, with a handle set cross-wise at one end, used
for cutting hay from a stack; HAY'-LOFT, a loft in which hay is kept;
HAY'-MAK'ER, one employed in cutting and drying grass for hay: (_pl._) a
kind of country-dance; HAY'-MAK'ING; HAY'-MOW, a rick of hay: a mass of hay
stored in a barn; HAY'-RICK, a pile of hay; HAY'-STACK, a stack of hay;
HAY'-TED'DER, a machine for scattering hay and exposing it to the sun and
air.--LOOK FOR A NEEDLE IN A HAY-STACK, to look for something where it is
barely possible to be found; MAKE HAY, to throw things into confusion; MAKE
HAY WHILE THE SUN SHINES, to seize a favourable opportunity. [A.S. _híeg_,
_híg_, _hég_; Ger. _heu_, Dut. _hooï_, Ice. _hey_.]

HAY, h[=a], _n._ a hedge, fence.--_n._ HAY'-WARD, one who herded the common
cattle of a town. [A.S. _hege_--_haga_, a hedge.]

HAY, h[=a], _n._ (_Shak._) a home-thrust in fencing. [It. _hai_,
_avere_--L. _hab[=e]re_, to have.]

HAY, h[=a], _n._ a country-dance with winding movement.

HAZARD, haz'ard, _n._ a game played with a dice-box and two dice by any
number of players: chance: accident: risk: (_billiards_) the pocketing of
the object ball (_winning_ hazard), of the player's own ball after contact
(_losing_ hazard): (_tennis_) the side of the court into which the ball is
served: (_golf_) a general term for all difficulties on a
golf-links--bunkers, long grass, roads, water, whins, &c.--_v.t._ to expose
to chance: to risk: to venture.--_v.i._ to run a risk.--_adj._
HAZ'ARDABLE.--_n._ HAZ'ARDISE (_Spens._), hazard.--_adj._ HAZ'ARDOUS,
dangerous: perilous: uncertain.--_adv_. HAZ'ARDOUSLY.--_ns._
HAZ'ARDOUSNESS; HAZ'ARDRY (_Spens._), playing at games of hazard or chance:
rashness; CHICK'EN-HAZ'ARD, a game of chance with very small stakes. [O.
Fr. _hasard_; prob. through the Sp. from Arab. _al z[=a]r_, the die; but
Littré favours William of Tyre's derivation from _Hasart_, a castle in
Syria, where the game was discovered during the Crusades.]

HAZE, h[=a]z, _n._ vapour which renders the air thick: obscurity.--_v.i._
to form a haze.--_adv._ HAZ'ILY.--_n._ HAZ'INESS.--_adj._ HAZ'Y, thick with
haze: obscure: confused (of the mind). [App. not the A.S. _hasu_, _haswe_,
gray; prob. Ice. _höss_, gray.]

HAZE, h[=a]z, _v.t._ to vex with needless tasks: to play tricks upon, to
bully.--_ns._ HAZ'ER, a player of boorish pranks and practical jokes;
HAZ'ING, brutal horse-play. [O. Fr. _haser_, to annoy.]

HAZEL, h[=a]'zl, _n._ a bush or small tree of genus _Corylus_, of the oak
family (_Cupuliferæ_), yielding an ovoid bony nut enclosed in a leafy
involucre.--_adj._ pertaining to the hazel: of a light-brown colour, like a
hazel-nut.--_n._ H[=A]'ZELINE, an alcoholic distillate from the Witch
Hazel.--_adj._ H[=A]'ZELLY, light brown like the hazel-nut.--_n._
H[=A]'ZEL-NUT, the nut of the hazel-tree. [A.S. _hæsel_; Ger. _hasel_, Ice.
_hasl_, L. _corulus_.]

HE, h[=e], _pron._ of the third person: the male person named before: a
male person or animal.--_adj._ male. [A.S. _hé_; Dut. _hij_, Ice. _hann_.]

HEAD, hed, _n._ the uppermost or foremost part of an animal's body: the
brain: the understanding: a chief or leader: the place of honour or
command: the front or top of anything: an individual animal or person: a
topic or chief point of a discourse: a title, heading: the source or
spring: height of the source of water: highest point of anything:
culmination: a cape: strength: a froth on beer, porter, &c., when poured
into a glass.--_v.t._ to act as a head to, to lead or govern: to go in
front of: to commence: to check: (_naut._) to be contrary: (_obs._) to
behead.--_v.i._ to grow to a head: to originate: to go head foremost.--_n._
HEAD'ACHE, an internal pain in the head.--_adj._ HEAD'ACHY, afflicted with
headaches.--_ns._ HEAD'BAND, a band or fillet for the head: the band at
each end of a book: a thin slip of iron on the tympan of a printing-press;
HEAD'-BLOCK, in a sawmill carriage, a cross-block on which the head of the
log rests: a piece of wood in a carriage, connected with the spring and the
perches, and joining the fore-gear and the hind-gear; HEAD'-BOARD, a board
placed at the head of anything, esp. a bedstead; HEAD'-BOOM, a jib-boom or
a flying jib-boom; HEAD'BOR'OUGH, an old term for the head of a borough,
the chief of a frank pledge, tithing, or decennary; HEAD'-BOY, the senior
boy in a public school; HEAD'CHAIR, a high-backed chair with a rest for the
head; HEAD'-CHEESE, pork-cheese, brawn; HEAD'-CHUTE, a canvas tube used to
convey refuse matter from a ship's bows down to the water; HEAD'-CLOTH, a
piece of cloth covering the head, wound round a turban, &c.; HEAD'-DRESS,
an ornamental dress or covering for the head, worn by women.--_p.adj._
HEAD'ED, having a head: (_Shak._) come to a head.--_ns._ HEAD'ER, one who
puts a head on something: a dive, head foremost, into water: a brick laid
lengthwise along the thickness of a wall, serving as a bond: a heavy stone
extending through the thickness of a wall; HEAD'-FAST, a rope at the bows
of a ship used to fasten it to a wharf, &c.; HEAD'-FRAME, the structure
over a mine-shaft supporting the head-gear or winding machinery;
HEAD'-GEAR, gear, covering, or ornament of the head; HEAD'-HUNT'ING, the
practice among the Dyaks of Borneo, &c., of making raids to procure human
heads for trophies, &c.--_adv._ HEAD'ILY.--_ns._ HEAD'INESS; HEAD'ING, the
act of furnishing with a head; that which stands at the head: material
forming a head; HEAD'LAND, a point of land running out into the sea: a
cape.--_adj._ HEAD'LESS, without a head.--_ns._ HEAD'-LIGHT, a light
carried in front of a vessel, locomotive, or vehicle, as a signal, or for
light; HEAD'-LINE, the line at the head or top of a page containing the
folio or number of the page: (_pl._) the sails and ropes next the yards
(_naut._).--_adv._ HEAD'LONG, with the head foremost or first: without
thought, rashly: precipitately.--_adj._ rash: precipitous, steep.--_adj._
HEAD'-LUGGED (_Shak._), lugged or dragged along by the head.--_ns._
HEAD'-MAN, a chief, a leader; HEAD'MARK, a characteristic peculiar to a
certain class; HEAD'-MAS'TER, the principal master of a school; HEAD'-MOLD,
the skull proper: (_archit._) a moulding round or over the head of a door,
&c.; HEAD'-MONEY, a tax counted per head: a reward by the head for persons
captured at sea, &c.: a reward for a proscribed outlaw's head.--_adj._
HEAD'MOST, most advanced, or forward.--_ns._ HEAD'-NOTE, a note placed at
the head of a chapter or page, esp. a condensed statement of points of law
involved introductory to the report of a legal decision; HEAD'PIECE, a
helmet: a hat: head, intelligence: (_print._) a decorative engraving placed
at the top of the first page of a volume, and at the beginning of books,
chapters, &c.; HEAD'-PUMP, a small pump at a ship's bows to pump up
sea-water for washing decks.--_n.pl._ HEAD'QUARTERS, the quarters or
residence of a commander-in-chief or general.--_ns._ HEAD'-RACE, the race
which brings the water to a water-wheel; HEAD'-REACH, the distance to
windward made by a vessel while tacking.--_v.i._ to shoot ahead, in
tacking.--_ns._ HEAD'-REST, a support for the head, esp. the adjustable
apparatus of the barber's chair, and that used by the photographer to
steady the sitter's head; HEAD'-RING, a palm-leaf ornament worn by Kaffir
men in their hair after marriage; HEAD'-SHAKE, a significant shake or
motion of the head; HEAD'-SHIP, the office of a head or chief authority:
dignity; HEADS'MAN, a man who cuts off heads: an executioner; HEAD'STALL,
the part of a bridle round the head; HEAD'-ST[=A]'TION, the dwelling-house,
&c., on an Australian sheep or cattle station; HEAD'-STICK (_print._), a
straight piece of furniture placed at the head of a form, between the chase
and the type; HEAD'STONE, the principal stone of a building: the
corner-stone: the stone at the head of a grave; HEAD'-STREAM, the highest
of the streams which combine to form a river.--_adj._ HEAD'STRONG,
self-willed: obstinate.--_ns._ HEAD'-TIRE, a head-dress; HEAD'-WA'TER, the
highest part of a stream, before receiving affluents; HEAD'WAY, motion
ahead, esp. of a ship; HEAD'-WIND, a wind blowing right against a ship's
head; HEAD'-WORD, a title word or heading usually in distinctive type;
HEAD'-WORK, intellectual labour.--_adj._ HEAD'Y, affecting the head or the
brain: intoxicating: inflamed: rash: violent.--HEAD AND EARS, with the
whole person: completely; HEAD AND SHOULDERS, very much, as if taller by a
head and shoulders: violently; HEAD FOREMOST, with the head first, esp. of
falling from a height; HEAD OR TAIL, the side of a coin with the
sovereign's head, or the reverse: a phrase used in tossing up a coin to
decide a point ('to make neither head nor tail of anything'--to be unable
to understand it); HEAD OVER HEELS, in a somersault.--COME TO A HEAD, to
reach a climax; EAT ONE'S HEAD OFF, to be consumed with mortification; GO
BY THE HEAD, to sink head foremost; HAVE A HEAD ON ONE'S SHOULDERS, to have
brains or ability; HEAD OFF, to prevent by some counteraction; LOSE ONE'S
HEAD, to become very much excited: to lose presence of mind; MAKE HEAD
AGAINST, to resist successfully: to advance; OFF ONE'S HEAD, demented,
crazy; OUT OF ONE'S OWN HEAD, spontaneously; OVER HEAD AND EARS, deeply
engrossed; TURN A PERSON'S HEAD (see TURN). [A.S. _héafod_, Dut. _hoofd_,
Ger. _haupt_.]

HEAL, h[=e]l, _v.t._ to make whole and healthy: to cure: to remove or
subdue what is evil: to restore to soundness, to remedy, repair.--_v.i._ to
grow sound:--_pr.p._ heal'ing; _pa.p._ healed.--_adj._ HEAL'ABLE.--_ns._
HEAL'ER; HEAL'ING, the act or process by which anything is healed or cured:
the power to heal.--_adj._ tending to cure, mild.--_adv._
HEAL'INGLY.--_adj._ HEAL'SOME (_Scot._), wholesome. [A.S. _h['æ]lan_,
_hál_, whole; cf. Ger. _heil_, Dut. _heel_, Ice. _heill_; also Eng. _hail_,
_hale_, _whole_.]

HEALD, h[=e]ld, _n._ the same as Heddle (q.v.).

HEALTH, helth, _n._ wholeness or soundness of body: general state of the
body, as in 'ill health,' 'good health,' soundness and vigour of mind: a
toast, as 'to drink one's health'--to drink to the health of: (_B._)
salvation, or divine favour.--_adj._ HEALTH'FUL, full of or enjoying
health: indicating health: wholesome: salutary.--_adv._ HEALTH'FULLY.--_n._
HEALTH'FULNESS.--_adv._ HEALTH'ILY.--_n._ HEALTH'INESS.--_adj._
HEALTH'LESS, sickly, ailing.--_ns._ HEALTH'LESSNESS; HEALTH'-RESORT', a
place to which people go for the good of their health.--_adjs._ HEALTH'SOME
(_Shak._), healthy, wholesome; HEALTH'Y, in a state of good health:
conducive to health: sound in body or mind: vigorous. [A.S. _hælth_--_hál_,
whole.]

HEAP, h[=e]p, _n._ a pile or mass heaved or thrown together: a great number
of things, a great deal, a collection: (_B._) a ruin.--_v.t._ to throw in a
heap or pile: to amass: to pile above the top:--_pr.p._ heap'ing; _pa.p._
heaped.--_adj._ HEAP'Y, full of heaps.--A HEAP, a good many; KNOCK ALL OF A
HEAP, to confound utterly. [A.S. _héap_: Ice. _hópr_, Ger. _haufe_, Dut.
_hoop_.]

HEAR, h[=e]r, _v.t._ to perceive by the ear: to comprehend: to listen to:
to grant or obey: to answer favourably: to attend to: to try judicially: to
be a hearer of: (_Milt._) to be called.--_v.i._ to have the sense of
hearing: to listen: to be told:--_pr.p._ hear'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
heard (h[.e]rd).--_ns._ HEAR'ER; HEAR'ING, act of perceiving by the ear:
the sense of perceiving sound: opportunity to be heard: audience: judicial
investigation and hearing of arguments, esp. of trial without a jury: reach
of the ear: (_coll._) a scolding; HEAR'SAY, common talk: rumour:
report.--_adj._ of or pertaining to a report given by others.--_v.i._ to
repeat rumours.--HEAR, HEAR! an exclamation of approval, uttered by the
hearers of a speech; HEARSAY EVIDENCE, evidence at second hand; HEAR TELL
OF, to hear some one speak of; I WILL NOT HEAR OF, I will not listen to the
notion or proposal. [A.S. _hýran_; Dut. _hooren_, Ice. _heyra_, Ger.
_hören_, Goth. _hausjan_.]

HEARKEN, härk'n, _v.i._ to hear attentively: to listen. [A.S. _hýrcnian_,
from _hýran_, to hear; Ger. _horchen_.]

HEARSAL, h[.e]r'sal, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as REHEARSAL.

HEARSE, h[.e]rs, _n._ a carriage in which the dead are conveyed to the
grave: (_orig._) a triangular framework for holding candles at a church
service, and esp. at a funeral service.--_v.t._ to put on or in a
hearse.--_n._ HEARSE'-CLOTH, a pall for a corpse laid on a bier.--_adj._
HEARSE'-LIKE, suitable to a funeral, mournful. [O. Fr. _herse_ (It.
_erpice_)--L. _hirpicem_, accus. of _hirpex_, a harrow.]

HEART, härt, _n._ the organ in animal systems that circulates the blood:
the vital, inner, or chief part of anything: the seat of the affections,
&c., esp. love: the affections: courage: vigour: secret meaning or design:
that which resembles a heart: a person, esp. as implying courage or
affectionateness--a term of endearment or encouragement: anything
heart-shaped, esp. that one of the four suits in a pack of cards bearing a
heart in red.--_v.t._ to encourage, hearten.--_v.i._ to form a compact
head, as a plant.--_ns._ HEART'ACHE, sorrow: anguish; HEART'-BEAT, a
pulsation of the heart: a throb of emotion, a thought; HEART'-BLOOD, blood
of the heart: life, essence; HEART'-BOND, in masonry, a bond in which one
header overlaps two others; HEART'-BREAK, a sorrow or grief.--_v.t._ to
break the heart of.--_n._ HEART'-BREAK'ER, a flirt: a curl,
love-lock.--_adjs._ HEART'-BREAK'ING, crushing with grief or sorrow;
HEART'-BROK'EN, intensely afflicted or grieved.--_ns._ HEART'BURN, a
burning, acrid feeling, said to be due to the irritation of the upper end
of the stomach by the fumes of its acrid contents: cardialgia:
HEART'BURNING, discontent: secret enmity.--_adj._ HEART'-DEAR (_Shak._),
dear to the heart, sincerely beloved.--_n._ HEART'-DISEASE', any morbid
condition of the heart, whether of the various tissues composing it, or of
the nervous arrangements governing it.--_adjs._ HEART'-EAS'ING, giving
peace to the mind; HEART'ED, having a heart of a specified kind
(hard-hearted, &c.): seated or fixed in the heart, laid up in the
heart.--_v.t._ HEART'EN, to encourage, stimulate: to add strength
to.--_adjs._ HEART'-FELT, felt deeply: sincere; HEART'FREE, having the
affections free or disengaged.--_ns._ HEART'-GRIEF, grief or affliction of
the heart; HEART'-HEAV'INESS, depression of spirits.--_adv._ HEART'ILY, in
a hearty manner: cordially: eagerly.--_n._ HEART'INESS, the state or
quality of being hearty.--_adj._ HEART'LESS, without heart, courage, or
feeling.--_adv._ HEART'LESSLY.--_ns._ HEART'LESSNESS; HEART'LET, a little
heart.--_interj._ HEART'LING (_Shak._), little heart, used in a minced
oath.--_n._ HEART'-QUAKE, trembling, fear.--_adjs._ HEART'-REND'ING, deeply
afflictive: agonising; HEART'-ROB'BING (_Spens._), stealing the affections:
blissful.--_ns._ HEART'-ROT, a disease producing decay in the hearts of
trees, caused by the mycelia of various fungi; HEART'S'-EASE, a common name
for the pansy, a species of violet, an infusion of which was once thought
to ease the love-sick heart; HEART'-SEED, a general name of plants of genus
_Cardiospermum_, esp. the U.S. balloon-vine; HEART'-SERV'ICE, sincere
devotion, as opposed to _Eye-service_.--_adjs._ HEART'-SHAPED, shaped like
the human heart; HEART'-SICK, pained in mind: depressed.--_n._
HEART'-SICK'NESS.--_adjs._ HEART'SOME, exhilarating: merry; HEART'-SORE,
caused by pain at the heart.--_n._ (_Spens._) grief.--_n._ HEART'-SPOON,
the depression in the breastbone: the breastbone.--_adj._ HEART'-STIR'RING,
arousing the heart, exhilarating.--_n._ HEART'-STRING, a nerve or tendon
supposed to brace and sustain the heart: (_pl._) affections.--_adjs._
HEART'-STRUCK (_Shak._), driven to the heart, deeply fixed in the mind:
(_Milt._) shocked, dismayed; HEART'-SWELL'ING (_Spens._), rankling in the
heart or mind.--_ns._ HEART'-WHEEL, HEART'-CAM, a form of cam-wheel used
for converting uniform rotary motion into uniform reciprocating
motion.--_adj._ HEART'-WHOLE, whole at heart: unmoved in the affections or
spirits.--_n._ HEART'-WOOD, the hard inner wood of a tree--also called
_Duramen_.--_adjs._ HEART'Y, full of, or proceeding from, the heart: warm:
genuine: strong: healthy; HEART'Y-HALE (_Spens._), wholesome or good for
the heart.--HEART-AND-HAND, HEART-AND-SOUL, with complete heartiness, with
complete devotion to a cause; HEART OF HEARTS, the inmost heart: deepest
affections; HEART OF OAK, a brave, resolute heart.--AFTER MY OWN HEART, to
my own liking; AT HEART, in real character: substantially; BREAK THE HEART,
to die of grief or disappointment: to cause deep grief to any one; BY
HEART, by rote: in the memory; EAT ONE'S HEART (see EAT); FIND IN ONE'S
HEART, to be willing or ready to do something; FOR ONE'S HEART, for one's
life; GET, HAVE, BY HEART, to commit to memory, or to hold in one's memory;
HAVE AT HEART, to wish earnestly for: to hold in dear esteem; HAVE ONE'S
HEART IN ONE'S BOOTS, MOUTH, to be in a state of terror; LAY, TAKE, TO
HEART, to set one's mind strongly upon: to be deeply moved by something;
OUT OF HEART, in low spirits; SET THE HEART AT REST, to become easy in
mind; SET THE HEART UPON, to desire earnestly; SPEAK TO THE HEART (_B._),
to comfort, encourage; TAKE HEART, to be encouraged; TAKE HEART OF GRACE
(see GRACE); TAKE TO HEART, to be deeply pained at anything; WEAR THE HEART
UPON THE SLEEVE, to show the feelings, &c., openly; WITH ALL MY HEART, most
willingly. [A.S. _heorte_; Dut. _hart_, Ger. _herz_; cog. with L. _cor_,
_cordis_, Gr. _kardia_.]

HEARTH, härth, _n._ the part of the floor on which the fire is made: the
fireside: the house itself: the home-circle: the lowest part of a
blast-furnace: a brazier, chafing-dish, or fire-box.--_ns._ HEARTH'-MON'EY,
HEARTH'-PENN'Y, HEARTH'-TAX, a tax in England, formerly laid upon hearths;
HEARTH'-RUG, a rug used for covering the hearth-stone; HEARTH'-STONE, a
stone forming a hearth, the fireside: a soft stone used for whitening
hearths, doorsteps, &c. [A.S. _heorð_; Dut. _haard_, Ger. _herd_.]

HEAST, h[=e]st, _n._ (_Spens._) command--same as Hest (q.v.).

HEAT, h[=e]t, _n._ that which excites the sensation of warmth: sensation of
warmth: a heating: exposure to intense heat: a warm temperature: the
warmest period, as the heat of the day: indication of warmth, flush,
redness: vehemence, passion; sexual excitement, or its period, esp. of the
female, corresponding to _rut_ in the male: a single course in a race:
animation.--_v.t._ to make hot: to agitate.--_v.i._ to become hot:--_pr.p._
heat'ing; _pa.p._ heat'ed.--_n._ HEAT'-AP'OPLEXY, sunstroke.--_p.adj._
HEAT'ED.--_ns._ HEAT'-EN'GINE, an engine which transforms heat into
mechanical work; HEAT'ER, one who, or that which, heats: a piece of
cast-iron heated and then placed in a hollow flat-iron, &c.--_adjs_.
HEAT'ER-SHAPED, triangular, like the common heater; HEAT'ING, causing or
imparting heat.--_ns._ HEAT'-SPOT, a spot on the surface of the body where
a sensation of heat is felt; HEAT'-[=U]'NIT, amount of heat required to
raise a pound of water one degree.--LATENT HEAT, the quantity of heat
absorbed when bodies pass from the solid into the liquid, or from the
liquid into the gaseous, state; MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT, the relation
between heat and work--viz. the amount of molecular energy required to
produce one heat-unit; SPECIFIC HEAT, the number of heat-units necessary to
raise the unit of mass of a given substance one degree in temperature.
[A.S. _h['æ]to_, heat, _hát_, hot; Ger. _hitze_.]

HEATH, h[=e]th, _n._ a barren open country: any shrub of genus _Erica_, or
its congener _Calluna_, of the heath family (_Ericaceæ_), a hardy evergreen
under-shrub.--_ns._ HEATH'-BELL, same as HEATHER-BELL; HEATH'-COCK, a large
bird which frequents heaths: the black grouse:--_fem._ HEATH'-HEN;
HEATH'-POULT, the heath-bird, esp. the female or young.--_adj._ HEATH'Y,
abounding with heath. [A.S. _h['æ]ð_; Ger. _heide_, Goth. _haithi_, a
waste.]

HEATHEN, h[=e]'_th_n, _n._ an inhabitant of an unchristian country, one
neither Christian, Jewish, nor Mohammedan: (_B._) the Gentiles: a pagan: an
irreligious person.--_adj._ pagan, irreligious.--_n._ HEA'THENDOM, the
condition of a heathen: those regions of the world where heathenism
prevails.--_v.t._ HEA'THENISE, to make heathen or heathenish.--_adj._
HEA'THENISH, relating to the heathen: rude: uncivilised: cruel.--_adv._
HEA'THENISHLY.--_ns._ HEA'THENISHNESS; HEA'THENISM, the religious system of
the heathens: paganism: barbarism; HEA'THENRY, heathenism: heathendom.
[A.S. _h['æ]ðen_, a heathen; Dut. _heiden_.]

HEATHER, he_th_'[.e]r, _n._ the Scotch name for the native species of the
Linnæan genus _Erica_, called in the north of England Ling, esp. _Erica_
(now _Calluna_) _vulgaris_, Common Heather, and _Erica cinerea_,
Fine-leaved Heath or Lesser Bell-heather.--_adj._ of the colour of
heather.--_ns._ HEATH'ER-ALE, a famous liquor traditionally brewed in
Scotland from the bells of heather; HEATH'ER-BELL, a name given to _Erica
tetralix_ (or specially to its blossom), and sometimes also to _Erica
cinerea_.--_adj._ HEATH'ERY, of or pertaining to heather.--SET THE HEATHER
ON FIRE, to create a disturbance; TAKE TO THE HEATHER, to become an outlaw.
[Usually derived from _heath_.]

HEAUME, h[=o]m, _n._ (_arch._) a massive helmet.

HEAVE, h[=e]v, _v.t._ to lift up: to throw upward: to draw in any
direction, as by a windlass: to cause to swell: to force from the breast:
(_geol._) to move away or displace (a vein or stratum).--_v.i._ to be
raised: to rise and fall: to try to vomit:--_pr.p._ heav'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ heaved or (_naut._) h[=o]ve.--_n._ an effort upward: a throw: a
swelling: an effort to vomit: broken wind in horses.--_ns._
HEAVE'-OFF'ERING, a voluntary Jewish offering lifted up before the Lord by
the priest; HEAV'ER, one who, or that which, heaves; HEAVES, a disease in
horses; HEAVE'-SHOUL'DER, the shoulder of an animal elevated in sacrifice;
HEAV'ING, a rising: swell: (_Shak._) panting.--HEAVE HO! an exclamation
used by sailors in putting forth exertion, as in heaving the anchor; HEAVE
IN SIGHT, to come into view; HEAVE TO, to bring a vessel to a stand-still,
to make her lie to. [A.S. _hebban_, pa.t. _hóf_, pa.p. _hafen_; Ger.
_heben_.]

HEAVEN, hev'n, _n._ the arch of sky overhanging the earth: the air: a zone
or region: a very great and indefinite height: the dwelling-place of the
Deity and the blessed: the Deity as inhabiting heaven: supreme
happiness.--_adjs._ HEAV'EN-BORN, descended from heaven; HEAV'EN-BRED
(_Shak._), bred or produced in heaven; HEAV'EN-DIRECT'ED, pointing to the
sky: divinely guided; HEAV'EN-FALL'EN (_Milt._), fallen from heaven, having
rebelled against God; HEAV'EN-GIFT'ED, granted by heaven; HEAV'EN-KISS'ING
(_Shak._), kissing or touching, as it were, the sky.--_n._
HEAV'ENLINESS.--_adj._ HEAV'ENLY, of or inhabiting heaven: celestial: pure:
supremely blessed: very excellent.--_adv._ in a manner like that of heaven:
by the influence of heaven.--_adj._ HEAV'ENLY-MIND'ED, having the mind
placed upon heavenly things: pure.--_n._ HEAV'ENLY-MIND'EDNESS.--_advs._
HEAV'ENWARD, HEAV'ENWARDS, toward or in the direction of heaven.--HEAVEN OF
HEAVENS (_B._), the highest of the heavens, the abode and seat of God; IN
THE SEVENTH HEAVEN, in a state of the most exalted happiness--from the
system of the Cabbalists, who divided the heavens into seven in an
ascending scale of happiness up to the abode of God. [A.S. _heofon_; not to
be conn. with _heave_.]

HEAVY, hev'i, _adj_. weighty: not easy to bear: oppressive: afflicted:
inactive: dull, lacking brightness and interest: inclined to slumber:
violent: loud: not easily digested, as food: miry, as soil: having
strength, as liquor: dark with clouds: gloomy: expensive: (_B._) sad:
(_theat._) pertaining to the representation of grave or serious
parts.--_adv._ HEAV'ILY.--_n._ HEAV'INESS.--_adjs._ HEAV'Y-ARMED, bearing
heavy armour or arms; HEAV'Y-HAND'ED, clumsy, awkward: oppressive;
HEAV'Y-HEAD'ED, having a heavy or large head: dull, stupid, drowsy;
HEAV'Y-HEART'ED, weighed down with grief; HEAV'Y-L[=A]D'EN, laden with a
heavy burden.--_n._ HEAV'Y-SPAR, native sulphate of barium, barytes.--HEAVY
MARCHING ORDER, the condition of troops fully equipped for field service;
HEAVY METAL, guns or shot of large size: great influence or power;
HEAVY-WEIGHT, one beyond the average weight, esp. in sporting phrase, one
placed highest in the ascending scale, _feather-weight_, _light-weight_,
_middle-weight_, _heavy-weight_; HEAVY WET, a drink of strong ale or ale
and porter mixed.--THE HEAVIES (_mil._), the heavy cavalry: those who play
heavy parts. [A.S. _hefig_--_hebban_, to heave; Old High Ger. _hebîg_.]

HEBDOMADAL, heb-dom'a-dal, _adj._ occurring every seven days: weekly--also
HEBDOM'ADARY.--_n._ HEB'DOMAD, the number seven, a group of seven things, a
week: in some Gnostic systems, a group of superhuman beings, angels, or
divine emanations, the sphere of the Demiurge lower than the ogdoad--from
the idea of the seven planets.--_adv._ HEBDOM'ADALLY, from week to
week.--_n._ HEBDOM'ADARY, a member of a chapter or convent who officiates
in the choir, &c., on a certain week.--HEBDOMADAL COUNCIL, a board which
practically manages the business of the university of Oxford, usually
meeting weekly. [L. _hebdomadalis_--Gr. _hebdomas_, a period of seven
days--_hepta_, seven.]

HEBE, h[=e]'b[=e], _n._ a personification of youth and spring, from the
name of the daughter of Zeus and Hera, who was cup-bearer of Olympus.

HEBEN, heb'n, _n._ and _adj._ (_Spens._) ebony.

HEBENON, heb'e-non, _n._ (_Shak._) a poisonous juice. [Perh. _ebony_, or a
corr. of _henbane_.]

HEBETATE, heb'e-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to make dull or blunt.--_adj._ HEB'ETANT,
making dull.--_ns._ HEBET[=A]'TION, HEB'ET[=U]DE; HEBETUDINOS'ITY.--_adj._
HEBET[=U]'DINOUS. [L. _hebet[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_hebes_, blunt.]

HEBREW, h[=e]'br[=oo], _n._ one of the descendants of Abraham, who
emigrated from beyond the Euphrates into Palestine: an Israelite, a Jew:
the language of the Hebrews (_fem._ H[=E]'BREWESS, _B._): (_coll._)
unintelligible speech.--_adj._ relating to the Hebrews.--_adjs._
HEBR[=A]'IC, -AL, relating to the Hebrews or to their language.--_adv._
HEBR[=A]'ICALLY, after the manner of the Hebrew language: from right to
left.--_n._ HEBR[=A]'ICISM.--_v.t._ H[=E]'BRAISE, to express as in Hebrew:
to conform or incline to Hebrew ideals.--_ns._ H[=E]'BRAISER; H[=E]'BRAISM,
a Hebrew idiom; H[=E]'BRAIST, one skilled in HEBREW.--_adjs._ HEBRAIST'IC,
-AL, of or like Hebrew.--_adv._ HEBRAIST'ICALLY.--_n._ H[=E]'BREWISM. [O.
Fr. _Ebreu_--L. _Hebræus_--Gr. _Hebraios_--Heb. _`ibrî_, lit. 'one from the
other side (of the river).']

HEBRIDEAN, h[=e]-brid'[=e]-an, -i-an, _adj._ pertaining to the
_Hebrides_--also HEBRID'IAN.--_n._ a native thereof.

HECATE, hek'a-t[=e], _n._ a mysterious goddess, in Hesiod having power over
earth, heaven, and sea--afterwards identified with many other goddesses,
her power above all displayed in the matter of ghosts and bogies. [L.,--Gr.
_Hekat[=e]_--_hekas_, far.]

HECATOMB, hek'a-tom, _n._ among the Greeks and Romans, a sacrifice of a
hundred oxen: a great public sacrifice: any large number of victims. [Gr.
_hekatomb[=e]_--_hekaton_, a hundred, _bous_, an ox.]

HECATONTOME, hek'a-ton-t[=o]m, _n._ (_Milt._) a very large number of books.
[Gr. _hekaton_, a hundred, _tomos_, a volume.]

HECH, heh, _interj._ (_Scot._) an exclamation of surprise.

HECHT, heht, Scotch form of _hight_, v.

HECK, hek, _n._ (_Scot._) a rack in a stable for hay, &c.: a grated
contrivance for catching fish: a contrivance in a spinning-wheel, and also
in a warping-mill, by which the yarn or thread is guided to the
reels.--LIVE AT HECK AND MANGER, to be in very comfortable quarters. [A.S.
_hec_, _hæc_; Dut. _hek_.]

HECKLE, hek'l, _v.i._ to comb: to put a parliamentary candidate, or the
like, through a series of embarrassing questions.--_n._ the same as
HACK'LE, HATCH'EL.--_ns._ HECK'LE, the long shining feathers on a cock's
neck, a feather ornament in the full-dress bonnets of Highland regiments;
HECK'LER, one who torments a candidate with catching questions.

HECTARE, hek'tär, _n._ a superficial measure=100 ares, 10,000 sq. metres,
or nearly 2½ acres (2.471). [Fr.,--Gr. _hekaton_, 100, L. _area_, area.]

HECTIC, -AL, hek'tik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the constitution or habit
of body: affected with hectic fever.--_n._ HEC'TIC, a habitual or remittent
fever, usually associated with consumption.--_adj._ HEC'TOID, of a hectic
appearance.--HECTIC FEVER, the name given to the fever which occurs in
connection with certain wasting diseases of long duration. [Fr.,--Gr.
_hektikos_, habitual--_hexis_, habit.]

HECTOGRAMME, hek'to-gram, _n._ a weight of 100 grammes, or nearly ¼ lb.
(3.527 ounces). [Fr.,--Gr. _hekaton_, 100, and _gramme_.]

HECTOGRAPH, hek'to-graf, _n._ a gelatine pad for receiving a copy and
therefrom multiplying a writing or drawing.--_v.t._ to reproduce by means
of this.--_adj._ HECTOGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _hekaton_, a hundred,
_graph_--_graphein_, to write.]

HECTOLITRE, hek'to-lit'r, _n._ a unit of capacity of 100 litres, 22.01
imperial gallons.

HECTOMETRE, hek'to-m[=e]t-[.e]r, _n._ a unit of length equal to 100 metres,
or about 1/16th (.0621) of a mile.

HECTOR, hek'tor, _n._ a bully, a street brawler: one who annoys.--_v.t._ to
treat insolently: to annoy.--_v.i._ to play the bully.--_ns._ HEC'TORER;
HEC'TORISM.--_adv._ HEC'TORLY.--_n._ HEC'TORSHIP. [_Hector_, the Trojan.]

HECTOSTERE, hek'to-st[=e]r, _n._ a measure of solidity of 100 cubic metres,
3531.56 Eng. cubic feet.

HEDDLE, hed'l, _n._ a series of vertical cords or wires, each having in the
middle a loop (HEDD'LE-EYE) to receive a warp-thread, and passing round and
between parallel bars.--_v.t._ to draw warp-threads through heddle-eyes.
[An assumed A.S. _hefedl_, earlier form of _hefeld_.]

HEDEOMA, h[=e]-d[=e]-[=o]'ma, _n._ a genus of herbaceous aromatic plants,
the best-known species being the American Pennyroyal. [Gr. _h[=e]dys_,
sweet.]

HEDERA, hed'er-a, _n._ a genus of climbing plants, best represented by the
common ivy.--_adjs._ HEDER[=A]'CEOUS; HED'ERAL; HED'ERATED; HEDER'IC;
HEDERIF'EROUS. [L.]

HEDGE, hej, _n._ a thicket of bushes: a fence round a field, &c.: any means
of protection.--_v.t._ to enclose with a hedge: to obstruct: to surround:
to guard: to protect one's self from loss by betting on both sides.--_v.i._
to shuffle: to be shifty: to skulk.--_ns._ HEDGE'BILL, HEDG'ING-BILL, a
bill or hatchet for dressing hedges.--_adj._ HEDGE'-BORN, of low birth, as
if born under a hedge or in the woods: low: obscure.--_ns._ HEDGE'BOTE, an
old word for the right of a tenant to cut wood on the farm or land for
repairing the hedges or fences; HEDGE'-CREEP'ER, a sneaking rogue;
HEDGE'HOG, a small prickly-backed quadruped, so called from living in
hedges and bushes, and its resemblance to a hog or pig; HEDGE'HOG-PLANT, a
species of medick, having the pods spirally twisted and rolled up into a
ball beset with spines; HEDGE'HOG-THIS'TLE, hedgehog-cactus;
HEDGE'-HYSS'OP, a European perennial plant of the figwort family, with
emetic and purgative qualities; HEDGE'-KNIFE, an instrument for trimming
hedges; HEDGE'-MAR'RIAGE, a clandestine marriage; HEDGE'-MUS'TARD, a genus
of plants of order _Cruciferæ_, annual or rarely perennial, with small
yellow or white flowers; HEDGE'-NOTE, a valueless literary attempt;
HEDGE'-PAR'SON, a mean parson, generally illiterate; HEDGE'PIG (_Shak._), a
young hedgehog; HEDGE'-PRIEST, an ignorant itinerant priest; HEDG'ER, one
who dresses hedges; HEDGE'ROW, a row of trees or shrubs for hedging fields;
HEDGE'-SCHOOL, an open-air school kept by the side of a hedge in Ireland;
HEDGE'-SHREW, the field-mouse; HEDGE'-SPARR'OW, HEDGE'-WAR'BLER, a little
singing bird, like a sparrow, which frequents hedges; HEDGE'-WRIT'ER, a
Grub-street author; HEDG'ING, the work of a hedger.--_adj._ HEDG'Y. [A.S.
_hecg_, _hegg_; Dut. _hegge_, Ger. _hecke_.]

HEDONISM, h[=e]d'[=o]-nizm, _n._ in ethics, the doctrine that happiness is
the highest good.--_adjs._ HEDON'IC, HEDONIST'IC.--_n.pl._ HEDON'ICS, the
doctrine of pleasure.--_n._ H[=E]'DONIST, one who advocates hedonism. [Gr.
_h[=e]don[=e]_, pleasure.]

HEDYPHANE, hed'i-f[=a]n, _n._ a colourless mimetite, containing calcium: a
variety of green lead ore. [Gr. _h[=e]dys_, sweet, _-phan[=e]s_,
appearing.]

HEED, h[=e]d, _v.t._ to observe: to look after: to attend to.--_n._ notice:
caution: attention.--_adj._ HEED'FUL, attentive, cautious.--_adv._
HEED'FULLY.--_ns._ HEED'FULNESS; HEED'INESS (_Spens._).--_adj._ HEED'LESS,
inattentive: careless.--_n._ HEED'LESSHOOD (_Spens._).--_adv._
HEED'LESSLY.--_n._ HEED'LESSNESS.--_adj._ HEED'Y (_Spens._), heedful,
careful. [A.S. _hédan_; Dut. _hoeden_, Ger. _hüten_.]

HEEHAW, h[=e]'hä, _v.i._ to bray, like an ass. [_Imit._]

HEEL, h[=e]l, _n._ the part of the foot projecting behind: the whole foot
(esp. of beasts): the covering of the heel, as on a boot: a spur: the
hinder part of anything.--_v.t._ to use the heel: to furnish with heels: to
arm with a steel spur, as a fighting cock: to seize by the heels: (_U.S._)
to supply with money.--_v.i._ to follow well (of a dog).--_n._ HEEL'-BALL,
a black waxy composition for blacking the heels and soles of boots, for
taking impressions of coins, &c., by rubbing: a shoemaker's last.--_p.adj._
HEELED, provided with a heel, shod: (_U.S._) comfortably supplied with
money.--_n._ HEEL'ER (_U.S._), an unscrupulous hanger-on of a political
party; HEEL'PIECE, a piece or cover for the heel; HEEL'-TAP, a small
quantity of beer or spirits left in the glass after drinking.--HEEL AND
TOE, with proper walking, as opposed to running; HEELS O'ER GOWDY
(_Scot._), heels over head; HEELS OVER HEAD, upside down.--AT, ON, UPON, A
PERSON'S HEELS, close behind; DOWN AT HEEL, having the heels of one's shoes
trodden down: slovenly: in poor circumstances; KICK ONE'S HEELS, to be kept
waiting for some time; LAY, SET, CLAP, BY THE HEELS, to fetter: to put in
confinement; OUT AT HEELS, having the stockings or shoes worn out at the
heels; SHOW A CLEAN PAIR OF HEELS, TAKE TO ONE'S HEELS, to run off with
haste: to flee; TRIP UP (ONE'S) HEELS, to trip up or overthrow him; TURN ON
(UPON) ONE'S HEEL, to turn sharply round, to turn back or away. [A.S.
_héla_; Dut. _hiel_.]

HEEL, h[=e]l, _v.i._ to incline: to lean on one side, as a ship.--_v.t._ to
tilt. [Earlier _heeld_, A.S. _hieldan_, to slope; cf. Dut. _hellen_.]

HEEZE, h[=e]z, _v.t._ (_Scot._) a form of hoise.--_n._ a lift.

HEFT, heft, _n._ heaving: (_Shak._) retching: (_U.S._) weight: the bulk
of.--_v.t._ to try the weight of.--_adj._ HEFT'Y, rather heavy: easy to
lift. [_Heave_.]

HEFT (_Spens._), obsolete form of _heaved_.

HEFT, heft, _v.t._ to accustom to a thing or place: (_Scot._) to attach.
[Cf. Ice. _hefdha_, Sw. _häfda_, Dan. _hævde_.]

HEFT, heft, _n._ a notebook, a number of sheets sewed together. [_Ger._]

HEGELIANISM, h[=e]-g[=e]'li-an-izm, _n._ the philosophical principles of
Wilhelm Friedrich _Hegel_ (1770-1831).--_adj._ H[=e]g[=e]'lian, of or
pertaining to Hegel.--_n._ a follower of Hegel.

HEGEMONY, h[=e]'jem-o-ni, _n._ leadership: control, esp. of one state over
others.--_adjs._ HEGEMON'IC, -AL.--_ns._ HEG[=U]'MEN, HEG[=U]'MENOS, the
head of a monastery:--_fem._ HEG[=U]'MENE, HEG[=U]'MENESS. [Gr.
_h[=e]gemonia_--_h[=e]gem[=o]n_, leader--_h[=e]geisthai_, to go before.]

HEGIRA, HEJIRA, hej'i-ra, _n._ the flight of Mohammed from Mecca, 15th July
622 A.D., from which is dated the Mohammedan era: any flight. [Ar.
_hijrah_, flight, _hajara_, to leave.]

HEIFER, hef'[.e]r, _n._ a young cow. [A.S. _héahfore_, _héahfru_, _-fre_;
prob. 'high-goer,' _faran_, to go.]

HEIGH, h[=i], _interj._ a cry of encouragement or exultation--also HEY,
HA.--_interj._ HEIGH'-HO, an exclamation expressive of weariness. [Imit.]

HEIGHT, h[=i]t, _n._ the condition of being high: distance upwards: that
which is elevated: a hill: elevation in rank or excellence: utmost
degree.--_v.t._ HEIGHT'EN, to make higher, to advance or improve: to make
brighter or more prominent. [Corr. of _highth_--A.S. _híehtho_,
_héahthu_--_héah_, high.]

HEINOUS, h[=a]'nus, _adj._ wicked in a high degree, enormous:
atrocious.--_adv._ HEI'NOUSLY.--_n._ HEI'NOUSNESS. [O. Fr. _haïnos_ (Fr.
_haineux_)--_haïr_, to hate.]

HEIR, [=a]r, _n._ one who inherits anything after the death of the owner:
one entitled to anything after the present possessor: a child,
offspring:--_fem._ HEIRESS ([=a]r'es).--_v.t._ HEIR, to inherit.--_ns._
HEIR'-APP[=A]'RENT, the one by law acknowledged to be heir; HEIR'-AT-LAW,
an heir by legal right; HEIR'DOM, HEIR'SHIP.--_adj._ HEIR'LESS, without an
heir.--_ns._ HEIR'LOOM, any piece of furniture or personal property which
descends to the heir-at-law by special custom; HEIR'-PRESUMP'TIVE, one who
will be heir if no nearer relative should be born.--HEIR BY CUSTOM, one
whose right as heir is determined by customary modes of descent, as
gavelkind, &c. [O. Fr. _heir_--L. _h[=e]res_, an heir.]

HEJIRA. See HEGIRA.

HEL, hel, _n._ in Northern mythology, the goddess of the dead, the sister
of the wolf Fenrir, and daughter of the evil-hearted Loki.

HELCOID, hel'koid, _adj._ ulcerous.--_ns._ HELCOL'OGY, the branch of
pathology concerned with ulcers; HEL'COPLASTY, the operation of grafting on
an ulcer a piece of healthy skin; HELC[=O]'SIS, ulceration.--_adj._
HELCOT'IC. [Gr. _helkos_, an ulcer.]

HELD, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _hold_.

HELE, h[=e]l, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to hide, conceal. [A.S. _helian_, _helan_,
to hide; Ger. _hehlen_.]

HELIAC, h[=e]'li-ak, HELIACAL, he-l[=i]'ak-al, _adj._ (_astron._) emerging
from the light of the sun or passing into it.--_adv._ HEL[=I]'ACALLY. [Gr.
_h[=e]liakos_--_h[=e]lios_, the sun.]

HELIANTHUS, h[=e]-li-an'thus, _n._ a genus of order _Compositae_, including
the common sunflower. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, the sun, _anthos_, a flower.]

HELICAL, HELICIDÆ, HELICOGRAPH, HELICOID. See HELIX.

HELICONIAN, hel-i-k[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Helicon_, a
mountain-range in Boeotia, in ancient Greece, the favourite seat of the
Muses.

HELIOCENTRIC, -AL, h[=e]-li-o-sen'trik, -al, _adj._ (_astron._) referred to
the sun as centre.--_adv._ HELIOCEN'TRICALLY. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, the sun,
_kentron_, the centre.]

HELIOCHROMY, h[=e]'li-ok-r[=o]-mi, _n._ the art of producing photographs in
the natural colours.--_ns._ H[=E]'LIOCHROME, HELIOCHR[=O]'MOTYPE, a
photograph in the natural colours.--_adj._ HELIOCHR[=O]'MIC.

HELIOGRAPH, h[=e]'li-o-graf, _n._ an apparatus for signalling by means of
the sun's rays: an engraving obtained by a process in which a specially
prepared plate is acted on chemically by exposure to light: an apparatus
for taking photographs of the sun.--_v.t._ to signal to by means of the
sun's rays.--_n._ HELIOG'RAPHER.--_adjs_. HELIOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._
HELIOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_ns._ HELIOG'RAPHY, a method of communicating swiftly
between distant points by means of the sun's rays reflected from mirrors:
photography; HELIOGR[=A]'VURE (or h[=a]-li-[=o]-gra-vür'), photo-engraving,
or a print obtained by this process. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, the sun,
_graph[=e]_, a painting--_graphein_, to write.]

HELIOLATRY, h[=e]-li-ol'a-tri, _n._ worship of the sun.--_n._ HELIOL'ATER,
a worshipper of the sun.--_adj._ HELIOL'ATROUS. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, the sun,
_latreia_, worship.]

HELIOLOGY, h[=e]-li-ol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the science of the sun.

HELIOMETER, h[=e]-li-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument by which the diameters
of the heavenly bodies can be measured with great accuracy.--_adjs._
HELIOMET'RIC, -AL. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, sun, _metron_, a measure.]

HELIOPHILOUS, h[=e]-li-of'i-lus, _adj._ fond of the sun--opp. to
HELIOPH[=O]'BIC, fearing or shunning sunlight.

HELIOSCOPE, h[=e]'li-o-sk[=o]p, _n._ a telescope for viewing the sun
without injury to the eyes, by means of blackened glass or mirrors that
reflect only a part of the light.--_adj._ HELIOSCOP'IC. [Fr.
_hélioscope_--Gr. _h[=e]lios_, the sun, _skopein_, to look, to spy.]

HELIOSTAT, h[=e]'li-o-stat, _n._ an instrument by means of which a beam of
sunlight is reflected in an invariable direction. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, sun,
_statos_, fixed--_histanai_, to stand.]

HELIOTROPE, h[=e]'li-o-tr[=o]p, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Boraginaceæ_, many species with fragrant flowers, esp. the _Peruvian
heliotrope_, with small lilac-blue flowers and a fragrance resembling
vanilla or cherry-pie: (_min._) a bloodstone, a variety of chalcedony of a
dark-green colour variegated with red: a mirror placed at a distant station
and adjusted by clockwork, so that at a particular hour of the day
(arranged beforehand) the light of the sun shall be reflected from the
mirror directly to the surveyor's station.--_adjs._ HELIOTROP'IC,
-AL.--_adv._ HELIOTROP'ICALLY.--_ns._ HELIOT'ROPISM, HELIOT'ROPY, the
tendency that the stem and leaves of a seedling plant have to bend towards,
and the roots from, the light when placed in a transparent vessel of water
within reach of the light of a window. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_h[=e]liotropion_--_h[=e]lios_, the sun, _tropos_, a turn.]

HELIOTYPY, h[=e]'li-[=o]-t[=i]-pi, _n._ a photo-mechanical process in which
the gelatine relief is itself used to print from in some form of
printing-press, instead of being covered with tinfoil as in the stannotype
process.--_n._ H[=E]'LIOTYPE, a photograph.--_v.t._ to produce a heliotype
picture of.--_v.i._ to practise heliotypy.--_adj._ HELIOTYP'IC. [Gr.
_h[=e]lios_, sun, _typos_, impression.]

HELIOZOA, h[=e]'li-[=o]-z[=o]'a, _n._ a class of Protozoa of the Rhizopod
type, with protruding processes of living matter. [Gr. _h[=e]lios_, the
sun, _z[=o]on_, an animal.]

HELIUM, h[=e]'li-um, _n._ a substance discovered by Lockyer in the sun's
atmosphere, found by Ramsay in the rare Norwegian mineral cleveite.

HELIX, h[=e]'liks, _n._ a spiral, as of wire in a coil: (_zool._) a genus
of molluscs including the land-snails: the external part of the ear: a
small volute or twist in the capital of a Corinthian column:--_pl._ HELICES
(hel'i-s[=e]z).--_adj._ HEL'ICAL, spiral.--_adv._ HEL'ICALLY.--_n.pl._
HELIC'IDÆ, a large family of terrestrial, air-breathing gasteropods, of
which snails are familiar examples.--_n._ HEL'ICOGRAPH, a drawing
instrument for describing a spiral line.--_adjs._ HEL'ICOID, -AL, like a
helix, screw-shaped; HELISPHER'IC, -AL, spiral. [L.,--Gr. _helix_,
_helissein_, to turn round.]

HELL, hel, _n._ the place or state of punishment of the wicked after death:
the place of the dead indefinitely: the abode of evil spirits: the powers
of hell: any place of vice or misery: a gambling-house.--_adjs._
HELL'-BLACK (_Shak._), black as hell; HELL'-BORN, born in hell: of hellish
origin; HELL'-BRED.--_ns._ HELL'-BROTH (_Shak._), a composition boiled up
for malignant purposes; HELL'-CAT, a malignant hag; HELL'-FIRE, the fire of
hell: punishment in hell; HELL'-GATE, the entrance into hell.--_adj._
HELL'-HAT'ED (_Shak._), hated or abhorred as hell.--_n._ HELL'HOUND, a
hound of hell: an agent of hell.--_adj._ HELL'ISH, pertaining to or like
hell: very wicked.--_adv._ HELL'ISHLY.--_ns._ HELL'ISHNESS; HELL'-KITE
(_Shak._), a kite of infernal breed.--_adv._ HELL'WARD, towards hell. [A.S.
_hel_; Ice. _hel_, Ger. _hölle_.]

HELL, hel, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to hide.

HE'LL, contraction for _he will_.

HELLEBORE, hel'e-b[=o]r, _n._ a plant of the genus Helleborus
(_Ranunculaceæ_), whose root possesses drastic purgative properties,
anciently used as a cure for insanity--varieties are the _Black Hellebore_
or _Christmas Rose_, the _Stinking_ and the _Green Hellebore_; similar
plants of other genera are the _Winter Hellebore_ and the _American False_
or _White Hellebore_, known also as _Indian Poke_ or _Itch Weed_. [Fr.
_hellébore_--L. _helleborus_--Gr. _helleboros_.]

HELLENIC, hel-len'ik, or hel-l[=e]'nik, HELLENIAN, hel-l[=e]'ni-an, _adj._
pertaining to the Hellenes or Greeks: Grecian, in art, esp. of the period
from the primitive epoch to the Roman supremacy in Greece (beginning 146
B.C.), sometimes only from the time of Alexander the Great (c. 330
B.C.)--the term _Hellenistic_ applying to later times.--_n._ HELL'[=E]NE,
an ancient Greek: a subject of the modern kingdom of Greece or
Hellas:--_pl._ HELL[=E]'NES, the name of the modern Greeks for
themselves.--_v.i._ HELL'ENISE, to conform, or show a tendency to conform,
to Greek usages.--_ns._ HELL'ENISM, a Greek idiom: the spirit of the Greek
race; HELL'ENIST, one skilled in the Greek language: a Jew who used the
Greek language and adopted Greek usages, in opposition to the Hebrews
properly so called, whether of Palestine or of the Dispersion, and to the
Hellenes or Greeks proper--they are called _Grecians_ in the Authorised,
_Grecian Jews_ in the Revised Version.--_adjs._ HELLENIST'IC, -AL,
pertaining to the Hellenists: pertaining to Greek with foreign, esp.
Aramaic and Hebrew, idioms--a popular dialect which grew up at Alexandria
and perpetuated itself in the Septuagint, and to a less marked degree in
the New Testament.--_adv._ HELLENIST'ICALLY. [Gr. _Hell[=e]nios_,
_Hel[=e]nikos_--_Hell[=e]nes_, a name ultimately given to all the
Greeks--_Hell[=e]n_, the son of Deucalion, the Greek Noah.]

HELLICAT, hel'i-kat, _adj._ giddy-headed: flighty.--_n._ (_Scot._) a wicked
creature.

HELM, helm, _n._ the instrument by which a ship is steered: the station of
management or government.--_v.t._ to direct.--_n._ HELM'AGE,
guidance.--_adj._ HELM'LESS, of a ship, without a helm.--_n._ HELMS'MAN,
the one who steers. [A.S. _helma_; Ice. _hjálm_, a rudder, Gr. _helm_, a
handle.]

HELM, helm, HELMET, hel'met, _n._ a covering of armour for the head:
(_bot._) the hooded upper lip of certain flowers.--_adjs._ HELMED,
HEL'METED, furnished with a helmet.--_n._ HEL'MET-SHELL, a genus of
gasteropods having thick heavy shells with bold ridges: a cameo-shell.
[A.S. _helm_--_helan_, to cover; Ger. _helm_.]

HELMINTH, hel'minth, _n._ a worm.--_n._ HELMINTH'AGOGUE, a remedy against
worms.--_adj._ HELMIN'THIC, pertaining to worms: (_med._) expelling
worms.--_n._ a medicine for expelling worms.--_n._ HELMIN'THITE, a long
sinuous mark common on the surfaces of sandstone, and supposed to be the
tracks of worms.--_adjs._ HELMIN'THOID, worm-shaped; HELMINTHOLOG'IC,
-AL.--_ns._ HELMINTHOL'OGIST; HELMINTHOL'OGY, that branch of natural
history which treats of worms, or more particularly of the parasitic
forms.--_adj._ HELMINTH'OUS. [Gr. _helmins_, -_inthos_, a worm.]

HELOT, h[=e]'lot, or hel'ot, _n._ one of a class of slaves among the
ancient Spartans.--_ns._ H[=E]'LOTAGE, the state of a Helot; H[=E]'LOTISM,
the condition of the Helots in ancient Sparta: slavery; H[=E]'LOTRY, the
whole body of the Helots: any class of slaves. [Gr.; said to be derived
from _Helos_, a town in Greece, reduced to slavery by the Spartans.]

HELP, help, _v.t._ to support: to assist: to mitigate: to give means for
doing anything: to provide or supply with: to remedy: to prevent, to keep
from.--_v.i._ to give assistance: to contribute:--_pa.p._ helped, (_B._)
h[=o]lp'en.--_n._ means or strength given to another for a purpose:
assistance: relief: one who assists: (_Amer._) a hired servant, esp. a
domestic.--_n._ HELP'ER, one who helps: an assistant.--_adj._ HELP'FUL,
giving help: useful.--_n._ HELP'FULNESS.--_adj._ HELP'LESS, without help or
power in one's self: wanting assistance.--_adv._ HELP'LESSLY.--_ns._
HELP'LESSNESS; HELP'MATE, an assistant: a partner: a wife--also written
HELP'MEET, from Gen. ii. 18.--HELP FORWARD, to assist in making progress;
HELP OFF, to aid in disposing or getting rid of; HELP ON, to forward, to
lift up; HELP OUT, to aid in finishing a task, eking out a supply, &c.;
HELP OVER, to enable to surmount; HELP TO, to aid in obtaining for some
one; HELP UP, to raise.--GOD HELP HIM, a phrase implying extreme pity or
commiseration.--SO HELP ME GOD, a very strong asseveration, implying the
willingness of the speaker to let his chance of salvation depend upon his
truthfulness. [A.S. _helpan_, pa.t. _healp_, pa.p. _holpen_; Ice. _hjálpa_,
Ger. _helfen_, to aid.]

HELTER-SKELTER, hel'ter-skel'ter, _adv._ in a confused hurry:
tumultuously.--_n._ a confused medley: disorderly motion.--_adj._
confused.--_n._ HEL'TER-SKEL'TERINESS. [Imit.]

HELVE, helv, _n._ the handle of an axe or hatchet: the handle of a
forehammer.--_v.t._ to furnish with a handle, as an axe.--_n._
HELVE'-HAMM'ER, a trip-hammer. [A.S. _hielfe_, _helfe_, a handle.]

HELVETIC, hel-vet'ik, _adj._ pertaining to Switzerland--also
HELV[=E]'TIAN.--HELVETIC CONFESSIONS, two confessions of faith drawn up by
the Swiss theologians in 1536 and 1566, in substance Protestant,
Evangelical, moderately Calvinistic, and Zwinglian. [L.,--_Helvetia_, Latin
name of Switzerland.]

HEM, hem, _n._ the border of a garment doubled down and sewed.--_v.t._ to
form a hem on: to edge:--_pr.p._ hem'ming; _pa.p._ hemmed.--_n._
HEM'-STITCH, the ornamental finishing of the inner side of a hem, made by
pulling out several threads adjoining it and drawing together in groups the
cross-threads by successive stitches.--_v.t._ to embroider with such.--HEM
IN, to surround. [A.S. _hemm_, a border; Ger. _hamm_, a fence.]

HEM, hem, _n._ and _interj._ a sort of half-cough to draw
attention.--_v.i._ to utter the sound _hem!_--_pr.p._ hem'ming; _pa.p._
hemmed. [Imit.]

HEM, hem, (_Spens._) them.

HEMERALOPIA, hem'e-ra-l[=o]'pi-a, _n._ day-blindness, a defect of vision
except in artificial or dim light; also applied to night-blindness. [Gr.
_h[=e]mera_, a day, _alaos_, blind, _[=o]ps_, the eye.]

HEMIANOPSIA, hem'i-an-op'si-a, _n._ complete or partial blindness as to
half the field of vision--also HEMIAN[=O]P'IA, HEMI[=O]'PIA, HEMIOP'SIA,
HEM'OPSY.--_adjs._ HEMIANOP'TIC, HEMIOP'IC. [Gr. _h[=e]mi_-, half, _an_-,
neg., _opsis_, sight.]

HEMICRANIA, hem-i-kr[=a]'ni-a, _n._ headache confined to one side of the
head.--_adj._ HEMICRAN'IC.

HEMICYCLE, hem'i-s[=i]-kl, _n._ a semicircle, a room with seats so
arranged. [Fr.,--Gr.]

HEMIHEDRISM, hem-i-h[=e]'drizm, _n._ a property of crystals of being
HEMIH[=E]'DRAL, or having half the number of symmetrically arranged planes
occurring on a holohedron.--_n._ HEMIH[=E]'DRON. [Gr. _h[=e]mi-_, half,
_hedra_, a seat.]

HEMIOLIC, hem-i-ol'ik, _adj._ constituting the proportion of 1½ to 1, or of
3 to 2. [Gr. _h[=e]mi-_, half, _holos_, whole.]

HEMIONUS, h[=e]-m[=i]'o-nus, HEMIONE, hem'i-[=o]n, _n._ the half-ass, or
dziggetai. [Gr. _h[=e]mi-_, half, _onos_, an ass.]

HEMIPLEGIA, hem-i-pl[=e]'ji-a, _n._ paralysis of one side of the face or
body--also HEM'IPLEGY.--_adj._ HEMIPLEG'IC. [Gr. _h[=e]mi-_, half,
_pl[=e]g[=e]_, a blow.]

HEMIPTERA, hem-ip't[.e]r-a, _n._ an order of _Insecta_, in the
classification of Linnæus: in later systems, the same as _Rhyncota_,
including aphides, coccus insects, cicadas, bugs, water-scorpions, lice
(_Ametabola_).--_n._ HEMIP'TER.--_adjs._ HEMIP'TERAL, HEMIP'TERAN,
HEMIP'TEROUS. [Gr. _h[=e]mi-_, half, _pteron_, a wing.]

HEMISPHERE, hem'i-sf[=e]r, _n._ a half-sphere: half of the globe or a map
of it.--_adjs._ HEMISPHER'IC, -AL.--_n._ HEMISPH[=E]'ROID, the half of a
spheroid.--_adj._ HEMISPHEROI'DAL.--EASTERN and WESTERN HEMISPHERES, the
eastern and western halves of the terrestrial globe, the former including
Europe, Asia, and Africa; the latter, the Americas. [Gr.
_h[=e]misphairion_--_h[=e]mi-_, half, _sphaira_, a sphere.]

HEMISTICH, hem'i-stik, _n._ one of the two parts of a line of poetry as
divided by the cesura: half a line, an incomplete or unfinished line: an
epodic line or refrain.--_adj._ HEM'ISTICHAL. [L. _hemistichium_--Gr.
_h[=e]mistichion_--_h[=e]mi-_, half, _stichos_, a line.]

HEMITROPE, hem'i-tr[=o]p, _n._ a form in which one part of a crystal is in
reverse position with reference to the other part, a twin-crystal.--_adjs._
HEM'ITROPE, HEMIT'ROPAL, HEMITROP'IC, HEMIT'ROPOUS.

HEMLOCK, hem'lok, _n._ a genus of umbelliferous plants, the most common
species being the poisonous spotted hemlock, used in medicine. [A.S.
_hemlic_, the second syllable a weakened form of _leác_, a plant. Cf.
CHARLOCK, GARLIC.]

HEMP, hemp, _n._ a plant with a fibrous bark used for cordage, coarse
cloth, &c.: the fibrous rind prepared for spinning.--_adj._ HEMP'EN, made
of hemp.--_ns._ HEMP'-NETT'LE, a coarse bristly annual weed of the labiate
family; HEMP'-PALM, a palm of China and Japan, the fibre of the leaves of
which is much employed for making cordage--hats, cloaks, and other garments
are also made from it; HEMP'-SEED, Mrs Quickly's word for homicide
(_Shak._, _2 Henry IV._, II. i. 64).--_adj._ HEMP'Y, like hemp: roguish:
romping.--_n._ (_Scot._) a rogue.--HEMPEN COLLAR, and CAUDLE (_Shak._), the
hangman's noose; HEMPEN WIDOW, the widow of a man who has been hanged.
[A.S. _henep_, _hænep_--L. _cannabis_--Gr. _kannabis_.]

HEN, hen, _n._ the female of any bird, esp. of the domestic fowl.--_ns._
HEN'BANE, a coarse annual or biennial herb of the nightshade family,
poisonous, esp. to domestic fowls; HEN'COOP, a coop or large cage for
domestic fowls; HEN'-DRIV'ER, HEN'-HARR'IER, a species of falcon, the
common harrier.--_adj._ HEN'-HEART'ED, timid as a hen: cowardly.--_ns._
HEN'-HOUSE, a house, coop, or shelter for fowls; HEN'-HUSS'Y, a man who
meddles with women's affairs; HEN'-MOULD, a black, spongy soil; HEN'NERY, a
place where fowls are kept.--_adj._ HEN'NY, like a hen, feathered.--_v.t._
HEN'PECK, of a wife, to domineer over her husband.--_n._ the subjection of
a husband to his wife.--_adj._ HEN'PECKED, weakly subject to his
wife.--_ns._ HENPECK'ERY, the state of being henpecked; HEN'-ROOST, a place
where poultry roost at night; HEN'WIFE, HEN'-WOM'AN, a woman who has the
charge of poultry. [A.S. _henn_--_hana_, a cock; Ger. _hahn_, fem.
_henne_.]

HENCE, hens, _adv._ from this place or time: in the future: from this cause
or reason: from this origin.--_interj._ away! begone!--_advs._ HENCE'FORTH,
HENCEFOR'WARD, from this time forth or forward. [M. E. _hennes_,
_henne_--A.S. _heonan_, from the base of he; Ger. _hinnen_,_hin_, hence; so
L. _hinc_, hence--_hic_, this.]

HENCHMAN, hensh'man, _n._ a servant: a page. [Not from _haunch-man_, but
from A.S. _hengest_, a horse (Ger. _hengst_), and man.]

HEND, hend, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to seize, to grasp. [_Hand._]

HENDECAGON, hen-dek'a-gon, _n._ a plane figure of eleven angles and eleven
sides.--_adj._ HENDECAG'ONAL. [Gr. _hendeka_, eleven, _g[=o]nia_, an
angle.]

HENDECASYLLABLE, hen'dek-a-sil-a-bl, _n._ a metrical line of eleven
syllables.--_adj._ HENDECASYLLAB'IC. [Gr. _hendeka_, eleven, _syllab[=e]_,
a syllable.]

HENDIADYS, hen-d[=i]'a-dis, _n._ a rhetorical figure in which one and the
same notion is presented in two expressions, as 'with might and main'=by
main strength. [Gr. _hen dia dyoin_, lit. 'one by two.']

HENEQUEN, hen'[=e]-ken, _n._ a fibre known as sisal-hemp, used for ships'
cables, obtained chiefly from _Agave Ixtli_ of Yucatan, also the plant
itself.--Also HEN'EQUIN, HEN'IQUIN. [Sp. _jeniquen_.]

HENNA, hen'a, _n._ a small Oriental shrub of the loosestrife family, with
fragrant white flowers: a pigment made from the shrub for dyeing the nails
and hair. [Ar. _henna_.]

HENOTHEISM, hen'[=o]-th[=e]-izm, _n._ the ascribing of supreme power to
some one of several gods in turn: the belief in a special supreme god over
a particular people--a national or relative monotheism.--_adj._
HENOTHEIST'IC. [Gr. _heis_ (_hen-_), one, _theos_, god, and suff. _-ism_.]

HENOTIC, hen-ot'ik, _adj._ tending to unify or reconcile. [Gr.
_hen[=o]tikos_--_heis_, one.]

HENRY, hen'ri, _n._ (_electr._) the practical unit of self-induction--from
Joseph _Henry_, American physicist (1797-1878).

HENT, hent (_Spens._), _pa.t._ of _hend_.--_n._ hold.

HENT, hent, _v.t._ to clear, go beyond. [A.S. _hentan_, to seize.]

HEP, hep, _n._ See _Hip_, the fruit of the dog-rose.

HEP, hep, _interj._ a cry said to come down from the Crusaders' time, often
the cry of the mob in an outrage on the Jews--more probably an abbreviation
of _Hebrew_ than formed from the initials of _Hierosolyma est
perdita_=Jerusalem is destroyed.

HEPAR, h[=e]'par, _n._ the name given by the older chemists to various
compounds of sulphur, from their brown, liver-like colour.--_adj._
HEPAT'IC, belonging to the liver.--_ns.pl._ HEPAT'ICA, medicines which
affect the liver and its appendages; HEPAT'ICÆ, the liver-worts, a
sub-class of bryophytic or moss-like plants.--_n._ HEPATIS[=A]'TION,
consolidation of tissue, as of the lungs in pneumonia, resulting in a
liver-like solidification.--_v.t._ HEP'ATISE, to convert into a substance
resembling liver.--_ns._ HEP'AT[=I]TE, a variety of barium sulphate or
barite, with a characteristic stink; HEPAT[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the
liver; HEP'ATOCELE, hernia of the liver; HEPATOL'OGIST, a specialist in
diseases of the liver; HEPATOL'OGY, the science of, or a treatise on, the
liver; HEPATORRHOE'A, a morbid flow of bile; HEPATOS'COPY, divination by
inspection of the livers of animals. [Gr. _h[=e]par_, _h[=e]p[)a]tos_, the
liver.]

HEPTACHORD, hep'ta-kord, _n._ in Greek music, a diatonic series of seven
tones, containing five whole steps and one half-step: an instrument with
seven strings.

HEPTADE, hep'tad, _n._ the sum or number of seven: (_chem._) an atom,
radical, or element having a combining power of seven. [Fr.,--Gr. _heptas_,
_heptados_--_hepta_, seven.]

HEPTAGLOT, hep'ta-glot, _adj._ in seven languages.--_n._ a book in seven
languages. [Gr. _heptagl[=o]ttos_--_hepta_, seven, _gl[=o]tta_,
_gl[=o]ssa_, tongue.]

HEPTAGON, hep'ta-gon, _n._ a plane figure with seven angles and seven
sides.--_adj._ HEPTAG'ONAL. [Gr. _heptag[=o]nos_, seven-cornered--_hepta_,
seven, _g[=o]nia_, an angle.]

HEPTAGYNIA, hept-a-jin'i-a, _n._ an order of plants having seven
styles.--_adj._ HEPTAG'YNOUS. [Gr. _hepta_, seven, _gyn[=e]_, a woman.]

HEPTAHEDRON, hep-ta-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a solid figure with seven faces or
sides.--_adjs._ HEPTAH[=E]'DRAL, HEPTAHED'RICAL; HEPTAHEXAH[=E]'DRAL,
having seven ranges of faces one above another, each range containing six
faces. [Gr. _hepta_, seven, _hedr[=a]_, a seat, a base.]

HEPTAMERIDE, hep-tam'e-rid, _n._ anything consisting of seven
parts.--_adj._ HEPTAM'EROUS (_bot._), consisting of seven members or parts.

HEPTAMERON, hep'tam-e-ron, _n._ a book containing the transactions of seven
days, esp. the 72 stories supposed to be told in seven days, bearing the
name of Queen Margaret of Navarre (1492-1549). [Gr. _hepta_, seven,
_h[=e]mera_, a day.]

HEPTAMETER, hep'tam-e-t[.e]r, _n._ a verse of seven measures. [Gr. _hepta_,
seven, _metron_, measure.]

HEPTANDRIA, hept-an'dri-a, _n._ a class of plants having seven
stamens.--_adj._ HEPTAN'DROUS. [Gr. _hepta_, seven, an[=e]r, _andros_, a
man.]

HEPTANGULAR, hept-ang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ having seven angles. [Gr. _hepta_,
seven, and _angular_.]

HEPTAPHYLLOUS, hep-ta-fil'us, _adj._ having seven leaves.

HEPTAPODY, hep-tap'o-di, _n._ a verse of seven feet.--_adj._ HEPTAPOD'IC.

HEPTARCHY, hep'tär-ki, _n._ a government by seven persons: the country
governed by seven: a period in the Saxon history of England--a misleading
term in any other meaning than merely this, that the chief kingdoms at
various periods from the 5th to the 9th century were seven--Wessex, Sussex,
Kent, Essex, East Anglia, Mercia, and Northumbria.--_ns._ HEP'TARCH,
HEP'TARCHIST.--_adj._ HEPTAR'CHIC. [Gr. _hepta_, seven, _arch[=e]_,
sovereignty.]

HEPTASPERMOUS, hep-ta-sper'mus, _adj._ having seven seeds.

HEPTASYLLABIC, hep-ta-si-lab'ik, _adj._ seven-syllabled, like the second
half of the elegiac pentameter.

HEPTATEUCH, hep'ta-t[=u]k, _n._ a word sometimes used for the first seven
books of the Old Testament--formed on the analogy of Pentateuch and
Hexateuch. [Gr. _hepta_, seven, _teuchos_, an instrument, a volume.]

HER, h[.e]r, _pron._ objective and possessive case of _she_.--_adj._
belonging to a female. [M. E. _here_--A.S. _hire_, gen. and dat. sing. of
_heó_, she.]

HERACLEAN, HERACLEIAN, her-a-kl[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to
Hercules.--_adj._ HERACL[=I]'DAN, HERACLEI'DAN, pertaining to the
Heracleidæ or descendants of Heracles (Hercules), the aristocracy of
Sparta.--_n._ HERACLID', one claiming such descent.

HERALD, her'ald, _n._ in ancient times, an officer who made public
proclamations and arranged ceremonies: in medieval times, an officer who
had charge of all the etiquette of chivalry, keeping a register of the
genealogies and armorial bearings of the nobles: an officer whose duty is
to read proclamations, to blazon the arms of the nobility, &c.: a
proclaimer: a forerunner: the red-breasted merganser, usually
HER'ALD-DUCK.--_v.t._ to introduce, as by a herald: to proclaim.--_adj._
HERAL'DIC, of or relating to heralds or heraldry.--_adv._
HERAL'DICALLY.--_ns._ HER'ALDRY, the art or office of a herald: the science
of recording genealogies and blazoning coats of arms;
HER'ALDSHIP.--HERALDS' COLLEGE (see COLLEGE). [O. Fr. _herault_; of Teut.
origin, Old High Ger. _hari_ (A.S. _here_, Ger. _heer_), an army, and
_wald_=_walt_, strength, sway.]

HERB, h[.e]rb, _n._ a plant the stem of which dies every year, as
distinguished from a tree or shrub which has a permanent stem.--_adj._
HERB[=A]'CEOUS, pertaining to, or of the nature of, herbs: (_bot._) having
a soft stem that dies to the root annually.--_n._ HERBAGE (h[.e]rb'[=a]j,
or [.e]rb'[=a]j), green food for cattle: pasture: herbs
collectively.--_adjs._ HERB'AGED, covered with grass; HERB'AL, pertaining
to herbs.--_n._ a book containing descriptions of plants with medicinal
properties, orig. of all plants.--_ns._ HERB'ALIST, one who makes
collections of herbs or plants: one skilled in plants; HERB'AR (_Spens._),
an herb; HERB[=A]'RIAN, a herbalist; HERB[=A]'RIUM, a classified collection
of preserved herbs or plants:--_pl._ HERB[=A]'RIUMS, HERB[=A]'RIA;
HERB'ARY, a garden of herbs; HERB'-BENN'ET (see AVENS).--_adjs._
HERBES'CENT, growing into herbs, becoming herbaceous; HERBIF'EROUS, bearing
herbs.--_n._ HERB'IST, a herbalist.--_n.pl._ HERBIV'ORA, a name loosely
applied to hoofed quadrupeds.--_n.sing._ HERB'IVORE.--_adjs._ HERBIV'OROUS,
eating or living on herbaceous plants; HERB'LESS.--_ns._ HERB'LET
(_Shak._), a small herb; HERB'-OF-GRACE', or -REPENT'ANCE, the common rue,
the vervain; HERBORIS[=A]'TION, the seeking for plants: (_min._) the figure
of plants.--_v.i._ HERB'ORISE, to search for plants: to botanise.--V.T. to
form plant-like figures in, as in minerals.--_n._ HERB'ORIST, a
herbalist.--_adjs._ HERB'OUS, HERB'OSE, abounding with herbs.--_ns._
HERB'-PAR'IS, Paris quadrifolia, related to wake-robin; HERB'-P[=E]'TER,
the cowslip or primrose; HERB'-ROB'ERT, a common kind of geranium;
HERB'-TRIN'ITY, the pansy.--_adj._ HERB'Y, of or pertaining to herbs. [Fr.
_herbe_--L. _herba_, akin to Gr. _phorb[=e]_, pasture--_pherbein_, to
feed.]

HERCULANEAN, her-k[=u]-l[=a]'n[=e]-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to
_Herculaneum_, the ancient Roman city buried with Pompeii by the eruption
of Vesuvius in 79 A.D.

HERCULEAN, h[.e]r-k[=u]'l[=e]-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Hercules_:
extremely difficult or dangerous, as the twelve labours of the Greek hero
Hercules: of extraordinary strength and size.--HERCULES BEETLE, a gigantic
Brazilian lamellicorn beetle, 6 in. long, with a long horn on the head of
the male and a smaller one on the thorax; HERCULES' CHOICE, toil and duty
chosen in preference to ease and pleasure--from a famous story in
Xenophon's _Memorabilia_; HERCULES CLUB, a stick of great size and weight;
PILLARS OF HERCULES, the name given by the ancients to two rocks flanking
the entrance to the Mediterranean at the Strait of Gibraltar.

HERCYNIAN, her-sin'i-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the forest-covered
mountain region of northern Germany--apart the Harz Mountains.

HERD, h[.e]rd, _n._ a number of beasts feeding together, and watched or
tended: any collection of beasts, as distinguished from a flock: a company
of people, the rabble.--_v.i._ to run in herds.--_v.t._ to tend, as a
herdsman.--_ns._ HERD, one who tends a herd; HERD'GROOM (_Spens._), a
shepherd-lad; HERDS'-GRASS, timothy-grass; HERDS'MAN, a man employed to
herd or tend cattle--(_B._) HERD'MAN. [A.S. _hirde_, _hierde_; Ger.
_heerde_, Sw. _hjord_.]

HERDIC, her'dik, _n._ a low-hung two or four wheeled carriage with back
entrance and side seats. [From the inventor, Peter _Herdic_ of
Pennsylvania.]

HERE, h[=e]r, _adv._ in this place: in the present life or state.--_advs._
HERE'ABOUT, also -ABOUTS, about this place; HEREAF'TER, after this, in some
future time or state.--_n._ a future state.--_advs._ HERE'AT, at or by
reason of this; HERE'AWAY (_coll._), hereabout; HEREBY', not far off: by
this; HEREIN', in this: in regard to this; HEREINAF'TER, afterward in this
(document, &c.):--opp. to HEREINBEFORE'; HEREOF', of this: as a result of
this; HEREON', on or upon this; HERETO', till this time: for this object;
HERETOFORE', before this time: formerly; HEREUNTO' (also -UN'-), to this
point or time; HEREUPON', on this: in consequence of this; HEREWITH', with
this.--HERE AND THERE, in this place, and then in that: thinly:
irregularly; HERE GOES! an exclamation indicating that the speaker is about
to do something; HERE YOU ARE (_coll._), this is what you want; NEITHER
HERE NOR THERE, of no special importance. [A.S. _hér_, from base of _hé_,
he; Dut. and Ger. _hier_, Sw. _här_.]

HEREDITY, he-red'i-ti, _n._ the organic relation between generations, esp.
between parents and offspring: the transmission of qualities from the
parents or ancestors to their offspring.--_adj._ HERED'ITABLE, that may be
inherited.--_ns._ HEREDIT'AMENT, all property of whatever kind that may
pass to an heir.--_adv._ HERED'ITARILY.--_n._ HERED'ITARINESS, the quality
of being hereditary.--_adj._ HERED'ITARY, descending by inheritance:
transmitted from parents to their offspring. [L. _hereditas_, the state of
an heir--_heres_, _her[=e]dis_, an heir.]

HERESY, her'e-si, _n._ the adoption and maintaining opinions contrary to
the authorised teaching of the religious community to which one naturally
belongs: an opinion adopted for one's self in opposition to the usual
belief: heterodoxy.--_ns._ HERESIARCH (her'e-si-ärk, or he-r[=e]'zi-ärk), a
leader in heresy, a chief among heretics; HERESIOG'RAPHER, one who writes
about heresies; HERESIOG'RAPHY, a treatise on heresies; HERESIOL'OGIST, a
student of, or writer on, heresies; HERESIOL'OGY, the study or the history
of heresies; HER'ETIC, the upholder of a heresy.--_adj._
HERET'ICAL.--_adv._ HERET'ICALLY.--_v.t._ HERET'ICATE, to denounce as
heretical. [O. Fr. _heresie_--L. _hæresis_--Gr. _hairesis_--_hairein_, to
take.]

HERIOT, her'i-ot, _n._ (_Eng. law_) a kind of fine due to the lord of a
manor on the death of a person holding land of the manor, and consisting of
the best beast, jewel, or chattel that belonged to the deceased.--_adj._
HER'IOTABLE. [A.S. _heregeatu_, a military preparation--_here_, an army,
_geatwe_, apparatus.]

HERISSON, her'i-son, _n._ a beam turning on a pivot and supplied with sharp
spikes, for the defence of a gate, &c.: (_her._) a hedgehog.--_adj._
HÉRISSÉ, bristled. [A doublet of _urchin_.]

HERITABLE, her'i-ta-bl, _adj._ that may be inherited.--_n._
HERITABIL'ITY.--_adv._ HER'ITABLY.--_n._ HER'ITOR, in Scotland, a
landholder in a parish.--HERITABLE PROPERTY (_Scots law_), real property,
as opposed to movable property or chattels; HERITABLE SECURITY, same as
English mortgage. [O. Fr. _heritable_, _hereditable_---Low L.
_hereditabilis_--L. _hereditas_.]

HERITAGE, her'it-[=a]j, _n._ that which is inherited: inherited lot,
condition of one's birth: (_B._) the children (of God). [O. Fr. _heritage_,
_heriter_--Late L. _heredit[=a]re_, to inherit.]

HERLING, her'ling, _n._ the young of the sea-trout.

HERMÆ. See HERMES.

HERMANDAD, [.e]r-man-dad', _n._ a confederation of the entire burgher class
of Spain for police and judicial purposes, formed in 1282, and formally
legalised in 1485. [Sp., 'brotherhood,' _hermano_--L. _germanus_, kindred.]

HERMAPHRODITE, h[.e]r-maf'rod-[=i]t, _n._ an animal or a plant in which the
two sexual characteristics are united: an abnormal individual in whom are
united the properties of both sexes.--_adj._ uniting the distinctions of
both sexes.--_ns._ HERMAPH'RODISM, HERMAPH'RODITISM, the union of the two
sexes in one body.--_adjs._ HERMAPHRODIT'IC, -AL, pertaining to a
hermaphrodite: partaking of both sexes.--HERMAPHRODITE BRIG, a brig
square-rigged forward and schooner-rigged aft. [L.,--Gr.
_Hermaphrod[=i]tos_, the son of _Herm[=e]s_ and _Aphrodit[=e]_, who, when
bathing, grew together with the nymph Salmacis into one person.]

HERMENEUTIC, -AL, h[.e]r-me-n[=u]'tik, -al, _adj._ interpreting:
explanatory: exigetical.--_adv._ HERMENEU'TICALLY.--_n.sing._
HERMENEU'TICS, the science of interpretation or exegesis, esp. of the
Scriptures.--_n._ HERMENEU'TIST, one versed in hermeneutics. [Gr.
_herm[=e]neu'tikos_--_herm[=e]neus_, an interpreter, from _Herm[=e]s_,
Mercury, the god of art and eloquence.]

HERMES, h[.e]r'm[=e]z, _n._ the herald and messenger of the gods of Greek
mythology, patron of herdsmen, arts, and thieves: a head or bust on a
square base, often double-faced:--_pl._ HERMÆ (her'm[=e]): the Egyptian
Thoth, identified with the Greek Hermes.

HERMETIC, -AL, h[.e]r-met'ik, -al, _adj._ belonging in any way to the the
beliefs current in the Middle Ages under the name of _Hermes_, the Thrice
Great: belonging to magic or alchemy, magical: perfectly close.--_adv._
HERMET'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ HERMET'ICS, the philosophy wrapped up in the
Hermetic books, esoteric science: alchemy.--HERMETICALLY SEALED, closed
completely, said of a glass vessel, the opening of which is closed by
melting the glass. [From _Herm[=e]s Trismegistos_, Hermes 'the
thrice-greatest,' the Greek name for the Egyptian god Thoth, who was god of
science, esp. alchemy.]

HERMIT, h[.e]r'mit, _n._ one who retires from society and lives in solitude
or in the desert for purposes of devotion: one of certain animals of
solitary habit.--_ns._ HER'MIT[=A]GE, HER'MITARY, the dwelling of a hermit:
a retired abode: a wine produced near Valence, in Drôme; HER'MIT-CRAB, the
name of a family of crustaceans notable for their habit of sheltering
themselves in gasteropod shells.--_adj._ HERMIT'ICAL, relating to a hermit.
[M. E. _eremite_, through Fr. and L. from Gr.
_er[=e]mit[=e]s_--_er[=e]mos_, solitary.]

HERN. Same as HERON.

HERN, a provincial form for _hers_.

HERNIA, h[.e]r'ni-a, _n._ a protrusion, through an abnormal or accidental
opening, of the abdominal viscera, the condition popularly called
_rupture_.--_adjs._ HER'NIAL; HER'NIATED; HER'NIOID.--_ns._ HERNIOL'OGY,
the branch of surgery which treats of ruptures; HERNIOT'OMY, the operation
of cutting for hernia. [L.]

HERNSHAW, h[.e]rn'shaw, _n._ (_Spens._). Same as HERONSHAW.

HERO, h[=e]'r[=o], _n._ a man of distinguished bravery: any illustrious
person: the principal figure in any history or work of fiction: (_orig._) a
demigod:--_fem._ HEROINE (her'[=o]-in).--_adj._ HER[=O]'IC, becoming a
hero: courageous: illustrious: daring, rash.--_n._ a heroic verse: (_pl._)
extravagant phrases, bombast.--_adj._ HER[=O]'ICAL.--_adv._
HER[=O]'ICALLY--(_Milt._) HER[=O]'ICLY.--_ns._ HER[=O]'ICALNESS,
HER[=O]'ICNESS.--_adjs._ HER[=O]'ICOMIC, -AL, consisting of a mixture of
heroic and comic: designating the high burlesque.--_ns._ HER'OISM, the
qualities of a hero: courage: boldness; H[=E]'ROSHIP, the state of being a
hero; H[=E]'RO-WOR'SHIP, the worship of heroes: excessive admiration of
great men.--HEROIC AGE, the semi-mythical period of Greek history, when the
heroes or demigods were represented to have lived among men; HEROIC
MEDICINES, such as either kill or cure; HEROIC SIZE, in sculpture, larger
than life, but less than colossal; HEROIC VERSE, the style of verse in
which the exploits of heroes are celebrated (in classical poetry, the
hexameter; in English and German, the iambic of ten syllables; in French,
the alexandrine). [Through O. Fr. and L. from Gr. _h[=e]r[=o]s_; akin to L.
_vir_, A.S. _wer_, a man, Sans. _víra_, a hero.]

HERODIANS, he-r[=o]'di-ans, _n.pl._ a political rather than religious party
among the Jews of the apostolic age, adherents of the family of _Herod_.
Herod was represented as a swaggering tyrant in the old dramatic
performances--hence 'to out-herod Herod' (_Shak._)--to exceed in bombast
and passionate grandiloquence.

HERON, her'un, _n._ a large screaming water-fowl, with long legs and
neck.--_n._ HER'ONRY, a place where herons breed. [O. Fr. _hairon_--Old
High Ger. _heigir_.]

HERONSHAW, her'un-shaw, _n._ a young heron. [Properly _heronswewe_ (O. Fr.
_herounçel_), which was confounded with the old form _hernshaw_, a heronry,
from _heron_, and _shaw_, a wood.]

HERPES, h[.e]r'p[=e]z, _n._ the name of a group of diseases of the skin,
characterised by the presence of clusters of vesicles on an inflamed
base--_Catarrhal herpes_ and _Herpes zoster_ or _Shingles_.--_adj._
HERPET'IC, relating to or resembling herpes: creeping. [Gr.
_herp[=e]s_--_herpein_, to creep.]

HERPESTES, her-pes'tez, _n._ the typical genus of ichneumons or mongooses
of the sub-family _Herpestinæ_, viverroid carnivores, having straight toes,
claws not retractile. [Gr.]

HERPETOLOGY, her-pet-ol'oj-i, _n._ the branch of natural history which
treats of reptiles.--_adjs._ HER'PETOID, serpent-like; HERPETOLOG'IC, -AL,
pertaining to herpetology.--_adv._ HERPETOLOG'ICALLY.--_n._ HERPETOL'OGIST,
one versed in herpetology.

HERR, her, _n._ lord, master, the German term of address equivalent to Mr.
[Ger.]

HERRING, her'ing, _n._ a common small sea-fish of great commercial value,
found moving in great shoals or multitudes.--_adj._ HERR'ING-BONE, like the
spine of a herring, applied to a kind of masonry in which the stones slope
in different directions in alternate rows.--_ns._ HERR'INGER, one whose
employment is to catch herring; HERR'ING-FISH'ERY; HERR'ING-POND, the
ocean, esp. the Atlantic or the English Channel.--HERRING-BONE STITCH, a
kind of cross-stitch used in embroidery, in mending sails, &c.--KIPPERED
HERRING, herring smoked and preserved; RED HERRING, herring cured and
dried, and having as the result a red appearance. [A.S. _h['æ]ring_,
_héring_; cf. Ger. _häring_, _heer_.]

HERRNHUTER, hern'hut-[.e]r, _n._ one of the Moravians or United Brethren,
so called from their settlement in 1722 at _Herrnhut_ in Saxony.

HERRY, a Scotch form of _harry_.--_n._ HERR'YMENT, harassment.

HERS, h[.e]rz, _pron._ possessive of _she_.

HERSAL, h[.e]r'sal, _n._ (_Spens._) rehearsal.

HERSE, h[.e]rs, _n._ (_fort._) a portcullis: a species of
cheval-de-frise.--_adj._ HERSED, arranged in harrow form. [_Hearse_.]

HERSELF, h[.e]r-self', _pron._ the emphatic form of _she_ in the nominative
or objective case: in her real character: having the command of her
facilities, sane.

HERSHIP, h[.e]r'ship, _n._ the carrying off of cattle: (_Scot._) foray.
[_Here_, army, or stem of A.S. _herjan_, to harry; cf. Ice. _herskapr_,
warfare--_herr_, army, and _-skapr_, -ship.]

HERY, h[=e]'ri, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to praise, to regard as holy. [A.S.
_herian_, to praise.]

HESITATE, hez'i-t[=a]t, _v.i._ to stop in making a decision: to be in
doubt: to stammer.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to express with hesitation.--_ns._
HES'ITANCY, HESIT[=A]'TION, wavering: doubt: stammering.--_adj._
HES'ITAN'T, hesitating.--_adv._ HES'IT[=A]TINGLY.--_adj._ HES'IT[=A]TIVE,
showing hesitation.--_n._ HES'IT[=A]TOR, one who hesitates.--_adj._
HES'IT[=A]TORY, hesitating. [L. _hæsit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, freq. of
_hær[=e]re_, _hæsum_, to stick.]

HESPER, hes'p[.e]r, HESPERUS, hes'p[.e]r-us, _n._ the Greek name for Venus
as the evening-star.--_adj._ HESP[=E]'RIAN, of Hesperus or the west.
[L.,--Gr. _hesperos_, evening.]

HESPERIDES, hes-per'[=i]-d[=e]z, _n.pl._ the name of the three sisters who
guarded in their delightful gardens the golden apples which Hera, on her
marriage with Zeus, had received from Gæa.

HESPERORNIS, hes-per-[=o]r'nis, _n._ an extinct form of bird, the remains
of which have been met with in the American cretaceous deposits. [Gr.
_hesperos_, western, _ornis_, a bird.]

HESSIAN, hesh'i-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to Hesse.--_n._ a native of
Hesse: (_pl._) short for HESSIAN BOOTS, a kind of long boots first worn by
Hessian troops.--HESSIAN FLY, a dipterous insect, in its larval state
attacking stems of barley, wheat, and rye. [From _Hesse_, a grand-duchy of
the German Empire.]

HEST, hest, _n._ (_Shak._) behest, command. [A.S. _h['æ]s_, a
command--_hátan_, to command.]

HESTERNAL, hes-ter'nal, _adj._ of yesterday.

HESVAN, hes'van, _n._ the second month of the Jewish civil year.--Also
HESH'VAN. [Heb.]

HESYCHAST, hes'i-kast, _n._ one of a mystic and contemplative sect of the
Greek Church in the 14th century, whose members may be described as the
Quietists of the East.--_n._ HES'YCHASM, their doctrines and practice. [Gr.
_h[=e]sychast[=e]s_--_h[=e]sychos_, quiet.]

HETÆRA, he-t[=e]'ra, HETAIRA, he-t[=i]'ra, _n._ in Greece, a woman employed
in public or private entertainment, as flute-playing, dancing, &c.: a
paramour or courtesan.--_ns._ HETÆ'RISM, HETAIRISM (-t[=i]'), concubinage,
open commerce between the sexes; HETÆROC'RACY, the rule of
courtesans.--_n._ HETAI'RIST, one who practises hetærism.--adj.
HETAIRIST'IC. [Gr. _hetaira_, fem. of _hetairos_, a companion.]

HETERARCHY, het'e-rär-ki, _n._ foreign rule.

HETERAUXESIS, het-e-rawk-s[=e]'sis, _n._ (_bot._) irregular or
unsymmetrical growth.

HETEROBLASTIC, het-er-o-blas'tik, _adj._ derived from different
cells:--opposed to _Homoblastic_. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _blastos_, bud,
germ.]

HETEROCARPOUS, het-e-ro-kar'pus, _adj._ (_bot._) bearing fruit of two
sorts.

HETEROCERCAL, het-er-o-s[.e]r'kal, _adj._ having the upper fork of the tail
different from or longer than the lower, as the shark:--opposed to
_Homocercal_.--_n._ HET'EROCERCY. [Gr. _heteros_, different from, _kerkos_,
the tail.]

HETEROCHROMOUS, het-e-ro-kr[=o]'mus, _adj._ (_bot._) having different
members unlike in colour.

HETEROCHRONY, het-e-rok'ro-ni, _n._ (_biol._) a divergence in ontogenetic
sequence affecting the time of formation of parts or organs--also
HETEROCHR[=O]'NIA.--_adj._ HETEROCHRON'IC.--_n._ HETEROCH'RONISM.--_adjs._
HETEROCHRONIST'IC; HETEROCH'RONOUS.

HETEROCLITE, het'er-o-kl[=i]t, _adj._ irregularly inflected:
irregular--also HETEROCLIT'IC, -AL.--_n._ HET'EROCL[=I]TE, a word
irregularly inflected: anything irregular.--_adj._ HETEROC'LITOUS. [Gr.
_heteroklitos_--_heteros_, other, _klitos_, inflected--_klinein_, to
inflect.]

HETERODACTYL, het-e-ro-dak'til, _adj._ having the digits irregular or
peculiar in size, form, or position.--Also HETERODAC'TYLOUS.

HETERODONT, het'er-o-dont, _adj._ having different kinds of teeth:--opposed
to _Homodont_.--_n.pl._ HETERODONT'A, an order of bivalves with hinge-teeth
(cardinal and lateral) fitting into corresponding cavities in the opposite
valve. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _odous_, _odont-_, a tooth.]

HETERODOX, het'er-o-doks, _adj._ holding an opinion other or different from
the one generally received, esp. in theology: heretical.--_n._ HET'ERODOXY,
heresy. [Gr. _heterodoxos_--_heteros_, other, _doxa_, an opinion--_dokein_,
to think.]

HETEROECISM, het-e-r[=e]'sizm, _n._ the development, as of some parasitic
fungi, of different stages of existence on different host-plants.--_adjs._
HETEROE'CIOUS, HETEROECIS'MAL. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _oikos_, a house.]

HETEROGAMOUS, het-e-rog'a-mus, _adj._ (_bot._) bearing two kinds of flowers
which differ sexually, as in most Compositæ, &c.--_n._ HETEROG'AMY. [Gr.
_heteros_, other, _gamos_, marriage.]

HETEROGENEOUS, het-er-o-j[=e]'ne-us, _adj._ of another race or kind:
dissimilar: composed of different kinds or parts--also HETEROG[=E]N'EAL
(_rare_):--opposed to _Homogeneous_.--_ns._ HETEROGEN[=E]'ITY,
HETEROG[=E]N'EOUSNESS.--_adv._ HETEROG[=E]N'EOUSLY. [Gr.
_heterogen[=e]s_--_heteros_, other, _genos_, a kind.]

HETEROGENESIS, het-er-[=o]-gen'e-sis, _n._ (_biol._) spontaneous
generation, abiogenesis: generation in which the offspring differs in
structure and habit from the parent animal or plant, the ancestral
characteristics, however, ultimately reappearing--_Xenogenesis_ and
_Alternate generation_ are other names--also HETEROG'ENY.--_adj._
HETEROGENET'IC. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _genesis_, generation.]

HETEROGONOUS, het-e-rog'[=o]-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) having flowers dimorphous
or trimorphous as to the relative length of stamens and styles, an
adaptation for cross-fertilisation. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _gonos_,
generation.]

HETEROGRAPHY, het-e-rog'ra-fi, _n._ heterogeneous spelling.--_adj._
HETEROGRAPH'IC.

HETEROLOGY, het-er-ol'oj-i, _n._ abnormality, want of true morphological
affinity.--_adj._ HETEROL'OGOUS. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _logia_, relation.]

HETEROMEROUS, het-e-rom'e-rus, _adj._ diversiform. [Gr. _heteros_, other,
_meros_, a part.]

HETEROMORPHIC, het-e-ro-mor'fik, _adj._ deviating in form from a given
type--also HETEROMOR'PHOUS.--_ns._ HETEROMOR'PHISM; HETEROMOR'PHY. [Gr.
_heteros_, other, _morph[=e]_, form.]

HETERONOMOUS, het-er-on'o-mus, _adj._ differentiated from a common type:
subject to the rule of another.--_n._ HETERON'OMY, subordination to law
imposed by another:--opposed to _Autonomy_. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _nomos_,
law.]

HETERONYM, het'er-o-nim, _n._ a word spelled like another, but with a
different sound and meaning, as _lead_, to guide; _lead_, the
metal.--_adj._ HETERON'YMOUS.--_n._ HETERON'YMY. [Gr. _heteros_, other,
_onoma_, a name.]

HETEROÖUSIAN. See HETEROUSIAN.

HETEROPATHY, het-e-rop'a-thi, _n._ allopathy.--_adj._ HETEROPATH'IC.

HETEROPHEMY, het-e-ro-f[=e]'mi, _n._ the saying of one thing when another
is meant.--_v.i._ HETEROPH[=E]'MISE.--_ns._ HETEROPH[=E]'MISM;
HETEROPH[=E]'MIST.--_adj._ HETEROPHEMIS'TIC. [Gr. _heteros_, other,
_ph[=e]m[=e]_, a saying.]

HETEROPHYLLOUS, het'er-o-fil'us, _adj._ (_bot._) having two different kinds
of leaves on the same stem. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

HETEROPLASIA, het-e-ro-pl[=a]'si-a, _n._ the development of abnormal tissue
by diseased action.--_adj._ HETEROPLAS'TIC.--_n._ HETEROPLAS'TY. [Gr.
_heteros_, other, _plasis_, a forming.]

HETEROPODA, het-er-op'o-da, _n.pl._ pelagic gasteropods in which the 'foot'
has become a swimming organ.--n. HET'EROPOD, one of the Heteropoda. [Gr.
_heteros_, other, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

HETEROPTERA, het-e-rop'te-ra, _n.pl._ a sub-order of _Hemiptera_.--_adj._
HETEROP'TEROUS. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _pteron_, a wing.]

HETEROPTICS, het-e-rop'tiks, _n._ perverted vision. [Gr. _heteros_, other,
_optikos_, optic]

HETEROSCIAN, het-e-rosh'i-an, _adj._ and _n._ pertaining to a person living
on one side of the equator, as contrasted with one living on the other
side. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _skia_, a shadow.]

HETEROSOMATA, het-e-ro-s[=o]'ma-ta, _n.pl._ the flat-fishes.--_adj._
HETEROS[=O]'MATOUS. [Gr. _heteros_, different, _s[=o]ma_, pl. _s[=o]mata_,
a body.]

HETEROSPOROUS, het-e-ro-sp[=o]'rus, _adj._ having more than one kind of
asexually produced spores. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _sporos_, seed.]

HETEROSTROPHIC, het-e-r[=o]-strof'ik, _adj._ reversed in direction.--_n._
HETEROS'TROPHY. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _stroph[=e]_, a turning.]

HETEROSTYLED, het'e-r[=o]-st[=i]ld, _adj._ same as HETEROGONOUS
(q.v.).--_n._ HETEROSTYL'ISM. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _stylos_, a pillar.]

HETEROTAXIS, het-er-o-tak'sis, _n._ anomalous arrangement of
organs.--_adj._ HETEROTAX'IC. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _taxis_, arrangement.]

HETEROTOMOUS, het-er-ot'o-mus, _adj._ (_min._) having a cleavage different
from the common variety. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _tom[=e]_, a cutting.]

HETEROTOPY, het-e-rot'o-pi, _n._ misplacement.--_adj._ HETEROT'OPOUS. [Gr.
_heteros_, other, _topos_, place.]

HETEROTROPHY, het-e-rot'rof-i, _n._ (_bot._) an abnormal mode of obtaining
nutrition. [Gr. _heteros_, other, _troph[=e]_, food.]

HETEROUSIAN, het'e-r[=oo]-zi-an, _n._ and _adj._ one who believes the
Father and Son to be unlike in substance or essence:--opposed to
_Homoöusian_: an Arian.--Also HETEROÖU'SIAN. [Gr. _heteros_, other,
_ousia_, substance, _einai_, to be.]

HETMAN, het'man, _n._ the title of the head or general of the Cossacks.
[Russ.]

HEUGH, HEUCH, h[=u]h, _n._ (_Scot._) a crag, a glen with steep sides. [See
HOW, a hill.]

HEULANDITE, h[=u]'lan-d[=i]t, _n._ a mineral of the zeolite group--from H.
_Heuland_, an English mineralogist.

HEURISTIC, h[=u]-ris'tik, _adj._ serving to find out.--_n._ the art of
discovery in logic: the method in education by which the pupil is set to
find out things for himself. [From the root of Gr. _heuriskein_, to find;
also spelt _euriskein_. See EUREKA.]

HEW, h[=u], _v.t._ to cut with any sharp instrument: to cut in pieces: to
shape.--_v.i._ to deal blows with a cutting instrument:--_pa.p._ hewed, or
hewn.--_n._ (_Spens._) hacking.--_n._ HEW'ER, one who hews. [A.S. _héawan_;
Ger. _hauen_.]

HEXACHORD, hek'sa-kord, _n._ a diatonic series of six notes, having a
semitone between the third and fourth. [Gr. _hex_, six, _chord[=e]_, a
string.]

HEXAD, hek'sad, _n._ a series of six numbers: (_chem._) an element or
radical with the combining power of six units--i.e. of six atoms of
hydrogen.

HEXADACTYLOUS, hek-sa-dak'ti-lus, _adj._ having six fingers or toes.--_n._
HEXADAC'TYLISM.

HEXAËMERON, hek-sa-[=e]'me-ron, _n._ a period of six days, esp. that of the
creation, according to Genesis: a history of the six days of creation.
[Late Gr. _hexa[=e]meros_--_hex_, six, _h[=e]mera_, a day.]

HEXAGON, heks'a-gon, _n._ a figure with six sides and six angles.--_adj._
HEXAG'ONAL.--_adv._ HEXAG'ONALLY.--_v.t._ HEX'AGONISE. [Gr.
_hexag[=o]non_--_hex_, six, _g[=o]nia_, an angle.]

HEXAGYNIA, hek-sa-jin'i-a, _n._ in the Linnæan system an order of plants
having six styles.--_adjs._ HEXAGYN'IAN, HEXAG'YNOUS.

HEXAHEDRON, heks-a-h[=e]'dron, _n._ a cube, a regular solid with six sides
or faces, each of these being a square.--_adj._ HEXAH[=E]'DRAL. [Gr. _hex_,
six, _hedra_, a base.]

HEXAMETER, hek-sam'et-[.e]r, _n._ a verse of six measures or feet, the
first four dactyls or spondees, the fifth a dactyl (sometimes a spondee),
the sixth a spondee or trochee.--_adj._ having six metrical feet.--_adjs._
HEXAMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._ HEXAM'ETRIST, a writer of hexameters. [L.,--Gr.
_hex_, six, _metron_, a measure.]

HEXANDRIA, heks-an'dri-a, _n._ a Linnæan class of plants having six
stamens.--_adj._ HEXAN'DRIAN. [Gr. _hex_, six, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a man,
male.]

HEXANGULAR, hek-sang'g[=u]-lar, _adj._ having six angles.

HEXAPETALOUS, hek-sa-pet'a-lus, _adj._ having six petals.

HEXAPHYLLOUS, hek-sa-fil'us, _adj._ having six leaves or leaflets. [Gr.
_hex_, six, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

HEXAPLA, heks'a-pla, _n._ an edition of the Bible in six versions, as that
made by Origen of the Old Testament.--_adj._ HEX'APLAR. [Gr. _hexapla_, pl.
neut. of _hexaplous_, sixfold.]

HEXAPOD, heks'a-pod, _n._ an animal with six feet.--_n._ HEXAP'ODY, a line
or verse of six feet. [Gr. _hexapous_, _-podos_--_hex_, six, _pous_, a
foot.]

HEXASTICH, heks'a-stik, _n._ a poem or stanza of six lines. [Gr.
_hexastichos_--_hex_, six, _stichos_, a line.]

HEXASTYLE, heks'a-st[=i]l, _adj._ having six columns, of a portico or
temple having six columns in front. [Gr. _hexastylos_--_hex_, six,
_stylos_, a pillar.]

HEXATEUCH, heks'a-t[=u]k, _n._ the first six books of the Old
Testament.--_adj._ HEX'ATEUCHAL. [From Gr. _hex_, six, and _teuchos_, a
book.]

HEY, h[=a], _interj._ expressive of joy or interrogation.--_interj._
HEY'DAY, expressive of frolic, exultation, or wonder.--_n._ exaltation of
the spirits: the wild gaiety of youth: period of fullest vigour.--_n._
HEY'DEGUY (_Spens._), a country dance or round.--_interjs._ HEY'-GO-MAD,
expressing a high degree of excitement; HEY'-PASS (_Milt._), an expression
used by jugglers during their performance. [Imit.]

HEYDUCK. See HAIDUK.

HI! h[=i], _interj._ expressing wonder or derision, or calling attention.

HIATUS, h[=i]-[=a]'tus, _n._ a gap: an opening: a chasm: a break in
continuity, a defect: (_gram._) a concurrence of vowel sounds in two
successive syllables. [L.,--_hi[=a]re_, _hi[=a]tum_, to gape.]

HIBERNATE, h[=i]'b[.e]r-n[=a]t, _v.i._ to winter: to pass the winter in
torpor: to live in seclusion.--_ns._ HIBER'NACLE, a winter covering;
HIBERNAC'ULUM, any part of a plant protecting an embryonic organ during the
winter.--_adj._ HIBER'NAL, belonging to winter: wintry.--_n._
HIBERN[=A]'TION, the state of torpor in which many animals pass the winter.
[L. _hibern[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_hibernus_, wintry--_hiems_, winter.]

HIBERNIAN, h[=i]-b[.e]r'ni-an, _adj._ relating to Hibernia or
Ireland.--_n._ an Irishman.--_ns._ HIBER'NIANISM, HIBER'NICISM, an Irish
idiom or peculiarity.--_adv._ HIBER'NICALLY.--_v.t._ HIBER'NIC[=I]SE, to
render Irish.--_n._ HIBERNIS[=A]'TION, a making Irish. [L. _Hibernia_,
Ireland.]

HIBISCUS, h[=i]-bis'kus, _n._ a genus of malvaceous plants, mostly
tropical. [L.,--Gr. _hibiscos_, mallow.]

HIC, hik, _interj._ a syllable expressing the sound made by one affected
with a drunken hiccup.

HICCATEE, HICATEE, hik-a-t[=e]', _n._ a fresh-water tortoise of Central
America.

HICCUP, hik'up, _n._ the involuntary contraction of the diaphragm, while
the glottis is spasmodically closed: the sound caused by this--also, but
erroneously, HIC'COUGH.--_v.i._ to be affected with hiccup.--_v.t._ to say
with a hiccup:--_pr.p._ hicc'upping; _pa.p._ hicc'upped.--_adj._ HICC'UPY,
marked by hiccups. [Imit.; cf. Dut. _hik_, Dan. _hikke_, Bret. _hik_. The
spelling _hiccough_ is due to a confusion with _cough_.]

HICKORY, hik'or-i, _n._ a genus (_Carva_) of North American nut-bearing
trees, with heavy strong tenacious wood, used for shafts of carriages,
handles of axes, &c. [_Pohickery_; of Indian origin.]

HICKWALL, hik'-wal, _n._ (_prov._) the green woodpecker.

HID, HIDDEN. See HIDE.

HIDALGO, hi-dal'g[=o], _n._ a Spanish nobleman of the lowest class.--_adj._
HIDAL'GOISH.--_n._ HIDAL'GOISM. [Sp., _hijo de algo_, 'the son of
something.']

HIDE, h[=i]d, _v.t._ to conceal: to keep in safety.--_v.i._ to lie
concealed:--_pa.t._ hid; _pa.p._ hid'den, hid.--_adj._ HID'DEN, concealed:
unknown.--_adv._ HID'DENLY, in a hidden or secret manner:
privily--(_Scot._) HID'LINS.--_adj._ HID'DENMOST, most hidden.--_n._
HID'DENNESS.--_ns._ HIDE'-AND-SEEK', a children's game, where one seeks the
others who have hid themselves; HIDE'AWAY, a fugitive.--_adj._ that hides
away.--_n._ HID'ING, a place of concealment [A.S. _hýdan_, to hide; cf. Low
Ger. _hûden_, Gr. _keuthein_.]

HIDE, h[=i]d, _n._ the skin of an animal, esp. the larger animals,
sometimes used derogatorily for human skin.--_v.t._ to flog or
whip.--_adj._ HIDE'-BOUND, having the hide closely bound to the body, as in
animals: in trees, having the bark so close that it impedes the growth:
stubborn, bigoted, obstinate.--_n._ HID'ING, a thrashing. [A.S. _hýd_; Ger.
_haut_, L. _cutis_.]

HIDE, h[=i]d, _n._ in old English law, a certain area of land, from 60 to
100 acres.--_n._ HID'AGE, a tax once assessed on every hide of land. [A.S.
_híd_, contracted from _hígid_--_híw-_, _híg-_, household.]

HIDEOUS, hid'e-us, _adj._ frightful: horrible: ghastly.--_ns._ HIDEOS'ITY,
HID'EOUSNESS.--_adv._ HID'EOUSLY. [O. Fr. _hideus_, _hisdos_--_hide_,
_hisde_, dread, prob.--L. _hispidus_, rough, rude.]

HIDROTIC, hid-rot'ik, _adj._ sudorific.--_n._ a sudorific.

HIE, h[=i], _v.i._ to hasten.--_v.t._ to urge on: pass quickly
over:--_pr.p._ hie'ing; _pa.p._ hied. [A.S. _hígian_.]

HIE, HIGH, h[=i], _n._ (_prov._) the call to a horse to turn to the
left:--opposite of HUP.

HIELAMAN, h[=i]'la-man, _n._ the native Australian narrow shield of bark or
wood.

HIEMS, h[=i]'emz, _n._ (_Shak._) winter.--_adj._ H[=I]'EMAL.--_v.t._
H[=I]'EMATE.--_n._ HIEM[=A]'TION, hibernation. [L.]

HIERACOSPHINX, h[=i]-er-[=a]'ko-sfingks, _n._ See SPHINX.

HIERA-PICRA, h[=i]'e-ra-pik'ra, _n._ a purgative drug from aloes and
canella bark.--Also _Hickery-pickery_, _Higry-pigry_. [Gr. _hiera_, fem. of
_hieros_, sacred, _pikra_, fem. of _pikros_, bitter.]

HIERARCH, h[=i]'[.e]r-ärk, _n._ a ruler in sacred matters.--_adjs._
HI'ERARCHAL, HIERARCH'ICAL.--_adv._ HIERARCH'ICALLY.--_ns._
H[=I]'ERARCHISM; H[=I]'ERARCHY, rule in sacred matters: persons that so
rule: the body of the clergy: a government by priests: a series of
successive terms of different rank; HIEROC'RACY, government by
priests.--CELESTIAL HIERARCHY, the collective body of angels, grouped in
three divisions and nine orders of different power and glory: (1) seraphim,
cherubim, thrones; (2) dominations or dominions, virtues, powers; (3)
principalities, archangels, angels. [Gr. _hierarch[=e]s_--_hieros_, sacred,
_archein_, to rule.]

HIERATIC, h[=i]-[.e]r-at'ik, _adj._ sacred: relating to priests, applying
to a certain kind of ancient Egyptian writing, which consisted of abridged
forms of hieroglyphics; also to certain styles in art. [L.
_hieraticus_--Gr. _hieratikos_--_hieros_, sacred.]

[Illustration]

HIEROGLYPHIC, h[=i]-[.e]r-o-glif'ik, also H[=I]'EROGLYPH, _n._ the sacred
characters of the ancient Egyptian language: picture-writing, or writing in
which figures of objects are employed instead of conventional signs, like
the alphabet--hieroglyphics are either _phonetic_ or _ideographic_, the
former comprising signs which represent sounds, the latter those which
represent ideas: any symbolical or enigmatical figure.--_v.t._
H[=I]'EROGLYPH, to represent by hieroglyphs.--_adjs._ HIEROGLYPH'IC,
-AL.--_adv._ HIEROGLYPH'ICALLY.--_n._ HIEROG'LYPHIST, one skilled in
hieroglyphics. [Gr. _hieroglyphikon_--_hieros_, sacred, _glyphein_, to
carve.]

HIEROGRAM, h[=i]'er-o-gram, _n._ a hieroglyphic symbol.--_adjs._
HIEROGRAMMAT'IC, -AL.--_ns._ HIEROGRAM'MATIST, HIEROGRAM'MATE, a writer of
sacred records; H[=I]'EROGRAPH, a sacred symbol; HIEROG'RAPHER, a sacred
scribe.--_adjs._ HIEROGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to sacred writing.--_n._
HIEROG'RAPHY, a description of sacred things. [Gr. _hieros_, sacred,
_gramma_, a writing.]

HIEROLATRY, h[=i]-er-ol'a-tri, _n._ the worship of saints or sacred things.

HIEROLOGY, h[=i]-[.e]r-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science of sacred matters, esp.
ancient writing and Egyptian inscriptions.--_adj._ HIEROLOG'IC.--_n._
HIEROL'OGIST. [Gr. _hierologia_--_hieros_, sacred, _legein_, to speak.]

HIEROMANCY, h[=i]-er-o-man'si, _n._ divination by observing the objects
offered in sacrifice.

HIERONYMIC, h[=i]-e-r[=o]-nim'ik, _adj._ of or pertaining to St
Jerome--also HIERONYM'IAN.--_n._ HIERON'YMITE, one of the many hermit
orders established in the course of the 13th and 14th centuries. [L.
_Hieronymus_, Jerome.]

HIEROPATHIC, h[=i]-er-o-path'ik, _adj._ consisting in love of the clergy.

HIEROPHANT, h[=i]'[.e]r-o-fant, _n._ one who shows or reveals sacred
things: a priest.--_adj._ HIEROPHANT'IC, belonging to or relating to
hierophants. [Gr. _hierophant[=e]s_--_hieros_, sacred, _phainein_, to
show.]

HIEROSCOPY, h[=i]-er-os'ko-pi, _n._ the same as hieromancy.

HIEROSOLYMITAN, h[=i]-e-r[=o]-sol'i-m[=i]-tan, _adj._ of or pertaining to
Jerusalem. [L. _Hierosolyma_, Jerusalem.]

HIERURGY, h[=i]'er-ur'ji, _n._ a sacred performance.--_adj._ HIERUR'GICAL.

HIGGLE, hig'l, _v.i._ to make difficulty in bargaining: to chaffer.--_v.i._
HIGG'LE-HAGG'LE, a reduplicated variant of _higgle_.--_ns._ HIGG'LER;
HIGG'LING. [Prob. a form of _haggle_.]

HIGGLEDY-PIGGLEDY, hig'l-di-pig'l-di, _adv._ and _adj._ topsy-turvy:
(_coll._) upside down. [A word coined to express a meaningless jumble.]

HIGH, h[=i], _adj._ elevated: lofty: tall: elevated relatively to
something, as upward from a base, in position from the mouth of a river,
&c.: eminent in anything: exalted in rank: dignified: chief: noble:
ostentatious: arrogant: proud: strong, intensified: extreme in opinion:
powerful: angry: loud: violent: tempestuous: shrill: excellent: far
advanced: difficult: dear: remote in time: slightly tainted (of game,
&c.).--_adv._ aloft: eminently: powerfully: profoundly: of flesh, on the
point of beginning to decay.--_ns._ HIGH'-AD'MIRAL, a high or chief admiral
of a fleet; HIGH'-AL'TAR, the principal altar in a church; HIGH'-BAIL'IFF,
an officer who serves writs, &c., in certain franchises, exempt from the
ordinary supervision of the sheriff; HIGH'-BIND'ER (_U.S._), a rowdy,
ruffian, blackmailer.--_adjs._ HIGH'-BLEST (_Milt._), supremely blest or
happy; HIGH'-BLOOD'ED, of noble lineage; HIGH'-BLOWN, swelled with wind:
(_Shak._) inflated, as with pride; HIGH'-BORN, of high or noble birth;
HIGH'-BRED, of high or noble breed, training, or family.--_ns._
HIGH'-CHURCH, applied to a party within the Church of England, which exalts
the authority of the Episcopate and the priesthood, the saving grace of
sacraments, &c. (also _adj._); HIGH'-CHURCH'ISM; HIGH'-CHURCH'MAN.--_adj._
HIGH'-COL'OURED, having a strong or glaring colour.--_ns._ HIGH'-COURT, a
supreme court; HIGH'-CROSS, a market cross; HIGH'-DAY, a holiday or
festival: (_B._) broad daylight.--_adj._ befitting a festival.--_v.t._
HIGH'ER, to raise higher: to lift.--_v.i._ to ascend.--_n._
HIGH'-FAL[=U]'TIN, bombastic discourse.--_adj._ bombastic: pompous.--_adj._
HIGH'-FED, fed highly or luxuriously: pampered.--_ns._ HIGH'-FEED'ING;
HIGH'-FLIER, a bird that flies high: one who runs into extravagance of
opinion or action.--_adjs._ HIGH'-FLOWN, extravagant: elevated: turgid;
HIGH'-FLY'ING, extravagant in conduct or opinion; HIGH'-GROWN (_Shak._),
covered with a high growth; HIGH'-HAND'ED, overbearing: violent:
arbitrary.--_n._ HIGH'-HAND'EDNESS.--_adjs._ HIGH'-HEART'ED, with the heart
full of courage; HIGH'-HEELED, wearing high heels--of shoes.--_n._
HIGH'-JINKS, boisterous play or jollity: an old Scotch pastime in which
persons played various parts under penalty of a forfeit.--_adj._
HIGH'-KILT'ED, wearing the kilt or petticoat high: indecorous.--_n._ and
_adj._ HIGH'LAND, a mountainous district, esp. in _pl._ that portion of
Scotland lying north and west of a line drawn diagonally from Nairn to
Dumbarton.--_ns._ HIGH'LANDER, HIGH'LANDMAN, an inhabitant of a mountainous
region; HIGH'-LOW, a high shoe fastened with a leather thong in
front.--_adv._ HIGH'LY.--_n._ HIGH'-MASS (see MASS).--_adjs._
HIGH'-METT'LED, high-spirited, courageous; HIGH'-MIND'ED, having a high,
proud, or arrogant mind: having honourable pride: magnanimous.--_n._
HIGH'-MIND'EDNESS.--_adjs._ HIGH'MOST, highest; HIGH'-NECKED, of a dress,
cut so as to cover the shoulders and neck.--_n._ HIGH'NESS, the state of
being high: dignity of rank: a title of honour given to princes.--_adj._
HIGH'-PITCHED, high-strung: haughty.--_n._ HIGH'-PLACE (_B._), an eminence
on which idolatrous rites were performed by the Jews--hence the idols, &c.,
themselves.--_adjs._ HIGH'-PRESS'URE, applied to a steam-engine in which
the steam is raised to a high temperature, so that the pressure may exceed
that of the atmosphere; HIGH'-PRICED, costly.--_ns._ HIGH'-PRIEST (see
PRIEST); HIGH'-PRIEST'ESS; HIGH'-PRIEST'HOOD.--_adjs._ HIGH'-PRIN'CIPLED,
of high, noble, or strict principle; HIGH'-PROOF, proved to contain much
alcohol: highly rectified; HIGH'-RAISED, raised aloft: elevated;
HIGH'-REACH'ING, reaching upwards: ambitious.--_n._ HIGH'-ROAD, one of the
public or chief roads: a road for general traffic.--_adjs._
HIGH'-SEA'SONED, made rich or piquant with spices or other seasoning;
HIGH'-SIGHT'ED (_Shak._), always looking upwards; HIGH'-SOULED, having a
high or lofty soul or spirit; HIGH'-SOUND'ING, pompous: ostentatious;
HIGH'-SPIR'ITED, having a high spirit or natural fire: bold: daring:
irascible.--_n._ HIGH'-STEP'PER, a horse that lifts its feet high from the
ground.--_adjs._ HIGH'-STEP'PING, having a proud or conceited carriage or
walk; HIGH'-STOM'ACHED (_Shak._), proud-spirited, lofty, obstinate;
HIGH'-STRUNG, high-spirited: sensitive.--_n._ HIGHT (_Milt._), obsolete
form of height.--_adj._ HIGH'-TAST'ED, having a strong, piquant taste or
relish.--_n._ HIGH'-TIDE (_rare_), a great festival.--_adj._ HIGH'-TONED,
high in pitch: dignified.--_ns._ HIGH'-TOP (_Shak._), a mast-head;
HIGH'-TREA'SON, treason against the sovereign or state.--_adj._ HIGH'-VICED
(_Shak._), enormously wicked.--_ns._ HIGH'-WA'TER, the time at which the
tide is highest: the greatest elevation of the tide; HIGH'-WA'TER-MARK, the
highest line so reached; HIGH'WAY, a public road on which all have right to
go: the main or usual way or course; HIGH'WAYMAN, a robber who attacks
people on the public way.--_adj._ HIGH'-WROUGHT, wrought with exquisite
skill: highly finished: agitated.--HIGH AND DRY, of a ship, up out of the
water: disabled; HIGH AND LOW, rich and poor, people of every condition;
HIGH AND MIGHTY, exalted: arrogant; HIGH CELEBRATION (see CELEBRATION);
HIGH LIFE, the life of fashionable society: the people of this society;
HIGH LIVING, over-indulgence in the pleasures of the table; HIGH SEAS, the
open sea, including the whole extent of sea so far as it is not the
exclusive property of any particular country; HIGH TABLE, the table in the
dining-hall of a college where the dons sit; HIGH TEA, a tea with hot meat,
&c., as opposed to a plain tea.--A HIGH HAND, OR ARM, might: power:
audacity; A HIGH TIME, A HIGH OLD TIME (_coll._), a time of special jollity
or enthusiasm; BE HIGH TIME, to be fully time something was done that
should have been done well before; BE ON ONE'S HIGH HORSE, to assume an
attitude of fancied superiority: to be arrogant.--HIGHLAND COSTUME, the
fillibeg or kilt, shoulder-plaid, sporran, &c.; HIGHLAND REGIMENTS, a
number of regiments in the British army, wearing the Highland dress and
feather-bonnet, or tartan trews and shakos.--IN HIGH FEATHER, in high
spirits: happy; ON HIGH, in or to a height; ON THE HIGH ROPES (_coll._), in
an elated or highly excited mood; WITH A HIGH HAND, arrogantly. [A.S.
_héah_; Goth. _hauhs_, Ice. _hár_, Ger. _hoch_.]

HIGHT, h[=i]t, _v.t._ to command: (_Spens._) to call, name.--_v.i._ (orig.
_pass._) to be called or named, to have as a name; therefore third pers.
sing., HIGHT=he was or is called. [M. E. _highte_--A.S. _hátte_, I was
called, _pa.t._ of _hátan_, to call, to be called. Cf. Ger. _ich heisse_, I
am named, from _heissen_, to call.]

HIGHTY-TIGHTY, h[=i]'ti-t[=i]'ti, _adj._ the same as HOITY-TOITY (q.v.).

HIJRA, HIJRAH. Same as HEGIRA.

HILAR, h[=i]'lar, _adj._ pertaining to a hilum.

HILARIOUS, hi-l[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ gay: very merry.--_adv._
HIL[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ HILAR'ITY, gaiety: pleasurable excitement. [L.
_hilaris_--Gr. _hilaros_, cheerful.]

HILARY, hil'ar-i, _adj._ a term or session of the High Court of Justice in
England; also one of the university terms at Oxford and Dublin--from St
_Hilary_ of Poitiers (died 367), festival, Jan. 13.

HILCH, hilch, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to hobble.--_n._ a limp.

HILDEBRANDISM, hil'de-brand-izm, _n._ the spirit and policy of _Hildebrand_
(Pope Gregory VII., 1073-85), unbending assertion of the power of the
Church, &c.--_adj._ HILDEBRAND'IC.

HILDING, hild'ing, _n._ a mean, cowardly person, a dastard.--_adj._
cowardly, spiritless. [Prob. _hield_, to bend down.]

HILL, hil, _n._ a high mass of land, less than a mountain.--_n._
HILL'-DIG'GER, one who digs into barrows, &c., for buried treasure.--_adj._
HILLED, having hills.--_ns.pl._ HILL'-FOLK, HILL'MEN, people living or
hiding among the hills: the Scotch sect of Cameronians, the Covenanters
generally.--_ns._ HILL'-FORT, a prehistoric stronghold; HILL'INESS;
HILL'OCK, a small hill.--_adj._ HILL'OCKY.--_ns._ HILL'-SIDE, the slope of
a hill; HILL'-TOP, the summit of a hill.--_adj._ HILL'Y, full of hills.--UP
HILL AND DOWN DALE, vigorously and persistently. [A.S. _hyll_; cf. L.
_collis_, a hill, _celsus_, high.]

HILLO, hil'[=o], _interj._ Same as HALLO.

HILT, hilt, _n._ the handle, esp. of a sword.--_adj._ HILT'ED, having a
hilt.--UP TO THE HILT, completely, thoroughly, to the full. [A.S. _hilt_;
Dut. _hilte_, Old High Ger. _helza_; not conn. with _hold_.]

HILUM, h[=i]'lum, _n._ the scar on a seed at the point of union with the
placenta: (_anat._) the depression at the place where ducts, vessels, and
nerves enter an organ.--_adj._ H[=I]'LAR. [L.]

HIM, him, _pron._ the objective case of _he_.--_pron._ HIM'SELF, the
emphatic and reflective form of _he_ and _him_: the proper character of a
person. [A.S. _him_, dat. sing. masc. and neut. of _he_, _it_.]

HIMATION, hi-mat'i-on, _n._ the ancient Greek outer garment, oblong, thrown
over the left shoulder, and fastened either over or under the right. [Gr.]

HIMYARITIC, him-ya-rit'ik, _adj._ a name formerly applied to the language
of the ancient Sabæan inscriptions in the south-west of Arabia. [_Himyar_,
a traditional king of Yemen.]

HIN, hin, _n._ a Hebrew liquid measure containing about six English quarts.
[Heb.]

HIND, h[=i]nd, _n._ the female of the stag or red-deer.--_n._ HIND'BERRY,
the raspberry. [A.S. _hind_; Dut. and Ger. _hinde_.]

HIND, h[=i]nd, _n._ a farm-servant, esp. one having charge of a pair of
horses, with cottage on the farm, formerly bound to supply a female
field-worker (_bondager_). [A.S. _hína_=_híwna_, gen. pl. of _híwan_,
domestics.]

HIND, h[=i]nd, _adj._ placed in the rear: pertaining to the part behind:
backward:--opp. to _Fore_.--_adj._ HIND'ER, the older form of _hind_, but
used in the same significations.--_n._ HIND'ER-END, the latter end:
(_Scot._) buttocks.--_n.pl._ HIND'ERLINS (_Scot._), the buttocks.--_adjs._
HIND'ERMOST, HIND'MOST, superlative of _hind_, farthest behind;
HIND'-FORE'MOST, the back part in the front place. [A.S. _hindan_ (adv.),
back, _hinder_, backwards; Goth. _hindar_, Ger. _hinter_, behind.]

HINDER, hin'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to put or keep behind: to stop, or prevent
progress: to embarrass.--_v.i._ to be an obstacle.--_ns._ HIN'DERANCE,
HIN'DRANCE, act of hindering: that which hinders: obstacle. [A.S.
_hindrian_; Ger. _hindern_.]

HINDI, hin'd[=e], _n._ and _adj._ one of the languages of Aryan stock now
spoken in Northern India.--Also HIN'DEE. [Urd[=u], _Hind_, 'India.']

HINDU, HINDOO, hin'd[=oo], _n._ a native of Hindustan: now more properly
applied to native Indian believers in Brahmanism, as opposed to
Mohammedans, &c.--_ns._ HIN'DUISM, HIN'DOOISM, the religion and customs of
the Hindus. [_Sindhu_, Sans. for Indus.]

HINDUSTANI, HINDOOSTANEE, hin-d[=oo]-stan'[=e], _n._ a dialect of Hindi,
also called _Urd[=u]_, the chief official and commercial language of
India.--Also _adj._

HINGE, hinj, _n._ the hook or joint on which a door or lid hangs: that on
which anything depends or turns.--_v.t._ to furnish with hinges: to
bend.--_v.i._ to hang or turn as on a hinge: to depend on:--_pr.p._
hing'ing; _pa.p._ hinged.--_n._ HINGE'-JOINT (_anat._), a joint in which
the bones move.--OFF THE HINGES, in a state of confusion. [Related to
_hang_.]

HINNY, hin'i, _n._ the offspring of a stallion and she-ass. [L.
_hinnus_--Gr. _ginnos_, later _hinnos_, a mule.]

HINNY, hin'i, _n._ a Scotch variant of _honey_.

HINNY, hin'i, _v.i._ to neigh, whinny.

HINT, hint, _n._ a distant or indirect allusion: slight mention:
insinuation.--_v.t._ to bring to mind by a slight mention or remote
allusion: to allude to.--_v.i._ to make an indirect or remote allusion: to
allude.--_adv._ HINT'INGLY.--HINT AT, to allude to obscurely. [A.S.
_hentan_, to seize.]

HINTERLAND, hint'[.e]r-land, _n._ the district behind that lying along the
coast, or along a river. [Ger.]

HIP, hip, _n._ the haunch or fleshy part of the thigh: (_archit._) the
external angle formed by the sides of a roof when the end slopes backward
instead of terminating in a gable.--_v.t._ to sprain the hip:--_pr.p._
hip'ping; _pa.p._ hipped, hipt.--_ns._ HIP'-BATH, a bath to sit in--also
_Sitz-bath_; HIP'-GIR'DLE, -BELT, the 14th-century sword-belt, passing
diagonally from waist to hip; HIP'-GOUT, sciatica; HIP'-JOINT, the
articulation of the head of the thigh-bone with the ilium; HIP'-KNOB, an
ornament placed on the apex of the hips of a roof or on a gable; HIP'-LOCK,
a trick in wrestling by which one throws a leg and hip before the other to
throw him; HIP'PING, a napkin wrapped about an infant's hips.--_adj._
HIP'-SHOT, having the hip out of joint.--HIP-AND-THIGH, in phrase, 'smitten
hip-and-thigh'=smitten both before and behind, completely
overpowered.--HAVE, CATCH, ON THE HIP, to get an advantage over some one--a
metaphor from the wrestling-ring. [A.S. _hype_; Goth. _hups_, Ger.
_hüfte_.]

HIP, hip, HEP, hep, _n._ the fruit of the wild brier or dog-rose. [A.S.
_héope_, a hip.]

HIP, HYP, hip, _n._ hypochondria.--_v.t._ to render melancholy.--_adjs._
HIPPED, rendered melancholy; HIP'PISH, somewhat hypochondriac. [A corr. of
_hypochondria_.]

HIP, hip, _interj._ an exclamation to invoke a united
cheer--_Hip'-hip'-hurr'ah_.

HIPPARION, hi-p[=a]'ri-on, _n._ a fossil genus of _Equidæ_. [Gr.
_hipparion_, dim. of _hippos_, a horse.]

HIPPETY-HOPPETY, hip'e-ti-hop'e-ti, _adv._ hopping and skipping.--_n._
HIPP'ETY-HOP.

HIPPIATRIC, hip-i-at'rik, _adj._ relating to the treatment of the diseases
of horses.--_n.pl._ HIPPIAT'RICS.--_ns._ HIPPIAT'RIST; HIPPIAT'RY.--_adj._
HIPP'IC, relating to horses.

HIPPOCAMPUS, hip'o-kam-pus, _n._ a genus of small fishes with head and neck
somewhat like those of a horse, the _sea-horse_: (_anat._) a raised curved
trace on the floor of the lateral ventricle of the brain. [Gr.
_hippokampos_--_hippos_, a horse, _kampos_, a sea-monster.]

HIPPOCENTAUR, hip-o-sent'awr, _n._ Same as CENTAUR. [Gr. _hippos_, a horse,
and _centaur_.]

HIPPOCRAS, hip'o-kras, _n._ an aromatic medicated wine, formerly much used
as a cordial.--_adj._ HIPPOCRAT'IC, pertaining to the Greek physician
_Hippocrates_ (born 460 B.C.).--_v.t._ HIPPOC'RATISE.--_n._ HIPPOC'RATISM.

HIPPOCRENE, hip'o-kr[=e]n, _n._ a fountain on the northern slopes of Mount
Helicon, in Greece, sacred to the Muses and Apollo. [L.,--Gr.
_hippokr[=e]n[=e]_--_hippos_, a horse, _kr[=e]n[=e]_, a fountain.]

HIPPOCREPIAN, hip-o-kr[=e]'pi-an, _adj._ horse-shoe shaped. [Gr. _hippos_,
a horse, _kr[=e]pis_, a shoe.]

HIPPODAME, hip'o-d[=a]m, _n._ (_Spens._) the sea-horse.--_n._ HIPPOD'AMIST,
a horse-tamer.--_adj._ HIPPOD'AMOUS, horse-taming.

HIPPODROME, hip'o-dr[=o]m, _n._ the Greek name for a racecourse for horses
and chariots: an equestrian circus: (_U.S._) a fraudulent athletic game or
contest in which the result is prearranged.--_v.t._ to conduct races in
such a way.--_adj._ HIPPODROM'IC.--_n._ HIPPOD'ROMIST, a circus trainer or
rider. [Fr.,--Gr. _hippodromos_--_hippos_, a horse, _dromos_, a course.]

HIPPOGRIFF, HIPPOGRYPH, hip'o-grif, _n._ a fabulous animal represented as a
winged horse with the head of a griffin. [Fr. _hippogriffe_--Gr. _hippos_,
a horse, _gryps_, a griffin.]

HIPPOLOGY, hip-ol'o-ji, _n._ the study of horses.--_adj._
HIPPOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ HIPPOL'OGIST.

HIPPOMANES, hip-om'an-[=e]z, _n._ an ancient love-philtre obtained from a
mare or foal.--_n._ HIPP'OMANE, a genus of plants of the natural order
_Euphorbiaceæ_, the manchineel-tree. [Gr.]

HIPPOPATHOLOGY, hip-o-pa-thol'o-ji, _n._ the pathology of the horse: the
science of veterinary medicine. [Gr. _hippos_, a horse, and _pathology_.]

HIPPOPHAGY, hip-pof'a-ji, _n._ the act or practice of feeding on
horse-flesh.--_n.pl._ HIPPOPH'AGI, eaters of horse-flesh.--_n._
_Hippoph'agist_, an eater of horseflesh.--_adj._ HIPPOPH'AGOUS,
horse-eating. [Gr. _hippos_, a horse, _phagein_, to eat.]

HIPPOPHILE, hip'o-f[=i]l, _n._ a lover of horses.

HIPPOPOTAMUS, hip-o-pot'a-mus, _n._ the river-horse--an African quadruped,
of aquatic habits, having a very thick skin, short legs, and a large head
and muzzle.--_adj._ HIPPOPOTAM'IC (also -pot'-), like a hippopotamus,
clumsy. [L.,--Gr. _hippopotamos_--_hippos_, a horse, _potamos_, a river.]

HIPPOTOMY, hip-ot'o-mi, _n._ the dissection of the horse.--_adj._
HIPPOTOM'ICAL.--_n._ HIPPOT'OMIST.

HIPPURIC, hip-[=u]'rik, _adj._ denoting an acid first obtained from the
urine of horses. [Gr. _hippos_, a horse, _ouron_, urine.]

HIPPURID, hi-p[=u]'rid, _n._ a plant of natural order _Hippurideæ_ or
_Haloragaceæ_, the typical genus the common mare's tail.

HIPPURITE, hip'[=u]-r[=i]t, _n._ a fossil bivalve mollusc peculiar to the
cretaceous strata.--_adj._ HIPPURIT'IC. [Gr. _hippos_, a horse, _oura_, a
tail.]

HIPPUS, hip'us, _n._ clonic spasm of the iris.

HIRCINE, h[.e]r's[=i]n, _adj._ goat-like: having a strong goatish
smell.--_ns._ HIRCOCER'VUS, a fabulous creature, half-goat, half-stag;
HIRCOS'ITY, goatishness. [Fr.,--L. _hircinus_--_hircus_, a he-goat.]

HIRDY-GIRDY, h[.e]r'di-g[.e]r'di, _adv._ (_Scot._) in confusion.

HIRE, h[=i]r, _n._ wages for service: the price paid for the use of
anything.--_v.t._ to procure the use or service of, at a price: to engage
for wages: to grant temporary use of for compensation: to bribe.--_adj._
HIRE'ABLE.--_ns._ HIRE'LING, a hired servant: a mercenary: a prostitute
(also _adj._); HIR'ER; HIRE'-SYS'TEM, a system by which a hired article
becomes the property of the hirer after a stipulated number of payments;
HIR'ING, the contract of hiring--_bailment for hire_ (in Scotland,
_location_): a fair or market where servants are engaged.--ON HIRE, for
hiring. [A.S. _hýr_, wages, _hýrian_, to hire; Ger. _heuer_, Dut. _huur_.]

HIRMOS, hir'mos, _n._ in the usage of the Greek Church, a standard
troparion, forming the first stanza of a canon of odes, and serving as a
model for the other stanzas:--_pl._ HIR'MOI.--_n._ HIRMOL[=O]'GION, an
office-book containing the hirmoi. [Gr. _eirmos_, a series.]

HIRPLE, h[.e]r'pl, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to walk or run as if lame.--_n._ a
limping gait.

HIRRIENT, hir'i-ent, _n._ a trilled sound.

HIRSEL, hir'sel, _n._ (_Scot._) a multitude, a throng, a flock of
sheep.--_v.t._ to put in different groups.

HIRSLE, hir'sl, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to slide or move, resting on the hams: to
move forward with a rustling sound.

HIRSUTE, hir-s[=u]t', _adj._ hairy: rough: shaggy: (_bot._) having long,
stiffish hairs. [L. _hirsutus_--_hirsus_, _hirtus_, shaggy.]

HIRUNDINE, hi-run'din, _adj._ of or pertaining to the swallow. [L.
_hirundo_, a swallow.]

HIS, hiz, _pron._ possessive form of _he_: (_B._) used for _its_.--HISN, a
contracted form of his own. [A.S. _his_, possessive of _he_, and originally
of _it_.]

HISH, hish, _v.i._ to hiss. [A by-form of _hiss_.]

HISPANIC, his-pan'ik, _adj._ Spanish.--_adv._ HISPAN'ICALLY.--_vs.t._
HISPAN'ICISE, HISPAN'IOLISE, to render Spanish.--_n._ HISPAN'ICISM, a
Spanish phrase. [L. _Hispania_, Spain.]

HISPID, his'pid, _adj._ (_bot._) rough with or having strong hairs or
bristles.--_n._ HISPID'ITY. [L. _hispidus_.]

HISS, his, _v.i._ to make a sibilant sound like that of the letter s, as
the goose, serpent, &c.: to express contempt, &c., by hissing.--_v.t._ to
condemn by hissing.--_n._ the sound of the letter _s_, an expression of
disapprobation, contempt, &c.--_n._ HISS'ING, the noise of a hiss: object
of hissing: object or occasion of contempt. [Imit.]

HIST, hist, _interj._ demanding silence and attention: hush!
silence!--_v.t._ to urge (a dog, &c.) by making the sound of this word.
[Imit.]

HISTIE, his'ti, _adj._ (_Scot._) dry: barren.

HISTIOID, his'ti-oid, _adj._ resembling tissue.--_adj._
HISTOGENET'IC.--_adv._ HISTOGENET'ICALLY.--_ns._ HISTOG'ENY, the formation
and development of tissues--also HISTOGEN'ESIS; HISTOG'RAPHY, a description
of the tissues.--_adjs._ HISTOLOG'IC, -AL, pertaining to histology.--_ns._
HISTOL'OGIST, one skilled in histology; HISTOL'OGY, the science which
classifies and describes the structural or morphological elements which
exist in the solids and fluids of organised bodies; HISTOL'YSIS,
degeneration and decay of organic tissue.--_adj._ HISTOLYT'IC. [Gr.
_histos_, web.]

HISTORY, his'to-ri, _n._ an account of an event: a systematic account of
the origin and progress of a nation: the knowledge of facts, events, &c.:
an eventful life, a past of more than common interest, as a 'woman with a
history:' a drama representing historical events.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to
record.--_n._ HIS'T[=O]RIAN, a writer of history.--_adjs._
HIST[=O]'RI[=A]TED, adorned with figures, esp. of men or animals, as the
medieval illuminated manuscripts, capital letters, initials &c.; HISTOR'IC,
-AL, pertaining to history: containing history: derived from history:
famous in history: authentic.--_adv._ HISTOR'ICALLY.--_v.t._ and _v.i._
HISTOR'ICISE, to make, or represent as, historic.--_ns._ HISTORIC'ITY,
historical character; HISTORIETTE', a short history or story.--_v.t._
HISTOR'IFY, to record in history.--_n._ HISTORIOG'RAPHER, a writer of
history: a professed or official historian.--_adjs._ HISTORIOGRAPH'IC, -AL,
pertaining to the writing of history.--_adv._ HISTORIOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_ns._
HISTORIOG'RAPHY, the art or employment of writing history; HISTORIOL'OGY,
the knowledge or study of history.--HISTORICAL METHOD, the study of a
subject in its historical development; HISTORICAL PAINTING, the painting of
historic scenes, or scenes in which historic figures are introduced;
HISTORICAL PRESENT, the present tense used for the past, to add life and
reality to the narrative, as in 'cometh' in Mark, v. 22.--ANCIENT HISTORY,
the history of the world down to the fall of Rome, 476 A.D.; MEDIEVAL
HISTORY, the history of the period between the fall of Rome and the
beginning of the 16th century; MODERN HISTORY, history since the beginning
of the 16th century; NATURAL HISTORY, originally an expression including
all the concrete sciences, now the science of living things: (in frequent
use) zoology, esp. in so far as that is concerned with the life and habits
of animals; PROFANE, SECULAR, HISTORY, the history of secular affairs as
opposed to _Sacred history_, which deals with the events in the Bible
narrative. [L.,--Gr. _historia_--_hist[=o]r_, knowing; cf. _eidenai_, to
know, L. _vid[=e]re_, Sans. _vid_, Eng. _wit_.]

HISTRIONIC, -AL, his-tri-on'ik, -al, _adj._ relating to the stage or
stage-players: befitting a theatre: feigned.--_ns._ HIS'TRIO, HIS'TRION, a
stage-player.--_adv._ HISTRION'ICALLY.--_ns._ HISTRION'ICISM, HIS'TRIONISM,
the acts or practice of stage-playing or of pantomime.--_n.pl._
HISTRION'ICS, play-acting.--_v.i._ HIS'TRIONISE, to act, play a part. [L.
_histrionicus_--_histrio_, an actor, primary form _hister_, a player.]

HIT, hit, _v.t._ to touch or strike: to reach: to suit: fit: conform
to.--_v.i._ to come in contact: to chance luckily: to succeed:--_pr.p._
hit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ hit.--_n._ a lucky chance, a surprising
success: a stroke: a happy turn of thought or expression: at backgammon, a
move that throws one of the opponent's men back to the entering point, a
game won after one or two men are removed from the board.--_n._
HIT'TER.--_adj._ HIT'TY-MISS'Y, random, hap-hazard.--HIT BELOW THE BELT, to
deal a blow disallowable in the rules of the ring: to do an injury to
another unfairly; HIT IT OFF(_with_), to agree with some one; HIT OFF, to
imitate, to describe; HIT-OR-MISS, reckless, hap-hazard; HIT OUT, to strike
out with the fist; HIT THE NAIL ON THE HEAD (see NAIL); HIT UPON, to come
upon, discover.--HARD HIT, one gravely affected by some trouble, or by
love. [A.S. _hyttan_, app. Ice. _hitta_, to light on, to find; Sw. _hitta_,
to find, Dan. _hitte_, to hit upon.]

[Illustration]

HITCH, hich, _v.i._ to move by jerks, as if caught by a hook: to be caught
by a hook: to be caught or fall into.--_v.t._ to hook: to catch: to fasten,
tether, esp. to make fast a rope.--_n._ a jerk: a catch or anything that
holds: an obstacle: a sudden halt: (_naut._) a species of knot by which one
rope is connected with another, or to some object--various knots are the
_Clove-hitch_, _Timber-hitch_, _Blackwall-hitch_, &c.--_n._
HITCH'ER.--_adv._ HITCH'ILY.--_adj._ HITCH'Y.--HITCH UP, to harness a horse
to a vehicle. [Ety. dub.; prob. the same as _itch_.]

HITHE, h[=i]_th_, _n._ a small haven. [A.S. _hýð_.]

HITHER, hi_th_'[.e]r, _adv._ to this place.--_adj._ toward the speaker:
nearer.--_v.i._ to come--chiefly in phrase, 'to hither and thither'=to go
to and fro.--_adj._ HITH'ERMOST, nearest on this side.--_n._ and _adj._
HITH'ERSIDE, the nearer side.--_advs._ HITH'ERTO, to this place or time: as
yet; HITH'ERWARD, towards this place.--HITHER AND THITHER, back and
forward: to and from. [A.S. _hider_; Goth. _hidrê_, Ice. _hêðra_.]

HITOPADESA, hit-[=o]-pa-d[=e]'sa, _n._ a famous collection of fables and
stories in Sanskrit literature, a popular summary in four books of the
_Panchatantra_.

HITTITE, hit'[=i]t, _adj._ pertaining to the Hittites, a powerful and
civilised people, probably not Semitic, of northern Syria. [Heb.
_Khitt[=i]m_.]

HIVE, h[=i]v, _n._ a place where bees live and store up honey, whether
artificial or natural: a swarm of bees in a box or basket: any busy
company.--_v.t._ to collect into a hive: to lay up in store.--_v.i._ to
take shelter together: to reside in a body.--_ns._ HIVE'-BEE, the common
honey-bee; HIV'ER; HIVE'-NEST, a large nest built and occupied by several
pairs of birds in common. [A.S. _hýf_.]

HIVES, h[=i]vz, _n._ a popular term for nettle-rash and other similar skin
diseases: laryngitis.

HIZZ, hiz, _v.i._ to hiss.

HO, HOA, h[=o], _interj._ a call to excite attention: hold! stop!--repeated
it expresses derision.

HOAR, h[=o]r, _adj._ white or grayish-white, esp. with age or frost:
mouldy.--_n._ hoariness: age.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to become mouldy.--_n._
HOAR'-FROST, white frost: the white particles formed by the freezing of
dew.--_adjs._ HOAR'-HEAD'ED, HOAR'Y, white or gray with age: (_bot._)
covered with short, dense, whitish hairs.--_adv._ HOAR'ILY.--_ns._
HOAR'INESS; HOAR'-STONE, an ancient boundary stone. [A.S. _hár_, hoary,
gray; Ice. _hárr_.]

HOARD, h[=o]rd, _n._ a store: a hidden stock: a treasure: a place for
hiding anything.--_v.t._ to store: to amass and deposit in secret.--_v.i._
to store up: to collect and form a hoard.--_n._ HOARD'ER. [A.S. _hord_;
Ice. _hodd_, Ger. _hort_.]

HOARD, h[=o]rd, HOARDING, h[=o]rd'ing, _n._ a hurdle or fence enclosing a
house and materials while builders are at work: any boarding on which bills
are posted. [From O. Fr. _hurdis_--_hurt_, _hourt_, _hourd_, a palisade.]

HOARHOUND, HOREHOUND, h[=o]r'hownd, _n._ a plant of a whitish or downy
appearance, used as a tonic. [M. E. _horehune_--A.S. _hárhúne_, from _hár_,
hoar or white, and _húne_ (acc. to Skeat, meaning 'strong-scented'); cf. L.
_cunila_, Gr. _konil[=e]_, wild marjoram.]

HOARSE, h[=o]rs, _adj._ having a harsh, grating voice, as from a cold:
harsh: discordant.--_adv._ HOARSE'LY.--_n._ HOARSE'NESS. [A.S. _hás_; Ice.
_háss_, this prob. for _hárs_, throwing light on the M. E. _hôrs_, _hoors_,
Scot. _hairsh_, &c.]

HOAST, h[=o]st, _n._ (_prov._) a cough.--_v.i._ to cough. [Ice. _hóste_;
Dut. _hoest_.]

HOASTMAN, h[=o]st'man, _n._ a member of an old merchant guild in Newcastle,
with charge of coal-shipping, &c. [_Host_, stranger, guest.]

HOATZIN, h[=o]-at'sin, _n._ a remarkable South American bird, the same as
the Touraco (q.v.).--Also HOACT'ZIN, HOA'ZIN. [S. Amer.]

HOAX, h[=o]ks, _n._ a deceptive trick: a practical joke.--_v.t._ to
deceive: to play a trick upon for sport, or without malice.--_ns._ HOAXEE';
HOAX'ER; HOAX'ING. [Corr. of _hocus_. See HOCUS-POCUS.]

HOB, hob, _n._ the projecting nave of a wheel: a projection on the side of
a fireplace, on which anything may be laid to keep hot: a game in which
coins are placed on the end of a short stick at which stones are thrown,
those that fall head up going to the thrower--also the round stick used in
this game: a hardened threaded steel mandrel used in forming the cutting
ends of screw-chasing tools, &c.--_n._ HOB'NAIL, a nail with a thick,
strong head, used in horse-shoes, &c.: a clownish fellow.--_v.t._ to
furnish with hobnails: to trample upon with hobnailed shoes.--_adj._
HOB'NAILED. [Cf. HUB.]

HOB, hob, _n._ a clownish fellow: a rustic: a fairy.--_n._ HOB'BINOLL, a
rustic.--_adj._ HOB'BISH, clownish.--_n._ HOBGOB'LIN, a mischievous fairy:
a frightful apparition.--PLAY HOB, to make confusion. [A corr. of _Rob_ for
_Robin_, _Robert_.]

HOB-A-NOB, HOB-AND-NOB. Same as HOBNOB.

HOBBISM, hob'izm, _n._ the doctrine of Thomas _Hobbes_ (1588-1679), that
morality is an institution of society.--_n._ HOBB'IST, a follower of
Hobbes.

HOBBLE, hob'l, _v.i._ to walk with a limp: to walk awkwardly: to move
irregularly.--_v.t._ to fasten loosely the legs of: to hamper: to
perplex.--_n._ an awkward limping gait: a difficulty, a scrape: anything
used to hamper the feet of an animal, a clog or fetter.--_ns._ HOBB'LER,
one who hobbles: an unlicensed pilot, casual labourer in docks, &c.: a man
who tows a canal-boat with a rope; HOBB'LING.--_adv._ HOBB'LINGLY. [Cf.
Dut. _hobbelen_, _hobben_, to toss.]

HOBBLEDEHOY, hob'l-de-hoi', _n._ an awkward youth, a stripling, neither man
nor boy.--_adj._ HOBBLEDEHOY'ISH.--_n._ HOBBLEDEHOY'ISM. [Prob. conn. with
_hobble_, referring to awkward gait.]

HOBBLER, hob'l[.e]r, _n._ a horseman employed for light work, as
reconnoitring, &c.: a horse. [O. Fr. _hobeler_--_hobin_, a small horse.]

HOBBY, hob'i, _n._ a strong, active horse: a pacing horse: a subject on
which one is constantly setting off, as in 'to ride' or 'to mount a hobby:'
a favourite pursuit.--_n._ HOBB'Y-HORSE, a stick or figure of a horse on
which boys ride: one of the chief parts played in the ancient morris-dance:
(_Shak._) a term of contempt for a loose and frivolous person, male or
female.--_adj._ HOBB'Y-HOR'SICAL, having a hobby: eccentric.--_ns._
HOBB'YISM; HOBB'YIST, one who rides a hobby.--_adj._ HOBB'YLESS. [M. E.
_hobyn_, _hoby_, prob. _Hob_, a by-form of _Rob_. Hence also O. Fr.
_hobin_, _hobi_ (Fr. _aubin_).]

HOBBY, hob'i, _n._ a small species of falcon. [O. Fr. _hobé_, _hobet_--Low
L. _hobetus_; prob. O. Fr. _hober_, to move.]

HOBGOBLIN. See HOB (2).--_ns._ HOBGOB'LINISM; HOBGOB'LINRY.

HOBJOB, hob'job, _n._ (_prov._) an odd job.--_v.i._ to work at such.--_ns._
HOB'JOBBER; HOB'JOBBING.

HOBNAIL. See HOB (1).

HOBNOB, hob'nob, _adv._ have or not have, a familiar invitation to
drink.--_v.i._ to associate or drink together familiarly.--_pr.p._
HOBNOB'BING.--_adj._ HOB'NOBBY. [_Hab_, _nab_.]

HOBSON-JOBSON, hob'son-job'son, _n._ a native festal excitement, esp. the
Moharram ceremonies. [A corr. of the wailing 'Y[=a] Hasan! Y[=a] Hosain!' a
typical phrase of Anglo-Indian argot, hence adopted as a concise
alternative title for Yule and Burnell's admirable _Glossary of
Anglo-Indian Colloquial Words and Phrases_ (Lond. 1886).]

HOCK, hok, _n._ and _v._ See HOUGH.

HOCK, hok, _n._ properly, the wine made at _Hochheim_, Germany; now applied
to all white Rhine wines.

HOCK-DAY, hok'-d[=a], _n._ an old English festival held on the second
Monday and Tuesday after Easter Sunday, one of the chief customs being the
seizing and binding of passengers until they gave money for their liberty,
Monday the men by the women, Tuesday the women by the men.--Also
HOCK'-TIDE.

HOCKEY, hok'i, _n._ a game at ball played with a club or stick curved at
one end, shinty.--Also HOOK'EY. [Prob. O. Fr. _hoquet_, a crook.]

HOCKEY, hok'i, _n._ (prov.) harvest-home, the harvest-supper.--Also
HAWK'EY, HORK'EY.

HOCKLE, hok'l, _v.t._ to hamstring. [See HOUGH.]

HOCUS-POCUS, h[=o]'kus-p[=o]'kus, _n._ a juggler: a juggler's
trick.--_v.t._ H[=O]'CUS, to cheat: to stupefy with drink: to
drug:--_pr.p._ h[=o]'cussing; _pa.p._ h[=o]'cussed. [The meaningless
gibberish of a juggler--no reference to '_hoc est corpus_.']

HOD, hod, _n._ a kind of trough borne on the shoulder, for carrying bricks
and mortar: a coal-scuttle: a pewterer's blowpipe.--_n._ HOD'MAN, a man who
carries a hod: a mason's labourer. [A variant of prov. _hot_; cf. Fr.
_hotte_, a basket.]

HODDENGRAY, hod'n-gr[=a], _n._ coarse cloth made of undyed wool.--_adj._
HODD'EN, wearing hoddengray: rustic.--_n._ hoddengray. [Prob. a form of
_holden_, kept, reserved, and _gray_.]

HODDLE, hod'l, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to waddle.

HODGE, hoj, _n._ a countryman, rustic. [_Hodge_, corr. from _Roger_.]

HODGEPODGE, hoj'poj, _n._ (see HOTCHPOTCH).--_n._ HODGE'-PUDD'ING
(_Shak._), a pudding made of a mass of ingredients mixed together.

HODIERNAL, h[=o]-di-[.e]rn'al, _adj._ of or pertaining to the present day.
[L. _hodiernus_--_hodie_, to-day--_hoc die_, on this day.]

HODMANDOD, hod'man-dod, _n._ a snail, dodman.

HODOGRAPH, hod'o-graf, _n._ a curve the radius vector of which represents
in direction and magnitude the velocity of a moving particle--a term
suggested by Sir W. R. Hamilton. [Gr. _hodos_, a way, _graphein_, to
write.]

HODOMETER, ho-dom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument attached to the axle of a
vehicle to register the revolutions of the wheels. [Gr. _hodos_, a way,
_metron_, a measure.]

HOE, h[=o], _n._ an instrument for hewing or digging up weeds and loosening
the earth.--_v.t._ to cut or clean with a hoe: to weed.--_v.i._ to use a
hoe:--_pr.p._ hoe'ing; _pa.p._ hoed.--_ns._ HOE'-CAKE (U.S.), a thin cake
of Indian meal; H[=O]'ER.--A HARD, or LONG, ROW TO HOE, a hard or wearisome
task to perform. [O. Fr. _houe_--Old High Ger. _houwa_ (Ger. _haue_), a
hoe.]

HOG, hog, _n._ a general name for swine: a castrated boar: a pig: formerly
slang for a shilling: a low filthy fellow.--_v.t._ to cut short the hair
of:--_pr.p._ hog'ging; _pa.p._ hogged.--_ns._ HOG'-BACK, HOG'S'-BACK, a
back rising in the middle: a ridge of a hill of such shape--also
_Horseback_; HOG'GERY, hoggishness of character: coarseness; HOG'GET, a
boar of the second year: a sheep or colt after it has passed its first
year.--_adj._ HOG'GISH, resembling a hog: brutish: filthy: selfish.--_adv._
HOG'GISHLY.--_ns._ HOG'GISHNESS; HOG'HOOD, the nature of a hog; HOG'-MANE,
a horse's mane clipped short; HOG'-PEN, a pig-sty; HOG'-PLUM, a West Indian
tree of the cashew family, the fruit given to hogs; HOG'-REEVE,
-CON'STABLE, an officer charged with the care of stray swine; HOG'-RING'ER,
one who puts rings into the snouts of hogs; HOG'S'-BEAN, the
henbane.--_v.t._ HOG'-SHOU'THER (_Scot._), to jostle with the
shoulder.--_ns._ HOG'-SKIN, leather made of the skin of swine; HOG'S'-LARD,
the melted fat of the hog; HOG'-WASH, the refuse of a kitchen, brewery,
&c.--BRING ONE'S HOGS TO A FINE MARKET, to make a complete mess of
something; GO THE WHOLE HOG, to do a thing thoroughly or completely, to
commit one's self to anything unreservedly. [M. E. _hogge_, a gelded hog,
prob. from _hack_, to cut; others derive from W. _hwch_, a sow, Bret.
_houch_, _hoch_.]

HOG, hog, _v.i._ to droop at both ends.--_n._ HOG'-FRAME, a fore-and-aft
frame serving to resist vertical flexure in a ship.--_adj._ HOGGED, of a
ship, having a droop at the ends.

HOG, hog, _n._ in curling, a stone which does not pass the
hog-score.--_v.t._ to play such a shot with a curling-stone.--_n._
HOG'-SCORE, a line drawn across the rink at a certain distance from the
tees--to be cleared, else the shot does not count. [Prob. conn. with _hog_,
a swine.]

HOG, HOGG, hog, _n._ a young sheep of the second year.--Also HOG'GEREL.

HOGAN, hog'an, _n._ a kind of strong liquor. [Corr. of _hogen-mogen_--Dut.
_hoog en mogend_, high and mighty.]

HOGGER, hog'er, _n._ (_prov._) a coal-miner's footless stocking.--_n._
HOGG'ER-PIPE, the terminal section of the discharge-pipe of a mining-pump.

HOGMANAY, hog-ma-n[=a]', _n._ (_Scot._) the old name for the last day of
the year. [Prob. a corr., through Norman French forms, of O. Fr.
_aguilanneuf_=_au-gui-l'an-neuf_, 'to the mistletoe! the New Year!' Fr.
_gui_, mistletoe, is from L. _viscum_.]

HOGSHEAD, hogz'hed, _n._ (_Shak._) a large cask: a measure of capacity=52½
imperial gallons, or 63 old wine gallons; _of beer_=54 gallons; _of
claret_=46 gallons; _of tobacco_ (_U.S._), varying from 750 to 1200 lb.
[Corr. of Old Dut. _okshoofd_, ox-head; from the brand on the cask.]

HOIDEN. See HOYDEN.

HOISE, hoiz, _v.t._ to hoist.

HOIST, hoist, _v.t._ to lift: to raise with tackle: to heave.--_n._ act of
lifting: the height of a sail: an apparatus for lifting heavy bodies to the
upper stories of a building.--HOIST WITH ONE'S OWN PETARD, beaten with
one's own weapons, caught in one's own trap. [Formerly _hoise_, or
_hoyse_--Old Dut. _hyssen_, Dut. _hijsschen_, to hoist.]

HOITY-TOITY, hoi'ti-toi'ti, _interj._ an exclamation of surprise or
disapprobation.--_adj._ giddy, gay, noisy.

HOKY-POKY, h[=o]'ki-p[=o]'ki, _n._ a kind of ice-cream sold on the streets.
[From _hocus-pocus_.]

HOLARCTIC, hol-ärk'tik, _adj._ entirely arctic.

HOLD, h[=o]ld, _v.t._ to keep possession of or authority over: to sustain:
to defend: to maintain, support: to occupy: to derive title to: to bind: to
confine: to restrain: to stop, as in 'to cry hold:' to continue: to persist
in: to contain: to celebrate: to esteem: (_Shak._) to endure: (_arch._) to
bet.--_v.i._ to remain fixed: to be true or unfailing: to continue unbroken
or unsubdued: to adhere: to derive right:--_pr.p._ h[=o]ld'ing; _pa.t._
held; _pa.p._ held (_obs._ h[=o]ld'en).--_n._ act or manner of holding:
seizure: power of seizing: something for support: a place of confinement:
custody: a fortified place: (_mus._) a mark over a rest or note, indicating
that it is to be prolonged.--_ns._ HOLD'-ALL, a general receptacle, esp. a
big carpet-bag; HOLD'-BACK, a check: a strap joining the breeching to the
shaft of a vehicle; HOLD'-BEAM, one of the beams crossing a ship's hold and
strengthening the framework.--HOLD'EN (_B._), old _pa.p._ of _hold_.--_ns._
HOLD'ER; HOLD'-FAST, that which holds fast: a long nail: a catch; HOLD'ING,
anything held: a farm held of a superior: hold: influence: (_Scots law_)
tenure.--HOLD FORTH, to put forward: show: to speak in public, to declaim;
HOLD HARD! stop! HOLD IN, to restrain, check: to restrain one's self; HOLD
OF (_Pr. Bk._), to regard; HOLD OFF, to keep at a distance; HOLD ON, to
persist in something: to continue: to cling; HOLD ONE IN HAND, to amuse in
order to gain some advantage; HOLD ONE'S OWN, to maintain one's position;
HOLD ONE'S PEACE, HOLD ONE'S TONGUE, to keep silence; HOLD OUT, to endure,
last; HOLD OVER, to postpone, to keep possession of land or a house beyond
the term of agreement; HOLD THE MARKET (see MARKET); HOLD TOGETHER, to
remain united: to cohere; HOLD UP, to raise: to continue to go at the same
rate; HOLD WATER, to be sound and firm, to endure trial; HOLD WITH, to take
sides with. [A.S. _healdan_; Old High Ger. _haltan_, Goth. _haldan_.]

HOLD, h[=o]ld, _n._ the interior cavity of a ship between the floor and the
lower deck, used for the cargo. [Dut. _hol_, a cavity or hole, with
excrescent d.]

HOLE, h[=o]l, _n._ a hollow place: a cavity: an opening in a solid body: a
pit: a subterfuge: a means of escape: a difficult situation: a scrape: a
place of hiding, a mean lodging, a secret room for some disreputable
business: (_golf_) one of the holes, 4 in. in diameter, into which the ball
is played, also the distance between any two holes.--_v.t._ to form holes
in: to drive into a hole.--_v.i._ to go into a hole.--_adj._
HOLE'-AND-COR'NER, secret: underhand.--_ns._ H[=O]LING-AXE, a narrow axe
for cutting holes in posts; H[=O]LING-PICK, a pick used in under-cutting
coal.--A HOLE IN ONE'S COAT, a stain on a person's reputation; PUT A PERSON
IN A HOLE, to put him in a position from which he cannot easily extricate
himself; TOAD IN THE HOLE, meat baked in batter, &c. [A.S. _hol_, a hole,
cavern; Dut. _hol_, Dan. _hul_, Ger. _hohl_, hollow; conn. with Gr.
_koilos_, hollow.]

HOLE, _adj._ (_Spens._) whole.

HOLIBUT. See HALIBUT.

HOLIDAY, hol'i-d[=a], _n._ a consecrated day: a religious festival: a day
for the commemoration of some event: a day of idleness and
amusement.--_adj._ befitting a holiday: cheerful.--HOLIDAY SPEECHES, fine
but empty phrases. [Formerly _holy day_.]

HOLLA, hol'a, HOLLO, HOLLOA, hol'[=o], or hol-l[=o]', _interj._ ho, there!
attend! (_naut._) the usual response to 'Ahoy!'--_n._ a loud shout.--_v.i._
to cry loudly to one at a distance. [Fr. _holà_--_ho_ and _là_--L. _illac_,
there; the other forms are due to confusion with _halloo_.]

HOLLAND, hol'and, _n._ a coarse linen fabric, unbleached or dyed brown,
which is used for covering furniture, &c.: (_orig._) a fine kind of linen
first made in _Holland_.

HOLLANDER, hol'and-[.e]r, _n._ a native of _Holland_.--_adj._
HOLL'ANDISH.--_n._ HOLL'ANDS, gin made in Holland.

HOLLOW, hol'[=o], _adj._ vacant: not solid: containing an empty space:
sunken: unsound: insincere.--_n._ a hole: a cavity: any depression in a
body: any vacuity: a groove: a channel.--_v.t._ to make a hole in: to make
hollow by digging: to excavate.--_adv._ completely: clean.--_adjs._
HOLL'OW-EYED, having sunken eyes; HOLL'OW-HEART'ED, having a hollow or
untrue heart: faithless: treacherous.--_adv._ HOLL'OWLY (_Shak._), in a
hollow or insincere manner.--_ns._ HOLL'OWNESS, the state of being hollow:
cavity: insincerity: treachery; HOLL'OW-WARE, trade name for hollow
articles of iron, as pots and kettles.--BEAT HOLLOW, to beat wholly. [A.S.
_holh_, a hollow place--_hol_. See HOLE.]

HOLLY, hol'i, _n._ an evergreen shrub having leathery, shining, and spinous
leaves and scarlet or yellow berries, much used for Christmas decorations.
[A.S. _holegn_; cf. W. _celyn_, Ir. _cuileann_.]

HOLLYHOCK, hol'i-hok, _n._ a kind of mallow, brought into Europe from the
Holy Land--(_Bacon_) HOLL'Y-OAK. [M. E. _holihoc_--_holi_, holy, and A.S.
_hoc_, mallows--Celtic, cf. W. _hocys_.]

HOLM, h[=o]lm, or h[=o]m, _n._ a river-islet: rich flat land beside a
river. [A.S. _holm_, orig. a mound; Ger. _holm_, &c.]

HOLM, h[=o]lm, or h[=o]m, _n._ (_Spens._) holly.--_n._ HOLM'-OAK, the ilex
or evergreen oak, so called from some resemblance to the holly. [_Holm-_ is
a corr. of _holin_, the M. E. form of _holly_, which see.]

HOLOBLASTIC, hol-o-blas'tik, _adj._ undergoing segmentation throughout the
entire mass, as the ova of mammals.

HOLOCAUST, hol'o-kawst, _n._ a burnt sacrifice, in which the whole of the
victim was consumed. [L.,--Gr. _holokauston_--_holos_, whole, _kaustos_,
burnt.]

HOLOCRYPTIC, hol-o-krip'tik, _adj._ concealing completely, undecipherable.

HOLOGRAPH, hol'o-graf, _n._ a document wholly written by the person from
whom it proceeds (also used as _adj._).--_adj._ HOLOGRAPH'IC. [Gr. _holos_,
whole, _graphein_, to write.]

HOLOHEDRISM, hol-o-h[=e]'drizm, _n._ (_math._) the property of having the
full number of symmetrically arranged planes crystallographically
possible.--_adj._ HOLOH[=E]'DRAL.--_n._ HOLOH[=E]'DRON, a form possessing
this property. [Gr. _holos_, whole, _hedra_, base.]

HOLOMETABOLIC, hol-o-met-a-bol'ik, _adj._ undergoing complete
metamorphosis, as an insect--opp. of _Ametabolic_.

HOLOMETER, hol-om'et-[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for taking all kinds of
measures. [Gr. _holos_, whole, _metron_, measure.]

HOLOMORPHIC, hol-o-mor'fik, _adj._ (_math._) having the properties of an
entire function, being finite, continuous, and one-valued for all finite
values of the variable: showing holohedral symmetry. [Gr. _holos_, whole,
_morph[=e]_, form.]

HOLOPHOTE, hol'o-f[=o]t, _n._ an improved optical apparatus now used in
lighthouses, by which all the light from the lamp is thrown in the required
direction, in the _catoptric_ holophote by reflectors, in the _dioptric_ by
refracting lenses, in the _catadioptric_ by both combined.--_adj._
HOLOPH[=O]T'AL. [Gr. _holos_, whole, _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light.]

HOLOPHRASTIC, hol-o-fras'tik, _adj._ bearing the force of a whole phrase,
expressive of a sentence or an idea.--_n._ HOLOPHR[=A]'SIS. [Gr. _holos_,
whole, _phrastikos_, _phrazein_, to indicate.]

HOLORHINAL, hol-o-r[=i]'nal, _adj._ having the nasal bones slightly cleft
or not at all. [Gr. _holos_, whole, _hris_, _hrinos_, the nose.]

HOLOTHURIAN, hol-o-th[=oo]'ri-an, _n._ a sea-cucumber or similar
echinoderm. [L.,--Gr. _holothourion_, from _holos_, whole, and perh.
_thouros_, impetuous.]

HOLP, h[=o]lp, HOLPEN, h[=o]lp'n, old _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _help_.

HOLSTER, h[=o]l'st[.e]r, _n._ the leathern case carried by a horseman at
the forepart of the saddle for covering a pistol.--_adj._ HOL'STERED. [Acc.
to Skeat, from Dut. _holster_, a pistol-case--_hullen_, to cover, which is
cog. with A.S. _helan_, to cover.]

HOLT, h[=o]lt, _n._ a wood or woody hill: an orchard. [A.S. _holt_, a wood;
Ice. _holt_, a copse, Ger. _holz_.]

HOLUS-BOLUS, h[=o]l'us-b[=o]l'us, _adv._ all at a gulp: altogether.--_n._
the whole. [A vulgarism, formed from whole, most likely on the analogy of
_hocus-pocus_; hardly conn. with _bolus_, a pill.]

HOLY, h[=o]'li, _adj._ perfect in a moral sense: pure in heart: religious:
set apart to a sacred use.--_adv._ H[=O]'LILY, in a holy manner:
piously.--_n._ H[=O]'LINESS, state of being holy: religious goodness:
sanctity: a title of the pope.--_adj._ H[=O]'LY-CRU'EL (_Shak._), cruel
through excess of holiness.--_ns._ H[=O]'LY-DAY, a formal spelling of
holiday (q.v.); H[=O]'LY-OFF'ICE, the Inquisition; H[=O]'LY-ROOD, the holy
cross in R.C. churches over the entrance to the chancel; H[=O]'LYSTONE, a
sandstone used by seamen for cleansing the decks, said to be named from
cleaning the decks for Sunday.--_v.t._ to scrub with a holystone.--_ns._
H[=O]'LY-THURS'DAY, the day on which the ascension of our Saviour is
commemorated, ten days before Whitsuntide; H[=O]'LY-WA'TER, water blessed
by the priest or bishop for certain religious uses; H[=O]'LY-WEEK, the week
before Easter, kept holy to commemorate our Lord's passion; H[=O]'LY-WRIT,
the holy writings: the Scriptures.--HOLY ALLIANCE, a league formed after
the fall of Napoleon (1815) by the sovereigns of Austria Russia, and
Prussia, professedly to regulate all national and international relations
in accordance with the principles of Christian charity; HOLY CITY,
Jerusalem: also specially applied to Rome, Mecca, Benares, Allahabad, &c.;
HOLY COAT, the seamless coat of Jesus, claimed to be kept at Trèves; HOLY
COMMUNION (see COMMUNION); HOLY FAMILY, the infant Saviour with Joseph,
Mary, &c.; HOLY GHOST, SPIRIT, the third person of the Trinity, proceeding
from the Father and the Son; HOLY GRAIL (see GRAIL); HOLY GRASS, a
sweet-smelling grass about a foot high, with a brownish glossy lax
panicle--sometimes strewed on the floors of churches on festival days,
whence its name; HOLY LAND, Palestine; HOLY OF HOLIES, THE MOST HOLY PLACE,
the inner chamber of the Jewish tabernacle, which the high-priest alone
might enter, and but once a year; HOLY ONE, God: Christ: the one who is
holy, by way of emphasis: one separated to the service of God; HOLY ORDERS,
ordination to the rank of minister in holy things: the Christian ministry;
HOLY PLACES, scenes of the Saviour's life, the sepulchre, &c.; HOLY QUEST,
the search for the Holy grail; HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE, the official denomination
of the German Empire from 962 down to 1806, when Francis II. of Hapsburg
resigned the imperial title; HOLY WAR, a name impiously given to a war for
the extirpation of heresy, as that against the Albigenses, &c.: one of the
Crusades. [A.S. _hálig_, lit. whole, perfect, healthy--_hál_, sound, whole;
conn. with _hail_, _heal_, _whole_.]

HOLYWELL, hol'i-wel, in phrase, 'Holywell Street literature,' i.e. such
books as used to be much sold in _Holywell_ Street, London--viz. filthy
books.

HOMAGE, hom'[=a]j, _n._ the service due from a knight or vassal to his lord
in feudal times, the vassal preferring to become his lord's man: the act of
fealty: respect paid by external action: reverence directed to the Supreme
Being: devout affection.--_n._ HOM'AGER, one who does homage. [O. Fr.
_homage_--Low L. _homaticum_--L. _homo_, a man.]

HOME, h[=o]m, _n._ one's house or country: place of constant residence: the
residence of a family: the seat, as of war: a charitable institution where
domestic comforts are given to the destitute.--_adj._ pertaining to one's
dwelling or country: domestic: close: severe.--_adv._ pertaining to one's
habitation or country: close: closely: to the point: effectively.--_adjs._
HOME'-BORN, native, not foreign; HOME'BOUND, homeward-bound; HOME'-BRED,
bred at home: native: domestic: plain: unpolished; HOME'-BREWED, brewed at
home or for home use.--_n._ HOME'-FARM, the farm near the home or mansion
of a gentleman.--_adjs._ HOME'FELT, felt in one's own breast: inward:
private; HOME'-GROWN, produced in one's own country, not imported;
HOME'-KEEP'ING, staying at home; HOME'LESS, without a home.--_n._
HOME'LESSNESS,--_adv._ HOME'LILY.--_n._ HOME'LINESS.--_adjs._ HOME'LY,
pertaining to home: familiar: plain; HOME'-MADE, made at home: made in
one's own country: plain.--_n._ HOM'ER, a pigeon trained to fly home from a
distance.--_adj._ HOME'SICK, sick or grieved at separation from home.--_n._
HOME'SICKNESS.--_adj._ HOME'SPUN, spun or wrought at home: not made in
foreign countries: plain: inelegant.--_n._ cloth made at home.--_ns._
HOME'STALL, HOME'STEAD, the place of a mansion-house: the enclosures
immediately connected with it: original station.--_advs._ HOME'WARD,
HOME'WARDS, towards home: towards one's habitation or country.--_adj._ in
the direction of home.--_adj._ HOME'WARD-BOUND, bound homeward or to one's
native land.--_adjs._ HOM'ING, having a tendency to return home; HOM'Y,
home-like.--HOME CIRCUIT, the south-eastern circuit of Assize, including
the home counties (except Middlesex), also Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, and
Suffolk; HOME COUNTIES, the counties over and into which London has
extended--Middlesex, Hertfordshire, Essex, Kent, Surrey; HOME DEPARTMENT,
that part of government which is concerned with the maintenance of the
internal peace of the United Kingdom--its headquarters the HOME OFFICE, its
official head the HOME SECRETARY; HOME RULE, a form of self-government
claimed by Ireland, with a separate parliament for the management of
internal affairs.--AT HOME, in one's own house: at ease: familiar: a phrase
signifying that a family will be at home at a fixed date, and ready to
receive visitors--as a _n._--a reception; BRING HOME TO, to prove to, in
such a way that there is no way of escaping the conclusion: to impress
upon; EAT OUT OF HOUSE AND HOME, to live at the expense of another so as to
ruin him; LONG HOME, the grave; MAKE ONE'S SELF AT HOME, to be as free and
unrestrained as when in one's own house; PAY HOME, to strike to the quick:
to retaliate. [A.S. _hám_; Dut. and Ger. _heim_, Goth. _haims_.]

HOMELYN, hom'el-in, _n._ a species of ray, found on the south coast of
England.

HOMEOPATHY, h[=o]-me-op'a-thi, _n._ the system of curing diseases by small
quantities of those drugs which excite symptoms similar to those of the
disease.--_ns._ H[=O]'MEOPATH, HOMEOP'ATHIST, one who believes in or
practises homeopathy.--_adj._ HOMEOPATH'IC, of or pertaining to
homeopathy.--_adv._ HOMEOPATH'ICALLY. [Gr. _homoiopatheia_--_homoios_,
like, _pathos_, feeling.]

HOMEOPLASY, h[=o]-m[=e]-[=o]-pl[=a]s'i, _n._ the taking on by one tissue of
the form of another under plastic conditions, as in skin-grafting.--_adj._
HOMEOPLAST'IC [Gr. _homoios_, like, _plastos_--_plassein_, to form.]

HOMER, h[=o]'m[.e]r, _n._ a Hebrew measure of capacity, amounting to about
10 bushels and 3 gallons. [Heb. _kh[=o]mer_, a heap--_kh[=a]mar_, to swell
up.]

HOMERIC, h[=o]-mer'ik, _adj._ pertaining to _Homer_, the great poet of
Greece (c. 850 B.C.): pertaining to or resembling the poetry of
Homer.--HOMERIC VERSE, hexameter verse, the metre of the Iliad and Odyssey.

HOMICIDE, hom'i-s[=i]d, _n._ manslaughter: one who kills another.--_adj._
HOM'ICIDAL, pertaining to homicide: murderous: bloody. [Fr.,--L.
_homicidium_--_homo_, a man, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

HOMILY, hom'i-li, _n._ a plain expository sermon, interpreting a passage of
Scripture rather than working out a doctrine in detail: a hortatory
discourse, essentially simple, practical, and scriptural.--_adjs._
HOMILET'IC, -AL.--_n._ HOMILET'ICS, the science which treats of homilies,
and the best mode of preparing and delivering them.--_n._ HOM'ILIST, one
who exhorts a congregation, or who composes homilies. [Gr. _homilia_, an
assembly, a sermon--_homos_, the same, _il[=e]_, a crowd.]

HOMINY, hom'i-ni, _n._ maize hulled, or hulled and crushed, boiled with
water: a kind of Indian-corn porridge. [American Indian _auhuminea_.]

HOMMOCK, hom'uk, _n._ a hillock or small conical eminence.--Also HUMM'OCK.
[A dim. of _hump_, like _hillock_ from _hill_.]

HOMO, h[=o]'m[=o], _n._ generic man. [L.]

HOMOBARIC, h[=o]-m[=o]-bar'ik, _adj._ of uniform weight. [Gr. _homos_, the
same, _baros_, weight.]

HOMOBLASTIC, h[=o]-m[=o]-blas'tik, _adj._ of the same germinal
origin:--opp. of _Heteroblastic_. [Gr. _homos_, the same, _blastos_, a
germ.]

HOMOCENTRIC, h[=o]-m[=o]-sen'trik, _adj._ having the same centre. [Fr.
_homocentrique_--Gr. _homokentros_--_homos_, the same, _kentron_, centre.]

HOMOCERCAL, h[=o]-m[=o]-s[.e]r'kal, _adj._ having the upper fork of the
tail similar to the lower one, as the herring:--opposed to _Heterocercal_.
[Gr. _homos_, the same, _kerkos_, tail.]

HOMODERMIC, h[=o]-m[=o]-derm'ik, _adj._ homological in respect of
derivation from one of the three primary blastoderms (_endoderm_,
_mesoderm_, and _ectoderm_). [Gr. _homos_, the same, _derma_, skin.]

HOMODONT, h[=o]-m[=o]-dont, _adj._ having teeth all alike:--opp. of
_Heterodont_.

HOMODROMOUS, h[=o]-mod'r[=o]-mus, _adj._ (_bot._) following the same
direction, as the leaf-spirals on certain branches: (_obs._) having the
power and the weight on the same side of the fulcrum, of a lever. [Gr.
_homos_, the same, _dromos_, a course.]

HOMOEOMORPHOUS, h[=o]-m[=e]-[=o]-mor'fus, _adj._ having a like crystalline
form, but not necessarily analogous composition.--_n._ HOMOEOMOR'PHISM.
[Gr. _homoios_, like, _morph[=e]_, form.]

HOMOEOPATHY, &c. See HOMEOPATHY.

HOMOEOZOIC, h[=o]-m[=e]-[=o]-z[=o]'ik, _adj._ containing similar forms of
life. [Gr. _homos_, the same, _z[=o][=e]_, life.]

HOMOGAMOUS, ho-mog'a-mus, _adj._ (_bot._) having all the florets
hermaphrodite.--_n._ HOMOG'AMY. [Gr. _homos_, the same, _gamos_, marriage.]

HOMOGENEAL, h[=o]-m[=o]-j[=e]'ni-al, HOMOGENEOUS, h[=o]-m[=o]j[=e]'ni-us,
_adj._ of the same kind or nature: having the constituent elements all
similar.--_ns._ HOMOGE'NEOUSNESS, HOMOGEN[=E]'ITY, HOM[=O]'GENY, sameness
of nature or kind. [Gr. _homogen[=e]s_--_homos_, one, same, _genos_, kind.]

HOMOGENESIS, h[=o]-m[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ (_biol._) a mode of reproduction
in which the offspring is like the parent, and passes through the same
cycle of existence.--_adj._ HOMOGENET'IC. [Gr. _homos_, the same,
_genesis_, birth.]

HOMOGRAPH, hom'[=o]-graf, _n._ a word of the same form as another, but
different meaning and origin.--Also _Homonym_.

HOMOIOUSIAN, h[=o]-moi-[=oo]'si-an, _adj._ similar in essence (as distinct
from the Nicene _homo-ousion_ and the strictly Arian _hetero-ousion_), the
semi-Arian position in the great Christological controversy of the 4th
century (see ARIAN). [Gr. _homoios_, like, _ousia_, being--_einai_, to be.]

HOMOLOGATE, h[=o]-mol'o-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to say the same: to agree: to
approve: to allow.--_n._ HOMOLOG[=A]'TION. [Low L. _homolog[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--Gr. _homologein_--_homos_, the same, _legein_, to say.]

HOMOLOGOUS, h[=o]-mol'o-gus, _adj._ agreeing: corresponding in relative
position, proportion, value, or structure.--_adj._ HOMOLOG'ICAL.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ HOMOL'OGISE.--_ns._ HOM'OLOGUE, that which is homologous to
something else, as the same organ in different animals under its various
forms and functions; HOMOL'OGY, the quality of being homologous: affinity
of structure, and not of form or use. [Gr. _homologos_--_homos_, the same,
_legein_, to say.]

HOMOLOGUMENA, h[=o]-m[=o]-l[=o]-g[=oo]'me-na, _n.pl._ the books of the New
Testament, whose authenticity was universally acknowledged in the early
Church--opp. of _Antilegumena_. [Gr.,--_homologein_, to agree.]

HOMOMORPHOUS, h[=o]-m[=o]-mor'fus, _adj._ analogous, not homologous,
superficially alike--also HOMOMOR'PHIC.--_n._ HOMOMOR'PHISM. [Gr. _homos_,
the same, _morph[=e]_, form.]

HOMONYM, hom'o-nim, _n._ a word having the same sound as another, but a
different meaning.--_adj._ HOMON'YMOUS, having the same name: having
different significations: ambiguous: equivocal.--_adv._
HOMON'YMOUSLY.--_n._ HOMON'YMY, sameness of name, with difference of
meaning: ambiguity: equivocation. [Fr. _homonyme_--Gr.
_hom[=o]nymos_--_homos_, the same, _onoma_, name.]

HOMOOUSIAN, h[=o]-m[=o]-[=oo]'si-an, _adj._ of or belonging to identity or
sameness of substance--the co-equality of the Son with the Father--the
orthodox position which triumphed in the great Christological controversy
of the 4th century (see ARIAN). [Gr. _homos_, same, _ousia_,
being--_einai_, to be.]

HOMOPHONE, hom'o-f[=o]n, _n._ a letter or character having the same sound
as another.--_adj._ HOMOPH'ONOUS, having the same sound.--_n._ HOMOPH'ONY.
[Gr. _homos_, the same, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

HOMOPLASTIC, h[=o]-m[=o]-plas'tik, _adj._ analogical or adaptive, and not
homological in structure.--_ns._ HOM'[=O]PLASMY, HOM'[=O]PLASY. [Gr.
_homos_, the same, _plastos_, _plassein_, to form.]

HOMOPTERA, hom-op't[.e]r-a, _n._ an order of insects having two pair of
wings uniform throughout.--_adj._ HOMOP'TEROUS. [Gr. _homos_, the same,
_pteron_, a wing.]

HOMOTAXIS, hom'o-tak'sis; _n._ (_geol._) similarity of order in organic
succession, a term suggested by Huxley as a substitute for
_contemporaneity_ (q.v.).--_adjs._ HOMOTAX'IAL, HOMOTAX'IC.--_adv._
HOMOTAX'ICALLY. [Gr. _homos_, the same, _taxis_, arrangement.]

HOMOTONOUS, h[=o]-mot'[=o]-nus, _adj._ of the same tenor or tone.--_n._
HOMOT'ONY.

HOMOTROPOUS, h[=o]-mot'r[=o]-pus, _adj._ turned or directed in the same way
as something else: (_bot._) curved or turned in one direction.--Also
HOMOT'ROPAL. [Gr. _homos_, the same, _tropos_, a turn.]

HOMOTYPE, hom'o-t[=i]p, _n._ that which has the same fundamental type of
structure with something else.--_n._ HOM'OTYPY. [Gr. _homos_, the same,
_typos_, type.]

HOMUNCULUS, h[=o]-mung'k[=u]-lus, _n._ a tiny man capable of being produced
artificially, according to Paracelsus, endowed with magical insight and
power: a dwarf, mannikin. [L., dim. of _homo_.]

HONE, h[=o]n, _n._ a stone of a fine grit for sharpening
instruments.--_v.t._ to sharpen as on a hone. [A.S. _hán_; Ice. _hein_;
allied to Gr. _k[=o]nos_, a cone.]

HONE, h[=o]n, _v.i._ to pine, moan, grieve. [Perh. Fr. _hogner_, to
grumble.]

HONEST, on'est, _adj._ full of honour: just: the opposite of thievish, free
from fraud: frank, fair-seeming, openly shown: chaste: (_B._)
honourable.--_adv._ HON'ESTLY.--_n._ HON'ESTY, the state of being honest:
integrity: candour: a small flowering plant, so called from its transparent
seed-pouch: (_B._) becoming deportment: (_Shak._) chastity.--MAKE AN HONEST
WOMAN OF, to marry, where the woman has been dishonoured first. [Fr.,--L.
_honestus_--_honor_.]

HONEY, hun'i, _n._ a sweet, thick fluid collected by bees from the flowers
of plants: anything sweet like honey.--_v.t._ to sweeten: to make
agreeable:--_pr.p._ hon'eying; _pa.p._ hon'eyed (-'id).--_adj._ (_Shak._)
sweet.--_ns._ HON'EY-BAG, an enlargement of the alimentary canal of the bee
in which it carries its load of honey; HON'EYBEAR, a South American
carnivorous mammal about the size of a cat, with a long protrusive tongue,
which it uses to rob the nests of wild bees; HON'EY-BEE, the hive-bee;
HON'EY-BUZZ'ARD, a genus of buzzards or falcons, so called from their
feeding on bees, wasps, &c.; HON'EYCOMB, a comb or mass of waxy cells
formed by bees, in which they store their honey: anything like a
honeycomb.--_v.t._ to fill with cells: to perforate.--_adj._ HON'EYCOMBED
(-k[=o]md), formed like a honeycomb.--_ns._ HON'EY-CROCK (_Spens._), a
crock or pot of honey; HON'EYDEW, a sugary secretion from the leaves of
plants in hot weather: a fine sort of tobacco moistened with
molasses.--_adjs._ HON'EYED, HON'IED, covered with honey: sweet:
flattering; HON'EYLESS, destitute of honey.--_ns._ HON'EY-GUIDE,
-INDICATOR, a genus of African birds supposed to guide men to honey by
hopping from tree to tree with a peculiar cry; HON'EY-L[=O]'CUST, an
ornamental North American tree; HON'EYMOON, HON'EYMONTH, the first month
after marriage, commonly spent in travelling, before settling down to the
business of life.--_v.i._ to keep one's honeymoon.--_adj._ HON'EY-MOUTHED,
having a honeyed mouth or speech: soft or smooth in speech.--_ns._
HON'EY-STALK, prob. the flower of the clover; HON'EY-SUCK'ER, a large
family of Australian birds; HON'EYSUCKLE, a climbing shrub with beautiful
cream-coloured flowers, so named because honey is readily sucked from the
flower.--_adjs._ HON'EY-SWEET, sweet as honey; HON'EY-TONGUED, having a
honeyed tongue or speech: soft or pleasing in speech.--VIRGIN HONEY, honey
that flows of itself from the comb; WILD HONEY, honey made by wild bees.
[A.S. _hunig_; Ger. _honig_, Ice. _hunang_.]

HONG, hong, _n._ a Chinese warehouse: a foreign mercantile establishment in
China. [Chin.]

HONITON LACE. See LACE.

HONK, hongk, _n._ the cry of the wild goose.--_v.t._ to give the cry of the
wild goose. [Imit.]

HONORARIUM, hon'or-[=a]'ri-um, _n._ a voluntary fee paid, esp. to a
professional man for his services. [L. _honorarium_ (_donum_), honorary
(gift).]

HONORARY, on'or-ar-i, _adj._ conferring honour: holding a title or office
without performing services or receiving a reward.--_n._ a fee. [L.
_honorarius_--_honor_.]

HONOUR, on'or, _n._ the esteem due or paid to worth: respect: high
estimation: veneration, said of God: that which rightfully attracts esteem:
exalted rank: distinction: excellence of character: nobleness of mind: any
special virtue much esteemed: any mark of esteem: a title of respect:
(_pl._) privileges of rank or birth: civilities paid: at whist, one of the
four highest trump cards (if one pair of partners hold four honours they
score four points; if three, two points; if only two, none--'Honours
easy'): (_golf_) the right to play first from the tee: academic prizes or
distinctions.--_v.t._ to hold in high esteem: to respect: to adore: to
exalt: to accept and pay when due.--_adj._ HON'OURABLE, worthy of honour:
illustrious: actuated by principles of honour: conferring honour: becoming
men of exalted station: a title of distinction.--_n._ HON'OURABLENESS,
eminence: conformity to the principles of honour: fairness.--_adv._
HON'OURABLY.--_adjs._ HON'OURED; HON'OURLESS.--_n._ HON'OUR-POINT (_her._),
the point just above the fesse-point.--HONOUR BRIGHT! a kind of
interjectional minor oath or appeal to honour; HONOURS OF WAR, the
privileges granted to a capitulating force to march out with their arms,
flags, &c.--AFFAIR OF HONOUR, a duel; DEBT OF HONOUR (see DEBT); LAST
HONOURS, funeral rites: obsequies; LAWS OF HONOUR, the conventional rules
of honourable conduct, esp. in the causes and conduct of duels; MAID OF
HONOUR, a lady in the service of a queen or princess; POINT OF HONOUR, any
scruple caused by a sense of duty: the obligation to demand and to receive
satisfaction for an insult, esp. in the duel; UPON MY HONOUR, an appeal to
one's honour or reputation in support of a certain statement; WORD OF
HONOUR, a verbal promise which cannot be broken without disgrace. [Fr.,--L.
_honor_.]

HOOD, hood, _n._ a covering for the head: anything resembling such: a
folding roof for a carriage: an ornamental fold at the back of an academic
gown, and worn over it.--_v.t._ to cover with a hood: to blind.--_adj._
HOOD'ED.--_n._ HOOD'IE-CROW, the hooded crow (_Corvus cornix_).--_adj._
HOOD'LESS, having no hood.--_ns._ HOOD'MAN, the person blindfolded in
blindman's buff; HOOD'MAN-BLIND (_Shak._), blindman's buff. [A.S. _hód_;
Dut. _hoed_, Ger. _hut_.]

HOODLUM, h[=oo]d'lum, _n._ (_U.S._) a rowdy, street bully.

HOODOCK, hood'ok, _adj._ (_Scot._) miserly.

HOODWINK, hood'wingk, _v.t._ to blindfold: (_Shak._) to cover: to deceive,
impose on. [_Hood_, _wink_.]

HOOF, h[=oo]f, _n._ the horny substance on the feet of certain animals, as
horses, &c.: a hoofed animal:--_pl._ HOOFS, HOOVES.--_v.i._ (of a hoofed
animal) to walk.--_adjs._ HOOF'-BOUND, having a contraction of the hoof
causing lameness; HOOFED; HOOF'LESS, without hoofs,--_n._ HOOF-MARK, the
mark of an animal's hoof on the ground, &c.--_adj._ HOOF'-SHAPED.--CLOVEN
HOOF (see CLOVEN). [A.S. _hóf_; Ger. _huf_, Ice. _hófr_.]

HOOK, hook, _n._ a piece of metal bent into a curve, so as to catch or hold
anything: a snare: an advantageous hold: a curved instrument for cutting
grain: a spit of land projecting into the sea, ending in a hook-shaped
form.--_v.t._ to catch or hold with a hook: to draw as with a hook: to
ensnare: (_golf_) to drive a ball widely to the left--also _Draw_.--_v.i._
to bend: to be curved.--_adj._ HOOKED.--_ns._ HOOK'EDNESS, the state of
being bent like a hook; HOOK'ER, he who, or that which, hooks.--_adj._
HOOK'-NOSED, having a hooked or curved nose.--_n._ HOOK'-PIN, an iron pin
with hooked head used for pinning the frame of a floor or roof
together.--_adj._ HOOK'Y, full of, or pertaining to, hooks.--HOOK AND EYE,
a contrivance for fastening dresses by means of a hook made to fasten on a
ring or eye on another part of the dress; HOOK IT (_slang_), to decamp,
make off.--BY HOOK OR BY CROOK, one way or the other; OFF THE HOOKS, out of
gear: superseded: dead; ON ONE'S OWN HOOK, on one's own responsibility.
[A.S. _hóc_; Dut. _haak_, Ger. _haken_.]

HOOKAH, HOOKA, h[=oo]'ka, _n._ the water tobacco-pipe of Arabs, Turks, &c.
[Ar. _huqqa_.]

HOOKER, hook'[.e]r, _n._ a two-masted Dutch vessel, a small fishing-smack.
[Dut. _hoeker_.]

HOOLIGAN, hoo'li-gan, _n._ one of a gang of street roughs, addicted to
crimes of violence--HOO'LIGANISM. [From the name of a leader of such a
gang.]

HOOLY, h[=oo]l'i, _adv._ (_Scot._) softly, carefully--also _adj._

HOOP, h[=oo]p, _n._ a pliant strip of wood or metal formed into a ring or
band, for holding together the staves of casks, &c.: something resembling
such: a large ring of wood or metal for a child to trundle: a ring: (_pl._)
elastic materials used to expand the skirt of a lady's dress.--_v.t._ to
bind with hoops: to encircle.--_ns._ HOOP'-ASH, a kind of ash much used for
making hoops (same as _Nettle-tree_); HOOPED'-POT, a drinking-pot with
hoops to mark the amount each man should drink; HOOP'ER, one who hoops
casks: a cooper. [A.S. _hóp_; Dut. _hoep_.]

HOOP, h[=oo]p, _v.i._ to call out.--_n._ HOOP'ER, the wild swan. [_Whoop_.]

HOOPING-COUGH. See under WHOOP.

HOOPOE, h[=oo]p'[=o], HOOPOO, h[=oo]p'[=oo], _n._ a genus of crested birds
allied to the hornbills. [L. _upupa_; Gr. _epops_.]

HOOT, h[=oo]t, _v.i._ to shout in contempt: to cry like an owl.--_v.t._ to
drive with cries of contempt.--_n._ a scornful cry: the owl's cry. [Imit.;
cf. Sw. _hut_, begone; W. _hwt_.]

HOOVE, h[=oo]v, _n._ a disease of cattle and sheep, marked by distention of
the abdomen by gas--also _Wind-dropsy_, DRUM-BELLY.--_adjs._ HOOV'EN,
H[=O]'VEN.

HOP, hop, _v.i._ to leap on one leg: to spring: to walk lame: to
limp:--_pr.p._ hop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ hopped.--_n._ a leap on one
leg: a jump: a spring: a dance, dancing-party.--_ns._ HOP'-O'-MY-THUMB, the
diminutive hero of one of Madame D'Aulnoy's famous nursery tales--'_le
petit pouce_,' not to be confounded with the English Tom Thumb; HOP'PER,
one who hops: a shaking or conveying receiver, funnel, or trough in which
something is placed to be passed or fed, as to a mill: a boat having a
movable part in its bottom for emptying a dredging-machine: a vessel in
which seed-corn is carried for sowing; HOP'PING, the act of one who hops or
leaps on one leg; HOP'-SCOTCH, a game in which children hop over lines
scotched or traced on the ground.--HOP, SKIP, AND JUMP, a leap on one leg,
a skip, and a jump with both legs; HOP THE TWIG (_slang_), to escape one's
creditors: to die. [A.S. _hoppian_, to dance; Ger. _hüpfen_.]

HOP, hop, _n._ a plant with a long twining stalk, the bitter cones of which
are much used in brewing and in medicine.--_v.t._ to mix with hops.--_v.i._
to gather hops:--_pr.p._ hop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ hopped.--_ns._
HOP'BIND (corrupted into _Hopbine_), the stalk of the hop; HOP'-FLEA, a
small coleopterous insect, very destructive to hop plantations in spring;
HOP'-FLY, a species of Aphis, or plant-louse, injurious to hop plantations;
HOP'-OAST, a kiln for drying hops.--_adj._ HOPPED, impregnated with
hops.--_ns._ HOP'PER, HOP'-PICK'ER, one who picks hops; a mechanical
contrivance for stripping hops from the vines; HOP'PING, the act of
gathering hops: the time of the hop harvest; HOP'-POCK'ET, a coarse sack
for hops--as a measure, about 1½ cwt. of hops; HOP'-POLE, a slender pole
supporting a hop-vine.--_adj._ HOP'PY, tasting of hops.--_ns._ HOP'-TREE,
an American shrub, with bitter fruit, a poor substitute for hops;
HOP'-VINE, the stock or stem of the hop; HOP'-YARD, a field where hops are
grown. [Dut. _hop_; Ger. _hopfen_.]

HOPE, h[=o]p, _v.i._ to cherish a desire of good with expectation of
obtaining it: to have confidence.--_v.t._ to desire with expectation or
with belief in the prospect of obtaining.--_n._ a desire of some good, with
expectation of obtaining it: confidence: anticipation: he who, or that
which, furnishes ground of expectation: that which is hoped for.--_adj._
HOPE'FUL, full of hope: having qualities which excite hope: promising good
or success.--_adv._ HOPE'FULLY.--_n._ HOPE'FULNESS.--_adj._ HOPE'LESS,
without hope: giving no ground to expect good or success:
desperate.--_adv._ HOPE'LESSLY.--_n._ HOPE'LESSNESS.--_adv._
H[=O]P'INGLY.--HOPE AGAINST HOPE, to continue to hope when there is no
sufficient reason. [A.S. _hopian_--_hopa_, hope; Dut. _hopen_, Ger.
_hoffen_.]

HOPE, h[=o]p, _n._ a hollow, a mound: the upper end of a narrow
mountain-valley: a comb--common in north country place-names.

HOPLITE, hop'l[=i]t, _n._ a heavy-armed Greek foot-soldier. [Gr.
_hoplit[=e]s_.]

HOPPLE, hop'l, _v.t._ to tie the feet close together to prevent hopping or
running.--_n._ (chiefly in _pl._) a fetter for horses, &c., when left to
graze. [A parallel form to _hobble_, a freq. of _hop_.]

HORAL, h[=o]r'al, _adj._ relating to an hour.--_adj._ HOR'ARY, pertaining
to an hour: noting the hours: hourly: continuing an hour. [L. _hora_, an
hour.]

HORATIAN, h[=o]-r[=a]'shan, _adj._ pertaining to _Horace_, the Latin poet
(65-8 B.C.), or to his style.

HORDE, h[=o]rd, _n._ a migratory or wandering tribe or clan.--_v.i._ to
live together as a horde.--GOLDEN HORDE (see GOLDEN). [Fr.,--Turk.
_ord[=u]_, camp--Pers. _[=o]rd[=u]_, court, camp, horde of Tatars.]

HORDEUM, hor'd[=e]-um, _n._ a genus of plants of order _Gramineæ_, with
twelve species.--_adj._ HORDE[=A]'CEOUS, barley-like.--_n._ HORD[=E]'OLUM,
a sty on the edge of the eyelid. [L., barley.]

HOREHOUND. See HOARHOUND.

HORIZON, ho-r[=i]'zun, _n._ the circular line formed by the apparent
meeting of the earth and sky--in astronomical phrase, the _sensible_,
_apparent_, or _visible horizon_, as opposed to the _astronomical_, _true_,
or _rational_ horizon, the circle formed by a plane passing through the
centre of the earth, parallel to the sensible horizon, and produced to meet
the heavens: (_geol._) a stratum marked by the presence of a particular
fossil not found in the overlying or underlying beds: any level line or
surface: the limit of one's experience or apprehension.--_adj._
HORIZON'TAL, pertaining to the horizon: parallel to the horizon: level:
near the horizon: measured in a plane of the horizon.--_n._
HORIZONTAL'ITY.--_adv._ HORIZON'TALLY.--ARTIFICIAL HORIZON, a small trough
containing quicksilver, the surface of which affords a reflection of the
celestial bodies. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _horiz[=o]n_ (_kyklos_), bounding
(circle), _horizein_, to bound--_horos_, a limit.]

HORN, horn, _n._ the hard substance projecting from the heads of certain
animals, as oxen, &c.: something made of or like a horn, as a powder-horn,
a drinking-horn: a symbol of strength: (_mus._) a hunting-horn: an
orchestral wind-instrument of the trumpet class, with a slender twisted
brass tube and bell mouth--also distinctively _French horn_.--_v.t._ to
furnish with horns.--_adj._ HORNED.--_ns._ HORN'BEAK, the garfish;
HORN'BEAM, a tree of Europe and America, the hard white wood of which is
used by joiners, &c.; HORN'BILL, a bird about the size of the turkey,
having a horny excrescence on its bill; HORN'BOOK, a first book for
children, which formerly consisted of a single leaf set in a frame, with a
thin plate of transparent horn in front to preserve it; HORN'-BUG, a common
North American beetle; HORNED'-HORSE, the gnu; HORNED'-OWL, HORN'OWL, a
species of owl, so called from two tufts of feathers on its head, like
horns; HORN'ER, one who works or deals in horns: a trumpeter.--_adj._
HORN'-FOOT'ED, having a hoof or horn on the foot.--_ns._ HORN'-GATE, one of
the two gates of Dreams, through which pass those visions that come true,
while out of the ivory-gate pass the unreal; HORN'IE, the devil, usually
represented with horns; HORN'ING, appearance of the moon when in its
crescent form: (_U.S._) a mock serenade with tin horns and any discordant
instruments by way of showing public disapproval.--_adjs._ HORN'ISH, like
horn: hard; HORN'LESS, without horns.--_n._ HORN'LET, a little
horn.--_adj._ HORN'-MAD, mad with rage, as the cuckold at the moment of
discovery.--_ns._ HORNMAD'NESS (_Browning_); HORN'-MAK'ER (_Shak._), a
cuckold-maker; HORN'-MER'CURY, mercurous chloride or calomel;
HORN'-SIL'VER, silver chloride; HORN'STONE, a stone much like flint, but
more brittle [_horn_ and _stone_]; HORN'WORK (_fort._), an outwork having
angular points or horns, and composed of two demi-bastions joined by a
curtain; HORN'WRACK, the sea-mat or lemon-weed.--_adjs._ HORN'Y, like horn:
hard: callous; HORN'Y-HAND'ED, with hands hardened by toil.--HORN OF
PLENTY, the symbol of plenty, carried by Ceres in her left arm, filled to
overflowing with fruits and flowers (see CORNUCOPIA); HORNS OF A DILEMMA
(see DILEMMA); HORNS OF THE ALTAR, the projections at the four corners of
the Hebrew altar, to which the victim was bound when about to be
sacrificed.--LETTERS OF HORNING (_Scots law_), letters running in the
sovereign's name, and passing the signet, instructing messengers-at-arms to
charge the debtor to pay, on his failure a caption or warrant for his
apprehension being granted; PULL, or DRAW, IN ONE'S HORNS, to restrain
one's ardour or one's pretensions; PUT TO THE HORN (_old Scots law_), to
outlaw by three blasts of the horn at the Cross of Edinburgh; WEAR HORNS,
to be a cuckold. [A.S. _horn_; Scand. and Ger. _horn_, Gael. and W. _corn_,
L. _cornu_, Gr. _keras_.]

HORNBLENDE, horn'blend, _n._ a mineral of various colours, found in granite
and other igneous rocks that contain quartz. [Ger. _horn_, horn, and
_-blende_--_blenden_, to dazzle.]

HORNET, horn'et, _n._ a species of wasp, so called from its antennæ or
horns: a person who pesters with petty but ceaseless attacks.--BRING A
HORNET'S NEST ABOUT ONE'S EARS, to stir up enemies and enmities against
one's self. [A.S. _hyrnet_, dim. of _horn_.]

HORNITO, hor-n[=e]'t[=o], _n._ a low oven-shaped fumarole, common in South
American volcanic regions. [Sp., dim. of _horno_, an oven.]

HORNPIPE, horn'p[=i]p, _n._ an old Welsh musical instrument resembling the
clarinet: a lively air: a lively English dance, usually by one person,
popular amongst sailors.

HOROGRAPHY, hor-og'ra-fi, _n._ the art of constructing dials or instruments
for indicating the hours.--_n._ HOROG'RAPHER. [Gr. _h[=o]ra_, an hour,
_graphein_, to describe.]

HOROLOGE, hor'o-l[=o]j, _n._ any instrument for telling the hours.--_ns._
HOROL'OGER, HOROLOGIOG'RAPHER, HOROL'OGIST, a maker of clocks, &c.--_adjs._
HOROLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._ HOROLOGIOG'RAPHY, the art of constructing
timepieces; HOROL'OGY, the science which treats of the construction of
machines for telling the hours: the office-book of the Greek Church for the
canonical hours. [O. Fr. _horologe_ (Fr. _horloge_)--L. _horologium_--Gr.
_h[=o]rologion_--_h[=o]ra_, an hour, _legein_, to tell.]

HOROMETRY, hor-om'et-ri, _n._ the art or practice of measuring
time.--_adj._ HOROMET'RICAL. [Gr. _h[=o]ra_, an hour, _metron_, a measure.]

HOROSCOPE, hor'o-sk[=o]p, _n._ an observation of the heavens at the hour of
a person's birth, by which the astrologer predicted the events of his life:
a representation of the heavens for this purpose.--_adj._
HOROSCOP'IC.--_ns._ HOROS'COPIST, an astrologer; HOROS'COPY, the art of
predicting the events of a person's life from his horoscope: aspect of the
stars at the time of birth. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _h[=o]roskopos_--_h[=o]ra_, an
hour, _skopein_, to observe.]

HORRENT, hor'ent, _adj._ standing on end, as bristles. [L. _horrens_,
_-entis_, pr.p. of _horr[=e]re_, to bristle.]

HORRIBLE, hor'i-bl, _adj._ causing or tending to cause horror: dreadful:
awful: terrific.--_n._ HORR'IBLENESS.--_adv._ HORR'IBLY. [L.
_horribilis_--_horr[=e]re_.]

HORRID, hor'id, _adj._ fitted to produce horror: shocking:
offensive.--_adv._ HORR'IDLY.--_n._ HORR'IDNESS. [L.
_horridus_--_horr[=e]re_, to bristle.]

HORRIFY, hor'-i-f[=i], _v.t._ to strike with horror:--_pa.p._
horr'ified.--_adj._ HORRIF'IC, exciting horror: frightful. [L.
_horrificus_--_horror_, horror, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

HORRIPILATION, hor-i-pi-l[=a]'shun, _n._ a contraction of the cutaneous
muscles causing the erection of the hairs and the condition known as
goose-flesh.--_v.t._ HORRIP'ILATE.

HORRISONOUS, hor-is'[=o]-nus, _adj._ sounding dreadfully.--Also
HORRIS'ONANT.

HORROR, hor'ur, _n._ a shuddering: excessive fear: that which excites
horror.--_adjs._ HORR'OR-STRICK'EN, -STRUCK, struck with horror.--THE
HORRORS, extreme depression: delirium tremens. [L.--_horr[=e]re_, to
bristle.]

HORS-D'OEUVRE, or-düvr', a preliminary snack that does not form part of the
regular _menu_.

[Illustration]

HORSE, hors, _n._ a well-known quadruped: (_collectively_) cavalry: that by
which something is supported, as 'clothes-horse,' &c.: a wooden frame on
which soldiers were formerly made to ride as a punishment--also
_Timber-mare_: a boy's crib, a translation.--_v.t._ to mount on a horse: to
provide with a horse: to sit astride: to carry on the back: to urge at work
tyrannically: to construe by means of a crib.--_v.i._ to get on horseback:
to charge for work before it is done.--_ns._ HORSE'-ARTILL'ERY, field
artillery with comparatively light guns and the gunners mounted;
HORSE'BACK, the back of a horse; HORSE'-BEAN, a large bean given to horses;
HORSE'-BLOCK, a block or stage by which to mount or dismount from a horse;
HORSE'-BOAT, a boat for carrying horses, or one towed by a horse;
HORSE'-BOX, a railway car for transporting horses in, or a stall on
shipboard; HORSE'-BOY, a stable-boy; HORSE'-BREAK'ER, HORSE'-TAM'ER, one
whose business is to break or tame horses, or to teach them to draw or
carry (PRETTY HORSE-BREAKER, a woman with little virtue to lose);
HORSE'-CAR, a car drawn by horses; HORSE'-CHEST'NUT, a large variety of
chestnut, prob. so called from its coarseness contrasted with the edible
chestnut: the tree that produces it (see CHESTNUT); HORSE'-CLOTH, a cloth
for covering a horse; HORSE'-COUP'ER (_Scot._), a horse-dealer;
HORSE'-DEAL'ER, one who deals in horses; HORSE'-DOC'TOR, a veterinary
surgeon; HORSE'-DRENCH, a dose of physic for a horse.--_adj._ HORSE'-FACED,
having a long face.--_ns._ HORSE'-FLESH, the flesh of a horse: horses
collectively: a Bahama mahogany.--_adj._ of reddish-bronze colour.--_ns._
HORSE'-FLY, a large fly that stings horses; HORSE'-FOOT, the colt's foot;
HORSE'-GOD'MOTHER, a fat clumsy woman.--_n.pl._ HORSE'-GUARDS,
horse-soldiers employed as guards: the 3d heavy cavalry regiment of the
British army, forming part of the household troops: the War Office, or
public office in Whitehall, London, appropriated to the departments of the
commander-in-chief of the British army.--_ns._ HORSE'-HAIR, the hair of
horses: haircloth; HORSE'-HOE, a hoe drawn by horses; HORSE'-KNACK'ER, one
who buys worn-out horses for slaughtering; HORSE'-LAT'ITUDES, a part of the
North Atlantic Ocean noted for long calms, so called from the frequent
necessity of throwing part of a cargo of horses overboard from want of
water when becalmed; HORSE'-LAUGH, a harsh, boisterous laugh; HORSE'-LEECH,
a large species of leech, so named from its fastening on horses when wading
in the water: a bloodsucker (Prov. xxx. 15); HORSE'-LITT'ER, a litter or
bed borne between two horses; HORSE'-MACK'EREL, one of various fishes--the
scad (q.v.), &c.; HORSE'MAN, a rider on horseback: a mounted soldier;
HORSE'MANSHIP, the art of riding, and of training and managing horses;
HORSE'-MA'RINE, a person quite out of his element: an imaginary being for
whom wild flights of imagination had best be reserved ('Tell it to the
horse-marines'); HORSE-MILL, a mill turned by horses; HORSE'-MILL'INER, one
who provides the trappings for horses; HORSE'-MINT, a common European
wild-mint: the American _Monarda punctata_--SWEET HORSE-MINT, the common
dittany; HORSE'-NAIL, a nail for fastening a horse-shoe to the hoof;
HORSE'-PIS'TOL, a large pistol carried in a holster; HORSE'-PLAY, rough,
boisterous play; HORSE'-POND, a pond for watering horses at; HORSE'-POW'ER,
the power a horse can exert, or its equivalent=that required to raise
33,000 lb. avoirdupois one foot per minute: a standard for estimating the
power of steam-engines; HORSE'-RACE, a race by horses; HORSE'-RAC'ING, the
practice of racing or running horses in matches; HORSE'-RAD'ISH, a plant
with a pungent root, used in medicine and as a condiment; HORSE'-RAKE, a
rake drawn by horses; HORSE'-RID'ING, a circus; HORSE'-SENSE, plain robust
sense; HORSE'-SHOE, a shoe for horses, consisting of a curved piece of
iron.--_adj._ shaped like a horse-shoe.--_ns._ HORSE'-SOL'DIER, a cavalry
soldier; HORSE'-TAIL, a genus of leafless plants with hollow rush-like
stems, so called from their likeness to a horse's tail; HORSE'-TRAIN'ER,
one who trains horses for racing, &c.; HORSE'-WAY, a road by which a horse
may pass; HORSE'-WHIP, a whip for driving horses.--_v.t._ to strike with a
horse-whip: to lash.--_ns._ HORSE'WOMAN, a woman who rides on horseback;
HORS'INESS; HORS'ING, birching a schoolboy mounted on another's
back.--_adj._ HORS'Y, of or pertaining to horses: devoted to horse racing
or breeding.--A DARK HORSE (see DARK); FLOG A DEAD HORSE, to try to work up
excitement about a threadbare subject; GET ON, MOUNT, THE HIGH HORSE, to
assume consequential airs; PUT THE CART BEFORE THE HORSE (see CART); RIDE
THE WOODEN HORSE (see above); TAKE HORSE, to mount on horseback. [A.S.
_hors_; Ice. _horss_, Old High Ger. _hros_ (Ger. _ross_).]

HORTATIVE, hort'a-tiv, _adj._ inciting: encouraging: giving advice--also
HORT'ATORY.--_n._ HORT[=A]'TION. [L. _hort[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to incite.]

HORTICULTURE, hor'ti-kul-t[=u]r, _n._ the art of cultivating
gardens.--_adj._ HORTICUL'TURAL, pertaining to the culture of
gardens.--_n._ HORTICUL'TURIST, one versed in the art of cultivating
gardens.--HORTUS SICCUS, a collection of dried plants arranged in a book.
[L. _hortus_, a garden, _cultura_--_col[)e]re_, to cultivate.]

HOSANNNA, h[=o]-zan'a, _n._ an exclamation of praise to God, or a prayer
for blessings. [Gr. _h[=o]sanna_--Heb. _h[=o]sh[=i]`[=a]h nn[=a]_,
_h[=o]sh[=i][=a]`_, save, _n[=a]_, I pray.]

HOSE, h[=o]z, _n._ a covering for the legs or feet: stockings: socks: a
flexible pipe for conveying water, so called from its shape:--_pl._ HOSE;
(_B._) HOS'EN.--_ns._ HOSE'MAN, one who directs the stream of water from
the hose of a fire-engine; HOSE'PIPE; HOSE'-REEL, a large revolving drum or
reel for carrying hose for fire-engines, &c.; H[=O]'SIER, one who deals in
hose, or stockings and socks, &c.; H[=O]'SIERY, hose in general. [A.S.
_hosa_, pl. _hosan_; Dut. _hoos_, Ger. _hose_.]

HOSPICE, hos'p[=e]s, _n._ a house of entertainment for strangers, esp. such
kept by monks on some Alpine passes for travelers.--Also HOSPIT'IUM.
[Fr.,--L. _hospitium_--_hospes_, a stranger treated as a guest.]

HOSPITABLE, hos'pit-a-bl, _adj._ entertaining strangers and guests kindly
and without reward: showing kindness: generous: bountiful.--_n._
HOS'PITABLENESS.--_adv._ HOS'PITABLY.--_n._ HOSPITAL'ITY, the practice of
one who is hospitable; friendly welcome and entertainment of
guests--(_Spens._) HOS'PIT[=A]GE.

HOSPITAL, hos-'pit-al, _n._ a building for the reception and treatment of
the old, the sick, and hurt, &c., or for the support and education of the
young.--_n._ HOS'PITALLER, one of a charitable brotherhood for the care of
the sick in hospitals: one of an order of knights, commonly called Knights
of St John (otherwise called Knights of Rhodes, and afterwards of Malta),
who about 1048 built a hospital for the care and cure of pilgrims at
Jerusalem.--HOSPITAL SATURDAY, or SUNDAY, days set apart for the collection
of funds on behalf of hospitals.--CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, one intermediate
between the ordinary hospital and the patient's own home; COTTAGE HOSPITAL,
a small establishment where hospital treatment is carried on at little
expense and with simple arrangements; LOCK HOSPITAL, one for the treatment
of venereal diseases; MAGDALEN HOSPITAL, an institution for the reclamation
of fallen women; MARINE, or NAVAL, HOSPITAL, a special hospital for sick
sailors, or for men in the naval service; MATERNITY HOSPITAL, one for women
in labour. [O. Fr. _hospital_--Low L. _hospitale_--_hospes_, a guest.]

HOSPODAR, hos'po-där, _n._ formerly the title of the princes of Moldavia
and Wallachia. [Slav.]

HOSS, a vulgarism for _horse_.

HOST, h[=o]st, _n._ one who entertains a stranger or guest at his house
without reward: an innkeeper: an organism on which another lives as a
parasite:--_fem._ HOST'ESS.--_n._ HOST'ESS-SHIP (_Shak._), the character or
office of a hostess.--_adj._ HOST'LESS (_Spens._), destitute of a host,
inhospitable.--RECKON, or COUNT, WITHOUT ONE'S HOST, to misjudge, the
original idea being that of totting up one's bill without reference to the
landlord. [O. Fr. _hoste_--L. _hospes_, _hospitis_.]

HOST, h[=o]st, _n._ an army, a large multitude.--_n._ HOST'ING, (_Milt._)
an encounter of hosts, a battle: (_Spens._) an assemblage of hosts, a
muster.--A HOST IN HIMSELF, one of great strength, skill, or resources,
within himself; HEAVENLY HOST, the angels and archangels; LORD OF HOSTS, a
favourite Hebrew term for Jehovah, considered as head of the hosts of
angels, the hosts of stars, &c. [O. Fr. _host_--L. _hostis_, an enemy.]

HOST, h[=o]st, _n._ in the R.C. Church, the consecrated bread of the
Eucharist--a thin circular wafer of unleavened bread. [L. _hostia_, a
victim.]

HOSTAGE, hos't[=a]j, _n._ one remaining with the enemy as a pledge for the
fulfilment of the conditions of a treaty.--HOSTAGES TO FORTUNE, a man's
wife, children, &c. [O. Fr. _hostage_ (Fr. _ôtage_)--Low L.
_obsidaticus_--L. _obses_, _obsidis_, a hostage.]

HOSTEL, hos'tel, HOSTELRY, hos'tel-ri, _n._ an inn: in some universities an
extra-collegiate hall for students.--_ns._ HOS'TELER, HOS'TELLER, one
living in a hostel. [O. Fr. _hostel_, _hostellerie_.]

HOSTILE, hos'til, _adj._ belonging to an enemy: showing enmity: warlike:
adverse.--_adv._ HOS'TILELY.--_n._ HOSTIL'ITY, enmity:--_pl._ HOSTIL'ITIES,
acts of warfare. [L. _hostilis_--_hostis_.]

HOSTLER, OSTLER, hos'l[.e]r, or os'-, _n._ he who has the care of horses at
an inn. [_Hostler_=_hosteleer_.]

HOT, hot, _adj._ having heat: very warm: fiery: pungent: animated: ardent
in temper: fervent: vehement: violent: passionate: lustful.--_adj._
HOT'-AND-HOT', of food cooked and served up at once in hot dishes.--_ns._
HOT'BED, a glass-covered bed heated for bringing forward plants rapidly:
any place favourable to rapid growth or development, as 'a hotbed of vice,'
&c.; HOT'BLAST, a blast of heated air blown into a furnace to raise the
heat.--_adjs._ HOT'-BLOOD'ED, having hot blood: high-spirited: irritable;
HOT'-BRAINED, hot-headed, rash and violent.--_n._ HOT'-COCK'LES, an old
game in which a person is blindfolded, and being struck, guesses who
strikes him; HOT'-FLUE, a drying-room.--_adj._ HOT'-HEAD'ED, hot in the
head: having warm passions: violent: impetuous.--_n._ HOT'-HOUSE, a house
kept hot for the rearing of tender plants: any heated chamber or
drying-room, esp. that where pottery is placed before going into the kiln:
(_Shak._) a brothel.--_adv._ HOT'LY.--_adj._ HOT'-MOUTHED,
headstrong.--_n._ HOT'NESS; HOT'-POT, a dish of chopped mutton seasoned and
stewed with sliced potatoes.--_v.t._ HOT'PRESS, to press paper, &c.,
between hot plates to produce a glossy surface.--_adjs._ HOT'-SHORT,
brittle when heated; HOT'-SPIR'ITED, having a fiery spirit.--_n._, one
pressing his steed with spurs as in hot haste: a violent, rash man.--_adj._
HOT'-TEM'PERED, having a quick temper.--_ns._ HOT'-TROD, the hot pursuit in
old Border forays; HOT'-WALL, a wall enclosing passages for hot air,
affording warmth to fruit-trees trained against it, when needed; HOT'-WELL,
in a condensing engine, a reservoir for the warm water drawn off from the
condenser.--HOT COPPERS (see COPPER); HOT CROSS-BUNS (see CROSS); HOT FOOT,
with speed, fast; IN HOT WATER, in a state of trouble or anxiety; MAKE A
PLACE TOO HOT TO HOLD A PERSON, to make it impossible for him to stay
there. [A.S. _hát_; Ger. _heiss_, Sw. _het_.]

HOT, hot, HOTE, h[=o]t (_Spens._) named, called. [_Pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of
_hight_.]

HOTCHPOTCH, hoch'poch, HOTCHPOT, hoch'pot, HODGEPODGE, hoj'poj, _n._ a
confused mass of ingredients shaken or mixed together in the same pot: a
kind of mutton-broth in which green peas take the place of barley or
rice.--HOTCHPOT, a commixture of property in order to secure an equable
division amongst children. [Fr. _hochepot_--_hocher_, to shake, and pot, a
pot--Old Dut. _hutsen_, to shake, Dut. _pot_, a pot.]

HOTEL, h[=o]-tel', _n._ a superior house for the accommodation of
strangers: an inn: in France, also a public office, a private town-house, a
palace.--_ns._ HÔTEL'-DE-VILLE (Fr.), a town-hall; HÔTEL'-DIEU, a hospital.
[M. E. _hostel_--O. Fr. _hostel_ (Fr. _hôtel_)--L. _hospitalia_,
guest-chambers--_hospes_.]

HOTTENTOT, hot'n-tot, _n._ a native of the Cape of Good Hope: a brutish
individual. [Dut., because the language of the South Africans seemed to the
first Dutch settlers to sound like a repetition of the syllables _hot_ and
_tot_; Dut. _en_--and.]

HOTTERING, hot'er-ing, _adj._ (_prov._) raging.

HOUDAH. See HOWDAH.

HOUDAN, h[=oo]'dang, _n._ a valued breed of domestic fowls, orig. from
_Houdan_ in Seine-et-Oise.

HOUGH, hok, HOCK, hok, _n._ the joint on the hind-leg of a quadruped,
between the knee and fetlock, corresponding to the ankle-joint in man: in
man, the back part of the knee-joint: the ham.--_v.t._ to
hamstring:--_pr.p._ hough'ing; _pa.p._ houghed (hokt). [A.S. _hóh_, the
heel.]

HOUND, hownd, _n._ a dog used in hunting: a cur: a caitiff.--_v.t._ to set
on in chase: to hunt: to urge, pursue, harass (with _on_).--_ns._
HOUND'FISH, same as DOGFISH; HOUNDS'-BERR'Y, the common dogwood;
HOUND'S'-TONGUE, a plant, so called from the shape of its leaves.--GABRIEL
HOUNDS, a popular name for the noise made by distant curlews, ascribed to
damned souls whipped on by the angel Gabriel; MASTER OF HOUNDS, the master
of a pack of hounds. [A.S. _hund_; Gr. ky[=o]n, _kynos_, L. _canis_, Sans.
_çvan_.]

HOUR, owr, _n._ 60 min., or the 24th part of a day: the time indicated by a
clock, &c.: an hour's journey, or three miles: a time or occasion; (_pl.,
myth._) the goddesses of the seasons and the hours: set times of prayer,
the _canonical hours_, the offices or services prescribed for these, or a
book containing them.--_ns._ HOUR'-CIR'CLE, a circle passing through the
celestial poles and fixed relatively to the earth: the circle of an
equatorial which shows the hour-angle of the point to which the telescope
is directed; HOUR'-GLASS, an instrument for measuring the hours by the
running of sand from one glass vessel into another; HOUR'-HAND, the hand
which shows the hour on a clock, &c.--_adj._ HOUR'LY, happening or done
every hour: frequent.--_adv._ every hour: frequently.--_n._ HOUR'PLATE, the
plate of a timepiece on which the hours are marked: the dial.--AT THE
ELEVENTH HOUR, at the last moment possible (Matt. xx. 6, 9); IN A GOOD, OR
EVIL, HOUR, acting under a fortunate, or an unfortunate, impulse--from the
old belief in astrological influences; KEEP GOOD HOURS, to go to bed and to
rise early: to lead a quiet and regular life; THE HOUR IS COME, the
destined day of fate has come (John, xiii. 1); THE SMALL HOURS, the early
hours of the morning; THREE HOURS SERVICE, a service held continuously on
Good Friday, from noon to 3 P.M., in commemoration of the time of Christ's
agony on the cross. [O. Fr. _hore_ (Fr. _heure_)--L. _hora_--Gr.
_h[=o]ra_.]

HOURI, how'ri, h[=oo]'ri, _n._ a nymph of the Mohammedan paradise. [Pers.
_huri_--Ar. _h[=u]riya_, a black-eyed girl.]

HOUSE, hows, _n._ a building for dwelling in: a dwelling-place: an inn:
household affairs: a family: kindred: a trading establishment: one of the
twelve divisions of the heavens in astrology: one of the estates of the
legislature (House of Lords or Upper House, House of Commons or Lower
House; also Upper and Lower Houses of Convocation, House of
Representatives, &c.): at Oxford, 'The House,' Christ Church College: the
audience at a place of entertainment, a theatre, &c. (a full house, a thin
house): (_coll._) the workhouse:--_pl._ HOUSES (howz'ez).--_v.t._ HOUSE
(howz), to protect by covering: to shelter: to store: to provide houses
for.--_v.i._ to take shelter: to reside.--_ns._ HOUSE'-[=A]'GENT, one who
has the letting of houses; HOUSE'-BOAT, a barge with a deck-cabin that may
serve as a dwelling-place; HOUSE'-BOTE, wood that a tenant may take to
repair his house, or for fuel; HOUSE'-BREAK'ER, one who breaks open and
enters a house by day for the purpose of stealing; HOUSE'-BREAK'ING;
HOUSE'-CARL, a member of a king or noble's bodyguard, in Danish and early
English history; HOUSE'-D[=U]'TY, -TAX, a tax laid on inhabited houses;
HOUSE'-FAC'TOR (_Scot._), a house-agent; HOUSE'-FA'THER, the male head of a
household or community; HOUSE'-FLAG, the distinguishing flag of a shipowner
or company of such; HOUSE'-FLY, the common fly universally distributed;
HOUSE'HOLD, those who are held together in the same house, and compose a
family.--_adj._ pertaining to the house and family.--_ns._ HOUSE'HOLDER,
the holder or tenant of a house; HOUSE'KEEPER, a female servant who keeps
or has the chief care of the house: one who stays much at home;
HOUSE'KEEPING, the keeping or management of a house or of domestic affairs:
hospitality.--_adj._ domestic.--_n._ HOUSE'-LEEK, a plant with red
star-like flowers and succulent leaves that grows on the roofs of
houses.--_adj._ HOUSE'LESS, without a house or home: having no
shelter.--_ns._ HOUSE'-LINE (_naut._), a small line of three strands, for
seizings, &c.; HOUSE'MAID, a maid employed to keep a house clean, &c.;
HOUSE'-MATE, one sharing a house with another; HOUSE'-MOTH'ER, the mother
of a family, the female head of a family; HOUSE'-ROOM, room or place in a
house; HOUSE'-STEW'ARD, a steward who manages the household affairs of a
great family; HOUSE'-SUR'GEON, the surgeon or medical officer in a hospital
who resides in the house--so also HOUSE'-PHYSI'CIAN; HOUSE'-WARM'ING, an
entertainment given when a family enters a new house, as if to warm it;
HOUSEWIFE (hows'w[=i]f, huz'wif, or huz'if), the mistress of a house: a
female domestic manager: a small case for articles of female work.--_adj._
HOUSE'WIFELY.--_n._ HOUSE'WIFERY--(_Scot._) HOUSE'WIFESKEP.--HOUSE OF CALL,
a house where the journeymen of a particular trade call when out of work;
HOUSE OF CORRECTION, a jail; HOUSE OF GOD, PRAYER, or WORSHIP, a place of
worship; HOUSE OF ILL FAME, a bawdy-house.--A HOUSEHOLD WORD, a familiar
saying; BRING DOWN THE HOUSE, to evoke very loud applause in a place of
entertainment; CRY FROM THE HOUSE-TOP, to announce in the most public
manner possible; HOUSEHOLD GODS, one's favourite domestic things--a playful
use of the Roman _penates_ (q.v.); HOUSEHOLD SUFFRAGE, or FRANCHISE, the
right of householders to vote for members of parliament; HOUSEHOLD TROOPS,
six regiments whose peculiar duty is to attend the sovereign and defend the
metropolis; HOUSEMAID'S KNEE, an inflammation of the sac between the
knee-pan and the skin, to which housemaids are specially liable through
kneeling on damp floors.--INNER HOUSE, the higher branch of the Scotch
Court of Session, its jurisdiction chiefly appellate; OUTER HOUSE, the
lower branch of the Court of Session.--KEEP A GOOD HOUSE, to keep up a
plentifully supplied table; KEEP HOUSE, to maintain or manage an
establishment; KEEP OPEN HOUSE, to give entertainments to all comers; KEEP
THE HOUSE, to be confined to the house; LIKE A HOUSE AFIRE, with
astonishing rapidity; THE HOUSEHOLD, the royal domestic establishment.
[A.S. _hús_; Goth. _hus_, Ger. _haus_.]

HOUSEL, howz'el, _n._ the Eucharist: the act of taking the same.--_n._
HOUS'ELING-CLOTH, a linen cloth held or stretched beneath the
communicants.--_adj._ HOUS'LING (_Spens._), sacramental. [A.S. _húsel_,
sacrifice.]

HOUSING, howz'ing, _n._ an ornamental covering for a horse: a saddle-cloth:
(_pl._) the trappings of a horse. [O. Fr. _housse_, a mantle, of Teut.
origin.]

HOUSTY, hows'ti, _n._ (_prov._) a sore throat.

HOUT-TOUT, hoot-toot, _interj._ Same as HOOT.

HOUYHNHNM, whin'im, _n._ one of the noble rational horse race in
_Gulliver's Travels_. [From _whinny_.]

HOVA, h[=o]'va, _n._ one of the dominant race in Madagascar:--_pl._
H[=O]'VAS.

HOVE, h[=o]v, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to heave, to raise.

HOVE, h[=o]v, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to hover, to loiter.

HOVE, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _heave_.

HOVEL, hov'el, _n._ a small or mean dwelling: a shed.--_v.t._ to put in a
hovel: to shelter: to construct a chimney so as to prevent smoking, by
making two of the more exposed walls higher than the others, or making an
opening on one side near the top:--_pr.p._ hov'elling; _pa.p._
hov'elled.--_n._ HOV'ELLER, a boatman acting as a non-certificated pilot or
doing any kind of occasional work on the coast: a small coasting-vessel.
[Dim. of A.S. _hof_, a dwelling.]

HOVER, hov'[.e]r, _v.i._ to remain aloft flapping the wings: to wait in
suspense: to move about near.--_adv._ HOV'ERINGLY, in a hovering manner.
[Formed from A.S. _hof_, house.]

HOW, how, _adv._ in what manner: to what extent: for what reason: by what
means: from what cause: in what condition: (_N.T._) sometimes=that.--THE
HOW AND THE WHY, the manner and the cause. [A.S. _hú_ is prob. a form of
_hwí_, in what way, why, the instrumental case of _hwá_, who.]

HOW, Howe, how, _n._ (_Scot._) a hollow, glen, dell, or narrow plain.
[Prob. related to _hole_.]

HOW, how, _n._ (_prov._) a low hill. [Akin to high, A.S. _heáh_.]

HOWBEIT, how-b[=e]'it, _conj._ be it how it may: notwithstanding: yet:
however--(_Spens._) HOW'BE.

HOWDAH, HOUDAH, how'da, _n._ a seat fixed on an elephant's back. [Ar.
_hawdaj_.]

HOWDIE, HOWDY, how'di, _n._ (_Scot._) a midwife. [Webster ingeniously at
least suggests a derivation in 'How d'ye?' the midwife's first question.]

HOWDY, how'di, _interj._ a colloquial form of the common greeting, 'How do
you [do]?'--_n._ HOW'DY-DO, a troublesome state of matters.

HOWEVER, how-ev'[.e]r, _adv._ and _conj._ in whatever manner or degree:
nevertheless: at all events.

HOWFF, HOUFF, howf, _n._ (_Scot._) a haunt, resort.--_v.i._ to resort to a
place. [A.S. _hof_, a house.]

HOWITZER, how'its-[.e]r, _n._ a short, light cannon, used for throwing
shells. [Ger. _haubitze_, orig. _hauffnitz_--Bohem. _haufnice_, a sling.]

HOWK, howk, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Scot._) to dig, burrow.

HOWKER, how'k[.e]r, _n._ Same as HOOKER.

HOWL, howl, _v.i._ to yell or cry, as a wolf or dog: to utter a long, loud,
whining sound: to wail: to roar.--_v.t._ to utter with outcry:--_pr.p._
howl'ing; _pa.p._ howled.--_n._ a loud, prolonged cry of distress: a
mournful cry.--_n._ HOWL'ER, a South American monkey, with prodigious power
of voice: (_slang_) a glaring or very stupid error.--_adj._ HOWL'ING,
filled with howlings, as of the wind, or of wild beasts: (_slang_)
tremendous.--_n._ a howl. [O. Fr. _huller_--L. _ulul[=a]re_, to shriek or
howl--_ulula_, an owl; cf. Ger. _heulen_, Eng. _owl_.]

HOWLET, how'let. Same as OWLET.

HOWSO, how'so, _adv._ howsoever.

HOWSOEVER, how-so-ev'[.e]r, _adv._ in what way soever: although:
however.--Provincial forms are HOWSOMEV'ER and HOWSOMDEV'ER.

HOX, hoks, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to hough or hamstring.

HOY, hoi, _n._ a large one-decked boat, commonly rigged as a sloop. [Dut.
_heu_, Flem. _hui_.]

HOY, hoi, _interj._ ho! stop!--_v.t._ to incite, drive on. [Imit.]

HOYDEN, HOIDEN, hoi'den, _n._ a tomboy, a romp. [Old Dut. _heyden_, a
heathen, a gipsy, _heyde_, heath.]

HUB, hub, _n._ the projecting nave of a wheel; a projection on a wheel for
the insertion of a pin: the hilt of a weapon: a mark at which quoits, &c.,
are cast.--HUB (i.e. centre) OF THE UNIVERSE, Boston, U.S. [A form of
_hob_.]

HUBBLE, hub'l, _n._ (_Scot._) an uproar: a heap, as of work: (_U.S._) a
lump.--_adj._ HUB'BLY.

HUBBLE-BUBBLE, hub'l-bub'l, _n._ an East Indian tobacco-pipe, in which the
smoke is drawn through water with a bubbling sound. [Reduplic. from
_bubble_.]

HUBBUB, hub'ub, _n._ a confused sound of many voices: riot: uproar. [Prob.
a repetition of _hoop_, _whoop_.]

HUBBY, hub'bi, _n._ (_coll._) a diminutive of husband.

HUCKABACK, huk'a-bak, _n._ a coarse variety of linen for towels, &c.,
having raised figures on it. [Skeat suggests as the original meaning
'pedlar's ware,' Low Ger. _hukkebak_; cf. _hawker_.]

HUCKLE, huk'l, _n._ a hunch: the hip--also HUCK.--_adjs._ HUCK'LE-BACKED,
-SHOUL'DERED, having the back or shoulders round.--_n._ HUCK'LE-BONE, the
hip-bone, or ankle-bone. [Dim. of _huck_, a prov. form of _hook_.]

HUCKLEBERRY, huk'l-ber'ri, _n._ a North American shrub (_Gaylussacia_) with
blue berries. [Prob. a corr. of _hurtleberry_.]

HUCKSTER, huk'st[.e]r, _n._ a retailer of smallwares, a hawker or pedlar: a
mean, trickish fellow:--_fem._ HUCK'STRESS.--_v.i._ to deal in small
articles, to higgle meanly.--_n._ HUCK'STERAGE, business of a huckster.
[With fem. suff. _-ster_, from Dut. _heuker_, a retailer, Old Dut.
_hucken_, to stoop or bow; cf. Ice. _húka_, to sit on one's hams, and Eng.
_hawker_.]

HUDDLE, hud'l, _v.i._ to put up things confusedly: to hurry in disorder: to
crowd.--_v.t._ to throw or crowd together in confusion: to put on
hastily.--_n._ a crowd: tumult: confusion. [M. E. _hodren_; prob. a freq.
of M. E. _huden_, to hide.]

HUDDUP, hud-up', _interj._ get up! (to a horse).

HUDIBRASTIC, h[=u]-di-bras'tik, _adj._ similar in style to _Hudibras_, a
metrical burlesque on the Puritans by Samuel Butler (1612-80): doggerel.

HUE, h[=u], _n._ appearance: colour: tint: dye.---_adjs._ HUED, having a
hue; HUE'LESS. [A.S. _hiw_, _heow_; Sw. _hy_, complexion.]

HUE, h[=u], _n._ a shouting.--HUE AND CRY, a loud clamour about something:
name of a police gazette, established in 1710. [Fr. _huer_, imit.]

HUFF, huf, _n._ sudden anger or arrogance: a fit of disappointment or
anger: a boaster.--_v.t._ to swell: to bully: to remove a 'man' from the
board for not capturing pieces open to him, as in draughts.--_v.i._ to
swell: to bluster.--_adjs._ HUFF'ISH, HUFF'Y, given to huff: insolent:
arrogant.--_adv._ HUFF'ISHLY.--_ns._ HUFF'ISHNESS, HUFF'INESS. [Imit., like
_puff_; cf. Ger. _hauchen_, to breathe.]

HUG, hug, _v.t._ to embrace closely and fondly: to cherish: to congratulate
(one's self): (_naut._) to keep close to.--_v.i._ to crowd
together:--_pr.p._ hug'ging; _pa.p._ hugged.--_n._ a close and fond
embrace: a particular grip in wrestling.--HUG ONE'S SELF, to congratulate
one's self. [Scand., Ice. _húka_, to sit on one's hams. See HUCKSTER.]

HUGE, h[=u]j, _adj._ having great dimensions, especially height: enormous:
monstrous: (_B._) large in number.--_adv._ HUGE'LY.--_n._ HUGE'NESS. [M. E.
_huge_; formed by dropping _a_ from O. Fr. _ahuge_, of Teut. origin, cog.
with Ger. _hoch_.]

HUGGER-MUGGER, hug'[.e]r-mug'[.e]r, _n._ secrecy: confusion. [Perh. a
rhyming extension of _hug_.]

HUGUENOT, h[=u]'ge-not, or -n[=o], _n._ the name formerly given in France
to an adherent of the Reformation. [Prob. a dim. of the personal name
_Hugo_, _Hugon_, _Hugues_, Hugh, name of some French Calvinist, later a
general nickname. Not the Swiss _eidguenot_, Ger. _eidgenossen_,
confederates.]

HUIA-BIRD, hw[=e]'ä-b[.e]rd, _n._ a New Zealand starling.

HULK, hulk, _n._ the body of a ship: an old ship unfit for service: a big
lubberly fellow: anything unwieldy--often confounded in meaning with
_hull_, the body of a ship:--_pl._ THE HULKS, old ships formerly used as
prisons.--_adjs._ HULK'ING, HULK'Y, clumsy. [Low L. _hulka_--Gr.
_holkas_--_helkein_, to draw.]

HULL, hul, _n._ the husk or outer covering of anything.--_v.t._ to strip
off the hull: to husk. [A.S. _hulu_, a husk, as of corn--_helan_, to cover;
Ger. _hülle_, a covering, _hehlen_, to cover.]

HULL, hul, _n._ the frame or body of a ship.--_v.t._ to pierce the hull (as
with a cannon-ball).--_v.i._ to float or drive on the water, as a mere
hull. [Same word as above, perh. modified in meaning by confusion with Dut.
_hol_, a ship's hold, or with _hulk_.]

HULLABALOO, hul'la-ba-loo', _n._ an uproar.

HULLO, hul-l[=o]', _v._, _n._, and _interj._ Same as HALLOO.

HULLY, hul'i, _adj._ having husks or pods.

HULSEAN, hul's[=e]-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to John _Hulse_ (1708-89),
founder of the Hulsean divinity lectures at Cambridge.

HUM, hum, _v.i._ to make a buzzing sound like bees: to utter a low, droning
sound: to supply an interval in speaking by an audible sound.--_v.t._ to
sing in a low tone: to applaud anything by humming:--_pr.p._ hum'ming;
_pa.p._ hummed.--_n._ the noise of bees and some other insects: any low,
dull noise.--_interj._ a sound with a pause implying doubt.--_n._ HUM'MER,
something that hums.--HUM AND HAW, to hesitate in giving a direct answer;
HUMMING ALE, ale that froths up well, or that makes the head hum; MAKE
THINGS HUM, to set things agoing briskly. [Imit.; cf. Ger. _hummen_,
_humsen_.]

HUM, hum, _v.t._ to impose on.--_n._ an imposition. [Contr. of _humbug_.]

HUMAN, h[=u]'man, _adj._ belonging or pertaining to man or mankind: having
the qualities of a man.--_n._ (_coll._) a human being.--_n._ H[=U]'MANKIND,
the human species.--_adv._ H[=U]'MANLY. [Fr.,--L. _humanus_--_homo_, a
human being.]

HUMANE, h[=u]-m[=a]n', _adj._ having the feelings proper to man: kind:
tender: merciful.--_adv._ HUMANE'LY.--_n._ HUMANE'NESS, kindness:
tenderness.

HUMANISE, h[=u]'man-[=i]z, _v.t._ to render human or humane: to
soften.--_v.i._ to become humane or civilised.--_n._ HUMANIS[=A]'TION.

HUMANIST, h[=u]'man-ist, _n._ a student of polite literature: at the
Renaissance, a student of Greek and Roman literature: a student of human
nature.--_n._ H[=U]'MANISM, polite learning, literary culture: any system
which puts human interests paramount.--_adj._ HUMANIST'IC.

HUMANITARIAN, h[=u]-man'i-t[=a]'ri-an, _n._ one who denies Christ's
divinity, and holds Him to be a mere man: a philanthropist.--_adj._ of or
belonging to humanity, benevolent.--_n._ HUMANIT[=A]'RIANISM.

HUMANITY, h[=u]-man'it-i, _n._ the nature peculiar to a human being: the
kind feelings of man: benevolence: tenderness: mankind collectively:--_pl._
HUMAN'ITIES, in Scotland, grammar, rhetoric, Latin, Greek, and poetry, so
called from their humanising effects.--PROFESSOR OF HUMANITY, in Scotch
universities, the professor of Latin. [Fr.,--L.
_humanitas_--_humanus_--_homo_, a man.]

HUMBLE, hum'bl, or um'bl, _adj._ low: meek: modest.--_v.t._ to bring down
to the ground: to lower: to abase: to mortify: to degrade.--_adj._
HUM'BLE-MOUTHED, humble in speech.--_n._ HUM'BLENESS--(_Spens._)
HUM'BLESS.--_adj._ HUM'BLING, making humble.--_n._ a humiliation.--_advs._
HUM'BLINGLY, in a humiliating manner; HUM'BLY. [Fr.,--L. _humilis_,
low--_humus_, the ground.]

HUMBLE, hum'bl, _adj._ having no horns.

HUMBLE-BEE, hum'bl-b[=e], _n._ the humming-bee: a genus of social bees
which construct their hives under ground. [_Humble_ is a freq. of _hum_.]

HUMBLE-PIE, hum'bl-p[=i], _n._ a pie made of the umbles or numbles (liver,
heart, &c.) of a deer.--EAT HUMBLE-PIE, to humiliate one's self, eat one's
own words.

HUMBUG, hum'bug, _n._ an imposition under fair pretences: hollowness,
pretence: one who so imposes: a kind of candy.--_v.t._ to deceive: to
hoax:--_pr.p._ hum'bugging; _pa.p._ hum'bugged.--_adj._ HUMBUG'ABLE,
capable of being humbugged.--_ns._ HUM'BUGGER, one who humbugs;
HUM'BUGGERY, the practice of humbugging. [Orig. 'a false alarm,' 'a
bugbear,' from _hum_ and _bug_, a frightful object.]

HUMBUZZ, the same as the Bull-roarer (q.v.).

HUMDRUM, hum'drum, _adj._ dull: droning: monotonous: commonplace.--_n._ a
stupid fellow: monotony, tedious talk. [_Hum_ and _drum_.]

HUMDUDGEON, hum'duj-on, _n._ (_Scot._) an unnecessary outcry.

HUMECTANT, h[=u]-mek'tant, _adj._ pertaining to remedies supposed to
increase the fluidity of the blood.--_vs.t._ HUMECT', HUMEC'TATE, to
moisten.--_n._ HUMECT[=A]'TION.--_adj._ HUMEC'TIVE, having the power to
moisten.--_v.t._ H[=U]'MEFY, to make moist. [L. _humectans_--_hum[=e]re_,
to be moist.]

HUMERAL, h[=u]'m[.e]r-al, _adj._ belonging to the shoulder.--_n._ an oblong
scarf worn round the priest's shoulders at certain parts of the Mass and of
Benediction.--_n._ H[=U]'MERUS, the arm from the shoulder to the elbow: the
bone of the upper arm:--_pl._ H[=U]'MERI (-r[=i]).--_adjs._
H[=U]'MERO-C[=U]'BITAL; H[=U]'MERO-DIG'ITAL; H[=U]'MERO-DOR'SAL;
H[=U]'MERO-METACAR'PAL; H[=U]'MERO-R[=A]'DIAL. [Fr.,--L. _humerus_, the
shoulder.]

HUMET, HUMETTE, h[=u]-met', _n._ (_her._) a fesse or bar cut off short at
each end.--_adj._ HUMETÉ.

HUMGRUFFIN, hum'gruf-in, _n._ a terrible person.

HUMIAN, h[=u]m'i-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to David _Hume_ (1711-76), or
his philosophy.

HUMHUM, hum'hum, _n._ a kind of plain, coarse cotton cloth used in the East
Indies.

HUMIC, h[=u]'mik, _adj._ denoting an acid formed by the action of alkalies
on humus or mould.

HUMID, h[=u]'mid, _adj._ moist: damp: rather wet.--_adv._
H[=U]'MIDLY.--_ns._ H[=U]'MIDNESS, HUMID'ITY, moisture: a moderate degree
of wetness. [L. _humidus_--_hum[=e]re_, to be moist.]

HUMILIATE, h[=u]-mil'i-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make humble: to depress: to lower
in condition.--_adjs._ HUMIL'IANT, humiliating; HUMIL'I[=A]TING, humbling,
mortifying.--_n._ HUMILI[=A]'TION, the act of humiliating: abasement:
mortification. [L. _humili[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

HUMILITY, h[=u]-mil'i-ti, _n._ the state or quality of being humble:
lowliness of mind: modesty. [O. Fr. _humilite_--L.
_humilitat-em_--_humilis_, low.]

HUMINE, h[=u]m'in, _n._ Same as HUMUS.

HUMMEL, hum'el, _adj._--hornless.--_n._ HUMM'ELLER, a machine for
separating awns of barley from seed.

HUMMING, hum'ing, _n._ a low, murmuring sound, like that made by
bees.--_ns._ HUMM'ING-BIRD, a tropical bird, of brilliant plumage and rapid
flight, from the humming sound of its wings; HUMM'ING-TOP, a top which when
spun gives a humming sound. [_Hum_.]

HUMMOCK, hum'uk, _n._ a hillock: pile or ridge (of ice): (_Scot._) a
fistful.--_n._ HUMM'IE, a small protuberance.--_adjs._ HUMM'OCKED,
HUMM'OCKY. [Dim. of _hump_.]

HUMMUM, the same as Hammam (q.v.).

HUMOUR, h[=u]'mur, or [=u]'mur, _n._ the moisture or fluids of animal
bodies: an animal fluid in an unhealthy state: state of mind (because once
thought to depend on the humours of the body), as 'good' and 'ill humour:'
disposition: caprice: a mental quality which delights in ludicrous and
mirthful ideas: playful fancy.--_v.t._ to go in with the humour of: to
gratify by compliance.--_adj._ H[=U]'MORAL, pertaining to or proceeding
from the humours.--_ns._ H[=U]'MORALISM, the state of being humoral: the
doctrine that diseases have their seat in the humours; H[=U]'MORALIST, one
who favours the doctrine of humoralism; HUMORESQUE', a musical caprice;
H[=U]'MORIST, one whose conduct and conversation are regulated by humour or
caprice: one who studies or portrays the humours of people: one possessed
of humour: a writer of comic stories.--_adjs._ HUMORIS'TIC, humorous;
H[=U]'MORLESS, without humour; H[=U]'MOROUS, governed by humour:
capricious: irregular: full of humour: exciting laughter.--_adv._
H[=U]'MOROUSLY.--_n._ H[=U]'MOROUSNESS.--_adj._ H[=U]'MOURSOME, capricious,
petulant.--_n._ H[=U]'MOURSOMENESS.--Out of humour, out of temper,
displeased; THE NEW HUMOUR, a so-called modern literary product in which
there is even less humour than novelty. [O. Fr. _humor_ (Fr. _humeur_)--L.
_humor_--_hum[=e]re_, to be moist.]

HUMP, hump, _n._ a lump or hunch upon the back.--_v.t._ to bend in a hump:
(_U.S. slang_) to prepare for a great exertion: (_slang_) to vex or
annoy.--_v.i._ to put forth effort.--_n._ HUMP'BACK, a back with a hump or
hunch: a person with a humpback.--_adjs._ HUMP'BACKED, having a humpback;
HUMPED, having a hump on the back; HUMP'Y, full of humps or protuberances.
[Prob. a nasalised form of _heap_.]

HUMPH, humf, _interj._ an exclamation expressive of dissatisfaction or
incredulity.

HUMPHREY, TO DINE WITH. See DINE.

HUMPTY-DUMPTY, hum'ti-dum'ti, _n._ a short, squat, egg-like being of
nursery folklore: a gipsy drink, ale boiled with brandy.--_adj._ short and
broad.

HUMSTRUM, hum'strum, _n._ a hurdy-gurdy.

HUMUS, h[=u]m'us, HUMINE, h[=u]m'in, _n._ a brown or black powder in rich
soils, formed by the action of air on animal or vegetable matter.--_adj._
H[=U]'MOUS. [L., 'the ground,' akin to Gr. _chamai_, on the ground.]

HUN, hun, _n._ one of a powerful, squat, swarthy, and savage nomad race of
Asia, probably of Mongolian or Tartar stock, who began to move westwards in
Europe about 372 A.D., pushing the Goths before them across the Danube, and
under Attila (433-453) overrunning Europe: a shortened form of
Hungarian.--_adjs._ HUN'NIC, HUN'NISH.

HUNCH, hunsh, _n._ a hump, esp. on the back: a lump.--_n._ HUNCH'BACK, one
with a hunch or lump on his back.--_adj._ HUNCH'BACKED, having a humpback.
[The nasalised form of _hook_; cog. with Ger. _hucke_, the bent back; cf.
Scot. to _hunker_ down, to sit on one's heels with the knees bent up
towards the chin.]

HUNDRED, hun'dred, _n._ the number of ten times ten: a division of a county
in England, orig. supposed to contain a hundred families.--_adjs._
HUN'DREDFOLD, folded a hundred times, multiplied by a hundred; HUN'DREDTH,
coming last or forming one of a hundred.--_n._ one of a hundred.--_n._
HUN'DREDWEIGHT, a weight the twentieth part of a ton, or 112 lb.
avoirdupois; orig. a hundred lb., abbreviated _cwt._ (c. standing for L.
_centum_, _wt._ for weight).--HUNDRED DAYS, the period between Napoleon's
return from Elba and his final downfall after Waterloo (the reign lasted
exactly 95 days, March 20-June 22, 1815); HUNDRED YEARS' WAR, the struggle
between England and France, from 1337 down to 1453; CHILTERN HUNDREDS, a
district of Bucks, whose stewardship is a nominal office under the Crown,
the temporary acceptance of which by a member of parliament enables him
technically to vacate his seat; GREAT, or LONG, HUNDRED, six score; NOT A
HUNDRED MILES OFF, an indirect phrase for 'here,' 'in this very place;' OLD
HUNDRED, or HUNDREDTH, a well-known long-metre setting of the hundredth
psalm, 'All people that on earth do dwell.' [A.S. _hundred_--old form
_hund_, a hundred, with the superfluous addition of _réd_ or _r['æ]d_ (Eng.
_rate_), a reckoning.]

HUNG, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of hang.--_n._ HUNG'-BEEF, beef cured and dried.

HUNGARIAN, hung-g[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Hungary_ or its
inhabitants.--_n._ a native of Hungary: the Magyar or Hungarian language.

HUNGER, hung'g[.e]r, _n._ desire for food: strong desire for
anything.--_v.i._ to crave food: to long for.--_adjs._ HUNG'ER-BIT'TEN,
bitten, pained, or weakened by hunger; HUNG'ERFUL, hungry; HUNG'ERLY
(_Shak._), hungry.--_adv._ (_Shak._) hungrily.--_adv._ HUNG'RILY.--_adj._
HUNG'RY, having eager desire: greedy: lean: poor. [A.S. _hungor_ (n.),
_hyngran_ (v.); cf. Ger. _hunger_, Dut. _honger_, &c.]

HUNK, the same as HUNCH.

HUNK, hungk, _n._ (_U.S._) goal or base in boys' games.--_n._ HUNK'ER, a
conservative.--_adj._ HUNK'Y, in good position. [Dut. _honk_.]

HUNKER, hungk'er, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to squat down.--_n.pl._ HUNK'ERS, the
hams. [See HUNCH.]

HUNKS, hungks, _n.sing._ a covetous man: a miser.

HUNT, hunt, _v.t._ to chase wild animals for prey or sport: to chase such
over a country: to search for: to pursue.--_v.i._ to go out in pursuit of
game: to search.--_n._ a chase of wild animals: search: a pack of hunting
hounds: an association of huntsmen.--_ns._ HUNT'-COUNT'ER, a dog that runs
back or counter on the scent, a worthless dog--hence (_Shak._), a
blunderer, and _v.t._ to retrace one's steps; HUNT'ER (_fem._ HUNT'RESS),
one who hunts: a horse used in the chase: a watch whose face is protected,
like the reverse, with a metal case; HALF'-HUNT'ER, such a watch where that
metal case has a small circle of glass let in, so that one can see the time
without opening it; HUNT'ING, the pursuit of wild game, the chase;
HUNT'ING-BOX, HUNT'ING-LODGE, HUNT'ING-SEAT, a temporary residence for
hunting; HUNT'ING-CAP, a form of cap much worn in the hunting-field;
HUNT'ING-COG, an extra cog in one of two geared wheels, by means of which
the order of contact of cogs is changed at every revolution; HUNT'ING-CROP,
-WHIP, a short whip with a crooked handle and a loop of leather at the end,
used in the hunting-field; HUNT'ING-GROUND, a place or region for hunting;
HUNTING-HORN, a horn used in hunting, a bugle; HUNT'ING-KNIFE, -SWORD, a
knife or short sword used to despatch the game when caught, or to skin and
cut it up; HUNT'ING-SONG, a song about hunting; HUNT'ING-TIDE, the season
of hunting; HUNTS'MAN, one who hunts: a servant who manages the hounds
during the chase; HUNTS'MANSHIP, the qualifications of a huntsman;
HUNT'S-UP (_Shak._), a tune or song intended to arouse huntsmen in the
morning--hence, anything calculated to arouse.--HUNT DOWN, to destroy by
persecution or violence; HUNT OUT, up, after, to search for, seek;
HUNT-THE-GOWK, to make an April fool (see APRIL); HUNT-THE-SLIPPER, an
old-fashioned game in which one in the middle of a ring tries to catch a
shoe which those forming the ring upon the ground shove about under their
hams from one to another.--HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS, the paradise of the Red
Indian; MRS LEO HUNTER, of 'The Den, Eatanswill,' a social lion-hunter in
the _Pickwick Papers_ whose husband hunts up all the newest celebrities to
grace her breakfast parties. [A.S. _huntian_; A.S. _hentan_, to seize.]

HUNTERIAN, hun-t[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to the great surgeon
John _Hunter_ (1728-93), to his collection of anatomical specimens and
preparations, the nucleus of the great Hunterian Museum in London, or to
the Hunterian Oration delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons on the
anniversary of his birth, 14th February: of or pertaining to his elder
brother, William _Hunter_ (1718-83), or his museum at Glasgow.

HUNTINGDONIAN, hun-ting-d[=o]'ni-an, _n._ a member of the Countess of
Huntingdon's Connection, a denomination of Calvinistic Methodists founded
by Whitefield in conjunction with Selina, Countess of _Huntingdon_
(1707-91).

HUON-PINE, h[=u]'on-p[=i]n', _n._ a Tasmanian yew, with light-yellow wood,
used in boat-building.

HURDIES, hur'diz, _n.pl._ (_Scot._) the buttocks.

HURDLE, hur'dl, _n._ a frame of twigs or sticks interlaced: (_agri._) a
movable frame of timber or iron for gates, &c.: a rude sledge on which
criminals were drawn to the gallows.--_v.t._ to enclose with hurdles.--_n._
HUR'DLE-RACE, a race where the runners, whether men or horses, have to
clear a succession of hurdles. [A.S. _hyrdel_; Ger. _hürde_.]

HURDS. Same as HARDS.

HURDY-GURDY, hur'di-gur'di, _n._ a musical stringed instrument, like a rude
violin, whose strings are sounded by the turning of a wheel: a hand-organ:
an impact-wheel. [Imit.]

HURL, hurl, _v.i._ to make a noise by throwing: to move rapidly: to dash
with force: to whirl: (_Scot._) to convey in a wheeled vehicle.--_v.t._ to
throw with violence: to utter with vehemence.--_n._ act of hurling, tumult,
confusion: (_Scot._) conveyance in a wheeled vehicle.--_ns._ HURL'ER;
HURL'EY, the game of hockey, or the stick used in playing it; HURL'ING, a
game in which a ball is forced through the opponent's goal, hockey; HURL'Y
(_Scot._), a wheelbarrow; HURL'Y-HACK'ET, an ill-hung carriage. [_Hurtle_.]

HURLY-BURLY, hur'li-bur'li, _n._ tumult: confusion.--_n._ HUR'LY (_Shak._).
[_Hurly_ is from O. Fr. _hurler_, to yell, orig. _huller_, whence Eng.
_howl_. _Burly_ is simply a rhyming addition.]

HURRAH, HURRA, hoor-rä', _interj._ an exclamation of excitement or
joy.--Also _n._ and _v.i._ [Ger. _hurra_; Dan. and Sw. _hurra_.]

HURRICANE, hur'ri-k[=a]n, _n._ a storm with extreme violence and sudden
changes of the wind: a social party, a rout--(_Shak._)
HUR'RICANO.--HURRICANE DECK, a cross-deck about amidships, a bridge-deck or
bridge: the upper light deck of a passenger-steamer. [Sp. _huracan_, from
Caribbean.]

HURRY, hur'i, _v.t._ to urge forward: to hasten.--_v.i_ to move or act with
haste:--_pa.p._ hurr'ied.--_n._ a driving forward: haste: tumult: a
tremolando passage for violins, &c., in connection with an exciting
situation.--_adj._ HURR'IED.--_adv._ HURR'IEDLY.--_n._
HURR'IEDNESS.--_adv._ HURR'YINGLY.--_n._ HURR'Y-SKURR'Y, confusion and
bustle.--_adv._ confusedly. [Imit. Cf. Old Sw. _hurra_, to whirl round.]

HURST, hurst, _n._ a wood, a grove. [A.S. _hyrst_.]

HURT, hurt, _v.t._ to cause bodily pain to: to damage: to wound, as the
feelings.--_v.i._ to give pain, &c.:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ hurt.--_n._ a
wound: injury.--_n._ HURT'ER, that which hurts: a beam at the lower end of
a gun-platform to save the parapet: a piece of iron or wood fixed to the
top-rails of a gun-carriage to check its motion: the shoulder of an axle
against which the hub strikes.--_adj._ HURT'FUL, causing hurt or loss:
mischievous.--_adv._ HURT'FULLY.--_n._ HURT'FULNESS.--_adj._ HURT'LESS,
without hurt or injury, harmless.--_adv._ HURT'LESSLY.--_n._ HURT'LESSNESS.
[O. Fr. _hurter_ (Fr. _heurter_), to knock, to run against; prob. from the
Celtic, as in W. _hwrdd_, a thrust, the butt of a ram, Corn. _hordh_, a
ram.]

HURTLE, hurt'l, _v.t._ to dash against: to move violently: to clash: to
rattle.--_v.i._ to move rapidly with a whirring sound. [Freq. of _hurt_ in
its original sense.]

HURTLEBERRY, a form of _whortleberry_.

HUSBAND, huz'band, _n._ a married man: (_B._) a man to whom a woman is
betrothed: one who manages affairs with prudence: (_naut._) the owner of a
ship who manages its concerns in person.--_v.t._ to supply with a husband:
to manage with economy.--_n._ HUS'BANDAGE, allowance or commission of a
ship's husband.--_adjs._ HUS'BANDLESS (_Shak._), without a husband;
HUS'BANDLY, frugal, thrifty.--_ns._ HUS'BANDMAN, a working farmer: one who
labours in tillage; HUS'BANDRY, the business of a farmer: tillage:
economical management: thrift. [M. E. _husbonde_--A.S. _húsbonda_, Ice.
_húsbóndi_--_hús_, a house, _búandi_, inhabiting, pr.p. of Ice. _búa_, to
dwell. Cf. Ger. _bauen_, to till.]

HUSH, hush, _interj._ or _imper._ silence! be still!--_adj._ silent:
quiet.--_v.t._ to make quiet: (_min._) to clear off soil, &c., overlying
the bed-rock.--_ns._ HUSH'ABY, a lullaby used to soothe babies to sleep;
HUSH'-MON'EY, money given as a bribe to hush or make one keep silent.--HUSH
UP, to stifle, suppress: to be silent. [Imit. Cf. _hist_ and _whist_.]

HUSK, husk, _n._ the dry, thin covering of certain fruits and seeds:
(_pl._) refuse, waste.--_v.t._ to remove the husk or outer integument
from.--_adj._ HUSKED, covered with a husk: stripped of husks.--_ns._
HUSK'ER, one who husks Indian corn, esp. at a husking-bee; HUSK'ING, the
stripping of husks: a festive gathering to assist in husking Indian corn
(maize)--also HUSK'ING-BEE. [M. E. _huske_, orig. with _l_, as in cog. Ger.
_hülse_, Dut. _hulse_, &c.]

HUSKY, husk'i, _adj._ hoarse, as the voice: rough in sound.--_adv._
HUSK'ILY.--_n._ HUSK'INESS. [A corr. of _husty_, from M. E. _host_ (Scot.
_hoast_, _host_, a cough)--A.S. _hwósta_, a cough; cf. Ger. _husten_.]

HUSO, h[=u]'so, _n._ the great sturgeon.

HUSSAR, hooz-zär', _n._ a light-armed cavalry soldier: (_orig._) a soldier
of the national cavalry of Hungary. [Not Hung. _huszar_--_husz_, twenty,
because at one time in Hungary one cavalry soldier used to be levied from
every twenty families; but Slav. _hussar_, gooseherd, the sobriquet of the
raiding horse of Matthias Corvinus (1443-90).]

HUSSIF. See HOUSEWIFE. [Contr. of _housewife_.]

HUSSITE, hus's[=i]t, _n._ a follower of the Bohemian reformer, John _Hus_,
martyred in 1415.

HUSSY, huz'i, _n._ a pert girl: a worthless wench.

HUSTINGS, hus'tingz, _n.sing._ the principal court of the city of London:
formerly the booths where the votes were taken at an election of an M.P.,
or the platform from which the candidates gave their addresses. [A.S.
_hústing_, a council, but a Scand. word, and used in speaking of the
Danes--Ice. _hústhing_--_hús_, a house, _thing_, an assembly.]

HUSTLE, hus'l, _v.t._ to shake or push together: to crowd with
violence.--_n._ HUS'TLER, an energetic fellow. [Old Dut. _hutsen_,
_hutselen_, to shake to and fro; cf. _hotchpotch_.]

HUSWIFE. See HOUSEWIFE.

HUT, hut, _n._ a small or mean house: (_mil._) a small temporary
dwelling.--_v.t._ (_mil._) to place in huts, as quarters:--_pr.p._
hut'ting; _pa.p._ hut'ted. [Fr. _hutte_--Old High Ger. _hutta_ (Ger.
_hütte_).]

HUTCH, huch, _n._ a box, a chest: a coop for rabbits: a baker's
kneading-trough: a trough used with some ore-dressing machines: a low wagon
in which coal is drawn up out of the pit.--_v.i._ (_Milt._) to hoard up.
[Fr. _huche_, a chest--Low L. _hutica_, a box; prob. Teut.]

HUTCHINSONIAN, huch-in-s[=o]n'i-an, _n._ a follower of John _Hutchinson_
(1674-1737), who held that the Hebrew Scriptures contain typically the
elements of all rational philosophy, natural history, and true religion.

HUTTONIAN, hut-[=o]'ni-an, _adj._ relating to the views of James _Hutton_
(1726-97), who emphasised natural agencies in the formation of the earth's
crust.

HUZZA, hooz-zä', _interj._ and _n._ hurrah! a shout of joy or
approbation.--_v.t._ to attend with shouts of joy.--_v.i._ to utter shouts
of joy or acclamation:--_pr.p._ huzza'ing; _pa.p._ huzzaed (-zäd'). [Ger.
_hussa_; the same as _hurrah_.]

HYACINE, h[=i]'a-sin, _n._ (_Spens._) the hyacinth.

HYACINTH, h[=i]'a-sinth, _n._ a bulbous-rooted flower of a great variety of
colours: (_myth._) a flower which sprang from the blood of Hyacinthus, a
youth killed by Apollo with a quoit: a precious stone, the jacinth.--_adj._
HYACIN'THINE, consisting of or resembling hyacinth: very beautiful, like
Hyacinthus: curling like the hyacinth. [Doublet of _jacinth_.]

HYADES, h[=i]'a-d[=e]z, HYADS, h[=i]'adz, _n._ a cluster of five stars in
the constellation of the Bull, supposed by the ancients to bring rain when
they rose with the sun. [Gr. _hyades_, explained by the ancients as from
_hyein_, to rain; more prob.=little pigs, _hys_, a pig.]

HYÆNA, HYENA, h[=i]-[=e]'na, _n._ a bristly-maned quadruped of the dog
kind, so named from its likeness to the sow.--LAUGHING HYÆNA, the
tiger-wolf or spotted hyæna of South Africa, emitting at times a sound
somewhat like hysterical laughter. [L.,--Gr. _hyaina_--_hys_, a sow.]

HYALINE, h[=i]'a-lin, _adj._ glassy: consisting of or like glass.--_n._ a
glassy transparent surface.--_n._ HYALES'CENCE, the process of becoming
glassy.--_adj._ HYALES'CENT.--_ns._ HY'ALITE, a variety of opal like
colourless gum; HYAL[=I]T'IS, inflammation of the vitreous humour;
HYALOG'RAPHY, the art of engraving on glass.--_adj._ HY'ALOID, hyaline,
transparent. [Gr. _hyalinos_--_hyalos_, glass, prob. Egyptian.]

HYBERNATE, &c. See HIBERNATE, &c.

HYBLÆAN, hi-bl[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to ancient _Hybla_ in Sicily,
noted for its honey.

HYBRID, h[=i]'brid, or hib'-, _n._ an animal or plant produced from two
different species: a mongrel: a mule: a word formed of elements from
different languages.--_adjs._ HY'BRID, HYB'RIDOUS, produced from different
species: mongrel.--_adj._ HY'BRIDISABLE.--_n._ HYBRIDIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ HY'BRIDISE, to cause to interbreed, and to interbreed.---_ns._
HYBRIDIS'ER; HY'BRIDISM, HYBRID'ITY, state of being hybrid. [Fr.,--L.
_hibrida_, a mongrel.]

HYDATID, h[=i]'d[=a]-tid, _n._ a watery cyst or vesicle sometimes found in
animal bodies.--_n._ HY'DATISM, the sound caused by the fluctuation of pus
in an abscess.--_adj._ HYD'ATOID, watery, aqueous. [Gr. _hydatis_, a watery
vesicle--_hyd[=o]r_, _hydatos_, water.]

HYDRA, h[=i]'dra, _n._ (_myth._) a water-serpent with many heads, which
when cut off were succeeded by others: any manifold evil: a genus of
fresh-water polyps remarkable for their power of multiplication by being
cut or divided.--_adjs._ HY'DRA-HEAD'ED, difficulty to root out, springing
up vigorously again and again; HY'DROID, like the hydra. [L.,--Gr.
_hydra_--_hyd[=o]r_, water, akin to Sans. _udras_, an otter.]

HYDRAGOGUE, h[=i]'dra-g[=o]g, _n._ a very active purgative, such as jalap.
[Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _ag[=o]gos_, leading, _agein_, to lead.]

HYDRANGEA, h[=i]-dran'je-a, _n._ a genus of shrubby plants with large heads
of showy flowers, natives of China and Japan. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water,
_anggeion_, vessel.]

HYDRANT, h[=i]'drant, _n._ a machine for discharging water: a water-plug.
[Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water.]

HYDRATE, h[=i]'dr[=a]t, _n._ a compound formed by the union of water with
an oxide.--_n._ HYDR[=A]'TION. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water.]

HYDRAULIC, -AL, h[=i]-drawl'ik, -al, _adj._ relating to hydraulics:
conveying water: worked by water.--_adv._ HYDRAUL'ICALLY.--_n.pl._
HYDRAUL'ICS, used as _sing._, the science of hydrodynamics in its practical
application to water-pipes, &c.--HYDRAULIC BELT, an arrangement for lifting
water, consisting of an endless belt fitted with buckets which discharge as
they turn over an upper wheel; HYDRAULIC CEMENT, lime, a cement that sets
or hardens under water; HYDRAULIC JACK, a jack or lifting apparatus, by
means of oil, &c., pressed by a force-pump against a piston or plunger;
HYDRAULIC MINING, a method of mining by which the auriferous detritus is
washed down by a powerful jet of water into a sluice where the gold is
easily separated; HYDRAULIC PRESS, a press operated by the differential
pressure of water on pistons of different dimensions; HYDRAULIC RAM, an
automatic pump worked by the pressure of a column of water in a pipe, and
the force acquired by intermittent motion of the column. [From Gr.
_hyd[=o]r_, water, _aulos_, a pipe.]

HYDRIA, h[=i]'dri-a, _n._ a large Greek water-vase.--_n._ HY'DRIAD, a
water-nymph.

HYDRID, h[=i]'drid, _n._ (_chem._) a substance consisting of hydrogen
combined with an element or some compound radical.--_n._ HY'DRIODATE, a
salt of hydriodic acid.--_adj._ HYDRIOD'IC, produced by the combination of
hydrogen and iodine.

HYDROBAROMETER, h[=i]-dro-ba-rom'e-ter, _n._ an instrument for determining
the depth of the sea by the pressure of the superincumbent water.

HYDROBROMIC, h[=i]-dro-br[=o]'mik, _adj._ compounded of bromine and
hydrogen.--_n._ HYDROBR[=O]'MATE, a salt of hydrobromic acid--same as
_bromide_; also _Bromhydrate_.

HYDROCARBON, h[=i]-dro-kär'bon, _n._ a compound of hydrogen and
carbon.--HYDROCARBON FURNACE, a furnace in which liquid fuel, as petroleum,
is used.

HYDROCELE, h[=i]'dro-s[=e]l, _n._ (_med._) a swelling consisting of a
collection of serous fluid in the scrotum or in some of the coverings of
the testicle or spermatic cord. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _k[=e]l[=e]_, a
swelling.]

HYDROCEPHALUS, h[=i]-dro-sef'a-lus, _n._ an accumulation of serous fluid
within the cranial cavity, either in the sub-dural space or the ventricles:
water in the head: dropsy of the brain.--_adjs._ HYDROCEPHAL'IC,
HYDROCEPH'ALOID, HYDROCEPH'ALOUS. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _kephal[=e]_, the
head.]

HYDROCHLORIC, h[=i]-dro-kl[=o]'rik, _adj._ compounded of hydrogen and
chlorine.--_n._ HYDROCHL[=O]'RATE, a salt of hydrochloric acid.

HYDROCYANIC, h[=i]-dro-s[=i]-an'ik, _adj._ noting an acid formed by the
combination of hydrogen and cyanogen--also _Prussic acid_.--_ns._
HYDROCY'ANIDE, HYDROCY'ANITE.

HYDRODYNAMICS, h[=i]-dro-di-nam'iks, _n.pl._ used as _sing._, the science
that treats of the motions and equilibrium of a material system partly or
wholly fluid, called _Hydrostatics_ when the system is in equilibrium,
_Hydrokinetics_ when it is not.--_adjs._ HYDRODYNAM'IC, -AL.--_n._
HYDRODYNAMOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the velocity of fluid in
motion by its pressure.--_adj._ HYDROELEC'TRIC, pertaining to electricity
generated by the escape of steam under high pressure.--_n._
HY'DRO-EXTRACT'OR, an apparatus for removing moisture from yarns, cloths,
&c., in process of manufacture. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, and _dynamics_.]

HYDROFLUORIC, h[=i]-dro-fl[=oo]-or'ik, _adj._ consisting of fluorine and
hydrogen.

HYDROGEN, h[=i]'dro-jen, _n._ a gas which in combination with oxygen
produces water, an elementary gaseous substance, the lightest of all known
substances, and very inflammable.--_adjs._ HY'DRIC, containing hydrogen;
HYDROG'ENOUS, containing hydrogen: produced by the action of water, as
applied to rocks in opposition to those that are _pyrogenous_, formed by
the action of fire. [A word coined by Cavendish (1766) from Gr. _hyd[=o]r_,
water, and _gen[=e]s_, producing.]

HYDROGRAPHY, h[=i]-drog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of measuring and describing the
size and position of waters or seas: the art of making sea-charts.--_n._
HYDROG'RAPHER, a maker of sea-charts.--_adjs._ HYDROGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._
HYDROGRAPH'ICALLY. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _graphein_, to write.]

HYDROKINETICS, h[=i]-dro-ki-net'iks, _n.pl._ used as _sing._, a branch of
_Hydrodynamics_ (q.v.).

HYDROLOGY, h[=i]-drol'o-ji, _n._ the science which treats of
water.--_adjs._ HYDROLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ HYDROL'OGIST. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_,
water, _logia_, a discourse.]

HYDROLYSIS, h[=i]-drol'i-sis, _n._ a kind of chemical decomposition by
which a compound is resolved into other compounds by taking up the elements
of water.--_adj._ HYDROLYT'IC. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _lysis_--_lyein_, to
loose.]

HYDROMANCY, h[=i]'dro-man-si, _n._ divination by water.--_adj._
HYDROMANT'IC. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _manteia_, divination.]

HYDROMANIA, h[=i]-dro-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ an insatiable craving for water, as
in diabetes: a morbid propensity to suicide by drowning.

HYDROMECHANICS, h[=i]-dro-me-kan'iks, _n._ the mechanics of fluids.

HYDROMEL, h[=i]'dro-mel, _n._ a beverage made of honey and water. [Gr.
_hyd[=o]r_, water, _meli_, honey.]

HYDROMETAMORPHISM, h[=i]-dro-met-a-mor'fizm, _n._ a kind of metamorphism of
igneous rocks brought about by water, in opposition to _Pyrometamorphism_,
that brought about by means of heat.

HYDROMETEOROLOGY, h[=i]-dro-m[=e]-te-or-ol'o-ji, _n._ the branch of
meteorology which treats of water in the atmosphere, as rain, clouds, snow,
&c.--_n._ HYDROM[=E]'TEOR, any one of the aqueous phenomena of the
atmosphere. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _mete[=o]ron_, a meteor.]

HYDROMETER, h[=i]-drom'et-[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
density or specific gravity of solids and liquids by flotation, consisting
of a weighted glass bulb or hollow metal cylinder with a long stem: a
current-gauge.--_adjs._ HYDROMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._ HYDROM'ETRY. [Gr.
_hyd[=o]r_, water, _metron_, a measure.]

HYDROMOTOR, h[=i]-dro-m[=o]'tor, _n._ a form of motor for propelling
vessels by means of jets of water ejected from the sides or stern.

HYDROMYS, h[=i]'dro-mis, _n._ an Australasian genus of rodents, known as
water-rats and beaver-rats. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _mys_, mouse.]

HYDRONETTE, h[=i]'dro-net, _n._ a syringe: a garden force-pump.

HYDROPATHY, h[=i]-drop'a-thi, _n._ the treatment of disease by cold
water.--_adjs._ HYDROPATH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ HYDROPATH'ICALLY.--_n._
HYDROP'ATHIST, one who practises hydropathy.--HYDROPATHIC ESTABLISHMENT or
(_coll._) simply HYDROPATH'IC, a temperance hotel where the guests can have
hydropathic treatment if desired. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _pathos_,
suffering, _pathein_, to suffer.]

HYDROPHANE, h[=i]'dro-f[=a]n, _n._ a partly translucent variety of opal
which becomes transparent when wetted.--_adj._ HYDROPH'ANOUS. [Gr.
HYD[=O]R, water, _phainein_, to shine.]

HYDROPHIDÆ, h[=i]-drof'i-d[=e], _n.pl._ a family of venomous sea-snakes.
[Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _ophis_, snake.]

HYDROPHOBIA, h[=i]-dro-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ an unnatural dread of water, a
symptom of a disease known as Rabies, usually resulting from the bite of a
mad dog--hence the disease itself.--_adj._ HYDROPHOB'IC. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_,
water, _phobos_, fear.]

HYDROPHONE, h[=i]'dro-f[=o]n, _n._ a marine electric apparatus for
detecting the approach of a torpedo-boat, &c.

HYDROPHORE, h[=i]'dro-f[=o]r, _n._ an apparatus for obtaining specimens of
water from any required depth.

HYDROPHTHALMIA, h[=i]-drof-thal'mi-a, _n._ an increase in quantity of the
aqueous or the vitreous humour.

HYDROPHYTE, h[=i]'dro-f[=i]t, _n._ a plant living in water.--_n._
HYDROPHYTOG'RAPHY, the branch of botany which describes such--also
HYDROPHYTOL'OGY. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _phyton_, a plant, _logia_,
discourse.]

HYDROPSY, h[=i]'drop-si, _n._ dropsy.--_adjs._ HYDROP'IC, HYDROP'TIC,
dropsical: thirsty.

HYDROPULT, h[=i]'dro-pult, _n._ a hand force-pump.

HYDROSAURUS, h[=i]-dro-saw'rus, _n._ a genus of monitor-lizards, of aquatic
habit, found in the Malay Peninsula, &c. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _sauros_,
a lizard.]

HYDROSCOPE, h[=i]'dro-sk[=o]p, _n._ a kind of water-clock, consisting of a
cylindrical graduated tube, from which the water escaped through a hole in
the bottom. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _skopein_, to view.]

HYDROSOMA, h[=i]-dro-s[=o]'ma, _n._ the entire organism of any
hydrozoon:--_pl._ HYDROS[=O]'MATA.--_adjs._ HYDROS[=O]'MAL,
HYDROS[=O]'MATOUS.

HYDROSTATICS, h[=i]-dro-stat'iks, _n.pl._ used as _sing._, a branch of
HYDRODYNAMICS (which see).--_n._ HY'DROSTAT, an electrical contrivance for
detecting a leakage or overflow of water: an apparatus devised to guard
against the explosion of steam boilers.--_adjs._ HYDROSTAT'IC, -AL.--_adv._
HYDROSTAT'ICALLY.--HYDROSTATIC BALANCE, a balance for weighing bodies in
water to determine their specific gravity; HYDROSTATIC BELLOWS, a device
for illustrating the law that fluid pressure is proportional to area;
HYDROSTATIC PARADOX, the principle that (disregarding molecular forces) any
quantity of fluid, however small, may balance any weight, however great, as
in the hydrostatic bellows; HYDROSTATIC PRESS, the same as Hydraulic Press.

HYDROSULPHURIC, h[=i]-dro-sul-f[=u]'rik, _adj._ formed by a combination of
hydrogen and sulphur.

HYDROTELLURIC, h[=i]-dro-tel-l[=u]'rik, _adj._ pertaining to hydrogen and
tellurium.

HYDRO-THERAPEUTICS, h[=i]-dro-ther-a-p[=u]'tiks, _n.pl._ remedial treatment
of disease by water in various modes and forms--also HYDROTHER'APY.--_adj._
HYDROTHERAPEU'TIC.

HYDROTHERMAL, h[=i]-dro-ther'mal, _adj._ pertaining to, or produced by,
action of heated or super-heated water, esp. in dissolving, transporting,
and redepositing mineral matter.

HYDROTHORAX, h[=i]-dro-th[=o]'raks, _n._ a term applied to dropsical
collections in the pleura. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _th[=o]rax_, chest.]

HYDROTROPISM, h[=i]-dro-trop'izm, _n._ the habit induced in a growing organ
by the influence of moisture, of turning toward, or away from, the
moisture.--_adj._ HYDROTROP'IC. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water, _tropos_, a turn.]

HYDROUS, h[=i]'drus, _adj._ watery, containing hydrogen.

HYDROXIDE, h[=i]-droks'[=i]d, _n._ a metallic or basic radical combined
with one or more hydroxyl groups.--_n._ HYDROX'YL, a compound radical not
yet isolated, but found in many chemical compounds.

HYDROZOA, h[=i]-dro-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ (_sing._ HYDROZ[=O]'ON) one of the
main divisions of the sub-kingdom _Coelenterata_, the other two being
_Ctenophora_ and _Anthozoa_ or _Actinozoa_; they are chiefly marine
organisms, soft and gelatinous, free or fixed, existing everywhere,
endlessly varied in form and complexity of structure, including such great
groups as _hydroids_, _acalephs_, _medusans_, jelly-fish, sea-blubbers,
&c.--_adjs._ HYDROZ[=O]'AN, HYDROZ[=O]'IC. [Gr. _hyd[=o]r_, water,
_z[=o]on_, an animal.]

HYDRURET. Same as HYDRID.

HYENA, h[=i]-[=e]'na, HYEN, h[=i]'en, _n._ (_Shak._) a hyæna.

HYETAL, h[=i]'e-tal, _adj._ rainy.--_n._ HY'ETOGRAPH, a chart showing the
average rainfall of the earth or any of its divisions.--_adjs._
HYETOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_ns._ HYETOG'RAPHY; HYETOL'OGY; HYETOM'ETER;
HYETOMET'ROGRAPH. [Gr. _hyetos_, rain.]

HYGEIAN, h[=i]-j[=e]'an, _adj._ relating to health and its
preservation.--_ns._ HYGEIA (h[=i]-j[=e]'a), goddess of health, daughter of
Æsculapius; HY'GI[=E]NE, HYGIEN'ICS, HY'GIENISM, the science which treats
of the preservation of health.--_adj._ HYGIEN'IC.--_adv._
HYGIEN'ICALLY.--_n._ HY'GIENIST, one skilled in hygiene; HYGIOL'OGY, art of
the preservation of health. [Gr. _hygieia_--_hygi[=e]s_, healthy.]

HYGRODEIK, h[=i]'gro-d[=i]k, _n._ a form of hygrometer in which the
atmospheric humidity is indicated by an index controlled by the heights of
a wet-bulb and a dry-bulb thermometer, supported on each side of a frame on
which is described a scale. [Gr. _hygros_, wet, _deik-nynai_, to show.]

HYGROMETER, h[=i]-grom'et-[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the
moisture in the atmosphere, or its relative humidity.--_n._ HYGROM'ETRY,
the art of measuring the moisture in the atmosphere, and of bodies
generally.--_adjs._ HYGROMET'RIC, -AL. [Gr. _hygros_, wet, _metron_, a
measure.]

HYGROSCOPE, h[=i]'gro-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for indicating the
humidity of the atmosphere.--_adjs._ HYGROSCOP'IC, -AL.--_ns._
HYGROSCOPIC'ITY; HYGROSTAT'ICS, the art of measuring degrees of moisture.
[Gr. _hygros_, wet, _skopein_, to view.]

HYKSOS, hik'sos, _n._ the shepherd kings, apparently a Tartar race who
overthrew the reigning dynasty of Lower Egypt about 2000 B.C., and reigned
until overturned by the Egyptian rulers of Upper Egypt about 1700 B.C.

HYLEG, h[=i]'leg, _n._ the planet which rules at the hour of one's birth,
in that sign of the zodiac immediately above the eastern horizon. [Ar.]

HYLISM, h[=i]'lizm, _n._ materialism--also HY'LICISM.--_ns._ HY'LICIST;
HYLOGEN'ESIS, the origin of matter; HY'LOTHEISM, the doctrine that there is
no God but matter and the universe.--_adjs._ HYLOZ[=O]'ICAL,
HYLOZOIS'TIC.--_ns._ HYLOZ[=O]'ISM, the doctrine that all matter is endowed
with life; HYLOZ[=O]'IST.

HYLOPATHISM, h[=i]-lop'a-thizm, _n._ the doctrine that matter is
sentient.--_n._ HYLOP'ATHIST, one who maintains this. [Gr. _hyl[=e]_,
matter, _pathos_, suffering.]

HYMEN, h[=i]'men, _n._ (_myth._) the god of marriage: marriage: a thin
membrane partially closing the virginal vagina.--_adjs._ HYMEN[=E]'AL,
HYMEN[=E]'AN.--_n._ HYM[=E]'NIUM, the fructifying surface in fungi.
[L.,--Gr. _hym[=e]n_; cf. Gr. _hymnos_, a festive song.]

HYMENOPTERAL, h[=i]-men-op't[.e]r-al, _adj._ pertaining to the
HYMENOP'TERA, an order of insects having four membranous wings.--Also
HYMENOP'TEROUS. [Gr. _hym[=e]n_, a membrane, _pteron_, a wing.]

HYMENOTOMY, h[=i]-men-ot'o-mi, _n._ the cutting or dissection of membranes.

HYMN, him, _n._ a song of praise, a metrical formula of public
worship.--_v.t._ to celebrate in song: to worship by hymns.--_v.i._ to sing
in adoration.--_ns._ HYM'NAL, HYM'NARY, a hymn-book.--_adj._ HYM'NIC,
relating to hymns.--_ns._ HYM'NODY, hymns collectively: hymnology;
HYMNOG'RAPHER; HYMNOG'RAPHY, the art of writing hymns; HYMNOL'OGIST;
HYMNOL'OGY, the study or composition of hymns. [Gr. _hymnos_.]

HYOID, h[=i]'oid, _adj._ having the form of the Greek letter upsilon
([Greek: u]), applied to a bone at the base of the tongue. [Gr.
_hyoeid[=e]s_--the letter [Greek: u], and _eidos_, form.]

HYOSCYAMINE, h[=i]-[=o]-sk[=i]'a-m[=i]n, _n._ a very poisonous alkaloid
found in the seeds of _Hyoscyamus niger_, or henbane. [Gr. _hyoskyamos_,
henbane.]

HYP. See HIP (3).

HYPÆTHRAL, hip-[=e]'thral, _adj._ roofless, open to the sky.--_n._
HYPÆ'THRON, an open court. [Gr. _hypo_, beneath, _aith[=e]r_, air.]

HYPALGESIA, hip-al-j[=e]'si-a, _n._ diminished susceptibility to painful
impressions--also HYPERAL'GIA.--_adj._ HYPERALG[=E]'SIC. [Gr. _hypo_,
under, _algos_, pain.]

HYPALLAGE, hi-pal'a-j[=e], _n._ (_rhet._) a figure in which the relations
of things in a sentence are mutually interchanged, but without obscuring
the sense. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _hypallassein_, to interchange--_hypo_, under,
_alassein_, to change.]

HYPERACUTE, h[=i]-per-a-k[=u]t', _adj._ excessively acute.--_n._
HYPERACUTE'NESS.

HYPERÆSTHESIA, h[=i]-per-es-th[=e]'si-a, _n._ (_path._) excessive
sensibility.--_adj._ HYPERÆSTHET'IC.

HYPERBATON, h[=i]-per'ba-ton, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure by which words are
transposed from their natural order.--_adj._ HYPERBAT'IC.--_adv._
HYPERBAT'ICALLY. [Gr.,--_hyperbainein_--_hyper_, beyond, _bainein_, to go.]

HYPERBOLA, h[=i]-per'bo-la, _n._ (_geom._) one of the conic sections or
curves formed when the intersecting plane makes a greater angle with the
base than the side of the cone makes.--_adjs._ HYPERBOL'IC, -AL.--_adv._
HYPERBOL'ICALLY.--_adjs._ HYPERBOL'IFORM; HYPER'BOLOID. [L.,--Gr.
_hyperbol[=e]_, from _hyperballein_--_hyper_, beyond, _ballein_, to throw.]

HYPERBOLE, h[=i]-per'bo-le, _n._ a rhetorical figure which produces a vivid
impression by representing things as much greater or less than they really
are--not expecting to be taken literally: an obvious exaggeration.--_adjs._
HYPERBOL'IC, -AL.--_adv._ HYPERBOL'ICALLY.--_v.t._ HYPER'BOLISE, to
represent hyperbolically.--_v.i._ to speak hyperbolically or with
exaggeration.--_n._ HYPER'BOLISM. [A doublet of the above.]

HYPERBOREAN, h[=i]-per-b[=o]'r[=e]-an, _adj._ belonging to the extreme
north.--_n._ an inhabitant of the extreme north. [Gr.
_hyperboreos_--_hyper_, beyond, _Boreas_, the north wind.]

HYPERCATALECTIC, h[=i]-per-kat-a-lek'tik, _adj._ (_pros._) having an
additional syllable or half-foot after the last complete dipody.--_n._
HYPERCATALEX'IS.

HYPERCRITIC, h[=i]-per-krit'ik, _n._ one who is over-critical.--_adjs._
HYPERCRIT'IC, -AL, over-critical.--_adv._ HYPERCRIT'ICALLY.--_v.t._
HYPERCRIT'ICISE, to criticise with too much nicety.--_n._ HYPERCRIT'ICISM.

HYPERDULIA, h[=i]-per-d[=u]-l[=i]'a, _n._ the special kind of worship paid
by Roman Catholics to the Virgin Mary, being higher than that paid to other
saints (_dulia_), and distinct from that paid to God alone (_latria_). [Gr.
_hyper_, beyond, _douleia_, service.]

HYPEREMESIS, h[=i]-per-em'e-sis, _n._ excessive vomiting.--_adj._
HYPEREMET'IC. [Gr. _hyper_, over, _emesis_, vomiting.]

HYPEREMIA, HYPERÆMIA, h[=i]-per-[=e]'mi-a, _n._ an excessive accumulation
of blood in any part of the body.--_adjs._ HYPEREM'IC, HYPERÆ'MIC. [Gr.
_hyper_, over, _haima_, blood.]

HYPERESTHETIC, h[=i]-per-es-thet'ik, _adj._ morbidly sensitive.--Also
HYPERESTH[=E]'SIC.

HYPERICUM, h[=i]-per'i-kum, _n._ a large genus of plants, of which St
John's wort is a typical species. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _ereik[=e]_, heath.]

HYPERINOSIS, h[=i]-per-i-n[=o]'sis, _n._ excess of fibrin in the
blood:--_opp._ to HYPINOSIS.--_adj._ HYPERINOT'IC.

HYPERION, h[=i]-p[=e]r'i-on, _n._ a Titan, son of Uranus and Ge, and father
of Helios, Selene, and Eos: Helios himself, the incarnation of light and
beauty.

HYPERMETRICAL, h[=i]-per-met'rik-al, _adj._ beyond or exceeding the
ordinary metre of a line: having a syllable too much.--_n._ HYPER'METER.

HYPERMETROPIA, h[=i]-per-me-tr[=o]'pi-a, _n._ long-sightedness, the
opposite of _Myopia_---also HYPEROP'IA.--_adj._ HYPERMETROP'IC. [Gr.
_hyper_, beyond, _metron_, measure, _[=o]ps_, eye.]

HYPERORTHODOX, h[=i]-per-or'th[=o]-doks, _adj._ extremely orthodox--_n._
HYPEROR'THODOXY.

HYPERPHASIA, h[=i]-per-f[=a]'zi-a, _n._ (_path._) lack of control of the
organs of speech.--_adj._ HYPERPH[=A]'SIC.

HYPERPHYSICAL, h[=i]-per-fiz'ik-al, _adj._ beyond physical laws:
supernatural.

HYPERPLASIA, h[=i]-per-pl[=a]'si-a, _n._ (_path._) overgrowth of a part due
to excessive multiplication of its cells.--_adjs._ HYPERPLAS'IC,
HYPERPLAS'TIC. [Gr. _hyper_, over, _plasis_, a forming--_plassein_, to
form.]

HYPERSARCOSIS, h[=i]-per-sar-k[=o]'sis, _n._ (_path._) proud or fungous
flesh.--Also HYPERSARC[=O]'MA.

HYPERSENSITIVE, h[=i]-per-sen'si-tiv, _adj._ excessively sensitive.--_n._
HYPERSEN'SITIVENESS.

HYPERSTHENE, h[=i]-per-sth[=e]n', _n._ a rock-forming mineral which
crystallises in orthorhombic forms, an anhydrous magnesian silicate,
generally dark green or raven-black in colour.--_adj._
HYPERSTH[=E]'NIC.--_n._ HYPERSTH[=E]'NITE, a more or less coarsely
crystalline igneous rock, allied to gabbro--an aggregate of labradorite
(feldspar) and hypersthene, of plutonic origin. [Gr. _hyper_; above,
_sthenos_, strength.]

HYPERSTHENIA, h[=i]-per-sth[=e]'ni-a, _n._ (_path._) a morbid condition
marked by excessive excitement of all the vital phenomena.--_adj._
HYPERSTH[=E]'NIC. [Gr. _hyper_, above, _sthenos_, strength.]

HYPERTHESIS, h[=i]-per'the-sis, _n._ a transfer of a letter from its own to
the syllable immediately before or after.--_adj._ HYPERTHET'IC. [Gr.
_hyper_, over, _thesis_--_tithenai_, to put.]

HYPERTROPHY, h[=i]-per'tro-fi, _n._ over-nourishment: the state of an organ
or part of the body when it grows too large from over-nourishment.--_adjs._
HYPERTROPH'IC, -AL, HYPER'TROPHIED, HYPER'TROPHOUS. [Gr. _hyper_, above,
_troph[=e]_, nourishment.]

HYPHEN, h[=i]'fen, _n._ a short stroke (-) joining two syllables or
words.--_adj._ HYPHEN'IC. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _hen_, one.]

HYPNOTISM, hip'no-tizm, _n._ a sleep-like condition induced by artificial
means: a nervous sleep like the condition under mesmerism.--_n._
HYPNOGEN'ESIS, production of hypnotism--also HYPNOG'ENY.--_adj._
HYPNOGENET'IC.--_adv._ HYPNOGENET'ICALLY.--_adjs._ HYPNOGEN'IC, HYPNOT'IC,
having the property of producing sleep; HYPNOG'ENOUS.--_ns._ HYPNOL'OGY,
the sum of knowledge about sleep; HYPN[=O]'SIS, the production of sleep:
the hypnotic state; HYPNOT'IC, a medicine that induces sleep;
HYPNOTISABIL'ITY.--_adj._ HYP'NOTISABLE.--_n._ HYPNOTIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
HYP'NOT[=I]SE, to subject to hypnotism, to produce hypnotic sleep in any
one.--_n._ HYP'NOT[=I]SER.--_adjs._ HYPNOTIS'TIC; HYP'NOTOID, like
hypnotism. [Coined in 1843 from Gr. _hypnos_, sleep.]

HYPNUM, hip'num, _n._ the largest genus of mosses, order _Bryineæ_, having
archegonia and capsules borne on special lateral branches.

HYPOBOLE, hip-pob'o-l[=e], _n._ (_rhet._) the mention in argument of things
apparently damaging to one's side, with the successive refutation of each.
[Gr.]

HYPOCAUST, hip'o-kawst, _n._ among the ancients, a vaulted chamber from
which the heat of stoves was distributed to baths or rooms above: now
applied to the fireplace of a stove or hothouse. [Gr.
_hypokauston_--_hypo_, under, _kaiein_, to burn.]

HYPOCHONDRIA, hip-o-kon'dri-a, _n._ a nervous malady, often arising from
indigestion, and tormenting the patient with imaginary fears--more
correctly, HYPOCHONDR[=I]'ASIS--also HYPOCHONR[=I]'ACISM,
HYPOCHONDR[=I]'ASIS, HYPOCHON'DRIASM.--_n._ HYPOCHON'DRIAC, one suffering
from hypochondria--also HYPOCHON'DRIAST.--_adjs._ HYPOCHON'DRIAC, -AL,
relating to or affected with hypochondria: melancholy.--_n._ HYPOCHON'DRIUM
(_anat._), that region of the abdomen situated on either side, under the
costal cartilages and short ribs. [L.,--Gr., from _hypo_, under,
_chrondos_, a cartilage.]

HYPOCIST, h[=i]'po-sist, _n._ an inspissated juice from a parasitic plant
of the cytinus family.

HYPOCRISY, hi-pok'ri-si, _n._ a feigning to be what one is not: concealment
of true character. [Gr. _hypokrisis_--_hypokrinesthai_, to play on the
stage, from _hypo_, under, _krinein_, to decide.]

HYPOCRITE, hip'o-krit, _n._ one who practises hypocrisy.--_adj._
HYPOCRIT'ICAL, practising hypocrisy.--_adv._ HYPOCRIT'ICALLY.
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _hypokrit[=e]s_.]

HYPOCYCLOID, h[=i]-po-s[=i]'kloid, _n._ a curve generated by a point on the
circumference of a circle which rolls on the inside of another
circle.--_adj._ HYPOCYOLOID'AL.

HYPODERMIC, h[=i]-po-der'mik, _adj._ relating to the parts under the skin,
subcutaneous, esp. of a method of injecting a drug in solution under the
skin by means of a fine hollow needle to which a small syringe is
attached--also HYPODER'MAL.--_n._ HYPODER'MA, the layer of colourless cells
immediately beneath the epidermis of a leaf. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _derma_,
the skin.]

HYPOGASTRIC, hip-o-gas'trik, _adj._ belonging to the lower part of the
abdomen.--_ns._ HYPOGAS'TRIUM, the lower part of the belly;
HYPOGAS'TROCELE, a hernia through the walls of the lower belly. [Gr.
_hypo_, under, _gast[=e]r_, the belly.]

HYPOGENE, h[=i]'po-j[=e]n, _adj._ (_geol._) of or pertaining to rocks which
have assumed their present structure under the surface, plutonic:--opp. to
_Epigene_.--_adj._ HYPOG'ENOUS (_bot._), produced below the surface, of
fungi growing on the under side of leaves:--opp. to _Epigenous_ and
_Epiphyllous_. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _gen[=e]s_, produced.]

HYPOGEUM, h[=i]-po-j[=e]'um, _n._ the part of a building below the ground,
any underground chamber.--_adjs._ HYPOG[=E]'AL, HYPOGÆ'AN, HYPOG[=E]'AN,
subterranean. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _g[=e]_, the ground.]

HYPOGLOSSAL, h[=i]-po-glos'al, _adj._ situated under the tongue. [Gr.
_hypo_, under, _gl[=o]ssa_, the tongue.]

HYPOGNATHOUS, h[=i]-pog'n[=a]-thus, _adj._ (_ornith._) having the under
mandible longer than the upper, as the black skimmer.--_n._ HYPOG'NATHISM.

HYPOGYNOUS, h[=i]-poj'i-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) growing from beneath the
ovary, said of certain parts of plants. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _gyn[=e]_, a
woman.]

HYPONASTY, h[=i]'po-nas-ti, _n._ (_bot._) increased growth along the lower
surface of an organ or part of a plant, causing the part to bend
upward:--opp. to _Epinasty_.

HYPOPHOSPHITE, h[=i]-po-fos'f[=i]t, _n._ (_chem._) a salt obtained by the
union of hypophosphorous acid with a salifiable base--also
HYPOPHOS'PHATE.--_adjs._ HYPOPHOSPHOR'IC, HYPOPHOS'PHOROUS, containing less
oxygen than phosphorous acid contains.

HYPOPHYSIS, h[=i]-pof'i-sis, _n._ the pituitary body of the brain: (_bot._)
an inflated part of the pedicel under the capsule, in mosses; in flowering
plants, a cell of the embryo producing the primary root and root-cap. [Gr.
_hypo_, under, _phyein_, to grow.]

HYPOSTASIS, h[=i]-pos'ta-sis, _n._ a substance: the essence or real
personal subsistence or substance of each of the three divisions of the
Godhead.--_adjs._ HYPOSTAT'IC, -AL.--_adv._ HYPOSTAT'ICALLY.--_v.t._
HYPOS'TAT[=I]SE. [L.,--Gr. _hypostasis_--_hyphist[=e]mi_--_hypo_, under,
_hist[=e]mi_, I make to stand.]

HYPOSTROPHE, h[=i]-pos'tro-fe, _n._ return of a disease, relapse: (_rhet._)
use of insertion or parenthesis.

HYPOSTYLE, h[=i]'po-st[=i]l, _adj._ (_archit._) having the roof supported
by pillars. [Gr. _hypo_, under, _stylos_, a pillar.]

HYPOSULPHUROUS, h[=i]-po-sul'fer-us, _adj._ next in a series below
sulphurous.--Also HYPOSULPH[=U]'RIC.

HYPOTAXIS, h[=i]-po-tak'sis, _n._ (_gram._) dependent construction--opp. to
_Parataxis_.--_adj._ HYPOTAC'TIC.

HYPOTENUSE, h[=i]-pot'en-[=u]s, or hip-, HYPOTHENUSE, h[=i]-poth'en-[=u]s,
_n._ the side of a right-angled triangle opposite to the right angle.
[Fr.,--Gr. _hypoteinousa_ (_gramm[=e]_), lit. (a line) 'which stretches
under'--_hypo_, under, _teinein_, to stretch.]

HYPOTHEC, h[=i]-poth'ek, _n._ in Scotch law, a lien or security over goods
in respect of a debt due by the owner of the goods.--ADJ. _Hypoth'ecary_,
pertaining to hypothecation or mortgage.--_v.t._ HYPOTH'EC[=A]TE, to place
or assign anything as security under an arrangement: to mortgage.--_ns._
HYPOTHEC[=A]'TION; HYPOTH'ECATOR. [Fr.,--L. _hypotheca_--Gr.
_hypoth[=e]k[=e]_, a pledge.]

HYPOTHESIS, h[=i]-poth'e-sis, _n._ a supposition: a proposition assumed for
the sake of argument: a theory to be proved or disproved by reference to
facts: a provisional explanation of anything.--_v.i._ HYPOTH'ESIZE, to form
hypotheses.--_adjs._ HYPOTHET'IC, -AL, belonging to a hypothesis:
conditional.--_adv._ HYPOTHET'ICALLY. [Gr., _hypo_, under, _tithenai_, to
place.]

HYPOTYPOSIS, h[=i]-po-ti-p[=o]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) vivid description of a
scene.

HYPOZOIC, h[=i]-po-z[=o]'ik, _adj._ (_geol._) below the limit of life:
belonging to the HYPOZ[=O]'A.--_adj._ and _n._ HYPOZ[=O]'AN.

HYPSOMETRY, hip-som'e-tri, _n._ the art of measuring the heights of places
on the earth's surface by means of the HYPSOM'ETER.--_adj._ HYPSOMET'RIC.
[Gr. _hypsi_, on high, _metron_, a measure.]

HYPURAL, h[=i]-p[=u]'ral, _adj._ situated beneath the tail.

HYRAX, h[=i]'raks, _n._ a genus of mammals of obscure affinities, like
rabbits in size and marmots in appearance, living among rocks in Africa and
Syria--the _Cape Daman_, _Klippdass_, or _Rock-badger_; the _Shaphan_
(_Hyrax syriacus_) mistranslated 'cony' of Scripture; and the Abyssinian
_Ashtok_.

HYSON, h[=i]'son, _n._ a very fine sort of green tea.--_n._ HY'SON-SKIN,
the refuse of hyson tea. [Chinese.]

HYSSOP, his'up, _n._ an aromatic plant. [Fr.,--L. _hyssopum_--Gr.
_hyss[=o]pos_--Heb. _[=e]z[=o]ph_.]

HYSTERANTHOUS, his-ter-an'thus, _adj._ (_bot._) having the leaves appearing
after the flowers.

HYSTERESIS, his-te-r[=e]'sis, _n._ magnetic friction in dynamos, by which
every reversal of magnetism in the iron causes dissipation of energy. [Gr.
_hyster[=e]sis_, a deficiency--_hysteros_, later.]

HYSTERIC, -AL, his-ter'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to, of the nature of, or
affected with hysterics or hysteria: like hysterics, fitfully and violently
emotional.--_adv._ HYSTER'ICALLY.--_ns._ HYSTER'ICS, HYST[=E]R'IA, a
nervous affection occurring typically in paroxysms of laughing and crying
alternately, with a choking sensation in the throat, but often as a
counterfeit of some organic disease.--_adjs._ HYS'TEROID, -AL, like
hysteria.--_ns._ HYSTEROM[=A]N'IA, hysterical mania, often marked by erotic
delusions and an excessive desire to attract attention; HYSTEROT'OMY, the
operation of cutting into the uterus. [L. _hystericus_--Gr.
_hysterikos_--_hystera_, the womb.]

HYSTERON-PROTERON, his'ter-on-prot'er-on, _n._ a figure of speech in which
what should follow comes first: an inversion. [Gr., lit. 'the last first.']

HYTHE, h[=i]th, _n._ Same as HITHE.

       *       *       *       *       *

I the ninth letter in the alphabet of western Europe, called _iota_ by the
Greeks, from its Semitic name _yod_, in most European languages the sound
that of the Latin long _i_, which we have in the words _machine_ and
_marine._ The normal sound of _i_ in English is that heard in _bit_, _dip_,
_sit_, which is the short Latin _i_.

I, [=i], _pron._ the nominative case singular of the first personal
pronoun: the word used by a speaker or writer in mentioning himself: the
object of self-consciousness, the ego. [M. E. _ich_--A.S. _ic_; Ger. _ich_,
Ice. _ek_, L. _ego_, Gr. _eg[=o]_, Sans. _aham_.]

I, [=i], _adv._ same as AY.--I', a form of _in_.

IAMBUS, [=i]-am'bus, _n._ a metrical foot of two syllables, the first short
and the second long, as in L. _f[)i]d[=e]s_; or the first unaccented and
the second accented, as in _deduce_--also IAMB'.--_adj._ IAM'BIC,
consisting of iambics.--_n._ iambus.--_adv._ IAM'BICALLY, in the manner of
an iambic.--_v.i._ IAM'BISE, to satirise in iambic verse.--_n._
IAMBOG'RAPHER, a writer of iambics. [L.,--Gr. _iambos_, from _iaptein_, to
assail, this metre being first used by writers of satire.]

IANTHINA, [=i]-an-th[=i]'na, _n._ a genus of gregarious, pelagic
gasteropods, having a snail-like shell, but delicate, translucent, and blue
in colour. [Gr. _ianthinos_--_ion_, a violet, _anthos_, a flower.]

IATRIC, -AL, [=i]-at'rik, -al, _adj._ relating to medicine or
physicians.--_adj._ IATROCHEM'ICAL, pertaining to IATROCHEM'ISTRY, a system
of applying chemistry to medicine introduced by Francis de la Boë of Leyden
(1614-72).--_n._ IATROL'OGY, a treatise on medicine.

IBERIAN, [=i]-b[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ Spanish.--_n._ one of the primitive
inhabitants of Spain, of whom some think the Basques a remnant. [L.
_Iberia_, Spain.]

IBEX, [=i]'beks, _n._ a genus of goats, inhabiting the Alps and other
mountainous regions. [L.]

IBIDEM, ib-[=i]'dem, _adv._ in the same place. [L.]

IBIS, [=i]'bis, _n._ a genus of wading birds related to the stork, one
species of which was worshipped by the ancient Egyptians. [L.,--Gr.; an
Egyptian word.]

ICARIAN, [=i]-k[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ belonging to, or like, Icarus. [L.
_Icarius_--Gr. _Ikarios_--_Ikaros_, who fell into the sea on his flight
from Crete, his waxen wings being melted by the sun.]

ICE, [=i]s, _n._ water congealed by freezing: concreted sugar, a frozen
confection of sweetened cream or the juice of various fruits.--_v.t._ to
cover with ice: to freeze: to cover with concreted sugar:--_pr.p._ ic'ing;
_pa.p._ iced.--_ns._ ICE'-AGE (_geol._), the glacial epoch, its records
included in the Pleistocene system, the chief relics morainic materials,
boulder-clay or till, believed to have been formed under glacial ice;
ICE'-AN'CHOR, an anchor with one arm for securing a vessel to an ice-floe;
ICE'-BIRD, the little auk or sea-dove; ICE'BLINK, the peculiar appearance
in the air reflected from distant masses of ice; ICE'BOAT, a boat used for
forcing a passage through or being dragged over ice.--_adj._ ICE'-BOUND,
bound, surrounded, or fixed in with ice.--_ns._ ICE'-BROOK, a frozen brook;
ICE'-CREAM, ICED'-CREAM, cream sweetened or flavoured, and artificially
frozen.--_adj._ ICED, covered with ice: encrusted with sugar.--_n._
ICE'-FALL, a glacier.--_n.pl._ ICE'-FEATH'ERS, peculiar feather-like forms
assumed by ice at the summits of mountains.--_ns._ ICE'-FERN, the fern-like
encrustation which is found on windows during frost; ICE'FIELD, a large
field or sheet of ice; ICE'FLOAT, ICE'FLOE, a large mass of floating ice;
ICE'FOOT, a belt of ice forming round the shores in Arctic regions--also
ICE'-BELT, ICE'-LEDGE, ICE'-WALL; ICE'HOUSE, a house for preserving ice;
ICE'-[=I]'SLAND, an island of floating ice; ICE'MAN, a man skilled in
travelling upon ice: a dealer in ice: a man in attendance at any frozen
pond where skating, &c., are going on; ICE'PACK, drifting ice packed
together; ICE'-PAIL, a pail filled with ice for cooling bottles of wine;
ICE'-PLANT, a plant whose leaves glisten in the sun as if covered with ice;
ICE'-PLOUGH, an instrument for cutting grooves in ice to facilitate its
removal; ICE'-SAW, a large saw for cutting through ice to free ships, &c.;
ICE'-SPAR, a variety of feldspar remarkable for its transparent ice-like
crystals; ICE'-WA'TER, water from melted ice: iced water.--_adv._
IC'ILY.--_ns._ IC'INESS; IC'ING, a covering of ice or concreted
sugar.--_adjs._ IC'Y, composed of, abounding in, or like ice: frosty: cold:
chilling: without warmth of affection; IC'Y-PEARLED (_Milt._), studded with
pearls or spangles of ice.--BREAK THE ICE (see BREAK). [A.S. _is_; Ger.
_eis_, Ice., Dan. _is_.]

ICEBERG, [=i]s'b[.e]rg, _n._ a mountain or huge mass of floating ice. [From
Scand., Norw., and Sw. _isberg_. See _ice_ and _berg_=mountain.]

ICELANDER, [=i]s'land-[.e]r, _n._ a native of _Iceland_.--_n._
ICE'LAND-DOG, a shaggy white dog, sharp-eared, imported from
Iceland.--_adj._ ICELAND'IC, relating to Iceland.--_n._ the language of the
Icelanders.--_ns._ ICE'LAND-MOSS, a lichen found in Iceland, Norway, &c.,
valuable as a medicine and for food; ICE'LAND-SPAR, a transparent variety
of calcite or calcium carbonate.

ICHNEUMON, ik-n[=u]'mun, _n._ a small carnivorous animal in Egypt,
destroying crocodiles' eggs: an insect which lays its eggs on the larva of
other insects. [L.,--Gr., _ichneuein_, to hunt after--_ichnos_, a track.]

ICHNITE, ik'n[=i]t, _n._ a fossil footprint. [Gr. _ichnos_.]

ICHNOGRAPHY, ik-nog'raf-i, _n._ a tracing out: (_archit._) a ground-plan of
a work or building.--_adjs._ ICHNOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_adv._ ICHNOGRAPH'ICALLY.
[Gr. _ichnographia_--_ichnos_, a track, _graphein_, to grave.]

ICHNOLITE, ik'no-l[=i]t, _n._ a stone retaining the impression of an
extinct animal's footprint. [Gr. _ichnos_, a footprint, _lithos_, a stone.]

ICHNOLOGY, ik-nol'o-ji, _n._ footprint lore: the science of fossil
footprints.--Also ICHNOLITHOL'OGY. [Gr. _ichnos_, a track, a footprint,
_logia_, discourse.]

ICHOR, [=i]'kor, _n._ (_myth._) the ethereal juice in the veins of the
gods: a watery humour: colourless matter from an ulcer.--_adj._ I'CHOROUS.
[Gr. _ich[=o]r_.]

ICHTHINE, ik'thin, _n._ an albuminous substance found in fishes' eggs. [Gr.
_ichthys_, a fish.]

ICHTHYODORULITE, ik'thi-[=o]-dor'[=oo]-l[=i]t, _n._ the name given to
fossil fish-spines in stratified rocks. [Gr. _ichthys_, a fish, _doru_, a
spear, _lithos_, a stone.]

ICHTHYOGRAPHY, ik-thi-og'ra-fi, _n._ a description of fishes. [Gr.
_ickthys_, a fish, _graphein_, to write.]

ICHTHYOID, -AL, ik'thi-oid, -al, _adj._ having the form or characteristics
of a fish--also ICH'THYIC.--_n._ ICHTHYOCOL'LA, fish-glue, isinglass. [Gr.
_ichthys_, a fish, _eidos_, form.]

ICHTHYOLATRY, ik-thi-ol'a-tri, _n._ fish-worship.--_adj._ ICHTHYOL'ATROUS.

ICHTHYOLITE, ik'thi-[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a fossil fish. [Gr. _ichthys_, a
fish, _lithos_, a stone.]

ICHTHYOLOGY, ik-thi-ol'o-ji, _n._ the branch of natural history that treats
of fishes.--_adj._ ICHTHYOLOG'ICAL.--_n._ ICHTHYOL'OGIST, one skilled in
ichthyology. [Gr. _ichthys_, a fish, _logia_, discourse.]

ICHTHYOPHAGY, ik-thi-of'a-ji, _n._ the practice of eating fish.--_n._
ICHTHYOPH'AGIST.--_adj._ ICHTHYOPH'AGOUS. [Gr. _ichthys_, a fish,
_phagein_, to eat.]

ICHTHYOPSIDA, ik-thi-op'si-da, _n.pl._ one of three primary groups of
vertebrates in Huxley's classification (the other two, _Sauropsida_ and
_Mammalia_), comprising the amphibians or batrachians and the fish and
fish-like vertebrates. [Gr. _ichthys_, fish, _opsis_, appearance.]

ICHTHYORNIS, ik-thi-or'nis, _n._ a fossil bird with vertebræ like those of
fishes, and with teeth set in sockets. [Gr. _ichthys_, a fish, _ornis_, a
bird.]

ICHTHYOSAURIA, ik-thi-o-sawr'i-a, _n._ an order of gigantic extinct marine
reptiles, uniting some of the characteristics of the Saurians with those of
fishes.--_adj._ ICHTHYOSAUR'IAN.--_n._ ICH'THYOSAURUS. [Gr. _ichthys_, a
fish, _sauros_, a lizard.]

ICHTHYOSIS, ik-thi-[=o]'sis, _n._ a disease in which the skin becomes
hardened, thickened, rough, and almost horny in severe cases.--_adj._
ICHTHYOT'IC. [Gr. _ichthys_, a fish.]

ICTHYOTOMY, ik-thi-ot'o-mi, _n._ the anatomy of fishes.--_n._
ICHTHYOT'OMIST.

ICHTHYS, ik'this, _n._ an emblem or motto ([Greek: ICHTHYS]) supposed to
have a mystical connection with Jesus Christ, being the first letters of
the Greek words meaning 'Jesus Christ, Son of God, Saviour.'

ICICLE, [=i]s'i-kl, _n._ a hanging point of ice formed by the freezing of
dropping water. [A.S. _ísgicel_, for _isesgicel_; _ises_ being the gen. of
_ís_, ice, and _gicel_, an icicle; cf. Ice. _jökull_.]

ICON, [=i]'kon, _n._ a figure, esp. in the Greek Church, representing
Christ, or a saint, in painting, mosaic, &c.--_adj._ ICON'IC.--_n._
ICONOG'RAPHY, the art of illustration.--_adj._ ICONOMAT'IC, expressing
ideas by means of pictured objects.--_ns._ ICONOMAT'ICISM; ICONOPH'ILISM, a
taste for pictures, &c.; ICONOPH'ILIST, a connoisseur of pictures, &c.;
ICONOS'TASIS, a wooden wall which in Byzantine churches separates the choir
from the nave--the icons are placed on it. [L.,--Gr. _eik[=o]n_, an image.]

ICONOCLASM, [=i]-kon'o-klazm, _n._ act of breaking images.--_n._
ICON'OCLAST, a breaker of images, one opposed to idol-worship, esp. those
at the commencement in the Eastern Church, who from the 8th century
downwards opposed the use of sacred images, or at least the paying of
religious honour to such: any hot antagonist of the beliefs of
others.--_adj._ ICONOCLAST'IC, pertaining to iconoclasm. [Gr. _eik[=o]n_,
an image, _klast[=e]s_, a breaker--_klan_, to break.]

ICONOLOGY, [=i]-kon-ol'o-ji, _n._ the doctrine of images, especially with
reference to worship.--_ns._ ICONOL'ATER, an image-worshipper; ICONOL'ATRY,
the worship of images; ICONOL'OGIST; ICONOM'ACHIST, one opposed to the
cultus of icons; ICONOM'ACHY, opposition to the same. [Gr. _eik[=o]n_, an
image, _logia_, discourse.]

ICOSAHEDRON, [=i]-kos-a-h[=e]'dron, _n._ (_geom._) a solid having twenty
equal sides or faces.--_adj._ ICOSAH[=E]'DRAL. [Gr. _eikosi_, twenty,
_hedra_, base.]

ICOSANDRIA, [=i]-ko-san'dri-a, _n._ a class of plants having not less than
twenty stamens in the calyx.--_adjs._ ICOSAN'DRIAN, ICOSAN'DROUS. [Gr.
_eikosi_, twenty, an[=e]r, _andros_, a male.]

ICTERUS, ik'te-rus, _n._ the jaundice: a yellowish appearance in
plants.--_adjs._ ICTER'IC, -AL, affected with jaundice; IC'TERINE, yellow,
or marked with yellow, as a bird; ICTERIT'IOUS, yellow. [Gr. _ikteros_,
jaundice.]

ICTUS, ik'tus, _n._ a stroke: rhythmical or metrical stress.--_adj._
IC'TIC, abrupt. [L., 'a blow.']

I'D, [=i]d, contracted from _I would_, or _I had_.

IDALIAN, [=i]-d[=a]'li-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Idalia_, in Cyprus, or to
Venus, to whom it was sacred.

IDEA, [=i]-d[=e]'a, _n._ an image of an external object formed by the mind:
a notion, thought, any product of intellectual action--of memory and
imagination: an archetype of the manifold varieties of existence in the
universe, belonging to the supersensible world, where reality is found and
where God is (_Platonic_); one of the three products of the reason (the
Soul, the Universe, and God) transcending the conceptions of the
understanding--_transcendental ideas_, in the functions of mind concerned
with the unification of existence (_Kantian_); the ideal realised, the
absolute truth of which everything that exists is the expression
(_Hegelian_).--_adjs._ ID[=E]'AED, ID[=E]'A'D, provided with an idea or
ideas; ID[=E]'AL, existing in idea: mental: existing in imagination only:
the highest and best conceivable, the perfect, as opposed to the real, the
imperfect.--_n._ the highest conception of anything.--_adj._
ID[=E]'ALESS.--_n._ IDEALIS[=A]'TION, act of forming an idea, or of raising
to the highest conception.--_v.t._ ID[=E]'ALISE, to form an idea: to raise
to the highest conception.--_v.i._ to form ideas.--_ns._ ID[=E]'AL[=I]SER;
ID[=E]'ALISM, the doctrine that in external perceptions the objects
immediately known are ideas, that all reality is in its nature psychical:
any system that considers thought or the idea as the ground either of
knowledge or existence: tendency towards the highest conceivable
perfection, love for or search after the best and highest: the imaginative
treatment of subjects; ID[=E]'ALIST, one who holds the doctrine of
idealism, one who strives after the ideal: an unpractical person.--_adj._
IDEALIST'IC, pertaining to idealists or to idealism.--_n._ IDEAL'ITY, ideal
state: ability and disposition to form ideals of beauty and
perfection.--_adv._ ID[=E]'ALLY, in an ideal manner: mentally.--_n._
ID[=E]'ALOGUE, one given to ideas: a theorist.--_v.i._ ID[=E]'ATE, to form
ideas.--_adj._ produced by an idea.--_n._ the correlative or object of an
idea.--_n._ IDE[=A]'TION, the power of the mind for forming ideas: the
exercise of such power.--_adjs._ IDE[=A]'TIONAL, ID[=E]'ATIVE. [L.,--Gr.
_idea_--_idein_, to see.]

IDENTIFY, [=i]-den'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make to be the same: to ascertain or
prove to be the same:--_pa.p._ iden'tified.--_adj._ IDEN'TIFIABLE.--_n._
IDENTIFIC[=A]'TION.--IDENTIFY ONE'S SELF WITH, to take an active part in
the promotion of. [Fr. _identifier_--L., as if _identicus_--_idem_, the
same, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

IDENTITY, [=i]-den'ti-ti, _n._ state of being the same: sameness.--_adj._
IDEN'TICAL, the very same: not different.--_adv._ IDEN'TICALLY.--_n._
IDEN'TICALNESS, identity. [Fr.,--Low L. _identitat-em_--L. _idem_, the
same.]

IDEOGRAPHY, [=i]-de-og'ra-fi, _n._ the representation of things by
pictures, and not by sound-symbols or letters.--_ns._ I'DEOGRAPH, such a
character or symbol as represents an idea without expressing its name--also
I'DEOGRAM.--_adjs._ IDEOGRAPH'IC, -AL, representing ideas by pictures, or
directly instead of words.--_adv._ IDEOGRAPH'ICALLY, in an ideographic
manner. [Gr. _idea_, idea, _graphein_, to write.]

IDEOLOGY, [=i]-de-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science of ideas, metaphysics.--_adjs._
IDEOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ IDEOL'OGIST, one occupied with ideas having no
significance: a mere theorist--also ID[=E]'OLOGUE. [Gr. _idea_, idea,
_logia_, discourse.]

IDEOPRAXIST, [=i]-de-[=o]-prak'sist, _n._ one who is impelled to carry out
an idea. [Gr. _idea_, idea, _praxis_, doing.]

IDES, [=i]dz, _n.sing._ in ancient Rome, the 15th day of March, May, July,
October, and the 13th of the other months. [Fr.,--L. _idus_, prob.
Etruscan.]

IDIOCRASY, id-i-ok'ra-si, _n._ same as IDIOSYNCRASY.--_adj._ IDIOCRAT'IC.

IDIOCY. See IDIOT.

IDIOELECTRIC, id-i-o-e-lek'trik, _adj._ electric by virtue of its own
peculiar properties.

IDIOGRAPH, id'i-o-graf, _n._ a private mark or trademark.--_adj._
IDIOGRAPH'IC.

IDIOM, id'i-um, _n._ a mode of expression peculiar to a language, a
peculiar variation of any language, a dialect.--_n._ ID'IASM, a
peculiarity.--_adjs._ IDIOMAT'IC, -AL, conformed or pertaining to the
idioms of a language.--_adv._ IDIOMAT'ICALLY.--_n._ IDIOT'ICON, a
vocabulary of a particular dialect or district. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_idi[=o]ma_, peculiarity--_idios_, one's own.]

IDIOMORPHIC, id-i-o-mor'fik, _adj._ having a peculiar or distinctive form.

IDIOPATHY, id-i-op'a-thi, _n._ a peculiar affection or state: (_med._) a
primary disease, one not occasioned by another.--_adj._ IDIOPATH'IC
(_med._), primary, not depending on or preceded by another disease.--_adv._
IDIOPATH'ICALLY. [Gr. _idios_, peculiar, _pathos_, suffering--_pathein_ to
suffer.]

IDIOSYNCRASY, id-i-o-sin'kra-si, _n._ peculiarity of temperament or
constitution; crotchet or peculiar view, any characteristic of a
person.--_adj._ IDIOSYNCRAT'IC. [Gr. _idios_, one's own, _syncrasis_, a
mixing together--_syn_, together, _krasis_, a mixing.]

IDIOT, id'i-ut, _n._ one deficient in intellect: a foolish or unwise
person.--_adj._ afflicted with idiocy: idiotic.--_v.t._ to make
idiotic--_ns._ ID'IOCY, ID'IOTCY, state of being an idiot: imbecility:
folly.--_adjs._ IDIOT'IC, -AL, pertaining to or like an idiot:
foolish.--_adv._ IDIOT'ICALLY.--_adj._ IDIOT'ISH, idiotic.--_n._ ID'IOTISM,
the state of being an idiot. [Fr.,--L. _idiota_--_idi[=o]t[=e]s_, orig. a
'private man,' then a rude person--_idios_, one's own.]

IDLE, [=i]'dl, _adj._ vain: trifling: unemployed: averse to labour: not
occupied: useless: unimportant: unedifying.--_v.t._ to spend in
idleness.--_v.i._ to be idle or unoccupied.--_adj._ I'DLE-HEAD'ED,
foolish.--_ns._ I'DLEHOOD, I'DLENESS; I'DLER; ID'LESSE, idleness;
I'DLE-WHEEL, a wheel placed between two others simply for transferring the
motion from one to the other without changing the direction.--_n.pl._
I'DLE-WORMS, once jocularly supposed to be bred in the fingers of lazy
maid-servants.--_adv._ I'DLY. [A.S. _idel_; Dut. _ijdel_, Ger. _eitel_.]

IDOCRASE, id'o-kr[=a]z, _n._ the mineral vesuvianite. [Gr. _eidos_, form,
_krasis_, mixture.]

IDOL, [=i]'dul, _n._ a figure: an image of some object of worship: a person
or thing too much loved or honoured: any phantom of the brain, or any false
appearance by which men are led into error or prejudice which prevents
impartial observation, a fallacy--also ID[=O]'LON, ID[=O]'LUM:--_pl._
ID[=O]'LA--Bacon (_Novum Organum_, i. § 38) makes these four in
number--_Idols of the nation or tribe_; _Idols of the den or cave_
(fallacies due to personal causes); _Idols of the forum_ (those due to the
influence of words or phrases); _Idols of the theatre_ (those due to
misconceptions of philosophic system or demonstration).--_v.t._
I'DOL[=I]SE, to make an idol of, for worship: to love to excess.--_ns._
IDOL[=I]S'ER; I'DOLISM (_Milt._), idolatrous worship; I'DOLIST (_Milt._),
an idolater; IDOL'OCLAST, a breaker of images.--_adj._ IDOLOGRAPH'ICAL,
treating of idols. [O. Fr. _idole_--L. _idolum_--Gr. _eid[=o]lon_--_eidos_,
what is seen--_idein_, to see.]

IDOLATER, [=i]-dol'a-t[.e]r, _n._ a worshipper of idols: a great
admirer:--_fem._ IDOL'ATRESS.--_v.t._ IDOL'ATR[=I]SE, to worship as an
idol: to adore.--_adj._ IDOL'ATROUS, pertaining to idolatry.--_adv._
IDOL'ATROUSLY.--_n._ IDOL'ATRY, the worship of an image held to be the
abode of a superhuman personality: excessive love. [Fr. _idolâtre_, corr.
of L.,--Gr. _eid[=o]lolatr[=e]s_--_eid[=o]lon_, idol, _latreuein_, to
worship.]

IDOLON, [=i]-d[=o]'lon, _n._ same as IDOL, an image: a mistaken notion.
[Gr. _eid[=o]lon_, an image.]

IDRIS, [=i]'dris, _n._ a mythical figure in Welsh tradition, giant, prince,
and astronomer.

IDYL, IDYLL, [=i]'dil, _n._ a short pictorial poem, chiefly on pastoral
subjects: a narrative poem.--_n._ IDYL'IST, a writer of idyls.--_adj._
IDYLL'IC, of or belonging to idyls: pastoral. [L. _idyllium_--Gr.
_idyllion_, dim. of _eidos_, image.]

IF, if, _conj._ an expression of doubt; whether: in case that: supposing
that.--AS IF, as it would be if. [A.S. _gif_; Dut. _of_, Ice. _ef_, if,
_efa_, to doubt.]

IGNARO, ig-n[=a]'r[=o], _n._ (_Spens._) an ignorant person. [It.,--L.
IGNARUS. See IGNORE.]

IGNATIAN, ig-n[=a]'shan, _adj._ of or pertaining to St _Ignatius_, Bishop
of Antioch, martyred at Rome under Trajan about 110 A.D.--The famous
IGNATIAN EPISTLES exist in 3 different forms or recensions--the _Short_ (3
only, in Syriac); the _Middle_ (7, the Greek text first published in
1646--considered by Zahn and Lightfoot to be the original form); the _Long_
(these 7, together with 6 others).

IGNEOUS, ig'ne-us, _adj._ pertaining to, consisting of, or like fire:
(_geol._) produced by the action of fire.--_adjs._ IGNESC'ENT, emitting
sparks of fire; IGNIF'EROUS, bearing fire; IGNIG'ENOUS, engendered in
fire.--IGNEOUS rocks, those which have been erupted from the heated
interior of the earth--hence also termed _Eruptive rocks_. [L.
_igneus_--_ignis_, fire.]

IGNIPOTENT, ig-nip'o-tent, _adj._ (_Pope_) presiding over fire. [L.
_ignis_, fire, _potens_, _-entis_, powerful.]

IGNIS-FATUUS, ig'nis-fat'[=u]-us, _n._ a light which misleads travellers,
often seen over marshy places, also called 'Will-o'-the-Wisp:'--_pl._
IGNES-FATUI (ig'n[=e]z-fat'[=u]-[=i]). [L. _ignis_, fire, _fatuus_,
foolish.]

IGNITE, ig-n[=i]t', _v.t._ to set on fire, to kindle: to render luminous
with heat.--_v.i._ to take fire: to burn.--_n._ IGNITIBIL'ITY.--_adj._
IGN[=I]T'IBLE, that may be ignited.--_n._ IGNI'TION, act of setting on
fire: state of being kindled, and esp. of being made red hot. [L.
_ign[=i]re_, _ign[=i]tum_, to set on fire--_ignis_, fire.]

IGNOBLE, ig-n[=o]'bl, _adj._ of low birth: mean or worthless:
dishonourable.--_v.i._ to degrade.--_ns._ IGNOBIL'ITY,
IGN[=O]'BLENESS.--_adv._ IGN[=O]'BLY. [Fr.,--L. _ignobilis_--_in_, not,
_gnobilis_, _nobilis_, noble.]

IGNOMINY, ig'n[=o]-min-i, _n._ the loss of one's good name: public
disgrace: infamy--formerly also IG'NOMY.--_adj._ IGNOMIN'IOUS,
dishonourable: marked with ignominy: contemptible: mean.--_adv._
IGNOMIN'IOUSLY.--_n._ IGNOMIN'IOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _ignominia_--_in_, not,
_gnomen_, _nomen_, name.]

IGNORAMUS, ig-n[=o]-r[=a]'mus, _n._ the word formerly written by a
grand-jury on the back of an indictment, meaning that they rejected it: an
ignorant person, esp. one making a pretence to knowledge:--_pl._
IGNOR[=A]'MUSES. [L., 'We are ignorant,' 1st pers. pl. pres. indic. of
_ignor[=a]re_.]

IGNORANT, ig'n[=o]-rant, _adj._ without knowledge: uninstructed:
unacquainted with: resulting from want of knowledge: (_Shak._) unconscious:
(_Shak._) undiscovered.--_n._ IG'NORANCE, state of being ignorant: want of
knowledge--in R.C. theol. _vincible_ or _wilful_ ignorance is such as one
might be fairly expected to overcome, hence it can never be an excuse for
sin, whether of omission or of commission; while _invincible_ ignorance,
which a man could not help or abate, altogether excuses from guilt: (_pl._)
in Litany, sins committed through ignorance.--_adv._ IG'NORANTLY.--_n._
IGNOR[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L. _ignorans_, _-antis_, _pr.p._ of _ignor[=a]re_.
See IGNORE.]

IGNORANTINES, ig-n[=o]-ran't[=i]nz, _n.pl._ (_R.C._) name of a religious
congregation of men devoted to the instruction of poor children--now better
known as the _Brothers of Christian Schools_.

IGNORE, ig-n[=o]r', _v.t._ wilfully to disregard: to set aside. [Fr.,--L.
_ignor[=a]re_, not to know--_in_, not, and _gno-_, root of _(g)nosc[)e]re_,
to know.]

IGUANA, i-gwä'na, _n._ a genus of thick-tongued arboreal lizards in
tropical America. [Sp., prob. Haytian.]

IGUANODON, i-gwä'no-don, _n._ a large extinct herbivorous reptile, with
teeth like those of the iguana. [_Iguana_, and Gr. _odous_, _odontos_, a
tooth.]

ILEAC, il'e-ak, _adj._, ILEUM, il'e-um, _n._ See ILIAC.

ILEX, [=i]'leks, _n._ the scientific name for Holly (which see): the
evergreen or holm oak. [L.]

ILIAC, il'i-ak, _adj._ pertaining to the lower intestines.--_ns._ IL'EUM,
the lower part of the smaller intestine in man; IL'IUM, the upper part of
the hip-bone:--_pl._ IL'IA.--ILEUS, ILEAC, or ILIAC PASSION, a severe colic
with vomiting, &c. [Fr., through a Low L. _iliacus_--_ilia_, the flanks,
the groin.]

ILIAD, il'i-ad, _n._ an epic poem by Homer, giving an account of the
destruction of _Ilium_ or ancient Troy. [L. _Ilias_, _Iliadis_--Gr.
_Ilias_, _Iliados_, a poem relating to _Ilium_, the city of _Ilos_, its
founder.]

ILK, ilk, _adj._ the same.--OF THAT ILK, of that same, used in connection
with a man whose name is the same as that of his ancestral estate--often
used erroneously for 'of that kind.' [A.S. _ilc_, _ylc_, from _y-_ or _i-_
(base of _he_), and _líc_=like.]

ILKA, il'ka, _adj._ (_Scot._) each. [A.S. _['æ]lc_, each.]

ILL, il, _adj._ (comp. _worse_; superl. _worst_) evil, bad: contrary to
good: wicked: producing evil: unfortunate: unfavourable: sick: diseased:
improper: incorrect: cross, as temper.--_adv._ not well: not rightly: with
difficulty--(_rare_) ILL'Y.--_n._ evil: wickedness: misfortune.--_Ill_,
when compounded with other words, expresses badness of quality or
condition, as 'ill-advised,' 'ill-affected,' 'ill-disposed,' &c.--_adj._
ILL'-BESEEM'ING (_Shak._), unbecoming.--_n._ ILL'-BLOOD, ill-feeling:
resentment.--_adjs._ ILL'-BOD'ING, inauspicious; ILL'-BRED, badly bred or
educated: uncivil.--_n._ ILL'-BREED'ING.--_adjs._ ILL'-CONDIT'IONED, in bad
condition: churlish; ILL'-FAT'ED, bringing ill-fortune; ILL'-FAURD
(_Scot._), ILL'-F[=A]'VOURED, ill-looking: deformed: ugly.--_n._
ILL'-F[=A]'VOUREDNESS, state of being ill-favoured: deformity.--_adjs._
ILL'-GOT, -TEN, procured by bad means; ILL'-HAIRED (_Scot._) cross-grained;
ILL'-JUDGED, not well judged; ILL'-LOOK'ING, having a bad look;
ILL'-MANNED', insufficiently provided with men; ILL'-N[=A]'TURED, of an ill
nature or temper: cross: peevish.--_adv._ ILL'-N[=A]'TUREDLY.--_ns._
ILL'-N[=A]'TUREDNESS, the quality of being ill-natured; ILL'NESS, sickness:
disease.--_adjs._ ILL'-OFF, in bad circumstances; ILL'-[=O]'MENED, having
bad omens: unfortunate; ILL'-STARRED, born under the influence of an
unlucky star: unlucky; ILL'-TEM'PERED, having a bad temper: morose:
fretful: (_Shak._) disordered; ILL'-TIMED, said or done at an unsuitable
time.--_v.t._ ILL'-TREAT, to treat ill: to abuse.--_n._ ILL'-TURN, an act
of unkindness or enmity.--_adj._ ILL'-USED, badly used or treated.--_ns._
ILL'-WILL, unkind feeling: enmity; ILL'-WISH'ER, one who wishes harm to
another.--_adj._ ILL'-WREST'ING, misinterpreting to disadvantage.--GO ILL
WITH, to result in danger or misfortune; TAKE IT ILL, to be offended. [From
Ice. _illr_, a contraction of the word which appears in A.S. _yfel_, evil.]

ILLAPSE, il-laps', _n._ a sliding in: the entrance of one thing into
another.--_v.i._ to glide. [L. _illapsus_--_illabi_--_in_, into, _labi_, to
slip, to slide.]

ILLAQUEATE, i-lak'w[=e]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to ensnare.--_adj._
ILLAQ'UEABLE.--_n._ ILLAQUE[=A]'TION.

ILLATION, il-l[=a]'shun, _n._ act of inferring from premises or reasons:
inference: conclusion.--_adj._ IL'LATIVE, denoting an inference: that may
be inferred.--_adv._ IL'LATIVELY. [Fr.,--L. _illation-em_--_inferre_,
_ill[=a]tum_--_in_, in, into, _ferre_, to bear.]

ILLAUDABLE, il-law'da-bl, _adj._ not laudable or praiseworthy.--_adv._
ILLAU'DABLY.

ILLEGAL, il-l[=e]'gal, _adj._ contrary to law.--_v.t._ ILL[=E]'GAL[=I]SE,
to render unlawful.--_n._ ILLEGAL'ITY, the quality or condition of being
illegal.--_adv._ ILL[=E]'GALLY.

ILLEGIBLE, il-lej'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be read: indistinct.--_ns._
ILLEG'IBLENESS, ILLEGIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ ILLEG'IBLY.

ILLEGITIMATE, il-le-jit'i-m[=a]t, _adj._ not according to law: not born in
wedlock: not properly inferred or reasoned: not genuine.--_n._
ILLEGIT'IMACY.--_adv._ ILLEGIT'IM[=A]TELY.--_n._ ILLEGITIM[=A]'TION, the
act of rendering, or state of being, illegitimate.

ILLIBERAL, il-lib'[.e]r-al, _adj._ niggardly: mean, narrow in
opinion.--_v.t._ ILLIB'ERALISE.--_n._ ILLIBERAL'ITY.--_adv._ ILLIB'ERALLY.

ILLICIT, il-lis'it, _adj._ not allowable: unlawful: unlicensed.--_adv._
ILLIC'ITLY.--_n._ ILLIC'ITNESS. [L. _illicitus_--_in_, not, _licitus_,
pa.p. of _lic[=e]re_, to be allowable.]

ILLIMITABLE, il-lim'it-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be bounded: infinite.--_n._
ILLIM'ITABLENESS.--_adv._ ILLIM'ITABLY.--_n._ ILLIMIT[=A]'TION.--_adj._
ILLIM'ITED.

ILLIQUATION, il-li-kw[=a]'shun, _n._ the melting of one thing into another.
[L. _in_, into, _liqu[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_, to melt.]

ILLISION, il-lizh'un, _n._ the act of striking against. [L.
_illision-em_--_illid[)e]re_--_in_, in, _læd[)e]re_, to strike.]

ILLITERAL, il-lit'[.e]r-al, _adj._ not literal.

ILLITERATE, il-lit'[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ not learned: uninstructed:
ignorant.--_n.pl._ a term used to designate those persons who are unable to
read or write or both.--_adv._ ILLIT'ERATELY.--_ns._ ILLIT'ERATENESS,
ILLIT'ERACY, state of being illiterate: want of learning.

ILLOGICAL, il-loj'i-kal, _adj._ contrary to the rules of logic.--_adv._
ILLOG'ICALLY.--_n._ ILLOG'ICALNESS.

ILLUDE, il-l[=u]d', _v.t._ to play upon by artifice: to deceive. [O.
Fr.,--L. _illud[)e]re_--_in_, upon, _lud[)e]re_, to play.]

ILLUME. See ILLUMINE.

ILLUMINATE, il-l[=u]'min-[=a]t, _v.t._ to light up: to enlighten: to
illustrate: to adorn with ornamental lettering or illustrations.--_adj._
enlightened.--_adj._ ILL[=U]'MINABLE, that may be illuminated.--_adj._ and
_n._ ILL[=U]'MINANT.--_n.pl._ ILLUMIN[=A]'T[=I], the enlightened, a name
given to various sects, and especially to a society of German Freethinkers
at the end of the 18th century.--_n._ ILLUMIN[=A]'TION, act of giving
light: that which gives light: splendour: brightness: a display of lights:
adorning of books with coloured lettering or illustrations: (_B_.)
enlightening influence, inspiration.--_adj._ ILL[=U]'MINATIVE, tending to
give light: illustrative or explanatory.--_n._ ILL[=U]'MINATOR, one who
illuminates, esp. one who is employed in adorning books with coloured
letters and illustrations.--_vs.t._ ILL[=U]'MINE, ILL[=U]'ME, to make
luminous or bright: to enlighten: to adorn.--_ns._ ILL[=U]'MINER, an
illuminator; ILL[=U]'MINISM.--_adj._ ILLUM'INOUS, bright. [L.
_illumin[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_in_, in, upon, _lumin[=a]re_, to cast
light--_lumen_ (=_lucimen_)--_luc[=e]re_, to shine, light.]

ILLUSION, il-l[=u]'zhun, _n._ a playing upon: a mocking: deceptive
appearance: false show: error.--_n._ ILL[=U]'SIONIST, one who is subject to
illusions: one who produces illusions, as sleight-of-hand tricks, for
entertainment.--_adjs._ ILL[=U]'SIVE, ILL[=U]'SORY, deceiving by false
appearances: false.--_adv._ ILL[=U]'SIVELY.--_n._ ILL[=U]'SIVENESS. [See
ILLUDE.]

ILLUSTRATE, il-lus'tr[=a]t, or il'us-tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to make distinguished:
to make clear to the mind: to explain: to explain and adorn by
pictures.--_adj._ (_Shak._) renowned.--_n._ ILLUSTR[=A]'TION, act of making
lustrous or clear: act of explaining: that which illustrates: a picture or
diagram.--_adjs._ ILLUS'TRATIVE, ILLUS'TRATORY, having the quality of
making clear or explaining.--_adv._ ILLUS'TRATIVELY.--_n._
ILLUS'TRATOR.--_adj._ ILLUS'TRIOUS, morally bright, distinguished: noble:
conspicuous: conferring honour.--_adv._ ILLUS'TRIOUSLY.--_n._
ILLUS'TRIOUSNESS. [L. _illustr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to light
up--_illustris_, prob. _in_, in, _lux_, _lucis_, light.]

I'M, [=i]m, a contraction of _I am_.

IMAGE, im'[=a]j, _n._ likeness: a statue: an idol: a representation in the
mind, an idea: a picture in the imagination: (_optics_) the figure of any
object formed by rays of light.--_v.t._ to form an image of: to form a
likeness of in the mind.--_adj._ IM'AGELESS, having no image.--_ns._
IMAGERY (im'[=a]j-ri, or im'[=a]j-er-i), the work of the imagination:
mental pictures: figures of speech: (_orig._) images in general;
IM'AGE-WOR'SHIP, honour paid in worship to graven or painted
representations of sacred persons or things. [O. Fr.,--L. _imago_, image;
cf. _imit[=a]ri_, to imitate.]

IMAGINE, im-aj'in, _v.t._ to form an image of in the mind: to conceive: to
think: (_B._) to contrive or devise.--_v.i._ to form mental images: to
conceive.--_adj._ IMAG'INABLE, that may be imagined.--_n._
IMAG'INABLENESS.--_adv._ IMAG'INABLY.--_adj._ IMAG'INARY, existing only in
the imagination: not real: (_alg._) impossible.--_n._ IMAGIN[=A]'TION, act
of imagining: the faculty of forming images in the mind: that which is
imagined: contrivance.--_adj._ IMAG'IN[=A]TIVE, full of imagination:
proceeding from the imagination.--_ns._ IMAG'IN[=A]TIVENESS; IMAG'INER;
IMAG'INING, that which is imagined. [O. Fr. _imaginer_--L.
_imagin[=a]ri_--_imago_, an image.]

IMAGO, i-m[=a]'g[=o], _n._ the last or perfect state of insect life: an
image or optical counterpart of a thing. [L.]

IMÂM, i-mam', IMAUM, i-mawm', _n._ the officer who in Mohammedan mosques
recites the prayers and leads the devotions of the faithful--in Turkey also
superintending circumcisions, marriages, and funerals. [Ar. _im[=a]m_,
chief.]

IMBANK, im-bangk'. Same as EMBANK.

IMBAR, im-bär', _v.t._ to exclude.

IMBARK, im-bärk', _v.i._ Same as EMBARK.

IMBATHE, im-b[=a]th', _v.t._ (_Milt._) to bathe.

IMBECILE, im'be-s[=e]l, _adj._ without strength either of body or mind:
feeble: fatuous.--_n._ one destitute of strength, either of mind or
body.--_n._ IMBECIL'ITY, state of being imbecile: weakness of body or mind.
[O. Fr. _imbecile_--L. _imbecillis_; origin unknown.]

IMBED, im-bed', _v.t._ See EMBED.

IMBELLISHING, _n._ (_Milt._). Same as EMBELLISHMENT.

IMBIBE, im-b[=i]b', _v.t._ to drink in: to absorb: to receive into the
mind.--_v.i._ to drink, absorb.--_ns._ IMBIB'ER; IMBIBI'TION. [L.
_imbib[)e]re_--_in_, in, into, _bib[)e]re_, to drink.]

IMBITTER, im-bit'[.e]r, _v.t._ See EMBITTER.

IMBLAZE, im-bl[=a]z', _v.t._ obsolete form of _emblaze_.

IMBODY, im-bod'i. See EMBODY.

IMBOIL, im-boil', _v.i._ Same as EMBOIL.

IMBORDER, im-bor'd[.e]r, _v.t._ Same as EMBORDER.

IMBOSOM, im-b[=oo]z'um. See EMBOSOM.

IMBOUND, im-bownd', _v.t._ Same as EMBOUND.

IMBOW, im-b[=o]', _v.t._ Same as EMBOW.

IMBRANGLE. See EMBRANGLE.

IMBRICATE, im'bri-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to lay one over another, as tiles on a
roof.--_adj._ bent like a gutter-tile: (_bot._) overlapping each
other.--_n._ IMBRIC[=A]'TION, a concave indenture, as of a tile: an
overlapping of the edges: ornamental masonry. [L. _imbric[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_imbrex_, a gutter-tile--_imber_; a shower.]

IMBROCATA, im-bro-kä'tä, _n._ in fencing, a thrust in tierce. [It.]

IMBROGLIO, im-br[=o]l'y[=o], _n._ an intricate plot in a romance or drama:
a perplexing state of matters: a complicated misunderstanding. [It.,
'confusion'--_imbrogliare_, to confuse, embroil.]

IMBROWN. See EMBROWN.

IMBRUE, im-br[=oo]', _v.t._ to wet or moisten: to soak: to drench.--_n._
IMBRUE'MENT. [O. Fr. _embruer_--_bevre_ (Fr. _boire_)--L. _bib[)e]re_, to
drink.]

IMBRUTE, im-br[=oo]t', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to reduce, or sink, to the state
of a brute:--_pr.p._ imbrut'ing; _pa.p._ imbrut'ed.

IMBUE, im-b[=u]', _v.t._ to moisten: to tinge deeply: to cause to imbibe,
as the mind. [O. Fr. _imbuer_--L. _imbu[)e]re_--_in_, and root of
_bib[)e]re_, to drink.]

IMITATE, im'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to copy, to strive to be the same as: to
produce a likeness of.--_n._ IMITABIL'ITY.--_adj._ IM'ITABLE, that may be
imitated or copied: worthy of imitation.--_n._ IM'ITANCY, the tendency to
imitate.--_adj._ IM'ITANT.--_n._ IMIT[=A]'TION, act of imitating: that
which is produced as a copy, a likeness: (_mus._) the repeating of the same
passage, or the following of a passage with a similar one in one or more of
the other parts or voices.--_adj._ IM'IT[=A]TIVE, inclined to imitate:
formed after a model.--_adv._ IM'IT[=A]TIVELY.--_ns._ IM'IT[=A]TIVENESS,
the quality of being imitative; IM'IT[=A]TOR, one who imitates or copies.
[L. _imit[=a]ri_, _imit[=a]tus_, ety. unknown.]

IMMACULATE, im-mak'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ spotless: unstained: pure.--_adv._
IMMAC'ULATELY.--_n._ IMMAC'ULATENESS.--IMMACULATE CONCEPTION, the R.C.
dogma that the Virgin Mary was conceived without original sin--first
proclaimed in 1854. [L. _immacul[=a]tus_--_in_, not, _macul[=a]re_, to
stain--_macula_, a spot.]

IMMALLEABLE, im-mal'le-a-bl, _adj._ not malleable.

IMMANACLE, im-man'a-kl, _v.t._ (_Milt._) to put in manacles, to fetter or
confine.

IMMANATION, im-[=a]-n[=a]'shun, _n._ an easy flow.--_v.t._ IMM'ANATE, to
flow or issue in. [L. _in_, in, _man[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to flow.]

IMMANE, i-m[=a]n', _adj._ huge: cruel, savage.--_adv._ IMMANE'LY.--_n._
IMMAN'ITY (_Shak._), inhumanity, cruelty. [L. _immanis_, huge.]

IMMANENT, im'[=a]-nent, _adj._ remaining within: inherent.--_ns._
IMM'[=A]NENCE, IMM'[=A]NENCY, the notion that the intelligent and creative
principle of the universe pervades the universe itself, a fundamental
conception of Pantheism. [L. _immanens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_imman[=e]re_--_in_, in, _man[=e]re_, to remain.]

IMMANTLE, im-man'tl, _v.t._ to envelop in a mantle.

IMMANUEL, EMMANUEL, i-man'[=u]-el, e-, _n._ a name given to Jesus (Matt. i.
23) as the son of a virgin (Is. vii. 14). [Heb., lit. 'God-with-us.']

IMMARGINATE, im-ar-jin'[=a]t, _adj._ having no margin.

IMMASK, im-mask', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to mask, disguise.

IMMATERIAL, im-a-t[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ not consisting of matter: incorporeal:
unimportant.--_v.t._ IMMAT[=E]'RIALISE, to separate from matter.--_ns._
IMMATE'RIALISM, the doctrine that there is no material substance;
IMMAT[=E]'RIALIST, one who believes in this; IMMATERIAL'ITY, the quality of
being immaterial or of not consisting of matter.--_adv._ IMMAT[=E]'RIALLY.

IMMATURE, im-a-t[=u]r', IMMATURED, im-a-t[=u]rd', _adj._ not ripe: not
perfect: come before the natural time.--_adv._ IMMATURE'LY.--_ns._
IMMATURE'NESS, IMMATUR'ITY.

IMMEASURABLE, im-mezh'[=u]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be measured: very
great.--_n._ IMMEAS'URABLENESS.--_adv._ IMMEAS'URABLY.--_adj._ IMMEAS'URED
(_Spens._), beyond the common measure, immeasurable.

IMMEDIATE, im-m[=e]'di-[=a]t, _adj._ with nothing between two objects: not
acting by second causes: direct: present: without delay.--_n._
IMM[=E]'DIACY (_Shak._), immediate or independent power.--_adv._
IMM[=E]'DI[=A]TELY.--_ns._ IMM[=E]'DI[=A]TENESS; IMM[=E]'DIATISM.

IMMEDICABLE, im-med'i-ka-bl, _adj._ incurable.

IMMEMORIAL, im-me-m[=o]r'i-al, _adj._ beyond the reach of memory.--_adj._
IMMEM'ORABLE.--_adv._ IMMEM[=O]'RIALLY.

IMMENSE, im-mens', _adj._ that cannot be measured: vast in extent: very
large.--_adv._ IMMENSE'LY.--_ns._ IMMENSE'NESS; IMMENS'ITY, an extent not
to be measured: infinity: greatness. [Fr.,--L. _immensus_--_in_, not,
_mensus_, pa.p,. of _met[=i]ri_, to measure.]

IMMENSURABLE, im-mens'[=u]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be measured.--_n._
IMMENSURABIL'ITY.

IMMERGE, im-m[.e]rj', _v.t._ to plunge into. [L. _in_, into, _merg[)e]re_,
_mersum_, to plunge.]

IMMERITOUS, im-mer'it-us, _adj._ (_Milt._) undeserving. [L.
_immeritus_--_in_, not, _meritus_, deserving.]

IMMERSE, im-m[.e]rs', _v.t._ to plunge into: to dip: to baptise by dipping
the whole body: to engage deeply: to overwhelm.--_adjs._ IMMERS'ABLE,
IMMERS'IBLE.--_ns._ IMMER'SION, act of immersing or plunging into: state of
being dipped into: state of being deeply engaged; IMMER'SIONIST. [See
IMMERGE.]

IMMESH. See ENMESH.

IMMETHODICAL, im-me-thod'ik-al, _adj._ without method or order:
irregular.--_adv._ IMMETHOD'ICALLY.

IMMIGRATE, im'i-gr[=a]t, _v.i._ to migrate or remove into a country.--_ns._
IMM'IGRANT, one who immigrates; IMMIGR[=A]'TION, act of immigrating. [L.
_immigr[=a]re_--_in_, into, _migrare_, _-[=a]tum_, to remove.]

IMMINENT, im'i-nent, _adj._ near at hand: threatening: impending.--_n._
IMM'INENCE.--_adv._ IMM'INENTLY. [L. _imminens_, _-entis_--_in_, upon,
_min[=e]re_, to project.]

IMMINGLE, im-ming'gl, _v.t._ to mingle together, to mix.

IMMISCIBLE, im-is'i-bl, _adj._ not capable of being mixed.

IMMIT, im-mit', _v.t._ to send into: to inject:--_pr.p._ immit'ting;
_pa.p._ immit'ted.--_n._ IMMISS'ION, act of immitting: injection. [L.
_immit[)e]re_--_in_, into, _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send.]

IMMITIGABLE, im-it'i-ga-bl, _adj._ incapable of being mitigated.--_adv._
IMMIT'IGABLY.

IMMIX, im-miks', _v.t._ (_Milt._) to mix.--_adj._ IMMIX'ABLE, incapable of
being mixed.

IMMOBILITY, im-mo-bil'i-ti, _n._ the character of being immovable.--_adj._
IMMOB'ILE.

IMMODERATE, im-mod'[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ exceeding proper bounds:
extravagant.--_ns._ IMMOD'ERACY, IMMOD'ERATENESS, the quality of being
immoderate: extravagance.--_adv._ IMMOD'ERATELY.--_n._ IMMODER[=A]'TION,
want of moderation: excess.

IMMODEST, im-mod'est, _adj._ wanting restraint: impudent: forward: wanting
shame or delicacy.--_adv._ IMMOD'ESTLY.--_n._ IMMOD'ESTY, want of modesty.

IMMOLATE, im'[=o]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to offer in sacrifice.--_ns._
IMMOL[=A]'TION, act of immolating: a sacrifice; IMM'OLATOR, one who
immolates or offers sacrifice. [L. _immol[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to sprinkle
meal on a victim, hence to sacrifice--_in_, upon, _mola_, meal.]

IMMOMENT, im-m[=o]'ment, _adj._ (_Shak._) of no value.

IMMORAL, im-mor'al, _adj._ inconsistent with what is right: wicked:
licentious.--_n._ IMMORAL'ITY, quality of being immoral: an immoral act or
practice.--_adv._ IMMOR'ALLY.

IMMORTAL, im-mor'tal, _adj._ exempt from death: imperishable: never to be
forgotten (as a name, poem, &c.).--_n._ one who will never cease to exist:
one of the forty members of the French Academy.--_n._
IMMORTALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ IMMOR'TALISE, to make immortal.--_n._
IMMORTAL'ITY, condition or quality of being immortal: exemption from death
or oblivion.--_adv._ IMMOR'TALLY.

IMMORTELLE, im-mor-tel', _n._ any one of the flowers commonly called
everlasting. [Fr. (_fleur_) _immortelle_, immortal (flower).]

IMMOVABLE, im-m[=oo]v'a-bl, _adj._ steadfast: unalterable: that cannot be
impressed or made to fall: (_pl._) fixtures, &c., not movable by a
tenant.--_ns._ IMMOV'ABLENESS, IMMOVABIL'ITY.--_adv._ IMMOV'ABLY.

IMMUNE, im-m[=u]n', _adj._ free from obligation: not liable to
infection.--_n._ IMMUN'ITY, state of being immune: exemption: privilege.
[Fr.,--L. _in_, not, _munis_, serving, obliging.]

IMMURE, im-m[=u]r', _v.t._ to wall in: to shut up: to imprison.--_n._
(_Shak._) a wall.--_n._ IMMURE'MENT, imprisonment. [Fr.,--L. _in_, in,
_murus_, a wall.]

IMMUTABLE, im-m[=u]t'a-bl, _adj._ unchangeable.--_ns._ IMMUTABIL'ITY,
IMM[=U]T'ABLENESS, unchangeableness.--_adv._ IMM[=U]T'ABLY.

IMP, imp, _n._ a little devil or wicked spirit: a son, offspring, a pert
child.--_v.t._ (falconry) to mend a broken or defective wing by inserting a
feather: to qualify for flight.--_adj._ IMP'ISH, like an imp: fiendish.
[A.S. _impe_--Low L. _impotus_, a graft--Gr. _emphytos_, engrafted.]

IMPACABLE, im-p[=a]k'a-bl, _adj._ (_Spens._) not to be quieted or appeased.
[L. _in_, not, _pac[=a]re_, to quiet.]

IMPACT, im-pakt', _v.t._ to press firmly together: to drive close.--_n._
IM'PACT, a striking against: collision: the blow of a body in motion
impinging on another body: the impulse resulting from collision.--IMPACTED
FRACTURE (_surg._), when one part of the bone is forcibly driven into the
other. [O. Fr. _impacter_--L. _impactus_, pa.p. of _imping[=e]re_. See
IMPINGE.]

IMPAINT, im-p[=a]nt', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to paint.

IMPAIR, im-p[=a]r', _v.t._ to diminish in quantity, value, or strength: to
injure: to weaken.--_v.i._ (_obs._) to become worse.--_n._ IMPAIR'MENT. [O.
Fr. _empeirer_ (Fr. _empirer_), from L. _im_ (=in), inten., and L.
_pejor[=a]re_, to make worse--L. _pejor_, worse.]

IMPAIR, im-p[=a]r', _adj._ (_Shak._) unsuitable. [Fr.,--L. _impar_--_in_,
not, _par_, equal.]

IMPALE, im-p[=a]l', _v.t._ to fence in with stakes: to shut in: to put to
death by spitting on a stake.--_n._ IMPALE'MENT, an enclosed space:
(_her._) the marshalling side by side of two escutcheons combined in one.
[Fr. _empaler_--L. _in_, in, _palus_, a stake.]

IMPALPABLE, im-pal'pa-bl, _adj._ not perceivable by touch: not coarse: not
easily understood.--_n._ IMPALPABIL'ITY.--_adv._ IMPAL'PABLY.

IMPANATION, im-p[=a]-n[=a]'shun, _n._ a term used to express the local
union of the body of Christ with the consecrated bread in the Eucharist;
but later specially used of Luther's doctrine of Consubstantiation
(q.v.).--_adj._ IMP[=A]'NATE, embodied in bread. [From Low L.
_impan[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _panis_, bread.]

IMPANEL. See EMPANEL.

IMPARADISE, im-par'a-d[=i]s, _v.t._ (_Milt._) to put in a paradise or state
of extreme felicity, to make perfectly happy:--_pr.p._ impar'ad[=i]sing;
_pa.p._ impar'ad[=i]sed.

IMPARITY, im-par'i-ti, _n._ want of parity or equality: indivisibility into
equal parts.--_adjs._ IMPARIDIG'ITATE, having an uneven number of digits;
IMPARIPIN'NATE, unequally pinnate; IMPARISYLLAB'IC, not consisting of an
equal number of syllables. [L. _impar_--_in_, not, _par_, equal.]

IMPARK, im-pärk', _v.t._ to enclose in a park.

IMPARLANCE, im-pärl'ans, _n._ (_Spens._) parley.--_v.i._ IMPARL', to hold a
consultation. [O. Fr. _emparlance_--_emparler_, to talk.]

IMPART, im-pärt', _v.t._ to bestow a part of: to give: to communicate: to
make known.--_v.i._ to give a part.--_ns._ IMPART[=A]'TION, the act of
imparting; IMPART'MENT (_Shak._), the act of imparting: that which is
imparted, disclosure. [O. Fr. _empartir_--L. _impart[=i]re_--_in_, on,
_pars_, _partis_, a part.]

IMPARTIAL, im-pär'shal, _adj._ not favouring one more than another: just:
(_Shak._) partial.--_ns._ IMPARTIAL'ITY, IMPAR'TIALNESS, quality of being
impartial: freedom from bias.--_adv._ IMPAR'TIALLY.

IMPARTIBLE, im-pärt'i-bl, _adj._ capable of being imparted.--_n._
IMPARTIBIL'ITY.

IMPARTIBLE, im-pärt'i-bl, _adj._ not partible: indivisible.--_n._
IMPARTIBIL'ITY.

IMPASSABLE, im-pas'a-bl, _adj._ not capable of being passed.--_ns._
IMPASSABIL'ITY, IMPASS'ABLENESS.--_adv._ IMPASS'ABLY.

IMPASSIBLE, im-pas'i-bl, _adj._ incapable of passion or feeling.--_ns._
IMPASSIBIL'ITY, IMPASS'IBLENESS, quality of being impassible. [Fr.,--L.
_impassibilis_,--_in_, not, _pati_, _passus_, to suffer.]

IMPASSION, im-pash'un, _v.t._ to move with passion.--_adjs._
IMPASS'IONABLE, IMPASS'ION[=A]TE, IMPASS'IONED, moved by strong passion or
feeling: animated: excited; IMPASS'IVE, not susceptible of pain or
feeling.--_adv._ IMPASS'IVELY.--_ns._ IMPASS'IVENESS, IMPASSIV'ITY.
[Through Low L.--L. _in_, in, _passion-em_, passion.]

IMPASTE, im-p[=a]st', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to knead into a paste: to lay
colours on thick.--_ns._ IMPAST[=A]'TION, act of impasting: that which is
made into paste; IMPAS'TO, in painting, the thick laying on of pigments.
[Low L. _impast[=a]re_--_in_, into, _pasta_, paste.]

IMPATIENT, im-p[=a]'shent, _adj._ not able to endure or to wait: fretful:
restless.--_n._ IMP[=A]'TIENCE, want of patience.--_adv._ IMP[=A]'TIENTLY.

IMPAVE, im-p[=a]v', _v.t._ (_Wordsworth_) to pave.

IMPAVID, im-pav'id, _adj._ fearless.--_adv._ IMPAV'IDLY, fearlessly:
dauntlessly. [L. _impavidus_--_in_, not, _pavidus_, fearing.]

IMPAWN, im-pawn', _v.t._ to pawn or deposit as security.

IMPEACH, im-p[=e]ch', _v._t to charge with a crime: to cite before a court
for official misconduct: to call in question: (_Spens._) to impede.--_adj._
IMPEACH'ABLE, liable to impeachment: chargeable with a crime.--_ns._
IMPEACH'ER, one who impeaches; IMPEACH'MENT, an exceptional form of process
whereby the House of Commons may obtain redress for any high crimes and
misdemeanours committed by peers and ministers of the Crown: (_Shak._)
hinderance, obstruction. [O. Fr. _empescher_, to hinder (Fr. _empêcher_,
It. _impacciare_); either from L. _imping[)e]re_, to strike against, or
_impedic[=a]re_, to fetter--thus cognate either with _impinge_ or
_impede_.]

IMPEARL, im-p[.e]rl', _v.t._ to adorn with or as with pearls: to make like
pearls.

IMPECCABLE, im-pek'a-bl, _adj._ not liable to error or to sin.--_ns._
IMPECCABIL'ITY, IMPECC'ANCY.--_adj._ IMPECC'ANT, doing no sin.

IMPECUNIOUS, im-pe-k[=u]ni-us, _adj._ having no money: poor.--_n._
IMPECUNIOS'ITY.

IMPEDE, im-p[=e]d', _v.t._ to hinder or obstruct.--_n._ IMP[=E]'DANCE,
hinderance, esp. in electricity an apparent increase of resistance due to
induction in a circuit.--_adj._ IMPED'IBLE, capable of being impeded.--_n._
IMPED'IMENT, that which impedes: hinderance: a defect preventing fluent
speech.--_n.pl._ IMPEDIMENT'A, military baggage, baggage
generally.--_adjs._ IMPEDIMEN'TAL, IMPED'ITIVE, causing hinderance. [L.
_imped[=i]re_--_in_, in, _pes_, _pedis_, a foot.]

IMPEL, im-pel', _v.t._ to urge forward: to excite to action: to
instigate:--_pr.p._ impel'ling; _pa.p._ impelled'.--_adj._ IMPEL'LENT,
impelling or driving on.--_n._ a power that impels.--_n._ IMPEL'LER. [L.
_impell[)e]re_, _impulsum_--_in_, on, _pell[)e]re_, to drive.]

IMPEND, im-pend', _v.i._ to threaten: to be about to happen.--_ns._
IMPEND'ENCE, IMPEND'ENCY, the state of impending: near approach.--_adj._
IMPEND'ENT, imminent: ready to act or happen. [L. _impend[=e]re_--_in_, on,
_pend[=e]re_, to hang.]

IMPENETRABLE, im-pen'e-tra-bl, _adj._ incapable of being pierced:
preventing another body from occupying the same space at the same time: not
to be impressed in mind or heart.--_n._ IMPENETRABIL'ITY, one of the
essential properties of matter, implying that no two bodies can at the same
time occupy the same space.--_adv._ IMPEN'ETRABLY.

IMPENITENT, im-pen'i-tent, _adj._ not repenting of sin.--_n._ one who does
not repent: a hardened sinner.--_n._ IMPEN'ITENCE.--_adv._ IMPEN'ITENTLY.

IMPENNATE, im-pen'[=a]t, IMPENNOUS, im-pen'us, _adj._ wingless: having very
short wings useless for flight. [L. _in_, not, _penna_, a wing.]

IMPERATIVE, im-per'a-tiv, _adj._ expressive of command: authoritative:
peremptory: obligatory.--_adv._ IMPER'ATIVELY.--IMPERATIVE MOOD, the form
of a verb expressing command or advice; CATEGORICAL IMPERATIVE (see under
CATEGORY). [L. _imperativus_--_imper[=a]re_, to command--_in_, in,
_par[=a]re_, to prepare.]

IMPERATOR, im'p[=e]-r[=a]-tor, _n._ a commander: a ruler: an
emperor.--_adj._ IMPERAT[=O]'RIAL. [L.,--_imper[=a]re_, to command.]

IMPERCEPTIBLE, im-p[.e]r-sep'ti-bl, _adj._ not discernible: insensible:
minute.--_ns._ IMPERCEP'TIBLENESS, IMPERCEPTIBIL'ITY.--_adv._
IMPERCEP'TIBLY.--_adjs._ IMPERCEP'TIVE, not perceiving; IMPERCIP'IENT,
having no power to perceive.

IMPERFECT, im-p[.e]r'fekt, _adj._ incomplete: defective: not fulfilling its
design: liable to err.--_adv._ IMPER'FECTLY.--_ns._ IMPER'FECTNESS,
IMPERFEC'TION.

IMPERFORATE, -d, im-p[.e]r'fo-r[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ not pierced through:
having no opening.--_adj._ IMPER'FORABLE, that cannot be perforated or
bored through.--_n._ IMPERFOR[=A]'TION.

IMPERIAL, im-p[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ pertaining to an empire or to an emperor:
sovereign, supreme: commanding, of superior size or excellence.--_n._ a
tuft of hair on the lower lip (from its use by Napoleon III.): a kind of
dome, as in Moorish buildings: an outside seat on a diligence: a size of
writing-paper, 22 × 30 in.; also of printing-paper, 22 × 32 in.--_v.t._
IMP[=E]'RIALISE, to make imperial.--_ns._ IMP[=E]'RIALISM, the power or
authority of an emperor: the spirit of empire; IMP[=E]'RIALIST, one who
belongs to an emperor: a soldier or partisan of an emperor; IMPERIAL'ITY,
imperial power, right, or privilege.--_adv._ IMP[=E]'RIALLY.--_n._
IMP[=E]'RIUM, a military chief command: empire.--IMPERIAL CITY, Rome: one
of those cities in the German Empire which owed allegiance to none but the
emperor, which exercised suzerain rights within their own territories, and
had the right of sitting and voting in the imperial diet; IMPERIAL
INSTITUTE of the United Kingdom, the Colonies, and India, an institution
designed to commemorate the Jubilee of Queen Victoria (1887). [Fr.,--L.
_imperialis_--_imperium_, sovereignty.]

IMPERIL, im-per'il, _v.t._ to put in peril: to endanger.--_n._
IMPER'ILMENT.

IMPERIOUS, im-p[=e]'ri-us, _adj._ assuming command: haughty: tyrannical:
authoritative: (_obs._) imperial.--_adv._ IMP[=E]'RIOUSLY.--_n._
IMP[=E]'RIOUSNESS. [L. _imperiosus_.]

IMPERISHABLE, im-per'ish-a-bl, _adj._ indestructible: everlasting.--_ns._
IMPER'ISHABLENESS, IMPERISHABIL'ITY.--_adv._ IMPER'ISHABLY.

IMPERMANENCE, im-per'man-ens, _n._ want of permanence.--_adj._
IMPER'MANENT.

IMPERMEABLE, im-p[.e]r'm[=e]-a-bl, _adj._ not permitting passage:
impenetrable.--_ns._ IMPERMEABIL'ITY, IMPER'MEABLENESS.--_adv._
IMPER'MEABLY.--_n._ IMPER'ME[=A]TOR, a device in a steam-engine for forcing
lubricating oil uniformly into the cylinder.

IMPERSEVERANT, im-per-sev'[.e]r-ant, _adj._ (_Shak._) strongly persevering.

IMPERSONAL, im-p[.e]r'sun-al, _adj._ not having personality: (_gram._) not
varied according to the persons.--_n._ IMPERSONAL'ITY.--_adv._
IMPER'SONALLY.--_v.t._ IMPER'SON[=A]TE, to invest with personality or the
bodily substance of a person: to ascribe the qualities of a person to: to
personify: to assume the person or character of, esp. on the stage.--_adj._
personified.--_ns._ IMPERSON[=A]'TION; IMPER'SON[=A]TOR.

IMPERTINENT, im-p[.e]r'ti-nent, _adj._ not pertaining to the matter in
hand: trifling: intrusive: saucy: impudent.--_n._ IMPER'TINENCE, that which
is impertinent: intrusion: impudence, over-forwardness: (_law_) matter
introduced into an affidavit, &c., not pertinent to the matter.--_adv._
IMPER'TINENTLY.

IMPERTURBABLE, im-p[.e]r-tur'ba-bl, _adj._ that cannot be disturbed or
agitated: permanently quiet.--_n._ IMPERTURBABIL'ITY.--_adv._
IMPERTUR'BABLY.--_n._ IMPERTURB[=A]'TION. [L. _imperturbabilis_--_in_, not,
_perturbare_, to disturb.]

IMPERVIABLE, im-p[.e]r'vi-a-bl, IMPERVIOUS, im-p[.e]r'vi-us, _adj._ not to
be penetrated.--_ns._ IMPER'VIABLENESS, IMPERVIABIL'ITY,
IMPER'VIOUSNESS.--_adv._ IMPER'VIOUSLY.

IMPETICOS, im-pet'i-kos, (_Shak._) a word coined by the fool in _Twelfth
Night_, perhaps meaning _impocket_.

IMPETIGO, im-pe-t[=i]'go, _n._ a skin disease characterised by thickly-set
clusters of pustules.--_adj._ IMPETIG'INOUS. [L.--_impet[)e]re_, to rush
upon, attack.]

IMPETRATE, im'p[=e]-tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to obtain by entreaty or
petition.--_n._ IMPETR[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ IM'PETRATIVE, IM'PETR[=A]TORY.

IMPETUOUS, im-pet'[=u]-us, _adj._ rushing upon with impetus or violence:
vehement in feeling: passionate.--adv. IMPET'UOUSLY.--_ns._ IMPET'UOUSNESS,
IMPETUOS'ITY.

IMPETUS, im'pe-tus, _n._ an attack: force or quantity of motion: violent
tendency to any point. [L.,--_in_, in, _pet[)e]re_, to fall upon.]

IMPI, IM'PI, _n._ a body of Kaffir warriors. [S. Afr.]

IMPICTURED, im-pik't[=u]rd, _adj._ (_Spens._) painted.

IMPIERCEABLE, im-p[=e]rs'a-bl, _adj._ (_Spens._) incapable of being
pierced.

IMPIGNORATE, im-pig'n[=o]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to pledge or pawn.--_n._
IMPIGNOR[=A]'TION.

IMPINGE, im-pinj', _v.i_ (with _on_, _upon_, _against_) to strike or fall
against: to touch upon.--_n._ IMPINGE'MENT.--_adj._ IMPING'ENT, striking
against. [L. _imping[)e]re_--_in_, against, _ping[)e]re_, to strike.]

IMPIOUS, im'pi-us, _adj._ irreverent; wanting in veneration for God:
profane.--_adv._ IM'PIOUSLY.--_ns._ IM'PIOUSNESS, IMP[=I]'ETY.

IMPLACABLE, im-pl[=a]k'a-bl, _adj._ not to be appeased: inexorable:
irreconcilable.--_ns._ IMPLAC'ABLENESS, IMPLACABIL'ITY.--_adv._
IMPLAC'ABLY.

IMPLACENTAL, im-pla-sen'tal, _adj._ having no placenta, as certain
marsupial animals.

IMPLANT, im-plant', _v.t._ to fix into: to insert: to infuse.--_n._
IMPLANT[=A]'TION, the act of infixing.

IMPLATE, im-pl[=a]t', _v.t._ to put a plate or covering upon: to sheathe.

IMPLAUSIBLE, im-plawz'i-bl, _adj._ not plausible, incredible.--_n._
IMPLAUSIBIL'ITY.

IMPLEACH, im-pl[=e]ch',_ v.t._ (_Shak._) to intertwine.

IMPLEAD, im-pl[=e]d', _v.t._ to prosecute a suit at law.--_n._ IMPLEAD'ER.

IMPLEDGE, im-plej', _v.t._ to pledge.

IMPLEMENT, im'ple-ment, _n._ a tool or instrument of labour.--_v.t._ to
give effect to: to fulfil or perform.--_adj._ IMPLEMEN'TAL, acting as an
implement.--_n._ IMPL[=E]'TION, a filling: the state of being full. [Low L.
_implementum_--L. _im-pl[=e]re_, to fill.]

IMPLEX, im'pleks, _adj._ not simple: complicated.--_n._ IMPLEX'ION.--_adj._
IMPLEX'UOUS. [L. _implexus_--_in_, into, _plect[)e]re_, to twine.]

IMPLICATE, im'pli-k[=a]t, _v.t._ (with _by_, _in_, _with_) to enfold: to
involve: to entangle.--_ns._ IM'PLICATE, the thing implied;
IMPLIC[=A]'TION, the act of implicating: entanglement: that which is
implied.--_adj._ IM'PLICATIVE, tending to implicate.--_adv._
IM'PLICATIVELY.--_adj._ IMPLIC'IT, implied: relying entirely,
unquestioning: (_rare_) entangled, involved.--_adv._ IMPLIC'ITLY.--_n._
IMPLIC'ITNESS. [L. _implic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _plic[=a]re_, to
fold.]

IMPLORE, im-pl[=o]r', _v.t._ to ask earnestly: to beg.--_ns._
IMPLOR[=A]'TION; IMPLOR'[=A]TOR (_Shak._), one who implores or
entreats.--_adj._ IMPLOR'ATORY.--_n._ IMPLOR'ER (_Spens._), one who
implores.--_adv._ IMPLOR'INGLY, in an imploring manner. [Fr.,--L.
_implor[=a]re_--_in_, in, _plor[=a]re_, to weep aloud.]

IMPLUVIUM, im-pl[=oo]'vi-um, _n._ in ancient Roman houses, the square basin
in the _atrium_ or hall into which the rain-water was received.
[L.,--_implu[)e]re_--_in_, in, _plu[)e]re_, to rain.]

IMPLY, im-pl[=i]', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to enfold: to include in reality, to
express indirectly: to mean: to signify:--_pr.p._ imply'ing; _pa.p._
implied'.--_adv._ IMPL[=I]'EDLY. [O. Fr. _empleier_--L. _implic[=a]re_.]

IMPOCKET, im-pok'et, _v.t._ to put in the pocket.

IMPOLITE, im-po-l[=i]t', _adj._ of unpolished manners: uncivil.--_adv._
IMPOLITE'LY.--_n._ IMPOLITE'NESS.

IMPOLITIC, im-pol'i-tik, _adj._ imprudent: unwise: inexpedient.--_n._
IMPOL'ICY.--_adv._ IMPOL'ITICLY.

IMPONDERABLE, im-pon'd[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ not able to be weighed: without
sensible weight.--_ns._ IMPON'DERABLENESS, IMPONDERABIL'ITY.--_n.pl._
IMPON'DERABLES, fluids without sensible weight, as heat, light,
electricity, and magnetism, considered as material--still used of ether.

IMPONE, im-p[=o]n', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to place or put on, to stake, as a
wager.--_adj._ IMPON'ENT, competent to impose an obligation.--_n._ one who
imposes. [L. _impon[)e]re_--in, on, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

IMPORT, im-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to carry into: to bring from abroad: to convey,
as a word: to signify: to be of consequence to: to interest.--_n._ IM'PORT,
that which is brought from abroad: meaning: importance: tendency.--_adj._
IMPORT'ABLE, that may be imported or brought into a country.--_ns._
IMPORT'ANCE; IMPORT'ANCY (_Shak._).--_adj._ IMPORT'ANT, of great import or
consequence: momentous: pompous.--_adv._ IMPORT'ANTLY.--_ns._
IMPORT[=A]'TION, the act of importing: the commodities imported; IMPORT'ER,
one who brings in goods from abroad.--_adj._ IMPORT'LESS (_Shak._), without
consequence. [Fr.,--L. _import[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _port[=a]re_,
to carry.]

IMPORTUNE, im-p[=o]r-t[=u]n', _v.t._ to urge with troublesome application:
to press urgently: (_Spens._) to import, signify (a false use): to molest,
as a beggar, prostitute, &c.--_ns._ IMPOR'TUNACY,
IMPORT'UN[=A]TENESS.--_adj._ IMPORT'UN[=A]TE, troublesomely urgent.--_adv._
IMPORT'UN[=A]TELY.--_adj._ IMPORT'UNE, untimely: importunate.--_adv._
IMPORTUNE'LY.--_ns._ IMPORTUN'ER; IMPORTUN'ITY. [Fr.,--L.
_importunus_--_in_, not, _portus_, a harbour.]

IMPOSE, im-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to place upon: to lay on: to enjoin or command:
to put over by authority or force: to obtrude unfairly: to pass off:
(_print._) to arrange or place in a chase, as pages of type.--_v.i._ (with
_upon_) to mislead or deceive: act with constraining effect.--_n._
(_Shak._) command, injunction.--_adjs._ IMPOS'ABLE, capable of being
imposed or laid on; IMPOS'ING, commanding: adapted to impress
forcibly.--_adv._ IMPOS'INGLY.--_ns._ IMPOS'INGNESS; IMPOSI'TION, a laying
on: laying on of hands in ordination: a tax, a burden: a deception. [Fr.
_imposer_--L. _in_, on, _pon[)e]re_, to place.]

IMPOSSIBLE, im-pos'i-bl, _adj._ that which cannot be done: that cannot
exist: absurd, or excessively odd.--_n._ IMPOSSIBIL'ITY.

[Illustration]

IMPOST, im'p[=o]st, _n._ a tax, esp. on imports: (_archit._) that part of a
pillar in vaults and arches on which the weight of the building is laid.
[O. Fr. _impost_ (Fr. _impôt_)--L. _impon[)e]re_, to lay on.]

IMPOSTHUME, impos't[=u]m, _n._ an abscess.--_v.i._ IMPOS'THUM[=A]TE, to
form an imposthume or abscess.--_v.t._ to affect with an
imposthume.--_adj._ affected with such.--_n._ one swelled or bloated.--_n._
IMPOSTHUM[=A]'TION, the act of forming an abscess: an abscess. [A corr. of
_apostume_, itself a corr. of _aposteme_--Gr. _apost[=e]ma_, a separation
of corrupt matter--_apo_, away, and the root of _hist[=e]mi_, I set up.]

IMPOSTOR, im-pos'tur, _n._ one who practises imposition or fraud.--_n._
IMPOS'T[=U]RE.--_adj._ IMPOS'T[=U]ROUS.

IMPOTENT, im'po-tent, _adj._ powerless: without sexual power: wanting the
power of self-restraint.--_ns._ IM'POTENCE, IM'POTENCY.--_adv._
IM'POTENTLY.

IMPOUND, im-pownd', _v.t._ to confine, as in a pound: to restrain within
limits: to take possession of.--_n._ IMPOUND'AGE, the act of impounding
cattle.

IMPOVERISH, im-pov'[.e]r-ish, _v.t._ to make poor: to exhaust the resources
(as of a nation), or fertility (as of the soil).--_n._ IMPOV'ERISHMENT.
[From O. Fr. _empovrir_ (Fr. _appauvrir_)--L. _in_, in, _pauper_, poor.]

IMPRACTICABLE, im-prak'tik-a-bl, _adj._ not able to be done: unmanageable:
stubborn.--_ns._ IMPRAC'TICABILITY, IMPRAC'TICABLENESS.--_adv._
IMPRAC'TICABLY.

IMPRECATE, im'pre-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to pray for good or evil upon: to
curse.--_n._ IMPREC[=A]'TION, the act of imprecating: a curse.--_adj._
IM'PRECATORY. [L. _imprec[=a]ri_--_in_, upon, _prec[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to
pray.]

IMPREGN, im-pr[=e]n', _v.t._ (_Milt._) to impregnate.

IMPREGNABLE, im-preg'na-bl, _adj._ that cannot be seized: that cannot be
moved.--_n._ IMPREGNABIL'ITY.--_adv._ IMPREG'NABLY. [Fr. _imprenable_--L.
_in_, not, _prend[)e]re_, _prehend[)e]re_, to take.]

IMPREGNATE, im-preg'n[=a]t, _v.t._ to make pregnant: to impart the
particles or qualities of one thing to another: saturate.--_n._
IMPREGN[=A]'TION, the act of impregnating: that with which anything is
impregnated. [Low L. _imprægn[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _prægnans_,
pregnant.]

IMPRESARIO, im-pre-sä'ri-[=o], _n._ a manager or conductor of a troupe of
concert or operatic singers. [It.,--_impresa_, enterprise.]

IMPRESCRIPTIBLE, im-pre-skrip'ti-bl, _adj._ not founded on external
authority.--_n._ IMPRESCRIPTIBIL'ITY.

IMPRESE, im-pr[=e]s', IMPRESS, im-pres', _n._ (_Milt._) a device worn by a
noble or his retainers. [O. Fr.]

IMPRESS, im-pres', _v.t._ to press upon: to mark by pressure: to produce by
pressure: to stamp: to fix deeply in the mind.--_ns._ IM'PRESS, that which
is made by pressure: stamp: likeness; IMPRESSIBIL'ITY.--_adj._
IMPRESS'IBLE, susceptible.--_n._ IMPRESS'IBLENESS.--_adv._
IMPRESS'IBLY.--_ns._ IMPRESS'ION, the act or result of impressing: a single
edition of a book: the effect of any object on the mind: idea: slight
remembrance; IMPRESSIONABIL'ITY.--_adj._ IMPRESS'IONABLE, able to receive
an impression.--_ns._ IMPRESS'IONISM, a modern movement in art and
literature, originating in France, its aim being to cast off the trammels
of artistic tradition, and to look at nature in a fresh and original
manner--it employs general effects, vigorous touches, and deals in masses
of form and colour; IMPRESS'IONIST.--_adv._ IMPRESSIONIS'TIC.--_adj._
IMPRESS'IVE, capable of making an impression on the mind: solemn.--_adv._
IMPRESS'IVELY--_ns._ IMPRESS'IVENESS; IMPRESS'URE (_Shak._), impression.

IMPRESS, im-pres', _v.t._ to force into service, esp. the public
service.--_n._ IM'PRESS. [An altered spelling of _imprest_.]

IMPRESSMENT, im-pres'ment, _n._ the act of impressing or seizing for
service, esp. in the navy. [A word coined from _press_, in _pressgang_.]

IMPREST, im'prest, _n._ earnest-money: money advanced.--_v.t._ IMPREST', to
advance on loan.

IMPRIMATUR, im-pri-m[=a]'tur, _n._ a license to print a book, &c. [Lit.
'let it be printed;' from L. _imprim[)e]re_--_in_, on, _prem[)e]re_, to
press.]

IMPRIMIS, im-pr[=i]'mis, _adv._ in the first place. [L., _in_, in,
_primus_, first.]

IMPRINT, im-print', _v.t._ to print: to stamp: to impress: to fix in the
mind.--_n._ IM'PRINT, that which is imprinted: the name of the publisher,
time and place of publication of a book, &c., printed on the title-page:
also the printer's name on the back of the title-page and at the end of the
book.

IMPRISON, im-priz'n, _v.t._ to put in prison: to shut up: to confine or
restrain.--_n._ IMPRIS'ONMENT, the act of imprisoning or state of being
imprisoned: confinement or restraint.

IMPROBABLE, im-prob'a-bl, _adj._ unlikely.--_n._ IMPROBABIL'ITY.--_adv._
IMPROB'ABLY.

IMPROBATION, im-pro-b[=a]'shun, _n._ in Scots law, an action for the
purpose of declaring some instrument false or forged.--_adj._ IMPROB'ATIVE,
disapproving--also IMPROB'ATORY.

IMPROBITY, im-prob'i-ti, _n._ want of probity.

IMPROMPTU, im-promp't[=u], _adj._ prompt, ready: off-hand.--_adv._
readily.--_n._ a short witty saying expressed at the moment: any
composition produced at the moment. [L., 'in readiness'--_in_, in,
_promptus_, readiness.]

IMPROPER, im-prop'[.e]r, _adj._ not suitable: unfit: unbecoming: incorrect:
wrong.--_adv._ IMPROP'ERLY.--_n._ IMPROPR[=I]'ETY.

IMPROPRIATE, im-pr[=o]'pri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to appropriate to private use: to
place ecclesiastical property in the hands of a layman.--_adj._
IMPR[=O]'PRIATE, devolved into the hands of a layman.--_ns._
IMPROPRI[=A]'TION, act of appropriating: property impropriated;
IMPR[=O]'PRIATOR, a layman who holds possession of the lands of the Church
or an ecclesiastical living. [Low L. _impropri[=a]tus_--L. _in_, in,
_proprius_, one's own.]

IMPROVE, im-pr[=oo]v', _v.t._ to make better: to advance in value or
excellence: to correct: to employ to good purpose.--_v.i._ to grow better:
to make progress: to increase: to rise (as prices).--_ns._ IMPROVABIL'ITY,
IMPROV'ABLENESS.--_adj._ IMPROV'ABLE, able to be improved.--_adv._
IMPROV'ABLY.--_ns._ IMPROVE'MENT, the act of improving: advancement or
progress: increase, addition; IMPROV'ER, one who improves: a pad worn by
women to make the dress hang properly.--_pr.p._ and _adj._ IMPROV'ING,
tending to cause improvement.--_adv._ IMPROV'INGLY.--IMPROVE ON, or UPON,
to bring to a better state by addition or amendment; IMPROVE THE OCCASION,
to point out a moral from some event that has just occurred. [A variant of
_approve_.]

IMPROVIDENT, im-prov'i-dent, _adj._ not provident or prudent: wanting
foresight: thoughtless.--_adj._ IMPROVIDE' (_Spens._), not provided
against.--_n._ IMPROV'IDENCE.--_adv._ IMPROV'IDENTLY.

IMPROVISATE, im-prov'i-s[=a]t, IMPROVISE, im-pro-v[=i]z', _v.t._ to compose
and recite, esp. in verse, without preparation: to bring about on a sudden:
to do anything off-hand.--_ns._ IMPROVIS[=A]'TION, act of improvising: that
which is improvised; IMPROVIS[=A]'TOR, IMPROVISAT[=O]'RE (-r[=a]),
sometimes _fem._ IMPROVIS[=A]'TRIX, IMPROVISATRI'CE, one who improvises:
one who composes and recites verses without preparation:--_pl._
IMPROVISAT[=O]'RI (-r[=e]).--_adjs._ IMPROVISAT[=O]'RIAL,
IMPROVIS'ATORY.--_n._ IMPROV[=I]S'ER.--_adj._ IMPROV[=I]'SO, not studied
beforehand. [Fr. _improviser_--L. _in_, not, _provisus_, foreseen.]

IMPRUDENT, im-pr[=oo]'dent, _adj._ wanting foresight or discretion:
incautious: inconsiderate.--_n._ IMPRU'DENCE.--_adv._ IMPRU'DENTLY.

IMPUDENT, im'p[=u]-dent, _adj._ wanting shame or modesty: brazen-faced:
bold: rude: insolent.--_n._ IM'PUDENCE.--_adv._ IM'PUDENTLY.--_n._
IMPUDIC'ITY. [L. _in_, not, _pudens_, _-entis_--_pud[=e]re_, to be
ashamed.]

IMPUGN, im-p[=u]n', _v.t._ to oppose: to attack by words or arguments: to
call in question.--_adj._ IMPUGN'ABLE.--_ns._ IMPUGN'ER; IMPUGN'MENT. [L.
_impugn[=a]re_--_in_, against, _pugn[=a]re_, to fight.]

IMPUISSANT, im-p[=u]'i-sant, _adj._ powerless.--_n._ IMP[=U]'ISSANCE.

IMPULSE, im'puls, _n._ the act of impelling: effect of an impelling force:
force suddenly communicated: influence on the mind.--_n._ IMPUL'SION,
impelling force: instigation.--_adj._ IMPULS'IVE, having the power of
impelling: actuated by mental impulse: (_mech._) acting by impulse: not
continuous.--_adv._ IMPULS'IVELY.--_n._ IMPULS'IVENESS. [L. _impulsus_,
pressure--_impell[)e]re_.]

IMPUNITY, im-p[=u]n'i-ti, _n._ freedom or safety from punishment: exemption
from injury or loss. [Fr.,--L. _impunitat-em_--_in_, not, _poena_,
punishment.]

IMPURE, im-p[=u]r', _adj._ mixed with other substances: defiled by sin:
unholy: unchaste: unclean.--_adv._ IMPURE'LY.--_ns._ IMPUR'ITY,
IMPURE'NESS, quality of being impure.

IMPURPLE, im-pur'pl. Same as EMPURPLE.

IMPUTE, im-p[=u]t', _v.t._ to reckon as belonging to (in a bad sense): to
charge: (_theol._) to attribute vicariously: (_rare_) to take account
of.--_adj._ IMPUT'ABLE, capable of being imputed or charged:
attributable.--_ns._ IMPUT'ABLENESS, IMPUTABIL'ITY.--_adv._
IMPUT'ABLY.--_n._ IMPUT[=A]'TION, act of imputing or charging: censure:
reproach: the reckoning as belonging to.--_adjs._ IMPUT'ATIVE, imputed;
IMPUT'ATIVELY.--_n._ IMPUT'ER. [Fr. _imputer_--L. _imput[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _put[=a]re_, to reckon.]

IN, in, _prep._ denotes presence or situation in place, time, or
circumstances--within, during: consisting of: because of: by or
through.--_adv._ within: not out: in addition to, thrown in.--_n._ in
politics, a member of the party in office: a corner.--_adj._ IN'-AND-IN',
from animals of the same parentage: with constant and close
interaction.--_n._ a game with four dice.--IN AS FAR AS, to the extent
that; IN AS MUCH AS, INASMUCH AS, considering that; IN ITSELF,
intrinsically, apart from relations; IN THAT, for the reason that.--INS AND
OUTS, nooks and corners: the whole details of any matter.--BE IN FOR A
THING, to be destined to receive a thing; BE IN IT (_slang_), to be getting
on successfully, esp. in a game; BE IN WITH, to have intimacy or
familiarity with. [A.S. _in_; Dut., Ger. _in_, Ice. _í_; W. _yn_, L. _in_,
Gr. _en_. A.S. also had _innan_, within; cf. Old High Ger. _innana_, Sw.
_innan._ In A.S. the prep. _in_ was often interchangeable with the related
_on_.]

INABILITY, in-a-bil'i-ti, _n._ want of sufficient power: incapacity.

INABSTINENCE, in-ab'sti-nens, _n._ want of abstinence.

INACCESSIBLE, in-ak-ses'i-bl, _adj._ not to be reached, obtained, or
approached.--_ns._ INACCESS'IBILITY, INACCESS'IBLENESS.--_adv._
INACCESS'IBLY.

INACCURATE, in-ak'k[=u]r-[=a]t, _adj._ not exact or correct:
erroneous.--_n._ INAC'CURACY, want of exactness: mistake.--_adv._
INAC'CURATELY.

INACTIVE, in-akt'iv, _adj._ having no power to move: idle: lazy: (_chem._)
not showing any action.--_n._ INAC'TION, idleness: rest.--_adv._
INACT'IVELY.--_n._ INACTIV'ITY, idleness.

INADAPTABLE, in-a-dap'ta-bl, _adj._ that cannot be adapted.--_n._
INADAPT[=A]'TION.--_adj._ INADAP'TIVE.

INADEQUATE, in-ad'e-kw[=a]t, _adj._ insufficient.--_ns._ INAD'EQUACY,
INAD'EQUATENESS, insufficiency.--_adv._ INAD'EQUATELY.

INADMISSIBLE, in-ad-mis'i-bl, _adj._ not allowable.--_n._
INADMISSIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INADMISS'IBLY.

INADVERTENT, in-ad-v[.e]rt'ent, _adj._ inattentive.--_ns._ INADVERT'ENCE,
INADVERT'ENCY, negligence: oversight.--_adv._ INADVERT'ENTLY.

INAIDABLE, in-[=a]d'a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) that cannot be aided.

INALIENABLE, in-[=a]l'yen-a-bl, _adj._ not capable of being
transferred.--_ns._ INALIENABIL'ITY, INAL'IENABLENESS.--_adv._
INAL'IENABLY.

INALTERABLE, in-awl'ter-a-bl, _adj._ unalterable.--_n._ INALTERABIL'ITY.

INAMORATA, in-am-o-rä'ta, _n.fem._ a woman with whom one is in
love:--_masc._ INAMORA'TO. [It. _innamorata_--Low L. _inamor[=a]re_, to
cause to love--L. _in_, in, _amor_, love.]

INANE, in-[=a]n', _adj._ empty, void: void of intelligence: useless.--_ns._
INANI'TION, exhaustion from want of food; INAN'ITY, senselessness:
worthlessness: any kind of vain frivolity. [L. _inanis_.]

INANIMATE, -D, in-an'im-[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ without animation or life: dead:
spiritless: dull.--_ns._ INAN'IMATENESS, INANIM[=A]'TION.

INAPPEASABLE, in-ap-p[=e]z'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be appeased.

INAPPLICABLE, in-ap'plik-a-bl, _adj._ not applicable or suitable.--_ns._
INAPPLICABIL'ITY, INAP'PLICABLENESS.

INAPPOSITE, in-ap'poz-it, _adj._ not apposite, suitable, or
pertinent.--_adv._ INAP'POSITELY.

INAPPRECIABLE, in-ap-pr[=e]'shi-a-bl, _adj._ not appreciable or able to be
valued.--_adj._ INAPPR[=E]'CI[=A]TIVE, not valuing justly or at all.

INAPPREHENSIBLE, in-ap-pre-hen'si-bl, _adj._ not apprehensible or
intelligible.--_n._ INAPPREHEN'SION.--_adj._ INAPPREHEN'SIVE.

INAPPROACHABLE, in-ap-pr[=o]ch'a-bl, _adj._ inaccessible.--_adv._
INAPPROACH'ABLY.

INAPPROPRIATE, in-ap-pr[=o]'pri-[=a]t, _adj._ not suitable.--_adv._
INAPPR[=O]'PRIATELY.--_n._ INAPPR[=O]'PRIATENESS.

INAPT, in-apt', _adj._ not apt: unfit, or unqualified.--_ns._ INAPT'ITUDE,
INAPT'NESS, unfitness, awkwardness.--_adv._ INAPT'LY.

INARABLE, in-ar'a-bl, _adj._ not arable.

INARCHING, in-ärch'ing, _n._ a method of grafting by uniting, without
separating from the original stem.--Also ENARCH'ING.

INARM, in-ärm', _v.t._ to encircle.

INARTICULATE, in-är-tik'[=u]l-[=a]t, _adj._ not distinct, incapable of
speaking distinctly: (_zool._) not jointed.--_adv._ INARTIC'ULATELY.--_ns._
INARTIC'ULATENESS, INARTICUL[=A]'TION, indistinctness of sounds in
speaking.

INARTIFICIAL, in-ärt-i-fish'yal, _adj._ not done by art: simple.--_adv._
INARTIFIC'IALLY.

INARTISTIC, -AL, in-ar-tis'tik, -al, _adj._ not artistic: deficient in
appreciation of works of art.--_adv._ INARTIS'TICALLY.

INASMUCH, in-az-much'. See IN.

INATTENTIVE, in-at-tent'iv, _adj._ careless, not fixing the mind to
attention.--_ns._ INATTEN'TION, INATTENT'IVENESS.--_adv._ INATTENT'IVELY.

INAUDIBLE, in-awd'i-bl, _adj._ not able to be heard.--_ns._ INAUDIBIL'ITY,
INAUD'IBLENESS.--_adv._ INAUD'IBLY.

INAUGURATE, in-aw'g[=u]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to induct formally into an office:
to cause to begin: to make a public exhibition of for the first
time.--_adjs._ INAU'GURAL, INAU'GUR[=A]TORY, pertaining to, or done at, an
inauguration.--_ns._ INAUGUR[=A]'TION, act of inaugurating;
INAU'GUR[=A]TOR, one who inaugurates.--_adj._ INAU'GURATORY. [L.
_inaugur[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

INAURATE, in-aw'r[=a]t, _adj._ having a golden lustre: covered with gold.

INAUSPICIOUS, in-aw-spish'us, _adj._ not auspicious: ill-omened:
unlucky.--_adv._ INAUSPIC'IOUSLY.--_n._ INAUSPIC'IOUSNESS.

INBEING, in'b[=e]-ing, _n._ inherent existence.

INBOARD, in'b[=o]rd, _adv._ within the hull or interior of a ship: toward
or nearer to the centre.

INBOND, in'bond, _adj._ laid with its length across the thickness of a
wall:--opp. to _Outbond_, where the brick or stone is laid with its length
parallel to the face of the wall.

INBORN, in'bawrn, _adj._ born in or with: implanted by nature.

INBREAK, in'br[=a]k, _n._ a violent rush in: irruption:--opp. to
_Outbreak_.

INBREATHE, in'br[=e]th, _v.t._ to breathe into.

INBREED, in-br[=e]d', _v.t._ to breed or generate within: to breed
in-and-in.--_pa.p._ IN'BRED, bred within, inherent, intrinsic.

INBURNING, in'burn-ing, _adj._ (_Spens._) burning within.

INBURST, in'burst, _n._ an irruption:--opp. to _Outburst_.

INBY, INBYE, in-b[=i]', _adv._ (_Scot._) toward the interior, as of a house
from the door, or a mine from the shaft. [_In_ and _by_.]

INCA, ing'ka, _n._ the name of the ancient kings and princes of
Peru:--_pl._ INCAS (ing'kaz). [Sp. _inca_--Peruvian _inca_.]

INCAGE, in-k[=a]j'. Same as ENCAGE.

INCALCULABLE, in-kal'k[=u]-la-bl, _adj._ not calculable or able to be
reckoned.--_ns._ INCALCULABIL'ITY, INCAL'CULABLENESS.--_adv._
INCAL'CULABLY.

INCALESCENT, in-kal-es'ent, _adj._ growing warm.--_n._ INCALESC'ENCE. [L.
_incalescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _incalesc[)e]re_--_in_, in,
_calesc[)e]re_, inceptive of _cal[=e]re_, to be warm.]

INCAMERATION, in-kam-[.e]r-[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of making over to a
government a fund as a source of revenue, esp. an annexation to the papal
exchequer. [L. _in_, in, _camera_, a chamber.]

INCANDESCENT, in-kan-des'ent, _adj._ white or glowing with heat: rendered
luminous by heat.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to glow with heat, to cause to
glow.--_n._ INCANDESC'ENCE, a white heat.--INCANDESCENT LIGHT, a brilliant
white light produced by a resisting conductor under an electric current, or
by coal-gas burnt under a mantle or hood of the oxide of didymium and
others of the alkaline earths. [L.,--_in_, in,
_candesc[)e]re_--_cand[=e]re_, to glow.]

INCANTATION, in-kan-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a formula of words said or sung in
connection with certain ceremonies for purposes of enchantment.--_n._
IN'CANT[=A]TOR.--_adj._ INCAN'TATORY. [L. _incantation-em_--_incant[=a]re_,
to sing a magical formula over.]

INCAPABLE, in-k[=a]p'a-bl, _adj._ not capable: insufficient, unable:
lacking mental capacity: unconscious of: helplessly drunk:
disqualified.--_n._ one lacking capacity.--_n._ INCAPABIL'ITY.--_adv._
INCAP'ABLY.

INCAPACIOUS, in-kap-[=a]'shus, _adj._ not large, narrow.--_n._
INCAP[=A]'CIOUSNESS.

INCAPACITATE, in-kap-as'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to deprive of capacity: to make
incapable: to disqualify.--_ns._ INCAPACIT[=A]'TION, the act of
disqualifying; INCAPAC'ITY, want of capacity or power of mind: inability:
legal disqualification.

INCARCERATE, in-kär's[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to imprison: to confine.--_n._
INCARCER[=A]'TION, imprisonment: (_surg._) obstinate constriction or
strangulation. [L. _in_, in, _carcer_, a prison.]

INCARDINATE, in-kar'di-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to attach as a cardinal part, as a
priest to his church.--_adj._ a perversion of _incarnate_.

INCARNADINE, in-kär'na-din, _v.t._ to dye of a red colour.--_adj._
carnation-coloured.

INCARNATE, in-kär'n[=a]t, _v.t._ to embody in flesh.--_v.i._ to form flesh,
heal.--_adj._ invested with flesh.--_n._ INCARN[=A]'TION, act of embodying
in flesh: (_theol._) the union of the divine nature with the human in the
divine person of Christ: an incarnate form: manifestation, visible
embodiment: (_surg._) the process of healing, or forming new flesh. [Low.
L. _incarn[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--L. _in_, in, _caro_, _carnis_, flesh.]

INCASE, INCASEMENT. See ENCASE, ENCASEMENT.

INCAST, in'käst, _n._ something thrown in in addition by way of giving good
measure.

INCATENATION, in-ka-te-n[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of chaining and linking
together.

INCAUTIOUS, in-kaw'shus, _adj._ not cautious or careful.--_ns._ INCAU'TION,
INCAU'TIOUSNESS, want of caution.--_adv._ INCAU'TIOUSLY.

INCAVO, in-kä'v[=o], _n._ the incised part in an intaglio. [It.,--L. _in_,
in, _cavus_, hollow.]

INCEDINGLY, in-s[=e]d'ing-li, _adv._ (_rare_) triumphantly. [L.
_inced[)e]re_, to march along.]

INCELEBRITY, in-sel-eb'ri-ti, _n._ lack of celebrity.

INCENDIARY, in-sen'di-ar-i, _n._ one that sets fire to a building, &c.,
maliciously: one who promotes quarrels:--_pl._ INCEN'DIARIES.--_adj._
wilfully setting fire to: relating to incendiarism: tending to excite
quarrels.--_n._ INCEN'DIARISM.--_adj._ INCEND'IOUS (_obs._), promoting
faction. [L. _incendiarius_--_incendium_--_incend[)e]re_, _incensum_, to
kindle.]

INCENSE, in-sens', _v.t._ to inflame with anger: to incite, urge: to
perfume with incense.--_n._ IN'CENSE, odour of spices burned in religious
rites: the materials so burned: pleasing perfume: (_fig._) homage,
adulation.--_adj._ IN'CENSE-BREATH'ING, exhaling incense or
fragrance.--_ns._ INCENSE'MENT (_Shak._), state of being inflamed with
anger; INCENS'OR (_obs._), a censer.

INCENTIVE, in-sent'iv, _adj._ inciting, encouraging: (_Milt._)
igniting.--_n._ that which incites to action or moves the mind: motive. [L.
_incentivus_, striking up a tune--_incin[)e]re_--_in_, in, _can[)e]re_, to
sing.]

INCEPTION, in-sep'shun, _n._ a beginning.--_v.i._ INCEPT', to commence,
esp. the period of candidature for the degree of master of arts, or a
period of licensed teaching.--_adj._ INCEP'TIVE, beginning or marking the
beginning.--_adv._ INCEP'TIVELY, in a manner denoting beginning.--_n._
INCEP'TOR. [L. _inceptionem_--_incip[)e]re_, _inceptum_, to begin--_in_,
on, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

INCERTAIN, in-ser't[=a]n, _adj._ uncertain.--_ns._ INCER'TAINTY,
INCER'TITUDE, want of certainty.

INCESSANT, in-ses'ant, _adj._ uninterrupted: continual.--_adv._
INCESS'ANTLY, unceasingly: (_obs._) immediately. [L. _incessans_,
_-antis_--_in_, not, _cess[=a]re_, to cease.]

INCEST, in'sest, _n._ sexual intercourse within the prohibited degrees of
kindred.--_adj._ INCEST'[=U]OUS, guilty of incest.--_adv._
INCEST'UOUSLY.--_n._ INCEST'UOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _incestus_--_in_, not,
_castus_, chaste.]

INCH, insh, _n._ the twelfth part of a foot: proverbially, a small distance
or degree: (_Shak._) a critical moment.--_v.i._ to move by slow
degrees.--_adj._ INCHED, containing inches: marked with inches.--_adv._
INCH'MEAL, by inches or small degrees: gradually.--INCH BY INCH, BY INCHES,
by small degrees; EVERY INCH, entirely, thoroughly. [A.S. _ynce_, an
inch--L. _uncia_, the twelfth part of anything, an inch, also an ounce
(twelfth of a pound).]

INCH, insh, _n._ an island. [Gael, _innis_, an island.]

INCHASE, in-ch[=a]s'. See ENCHASE.

INCHOATE, in'k[=o]-[=a]t, _adj._ only begun: unfinished, rudimentary: not
established.--_v.t._ (_Browning_) to begin.--_adv._ IN'CHOATELY.--_n._
INCHO[=A]'TION, beginning: rudimentary state.--_adj._ INCH[=O]'ATIVE,
incipient. [L. _incho[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to begin.]

INCIDENT, in'si-dent, _adj._ falling upon: liable to occur: naturally
belonging to anything, or following therefrom.--_n._ that which happens: an
event: a subordinate action: an episode.--_n._ IN'CIDENCE, the manner of
falling: bearing or _onus_, as of a tax that falls unequally: the falling
of a ray of heat, light, &c. on a body: (_geom._) the falling of a point on
a line, or a line on a plane.--_adj._ INCIDENT'AL, occurring as a result,
concomitant: occasional, casual.--_adv._ INCIDENT'ALLY.--_n._
INCIDENT'ALNESS.--ANGLE OF INCIDENCE, the angle at which a ray of light or
radiant heat falls upon a surface. [Fr.,--L. _inc[)i]dens_--_in_, on,
_cad[)e]re_, to fall.]

INCINERATION, in-sin-[.e]r-[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of reducing to ashes by
combustion.--_v.t._ INCIN'ERATE, to burn to ashes.--_n._ INCIN'ERATOR, a
furnace for consuming anything. [L. _inciner[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in,
_cinis_, _cineris_, ashes.]

INCIPIENT, in-sip'i-ent, _adj._ beginning.--_ns._ INCIP'IENCE,
INCIP'IENCY.--_adv._ INCIP'IENTLY. [Pr.p. of L. _incip[)e]re_.]

INCISE, in-siz', _v.t._ to cut into: to cut or gash: to engrave.--_adj._
INCIS'IFORM, shaped like an incisor-tooth.--_n._ INCIS'ION, the act of
cutting into a substance: a cut: a gash.--_adj._ INC[=I]'SIVE, having the
quality of cutting into: trenchant: acute: sarcastic.--_adv._
INC[=I]'SIVELY.--_ns._ INC[=I]'SIVENESS; INC[=I]'SOR, a cutting or fore
tooth.--_adjs._ INCIS[=O]'RIAL, INC[=I]'SORY.--_n._ INCIS'URE, a cut,
incision. [Fr. _inciser_--L. _inc[=i]d[)e]re_, _incisum_--_in_, into,
_cæd[)e]re_, to cut.]

INCITE, in-s[=i]t', _v.t._ to rouse: to move the mind to action: to
encourage: to goad.--_ns._ INCIT'ANT, that which incites: a stimulant;
INCIT[=A]'TION, the act of inciting or rousing: an incentive.--_adj._ and
_n._ INCIT'ATIVE.--_ns._ INCITE'MENT; INCIT'ER.--_adv._ INCIT'INGLY.
[Fr.,--L. _incit[=a]re_--_in_, in, _cit[=a]re_, to rouse--_ci[=e]re_, to
put in motion.]

INCIVIL, in-siv'il, _adj._ (_Shak._) uncivil.--_n._ INCIVIL'ITY, want of
civility or courtesy: impoliteness: an act of discourtesy (in this sense
has a _pl._, INCIVIL'ITIES).

INCIVISM, in'si-vizm, _n._ neglect of one's duty as a citizen, conduct
unbecoming a good citizen. [Fr.]

INCLASP, in-klasp', _v.t._ to clasp to: to enclasp.

INCLAVE, in-kl[=a]v', _adj._ (_her._) shaped, or cut at the edge, like a
series of dovetails, as the border of an ordinary.--_adj._ INCLAV[=A]T'ED,
made fast, nailed. [L. _in_, in, _clavus_, a nail.]

INCLEARING, in'kl[=e]r-ing, _n._ the total amount in cheques and bills of
exchange chargeable to a bank by the Clearing-house:--opp. to
_Outclearing_.

INCLEMENT, in-klem'ent, _adj._ unmerciful: stormy: very cold: harsh:
unpropitious.--_n._ INCLEM'ENCY.--_adv._ INCLEM'ENTLY.

INCLINE, in-kl[=i]n', _v.i._ to lean towards: to deviate from a line
towards an object: to be disposed: to have some desire.--_v.t._ to cause to
bend towards: to give a leaning to: to dispose: to bend.--_n._ an inclined
plane: a regular ascent or descent.--_adj._ INCLIN'ABLE, leaning: tending:
somewhat disposed.--_ns._ INCLIN'ABLENESS; INCLIN[=A]'TION, the act of
bending towards: tendency, disposition of mind: natural aptness: favourable
disposition, preference, affection: act of bowing: angle between two lines
or planes: the angle a line or plane makes with the horizon.--_p.adj._
INCLINED', bent.--_pr.p._ and _n._ INCLIN'ING, inclination: (_Shak._) side,
party.--_n._ INCLINOM'ETER, an instrument for measuring the vertical
element of the magnetic force.--INCLINED PLANE, one of the so-called
mechanical powers, a slope or plane up which may be rolled a weight one
could not lift. [Fr.,--L. _inclin[=a]re_--_in_, towards, _clin[=a]re_, to
lean.]

INCLIP, in-klip', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to embrace, surround.

INCLOSE, INCLOSURE. See ENCLOSE.

INCLOUD. See ENCLOUD.

INCLUDE, in-kl[=oo]d', _v.t._ to close or shut in: to embrace within
limits: to contain: to comprise: (_Shak._) to conclude.--_adj._
INCLUD'IBLE.--_n._ INCL[=U]'SION, act of including: that which is included:
restriction, limitation.--_adj._ INCLU'SIVE, shutting in: enclosing: (with
_of_) comprehending the stated limit or extremes.--_adv._ INCLU'SIVELY. [L.
_includ[)e]re_, _inclusum_--_in_, in, _claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

INCOERCIBLE, in-ko-[.e]rs'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be liquefied by
pressure, said of certain gases.

INCOG, in-kog', _adv._ an abbreviation of incognito.

INCOGITABLE, in-koj'i-ta-bl, _adj._ unthinkable.--_ns._ INCOGITABIL'ITY,
INCOG'ITANCY.--_adjs._ INCOG'ITANT, INCOG'IT[=A]TIVE. [L. _in_, not,
_cogit[=a]re_, to think.]

INCOGNISABLE, INCOGNIZABLE, in-kog'niz-a-bl, or in-kon'iz-a-bl, _adj._ that
cannot be known or distinguished.--_adjs._ INCOG'NISANT, INCOG'NIZANT, not
cognisant.--_n._ INCOG'NIZANCE, failure to recognise.--_n._
INCOGNOSCIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ INCOGNOS'CIBLE.

INCOGNITO, in-kog'ni-t[=o], _adj._ unknown: disguised: under an assumed
title.--_n._ a man unknown (_fem._ INCOG'NITA): concealment. [It.,--L.
_incognitus_--_in_, not, _cognitus_, known--_cognosc[)e]re_, to know.]

INCOHERENT, in-k[=o]-h[=e]r'ent, _adj._ not connected: loose:
incongruous.--_n._ INCOHER'ENCE, want of coherence or connection:
incongruity.--_adv._ INCOHER'ENTLY.--_n._ INCOH[=E]'SION.

INCOMBUSTIBLE, in-kom-bust'i-bl, _adj._ incapable of being consumed by
fire.--_ns._ INCOMBUSTIBIL'ITY, INCOMBUST'IBLENESS.--_adv._ INCOMBUST'IBLY.

INCOME, in'kum, _n._ the gain, profit, or interest resulting from anything:
revenue: (_Shak._) arrival: (_Scot._) a disease coming without known
cause.--_n.pl._ IN'COME-BONDS, a term applied to a bastard kind of security
which has no mortgage rights, and is really only a sort of preference
share.--_ns._ IN'COMER, one who comes in: one who takes possession of a
farm, house, &c., or who comes to live in a place, not having been born
there; IN'COME-TAX, a tax directly levied on all persons having incomes
above a certain amount.--_adj._ IN'COMING, coming in, as an occupant:
accruing: (_Scot._) ensuing, next to follow.--_n._ the act of coming in:
revenue. [Eng. _in_ and _come_.]

INCOMMENSURABLE, in-kom-en's[=u]-ra-bl, _adj._ having no common
measure.--_ns._ INCOMMENSURABIL'ITY, INCOMMEN'SURABLENESS.--_adv._
INCOMMEN'SURABLY.--_adj._ INCOMMEN'SUR[=A]TE, not admitting of a common
measure: not adequate: unequal.--_adv._ INCOMMEN'SUR[=A]TELY.--_n._
INCOMMEN'SUR[=A]TENESS, the state of being incommensurate.

INCOMMISCIBLE, in-kom-is'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be mixed together. [L.
_in_, not, _commisc[=e]re_, to mix.]

INCOMMODE, in-kom-[=o]d', _v.t._ to cause trouble or inconvenience to: to
annoy: to molest.--_adj._ INCOMM[=O]'DIOUS, inconvenient: annoying.--_adv._
INCOMM[=O]'DIOUSLY.--_ns._ INCOMM[=O]'DIOUSNESS, the quality of being
incommodious; INCOMMOD'ITY, anything which causes inconvenience. [Fr.,--L.
_incommod[=a]re_--_incommodus_, inconvenient--_in_, not, _commodus_,
commodious.]

INCOMMUNICABLE, in-kom-[=u]n'i-ka-bl, _adj._ that cannot be communicated or
imparted to others.--_ns._ INCOMMUNICABIL'ITY, INCOMMUN'ICABLENESS.--_adv._
INCOMMUN'ICABLY.--_adj._ INCOMMUN'ICATIVE, not disposed to hold communion
with, or to give information: unsocial.--_adv._ INCOMMUN'ICATIVELY.--_n._
INCOMMUN'ICATIVENESS.

INCOMMUTABLE, in-kom-[=u]t'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be commuted or
exchanged.--_ns._ INCOMMUTABIL'ITY, INCOMMUT'ABLENESS.--_adv._
INCOMMUT'ABLY.

INCOMPARABLE, in-kom'par-a-bl, _adj._ matchless.--_ns._ INCOMPARABIL'ITY,
INCOM'PARABLENESS.--_adv._ INCOM'PARABLY.--_adj._ INCOMPARED' (_Spens._),
peerless.

INCOMPATIBLE, in-kom-pat'i-bl, _adj._ not consistent: contradictory:
incapable of existing together in harmony: (_pl._) things which cannot
coexist.--_ns._ INCOMPATIBIL'ITY, INCOMPAT'IBLENESS.--_adv._ INCOMPAT'IBLY.

INCOMPETENT, in-kom'pe-tent, _adj._ wanting adequate powers: wanting the
proper legal qualifications: insufficient.--_ns._ INCOM'PETENCE,
INCOM'PETENCY.--_adv._ INCOM'PETENTLY.

INCOMPLETE, in-kom-pl[=e]t', _adj._ imperfect.--_adv._
INCOMPLETE'LY.--_ns._ INCOMPLETE'NESS, INCOMPL[=E]'TION.

INCOMPLIANCE, in-kom-pl[=i]'ans, _n._ refusal to comply: an unaccommodating
disposition.--_adj._ INCOMPL[=I]'ANT.

INCOMPOSED, in-kom-p[=o]zd', _adj._ (_Milt._) discomposed.

INCOMPOSITE, in-kom'poz-it, _adj._ simple.--INCOMPOSITE NUMBERS, same as
_prime numbers_ (see PRIME).

INCOMPOSSIBLE, in-kom-pos'i-bl, _adj._ incapable of coexisting.--_n._
INCOMPOSSIBIL'ITY.

INCOMPREHENSIBLE, in-kom-pre-hen'si-bl, _adj._ not capable of being
understood: not to be contained within limits.--_ns._ INCOMPREHENSIBIL'ITY,
INCOMPREHEN'SIBLENESS, INCOMPREHEN'SION.--_adv._ INCOMPREHEN'SIBLY.--_adj._
INCOMPREHEN'SIVE, limited.--_n._ INCOMPREHEN'SIVENESS.

INCOMPRESSIBLE, in-kom-pres'i-bl, _adj._ not to be compressed into smaller
bulk.--_ns._ INCOMPRESSIBIL'ITY, INCOMPRESS'IBLENESS.

INCOMPUTABLE, in-kom-p[=u]t'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be computed or
reckoned.

INCONCEIVABLE, in-kon-s[=e]v'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be conceived by the
mind: incomprehensible: involving a contradiction in terms: physically
impossible.--_ns._ INCONCEIVABIL'ITY, INCONCEIV'ABLENESS.--_adv._
INCONCEIV'ABLY.

INCONCINNITY, in-kon-sin'i-ti, _n._ want of congruousness or
proportion.--_adj._ INCONCINN'OUS. [L.]

INCONCLUSIVE, in-kon-kl[=oo]s'iv, _adj._ not settling a point in debate,
indeterminate, indecisive.--_adv._ INCONCLUS'IVELY.--_ns._
INCONCLUS'IVENESS, INCONCLU'SION.

INCONDENSABLE, in-kon-den'sa-bl, _adj._ not condensable.

INCONDITE, in-kon'd[=i]t, _adj._ not well put together, irregular,
unfinished. [L. _inconditus_--_in_, not, _cond[)e]re_, _conditum_, to
build.]

INCONGRUOUS, in-kong'gr[=oo]-us, _adj._ inconsistent: not fitting well
together, disjointed: unsuitable--also INCON'GRUENT.--_ns._ INCONGRU'ITY,
INCON'GRUOUSNESS.--_adv._ INCON'GRUOUSLY.

INCONSCIENT, in-kon'shi-ent, _adj._ unconscious.--_adj._ INCON'SCIOUS,
unconscious.

INCONSECUTIVE, in-kon-sek'[=u]-tiv, _adj._ not succeeding in regular
order.--_n._ INCONSEC'UTIVENESS.

INCONSEQUENT, in-kon'se-kwent, _adj._ not following from the premises:
illogical: irrelevant: unreasonable, inconsistent.--_n._
INCON'SEQUENCE.--_adj._ INCONSEQUEN'TIAL, not following from the premises:
of no consequence or value.--_advs._ INCONSEQUEN'TIALLY, INCON'SEQUENTLY.

INCONSIDERABLE, in-kon-sid'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ not worthy of notice:
unimportant.--_n._ INCONSID'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ INCONSID'ERABLY.

INCONSIDERATE, in-kon-sid'[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ not considerate: thoughtless:
inattentive.--_adv._ INCONSID'ERATELY.--_ns._ INCONSID'ERATENESS,
INCONSIDER[=A]'TION.

INCONSISTENT, in-kon-sist'ent, _adj._ not consistent: not suitable or
agreeing with: intrinsically incompatible: self-contradictory: changeable,
fickle.--_ns._ INCONSIST'ENCE, INCONSIST'ENCY.--_adv._ INCONSIST'ENTLY.

INCONSOLABLE, in-kon-s[=o]l'a-bl, _adj._ not to be comforted.--_n._
INCONSOL'ABLENESS.--_adv._ INCONSOL'ABLY.

INCONSONANT, in-kon's[=o]-nant, _adj._ not consonant.--_n._
INCON'SONANCE.--_adv._ INCON'SONANTLY.

INCONSPICUOUS, in-kon-spik'[=u]-us, _adj._ not conspicuous: scarcely
discernible.--_adv._ INCONSPIC'UOUSLY.--_n._ INCONSPIC'UOUSNESS.

INCONSTANT, in-kon'stant, _adj._ subject to change: fickle.--_n._
INCON'STANCY.--_adv._ INCON'STANTLY.

INCONSUMABLE, in-kon-s[=u]m'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be consumed or
wasted.--_adv._ INCONSUM'ABLY.

INCONTESTABLE, in-kon-test'a-bl, _adj._ too clear to be called in question:
undeniable.--_n._ INCONTESTABIL'ITY.--_adv._ INCONTEST'ABLY.

INCONTIGUOUS, in-kon-tig'[=u]-us, _adj._ not adjoining or touching.--_adv._
INCONTIG'UOUSLY.--_n._ INCONTIG'UOUSNESS.

INCONTINENT, in-kon'ti-nent, _adj._ not restraining the passions or
appetites: unchaste: (_med._) unable to restrain natural discharges or
evacuations: (_coll._) immediate, off-hand.--_adv._ without delay: at
once.--_ns._ INCON'TINENCE, INCON'TINENCY.--_adv._ INCON'TINENTLY, without
restraint: forthwith, immediately.

INCONTROLLABLE, in-kon-tr[=o]'la-bl, _adj._ uncontrollable.--_adv._
INCONTROL'LABLY.

INCONTROVERTIBLE, in-kon-tro-v[.e]rt'i-bl, _adj._ too clear to be called in
question.--_n._ INCONTROVERTIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INCONTROVERT'IBLY.

INCONVENIENT, in-kon-v[=e]n'yent, _adj._ unsuitable: causing trouble or
uneasiness: increasing difficulty: incommodious.--_v.t._ INCONVEN'IENCE, to
trouble or incommode.--_ns._ INCONVEN'IENCE, INCONVEN'IENCY.--_adv._
INCONVEN'IENTLY.

INCONVERSABLE, in-kon-vers'a-bl, _adj._ indisposed to conversation,
unsocial.

INCONVERSANT, in-kon'ver-sant, _adj._ not versed in.

INCONVERTIBLE, in-kon-v[.e]rt'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be changed or
exchanged.--_n._ INCONVERTIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INCONVERT'IBLY.

INCONVINCIBLE, in-kon-vin'si-bl, _adj._ not capable of being convinced.

INCONY, in'kon-i, _adj._ (_Shak._) fine, delicate, pretty. [Prob. from Fr.
_inconnu_, unknown--L. _incognitus_ (see INCOG). Cf. _unco_, in the sense
of _strange_, _rare_, _fine_, abbreviated from _uncouth_.]

INCO-ORDINATE, in-ko-or'di-n[=a]t, _adj._ not in co-ordinate
relation.--_n._ INCO-ORDIN[=A]'TION.

INCORONATE, -D, in-kor'o-n[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ crowned.

INCORPORATE, in-kor'po-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to form into a body: to combine into
one mass, or embody: to unite: to form into a corporation.--_v.i._ to unite
into one mass: to become part of another body.--_adj._ united in one body:
(_rare_) not having a material body.--_n._ INCORPOR[=A]'TION, act of
incorporating: state of being incorporated: formation of a legal or
political body: an association: (_gram._) polysynthesis.--_adjs._
INCOR'PORATIVE, characterised by grammatical incorporation--also
_Polysynthetic_; INCORP[=O]'REAL, INCOR'PORAL (_Shak._), not having a body:
spiritual: intangible.--_ns._ INCORP[=O]'REALISM, INCORPOR[=E]'ITY,
INCORPOREAL'ITY.--_adv._ INCORP[=O]'REALLY.

INCORPSE, in-korps', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to incorporate.

INCORRECT, in-kor-ekt, _adj._ containing faults: not accurate: not correct
in manner or character: (_Shak._) not regulated.--_adv._
INCORRECT'LY.--_n._ INCORRECT'NESS.

INCORRIGIBLE, in-kor'i-ji-bl, _adj._ and _n._ bad beyond correction or
reform.--_ns._ INCORR'IGIBLENESS, INCORRIGIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INCORR'IGIBLY.

INCORRODIBLE, in-ko-r[=o]'di-bl, _adj._ incapable of being corroded.

INCORRUPT, in-kor-upt', _adj._ sound: pure: not depraved: not to be tempted
by bribes.--_adj._ INCORRUPT'IBLE, not capable of decay: that cannot be
bribed: inflexibly just.--_ns._ INCORRUPT'IBLENESS,
INCORRUPTIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INCORRUPT'IBLY.--_ns._ INCORRUP'TION,
INCORRUPT'NESS.--_adj._ INCORRUPT'IVE.--_adv._ INCORRUPT'LY.

INCRASSATE, in-kras'[=a]t, _v.t._ to make thick.--_v.i._ (_med._) to become
thicker.--_adj._ made thick or fat: (_bot._) becoming thick by
degrees.--_n._ INCRASS[=A]'TION.--_adj._ INCRASS'ATIVE. [Low L.
_incrass[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--L. _in_, in, _crass[=a]re_, to make thick.]

INCREASE, in-kr[=e]s', _v.i._ to grow in size: to become greater: to
advance.--_v.t._ to make greater: to advance: to extend: to
aggravate.--_adj._ INCREAS'ABLE.--_ns._ INCREAS'ABLENESS; IN'CREASE,
growth: addition to the original stock: profit: produce: progeny.--_adj._
INCREASE'FUL (_Shak._), abundant of produce.--_adv._ INCREAS'INGLY, in the
way of increase. [M. E. _incresen_--_en_ (L. _in_), and O. Fr. _creisser_,
_croistre_--L. _cresc[)e]re_, to grow.]

INCREATE, in'kre-[=a]t, _adj._ (_arch._) uncreated.

INCREDIBLE, in-kred'i-bl, _adj._ surpassing belief.--_ns._ INCREDIBIL'ITY,
quality of being incredible, an incredible thing; INCRED'IBLENESS,
incredibility.--_adv._ INCRED'IBLY.

INCREDULOUS, in-kred'[=u]-lus, _adj._ hard of belief.--_ns._
INCRED[=U]'LITY, INCRED'ULOUSNESS.--_adv._ INCRED'ULOUSLY.

INCREMATION, in-kre-m[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of burning a dead
body.--_v.t._ INCR[=E]'MATE, to burn. [L. _in_, in, _crem[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to burn.]

INCREMENT, in'kre-ment, _n._ act of increasing or becoming greater: growth:
that by which anything is increased: (_math._) the finite increase of a
variable quantity: (_rhet._) an adding of particulars without climax (see 2
Peter, i. 5-7): (_gram._) a syllable in excess of the number of the
nominative singular or the second pers. sing. present indicative.--_adj._
INCREMENT'AL.--UNEARNED INCREMENT, any exceptional increase in the value of
land, houses, &c., not due to the owner's labour or outlay. [L.
_incrementum_--_incresc[)e]re_, to increase.]

INCRESCENT, in-kres'ent, _adj._ increasing, growing (of the moon).

INCRIMINATE, in-krim'in-[=a]t, _v.t._ to charge with a crime or fault, to
criminate: to characterise as criminal or as accessory to crime.--_adj._
INCRIM'IN[=A]TORY.

INCRUST. See ENCRUST.

INCUBATE, in'k[=u]-b[=a]t, _v.i._ to sit on eggs to hatch them.--_v.t._ to
produce by hatching: (_fig._) to turn over in the mind, ponder over.--_n._
INCUB[=A]'TION, the act of sitting on eggs to hatch them: (_fig._)
meditation on schemes: (_med._) the period between the implanting of a
disease and its development.--_adjs._ IN'CUB[=A]TIVE, INCUB[=A]'TORY.--_n._
IN'CUB[=A]TOR, a machine for hatching eggs by artificial heat. [L.
_incub[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, upon, _cub[=a]re_, to lie.]

INCUBUS, in'k[=u]-bus, _n._ the nightmare: a male demon formerly supposed
to consort with women in their sleep: any oppressive or stupefying
influence:--_pl._ IN'CUBUSES, INCUBI (in'k[=u]-b[=i]). [L.
_incub[=a]re_--_in_, upon, _cub[=a]re_, to lie.]

INCULCATE, in-kul'k[=a]t, _v.t._ to enforce by frequent admonitions or
repetitions.--_ns._ INCULC[=A]'TION; INCUL'C[=A]TOR. [L. _inculc[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_in_, into, _calc[=a]re_, to tread--_calx_, the heel.]

INCULPABLE, in-kul'pa-bl, _adj._ blameless.--_adv._ INCUL'PABLY.--_v.t._
INCUL'PATE, to bring into blame: to censure.--_n._ INCULP[=A]'TION.--_adj._
INCUL'PATORY. [Low L. _inculp[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--L. _in_, in, _culpa_, a
fault.]

INCULT, in-kult', _adj._ (_rare_) uncultivated.

INCUMBENT, in-kum'bent, _adj._ lying or resting on: lying on as a
duty.--_n._ one who holds an ecclesiastical benefice.--_n._ INCUM'BENCY, a
lying or resting on: the holding of an office: an ecclesiastical
benefice.--_adv._ INCUM'BENTLY. [L. _incumbens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_incumb[)e]re_, to lie upon.]

INCUNABULA, in-k[=u]-nab'[=u]-la, _n.pl._ books printed in the early period
of the art, before the year 1500: the cradle, birthplace, origin of a
thing. [L. _in_, in, _cunabula_, a cradle, dim. of _cunæ_, a cradle.]

INCUR, in-kur', _v.t._ to become liable to: to bring on:--_pr.p._
incur'ring; _pa.p._ incurred'. [L. _incurr[)e]re_, _incursum_--_in_, into,
_curr[)e]re_, to run.]

INCURABLE, in-k[=u]r'a-bl, _adj._ not admitting of cure or
correction.--_n._ one beyond cure.--_ns._ INCUR'ABLENESS,
INCURABIL'ITY.--_adv._ INCUR'ABLY.

INCURIOUS, in-k[=u]'ri-us, _adj._ not curious or inquisitive: inattentive:
deficient in interest.--_adv._ INC[=U]'RIOUSLY.--_ns. Inc[=u]'riousness_,
_Incurios'ity_.

INCURSION, in-kur'shun, _n._ a hostile inroad.--_adj._ INCUR'SIVE, making
an incursion or inroad. [Fr.,--L. _incursion-em_--_incurr[)e]re_.]

INCURVE, in-kurv', _v.t._ to cause to curve inward.--_v.i._ to curve
inward.--_v.t_. INCUR'V[=A]TE, to turn from a straight course.--_adj._
curved inward or upward.--_ns._ INCURV[=A]'TION, act of bending, bowing,
kneeling, &c.: the growing inward of the nails; INCUR'VATURE, any
curving.--_adj._ INCURVED' (_bot._), curving toward the axis of
growth.--_n._ INCUR'VITY, the state of being bent inward.

INCUS, in'kus, _n._ one of the bones in the tympanum or middle ear, so
called from its fancied resemblance to an anvil:--_pl._ IN'C[=U]DES. [L.,
an anvil.]

INCUSE, in-k[=u]z', _v.t._ to impress by stamping, as a coin.--_adj._
hammered.--_n._ an impression, a stamp. [L. _incusus_, pa.p. of
_incud[)e]re_--_in_, on, _cud[)e]re_, to strike.]

INCUT, in'kut, _adj._ set in by, or as if by, cutting, esp. in printing,
inserted in spaces left in the text.

INDAGATE, in'da-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to search out.--_n._ INDAG[=A]'TION.--_adj._
IN'DAG[=A]TIVE.--_n._ IN'DAG[=A]TOR.--_adj._ IN'DAG[=A]TORY. [L.
_indag[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to trace.]

INDART, in-därt', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to dart or strike in.

INDEBTED, in-det'ed, _adj._ being in debt: obliged by something
received.--_ns._ INDEBT'EDNESS, INDEBT'MENT.

INDECENT, in-d[=e]'sent, _adj._ offensive to common modesty: unbecoming:
gross, obscene.--_n._ IND[=E]'CENCY, quality of being indecent: anything
violating modesty or seemliness.--_adv._ IND[=E]'CENTLY.

INDECIDUOUS, in-de-sid'[=u]-us, _adj._ not deciduous, as leaves.--Also
INDECID'UATE.

INDECIPHERABLE, in-de-s[=i]'fer-a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being deciphered.

INDECISION, in-de-sizh'un, _n._ want of decision or resolution:
hesitation.--_adj._ INDEC[=I]'SIVE, unsettled: inconclusive.--_adv._
INDEC[=I]'SIVELY.--_n._ INDEC[=I]'SIVENESS.

INDECLINABLE, in-de-kl[=i]n'a-bl, _adj._ (_gram._) not varied by
inflection.--_adv._ INDECLIN'ABLY.

INDECOMPOSABLE, in-de-kom-p[=o]z'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be decomposed.

INDECOROUS, in-de-k[=o]'rus (sometimes in-dek'[=o]-rus), _adj._ not
becoming; violating good manners.--_adv._ INDEC[=O]'ROUSLY.--_ns_.
INDEC[=O]'ROUSNESS, INDEC[=O]'RUM, want of propriety of conduct: a breach
of decorum.

INDEED, in-d[=e]d', _adv._ in fact: in truth: in reality. It emphasises an
affirmation, marks a qualifying word or clause, a concession or admission,
or, used as an interj., it expresses surprise or interrogation.

INDEFATIGABLE, in-de-fat'i-ga-bl, _adj._ that cannot be fatigued or wearied
out: unremitting in effort.--_n._ INDEFAT'IGABLENESS.--_adv._
INDEFAT'IGABLY. [Fr.,--L. _indefatigabilis_--_in_, not, _de_,
_fatig[=a]re_, to tire.]

INDEFEASIBLE, in-de-f[=e]z'i-bl, _adj._ not to be defeated or made
void.--_n._ INDEFEASIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INDEFEAS'IBLY.

INDEFECTIBLE, in-de-fekt'i-bl, _adj._ incapable of defect: unfailing.

INDEFENSIBLE, in-de-fens'i-bl, _adj._ untenable, that cannot be maintained
or justified.--_adv._ INDEFENS'IBLY.

INDEFINABLE, in-de-f[=i]n'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be defined.--_adv._
INDEFIN'ABLY.

INDEFINITE, in-def'i-nit, _adj._ not limited: not precise or certain:
(_logic_) indeterminate in logical quantity.--_adv._ INDEF'INITELY.--_n._
INDEF'INITENESS.

INDELIBLE, in-del'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be blotted out or
effaced.--_ns._ INDELIBIL'ITY, INDEL'IBLENESS.--_adv._ INDEL'IBLY.
[Fr.,--L. _in_, not, _delebilis_--_del[=e]re_, to destroy.]

INDELICATE, in-del'i-k[=a]t, _adj._ offensive to good manners or purity of
mind: coarse.-_-n._ INDEL'ICACY.--_adv._ INDEL'ICATELY.

INDEMNIFY, in-dem'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ (with against) to secure against loss:
to make good for damage done: to give security against:--_pa.p._
indem'nified.--_ns._ INDEMNIFIC[=A]'TION, act of indemnifying: that which
indemnifies; INDEM'NITOR, one who indemnifies; INDEM'NITY, security from
damage, loss, or punishment: compensation for loss or injury.--ACT OF
INDEMNITY, an act or decree for the protection of public officers from any
technical or legal penalties or liabilities they may have been compelled to
incur. [Fr.,--L. _indemnis_, unharmed--_in_, not, _damnum_, loss,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

INDEMONSTRABLE, in-de-mon'stra-bl, _adj._ that cannot be demonstrated or
proved.--_n._ INDEMONSTRABIL'ITY.

INDENT, in-dent', _v.t._ to cut into points like teeth: to notch: to
indenture, apprentice: (_print._) to begin farther in from the margin than
the rest of a paragraph.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to move in a zigzag course: to
bargain: to make a compact.--_n._ a cut or notch in the margin: a recess
like a notch.--_n._ INDENT[=A]'TION, a hollow or depression: act of
indenting or notching: notch: recess.--_pa.p._ and _adj._ INDENT'ED, having
indentations: serrated: zigzag.--_ns._ INDEN'TION (_print._), any space
left before the beginning of lines, as in poetry; INDENT'URE, the act of
indenting, indentation: (_law_) a deed under seal, with mutual covenants,
where the edge is indented for future identification: a written agreement
between two or more parties: a contract.--_v.t._ to bind by indentures: to
indent. [Low L. _indent[=a]re_--L. _in_, in, _dens_, _dentis_, a tooth.]

INDEPENDENT, in-de-pend'ent, _adj._ (with _of_) not dependent or relying on
others: not subordinate: not subject to bias: affording a comfortable
livelihood: belonging to the Independents: (_gram._) of some parts of
speech (noun, pronoun, verb), capable of forming sentences without the
others.--_n._ one who in ecclesiastical affairs holds that every
congregation should be independent of every other and subject to no
superior authority--a Congregationalist: (_math._) not depending on another
for its value, said of a quantity or function.--_ns._ INDEPEND'ENCE,
INDEPEND'ENCY.--_adv._ INDEPEND'ENTLY.--DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE, the
document embodying the reasons for the secession of the thirteen colonies
of America from England, reported to the Continental Congress, July 4,
1776--observed in the United States as a legal holiday--INDEPENDENCE DAY.

INDESCRIBABLE, in-de-skr[=i]b'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be described:
(_pl._) applied facetiously to trousers.--_adv._ INDESCRIB'ABLY.

INDESIGNATE, in-des'ig-n[=a]t, _adj._ (_logic_) without any indication of
quantity.

INDESTRUCTIBLE, in-de-struk'ti-bl, _adj._ that cannot be destroyed.--_ns._
INDESTRUCTIBIL'ITY, INDESTRUC'TIBLENESS.--_adv._ INDESTRUC'TIBLY.

INDETERMINABLE, in-de-t[.e]r'min-a-bl, _adj._ not to be ascertained or
fixed: (_nat. hist._) not to be classified or fixed.--_n._
INDETER'MINABLENESS.--_adv._ INDETER'MINABLY.--_adj._ INDETER'MIN[=A]TE,
not determinate or fixed: uncertain: having no defined or fixed
value.--_adv._ INDETER'MIN[=A]TELY.--_ns._ INDETER'MIN[=A]TENESS,
INDETERMIN[=A]'TION, want of determination: want of fixed
direction.--_adj._ INDETER'MINED, not determined: unsettled.

INDEX, in'deks, _n._ anything that indicates or points out: a hand that
directs to anything, as the hour of the day, &c.: the forefinger:
alphabetical list of subjects treated of in a book: (_math._) the exponent
of a power:--_pl._ INDEXES (in'deks-ez), and in _math._, INDICES
(in'di-s[=e]z).--_v.t._ to provide with or place in an index.--_ns._
IN'DEX-DIG'IT, IN'DEX-FING'ER, the forefinger, or in other animals that
digit representing the human index.--_adjs._ INDEX'ICAL; IN'DEXLESS,
without an index.--INDEX EXPURGATORIUS, in the R.C. Church, an
authoritative list of books only to be read in expurgated editions; INDEX
LIBRORUM EXPURGANDORUM, or INDEX LIBRORUM PROHIBITORUM, an official list of
books which the faithful are absolutely forbidden to read at all under pain
of instant excommunication; INDEX RERUM, an index of subjects; INDEX
VERBORUM, an index of words. [L. _index_, _indicis_--_indic[=a]re_, to
show.]

INDEXTERITY, in-deks-ter'i-ti, _n._ want of dexterity.

INDIAN, in'di-an, _adj._ belonging to the Indies, East or West, or to the
aborigines of America.--_n._ a native of the Indies: a European who lives
or has lived in India: an aboriginal of America.--_ns._ IN'DIAMAN, a large
ship employed in trade, with India; IN'DIA-RUB'BER, an elastic gummy
substance, the inspissated juice of various tropical plants, extensively
used in the arts: caoutchouc.--_adj._ IN'DIC, originating or existing in
India, a term comprehensively applied to all the Aryan languages of
India.--INDIAN BERRY, a climbing Indian shrub, its fruit _Cocculus
Indicus_; INDIAN CLUB, a bottle-shaped block of wood, swung in various
motions by the arms with the view of developing the muscles of these and of
the chest, &c.; INDIAN CORN, maize, so called because brought from the West
Indies; INDIAN CRESS, an ornamental garden shrub from Peru, with orange
flowers; INDIAN FILE (see FILE); INDIAN FIRE, a pyrotechnic composition,
used as a signal-light, consisting of sulphur, realgar, and nitre; INDIAN
RED (see RED); INDIAN SUMMER, in America, a period of warm, dry, calm
weather in late autumn, with hazy atmosphere.--INDIA DOCKS, extensive docks
in London for the accommodation of vessels engaged in the West and East
India trade; INDIA INK (see INK); INDIA OFFICE, a government office in
London, where are managed the affairs of the Indian government; INDIA
PAPER, a thin yellowish printing-paper made in China and Japan from
vegetable fibre, and used in taking the finest proofs from engraved
plates--hence called INDIA PROOFS; INDIA SHAWL, a Cashmere shawl.--EAST
INDIA COMPANY, a great chartered company formed for trading with India and
the East Indies, more especially applied to the English Company,
incorporated in 1600 and abolished in 1858; EAST INDIAN, an inhabitant or a
native of the East Indies; RED INDIAN, one of the aborigines of America, so
called from the colour of the skin--(_coll._) in U.S. _Injen_, _Injun_;
WEST INDIAN, a native or an inhabitant of the West Indies. [L.
_India_--_Indus_ (Gr. _Indos_), the Indus (Pers. Hind. _Hind_; Zend
_Hindu_)--Sans. _sindhu_, a river.]

INDICATE, in'di-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to point out: to show: to give as a ground
for inferring.--_adj._ IN'DICANT, indicating.--_n._ that which
indicates.--_n._ INDIC[=A]'TION, act of indicating: mark: token:
symptom.--_adj._ INDIC'ATIVE, pointing out: giving intimation of: (_gram._)
applied to the mood of the verb which affirms or denies.--_adv._
INDIC'ATIVELY.--_n._ IN'DIC[=A]TOR, one who indicates: an instrument on a
steam-engine to show the pressure.--_adj._ IN'DIC[=A]TORY, showing. [L.
_indic[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _dic[=a]re_, to proclaim.]

INDICT, in-d[=i]t', _v.t._ to charge with a crime formally or in writing,
esp. by a grand-jury.--_adj._ INDICT'ABLE.--_ns._ INDICTEE', one who is
indicted; INDICT'MENT, formal accusation: the written accusation against
one who is to be tried by jury: (_Scots law_) the form under which a
criminal is put to trial at the instance of the Lord Advocate.--FIND AN
INDICTMENT, said of the grand-jury when they are satisfied of the truth of
the accusation, and endorse the bill, _A true bill_. [L. _indict[=a]re_,
freq. of _indic[)e]re_, _indictum_, to declare--_in_, in, _dic[)e]re_, to
say.]

INDICTION, in-dik'shun, _n._ a proclamation: a cycle of fifteen years,
instituted by Constantine the Great for fiscal purposes, and adopted by the
popes as part of their chronological system: a year bearing a number
showing its place in a fifteen years' cycle, dating from 313 A.D.

INDIFFERENT, in-dif'[.e]r-ent, _adj._ without importance: uninteresting: of
a middle quality: neutral: unconcerned.--_n._ one who is indifferent or
apathetic: that which is indifferent.--_ns._ INDIFF'ERENCE, INDIFF'ERENCY,
INDIFF'ERENTISM, indifference: (_theol._) the doctrine that religious
differences are of no moment: (_metaph._) the doctrine of absolute
identity--i.e. that to be in thought and to exist are one and the same
thing; INDIFF'ERENTIST.--_adv._ INDIFF'ERENTLY, in an indifferent manner:
tolerably: passably: without distinction, impartially.

INDIGENOUS, in-dij'en-us, _adj._ native born or originating in: produced
naturally in a country.--_adj._ and _n._ IN'DIGENE.--_adv._ INDIG'ENOUSLY.
[L. _indigena_, a native--_indu_, or _in_, and _gen_-, root of
_gign[)e]re_, to produce.]

INDIGENT, in'di-jent, _adj._ in need of anything: destitute of means of
subsistence: poor.--_n._ IN'DIGENCE.--_adv._ IN'DIGENTLY. [Fr.,--L.
_indigens_, -_entis_, pr.p. of _indig[)e]re_--_indu_, or _in_, in,
_eg[=e]re_, to need.]

INDIGEST, in-di-jest', _adj._ not digested, shapeless.--_n._ a crude mass,
disordered state of affairs.--_adj._ INDIGEST'ED, not digested: unarranged:
not methodised.--_ns._ INDIGESTIBIL'ITY, INDIGEST'ION, want of digestion:
painful digestion.--_adj._ INDIGEST'IBLE, not digestible: not easily
digested: not to be received or patiently endured.--_adv._
INDIGEST'IBLY.--_adj._ INDIGEST'IVE, dyspeptic. [L. _indigestus_,
unarranged--_in_, not, _diger[)e]re_, to arrange, digest.]

INDIGN, in-d[=i]n', _adj._ not worthy: disgraceful. [L. _in_, not,
_dignus_, worthy.]

INDIGNANT, in-dig'nant, _adj._ affected with anger and disdain.--_n._
INDIG'NANCE (_Spens._).--_adv._ INDIG'NANTLY.--_n._ INDIGN[=A]'TION, the
feeling caused by what is unworthy or base: anger mixed with contempt:
effect of indignant feeling.--_v.t._ INDIG'NIFY (_Spens._), to treat
indignantly or disdainfully.--_n._ INDIG'NITY, unmerited contemptuous
treatment: incivility with contempt or insult: (_Spens._) unworthiness,
base conduct. [L. _indignans_, -_antis_, pr.p. of _indign[=a]ri_, to
consider as unworthy--_in_, not, _dignus_, worthy.]

INDIGO, in'di-go, _n._ a blue dye obtained from the stalks of the indigo
plant.--INDIGO BLUE, the blue colouring matter of indigo, a crystalline
solid, colourless and tasteless; INDIGO PLANT, a plant of the genus
_Indigofera_, from which indigo is obtained. [Sp. _indico_--L. _indicum_,
from _Indicus_, Indian.]

INDIRECT, in-di-rekt', _adj._ not direct or straight: not lineal or in
direct succession: not related in the natural way, oblique: not
straightforward or honest.--_adv._ INDIRECT'LY.--_ns._ INDIRECT'NESS,
INDIREC'TION (_Shak._), indirect course or means, dishonest
practice.--INDIRECT EVIDENCE, or TESTIMONY, circumstantial or inferential
evidence; INDIRECT OBJECT (_gram._), a substantive word dependent on a verb
less immediately than an accusative governed by it; INDIRECT SYLLOGISM
(_logic_), a syllogism which can be made more cogent and useful by the
process called reduction.

INDISCERNIBLE, in-diz-[.e]rn'i-bl, _adj._ not discernible.--_adv._
INDISCERN'IBLY.

INDISCIPLINE, in-dis'i-plin, _n._ want of discipline, disorder.--_adj._
INDIS'CIPLINABLE.

INDISCOVERABLE, in-dis-kuv'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ not discoverable.

INDISCREET, in-dis-kr[=e]t', _adj._ not discreet: imprudent:
injudicious.--_adv._ INDISCREET'LY.--_ns._ INDISCREET'NESS, INDISCRETION
(-kresh'-), want of discretion: rashness: an indiscreet act.

INDISCRIMINATE, in-dis-krim'i-n[=a]t, _adj._ not distinguishing:
promiscuous.--_adv._ INDISCRIM'INATELY.--_adjs._ INDISCRIM'INATING,
INDISCRIM'INATIVE, not discriminative.--_n._ INDISCRIMIN[=A]'TION.

INDISPENSABLE, in-dis-pens'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be dispensed with:
absolutely necessary.--_ns._ INDISPENSABIL'ITY, INDISPENS'ABLENESS.--_adv._
INDISPENS'ABLY.

INDISPOSE, in-dis-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to render indisposed, averse, or
unfit.--_pa.p._ and _adj._ INDISPOSED', averse: slightly disordered in
health.--_ns._ INDISPOS'EDNESS, INDISPOSI'TION, state of being indisposed:
disinclination: slight illness.

INDISPUTABLE, in-dis'p[=u]-ta-bl, _adj._ certainly true: certain.--_n._
INDIS'PUTABLENESS.--_adv._ INDIS'PUTABLY.

INDISSOCIABLE, in-dis-[=o]'shi-a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being separated.

INDISSOLUBLE, in-dis'ol-[=u]-bl, _adj._ that cannot be broken or violated:
inseparable: binding for ever.--_ns._ INDISS'OLUBLENESS,
INDISSOLUBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INDISS'OLUBLY.

INDISSOLVABLE, in-dis-ol'va-bl, _adj._ that cannot be dissolved.

INDISTINCT, in-dis-tingkt', _adj._ not plainly marked: confused: not clear
to the mind: dim, imperfect, as of the senses.--_adj._ INDISTINCT'IVE, not
capable of making distinctions.--_n._ INDISTINCT'IVENESS.--_adv._
INDISTINCT'LY.--_ns._ INDISTINCT'NESS, INDISTINC'TION, confusion: absence
of distinction, sameness.

INDISTINGUISHABLE, in-dis-ting'gwish-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be
distinguished.--_n._ INDISTIN'GUISHABLENESS.--_adv._ INDISTIN'GUISHABLY.

INDITE, in-d[=i]t', _v.t._ to compose or write: (_B._) to arrange for
utterance or writing: (_Shak._) to invite.--_v.i._ to compose.--_ns._
INDITE'MENT; INDIT'ER. [O. Fr. _enditer_, a doublet of indict.]

INDIUM, in'di-um, _n._ a soft malleable silver-white metallic element.

INDIVERTIBLE, in-di-vert'i-bl, _adj._ not capable of being turned aside out
of a course.

INDIVIDABLE, in-di-v[=i]d'a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) that cannot be divided.

INDIVIDUAL, in-di-vid'[=u]-al, _adj._ not divisible without loss of
identity: subsisting as one: pertaining to one only, of a group where each
constituent is different from the others: (_Milt._) inseparable.--_n._ a
single person, animal, plant, or thing.--_n._
INDIVIDUALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ INDIVID'UAL[=I]SE, to stamp with individual
character: to particularise.--_ns._ INDIVID'UALISM, individual character:
independent action as opposed to co-operation: that theory which opposes
interference of the State in the affairs of individuals, opposed to
_Socialism_ or _Collectivism_: (_logic_) the doctrine that individual
things alone are real: the doctrine that nothing exists but the individual
self; INDIVID'UALIST.--_adj._ INDIVIDUALIST'IC.--_n._ INDIVIDUAL'ITY,
separate and distinct existence: oneness: distinctive character.--_adv._
INDIVID'UALLY.--_v.t._ INDIVID'U[=A]TE, to individualise: to make
single.--_n._ INDIVIDU[=A]'TION, the question as to what it is that
distinguishes one organised or living being, or one thinking being, from
all others. [L. _individuus_--_in_, not, _dividuus_,
divisible--_divid[)e]re_, to divide.]

INDIVISIBLE, in-di-viz'i-bl, _adj._ not divisible.--_n._ (_math._) an
indefinitely small quantity.--_ns._ INDIVISIBIL'ITY,
INDIVIS'IBLENESS.--_adv._ INDIVIS'IBLY.

INDO-CHINESE, in'd[=o]-ch[=i]-n[=e]z', _adj._ of or pertaining to
Indo-China, the south-eastern peninsula of Asia.

INDOCILE, in-d[=o]'s[=i]l, or in-dos'il, _adj._ not docile: not disposed to
be instructed--also IND[=O]'CIBLE.--_n._ INDOCIL'ITY.

INDOCTRINATE, in-dok'trin-[=a]t, _v.t._ to instruct in any doctrine: to
imbue with any opinion.--_ns._ INDOCTRIN[=A]'TION; INDOC'TRINATOR.

INDO-EUROPEAN, in'd[=o]-[=u]-r[=o]-p[=e]'an, _adj._ a term applied to the
family of languages variously called Aryan, Japhetic, Sanscritic,
Indo-Germanic, generally classified into seven great branches--viz. Indic,
Iranian or Persic, Celtic, Greek, Italic, Slavo-Lettic, Teutonic.

INDOLENT, in'd[=o]-lent, _adj._ indisposed to activity.--_ns._ IN'DOLENCE,
IN'DOLENCY.--_adv._ IN'DOLENTLY. [L. _in_, not, _dolens_, _-entis_, pr.p.
of _dol[=e]re_, to suffer pain.]

INDOMITABLE, in-dom'it-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be tamed: not to be
subdued.--_adv._ INDOM'ITABLY.

INDOOR, in'd[=o]r, _adj._ performed indoors.--_adv._ IN'DOORS, within
doors.--INDOOR RELIEF, support given to paupers in public buildings, as
opposed to _Outdoor relief_, or help given them at their own homes.

INDORSE. See ENDORSE.

INDRA, in'dra, _n._ the god of the firmament and of rain. [Sans.]

INDRAUGHT, in'dräft, _n._ a drawing of something, as air, into a place.

INDRAWN, in'drawn, _adj._ drawn in: manifesting mental abstraction.

INDRENCH, in-drensh', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to overwhelm with water.

INDUBIOUS, in-d[=u]'bi-us, _adj._ not dubious: certain.

INDUBITABLE, in-d[=u]'bit-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be doubted:
certain.--_n._ IND[=U]'BITABLENESS.--_adv._ IND[=U]'BITABLY.

INDUCE, in-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to prevail on: to cause or produce in any way:
(_obs._) to place upon: (_physics_) to cause, as an electric state, by mere
proximity of surfaces.--_ns._ INDUCE'MENT, that which induces or causes:
incentive, motive: (_law_) a statement of facts introducing other important
facts; INDUC'ER.--_adj._ IND[=U]'CIBLE.--INDUCED CURRENT (_elect._), a
current set in action by the influence of the surrounding magnetic field,
or by the variation of an adjacent current. [L. _induc[)e]re_,
_inductum_--_in_, into, _duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

INDUCT, in-dukt', _v.t._ to introduce: to put in possession, as of a
benefice.--_adj._ INDUC'TILE, that cannot be drawn out into wire or
threads.--_ns._ INDUCTIL'ITY; INDUC'TION, introduction to an office,
especially of a clergyman: an introduction, a prelude independent of the
main work, but giving some notion of its aim and meaning: the act or
process of reasoning from particular cases to general conclusions:
(_physics_) the production by one body of an opposite electric state in
another by proximity.--_adjs._ INDUC'TIONAL, INDUC'TIVE.--_n._
INDUC'TION-COIL, an electrical machine consisting of two coils of wire, in
which every variation of the primary or inner current induces a current in
the outer or secondary circuit.--_adv._ INDUC'TIVELY.--_n._
INDUC'TOR.--INDUCTION BY SIMPLE ENUMERATION, logical induction by
enumeration of all the cases singly; INDUCTIVE PHILOSOPHY, Bacon's name for
science founded on induction or observation; INDUCTIVE REASONING, opp. to
_Deductive reasoning_ (see DEDUCTIVE); INDUCTIVE SCIENCE, any special
branch of science founded on positive and observable fact. [See INDUCE.]

INDUE. See ENDUE.

INDULGE, in-dulj', _v.t._ to yield to the wishes of: not to restrain, as
the will, &c.--_v.i._ (with _in_) to gratify one's appetites freely.--_ns._
INDUL'GENCE, gratification: forbearance of present payment: in the R.C.
Church, a remission, to a repentant sinner, of the temporal punishment
which remains due after the sin and its eternal punishment have been
remitted (_Plenary_ indulgences, such as remit all; _Partial_, a portion of
the temporal punishment due to sin; _Temporal_, those granted only for a
time; _Perpetual_ or _Indefinite_, those which last till revoked;
_Personal_, those granted to a particular person or confraternity; _Local_,
those gained only in a particular place): exemption of an individual from
an ecclesiastical law.--_adjs._ INDUL'GENT, yielding to the wishes of
others: compliant: not severe; INDULGEN'TIAL.--_adv._ INDUL'GENTLY.--_ns._
INDUL'GER; INDULT', a license granted by the Pope, authorising something to
be done which the common law of the Church does not sanction.--DECLARATION
OF INDULGENCE, a proclamation of James II. in 1687, by which he promised to
suspend all laws tending to force the conscience of his subjects. [L.
_indulg[=e]re_, to be kind to--_in_, in, and prob. L. _dulcis_, sweet.]

INDULINE, in'd[=u]-lin, _n._ a name of various coal-tar colours used in
dyeing cotton wool and silk dark-blue colours resembling indigo.

INDUMENTUM, in-d[=u]-men'tum, _n._ (_bot._) any hairy covering: plumage, of
birds. [L.]

INDUPLICATE, in-d[=u]'pli-k[=a]t, _adj._ having the margins doubled
inwards, said of the calyx or corolla in æstivation.--_n._
INDUPLIC[=A]'TION.

INDURATE, in'd[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to harden, as the feelings.--_v.i._ to
grow hard: to harden.--_n._ INDUR[=A]'TION.--_adj._ IN'DURATIVE. [L.
_indur[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _dur[=a]re_, to harden.]

INDUSIUM, in-d[=u]'zi-um, _n._ (_bot._) a sort of hairy cup enclosing the
stigma of a flower: the scale covering the fruit-spot of ferns.--_adj._
IND[=U]'SIAL (_geol._), composed of IND[=U]'SIA, or the petrified
larva-cases of insects. [L.,--_indu[)e]re_, to put on.]

INDUSTRY, in'dus-tri, _n._ quality of being diligent: assiduity: steady
application to labour: habitual diligence: manufacture: trade.--_adj._
INDUS'TRIAL, relating to or consisting in industry.--_n._ INDUS'TRIALISM,
devotion to labour or industrial pursuits: that system or condition of
society in which industrial labour is the chief and most characteristic
feature, opposed to feudalism and the military spirit.--_adv._
INDUS'TRIALLY.--_adj._ INDUS'TRIOUS, diligent or active in one's labour:
laborious: diligent in a particular pursuit.--_adv._
INDUS'TRIOUSLY.--INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION, MUSEUM, an exhibition, museum, of
industrial products or manufactures; INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL, a school in which
agricultural or some other industrial art is taught: a school where
neglected children are taught mechanical arts. [Fr.,--L.; perh. from
_indo_, old form of _in_, within, and _stru[)e]re_, to build up.]

INDUVIÆ, in-d[=u]'vi-[=e], _n.pl._ (_bot._) the withered leaves which
remain persistent on the stems of some plants.--_adjs._ IND[=U]'VIAL;
IND[=U]'VIATE. [L.]

INDWELL, in'dwel, _v.i._ to dwell or abide in.--_n._ IN'DWELLER, an
inhabitant.--_adj._ IN'DWELLING, dwelling within, abiding permanently in
the mind or soul.--_n._ residence within, or in the heart or soul.

INEARTH, in-[.e]rth', _v.t._ to inter.

INEBRIATE, in-[=e]'bri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make drunk, to intoxicate: to
exhilarate greatly.--_adj._ drunk: intoxicated.--_n._ a habitual
drunkard.--_adj._ IN[=E]'BRIANT, intoxicating--also _n._--_ns._
INEBRI[=A]'TION, INEBR[=I]'ETY, drunkenness: intoxication.--_adj._
IN[=E]'BRIOUS, drunk: causing intoxication. [L. _inebri[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_in_, inten., _ebri[=a]re_, to make drunk--_ebrius_, drunk.]

INEDIBLE, in-ed'i-bl, _adj._ unfit to be eaten.

INEDITED, in-ed'it-ed, _adj._ not edited: unpublished.

INEFFABLE, in-ef'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be described,
inexpressible.--_n._ INEFF'ABLENESS.--_adv._ INEFF'ABLY. [Fr.,--L.
_ineffabilis_--_in_, not, _effabilis_, effable.]

INEFFACEABLE, in-ef-f[=a]s'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be rubbed out.--_adv._
INEFFACE'ABLY.

INEFFECTIVE, in-ef-fek'tiv, _adj._ not effective: useless.--_adv._
INEFFEC'TIVELY.--_adj._ INEFFEC'TUAL, fruitless.--_ns._ INEFFECTUAL'ITY,
INEFFEC'TUALNESS.--_adv._ INEFFEC'TUALLY.--_adj._ INEFFIC[=A]'CIOUS, not
having power to produce an effect.--_adv._ INEFFIC[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._
INEF'FICACY, want of efficacy.--_n._ INEFFIC'IENCY.--_adj._ INEFFIC'IENT,
effecting, or capable of effecting, nothing.--_adv._ INEFFIC'IENTLY.

INELASTIC, in-[=e]-las'tik, _adj._ not elastic: incompressible.--_n._
INELASTIC'ITY.

INELEGANCE, in-el'e-gans, _n._ want of elegance: want of beauty or
polish--also INEL'EGANCY.--_adj._ INEL'EGANT, wanting in beauty,
refinement, or ornament.--_adv._ INEL'EGANTLY.

INELIGIBLE, in-el'i-ji-bl, _adj._ not capable, or worthy, of being chosen:
unsuitable.--_n._ INELIGIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INEL'IGIBLY.

INELOQUENT, in-el'o-kwent, _adj._ not fluent or persuasive.--_n._
INEL'OQUENCE.

INELUCTABLE, in-e-luk'ta-bl, _adj._ not to be overcome or escaped from.

INENARRABLE, in-e-nar'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being narrated or told.

INEPT, in-ept', _adj._ not apt or fit: unsuitable: foolish:
inexpert.--_ns._ INEPT'IT[=U]DE, INEPT'NESS.--_adv._ INEPT'LY. [Fr.,--L.
_ineptus_--_in_, not, _aptus_, apt.]

INEQUABLE, in-[=e]'kwa-bl, _adj._ not equable, changeable.

INEQUALITY, in-e-kwol'i-ti, _n._ want of equality: difference: inadequacy:
incompetency: unevenness: dissimilarity.

INEQUITABLE, in-ek'wi-ta-bl, _adj._ unfair, unjust.--_adv._
INEQ'UITABLY.--_n._ INEQ'UITY, lack of equity: an unjust action.

INERADICABLE, in-e-rad'i-ka-bl, _adj._ not able to be eradicated or rooted
out.--_adv._ INERAD'ICABLY.

INERRABLE, in-er'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of erring.--_adv._
INERR'ABLY.--_n._ INERR'ANCY, freedom from error.--_adj._ INERR'ANT,
unerring.

INERT, in-[.e]rt', _adj._ dull: senseless: inactive: slow: without the
power of moving itself, or of active resistance to motion: powerless.--_n._
INER'TIA, inertness: the inherent property of matter by which it tends to
remain for ever at rest when still, and in motion when moving.--_adv._
INERT'LY.--_n._ INERT'NESS. [Fr.,--L. _iners_--_in_, not, _ars_, art.]

INERUDITE, in-er'[=u]-d[=i]t, _adj._ not erudite: unlearned.

INESCAPABLE, in-es-k[=a]'pa-bl, _adj._ not to be escaped: inevitable.

INESCUTCHEON, in-es-kuch'un, _n._ (_her._) a single shield borne as a
charge.

INESSENTIAL, in-es-sen'shal, _adj._ not essential or necessary: immaterial.

INESTIMABLE, in-es'tim-a-bl, _adj._ not able to be estimated or valued:
priceless.--_adv._ INES'TIMABLY.

INEUNT, in'[=e]-unt, _n._ (_math._) a point of a curve. [_Iniens_,
_ineunt-is_, pr.p. of _in[=i]re_, to go in.]

INEVITABLE, in-ev'it-a-bl, _adj._ not able to be evaded or avoided: that
cannot be escaped: irresistible.--_n._ INEV'ITABLENESS.--_adv._
INEV'ITABLY.--THE INEVITABLE, that which is sure to happen. [Fr.,--L.
_inevitabilis_--_in_, not, _evitabilis_, avoidable--_evit[=a]re_, to
avoid--_e_, out of, _vit[=a]re_, to avoid.]

INEXACT, in-egz-akt', _adj._ not precisely correct or true.--_ns._
INEXACT'ITUDE, INEXACT'NESS.

INEXCUSABLE, in-eks-k[=u]z'a-bl, _adj._ not justifiable:
unpardonable.--_ns._ INEXCUSABIL'ITY, INEXCUS'ABLENESS.--_adv._
INEXCUS'ABLY.

INEXECRABLE, in-ek'se-krä-bl, _adj._ prob. for _inexorable_ in Shak.,
_Merchant of Venice_, IV. i. 128.

INEXECUTABLE, in-ek-se-k[=u]t'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being
executed.--_n._ INEXEC[=U]'TION.

INEXHAUSTED, in-egz-hawst'ed, _adj._ not exhausted or spent.--_n._
INEXHAUSTIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ INEXHAUST'IBLE, not able to be exhausted or
spent: unfailing.--_adv._ INEXHAUST'IBLY.--_adj._ INEXHAUST'IVE, not to be
exhausted: unfailing: not exhaustive.

INEXISTENCE, in-eg-zist'ens, _n._ non-existence.--_adj._ INEXIST'ENT.

INEXORABLE, in-egz'or-a-bl, _adj._ not to be moved by entreaty:
unrelenting: unalterable.--_ns._ INEX'ORABLENESS, INEXORABIL'ITY.--_adv._
INEX'ORABLY.--INEXORABLE logic of facts, Mazzini's phrase for the
inexorable force of circumstances, whose conclusions are beyond the reach
of argument. [L.,--_in_, not, _exorabilis_--_exor[=a]re_--_ex_, out of,
_or[=a]re_, to entreat.]

INEXPANSIBLE, in-eks-pan'si-bl, _adj._ incapable of being expanded.

INEXPECTANT, in-eks-pek'tant, _adj._ not expecting.

INEXPEDIENT, in-eks-p[=e]'di-ent, _adj._ not tending to promote any end:
unfit: inconvenient.--_ns._ INEXP[=E]'DIENCE, INEXP[=E]'DIENCY.--_adv._
INEXP[=E]'DIENTLY.

INEXPENSIVE, in-eks-pens'iv, _adj._ of slight expense.

INEXPERIENCE, in-eks-p[=e]'ri-ens, _n._ want of experience.--_adj._
INEXP[=E]'RIENCED, not having experience: unskilled or unpractised.

INEXPERT, in-eks-p[.e]rt', _adj._ unskilled.--_n._ INEXPERT'NESS.

INEXPIABLE, in-eks'pi-a-bl, _adj._ not able to be expiated or atoned for,
implacable.--_n._ INEX'PIABLENESS.--_adv._ INEX'PIABLY.

INEXPLICABLE, in-eks'pli-ka-bl, _adj._ that cannot be explained:
unintelligible.--_ns._ INEXPLICABIL'ITY, INEX'PLICABLENESS.--_adv._
INEX'PLICABLY.

INEXPLICIT, in-eks-plis'it, _adj._ not clear.

INEXPLORABLE, in-eks-pl[=o]r'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be explored or
discovered.

INEXPLOSIVE, in-eks-pl[=o]'siv, _adj._ not explosive.

INEXPRESSIBLE, in-eks-pres'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be expressed:
unutterable: indescribable.--_n.pl._ (_coll._ and supposed to be
_humorous_) trousers.--_adv._ INEXPRESS'IBLY.--_adj._ INEXPRESS'IVE, not
expressive or significant.--_n._ INEXPRESS'IVENESS.

INEXPUGNABLE, in-eks-pug'na-bl (or -p[=u]'-), _adj._ not to be overcome by
force.--_adv._ INEXPUG'NABLY.

INEXTENDED, in-eks-tend'ed, _adj._ not extended, without extension.--_n._
INEXTENSIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ INEXTEN'SIBLE.--_n._ INEXTEN'SION.

INEXTINGUISHABLE, in-eks-ting'gwish-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be
extinguished, quenched, or destroyed.--_adv._ INEXTIN'GUISHABLY.

INEXTRICABLE, in-eks'tri-ka-bl, _adj._ not able to be extricated or
disentangled.--_adv._ INEX'TRICABLY.

INFALL, in'fal, _n._ (_Carlyle_) an inroad.

INFALLIBLE, in-fal'i-bl, _adj._ incapable of error: trustworthy:
certain.--_ns._ INFALL'IBILISM; INFALL'IBILIST; INFALLIBIL'ITY.--_adv._
INFALL'IBLY.--THE DOCTRINE OF INFALLIBILITY in the R.C. Church, since 1870,
is that the Pope, when speaking _ex cathedrâ_, is kept from error in all
that regards faith and morals.

INFAMOUS, in'fa-mus, _adj._ having a reputation of the worst kind: publicly
branded with guilt: notoriously vile: disgraceful.--_vs.t._ INFAME', to
defame; IN'FAMISE, INFAM'ONISE (_Shak._), to defame, to brand with
infamy.--_adv._ IN'FAMOUSLY.--_n._ IN'FAMY, ill fame or repute: public
disgrace: extreme vileness: (_law_) a stigma attaching to the character of
a person so as to disqualify him from being a witness. [Fr.,--L. _in_, not,
_fama_, fame.]

INFANT, in'fant, _n._ a babe: (_Eng. law_) a person under twenty-one years
of age.--_adj._ belonging to infants or to infancy: tender: intended for
infants.--_v.t._ (_obs._) to have as an infant: to give rise to.--_n._
IN'FANCY, the state or time of being an infant: childhood: the beginning of
anything: (_Milt._) want of distinct utterance.--_adjs._ INFANTILE
(in'fant-[=i]l, or -il), INFANTINE (in'fant-[=i]n, or -in), pertaining to
infancy or to an infant. [L. _infans_, _-antis_--_in_, not, _fans_, _pr.p._
of _f[=a]ri_, to speak; Gr. _ph[=e]mi_.]

INFANTA, in-fan'ta, _n._ a title given to any one of the legitimate
daughters of the kings of Spain and Portugal, except the heiress-apparent,
or to any one married to an Infante.--_n._ INFANTE (in-fan't[=a]), a title
given to any one of the legitimate sons of the kings of Spain and Portugal,
except the heir-apparent. [Sp. from root of _infant_.]

INFANTICIDE, in-fant'i-s[=i]d, _n._ child murder; the murderer of an
infant.--_adj._ INFANT'ICIDAL. [Fr.,--L. _infanticidium_--_infans_, an
infant, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

INFANTRY, in'fant-ri, _n._ foot-soldiers. [Fr. _infanterie_--It.
_infanteria_--_infante_, _fante_, a child, a servant, a foot-soldier--L.
_infantem_, _infans_.]

INFATUATE, in-fat'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to make foolish: to affect with folly:
to deprive of judgment: to inspire with foolish passion: to
stupefy.--_adj._ infatuated or foolish.--_n._ INFATU[=A]'TION. [L.
_infatu[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _fatuus_, foolish.]

INFAUST, in-fawst', _adj._ unlucky: unfortunate. [L. _infaustus_--_in_,
not, _faustus_, propitious.]

INFEASIBLE, in-f[=e]z'i-bl, _adj._ not feasible: that cannot be done or
accomplished.--_n._ INFEASIBIL'ITY, the state of being infeasible or
impracticable.

INFECT, in-fekt', _v.t._ to taint, especially with disease: to corrupt: to
poison.--_adj._ (_Shak._) tainted.--_n._ INFEC'TION, act of infecting: that
which infects or taints.--_adjs._ INFEC'TIOUS, INFECT'IVE, having the
quality of infecting: corrupting: apt to spread.--_adv._
INFEC'TIOUSLY.--_n._ INFEC'TIOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L. _infic[)e]re_,
_infectum_--_in_, into _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

INFECUNDITY, in-fe-kun'di-ti, _n._ want of fecundity or fertility:
unfruitfulness.--_adj._ INFEC'UND.

INFEFTMENT, in-feft'ment, _n._ a Scotch law term, used to denote the
symbolical giving possession of land, which was the completion of the
title.--INFEFF'=ENFEOFF.

INFELICITOUS, in-fe-lis'i-tus, _adj._ not felicitous or happy:
inappropriate, inapt.--_n._ INFELIC'ITY, want of felicity or happiness,
misery, misfortune: unsuitableness: anything unsuitable or improper.

INFELONIOUS, in-fe-l[=o]'ni-us, _adj._ not felonious.

INFELT, in'felt, _adj._ felt deeply, heart-felt.

INFER, in-f[.e]r', _v.t._ to deduce, to derive, as a consequence: to prove
or imply.--_v.i._ to conclude:--_pr.p._ infer'ring; _pa.p._
inferred'.--_adjs._ INFER'ABLE, INFER'RIBLE, that may be inferred or
deduced.--_n._ IN'FERENCE, that which is inferred or deduced: the act of
drawing a conclusion from premises, conclusion, consequence.--_adj._
INFEREN'TIAL, deducible or deduced by inference.--_adv._ INFEREN'TIALLY.
[Fr.,--L. _inferre_--_in_, into, _ferre_, to bring.]

INFERIÆ, in-f[=e]'ri-[=e], _n.pl._ offerings to the manes of the dead. [L.]

INFERIOR, in-f[=e]'ri-ur, _adj._ lower in any respect: subordinate:
secondary.--_n._ one lower in rank or station: one younger than
another.--_n._ INFERIOR'ITY, the state of being inferior: a lower position
in any respect.--_adv._ INF[=E]'RIORLY, in an inferior manner. [L.
_inferior_, comp. of _inferus_, low.]

INFERNAL, in-f[.e]r'nal, _adj._ belonging to the lower regions: resembling
or suitable to hell, devilish: outrageous.--_n._ INFERNAL'ITY.--_adv._
INFER'NALLY.--_n._ INFER'NO (_It._), hell, the title and the subject of one
of the divisions of Dante's great poem, _La Divina Commedia_.--INFERNAL
MACHINE, a contrivance made to resemble some ordinary harmless object, but
charged with a dangerous explosive. [Fr.,--L. _infernus_--_inferus_.]

INFERTILE, in-f[.e]r-til, _adj._ not productive: barren.--_n._
INFERTIL'ITY.

INFEST, in-fest', _v.t._ to disturb: to harass.--_adj._ (_Spens._) hostile:
troublesome.--_n._ INFEST[=A]'TION (_Milt._), molestation. [Fr.,--L.
_infest[=a]re_, from _infestus_, hostile, from _in_ and an old verb
_fendere_, to strike, found in _of-fend[)e]re_, _de-fend[)e]re_.]

INFEUDATION, in-f[=u]-d[=a]'shun, _n._ the putting of an estate in fee: the
granting of tithes to laymen.

INFIBULATE, in-fib'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to clasp with a padlock.--_n._
INFIBUL[=A]'TION, act of confining, esp. the sexual organs.

INFIDEL, in'fi-del, _adj._ unbelieving: sceptical: disbelieving
Christianity.--_n._ one who rejects Christianity as a divine revelation,
but the word is not used of heathens.--_n._ INFIDEL'ITY, want of faith or
belief: disbelief in Christianity: unfaithfulness, esp. to the marriage
contract: treachery. [Fr.,--L. _infidelis_--_in_, not, _fidelis_,
faithful--_fides_, faith.]

INFIELD, in'f[=e]ld, _n._ in base-ball, the space enclosed within the
base-lines: (_Scot._) land under tillage:--opp. to _Outfield_.--_v.t._ to
enclose.

INFIGHTING, in'f[=i]t-ing, _n._ boxing at close quarters when blows from
the shoulder cannot be given.

INFILTRATE, in-fil'tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to enter a substance by filtration, or
through its pores.--_v.t._ INFIL'TER, to filter or sift in.--_n._
INFILTR[=A]'TION, the process of infiltrating, or the substance
infiltrated.

INFINITE, in'fin-it, _adj._ without end or limit: without bounds: (_math._)
either greater or smaller than any quantity that can be assigned.--_n._
that which is not only without determinate bounds, but which cannot
possibly admit of bound or limit: the Absolute, the Infinite Being or
God.--_adjs._ INFIN'ITANT, denoting merely negative attribution;
INFIN'ITARY, pertaining to infinity.--_v.t._ INFIN'IT[=A]TE, to make
infinite.--_adv._ IN'FINITELY.--_n._ IN'FINITENESS, the state of being
infinite: immensity.--_adj._ INFINITES'IMAL, infinitely small.--_n._ an
infinitely small quantity.--_adv._ INFINITES'IMALLY.--_adj._ INFINI'TO
(_mus._), perpetual.--_ns._ INFIN'IT[=U]DE, INFIN'ITY, boundlessness:
immensity: countless or indefinite number.

INFINITIVE, in-fin'it-iv, _adj._ (_lit._) unlimited, unrestricted:
(_gram._) the mood of the verb which expresses the idea without person or
number.--_adj._ INFINIT[=I]'VAL.--_adv._ INFIN'ITIVELY. [Fr.,--L.
_infinitivus_.]

INFIRM, in-f[.e]rm', _adj._ feeble: sickly: weak: not solid: irresolute:
imbecile.--_ns._ INFIRM[=A]'RIAN, an officer in a monastery having charge
of the quarters for the sick; INFIRM'ARY, a hospital or place for the
treatment of the sick; INFIRM'ITY, disease: failing: defect:
imbecility.--_adv._ INFIRM'LY. [O. Fr.,--L. _infirmus_--_in_, not,
_firmus_, strong.]

INFIX, in-fiks', _v.t._ to fix in: to drive or fasten in: to set in by
piercing. [O. Fr.,--L. _infixus_--_in_, in, _fig[)e]re_, _fixum_, to fix.]

INFLAME, in-fl[=a]m', _v.t._ to cause to flame: to cause to burn: to
excite: to increase: to exasperate.--_v.i._ to become hot, painful, or
angry.--_ns._ INFLAMMABIL'ITY, INFLAM'MABLENESS, the quality of being
inflammable.--_adj._ INFLAM'MABLE, that may be burned: combustible: easily
kindled or excited.--_adv._ INFLAM'MABLY.--_n._ INFLAMM[=A]'TION, state of
being in flame: heat of a part of the body, with pain, redness, and
swelling: violent excitement: heat.--_adj._ INFLAM'MATORY, tending to
inflame: inflaming: exciting. [O. Fr.,--L. _inflamm[=a]re_--_in_, into,
_flamma_, a flame.]

INFLATE, in-fl[=a]t', _v.t._ to swell with air: to puff up, elate.--_adj._
INFLAT'ED, swollen or blown out: turgid.--_adv._ INFLAT'INGLY.--_ns._
INFL[=A]'TION, state of being puffed up; INFL[=A]'TUS, a breathing into:
inspiration. [L. _infl[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_in_, into, _fl[=a]re_, to
blow.]

INFLECT, in-flekt', _v.t._ to bend in: to turn from a direct line or
course: to modulate, as the voice: (_gram._) to vary in the
terminations.--_ns._ INFLEC'TION, INFLEX'ION, a bending or deviation:
modulation of the voice: (_gram._) the varying in termination to express
the relations of case, number, gender, person, tense, &c.--_adjs._
INFLEC'TIONAL, INFLEX'IONAL; INFLEC'TIONLESS, INFLEX'IONLESS; INFLECT'IVE,
subject to inflection; INFLEXED', bent inward: bent: turned.--_ns._
INFLEXIBIL'ITY, INFLEX'IBLENESS.--_adj._ INFLEX'IBLE, that cannot be bent:
unyielding: unbending.--_adv._ INFLEX'IBLY.--_n._ INFLEX'URE, a bend or
fold. [L. _inflect[)e]re_--_in_, in, _flect[)e]re_, _flexum_, to bend.]

INFLICT, in-flikt', _v.t._ to lay on: to impose, as punishment.--_n._
INFLIC'TION, act of inflicting or imposing: punishment applied.--_adj._
INFLICT'IVE, tending or able to inflict. [L. _inflictus_,
_inflig[)e]re_--_in_, against, _flig[)e]re_, to strike.]

INFLORESCENCE, in-flor-es'ens, _n._ character or mode of flowering of a
plant. [Fr.,--L. _inflorescens_--_infloresc[)e]re_, to begin to blossom.]

INFLOW, in'fl[=o], _n._ the act of flowing in or into, influx.

INFLUENCE, in'fl[=oo]-ens, _n._ power exerted on men or things: power in
operation: authority.--_v.t._ to affect: to move: to direct.--_adj._
INFLUEN'TIAL, having or exerting influence or power over.--_adv._
INFLUEN'TIALLY. [Orig. a term in astrology, the power or virtue supposed to
flow from planets upon men and things; O. Fr.,--Low L. _influentia_--L.
_in_, into, _flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

INFLUENT, in'fl[=oo]-ent, _adj._ flowing in.

INFLUENZA, in-fl[=oo]-en'za, _n._ a severe epidemic catarrh, accompanied
with weakening fever. [It.,--L., a by-form of _influence_.]

INFLUX, in'fluks, _n._ a flowing in: infusion: abundant accession.--_n._
INFLUX'ION, infusion. [L. _influxus_--_influ[)e]re_.]

INFOLD. See ENFOLD.

INFORM, in-form', _v.t._ to give form to: to animate or give life to: to
impart knowledge to: to tell: (_Milt._) to direct.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to
take shape or form: to give information (with _against_ or _on_).--_adj._
INFORM'AL, not in proper form: irregular.--_n._ INFORMAL'ITY.--_adv._
INFORM'ALLY.--_ns._ INFORM'ANT, one who informs or gives intelligence;
INFORM[=A]'TION, intelligence given: knowledge: an accusation given to a
magistrate or court.--_adjs._ INFORM'ATIVE, having power to form:
instructive; INFORM'ATORY, instructive; INFORMED' (_Spens._), unformed:
(_astron._) of stars not included within the figures of any of the ancient
constellations.--_n._ INFORM'ER, one who informs against another. [O.
Fr.,--L. _inform[=a]re_--_in_, into, _form[=a]re_, to form.]

INFORMIDABLE, in-for'mi-da-bl, _adj._ (_Milt._) not formidable.

INFORTUNE, in-for't[=u]n, _n._ misfortune.

INFRACOSTAL, in-fra-kos'tal, _adj._ situated beneath the ribs.

INFRACTION, in-frak'shun, _n._ violation, esp. of law: breach.--_v.t._
INFRACT', to break off.--_n._ INFRAC'TOR, one who infracts. [L.,--_in_, in,
_frang[)e]re_, _fractum_, to break.]

INFRAGRANT, in-fr[=a]'grant, _adj._ not fragrant.

INFRAHUMAN, in-fra-h[=u]'man, _adj._ having qualities lower than human.

INFRALAPSARIANISM, in-frä-lap-s[=a]'ri-an-izm, _n._ (_theol._) the common
Augustinian and Calvinist doctrine, that God for His own glory determined
to create the world, to permit the fall of men, to elect from the mass of
fallen men an innumerable multitude as 'vessels of mercy,' to send His Son
for their redemption, to leave the residue of mankind to suffer the just
punishment of their sins--distinct both from the _Supralapsarianism_ of the
strictest Calvinists and the _Sublapsarianism_ held by moderate
Calvinists.--_n._ INFRALAPS[=A]'RIAN, one who holds the foregoing. [L.
_infra_, below, after, _lapsus_, the fall.]

INFRAMAXILLARY, in-fra-mak'si-la-ri, _adj._ situated under the jaw:
belonging to the lower jaw.

INFRAMUNDANE, in-fra-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ lying or being beneath the world.
[L. _infra_, beneath, _mundus_, the world.]

INFRANGIBLE, in-fran'ji-bl, _adj._ that cannot be broken: not to be
violated.--_ns._ INFRANGIBIL'ITY, INFRAN'GIBLENESS.

INFRAORBITAL, in-fra-or'bi-tal, _adj._ situated below the orbit of the eye.

INFRASCAPULAR, in-fra-skap'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated below the scapula.

INFREQUENT, in-fr[=e]'kwent, _adj._ seldom occurring: rare:
uncommon.--_ns._ INFR[=E]'QUENCE, INFR[=E]'QUENCY.--_adv._
INFR[=E]'QUENTLY.

INFRINGE, in-frinj', _v.t._ to violate, esp. law: to neglect to obey.--_n._
INFRINGE'MENT, breach: violation: non-fulfilment. [L.
_infring[)e]re_--_in_, in, _frang[)e]re_.]

INFRUCTUOUS, in-fruk't[=u]-us, _adj._ not fruitful.--_adv._ INFRUC'TUOUSLY.

INFULA, in'f[=u]-la, _n._ a white-and-red fillet or band of woollen stuff,
worn upon the forehead, as a sign of religious consecration and of
inviolability: a lappet in a mitre:--_pl._ IN'FULÆ ([=e]). [L.]

INFUMATION, in-f[=u]m-[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of drying in smoke.--_v.t._
IN'FUMATE. [L. _infum[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _fum[=a]re_, to
smoke--_fumus_, smoke.]

INFUNDIBULAR, in-fun-dib'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having the form of a
funnel.--Also INFUNDIB'ULATE, INFUNDIB'ULIFORM. [L. _in_, in, _fund[)e]re_,
to pour.]

INFURIATE, in-f[=u]'ri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to enrage: to madden.--_adj._ enraged:
mad. [L. _in_, in, _furi[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_, to madden--_fur[)e]re_, to
rave.]

INFUSCATE, in-fus'k[=a]t, _adj._ clouded with brown.

INFUSE, in-f[=u]z', _v.t._ to pour into: to inspire with: to introduce: to
steep in liquor without boiling: (_Shak._) to shed, pour.--_n._ (_Spens._)
infusion.--_adj._ INFUS'IBLE.--_n._ INF[=U]'SION, the pouring of water over
any substance, in order to extract its active qualities: a solution in
water of an organic, esp. a vegetable, substance: the liquor so obtained:
inspiration: instilling.--_adj._ INFUS'IVE, having the power of infusion,
or of being infused. [L. _infund[)e]re_, _infusum_--_in_, into,
_fund[)e]re_, _fusum_, to pour.]

INFUSIBLE, in-f[=u]z'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be dissolved or melted.

INFUSORIA, in-f[=u]-s[=o]'ri-a, _n.pl._ a name given to several classes of
active Protozoa, some of which appear in great numbers in stagnant
infusions of animal or vegetable material.--_adjs._ INFUS[=O]'RIAL,
INF[=U]'SORY, composed of or containing infusoria.--_n._ and _adj._
INFUS[=O]'RIAN.--INFUSORIAL EARTH, a siliceous deposit formed chiefly of
the frustates of Diatoms--used as _Tripoli powder_ for polishing purposes.
[L.]

INGATE, in'g[=a]t, _n._ (_Spens._) a way in, entrance.

INGATHERING, in'gä_th_-[.e]r-ing, _n._ the collecting and securing of the
fruits of the earth: harvest.--FEAST OF INGATHERING (see TABERNACLES, FEAST
OF).

INGEMINATE, in-jem'in-[=a]t, _v.t._ to repeat.--_n._ INGEMIN[=A]'TION. [L.
_ingemin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _geminus_, twin.]

INGENER, in-j[=e]'n[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) an ingenious person: a contriver:
a designer.

INGENERATE, in-jen'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to generate or produce
within.--_adj._ inborn: innate.

INGENIOUS, in-j[=e]'ni-us, _adj._ of good natural abilities: skilful in
inventing: witty.--_adv._ ING[=E]'NIOUSLY.--_ns._ ING[=E]'NIOUSNESS,
INGEN[=U]'ITY, power of ready invention: facility in combining ideas:
curiousness in design; ING[=E]'NIUM, bent of mind. [L.
_ingeniosus_--_ingenium_, mother-wit, from _in_, and _gen_, root of
_gign[)e]re_, to beget.]

INGENUOUS, in-jen'[=u]-us, _adj._ frank: honourable: free from
deception.--_adv._ INGEN'UOUSLY--_n._ INGEN'UOUSNESS. [L. _ingenuus_.]

INGEST, in-jest', _v.t._ to throw into the stomach.--_n.pl._ INGEST'A,
substances introduced into an organic body.--_n._ INGEST'ION:--opp. to
_Egestion_.

INGLE, ing'gl, _n._ (_Scot._) a fire: fireplace.--_ns._ ING'LE-CHEEK,
ING'LESIDE (_Scot._), a fireside. [Gael. _aingeal_; but prob.
L.--_igniculus_, dim. of _ignis_, fire.]

INGLE, ing'gl, _n._ a familiar friend. [Origin obscure.]

INGLOBE, in-gl[=o]b', _v.t._ (_Milt._) to encircle: involve.--_adj._
INGLOB'[=A]TE, in the form of a globe or sphere.

INGLORIOUS, in-gl[=o]'ri-us, _adj._ not glorious: without honour:
shameful.--_adv._ INGL[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ INGL[=O]'RIOUSNESS.

INGLUVIES, in-gl[=oo]'vi-[=e]z, _n._ the crop or craw of birds.--_adj._
INGLU'VIAL. [L.]

INGOING, in'-g[=o]-ing, _n._ a going in: entrance.--_adj._ going in:
entering as an occupant.

INGOT, in'got, _n._ a mass of unwrought metal, esp. gold or silver, cast in
a mould. [A.S. _in_, in, and _goten_, pa.p. of _geótan_, to pour; Ger.
_giessen_, Goth. _giutan._ The Ger. _einguss_ is an exact parallel to
_ingot_.]

INGRAFT. See ENGRAFT.

INGRAIN, in'gr[=a]n', _v.t._ the same as ENGRAIN.--_adj._ dyed in the yarn
or thread before manufacture.

INGRATE, in'gr[=a]t, _n._ (_Milt._) one who is ungrateful.--_adj._
INGRATE'FUL, unthankful.

INGRATIATE, in-gr[=a]'shi-[=a]t, _v.t._ to commend to grace or favour (used
reflexively, and followed by with): to secure the good-will of another. [L.
_in_, into, _gratia_, favour.]

INGRATITUDE, in-grat'i-t[=u]d, _n._ unthankfulness: the return of evil for
good. [Low L. _ingratitudo_--L. _ingratus_, unthankful.]

INGREDIENT, in-gr[=e]'di-ent, _n._ that which enters into compound: a
component part of anything. [Fr.,--L. _ingrediens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_ingredi_--_in_, into, _gradi_, to enter.]

INGRESS, in'gres, _n._ entrance: power, right, or means of entrance.--_n._
INGRESS'ION. [L. _ingressus_--_ingredi_.]

INGROOVE. See ENGROOVE.

INGROSS, in-gr[=o]s', _v.t._ (_Shak._). Same as ENGROSS.

INGROWING, in'gr[=o]-ing, _adj._ growing inward.--_n._ IN'GROWTH.

INGUILTY, in-gilt'i, _adj._ (_Shak._) not guilty.

INGUINAL, ing'gwin-al, _adj._ relating to the groin. [L.
_inguinalis_--_inguen_, _inguinus_, the groin.]

INGULF. See ENGULF.

INGURGITATE, in-gur'ji-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to swallow up greedily, as in a
gulf.--_n._ INGURGIT[=A]'TION. [L. _ingurgit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_,
into, _gurges_, a whirlpool.]

INHABIT, in-hab'it, _v.t._ to dwell in: to occupy.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to
dwell.--_adj._ INHAB'ITABLE, that may be inhabited.--_ns._ INHAB'ITANCE,
INHAB'ITANCY, the act of inhabiting: actual residence; INHAB'ITANT, one who
inhabits: a resident.--_adj._ resident.--_ns._ INHABIT[=A]'TION, the act of
inhabiting: dwelling-place: (_Milt._) population; INHAB'ITER (_B._), an
inhabitant; INHAB'ITIVENESS, love of locality and home; INHAB'ITRESS, a
female inhabitant. [Fr.,--L., from _in_, in, _habit[=a]re_, to dwell.]

INHALE, in-h[=a]l', _v.t._ to draw in the breath, to draw into the lungs,
as air.--_adjs._ INH[=A]'LANT, INH[=A]'LENT.--_ns._ INHAL[=A]'TION, the
drawing into the lungs, as air, or fumes; INHAL'ER. [L. _inhal[=a]re_, to
breathe upon--_in_, upon, _hal[=a]re_, to breathe.]

INHARMONIOUS, in-har-m[=o]'ni-us, _adj._ discordant, unmusical.--_adjs._
INHARMON'IC, -AL, wanting harmony: inharmonious.--_adv._
INHARM[=O]'NIOUSLY.--_ns._ INHARM[=O]'NIOUSNESS; INHAR'MONY, want of
harmony.

INHAUST, in'häst, _v.t._ (_humorous_) to drink in. [L. _in_, in,
_haur[=i]re_, _haustum_, to draw.]

INHEARSE, in-h[.e]rs'; _v.t._ (_Shak._) to enclose in a hearse, to bury.

INHERE, in-h[=e]r', _v.i._ to stick fast: to remain firm in.--_ns._
INHER'ENCE, INHER'ENCY, a sticking fast: existence in something else: a
fixed state of being in another body or substance.--_adj._ INHER'ENT,
sticking fast: existing in and inseparable from something else: innate:
natural.--_adv._ INHER'ENTLY. [L. _inhær[=e]re_--_in_, in, _hær[=e]re_, to
stick.]

INHERIT, in-her'it, _v.t._ to take as heir or by descent from an ancestor:
to possess.--_v.i._ to enjoy, as property.--_adj._ INHER'ITABLE, same as
HERITABLE.--_ns._ INHER'ITANCE, that which is or may be inherited: an
estate derived from an ancestor: hereditary descent: natural gift:
possession; INHER'ITOR, one who inherits or may inherit: an heir:--_fem._
INHER'ITRESS, INHER'ITRIX. [O. Fr. _enhériter_--Low L. _heredit[=a]re_, to
inherit--L. _in_, in, _heres_, an heir.]

INHESION, in-h[=e]'zhun. Same as INHERENCE.

INHIBIT, in-hib'it, _v.t._ to hold in or back: to keep back: to
check.--_n._ INHIBI'TION, the act of inhibiting or restraining: the state
of being inhibited: prohibition: a writ from a higher court to an inferior
judge to stay proceedings.--_adj._ INHIB'ITORY, prohibitory. [L.
_inhib[=e]re_, _-hibitum_--_in_, in, _hab[=e]re_, to have.]

INHOLDER, in-h[=o]ld'[.e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) an inhabitant.

INHOOP, in-h[=oo]p', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to confine, as in a hoop or
enclosure.

INHOSPITABLE, in-hos'pit-a-bl, _adj._ affording no kindness to
strangers.--_ns._ INHOS'PITABLENESS, INHOSPITAL'ITY, want of hospitality or
courtesy to strangers.--_adv._ INHOS'PITABLY.

INHUMAN, in-h[=u]'man, _adj._ barbarous: cruel: unfeeling.--_n._
INHUMAN'ITY, the state of being inhuman: barbarity: cruelty.--_adv._
INH[=U]'MANLY.

INHUME, in-h[=u]m', _v.t._ to inter.--_n._ INHUM[=A]'TION, the act of
depositing in the ground: burial. [L. _inhum[=a]re_--_in_, in, _humus_, the
ground.]

INIMICAL, in-im'i-kal, _adj._ like an enemy, not friendly: contrary:
repugnant.--_adv._ INIM'ICALLY. [L. _inimicalis_--_inimicus_--_in_, not,
_amicus_, friendly.]

INIMITABLE, in-im'it-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be imitated: surpassingly
excellent.--_ns._ INIMITABIL'ITY, INIM'ITABLENESS, the quality of being
inimitable.--_adv._ INIM'ITABLY.

INION, in'i-on, _n._ the external occipital protuberance:--_pl._ IN'IA.
[Gr.]

INIQUITY, in-ik'wi-ti, _n._ want of equity or fairness: injustice:
wickedness: a crime: one of the names of the Vice, the established buffoon
of the old Moralities.--_adj._ INIQ'UITOUS, unjust: unreasonable:
wicked.--_adv._ INIQ'UITOUSLY. [Fr.,--L. _iniquitatem_--_iniquus_,
unequal--_in_, not, _æquus_, equal.]

INITIAL, in-ish'al, _adj._ commencing: placed at the beginning.--_n._ the
letter beginning a word, esp. a name.--_v.t._ to put the initials of one's
name to:--_pr.p._ init'ialing (-alling); _pa.p._ init'ialed
(-alled).--_v.t._ INIT'I[=A]TE, to make a beginning: to instruct in
principles: to acquaint with: to introduce into a new state or
society.--_v.i._ to perform the first act or rite.--_n._ one who is
initiated.--_adj._ fresh: unpractised.--_n._ INITI[=A]'TION, act or process
of initiating: act of admitting to any society, by instructing in its rules
and ceremonies.--_adj._ INIT'I[=A]TIVE, serving to initiate:
introductory.--_n._ an introductory step: the power or right of
commencing.--_adj._ INIT'I[=A]TORY, tending to initiate:
introductory.--_n._ introductory rite. [L. _initialis_--_initium_, a
beginning, _in[=i]re_, _in[=i]tum_--_in_, into, _[=i]re_, _[=i]tum_, to
go.]

INJECT, in-jekt', _v.t._ to throw into: to cast on: to make to pass in or
into.--_ns._ INJEC'TION, act of injecting or throwing in or into: the act
of filling the vessels of an animal body with any liquid: a liquid to be
injected into any part of the body; INJEC'TOR, one who injects: something
used for injecting, especially an apparatus by which a stream of water is
forced into a steam-boiler. [L. _injic[)e]re_, _injectum_--_in_, into,
_jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

INJELLY, in-jel'i, _v.t._ (_Tenn._) to place, as if in jelly.

INJOINT, in-joint', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to join.

INJUDICIOUS, in-j[=oo]-dish'us, _adj._ void of or wanting in judgment:
imprudent: inconsiderate.--_adj._ INJUDIC'IAL, not according to
law-forms.--_adv._ INJUDIC'IOUSLY.--_n._ INJUDIC'IOUSNESS.

INJUNCTION, in-jungk'shun, _n._ act of enjoining or commanding: an order: a
precept: exhortation: an introductory writ by which a superior court stops
or prevents some inequitable or illegal act being done--called in Scotland
an _interdict_: (_Milt._) conjunction. [Low L. _injunction-em_--_in_, in,
_jung[)e]re_, _junctum_, to join.]

INJURE, in'j[=oo]r, _v.t._ to wrong, harm: to damage: to annoy.--_n._
IN'JURER, one who injures.--_adj._ INJU'RIOUS, tending to injure: unjust:
wrongful: mischievous: damaging reputation.--_adv._ INJU'RIOUSLY.--_ns._
INJU'RIOUSNESS; IN'JURY, that which injures: wrong: mischief: annoyance:
(_Pr. Bk._) insult, offence. [Fr. _injurier_--L. _injuri[=a]ri_--_injuria_,
injury--_in_, not, _jus_, _juris_, law.]

INJUSTICE, in-jus'tis, _n._ violation or withholding of another's rights or
dues: wrong: iniquity.

INK, ingk, _n._ a coloured fluid used in writing, printing, &c.--_v.t._ to
daub with ink.--_ns._ INK'-BAG, -SAC, a sac in some cuttle-fishes,
containing a black viscid fluid; INK'-BOTT'LE, an inkstand: a bottle for
holding ink placed in an inkstand; INK'HOLDER, INK'STAND, a vessel for
holding ink; INK'HORN (_obs._), an inkholder, formerly of horn: a portable
case for ink, &c.; INK'HORN-MATE (_Shak._), a bookish man; INK'INESS;
INK'-POT, an inkholder.--_adj._ pedantic.--_ns._ INK'ING-TA'BLE, a table or
flat surface used for supplying the inking-roller with ink during the
process of printing; INK'ING-ROLL'ER, a roller covered with a composition
for inking printing types; INK'-STONE, a kind of stone containing sulphate
of iron, used in making ink.--_adj._ INK'Y, consisting of or resembling
ink: blackened with ink.--_n._ PRINT'ING-INK (see PRINT).--CHINA INK,
INDIAN INK, a mechanical mixture of the purest and densest lampblack, with
a solution of gum or gelatine; INVISIBLE or SYMPATHETIC INK, a kind of ink
which remains invisible on the paper until it is heated.--SLING INK
(_slang_), to write: to earn one's bread by writing. [O. Fr. _enque_ (Fr.
_encre_)--Low L. _encaustum_, the purple-red ink used by the later Roman
emperors--Gr. _engkauston_--_engkaiein_, to burn in. See ENCAUSTIC.]

INKLE, ingk'l, _n._ (_Shak._) a kind of broad linen tape. [M. E. _liniolf_,
_inniolf_, allied to O. Fr. _lignel_, shoemakers' thread, _ligne_,
thread--L. _linea_, _linum_, flax.]

INKLING, ingk'ling, _n._ a hint or whisper: intimation.--_v.i._ INK'LE, to
have a hint of. [M. E. _inclen_, to hint at, which Skeat suspects to be
corrupted from Dan. _ymte_, to mutter; cf. Ice. _ym-ta_, to mutter;
ultimately imitative.]

IN-KNEED, in'-n[=e]d, _adj._ knock-kneed.

INLACE, in-l[=a]s', _v.t._ to embellish, as with lace: to lace.

INLAND, in'land, _n._ the interior part of a country.--_adj._ remote from
the sea: carried on or produced within a country: confined to a country:
(_Shak._) refined, polished.--_n._ IN'LANDER, one who lives inland.--INLAND
NAVIGATION, passage of boats or vessels on rivers, lakes, or canals within
a country; INLAND REVENUE, internal revenue, derived from excise, stamps,
income-tax, &c. [A.S. _inland_, a domain--_in_ and _land_.]

INLAY, in-l[=a]', _v.t._ to ornament by laying in or inserting pieces of
metal, ivory, &c.--_pa.p._ INLAID'.--_n._ pieces of metal, ivory, &c. for
inlaying.--_ns._ INLAY'ER; INLAY'ING.

INLET, in'let, _n._ a passage by which one is let in: place of ingress: a
small bay.

INLOCK, in-lok', _v.t._ Same as ENLOCK.

INLY, in'li, _adj._ inward: secret.--_adv._ inwardly: in the heart.

INMATE, in'm[=a]t, _n._ one who lodges in the same house with another: a
lodger: one received into a hospital, &c.--_adj._ dwelling in the same
place.

INMEATS, in'm[=e]ts, _n.pl._ the entrails.

INMOST. See INNERMOST.

INN, in, _n._ a public house for the lodging and entertainment of
travellers: a hotel, tavern: (_obs._) a lodging, a place of abode.--_ns._
INN'-HOLD'ER (_Bacon_), one who keeps an inn; INN'KEEPER, one who keeps an
inn.--INNS OF COURT, the name given to the four voluntary societies which
have the exclusive right of calling persons to the English bar (Inner
Temple, Middle Temple, Lincoln's Inn, and Gray's Inn). [A.S. _in_, _inn_,
an inn, house--_in_, _inn_, within (_adv._), from the prep. _in_, in.]

INNATE, in'[=a]t, or in-n[=a]t', _adj._ inborn: natural to the mind,
instinctive, inherent.--_adv._ INN'ATELY.--_n._ INN'ATENESS.--_adj._
INN[=A]'TIVE, native.--INNATE IDEAS, _a priori_ principles of knowledge and
of action, the word 'innate' implying that the power of recognising such
principles is provided for in the constitution of the mind. [L.
_inn[=a]tus_--_innasci_--_in_, in, _nasci_, to be born.]

INNAVIGABLE, in-nav'i-ga-bl, _adj._ impassable by ships.--_adv._
INNAV'IGABLY.

INNER, in'[.e]r, _adj._ (comp. of _in_) farther in: interior.--_adjs._
INN'ERMOST, IN'MOST (superl. of _in_), farthest in: most remote from the
outward part.--_adv._ INN'ERMOSTLY. [A.S. _in_, comp. _innera_, superl.
_innemest_--_inne-m-est_--thus a double superlative.]

INNERVATE, in-[.e]rv'[=a]t, _v.t._ to supply with force or nervous
energy--also INNERVE'.--_n._ INNERV[=A]'TION, special mode of activity
inherent in the nervous structure: nervous activity.

INNING, in'ing, _n._ the ingathering of grain: turn for using the bat in
cricket (in this sense used only in the plural): the time during which a
person or party is in possession of anything: (_pl._) lands recovered from
the sea.--GOOD INNINGS, or LONG INNINGS, good luck, or a long run of such.
[A verbal noun from old verb to _inn_--i.e. to house corn, from noun
_inn_.]

INNOCENT, in'o-sent, _adj._ not hurtful: inoffensive: blameless: pure:
lawful: simple, imbecile.--_n._ one free from fault: an idiot.--_ns._
INN'OCENCE, harmlessness: blamelessness: purity: artlessness: integrity:
imbecility: absence of legal guilt; INN'OCENCY, the quality of being
innocent.--_adv._ INN'OCENTLY.--INNOCENTS' DAY (see CHILDERMAS). [O.
Fr.,--L. _innocens_, _-entis_--_in_, not, _noc[=e]re_, to hurt.]

INNOCUOUS, in-nok'[=u]-us, _adj._ not hurtful: harmless in effects.--_adv._
INNOC'UOUSLY.--_ns._ INNOC'UOUSNESS, INNOC[=U]'ITY, the state of being
innocuous. [L. _innocuus_--_in_, not, _nocuus_, hurtful--_noc[=e]re_, to
hurt.]

INNOMINATE, i-nom'i-n[=a]t, _adj._ having no name.--_adj._ INNOM'INABLE,
unnamable.--_n.pl._ trousers.--INNOMINATE ARTERY, the first large branch
given off from the arch of the Aorta (q.v.); INNOMINATE BONE (_os
innominatum_), the haunch-bone, hip-bone. [L. _in_, not, _nomin[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to name.]

INNOVATE, in'o-v[=a]t, _v.t._ to introduce something new.--_v.i._ to
introduce novelties: to make changes.--_ns._ INNOV[=A]'TION;
INNOV[=A]'TIONIST; INN'OVATOR. [L. _innov[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in,
_novus_, new.]

INNOXIOUS, in-nok'shus, _adj._ same as INNOCUOUS.--_adv._
INNOX'IOUSLY.--_n._ INNOX'IOUSNESS, the quality of being innocuous.

INNUENDO, in-[=u]-en'd[=o], _n._ a side-hint: an indirect reference or
intimation: a part of a pleading in cases of libel and slander, pointing
out what and who was meant by the libellous matter or description, [L., the
ablative gerund of _innu[)e]re_--_in_, in, _nu[)e]re_, to nod.]

INNUMERABLE, in-n[=u]'m[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be numbered:
countless.--_ns._ INN[=U]MERABIL'ITY, the state or quality of being
innumerable; INN[=U]'MERABLENESS.--_adv._ INN[=U]'MERABLY.--_adj._
INN[=U]'MEROUS, without number: innumerable.

INNUTRITION, in-n[=u]-trish'un, _n._ want of nutrition: failure of
nourishment.--_adj._ INNUTRIT'IOUS, not nutritious: without nourishment.

INOBSERVANT, in-ob-z[.e]r'vant, _adj._ not observant: heedless.--_adj._
INOBSER'VABLE, incapable of being observed.--_ns._ INOBSER'VANCE, lack of
observance; INOBSERV[=A]'TION.

INOBTRUSIVE, in-ob-tr[=oo]'siv, _adj._ unobtrusive.--_adv._
INOBTRU'SIVELY.--_n._ INOBTRU'SIVENESS.

INOCULATE, in-ok'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to insert a bud for propagation: to
engraft: to communicate disease by inserting matter in the skin.--_v.i._ to
propagate by budding: to practise inoculation.--_adj._ INOC'ULABLE.--_n._
INOCUL[=A]'TION, act or practice of inoculating: insertion of the buds of
one plant into another: the communication of disease to a healthy subject
by the introduction of a specific germ or animal poison into his system by
puncture or otherwise.--_adjs._ INOCUL[=A]'TIVE, INOCUL[=A]'TORY.--_n._
INOC'ULATOR. [L. _inocul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, into, _oculus_, an eye.]

INODOROUS, in-[=o]'dur-us, _adj._ without smell.

INOFFENSIVE, in-of-fen'siv, _adj._ giving no offence: harmless: not
unpleasing.--_adv._ INOFFEN'SIVELY.--_n._ INOFFEN'SIVENESS.

INOFFICIAL, in-of-fish'al, _adj._ not proceeding from the proper officer:
without the usual forms of authority.--_adv._ INOFFIC'IALLY.--_adj._
INOFFIC'IOUS (_rare_), regardless of duty.

INOPERATIVE, in-op'[.e]r-a-tiv, _adj._ not in action: producing no effect.

INOPPORTUNE, in-op-por-t[=u]n', _adj._ unseasonable in time.--_adv._
INOPPORTUNE'LY.--_n._ INOPPORT[=U]N'ITY.

INORB, in-orb', _v.t._ to form as an orb.

INORDINATE, in-or'di-n[=a]t, _adj._ beyond usual bounds: irregular:
immoderate.--_ns._ INOR'DINACY, INOR'DINATENESS.--_adv._
INOR'DINATELY.--_n._ INORDIN[=A]'TION, deviation from rule: irregularity.
[L. _inordinatus_--_in_, not, _ordin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to arrange.]

INORGANIC, in-or-gan'ik, _adj._ without life or organisation, as minerals,
&c.: of accidental origin, not normally developed.--_adv._
INORGAN'ICALLY.--_n._ INORGANIS[=A]'TION, want of organisation.--_adj._
INOR'GANISED, same as INORGANIC.--INORGANIC CHEMISTRY, a subdivision of
chemistry made originally to designate the chemistry of purely mineral
substances, and retained still mainly as a matter of convenience.

INOSCULATE, in-os'k[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to unite by mouths or
ducts, as two vessels in an animal body: to blend.--_n._ INOSCUL[=A]'TION.
[L. _in_, and _oscul[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to kiss.]

IN-PATIENT, in'p[=a]-shent, _n._ a patient lodged and fed as well as
treated in a hospital:--_opp._ to _Out-patient_.

INPOURING, in'p[=o]r-ing, _n._ a pouring in: addition.

INPUT, in'p[=oo]t, _n._ (_Scot._) contribution.

INQUEST, in'kwest, _n._ act of inquiring: search: judicial inquiry before a
jury into any matter, esp. any case of violent or sudden death. [O. Fr.
_enqueste_--L. _inquisita_ (_res_)--_inquir[)e]re_, to inquire.]

INQUIETUDE, in-kw[=i]'et-[=u]d, _n._ disturbance or uneasiness of body or
mind.--_adj._ INQU[=I]'ET, unquiet.--_v.t._ to disturb.

INQUILINE, in'kwi-lin, _adj._ living in the abode of another, as a pea-crab
in an oyster-shell.--_n._ an animal so living.--_adj._ INQUIL[=I]'NOUS. [L.
_inquilinus_--_incola_, inhabitant--_in_, in, _col[)e]re_, to inhabit.]

INQUIRE, in-kw[=i]r', _v.i._ to ask a question: to make an
investigation.--_v.t._ to ask about: to make an examination regarding:
(_Spens._) to call.--_n._ (_Shak._) a seeking for information.--_ns._
INQUIR[=A]'TION (_Dickens_), inquiry; INQUIREN'DO (_law_), an authority to
inquire; INQUIR'ER.--_adj._ INQUIR'ING, given to inquiry.--_adv._
INQUIR'INGLY.--_n._ INQUIR'Y, act of inquiring: search for knowledge:
investigation; a question.--WRIT OF INQUIRY, a writ appointing an inquest.
[Fr.,--L. _inquir[)e]re_--_in_, in, _quær[)e]re_, _quæsitum_, to seek.]

INQUISITION, in-kwi-zish'un, _n._ an inquiring or searching for:
investigation: judicial inquiry: a tribunal in the R.C. Church, called also
'the Holy Office,' for the discovery, repression and punishment of heresy,
unbelief, and other offences against religion.--_v.t._ (_Milt._), to
investigate.--_adjs._ INQUISIT'IONAL, making inquiry: relating to the
Inquisition: INQUIS'ITIVE, searching into: apt to ask questions:
curious.--_adv._ INQUIS'ITIVELY.--_ns._ INQUIS'ITIVENESS; INQUIS'ITOR, one
who inquires: an official inquirer: a member of the Court of
Inquisition.--_adj._ INQUISIT[=O]'RIAL.--_adv._ INQUISIT[=O]'RIALLY.--_n._
INQUIS'ITRESS, an inquisitive woman.--_adj._ INQUISIT[=U]'RIENT (_Milt._),
inquisitorial.--GRAND INQUISITOR, the chief in a Court of Inquisition. [L.
_inquisition-em_. See INQUIRE.]

INROAD, in'r[=o]d, _n._ an incursion into an enemy's country: a sudden
invasion: attack: encroachment.

INRUSH, in'rush, _n._ an invasion: an irruption.

INSALIVATION, in-sal-i-v[=a]'shun, _n._ the process of mixing the food with
the saliva.

INSALUBRIOUS, in-sa-l[=u]'bri-us, _adj._ not healthful; unwholesome.--_n._
INSAL[=U]'BRITY.

INSALUTARY, in-sal'[=u]-tar-i, _adj._ not salutary or favourable to health:
unwholesome.

INSANABLE, in-san'a-bl, _adj._ incurable.--_n._ INSAN'ABLENESS.--_adv._
INSAN'ABLY.

INSANE, in-s[=a]n', _adj._ not sane or of sound mind: crazy: mad: utterly
unwise: senseless: causing insanity--(_Shak._) 'insane root,' prob. hemlock
or henbane.--_adv._ INSANE'LY.--_ns._ INSANE'NESS, insanity: madness;
INSA'NIE (_Shak._) insanity; INSAN'ITY, want of sanity: an alteration in
all or any of the functions of the brain, unfitting a man for affairs, and
rendering him dangerous to himself and others: madness.

INSANITARY, in-san'i-ta-ri, _adj._ not sanitary.--_n._ INSANIT[=A]'TION,
want of proper sanitary arrangements.

INSATIABLE, in-s[=a]'shi-a-bl, INSATIATE, in-s[=a]'shi-[=a]t, _adj._ that
cannot be satiated or satisfied.--_ns._ INS[=A]'TIABLENESS, INSATIABIL'ITY,
INSAT[=I]'ETY.--_adv._ INS[=A]'TIABLY.

INSCIENT, in'shi-ent, _adj._ not knowing, ignorant: knowing. [Fr.,--L.
_in_, not, _sciens_, _sc[=i]re_, to know; in the sense of knowing, prefix
_in-_ is intens.]

INSCRIBE, in-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to write upon: to engrave, as on a monument:
to put (a person's name) in a book, by way of compliment: to imprint
deeply: (_geom._) to draw one figure within another.--_adj._
INSCR[=I]B'ABLE.--_ns._ INSCR[=I]B'ER; INSCRIP'TION, a writing upon: that
which is inscribed: title: dedication of a book to a person: the name given
to records inscribed on stone, metal, clay, &c.--_adjs._ INSCRIP'TIONAL,
INSCRIP'TIVE, bearing an inscription: of the character of an inscription.
[Fr.,--L. _inscrib[)e]re_, _inscriptum_--_in_, upon, _scrib[)e]re_, to
write.]

INSCROLL, in-skr[=o]l', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to write on a scroll.

INSCRUTABLE, in-skr[=oo]t'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be scrutinised or
searched into and understood: inexplicable.--_ns._ INSCRUTABIL'ITY,
INSCRUT'ABLENESS.--_adv._ INSCRUT'ABLY. [L. _inscrutabilis_--_in_, not,
_scrut[=a]ri_, to search into.]

INSCULP, in-skulp', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to engrave, to cut or carve
upon.--_n._ INSCULP'TURE (_Shak._), anything engraved. [L.
_insculp[)e]re_--_in_, in, _sculp[)e]re_, to carve.]

INSECT, in'sekt, _n._ a word loosely used for a small creature, as a wasp
or fly, with a body as if cut in the middle, or divided into sections:
(_zool._) an arthropod, usually winged in adult life, breathing air by
means of tracheæ, and having frequently a metamorphosis in the
life-history.--_adj._ like an insect: small: mean.--_ns._ INSECT[=A]R'IUM,
a place where a collection of living insects is kept; INSEC'TICIDE, act of
killing insects.--_adjs._ INSEC'TIFORM, INSEC'TILE, having the nature of an
insect.--_ns._ INSEC'TIFUGE, a substance which protects against insects;
INSEC'TION, an incision; IN'SECT-NET, a light hand-net for catching
insects; IN'SECT-POW'DER, a dry powder used for stupefying and killing
fleas and other insects, an insecticide or insectifuge. [Fr.,--L.
_insectum_, pa.p. of _insec[=a]re_--_in_, into, _sec[=a]re_, to cut.]

INSECTIVORA, in-sek-tiv'or-a, _n._ an order of mammals, mostly terrestrial,
nocturnal in habit, and small in size--shrews, moles, hedgehogs,
&c.--_adj._ INSECTIV'OROUS, living on insects. [L. _insectum_, an insect,
_vor[=a]re_, to devour.]

INSECURE, in-se-k[=u]r', _adj._ apprehensive of danger or loss: exposed to
danger or loss: uncertain.--_adv._ INSECURE'LY.--_n._ INSECUR'ITY.

INSENSATE, in-sen's[=a]t, _adj._ void of sense: wanting sensibility:
stupid.--_n._ INSEN'SATENESS, the state of being insensate or destitute of
sense: insensibility. [L. _insens[=a]tus_--_in_, not, _sensatus_--_sensus_,
feeling.]

INSENSIBLE, in-sen'si-bl, _adj._ not having feeling: not susceptible of
emotion: callous: dull: unconscious: imperceptible by the senses.--_ns._
INSENSIBIL'ITY, INSEN'SIBLENESS; INSEN'SIBLIST, an unfeeling
person.--_adv._ INSEN'SIBLY.--_adj._ INSEN'SUOUS, not sensuous: without the
power of perception.

INSENSITIVE, in-sen'si-tiv, _adj._ not sensitive.

INSENSUOUS, in-sen's[=u]-us, _adj._ not sensuous.

INSENTIENT, in-sen'shi-ent, _adj._ not having perception.

INSEPARABLE, in-sep'ar-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be separated.--_ns._
INSEP'ARABLENESS, INSEPARABIL'ITY.--_adv._ INSEP'ARABLY.--_adj._
INSEP'ARATE (_Shak._), not separate, united.

INSERT, in-s[.e]rt', _v.t._ to introduce into: to put in or among.--_n._
(in's[.e]rt) something additional inserted into a proof, &c.; a circular,
or the like, placed for posting within the folds of a paper or leaves of a
book.--_adj._ INSERT'ED (_bot._), attached to or growing out of some
part.--_n._ INSER'TION, act of inserting: condition of being inserted: that
which is inserted. [L. _in_, in, _ser[)e]re_, _sertum_, to join.]

INSESSORES, in-se-s[=o]'r[=e]z, _n.pl._ an order of birds called by Cuvier
_Passerine_ (sparrow-like)--the title is now replaced by that of _Passeres_
(q.v.).--_adj._ INSESS[=O]'RIAL, having feet (as birds) formed for perching
or climbing on trees. [L. _insessor_, from _insid[=e]re_, _insessum_--_in_,
on, _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

INSET, in'set, _n._ something set in, an insertion, esp. a leaf or leaves
inserted in other leaves already folded.--_v.t._ to set in, to infix or
implant.

INSEVERABLE, in-sev'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be severed or separated.

INSHEATHE, in-sh[=e]_th_', _v.t._ to put in a sheath.

INSHELL, in-shel', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to hide, as in a shell.

INSHELTER, in-shel't[.e]r, _v.t._ to place in shelter.

INSHIP, in-ship', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to ship, to embark.

INSHORE, in-sh[=o]r', _adv._ on or near the shore.--_adj._ situated near
the shore, as fishings.

INSHRINE, in-shr[=i]n'. Same as ENSHRINE.

INSICCATION, in-sik-k[=a]'shun, _n._ act of drying in. [L. _in_, in,
_sicc[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to dry.]

INSIDE, in's[=i]d, _n._ the side or part within: things within, as the
entrails, personal feelings, &c.: a passenger in the interior part of a bus
or carriage.--_adj._ being within: interior.--_adv._ and _prep._ within the
sides of: in the interior of: (_Amer._) within the limit of time or space
(with _of_).--_n._ INS[=I]'DER, one who is inside: one within a certain
organisation, &c.: one possessing some particular advantage.--INSIDE EDGE,
a stroke in skating made on the inner edge of the skate, the right foot
making a curve to the left, the left foot one to the right.--HAVE THE
INSIDE TRACK, to have the inner side in a race-course: to have the
advantage in position.

INSIDIOUS, in-sid'i-us, _adj._ watching an opportunity to ensnare: intended
to entrap: deceptive: advancing imperceptibly: treacherous.--_adv._
INSID'IOUSLY.--_n._ INSID'IOUSNESS. [L. _insidiosus_--_insidiæ_, an
ambush--_insid[=e]re_--_in_, _sed[=e]re_, to sit.]

INSIGHT, in's[=i]t, _n._ sight into: thorough knowledge or skill: power of
acute observation.

INSIGNIA, in-sig'ni-a, _n.pl._ signs or badges of office or honour: marks
by which anything is known. [L., pl. of _insigne_--_in_, in, _signum_, a
mark.]

INSIGNIFICANT, in-sig-nif'i-kant, _adj._ destitute of meaning: without
effect: unimportant: petty.--_ns._ INSIGNIF'ICANCE,
INSIGNIF'ICANCY.--_adv._ INSIGNIF'ICANTLY.--_adj._ INSIGNIF'IC[=A]TIVE, not
significative or expressing by external signs.

INSINCERE, in-sin-s[=e]r', _adj._ deceitful: dissembling: not to be
trusted: unsound.--_adv._ INSINCERE'LY.--_n._ INSINCER'ITY.

INSINEW, in-sin'[=u], _v.t._ (_Shak._) to impart vigour to.

INSINUATE, in-sin'[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ to introduce gently or artfully: to
hint, esp. a fault: to work into favour.--_v.i._ to creep or flow in: to
enter gently: to obtain access by flattery or stealth.--_adj._
INSIN'UATING, tending to insinuate or enter gently: insensibly winning
confidence.--_adv._ INSIN'UATINGLY.--_n._ INSINU[=A]'TION, act of
insinuating: power of insinuating: that which is insinuated: a hint, esp.
conveying an indirect imputation.--_adj._ INSIN'UATIVE, insinuating or
stealing on the confidence: using insinuation.--_n._ INSIN'UATOR.--_adj._
INSIN'UATORY. [L. _insinu[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _sinus_, a curve.]

INSIPID, in-sip'id, _adj._ tasteless: wanting spirit or animation:
dull.--_adv._ INSIP'IDLY.--_ns._ INSIP'IDNESS, INSIPID'ITY, want of taste.
[Fr.,--Low L.,--L. _in_, not, _sapidus_, well-tasted--_sap[)e]re_, to
taste.]

INSIPIENCE, in-sip'i-ens, _adj._ lack of wisdom.--_adj._ INSIP'IENT.
[Fr.,--L.,--_in_, not, _sapiens_, wise]

INSIST, in-sist', _v.i._ to dwell on emphatically in discourse: to persist
in pressing: (_Milt._) to persevere.--_n._ INSIST'ENCE, perseverance in
pressing any claim, grievance, &c.: pertinacity.--_adj._ INSIST'ENT,
urgent: prominent: upright on end.--_adv._ INSIST'ENTLY.--_n._ INSIST'URE,
persistence: (_Shak._) constancy. [Fr.,--L. _insist[)e]re_, _in_, upon,
_sist[)e]re_, to stand.]

INSNARE. See ENSNARE.

INSOBRIETY, in-so-br[=i]'e-ti, _n._ want of sobriety.

INSOCIABLE, in-s[=o]'sha-bl, _adj._ not sociable: that cannot be associated
or joined.

INSOLATE, in'so-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to expose to the sun's rays.--_n._
INSOL[=A]'TION, exposure to the sun's rays: an injury to plants caused by
too much of the sun. [L. _insol[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _sol_, the
sun.]

INSOLE, in's[=o]l, _n._ the inner sole of a boot or shoe:--opp. to
_Outsole_: a sole of some material placed inside a shoe for warmth or
dryness.

INSOLENT, in'so-lent, _adj._ overbearing: insulting: rude.--_n._
IN'SOLENCE.--_adv._ IN'SOLENTLY. [O. Fr.,--L. _insolens_--_in_, not,
_solens_, pa.p. of _sol[=e]re_, to be wont.]

INSOLIDITY, in-so-lid'i-ti, _n._ want of solidity.

INSOLUBLE, in-sol'[=u]-bl, _adj._ not capable of being dissolved: not to be
solved or explained.--_ns._ INSOLUBIL'ITY, INSOL'UBLENESS.

INSOLVABLE, in-solv'a-bl, _adj._ not solvable.

INSOLVENT, in-solv'ent, _adj._ not able to pay one's debts: bankrupt:
pertaining to insolvent persons.--_n._ one unable to pay his debts.--_n._
INSOLV'ENCY, bankruptcy.

INSOMNIA, in-som'ni-a, _n._ sleeplessness.--_adj._ INSOM'NIOUS.--_n._
INSOM'N[=O]LENCE. [L. _insomnis_, sleepless.]

INSOMUCH, in-so-much', _adv._ to such a degree: so.

INSOOTH, in-s[=oo]th', _adv._ (_Shak._) in truth, indeed.

INSOUCIANT, in-s[=oo]'si-ant, _adj._ indifferent: careless.--_n._
INSOU'CIANCE. [Fr. _in_, not, _souciant_--_souci_, care.]

INSPAN, in'span, _v.t._ to yoke (draught-oxen or horses) to a vehicle.
[Dut. _inspannen_, to yoke--_in_, in, _spannen_, to tie.]

INSPECT, in-spekt', _v.t._ to look into: to examine: to look at narrowly:
to superintend.--_adv._ INSPECT'INGLY.--_n._ INSPEC'TION, the act of
inspecting or looking into: careful or official examination.--_adjs._
INSPEC'TIONAL; INSPEC'TIVE.--_ns._ INSPEC'TOR, one who looks into or
oversees: an examining officer: a superintendent; INSPEC'TOR[=A]TE, a
district under charge of an inspector: a body of inspectors
collectively.--_adj._ INSPECT[=O]'RIAL.--_ns._ INSPEC'TORSHIP, the office
of an inspector; INSPEC'TRESS, a female inspector. [L. _inspect[=a]re_,
freq. of _inspic[)e]re_, _inspectum_--_in_, into, _spec[)e]re_, to look.]

INSPHERE. See ENSPHERE.

INSPIRE, in-sp[=i]r', _v.t._ to breathe into: to draw or inhale into the
lungs: to infuse by breathing, or as if by breathing: to infuse into the
mind: to instruct by divine influence: to instruct or affect with a
superior influence.--_v.i._ to draw in the breath.--_adj._ INSPIR'ABLE,
able to be inhaled.--_n._ INSPIR[=A]'TION, the act of inspiring or
breathing into: a breath: the divine influence by which the sacred writers
of the Bible were instructed: superior elevating or exciting
influence.--_adjs._ INSPIR[=A]'TIONAL, INSPIRATORY (in-spir'a-tor-i, or
in'spir-a-tor-i), belonging to or aiding inspiration or inhalation.--_n._
INSPIR[=A]'TIONIST, one who maintains the direct inspiration of the
Scriptures.--_adj._ INSPIRED', actuated or directed by divine influence:
influenced by elevated feeling: prompted by superior, but not openly
declared, knowledge or authority: actually authoritative.--_n._
INSPIR'ER.--_adv._ INSPIR'INGLY. [Fr.,--L. _inspir[=a]re_--_in_, into,
_spir[=a]re_, to breathe.]

INSPIRIT, in-spir'it, _v.t._ to infuse spirit into.

INSPISSATE, in-spis'[=a]t, _v.t._ to thicken by the evaporation of
moisture, as the juices of plants.--_n._ INSPISS[=A]'TION. [L. _in_, in,
_spiss[=a]re_--_spissus_, thick.]

INSTABILITY, in-sta-bil'i-ti, _n._ want of steadiness or firmness:
inconstancy, fickleness: mutability.--_adj._ INST[=A]'BLE, not stable:
inconstant.

INSTALL, INSTAL, in-stawl', _v.t._ to place in a seat: to place in an
office or order: to invest with any charge or office with the customary
ceremonies.--_ns._ INSTALL[=A]'TION, the act of installing or placing in an
office with ceremonies: a placing in position for use, also a general term
for the complete mechanical apparatus for electric lighting, &c.;
INSTAL'MENT, the act of installing: one of the parts of a sum paid at
various times: that which is produced at stated periods. [Fr.,--Low L.
_installare_--_in_, in, _stallum_, a stall--Old High Ger. _stal_ (Ger.
_stall_), Eng. _stall_.]

INSTANCE, in'stans, _n._ quality of being urgent: solicitation: occurrence:
occasion: example: (_Shak._) evidence, proof.--_v.t._ to mention as an
example.--_n._ IN'STANCY, insistency.--_adj._ INSTAN'TIAL (_rare_).--AT THE
INSTANCE OF, at the motion or solicitation of; FOR INSTANCE, to take as an
example. [O. Fr.,--L. _instantia_--_instans_.]

INSTANT, in'stant, _adj._ pressing, urgent: immediate: quick: without
delay: present, current, as the passing month.--_n._ the present moment of
time: any moment or point of time.--_n._ INSTANTAN[=E]'ITY.--_adj._
INSTANT[=A]N'EOUS, done in an instant: momentary: occurring or acting at
once: very quickly.--_adv._ INSTANT[=A]N'EOUSLY.--_n._
INSTANT[=A]N'EOUSNESS.--_advs._ INSTAN'TER, immediately; IN'STANTLY, on the
instant or moment: immediately: (_Shak._) at the same time: (_B._)
importunately, zealously. [L. _instans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_inst[=a]re_--_in_, upon, _st[=a]re_, to stand.]

INSTAR, in-stär', _v.t._ to adorn with stars.

INSTATE, in-st[=a]t', _v.t._ to put in possession: to install.

INSTAURATION, in-stawr-[=a]'shun, _n._ restoration: renewal. [L.
_instaur[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to restore.]

INSTEAD, in-sted', _adv._ in the stead, place, or room of. [M. E. _in
stede_--A.S. _on stede_, in the place.]

INSTELLATION, in-stel-[=a]'shun, _n._ (_rare_) a placing among the stars.

INSTEP, in'step, _n._ the prominent upper part of the human foot near its
junction with the leg: in horses, the hind-leg from the ham to the pastern
joint.

INSTIGATE, in'sti-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to urge on: to set on: to foment.--_ns._
INSTIG[=A]'TION, the act of inciting: impulse, esp. to evil; IN'STIGATOR,
an inciter, generally in a bad sense. [L. _instig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

INSTIL, in-stil', _v.t._ to drop into: to infuse slowly into the
mind:--_pr.p._ instil'ling; _pa.p._ instilled'.--_ns._ INSTILL[=A]'TION,
INSTIL'MENT, the act of instilling or pouring in by drops: the act of
infusing slowly into the mind: that which is instilled or infused.
[Fr.,--L. _instill[=a]re_--_in_, in, _still[=a]re_, to drop.]

INSTINCT, in'stingkt, _n._ impulse: an involuntary prompting to action:
intuition: the mental aspect of those actions which take rank between
unconscious reflex activities and intelligent conduct: the natural impulse
by which animals are guided apparently independent of reason or
experience.--_adj._ (in-stingkt') instigated or incited: moved:
animated.--_adj._ INSTINC'TIVE, prompted by instinct: involuntary: acting
according to or determined by natural impulse.--_adv._
INSTINC'TIVELY.--_n._ INSTINCTIV'ITY (_rare_). [L.
_instinctus_--_instingu[)e]re_, to instigate.]

INSTIPULATE, in-stip'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having no stipules.

INSTITORIAL, in-sti-t[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ (_law_) pertaining to an agent or
factor. [L. _institorius_--_institor_, an agent, broker.]

INSTITUTE, in'sti-t[=u]t, _v.t._ to set up in: to erect: to originate: to
establish: to appoint: to commence: to educate.--_n._ anything instituted
or formally established: established law: precept or principle: (_pl._) a
book of precepts, principles, or rules, esp. in jurisprudence: an
institution: a literary and philosophical society or association, as the
'Institute of France' (embracing _L'Académie Française_, _L'Académie des
Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres_, _L'Académie des Sciences_, _L'Académie des
Beaux Arts_, and _L'Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques_).--_n._
INSTIT[=U]'TION, the act of instituting or establishing: that which is
instituted or established: foundation: established order: enactment: a
society established for some object: that which institutes or instructs: a
system of principles or rules: the origination of the Eucharist and the
formula of institution: the act by which a bishop commits a cure of souls
to a priest.--_adjs._ INSTIT[=U]'TIONAL, INSTIT[=U]'TIONARY, belonging to
an institution: instituted by authority: elementary.--_n._ IN'STITUTIST, a
writer of institutes or elementary rules.--_adj._ IN'STITUTIVE, able or
tending to establish: depending on an institution.--_n._ IN'STITUTOR, one
who institutes: an instructor. [L. _institu[)e]re_, _-[=u]tum_--_in_, in,
_statu[)e]re_, to cause to stand--_st[=a]re_, to stand.]

INSTREAMING, in-str[=e]m'ing, _n._ an influx.

INSTRUCT, in-strukt', _v.t._ to prepare: to inform: to teach: to order or
command.--_adj._ (_Milt._) instructed.--_adj._ INSTRUCT'IBLE, able to be
instructed.--_n._ INSTRUC'TION, the act of instructing or teaching:
information: command: (_pl._) special directions, commands--in
parliamentary sense, 'Instructions to the Committee' are supplementary and
auxiliary to the Bill under consideration, but falling broadly within its
general scope.--_adjs._ INSTRUC'TIONAL, relating to instruction:
educational; INSTRUC'TIVE, containing instruction or information: conveying
knowledge.--_adv._ INSTRUC'TIVELY.--_ns._ INSTRUC'TIVENESS;
INSTRUC'TOR:--_fem._ INSTRUC'TRESS. [L. _instru[)e]re_, _instructum_--_in_,
in, _stru[)e]re_, to pile up.]

INSTRUMENT, in'str[=oo]-ment, _n._ a tool or utensil: a machine producing
musical sounds: a writing containing a contract: one who, or that which, is
made a means.--_adj._ INSTRUMENT'AL, acting as an instrument or means:
serving to promote an object: helpful: belonging to or produced by musical
instruments: (_gram._) serving to indicate the instrument or means--of a
case in Sanskrit, involving the notion of _by_ or _with_.--_ns._
INSTRUMENT'ALIST, one who plays on a musical instrument; INSTRUMENTAL'ITY,
agency.--_adv._ INSTRUMENT'ALLY.--_n._ INSTRUMENT[=A]'TION (_mus._), the
arrangement of a composition for performance by different instruments: the
playing upon musical instruments. [O. Fr.,--L.
_instrumentum_--_instru[)e]re_, to instruct.]

INSUBJECTION, in-sub-jek'shun, _n._ want of subjection.

INSUBORDINATE, in-sub-or'din-[=a]t, _adj._ not subordinate or submissive:
disobedient.--_n._ INSUBORDIN[=A]'TION.

INSUBSTANTIAL, in-sub-stan'shal, _adj._ (_Shak._) not substantial: not
real.--_n._ INSUBSTANTIAL'ITY.

INSUCKEN, in'suk-n, _adj._ in Scots law, pertaining to a district astricted
to a certain mill.

INSUFFERABLE, in-suf'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be endured:
detestable.--_adv._ INSUFF'ERABLY.

INSUFFICIENT, in-suf-fish'ent, _adj._ not sufficient: deficient: unfit:
incapable.--_ns._ INSUFFIC'IENCY, INSUFFIC'IENCE (_rare_).--_adv._
INSUFFIC'IENTLY.

INSUFFLATE, in-suf'l[=a]t, _v.t._ to breathe on.--_ns._ INSUFFL[=A]'TION,
the art of breathing on anything, or of blowing air to induce respiration,
as into the mouth of a newborn child, esp. as a symbol of the outpouring of
the Holy Ghost; IN'SUFFL[=A]TOR, a form of injector for forcing air into a
furnace. [Through Low L., from L. _in_, in, _suffl[=a]re_, to blow.]

INSULAR, in's[=u]-lar, _adj._ belonging to an island: surrounded by water:
standing or situated alone: narrow, prejudiced.--_ns._ IN'SULARISM,
INSULAR'ITY, the state of being insular.--_adv._ IN'SULARLY.--_v.t._
IN'SULATE, to place in a detached situation: to prevent connection or
communication: (_electricity_) to separate, esp. from the earth, by a
non-conductor.--_ns._ INSUL[=A]'TION; IN'SULATOR, one who, or that which,
insulates: a non-conductor of electricity. [Fr.,--L. _insularis_--_insula_,
an island.]

INSULSE, in-suls', _adj._ stupid.--_n._ INSUL'SITY (_Milt._), stupidity.
[L. _insulsus_--_in_, not, _sal[=i]re_, to salt.]

INSULT, in-sult', _v.t._ to treat with indignity or contempt: to abuse: to
affront.--_n._ (in'sult) abuse: affront: contumely.--_adjs._ INSULT'ABLE,
capable of being insulted; INSULT'ANT (_rare_), insulting.--_n._ INSULT'ER
(_obs._), one who makes an attack.--_adj._ INSULT'ING, conveying insult:
insolent: contemptuous.--_adv._ INSULT'INGLY, in an insulting or insolent
manner.--_n._ INSULT'MENT (_Shak._), insult. [Fr.,--L.
_insult[=a]re_--_insil[=i]re_, to spring at--_in_, upon, _sal[=i]re_, to
leap.]

INSUPERABLE, in-s[=u]'p[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be passed over:
unconquerable.--_n._ INSUPERABIL'ITY.--_adv._ INS[=U]'PERABLY. [O.
Fr.,--L.,--_in_, not, _superabilis_--_super[=a]re_, to pass over--_super_,
above.]

INSUPPORTABLE, in-sup-p[=o]rt'a-bl, _adj._ not supportable or able to be
endured: unbearable: insufferable: (_Spens._) irresistible.--_n._
INSUPPORT'ABLENESS.--_adv._ INSUPPORT'ABLY.

INSUPPRESSIBLE, in-sup-pres'i-bl, _adj._ not to be suppressed or
concealed.--_adj._ INSUPPRESS'IVE (_Shak._), that cannot be suppressed or
concealed.

INSURE, in-sh[=oo]r', _v.t._ to make sure or secure: to contract for a
premium to make good a loss, as from fire, &c., or to pay a certain sum on
a certain event, as death.--_v.i._ to practise making insurance.--_adj._
INSUR'ABLE, that may be insured.--_ns._ INSUR'ANCE, the act of insuring, or
a contract by which one party undertakes for a payment or premium to
guarantee another against risk or loss--the written contract called the
INSUR'ANCE-POL'ICY: the premium so paid; INSUR'ANCER (_obs._); INSUR'ER,
one who agrees to pay money to another party on the happening of a certain
event. [O. Fr. _enseurer_--_en_, and _seur_, sure.]

INSURGENT, in-sur'jent. _adj._ rising up or against: rising in opposition
to authority: rebellious.--_n._ one who rises in opposition to established
authority: a rebel.--_n._ INSUR'GENCY, a rising up or against:
insurrection: rebellion--also INSUR'GENCE. [L. _insurgens_, _-entis_--_in_,
upon, _surg[)e]re_, to rise.]

INSURMOUNTABLE, in-sur-mownt'a-bl, _adj._ not surmountable: that cannot be
overcome.--_n._ INSURMOUNTABIL'ITY.--_adv._ INSURMOUNT'ABLY.

INSURRECTION, in-sur-rek'shun, _n._ a rising up or against: open and active
opposition to the execution of the law: a rebellion.--_adjs._
INSURREC'TIONAL, INSURREC'TIONARY.--_n._ INSURREC'TIONIST, one who favours
or takes part in an insurrection. [L. _insurrection-em_--_insurg[)e]re_.
See INSURGENT.]

INSUSCEPTIBLE, in-sus-sep'ti-bl, _adj._ not susceptible: not capable of
feeling or of being affected--also INSUSCEP'TIVE.--_n._ INSUSCEPTIBIL'ITY.

INSWATHE, in-sw[=a]th', _v.t._ See ENSWATHE.

INTACT, in-takt', _adj._ untouched, uninjured.--_adj._ INTACT'ABLE, not
perceptible to touch.--_n._ INTACT'NESS. [L. _intactus_--_in_, not,
_tang[)e]re_, _tactum_, to touch.]

INTAGLIO, in-tal'y[=o], _n._ a figure cut into any substance: a stone or
gem in which the design is hollowed out, the opposite of a cameo.--_adj._
INTAGL'IATED, formed in intaglio: engraved. [It.,--_intagliare_--_in_,
into, _tagliare_, to cut (twigs)--L. _talea_, a twig.]

INTAKE, in't[=a]k, _n._ that which is taken in: a tract of land enclosed:
the point at which contraction begins: (_prov._) any kind of cheat or
imposition.

INTANGIBLE, in-tan'ji-bl, _adj._ not tangible or perceptible to
touch.--_ns._ INTAN'GIBLENESS, INTANGIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INTAN'GIBLY. [See
INTACT.]

INTEGER, in'te-j[.e]r, _n._ that which is left untouched or undiminished, a
whole: (_arith._) a whole number, as opposed to a fraction.--_adj._
IN'TEGRAL, entire or whole: not fractional: unimpaired: intrinsic,
belonging as a part to the whole.--_n._ a whole: the whole as made up of
its parts.--_adv._ IN'TEGRALLY.--_adj._ IN'TEGRANT, making part of a whole:
necessary to form an integer or an entire thing.--_v.t._ IN'TEGR[=A]TE, to
make up as a whole: to make entire: to renew.--_n._
INTEGR[=A]'TION.--INTEGRAL FUNCTION (_algebra_), a function which does not
include the operation of division in any of its terms (see FUNCTION).
[L.,--_in_, not, root of _tang[)e]re_, to touch.]

INTEGRITY, in-teg'ri-ti, _n._ entireness, wholeness: the unimpaired state
of anything: uprightness: honesty: purity. [See INTEGER.]

INTEGUMENT, in-teg'[=u]-ment, _n._ the external protective covering of a
plant or animal.--_adj._ INTEGUMENT'ARY. [L.,--_integ[)e]re_--_in_, upon,
_teg[)e]re_, to cover.]

INTELLECT, in'tel-lekt, _n._ the mind, in reference to its rational powers:
the thinking principle: (_pl._, _coll._) senses.--_adj._ IN'TELLECTED
(_Cowper_), endowed with intellect.--_n._ INTELLEC'TION, the act of
understanding: (_philos._) apprehension or perception.--_adjs._
INTELLECT'IVE, able to understand: produced or perceived by the
understanding; INTELLECT'UAL, of or relating to the intellect: perceived or
performed by the intellect: having the power of understanding.--_n._ mental
power.--_v.t._ INTELLECT'UALISE, to reason intellectually: to endow with
intellect: to give an intellectual character to.--_ns._ INTELLECT'UALISM,
the doctrine which derives all knowledge from pure reason: the culture of
the intellect; INTELLECT'UALIST; INTELLECTUAL'ITY, intellectual
power.--_adv._ INTELLECT'UALLY. [Fr.,--L.,--_intellig[)e]re_, to
understand--_inter_, between, _leg[)e]re_, to choose.]

INTELLIGENT, in-tel'-i-jent, _adj._ having intellect: endowed with the
faculty of reason: well informed: bringing intelligence. (_Shak._)
communicative.--_ns._ INTELL'IGENCE, intellectual skill or knowledge:
information communicated: news: a spiritual being; INTELL'IGENCER, one
going between parties: a spy.--_adjs._ INTELLIGEN'TIAL, pertaining to the
intelligence: consisting of spiritual being.--_adv._
INTELL'IGENTLY.--_adj._ INTELL'IGIBLE, that maybe understood: clear:
(_philos._) capable of being apprehended by the understanding only.--_ns._
INTELL'IGIBLENESS, INTELLIGIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ INTELL'IGIBLY. [L.
_intelligens_, -_entis_, pr.p. of _intellig[)e]re_.]

INTEMPERANCE, in-tem'p[.e]r-ans, _n._ want of due restraint: excess of any
kind: habitual indulgence in intoxicating liquor.--_n._ INTEM'PERANT, one
who is intemperate.--_adj._ INTEM'PERATE, indulging to excess any appetite
or passion: given to an immoderate use of intoxicating liquors: passionate:
exceeding the usual degree: immoderate.--_adv._ INTEM'PERATELY.--_n._
INTEM'PERATENESS.

INTENABLE, in-ten'a-bl, _adj._ not tenable.

INTEND, in-tend', _v.t._ to fix the mind upon: to design: to purpose:
(_Milt._) to extend: (_Shak._) to direct.--_v.i._ to have a design: to
purpose.--_ns._ INTEND'ANT, an officer who superintends some public
business, a title of many public officers in France and other countries;
INTEND'ANCY, his office.--_adj._ INTEND'ED, purposed: betrothed.--_n._ an
affianced lover.--_adv._ INTEND'EDLY, with intention or design.--_ns._
INTEND'IMENT (_Spens._), attention, knowledge, intention; INTEND'MENT
(_Shak._), intention, design. [O. Fr. _entendre_--L. _intend[)e]re_,
_intentum_ and _intensum_--_in_, towards, _tend[)e]re_, to stretch.]

INTENERATE, in-ten'e-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to make tender.--_n._ INTENER[=A]'TION.

INTENSE, in-tens', _adj._ closely strained: extreme in degree: very severe:
emotional.--_v.t._ INTEN'SATE (_Carlyle_), to intensify.--_adv._
INTENSE'LY.--_ns._ INTENSE'NESS, INTENS'ITY; INTENSIFIC[=A]'TION, the act
of intensifying.--_v.t._ INTEN'SIFY, to make more intense.--_v.i._ to
become intense:--_pa.p._ intens'ified.--_n._ INTEN'SION, a straining or
bending: increase of intensity: (_logic_) the sum of the qualities implied
by a general name.--_adj._ INTEN'SIVE, stretched: admitting of increase of
degree: unremitted: serving to intensify: (_gram._) giving force or
emphasis.--_adv._ INTEN'SIVELY.--_n._ INTEN'SIVENESS. [See INTEND.]

INTENT, in-tent', _adj._ having the mind bent on: fixed with close
attention: diligently applied.--_n._ the thing aimed at or intended: a
design: meaning.--_n._ INTEN'TION, a fixing of the mind on any object:
fixed direction of mind: the object aimed at: design: purpose.--_adjs._
INTEN'TIONAL, INTEN'TIONED, with intention: intended: designed.--_advs._
INTEN'TIONALLY, with intention; INTENT'LY, in an intent manner.--_adj._
INTEN'TIVE (_Bacon_), attentive.--_n._ INTENT'NESS.--TO ALL INTENTS AND
PURPOSES, in every respect.--WELL- (or ILL-) INTENTIONED, having good (or
ill) designs. [See INTEND.]

INTER, in-t[.e]r', _v.t._ to bury:--_pr.p._ inter'ring; _pa.p._
interred'.--_n._ INTER'MENT. [Fr. _enterrer_--Low L. _interr[=a]re_--L.
_in_, into, _terra_, the earth.]

INTERACT, in-t[.e]r-akt', _n._ a short piece in a play acted between the
principal pieces: the interval between the acts of a drama.--_v.i._ to act
on one another.--_n._ INTERAC'TION, action between bodies, mutual
action.--_adj._ INTERAC'TIVE.

INTERAULIC, in-t[.e]r-aw'lik, _adj._ existing between royal courts.

INTERBREED, in-t[.e]r-br[=e]d, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to breed by crossing one
species of animals or plants with another.--_n._ INTERBREED'ING.

INTERCALATE, in-t[.e]r'kal-[=a]t, _v.t._ to insert between, as a day in a
calendar.--_adjs._ INTER'CALARY, INTER'CALAR, inserted between
others.--_n._ INTERCAL[=A]'TION.--_adj._ INTER'CALATIVE. [L.
_intercal[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_inter_, between, _cal[=a]re_, to call. See
CALENDS.]

INTERCEDE, in-t[.e]r-s[=e]d', _v.i._ and _v.t._ to act as peacemaker
between two: to plead for one.--_adj._ INTERCED'ENT.--_n._ INTERCED'ER.
[Fr.,--L. _interced[)e]re_, _-cessum_--_inter_, between, _ced[)e]re_, to
go.]

INTERCELLULAR, in-t[.e]r-sel'[=u]-lar, _adj._ lying between cells.

INTERCEPT, in-t[.e]r-sept', _v.t._ to stop and seize on its passage: to
obstruct, check: to interrupt communication with: to cut off: (_math._) to
take or comprehend between.--_ns._ INTERCEP'TER, INTERCEP'TOR;
INTERCEP'TION.--_adj._ INTERCEP'TIVE. [Fr.,--L. _intercip[)e]re_,
_-ceptum_--_inter_, between, _cap[)e]re_, to seize.]

INTERCEREBRAL, in-t[.e]r-ser'e-bral, _adj._ connecting two parts of the
brain.

INTERCESSION, in-t[.e]r-sesh'un, _n._ act of interceding or pleading for
another.--_adj._ INTERCESS'IONAL, containing intercession or pleading for
others.--_n._ INTERCESS'OR, one who goes between: one who reconciles two
enemies: one who pleads for another: a bishop who acts during a vacancy in
a see.--_adjs._ INTERCESS[=O]'RIAL, INTERCESS'ORY,
interceding.--INTERCESSION OF SAINTS, prayer offered in behalf of
Christians on earth by saints. [See INTERCEDE.]

INTERCHAIN, in-t[.e]r-ch[=a]n', _v.t._ to chain together.

INTERCHANGE, in-t[.e]r-ch[=a]nj', _v.t._ to give and take mutually: to
exchange.--_v.i._ to succeed alternately.--_n._ mutual exchange: alternate
succession.--_adj._ INTERCHANGE'ABLE, that may be interchanged: following
each other in alternate succession.--_ns._ INTERCHANGE'ABLENESS,
INTERCHANGEABIL'ITY.--_adv._ INTERCHANGE'ABLY.--_ns._ INTERCHANGE'MENT
(_Shak._), exchange, mutual transfer; INTERCHANG'ER.

INTERCILIUM, in-t[.e]r-sil'i-um, _n._ the space between the eyebrows.

INTERCIPIENT, in-t[.e]r-sip'i-ent, _adj._ intercepting.--_n._ the person or
thing that intercepts. [L. _intercipiens_, -_entis_, pr.p. of
_intercip[)e]re_.]

INTERCLAVICULAR, in-t[.e]r-kl[=a]-vik'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated between
clavicles.

INTERCLUDE, in-t[.e]r-kl[=oo]d', _v.t._ to shut out from anything by
something coming between: to intercept: to cut off.--_n._ INTERCLU'SION.
[L. _interclud[)e]re_--_inter_, between, _claud[)e]re_, to shut.]

INTERCOLLEGIATE, in-ter-ko-l[=e]'ji-[=a]t, _adj._ between colleges.

INTERCOLLINE, in-ter-kol'in, _adj._ lying between hills.

INTERCOLONIAL, in-t[.e]r-kol-[=o]'ni-al, _adj._ pertaining to the relation
existing between colonies.--_adv._ INTERCOL[=O]'NIALLY.

INTERCOLUMNIATION, in-t[.e]r-ko-lum-ni-[=a]'shun, _n._ (_archit._) the
distance between columns, measured from the lower part of their
shafts.--_adj._ INTERCOLUM'NAR, placed between columns.

INTERCOMMUNE, in-t[.e]r-kom-[=u]n', _v.i._ to commune between or together:
to hold intercourse.--_adj._ INTERCOMMUN'ICABLE, that may be communicated
between or mutually.--_v.t._ INTERCOMMUN'IC[=A]TE, to communicate between
or mutually.--_ns._ INTERCOMMUNIC[=A]'TION; INTERCOMMUN'ION, communion
between, or mutual communion; INTERCOMMUN'ITY, mutual communication:
reciprocal intercourse.--LETTERS OF INTERCOMMUNING, an ancient writ issued
by the Scotch Privy Council warning persons not to harbour or have any
communication with persons therein denounced, under pain of being held
accessory to their crimes--a special form of _boycott_.

INTERCOMPARISON, in-t[.e]r-kom-par'i-son, _n._ mutual comparison.

INTERCONNECT, in-t[.e]r-ko-nekt', _v.t._ to connect or enjoin mutually and
intimately.--_n._ INTERCONNEC'TION.

INTERCONTINENTAL, in-t[.e]r-kon-ti-nen'tal, _adj._ subsisting between
different continents.

INTERCOSTAL, in-t[.e]r-kost'al, _adj._ (_anat._) lying between the ribs.

INTERCOURSE, in't[.e]r-k[=o]rs, _n._ connection by dealings: communication:
commerce: communion: coition. [O. Fr. _entrecours_--L. _intercursus_, a
running between--_inter_, between, _curr[)e]re_, _cursum_, to run.]

INTERCROSS, in-t[.e]r-kros', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to cross mutually:
interbreed.

INTERCURRENT, in-t[.e]r-kur'ent, _adj._ running between: intervening.--_n._
INTERCURR'ENCE. [O. Fr.,--L. _inter_, between, _curr[)e]re_, to run.]

INTERDASH, in-t[.e]r-dash', _v.t._ to intersperse.

INTERDEAL, in't[.e]r-d[=e]l, _n._ (_Spens._) intercourse, traffic.

INTERDEPENDENCE, in-t[.e]r-de-pend-ens, _n._ mutual dependence: dependence
of parts one on another.--_adj._ INTERDEPEND'ENT.

INTERDICT, in-t[.e]r-dikt', _v.t._ to. prohibit: to forbid: to forbid
communion.--_n._ (in't[.e]r-dikt) prohibition: a prohibitory decree: a
prohibition of the Pope restraining the clergy from performing divine
service.--_n._ INTERDIC'TION.--_adjs._ INTERDIC'TIVE, INTERDIC'TORY,
containing interdiction: prohibitory. [L. _interdic[)e]re_,
-_dictum_--_inter_, between, _dic[)e]re_, to say.]

INTERDIGITAL, in-t[.e]r-dij'i-tal, _adj._ situated between digits.--_v.t._
INTERDIG'ITATE, to insert between the fingers.--_v.i._ to be interwoven, to
interlock by finger-like processes.--_n._ INTERDIGIT[=A]'TION.

INTEREST, in't[.e]r-est, _n._ advantage: premium paid for the use of money
(in COMPOUND INTEREST, the interest of each period is added to its
principal, and the amount forms a new principal for the next period): any
increase: concern: special attention: influence over others: share:
participation.--_n._ (_Spens._) IN'TERESS, interest, concern.--_v.t._ to
concern deeply.--EQUITABLE INTEREST, such interest as is protected by
courts of equity, although it might not be at common law; LANDED INTEREST
(see LANDED); VESTED INTEREST, an interest thoroughly secure and
inalienable, except for public use and upon compensation.--MAKE INTEREST
FOR, to secure interest on behalf of. [O. Fr. _interest_ (Fr.
_intérêt_)--L. _interest_, it is profitable, it concerns--_inter_, between,
_esse_, to be.]

INTEREST, in't[.e]r-est, _v.t._ to engage the attention: to awaken concern
in: to excite (in behalf of another).--_adj._ IN'TERESTED, having an
interest or concern: affected or biassed by personal considerations,
self-interest, &c.--_adv._ IN'TERESTEDLY.--_n._ IN'TERESTEDNESS.--_adj._
IN'TERESTING, engaging the attention or regard: exciting emotion or
passion.--_adv._ IN'TERESTINGLY.--_n._ IN'TERESTINGNESS.--In an interesting
condition, in the family way. [From obs. _interess_--O. Fr. _interesser_,
to concern--L. _interesse_.]

INTERFACIAL, in-t[.e]r-f[=a]'shal, _adj._ (_geom._) included between two
plane faces or surfaces.--_n._ INTERFACE', a plane surface regarded as the
common boundary of two bodies.

INTERFEMORAL, in-t[.e]r-fem'o-ral, _adj._ situated between the thighs,
connecting the hind limbs.

INTERFERE, in-t[.e]r-f[=e]r', _v.i._ to come in collision: to intermeddle:
to interpose: to act reciprocally--said of waves, rays of light, &c.--_ns._
INTERFER'ENCE; INTERFER'ER.--_adv._ INTERFER'INGLY. [Through O. Fr., from
L. _inter_, between, _fer[=i]re_, to strike.]

INTERFLUENT, in-t[.e]r'fl[=oo]-ent, _adj._ flowing between or
together--also INTER'FLUOUS. [L. _interfluens_--_inter_, between,
_flu[)e]re_, to flow.]

INTERFOLD, in-t[.e]r-fold', _v.t._ to fold one into the other.

INTERFOLIACEOUS, in-t[.e]r-f[=o]-li-[=a]'shus, _adj._ placed between
leaves.--_v.t._ INTERF[=O]'LIATE, to interleave.

INTERFRETTED, in-t[.e]r-fret'ed, _adj._ fretted between, or interlaced.

INTERFRONTAL, in-t[.e]r-fron'tal, _adj._ situated between the right and
left frontal bones.

INTERFUSED, in-t[.e]r-f[=u]zd', _adj._ poured between: fused together:
associated.--_n._ INTERF[=U]'SION.

INTERGLACIAL, in-t[.e]r-gl[=a]'shi-al, _adj._ (_geol._) occurring between
two periods of glacial action.

INTERGLANDULAR, in-t[.e]r-glan'd[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated between glands.

INTERGLOBULAR, in-t[.e]r-glob'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated between globules.

INTERGRADE, in-t[.e]r-gr[=a]d', _v.i._ to become alike gradually.--_n._
IN'TERGRADE, an intermediate grade.

INTERGROWTH, in't[.e]r-gr[=o]th, _n._ a growing together.

INTERHEMAL, in-t[.e]r-h[=e]'mal, _adj._ between the hemal processes or
spines.

INTERIM, in't[.e]r-im, _n._ time between or intervening: the meantime: in
the history of the Reformation, the name given to certain edicts of the
German emperor for the regulation of religious and ecclesiastical matters,
till they could be decided by a general council--as the Augsburg Interim
(1548), &c. [L.,--_inter_, between.]

INTERIOR, in-t[=e]'ri-ur, _adj._ inner: remote from the frontier or coast:
inland.--_n._ the inside of anything: the inland part of a country.--_n._
INTERIOR'ITY.--_adv._ INT[=E]'RIORLY. [L.,--comp. of _interus_, inward.]

INTERJACENT, in-t[.e]r-j[=a]'sent, _adj._ lying between: intervening.--_n._
INTERJ[=A]'CENCY, a lying between: a space or region between others. [L.
_inter_, between, _jac[=e]re_, to lie.]

INTERJACULATE, in-t[.e]r-jak'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to interrupt conversation
with an ejaculation.

INTERJECT, in-t[.e]r-jekt', _v.t._ to throw between: to insert.--_v.i._ to
throw one's self between.--_n._ INTERJEC'TION, a throwing between:
(_gram._) a word thrown in to express emotion.--_adjs._ INTERJEC'TIONAL,
INTERJEC'TIONARY, INTERJEC'TURAL.--_adv._ INTERJEC'TIONALLY. [L. _inter_,
between, _jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

INTERJOIN, in-t[.e]r-join', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to join mutually, to
intermarry.

INTERKNIT, in-t[.e]r-nit', _v.t._ to unite closely.

INTERLACE, in-t[.e]r-l[=a]s', _v.t._ to lace together: to unite: to insert
one thing within another.--_v.i._ to intermix.--_n._
INTERLACE'MENT.--INTERLACING ARCHES (_archit._), an arcature in which the
arches intersect.

INTERLARD, in-t[.e]r-lärd', _v.t._ to mix in, as fat with lean: to
diversify by mixture.

INTERLEAVE, in-t[.e]r-l[=e]v', _v.t._ to put a leaf between: to insert
blank leaves in a book.

INTERLINE, in-t[.e]r-l[=i]n', _v.t._ to write in alternate lines: to write
between lines.--_adj._ INTERLIN'EAR, written between lines.--_ns._
INTERLINE[=A]'TION, INTERL[=I]N'ING, act of interlining: that which is
interlined: correction or alteration made by writing between lines.

INTERLINK, in-t[.e]r-lingk', _v.t._ to connect by uniting links.

INTERLOBULAR, in-t[.e]r-lob'[=u]-lar, _adj._ being between lobes.

INTERLOCATION, in-t[.e]r-lo-k[=a]'shun, _n._ a placing between.

INTERLOCK, in-t[.e]r-lok', _v.t._ to lock or clasp together.--_v.i._ to be
locked together.

INTERLOCUTION, in-t[.e]r-lo-k[=u]'shun, _n._ conference: an intermediate
decree before final decision.--_n._ INTERLOC'UTOR, one who speaks between
or in dialogue (_fem._ INTERLOC'UTRESS, INTERLOC'UTRICE): (_Scots law_) an
intermediate decree before final decision.--_adj._ INTERLOC'UTORY.
[Fr.,--L. _interlocutio_, from _interloqui_--_inter_, between, _loqui_,
_locutus_, to speak.]

INTERLOPER, in-t[.e]r-l[=o]p'[.e]r, _n._ one who trades without license: an
intruder.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ INTERLOPE', to intrude into any matter in
which one has no fair concern. [Dut. _enterlooper_, a smuggling vessel, as
running in and out along the coast--L. _inter_, between, Dut. _loopen_, to
run. See LEAP.]

INTERLUDE, in't[.e]r-l[=oo]d, _n._ a short dramatic performance or play
between the play and afterpiece, or between the acts of a play: a short
piece of music played between the parts of a drama, opera, hymn,
&c.--_adj._ INTERLUD'ED, inserted as an interlude: having interludes. [From
L. _inter_, between, _ludus_, play.]

INTERLUNAR, in-t[.e]r-l[=oo]'nar, _adj._ belonging to the moon's monthly
period of invisibility.--Also INTERLU'NARY.

INTERMARRY, in-t[.e]r-mar'i, _v.i._ to marry between or among: to marry
reciprocally, or take one and give another in marriage.--_n._
INTERMARR'IAGE.

INTERMAXILLARY, in-t[.e]r-maks'il-ar-i, _adj._ situated between the
jawbones.

INTERMEDDLE, in-t[.e]r-med'l, _v.i._ to meddle with: to interfere
improperly.--_n._ INTERMEDD'LER.

INTERMEDIATE, in-t[.e]r-m[=e]'di-[=a]t, _adj._ in the middle between:
intervening--also INTERM[=E]'DIARY, INTERM[=E]'DIAL.--_ns._
INTERM[=E]'DIACY, state of being intermediate; INTERM[=E]'DIARY, an
intermediate agent.--_adv._ INTERM[=E]'DIATELY.--_n._ INTERMEDI[=A]'TION,
act of intermediating; INTERM[=E]'DIUM, a medium between: an intervening
agent or instrument.

INTERMENT, in-t[.e]r'ment, _n._ burial.

INTERMEZZO, in-t[.e]r-med'z[=o], _n._ a light dramatic entertainment
between the acts of a tragedy, grand opera, &c.: a short musical burlesque,
&c. [It.]

INTERMIGRATION, in-t[.e]r-m[=i]-gr[=a]'shun, _n._ reciprocal migration.

INTERMINABLE, in-t[.e]r'min-a-bl, INTERMINATE, in-t[.e]r'min-[=a]t, _adj._
without termination or limit: boundless: endless.--_n._
INTER'MINABLENESS.--_adv._ INTER'MINABLY.--INTERMINATE DECIMAL, a decimal
conceived as carried to an infinity of places.

INTERMINGLE, in-t[.e]r-ming'gl, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to mingle or mix
together.

INTERMIT, in-t[.e]r-mit', _v.t._ to cause to cease for a time: to
interrupt.--_n._ INTERMISS'ION, act of intermitting: interval:
pause.--_adj._ INTERMISS'IVE, coming at intervals.--_ns._ INTERMIT'TENCE,
INTERMIT'TENCY, state of being intermittent.--_adj._ INTERMIT'TENT,
intermitting or ceasing at intervals, as a fever.--_adv._
INTERMIT'TINGLY.--INTERMITTENT, or INTERMITTING, SPRING, a spring flowing
for a time and then ceasing, beginning again, &c. [L. _intermitt[)e]re_,
_-missum_--_inter_, between, _mitt[)e]re_, to cause to go.]

INTERMIX, in-t[.e]r-miks', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to mix among or
together.--_n._ INTERMIX'TURE, a mass formed by mixture: something
intermixed.

INTERMOBILITY, in-t[.e]r-mo-bil'i-ti, _n._ capacity of things to move among
themselves.

INTERMUNDANE, in-t[.e]r-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ between worlds.

INTERMURAL, in-t[.e]r-m[=u]'ral, _adj._ lying between walls.

INTERMUSCULAR, in-t[.e]r-mus'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ between the muscles.

INTERMUTATION, in-t[.e]r-m[=u]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ mutual change.

INTERN, in-t[.e]rn', _adj._ internal.--_n._ an inmate of a school, an
assistant surgeon or physician in a hospital.--Also INTERNE'.

INTERN, in-t[.e]rn', _v.t._ to send into the interior of a country: to
immure in an interior locality without permission to leave the
district.--_n._ INTERN'MENT, state of being confined in the interior of a
country. [Fr. _interner_. See INTERNAL.]

INTERNAL, in-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ being in the interior: domestic, as opposed
to foreign: intrinsic: pertaining to the heart:--opp. to _External_.--_n._
INTERNAL'ITY.--_adv._ INTER'NALLY.--INTERNAL EVIDENCE, evidence with regard
to a thing, subject, book, &c. afforded by its intrinsic qualities. [L.
_internus_---_inter_, within.]

INTERNATIONAL, in-t[.e]r-nash'un-al, _adj._ pertaining to the relations
between nations.--_n._ a short-lived association formed in London in 1864
to unite the working classes of all countries in efforts for their economic
emancipation.--_adv._ INTERNAT'IONALLY.

INTERNECINE, in-t[.e]r-n[=e]'s[=i]n, _adj._ mutually destructive:
deadly.--Also INTERN[=E]'CIVE. [L. _internec[=a]re_--_inter_, between,
_nec[=a]re_, to kill.]

INTERNEURAL, in-t[.e]r-n[=u]'ral, _adj._ (_anat._) situated between the
neural spines or spinous processes of successive vertebræ.

INTERNODE, in't[.e]r-n[=o]d, _n._ (_bot._) the space between two nodes or
points of the stem from which the leaves arise.--_adj._ INTERN[=O]'DIAL.
[L. _internodium_--_inter_, between, _nodus_, a knot.]

INTERNUNCIO, in-t[.e]r-nun'shi-[=o], _n._ a messenger between two parties:
the Pope's representative at minor courts.--_adj._ INTERNUN'CIAL. [Sp.,--L.
_internuntius_--_inter_, between, _nuntius_, a messenger.]

INTEROCEANIC, in-t[.e]r-[=o]-she-an'ik, _adj._ between oceans.

INTEROCULAR, in-t[.e]r-ok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ between the eyes.

INTERORBITAL, in-t[.e]r-or'bi-tal, _adj._ situated between the orbits of
the eyes.

INTEROSCULATION, in-t[.e]r-os'k[=u]-l[=a]-shun, _n._ interconnection by, or
as if by, osculation.--_adj._ INTEROS'CULANT.--_v.t._ INTEROS'CUL[=A]TE.

INTEROSSEOUS, in-t[.e]r-os'e-us, _adj._ situated between bones.--Also
INTEROSS'EAL.

INTERPAGE, in-t[.e]r-p[=a]j', _v.t._ to insert on intermediate pages.

INTERPARIETAL, in-t[.e]r-pa-r[=i]'e-tal, _adj._ situated between the right
and left parietal bones of the skull.

INTERPELLATION, in-t[.e]r-pel-[=a]'shun, _n._ a question raised during the
course of a debate: interruption: intercession: a summons: an earnest
address.--_v.t._ INTER'PELLATE, to question. [Fr.,--L.,--_interpell[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to disturb by speaking--_inter_, between, _pell[)e]re_, to
drive.]

INTERPENETRATE, in-t[.e]r-pen'e-tr[=a]t, _v.t._ to penetrate between or
within.--_n._ INTERPENETR[=A]'TION.

INTERPETIOLAR, in-t[.e]r-pet'i-[=o]-lar, _adj._ (_bot._) between the
petioles.

INTERPHALANGEAL, in-t[.e]r-fa-lan'j[=e]-al, _adj._ situated between any
successive phalanges of a finger or toe: nodal, of a digit.

INTERPILASTER, in-t[.e]r-pi-las't[.e]r, _n._ (_archit._) space between two
pilasters.

INTERPLANETARY, in-t[.e]r-plan'et-ar-i, _adj._ between the planets.

INTERPLAY, in't[.e]r-pl[=a], _n._ mutual action: interchange of action and
reaction.

INTERPLEAD, in-t[.e]r-pl[=e]d', _v.i._ (_law_) to discuss adverse claims to
property by bill of interpleader.--_n._ INTERPLEAD'ER, one who interpleads:
a form of process in the English courts, by a bill in equity, intended to
protect a defendant who claims no interest in the subject-matter of a suit,
while at the same time he has reason to know that the plaintiff's title is
disputed by some other claimant.

INTERPLEDGE, in-t[.e]r-plej', _v.t._ to pledge mutually: to give and take a
pledge.

INTREPLEURAL, in-t[.e]r-pl[=oo]'ral, _adj._ situated between the right and
left pleural cavities.

INTERPOLAR, in-t[.e]r-p[=o]'lar, _adj._ situated between or connecting the
poles, as of a galvanic battery.

INTERPOLATE, in-t[.e]r'po-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to insert unfairly, as a spurious
word or passage in a book or manuscript, to foist in: to corrupt: (_math._)
to fill up the intermediate terms of a series.--_adj._
INTER'POLABLE.--_ns._ INTERPOL[=A]'TION; INTER'POLATOR. [L.
_interpol[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_--_inter_, between, _pol[=i]re_, to polish.]

INTERPOLITY, in-t[.e]r-pol'i-ti, _n._ (_rare_) interchange between
countries.

INTERPOSE, in-t[.e]r-p[=o]z', _v.t._ to place between: to thrust in: to
offer, as aid or services.--_v.i._ to come between: to mediate: to put in
by way of interruption: to interfere.--_ns._ INTERPOS'AL, same as
INTERPOSITION; INTERPOS'ER; INTERPOS'IT, a place of deposit between two
cities or countries; INTERPOSI'TION, act of interposing: intervention:
anything interposed. [Fr.,--L. _inter_, between, Fr. _poser_, to place.]

INTERPRET, in-t[.e]r'pret, _v.t._ to explain the meaning of, to elucidate,
unfold, show the purport of: to translate into intelligible or familiar
terms.--_v.i._ to practise interpretation.--_adj._ INTER'PRETABLE, capable
of being explained.--_n._ INTERPRET[=A]'TION, act of interpreting: the
sense given by an interpreter: the power of explaining: the representation
of a dramatic part according to one's conception of it.--_adj._
INTERPRET[=A]'TIVE, collected by or containing interpretation.--_adv._
INTER'PRET[=A]TIVELY.--_n._ INTER'PRETER, one who explains between two
parties: an expounder: a translator. [Fr.,--L. _interprer[=a]ri_,
-_[=a]tus_--_interpres_, _inter_, between, -_pres_, prob. conn. with Gr.
_phrasis_, speech.]

INTERPROVINCIAL, in-t[.e]r-pr[=o]-vin'shal, _adj._ existing between
provinces.

INTERPUBIC, in-t[.e]r-p[=u]'bik, _adj._ situated between the right and left
pubic bones.

INTERPUNCTION, in-t[.e]r-pungk'shun, _n._ the places of points or stops in
writing, intermediate punctuation.--Also INTERPUNCTU[=A]'TION.

INTERRACIAL, in-t[.e]r-r[=a]'si-al, _adj._ existing or taking place between
races.

INTERRRADIAL, in-t[.e]r-r[=a]'di-al, _adj._ situated between the radii or
rays.--_adv._ INTERR[=A]'DIALLY.--_n._ INTERR[=A]'DIUS, an interradial
part, esp. of a hydrozoan.

INTERRAMAL, in-t[.e]r-r[=a]'mal, _adj._ situated between the rami or forks
of the lower jaw.

INTERREGAL, in-t[.e]r-r[=e]'gal, _adj._ existing between kings.

INTERREGNUM, in-t[.e]r-reg'num, _n._ the time between two reigns: the time
between the cessation of one and the establishment of another government:
any breach of continuity in order, &c.--_n._ IN'TERREIGN (_Bacon_). [L.
_inter_, between, _regnum_, rule.]

INTERRELATION, in-t[.e]r-r[=e]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ reciprocal relation,
interconnection.---_n._ INTERREL[=A]'TIONSHIP.

INTERREX, in't[.e]r-reks, _n._ one who rules during an interregnum: a
regent. [L. _inter_, between, rex, a king.]

INTERROGATE, in-t[.e]r'o-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to question: to examine by asking
questions.--_v.i._ to ask questions: to inquire.--_n._ INTERROG[=A]'TION,
act of interrogating: a question put: the mark placed after a question
(?).--_adj._ INTERROG'ATIVE, denoting a question: expressed as a
question.--_n._ a word used in asking a question.--_adv._
INTERROG'ATIVELY.--_ns._ INTERR'OGATOR; INTERROG'ATORY, a question or
inquiry.--_adj._ expressing a question. [L. _interrog[=a]re_,
-_[=a]tum_--_inter_, between, _rog[=a]re_, to ask.]

INTERRUPT, in-t[.e]r-rupt', _v.t._ to break in between: to stop or hinder
by breaking in upon: to divide: to break continuity.--_adj._ (_Milt._)
gaping apart.--_adv._ INTERRUP'TEDLY, with interruptions.--_ns._
INTERRUP'TER, INTERRUP'TOR; INTERRUP'TION, act of interrupting: hinderance:
cessation.--_adj._ INTERRUP'TIVE, tending to interrupt.--_adv._
INTERRUP'TIVELY. [L. _interrump[)e]re_--_inter_, between, _rump[)e]re_,
_ruptum_, to break.]

INTERSCAPULAR, in-t[.e]r-ska'p[=u]-lar, _adj._ (_anat._) between the
shoulder-blades.

INTERSCRIBE, in-t[.e]r-skr[=i]b', _v.t._ to write between. [L.
_interscrib[)e]re_--_inter_, between, _scrib[)e]re_, to write.]

INTERSECANT, in-t[.e]r-s[=e]'kant, _adj._ dividing into parts: crossing.

INTERSECT, in-t[.e]r-sekt', _v.t._ to cut between or asunder: to cut or
cross mutually: to divide into parts.--_v.i._ to cross each other.--_n._
INTERSEC'TION, intersecting: (_geom._) the point or line in which two lines
or two planes cut each other.--_adj._ INTERSEC'TIONAL. [L. _inter_,
between, _sec[=a]re_, _sectum_, to cut.]

INTERSEGMENTAL, in-t[.e]r-seg'men-tal, _adj._ pertaining to two or more
segments, situated between segments.

INTERSEPTAL, in-t[.e]r-sep'tal, _adj._ situated between septa.

INTERSIDEREAL, in-t[.e]r-s[=i]-d[=e]'re-al, _adj._ situated between or
among the stars.

INTERSOCIAL, in-t[.e]r-s[=o]'shal, _adj._ having mutual social relations.

INTERSONANT, in-t[.e]r's[=o]-nant, _adj._ sounding between.

INTERSPACE, in't[.e]r-sp[=a]s, _n._ a space between objects, an
interval.--_v.t._ to occupy the space between.--_adj._
INTERSP[=A]'TIAL.--_adv._ INTERSP[=A]'TIALLY.

INTERSPECIFIC, in-t[.e]r-sp[=e]-sif'ik, _adj._ existing between species.

INTERSPERSE, in-t[.e]r-sp[.e]rs', _v.t._ to scatter or set here and
there.--_n._ INTERSPER'SION. [L. _intersperg[)e]re_, _-spersum_--_inter_,
among, _sparg[)e]re_, to scatter.]

INTERSPINOUS, in-t[.e]r-sp[=i]'nus, _adj._ situated between spines.--Also
INTERSP[=I]'NAL.

INTERSTATE, in't[.e]r-st[=a]t, _adj._ existing between different states or
persons therein.

INTERSTELLAR, in-t[.e]r-stel'ar, _adj._ situated beyond the solar system or
among the stars: in the intervals between the stars.--Also INTERSTELL'ARY.
[L. _inter_, between, _stella_, a star.]

INTERSTICE, in't[.e]r-stis, or in-t[.e]r'stis, _n._ a small space between
things closely set, or between the parts which compose a body.--_adj._
INTERSTIT'IAL. [Fr.,--L.,--_inter_, between, _sist[)e]re_, _stitum_, to
stand.]

INTERSTRATIFICATION, in-t[.e]r-strat-i-fi-k[=a]'shun, _n._ the state of
lying between other strata.--_adj._ INTERSTRAT'IFIED, stratified between
other bodies.--_v.i._ INTERSTRAT'IFY.

INTERSTRIAL, in-t[.e]r-str[=i]'al, _adj._ situated between striæ.

INTERTANGLE, in-t[.e]r-tang'gl, _v.t,_ to intertwist.

INTERTARSAL, in-t[.e]r-tär'sal, _adj._ between tarsal bones.

INTERTENTACULAR, in-t[.e]r-ten-tak'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated between
tentacles.

INTERTERGAL, in-t[.e]r-t[.e]r'gal, _adj._ situated between the terga or
tergites of an arthropod.

INTERTERRITORIAL, in-t[.e]r-ter-ri-t[=o]'ri-al, _adj._ between territories
or their inhabitants.

INTERTEXTURE, in-t[.e]r-teks't[=u]r, _n._ a being interwoven.

INTERTIDAL, in-t[.e]r-t[=i]'dal, _adj._ living between low-water and
high-water mark.

INTERTIE, in't[.e]r-t[=i], _n._ (_archit._) in roofing, &c., a short timber
binding together upright posts.

INTERTISSUE, in-t[.e]r-tish'[=u], _v.t._ (_Shak._) to interweave.

INTERTRAFFIC, in-t[.e]r-traf'ik, _n._ traffic between two or more persons
or places.

INTERTRANSVERSE, in-t[.e]r-trans'v[.e]rs, _adj._ between the transverse
processes of successive vertebræ.

INTERTRIBAL, in-t[.e]r-tr[=i]'bal, _adj._ existing or taking place between
tribes.

INTERTRIGO, in-t[.e]r-tr[=i]'g[=o], _n._ an inflammation of the skin from
chafing or rubbing. [L. _inter_, between, _ter[)e]re_, _tritum_, to rub.]

INTERTROPICAL, in-t[.e]r-trop'ik-al, _adj._ between the tropics.

INTERTWINE, in-t[.e]r-tw[=i]n', _v.t._ to twine or twist together.--_v.i._
to be twisted together: to become mutually involved.--_adv._
INTERTW[=I]N'INGLY.

INTERTWIST, in-t[.e]r-twist', _v.t._ to twist together.--_adv._
INTERTWIST'INGLY.

INTERUNION, in-t[.e]r-[=u]n'yun, _n._ an interblending.

INTERVAL, in't[.e]r-val, _n._ time or space between: any dividing tract in
space or time: (_mus._) the difference of pitch between any two musical
tones.--_n._ IN'TERV[=A]LE (_U.S._), a level tract along a river.--_adj._
INTERVAL'LIC--_n._ INTERVAL'LUM, an interval. [Fr.,--L.
_intervallum_--_inter_, between, _vallum_, a rampart.]

INTERVEINED, in-t[.e]r-v[=a]nd', _adj._ (_Milt._) intersected, as with
veins.

INTERVENE, in-t[.e]r-v[=e]n', _v.i._ to come or be between: to occur
between points of time: to happen so as to interrupt: to interpose.--_v.t._
(_rare_) to separate.--_adj._ INTERVEN'IENT, being or passing between:
intervening.--_ns._ INTERVEN'TION, intervening: interference: mediation:
interposition; INTERVEN'TIONIST, one who advocates interference with the
course of disease rather than leaving it to nature; INTERVEN'TOR, a
mediator in ecclesiastical controversies: (_U.S._) a mine-inspector.
[Fr.,--L. _inter_, between, _ven[=i]re_, to come.]

INTERVENTRICULAR, in-t[.e]r-ven-trik'[=u]-lar, _adj._ situated between
ventricles, as those of the heart or brain.

INTERVERTEBRAL, in-t[.e]r-v[.e]r'te-bral, _adj._ situated between two
successive vertebræ.

INTERVIEW, in't[.e]r-v[=u], _n._ a mutual view or sight: a meeting: a
conference: a visit to a notable or notorious person with a view to
publishing a report of his conversation--_v.t._ to visit with this
purpose.--_n._ IN'TERVIEWER, one who visits another for this purpose. [O.
Fr. _entrevue_--_entre_, between, _voir_, to see.]

INTERVISIBLE, in-t[.e]r-viz'i-bl, _adj._ mutually visible.

INTERVITAL, in-t[.e]r-v[=i]'tal, _adj._ between lives, between death and
resurrection.

INTERVOCALIC, in-t[.e]r-v[=o]-kal'ik, _adj._ between vowels.

INTERVOLVE, in-t[.e]r-volv', _v.t._ to involve or comprise one within
another. [L. _inter_, within, _volv[)e]re_, to roll.]

INTERWEAVE, in-t[.e]r-w[=e]v', _v.t._ to weave together: to intermingle.

INTERWORK, in-t[.e]r-wurk', _v.i._ to work together: to work
intermediately.--_p.adj._ INTERWROUGHT'.

INTESTATE, in-tes't[=a]t, _adj._ dying without having made a valid will:
not disposed of by will.--_n._ a person who dies without making a valid
will.--_adj._ INTES'TABLE, legally unqualified to make a will.--_n._
INTES'TACY, the state of one dying without having made a valid will. [L.
_intest[=a]tus_--_in_, not, _test[=a]ri_, _-atus_, to make a will.]

INTESTINE, in-tes'tin, _adj._ internal: contained in the animal body:
domestic: not foreign.--_n.pl._ a part of the digestive system, divided
into the smaller intestine (comprising duodenum, jejunum, and ileum) and
the greater intestine.--_adj._ INTES'TINAL, pertaining to the intestines of
an animal body. [Fr.,--L. _intestinus_--_intus_, within.]

INTHRAL. See ENTHRAL.

INTIL, in-til', _prep._ (_Shak._) into, in, unto.

INTIMATE, in'ti-m[=a]t, _adj._ innermost: internal: close: closely
acquainted: familiar.--_n._ a familiar friend: an associate.--_v.t._ to
hint: to announce.--_n._ IN'TIMACY, state of being intimate: close
familiarity.--_adv._ IN'TIMATELY.--_n._ INTIM[=A]'TION, obscure notice:
hint: announcement. [L. _intim[=a]re_, _[=a]tum_--_intimus_,
_innermost_--_intus_, within.]

INTIMIDATE, in-tim'i-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to make timid or fearful: to
dispirit.--_n._ INTIMID[=A]'TION, act of intimidating: use of violence or
threats to influence the conduct or compel the consent of another: state of
being intimidated.--_adj._ INTIM'IDATORY.

INTINCTION, in-tingk'shun, _n._ an Eastern mode of administering both
elements of communion at once by dipping the bread into the wine, usually
by the cochlear or eucharistic spoon. [Low L.,--L. _inting[)e]re_,
_intinctum_, to dip in.]

INTITULE, in-tit'[=u]l, same as ENTITLE.--INTITULED, intit'[=u]ld, same as
ENTITLED.

INTO, in't[=oo], _prep._ noting passage inwards: noting the passage of a
thing from one state to another: (_B._) often used for _unto_.

INTOED, in-t[=o]d', _adj._ having the toes more or less turned inwards.

INTOLERABLE, in-tol'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be endured.--_n._
INTOL'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ INTOL'ERABLY.--_ns._ INTOL'ERANCE,
INTOLER[=A]'TION.--_adj._ INTOL'ERANT, not able or willing to endure: not
enduring difference of opinion: persecuting.--_n._ one opposed to
toleration.--_adv._ INTOL'ERANTLY.

INTOMB, in-t[=oo]m'. Same as ENTOMB.

INTONATE, in'ton-[=a]t, _v.i._ to sound forth: to sound the notes of a
musical scale: to modulate the voice.--_n._ INTON[=A]'TION, act or manner
of sounding musical notes: modulation of the voice: the opening phrase of
any plain-song melody, sung usually either by the officiating priest alone,
or by one or more selected choristers. [Low L. _inton[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--L. _in tonum_, according to tone.]

INTONE, in-t[=o]n', _v.i._ to utter in tones: to give forth a low
protracted sound.--_v.t._ to chant: to read (the church service) in a
singing, recitative manner.--_n._ INT[=O]N'ING, a modern popular term for
the utterance in musical recitative of the versicles, responses, collects,
&c. of the Anglican liturgy.

INTORSION, INTORTION, in-tor'shun, _n._ a twisting, winding, or
bending.--_v.t._ INTORT', to twist.

INTOXICATE, in-toks'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to make drunk: to excite to enthusiasm
or madness.--_n._ INTOX'ICANT, an intoxicating liquor.--_p.adj._
INTOX'IC[=A]TING, producing intoxication: inebriating.--_n._
INTOXIC'[=A]TION, state of being drunk: high excitement or elation. [Low L.
_intoxic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_toxicum_--Gr. _toxikon_, a poison in which
arrows were dipped--_toxon_, an arrow.]

INTRA, in'tra, _adv. prefix_, within, as in IN'TRA-ABDOM'INAL, situated
within the cavity of the abdomen; IN'TRA-ART[=E]'RIAL, existing within an
artery; IN'TRA-CAP'SULAR, lying within a capsule; IN'TRA-CAR'DIAC, within
the heart; IN'TRA-CELL'ULAR, inside a cell; IN'TRA-PARI[=E]'TAL, within
walls, private: situated in the parietal lobe of the brain;
IN'TRA-TERRIT[=O]'RIAL, existing within a territory; IN'TRA-TROP'ICAL,
situated within the tropics; IN'TRA-UR'BAN, within a city.

INTRACTABLE, in-trakt'a-bl, _adj._ unmanageable: obstinate.--_ns._
INTRACTABIL'ITY, INTRACT'ABLENESS.--_adv._ INTRACT'ABLY.

INTRADOS, in-tr[=a]'dos, _n._ (_archit._) the interior or lower line or
surface of an arch or vault:--opp. to _Extrados_, the exterior or upper
curve. [Fr.,--L. _intra_, within, _dorsum_, the back.]

INTRAMUNDANE, in-tra-mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ within the world.

INTRAMURAL, in-tra-m[=u]'ral, _adj._ within the walls.

INTRANSIGENT, in-tran'si-jent, _adj._ refusing to come to any
understanding, irreconcilable.--_ns._ INTRAN'SIGENTISM, the political
practice or principles of such; INTRAN'SIGENTIST, one who practises such a
method of opposition, esp. a member of a revolutionary party in Spain about
1873, and of a socialistic party in France. [Fr. _intransigeant_--Sp.
_intransigente_--L. _in_, not, _transigens_, pr.p. of _transig[)e]re_, to
transact.]

INTRANSITIVE, in-tran'si-tiv, _adj._ not passing over or indicating passing
over: (_gram._) representing action confined to the agent.--_adv._
INTRAN'SITIVELY.

INTRANSMISSIBLE, in-trans-mis'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be transmitted.

INTRANSMUTABLE, in-trans-m[=u]t'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be changed into
another substance.--_n._ INTRANSMUTABIL'ITY.

INTRANT, in'trant, _adj._ entering: penetrating.--_n._ one who enters, esp.
on some public duty. [L. _intrans_, _-antis_--_intr[=a]re_, to enter.]

INTREASURE, in-trezh'[=u]r, _v.t._ to lay up securely.

INTREAT, in-tr[=e]t', _v.t._ (_Spens._) same as ENTREAT.--_adj._
INTREAT'FUL (_Spens._), full of entreaty.

INTRENCH, INTRENCHMENT. See ENTRENCH.

INTRENCHANT, in-trensh'ant, _adj._ (_Shak._) not to be cut or wounded,
indivisible.

INTREPID, in-trep'id, _adj._ without trepidation or fear: undaunted:
brave.--_n._ INTREPID'ITY, firm, unshaken courage.--_adv._ INTREP'IDLY. [L.
_intrepidus_--_in_, not, _trepidus_, alarmed.]

INTRICATE, in'tri-k[=a]t, _adj._ involved: entangled: perplexed.--_ns._
IN'TRICACY, IN'TRICATENESS.--_adv._ IN'TRICATELY. [L.
_intric[=a]tus_--_in_, in, _tric[=a]re_, to make difficulties--_tricæ_,
hinderances.]

INTRIGUE, in-tr[=e]g', _n._ a complex plot: a private or party scheme: the
plot of a play or romance: secret illicit love.--_v.i._ to form a plot or
scheme: to carry on illicit love:--_pr.p._ intrigu'ing; _pa.p._
intrigued'.--_ns._ IN'TRIGANT, INTRIG'UER, one who intrigues, or pursues an
object by secret artifices. [Fr. _intriguer_--_intric[=a]re_. See
INTRICATE.]

INTRINSE, in-trins', _adj._ (_Shak._) intricate.

INTRINSIC, -AL, in-trin'sik, -al, _p.adj._ inward: genuine: inherent:
essential, belonging to the point at issue: (_anat._) applied to those
muscles of the limbs entirely contained within the anatomical limits of the
limb.--_n._ INTRINSICAL'ITY.--_adv._ INTRIN'SICALLY.--_n._
INTRIN'SICALNESS, the quality of being intrinsical: genuineness. [Fr.,--L.
_intrinsecus_--_intra_, within, _secus_, following.]

INTRINSICATE, in-trins'i-k[=a]t, _adj._ (_Shak._) intricate.

INTROCESSION, in-tro-sesh'un, _n._ (_med._) a sinking of any part inwards:
depression. [L. _intro_, inwardly, _ced[)e]re_, _cessum_, to go.]

INTRODUCE, in-tro-d[=u]s', _v.t._ to lead or bring in: to conduct into a
place: formally to make known or acquainted: to bring into notice or
practice: to commence: to preface.--_n._ INTRODUC'TION, act of conducting
into: act of making persons known to each other: act of bringing into
notice or practice: preliminary matter to the main thoughts of a book:
(_mus._) a kind of preface or prelude to a following movement: a treatise
introductory to a science or course of study.--_adjs._ INTRODUC'TORY,
INTRODUC'TIVE, serving to introduce: preliminary: prefatory.--_adv._
INTRODUC'TORILY. [L. _introduc[)e]re_, _-ductum_--_intro_, within,
_duc[)e]re_, to lead.]

INTROIT, in-tr[=o]'it, _n._ an anthem sung at the beginning of the mass,
immediately after the _Confiteor_, and when the priest has ascended to the
altar. [L. _introitus_--_intro[=i]re_--_intro_, within, _[=i]re_, _itum_,
to go.]

INTROMIT, in-tro-mit', _v.t._ to send within: to admit: to permit to
enter.--_v.i._ to interfere with the effects of another:--_pr.p._
intromit'ting; _pa.p._ intromit'ted.--_ns._ INTROMISS'ION, sending within
or into: (_Scots law_) the assumption of authority to deal with another's
property--_legal_, where the party is expressly or impliedly authorised,
either by judgment or deed, to interfere, as by drawing the rents or
getting in debts--_vicious_, where an heir or next of kin, without any
authority, interferes with a deceased person's estate; INTROMIT'TER, one
who intromits. [L. _intro_, within, _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send.]

INTRORSE, in-trors', _adj._ turned or facing inward.--_adv._ INTRORSE'LY.
[L. _introrsus_, toward the middle.]

INTROSPECT, in-tro-spekt', _v.t._ to look into anything.--_v.i._ to
practise introspection.--_ns._ INTROSPEC'TION, a sight of the inside or
interior: the act of directly observing the processes of one's own mind,
self-examination; INTROSPEC'TIONIST.--_adj._ INTROSPEC'TIVE. [L. _intro_,
within, _spec[)e]re_, to see.]

INTROSUSCEPTION, in-tro-su-sep'shun, _n._ the act of taking in, as
nourishment. [L. _intro_, within, _susception-em_, _suscip[)e]re_.]

INTROVERT, in-tro-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to turn inward.--_n._ anything
introverted.--_n._ INTROVER'SION.--_adj._ INTROVER'SIVE. [L. _intro_,
within, _vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

INTRUDE, in-tr[=oo]d', _v.i._ to thrust one's self in: to enter uninvited
or unwelcome.--_v.t._ to force in.--_ns._ INTRUD'ER; INTRU'SION, act of
intruding or of entering into a place without welcome or invitation:
encroachment: a pushing in, an abnormal irruption, esp. in geology, of such
rocks as have come up from below into another rock or series of beds;
INTRU'SIONIST, one who intrudes, esp. one of those who, before the Scotch
Disruption of 1843, refused a parish the right of objecting to the
settlement of an obnoxious minister by a patron:--opp. to
_Non-intrusionist_.--_adj._ INTRU'SIVE, tending or apt to intrude: entering
without welcome or right.--_adv._ INTRU'SIVELY.--_n._ INTRU'SIVENESS. [L.
_in_, in, _trud[)e]re_, _trusum_, to thrust.]

INTRUST. See ENTRUST.

INTUITION, in-t[=u]-ish'un, _n._ the power of the mind by which it
immediately perceives the truth of things without reasoning or analysis: a
truth so perceived, immediate knowledge in contrast with mediate.--_v.t._
and _v.i._ IN'TUIT, to know intuitively.--_adj._ INTUIT'IONAL.--_ns._
INTUIT'IONALISM, the doctrine that the perception of truth is by intuition;
INTUIT'IONALIST.--_adj._ INT[=U]'ITIVE, perceived or perceiving by
intuition: received or known by simple inspection.--_adv._
INT[=U]'ITIVELY.--_n._ INT[=U]'ITIVISM. [L. _in_, into or upon, _tu[=e]ri_,
_tuitus_, to look.]

INTUMESCENCE, in-t[=u]-mes'ens, _n._ the action of swelling: a swelling: a
tumid state.--_v.i._ INTUMESCE', to swell up. [Fr.,--L. _in_, in,
_tum[=e]re_, to swell.]

INTURBIDATE, in-tur'bi-d[=a]t, _v.t._ to render turbid. [L. _in_, in,
_turbid[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to trouble.]

INTUSE, in't[=u]s, _n._ (_Spens._) a bruise. [L. _in_, in, _tund[)e]re_,
_tusum_, to bruise.]

INTUSSUSCEPTION, in-tus-su-sep'shun, _n._ the partial displacement of the
bowel in which one portion of it passes into the portion immediately
adjacent to it--also called _Invagination_.--_v.t._ IN'TUSSUSCEPT, to take
into the interior.--_adjs._ INTUSSUSCEP'TED; INTUSSUSCEP'TIVE. [L. _intus_,
within, _susception-em_--_suscip[)e]re_, to take up.]

INTWINE, in-tw[=i]n'. Same as ENTWINE.

INTWIST, in-twist'. Same as ENTWIST.

INULIN, in'[=u]-lin, _n._ a starch-like product used in medicine, obtained
principally from the roots of the plant _Inula_ or _Elecampane._ [Prob. Gr.
_helenion_.]

INUMBRATE, in-um'br[=a]t, _v.t._ to cast a shadow upon: to shade. [L.
_inumbr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _umbr[=a]re_, to shade--_umbra_, a
shadow.]

INUNCTION, in-ungk'shun, _n._ the act of anointing, the process of rubbing
into the skin, as an ointment or liniment.--_n._ INUNCTUOS'ITY, absence of
oiliness.

INUNDATE, in-un'd[=a]t, or in'-, _v.t._ to flow upon or over in waves (said
of water): to flood: to fill with an overflowing abundance.--_adj._
INUN'DANT, overflowing.--_n._ INUND[=A]'TION, act of inundating: a flood:
an overflowing. [L.,--_inund[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _und[=a]re_, to
rise in waves--_unda_, a wave.]

INURBANE, in-ur-b[=a]n', _adj._ not urbane, unpolished.--_adv._
INURBANE'LY.--_n._ INURBAN'ITY.

INURE, in-[=u]r', _v.t._ to use or practise habitually: to accustom: to
harden.--_v.i._ (_law_) to come into use or effect: to serve to the use or
benefit of.--_n._ INURE'MENT, act of inuring: practice. [From in and
_ure_--O. Fr. _eure_ (Fr. _oeuvre_, work)--L. _opera_, work; the same word
_ure_ is found in _manure_ (q.v.).]

INURN, in-urn', _v.t._ to place in an urn: to entomb.

INUSITATION, in-[=u]-zi-t[=a]'shun, _n._ (_obs._) disuse.

INUTILITY, in-[=u]-til'i-ti, _n._ want of utility: uselessness:
unprofitableness: something useless.

INUTTERABLE, in-ut'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ not to be uttered.

INVADE, in-v[=a]d', _v.t._ to enter a country as an enemy: to attack: to
encroach upon: to violate: to seize or fall upon.--_ns._ INVAD'ER;
INV[=A]'SION, the act of invading: an attack: an incursion: an attack on
the rights of another: an encroachment: a violation.--_adj._ INV[=A]'SIVE,
making invasion: aggressive: infringing another's rights. [Fr.,--L.
_invad[)e]re_, _invasum_--_in_, in, _vad[)e]re_, to go.]

INVAGINATION, in-vaj-i-n[=a]'shun, _n._ intussusception. [L. _in_, not,
_vagina_, a sheath.]

INVALID, in-val'id, _adj._ without value, weight, or cogency: having no
effect: void: null.--_adj._ IN'VALID, deficient in health, sick,
weak.--_n._ one who is weak: a sickly person: one disabled for active
service, esp. a soldier or sailor.--_v.t._ to make invalid or affect with
disease: to enrol on the list of invalids.--_v.t._ INVAL'ID[=A]TE, to
render invalid: to weaken or destroy the force of.--_ns._ INVALID[=A]'TION;
IN'VALIDHOOD, IN'VALIDISM; IN'VALIDING, the return home, or to a more
healthy climate, of soldiers or sailors who have been rendered incapable of
active duty by wounds or the severity of foreign service; INVALID'ITY,
INVAL'IDNESS, want of cogency: want of force.

INVALUABLE, in-val'[=u]-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be valued:
priceless.--_adv._ INVAL'UABLY.

INVARIABLE, in-v[=a]'ri-a-bl, _adj._ not variable: without variation or
change: unalterable: constantly in the same state.--_ns._
INV[=A]'RIABLENESS, INVARIABIL'ITY, the quality of being invariable or
unchangeable.--_adv._ INV[=A]'RIABLY.

INVASION. See INVADE.

INVECKED, in-vekt', _adj._ invected.

INVECTED, in-vek'ted, _adj._ (_her._) having a border-line of small convex
or outer curves:--opp. to _Engrailed_, of a line, or the edge of a bearing.
[L. _invectus_, _inveh[)e]re_, to enter.]

INVECTIVE, in-vek'tiv, _n._ a severe or reproachful accusation brought
against any one: an attack with words: a violent utterance of censure:
sarcasm, or satire.--_adj._ railing: abusive: satirical.--_adv._
INVEC'TIVELY, by invective: satirically: sarcastically. [See INVEIGH.]

INVEIGH, in-v[=a]', _v.i._ to attack with words: to rail against: to
revile. [L. _inveh[)e]re_, _invectum_--_in_, in, _veh[)e]re_, to carry.]

INVEIGLE, in-v[=e]'gl, _v.t._ to entice: to seduce: to wheedle.--_ns._
INVEI'GLEMENT, an enticing: an enticement--older forms INVEA'GLE,
ENVEI'GLE; INVEI'GLER. [Ety. dub.; prob. a corr. of O. Fr. _enveogler_ (Fr.
_aveugle_, blind)--L. _ab_, without, _oculus_, the eye.]

INVENDIBLE, in-ven'di-bl, _adj._ not vendible.--_n._ INVENDIBIL'ITY.

INVENT, in-vent', _v.t._ to devise or contrive: to make: to frame: to
fabricate: to forge.--_adj._ INVEN'TIBLE.--_n._ INVEN'TION, that which is
invented: contrivance: a deceit: power or faculty of inventing: ability
displayed by any invention or effort of the imagination.--_adj._
INVEN'TIVE, able to invent: ready in contrivance.--_adv._
INVEN'TIVELY.--_ns._ INVEN'TIVENESS; INVEN'TOR, INVEN'TER, one who invents
or finds out something new:--_fem._ INVEN'TRESS.--INVENTION OF THE CROSS, a
festival observed on May 3, in commemoration of the alleged discovery of
the true cross at Jerusalem in 326 by Helena, mother of Constantine the
Great. [Fr.,--L. _inven[=i]re_, _inventum_--_in_, upon, _ven[=i]re_, to
come.]

INVENTORY, in'ven-tor-i, _n._ a list or schedule of articles comprised in
an estate, describing each article separately and precisely so as to show
of what the estate consists.--_v.t._ to make an inventory of.--_adj._
INVENT[=O]'RIAL.--_adv._ INVENT[=O]'RIALLY. [Fr. _inventaire_--L.
_inventarium_, a list of things found.]

INVERNESS-CAPE, in-v[.e]r-nes'-k[=a]p, _n._ a form of overcoat with cape or
tippet--named from _Inverness_.

INVERSE, in-v[.e]rs', _adj._ inverted: in the reverse or contrary order:
opposite, inverted--opp. to _Direct_: (_math._) opposite in effect, of one
operation that annuls the effect of another, as subtraction to addition,
&c.--_n._ an inverted state, a direct opposite.--_adv._ INVERSE'LY.--_n._
INVER'SION, the act of inverting: the state of being inverted: a change of
order or position.--_adj._ INVER'SIVE.

INVERT, in-v[.e]rt', _v.t._ to turn in or about: to turn upside down: to
reverse: to change the customary order or position.--_n._ (_archit._) an
inverted arch or vault, as the floor of a sewer, &c.--_adj._ INVER'TED,
turned upside down: reversed: (_geol._) denoting strata that appear to have
been reversed or folded back by upheaval.--_adv._ INVER'TEDLY, in an
inverted or contrary manner.--INVERTED ARCH, an arch with its curve turned
downwards, as in a sewer. [L. _invert[)e]re_, _inversum_--_in_, in,
_vert[)e]re_, to turn.]

INVERTEBRAL, in-v[.e]rt'e-bral, INVERTEBRATE, in-v[.e]rt'ebr[=a]t, _adj._
without a vertebral column or backbone: weak, irresolute.--_n.pl._
INVERTEBR[=A]'TA, a collective name for those animals which agree in not
exhibiting the characteristics of vertebrates.--_n._ INVER'TEBRATE, an
animal destitute of a skull and vertebral column.

INVEST, in-vest', _v.t._ to put vesture on, to dress: to confer or give: to
place in office or authority: to adorn: to surround: to block up: to lay
siege to: to place: as property in business: to lay out money on.--_adj._
INVES'TITIVE.--_ns._ INVES'TITURE, in feudal and ecclesiastical history,
the act of giving corporal possession of a manor, office, or benefice,
accompanied by a certain ceremonial, such as the delivery of a branch, a
banner, &c., to signify the authority which it is supposed to convey;
INVEST'MENT, the act of investing: a blockade: the act of surrounding or
besieging: laying out money on: any placing of money to secure income or
profit: that in which anything is invested: (_Shak._) clothing; INVES'TOR,
one who invests. [L. _invest[=i]re_, _-[=i]tum_--_in_, on, _vest[=i]re_, to
clothe.]

INVESTIGATE, in-vest'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to search into: to inquire into with
care and accuracy.--_adj._ INVEST'IGABLE, able to be investigated.--_n._
INVESTIG[=A]'TION, act of examining into: research: study.--_adjs._
INVEST'IG[=A]TIVE, INVEST'IG[=A]TORY, promoting or given to
investigation.--_n._ INVEST'IG[=A]TOR, one who investigates. [L.
_investig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, in, _vestig[=a]re_, to track.]

INVETERATE, in-vet'[.e]r-[=a]t, _adj._ firmly established by long
continuance: deep-rooted, confirmed in any habit: violent.--_adv._
INVET'ERATELY.--_ns._ INVET'ERATENESS, INVET'ERACY, firmness produced by
long use or continuance. [L. _inveter[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to grow
old--_in_, in, _vetus_, _veteris_, old.]

INVEXED, in-vekst', _adj._ (_her._) shaped in a curve.

INVIDIOUS, in-vid'i-us, _adj._ likely to incur or provoke ill-will: likely
to excite envy, enviable: offensively discriminating.--_adv._
INVID'IOUSLY.--_n._ INVID'IOUSNESS. [L. _invidiosus_--_invidia_, envy.]

INVIGORATE, in-vig'or-[=a]t, _v.t._ to give vigour to: to strengthen: to
animate.--_ns._ INVIGOR[=A]'TION, the act or state of being invigorated;
INVIG'ORATOR, something that invigorates.

INVINCIBLE, in-vin'si-bl, _adj._ that cannot be overcome:
insuperable.--_ns._ INVIN'CIBLENESS, INVINCIBIL'ITY.--_adv._
INVIN'CIBLY.--INVINCIBLE IGNORANCE (see IGNORANCE).--THE INVINCIBLE DOCTOR,
William of Occam (c. 1280-1349).

INVIOLABLE, in-v[=i]'[=o]l-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be profaned: that
cannot be injured.--_ns._ INVIOLABIL'ITY, INV[=I]'OLABLENESS, the quality
of being inviolable.--_adv._ INV[=I]'OLABLY.--_adjs._ INV[=I]'OL[=A]TE, -D,
not violated: unprofaned: uninjured.--_adv._ INV[=I]'OL[=A]TELY, without
violation.--_n._ INV[=I]'OL[=A]TENESS, the quality of being inviolate.

INVIOUS, in'vi-us, _adj._ (_rare_) impassable. [L.]

INVISIBLE, in-viz'i-bl, _adj._ not visible or capable of being
seen--(_Shak._) INVISED'.--_ns._ INVISIBIL'ITY, INVIS'IBLENESS.--_adv._
INVIS'IBLY.--INVISIBLE CHURCH (see VISIBLE); INVISIBLE GREEN, a shade of
green so dark as to be almost black; INVISIBLE INK (see INK).

INVITE, in-v[=i]t', _v.t._ to ask: to summon: to allure: to
attract.--_v.i._ to ask in invitation.--_n._ INVIT[=A]'TION, the act of
inviting: an asking or solicitation, the written or verbal form with which
a person is invited: the brief exhortation introducing the confession in
the Anglican communion-office.--_adj._ INVIT'[=A]TORY, using or containing
invitation.--_n._ a form of invitation in worship, esp. the antiphon to the
Venite or 95th Psalm.--_ns._ INVITE'MENT (_Lamb_), allurement, temptation;
INVIT'ER.--_p.adj._ INVIT'ING, alluring: attractive.--_n._ (_Shak._)
invitation.--_adv._ INVIT'INGLY, in an inviting manner.--_n._
INVIT'INGNESS, attractiveness. [Fr.,--L. _invit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.]

INVITRIFIABLE, in-vit'ri-f[=i]-a-bl, _adj._ not vitrifiable.

INVOCATE, in'vo-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to invoke or call on solemnly or with
prayer; to implore.--_n._ INVOC[=A]'TION, the act or the form of invocating
or addressing in prayer or supplication: a call or summons, especially a
judicial order: any formal invoking of the blessing of God, esp. an opening
prayer in a public religious service, and the petitions in the Litany
addressed to God in each person and in the Trinity.--_adj._ INVOC'ATORY,
that invokes: making invocation. [See INVOKE.]

INVOICE, in'vois, _n._ a letter of advice of the despatch of goods, with
particulars of their price and quantity.--_v.t._ to make an invoice of.
[Prob. a corr. of _envois_, pl. of Fr. _envoi_.]

INVOKE, in-v[=o]k', _v.t._ to call upon earnestly or solemnly: to implore
assistance: to address in prayer. [Fr.,--L. _invoc[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_in_, on, _voc[=a]re_, to call.]

INVOLUCRE, in-vol-[=u]'k[.e]r, _n._ (_bot._) a group of bracts in the form
of a whorl around an expanded flower or umbel--also INVOL[=U]'CRUM.--_ns._
INVOL'UCEL, INVOLUCEL'LUM, a secondary involucre.--_adjs._ IN'VOLUCRAL,
INVOL[=U]'CRATE, having an involucre.--_n._ INVOL[=U]'CRET. [L.
_involucrum_--_involv[)e]re_, to involve.]

INVOLUNTARY, in-vol'un-tar-i, _adj._ not voluntary: not having the power of
will or choice: not done willingly: not chosen.--_adv._
INVOL'UNTARILY.--_n._ INVOL'UNTARINESS.

INVOLUTE, in'vo-l[=u]t, _n._ that which is involved or rolled inward: a
curve traced by the end of a string unwinding itself from another
curve.--_adjs._ IN'VOLUTE, -D (_bot._), rolled spirally inward: turned
inward, of shells.--_n._ INVOL[=U]'TION, the action of involving: state of
being involved or entangled: complicated grammatical construction:
(_arith._) act or process of raising a quantity to any given power. [See
INVOLVE.]

INVOLVE, in-volv', _v.t._ to wrap up: to envelop: to implicate: to include:
to complicate: to overwhelm: to catch: (_arith._) to multiply a quantity
into itself any given number of times.--_n._ INVOLVE'MENT, act of
involving: state of being involved or entangled. [Fr.--L.
_involv[)e]re_--_in_, upon, _volv[)e]re_, _vol[=u]tum_, to roll.]

INVULNERABLE, in-vul'n[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be wounded.--_ns._
INVULNERABIL'ITY, INVUL'NERABLENESS.--_adv._ INVUL'NERABLY.

INVULTUATION, in-vul-t[=u]-[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of piercing a wax or
clay image of a person that he may suffer torture and die--one of the
commonest methods of witchcraft. [Low L. _invultuation-em_--_invultare_, to
stab the face of--L. _in_, in, _vultus_, the face.]

INWALL. See ENWALL.

INWARD, in'ward, _adj._ placed or being within: internal: seated in the
mind or soul, not perceptible to the senses, as the 'inward part' of a
sacrament: (_B._) intimate.--_n.pl._ (_B._) the intestines.--_adv._ toward
the inside: toward the interior: into the mind or thoughts.--_adv._
IN'WARDLY, in the parts within: in the heart: privately: toward the
centre.--_n._ IN'WARDNESS, internal state: inner meaning or significance:
(_Shak._) intimacy, familiarity.--_adv._ IN'WARDS, same as INWARD. [A.S.
_inneweard_ (adv.).]

INWEAVE, in-w[=e]v', _v.t._ to weave into: to complicate.

INWICK, in'wik, _n._ in curling, a stroke in which the stone rebounds from
the inside edge of another stone, and then slides close to the tee.

INWIT, in'wit, _n._ inward knowledge, conscience.

INWORK, in-wurk', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to work in or into.--_n._ IN'WORKING,
energy exerted inwardly.--_p.adj._ IN'WROUGHT, wrought in or among other
things: adorned with figures.

INWORN, in-w[=o]rn', _adj._ worn or worked into, inwrought.

INWRAP=ENWRAP.

INWREATHE=ENWREATHE.

IO, [=i]'[=o], _n._ an exclamation of joy or triumph. [L.]

IODAL, [=i]'[=o]-dal, _adj._ _n._ an oily liquid compound with properties
like chloral, obtained by treating iodine with alcohol and nitric acid.

IODINE, [=i]'o-din, _n._ one of the four non-metallic elements, so named
from the violet colour of its vapour.--_n._ I'OD[=A]TE, a combination of
iodic acid with a salifiable base.--_adj._ IOD'IC, containing iodine.--_n._
I'OD[=I]DE, a binary compound of iodine.--_adj._ IODIF'EROUS, yielding
iodine.--_n._ I'ODISM, a morbid condition due to iodine.--_v.t._
I'OD[=I]ZE, to treat with iodine: to impregnate with iodine, as
collodion.--_n._ IOD'OFORM, a lemon-yellow crystalline substance, having a
saffron-like odour and an unpleasant iodine-like taste.--_adj._ IODOMET'RIC
(_chem._), measured by iodine.--_ns._ I'ODURE, IOD'[=U]RET, a compound of
iodine with a simple base; IOD'YRITE, a yellowish mineral composed of
iodine and silver. [Gr. _ioeid[=e]s_, violet-coloured--_ion_, a violet,
_eidos_, form.]

IOLITE, [=i]'o-l[=i]t, _n._ a transparent gem which presents a violet-blue
colour when looked at in a certain direction. [Gr. _ion_, violet, _lithos_,
stone.]

ION, [=i]'on, _n._ one of the components into which an electrolyte is
broken up on electrolysis--the _Anion_, the electro-negative component,
chemically attacking the anode, and the _Cation_, the electro-positive
component, the cathode. [Gr. _i[=o]n_, pr.p. of _ienai_, to go.]

IONIC, [=i]-on'ik, _adj._ relating to _Ionia_ in Greece: denoting an order
in architecture distinguished by the ram's-horn volute of its capital--also
I[=O]'NIAN.--_vs.t._ ION'ICIZE, I'ONIZE.--_ns._ I'ONISM; I'ONIST.--IONIC
DIALECT, the most important of the three main branches of the ancient Greek
language (Ionic, Doric, Æolic), marked by greater softness and smoothness,
the effect of its rich vowel system. Homer's _Iliad_ is written in _Old_,
the history of Herodotus in _New_ Ionic: the Attic of Thucydides and
Sophocles is its later form; IONIC MODE (see MODE); IONIC SCHOOL, a name
given to the representative philosophers of the Ionian Greeks, such as
Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Heraclitus, Anaxagoras, who debated the
question what was the primordial constitutive principle of the cosmical
universe.

IOTA, [=i]-[=o]'ta, _n._ a jot: a very small quantity or degree.--_ns._
IOT'ACISM, IT'ACISM, the conversion of other vowel sounds into that of iota
(Eng. _[=e]_), as in modern Gr. of [Greek: ê], [Greek: u], [Greek: ei],
[Greek: ê], [Greek: oi], [Greek: ui]; IT'ACIST. [Gr., the smallest letter
in the alphabet, corresponding to the English _i_.]

I O U, [=i]'[=o]'[=u]', _n._ a memorandum of debt given by a borrower to a
lender, requiring no stamp, but to be holograph, dated, and addressed to
some person.

IPECACUANHA, ip-e-kak-[=u]-an'a, _n._ the name both of a very valuable
medicine and of the plant whose root produces it--used as an emetic.
[Brazilian, 'smaller roadside sick-making plant.']

IPOMÆA, ip-[=o]-m[=e]'a, _n._ a genus of nat. ord. _Convolvulaceæ_. [Gr.
_ips_, a worm, _homoios_, like.]

IRACUND, [=i]'ra-kund, _adj._ (_Carlyle_) angry. [L.]

IRADE, i-rä'de, _n._ a written decree of the Sultan of Turkey.

IRANIAN, [=i]-r[=a]n'i-an, _adj._ and _n._ of or pertaining to _Iran_,
Persia: a branch of the Indo-European or Aryan tongues, including Persian,
Zend, Pehlevi, and Parsi: an inhabitant of Iran.--Also IRAN'IC.

IRASCIBLE, [=i]-ras'i-bl, _adj._ susceptible of ire or anger: easily
provoked: irritable.--_n._ IRASCIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ IRAS'CIBLY. [Fr.,--L.
_irascibilis_--_irasci_, to be angry--_ira_, anger.]

IRE, [=i]r, _n._ anger: rage: keen resentment.--_adjs._ IRATE ([=i]-r[=a]t'
or i-r[=a]t'), enraged: angry; IRE'FUL, full of ire or wrath:
resentful.--_adv._ IRE'FULLY.--_n._ IRE'FULNESS. [L. _ira_, anger,
_irasci_, _ir[=a]tus_, to be angry.]

IRENIC, [=i]-ren'ik, _adj._ tending to create peace: pacific--also
IREN'ICAL.--_n._ IREN'ICON, a proposition or scheme for peace: the deacon's
litany at the beginning of the Greek liturgy--from its opening petitions
for peace.--_n.pl._ _Iren'ics_, irenical theology:--opp. to _Polemics_.
[See EIRENICON.]

IRICISM. See IRISH.

IRIDEÆ, [=i]-rid'e-[=e], _n.pl._ a natural order of endogenous plants, with
fleshy root-stocks and showy flowers.--Also IRID[=A]'CEÆ. [Gr. _iris_, a
rainbow.]

IRIDIUM, [=i]-rid'i-um, _n._ the most infusible, and one of the heaviest,
of the metals, found associated with the ore of platinum, so called from
the iridescence of some of its solutions.--_n._ IRIDOS'MIUM, a native
compound of iridium and osmium, used for pointing gold pens. [Gr. _iris_,
_iridos_, the rainbow.]

IRIS, [=i]'ris, _n._ the rainbow: an appearance resembling the rainbow: the
contractile curtain perforated by the pupil, and forming the coloured part
of the eye (also I'RID): the fleur-de-lis, or flagflower:--_pl._
I'RISES.--_adjs._ I'RIDAL, IRID'IAN, exhibiting the colours of the iris or
rainbow: prismatic.--_ns._ IRIDES'CENCE, IRIDIS[=A]'TION.--_adjs._
IRIDES'CENT, coloured like the iris or rainbow; I'RIDINE,
iridescent.--_v.t._ IR'IDISE.--_adjs._ I'RIS[=A]TED, rainbow-coloured;
IR'ISED, showing colours like the rainbow.--_ns._ IR[=I]'TIS, IRID[=I]'TIS,
inflammation of the iris of the eye. [L. _iris_, _iridis_--Gr. _iris_,
_iridos_, the rainbow.]

IRISCOPE, [=i]'ri-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for exhibiting the prismatic
colours. [Gr. _iris_, the rainbow, _skopein_, to see.]

IRISH, [=i]'rish, _adj._ relating to or produced in Ireland.--_n._ language
of the Irish, a form of Celtic: (_pl._) the natives or inhabitants of
Ireland.--_ns._ I'RICISM, I'RISHISM, a phrase or idiom peculiar to the
Irish.--_n.pl._ I'RISHRY, the people of Ireland.--IRISH MOSS, carrageen;
IRISH STEW, a palatable dish of mutton, onions, and potatoes, seasoned, and
stewed in water mixed with flour.

IRK, [.e]rk, _v.t._ to weary: to trouble: to distress (now used only
impersonally).--_adj._ IRK'SOME, causing uneasiness: tedious:
unpleasant.--_adv._ IRK'SOMELY.--_n._ IRK'SOMENESS. [M. E. _irken_--Scand.,
Sw. _yrka_, to urge; prob. cog. with L. _urg[=e]re_.]

IRON, [=i]'urn, _n._ the most common and useful of the metals: an
instrument or utensil made of iron, as a hand-harpoon, &c.: a golf-club
with an iron head, more set back than the cleek: strength: (_pl._) fetters:
chains.--_adj._ formed of iron: resembling iron: rude: stern: fast-binding:
not to be broken: robust: dull of understanding.--_v.t._ to smooth with a
smoothing-iron: to arm with iron: to fetter.--_adjs._ I'RON-BOUND, bound
with iron: rugged, as a coast; I'RON-CASED; I'RONCLAD, clad in iron:
covered or protected with iron.--_n._ a vessel defended by iron
plates.--_ns._ I'RON-CLAY, a yellowish clay containing a large quantity of
iron ore; I'RONER, one who irons; I'RON-FLINT, ferruginous quartz;
I'RON-FOUND'ER, one who founds or makes castings in iron; I'RON-FOUND'RY, a
place where iron is founded or cast.--_adj._ I'RON-GRAY, of a gray colour,
like that of iron freshly cut or broken.--_n._ this colour.--_adjs._
I'RON-HAND'ED, having hands hard as iron; I'RON-HEART'ED, having a heart
hard as iron: cruel.--_ns._ I'RON-HEAT'ER, the piece of metal heated in the
fire for a laundress's box-iron; I'RONING, the act of smoothing with hot
irons; I'RONING-BOARD, a smooth board covered with cloth, on which clothes
are laid for ironing; I'RONING-MACHINE', a machine for hotpressing cloth,
hats, &c.; I'RON-LIQ'UOR, iron acetate, a dyers' mordant; I'RONMASTER, a
master or proprietor of ironworks; I'RONMONGER, a dealer in articles made
of iron; I'RONMONGERY, a general name for articles made of iron: hardware;
I'RON-MOULD, the spot left on wet cloth after touching rusty iron;
I'RON-SAND, sand containing particles of iron ore: steel filings used in
fireworks.--_adj._ I'RON-SICK (_naut._), having the iron bolts and spikes
much corroded.--_n._ I'RONSIDE, a man of iron resolution: (_pl._) a name
given to Cromwell's irresistible horse.--_adj._ I'RON-SID'ED, having a side
of, or as hard as, iron: rough: hardy.--_ns._ I'RONSMITH, a worker in iron;
I'RON-STONE, a term usually applied to any ore yielding iron; I'RONWARE,
wares or goods of iron.--_adj._ I'RON-WIT'TED (_Shak._), unfeeling,
insensible.--_n._ I'RONWOOD, applied to the timber of various trees on
account of their hardness.--_adj._ I'RON-WORD'ED (_Tenn._), in words as
strong as iron.--_n._ I'RONWORK, the parts of a building, &c., made of
iron: anything of iron: a furnace where iron is smelted, or a foundry, &c.,
where it is made into heavy work.--_adj._ I'RONY, made, consisting, or
partaking of iron: like iron: hard.--_ns._ CAST'-[=I]'RON, a compound of
iron and carbon, obtained directly from iron ore by smelting;
ITAL'IAN-[=I]'RON, an instrument for fluting linen or lace.--IRON AGE, an
archæological term indicating the condition as to civilisation and culture
of a people using iron as the material for their cutting tools and weapons:
a period of cruel tyranny; IRON BARK TREE, a name given in Australia to
certain species of Eucalyptus (q.v.); IRON CROWN, the ancient crown of
Lombardy, so named from a thin band of iron said to be made from one of the
nails of the Cross; IRON ENTERED INTO HIS SOUL, the bitterest pang of grief
has touched his heart.--BESSEMER IRON, pig-iron suitable for making
Bessemer steel.--HAVE TOO MANY IRONS IN THE FIRE, to be trying to do too
many things at once; IN IRONS, having fetters on; RULE WITH A ROD OF IRON,
to rule with stern severity. [A.S. _iren_; Ger. _eisen_.]

IRONY, [=i]'run-i, _n._ a mode of speech which enables the speaker to
convey his meaning with greater force by means of a contrast between the
thought which he evidently designs to express and that which his words
properly signify: satire.--_adj._ IRON'ICAL, meaning the opposite of what
is expressed: satirical.--_adv._ IRON'ICALLY.--THE IRONY OF FATE, the
perverse malignity of fate. [Fr.,--L. _ironia_, Gr. _eir[=o]neia_,
dissimulation--_eir[=o]n_, a dissembler--_eirein_, to talk.]

IRRADIATE, ir-r[=a]'di-[=a]t, _v.t._ to dart rays of light upon or into: to
adorn with lustre: to decorate with shining ornaments: to animate with
light or heat: to illuminate the understanding.--_v.i._ to emit rays: to
shine.--_adj._ adorned with rays of light or with lustre.--_ns._
IRR[=A]'DIANCE, IRR[=A]'DIANCY, the throwing of rays of light on (any
object): that which irradiates or is irradiated: beams of light emitted:
splendour.--_adj._ IRR[=A]'DIANT, irradiating or shedding beams of
light.--_n._ IRRADI[=A]'TION, act of irradiating or emitting beams of
light: that which is irradiated: brightness: intellectual light.--_adj._
IRR[=A]'DI[=A]TIVE.

IRRADICATE, i-rad'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to fix firmly.

IRRATIONAL, ir-rash'un-al, _adj._ void of reason or understanding:
absurd.--_n._ IRRATIONAL'ITY.--_adv._ IRRA'TIONALLY.--IRRATIONAL NUMBERS, a
term applied to those roots of numbers which cannot be accurately expressed
by a finite number of figures--e.g. [sqrt]2 is an irrational number.

IRREALISABLE, ir-r[=e]'a-l[=i]-za-bl, _adj._ not realisable.

IRREBUTTABLE, ir-re-but'a-bl, _adj._ not to be rebutted.

IRRECEPTIVE, ir-re-sep'tiv, _adj._ not receptive.

IRRECIPROCAL, ir-re-sip'ro-kal, _adj._ not reciprocal.

IRRECLAIMABLE, ir-re-kl[=a]m'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be reclaimed or
reformed: incorrigible.--_n._ IRRECLAIM'ABLENESS.--_adv._ IRRECLAIM'ABLY.

IRRECOGNISABLE, ir-rek'og-n[=i]z-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be
recognised.--_n._ IRRECOGNI'TION, lack of recognition.

IRRECONCILABLE, ir-rek-on-s[=i]l'a-bl, _adj._ incapable of being brought
back to a state of friendship: inconsistent.--_ns._ IRRECONCIL'ABLENESS,
IRRECONCILABIL'ITY, incapability of being reconciled.--_adv._
IRRECONCIL'ABLY.--_adj._ IRREC'ONCILED, not reconciled or brought into
harmony.--_n._ IRREC'ONCILEMENT.

IRRECOVERABLE, ir-re-kuv'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ irretrievable.--_n._
IRRECOV'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ IRRECOV'ERABLY.

IRREDEEMABLE, ir-re-d[=e]m'a-bl, _adj._ not redeemable: not subject to be
paid at the nominal value.--_ns._ IRREDEEM'ABLENESS,
IRREDEEMABIL'ITY.--_adv._ IRREDEEM'ABLY.

IRREDENTIST, ir-e-den'tist, _n._ one of an Italian party formed in 1878,
its aim to incorporate into Italy all Italian people politically belonging
to other countries, as in the Tyrol, Nice, &c.--_n._ IRREDEN'TISM, the
programme of the Irredentist party. [It. _irredentista_--_irredenta_
(_Italia_), 'unredeemed'--L. _in_, not, _redemptus_, _redim[)e]re_, to
redeem.]

IRREDUCIBLE, ir-re-d[=u]s'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be reduced or brought
from one degree, form, or state to another: not to be reduced by
manipulation, as a hernia, &c.--_n._ IRREDUC'IBLENESS.--_adv._
IRREDUC'IBLY.--_ns._ IRREDUCTIBIL'ITY, IRREDUC'TION.

IRREFLECTIVE, ir-re-flekt'iv, _adj._ not reflective.--_n._ IRREFLEC'TION.

IRREFORMABLE, ir-re-for'ma-bl, _adj._ not reformable, not subject to
revision or improvement.

IRREFRAGABLE, ir-ref'ra-ga-bl, _adj._ that cannot be refuted:
unanswerable.--_ns._ IRREFRAGABIL'ITY, IRREF'RAGABLENESS.--_adv._
IRREF'RAGABLY.--_n._ IRREFRANGIBIL'ITY.--_adj._ IRREFRANGIBLE
(ir-e-fran'-ji-bl), not to be broken.--_adv._ IRREFRAN'GIBLY.--THE
IRREFRAGABLE DOCTOR, Alexander Hales (died 1245). [Fr.,--L. _in_, not,
_re_, backwards, _frang[)e]re_, to break.]

IRREFUTABLE, ir-re-f[=u]t'a-bl, or ir-ref'[=u]-ta-bl, _adj._ that cannot be
refuted.--_adv._ IRREF[=U]T'ABLY (also -ref'-).

IRREGULAR, ir-reg'[=u]-lar, _adj._ not according to rule: unnatural:
unsystematic: vicious: (_gram._) departing from the ordinary rules in its
inflection: variable: not symmetrical, without regular form--(_Shak._)
IRREG'ULOUS.--_n._ a soldier not in regular service.--_n._ IRREGULAR'ITY,
state of being irregular: deviation from a straight line, or from rule:
departure from method or order: vice.--_adv._ IRREG'ULARLY.

IRRELATIVE, ir-rel'a-tiv, _adj._ not relative.--_adj._ IRREL[=A]T'ED.--_n._
IRREL[=A]'TION.--_adv._ IRREL'ATIVELY.

IRRELEVANT, ir-rel'e-vant, _adj._ not relevant.--_n._ IRREL'EVANCY.--_adv._
IRREL'EVANTLY.

IRRELIGIOUS, ir-re-lij'us, _adj._ destitute of religion: ungodly.--_adv._
IRRELIG'IOUSLY.--_ns._ IRRELIG'IOUSNESS, IRRELIG'ION, want of religion.

IRREMEABLE, ir-r[=e]'me-a-bl, _adj._ (_Pope_) not admitting of return. [L.
_in_, not, _remeabilis_, _reme[=a]re_--_re_, back, _me[=a]re_, to go,
come.]

IRREMEDIABLE, ir-re-m[=e]'di-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be remedied or
redressed.--_n._ IRREM[=E]'DIABLENESS.--_adv._ IRREM[=E]'DIABLY.

IRREMISSIBLE, ir-re-mis'i-bl, _adj._ not to be remitted or forgiven.--_ns._
IRREMISS'IBLENESS, IRREMISS'ION.--_adj._ IRREMISS'IVE.

IRREMOVABLE, ir-re-m[=oo]v'a-bl, _adj._ not removable: steadfast.--_ns._
IRREMOVABIL'ITY, IRREMOV'ABLENESS.--_adv._ IRREMOV'ABLY.

IRRENOWNED, ir-re-nownd', _adj._ (_Spens._) not renowned.

IRREPARABLE, ir-rep'ar-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be repaired or
rectified.--_ns._ IRREPARABIL'ITY, IRREP'ARABLENESS.--_adv._ IRREP'ARABLY.

IRREPEALABLE, ir-re-p[=e]l'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be repealed or
annulled.--_adv._ IRREPEAL'ABLY.

IRREPLACEABLE, ir-re-pl[=a]s'a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be replaced.

IRREPREHENSIBLE, ir-rep-re-hens'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be blamed.--_n._
IRREPREHENS'IBLENESS.--_adv._ IRREPREHENS'IBLY.

IRREPRESSIBLE, ir-re-pres'i-bl, _adj._ not to be restrained.--_adv._
IRREPRESS'IBLY.

IRREPROACHABLE, ir-re-pr[=o]ch'a-bl, _adj._ free from blame: upright:
innocent.--_n._ IRREPROACH'ABLENESS, freedom from blame.--_adv._
IRREPROACH'ABLY.

IRREPRODUCIBLE, ir-re-pro-d[=u]s'i-bl, _adj._ that cannot be reproduced.

IRREPROVABLE, ir-re-pr[=oo]v'a-bl, _adj._ blameless.--_n._
IRREPROV'ABLENESS.--_adv._ IRREPROV'ABLY.

IRRESISTANCE, ir-re-zist'ans, _n._ want of resistance: passive
submission.--_adj._ IRRESIST'IBLE, not to be opposed with success.--_ns._
IRRESIST'IBLENESS, IRRESISTIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ IRRESIST'IBLY.

IRRESOLUBLE, ir-rez'ol-[=u]-bl, _adj._ that cannot be resolved into parts:
indissoluble: that cannot be released.

IRRESOLUTE, ir-rez'o-l[=u]t, _adj._ not firm in purpose.--_adv._
IRRES'OLUTELY.--_ns._ IRRES'OLUTENESS, IRRESOL[=U]'TION, want of
resolution.

IRRESOLVABLE, ir-re-zolv'-a-bl, _adj._ that cannot be resolved.--_ns._
IRRESOLVABIL'ITY, IRRESOLV'ABLENESS.

IRRESPECTIVE, ir-re-spek'tiv, _adj._ not having regard to (with
_of_).--_adv._ IRRESPEC'TIVELY.

IRRESPONSIBLE, ir-re-spons'i-bl, _adj._ not responsible (with _for_).--_n._
IRRESPONSIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ IRRESPONS'IBLY.--_adj._ IRRESPONS'IVE.--_n._
IRRESPONS'IVENESS.

IRRESTRAINABLE, ir-re-str[=a]n'a-bl, _adj._ not restrainable.

IRRESUSCITABLE, ir-re-sus'i-ta-bl, _adj._ incapable of being resuscitated
or revived.--_adv._ IRRESUS'CITABLY.

IRRETENTION, ir-re-ten'shun, _n._ absence of retention or power to
retain.--_adj._ IRRETEN'TIVE.

IRRETRIEVABLE, ir-re-tr[=e]v'a-bl, _adj._ not to be recovered.--_n._
IRRETRIEV'ABLENESS.--_adv._ IRRETRIEV'ABLY.

IRREVERENT, ir-rev'[.e]r-ent, _adj._ not reverent: proceeding from
irreverence.--_n._ IRREV'ERENCE, want of reverence or veneration: want of
due regard for the character and authority of the Supreme Being.--_adj._
IRREVEREN'TIAL.--_adv._ IRREV'ERENTLY.

IRREVERSIBLE, ir-re-v[.e]rs'i-bl, _adj._ not reversible: that cannot be
recalled or annulled.--_ns._ IRREVERSIBIL'ITY, IRREVERS'IBLENESS.--_adv._
IRREVERS'IBLY.

IRREVOCABLE, ir-rev'o-ka-bl, _adj._ that cannot be recalled.--_n._
IRREV'OCABLENESS.--_adv._ IRREV'OCABLY.

IRRIGATE, ir'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to water: to wet or moisten: to cause water
to flow upon.--_adj._ IRR'IGABLE, capable of being irrigated.--_ns._
IRRIG[=A]'TION, a method of producing or increasing fertility in soils by
an artificial supply of water, or by inundating them at stated periods: act
of watering, esp. of watering lands artificially; IRRIGAT'OR, one who, or
that which, irrigates: an appliance for washing a wound, &c.--_adj._
IRRIG'UOUS, watered: wet. [L. _irrig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_in_, upon,
_rig[=a]re_, to wet; cf. Ger. _regen_, Eng. _rain_.]

IRRISION, ir-rizh'un, _n._ act of laughing at another. [Fr.,--L.
_irrision-em_--_in_, against, _rid[=e]re_, _risum_, to laugh.]

IRRITATE, ir'i-t[=a]t, _v.t._ to make angry: to provoke: to excite heat and
redness in: (_Scots law_) to render null and void.--_n._ IRRITABIL'ITY, the
quality of being easily irritated: the peculiar susceptibility to stimuli
possessed by the living tissues.--_adj._ IRR'ITABLE, that may be irritated:
easily provoked: (_med._) susceptible of excitement or irritation.--_n._
IRR'ITABLENESS.--_adv._ IRR'ITABLY.--_n._ IRR'ITANCY, the state of being
irritant: a becoming null and void.--_adj._ IRR'ITANT, irritating.--_n._
that which causes irritation.--_n._ IRRIT[=A]'TION, act of irritating or
exciting: excitement: (_med._) the term applied to any morbid excitement of
the vital actions not amounting to inflammation, often, but not always,
leading to that condition.--_adjs._ IRR'IT[=A]TIVE, IRR'IT[=A]TORY, tending
to irritate or excite: accompanied with or caused by irritation. [L.
_irrit[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, prob. freq. of _irr[=i]re_, to snarl, as a dog.]

IRRUPTION, ir-rup'shun, _n._ a breaking or bursting in: a sudden invasion
or incursion.--_adjs._ IRRUP'TED, broken through with violence; IRRUP'TIVE,
rushing suddenly in or upon.--_adv._ IRRUP'TIVELY. [Fr.,--L.
_irruption-em_--_in_, in, _rump[)e]re_, _ruptum_, to break.]

IRVINGITE, [.e]r'ving-[=i]t, _n._ a popular name for a member of the
so-called Catholic Apostolic Church.--_n._ IR'VINGISM, the doctrine and
practice of the Irvingites. [From Edward _Irving_ (1792-1834).]

IS, iz, third pers. sing. pres. of _be_. [A.S. _is_; Ger. _ist_, L. _est_,
Gr. _esti_, Sans. _asti_--_as_, to be.]

ISABEL, ISABELLE, iz'a-bel, _n._ a yellowish-gray or drab colour. [From
_Isabella_, daughter of Philip II., wife of the Archduke Albert, who did
not change her linen for three years till Ostend was taken.]

ISAGOGICS, [=i]-sa-goj'iks, _n._ that part of theological science
introductory to exegesis or interpretation of the Scriptures.--_adj._
ISAGOG'IC. [Gr. _eisag[=o]g[=e]_, an introduction--_eis_, into, _agein_, to
lead.]

ISANDROUS, [=i]-san'drus, _adj._ (_bot._) having the stamens similar and
equal in number to the divisions of the corolla.

ISANTHEROUS, [=i]-san'ther-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having the anthers equal.

ISANTHOUS, [=i]-san'thus, _adj._ (_bot._) having regular flowers.

ISAPOSTOLIC, [=i]-sap-os-tol'ik, _adj._ equal to the apostles, as bishops
of apostolic creation, the first preachers of Christ in a country, &c. [Gr.
_isos_, equal, _apostolikos_, apostolic.]

ISATINE, [=i]'sa-tin, _n._ a substance capable of being crystallised,
obtained by oxidising indigo.--_adj._ ISAT'IC.--_n._ I'S[=A]TIS, a genus of
_Cruciferæ_.--_Isatis tinctoria_, woad. [Gr. _isatis_, woad.]

ISCHIADIC, is-ki-ad'ik, _adj._ relating to the region of the hip--also
ISCHIAT'IC and IS'CHIAL.--_ns._ ISCHIAG'RA, gout in the hip; ISCHIAL'GIA,
sciatica; IS'CHIUM, the posterior part of the pelvic arch in vertebrates.
[L.,--Gr., from _is-chion_, the hip-joint.]

ISCHURIA, is-k[=u]'ri-a, _n._ a stoppage of urine.--_adj._ and _n._
ISCHURET'IC. [Gr. _ischein_, to hold, _ouron_, urine.]

ISENERGIC, [=i]-se-n[.e]r'jik, _adj._ in physics, denoting equal energy.
[Gr. ISOS, equal, _energy_.]

ISENGRIM, [=i]'sen-grim, _n._ the name of the wolf in the famous beast-epic
of _Reynard the Fox_.

ISENTROPIC, [=i]-sen-trop'ik, _adj._ (_phys._) of equal entropy. [Gr.
_isos_, equal, _entrope_, a turning about--_en_, in, _trepein_, to turn.]

ISH, ish, _n._ (_Scot._) issue, liberty of going out.

ISHMAELITE, ish'm[=a]-el-[=i]t, _n._ a descendant of _Ishmael_: one like
Ishmael (Gen. xvi. 12), at war with society.--_adj._ ISHMAEL[=I]'TISH.

ISIAC, [=i]-si-ak. See ISIS.

ISIDIUM, [=i]-sid'i-um, _n._ (_bot._) a wart-like excrescence on the thalli
of some lichens:--_pl._ ISID'IA.

ISIDORIAN, is-i-d[=o]'ri-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to St _Isidore_ of
Seville (c. 560-636), or the collection of canons and decretals adopted by
him; but esp. applying to the interpolated collection, now called the
_Pseudo-Isidorian_ or _False Decretals_, possibly fabricated in Western
Gaul, but published in Spain about 845 by _Isidore_ Mercator, and naturally
fathered upon the great Isidore of Seville.

ISINGLASS, [=i]'zing-glas, _n._ a glutinous substance, chiefly prepared
from the air-bladders of the sturgeon. [A corr. of Dut.
_huizenblas_--_huizen_, a kind of sturgeon, _blas_, a bladder; Ger.
_hausenblase_.]

ISIS, [=i]'sis, _n._ an Egyptian goddess, wife and sister of
Osiris.--_adj._ I'SIAC.

ISLAM, iz'lam, ISLAMISM, iz'lam-izm, _n._ the proper name of the Mohammedan
religion: the whole Mohammedan world.--_adjs._ ISLAM'IC, ISLAMIT'IC.--_n._
IS'LAMITE.--_v.t._ ISLAM[=I]ZE', to conform to Mohammedanism. [Ar.
_isl[=a]m_--_salama_, to submit to God.]

ISLAND, [=i]'land, _n._ the smaller masses of land surrounded with water: a
large floating mass.--_v.t._ to cause to appear like an island: to dot as
with islands.--_n._ ISLANDER ([=i]'land-[.e]r), an inhabitant of an island.
[M. E. _iland_--A.S. _ígland_--_íg_, an island, and _land_, land; Dut. and
Ger. _eiland_, Ice. _eyland_, Sw. and Dan. _öland_. A.S. _íg_ is from a
root which appears in Angles-_ea_, Aldern-_ey_, &c., A.S. _eá_, L. _aqua_,
water, so that it originally means water-land. The _s_ in island is due to
a confusion with _isle_, from L. _insula_.]

ISLE, [=i]l, _n._ an island.--_ns._ ISLES'MAN, an islander, esp. an
inhabitant of the Hebrides; ISLET ([=i]'let), a little isle. [M. E. _ile_,
_yle_--O. Fr. _isle_ (Fr. _île_)--L. _insula_, considered to be so called
because lying _in salo_, in the main sea, L. _salum_ being akin to Gr.
_salos_, the main sea.]

ISM, izm, _n._ any distinctive doctrine, theory, or practice--usually in
disparagement.--_adjs._ ISMAT'IC, -AL, addicted to isms or faddish
theories.--_n._ ISMAT'ICALNESS. [From the suffix _-ism_.]

ISMAILIAN, is-m[=a]-il'i-an, _n._ one of a sect of Shiite Mohammedans, who
claim that _Ismail_ (_c._ 770) was the seventh and last of the Imâms.--_n._
IS'MAILISM.--_adj._ ISMAILIT'IC.

ISOBAR, [=i]'so-bär, _n._ an imaginary line connecting places on the earth
where the mean height of the barometer at sea-level is the same.--_adj._
ISOBAROMET'RIC, applied to lines denoting equal barometric pressure. [Gr.
_isos_, equal, _baros_, weight.]

ISOBATHYTHERM, [=i]-so-bath'i-therm, _n._ a line connecting points of the
same temperature in a vertical section of any portion of the
ocean.--_adjs._ ISOBATHYTHER'MAL, ISOBATHYTHER'MIC. [Gr. _isos_, equal,
_bathys_, deep, _therm[=e]_, heat.]

ISOBILATERAL, [=i]-so-b[=i]-lat'e-ral, _adj._ (_bot._) having the flanks of
the organ flattened surfaces. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _bilateral_.]

ISOBRIOUS, [=i]-sob'ri-us, _adj._ growing equally in both lobes, of a
dicotyledonous embryo.--Also ISODYN'AMOUS. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _brian_, to
be strong.]

ISOBRONT, [=i]'so-bront, _n._ a line on a map connecting points at which a
peal of thunder is heard simultaneously. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _bront[=e]_,
thunder.]

ISOCHASMIC, [=i]-so-kaz'mik, _adj._ denoting equality as regards frequency
of auroral displays. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _chasma_, a gap.]

ISOCHEIMAL, [=i]-so-k[=i]'mal, _adj._ having the same mean winter
temperature--also ISOCHEI'MENAL.--_n._ I'SOCHEIM, an imaginary line
connecting together those places where the mean winter temperature is the
same. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _cheima_, winter.]

ISOCHORIC, [=i]-so-kor'ik, _adj._ pertaining to equal volume or density.
[Gr. _isos_, equal, _ch[=o]ra_, space.]

ISOCHROMATIC, [=i]-so-kr[=o]-mat'ik, _adj._ (_optics_) having the same
colour. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

ISOCHRONAL, [=i]-sok'ron-al, _adj._ of equal time: performed in equal
times--also ISOCH'RONOUS.--_n._ ISOCH'RONISM, the quality of being
isochronous or done in equal times.--_adv._ ISOCH'RONOUSLY. [Gr.
_isochronos_--_isos_, equal, _chronos_, time.]

ISOCHROOUS, [=i]-sok'r[=o]-us, _adj._ of uniform colour.

ISOCLINAL, [=i]-so-kl[=i]'nal (or ISOCLIN'IC), ISODYNAM'IC, and ISOGON'IC
LINES, three systems of lines which being laid on maps represent the
magnetism of the globe as exhibited at the earth's surface in three classes
of phenomena, the varying dip or inclination of the needle, the varying
intensity of the force, and its varying declination from the true meridian.
[Gr. _isos_, equal, _dynamis_, force, _klinein_, to bend, _g[=o]nia_, an
angle.]

ISOCRYME, [=i]'s[=o]-kr[=i]m, _n._ a line on maps connecting points of the
same mean winter temperature.--Also I'SOCRYMAL. [Gr. _isos_, equal,
_krymos_, cold.]

ISODIA, [=i]-s[=o]'di-a, _n.pl._ the feast of the presentation of Jesus in
the Temple. [Gr. _eisodos_, entrance.]

ISODIAMETRIC, [=i]-so-d[=i]-a-met'rik, _adj._ being of equal diameters.

ISODICON, [=i]-sod'i-kon, _n._ (_Gr. Church_) a troparion or short anthem
sung while the Gospel is being carried through the church. [Gr. _eisodos_,
an entrance.]

ISODIMORPHOUS, [=i]-so-d[=i]-mor'fus, _adj._ in crystallography, having the
quality of isodimorphism or isomorphism between the members of two
dimorphous groups.

ISODOMON, [=i]-sod'[=o]-mon, _n._ masonry having courses of uniform
thickness and length, the vertical joints placed over the middle of the
courses below--also ISOD'OMUM:--_pl._ ISOD'OMA.--_adj._ ISOD'OMOUS. [Gr.
_isos_, equal, _demein_, to build.]

ISODONT, [=i]'so-dont, _adj._ having the teeth all alike, as in the
_Isodontia_--cetacea, &c. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

ISOËTES, [=i]-s[=o]'e-t[=e]z, _n._ a widely distributed genus of vascular
cryptogamous plants, the quillworts--Merlin's Grass, &c. [Gr. _isos_,
equal, _etos_, a year.]

ISOGAMY, [=i]-sog'a-mi, _n._ (_bot._) the conjugation of two protoplasmic
masses not clearly differentiated into a male and female element.--_adj._
ISOG'AMOUS. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _gamos_, marriage.]

ISOGENY, [=i]-soj'e-ni, _n._ likeness of origin, a general
homology.--_adj._ ISOG'ENOUS. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _genos_, kind.]

ISOGEOTHERMAL, [=i]-so-j[=e]-o-th[.e]r'mal, _adj._ of imaginary lines
beneath the earth's surface through points having the same degree of heat.
[Gr. _isos_, equal, _g[=e]_, the earth, _therm[=e]_, heat--_thermos_, hot.]

ISOGNATHOUS, [=i]-sog'na-thus, _adj._ having the molar teeth alike in both
jaws. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _gnathos_, the jaw.]

ISOGON, [=i]'so-gon, _n._ a figure having equal angles. [Gr. _isos_, equal,
_gonia_, an angle.]

ISOGONIC, [=i]-so-gon'ik, _adj._ exhibiting ISOG'ONISM, or the production
of like generative individuals from differing stocks, as in certain
hydroids. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _gonos_, offspring.]

ISOHYETAL, [=i]-so-h[=i]'e-tal, _n._ an imaginary line connecting places
which have an equal annual rainfall. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _hyetos_, rain.]

ISOLATE, [=i]'so-l[=a]t, or is'o-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to place in a detached
situation, like an island.--_adj._ IS'OLABLE (_chem._), capable of being
separated from any other substance: capable of being obtained pure.--_n._
ISOL[=A]'TION. [It. _isolare_--_isola_--L. _insula_, an island.]

ISOMERISM, [=i]-som'er-izm, _n._ the relation between chemical compounds
which are identical in their ultimate or percentage composition, but
present difficulties in their chemical properties.--_adjs._ ISOMER'IC,
ISOM'EROUS. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _meros_, part.]

ISOMETRIC, -AL, [=i]-so-met'rik, -al, _adj._ having equality of measure.
[Gr. _isos_, equal, _metron_, measure.]

ISOMORPHISM, [=i]-so-morf'izm, _n._ a term applied by chemists to those
substances which are not only similar in their crystalline form, but are
also analogous in their chemical composition.--_adj._ ISOMORPH'OUS. [Gr.
_isos_, equal, _morph[=e]_, form.]

ISONOMY, [=i]-son'o-mi, _n._ equal law, rights, or privileges. [Gr.
_isonomia_--_isos_, equal, _nomos_, law.]

ISONYM, [=i]'so-nim, _n._ a paronym.--_adj._ ISONYM'IC.--_n._ ISON'YMY.

ISOPATHY, [=i]-sop'a-thi, _n._ the cure of diseases by the same disease or
by its virus. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _pathos_, disease.]

ISOPERIMETRICAL, [=i]-so-per-i-met'rik-al, _adj._ denoting figures having
equal perimeters or circumferences.--_n._ ISOPERIM'ETRY. [Gr. _isos_,
equal, _perimetron_, circumference.]

ISOPOD, [=i]'so-pod, _n._ a crustacean whose legs are all alike, any one of
the ISOP'ODA, an order of higher Crustaceans in the division with unstalked
eyes.--_adjs._ I'SOPOD, ISOP'ODOUS. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _pous_, _podos_, a
foot.]

ISOPOLITY, [=i]-so-pol'i-ti, _n._ equal rights of citizenship in different
communities. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _polit[=e]s_, a citizen.]

ISOPTEROUS, [=i]-sop'te-rus, _adj._ having the wings equal. [Gr. _isos_,
equal, _pteron_, a wing.]

ISORRHYTHMIC, [=i]-s[=o]-rith'mik, _adj._ in ancient prosody, equal in the
number of times for thesis and arsis, as a dactyl and anapæst. [Gr. _isos_,
equal, _hrythmos_, rhythm.]

ISOSCELES, [=i]-sos'e-l[=e]z, _adj._ (_geom._) having two equal sides, as a
triangle. [Gr. _isoskel[=e]s_--_isos_, equal, _skelos_, a leg.]

ISOSEISMAL, [=i]-s[=o]-s[=i]s'mal, _n._ a curve or line connecting points
at which an earthquake shock is felt with equal intensity.--_adjs._
ISOSEIS'MAL, ISOSEIS'MIC. [Gr. _isos_, equal, SEISMOS, a shaking.]

ISOSTATIC, [=i]-so-stat'ik, _adj._ in hydrostatic equilibrium from equality
of pressure. [Gr. _isos_, equal, _statikos_, stable.]

ISOTHERAL, [=i]'so-th[=e]r-al, _adj._ having the same mean summer
temperature.--_n._ I'SOTH[=E]RE, an imaginary line connecting places on the
earth which have the same mean summer temperature. [Gr. _isos_, equal,
_theros_, summer--_therein_, to be warm.]

ISOTHERMAL, [=i]-so-th[.e]r'mal, _adj._ having an equal degree of
heat.--_n._ I'SOTHERM, an imaginary line connecting places on the earth
which have the same mean annual temperature. [Fr. _isotherme_--Gr. _isos_,
equal, _therm[=e]_, heat--_thermos_, hot.]

ISOTONIC, [=i]-so-ton'ik, _adj._ having equal tones. [Gr. _isos_, equal,
_tonos_, tone.]

ISOTROPISM, [=i]-sot'rop-izm, _n._ physical homogeneity or amorphism:
identity of elastic forces of propagation of vibration (light, heat,
sound), or identity of susceptibility to magnetisation, in all
directions.--_adjs._ ISOTROP'IC, ISOT'ROPOUS.

I-SPY, [=i]'-sp[=i]', _n._ a children's game of hide-and-seek, so called
from the cry when one is found.

ISRAELITE, iz'ra-el-[=i]t, _n._ a descendant of Israel or Jacob: a
Jew.--_adjs._ ISRAELIT'IC, ISRAEL[=I]T'ISH, pertaining to the Israelites or
Jews. [Gr. _Isra[=e]lit[=e]s_--_Isra[=e]l_, Heb. _Isra[=e]l_, contender,
soldier of God--_sara_, to fight, _El_, God.]

ISSUE, ish'[=u], _v.i._ to go, flow, or come out: to proceed, as from a
source: to spring: to be produced: (_law_) to come to a point in fact or
law: to terminate.--_v.t._ to send out: to put into circulation: to give
out for use.--_n._ a going or flowing out: act of sending out: that which
flows or passes out: fruit of the body, children: produce, profits:
circulation, as of bank-notes: publication, as of a book: a giving out for
use: ultimate result, consequence: (_law_) the point of fact in dispute
which is submitted to a jury: (_med._) an ulcer produced
artificially.--_adj._ ISS'UABLE, capable of issuing, admitting of an
issue.--_n._ ISS'UANCE, act of giving out, promulgation.--_adjs._ ISS'UANT
(_her._), issuing or coming up from another, as a charge or bearing;
ISS'UELESS, without issue: childless.--_n._ ISS'UER, one who issues or
emits.--AT ISSUE, in quarrel or controversy; FEIGNED ISSUE (_law_), an
issue made up for trial by agreement of the parties or by an order of
court, instead of by the ordinary legal procedure; GENERAL ISSUE, a simple
denial of the whole charge, as 'Not guilty,' instead of a SPECIAL ISSUE, an
issue taken by denying a particular part of the allegations; IMMATERIAL
ISSUE, an issue which is not decisive of any part of the litigation, as
opp. to a MATERIAL ISSUE, one which necessarily involves some part of the
rights in controversy.--JOIN, or TAKE, ISSUE, of the two parties taking up
the affirmative and the negative on the point in debate. [O. Fr. _issuë_,
_issir_, to go or flow out--L. _ex[=i]re_--_ex_, out, _[=i]re_, to go.]

ISTHMUS, ist'mus, _n._ a narrow neck of land connecting two larger
portions.--_adj._ ISTH'MIAN, pertaining to an isthmus, esp. the Isthmus of
Corinth.--The ISTHMIAN GAMES were celebrated in the ISTHMIAN SANCTUARY on
the north-east shore of the isthmus. [L.,--Gr. _isthmos_, a passage, an
isthmus, allied to _ithma_, a step, from root of _ienai_, to go.]

ISTLE, is'tl, _n._ a valuable fibre obtained from a tropical American
plant, also from several Mexican species of _Agave_.--Also IX'TLE.

IT, it, _pron._ the thing spoken of. [M. E. and A.S. _hit_, neut. of _he_;
Ice. _hit_, Dut. _het_, Goth. _ita_; akin to L. _id_, Sans. _i_, pronominal
root=here. The _t_ is an old neuter suffix, as in _tha-t_, _wha-t_, and
cognate with d in L. _illu-d_, _istu-d_, _quo-d_.]

ITACISM, ITACIST. See IOTA.

ITACOLUMITE, it-a-kol'[=u]m-[=i]t, _n._ a schistose quartzite, containing
scales of mica, talc, and chlorite, often having a certain flexibility.

ITALIAN, i-tal'yan, Italic, i-tal'ik, _adj._ of or relating to Italy or its
people.--_n._ a native of Italy: the language of Italy.--_vs.t._
ITAL'IANATE, ITAL'IANISE, to make Italian.--_vs.i._ to play the Italian: to
speak Italian.--_n._ ITAL'IANISM.--ITALIAN ARCHITECTURE, the style
practised by the Italian architects of the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries,
which originated in a revival of the ancient architecture of Rome; ITALIAN
WAREHOUSEMAN, a dealer in the finer kinds of groceries, as macaroni,
vermicelli, dried fruits, &c.--ITALIC VERSION, or IT'ALA, a translation of
the Bible into Latin, based on a still older version, called Old Latin, and
made probably in the time of Augustine. [It. _Italiano_, _Italico_--L.
_Italia_--Gr. _italos_, a bull.]

ITALICS, i-tal'iks, _n.pl._ a kind of types which _slope to the right_ (as
in the last four words), so called because first used by an _Italian_
printer, Aldo Manuzio, about 1500, employed for emphasis and other
distinctive purposes.--_n._ ITALICIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ ITAL'IC[=I]SE, to
print in Italics.

ITCH, ich, _n._ an uneasy, irritating sensation in the skin: an eruptive
disease in the skin, caused by a parasitic animal: a constant teasing
desire.--_v.i._ to have an uneasy, irritating sensation in the skin: to
have a constant, teasing desire.--_ns._ ITCH'INESS; ITCH'-MITE, a mite
which burrows in the skin, causing itch or scabies.--_adj._ ITCH'Y,
pertaining to or affected with itch.--ITCHING PALM, a greed for gain. [A.S.
_giccan_, to itch; Scot. _youk_, _yuck_, Ger. _jucken_, to itch.]

ITEM, [=i]'tem, _adv._ likewise: also.--_n._ a separate article or
particular.--_v.t._ to make a note of.--_v.t._ I'TEMISE, to give by items.
[L.,--_id_, that.]

ITERATE, it'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to do again: to repeat, in modern usage
replaced by the verb reiterate.--_ns._ IT'ERANCE, ITER[=A]'TION,
repetition.--_adjs._ IT'ERANT, IT'ER[=A]TIVE, repeating. [L. _iter[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_iterum_, again.]

ITHYPHALLIC, ith-i-fal'ik, _adj._ pertaining to certain rites:
obscene.--_n._ ITHYPHALL'US, an erect phallus.

ITINERANT, [=i]-tin'er-ant, _adj._ making journeys from place to place:
travelling.--_n._ one who travels from place to place, esp. a Methodist
preacher: a wanderer.--_ns._ ITIN'ERACY, ITIN'ERANCY.--_adv._
ITIN'ERANTLY.--_adj._ ITIN'ERARY, travelling: done on a journey.--_n._ a
book of travels: a guide-book for travellers: a rough sketch and
description of the country through which troops are to march.--_v.i._
ITIN'ER[=A]TE, to travel from place to place, esp. for the purpose of
preaching or lecturing. [L. _itinerans_, _-antis_, part. of
_itiner[=a]ri_-, _-atus_, to travel--L. _iter_, _itineris_, a
journey--_[=i]re_, _[=i]tum_, to go.]

ITS, its, _poss. pron._ the possessive of _it._ [The old form was _his_,
_its_ not being older than the end of the 16th century. _Its_ does not
occur in the English Bible of 1611, or in Spenser, rarely in Shakespeare,
and is not common until the time of Dryden.]

ITSELF, it-self', _pron._ the neuter reciprocal pronoun, applied to
things.--BY ITSELF, alone, apart; IN AND BY ITSELF, separately considered.

ITTNERITE, it'n[.e]r-[=i]t, _n._ a dark blue or gray mineral, consisting
chiefly of silica, alumina, potash, and soda.

IVORY, [=i]'vo-ri, _n._ the hard, white substance composing the tusks of
the elephant and of the sea-horse.--_adj._ made of, or resembling,
ivory.--_adj._ I'VORIED, made like ivory: furnished with teeth.--_ns._
I'VORY-BLACK, a black powder, originally made from burnt ivory, but now
from bone; I'VORY-NUT, the nut of a species of palm, containing a substance
like ivory; I'VORY-PALM, the tree which bears the ivory-nut;
I'VORY-POR'CELAIN, a fine ware with an ivory-white glaze.--SHOW ONE'S
IVORIES, to show the teeth. [O. Fr. _ivurie_ (Fr. _ivoire_)--L. _ebur_,
_eboris_, ivory; Coptic _ebu_; Sans. _ibhas_, an elephant.]

IVY, [=i]'vi, _n._ a creeping evergreen plant on trees and walls.--_adjs._
I'VIED, I'VYED, I'VY-MAN'TLED, overgrown or mantled with ivy.--_n._
I'VY-BUSH, a plant of ivy formerly hung over tavern-doors, the ivy being
sacred to Bacchus. [A.S. _ifig_; Old High Ger. _ebah_; prob. conn. with L.
_apium_, parsley.]

IWIS, YWIS, i-wis', _adv._ certainly--sometimes ignorantly written _I wis_,
as if 'I know.' [M. E. _ywis_, _iwis_--A.S. _gewis_, certain; Ger. _gewiss_
(adv.).]

IXION, ik-s[=i]'on, _n._ (_Gr. myth._) a king of the Lapithæ, bound, for an
impious attempt on Hera, hand and foot to a fiery wheel which rolled for
ever in the sky.

IXOLITE, iks'o-l[=i]t, _n._ a fossil resin, found in bituminous coal, which
becomes soft and sticky when heated. [Gr. _ixos_, birdlime, _lithos_, a
stone.]

IXTLE. See ISTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

J the tenth letter in our alphabet, developed from I, the initial form _j_
being specialised to denote the consonantal sound, the medial _i_ being
retained for the vowel-sound--not universal in English books before the
middle of the 17th century. As a numeral, a variant of I, used in medical
prescriptions, as _vj_, six: representing the mechanical equivalent of
heat--from Joule.

JABBER, jab'[.e]r, _v.i._ to gabble or talk rapidly and indistinctly: to
chatter.--_v.t._ to utter indistinctly:--_pr.p._ jabb'ering; _pa.p._
jabb'ered.--_n._ rapid indistinct speaking.--_n._ JABB'ERER.--_adv._
JABB'ERINGLY. [From root of _gabble_.]

JABBLE, jab'l, _n._ (_Scot._) an agitation on the surface of water.--_v.t._
to splash. [Cf. _jaup_.]

JABIRU, jab'i-r[=u], _n._ a kind of large stork. [Brazilian.]

JABORANDI, jab'o-ran'di, _n._ a Brazilian shrub with sialogogue and
diaphoretic properties. [Brazilian.]

JABOT, zha-b[=o]', _n._ a frill of lace, &c., worn by women on the bodice.

JACAMAR, jak'a-mar, _n._ a South American bird something like a kingfisher.
[Fr.,--Brazilian.]

JACANA, ja-k[=a]'na, _n._ a tropical bird, allied to the rails, and
frequenting swamps. [Brazilian.]

JACARANDA, jak-a-ran'da, _n._ a South American tree with hard, heavy, brown
wood. [Brazilian.]

JACCHUS, jak'us, _n._ a South American marmoset.

JACENT, j[=a]'sent, _adj._ lying at length.

JACINTH, j[=a]'sinth, _n._ (_B._) a precious stone, a red variety of
zircon, now called hyacinth: a reddish-orange colour. [Contr. of
_hyacinth_.]

JACK, jak, _n._ used as a familiar name or diminutive of John: a saucy or
paltry fellow: a sailor: any instrument serving to supply the place of a
boy or helper, as a bootjack for taking off boots, a contrivance for
turning a spit (smoke-jack, roasting-jack), a screw for raising heavy
weights, a figure which strikes the bell in clocks: the male of some
animals: a young pike: a support to saw wood on: a miner's wedge: a flag
displayed from the bowsprit of a ship: a leather pitcher or bottle: a coat
of mail: (_coll._) a knave in cards: the small white ball that forms the
aim in bowls.--_ns._ JACK'-A-DAN'DY, a dandy or fop, esp. if diminutive;
JACK'-A-LAN'TERN, the _ignis fatuus_ or Will-o'-the-Wisp; JACK'-A-LENT'
(_Shak._), a boy (for JACK OF LENT, a kind of puppet formerly thrown at in
sport at Lent); JACK'-BLOCK, a block of pulleys used for raising and
lowering topgallant-masts.--_n.pl._ JACK'BOOTS, large boots reaching above
the knee, to protect the leg, formerly worn by cavalry, and covered with
plates of iron.--_ns._ JACK'-CROSS'-TREE, the cross-tree at the head of a
topgallant-mast; JACK'-FLAG, a flag which is hoisted at the spritsail
topmast-head; JACK'-FOOL, an absolute ass; JACK'-IN-OFF'ICE, a conceited
and impertinent official; JACK'-IN-THE-BOX', a box with a figure in it that
springs up when the lid is lifted; JACK'-IN-THE-GREEN', a May-day
chimney-sweep almost covered up with green shrubs; JACK'-KNIFE, a large
clasp-knife; JACK'-MAN, a soldier armed with a jack or coat of mail: a
retainer; JACK'-NAS'TY, a sneak, a sloven; JACK'-OF-ALL'-TRADES, one who
can turn his hand to anything; JACK'-PLANE, a large, strong plane used by
joiners; JACK'-PUDD'ING, a merry-andrew, buffoon; JACK'-RABB'IT, one of
several species of prairie-hares, with very long ears and legs;
JACK'-RAFT'ER, a rafter, shorter than the rest, used in hip-roofs;
JACK'-SAUCE (_Shak._), a saucy fellow; JACK'-SCREW, a screw for raising
heavy weights; JACK'-SLAVE (_Shak._), a low servant, a vulgar fellow;
JACK'-SMITH, a smith who makes jacks for the kitchen; JACK'-SNIPE, a small
species of snipe; JACK'-STAFF, the staff on which the jack is
hoisted.--_n.pl._ JACK'-STAYS, ropes or strips of wood or iron stretched
along the yards of a ship to bind the sails to.--_ns._ JACK'-STRAW, a straw
effigy, a low servile fellow; JACK'-TAR, a sailor; JACK'-TOWEL, a long
endless towel passing over a roller.--JACK FROST, frost personified as a
mischievous fellow; JACK KETCH, a public hangman--from one so named under
James II.; JACK SPRAT, a diminutive fellow.--CHEAP JACK (see CHEAP); EVERY
MAN JACK, one and all; YELLOW JACK (_slang_), yellow fever. [Fr. _Jacques_,
the most common name in France, hence used as a substitute for _John_, the
most common name in England; but it is really=_James_ or _Jacob_--L.
_Jacobus_.]

JACK, JAK, jak, _n._ a tree of the East Indies of the same genus as the
bread-fruit tree. [Port. _jaka_--Malay _tsjaka_.]

JACKAL, jak'awl, _n._ a wild, gregarious animal closely allied to the
dog--erroneously supposed to act as a lion's provider or hunting scout,
hence a tool, a Parasite. [Pers. _shagh[=a]l_.]

JACKANAPES, jak'a-n[=a]ps, _n._ an impudent fellow: a coxcomb. [_Jack o'
apes_, one who exhibited monkeys, with _n_ inserted to avoid the hiatus.]

JACKASS, jak'as, _n._ the male of the ass: a blockhead. [_Jack_--the male,
and _ass_.]

JACKDAW, jak'daw, _n._ a species of crow. [_Jack_ and _daw_.]

JACKET, jak'et, _n._ a short coat.--_adj._ Jack'eted, wearing a jacket. [O.
Fr. _jaquette_, a jacket, or sleeveless coat, a dim. of O. Fr. _jaque_, a
coat of mail, prob. ultimately conn. with _Jacques_.]

JACOBEAN, jak-o-b[=e]'an, _adj._ of the period of James I. of England
(1603-25).

JACOBIN, jak'o-bin, _n._ a French Dominican monk, so named from their
original establishment being that of St _Jacques_, Paris: one of a society
of revolutionists in France, so called from their meeting in the hall of
the Jacobin convent: a demagogue: a hooded pigeon.--_adjs._ JACOBIN'IC,
-AL.--_v.t._ JAC'OBINISE.--_n._ JAC'OBINISM, the principles of the Jacobins
or French revolutionists. [Fr.,--L. _Jacobus_, James--Gr. _Jacobos_--Heb.
_Ya`aq[=o]b_.]

JACOBITE, jak'o-b[=i]t, _n._ an adherent of James II. and his descendants:
in Church history, a Syrian monophysite, named after the 6th-century monk,
_Jacobus_ Baradæus.--_adjs._ JAC'OBITE, JACOBIT'IC, -AL.--_n._ JAC'OBITISM.

JACOB'S-LADDER, j[=a]'kobz-lad'[.e]r, _n._ (_naut._) a ladder made of ropes
with wooden steps: a garden plant with large blue flowers. [From the ladder
which _Jacob_ saw in his dream, Gen. xxviii. 12.]

JACOB'S-STAFF, j[=a]'kobz-staf, _n._ a pilgrim's staff: a staff with a
cross-head used in surveying: a sword-cane. [Prob. an allusion to the staff
of the patriarch _Jacob_, Gen. xxxii. 10.]

JACOBUS, ja-k[=o]'bus, _n._ a gold coin of James I. worth 20s.

JACONET, jak'o-net, _n._ a cotton fabric, rather stouter than muslin. [Fr.
_jaconas_.]

JACQUARD LOOM. See LOOM.

JACQUEMINOT, jak'mi-n[=o], _n._ a deep-red hybrid perpetual rose.--Also
JACQUE and JACK. [From General _Jacqueminot_ of Paris.]

JACQUERIE, zhak'e-r[=e], _n._ name given to the revolt of the French
peasants in 1358. [From _Jacques_ Bonhomme, Goodman Jack, a name applied in
derision to the peasants.]

JACTATION, jak-t[=a]'shun, _n._ act of throwing: extreme restlessness in
disease: agitation of the body: boasting.

JACTITATION (of marriage), jak-ti-t[=a]'shun, _n._ a false pretence of
being married to another. [L. _jactit[=a]re_, -_[=a]tum_, to brag, freq. of
_jact[=a]re_, to throw.]

JACULATION, jak-[=u]-l[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of throwing or hurling, as a
dart.--_v.t._ JAC'ULATE, to dart, throw.--_n._ JAC'UL[=A]TOR.--_adj._
JAC'UL[=A]TORY, darting or throwing out suddenly: ejaculatory. [L.
_jacul[=a]ri_, -_[=a]tus_, to throw as a dart--_jaculum_, a
dart--_jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

JADE, j[=a]d, _n._ a mare, esp. an old and sorry one: a worthless nag: a
woman--in contempt or irony.--_v.t._ to tire: to harass:--_pr.p._ jad'ing;
_pa.p._ jad'ed.--_adv._ JAD'EDLY.--_n._ JAD'ERY, the tricks of a
jade.--_adj._ JAD'ISH, worn out: vicious: unchaste--applied to a woman.
[Scot. _yad_, _yaud_; Ice. _jalda_, a mare.]

JADE, j[=a]d, _n._ a dark-green stone used for ornamental purposes--applied
both to _jadeite_ and _nephrite_. [Fr.,--Sp. _ijada_, the flank--L. _ilia_.
It was believed to cure pain of the side.]

JAG, jag, _n._ a notch: a ragged protuberance: (_bot._) a cleft or
division: (_Scot._) a stab.--_v.t._ to cut into notches: to stab or
pierce:--_pr.p._ jag'ging; _pa.p._ jagged.--_adjs._ JAG'GED, JAG'GY,
notched, rough-edged, uneven.--_adv._ JAG'GEDLY.--_ns._ JAG'GEDNESS;
JAG'GER, a brass wheel with a notched edge for cutting cakes, &c., into
ornamental forms--also JAG'GING-[=I]'RON. [Celt.; W., Gael., Ir. _gag_, a
cleft.]

JAG, jag, _n._ a load: a saddle-bag: a quantity: (_U.S._) as much liquor as
one can carry.--_n._ JAG'GER, a peddler.

JAGGERY, jag'[.e]r-i, _n._ a kind of coarse, dark-coloured sugar made in
the East Indies from the sap of the coco-nut palm. [Hind. _shakkar_, Sans.
_çarkara_.]

JAGHIR, JAGHIRE, ja-g[=e]r', _n._ the government revenues of a tract of
land assigned with power to administer.--_n._ JAGHIR'DAR, the holder of
such. [Hind.]

JAGUAR, jag'[=u]-är, or jag-wär', _n._ a powerful beast of prey, allied to
the leopard, found in South America. [Brazilian, _jaguara_.]

JAH, jä, _n._ Jehovah. [Heb.]

JAIL, j[=a]l, _n._ a prison.--_ns._ JAIL'-BIRD, GAOL'-BIRD, a humorous name
for one who is or has been confined in jail; JAIL'ER, GAOL'ER, one who has
charge of a jail or of prisoners, called also a turnkey; JAIL'-F[=E]'VER,
GAOL'-F[=E]'VER, typhus fever, so called because once common in
jails.--BREAK JAIL, to force one's way out of prison; COMMISSION OF JAIL
DELIVERY, one of the commissions issued to judges of assize and judges of
the Central Criminal Court in England. [O. Fr. _gaole_ (Fr. _geôle_)--Low
L. _gabiola_, a cage, dim. of Low L. _gabia_, a cage, a corr. of _cavea_, a
cage--L. _cavus_, hollow.]

JAIN, j[=a]n, _n._ an adherent of JAIN'ISM, or a member of a heterodox
Hindu sect, allied to ancient Buddhism: a style of architecture developed
about 450 A.D., with pseudo-arch and dome, built in horizontal courses and
of pointed section. [Hind. _jina_, a deified saint.]

JAKES, j[=a]ks, _n._ (_Shak._) a privy.--Also _Mrs Jones_.

JALAP, jal'ap, _n._ the purgative root of a plant first brought from
_Jalapa_ or Xalapa, in Mexico.--_adj._ JALAP'IC--_n._ JAL'APIN, a glucoside
resin, one of the purgative principles of jalap.

JALOUSE, jal-[=oo]z', _v.i._ (_Scot._) to suspect. See JEALOUS.

JALOUSIE, zhal-oo-z[=e]', _n._ a Venetian blind. [Fr.,--_jalousie_,
jealousy.]

JAM, jam, _n._ a conserve of fruit boiled with sugar. [Ety. dub.; perh.
from _jam_, to squeeze.]

JAM, jam, _v.t._ to press or squeeze tight:--_pr.p._ jam'ming; _pa.p._
jammed.--_n._ a crush, squeeze. [Cf. _cham_p.]

JAMAICA-PEPPER, ja-m[=a]'ka-pep'[.e]r, _n._ Allspice (q.v.).

JAMB, jam, _n._ the sidepiece or post of a door, fireplace, &c. [Fr.
_jambe_, perh. Celt. _cam_, bent.]

JAMBE, jäm, _n._ armour for the leg.--_ns.pl._ JAM'BEAUS, leggings;
JAMBIERES', leg-pieces of leather, &c. [Fr. _jambe_, leg.]

JAMBEE, jam-b[=e]', _n._ an 18th-century light cane.

JAMBOK, jam'bok, _n._ a long lash made of hippopotamus hide, &c. [S. Afr.]

JAMBONE, jam'b[=o]n, _n._ a lone hand in euchre, played only by agreement,
in which the player lays his cards on the table and must lead one chosen by
his opponent, scoring 8 points if he takes all the tricks.

JAMBOREE, jam-b[=o]-r[=e], _n._ in euchre, a lone hand of the 5 highest
cards, by agreement scoring 16 points for the holder: (_slang_) a
boisterous frolic, a spree.

JAMBU, jam'b[=oo], _n._ the rose-apple tree.

JAMBUL, jam'bul, _n._ a small Indian evergreen tree.

JAMDANI, jam-dä'ni, _n._ a variety of Dacca muslin woven in designs of
flowers.

JAMEWAR, jam'e-war, _n._ a Cashmere shawl with coloured patterns: the
goat's-hair cloth of Cashmere.

JAMPAN, jam'pan, _n._ a sedan-chair borne on bamboo poles by four
bearers.--_n._ JAMPANEE', its bearer.

JAMRACH, jam'rak, _n._ a place where wild animals are kept for sale--from a
London dealer's name.

JANE, j[=a]n, _n._ (_Spens._) a small silver Genoese coin: jean. [Low L.
_Janua_, L. _Genua_, Genoa.]

JANGLE, jang'l, _v.i._ to sound discordantly as in wrangling: to wrangle or
quarrel.--_v.t._ to cause to sound harshly.--_n._ discordant sound:
contention.--_ns._ JANG'LER; JANG'LING. [O. Fr. _jangler_; imit., like
_jingle_ and _chink_.]

JANITOR, jan'i-tor, _n._ a doorkeeper: a porter:--_fem._ JAN'ITRIX. [L.,
from _janua_, a door.]

JANIZARY, jan'i-zar-i, _n._ a soldier of the old Turkish foot-guards (c.
1330-1826), formed originally of renegade prisoners and of a tribute of
children taken from Christian subjects--also JAN'ISSARY, JAN'IZAR.--_adj._
JANIZ[=A]'RIAN. [Fr. _Janissaire_--Turk, _yeñi_, new, _`asker_, army.]

JANKER, jang'ker, _n._ (_Scot._) a long pole on two wheels used for
transporting logs.

JANN, jan,_ n._ one of the lowest of the five orders of Mohammedan genii.

JANNOCK, jan'ok, _adj._ (_prov._) straightforward.

JANNOCK, jan'ok, _n._ oaten bread, a cake.

JANSENISM, jan'sen-izm, _n._ a system of evangelical doctrine deduced from
Augustine by Cornelius _Jansen_ (1585-1638), Roman Catholic Bishop of
Ypres, essentially a reaction against the ordinary Catholic dogma of the
freedom of the will and that of merely sufficient grace, maintaining that
interior grace is irresistible, and that Christ died for all.--_n._
JAN'SENIST, a believer in Jansenism.

JANTILY, JANTINESS, JANTY. See JAUNTY, &c.

JANUARY, jan'[=u]-ar-i, _n._ the first month of the year, dedicated by the
Romans to JAN'US, the god of opening, with a double head that looked both
ways.--_adjs._ JAN'UFORM, two-faced; JAN'US-FACED, double-dealing:
deceitful. [L. _Januarius_--_Junus_.]

JAP, jap, _n._ and _adj._ (_coll._) for JAPANESE', of or belonging to
_Japan:_ the language of Japan: a native of Japan.

JAPAN, ja-pan', _v.t._ to varnish after the manner of the JAPANESE', or
people of _Japan:_ to make black and glossy:--_pr.p._ japan'ning; _pa.p._
japanned'.--_n._ work japanned: the varnish or lacquer used in
japanning.--_ns._ JAPAN'-EARTH, or _Terra japonica_, gambier;
JAPAN'NER.--JAPAN LACQUER, or BLACK JAPAN, a hard jet-black lacquer, for
sheet-metal, made of asphaltum, linseed-oil, and varnish; JAPANNED LEATHER,
same as patent leather (see PATENT).

JAPE, j[=a]p, _v.i._ to jest, joke.--_v.t._ to mock.--_n._ a jest, joke,
trick. [O. Fr. _japer_.]

JAPHETIC, ja-fet'ik, _adj._ a term formerly applied in ethnology to
European peoples, the supposed descendants of _Japhet_, as opposed to
Hamitic and Semitic.

JAPONICA, jap-on'i-ka, _n._ an abbreviation for _Pyrus japonica_, the
Japanese quince.

JAR, jär, _v.i._ to make a harsh discordant sound: to dash: to quarrel: to
be inconsistent.--_v.t._ to shake:--_pr.p._ jar'ring; _pa.p._ jarred.--_n._
a harsh rattling sound: clash of interests or opinions: discord.--_adv._
JAR'RINGLY. [Imit.; cf. _jargon_.]

JAR, jär, _n._ an earthen or glass bottle with a wide mouth: a measure. [O.
Fr. _jare_--Pers. _jarrah_.]

JAR, jär, _n._ a turn, used only in the phrase, 'on the jar,' ajar. [See
AJAR.]

JARDINIÈRE, zhar-d[=e]-ny[=a]r', _n._ a vessel for the display of flowers,
growing or cut: a lappet forming part of an old head-dress. [Fr., 'a
flower-stand,' _jardinier_, a gardener.]

JARGON, jär'gon, _n._ confused talk: slang.--_n._ JAR'GONIST, one who uses
jargon. [Fr. _jargon_, prob. conn. with L. _garr[=i]re_, to prattle.]

JARGON, jär'gon, _n._ a variety of zircon found in Ceylon, transparent,
colourless.--Also JAR'GOON.

JARGONELLE, jär-go-nel', _n._ a kind of pear. [Fr.]

JARKMAN, järk'man, _n._ (_slang_) a swindling beggar, a begging-letter
writer.

JARL, järl, _n._ a noble, chief, earl. [Scand.]

JAROOL, ja-r[=oo]l', _n._ the Indian bloodwood.

JARRAH, jar'a, _n._ the mahogany gum-tree of Australia.

JARVEY, jär'vi, _n._ (_slang_) a hackney-coach driver.

JASEY, j[=a]'zi, _n._ a kind of wig, originally made of worsted. [Corr. of
_Jersey_.]

JASHER, jäsh'[.e]r, _n._ one of the lost books of the ancient Hebrews,
quoted twice (Josh. x. 13; 2 Sam. i. 18), most probably a collection of
heroic ballads.

JASMINE, jas'min, JESSAMINE, jes'a-min, _n._ a genus of plants, many
species of which have very fragrant flowers. [Fr. _jasmin_--Ar.,--Pers.
_y[=a]sm[=i]n_.]

JASPER, jas'p[.e]r, _n._ a precious stone, being a hard siliceous mineral
of various colours.--_adjs_. JAS'PÉ, having the surface ornamented with
veins; JAS'PERATED, mixed with jasper; JAS'PERY, like jasper; JASPID'EAN,
JASPID'EOUS, JAS'POID. [Fr. _jaspe_--L. and Gr. _iaspis_--Ar. _yasb_.]

JATAKA, jä'ta-kä, _n._ a nativity, the birth-story of Buddha.
[Sans.,--_j[=a]ta_, born.]

JAUNCE, jäns, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to jolt or shake: to ride hard.--_n._ a
jaunt. [O. Fr. _jancer_, to stir.]

JAUNDER, jän'der, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to talk idly.--_n._ gossip.

JAUNDICE, jän'dis, _n._ a disease, characterised by a yellowness of the
eyes, skin, &c., caused by bile.--_adj._ JAUN'DICED, affected with
jaundice: prejudiced. [Fr. _jaunisse_, from _jaune_, yellow--L. _galbinus_,
yellowish, _galbus_, yellow.]

JAUNT, jänt, _v.i._ to go from place to place: to make an excursion.--_n._
an excursion: a ramble.--_adj._ JAUNT'ING, strolling: making an
excursion.--_n._ JAUNT'ING-CAR, a low-set, two-wheeled, open vehicle used
in Ireland, with side-seats back to back. [O. Fr. _jancer_, to stir (a
horse); but more prob. Scand.]

JAUNTY, JANTY, jänt'i, _adj._ airy: showy: finical.--_adv._
JAUNT'ILY.--_n._ JAUNT'INESS. [Fr. _gentil_.]

JAUP, jäp, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to spatter.--_v.i._ to make a sound like water
shaken in a vessel.--_n._ water or mud splashed up.

JAVEL, jav'el, _n._ (_Spens._) a worthless fellow.

JAVELIN, jav'lin, _n._ a spear meant to be hurled, anciently used by both
infantry and cavalry. [O. Fr. _javelin_; prob. Celt.]

JAW, jaw, _n._ the bones of the mouth in which the teeth are set: the
mouth: anything like a jaw: (_slang_) talkativeness, scolding.--_v.i._
(_slang_) to scold.--_ns._ JAW'BONE, the bone of the jaw, in which the
teeth are set; JAW'-BREAK'ER (_slang_), a word hard to pronounce.--_adj._
JAWED, having jaws: denoting the appearance of the jaws, as
_lantern-jawed_.--_n._ JAW'FALL, a falling of the jaw: (_fig._) depression
of spirits.--_adj._ JAW'-FALL'EN, depressed in spirits: dejected.--_ns._
JAW'-FOOT, a foot-jaw, maxilliped; JAW'-L[=E]'VER, an instrument for
opening the mouth of a horse or cow to admit medicine; JAW'-TOOTH, one of
the double teeth, a grinder or molar.--BREAK-JAW WORD, a very long word, or
one hard to pronounce; HOLD ONE'S JAW, to cease from talking or scolding.
[Old spelling _chaw_, akin to _chew_.]

JAW, jaw, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to pour out, throw out: splash.--_ns._ JAW'-BOX,
JAW'-HOLE, a sink.

JAY, j[=a], _n._ a bird of the crow family with gay plumage: a wanton
woman: an indifferent actor, a stupid chattering fellow. [O. Fr. _jay_
(mod. Fr. _geai_); from root of _gay_.]

JAZERANT. See JESSERANT.

JEALOUS, jel'us, _adj._ suspicious of or incensed at rivalry: anxious to
defend the honour of.--_adv._ JEAL'OUSLY.--_ns._ JEAL'OUSY, JEAL'OUSHOOD
(_Shak._), JEAL'OUSNESS. [O. Fr. _jalous_ (mod. Fr. _jaloux_)--L.
_zelus_--Gr. _z[=e]los_, emulation.]

JEAMES, j[=e]mz, _n._ a flunkey. [From Thackeray's '_Jeames_ de la
Pluche.']

JEAN, j[=a]n, _n._ a twilled cotton cloth.--_n._ JEANETTE', coarse jean,
for lining.--SATIN JEAN, a smooth, glossy, hard-twilled cotton goods.
[_Jane_.]

JEBUSITE, jeb'[=u]-z[=i]t, _n._ one of a Canaanitish race who long defied
the Israelites from their stronghold on Mount Zion.--_adj._ JEBUSIT'IC.

JEDDART, jed'dart, _n._ an old name for _Jedburgh_.--JEDDART AXE, a stout
steel-headed pole, four feet long; JEDDART, or JEDWOOD, JUSTICE, hanging
first and trying afterwards.

JEDGE, jej, _n._ (_Scot._) a gauge or standard.

JEER, j[=e]r, _v.t._ to make sport of: to treat with derision.--_v.i._ to
scoff: to deride: to make a mock of.--_n._ a railing remark: biting jest:
mockery.--_n._ JEER'ER, a scoffer or mocker.--_adv._ JEER'INGLY. [Acc. to
Skeat, from the Dut. phrase _den gek scheeren_, lit. 'to shear the fool,'
to mock, the words _gek scheeren_ (now _scheren_) being corr. into _jeer_.]

JEFF, jef, _v.i._ to gamble with printers' quadrats thrown like dice.

JEFF, jef, _n._ a rope, in circus slang.

JEFFERSONITE, jef'er-son-[=i]t, _n._ a greenish-black variety of pyroxene.
[Thomas _Jefferson_, 1743-1826.]

JEHOIADA-BOX, j[=e]-hoi'a-da-boks, _n._ a child's savings-bank--from 2
Chron. xxiv. 6-11.

JEHOVAH, je-h[=o]'va, _n._ the eternal or self-existent Being, the chief
Hebrew name of the Deity.--_n._ JEH[=O]'VIST, one who holds that the
vowel-points annexed to the word _Jehovah_ in Hebrew are the proper vowels
of the word, some maintaining that they are those of the word _Adonai_ or
of _Elohim_: the supposed writer of the passages in the Pentateuch, in
which the name applied to God is Jehovah.--_adj._ JEHOVIST'IC. [Heb.
_Yah[=o]w[=a]h_, hardly from _h[=a]w[=a]h_, to be.]

JEHU, j[=e]'h[=u], _n._ (_coll._) a driver, esp. a furious whip. [A
reference to 2 Kings, ix. 20.]

JEJUNE, je-j[=oo]n', _adj._ empty: void of interest: barren.--_adv._
JEJUNE'LY.--_ns._ JEJUNE'NESS; JEJU'NUM, the second division of the small
intestine between the duodenum and the ileum. [L. _jejunus_, hungry.]

JELLY, jel'i, _n._ anything gelatinous: the juice of fruit boiled with
sugar.--_v.i._ JELL, to jelly.--_adj._ JELL'IED, in the state of
jelly.--_v.t._ JELL'IFY, to make into a jelly.--_v.i._ to become
gelatinous.--_ns._ JELL'Y-BAG, a bag through which jelly is strained;
JELL'Y-FISH, marine radiate animals like jelly. [Fr. _gelée_, from
_geler_--L. _gel[=a]re_, to freeze.]

JELLYBY, jel'i-bi, _n._ a philanthropist who cares only for distant
people--from Mrs _Jellyby_ in _Bleak House_, who busies herself about
Borrioboola Gha, while her own household is going to ruin.

JEMIDAR, jem'i-där, _n._ a native officer in the Indian army of the rank of
lieutenant: an officer of police, customs, &c.--Also JAM'ADAR. [Hind.]

JEMMY, jem'i, _n._ a burglar's short crowbar: (_slang_) a baked sheep's
head: a greatcoat.

JEMMY, jem'i, _adj._ neat, smart, handy--also GEMM'Y.--_n._ JEMM'INESS,
neatness.

JENKINS, jengk'ins, _n._ (_coll._) a society reporter, toady.

JENNET, jen'et, _n._ a small Spanish horse.--Also GENN'ET, GEN'ET. [O. Fr.
_genette_--Sp. _ginete_; Moorish.]

JENNETING, jen'et-ing, _n._ a kind of early apple. [Prob. apple of St
_Jean_ or John; not from _June-eating_.]

JENNY, jen'i, _n._ a female bird, a wren--usually JENN'Y-WREN: a female
ass: a spinning-jenny. [From the name _Jenny_; prob. the last sense from
_gin_.]

JEOFAIL, jef'[=a]l, _n._ an error in pleadings, or the acknowledgment of a
mistake. [O. Fr. _je faille_, I fail.]

JEOPARDY, jep'ard-i, _n._ hazard, danger.--_vs.t._ JEOP'ARD, JEOP'ARDISE,
to put in jeopardy.--_n._ JEOP'ARDER.--_adj._ JEOP'ARDOUS, exposed to
danger or loss.--_adv._ JEOP'ARDOUSLY. [Fr. _jeu parti_, a divided
game--Low L. _jocus partitus_--L. _jocus_, a game, _partitus_,
divided--_part[=i]ri_, to divide.]

JERBOA, j[.e]r-b[=o]'a, _n._ a genus of small rodent quadrupeds, remarkable
for the length of their hind-legs and their power of jumping. [Ar.
_yarb[=u]`_.]

JEREED, je-r[=e]d', _n._ a kind of blunt javelin used by the Turks in
mock-fights. [Ar. _jar[=i]d_.]

JEREMIAD, jer-e-m[=i]'ad, _n._ a lamentation: a tale of grief: a doleful
story. [From _Jeremiah_ the prophet, author of the book of Lamentations.]

JERFALCON. Same as GYRFALCON.

JERICHO, jer'i-k[=o], _n._ a remote place, to which one is humorously
consigned--from _Jericho_ in Palestine and the story in 2 Sam. x. 4, 5.

JERK, j[.e]rk, _v.t._ to throw with a quick effort: to give a sudden
movement.--_n._ a short, sudden movement: a striking against with a sudden
motion: an involuntary spasmodic contraction of a muscle.--_ns._ JERK'ER;
JERK'INESS.--_adj._ JERK'Y, moving or coming by jerks or starts, spasmodic;
capricious, impatient. [A variant of _jert_ and _gird_, and conn. with
_yard_, a rod.]

JERK, j[.e]rk, _v.t._ to search, as a vessel for concealed or smuggled
goods--also JERQUE.--_ns._ JERK'ER, JERQU'ER; JERQU'ING.

JERK, j[.e]rk, _n._ meat cut into thin pieces and dried in the sun.--Also
JERK'Y. [Chilian _charqui_.]

JERKIN, j[.e]r'kin, _n._ a young salmon.--Also GIN'KIN.

JERKIN, j[.e]r'kin, _n._ a jacket, a short coat or close waistcoat.--_n._
JER'KIN-HEAD (_archit._) the combination of a truncated gable with a hipped
roof. [Dut., dim. of _jurk_, a frock.]

JERKINET, j[.e]r'ki-net, _n._ a woman's outer jacket.

JEROBOAM, jer-o-b[=o]'am, _n._ a large metal bowl: eight bottles. [Allusion
to 1 Kings, xi. 28.]

JERQUER, JERQUING. See JERK (2).

JERRY-BUILDER, jer'i-bild'[.e]r, _n._ one who builds flimsy houses cheaply
and hastily, a speculative builder.--_n._ JERR'Y-BUILD'ING.--_adj._
JERR'Y-BUILT.--_n._ JERR'Y-SHOP, a low dram-shop. [Prob. the personal
name.]

JERSEY, j[.e]r'zi, _n._ the finest part of wool: combed wool: a
close-fitting woollen shirt, or kind of under-vest, worn in rowing, &c.
[From the island _Jersey_.]

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE, PONY. See ARTICHOKE, PONY.

JESS, jes, _n._ a short strap round the legs of a hawk.--_adj._ JESSED,
having jesses on. [O. Fr. _ject_--L. _jact[=a]re_, to fling, freq. of
_jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

JESSAMINE, jes'a-min. See JASMINE.

JESSAMY, jes'sa-mi, _n._ jasmine: a dandy.

JESSANT, jes'ant, _adj._ (_her._) rising from the bottom line of a field or
an upper line of an ordinary. [Perhaps a corr. of _issuant_. Cf. _issue_.]

JESSE, jes'i, _n._ a large branched candlestick used in churches, formerly
hung up in churches. [From its likeness to the genealogical tree of
Christ's descent from _Jesse_ (Is. xi. 1), the father of David, often in
medieval churches carried out in stained glass (a _jesse window_),
sculpture, mural decoration, &c.]

JESSERANT, jes'e-rant, _n._ splint armour.--Also JAZ'ERANT. [O. Fr.
_gesseron_, _jazeran_--Sp. _jacerina_.]

JEST, jest, _n._ something ludicrous: joke: fun: something uttered in
sport: object of laughter.--_v.i._ to make a jest: to joust.--_ns._
JEST'-BOOK, a collection of funny stories; JEST'ER, one who jests: a
buffoon: a court-fool.--_adj._ JEST'FUL, given to jesting.--_adv._
JEST'INGLY.--_n._ JEST'ING-STOCK, a butt for jests. [Orig. 'a deed, a
story,' M. E. _geste_--O. Fr. _geste_--L. _gesta_--_ger[)e]re_, to do.]

JESUIT, jez'[=u]-it, _n._ a member of the famous religious order, the
Society of _Jesus_, founded in 1534 by Ignatius Loyola: a crafty or
insidious person, an intriguer.--_v.t._ to make a Jesuit of.--_adjs._
JESUIT'IC, -AL.--_adv._ Jesuit'ically.--_ns._ JES'UITISM, Jesuitry: the
principles and practices of the Jesuits: cunning: deceit; JESUITOC'RACY,
government by Jesuits; JES'UITRY, Jesuitism.--JESUITS' BARK, cinchona,
because introduced to Rome by Jesuit missionaries.

JESUS, j[=e]'zus, _n._ the Saviour of mankind.--_n._ JÉSUS, a size of
paper, super-royal.--COMPANY, or SOCIETY, OF JESUS, the Jesuit
order.--GRAND JÉSUS, imperial. [Gr. _I[=e]sous_--Heb. _Y[=e]sh[=u]`a_,
contr. of _Yeh[=o]sh[=u]`a_, help of Jehovah, the Saviour--_y[=a]sha`_, to
save.]

JET, jet, _n._ a rich black variety of mineral coal, very hard and compact,
taking a brilliant polish, used for ornaments.--_adj._ JET'-BLACK.--_n._
JET'TINESS.--_adj._ JET'TY, made of jet, or black as jet. [O. Fr.
_jaet_--L.--Gr. _gagat[=e]s_, from _Gagas_, a town and river in Lycia, in
Asia Minor, where it was obtained.]

JET, jet, _n._ a spouting stream: a spout at the end of a gas-pipe emitting
the flame.--_v.t._ to throw out, shoot forth.--_v.i._ to strut, to encroach
arrogantly upon.--_n._ JETTATU'RA, the Evil-eye. [O. Fr. _jetter_--L.
_jact[=a]re_, to fling, freq. of _jac[)e]re_, to throw.]

JETSAM, jet'sam, _n._ the throwing of goods overboard to lighten a vessel:
the goods so thrown away which remain under water (see FLOTSAM)--also
JET'SOM, JET'SON, JET'TISON.--_v.t._ JET'TISON, to throw overboard, as
goods, in time of danger. [Anglo-Fr. _jetteson_--L. _jactation-em_, a
casting.]

JETTON, jet'on, _n._ a piece of stamped metal used as a counter in
card-playing, &c.

JETTY, jet'i, _n._ a projection: a kind of pier. [O. Fr. _jettée_, thrown
out. See Jet (2).]

JEW, j[=oo], _n._ an inhabitant of Judea: a Hebrew or Israelite:
opprobriously used for a usurer, miser, &c.:--_fem._ JEW'ESS.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ (_coll._) to overreach: cheat.--_n._ JEW'-BAIT'ING, the persecuting
of Jews.--_adj._ JEW'ISH, belonging to the Jews.--_adv._ JEW'ISHLY.--_ns._
JEW'ISHNESS; JEW'S'-EAR, a fungus that grows on the elder, and bears some
resemblance to the human ear; JEW'S' FRANK'INCENSE, the balsam known as
benzoin or gum storax, often used as an incense; JEW'S'-HARP, a small
harp-shaped musical instrument played between the teeth by striking a
spring with the finger; JEW'S'-MALL'OW, a plant much cultivated as a
pot-herb by the Jews in Syria; JEW'S'-MYR'TLE, the prickly-leaved plant
Ruscus aculeatus; JEW'S'-PITCH, asphaltum; JEW'S'-STONE, the fossil spine
of a large echinus or sea hedgehog.--JEW'S EYE, in proverb 'Worth a Jew's
eye,' something of high value--from the custom of torturing Jews for money;
JEWS' HOUSES, in Cornwall, the name given to prehistoric miners'
dwellings.--WANDERING JEW (see WANDER). [O. Fr. _Juis_--L. _Judæus_--Gr.
_Ioudaios_--Heb. _Yeh[=u]d[=a]h_, Judah.]

JEWEL, j[=oo]'el, _n._ a precious stone: an ornament of precious stones,
worn as a decoration: anything or any one highly valued.--_v.t._ to dress
or adorn with jewels: to fit with a jewel:--_pr.p._ jew'elling; _pa.p._
jew'elled, in a watch, having pivot-holes of garnets or any other
jewels.--_ns._ JEW'EL-CASE, a casket for holding jewels; JEW'ELLER, one who
makes or deals in jewels; JEW'ELLERY, JEW'ELRY, jewels in general. [O. Fr.
_jouel_ (Fr. _joyau_); either a dim. of Fr. _joie_, joy, from L. _gaudium_,
joy--_gaud[=e]re_, to rejoice--or derived through Low L. _jocale_, from L.
_joc[=a]ri_, to jest.]

JEWRY, j[=oo]'ri, _n._ Judea: a district inhabited by _Jews_.

JEZEBEL, jez'e-bel, _n._ a bold and vicious woman, a virago. [From Ahab's
wicked wife.]

JIB, jib, _n._ a triangular sail borne in front of the foremast in a ship,
so called from its shifting of itself.--_v.t._ to shift a boom sail from
one tack to the other.--_v.i._ to move restively.--_ns._ JIB'-BOOM, a boom
or extension of the bowsprit, on which the jib is spread; JIB'-DOOR, a door
flush with the outside wall, intended to be concealed.--THE CUT OF ONE'S
JIB, appearance. [Dan. _gibbe_, to jib; cf. Dut. _gijpen_, to turn
suddenly.]

JIBBINGS, jib'ingz, _n.pl._ the last milk drawn from a cow.

JIBE. Same as GIBE.

JIFFY, jif'fi, _n._ (_coll._) an instant.

JIG, jig, _n._ a quick, lively tune: a quick dance suited to the
tune.--_v.i._ to dance a jig:--_pr.p._ jig'ging; _pa.p._ jigged.--_adj._
JIG'GISH. [O. Fr. _gige_, _gigue_, a stringed instrument--Teut.; Ger.
_geige_; cf. _gig_.]

JIGAMAREE, jig-a-ma-r[=e]', _n._ anything the name of which one forgets, a
thingumbob.--Also JIG'GUMBOB.

JIGGER, jig'g[.e]r, _n._ a corruption of _chigoe_.

JIGGER, jig'g[.e]r, _n._ anything that jigs: one of many kinds of
subsidiary appliances, as an apparatus for separating ores by jolting in
sieves in water, a simple potter's wheel or a template or profile used with
it, a warehouse crane, the bridge or rest for the cue in billiards: an
old-fashioned sloop-rigged boat: a one-horse street car: a machine for
exhibiting on a dial at once the prices at which sales are made, controlled
by electric mechanism with a key-board: (_slang_) a drink of
whisky.--_v.t._ to jerk or shake.

JIGGERED, jig'[.e]rd, _p.adj._ a meaningless and needless substitute for a
profane oath.

JIGGING, jig'ing, _n._ in mining, the process of separating ore by means of
a wire-bottomed sieve moved up and down in water.

JIGJOG, jig'jog, _n._ a jolting motion, a jog.--Also JICK'AJOG, JIG'AJOG.
[Reduplicated form of jog.]

JIGOT, jig'ot, _n._ a leg of mutton. See GIGOT.

JILL, jil, _n._ Same as GILL.

JILL, jil, _n._ a young woman, often associated with Jack. [Short for
_Gillian_--i.e. _Juliana_.]

JILT, jilt, _n._ a woman who encourages a lover and then rejects
him.--_v.t._ to encourage and then discard a lover. [Formerly _jillet_,
dim. of _Jill_.]

JIMCRACK. See GIMCRACK.

JIM CROW, jim kr[=o], _n._ one of the earliest negro-minstrel songs: a kind
of generic name for the negro.

JIM-CROW, jim'-kr[=o], _n._ a tool for bending or straightening iron rails
or bars.

JIMMY, jim'i, _n._ (_U.S._) a coal-car.

JIMP, jimp, _adj._ (_Scot._) slender, elegant.--_adv._ JIMP, JIMP'LY,
neatly, hardly.--_adj._ JIMP'Y, neat.

JIMSON-WEED. See STRAMONIUM.

JINGAL, jing'gal, _n._ a large Chinese swivel-musket.

JINGLE, jing'l, _n._ a clinking sound: that which makes a rattling sound: a
correspondence of sounds: a covered two-wheeled car.--_v.i._ to sound with
a jingle.--_ns._ JING'LE-JANG'LE, a jingling sound; JING'LET, a ball
serving as the clapper of a sleigh-bell; J[=I]NG'LING, a game in which
blindfolded players within a ring try to catch a player with a bell tied to
him. [Imit.]

JINGO, jing'g[=o], _n._ a name used in the expletives, 'By Jingo!' 'By the
living Jingo!' From its occurrence in a music-hall song of 1878 that
conveyed a threat against Russia, Jingo has come to mean a British
Chauvinist.--_adjs._ JING'O, JING'OISH.--_n._ JING'OISM. [Often fearlessly
derived from Basque _Jinkoa_, _Jainko_, God; no doubt conn. somehow with St
_Gengulphus_ (died May 11, 760).]

JINK, jingk, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to move nimbly, to dodge.--_v.t._ to elude:
to cheat.--_n._ a quick, illusory turn.

JINN, jin, _n.pl._ (sing. JIN'NEE) a class of spirits in Mohammedan
mythology, formed of fire, living chiefly on the mountains of Káf which
encircle the world, assuming various shapes, sometimes as men of enormous
size and portentous hideousness.--Also DJINN, GINN. The _jinn_ are often
called _genii_ by a confusion. A plural JINNS is sometimes erroneously
used. [Ar. _jinn_, pl. _jinn[=i]y_.]

JINRIKISHA, jin-rik'i-shä, _n._ a small, two-wheeled hooded carriage drawn
by men. [Jap. _jin_, man, _riki_, power, _sha_, carriage.]

JOB, job, _n._ a sudden stroke or stab with a pointed instrument like a
beak.--_v.t._ to strike or stab suddenly:--_pr.p._ job'bing; _pa.p._
jobbed. [Gael. _gob_, W. _gwp_, a bird's beak; conn. with _gobble_, _job_.]

JOB, job, _n._ any piece of work, esp. of a trifling or temporary nature:
miscellaneous printing-work: any undertaking with a view to profit: a mean
transaction, in which private gain is sought under pretence of public
service.--_adj._ of a particular job or transaction, assigned to a special
use: bought or sold lumped together.--_v.i._ to work at jobs: to buy and
sell as a broker: to hire or let out by the week or month, esp.
horses.--_ns._ JOB'BER, one who jobs: one who buys and sells, as a broker
or middleman: one who turns official actions to private advantage: one who
engages in a mean lucrative affair; JOB'BERY, jobbing: unfair means
employed to procure some private end; JOB'-MAS'TER, a livery-stable keeper
who jobs out horses and carriages.--A BAD JOB, an unfortunate affair; ODD
JOBS, occasional pieces of work. [Formerly _gob_--O. Fr. _gob_, a mouthful;
from the same Celtic root as _gobble_.]

JOB, j[=o]b, _n._ a monument of patience--from _Job_ in Scripture.--_n._
JOB[=A]'TION, a tedious scolding.--JOB'S COMFORTER, one who aggravates the
distress of an unfortunate man he has come to comfort; JOB'S NEWS, bad
news; JOB'S POST, the bearer of bad news.

JOCKEY, jok'i, _n._ a man (orig. a boy) who rides horses in a race: a
horse-dealer: one who takes undue advantage in business.--_v.t._ to jostle
by riding against: to cheat.--_ns._ JOCK'EYISM, JOCK'EYSHIP, the art or
practice of a jockey.--JOCKEY CLUB, an association for the promotion and
ordering of horse-racing. [Dim. of _Jock_, northern Eng. for _Jack_.]

JOCKTELEG, jok'te-leg, _n._ (_Scot._) a large clasp-knife. [Cf.
_jack-knife_.]

JOCOSE, jo-k[=o]s', _adj._ full of jokes: humorous: merry.--_adv._
JOCOSE'LY.--_ns._ JOCOSE'NESS, JOCOS'ITY, the quality of being
jocose.--_adj._ JOCO-S[=E]'RIOUS, half in jest, half in earnest. [L.
_jocosus_--_jocus_, a joke.]

JOCULAR, jok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ given to jokes: humorous: droll:
laughable.--_n._ JOCULAR'ITY.--_adv._ JOC'ULARLY.--_n._ JOCUL[=A]'TOR, a
professional jester or minstrel.--_adj._ JOC'UL[=A]TORY. [L.
_jocularis_--_jocus_.]

JOCUND, jok'und, _adj._ in a jocose humour: merry: cheerful:
pleasant.--_ns._ JOCUND'ITY, JOCUND'NESS.--_adv._ JOC'UNDLY. [Fr.,--L.
_jocundus_--_jocus_.]

JODEL, j[=o]'del, _v.i._ to sing with the falsetto voice in harmonic
progressions.--Also _n._ [Swiss.]

JOE, j[=o], JOEY, j[=o]'i, _n._ (_slang_) a fourpenny-bit--from _Joseph_
Hume, M.P., their author, 1836.--JOE MILLER, an old or stale jest, a
jest-book; JOE MILLERISM, the habit of retailing stale jests--from _Joe
Miller_ (1684-1738), a comedian but notoriously dull fellow, whose name was
attached to a collection in 1739.

JOE, or JO, j[=o], _n._ (_Scot._) a sweetheart.

JOG, jog, _v.t._ to shake: to push with the elbow or hand, to stimulate,
stir up, as the memory.--_v.i._ to move by jogs: to travel slowly:--_pr.p._
jog'ging; _pa.p._ jogged.--_n._ a slight shake: a push.--_ns._ JOG'GER
(_Dryden_), one who moves slowly and heavily; JOG'TROT, a slow jogging
trot.--BE JOGGING, to move on, to depart. [A weakened form of _shock_.]

JOGGLE, jog'l, _n._ a notch in joints adapted in fitting stones or pieces
of timber together to keep them from sliding. [Dim. of _jog_, to push.]

JOGGLE, jog'l, _v.t._ to jog or shake slightly: to jostle.--_v.i._ to
shake:--_pr.p._ jogg'ling; _pa.p._ jogg'led. [Dim. of _jog_.]

JOHANNES, j[=o]-han'[=e]z, _n._ an old Portuguese gold coin.--Also
JOANN'ES.

JOHANNINE, j[=o]-an'n[=i]n, _adj._ pertaining to St John.--Also
JOHAN'N[=E]AN. [L. _Joannes_.]

JOHANNISBERGER, j[=o]-hän'nis-b[.e]r-g[.e]r, _n._ a white Rhenish wine
grown at _Johannisberg_ ('St John's Mountain'), near Wiesbaden.

JOHN, jon, _n._ a proper name, one of whose diminutives, JOHN'NY, is
sometimes used in slang for a simpleton or a fellow generally.--_ns._
JOHN'-A-DREAMS' (_Shak._), a dreamy fellow; JOHN'IAN, a member of St John's
College, Cambridge; JOHN'NY-CAKE, a cake of Indian meal toasted;
JOHN'NY-RAW, a beginner.--JOHN BULL, a generic name for an Englishman from
Arbuthnott's _History of John Bull_, 1712; JOHN BULLISM, the typical
English character, or any act or word expressive of it; JOHN CHINAMAN, a
Chinaman, the Chinese collectively; JOHN COMPANY, an old colloquial name
for the Honourable East India Company; JOHN DORY (see DORY); JOHN THOMAS, a
generic name for a flunkey.

JOHNSONIANISM, jon-s[=o]'ni-an-izm, _n._ a peculiarity of Dr _Johnson_, the
lexicographer (1709-83)--also JOHN'SONISM.--_n._ JOHN'SONESE, the
Johnsonian style, or an imitation of it--ponderous English, full of words
of classical origin.

JOIN, join, _v.t._ to connect: to unite: to associate: to add or
annex.--_v.i._ to be connected with: to grow together: to be in close
contact: to unite (_with_).--_ns._ JOIND'ER, joining; JOIN'ER, one who
joins or unites: a carpenter; JOIN'ERY, the art of the joiner; JOIN'-HAND,
running hand; JOIN'ING, the act of joining: a seam: a joint; JOINT, a
joining: the place where, or mode in which, two or more things join, as two
rails, two pieces of timber connected by mortises and tenons, &c.: the
flexible hinge of cloth or leather connecting the back of a book with its
sides: (_geol._) a crack intersecting a mass of rock: a knot: a hinge: a
seam: a place of resort for tramps: (_U.S._) an opium-den: the place where
two bones are joined: (_cook._) the part of the limb of an animal cut off
at the joint.--_adj._ joined, united, or combined: shared among more than
one.--_v.t._ to unite by joints: to fit closely: to provide with joints: to
cut into joints, as an animal.--_v.i._ to fit like joints.--_adj._
JOINT'ED, having joints.--_ns._ JOINT'ER, the largest kind of plane used by
a joiner: a bent piece of iron for riveting two stones together;
JOINT'ING-RULE, a long, straight-edged rule used by bricklayers for keeping
their work even.--_adv._ JOINT'LY, in a joint manner: unitedly or in
combination: together.--_ns._ JOINT'-OIL, the synovia, a viscid secretion
for lubricating the articular surfaces; JOINT'-STOCK, stock held jointly or
in company; JOINT'-STOOL (_Shak._), a stool made of parts inserted in each
other; JOINT'-TEN'ANCY, the ownership of land or goods along with one or
more persons; JOINT'-TEN'ANT, one who is owner of land or goods along with
others; JOINT'URE, property joined to or settled on a woman at marriage to
be enjoyed after her husband's death.--_v.t._ to settle a jointure
upon.--_ns._ JOINT'[=U]RESS, JOIN'TRESS, a woman on whom a jointure is
settled.--JOIN BATTLE, to engage in battle.--OUT OF JOINT, dislocated,
(_fig._) disordered; PUT ONE'S NOSE OUT OF JOINT, to supplant in another's
love or confidence; SECOND JOINT, the middle piece of a fly fishing-rod:
the thigh of a fowl--opp. to the leg or drumstick, the first joint;
UNIVERSAL JOINT, a contrivance by which one part of a machine is able to
move freely in all directions, as in the ball-and-socket joint. [O. Fr.
_joindre_--L. _jung[)e]re_, _junctum_.]

JOIST, joist, _n._ the timbers to which the boards of a floor or the laths
of a ceiling are nailed.--_v.t._ to fit with joists. [O. Fr.
_giste_--_gesir_--L. _jac[=e]re_, to lie.]

JOKE, j[=o]k, _n._ a jest: a witticism: something witty or sportive:
anything said or done to excite a laugh.--_v.t._ to cast jokes at: to
banter: to make merry with.--_v.i._ to jest: to be merry: to make
sport.--_n._ JOK'ER, one who jokes or jests: a card, generally the highest
trump, at euchre.--_adv._ JOK'INGLY, in a joking manner. [L. _jocus_.]

JOLE, another form of _jowl_.

JOLE, JOLL, j[=o]l, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to beat against anything, to clash
with violence.

JOLLY, jol'i, _adj._ merry: expressing or exciting mirth, jovial: comely,
robust.--_n._ JOLLIFIC[=A]'TION, a making jolly: noisy festivity and
merriment.--_adv._ JOLL'ILY.--_ns._ JOLL'IMENT (_Spens._), merriment;
JOLL'ITY, JOLL'INESS.--_adv._ JOLL'Y (_coll._), uncommonly. [O. Fr.
_jolif_, _joli_--Ice. _jol_, Yule.]

JOLLYBOAT, jol'i-b[=o]t, _n._ a small boat belonging to a ship. [Dan.
_jolle_, a boat, and Eng. _boat_.]

JOLT, j[=o]lt, _v.i._ to shake with sudden jerks.--_v.t._ to shake with a
sudden shock.--_n._ a sudden jerk.--_ns._ JOLT'ER; JOLT'-HEAD, JOLT'ERHEAD,
a blockhead.--_adv._ JOLT'INGLY, in a jolting manner. [Old form _joll_,
prob. conn. with _jowl_.]

JONAH, j[=o]'nä, _n._ an unlucky passenger on shipboard or elsewhere--from
the prophet _Jonah_.

JONATHAN, jon'a-than, _n._ the people of the United States, collectively,
or a typical specimen, BROTHER JONATHAN. [Perh. from the sagacious Governor
_Jonathan_ Trumbull, 1710-85.]

JONGLEUR, zhong'gler, _n._ a minstrel: a mountebank. [O. Fr. _jogleor_--L.
_joculator_; cf. _Juggler_.]

JONQUIL, jon'kwil, _n._ a name given to certain species of narcissus with
rush-like leaves.--Also JON'QUILL. [Fr. _jonquille_--L. _juncus_, a rush.]

JORDAN, jor'dan, _n._ (_Shak._) a chamber-pot. [_Jordan_-bottle, a
pilgrim's bottle containing _Jordan_ water.]

JORUM, j[=o]'rum, _n._ a drinking bowl or vessel, also its contents.--Also
J[=O]'RAM. [Ety. unknown.]

JOSEPH, j[=o]'zef, _n._ one whose chastity is above temptation--from the
story of _Joseph_ and Potiphar's wife in Gen. xxxix.: a caped overcoat worn
by women in the 18th century for riding--in allusion to _Joseph's_ coat,
Gen. xxxvii. 3.

JOSKIN, jos'kin, _n._ a clown, yokel. [Thieves' cant.]

JOSS, jos, _n._ a Chinese idol.--_ns._ JOSS'-HOUSE, a temple; JOSS'-STICK,
a stick of gum burned as incense to their gods. [Pidgin-English corr. of
the Port. _deos_, god.]

JOSS-BLOCK, jos'-blok, _n._ (_prov._) a horse-block.

JOSTLE, jos'l, _v.t._ to joust or strike against: to drive against. [Freq.
of _joust_.]

JOT, jot, _n._ the least quantity assignable.--_v.t._ to set down briefly:
to make a memorandum of:--_pr.p._ jot'ting; _pa.p._ jot'ted.--_ns._
JOT'TER, one who jots: a book for memoranda; JOT'TING, a memorandum.
[L.,--Gr. _i[=o]ta_--Heb. _y[=o]dh_, the smallest letter in the alphabet,
Eng. _i_.]

JOTUN, y[=o]'tun, _n._ a giant. [Ice. _jötunn_.]

[Illustration]

JOUGS, joogz, _n._ an iron neck-ring that constituted the old Scottish
pillory. [O. Fr. _joug_, a yoke--L. _jugum_.]

JOUISANCE, j[=oo]'is-ans, _n._ (_Spens._) joyousness. [Fr.,--_jouir_, to
enjoy--L. _gaud[=e]re_, to rejoice.]

JOUK, JOOK, j[=oo]k, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to duck or dodge: to bow.--_ns._
JOUK'ERY, JOOK'ERY, trickery; JOUK'ERY-PAWK'ERY, low cunning, trickery.

JOULE, j[=oo]l, _n._ the practical unit of electrical energy. [After James
Prescott _Joule_ (1818-89).]

JOUNCE, jowns, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to jolt, shake.

JOURNAL, jur'nal, _n._ a daily register or diary: a book containing an
account of each day's transactions: a newspaper published daily or
otherwise: a magazine: the transactions of any society.--_n._ JOURNALESE',
the language of journalism.--_v.i._ JOUR'NAL[=I]SE, to write articles for a
journal.--_v.t._ to enter in a journal:--_pr.p._ jour'nal[=i]sing; _pa.p._
jour'nal[=i]sed.--_ns._ JOUR'NALISM, the keeping of a journal: the
profession of conducting or writing for public journals; JOUR'NALIST, one
who writes for or conducts a newspaper.--_adj._ JOURNALIST'IC, pertaining
to journalism. [Fr.,--L. _diurnalis_.]

JOURNAL, jur'nal, _n._ (_mech._) that part of a shaft or axle which rests
in the bearings.--_v.t._ to insert, as a shaft, in a journal-bearing.

JOURNEY, jur'ni, _n._ any travel: tour: excursion: the weight of finished
coins delivered at one time to the Master of the Mint--also
JOUR'NEY-WEIGHT.--_v.i._ JOUR'NEY, to travel:--_pr.p._ jour'neying; _pa.p._
jour'neyed (-nid).--_adj._ JOUR'NEY-BAT'ED (_Shak._), wayworn.--_ns._
JOUR'NEYMAN, one who works by the day: any hired workman: one whose
apprenticeship is completed; JOUR'NEY-WORK, work done by a journeyman or
for hire. [Fr. _journée_--_jour_, a day--L. _diurnus_.]

JOUST, j[=oo]st, JUST, just, _n._ the encounter of two knights on horseback
at a tournament.--_v.i._ to run in the tilt. [O. Fr. _jouste_, _joste_--L.
_juxta_, nigh to.]

JOVIAL, j[=o]'vi-al, _adj._ joyous: full of mirth and happiness.--_ns._
JOVE, Jupiter; JOVIAL'ITY, J[=O]'VIALNESS, quality of being jovial.--_adv._
J[=O]'VIALLY. [L.,--_Jupiter_, _Jovis_, Jupiter, an auspicious star.]

JOW, jow, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Scot._) to ring, toll.--_n._ a stroke of a
bell.

JOWL, jowl, _n._ the jaw or cheek.--_n._ JOWL'ER, a heavy-jawed hound. [M.
E. forms are _chol_, _chaul_, corr. from _chavel_, and this again from A.S.
_ceafl_, the jaw.]

JOWL, j[=o]l, _v.t._ (_Shak._). Same as JOLE, to beat.

JOWTER, jow't[.e]r, _n._ a fish-hawker.--Also JOW'DER. [Prob. a form of
_jolter_.]

JOY, joi, _n._ gladness: rapture, mirth: the cause of joy.--_v.i._ to
rejoice: to be glad: to exult:--_pr.p._ joy'ing; _pa.p._ joyed.--_v.t._ JOY
(_Milt._), to enjoy.--_n._ JOY'ANCE (_Spens._), gaiety, festivity.--_adj._
JOY'FUL, full of joy: very glad, happy, or merry.--_adv._ JOY'FULLY.--_n._
JOY'FULNESS.--_adj._ JOY'LESS, without joy: not giving joy.--_adv._
JOY'LESSLY.--_n._ JOY'LESSNESS.--_adj._ JOY'OUS, full of joy, happiness, or
merriment.--_adv._ JOY'OUSLY.--_n._ JOY'OUSNESS.--THE SEVEN JOYS OF THE
VIRGIN:--the Annunciation, the Visitation, the Nativity, the Adoration of
the three wise men, the Presentation in the Temple, the Discovery of the
child in the Temple amidst the doctors, her Assumption and Coronation. [Fr.
_joie_ (It. _gioja_)--L. _gaudium_--_gaud[=e]re_, to rejoice.]

JUBA, j[=oo]'ba, _n._ a negro breakdown or rustic dance, in which the
spectators clap hands, slap their thighs, and sing verses with _juba_ as a
refrain.

JUBATE, j[=oo]'b[=a]t, _adj._ having a mane.

JUBBAH, jub'a, _n._ a long loose outer garment worn by Mohammedans in
India, &c.

JUBE, j[=oo]'b[=e], _n._ the rood-loft or gallery over the entrance to the
choir of a church. [L., imperat. of _jub[=e]re_, to command.]

JUBILANT, j[=oo]'bi-lant, _adj._ shouting for joy: rejoicing: uttering
songs of triumph.--_n._ JU'BILANCE, exultation.--_adv._ JUBILANTLY.--_v.i._
JU'BILATE, to exult, rejoice.--_ns._ JUBIL[=A]'T[=E], the third Sunday
after Easter, so called because the Church Service began on that day with
the 66th Psalm, 'Jubilate Deo,' &c.: also the 100th Psalm, which in the
English Prayer-Book is a canticle used as an alternative for the
Benedictus; JUBIL[=A]'TION, a shouting for joy: the declaration of triumph.
[L. _jubil[=a]re_, to shout for joy. Not conn. with _Jubilee_.]

JUBILEE, j[=oo]'bi-l[=e], _n._ the year of release among the Jews every
fiftieth year, proclaimed by the sound of a trumpet: the celebration of a
fiftieth anniversary--e.g. of a king's accession, a bishop's consecration,
&c.: in the R.C. Church, a year (every twenty-fifth--_Ordinary jubilee_) of
indulgence for pilgrims and others, an _Extraordinary jubilee_ being
specially appointed by the Pope: any season of great public joy and
festivity. [Fr. _jubilé_--L. _jubilæus_--Heb. _y[=o]bel_, a trumpet, the
blast of a trumpet.]

JUD, jud, _n._ a mass of coal holed or undercut so as to be thrown down by
wedges.

JUDAIC, -AL, j[=oo]-d[=a]'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to the Jews.--_adv._
JUD[=A]'ICALLY.--_n._ JUDAIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ JU'DA[=I]SE, to conform to
or practise Judaism.--_ns._ JUDA[=I]'SER; JU'DAISM, the doctrines and rites
of the Jews: conformity to the Jewish rites; JU'DAIST, one who holds the
doctrines of Judaism.--_adj._ JUDAIST'IC, pertaining to Judaism.--_adv._
JUDAIST'ICALLY. [L. _Judaicus_--_Juda_, Judah, a son of Israel.]

JUDAS, j[=oo]'das, _n._ a traitor: an opening in a jail-door, &c.--_adj._
JU'DAS-COL'OURED, red of hair--_Judas_ traditionally being
red-haired.--_ns._ JU'DAS-HOLE, a small hole in a door for watching;
JU'DAS-KISS, any act of treachery under the guise of kindness (Matt. xxvi.
48, 49); JU'DAS-TREE, a tree with rose-coloured flowers that appear before
the leaves--_Judas_ having hanged himself on one.

JUDEAN, j[=oo]-d[=e]'an, _adj._ belonging to _Judea_.--_n._ a native of
Judea.

JUDGE, juj, _v.i._ to point out or declare what is just or law: to hear and
decide: to pass sentence: to compare facts to determine the truth: to form
or pass an opinion: to distinguish.--_v.t._ to hear and determine
authoritatively: to sentence: to decide the merits of: to be censorious
towards: to consider: (_B._) to condemn.--_n._ one who judges: a civil
officer who hears and settles any cause: an arbitrator: one who can decide
upon the merit of anything: in Jewish history, a supreme magistrate having
civil and military powers: (_pl._) title of 7th book of the Old
Testament.--_ns._ JUDGE'SHIP, the office of a judge; JUDG'MENT, act of
judging: the comparing of ideas to elicit truth: faculty by which this is
done, the reason: opinion formed: taste: sentence: condemnation: doom;
JUDG'MENT-DAY, the day on which God will pronounce final judgment on
mankind; JUDG'MENT-DEBT, a debt evidenced by legal record; JUDG'MENT-HALL,
a hall where a court of justice meets; JUDG'MENT-SEAT, seat or bench in a
court from which judgment is pronounced. [Fr. _juger_--L.
_judic[=a]re_--_jus_, law, _dic[)e]re_, to declare.]

JUDICA, j[=oo]'di-ka, _n._ Passion Sunday--from the opening words of the
introit, '_Judica_ me, Deus' (43d Ps.).

JUDICATURE, j[=oo]'di-k[=a]-t[=u]r, _n._ power of dispensing justice by
legal trial: jurisdiction: a tribunal.--_adjs._ JU'DICABLE, that may be
judged or tried; JU'DIC[=A]TIVE, having power to judge; JU'DIC[=A]TORY,
pertaining to a judge: distributing justice.--_n._ distribution of justice:
a tribunal.

JUDICIAL, j[=oo]-dish'al, _adj._ pertaining to a judge or court of justice:
established by statute.--_adv._ JUDIC'IALLY.--JUDICIAL COMMITTEE, an
offshoot of the Privy Council, forming a court of appeal; JUDICIAL FACTOR,
in Scotland, an administrator appointed by the courts to manage the estate
of some one under some imperfection; JUDICIAL SEPARATION, the separation of
two married persons by order of the Divorce Court. [L.
_judicialis_--_judicium_.]

JUDICIARY, j[=oo]-dish'i-ar-i, _n._ the judges taken collectively.--_adj._
pertaining to the courts of law: passing judgment. [L. _judiciarius_.]

JUDICIOUS, j[=oo]-dish'us, _adj._ according to sound judgment: possessing
sound judgment: discreet.--_adv._ JUDIC'IOUSLY.--_n._ JUDIC'IOUSNESS. [Fr.
_judicieux_--Low L. _judiciosus_--L. _judicium_.]

JUDY, j[=oo]'di, _n._ Punch's wife in the puppet-show: a native Chinese
strumpet. [Corr. of _Judith_.]

JUG, jug, _n._ a large vessel with a swelling body and narrow mouth for
liquors.--_v.t._ to boil or stew as in a jug:--_pr.p._ jug'ging; _pa.p._
jugged.--JUGGED HARE (see HARE); STONE JUG (_slang_), jail. [Prob. _Judy_,
jocularly applied to a drinking-vessel; cf. _Jack_ and _Jill_ in a like
sense.]

JUG, jug, _v.i._ to utter the sound _jug_, as certain birds, esp. the
nightingale.--_n._ JUG-JUG. [Imit.]

JUGAL, j[=oo]'gal, _adj._ malar: joining, uniting.--_n._ a bone of the
zygomatic arch, malar bone.

JUGATE, -D, j[=oo]'g[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) having the leaflets in
pairs: joined as jugata on a coin, &c.--_n.pl._ JU'GATA, heads shown side
by side or overlapping.

JUGGERNAUT, jug'er-nawt, _n._ an idol of the Hindu god Vishnu, beneath
whose car devotees were supposed to immolate themselves; hence the 'car of
Juggernaut' stands metaphorically for any Moloch of self-sacrifice. [Sans.
_Jagann[=a]tha_, lord of the world.]

JUGGINS, jug'ginz, _n._ (_slang_) a simpleton.

JUGGLE, jug'l, _v.i._ to joke or jest: to amuse by sleight-of-hand: to
conjure: to practise artifice or imposture.--_n._ a trick by
sleight-of-hand: an imposture.--_ns._ JUGG'LER, one who performs tricks by
sleight-of-hand: a trickish fellow; JUGG'LERY, art or tricks of a juggler:
legerdemain: trickery.--_adv._ JUGG'LINGLY, in a deceptive manner. [O. Fr.
_jogler_--L. _jocul[=a]ri_, to jest--_jocus_, a jest.]

JUGLANS, j[=oo]'glanz, _n._ a genus of the walnut family.

JUGULAR, jug'[=u]-lar, _adj._ pertaining to the collar-bone, which joins
the neck and shoulders.--_n._ one of the large veins on each side of the
neck. [L. _jugulum_, the collar-bone--_jung[)e]re_, to join.]

JUICE, j[=oo]s, _n._ the sap of vegetables: the fluid part of animal
bodies.--_adj._ JUICE'LESS.--_n._ JUIC'INESS.--_adj._ JUIC'Y. [Fr.,--L.
_jus_, broth, lit. mixture.]

JUJUBE, j[=oo]'j[=oo]b, _n._ a genus of spiny shrubs or small trees, the
fruit of which is dried as a sweetmeat: a lozenge made of sugar and gum.
[Fr.,--L. _zizyphum_--Gr. _zizyphon_--Pers. _z[=i]zfun_, the jujube-tree.]

JULEP, j[=oo]'lep, _n._ a pleasant liquid medicine in which other nauseous
medicines are taken.--Also JU'LAP. [Fr.,--Sp. _julepe_--Ar.
_j[=u]l[=a]b_--Pers. _j[=u]l[=a]b_.]

JULIAN, j[=oo]l'yan, _adj._ pertaining to C. _Julius_ Cæsar (B.C.
100-44).--JULIAN YEAR (see YEAR).

JULIENNE, zhü-li-en', _n._ a clear soup, with shredded herbs. [_Julien_, a
French cook in Boston.]

JULY, j[=oo]'l[=i], _n._ the seventh month of the year--from Caius _Julius_
Cæsar, who was born in it.

JUMART, j[=oo]'mart, _n._ the offspring of a bull and a mare, or horse and
cow. [Fr.,--L. _jumentum_.]

JUMBLE, jum'bl, _v.t._ to mix confusedly: to throw together without
order.--_v.i._ to be mixed together confusedly: to be agitated: to jump at,
to accept eagerly.--_n._ a confused mixture.--_n._ JUM'BLE-SALE, a charity
bazaar of cast-off clothing, rubbish, &c.--_adv._ JUM'BLINGLY, in a jumbled
or confused manner. [Prob. a freq. of _jump_.]

JUMBO, jum'b[=o], _n._ a colossus.--_adj._ huge, colossal. [Name of a huge
elephant sold in 1882 from the London Zoological Gardens to P. T. Barnum.]

JUMP, jump, _v.i._ to spring upward, or forward, or both: to bound: to pass
to as by a leap: to agree, coincide (_with_).--_v.t._ to pass by a leap: to
skip over: to cause to start, as game:--_pr.p._ jump'ing; _pa.p._
jumped.--_n._ act of jumping: a bound, a hazard.--_adv._ (_Shak._)
exactly.--_ns._ JUMP'ER, one who jumps: a long iron drill or borer used in
quarries and mines: (_pl._) a term applied to certain Welsh Methodists (c.
1760), who jumped about in worship: JUMP'ING-DEER, the black-tailed
American deer; JUMP'ING-HARE, a South African rodent, akin to the jerboas;
JUMP'-SEAT, a carriage-seat which may be moved backwards or forwards, so as
to be used as single or double: a carriage with a movable seat;
COUNT'ER-JUMP'ER, a draper's shopman.--JUMP A CLAIM (_U.S._), to take land
to which another already holds a claim; JUMP AT, to embrace with eagerness;
JUMP ONE'S BAIL, to abscond, forfeiting one's bail; JUMP OVER, to
disregard, omit; JUMP OVER THE BROOMSTICK, to make an irregular marriage.
[From a Teut. root seen in Sw. dial. _gumpa_, Middle High Ger. _gumpen_, to
jump.]

JUMP, jump, JUMPER, jump'er, _n._ a loose garment: overall. [More prob. a
thing to be _jumped_ or slipped on, than from Fr. _jupe_, a petticoat,
skirt.]

JUNCACEOUS, jun-k[=a]'shus, _adj._ of or pertaining to the _Juncaceæ_, a
natural order of plants, of which the JUN'CUS, or rush, is the type.

JUNCATE, jungk'[=a]t, _n._ Same as JUNKET.

JUNCO, jung'k[=o], _n._ a North American snow-bird.

JUNCTION, jungk'shun, _n._ a joining, a union or combination: place or
point of union. [_Join_.]

JUNCTURE, jungk't[=u]r, _n._ a joining, a union: a critical or important
point of time. [L. _junctura_.]

JUNE, j[=oo]n, _n._ the sixth month, originally of 26 days, but since
Julius Cæsar's time of 30. [L. _Junius_, the sixth month, prob. from root
of L. _juvenis_, junior.]

JUNEATING, an erroneous form of _jenneting_.

JUNGERMANNIA, joong-ger-man'i-ä, _n._ (_bot._) a suborder of _Hepaticæ_.
[From a German botanist, _Jungermann_ (1572-1653).]

JUNGLE, jung'gl, _n._ land covered with thick brushwood, &c.--_ns._
JUNGLE-F[=E]'VER, a severe malarial or remittent fever; JUNG'LE-FOWL, a
wild species of genus _Gallus_, the parent of our barn-door fowl.--_adj._
JUNG'LY. [Sans. _jañgala_, desert.]

JUNIOR, j[=oo]n'yur, _adj._ younger: less advanced.--_n._ one younger or
less advanced.--_ns._ JUNIOR'ITY, JUN'IORSHIP; JUN'IOR-RIGHT,
borough-English (q.v.).--JUNIOR OPTIME, a third-class honours man at
Cambridge, next to Wranglers and Senior Optimes; JUNIOR SOPH, an
undergraduate of the second year at Cambridge. [Contr. of L. _juvenior_,
younger--_juvenis_, young.]

JUNIPER, j[=oo]'ni-p[.e]r, _n._ an evergreen shrub, the berries of which
are used in making gin. [L. _juniperus_--_juvenis_, young, _par[)e]re_, to
bring forth.]

JUNK, jungk, _n._ a Chinese vessel, with high forecastle and poop,
sometimes large and three-masted. [Port. _junco_--Chinese _chw`an_, a
boat.]

JUNK, jungk, _n._ pieces of old cordage, used for making mats, &c., and
when picked to pieces, forming oakum for the seams of ships: salt meat
supplied to vessels for long voyages, so called because it becomes as hard
as old rope.--_ns._ JUNK'-DEAL'ER, JUNK'MAN, a dealer in junk; JUNK'-RING,
a metal ring confining a fibrous piston-packing; JUNK'-SHOP, a place where
junk is bought and sold. [L. _juncus_, a rush.]

JUNK, jungk, _n._ a thick piece, chunk. [_Chunk_.]

JUNK-BOTTLE, junk'bot-l, _n._ a thick, strong bottle, of green or black
glass.

JUNKER, y[=oo]ng'k[.e]r, _n._ a young German noble or squire.--_n._
JUNK'ERISM, the narrow political and social ideas of the aristocratic party
in Prussia called _Junkers_.

JUNKET, jung'ket, _n._ any sweetmeat or delicacy: curds mixed with cream,
sweetened and flavoured: a feast or merrymaking, a picnic, a spree.--_v.i._
to feast, banquet, take part in a convivial entertainment or spree.--_v.t._
to feast, regale, entertain:--_pr.p._ junketing; _pa.p._ jun'keted.--_n._
JUNK'ETING, a merry feast or entertainment, picnicking. [It. _guincata_--L.
_juncus_, a rush.]

JUNO, j[=oo]'n[=o], _n._ in Roman mythology, the wife of Jupiter, parallel
with the Greek Hera, regarded as the special protectress of marriage and
the guardian of woman from birth to death: a queenly woman.--_adj._
JUN[=O]'NIAN.

JUNTA, jun'ta, _n._ a meeting, council: a Spanish grand council of state.
[Sp.,--L. _jung[)e]re_, to join.]

JUNTO, jun't[=o], _n._ a body of men joined or united for some secret
intrigue: a confederacy: a cabal or faction:--_pl._ JUN'TOS. [Sp. _junta_.]

JUPATI-PALM, j[=oo]'pa-t[=e]-päm, _n._ a South American palm yielding the
raphia-fibre.

JUPITER, j[=oo]'pi-t[.e]r, _n._ the chief god among the Romans, the
parallel of the Greek Zeus--also JOVE: the largest and, next to Venus, the
brightest of the planets.--JUPITER'S BEARD, the house-leek. [L., Gr. _Zeus
pat[=e]r_, Sans. _Dyaus pitar_, lit. 'Jove (Zeus) father.']

JUPON, j[=oo]'-pon, _n._ a sleeveless jacket or close-fitting coat,
extending down over the hips: a petticoat.--_n._ JUPETTE', a jupon with
very short skirt. [Fr. _jupon_, _jupe_, a petticoat.]

JURAL, j[=oo]'ral, _adj._ pertaining to natural or positive right.--_adv._
JU'RALLY.

JURASSIC, j[=oo]-ras'sik, _adj._ (_geol._) one of the three divisions of
the Mesozoic rocks, including the Lias and Oolites, and so called from its
well-developed strata in the _Jura_ Mountains.

JURAT, j[=oo]'rat, _n._ the official memorandum at the end of an affidavit,
showing the time when and the person before whom it was sworn.

JURAT, j[=oo]'rat, _n._ a sworn officer, as a magistrate.

JURANT, j[=oo]'rant, _adj._ taking an oath.--_n._ one who takes an
oath.--_adj._ JU'RATORY, pertaining to an oath.

JURIDICAL, j[=oo]-rid'ik-al, _adj._ relating to the distribution of
justice: pertaining to a judge: used in courts of law.--_adv._
JURID'ICALLY. [L. _juridicus_--_jus_, _juris_, law, _dicere_[typo:
_dic[)e]re_], to declare.]

JURISCONSULT, j[=oo]-ris-kon'sult, _n._ one who is consulted on the law: a
lawyer who gives opinions on cases put to him: a jurist. [L. _jus_,
_juris_, law, _consultus_--_consultere_, to consult.]

JURISDICTION, j[=oo]-ris-dik'shun, _n._ the distribution of justice: legal
authority: extent of power: district over which any authority
extends.--_adjs._ JURISDIC'TIONAL, JURISDIC'TIVE. [Fr.,--L. _jurisdictio_.]

JURISPRUDENCE, j[=oo]-ris-pr[=oo]'dens, _n._ the science or knowledge of
law.--_adj._ JURISPRU'DENT, learned in law.--_n._ one who is learned in
law.--_adj._ JURISPRUDEN'TIAL.--MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE, forensic medicine
(see FORENSIC). [Fr.--L., _jurisprudentia_--_jus_, _juris_, law,
_prudentia_, knowledge.]

JURIST, j[=oo]'rist, _n._ one who is versed in the science of law, esp.
Roman or civil law: a civilian.--_adjs._ JURIST'IC, -AL.--_adv._
JURIST'ICALLY. [Fr. _juriste_.]

JURY, j[=oo]'ri, _n._ a body of not less than twelve men, selected and
sworn, as prescribed by law, to declare the truth on evidence before them:
a committee for deciding prizes at a public exhibition.--_ns._ JU'ROR, one
who serves on a jury--also JU'RYMAN; JU'RY-BOX, the place in which the jury
sit during a trial.--JURY OF MATRONS, a jury of 'discreet' women impanelled
to try a question of pregnancy, as where a widow alleges herself to be with
child by her late husband, or a woman sentenced to death, to stay
execution, pleads that she is with child. [Fr. _juré_, sworn--_jurer_--L.
_jur[=a]re_, to swear.]

JURYMAST, j[=oo]'ri-mäst, _n._ a temporary mast raised instead of one
lost.--_adj._ JU'RY-RIGGED, rigged in a temporary way.--_n._ JU'RY-RUDD'ER,
a temporary rudder for one lost. [Not _injury-mast_, but O. Fr. _ajurie_,
aid--L. _adjut[=a]re_, to aid.]

JUS, jus, _n._ law right.--JUS CIVILE, the civil law; JUS DIVINUM, the
divine right of kings; JUS GENTIUM, law of nations; JUS MARITI, the right
of a husband; JUS NATURALE, the law of nature, the common sense of justice;
JUS PRIMÆ NOCTIS, the alleged right of a feudal superior to deflower a
young bride.

JUSSIVE, jus'iv, _adj._ expressing command.--_n._ a grammatical form or
construction expressing commands.

JUST, just, _n._ a tilt. Same as JOUST.

JUST, just, _adv._ lawful: upright: exact: regular: true:
righteous.--_adv._ precisely, almost exactly, very lately, (_coll._) quite,
barely.--_adv._ JUST'LY, in a just manner: equitably: uprightly:
accurately: by right.--_n._ JUST'NESS, equity: propriety: exactness.
[Fr.,--L. _justus_--_jus_, law.]

JUSTICE, jus'tis, _n._ quality of being just: integrity: impartiality:
desert: retribution: a judge: a magistrate.--_ns._ JUS'TICESHIP, office or
dignity of a justice or judge; JUSTIC'IARY, JUSTIC'IAR, an administrator of
justice: a chief-justice.--JUSTICE OF THE PEACE (abb. J.P.), an inferior
magistrate; JUSTICES' JUSTICE, a term sarcastically applied to the kind of
justice sometimes administered by the unpaid and amateur magistracy of
England.--LORD CHIEF-JUSTICE, the chief judge of the King's (or Queen's)
Bench Division of the High Court of Justice; LORD JUSTICE-CLERK, the
Scottish judge ranking next to the Lord-Justice-general, presiding over the
Outer House or Second Division of the Court of Session, vice-president of
the High Court of Justiciary; LORD JUSTICE-GENERAL, the highest judge in
Scotland, called also the Lord President of the Court of Session.--HIGH
COURT OF JUSTICIARY, the supreme criminal court of justice in Scotland.
[Fr.,--L. _justitia_.]

JUSTIFY, jus'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to make just: to prove or show to be just or
right: to vindicate: to absolve:--_pr.p._ jus'tifying; _pa.p._
jus'tified.--_adj._ JUSTIF[=I]'ABLE, that may be justified or
defended.--_n._ JUSTIF[=I]'ABLENESS.--_adv._ JUSTIF[=I]'ABLY.--_n._
JUSTIFIC[=A]'TION, vindication: absolution: a plea of sufficient reason
for.--_adjs._ JUS'TIFIC[=A]TIVE, JUS'TIFIC[=A]TORY, having power to
justify.--_n._ JUS'TIFIER, one who defends, or vindicates: he who pardons
and absolves from guilt and punishment.--JUSTIFICATION BY FAITH, the
doctrine that men are justified by faith in Christ. [Fr.,--L.
_justific[=a]re_--_justus_, just, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

JUSTLE, jus'l, _v.t._ Same as JOSTLE.

JUT, jut, _v.i._ to project:--_pr.p._ jut'ting; _pa.p._ jut'ted.--_adv._
JUT'TINGLY, projectingly.--_n._ JUT'-WIN'DOW, a projecting window. [A form
of _jet_.]

JUTE, j[=oo]t, _n._ the fibre of an Indian plant resembling hemp, used in
the manufacture of coarse bags, mats, &c. [Orissa _jhot_, Sans. _jhat_.]

JUTTY, jut'i, _n._ a projecting part of a building: a pier, a
jetty.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ (_Shak._) to jut. [_Jut_.]

JUVENAL, j[=oo]'ve-nal, _n._ (_Shak._) a youth. [L.]

JUVENESCENT, j[=oo]-ven-es'ent, _adj._ becoming young.--_n._ JUVENESC'ENCE.
[L. _juvenesc[)e]re_, to grow young.]

JUVENILE, j[=oo]'ve-n[=i]l, or -nil, _adj._ young: pertaining or suited to
youth: puerile.--_n._ a young person: a book written for such: an actor who
plays youthful parts.--_ns._ JU'VENILENESS, JUVENIL'ITY. [Fr.,--L.
_juvenilis_--_juvenis_, young.]

JUXTAPOSITION, juks-ta-p[=o]-zish'un, _n._ a placing or being placed near:
contiguity.--_v.t_. JUXTAPOSE', to place side by side. [L. _juxta_, near,
and _position_.]

JYMOLD, j[=i]'mold, _adj._ (_Shak._). Same as GIMMAL.

       *       *       *       *       *

K the eleventh letter in our alphabet, its sound that of the sharp guttural
mute, formed by raising the tongue to the back of the palate: (_chem._) the
symbol for potassium: (_math._) generally a constant coefficient: also a
unit vector perpendicular to _i_ and _j_: as a medieval numeral, 250.

KAABA, kä'bä, or k[=a]'a-bä, _n._ Same as CAABA (q.v.).

KABALA, kab'a-la, _n._ Same as CABALA.

KABYLE, ka-b[=i]l', _n._ one of a branch of the great Berber race of North
Africa: a dialect of Berber spoken by many of the Kabyles. [Fr.,--Ar.
_Qab[=a]il_, pl. of _qab[=i]la_, a tribe.]

KADDISH, kad'ish, _n._ a Jewish form of thanksgiving and prayer, used at
funerals, &c. [Heb.]

KADI, k[=a]'di, _n._ Same as CADI.

KAE, k[=a], _n._ (_Scot._) a jackdaw.--Also KA.

KAFFIYEH, kaf'i-ye, _n._ a small shawl worn about the head in Syria.

KAFILA, kaf'i-la, _n._ a camel train, caravan.

KAFIR, kaf'ir, _n._ one of a native race of SE. Africa.--KAFIR BREAD, the
pith of a South African plant; KAFIR CORN, Indian millet. [Ar.,
unbeliever.]

KAFTAN. Same as CAFTAN.

KAGO, kag'[=o], _n._ a Japanese basket with palanquin slung from a pole and
carried by men.

KAIAK. Same as KAYAK.

KAIF, k[=i]f, _n._ undisturbed quiescence. [Ar.]

KAIL, k[=a]l, _n._ a ninepin. [Cf. Dut. and Ger. _kegel_.]

KAIL. See KALE.

KAIMAKAM, k[=i]-ma-kam', _n._ a lieutenant-colonel in the Turkish army: the
administrator of a subdivision of a vilayet.

KAIN, k[=a]n, _n._ in old Scots law, rent paid in kind, e.g. in poultry, to
a landlord.

KAINITE, k[=i]'n[=i]t, _n._ a hydrated compound of the chlorides and
sulphates of magnesium and potassium, used as a fertiliser. [Gr. _kainos_,
new.]

KAINOZOIC. Same as CAINOZOIC.

KAISER, k[=i]'z[.e]r, _n._ an emperor, esp. of Germany and Austria.--_n._
KAI'SERSHIP. [Ger.,--L. _Cæsar_.]

KAKA, kä'ka, _n._ a New Zealand parrot.--_n._ KA'KAPO, a nocturnal
flightless New Zealand parrot.

KAKEMONO, kak-e-m[=o]'n[=o], _n._ a Japanese wall-picture or decoration,
painted on silk, gauze, or paper, and mounted on cylindrical rods.

KAKI, kä'k[=e], _n._ the persimmon of Japan, or Chinese date.

KAKISTOCRACY, kak-is-tok'r[=a]-si, _n._ government by the worst men in the
state. [Gr. _kakistos_, superl. of _kakos_, bad, _kratia_, rule.]

KAKODYL. See CACODYL.

KALA, kä'la, _n._ time: destiny.--KÂLA CHAKRA, the wheel of time. [Sans.]

KALAMDAN, kal'am-dan, _n._ a Persian writing-case, with compartments for
ink, reed-pens, knife, &c.

KALAMKARI, kal-am-kar'i, _n._ a method of colouring and decorating by
several dyeings or printings, also a chintz so treated. [Pers.]

KALE, KAIL, k[=a]l, _n._ a cabbage with open curled leaves, cabbage
generally: broth of which kale is a chief ingredient.--_ns._ KAIL'YARD, a
kitchen-garden; KALE'-RUNT, a cabbage-stem.--KAILYARD-SCHOOL, a group of
writers of stories of humble Scotch country life--S. R. Crockett, Ian
Maclaren, &c. [_Cole._]

KALEIDOPHONE, ka-l[=i]'do-f[=o]n, _n._ an instrument consisting of a rod or
thin plate with a knob at the end, for showing the curves corresponding
with the musical notes produced by the vibrations. [Gr. _kalos_, beautiful,
_eidos_, form, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, sound.]

KALEIDOSCOPE, ka-l[=i]'do-sk[=o]p, _n._ an optical toy in which we see an
endless variety of beautiful colours and forms.--_adj._ KALEIDOSCOP'IC.
[Gr. _kalos_, beautiful, _eidos_, form, _skopein_, to see.]

KALENDAR, KALENDS=CALENDAR, CALENDS.

KALEVALA, kal-e-vä'lä, _n._ the great Finnish epic, written in
eight-syllabled trochaic verse (from which Longfellow's _Hiawatha_ is
imitated), taken down from the lips of the peasantry and pieced together by
Dr. Lönnrot of Helsingfors in 1835, in extended form (22,793 verses) in
1849. [Finnish, _kaleva_, a hero, _-la_, denoting place.]

KALI, kal'i, or k[=a]'l[=i], _n._ the prickly saltwort or
glasswort.--_adj._ KALIG'ENOUS, producing alkalies.--_n._ K[=A]'LIUM,
potassium.

KALI, kä'l[=e], _n._ a carpet with long nap, also the large carpet covering
the centre of a Persian room.

KALI, kä'l[=e], _n._ a Hindu goddess, wife of Siva, the dark goddess of
destruction--called also _Durga_.

KALIF, k[=a]'lif, _n._ Same as CALIF.

KALIYUGA, kal-i-y[=oo]'ga, _n._ in Hindu mythology, the present age of the
world, the fourth, characterised by universal degeneracy.

KALMIA, kal'mi-ä, _n._ a genus of North American evergreen shrubs,
including the American mountain laurel. [From Peter _Kalm_, pupil of
Linnæus.]

KALMUCK, kal'muk, _n._ a member of a Mongolian race.--Also CAL'MUCK.
[Russ.]

KALOLOGY, kal-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science of beauty in itself considered.
[Gr. _kalos_, beautiful, _logia_, discourse.]

KALONG, ka-long', _n._ a general name of the large fruit-bats, flying
foxes, &c.

KALOTYPE. Same as CALOTYPE.

KALPA, kal'pa, _n._ a day of Brahma, a period of 4320 million years.--Also
CAL'PA. [Sans., 'formation.']

KALPIS, kal'pis, _n._ a three-handled water-vase. [Gr.]

KALSOMINE, an incorrect form of _calcimine_, which see under CALCIUM.

KALYPTRA, ka-lip'tra, _n._ a thin veil worn by Greek women over the hair.

KAM, käm, _adj._ (_Shak._) crooked.

KAMA, kä'ma, _n._ the god of love in the Purânas: impure desire.--Also
CAMA, KA'MADEVA.

KAMERA, kam'[.e]-ra, _n._ a room. See CAMERA.

KAMES, k[=a]mz, _n.pl._ (_geol._) banks and ridges of gravel, sand, &c.,
associated with the glacial deposits of Scotland--the same as _åsar_ (q.v.)
and _eskar_.

KAMI, kä'mi, _n._ a Japanese term for a lord, for any of the national gods,
demi-gods, or deified heroes, or any of their supposed descendants, as the
mikados and the imperial family. [Japanese, 'superior.']

KAMICHI, kam'i-chi, _n._ the horned screamer.

KAMILA, KAMELA, ka-m[=e]'la, _n._ an East Indian orange dye-stuff yielded
by a common Madras tree of the spurge family.

KAMIS, KAMEES, ka-m[=e]s', _n._ the long loose sleeved shirt worn by men in
Mohammedan countries.

KAMPONG, kam-pong', _n._ an enclosed space. [Malay.]

KAMPTULICON, kamp-t[=u]'li-kon, _n._ a ground cork and caoutchouc
floorcloth. [Gr. _kamptein_, to bend.]

KAMSIN. See KHAMSIN.

KANA, kä'na, _n._ Japanese writing, as distinguished from Japanese written
in Chinese characters.

KANAKA, ka-nak'a, _n._ a Hawaiian or Sandwich Islander: one of the native
labourers brought from the Pacific islands, on engagement for a certain
fixed number of years, to Australia, &c. [Hawaiian, 'a man.']

KANEH, kä'ne, _n._ a Hebrew measure of 6 cubits length.--Also C[=A]'NEH.

KANG, kang, _n._ a large Chinese water-jar: an oven-like brick structure in
northern China, for sleeping on at night, a fire being lighted underneath.

KANGAROO, kang-gar-[=oo]', _n._ a large marsupial mammal of Australia, with
very long hind-legs and great power of leaping.--_n._ KANGAROO'-GRASS, a
valuable Australian fodder grass.

KANS, kanz, _n._ a common Indian grass, allied to the sugar-cane.

KANTEN, kan'ten, _n._ a gelatinous substance extracted from seaweeds, used
for soups and for sizing. [Jap.]

KANTIAN, kan'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the doctrines of, or belonging
to, the great German philosopher, Immanuel _Kant_ (1724-1804).--_ns._
KAN'TIANISM, KANT'ISM, the doctrines or philosophy of Kant; KANT'IST, a
disciple or follower of Kant.

KANTIKOY, CANTICOY, kan'ti-koi, _n._ a religious dance among American
Indians, a dancing-match.--_v.i._ to dance as an act of worship.

KANUCK, ka-nuk', _n._ (_U.S._) a Canadian.--Also CANUCK'. [Ind.]

KAOLIN, kä'o-lin, _n._ same as CHINA CLAY. [From the mountain _Kao-ling_
('high ridge') in China.]

KAPELLMEISTER, kä-pel'm[=i]s-ter, _n._ the director of an orchestra or
choir, esp. the band of a ruling prince in Germany. [Ger. _kapelle_,
chapel, orchestra, _meister_, master.]

KAPNOGRAPHY, kap-nog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of producing decorative designs on
a smoked surface with a fine point, shading by successive deposits of
carbon from a flame, fixed by varnish.--_adj._ KAPNOGRAPH'IC. [Gr.
_kapnos_, smoke, _graphia_--_graphein_, to write.]

KAPOK, ka-pok', _n._ a cottony or silky fibre covering the seeds of a
species of silk-cotton tree, used for stuffing pillows, &c.

KARAITE, k[=a]'rä-[=i]t, _n._ one of a stricter sect of Jews who cling to
the literal interpretation of Scripture as against oral tradition. [Heb.
_kara[=i]m_, readers.]

KARMA, kär'mä, _n._ the Buddhist conception of the quality of actions,
including both merit and demerit, determining the future condition of all
sentient beings by a sort of virtue inherent in the nature of things--by
the blind and unconscious but inevitable concatenation of cause and effect:
the theory of inevitable consequence generally: the result of the actions
of a life.--_adj._ KAR'MIC. [Sans. _karma_, work.]

KARMATHIAN, kär-m[=a]'thi-an, _n._ a member of a pantheistic socialistic
Mohammedan sect which arose in Turkey about the close of the 9th century.
[_Karmat_, its founder.]

KAROB, kar'ob, _n._ among goldsmiths, the twenty-fourth part of a grain.

KARROO, ka-r[=oo]', _n._ a generic name given to the high barren plains of
Cape Colony.--Also KAROO'. [Hottentot, _karusa_, hard.]

KASSU, kas'[=oo], _n._ a kind of catechu made from the fruit of the
betel-nut palm.

KAT, kat, _n._ the chief ancient Egyptian unit of weight, 1/50 lb.
avoirdupois.

KATABOLISM, kat-ab'ol-izm, _n._ (_biol._) the discharging or disruptive
process to which protoplasm is constantly subject--the opposite of
_Anabolism_, the up-building, constructive process.--Also CATAB'OLISM. [Gr.
_katabol[=e]_, _kataballein_, to throw down.]

KATAKANA, kat-a-kä'na, _n._ one of the two styles of writing the syllabary
of 48 letters in use among the Japanese (the other being _Hiragana_), used
chiefly for proper names and foreign words.

KATYDID, k[=a]-ti-did', _n._ an American insect akin to the grasshopper.
[Imit. of its note.]

KAURI-PINE, kow'ri-p[=i]n, _n._ a splendid forest-tree of New Zealand,
yielding the well-known KAU'RI-GUM, a resin used in making varnish.

KAVA, kä'va, _n._ _Piper methysticum_, also the narcotic drink prepared
from it.--Also A'VA.

KAVASS, ka-vas', _n._ an armed man attendant on a person of distinction in
Turkey.--Also CAVASS'. [Turk. _qawas_.]

KAW. Same as CAW.

KAY. Same as CAY.

KAYAK, ka'yak, _n._ a canoe used in Greenland, made of seal-skins stretched
on a frame.

KEA, k[=e]'ä, _n._ a New Zealand parrot that kills sheep.

KEB, keb, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to cast a lamb prematurely.--_n._ a ewe which
has cast its lamb: a sheep louse or tick.

KEBBIE, keb'i, _n._ (_Scot._) a cudgel.

KEBBOCK, keb'uk. _n._ (_Scot._) a cheese.--Also KEBB'UCK. [Gael. _cabag_, a
cheese.]

KEBLAH. See KIBLAH.

KECK, kek, _v.i._ to retch, feel loathing.--_n._ a retching.

KECK, KECKSY. See KEX.

KECKLE, kek'l, _v.t._ to preserve or protect by binding with old rope or
chains, as a cable:--_pr.p._ keck'ling; _pa.p._ keck'led.--_n._ KECK'LING,
rope, chains, &c. used to keckle cables or hawsers.

KEDGE, kej, _n._ a small anchor for keeping a ship steady, and for warping
the ship.--_v.t._ to move by means of a kedge, to warp.--_n._ KEDG'ER, a
kedge. [Scand.; cf. Sw. prov. _keka_, to drive slowly.]

KEDGE, kej, _adj._ (_prov._) brisk, lively: pot-bellied.--Also KEDG'Y,
KIDGE.

KEDJEREE, kej'e-r[=e], _n._ a mess of rice, cooked with butter and the
dholl pea, flavoured with spice, shred onion, &c., common all over India,
and often served at Anglo-Indian breakfast-tables. [Hind. _khichr[=i]_.]

KEECH, k[=e]ch, _n._ (_Shak._) a lump of fat. [_Cake_.]

KEEK, k[=e]k, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to peep.--_n._ a peep.--_ns._ KEEK'ER, an
inspector of mining; KEEK'ING-GLASS, a mirror. [M. E. _kyken_; cf. Dut.
_kijken_, Ger. _kucken_.]

KEEL, k[=e]l, _n._ the part of a ship extending along the bottom from stem
to stern, and supporting the whole frame: a low flat-bottomed boat: a Tyne
coal-barge: a ship generally: (_bot._) the lowest petals of the corolla of
a papilionaceous flower.--_v.t._ or _v.i._ to plough with a keel, to
navigate: to turn keel upwards.--_n._ KEEL'AGE, dues for a keel or ship in
port.--_adj._ KEELED (_bot._) keel-shaped: having a prominence on the
back.--_ns._ KEEL'ER, KEEL'MAN, one who works on a barge.--_v.t._
KEEL'HAUL, to punish by hauling under the keel of a ship by ropes from the
one side to the other: to treat a subordinate in a galling manner. [A.S.
_ceól_, a ship; Ger. and Dut. _kiel_; prob. confused with Ice. _kiölr_, a
keel.]

KEEL, k[=e]l, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to cool. [A.S. _célan_, to chill.]

KEEL, k[=e]l, _n._ (_Scot._) red chalk, ruddle.--_v.t._ to mark with
ruddle. [Prob. Gael. _cil_, ruddle.]

KEELIE, k[=e]'li, _n._ (_Scot._) the kestrel: a street Arab or young rough.
[Imit.]

KEELING, k[=e]'ling, _n._ (_Scot._) a codfish.

KEELIVINE, k[=e]'li-v[=i]n, _n._ (_Scot._) a lead pencil.--Also KEE'LYVINE.
[See _keel_, ruddle; ety. dub.]

[Illustration]

KEELSON, KELSON, kel'sun, _n._ an inner keel placed right over the outer
keel of a ship, and securely fastened thereto. [Sw. _kölsvin_, Norw.
_kjölsvill_, the latter syllable=Ger. _schwelle_, Eng. _sill_.]

KEEN, k[=e]n, _adj._ eager: sharp, having a fine edge: piercing: acute of
mind: penetrating: intense.--_adv._ KEEN'LY.--_n._ KEEN'NESS. [A.S. _céne_;
Ger. _kühn_, bold; Ice. _kænn_, wise. Cog. with _ken_ and _can_.]

KEEN, k[=e]n, _n._ a lamentation over the dead.--_v.i._ to wail over the
dead.--_n._ KEEN'ER, a professional mourner. [Ir. _caoine_.]

KEEP, k[=e]p, _v.t._ to have the care of: to guard: to maintain: to manage:
to have in one's service: to hold for one's own use or enjoyment: to remain
in: to adhere to: to practise: not to lose: to maintain hold upon: to
restrain from departure: to preserve in a certain state: to maintain: to
fulfill.--_v.i._ to remain in any position or state: to remain fresh: to
last or endure: to continue: to adhere: to have rooms at college
(Cambridge):---_pr.p._ keep'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ kept.--_n._ that which
keeps or protects: subsistence: food: the innermost and strongest part of a
castle, the donjon: a stronghold.--_ns._ KEEP'ER, an attendant, manager,
owner: a gamekeeper: socket, guard-ring; KEEP'ERSHIP, office of a keeper;
KEEP'ING, care: custody: charge: (_Shak._) maintenance, support: just
proportion, harmony: (_paint._) due proportion of light and shade;
KEEP'ING-ROOM, a sitting-room, parlour; KEEP'SAKE, something given to be
kept for the sake of the giver--the name used often to be applied to the
annuals or sumptuous gift-books so much in vogue about 1830.--KEEP AN ACT,
to hold an academical disputation; KEEP AN EYE ON, KEEP COMPANY, CHAPEL,
COUNSEL, DISTANCE, HOURS, HOUSE, THE PEACE, &c. (see the nouns); KEEP A
TERM (see TERM); KEEP AT IT, to persist in anything; KEEP BACK, to
withhold: keep down, to repress (see also DARK); KEEP BODY AND SOUL
TOGETHER, to maintain life; KEEP DOWN, to restrain; KEEP FROM, to abstain
from: to remain away from; KEEP GOING IN a thing, to keep one supplied with
it; KEEP IN, to prevent from escaping: to confine a pupil in the schoolroom
after school hours: to conceal: to restrain; KEEP IN WITH, to maintain the
confidence or friendship of some one; KEEP OFF, to hinder from approaching
or making an attack; KEEP ONE'S COUNTENANCE, to preserve a calm appearance,
hiding one's emotions; KEEP ONE'S HAND IN, to retain one's skill by means
of constant practice; KEEP THE BREATH TO COOL ONE'S PORRIDGE, to confine
attention to one's own affairs; KEEP THE POWDER DRY, to keep one's energies
ready for action; KEEP TO, to stick closely to: to confine one's self to;
KEEP UNDER, to hold down in restraint; KEEP UP, to retain one's strength or
spirit: to support, prevent from falling: to continue, to prevent from
ceasing: to maintain in good condition. [A.S. _cépan_, orig. to traffic,
hence to store up, keep--_ceáp_, price.]

KEEVE, k[=e]v, _n._ a large tub. [A.S. _cýfe_, vat.]

KEG, keg, _n._ a small cask or barrel. [Ice. _kaggi_.]

KEIR, k[=e]r, _n._ a bleaching-vat.

KELK, kelk, _v.t._ (_prov._) to beat.--_n._ a blow.

KELL, kel, _n._ (_prov._) a film, network.

KELP, kelp, _n._ the calcined ashes of seaweed, once used in making
glass.--Also KILP. [Ety. unknown.]

KELPIE, KELPY, kel'pi, _n._ (_Scot._) a malignant water-sprite haunting
fords in the form of a horse.

KELSON. Same as KEELSON.

KELT, kelt, _n._ a salmon that has just spawned.

KELT, kelt, _n._ (_Scot._) cloth made of black and white wool mixed and not
dyed.--_adj._ KEL'TER, made of such.

KELT, KELTIC. Same as CELT, CELTIC.

KELTIE, KELTY, kel'ti, _n._ (_Scot._) a bumper imposed as a penalty on one
who does not drink fair.

KEMB, kem, _v.t._ to comb. [A.S. _cemban_, to comb.]

KEMP, kemp, _n._ the coarse rough hairs of wool: (_pl._) knotty hair which
will not felt.

KEMP, kemp, _n._ (_arch._) a champion: (_Scot._) a contest in work,
&c.--_v.i._ to strive for mastery.--_ns._ KEM'PER, KEM'PERY-MAN, a
champion, a knight-errant. [A.S. _cempa_, a warrior. Cf. _champion_.]

KEN, ken, _v.t._ to know: (_arch._) to see and recognise at a
distance.--_n._ range of knowledge or sight.--_n._ KEN'NING (_Bacon_),
range of vision: (_Scot._) a small portion.--_adj._ KEN'SPECKLE (_Scot._),
conspicuous--also KEN'SPECK. [Ice. _kenna_, orig. to cause to know. Cf.
_can_ and _know_.]

KEN, ken, _n._ (_slang_) a house. [Perh. Pers. _kh[=a]n_, a caravansary;
not conn. with _kennel_.]

KENDAL-GREEN, ken'dal-gr[=e]n, _n._ green cloth for foresters made at
_Kendal_ in Westmorland.

KENNEL, ken'el, _n._ a house for dogs: a pack of hounds: the hole of a fox,
&c.: a haunt.--_v.t._ to keep in a kennel.--_v.i._ to live in a
kennel:--_pr.p._ kenn'elling; _pa.p._ kenn'elled. [Norm. Fr. _kenil_ (Fr.
_chenil_)--L. _can[=i]le_--_canis_, a dog.]

KENNEL, ken'el, _n._ the water-course of a street: a gutter. [A form of
_canal_.]

KENNEL-COAL. Same as CANNEL-COAL.

KENNICK, ken'ik, _n._ the jargon of tramping tinkers.

KENOSIS, ken-[=o]'sis, _n._ the self-limitation on the part of the Logos in
the act of incarnation, his emptying of himself, or his laying aside not
only his divine attributes, but even his divine self-consciousness, only to
be fully recovered at the ascension.--_adj._ KENOT'IC.--_n._ KENOT'ICIST.
[Gr., from the phrase in Phil. ii. 6, 7, 'who, being in the form of God ...
_emptied himself_ ([Greek: heauton ekenôse]), taking the form of a
servant.']

KENT, kent, _n._ (_Scot._) a pole, pike.--_v.i._ to propel a boat by a
pole. [Prob. a variant of the verb _cant_.]

KENTISH, kent'ish, _adj._ pertaining to _Kent_.--_ns._ KENT'ISH-FIRE,
rounds of noisy applause at political meetings--from the anti-Catholic
demonstrations in _Kent_, 1828-29; KENT'ISH-RAG, a rough fossiliferous
limestone found in _Kent_.

KENTLEDGE, kent'lej, _n._ pig-iron laid in a ship's hold for ballast.--Also
KINT'LEDGE.

KEP, kep, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to catch. [_Keep_.]

KEPHALIC. Same as CEPHALIC.

KEPI, kep'i, _n._ a flat-topped forage-cap with a straight peak. [Fr.
_képi_.]

KEPLERIAN, kep-l[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the great German
astronomer, Johann _Kepler_ (1571-1630).--For KEPLER'S LAWS, see LAW.

KEPT, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _keep_.

KERAMIC. Same as CERAMIC.

KERASINE, ker'a-sin, _adj._ like or made of horn.--_ns._ KERAT[=I]'ASIS, a
morbid condition characterised by warty or horny growths; KER'ATIN, a
nitrogenous compound, the essential ingredient of horny tissue, as of
horns, nails, &c. [Gr. _keras_, a horn.]

KERATITIS, ker-a-t[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the cornea, either acute
or chronic.--_n._ KERATAL'GIA, pain in the cornea.

KERBSTONE, k[.e]rb'st[=o]n, _n._ a form of curbstone.

KERCHIEF, k[.e]r'chif, _n._ any loose cloth used in dress: (_orig._) a
square piece of cloth worn by women to cover the head.--_v.t._ to cover or
dress with a kerchief.--_adjs._ KER'CHIEFED, KER'CHIEFT. [M. E.
_couerchef_--O. Fr. _covrechef_ (Fr. _couvrechef_)--_covrir_, to cover,
_chef_, the head.]

KERF, kerf, _n._ the groove made by a saw: wool cut off at once by a
wool-shearing machine: a single layer of hay, turf, &c., cut.

KERION, k[=e]'ri-on, _n._ a suppurative inflammation of the hair-follicles
of the scalp. [Gr.]

KERITE, k[=e]'r[=i]t, _n._ a kind of artificial vulcanite of india-rubber
and animal or vegetable oil. [Gr. _k[=e]ros_, wax.]

KERMES, k[.e]r'm[=e]z, _n._ a dye-stuff which consists of the bodies of the
females of a species of coccus. [Pers.]

KERMESS, k[.e]r'mes, _n._ a wake or fair in the Low Countries. [Dut.
_kermis_--_kerk_, church, _mis_, mass.]

KERN. See QUERN.

KERN, k[.e]rn _n._ (_Scot._) the last sheaf of the harvest: a
harvest-home--also KIRN.--_n._ KERN'-B[=A]'BY, an image decorated with
blades of corn, &c., carried before reapers at their harvest-home. [A
variant of _corn_.]

KERN, KERNE, k[.e]rn, _n._ an Irish foot-soldier: a boor.--_adj._ KERN'ISH,
clownish. [Ir. _ceatharnach_.]

KERN, k[.e]rn, _v.i._ to granulate.

KERN, k[.e]rn, _n._ (_print._) that part of a type which overhangs the stem
or shank.

KERNEL, k[.e]r'nel, _n._ anything in a husk or shell: the substance in the
shell of a nut: the seed of a pulpy fruit: the important part of
anything.--_adj._ KER'NELLY, full of, or resembling, kernels. [A.S.
_cyrnel_--_corn_, grain, and dim. suffix _-el_; Ger. _kern_, a grain.]

KEROSENE, ker'o-s[=e]n, _n._ an oil obtained from bituminous coal, used for
lamps, &c. [Gr. _k[=e]ros_, wax.]

KERSEY, k[.e]r'zi, _n._ a coarse woollen cloth. [Perh. from _Kersey_ in
Suffolk.]

KERSEYMERE, k[.e]r'zi-m[=e]r or k[.e]r-zi-m[.e]r', _n._ twilled cloth of
the finest wools. [A corr. of _cassimere_, _cashmere_.]

KERVE, k[.e]rv, _v.t._ (_Spens._) a form of carve.

KESAR, k[=e]'zar, _n._ Same as KAISER.

KESTREL, kes'trel, _n._ a small species of falcon. [O. Fr.
_quercerelle_--L. _querquedula_.]

KET, ket, _n._ (_Scot._) carrion. [Ice. _kjöt_.]

KET, ket, _n._ matted wool. [Scot.]

KETCH, kech, _n._ a small two-masted vessel, generally used as a yacht or a
bomb-vessel. [Corr. from Turk. _qaíq_, a boat, whence Fr. _caïque_.]

KETCHUP, kech'up, _n._ a sauce for flavouring soups, meats, &c., flavoured
with mushrooms, tomatoes, &c.--Also CATCH'UP, CAT'SUP. [East Ind.
_kitjap_.]

KETTLE, ket'l, _n._ a vessel of metal, for heating or boiling liquids: a
cavity like a kettle in rock, sand, &c.: (_Shak._) kettle-drum.--_ns._
KETT'LE-DRUM, a musical instrument now used chiefly in orchestras and in
cavalry bands, consisting of a hollow brass hemisphere with a parchment
head, sounded by soft-headed elastic drumsticks: a tea-party;
KETT'LE-DRUM'MER; KETT'LE-HOLD'ER, a little mat, &c., for holding a kettle
when hot.--_n.pl._ KETT'LE-PINS, skittle-pins.--A KETTLE OF FISH, or A
PRETTY KETTLE OF FISH, a task of great difficulty, an awkward mess--most
probably in this sense connected with _kiddle_. [A.S. _cetel_; Ger.
_kessel_, Goth. _katils_; all perh. from L. _catillus_, dim. of _catinus_,
a deep cooking-vessel.]

KEX, keks, _n._ the dry stalk of the hemlock or other umbelliferous
plants.--Also KECKS, KECK'SY (prop. _adj._), and KECK.

KEY, k[=e], _n._ an instrument for shutting or opening a lock: that by
which something is screwed or turned: the middle stone of an arch: a piece
of wood let into another piece crosswise to prevent warping: (_mus._) one
of the small levers in musical instruments for producing notes: the
fundamental note of a piece of music: that which explains a mystery: a book
containing answers to exercises, &c.--_ns._ KEY'BOARD, the keys or levers
in a piano or organ arranged along a flat board; KEY'-B[=U]'GLE, a bugle
with keys, having a compass of two octaves including semitones.--_adjs._
KEY'-COLD (_Shak._), cold as a key, lifeless; KEYED, furnished with keys,
as a musical instrument: set to a particular key, as a tune.--_ns._
KEY'HOLE, the hole in which a key of a door, &c., is inserted; KEY'NOTE,
the key or fundamental note of a piece of music; any central principle or
controlling thought; KEY'-PIN, the pivot on which a pipe-key turns: a pin
serving as fulcrum for a key of an organ, &c.; KEY'-PLATE, the escutcheon
around a keyhole; KEY'RING, a ring for holding a bunch of keys; KEY'-SEAT,
a groove for receiving a key, to prevent one piece of machinery from
turning on another; KEY'STONE, the stone at the apex of an arch: the chief
element in any system.--HAVE THE KEY OF THE STREET (_coll._), to be locked
out: to be homeless; POWER OF THE KEYS, the power to loose and bind, to
administer ecclesiastical discipline--a special authority conferred by
Christ on Peter (Matt. xvi. 19), or Peter in conjunction with the other
apostles, and claimed by the popes as the alleged successors to St Peter.
Others explain it as belonging only to the apostles themselves, as
descending to the bishops and clergy of the Christian Church, or as
belonging to all Christ's disciples alike. [A.S. _cæg_, a key.]

KEY, k[=e], _n._ (_Dryden_). Same as QUAY.

KEY, k[=e], _n._ a low island near the coast.--Also CAY.

KEYS, k[=e]z, _n.pl._ a contraction of HOUSE OF KEYS, a house of 24
representatives constituting the lower branch of the Legislature (Court of
Tynwald) of the Isle of Man, self-elective down to 1866. [Manx
_kiare-as-feed_, four-and-twenty.]

KHAKI, kä'ki, _adj._ dust-coloured.--_n._ a light drab cloth used for some
East Indian and other uniforms.

KHALIF. See CALIF.

KHAMSIN, kam'sin, _n._ a hot south-west wind in Egypt, blowing for about
fifty days from about the middle of March. [Ar.]

KHAN, kan, _n._ an Eastern inn, a caravansary. [Turk.,--Pers. _kh[=a]na_, a
house, a tent.]

KHAN, kan, _n._ in North Asia, a prince or chief: in Persia, a
governor.--_n._ KHAN'ATE, the dominion or jurisdiction of a khan. [Pers.
_kh[=a]n_, lord or prince, a Tartar word.]

KHEDIVE, ked-[=e]v', _n._ the title since 1867 of the viceroy or ruler of
Egypt.--_n._ KHEDI'VIATE, the office of the khedive, or his territory.
[Fr.,--Pers. _khad[=i]w_, prince.]

KHEL, kel, _n._ in Afghanistan, a clan or family connection--a sociological
group between the tribe and the family.

KHITMUTGAR, kit'mut-gar, _n._ a table-servant, under-butler. [Hind.]

KHUTBAH, kut'ba, _n._ a Mohammedan prayer and sermon delivered in the
mosques on Fridays.--Also KHOT'BAH.

KIAUGH, ky[=o]h, _n._ (_Scot._) care, trouble.

KIBBLE, kib'l, _n._ the bucket of a draw-well.--_n._ KIBB'LE-CHAIN, the
chain for drawing up a bucket.

KIBE, k[=i]b, _n._ a chilblain. [W. _cibwst_, from _cib_, a cup, _gwst_, a
disease.]

KIBITKA, ki-bit'ka, _n._ a Russian wagon. [Russ.]

KIBLAH, kib'la, _n._ the point toward which Mohammedans turn in
prayer.--Also KEB'LAH.

KICK, kik, _v.t._ to hit with the foot.--_v.i._ to thrust out the foot with
violence: to show opposition or resistance: (of a gun) to recoil violently
(see also BULLET): (_print._) to work a press by impact of the foot on a
treadle.--_n._ a blow with the foot: the turn of kicking the ball at
football, the person who kicks or kicks off: the recoil of a gun: (_slang_)
fashion.--_adj._ KICK'ABLE.--_ns._ KICK'ER, one who kicks, esp. a horse;
KICK'-OFF, the first kick in a game of football; KICK'-UP, a
disturbance.--KICK OVER THE TRACES, to throw off control; KICK, or STRIKE,
THE BEAM, to rise, as the lighter scale of a balance, so as to strike
against the beam--hence to be of little weight or importance; KICK THE
BUCKET (see BUCKET); KICK UP A DUST or ROW, to create a disturbance.--DROP
KICK, a kick made as the ball, dropped from the hand, rebounds from the
ground; PLACE KICK, a kick made when the ball is lying on the ground. [M.
E. _kiken_--W. _cicio_, to kick, Gael. _ceig_.]

KICKSHAWS, kik'shawz, _n._ something uncommon or fantastical that has no
name: (_cook._) a fantastical dish. [Corr. of Fr. _quelque chose_,
something.]

KICKSY-WICKSY, kik'si-wik'si, _adj._ flickering, uncertain.--_n._ (_Shak._)
a wife.

KID, kid, _n._ a young goat: (_slang_) a child, esp. a boy: (_pl._) gloves
of kid leather.--_adj._ made of kid leather or imitation kid
leather.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to bring forth a goat:--_pr.p._ kid'ding;
_pa.p._ kid'ded.--_ns._ KID'-FOX (_Shak._), a young fox; KID'LING, a young
kid. [Dan. _kid_; cf. Ice. _kidh_; Ger. _kitze_, a young goat.]

KID, kid, _n._ a small tub.--Also KIT.

KID, kid, _n._ a fagot, a bundle of sticks. [Prob. W. _cidys_, fagots.]

KID, kid, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_slang_) to hoax--also KID'DY.--_n._ a
deception. [Perh. conn. with _kid_, a child.]

KIDDER, kid'er, _n._ a forestaller, huckster.

KIDDERMINSTER, kid'[.e]r-min-st[.e]r, _n._ a kind of carpet (_two-ply_ or
_ingrain carpet_), from the town.

KIDDLE, kid'l, _n._ a stake-fence set in a stream for catching fish.--Also
KID'EL, KETT'LE. [O. Fr. _quidel_; prob. Bret. _kidel_.]

KIDNAP, kid'nap, _v.t._ to steal, as a human being:--_pr.p._ kid'napping;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ kid'napped.--_n._ KID'NAPPER. [Vulgar _kid_ (old
thieves' cant, _kinchin_--Ger. _kindchen_), a child, and vulgar _nab_, to
steal.]

KIDNEY, kid'ni, _n._ one of two flattened glands, on each side of the
loins, which secrete the urine: temperament, humour, disposition--hence,
sort or kind, as in 'of the same kidney,' &c.--_ns._ KID'NEY-BEAN, a kind
of bean shaped like a kidney; KID'NEY-POT[=A]'TO, one of various
kidney-shaped varieties of the common potato; KID'NEY-VETCH, a genus of
leguminous plants, the only British species being called Lady's Fingers;
KID'NEY-WORT, a plant of the genus Saxifrage. [M. E. _kidnere_--Ice.
_kviðr_, the womb, the belly, Ice. _nýra_ (Ger. _niere_, a kidney).]

KIE-KIE, k[=i]'k[=i], _n._ a New Zealand high-climbing shrub.

KIESELGUHR, k[=e]'zl-g[=u]r, _n._ the mineral remains of a species of algæ,
used in the manufacture of dynamite. [Ger.,--_kiesel_, flint, _guhr_,
fermentation.]

KIKUMON, kik'[=oo]-mon, _n._ a badge or crest of the imperial family of
Japan, consisting of an open chrysanthemum flower.

KILDERKIN, kil'd[.e]r-kin, _n._ a small barrel: a liquid measure of 18
gallons. [Old Dut. _kindeken_, _kinneken_ (Scot. _kinken_), dim. of Dut.
_kind_, a child.]

KILERG, kil'erg, _n._ a thousand ergs.

KILEY, k[=i]'le, _n._ a boomerang.--Also KY'LEY.

KILL, kil, _v.t._ to put to death, to slay: to nullify or neutralise, to
weaken or dilute, to render inactive: to reject, discard: to fascinate,
overcome.--_n._ the act of killing, as game.--_ns._ KILL'-COURT'ESY
(_Shak._), a discourteous, boorish person; KILL'-CROP, a changeling;
KILL'ER, one who kills, a slaughterer or butcher: a club for killing fish:
a ferocious delphinid which sometimes attacks the whale.--_p.adj._
KILL'ING, depriving of life: destructive: deadly, irresistible: completely
fascinating.--_n._ and _adj._ KILL'JOY, a mar-sport, austere.--KILL BY
INCHES, by gradual means, as by torture; KILL OFF, to exterminate; KILL
TIME, to consume spare time, as with amusements, &c.; KILL TWO BIRDS WITH
ONE STONE, to effect one thing by the way, or by the same means with which
another thing is done; KILL UP (_Shak._), to exterminate.--KILLING TIMES,
the days of the persecution of the Covenanters.--DO A THING TO KILL, in an
irresistible manner. [M. E. _killen_ or _cullen_--Ice. _kolla_, to hit on
the head--_kollr_, the head; not a doublet of _quell_.]

KILLADAR, kil'a-dar, _n._ the commandant of a fort or garrison. [Hind.]

KILLAS, kil'as, _n._ clay slate, in Cornwall.

KILLDEE, kil'd[=e], _n._ the largest variety of North American ring-plover.
[Imit.]

KILLOCK, kil'ok, _n._ a small anchor, the fluke of such.

KILLOGIE, ki-l[=o]'gi, _n._ (_Scot._) the furnace of a kiln.

KILLUT, kil'ut, _n._ in India, a robe of honour given: any ceremonial
present.--Also KELL'AUT.

KILMARNOCK, kil-mar'nok, _n._ a kind of closely woven broad bonnet, having
a peak of the same material at the top, originally made at
_Kilmarnock_.--KILMARNOCK COWL, a kind of nightcap.

KILN, kil, _n._ a large oven in which corn, bricks, hops, &c. are dried:
bricks placed for burning.--_v.t._ KILN'-DRY, to dry in a kiln.--_n._
KILN'-HOLE, the mouth of a kiln. [A.S. _cyln_ (Ice. _kylna_, a drying-house
for corn)--L. _culina_, a kitchen.]

KILOGRAMME, kil'o-gram, _n._ a French measure of weight, equal to 1000
grammes, or 2-1/5 lb. avoirdupois. [Gr. _chilioi_, 1000, _gramma_, a
weight.]

KILOLITRE, kil'o-l[=e]-tr, _n._ 1000 litres.

KILOMETRE, kil'o-m[=e]-tr, _n._ a French measure, being 1000 metres, or
nearly 5/8 of a mile. [Fr.,--Gr. _chilioi_, 1000, _metron_, a measure.]

KILT, kilt, _n._ a kind of short petticoat or plaited skirt, forming part
of the Highland dress.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to truss up.--_adj._ KILT'ED,
dressed in a kilt.--_n._ KILT'IE, one wearing a kilt, a soldier in a
Highland regiment. [Northern Eng. _kilt_, to tuck up, from Dan. _kilte_, to
tuck up: cf. Ice. _kilting_, a skirt.]

KILT, kilt, (_Spens._) _pa.p._ of kill.

KILTER, kil't[.e]r, _n._ order, proper condition--in phrase, 'out of
kilter.'--Also KEL'TER.

KIMBO, kim'bo, _n._ Same as AKIMBO.

KIMONO, ki-m[=o]'n[=o], _n._ a loose robe, fastening with a sash, the
principal outer garment in Japan.

KIN, kin, _n._ persons of the same family: relatives: relationship:
affinity.--_adj._ related.--_adj._ KIN'LESS, without relations.--NEXT OF
KIN, the relatives (lineal or collateral) of a deceased person, among whom
his personal property is distributed if he dies intestate; Of kin, of the
same kin. [A.S. _cynn_; Ice. _kyn_, Goth. _kuni_, family, race; cog. with
L. _genus_, Gr. _genos_.]

KINCHIN, kin'chin, _n._ a child in thieves' slang.--_n._ KIN'CHIN-MORT, a
child, generally a girl.--KINCHIN LAY, the robbing of children. [Cf.
_kidnap_.]

KINCOB, kin'kob, _n._ a rich silk-stuff made in India.

KIND, k[=i]nd, _n._ those of kin, a race: sort or species, a particular
variety: nature: style, method of action, character: produce, as
distinguished from money.--_adj._ having the feelings natural for those of
the same family: disposed to do good to others: benevolent.--_adj._
KIND'-HEART'ED.--_n._ KIND'-HEART'EDNESS.--_adj._ KIND'LESS (_Shak._),
destitute of kindness, unnatural.--_n._ KIND'NESS.--_adj._ KIND'-SPOK'EN,
spoken kindly: given to speaking kindly.--KIND OF (_coll._), somewhat, to
some extent--used adverbially with adjectives and even verbs.--DO ONE'S
KIND (_Shak._), to act according to one's nature; IN A KIND, in a way, to
some extent; IN KIND, payment in goods instead of money. [A.S.
_cynde_--_cynn_, kin.]

KIND, kind, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to beget. [From _kin_.]

KINDERGARTEN, kin'd[.e]r-gär'tn, _n._ an infant school on Froebel's
principle (1826), in which object-lessons and games figure largely.--_n._
KINDERGART'NER, a teacher in a kindergarten. [Ger. _kinder_, children,
_garten_, garden.]

KINDLE, kin'dl, _v.t._ to set fire to: to light: to inflame, as the
passions: to provoke: to excite to action.--_v.i._ to take fire: to begin
to be excited: to be roused.--_ns._ KIN'DLER; KIN'DLING, the act of causing
to burn: the materials for commencing a fire. [Ice. _kyndyll_, a torch--L.
_candela_, candle.]

KINDLE, kin'dl, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to bring forth (young). [M. E.
_kindlen_--_kinde_, kind.]

KINDLY, k[=i]nd'li, _adj._ natural: benevolent: (_orig._) belonging to the
kind or race.--_n._ KIND'LINESS.--_adv._ KIND'LY.--_adj._
KIND'LY-N[=A]'TURED.--KINDLY TENANT (_Scot._), a tenant of the same stock
as his landlord, or who held his lands in succession, from father to son,
for several generations.

KINDRED, kin'dred, _n._ relationship by blood, less properly, by marriage:
relatives: (_pl._, _B._) families.--_adj._ related: congenial. [M. E.
_kinrede_--A.S. _cynn_, kin, and the suffix _-ræden_, expressing mode or
state.]

KINE, k[=i]n, _n.pl._ (_B._) cows. [M. E. _ky-en_, a doubled plural of A.S.
_cú_, a cow, the plural of which is _cý_; cf. Scotch _kye_.]

KINEMATICS, kin-e-mat'iks, _n._ the science which treats of motion without
reference to force.--_adjs._ KINEMAT'IC, -AL. [Gr. _kin[=e]ma_, _-atos_,
motion--_kinein_, to move.]

KINEMATOGRAPH, kin-e-mat'o-graf, _n._ an arrangement by which a numerous
series of photographs, taken at rapid intervals, and representing some
moving scene, is shown on a screen at the same rapid rate at which they
were taken, giving a moving representation of the original scene--less
correct but more common form, CINEMAT'OGRAPH (sin-). [Gr. _kin[=e]ma_,
_kin[=e]matos_, motion, _graphein_, to write.]

KINESIPATHY, kin-[=e]-sip'a-thi, _n._ a mode of treating disease by
muscular movements, movement-cure---also KINESITHER'APY.--_adjs._
KINESIAT'RIC, KINESIPATH'IC.--_n._ KINESIP'ATHIST.

KINETICS, ki-net'iks, _n._ the science which treats of the action of force
in producing or changing motion.--_adjs._ KINET'IC, -AL.--_ns._
KINET'OGRAPH, a device by which a series of photographs of a moving object
can be thrown on a screen so as to imitate the motion of the original;
KINET'OSCOPE, an instrument for illustrating the production of kinematic
curves by the combination of circular movements of different radii. [Gr.
_kin[=e]tikos_--_kinein_, to move.]

KING, king, _n._ the chief ruler of a nation: a monarch: a playing-card
having the picture of a king: the most important piece in chess: a crowned
man in draughts: one who is pre-eminent among his fellows:--_fem._
QUEEN.--_v.t._ to play king.--_ns._ KING'-AT-ARMS, or KING'-OF-ARMS, a
chief officer of the Heralds' Colleges, whose designations are, for
England, Norroy, Clarencieux, and Garter; for Scotland, Lyon; and for
Ireland, Ulster; KING'-BIRD, an American tyrant fly-catcher; KING'CRAB, the
chief or largest of the crab genus, most common in the Molucca Islands;
KING'CRAFT, the art of governing, mostly in a bad sense; KING'CUP, the
buttercup or upright meadow crowfoot; KING'DOM, the state or attributes of
a king: the territory of a king: government: a region: one of the three
grand divisions of Natural History, as the animal, vegetable, or
mineral.--_adj._ KING'DOMED (_Shak._), endowed with kingly power,
proud.--_ns._ KING'FISHER, a bird with very brilliant plumage, feeding on
fish, the halcyon; KING'HOOD, kingship: kingliness.--_adj._
KING'LESS.--_ns._ KING'LET, KING'LING, a little or petty king: the
golden-crested wren.--_ns._ KING'LIHOOD, KING'LINESS.--_adj._
KING'-LIKE.--_adj._ KING'LY, belonging or suitable to a king: royal:
noble--also _adv._--_ns._ KING'-MAK'ER, one who has the creating of kings
in his power; KING'POST, a perpendicular beam in the frame of a roof rising
from the tie-beam to the ridge; KING'S'-CUSH'ION, a seat formed by two
people's hands; KING'S'-[=E]'VIL, a scrofulous disease or evil formerly
supposed to be healed by the touch of the king; KING'SHIP, the state,
office, or dignity of a king; KING'S'-HOOD, the second stomach of a
ruminant, sometimes humorously for the human stomach; KING'S'-SPEAR, a
plant of the genus Asphodel; KING'S'-YELL'OW, arsenic trisulphide or
orpiment; KING'-VUL'TURE, a large tropical brilliantly-coloured American
vulture; KING'WOOD, a beautiful Brazilian wood--also _Violet-wood_.--KING
CHARLES SPANIEL (see SPANIEL); KING LOG, a do-nothing king, as opp. to KING
STORK, one who devours his frog-subjects--from Æsop's fable; KING MOB, the
vulgar multitude; KING OF BEASTS, the lion; KING OF METALS, gold; KING OF
TERRORS, death; KING OF THE FOREST, the oak; KING'S BENCH, the bench or
seat of the king: one of the high courts of law, so called because the king
used to sit there, called _Queen's_ Bench during a queen's reign; KING'S
COUNSEL an honorary rank of barristers; KING'S EVIDENCE, a criminal allowed
to become a witness against an accomplice.--KINGDOM COME (_slang_), the
state after death.--THREE KINGS OF COLOGNE, the three Wise Men of the East,
Gaspar, Melchior, and Balthazar. [A.S. _cyning_--_cyn_, a tribe, with
suffix _-kin_; cog. with _kin_.]

KINIC, kin'ik, _adj._ pertaining to cinchona, cinchonic.

KINK, kingk, _n._ a twist in a string, rope, &c.--also KINK'LE.--_v.i._ and
_v.t._ to twist.--_adj._ KINK'Y, full of kinks: woolly: crotchety. [Scand.;
Sw. and Norw. _kink_.]

KINK, kingk, _v.i._ to cough loudly, gasp for breath.--_n._ a convulsive
cough or gasp.--_n._ KINK'COUGH, whooping-cough, chincough (q.v.).

KINKAJOU, kin'ka-j[=oo], _n._ a South American quadruped allied to the
raccoon.

KINO, k[=e]'no, _n._ an astringent vegetable exudation resembling catechu.
[East Indian.]

KINSFOLK, kinz'f[=o]k, _n._ folk or people kindred or related to one
another.--_ns._ KIN'SHIP, relationship; KINS'MAN, a man of the same kin or
race with another:--_fem._ KINS'WOMAN.

KIOSK, ki-osk', _n._ an Eastern garden pavilion: a small shop like a
sentry-box for the sale of papers, &c. [Turk.,--Pers. _kushk_.]

KIP, kip, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to play truant.

KIP, kip, _n._ the skin of a young animal.--_n._ KIP'SKIN, leather made
from the skin of young cattle, intermediate between calf-skin and cow-hide.

KIP, kip, _n._ a level or slight incline at the end of an underground way,
on which the tubs of coal stand till hoisted up the shaft.

KIP, kip, _n._ a house of ill-fame.--Also KIP'SHOP.

KIPE, k[=i]p, _n._ (_prov._) an osier basket for catching pike.

KIPPAGE, kip'[=a]j, _n._ (_Scot._) a fit of temper, a rage.

KIPPER, kip'[.e]r, _n._ a male salmon after the spawning season: a salmon
split open, seasoned, and dried.--_v.t._ to cure or preserve, as a salmon
or haddock. [Dut. _kippen_, to seize; Norw. _kippa_.]

KIRBEH, kir'be, _n._ a skin for holding water. [Ar.]

KIRIMON, k[=e]'ri-mon, _n._ one of the two imperial crests of Japan,
bearing three leaves and three flowers of paulownia.

KIRK, k[.e]rk, _n._ in Scotland, a church--sometimes 'the Kirk' means the
Established Church specially.--_ns._ KIRK'IN, the first attendance of a
pair after marriage, of a magistrate after election; KIRK'-SESS'ION, the
lowest court in Presbyterian churches, being the governing body of a
particular congregation; KIRK'TON (_Scot._), the village in which the
parish church stands; KIRK'YARD, a graveyard.--AULD KIRK, the Established
Church in Scotland--by association of ideas, (_coll._) the whisky bottle,
whisky. [A Northern Eng. form of _church_.]

KIRSCHWASSER, k[=e]rsh'väs-ser, _n._ a liqueur made from the wild cherry.
[Ger., 'cherry water.']

KIRTLE, k[.e]r'tl, _n._ a sort of gown or outer petticoat: a
mantle.--_adj._ KIR'TLED. [A.S. _cyrtel_; Dan. _kiortel_; Ice. _kyrtill_:
perh. conn. with _skirt_ and _shirt_.]

KISMET, kis'met, _n._ fate, destiny. [Turk. _qismet_.]

KISS, kis, _v.t._ to press one's lips to in affection or reverence: to
treat with fondness: to touch gently: to collide (of two
billiard-balls).--_v.i._ to salute with the lips.--_n._ a salute with the
lips.--_ns._ KISS'-CURL, a small curl at the side of the forehead; KISS'ER;
KISS'ING-COM'FIT, a perfumed comfit for sweetening the breath;
KISS'ING-CRUST, that part of the upper crust of the loaf which, while
baking, overhangs the edge and touches another.--_n.pl._ KISS'ING-STRINGS,
cap or bonnet strings tied under the chin.--_n._ KISS'-ME, the wild form of
_Viola tricolor_, the pansy: a short veil: a small bonnet--also
KISS'-ME-QUICK.--KISS HANDS, to kiss the sovereign's hands on a minister's
acceptance of office; KISS OF PEACE, a kiss of greeting exchanged between
the members of the early Church, a shadow of which survives in the kissing
of the pax at high mass; KISS THE BOOK, to kiss a copy of the New
Testament, in England, after taking a legal oath; KISS THE DUST, to be
felled to the ground, to be slain or vanquished; KISS THE GUNNER'S
DAUGHTER, to get a flogging, tied to the breech of a cannon; KISS THE ROD,
to submit to punishment. [A.S. _cyssan_, to kiss--_coss_, a kiss; Ger.
_küssen_, Dan. _kys_; allied to _choose_ and _gust_.]

KIST, kist, _n._ (_Scot._) a chest.--KIST O' WHISTLES, an organ. [A.S.
_cist_.]

KISTVAEN, kist'v[=a]-en, _n._ a burial-chamber made of flat stones, and
shaped like a chest. [W. _cist_, chest, _maen_, stone.]

KIT, kit, _n._ a small wooden tub: the outfit of necessaries of a soldier,
sailor, or mechanic. [Old Dut. _kitte_, a hooped beer-can.]

KIT, kit, a small pocket violin. [Contracted from A.S. _cytere_--L.
_cythara_, a _guitar_.]

KIT, kit, _n._ a contraction of kitten.--_n._ KIT'-CAT, a game played with
sticks and a small piece of wood called a cat.

KIT, kit, _n._ a family, in phrase 'the whole kit.' [_Kith_.]

KITCAT, kit'kat, _n._ the name of a Whig London literary club, which
existed from 1700 to about 1720, meeting for some time in the house of a
pastry-cook named Christopher _Katt_: a portrait 36 by 28 inches in size,
so called from the portraits of the _Kitcat_ Club painted by Sir G.
Kneller.

KITCHEN, kich'en, _n._ a room where food is cooked: a utensil with a stove
for dressing food, &c.: anything eaten as a relish with bread, potatoes,
&c.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to regale in the cook-room: to serve as relish to
food, to make palatable, to use sparingly, as one would a relish--to make
it last.--_ns._ KITCH'ENDOM, the domain of the kitchen; KITCH'ENER, a
person employed in the kitchen: a cooking-stove; KITCH'EN-FEE, the fat
which falls from meat in roasting; KITCH'EN-GAR'DEN, a garden where
vegetables are cultivated for the kitchen; KITCH'EN-KNAVE, a scullion;
KITCH'EN-MAID, a maid or servant whose work is in the kitchen;
KITCH'EN-MID'DEN (Dan. _kjökkenmödding_), a prehistoric rubbish-heap in
Denmark, the north of Scotland, &c.; KITCH'EN-PHYS'IC, substantial fare
(_Milt._); KITCH'EN-RANGE, a kitchen grate with oven, boiler, &c. attached,
for cooking; KITCH'EN-STUFF, material used in kitchens: kitchen refuse,
esp. fat from pots, &c.; KITCH'EN-WENCH, a kitchen-maid. [A.S. _cicen_;
Ger. _küche_, Fr. _cuisine_, all from L. _coquina_--_coqu[)e]re_, to cook.]

KITE, k[=i]t, _n._ a rapacious bird of the hawk kind: a rapacious person: a
light frame covered with paper for flying in the air, attached to a long
cord, by means of which it is steered: a light and lofty sail: an
accommodation bill, esp. a mere paper credit.--_n._ KITE'-FLY'ING, the
dealing in fictitious accommodation paper to raise money. [A.S. _cýta_; cf.
W. _cud_, Bret. _kidel_, a hawk.]

KITE, k[=i]t, _n._ (_Scot._) the belly.--Also KYTE. [A.S. _cwith_, the
womb.]

KITH, kith, _n._ kindred, acquaintance, obsolete except in the phrase KITH
AND KIN, acquaintances and relatives. [A.S. _cúð_--_cunnan_, to know.]

KITTEN, kit'n, _n._ a young cat.--_v.i._ to bring forth young cats.--_n._
(_Scot._) KIT'LING.--_adj._ KITT'ENISH, frolicsome.--_v.i._ KITT'LE
(_Scot._), to bring forth kittens. [M. E. _kitoun_, dim. of _cat_.]

KITTIWAKE, kit'i-w[=a]k, _n._ a species of gull with long wings and
rudimentary hind-toe. [Imit.]

KITTLE, kit'l, _adj._ (_Scot._) ticklish, intractable.--_v.t._ (_Scot._) to
tickle.--_adj._ KITT'LY, easily tickled, sensitive.--_n._ KITT'LY-BEND'ERS
(_Amer._), running on thin bending ice.

KIWI, k[=e]'wi, _n._ a bird of the genus Apteryx found in New Zealand.

KLANG, klang, _n._ (_mus._) a complex tone, composed of fundamental and
harmonics, as opposed to a simple tone. [Ger.]

KLEPHT, kleft, _n._ a Greek or Albanian brigand. [Gr., from _kleptein_, to
steal.]

KLEPTOMANIA, klep-to-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ a mania for stealing: a morbid
impulse to secrete things.--_n._ KLEPTOM[=A]'NIAC. [Gr. _kleptein_ to
steal, _mania_, madness.]

KLICK. Same as CLICK.

KLIPDAS, klip'das, _n._ the rock badger.

KLIPSPRINGER, klip'spring-[.e]r, _n._ a small South African antelope.

KLOOF, kl[=oo]f, _n._ a mountain cleft. [S. African Dutch.]

KNACK, nak, _n._ a petty contrivance: a toy: a nice trick: dexterity,
adroitness.--_n._ KNACK'INESS.--_adjs._ KNACK'ISH, KNACK'Y, cunning,
crafty. [Orig. imit.; cf. Gael. _cnac_, Dut. _knak_, a crack, Ger.
_knacken_, to crack.]

KNACKER, nak'[.e]r, _n._ anything that knocks: (_pl._) castanets or
clappers, bones.

KNACKER, nak'[.e]r, _n._ a dealer in old horses and dog's-meat: (_prov._) a
collier's horse. [From Ice. _knakkr_, a saddle.]

KNAG, nag, _n._ a knot in wood: a peg.--_n._ KNAG'GINESS, state of being
knaggy.--_adj._ KNAG'GY, knotty: rugged. [From a root found in Ir. and
Gael. _cnag_, a knob; cf. Dan. _knag_, Ger. _knagge_.]

KNAP, nap, _v.t._ to snap or break with a snapping noise: to break in
pieces with blows, as stones: to bite off, nibble:--_pr.p._ knap'ping;
_pa.p._ knapped.--_ns._ KNAP'BOTTLE, the bladder-campion; KNAP'PER, one who
breaks stones, esp. one who breaks up flint-flakes for gun-flints;
KNAP'PING-HAMM'ER (_Scot._), a hammer for breaking stones.--_v.i._
KNAP'PLE, to nibble. [Dut. _knappen_, to crack or crush.]

KNAP, nap, _n._ (_Bacon_) a protuberance, a hillock.--_n._ KNAP'WEED, a
general name for plants of the genus _Centaurea_ of the composite
family--star-thistle, bachelor's buttons. [Conn. with _knob_, _knop_.]

KNAPSACK, nap'sak, _n._ a provision-sack: a case for necessaries borne by
soldiers and travellers. [Dut. _knappen_, to crack, eat, _zak_, a sack.]

KNAPSKULL, nap'skul, _n._ a helmet. [From _knap_ (n.) and _skull_.]

KNAR, när, _n._ a knot on a tree.--_n._ KNARL=GNARL.--_adj._ KNARRED,
gnarled, knotty.

KNAVE, n[=a]v, _n._ a false, deceitful fellow: a villain: a card bearing
the picture of a servant or soldier: (_Shak._) a boy.--_ns._ KNAVE'-BAIRN,
a male child; KNAV'ERY, dishonesty; KNAVE'SHIP (_Scot._), a certain
quantity of grain, the due of the miller.--_adj._ KNAV'ISH, fraudulent:
villainous.--_adv._ KNAV'ISHLY.--_n._ KNAV'ISHNESS. [A.S. _cnafa_, _cnapa_,
a boy, a youth; Ger. _knabe_, _knappe_.]

KNEAD, n[=e]d, _v.t._ to work and press together into a mass, as flour into
dough: to operate upon in massage: to mix.--_ns._ KNEAD'ER;
KNEAD'ING-TROUGH, a trough for kneading. [A.S. _cnedan_; Ice. _knoða_, Ger.
_kneten_, to knead.]

KNEE, n[=e], _n._ the joint between the thigh and shin bones: a piece of
timber or metal like a bent knee: (_Shak._) a genuflection.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to kneel to, to go over on one's knees.--_n.pl._ KNEE'-BREECH'ES,
breeches extending to just below the knee, as in court-dress.--_n._
KNEE'-CAP, the bone above the protuberance of the knee: a cap or strong
covering for the knees, used chiefly for horses, to save their knees in
case of a fall.--_n.pl._ KNEE'-CORDS, knee-breeches of corduroy.--_adjs._
KNEE'-CROOK'ING, obsequious: fawning; KNEED, having knees: (_bot._) having
angular joints like the knee; KNEE'-DEEP, rising to the knees: sunk to the
knees; KNEE'-HIGH, rising or reaching to the knees.--_ns._ KNEE'-HOLL'Y,
butcher's broom: KNEE'-JOINT, a joint with two pieces at an angle, so as to
be very tight when pressed into a straight line; KNEE'-PAN, a flat, round
bone on the front of the knee-joint; KNEE'-PIECE, or -RAFT'ER, an angular
piece of timber strengthening a joint where two roof-timbers meet: any
defensive appliance covering the knee; KNEE'-STOP, -SWELL, a lever worked
by the performer's knee, for regulating the wind-supply of a reed-organ,
&c.; KNEE'-TIM'BER, timber bent into a shape suitable for a knee in
shipbuilding, &c.; KNEE'-TRIB'UTE (_Milt._), the homage of kneeling.--GIVE,
or OFFER, A KNEE, to act as second or bottle-holder in a fight, the
principal resting on the second's knee during the pauses between the
rounds. [A.S. _cneów_, _cneó_; Ger. _knie_, L. _genu_, Gr. _gonu_.]

KNEEL, n[=e]l, _v.i._ to bend the knee: to rest or fall on the
knee:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ kneeled, knelt.--_n._ KNEEL'ER, one who kneels.
[_Knee_.]

KNELL, nel, _n._ the stroke of a bell: the sound of a bell at a death or
funeral.--_v.i._ to sound as a bell: toll.--_v.t._ to summon as by a
tolling bell. [A.S. _cnyllan_, to beat noisily; Dut. and Ger. _knallen_.]

KNELT, nelt, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _kneel_.

KNEW, n[=u], _pa.t._ of know.

KNICKERBOCKERS, nik-[.e]r-bok'[.e]rz, _n.pl._ loose breeches gathered in at
the knee.--Also KNICK'ERS. [From the wide-breeched Dutchmen in
'Knickerbocker's' (Washington Irving's) humorous _History of New York_,
whence _Knickerbocker_ has come to mean the descendant of one of the
original Dutch settlers of New York.]

KNICK-KNACK, nik'-nak, _n._ a trifle or toy.--_n._ KNICK'-KNACK'ERY,
knick-knacks collectively. [A doubling of _knack_.]

KNIFE, n[=i]f, _n._ an instrument for cutting: a sword or dagger:--_pl._
KNIVES (n[=i]vz).--_v.t._ to stab with a knife: (_Amer._) to try to destroy
a political candidate's chances by a treacherous attack.--_ns._
KNIFE'-AND-FORK', a trencherman; KNIFE'-BOARD, a board on which knives are
cleaned: (_coll._) the seat running along the top of an omnibus;
KNIFE'-BOY, a boy employed in cleaning knives; KNIFE'-EDGE (_mech._), a
sharp piece of steel like a knife's edge serving as the axis of a balance,
&c.; KNIFE'-GRIND'ER, one who grinds or sharpens knives; KNIFE'-MON'EY, a
knife-shaped bronze currency formerly used in China; KNIFE'-REST, a glass
or metal utensil on which to rest a carving-knife or fork; KNIFE'-TRAY, a
tray for holding knives.--WAR TO THE KNIFE, mortal combat. [A.S. _cníf_:
Ger. _kneif_, knife, _kneifen_, to nip.]

KNIGHT, n[=i]t, _n._ one of gentle birth and bred to arms, admitted in
feudal times to a certain honourable military rank: (_Shak._) an attendant:
a champion: the rank, with the title 'Sir,' next below baronets: a piece
used in the game of chess.--_v.t._ to create a knight.--_ns._ KNIGHT'AGE,
the collective body of knights; KNIGHT'-BACH'ELOR, one who has been
knighted merely, not made a member of any titular order; KNIGHT'-BANN'ERET,
a knight who carried a banner, and who was superior in rank to the
knight-bachelor; KNIGHT'-ERR'ANT, a knight who travelled in search of
adventures; KNIGHT'-ERR'ANTRY; KNIGHT'HOOD, the character or privilege of a
knight: the order or fraternity of knights; KNIGHT'HOOD-ERR'ANT (_Tenn._),
the body of knights-errant.--_adj._ KNIGHT'LESS (_Spens._), unbecoming a
knight.--_n._ KNIGHT'LINESS, the bearing or duties of a knight.--_adj._ and
_adv._ KNIGHT'LY.--_ns._ KNIGHT'-MAR'SHAL, formerly an officer of the royal
household; KNIGHT'-SERV'ICE, tenure by a knight on condition of military
service.--KNIGHT OF INDUSTRY, a footpad, thief, or sharper; KNIGHT OF THE
CARPET, a civil knight, as opposed to a military, so called because created
kneeling on a carpet, not the field; KNIGHT OF THE PESTLE, an apothecary;
KNIGHT OF THE POST, one familiar with the whipping-post or pillory; KNIGHT
OF THE ROAD, a highwayman; KNIGHT OF THE SHIRE, a member of parliament for
a county; KNIGHT'S FEE, the amount of land with which a knight was invested
on his creation; KNIGHTS OF LABOUR, in the United States, a national labour
organisation; KNIGHTS OF MALTA (see Hospitaller); KNIGHTS OF ST CRISPIN,
shoemakers; KNIGHTS OF THE RAINBOW, flunkeys from their liveries; KNIGHTS
OF THE SHEARS, tailors; KNIGHTS OF THE SPIGOT, tapsters, publicans; KNIGHTS
OF THE STICK, compositors; KNIGHTS OF THE WHIP, coachmen; KNIGHTS TEMPLARS
(see TEMPLAR). [A.S. _cniht_ Ger. and Dut. _knecht_, Dan. _knegt_.]

KNIT, nit, _v.t._ to form into a knot: to tie together: to unite into
network by needles: to unite closely, to draw together: to
contract.--_v.i._ to interweave with needles: to grow together:--_pr.p._
knit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ knit'ted or knit.--_n._ (_Shak._) a style of
knitting.--_ns._ KNIT'TER; KNIT'TING, the work of a knitter: union,
junction: the network formed by knitting; KNIT'TING-MACHINE', a machine for
knitting; KNIT'TING-NEED'LE, a long needle or wire used for knitting thread
into stockings, &c. [A.S. _cnyttan_--_cnotta_, a knot.]

KNITCH, nich, _n._ (_prov._) a faggot.

KNITTLE, nit'l, _n._ (_naut._) a small line made of two or three yarns
twisted with the fingers: (_pl._) the halves of two yarns in a rope,
twisted for pointing.

KNIVES, _pl._ of _knife_.

KNOB, nob, _n._ a hard protuberance: a hard swelling: a round ball.--_adj._
KNOBBED, containing or set with knobs.--_n._ KNOB'BINESS.--_adj._ KNOB'BY,
full of knobs: knotty.--_n._ KNOB'STICK (_slang_), a synonym for a blackleg
or scab in trades-union slang. [_Knop_.]

KNOBKERRIE, nob'ker-i, _n._ a round-headed stick used as a club and a
missile by the Kafirs.

KNOCK, nok, _v.i._ to strike with something hard or heavy: to drive or be
driven against: to strike for admittance: to rap.--_v.t._ to strike: to
drive against.--_n._ a sudden stroke: a rap.--_adj._ KNOCK'-DOWN, such as
to overthrow.--_ns._ KNOCK'ER, the hammer suspended to a door for making a
knock: a goblin inhabiting a mine who points out the presence of ore by
knocks; KNOCK'ING, a beating on a door: a rap.--_adj._ KNOCK'-KNEED, having
knees that knock or touch in walking.--KNOCK ABOUT (_slang_), to saunter,
loaf about; KNOCK DOWN, to fell with a blow: assign to a bidder with a tap
of the auctioneer's hammer; KNOCK INTO A COCKED HAT (see COCK); KNOCK OFF,
to desist, cease: to accomplish hastily; KNOCK ON THE HEAD, to bring to a
sudden stop; KNOCK OUT, to beat in a boxing match, to overcome generally:
to lose the scent--of hounds in fox-hunting; KNOCK-OUT AUCTION, an auction
where the bidders are largely swindling confederates; KNOCK TOGETHER, to
get together or construct hastily; KNOCK UNDER, to give in, yield; KNOCK
UP, to rouse by knocking: weary out, or be worn out: to construct hastily:
(_U.S._) to get with child. [A.S. _cnucian_, _cnocian_; imit. like _knack_;
cf. Gael. _cnac_, _cnag_, &c.]

KNOLL, n[=o]l, _n._ a round hillock: the top of a hill. [A.S. _cnol_; Ger.
_knollen_, a knob, lump.]

KNOLL, n[=o]l. Same as KNELL.

KNOP, nop, _n._ (_B._) a knob, a bud. [A.S. _cnoep_; Dut. _knop_, Ger.
_knopf_.]

KNOSP, nosp, _n._ the unopened bud of a flower: an architectural ornament
resembling such. [Ger. _knospe_.]

KNOT, not, _n._ a wading-bird much resembling a snipe, sometimes said, but
without evidence, to be named from King _Cnut_ or _Canute_.

KNOT, not, _n._ a bunch of threads or the like entangled or twisted: an
interlacement of parts of a cord, &c., by twisting the ends about each
other, and then drawing tight the loops thus formed: a piece of ribbon,
lace, &c., folded or tied upon itself in some particular form, as
_shoulder-knot_, _breast-knot_, &c.: anything like a knot in form: a bond
of union: a difficulty: the gist of a matter: a cluster: the part of a tree
where a branch shoots out: an epaulet: (_naut._) a division of the
knot-marked log-line: a nautical mile.--_v.t._ to tie in a knot: to unite
closely.--_v.i._ to form knots or joints: to knit knots for a
fringe:--_pr.p._ knot'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ knot'ted.--_n._
KNOT'-GRASS, a common weed or grass, so called from the numerous joints or
knots of its stem.--_adjs._ KNOT'LESS, without knots; KNOT'TED, full of, or
having, knots: having intersecting lines or figures.--_n._
KNOT'TINESS.--_adj._ KNOT'TY, containing knots: hard, rugged: difficult:
intricate.--_n._ KNOT'WORK, ornamental work made with knots.--BOWLINE KNOT
(see BOW); GRANNY KNOT (see GRANNY); PORTERS' KNOT, a pad for supporting
burdens on the head; SQUARE KNOT, a knot used in tying reef-points so that
the ends come out alongside the standing parts; SURGEONS' KNOT, a square or
reef knot used in tying a ligature round a cut artery; TRUE LOVERS' KNOT, a
kind of double knot with two bows and two ends, an emblem of interwoven
affections.--CUT THE KNOT, to solve a problem slap-dash (cf. GORDIAN).
[A.S. _cnotta_; Ger. _knoten_, Dan. _knude_, L. _nodus_.]

KNOUT, nowt, _n._ a whip formerly used as an instrument of punishment in
Russia: punishment inflicted by the knout. [Russ. _knute_.]

KNOW, n[=o], _v.t._ to be informed of: to be assured of: to be acquainted
with: to recognise: (_B._) to approve: to have sexual commerce
with.--_v.i._ to possess knowledge:--_pr.p._ kn[=o]w'ing; _pa.t._ knew
(n[=u]); _pa.p._ known (n[=o]n).--_n._ (_Shak._) knowledge.--_adj._
KNOW'ABLE, capable of being known, discovered, or understood.--_ns._
KNOW'ABLENESS; KNOW'-ALL, one who thinks he knows everything;
KNOW'ER.--_adj._ KNOW'ING, intelligent: skilful: cunning.--_adv._
KNOW'INGLY.--_ns._ KNOW'INGNESS, the quality of being knowing or
intelligent: shrewdness; KNOW'-NOTH'ING, one who is quite ignorant: a
member of the native American party (1854-56).--_adj._ completely
ignorant.--KNOW A MOVE OR TWO, to be forearmed against trickery by a
knowledge of the tricks; KNOW ON WHICH SIDE ONE'S BREAD IS BUTTERED, to be
fully alive to one's own interest; KNOW THE ROPES, to understand the detail
of any matter, as a sailor does his rigging; KNOW WHAT'S O'CLOCK, KNOW
WHAT'S WHAT, to be thoroughly acquainted with something: to be wide awake.
[A.S. _cnáwan_; Ice. _kná_, L. _nosc[)e]re_ for _gnoscere_, Gr.
_gign[=o]skein_.]

KNOWLEDGE, nol'ej, _n._ assured belief: that which is known: information,
instruction: enlightenment, learning: practical skill.--_adj._
KNOWL'EDGEABLE (_coll._), possessing knowledge: intelligent.--_n._
KNOWL'EDGE-BOX (_slang_), the head.--TO ONE'S KNOWLEDGE, so far as one
knows. [M. E. _knowleche_, where _-leche_ is the Northern form of the
suffix in _wed-lock_, being A.S. _lác_, gift, sport.]

KNUB, nub, _n._ a knob, a small lump: the waste or refuse of
silk-cocoons.--Also KNUBS.

KNUCKLE, nuk'l, _n._ projecting joint of the fingers; (_cook._) the
knee-joint of a calf or pig.--_v.i._ to bend the fingers: to touch the
forehead as a mark of respect: to yield.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to touch with the
knuckle.--_ns._ KNUCK'LE-BONES, a game (called also _Dibs_); KNUCK'LE-BOW,
the curved part of a sword-guard that covers the fingers; KNUCK'LE-DUST'ER,
a kind of modern cestus, devised as a protection against garrotters;
KNUCK'LE-JOINT, a joint where the forked end of a connecting-rod is joined
by a bolt to another piece of the machinery.--KNUCKLE DOWN, to apply one's
self with vigour to a task: to submit--in this sense, also KNUCKLE UNDER.
[M. E. _knokil_; cf. Dut. _knokkel_; prob. Celt., W. _cnwc_.]

KNURL, n[.e]rl, _n._ (_Burns_) a humpback.

KNURL. Same as GNARL, KNARL.

KNURR, KNUR, nur, _n._ a knot in wood: a wooden ball.--KNUR AND SPELL, a
game played with a ball (_knur_), trap (_spell_), and tripstick, in vogue
chiefly in the north of England. [Old Dut. _knorre_.]

KOA, k[=o]'a, _n._ a forest-tree of the Sandwich Islands.

KOALA, k[=o]-ä'lä, _n._ an Australian marsupial, called also 'Native Bear.'

KOB, kob, _n._ an African water-antelope.

KOBALT, _n._ Same as COBALT.

KOBANG, k[=o]'bang, _n._ an oblong gold coin, rounded at the corners, once
current in Japan.--Also K[=O]'BAN.

KOBOLD, k[=o]'bold, _n._ in German folklore, a spirit of the mines. [Akin
to _goblin_.]

KODAK, k[=o]'dak, _n._ a small portable photographic camera with a
continuous roll of sensitised film, on which successive instantaneous
negatives are made.--_v.t._ to take an instantaneous picture of. [The
trademark name of the Eastman _Kodak_ Company.]

KOFF, kof, _n._ a small Dutch sailing-vessel.

KOFTGAR, koft'gär, _n._ one who inlays steel with gold.--_n._ KOFT'GARI,
such work--sometimes KOFT'WORK. [Hind.]

KOHELETH, k[=o]-hel'eth, _n._ the Preacher, supposed to be applied to
Solomon in Eccles. i. 12.

KOHL, k[=o]l, _n._ a fine powder of antimony used in the East for staining
the eyes. [Ar.]

KOHLRABI, k[=o]l'r[=a]-bi, _n._ the turnip-cabbage. [Ger.,--It. _cavolo
rapa_, cole-turnip.]

KOKRA, kok'ra, _n._ an Indian wood used for making flutes, &c.--Also
_Cocus-wood_.

KOLA, k[=o]'lä, _n._ an African tree whose nuts or seeds have stimulant
properties: a name given to an aerated non-alcoholic beverage.

KOLINSKY, ko-lin'ski, _n._ the Siberian polecat or mink.

KONISCOPE, kon'i-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument for indicating the quantity of
dust in the atmosphere. [Gr. _konis_, dust, _skopein_, to look.]

KONISTRA, k[=o]-nis'tra, _n._ the orchestra or dancing-place in the ancient
Greek theatre, a circular area between the stage and the auditorium.

KOODOO, k[=oo]'d[=oo], _n._ an African antelope with long spiral horns.

KOORBASH, k[=oo]r'bash, _n._ a whip of hippopotamus or rhinoceros hide,
used in Egypt and elsewhere.--Also KOURBASH. [Ar. _kurb[=a]j_.]

KOORD, k[=oo]rd, _n._ Same as KURD.

KOPECK, k[=o]'pek, _n._ Same as COPECK.

KOPJE, kop'ye, _n._ a flat-topped hill. [Dut. _kop_, a top.]

KORAN, k[=o]'rän, _n._ the Mohammedan Scriptures: Alcoran.--_adj._
KORAN'IC. [Ar. _qur[=a]n_, reading.]

KOSHER, k[=o]'sh[.e]r, _adj._ pure, clean, according to the Jewish
ordinances--as of meat killed and prepared by Jews. [Heb., from
_y[=a]shar_, to be right.]

KOSMOS. Same as COSMOS.

KOTO, k[=o]'t[=o], _n._ a Japanese musical instrument consisting of an
oblong box over which thirteen silk strings are stretched.

KOTOW, k[=o]-tow', _n._ the Chinese ceremony of prostration.--_v.i._ to
perform that ceremony, to abase one's self.--Also KOWTOW'. [Chin.]

KOTYLISKOS, kot-i-lis'kos, _n._ a small Greek toilet-vase with a small
foot.

KOUMISS, k[=oo]'mis, _n._ a Kalmuck intoxicating beverage made from the
soured and fermented milk of mares--supposed to be good for pulmonary
phthisis. [Russ.,--Tartar.]

KRAAL, kräl, _n._ a Hottentot village or hut [Dut. _kraal_--Port.
_curral_--L. _curr[)e]re_.]

KRAKEN, krä'ken, _n._ a fabled sea-animal of enormous size. [Scand.]

KRANG, krang, _n._ the carcass of a whale after the blubber has been
removed.--Also KRENG. [Dut.]

KRASIS, kr[=a]'sis, _n._ the act of adding a little water to the wine used
for the Eucharist.--Also called _Mixture_. [Gr.]

KREATIN. Same as CREATIN.

KREESE. Same as CREESE.

KREMLIN, krem'lin, _n._ a citadel, specially that of Moscow. [Russ.
_kremli_.]

KREOSOTE, kr[=e]'o-s[=o]t, _n._ Same as CREOSOTE.

KREUTZER, kroit'z[.e]r, _n._ a small copper coin of Austria, 100 to the
florin or gulden--formerly also in South Germany. [Ger. _kreuzer_--_kreuz_,
a cross, because formerly stamped with a cross.]

K'RI, kr[=e], _n._ a marginal reading in the Hebrew Bible, proposed in
substitution for a k'thibh, or reading in the text. The word signifies
_read_, and was originally a marginal direction. [Heb.]

KRIEGSPIEL, kr[=e]g'sp[=e]l, _n._ the 'war-game' played with metal blocks
on a map, to train officers in military manoeuvres. [Ger. _krieg_, war,
_spiel_, game.]

KRIS. Same as CREESE.

KRISHNA, krish'na, _n._ a deity in later Hindu mythology.

KRUMMHORN, krum'horn, _n._ a medieval clarinet-like instrument: a reed-stop
in the organ. [Ger. _krumm_.]

KRUPSIS, kr[=oo]p'sis, _n._ (_theol._) the doctrine that Christ, during His
state of humiliation, continued to possess in a veiled way the divine
attributes of omnipotence, omniscience, &c. [Gr., _kryptein_, to conceal.]

KRYOMETER, kr[=i]-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a thermometer for measuring very low
temperatures. [Gr. _kryos_, cold, _metron_, a measure.]

KSAR (_Milt._), a former spelling of _Czar_.

KSHATRIYA, kshat'ri-ya, _n._ the second or military caste among the
Brahmanic Hindus.

K'THIBH, kth[=e]v, _n._ a textual reading in the Hebrew Scriptures:--opp.
to _K'ri_. The word signifies _written_, and was originally a marginal note
calling attention to the textual form in distinction from the k'ri. [Heb.]

KUDOS, k[=u]'dos, _n._ credit, fame, generally used jocularly. [Gr.]

KUDU. Same as KOODOO.

KUFIC. Same as CUFIC.

KUKLUX, k[=u]'kluks, or KUKLUX KLAN, a secret organisation in several
Southern states after the Civil War of 1861-65, to oppose Northern
influence in the South, and to prevent the negroes from enjoying their
rights as freemen--crushed by United States forces in 1869. [Gr. _kuklos_,
a circle.]

KUMISS. Same as KOUMISS.

KÜMMEL, küm'el, _n._ a liqueur flavoured with cumin and caraway seeds.
[Ger.]

KURD, k[=oo]rd, _n._ an inhabitant of _Kurdistan_, a region on the east of
the upper course of the Tigris.

KURSAAL, k[=oo]r'säl, _n._ the reception-room of a German spa. [Ger., lit.
'cure-saloon.']

KVASS, kvas, _n._ rye-beer. [Russ. _kvas[)u]_.]

KYANISE, k[=i]'an-[=i]z, _v.t._ to preserve from dry-rot by injecting
corrosive sublimate into the pores of the wood. [From John H. _Kyan_
(1774-1830).]

KYANITE, k[=i]'a-n[=i]t, _n._ Same as CYANITE.

KYE, Ky, k[=i], _n.pl._ Scotch form of the plural of _cow_. [See KINE.]

KYLIX, k[=i]'liks, _n._ a broad and shallow Greek drinking-vase.

KYLLOSIS, kil-l[=o]'sis, _n._ club-foot.

KYLOE, k[=i]'l[=o], _n._ one of the cattle of the Hebrides.

KYMOGRAPH, k[=i]'m[=o]-graf, _n._ an instrument for measuring the pressure
of fluids, esp. of blood in a blood-vessel.--_adj._ KYMOGRAPH'IC. [Gr.
_kyma_, a wave, _graphein_, to write.]

KYRIE, kir'i-[=e], _n._ the _Kyrie eleïson_='Lord have mercy,' including
both the words and the music to which they are sung: one of the responses
to the commandments in the Anglican ante-communion service.--KYRIE ELEÏSON,
a form of prayer which occurs in all the ancient Greek liturgies, and
retained in the R.C. mass, following immediately after the introit. [Voc.
case of Gr. _kyrios_, lord.]

KYRIOLOGIC, -al, kir-i-o-loj'ik, -al, _adj._ denoting objects by
alphabetical characters or conventional signs. [Gr. _kyrios_, literal,
proper, _logos_, discourse.]

KYTHE, k[=i]_th_, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to make known.--_v.i._ to show one's
self, to appear. [A.S. _cyðan_, to make known. See UNCOUTH.]

       *       *       *       *       *

L the twelfth letter in our alphabet, usually termed a liquid, but more
correctly designated as a front palatal: (_chem._) the symbol for lithium:
in Roman numerals, for 50, but [=L]=50,000.

LA, lä, _interj._ lo! see! behold! ah! indeed!--_n._ (_mus._) in
solmisation, the syllable used for the sixth tone of the scale. [A.S.
_lá_.]

LAAGER, lä'g[.e]r, _n._ in South African campaigning, a camp made by a ring
of ox-wagons set close together, the spaces beneath being filled up with
the baggage of the company.--_v.t._ to arrange in such a defensive
enclosure. [Dut., a variant of _leger_, a camp.]

[Illustration]

LABARUM, lab'a-rum, _n._ a Roman military standard adopted as the imperial
standard after Constantine's conversion. It bore the Greek letters XP
(Chr), joined in a monogram, to signify the name of Christ: a similar
ecclesiastical banner borne in processions: any moral standard or guide.
[Late Gr. _labaron_, origin unknown. Some make bold to derive from Basque
_labaria_, a standard.]

LABDANUM. See LADANUM.

LABEFACTION, lab-e-fak'shun, _n._ a weakening decay--also
LABEFACT[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ LAB'EFY, to impair. [L. _labefac[)e]re_, to
shake.]

LABEL, l[=a]'bel, _n._ a small slip of writing affixed to anything to
denote its contents, ownership, &c.: (_law_) a paper annexed to a will, as
a codicil: (_her._) a fillet with pendants: (_archit._) the dripstone over
a Gothic window or doorway arch.--_v.t._ to affix a label to: to describe
by or on a label:--_pr.p._ l[=a]'belling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ l[=a]'belled.
[O. Fr. _label_ (Fr. _lambeau_); perh. from Old High Ger. _lappa_ (Ger.
_lappen_).]

LABELLUM, la-bel'um, _n._ the lower petal of a flower, esp. an orchis. [L.,
dim. of _labium_, a lip.]

LABIAL, l[=a]'bi-al, _adj._ pertaining to the lips: formed by the
lips.--_n._ a sound formed by the lips: a letter representing a sound
formed either by both the lips, or by the upper lip and under teeth--_p_,
_b_, _m_, _f_, _v_.--_v.t._ L[=A]'BIALISE.--_adv._ L[=A]'BIALLY.--_n.pl._
LABI[=A]'TÆ, a natural order of gamopetalous plants, the mint family having
four-cornered stems and opposite branches.--_adjs._ L[=A]'BIATE, -D
(_bot._), having two unequal divisions, as in the monopetalous corolla of
the mints.--_adj._ and _n._ LABIODEN'TAL, of a sound pronounced both by the
lips and teeth: a letter representing such (_f_, _v_.).--_n._ L[=A]'BIUM, a
lip or lip-like part:--_pl._ L[=A]'BIA. [Fr.,--L. _labium_, _labrum_, a
lip.]

LABIS, l[=a]'bis, _n._ the cochlear or eucharistic spoon. [Late Gr. from
_lambanein_, to take.]

LABORATORY, lab'or-a-tor-i, _n._ a chemist's workroom: a place where
scientific experiments are systematically carried on: a place for the
manufacture of arms and war material: a place where anything is prepared
for use. [L. _labor[=a]re_--_labor_, work.]

LABOUR, l[=a]'bur, _n._ toil or exertion, esp. when fatiguing: work: pains:
duties: a task requiring hard work: the pangs of childbirth.--_v.i._ to
undergo labour: to work: to take pains: to be oppressed: to move slowly: to
be in travail: (_naut._) to pitch and roll heavily.--_adj._ LAB[=O]'RIOUS,
full of labour: toilsome: wearisome: devoted to labour:
industrious.--_adv._ LAB[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ LAB[=O]'RIOUSNESS.--_adj._
L[=A]'BOURED, bearing marks of labour or effort in the execution.--_ns._
L[=A]'BOURER, one who labours: one who does work requiring little skill;
L[=A]'BOURIST, one who contends for the interests of workmen.--_adjs._
L[=A]'BOUR-SAV'ING, intended to supersede or lessen the labour of men;
L[=A]'BOURSOME (_Shak._), made with labour and diligence.--LABOUR DAY, a
legal holiday in some parts of the United States, as in New York (the first
Monday in September); LABOUR MARKET, the supply of unemployed labour in
relation to the demand for it; LABOUR OF LOVE, work undertaken merely as an
act of friendliness, and without hope of emolument; LABOUR WITH, to take
pains to convince.--HARD LABOUR, compulsory work imposed on certain
criminals in addition to imprisonment. [O. Fr. _labour_, _labeur_--L.
_labor_.]

LABRADORITE, lab'ra-d[=o]r-[=i]t, _n._ one of the group of the Feldspars,
and a very important rock-forming mineral. [_Labrador_.]

LABRET, l[=a]'bret, _n._ a piece of bone, shell, &c. inserted into the lip
by savages for ornament.--_adj._ L[=A]'BROSE, having thick lips.--_n._
L[=a]'brum, a lip or lip-like part:--_pl._ L[=A]'BRA. [L. _labrum_,
_labium_, a lip.]

LABURNUM, la-bur'num, _n._ a small tree with large pendulous racemes of
beautiful yellow flowers, a native of the Alps. [L.]

LABYRINTH, lab'i-rinth, _n._ a place full of inextricable windings:
(_orig._) a building consisting of halls connected by intricate passages:
an arrangement of tortuous passages in which it is difficult to find the
way out: an inexplicable difficulty, a perplexity: (_anat._) the cavities
of the internal ear.--_adjs._ LABYRINTH'AL, LABYRINTH'IAN, LABYRINTH'INE,
pertaining to or like a labyrinth: winding: intricate: perplexing;
LABYRINTH'IFORM, having the form of a labyrinth: intricate.--_n._
LABYRINTH'ODON, a race of extinct gigantic amphibians found in the Permian,
Carboniferous, and Triassic strata, so called from the mazy pattern
exhibited on a transverse section of the teeth of some genera. [Fr.
_labyrinthe_--L. _labyrinthus_--Gr. _labyrinthos_; akin to _laura_, a
passage.]

LAC, lak, _n._ the term used in India for 100,000 rupees, the nominal value
of which is £10,000.--Also LAKH. [Hind. _lak_--Sans. _laksha_, 100,000, a
mark.]

LAC, lak, _n._ a dark-red transparent resin produced on the twigs of trees
in the East by the lac insect, used in dyeing.--_adj._ LACCIC
(lak'sik).--_ns._ LACCINE (lak'sin), a brittle, translucent, yellow
substance, obtained from shell-lac; LAC'-DYE, LAC'-LAKE, scarlet colouring
matters obtained from STICK'-LAC, the twigs, with attached resin, enclosed
insects, and ova; SEED'-LAC, the granular portion remaining after removing
the resin, triturating with water, and drying; SHELL'-LAC, SHEL'LAC, thin
plates of resin prepared by melting the seed-lac in cotton-cloth bags,
straining, and allowing it to drop on to sticks or leaves. [Pers.
_lak_--Sans. _lákshá_, the lac insect--_rañj_, to dye.]

LACE, l[=a]s, _n._ a plaited string for fastening: an ornamental fabric of
linen, cotton, silk, or gold and silver threads, made by looping, knotting,
plaiting, or twisting the thread into definite patterns, of contrasted open
and close structure; three distinct varieties are made, two by handiwork,
known respectively as _Needle_ or _Point lace_ and _Pillow_ or _Bobbin
Lace_, and one by machinery.--_v.t._ to fasten with a lace: to adorn with
lace: to streak: to mark with the lash: to intermix, as coffee with brandy,
&c.: to intertwine.--_v.i._ to be fastened with a lace.--_ns._ LACE'-BARK
TREE, a lofty West Indies tree, the inner bark like coarse lace;
LACE'-BOOT, a boot fastened by a lace.--_p.adj._ LACED, fastened or adorned
with lace.--_ns._ LACE'-FRAME, a machine used in lace-making; LACE'-LEAF
(see LATTICE-LEAF); LACE'-MAN, one who deals in lace; LACE'-MEND'ER, one
who repairs lace; LACE'-P[=A]'PER, paper stamped or cut by hand with an
open-work pattern like lace; LACE'-PILL'OW, a cushion on which many various
kinds of lace are made, held on the knees.--_adj._ L[=A]'CY, like
lace.--ALENÇON LACE, a very fine point-lace, the most important made in
France; APPLIQUÉ LACE, lace having sprigs or flowers sewed on net;
BALLOON-NET LACE, a form of woven lace in which the freeing threads are
peculiarly twisted about the warps; BRUSSELS LACE, an extremely fine lace
with sprigs applied on a net ground; DUCHESSE LACE, a Belgian pillow-lace
having beautiful designs with cord outlines, often in relief; GUIPURE LACE,
any lace without a net ground, the pattern being held together by bars or
brides; HONITON LACE, a lace made at _Honiton_ in Devonshire, remarkable
for the beauty of its figures and sprigs; IMITATION LACE, any lace made by
machinery; MECHLIN LACE, a lace with bobbin ground and designs outlined by
thread or flat cord; SPANISH LACE, needle-point lace brought from Spanish
convents since their dissolution--but probably of Flemish origin: cut and
drawn work made in convents in Spain, of patterns usually confined to
simple sprigs and flowers: a modern black-silk lace with large
flower-patterns, mostly of Flemish make: a modern needle-point lace with
large square designs; TAMBOUR LACE, a modern kind of lace made with
needle-embroidery on machine-made net; TORCHON LACE, peasants' bobbin laces
of loose texture and geometrical designs, much imitated by machinery;
VALENCIENNES LACE, a fine bobbin lace having the design made with the
ground and of the same thread. [O. Fr. _las_, a noose--L. _laqueus_, a
noose.]

LACERATE, las'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to tear: to rend: to wound: to
afflict.--_adjs._ LAC'ERABLE, that may be lacerated; LAC'ERANT, harrowing;
LAC'ERATE, -D, rent, torn: (_bot._) having the edges cut into irregular
segments.--_n._ LACER[=A]'TION, act of lacerating: the rent made by
tearing.--_adj._ LAC'ERATIVE, tearing: having power to tear. [L.
_lacer[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to tear--_lacer_, torn.]

LACERTA, la-s[.e]r'ta, _n._ a genus of saurian reptiles, the name properly
restricted to slender, active lizards.--_n._ and _adj._ LACER'TIAN, an
animal belonging to the genus Lacerta.--_n._ LACERTIL'IA, an order of
reptiles, including the lizards proper, &c.--_adjs._ LACERTIL'IAN;
LACERTIL'IOID; LACER'TINE. [L.]

LACHES, läsh'[=e]z, _n._ (_law_) negligence or undue delay, such as to
disentitle a person to a certain remedy, any negligence. [O. Fr.
_lachesse_.]

LACHESIS, lak'e-sis, _n._ the one of the three Fates who assigned to each
mortal his destiny--she spun the thread of life from the distaff held by
Clotho. [Gr.]

LACHRYMAL, LACRYMAL, lak'ri-mal, _adj._ of or pertaining to tears,
secreting tears, as in 'lachrymal duct,' the nasal duct, conveying tears
from the eye to the nose.--_n._ one of the bones of the face, the _os
unguis_, or nail-bone, in man.--_adj._ LACH'RYMARY, containing tears.--_n._
LACH'RYM[=A]TORY, a small slender glass vessel found in ancient sepulchres,
apparently filled with the tears of mourners.--_adj._ LACH'RYMOSE,
LAC'RYMOSE, shedding tears, or given to do so: lugubrious,
mournful.--_adv._ LACH'RYMOSELY.--LACHRYMA CHRISTI, a wine of a sweet but
piquant taste, produced from grapes grown on Mount Vesuvius, the best light
red. [L. _lacryma_ (properly _lacrima_), a tear; Gr. _dakru_, Eng. _tear_.]

LACING, l[=a]s'ing, _n._ a fastening with a lace or cord through
eyelet-holes: a cord used in fastening: in bookbinding, the cords by which
the boards of a book are fastened to the back: in shipbuilding, the _knee
of the head_, or _lace-piece_, a piece of compass or knee timber secured to
the back of the figure-head: in mining, _lagging_, or cross-pieces of
timber or iron placed to prevent ore from falling into a passage.

LACINIA, l[=a]-sin'i-a, _n._ a long incision in a leaf, &c.--also a narrow
lobe resulting from such: in entomology, the apex of the maxilla.--_adjs._
LACIN'I[=A]TE, -D, cut into narrow lobes, fringed; LACIN'IFORM,
fringe-like; LACIN'IOL[=A]TE, finely fringed. [L., a flap.]

LACK, lak, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to want: to be in want: to be destitute of: to
miss.--_n._ want: destitution.--_ns._ LACK'-ALL, one who is destitute;
LACK'-BRAIN (_Shak._), a fool.--_adjs._ LACK'-LIN'EN (_Shak._), wanting
linen; LACK'-LUS'TRE, wanting brightness.--_n._ a want of brightness. [From
an old Low Ger. root found in Dut. _lak_, blemish; cf. Ice. _lakr_,
defective.]

LACKADAISICAL, lak-a-d[=a]'zi-kal, _adj._ affectedly pensive,
sentimental.--_interj._ LACK'ADAISY=LACK-A-DAY. [_Alack-a-day_. See ALACK.]

LACK-A-DAY, lak-a-d[=a]', _interj._ See ALACK-A-DAY.

LACKER. See LACQUER.

LACKEY, lak'i, _n._ a menial attendant: a footman or footboy.--_v.t._ and
_v.i._ to pay servile attendance: to act as a footman. [O. Fr. _laquay_
(Fr. _laquais_)--Sp. _lacayo_, a lackey; perh. Ar. _luka`_, servile.]

LACMUS, lak'mus, _n._ the same as LITMUS (q.v.).

LACONIC, -AL, la-kon'ik, -al, _adj._ expressing in few words after the
manner of the _Laconians_, _Lacedæmonians_, or _Spartans_: concise:
pithy.--_adv._ LACON'ICALLY.--_ns._ LAC'ONISM, LACON'ICISM, a concise
style: a short, pithy phrase. [L.,--Gr.]

LACQUER, LACKER, lak'[.e]r, _n._ a varnish made of lac and alcohol.--_v.t._
to cover with lacquer: to varnish.--_ns._ LAC'QUERER, one who varnishes or
covers with lacquer; LAC'QUERING, the act of varnishing with lacquer: a
coat of lacquer varnish. [Fr. _lacre_--Port. _lacre_, _laca_--Pers. _lac_,
lac.]

LACROSSE, la-kros', _n._ a Canadian game of ball, played by two sets of
eleven, the ball driven through the opponents' goal by means of the CROSSE,
a bent stick, 5-6 ft. long, with a shallow net at one end. [Fr.]

LACTEAL, lak'te-al, _adj._ pertaining to or resembling milk: conveying
chyle.--_n._ one of the absorbent vessels of the intestines which convey
the chyle to the thoracic ducts.--_ns._ LAC'TARENE, LAC'TARINE, a
preparation of the caseine of milk, used by calico-printers; LAC'T[=A]TE, a
salt of lactic acid, and a base; LACT[=A]'TION, the act of giving milk: the
period of suckling.--_adj._ LAC'TEOUS, milky, milk-like.--_n._
LACTESC'ENCE.--_adjs._ LACTESC'ENT, turning to milk: producing milk or
white juice: milky; LAC'TIC, pertaining to milk; LACTIF'EROUS, LACTIF'IC,
producing milk or white juice.--_ns._ LAC'TIFUGE, a medicine which checks
the flow of milk; LAC'TOCRITE, an apparatus for testing the quantity of
fatty substance in a sample of milk; LACTOM'ETER, an instrument for
measuring the quality of milk; LAC'TOSCOPE, an instrument for testing the
purity or richness of milk by its degree of translucency; LAC'TOSE, a kind
of sugar, only moderately sweet, obtained from milk by evaporating
whey--also LAC'TINE; LACTUCA (lak-t[=u]'ka), a genus of herbs of the aster
family, with milky juice.--_adj._ LACTUCIC (lak-t[=u]'sik).--LACTIC ACID,
an acid obtained from milk. [L. _lacteus_, milky--_lac_, _lactis_, milk;
Gr. _gala_, _galaktos_, milk.]

LACUNA, la-k[=u]'na, _n._ a gap or hiatus:--_pl._ LAC[=U]'NÆ.--_n._
LAC[=U]'NAR, a sunken panel or coffer in a ceiling or a soffit: a ceiling
containing such.--_adjs._ LAC[=U]'NOSE, furrowed: pitted; LAC[=U]'NOUS. [L.
_lacuna_, anything hollow--_lacus_, a lake.]

LACUSTRINE, la-kus'trin, _adj._ pertaining to lakes.--Also LACUS'TRAL,
LACUS'TRIAN. [From L. _lacus_, a lake.]

LAD, lad, _n._ a boy: a youth: (_Scot._) a lover:--_fem._ LASS.--_n._
LAD'DIE, a little lad: a boy.--LAD'S LOVE, a provincial name of the
southernwood. [M. E. _ladde_--Ir. _lath_, a youth, champion (W. _llawd_).
Mr H. Bradley suggests that M. E. _ladde_, a servant, coincides with the
adjectival form of the past participle of the verb to _lead_, the original
meaning thus being 'one _led_ in the train of a lord.']

LADANUM, lad'a-num, _n._ a resinous exudation from the leaves of a shrub
growing round the Mediterranean.--Also LAB'DANUM. [L.,--Gr.
_l[=e]danon_--Pers. _l[=a]dan_. See LAUDANUM.]

LADDER, lad'[.e]r, _n._ a frame made with steps placed between two upright
pieces, by which one may ascend a building, &c.: anything by which one
ascends: a gradual rise. [A.S. _hl['æ]der_; Ger. _leiter_.]

LADE, l[=a]d, _v.t._ to burden: to throw in or out, as a fluid, with a
ladle or dipper.--_n._ (_Scot._) a load: a water-course: the mouth of a
river.--_n._ LAD'ING, the act of loading: that which is loaded: cargo:
freight. [A.S. _hladan_, pt. _hlód_, _hladen_, to load, to draw out water;
Dut. _laden_; Ger. _be-laden_.]

LADIN, la-d[=e]n', _n._ a Romance tongue spoken in the Engadine valley in
Switzerland and the upper Inn valley in Tyrol. [L. _Latinus_, Latin.]

LADINO, la-d[=e]'n[=o], _n._ the old Castilian tongue: the Spanish jargon
of some Turkish Jews: a Central American of mixed white and Indian blood.

LADLE, l[=a]d'l, _n._ a large spoon for lifting out liquid from a vessel:
the float-board of a mill-wheel: an instrument for drawing the charge from
a cannon.--_v.t._ to lift with a ladle.--_ns._ LAD'LEFUL, the quantity in a
ladle:--_pl._ LAD'LEFULS.--LADLE FURNACE, a small gas furnace heated by a
Bunsen burner, for melting metals, &c. [A.S. _hlædel_--_hladan_, to lade.]

LADRONE, la-dr[=o]n', _n._ a robber. [Sp.,--L. _latro_.]

LADY, l[=a]'di, _n._ the mistress of a house: a wife: a title of the wives
of knights, and all degrees above them, and of the daughters of earls and
all higher ranks: a title of complaisance to any woman of refined
manners:--_pl._ LADIES (l[=a]'diz).--_ns._ L[=A]'DYBIRD, a genus of little
beetles, usually brilliant red or yellow--also L[=A]'DYBUG, L[=A]'DYCOW;
L[=A]'DY-CHAP'EL, a chapel dedicated to 'Our Lady,' the Virgin Mary,
usually behind the high altar, at the extremity of the apse; L[=A]'DYDAY,
the 25th March, the day of the Annunciation of the Virgin; L[=A]'DYFERN,
one of the prettiest varieties of British ferns, common in moist woods,
with bipinnate fronds sometimes two feet long; L[=A]'DY-FLY (same as
LADYBIRD); L[=A]'DYHOOD, condition, character of a lady.--_adj._
L[=A]'DYISH, having the airs of a fine lady.--_ns._ L[=A]'DYISM,
affectation of the airs of a fine lady; L[=A]'DY-KILL'ER, a man who fancies
his fascinations irresistible to women: a general lover.--_adj._
L[=A]'DY-LIKE, like a lady in manners: refined: soft, delicate.--_ns._
L[=A]DY-LOVE, a lady or woman loved: a sweetheart; L[=A]DY'S-BED'STRAW, the
plant _Galium verum_; L[=A]'DY'S-BOW'ER, the only British species of
clematis--also _Traveller's joy_; L[=A]'DY'S-FING'ER, a name for many
plants: a piece of confectionery; L[=A]'DYSHIP, the title of a lady;
L[=A]'DY'S-MAID, a female attendant on a lady, esp. in matters relating to
the toilet; L[=A]DY'S-MAN'TLE, a genus of herbaceous plants having small,
yellowish-green flowers; L[=A]'DY'S-SLIPP'ER, a genus of orchidaceous
plants, remarkable for the large inflated lip of the corolla;
L[=A]'DY'S-SMOCK, the Bitter Cress, a meadow-plant, with whitish,
blush-coloured flowers.--LADIES' COMPANION, a small bag used for carrying
women's work; LADIES' MAN, one fond of women's society.--MY LADYSHIP, YOUR
LADYSHIP, a form of expression used in speaking to, or of, one who has the
rank of a lady. [A.S. _hláf-dige_--_hláf_, a loaf, _d['æ]gee_, a kneader,
or=_hláfweardige_ (i.e. loaf-keeper, see _ward_), and thus a contr. fem. of
_Lord_.]

LÆTARE, l[=e]-t[=a]'r[=e], _n._ the fourth Sunday in Lent, named from the
first word in the service for the festival. [L. _læt[=a]re_, to
rejoice--_lætus_, joyful.]

LAG, lag, _adj._ slack: sluggish: coming behind.--_n._ he who, or that
which, comes behind: the fag-end: (_slang_) an old convict.--_v.i._ to move
or walk slowly: to loiter.--_v.t._ (_slang_) to commit to justice:--_pr.p._
lag'ging; _pa.p._ lagged.--_adj._ LAG'-BELL'IED, having a drooping
belly.--_n._ LAG'-END (_Shak._), the last or long-delayed end.--_adj._
LAG'GARD, lagging: slow: backward.--_ns._ LAG'GARD, LAG'GER, one who lags
behind: a loiterer: an idler.--_adv._ LAG'GINGLY, in a lagging manner.
[Celt., as W. _llag_, loose, Gael. _lag_, feeble; cf. L. _laxus_, loose.]

LAGENA, la-j[=e]'na, _n._ a wine-vase, amphora: the terminal part of the
cochlea in birds and reptiles:--_pl._ LAG[=E]'NÆ. [L.]

LAGER-BEER, lä'ger-b[=e]r, _n._ a kind of light beer very much used in
Germany.--Also LA'GER. [Ger. _lagerbier_--_lager_, a store-house, _bier_,
beer.]

LAGGEN, lag'en, _n._ (_Burns_) the angle between the side and bottom of a
wooden dish.

LAGOMYS, l[=a]-g[=o]'mis, _n._ a genus of rodents, much resembling hares or
rabbits. [Gr. _lag[=o]s_, a hare, _mys_, a mouse.]

LAGOON, LAGUNE, la-g[=oo]n', _n._ a shallow pond into which the sea flows.
[It. _laguna_--L. _lacuna_.]

LAGOPHTHALMIA, lag-of-thal'mi-a, _n._ inability to close the eye.--_adj._
LAGOPHTHAL'MIC.

LAGOPUS, la-g[=o]'pus, _n._ a genus of grouse, the ptarmigans.--_adj._
LAGOP'ODOUS, having furry feet.--_n._ LAGOS'TOMA, hare-lip.--_adj._
LAG[=O]'TIC, rabbit-eared.

LAGRIMOSO, lag-ri-m[=o]'s[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) plaintive. [It.]

LAGTHING, läg'ting, _n._ the upper house of the Norwegian parliament.
[Norw. _lag_, law, _thing_, parliament.]

LAIC, LAICAL, LAICISE. See LAY, _adj._

LAID, l[=a]d, _adj._ put down, prostrate: pressed down.--LAID PAPER, such
as shows in its fabric the marks of the close parallel wires on which the
paper-pulp was laid in the process of its manufacture:--opp. to
_Wove-paper_, that laid on woven flannels or on felts. [Pa.t. and pa.p. of
LAY.]

LAIDLY, l[=a]d'li, _adj._ (_prov._) loathly.

LAIN, _pa.p._ of LIE, to rest.

LAIR, l[=a]r, _n._ a lying-place, esp. the den or retreat of a wild beast:
(_Scot._) the ground for one grave in a burying-place. [A.S. _leger_, a
couch--_licgan_, to lie down; Dut. _leger_, Ger. _lager_.]

LAIR, l[=a]r, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to sink in mud.--_n._ mire, a bog, a
quagmire. [Ice. _leir_, mud.]

LAIRD, l[=a]rd, _n._ (_Scot._) a landed proprietor, a landlord.--_n._
LAIRD'SHIP, an estate. [_Lord._]

LAISSEZ-FAIRE, l[=a]s'[=a]-f[=a]r', _n._ a letting alone, a general
principle of non-interference with the free action of the individual: the
let-alone principle in government, business, &c.--Also LAISS'ER-FAIRE'.
[Fr. _laisser_--L. _lax[=a]re_, to relax, _faire_--L. _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

LAITY, l[=a]-'i-ti, _n._ the people as distinct from the clergy. [See LAY,
_adj._]

LAKE, l[=a]k, _n._ a pigment or colour formed by precipitating animal or
vegetable colouring matters from their solutions, chiefly with alumina or
oxide of tin. [Fr. _laque_. See LAC (2).]

LAKE, l[=a]k, _n._ a large body of water within land.--_ns._
LAKE'-B[=A]'SIN, the whole area drained by a lake; LAKE'-LAW'YER (_U.S._),
the bowfin: burbot; LAKE'LET, a little lake; L[=A]'KER, L[=A]'KIST, one of
the Lake school of poetry.--_adj._ L[=A]'KY, pertaining to a lake or
lakes.--LAKE DISTRICT, the name applied to the picturesque and mountainous
region within the counties of Cumberland, Westmorland, and a small portion
of Lancashire, containing as many as sixteen lakes or meres; LAKE
DWELLINGS, settlements in prehistoric times, built on piles driven into a
lake; LAKE SCHOOL OF POETRY, a name applied to the group of illustrious
poets who made the Lake District--_Wordsworthshire_--their home about the
beginning of the 19th century. [A.S. _lac_--L. _lacus_.]

LAKH, _n._ See LAC, term used for 100,000.

LAKIN, l[=a]'kin, _n._ (_Shak._) a corruption of _ladykin_, dim. of _lady_.

LAKSHMI, laksh'm[=e], _n._ in Hindu mythology, the name of the consort of
the god Vishnu (q.v.), considered as his female or creative energy.

LALLAN, lal'an, _n._ the Scotch dialect. [_Lowland_.]

LALLATION, la-l[=a]'shon, _n._ lambdacism (q.v.).

LAM, lam, _v.t._ to beat. [Ice. _lemja_, to beat.]

LAMA, _n._ an animal. [See LLAMA.]

LAMA, lä'ma, _n._ a Buddhist priest in Tibet.--_ns._ LÄ'MAISM, the religion
prevailing in Tibet and Mongolia, being Buddhism corrupted by Sivaism, and
by Shamanism or spirit-worship; LÄ'MAIST; LÄ'MASERY, a Tibetan monastery.
[Tib.]

LAMANTIN, la-man'tin, _n._ the manatee. [Fr.]

LAMARCKISM, la-mär'kizm, _n._ the theory of the French naturalist, J. B. P.
A. de Monet de _Lamarck_ (1744-1829), that species have developed by the
efforts of organisms to adapt themselves to new conditions--also
LAMARCK'IANISM.---_adj._ LAMARCK'IAN.

LAMB, lam, _n._ the young of a sheep: the flesh of the young sheep: one
innocent and gentle as a lamb: the Saviour of the world.--_v.i._ to bring
forth young, as sheep.--_ns._ LAMB'-ALE, a feast at the time of
lamb-shearing; LAMB'KIN, LAMB'LING, LAMB'IE (_Scot._), a little
lamb.--_adj._ LAMB'-LIKE, like a lamb: gentle.--_ns._ LAMB'SKIN, the skin
of a lamb dressed with the wool on, for mats, &c.: the skin of a lamb
dressed for gloves: a kind of woollen cloth resembling this;
LAMB'S'-LETT'UCE (same as CORN-SALAD); LAMB'S'-WOOL, fine wool: a wholesome
old English beverage composed of ale and the pulp of roasted apples, with
sugar and spices.--THE LAMB, LAMB OF GOD, the Saviour, typified by the
paschal lamb. [A.S. _lamb_; Ger. _lamm_, Dut. _lam_.]

LAMBATIVE, lam'ba-tiv, _adj._ to be taken by licking.--_n._ a medicine of
such a kind.

LAMBDA, lam'da, _n._ the Greek letter corresponding to Roman _l_.--_n._
LAMB'DACISM, a too frequent use of words containing _l_: a defective
pronunciation of _r_, making it like _l_.--_adjs._ LAMB'DOID, -AL, shaped
like the Greek capital [GREEK: L]--applied in anatomy to the suture between
the occipital and the two parietal bones of the skull. [Gr.,--Heb.
_lamedh_.]

LAMBENT, lam'bent, _adj._ moving about as if touching lightly: gliding
over: flickering.--_n._ LAM'BENCY, the quality of being lambent: that which
is lambent. [L. _lambens_--_lamb[)e]re_, to lick.]

LAMBOYS, lam'boiz, _n.pl._ kilted flexible steel-plates worn skirt-like
from the waist. [O. Fr.]

LAMBREQUIN, lam'bre-kin, _n._ a strip of cloth, leather, &c., hanging from
a window, doorway, or mantelpiece, as a drapery: an ornamental covering, as
of cloth, attached to a helmet. [Fr.]

LAME, l[=a]m, _adj._ disabled in the limbs: hobbling: unsatisfactory:
imperfect.--_v.t._ to make lame: to cripple: to render imperfect.--_n._
LAME'-DUCK (_slang_), a bankrupt.--_adv._ LAME'LY.--_n._ LAME'NESS.--_adj._
LAM'ISH, a little lame: hobbling. [A.S. _lama_, lame; Dut. _lam_, Ger.
_lahm_.]

LAMELLA, lä-mel'a, _n._ a thin plate or scale:--_pl._ LAMELL'Æ.--_adjs._
LAM'ELLAR, LAM'ELLATE.--_n.pl._ LAMELLIBRANCHI[=A]'TA, a class of
shell-fishes or molluscs in which the shell consists of two limy plates,
lying one on each side of the body.--_adjs._ LAMELLIBRANCH'IATE;
LAMELL'ICORN.--_n.pl._ LAMELLICOR'NES, a very numerous family of
beetles--the cockchafer, &c.--_adjs._ LAMELLIF'EROUS, producing lamellæ;
LAMELL'IFORM, lamellar in form; LAMELLIROS'TRAL, having a lamellose bill;
LAM'ELLOSE, full of lamellæ, lamellated in structure. [L.]

LAMENT, la-ment', _v.i._ to utter grief in outcries: to wail: to
mourn.--_v.t._ to mourn for: to deplore.--_n._ sorrow expressed in cries:
an elegy or mournful ballad.--_adj._ LAM'ENTABLE, deserving or expressing
sorrow: sad: pitiful, despicable.--_adv._ LAM'ENTABLY.--_n._
LAMENT[=A]'TION, act of lamenting: audible expression of grief: wailing:
(_pl._, _B._) a book of Jeremiah.--_p.adj._ LAMENT'ED, bewailed:
mourned.--_adv._ LAMENT'INGLY, with lamentation. [Fr. _lamenter_--L.
_lament[=a]ri_.]

LAMETER, LAMITER, l[=a]'met-[.e]r, _n._ a cripple.

LAMETTA, la-met'a, _n._ foil of gold, silver, &c. [It.]

LAMIA, l[=a]'mi-a, _n._ in Greek and Roman mythology, a female phantom, a
serpent witch who charmed children and youths in order to suck their blood.

LAMIGER, lam'i-j[.e]r, _n._ (_prov._) a cripple.

LAMINA, lam'i-na, _n._ a thin plate: a thin layer or coat lying over
another:--_pl._ LAM'INÆ.--_adjs._ LAM'INABLE; LAM'INAR, LAM'INARY, in
laminæ or thin plates: consisting of, or resembling, thin plates.--_n._
LAMIN[=A]'RIA, a genus of dark-spored seaweeds, with large expanded
leathery-stalked fronds.--_adjs._ LAM'IN[=A]TE, -D, in laminæ or thin
plates: consisting of scales or layers, over one another.--_ns._
LAMIN[=A]'TION, the arrangement of stratified rocks in thin laminæ or
layers.--_adjs._ LAMINIF'EROUS, consisting of laminæ or layers;
LAM'INIFORM, laminar.--_n._ LAMIN[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the laminæ of a
horse's hoof. [L. _lamina_, a thin plate, a leaf.]

LAMMAS, lam'as, _n._ the feast of first-fruits on 1st August.--_n._
LAMM'AS-TIDE, Lammas-day, 1st August. [A.S. _hláf-mæsse_ and
_hlammæsse_--_hláf_, loaf, _mæsse_, feast.]

LAMMER, lam'[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) amber. [Fr. _l'ambre_.]

LAMMERGEIER, lam'm[.e]r-g[=i]-[.e]r, _n._ the great bearded vulture of the
mountains of southern Europe, Asia, and northern Africa. [Ger.
_lämmergeier_--_lämmer_, lambs, _geier_, vulture.]

LAMMY, lam'i, _n._ a thick quilted outside jumper worn in cold weather by
sailors.--Also LAMM'IE.

LAMP, lamp, _n._ a vessel for burning oil with a wick, and so giving light:
a light of any kind.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to shine.--_ns._ LAMP'AD (_rare_),
a lamp or candlestick, a torch; LAMP'ADARY, in the Greek Church, one who
looks after the lamps and carries a lighted taper before the patriarch;
LAMPADED'ROMY, an ancient Greek torch-race in honour of Prometheus, &c.;
LAMP'ADIST, one who ran in a torch-race; LAMPAD'OMANCY, the art of divining
by the flame of a lamp or torch; LAMP'BLACK, the black substance formed by
the smoke of a lamp: the soot or amorphous carbon obtained by burning
bodies rich in that element, such as resin, petroleum, and tar, or some of
the cheap oily products obtained from it; LAMP'-BURN'ER, that part of a
lamp in which the wick is held; LAMP'-CHIM'NEY, LAMP'-GLASS, a glass funnel
placed round the flame of a lamp; LAMP'-FLY (_Browning_), a
firefly.--_adj._ LAMP'IC, pertaining to, or derived from, a lamp or
flame.--_ns._ LAMP'ION, a kind of small lamp; LAMP'-LIGHT, the light shed
by a lamp or lamps; LAMP'-LIGHT'ER, a person employed to light
street-lamps: that by which a lamp is lighted, as a spill or torch;
LAMP'-POST, the pillar supporting a street-lamp; LAMP'-SHELL, a
terebratuloid or related brachiopod having a shell like an antique
lamp.--SMELL OF THE LAMP, to show signs of great elaboration or study. [Fr.
_lampe_--Gr. _lampas_, _-ados_--_lampein_, to shine.]

LAMP, lamp, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to run wild, to scamper: to go jauntily.

LAMPAS, lam'pas, _n._ a material of silk and wool used in upholstery. [Fr.]

LAMPASS, lam'pas, _n._ (_Shak._) a swelling of the roof of the mouth in
horses. [Fr. _lampas_.]

LAMPERN, lam'p[.e]rn, _n._ a river lamprey.

LAMPOON, lam-p[=oo]n', _n._ a personal satire in writing: low
censure.--_v.t._ to assail with personal satire: to satirise:--_pr.p._
lamp[=oo]n'ing; _pa.p._ lamp[=oo]ned'.--_ns._ LAMPOON'ER, one who writes a
lampoon; LAMPOON'RY, practice of lampooning: written personal abuse or
satire. [O. Fr. _lampon_, orig. a drinking-song, with the refrain
_lampons_=let us drink--_lamper_ (or _lapper_, to lap), to drink.]

LAMPREY, lam'pre, _n._ a genus of cartilaginous fishes resembling the eel,
so called from their attaching themselves to rocks or stones by their
mouths. [O. Fr. _lamproie_--Low L. _lampreda_, _lampetra_--L. _lamb[)e]re_,
to lick, _petra_, rock.]

LANA, lä'na, _n._ the tough, close-grained wood of a Guiana tree.

LANATE, -D, l[=a]'n[=a]t, -ed, _adjs._ woolly: (_bot._) covered with a
substance resembling wool.--_n._ L[=A]'NARY, a wool-store. [L.
_lanatus_--_lana_, wool.]

LANCASTERIAN, lang-kas-t[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to Joseph _Lancaster_
(1778-1838), or the method of teaching younger pupils by those more
advanced (_monitors_) in primary schools.

LANCASTRIAN, lang-kas'tri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the dukes or the royal
house of _Lancaster_.--_n._ an adherent of the house of Lancaster, as
against the Yorkists, in the Wars of the Roses (1455-85).

LANCE, lans, _n._ (_Spens._) balance, poise. [L. _lanx_, _lancis_, a dish
or scale.]

LANCE, lans, _n._ a long shaft of wood, with a spear-head, and bearing a
small flag: the bearer of a lance.--_v.t._ to pierce with a lance: to open
with a lancet.--_ns._ LANCE'-COR'PORAL, a private soldier doing the duties
of a corporal; LANCE'LET (see AMPHIOXUS); LAN'CER, a light cavalry soldier
armed with a lance: (_pl._) a popular set of quadrilles, first in England
about 1820: the music for such; LANCE'-WOOD, a wood valuable for its
strength and elasticity, brought chiefly from Jamaica, Guiana, &c.--_adjs._
LANCIF'EROUS, bearing a lance; LAN'CIFORM, lance-shaped. [Fr.,--L.
_lancea_; Gr. _longch[=e]_, a lance.]

LANCEGAY, lans'g[=a], _n._ (_obs._) a kind of spear. [O. Fr.,--_lance_, a
lance, _zagaye_, a pike. See ASSAGAI.]

LANCEOLATE, -D, lan'se-o-l[=a]t, -ed, _adjs._ (_bot._) having the form of a
lance-head: tapering toward both ends--also LAN'CEOLAR.--_adv._
LAN'CEOLATELY. [L. _lanceolatus_--_lanceola_, dim. of _lancea_.]

[Illustration]

LANCET, lan'set, _n._ a surgical instrument used for opening veins,
abscesses, &c.: a high and narrow window, terminating in an arch acutely
pointed, often double or triple, common in the first half of the 13th
century. [O. Fr. _lancette_, dim. of _lance_.]

LANCH. Same as LAUNCH.

LANCINATE, lan'sin-[=a]t, _v.t._ to lacerate.--_n._ LANCIN[=A]'TION, sharp,
shooting pain. [L. _lancin[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to tear.]

LAND, land, _n._ earth, the solid portion of the surface of the globe: a
country: a district: soil: real estate: a nation or people: (_Scot._) a
group of dwellings or tenements under one roof and having a common
entry.--_v.t._ to set on land or on shore.--_v.i._ to come on land or on
shore.--_ns._ LAND'-[=A]'GENT, a person employed by the owner of an estate
to let farms, collect rents, &c.; LAND'-BREEZE, a breeze setting from the
land towards the sea; LAND'-CRAB, a family of crabs which live much or
chiefly on land.--_v.t._ LAND'DAMN (_Shak._), to banish from the
land.--_adj._ LAND'ED, possessing land or estates: consisting in land or
real estate.--_ns._ LAND'ER, one who lands; LAND'FALL, a landslip: an
approach to land after a voyage, also the land so approached; LAND'-FISH
(_Shak._), a fish on land, any one acting contrary to his usual character;
LAND'-FLOOD, a flooding or overflowing of land by water: inundation;
LAND'FORCE, a military force serving on land, as distinguished from a naval
force; LAND'-GRAB'BER, one who acquires land by harsh and grasping means:
one who is eager to occupy land from which others have been evicted;
LAND'-GRAB'BING, the act of the land-grabber; LAND'-HERD, a herd of animals
which feed on land; LAND'-HOLD'ER, a holder or proprietor of land;
LAND'-HUNG'ER, greed for the acquisition of land; LAND'ING, act of going on
land from a vessel: a place for getting on shore: the level part of a
staircase between the flights of steps.--_adj._ relating to the unloading
of a vessel's cargo.--_ns._ LAND'ING-NET, a kind of scoop-net for landing a
fish that has been caught; LAND'ING-PLACE, a place for landing, as from a
vessel; LAND'ING-STAGE, a platform for landing passengers or goods carried
by water, often rising and falling with the tide; LAND'-JOB'BER, a
speculator in land; LAND'-JOB'BING; LAND'LADY, a woman who has property in
land or houses: the mistress of an inn or lodging-house.--_adj._ LAND'LESS
(_Shak._), without land or property.--_v.t._ LAND'LOCK, to enclose by
land.---_adj._ LAND'-LOCKED, almost shut in by land, protected by
surrounding masses of land from the force of wind and waves.--_ns._
LAND'LORD, the owner of land or houses: the master of an inn or
lodging-house; LAND'LORDISM, the authority or united action of the
landholding class; LAND'-LUBB'ER, a landsman (a term used by sailors);
LAND'MARK, anything serving to mark the boundaries of land: any object on
land that serves as a guide to seamen: any distinguishing characteristic;
LAND'-MEAS'URE, a system of square measure used in the measurement of land;
LAND'-MEAS'URING, the art of estimating the superficial content of portions
of land; LAND'-OWN'ER, one who owns land; LAND'-OWN'ERSHIP.--_adj._
LAND'-OWN'ING.--_ns._ LAND'-P[=I]'LOT, (_Milt._), a guide on land;
LAND'-P[=I]'RATE, a highway robber: a fellow who makes a practice of
swindling sailors in port; LAND'RAIL, the crake or corncrake, so named from
its cry; LAND'-RAK'ER (_Shak._), a vagabond; LAND'-REEVE, the assistant to
the land-steward of a great estate; LAND'-ROLL, a clod-crusher; LAND'-SCRIP
(_U.S._), negotiable government certificate entitling to possession of
certain public land by individuals or corporate bodies; LAND'-SHARK, a
land-grabber: one who plunders sailors on shore; LAND'SKIP (same as
LANDSCAPE); LAND'SLIDE, LAND'SLIP, a portion of land that falls down,
generally from the side of a hill, usually due to the undermining effect of
water; LANDS'MAN, LAND'MAN, one who lives or serves on land: one
inexperienced in seafaring; LAND'-SPRING, water lying near the surface,
easily drawn upon by shallow wells; LAND'-STEW'ARD, a person who manages a
landed estate; LAND'-SURVEY'ING (see SURVEYING); LAND'-TAX, a tax upon
land; LAND'-TURN, a land-breeze; LAND'-WAIT'ER, a custom-house officer who
attends on the landing of goods from ships.--_adv._ LAND'WARD, toward the
land.--_adj._ lying toward the land, away from the sea-coast: situated in
or forming part of the country, as opposed to the town: rural.--_n._
LAND'WIND, a wind blowing off the land.--LAND LEAGUE, an association
founded in Ireland by Michael Davitt in 1879, and organised by C. S.
Parnell, to procure reduction and rearrangement of rents, and to promote
the substitution of peasant-proprietors for landlords--condemned as an
illegal conspiracy in 1881; LANDED INTEREST, the combined interest of the
land-holding class in a community.--MAKE THE LAND, to discover the land as
the ship approaches it; SET THE LAND, to observe by the compass how the
shore bears from the ship. [A.S. _land_; Dut., Ger. _land_.]

LANDAMMAN, lan'dam-man, _n._ the president of the Swiss Diet: the head
official in some Swiss cantons.

LANDAU, lan'daw, _n._ a coach or carriage with a top which may be opened
and thrown back. [Ger. _landauer_, from Landau.]

LANDE, land, _n._ an uncultivated healthy plain, esp. a sandy track along
the sea-shore in south-western France. [Fr.]

LANDGRAVE, land'gr[=a]v, _n._ a German graf, count, or earl:--_fem._
LANDGRAVINE (land'gra-v[=e]n).--_n._ LANDGR[=A]'VI[=A]TE, the territory of
a landgrave. [Dut. _landgraaf_--_land_, land, _graaf_, count.]

LAND-LOUPER, land'-lowp'[.e]r, _n._ a vagabond or vagrant.--Also
LAND'-LOP'ER. [Dut. _landloopen_--_land_, land, _loopen_, to ramble; cf.
Ger. _landläufer_.]

LANDSCAPE, land'-sk[=a]p, _n._ the appearance of that portion of land which
the eye can at once view; the aspect of a country, or a picture
representing it.--_ns._ LAND'SCAPE-GAR'DENING, the art of laying out
grounds and so disposing water, buildings, trees, and other plants as to
produce the effect of a picturesque landscape; LAND'SCAPE-PAINT'ER, one who
practises this form of art; LAND'SCAPE-PAINT'ING, the art of representing
natural scenery by painting. [Dut. _landschap_, from _land_ and _-schap_, a
suffix=_-ship_.]

LANDSTHING, läns'ting, _n._ the upper house of the Danish Rigsdag or
parliament. [Dan., _land_, land, _thing_, parliament.]

LANDSTURM, lant'st[=oo]rm, _n._ in Germany and Switzerland, a general levy
in time of national emergency--in the former including all males between
seventeen and forty-five: the force so called out. [Ger., _land_, land,
_sturm_, alarm.]

LANDTAG, lant'tahh, _n._ the legislative assembly of one of the states
forming the modern German empire, as Saxony, Bavaria, &c.: the provincial
assembly of Bohemia or Moravia. [Ger., _land_, country, _tag_, diet, day.]

LANDWEHR, länt'v[=a]r, _n._ a military force in Germany and Austria forming
an army reserve. [Ger., _land_, land, _wehr_, defence.]

LANE, l[=a]n, _n._ an open space between corn-fields, hedges, &c.: a narrow
passage or road: a narrow street: a fixed route kept by a line of vessels
across the ocean.--A BLIND LANE, a cul-de-sac. [A.S. _lane_; Scot, _loan_,
_lonnin_.]

LANE, l[=a]n, a Scotch form of _lone_, _alone_,

LANG, a Scotch form of _long_.--_n._ LANG'SYNE, time long past.--THINK
LANG, to weary.

LANGAHA, lan-gä'hä, _n._ a Madagascar wood-snake, with a flexible scaly
extension on the snout.

LANGET, lang'get, _n._ a strong lace used in women's dress in Holland.

LANGSHAN, lang'shan, _n._ a small black Chinese hen.

LANGSPIEL, lang'sp[=e]l, _n._ a Shetland form of harp.

LANGUAGE, lang'gw[=a]j, _n._ that which is spoken by the tongue: human
speech: speech peculiar to a nation: style or expression peculiar to an
individual: diction: any manner of expressing thought.--_v.t._ to express
in language.--_adjs._ LANG'UAGED, skilled in language; LANG'UAGELESS
(_Shak._), speechless, silent; LANG'UED (_her._), furnished with a
tongue.--DEAD LANGUAGE, one no longer spoken, as opp. to LIVING LANGUAGE,
one still spoken; FLASH LANGUAGE (see FLASH). [Fr. _langage_--_langue_--L.
_lingua_ (old form _dingua_), the tongue, akin to L. _ling[=e]re_, Gr.
_leichein_.]

LANGUE D'OC, long dok, _n._ collective name for the Romance dialects spoken
in the Middle Ages from the Alps to the Pyrenees--the tongue of the
troubadours, often used as synonymous with Provençal, one of its chief
branches. The name itself survived in the province LANGUEDOC, giving name
to a class of wines.--LANGUE D'OUI (long dw[=e]), also LANGUE D'OIL, the
Romance dialect of northern France, the language of the trouvères, the
dominant factor in the formation of modern French. [O. Fr. _langue_--L.
_lingua_, tongue; _de_, of; Prov. _oc_, yes--L. _hoc_, this; O. Fr. _oui_,
_oïl_, yes--L. _hoc illud_, this (is) that, yes.]

LANGUETTE, lang'get, _n._ a 16th-century hood worn by women: the tongue of
a reed of a harmonium or reed-organ: a key of a wind-instrument. [Fr.]

LANGUID, lang'gwid, _adj._ slack or feeble: flagging: exhausted: sluggish:
spiritless.--_adj._ LANGUESC'ENT, growing languid.--_adv._
LANG'UIDLY.--_n._ LANG'UIDNESS. [Fr.,--L. _languidus_--_langu[=e]re_, to be
weak.]

LANGUISH, lang'gwish, _v.i._ to become languid or enfeebled: to lose
strength and animation: to pine: to become dull, as of trade.--_n._
(_Shak._) languishment.--_adjs._ LANG'UISHED, sunken in languor;
LANG'UISHING, expressive of languor, or merely sentimental emotion.--_adv._
LANG'UISHINGLY.--_n._ LANG'UISHMENT, the act or state of languishing:
tenderness of look. [Fr. _languir_, _languiss-_,--L.
_languesc[)e]re_--_langu[=e]re_, to be faint.]

LANGUOR, lang'gwur, _n._ state of being languid or faint: dullness:
listlessness: softness.--_adj._ LANG'UOROUS, full of languor: tedious:
melancholy.--_v.t._ LANG'URE (_Spens._), to languish.

LANIARD. Same as LANYARD.

LANIARY, l[=a]'ni-a-ri, _n._ a place of slaughter: shambles.--_adj._ fitted
for lacerating or tearing. [L. _laniarium_--_lanius_, a butcher.]

LANIFEROUS, lan-if'[.e]r-us, _adj._ wool-bearing.--Also LANIG'EROUS. [L.
_lanifer_, _laniger_--_lana_, wool, _ferre_, _ger[)e]re_, to bear.]

LANK, langk, _adj._ languid or drooping: soft or loose: thin: shrunken:
straight and flat.--_v.i._ (_Shak._) to become lank.--_adv._ LANK'LY.--_n._
LANK'NESS.--_adj._ LANK'Y, lank and tall. [A.S. _hlanc_; Dut. _slank_, Ger.
_schlank_, slender.]

LANNER, lan'[.e]r, _n._ a kind of falcon.--_n._ LANN'ARET, the male bird.
[Fr. _lanier_--L. _laniarius_.]

LANOLIN, lan'[=o]-lin, _n._ an unctuous substance, a mixture of the ethers
of cholesterin with fatty acids, used as a basis for ointments, extracted
from wool. [L. _lana_, wool, _oleum_, oil.]

LANSQUENET, lans'ke-net, _n._ a 16th-17th cent. mercenary pikeman: a game
at cards. [Fr.,--Ger. _landsknecht_--_land_, country, _knecht_, a soldier.]

LANT, lant, _n._ stale urine, used in wool-scouring.

LANTERLOO, lant'[.e]r-l[=oo], _n._ a game at cards, commonly _Loo_. [Dut.
_lanterlu_.]

LANTERN, lant'[.e]rn, _n._ a case for holding or carrying a light, the
light chamber of a lighthouse: an ornamental structure surmounting a dome
to give light and to crown the fabric: the upper square cage which
illuminates a corridor or gallery--obs. form, LANT'HORN, from the use of
horn for the sides of lanterns.--_v.t._ to furnish with a lantern.--_n._
LANT'ERN-FLY, any insect of family _Fulgoridæ_, supposed to emit a strong
light in the dark.--_adj._ LANT'ERN-JAWED, thin-faced.--_n.pl._
LANT'ERN-JAWS, thin long jaws.--LANTERN OF THE DEAD, a tower having a small
lighted chamber at the top, once common in French cemeteries; LANTERN
WHEEL, a kind of cog-wheel, in which a circle of bars or spindles between
two heads engages with the cogs of a spur-wheel.--CHINESE LANTERN, a
collapsible paper lantern, generally decorated with flowers; DARK LANTERN,
a lantern having an opaque slide, capable of being partly or wholly shut at
pleasure; MAGIC LANTERN, an optical instrument by means of which magnified
images of small pictures are thrown upon a wall or screen. [Fr.
_lanterne_--L. _lanterna_--Gr. _lampt[=e]r_--_lampein_, to give light.]

LANTHANUM, lan'tha-num, _n._ a metal discovered in 1839 in cerite, a
hydrated silicate of cerium.--Also LAN'TH[=A]NIUM. [Gr. _lanthanein_, to
conceal.]

LANUGINOUS, la-n[=u]'jin-us, _adj._ downy: covered with fine soft
hair.--_n._ LAN[=U]'GO. [Fr.,--L. _lanuginosus_--_lanugo_, down, _lana_,
wool.]

LANX, lanks, _n._ a platter or dish for serving meat at a Roman
table:--_pl._ LAN'CES. [L.]

LANYARD, LANIARD, lan'yard, _n._ a short rope used on board ship for
fastening or stretching, or for convenience in handling articles. [Fr.
_lanière_, perh. from L. _lanarius_, made of wool--_lana_, wool.]

LAOCOÖN, l[=a]-ok'-o-on, _n._ a famous antique group in marble in the
Vatican, representing the Trojan priest _Laocoön_ and his two sons being
crushed in the folds of two enormous serpents.

LAODICEAN, l[=a]-od-i-s[=e]'an, _adj._ lukewarm in religion, like the
Christians of _Laodicea_ (Rev. iii. 14-16).--_n._ LAODIC[=E]'ANISM,
lukewarmness in religion.

LAP, lap, _v.t._ to lick up with the tongue: to wash or flow
against.--_v.i._ to drink by licking up a liquid: to make a sound of such a
kind:--_pr.p._ lap'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ lapped.--_n._ a motion or
sound like lapping. [A.S. _lapian_; Low Ger. _lappen_; L. _lamb[)e]re_, Gr.
_laptein_.]

LAP, lap, _n._ the loose or overhanging flap of anything: the part of a
substance extending over or partly over the rear of another, or the extent
of such extension: the part of the clothes lying on the knees when a person
sits down: the part of the body thus covered, esp. with reference to
nursing, &c.: a fold: a course or round of the track, as in foot-racing,
&c.: at euchre, &c., a carrying over to the next game of a surplus of
points from the last: the space over which a steam-engine slide-valve
travels after the closing of the steam-passage to or from the cylinder: a
rotating disc of lead, copper, leather, &c., charged with an abrasive
powder, used in cutting gems, &c.--_v.t._ to lay over or on.--_v.i._ to be
spread on or over: to be turned over or upon.--_ns._ LAP'-BOARD, a flat
wide board resting on the lap, used by tailors and seamstresses; LAP'-DOG,
a small dog fondled in the lap: a pet dog; LAP'FUL, as much as fills a
lap.--_adj._ LAP'-JOINT'ED, having joints formed by overlapping
edges.--_ns._ LAP'-STONE, a stone which shoemakers hold in the lap to
hammer leather on; LAP'-STREAK, a clinker-built boat--also _adj._;
LAP'WORK, work containing lap-joints. [A.S. _læppa_, a loosely hanging
part; Ice. _lapa_, to hang loose, Ger. _lappen_, a rag.]

LAP, lap, _v.t._ to wrap, fold, involve.--_ns._ LAP'PER, one who wraps or
folds: in cotton manufacturing, a machine which compacts the scutched
cotton into a fleece upon the surface of a roller called a lap-roller;
LAP'PING, the process of forming a lap or fleece of fibrous material for
the carding-machine: the rubbing or polishing of a metal surface: the
process of rubbing away the _lands_, or metal between the grooves of a
rifled gun, to increase the bore. [M. E. _wlappen_, being a form of
_wrap_.]

LAPEL, LAPPEL, LAPELLE, la-pel', _n._ the part of the breast of a coat
which laps over and is folded back.--_adj._ LAPELLED'. [Dim. of _lap_.]

LAPIDARY, lap'i-dar-i, _adj._ pertaining to stones and the cutting of
stones: pertaining to inscriptions and monuments.--_n._ a cutter of stones,
esp. precious stones: a dealer in precious stones--also LAPID[=A]'RIAN,
LAP'IDARIST, LAP'IDIST.--_v.t._ LAP'IDATE (_rare_), to pelt with
stones.--_n._ LAPID[=A]'TION, punishment by stoning.--_adj._ LAPID'EOUS,
stony.--_n._ LAPIDESC'ENCE.--_adj._ LAPIDESC'ENT, becoming stone:
petrifying.--_adj._ LAPIDIF'IC.--_n._ LAPIDIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
LAPID'IFY, to make into stone.--_v.i._ to turn into stone:--_pr.p._
lapid'ifying; _pa.p._ lapid'ified.--_adj._ LAPIL'LIFORM, having the form of
small stones.--_ns._ LAPIL'LUS, a fragment of lava ejected from a
volcano:--_pl._ LAPIL'LI; L[=A]'PIS, a kind of calico-printing with indigo,
the resists acting as methods for other dyes, as madder or quercitron;
L[=A]'PIS-LAZ'ULI, a mineral of beautiful ultramarine colour, used largely
in ornamental and mosaic work, and for sumptuous altars and
shrines.--LAPIS-LAZULI BLUE, a deep blue, sometimes veined with gold, used
in decoration, and in the manufacture of Sèvres and Oriental porcelain;
LAPIS-LAZULI WARE, the name given by Josiah Wedgwood to a particular pebble
ware veined with gold upon blue. [L. _lapidarius_--_lapis_, _lapidis_, a
stone.]

LAPP, lap, _n._ a Laplander.--_n._ LAP'LANDER, a native or inhabitant of
_Lapland_.--_adjs._ LAP'LANDISH; LAPP'ISH.--_n._ the language of the Lapps.

LAPPER-MILK, lap'[.e]r-milk, _n._ (_Scot._) loppered or curdled milk. [Same
word as _lopper_ (_obs._)--M. E. _loper_, curdled, prob. conn. with A.S.
_hléapan_, to leap, run. Cf. _rennet_, _runnet_, from _run_.]

LAPPET, lap'et, _n._ a little lap or flap.--_adj._ LAPP'ETED.--_n._
LAPP'ET-HEAD, a head-dress made with lappets for lace pendants. [Dim. of
_lap_.]

LAPSE, laps, _v.i._ to slip or glide: to pass by degrees: to fall from the
faith or from virtue: to fail in duty: to pass to another proprietor, &c.,
by the negligence of a patron, to become void: to lose certain privileges
by neglect of the necessary conditions.--_n._ a slipping or falling: a
failing in duty: a fault.--_adj._ LAP'SABLE.--THE LAPSED, the name applied
in the early Christian Church to those who, overcome by heathen
persecution, fell away from the faith. [L. _labi_, _lapsus_, to slip or
fall, _lapsus_, a fall, akin to _lap_.]

LAPUTAN, la-p[=u]'tan, _adj._ pertaining to _Laputa_, a flying island
described in Swift's _Gulliver's Travels_ as inhabited by all sorts of
ridiculous projectors: absurd: chimerical.

LAPWING, lap'wing, _n._ the name of a bird of the plover family, also
called _peewit_, from its peculiar cry. [M. E. _lappewinke_--A.S.
_hleápewince_--_hleápan_, to leap or run, and root of _wink_, to turn.]

LAR, lär, _n._ one of a class of local deities, originally Etruscan, but in
Roman usage usually regarded as the tutelary deities of a house:--_pl._
LARES (l[=a]'r[=e]z). [L.]

LAR, lär, _n._ an Etruscan title, really peculiar to the eldest son, but
often mistaken for an integral part of the name.--Also LARS. [L.,--Etruscan
_larth_, lord.]

LARBOARD, lär'b[=o]rd (by sailors, lab'erd), _n._ an obsolete naval term
for the left side of a ship looking from the stern, now, by command of the
Admiralty, replaced by the term _port_, to prevent the mistakes caused by
its resemblance in sound to starboard.--_adj._ pertaining to the port or
left side. [Perh. for a conjectural _lade-bord_, the lading-side--_lade_, a
load, _bord_, board, side.]

LARCENY, lär'sen-i, _n._ the legal term in England and Ireland for
stealing: theft.--_n._ LAR'CENIST, one who commits larceny: a
thief.--_adj._ LAR'CENOUS.--_adv._ LAR'CENOUSLY.--GRAND LARCENY, in
England, larceny of property of the value of one shilling or more; PETTY
LARCENY, larceny of property less in value than one shilling; SIMPLE
LARCENY, as opposed to _Compound larceny_, is larceny uncombined with
aggravating circumstances. [O. Fr. _larrecin_ (Fr. _larcin_)--L.
_latrocinium_--_latro_, a robber.]

LARCH, lärch, _n._ a genus (_Larix_) of coniferous trees, distinct from
firs (_Abies_), with perfectly erect and regularly tapering stem, small
branches, numerous small leaves deciduous and clustered, growing rapidly,
and yielding good timber. [L.,--Gr. _larix_.]

LARD, lärd, _n._ the melted fat of the hog.--_v.t._ to smear with lard: to
stuff with bacon or pork: to fatten: to mix with anything.--_adj._
LARD[=A]'CEOUS.--_ns._ LARD'-OIL, a lubricating and illuminating oil
expressed from lard; LAR'DON, LAR'DOON, a strip of bacon used for
larding.--_adj._ LAR'DY. [O. Fr.,--L. _laridum_, _lardum_; cf. Gr.
_larinos_, fat, _laros_, sweet.]

LARDER, lärd'[.e]r, _n._ a room or place where meat, &c., is kept: stock of
provisions.--_n._ LARD'ERER, one who has charge of a larder. [O. Fr.
_lardier_, a bacon-tub--L. _lardum_.]

LARE, l[=a]r, _n._ obsolete form of _lore_, and of _lair_.

LARGE, larj, _adj._ great in size: extensive: bulky: wide: long: abundant:
liberal: diffuse: (_Shak._, of language) free, licentious.--_adv._
(_naut._) before the wind.--_adjs._ LARGE'-[=A]'CRED, possessing much land;
LARGE'-HAND'ED, having large hands: grasping, greedy: profuse;
LARGE'-HEART'ED, having a large heart or liberal disposition:
generous.--_adv._ LARGE'LY.--_adj._ LARGE'-MIND'ED, characterised by
breadth of view.--_ns._ LARGE'NESS; LAR'GET, a length of iron cut from a
bar and of proper size to roll into a sheet.--AT LARGE, without restraint
or confinement: fully: as a whole, altogether. [Fr.,--L. _largus_.]

LARGESS, LARGESSE, lärj'es, _n._ a present or donation: (_arch._)
liberality.--_n._ LARGIT'ION, giving of largess. [Fr.,--L.
_largitio_--_larg[=i]ri_, to give freely--_largus_.]

LARGO, lär'g[=o], _adj._ (_mus._) slow in time.--_n._ a movement to be
performed in such style.--_adj._ LARGHET'TO, somewhat slow: not so slow as
largo.--_n._ a movement in somewhat slow time.--_adj._ LARGHIS'SIMO,
extremely slow. [It.,--L. _largus_.]

LARIAT, lär'i-at, _n._ a rope for picketing horses while grazing: a lasso.
[Sp. _la reata_--_la_, the, _reata_, a rope for tying animals together.]

LARK, lärk, _n._ a well-known singing-bird.--_v.i._ to catch larks.--_ns._
LARK'S'-HEEL, the Indian cress; LARK'SPUR, a plant with showy flowers, so
called from the spur-shaped formation of calyx and petals. [M. E.
_laverock_--A.S. _láwerce_; Ger. _lerche_.]

LARK, lärk, _n._ a game, frolic.--_v.i._ to frolic, make sport.--_adj._
LAR'KY (_coll._), frolicsome, sportive. [A.S. _lác_, play--_lácan_, to
swing, wave, play.]

LARMIER, lar'mi-[.e]r, _n._ (_archit._) another name for the corona (q.v.):
a horizontal string-course for preventing rain from trickling down the
wall: (_zool._) a tear-bag. [Fr. _larme_, a tear--L. _lacrima_, a tear.]

LARRIKIN, lar'i-kin, _adj._ (_Australian_) rowdy, disorderly.--_n._ a rough
or rowdy.--_n._ LARR'IKINISM.

LARRUP, lar'up, _v.t._ (_coll._) to flog, thrash. [Prob. from Dut.
_larpen_, thresh with flails.]

LARRY, lar'i, _n._ Same as LORRY.

LARUM, lar'um, _n._ alarm: a noise giving notice of danger.--_v.t._
(_obs._) to alarm. [_Alarm_.]

LARUS, l[=a]'rus, _n._ a genus of _Laridæ_, the gulls proper.

LARVA, lär'va, _n._ an insect in its first stage after issuing from the
egg--i.e. in the caterpillar state: a ghost, spectre:--_pl._ LARVÆ
(lär'v[=e]).--_adjs._ LAR'VAL; LAR'VATE, -D, clothed as with a mask;
LAR'VIFORM; LARVIP'AROUS, producing young in a larva-form. [L. _larva_, a
spectre, a mask.]

LARYNX, l[=a]r'ingks, _n._ the upper part of the windpipe: the
throat:--_pl._ LAR'YNGES, LAR'YNXES (_rare_).--_adjs._ LARYN'GEAL,
LARYN'GEAN.--_n._ LARYNGIS'MUS, spasm of the glottis.--_adj._
LARYNGIT'IC.--_n._ LARYNG[=I]'TIS, inflammation of the larynx.--_adj._
LARYNGOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ LARYNGOL'OGIST; LARYNGOL'OGY, the science of the
larynx; LARYNGOPH'ONY, the sound of the voice as heard through the
stethoscope applied over the larynx; LARYNG'OSCOPE, a mirror for examining
the larynx and trachea.--_adj._ LARYNGOSCOP'IC.--_ns._ LARYNGOS'COPIST;
LARYNGOS'COPY; LARYNGOT'OMY, the operation of cutting into the windpipe to
remove obstructions and assist respiration; LARYNGOTRACHEOT'OMY, the
operation of cutting into the windpipe through the cricoid cartilage, the
cricothyroid membrane, and the upper rings of the trachea. [L.,--Gr.
_larynx_, _laryngos_.]

LASCAR, las'kar, _n._ a native East Indian sailor or camp-follower.
[Hind.,--Pers. _lashkari_, a soldier.]

LASCIVIOUS, las-siv'i-us, _adj._ lustful: tending to produce lustful
emotions.--_adv._ LASCIV'IOUSLY.--_n._ LASCIV'IOUSNESS. [L. _lascivus_;
perh. from the same root as _laxus_, loose.]

LASER, l[=a]'ser, _n._ a gum-resin from North Africa, esteemed by the
ancients as a deobstruent and diuretic. [L. _laser_, juice of laserpitium.]

LASERPITIUM, las-er-pish'i-um, _n._ a genus of perennial herbs of the
parsley family--LAS'ERWORT or herb frankincense.--Also _Silphium_. [L.
_laserpicium_, a plant yielding laser.]

LASH, lash, _n._ a thong or cord: the flexible part of a whip: a stroke
with a whip or anything pliant: a stroke of satire, a sharp retort: a
beating or dashing: an eyelash.--_v.t._ to strike with a lash: to dash
against: to fasten or secure with a rope or cord: to censure severely: to
scourge with sarcasm or satire.--_v.i._ to use the whip.--_n._ LASH'ER, one
who lashes or whips: a rope for binding one thing to another; LASH'ING, act
of whipping: a rope for making things fast: a great plenty of
anything--esp. in _pl._--LASH OUT, to kick out, as a horse: to break out
recklessly. [M. E. _lasshe_; Dut. _lasch_, Ger. _lasche_, a joint.]

LASH, lash, _adj._ (_obs._) slow, slack: soft: insipid.--_n._ LASH'ER, the
slack water collected above a weir in a river. [M. E. _lasche_, slack--O.
Fr. _lasche_ (Fr. _lâche_, cowardly)--L. _laxus_, lax.]

LASKET, las'ket, _n._ a loop of line at the foot of a sail, to which to
fasten an extra sail.

LASS, las, _n._ (_fem._ of LAD) a girl, esp. a country girl: a sweetheart:
(_Scot._) a maid-servant.--(Diminutives) LASS'IE, LASS'OCK.--_adj._
LASS'LORN (_Shak._), forsaken by one's mistress. [Prob. a contr. of
_laddess_, formed from _lad_; or directly from W. _llodes_, fem. of
_llawd_, a lad. Mr H. Bradley thinks the association with _lad_ merely
accidental, the word first appearing about 1300 in northern writings as
_lasce_, evidently representing a Scand. _laskw_, the fem. of an adj.
meaning unmarried; cf. Middle Sw. _lösk kona_, unmarried woman.]

LASSITUDE, las'i-t[=u]d, _n._ faintness: weakness: weariness: languor.
[Fr.,--L. _lassitudo_--_lassus_, faint.]

LASSO, las'[=o], _n._ a long rope with a running noose for catching wild
horses, &c.:--_pl._ LASS'OS, LASS'OES.--_v.t._ to catch with the
lasso:--_pr.p._ lass'[=o]ing; _pa.p._ lass'[=o]ed. [Port. _laço_, Sp.
_lazo_--L. _laqueus_, a noose.]

LAST, last, _n._ a wooden mould of the foot on which boots and shoes are
made.--_v.t._ to fit with a last.--_n._ LAST'ER, one who fits the parts of
shoes to lasts: a tool for doing so. [A.S. _lást_, a trace.]

LAST, last, _v.i._ to continue, endure: to escape failure: remain fresh,
unimpaired.--_adj._ LAST'ING, permanent, durable.--_n._ endurance.--_adv._
LAST'INGLY.--_n._ LAST'INGNESS. [A.S. _l['æ]stan_, to keep a track. See
foregoing word.]

LAST, last, _n._ a load, cargo, a weight generally estimated at 4000 lb.,
but varying in different articles.--_n._ LAST'AGE, the lading of a ship:
room for stowing goods in a ship: a duty formerly paid for the right of
carrying goods, &c. [A.S. _hlæst_--_hladan_, to load; Ger. _last_, Ice.
_hlass_.]

LAST, last, _adj._ latest: coming after all the others: final: next before
the present: utmost: meanest: most improbable or unlikely--also
_adv._--_n._ LAST'-COURT, a court held by the jurats in the marshes of Kent
to fix rates chargeable for the preservation of these--also LAST.--_adv._
LAST'LY.--LAST DAY (_Scot._), yesterday; LAST HEIR (_Eng. law_), he to whom
lands come by escheat for want of lawful heirs.--AT LAST, in conclusion
(this from A.S. _on lást_, therefore not from _late_ at all, but from
_last_ (1), which is the A.S. _lást_, a trace); BREATHE ONE'S LAST, to die;
DIE IN THE LAST DITCH, to fight to the bitter end; FIRST AND LAST,
altogether; ON ONE'S LAST LEGS, on the verge of utter failure or
exhaustion; PUT THE LAST HAND TO, to finish, put the finishing touch to;
THE LAST CAST (see CAST); THE LAST DAY, the Day of Judgment; THE LAST DAYS,
TIMES (_B._), the period when the end of the world draws near; TO THE LAST,
to the end: till death. [A contr. of _latest_.]

LASTERY, last'[.e]r-i, _n._ (_Spens._) a red colour.

LAT, lät, _n._ in Indian architecture, an isolated pillar.

LATAKIA, lat-a-k[=e]'a, _n._ a fine kind of tobacco produced at _Latakia_
(_Laodicea ad Mare_) in Syria.

LATCH, lach, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to moisten. [_Leach_.]

LATCH, lach, _n._ a small piece of wood or iron to fasten a door.--_v.t._
to fasten with a latch: to hold, retain: (_obs._) to seize.--_ns._
LATCH'ET, a strap or buckle for fastening a shoe; LATCH'KEY, a key to raise
the latch of a door.--ON THE LATCH, not locked, but opened by a latch.
[A.S. _læccan_, to catch.]

LATE, l[=a]t, _adj._ (_comp._ LAT'ER; _superl._ LAT'EST) slow, tardy;
behindhand: coming after the expected time: long delayed: far advanced
towards the close: last in any place or character: deceased: departed: out
of office: not long past--also _adv._--_adj._ LAT'ED (_Shak._), belated,
being too late.--_adv._ LATE'LY.--_n._ LATE'NESS, state of being
late.--_adv._ LAT'ER.--_adj._ LAT'ISH, somewhat late. [A.S. _læt_, slow;
Dut. _laat_, Ice. _latr_, Ger. _lass_, weary; L. _lassus_, tired.]

LATEBRA, lat'eb-ra, _n._ the cavity in the food-yolk of a meroblastic
ovum.--_adj._ LAT'EBROUS. [L.--_lat[=e]re_.]

LATEEN, la-t[=e]n', _adj._ applied to a triangular sail, common in the
Mediterranean, the Lake of Geneva, &c. [Fr.,--L. _Latinus_, Latin.]

LATENT, l[=a]'tent, _adj._ hid: concealed: not visible or apparent:
dormant, undeveloped.--_ns._ L[=A]'TENCE, L[=A]'TENCY.--_adv._
L[=A]'TENTLY.--LATENT HEAT (see HEAT); LATENT LIFE, a phrase describing the
physiological condition of organisms in which the functions are for a time
suspended without losing the power of future activity; LATENT PERIOD OF A
DISEASE, the time that elapses before symptoms show the presence of the
disease. [L. _latens_, pr.p. of _lat[=e]re_, to lie hid; Gr. _lanthanein_,
to be hidden.]

LATERAL, lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ belonging to the side: proceeding from or in
the direction of the side: (_anat._ and _zool._) situated on one of the
sides of the median vertical longitudinal plane of the body: (_physics_) at
right angles to a line of motion or strain.--_n._ LATERAL'ITY.--_adv._
LAT'ERALLY.--_adj._ LATERIF[=O]'LIOUS (_bot._), growing by the side of a
leaf at its base.--LATERAL FIN, one of the paired side fins of a
fish:--opp. to _Vertical fin_. [L. _lateralis_--_latus_, _lat[)e]ris_, a
side.]

LATERAN, lat'[.e]r-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Church of St John _Lateran_
at Rome, the Pope's cathedral church, on the site of the splendid palace or
basilica of Plautius Lateranus (executed 66 A.D.).--LATERAN COUNCILS, five
general councils of the Western Church, held in the Lateran basilica (1123,
1139, 1179, 1215, and 1512-17), regarded by Roman Catholics as oecumenical:
also an important synod against the Monothelites in 649.

LATERICEOUS, lat-[.e]r-ish'us, _adj._ of brick, or brick-coloured.--Also
LATERIT'IOUS. [L. _latericius_--_later_, _lateris_, a brick.]

LATERITE, lat'[.e]r-[=i]t, _n._ an argillaceous sandstone of a reddish or
brick colour found in India, esp. in Ceylon. [L. _later_, _lateris_, a
brick.]

LATESCENT, l[=a]-tes'ent, _adj._ becoming hidden.--_n._ LATESC'ENCE. [L.
_latesc[)e]re_--_lat[=e]re_, to lie hid.]

LATEST, l[=a]t'est, _adj._ superl. of _late_.

LATEX, l[=a]'teks, _n._ (_bot._) the sap of plants after it has been
elaborated in the leaves.--_adj._ LATICIF'EROUS, containing or conveying
latex. [L.]

LATH, läth, _n._ a thin cleft slip of wood used in slating, plastering,
&c.:--_pl._ LATHS (lä_th_z).--_v.t._ to cover with laths.--_adj._
LATH'EN.--_ns._ LATH'ING, the act or process of covering with laths: a
covering of laths; LATH'-SPLIT'TER, one who splits wood into laths.--_adj._
LATH'Y, like a lath.--DAGGER OF LATH, any insufficient means of attack or
defence. [A.S. _lættu_; Dut. _lat_, Ger. _latte_, a lath.]

LATHE, l[=a]_th_, _n._ a machine for turning and shaping articles of wood,
metal, &c.: the movable swing-frame of a loom carrying the reed for
separating the warp threads and beating up the weft. [Ice. _löð_.]

LATHE, lä_th_, _n._ a part or division of a county, now existing only in
Kent, and consisting of four or five hundreds. [A.S. _l['æ]th_, a
district.]

LATHER, la_th_'[.e]r, _n._ a foam or froth made with water and soap: froth
from sweat.--_v.t._ to spread over with lather.--_v.i._ to form a lather:
to become frothy. [A.S. _leáðor_, lather; Ice. _lauðr_, foam.]

LATIBULUM, l[=a]-tib'[=u]-lum, _n._ a hiding-place, burrow:--_pl._
LATIB'ULA.--_v.i._ LATIB'ULISE, to hibernate. [L.]

LATICLAVE, lat'i-kl[=a]v, _n._ a broad vertical purple stripe running down
the front of a Roman senator's tunic. [L. _latus_, broad, _clavus_, a
stripe.]

LATICOSTATE, lat-i-kos't[=a]t, _adj._ broad-ribbed.

LATIDENTATE, lat-i-den't[=a]t, _adj._ broad-toothed.

LATIFOLIATE, lat-i-f[=o]'li-[=a]t, _adj._ broad-leafed.--Also
LATIF[=O]'LIOUS.

LATIN, lat'in, _adj._ pertaining to ancient Latium (esp. Rome) or its
inhabitants, also to all races claiming affinity with the Latins by
language, race, or civilisation: written or spoken in Latin.--_n._ an
inhabitant of ancient Latium: a member of a modern race ethnically or
linguistically related to the ancient Romans or Italians: the language of
ancient Rome--the foundation of the modern Romance tongues: a member of the
Latin or Roman Catholic Church.--_adj._ L[=A]'TIAN.--_n._ LAT'INER, one who
knows Latin: (_obs._) an interpreter.--_v.t._ LAT'IN[=I]SE, to give Latin
forms to: to render into Latin.--_ns._ LAT'INISM, a Latin idiom; LAT'INIST,
one skilled in Latin; LATIN'ITY, the Latin tongue, style, or idiom.--LATIN
CHURCH, the Western Church as distinguished from the Greek or Oriental
Church, so named as having employed Latin as its official language: the
Roman Catholic Church; LATIN EMPIRE, that portion of the Byzantine Empire
seized in 1204 by the Crusaders, and overthrown by the Greeks in 1261;
LATIN KINGDOM, the Christian kingdom of Jerusalem ruled by French or Latin
kings, and lasting from 1099 to 1187.--CLASSICAL LATIN, the Latin of the
writers who flourished from about 75 B.C. to 200 A.D.; DOG LATIN, barbarous
Latin; LATE LATIN, the LATIN written by authors between 200 and (_circ._)
600 A.D.; MIDDLE, MEDIEVAL, or LOW LATIN, the Latin of the middle age
between 600 and 1500 A.D.; NEW, MODERN, LATIN, Latin as written between
1500 and the present time, mostly used as a scientific medium; THIEVES'
LATIN, thieves' cant. [L. _Latinus_, belonging to _Latium_, the district
round Rome.]

LATIPENNATE, lat-i-pen'[=a]t, _adj._ broad-winged.

LATIROSTRAL, lat-i-ros'tral, _adj._ broad-billed.--Also LATIROS'TRATE.

LATISSIMUS, l[=a]-tis'i-mus, _n._ the broadest muscle which lies upon the
back.

LATITUDE, lat'i-t[=u]d, _n._ the distance of a place north or south from
the equator, measured in degrees of the meridian: a place as indicated by
latitude: the angular distance of a celestial body above the plane of the
ecliptic (_apparent_ when the point of view is on the earth's surface,
_geocentric_ when at the earth's centre, _heliocentric_ when at the centre
of the sun): (_fig._) extent of signification: freedom from restraint:
scope: (_obs._) width.--_adjs._ LATITUD'INAL, pertaining to latitude: in
the direction of latitude; LATITUDIN[=A]'RIAN, broad or liberal, esp. in
religious belief: lax.--_n._ a name applied by contemporaries to a member
of a school of liberal and philosophical theologians within the English
Church in the later half of the 17th century: one who affects to regard
specific creeds, methods of church government, &c. with indifference.--_n._
LATITUDIN[=A]'RIANISM.--_adj._ LATITUD'INOUS, having latitude or large
extent.--LATITUDE BY ACCOUNT, in navigation, the latitude calculated from
the course and distance sailed since last observation; LATITUDE BY
OBSERVATION, the latitude determined from an observation of a heavenly
body; MIDDLE LATITUDE, the latitude of the parallel midway between two
places situated in the same hemisphere. [Fr.,--L. _latitudo_,
_-inis_--_latus_, broad.]

LATRIA, l[=a]-tr[=i]'a, _n._ the kind of supreme worship lawfully offered
to God alone--opposed to _Dulia_, that given to saints and angels, and to
_Hyperdulia_, that given to the Virgin. [Gr. _latreuein_, to serve.]

LATRINE, lat'rin, _n._ a privy or water-closet in barracks, factories,
hospitals, &c. [Fr.,--L. _lavatrina_, _latrina_--_lav[=a]re_, to wash.]

LATROBE, la-tr[=o]b', _n._ a form of stove set into a fireplace, heating
the room by radiation, and the rooms above by hot air--from I. _Latrobe_ of
Baltimore.

LATROCINIUM, lat-r[=o]-sin'i-um, _n._ the Robber-Council, that held at
Ephesus in 449, in which the doctrines of the heretic Eutyches were upheld
by means of intimidation--its acts revoked at the oecumenical council of
Chalcedon in 451: larceny: right of adjudging and executing thieves. [L.,
robbery.]

LATTEN, lat'en, _n._ brass or bronze used for crosses: sheet tin, tinned
iron-plate. [O. Fr. _laton_ (Fr. _laiton_)--Ger. _latte_, a lath, thin
plate.]

LATTER, lat'[.e]r, _adj._ later: coming or existing after: mentioned the
last of two: modern: recent: (_Shak._) last.--_adjs._ LATT'ER-BORN
(_Shak._), younger; LATT'ER-DAY, belonging to recent times.--_adv._
LATT'ERLY, in latter time: of late.--LATTER-DAY SAINTS (see Mormon); LATTER
END (see END); LATTER-MINT, a late kind of mint.--THE FORMER AND THE LATTER
RAIN (see RAIN). [A variant of _later_.]

LATTICE, lat'is, _n._ a network of crossed laths or bars, called also
LATT'ICE-WORK: anything of lattice-work, as a window: (_her._) a bearing of
vertical and horizontal bars crossing each other.--_v.t._ to form into open
work: to furnish with a lattice.--_ns._ LATT'ICE-BRIDGE, a bridge with its
sides consisting of cross-framing like lattice-work; LATT'ICE-GIRD'ER, a
girder of which the web consists of diagonal pieces arranged like
lattice-work; LATT'ICE-LEAF, an aquatic plant, native to Madagascar, so
called from the singular resemblance of the leaves to open
lattice-work--otherwise _Lattice-plant_, _Lace-leaf_, _Water-yam_, or
_Ouvirandrano_.--RED LATTICE (_Shak._), a frame of lattice-work painted
red, formerly used to fill the windows of an ale-house. [Fr.
_lattis_--_latte_, a lath.]

LAUD, lawd, _v.t._ to praise in words or with singing: to celebrate.--_n._
commendation: praise in divine worship: (_pl._) in the R.C. Church, the
prayers immediately following matins, constituting with the latter the
first of the seven canonical hours.--_adj._ LAUD'ABLE, worthy of being
praised.--_n._ LAUD'ABLENESS.--_adv._ LAUD'ABLY.--_ns._ LAUD[=A]'TION,
praise: honour paid; LAUD'ATIVE, a panegyric, a eulogium.--_adj._
LAUD'ATORY, containing praise: expressing praise.--_n._ that which contains
praise.--_n._ LAUD'ER. [L. _laud[=a]re_--_laus_, _laudis_, praise.]

LAUDANUM, lawd'a-num, _n._ a preparation of opium: tincture of opium. [Same
word as _ladanum_, transferred to a different drug.]

LAUGH, läf, _v.i._ to express mirth or joy by an explosive inarticulate
sound of the voice and peculiar facial distortion: to be gay or lively:
make merry (with _at_), to flout.--_v.t._ to express with a laugh: to
affect in some way by laughter.--_n._ the sound caused by
merriment.--_adj._ LAUGH'ABLE, ludicrous.--_n._ LAUGH'ABLENESS.--_adv._
LAUGH'ABLY.--_ns._ LAUGH'ER; LAUGH'ING-GAS, a gas which excites laughter,
called nitrous oxide, used as an anæsthetic in minor surgical operations,
as in dentistry; LAUGH'ING-JACK'ASS, the great kingfisher of
Australia.--_adv._ LAUGH'INGLY, in a laughing manner.--_ns._
LAUGH'ING-STOCK, an object of ridicule, like something stuck up to be
laughed at; LAUGH'TER, act or noise of laughing.--LAUGH A THING OFF, to
treat as if worthy only of a laugh; LAUGH IN ONE'S SLEEVE, to laugh
inwardly; LAUGH ONE OUT OF, to make a person abandon a habit, &c., by
laughing at him for it; LAUGH ON THE WRONG SIDE OF THE MOUTH, to be made
feel disappointment or sorrow, esp. after boasting, &c.; LAUGH TO SCORN, to
deride or jeer at.--HAVE THE LAUGH ON ONE'S SIDE, to be able to laugh at
another through getting the better of him by superior dexterity, &c. [A.S.
_hlihan_; Ger. _lachen_, Goth. _hlahjan_; prob. imit.]

LAUNCE, läns, _n._ Same as LANCE.

LAUNCE, läns, _n._ (_Spens._) a balance. [L. _lanx_, _lancis_, a plate, a
scale of a balance.]

LAUNCH, LANCH, länsh, _v.t._ to throw as a lance or spear: (_Shak._) to
pierce or cut with a lance: to send forth: to cause to slide into the
water.--_v.i._ to go forth, as a ship into the water: to come into new
relations, make a transition.--_n._ act of launching or moving a
newly-built ship from the stocks into the water: the largest boat carried
by a man-of-war: (_Spens._) a lancing.--_n.pl._ LAUNCH'ING-WAYS, the
timbers on which a ship is launched.--_n._ STEAM'-LAUNCH, a large
passenger-boat propelled by steam-power, and used largely on rivers. [O.
Fr. _lanchier_, _lancier_ (Fr. _lancer_). See LANCE.]

LAUND, lawnd, _n._ (_Shak._) a park. [O. Fr. _lande_; prob. Celt. See
LAWN.]

LAUNDRESS, lawn'dres, _n._ a woman who washes and irons clothes.--_n._
LAUN'DER, a washerwoman or washerman: a trough for conveying water.--_v.t._
to wash and iron, as clothes: (_Shak._) to wet, wash.--_ns._ LAUN'DRY, a
place where clothes are washed and dressed; LAUN'DRY-MAN, -MAID, a male,
female, worker in a laundry. [M. E. _lavander_--O. Fr. _lavandier_--L.,
gerundive of _lav[=a]re_ to wash.]

LAURA, law'ra, _n._ an early kind of monastic community, its cells separate
structures, the inmates living in solitude, meeting only for common
services in the chapel--found only in Egypt, Syria, and Palestine. [Most
prob. Gr. _laura_, an alley, lane.]

LAUREATE, law're-[=a]t, _adj._ crowned with laurel.--_n._ one crowned with
laurel: a poet-laureate.--_v.t._ to crown with laurel, in token of literary
merit: to confer a degree upon.--_ns._ LAU'REATESHIP, office of a laureate;
LAURE[=A]'TION, act of laureating or conferring a degree;
P[=O]'ET-LAU'REATE, formerly one who received a degree in grammar (i.e.
poetry and rhetoric) at the English universities: a poet bearing that
honorary title, a salaried officer in the royal household, appointed to
compose annually an ode for the king's birthday and other suitable
occasions.

LAUREL, law'rel, _n._ the bay-tree, used by the ancients for making
honorary wreaths: a crown of laurel, honours gained (freq. in _pl._): any
species of the genus _Laurus_.--_adjs._ LAU'REL; LAU'RELLED, crowned with
laurel.--_n._ LAU'REL-WA'TER, a sedative and narcotic water distilled from
the leaves of the cherry-laurel.--_adjs._ LAURIF'EROUS, producing laurel;
LAU'RIGER, laurel-wearing.--_n_ LAURUST[=I]'NUS, an evergreen shrub. [Fr.
_laurier_--L. _laurus_.]

LAURENTIAN, law-ren'shi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Lorenzo_ or LAURENTIUS
dei Medici, or to the Laurentian library founded by him at Florence: of or
pertaining to the river St _Lawrence_: applied to a series of rocks
covering a large area in the region of the Upper Lakes of North America.

LAUWINE, law'vin, _n._ (_Byron_) an avalanche. [Ger., from Low L. _lavina_,
prob. L. _labi_, to fall.]

LAV, lav, _n._ word--in _lavengro_, word-master. [Gypsy.]

LAVA, lä'va, _n._ the melted matter discharged from a burning mountain,
that flows down its sides. [It. _lava_, a stream--L. _lav[=a]re_, to wash.]

LAVE, l[=a]v, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to wash: to bathe.--_ns._ L[=A]'VABO, the
ritual act of washing the celebrant's fingers after the offertory, before
proceeding with the eucharistic service--from _Lavabo manus meas in
innocentia_ (Ps. xxvi. 6): a stone basin in monasteries for washing in
before meals or religious exercises: a modern convenience or lavatory of
similar kind; L[=A]'VAGE, a washing out; LAV[=A]'TION, a washing or
cleansing; LAV'ATORY, a place for washing: a medieval stone table in
monasteries, &c., on which bodies were washed before burial: (_med._) a
lotion for a diseased part; L[=A]'VER, a large vessel for laving or
washing. [Fr. _laver_--L. _lav[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_; Gr. _louein_, to wash.]

LAVE, l[=a]v, _n._ (_Scot._) what is left, the remainder. [A.S. _láf_; Ice.
_leif_. See LEAVE.]

LAVE, l[=a]v, _v.t._ to lade or throw out (as water from a boat). [A.S.
_lafian_, pour out water; Ger. _laben_, refresh. Conn. with L. _lav[=a]re_,
to wash, dub.]

LAVENDER, lav'en-d[.e]r, _n._ an odoriferous plant, probably so called from
its being laid with newly washed clothes: a pale-lilac colour, the colour
of lavender blossoms.--_v.t._ to sprinkle with lavender.--_n._
LAV'ENDER-WA'TER, a perfume composed of spirits of wine, essential oil of
lavender, and ambergris.--LAY IN LAVENDER, to lay by carefully, as clothes,
with sprigs of lavender in them; OIL OF LAVENDER, an aromatic oil distilled
from lavender flowers and stems, used as a stimulant and tonic. [M. E.
_lavendre_--Fr. _lavande_--L. _lav[=a]re_, to wash.]

LAVER. See LAVE (1).

LAVER, l[=a]v'[.e]r, _n._ the fronds of certain marine plants, sometimes
used as food. [L. _laver_.]

LAVEROCK, lav'[.e]r-ock, _n._ (_prov._) a lark. [Cf. _Lark_.]

LAVISH, lav'ish, _v.t._ to expend profusely: to waste.--_adj._ bestowing
profusely: prodigal: extravagant: unrestrained.--_adv._ LAV'ISHLY.--_ns._
LAV'ISHMENT, LAV'ISHNESS. [From LAVE (3).]

LAVOLT, la-volt', LAVOLTA, la-vol'ta, _n._ (_Shak._) an old dance in which
there were much turning and high leaping. [It. _la volta_, the turn.]

LAW, law, _n._ a rule of action established by authority: statute: the
rules of a community or state: a rule or principle of science or art: the
whole jurisprudence or the science of law: established usage: that which is
lawful: the whole body of persons connected professionally with the law:
litigation: a theoretical principle educed from practice or observation: a
statement or formula expressing the constant order of certain phenomena:
(_theol._) the Mosaic code or the books containing it.--_v.t._ (_coll._) to
give law to, determine.--_v.i._ (_obs._) to go to law.--_adj._
LAW'-ABID'ING, obedient to the law.--_ns._ LAW-BIND'ING; LAW'-BOOK, a book
treating of law or law cases; LAW'-BREAK'ER, one who violates a law;
LAW'-BURR'OWS (_Scots law_), a writ requiring a person to give security
against doing violence to another; LAW'-CALF, a book-binding in smooth,
pale-brown calf; LAW'-DAY, a day of open court.--_adj._ LAW'FUL, allowed by
law: rightful.--_adv._ LAW'FULLY.--_ns._ LAW'FULNESS; LAW'GIVER, one who
enacts laws: a legislator.--_adj._ LAW'GIVING, legislating.--_n._ LAW'ING,
going to law: litigation: (_obs._) the practice of cutting off the claws
and balls of a dog's forefeet to hinder it from hunting: (_Scot._) a
reckoning at a public-house, a tavern bill.--_adj._ LAW'LESS.--_adv._
LAW'LESSLY.--_ns._ LAW'LESSNESS; LAW'-LIST, an annual publication
containing all information regarding the administration of law and the
legal profession; LAW'-LORD, a peer in parliament who holds or has held
high legal office: in Scotland, a judge of the Court of Session;
LAW'-MAK'ER, a lawgiver; LAW'-MAN, one of a select body with magisterial
powers in some of the Danish towns of early England; LAW'-MER'CHANT, a term
applied to the customs which have grown up among merchants in reference to
mercantile documents and business; LAW'-MONG'ER, a low pettifogging lawyer;
LAW'-ST[=A]'TIONER, a stationer who sells parchment and other articles
needed by lawyers; LAW'SUIT, a suit or process in law; LAW'-WRIT'ER, a
writer on law: a copier or engrosser of legal papers; LAW'YER, a
practitioner in the law: (_N.T._) an interpreter of the Mosaic Law: the
stem of a brier.--LAW LATIN, Latin as used in law and legal documents,
being a mixture of Latin with Old French and Latinised English words; LAW
OF NATIONS, now international law, originally applied to those ethical
principles regarded as obligatory on all communities; LAW OF NATURE (see
NATURE); LAW OF THE LAND, the established law of a country; LAWS OF
ASSOCIATION (see ASSOCIATION); LAWS OF MOTION (see MOTION); LAWFUL DAY, one
on which business may be legally done--not a Sunday or a public
holiday.--BOYLE'S (erroneously called MARIOTTE'S) LAW (_physics_), in
gases, the law that, for a given quantity at a given temperature, the
pressure varies inversely as the volume--discovered by Robert _Boyle_ in
1662, and treated in a book by Mariotte in 1679; BREHON LAW (see BREHON);
CANON LAW (see CANON); CASE LAW, law established by judicial decision in
particular cases, in contradistinction to _statute law_; COMMON LAW (see
COMMON); CRIMINAL LAW, the law which relates to crimes and their
punishment; CROWN LAW, that part of the common law of England which is
applicable to criminal matters; CUSTOMARY LAW (see CONSUETUDINARY);
EMPIRICAL LAW, a law induced from observation or experiment, and though
valid for the particular instances observed, not to be relied on beyond the
conditions on which it rests; FEDERAL LAW, law prescribed by the supreme
power of the United States, as opposed to _state_ law; FOREST LAW, the code
of law which was drawn up to preserve the forests, &c., forming the special
property of the English kings; GRESHAM'S LAW (_polit. econ._), the law that
of two forms of currency the inferior or more depreciated tends to drive
the other from circulation, owing to the hoarding and exportation of the
better form; GRIMM'S LAW (_philol._), the law formulating certain changes
or differences which the mute consonants exhibit in corresponding words in
the Teutonic branches of the Aryan family of languages--stated by Jacob
_Grimm_ (1785-1863); INTERNATIONAL LAW (see INTERNATIONAL); JUDICIARY LAW,
that part of the law which has its source in the decisions and
adjudications of the courts; KEPLER'S LAWS, three laws of planetary motion
discovered by Johann _Kepler_ (1571-1630)--viz. (1) the orbits of the
planets are ellipses with the sun at one focus; (2) the areas described by
their _radii vectores_ in equal times are equal; (3) the squares of their
periodic times vary as the cubes of their mean distances from the sun;
LYNCH LAW (see LYNCH); MAINE LAW, a prohibitory liquor law passed by the
legislature of _Maine_ State, U.S.A., in 1851; MARITIME, MARTIAL,
MERCANTILE, MILITARY LAW (see the _adjs._); MAY LAWS, several Prussian
enactments (1873-74) directed to control the action of the Church, and
limit its interference in civil matters, largely modified in 1887--often
called FALK LAWS, from the introducer; MORAL LAW, that portion of the Old
Testament which relates to moral principles, especially the ten
commandments; MOSAIC, MUNICIPAL, NATURAL LAW (see the _adjs._); OHM'S LAW,
the basis of electrical measurements, established in 1827 by _Ohm_
(1787-1854), that the resistance of a conductor is measured by the ratio of
the electromotive force between its two ends to the current flowing through
it; POOR-LAW, -LAWS, laws providing for the support of paupers at the
public expense; POSITIVE LAW, law owing its force to human sanction as
opposed to divine law; PRIVATE LAW (see PRIVATE); ROMAN LAW, the system of
law developed by the ancient Romans, and often termed the _civil law_
(q.v.); SALIC LAW (see SALIAN); STATUTE LAW (see STATUTE); SUMPTUARY LAW
(see SUMPTUARY); VERNER'S LAW (_philol._), a law stated by Karl _Verner_ in
1875, showing the effect of the position of accent in the shifting of the
original Aryan mute consonants, and _s_, into Low German, and explaining
the most important anomalies in the application of Grimm's law; WRITTEN
LAW, statute law as distinguished from the common law.--HAVE THE LAW OF
(_coll._), to enforce the law against; LAY DOWN THE LAW, to state
authoritatively or dictatorially. [M. E. _lawe_--A.S. _lagu_, from
_licgan_, to lie; Ice. _l[=o]g_.]

LAWK, lawk, _interj._ implying surprise. [For _Lord!_]

LAWN, lawn, _n._ a sort of fine linen or cambric.--_adj._ made of
lawn.--_adj._ LAWN'Y.--LAWN SLEEVES, wide sleeves of lawn worn by Anglican
bishops. [Prob. from Fr. _Laon_, a town near Rheims.]

LAWN, lawn, _n._ an open space between woods: a space of ground covered
with grass, generally in front of or around a house or mansion.--_ns._
LAWN'-MOW'ER, a machine for cutting the grass on a lawn; LAWN'-SPRINK'LER,
a machine for watering a lawn by sprinkling from a hose with perforated
swivel-collar; LAWN'-TENN'IS, a game played with a ball and rackets on an
open lawn or other smooth surface by two, three, or four persons.--_adj._
LAWN'Y. [A corr. of _laund_, _lawnd_.]

LAX, laks, _adj._ slack: loose: soft, flabby: not strict in discipline or
morals: loose in the bowels.--_adj._ LAX'ATIVE, having the power of
loosening the bowels.--_n._ a purgative or aperient medicine.--_ns._
LAX'ATIVENESS, LAX'ITY, LAX'NESS, state or quality of being lax;
LAX[=A]'TOR, a muscle that relaxes an organ or part; LAX'IST, one holding
loose notions of moral laws, or of their application.--_adv._ LAX'LY. [L.
_laxus_, loose.]

LAY, _pa.t._ of _lie_, to lay one's self down.

LAY, l[=a], _v.t._ to cause to lie down: to place or set down: to beat
down: to spread on a surface: to conjoin: to spread the proper thing on: to
calm: to appease: to wager: to bring forth: to impose: to charge: to
present.--_v.i._ to produce eggs: to wager, bet:--_pr.p._ lay'ing; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ laid.--_n._ situation: (_Shak._) a bet: a share of profit, esp.
in whaling enterprises: (_slang_) a field or method of operations, esp. of
thieves: a measure in thread manufacture, about 800 yards.--_ns._ LAY'ER,
that which lays--e.g. a hen, a bricklayer: a bed or stratum: a shoot laid
for propagation; LAY'ERING, the propagation of plants by layers; LAY'ING,
the first coat of plaster: the act or time of laying eggs: the eggs laid;
LAY'-OUT, that which is laid out, a spread, for dining, gaming, &c.;
LAY'-STALL, a place for laying dung, rubbish, &c.--LAY ABOUT ONE, to deal
blows vigorously or on all sides; LAY ASIDE, AWAY, to discard: to put apart
for future use; LAY AT, to endeavour to strike; LAY BARE, to make bare,
disclose; LAY BEFORE, to submit to, as of plans; LAY BY, to keep for future
use, to dismiss, to put off; LAY BY THE HEELS (see HEEL); LAY DOWN, to give
up: to deposit, as a pledge: to apply, as embroidery: to delineate,
describe: to affirm, assert: (_rare_) to store for future use; LAY HEADS
TOGETHER, to consult together, to deliberate; LAY HOLD OF, or ON, to seize,
apprehend; LAY IN, to get in a supply of; LAY INTO, to chastise thoroughly;
LAY IT ON, to charge exorbitantly, to do anything with profuseness; LAY
OFF, to cast aside: to mark off; LAY ON, to apply with force, to strike, to
act with vigour; LAY ONE'S SELF OUT TO, to put forth one's best efforts for
anything; LAY ON LOAD (_Spens._), to belabour; LAY ON THE TABLE (see
TABLE); LAY OPEN, to make bare, to show, expose; LAY OUT, to expand, to
display: to expend, to plan, to exert: to dress in grave-clothes: to take
measures, seek; LAY SIEGE TO, to besiege: to importune; LAY THE LAND, to
cause the land to disappear below the horizon by sailing away from it; LAY
TO, to apply with vigour: to bring a ship to rest; LAY TO HEART (see
HEART); LAY UNDER, to subject to; LAY UP, to store up, preserve: to confine
to one's bed or room for a time: to put a ship in dock after dismantling;
LAY UPON, to wager upon; LAY WAIT, to lie in wait, or in ambush; LAY WASTE,
to devastate, to destroy.--LAYING ON OF HANDS (see HAND).--LAID EMBROIDERY,
gimped or raised embroidery.--ON A LAY, on shares, as when a crew is
shipped 'on a lay' instead of receiving wages. [_Lay_ is the causal to
_lie_, from A.S. _lecgan_; Ice. _leggja_, Ger. _legen_.]

LAY, l[=a], _n._ a song: a lyric or narrative poem. [O. Fr. _lai_, from
Celt.; cf. Gael. _laoidh_, a hymn.]

LAY, l[=a], LAIC, -AL, l[=a]'ik, -al, _adjs._ pertaining to the people: not
clerical: unprofessional: (_cards_) not trumps.--_v.t._ L[=A]'ICISE, to
deprive of a clerical character.--_ns._ L[=A]'ITY, the people as
distinguished from any particular profession, esp. the clerical;
LAY'-BAP'TISM, baptism administered by a layman; LAY'-BROTH'ER, a layman: a
man under vows of celibacy and obedience, who serves a monastery, but is
exempt from the studies and religious services required of the monks;
LAY'-COMMUN'ION, the state of being in the communion of the church as a
layman; LAY'-IMPR[=O]'PRIATOR, an impropriator who is a layman (see
IMPROPRIATOR); LAY'-LORD, a civil lord of the Admiralty; LAY'MAN, one of
the laity: a non-professional man; LAY'-READ'ER, in the Anglican Church, a
layman who receives authority to read the lessons or a part of the service,
and who may in certain cases preach or read the sermons of others. [O. Fr.
_lai_--L. _laicus_--Gr. _laikos_--_laos_, the people.]

LAY-DAY, l[=a]'-d[=a], _n._ one of a number of days allowed a charter-party
for shipping or unshipping cargo.

LAYER, l[=a]'[.e]r, _n._ a stratum--better LAIR (q.v.). See LAY.

LAYETTE, l[=a]-yet', _n._ a baby's complete outfit: a tray for carrying
powder in powder-mills. [Fr.]

LAY-FIGURE, l[=a]'-fig'[=u]r, _n._ a jointed figure used by painters in
imitation of the human body, as a model for drapery: a living person or a
fictitious character wanting in individuality.--Also LAY'-MAN.

LAZAR, l[=a]'zar, _n._ one afflicted with a loathsome and pestilential
disease like Lazarus, the beggar.--_ns._ L[=A]'ZAR-HOUSE, a lazaretto;
LAZ'ARIST, a member of a R.C. order, the Congregation of the Priests of the
Mission, founded by St Vincent de Paul in 1624.--_adj._ L[=A]'ZAR-LIKE,
like a lazar: full of sores: leprous. [Fr. _lazare_--L.,--Gr. _Lazaros_, in
the parable in Luke xvi.--Heb. _El`[=a]z[=a]r_, 'he whom God helps.']

LAZARETTO, laz-a-ret'[=o], _n._ a public hospital for diseased persons,
esp. for such as have infectious disorders: a prison hospital: a place
where persons are kept during quarantine.--Also LAZ'ARET. [It.
_lazzeretto_.]

LAZARONI, laz-a-r[=o]'ni, _n._ Same as LAZZARONI.

LAZULI, laz'[=u]-l[=i]. See LAPIS-LAZULI, under LAPIDARY.

LAZULITE, laz'[=u]-l[=i]t, _n._ a mineral of a light, indigo-blue colour,
occurring in quartz and in clay-slate.

LAZY, l[=a]'zi, _adj._ disinclined to exertion: averse to labour: sluggish:
tedious.--_v.i._ LAZE, to be lazy.--_adv._ L[=A]'ZILY.--_ns._ L[=A]'ZINESS,
state or quality of being lazy; L[=A]'ZY-BED, a bed for growing potatoes,
the seed being laid on the surface and covered with earth dug out of
trenches along both sides; L[=A]'ZYBONES (_coll._), a lazy person, an
idler; L[=A]'ZY-JACK, a jack constructed of compound levers pivoted
together; L[=A]'ZY-PIN'ION (see IDLE-WHEEL).--_n.pl._ L[=A]'ZY-TONGS, tongs
consisting of a series of diagonal levers pivoted together at the middle
and ends, capable of being extended by a movement of the scissors-like
handles so as to pick up objects at a distance. [M. E. _lasche_--O. Fr.
_lasche_ (Fr. _lâche_), slack, weak, base--L. _laxus_, loose.]

LAZZARONI, laz-a-r[=o]'ni, _n._ name given to the lowest classes in Naples,
idle beggars, with no fixed habitation or regular occupation:--_sing._
LAZZARONE. [It.]

LEA, l[=e], _n._ a meadow: grass-land, pasturage.--Older forms, LAY, LEE,
LEY. [A.S. _leáh_; cf. prov. Ger. _lohe_, _loh_, found also in place-names,
as Water_loo_.]

LEACH, l[=e]ch, _v.t._ to wash or drain away by percolation of water, esp.
to make lye by leaching ashes--also LETCH.--_ns._ LEACH'-TROUGH, -TUB, a
trough or tub in which ashes are leached.--_adj._ LEACH'Y, liable to be
leached, letting water percolate through. [A.S. _leccan_, to moisten.]

LEACH, l[=e]ch, _n._ Same as LEECH.

LEAD, l[=e]d, _v.t._ to show the way by going first: to guide by the hand:
to direct: to precede: to transport or carry: to allure.--_v.i._ to go
before and show the way: to have a tendency: to exercise dominion:--_pr.p._
lead'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ led.--_n._ first place: precedence:
direction: (_naut._) the course of a running rope from end to end: the
right of playing the first card in a round or trick: a main conductor in
electrical distribution.--_ns._ LEAD'ER, one who leads or goes first: a
chief: the leading editorial article in a newspaper (also LEADING ARTICLE):
principal wheel in any machinery; LEADERETTE', a brief newspaper leader;
LEAD'ERSHIP, state or condition of a leader or conductor;
LEAD'ING-BUS'INESS, the acting of the principal parts or rôles in plays;
LEAD'ING-M[=O]'TIVE (Ger. _leit-motif_), in dramatic music, a principal
theme: a theme, usually of but few tones, by which any personage or
particular emotion is indicated by suggestion as often as it occurs;
LEAD'ING-QUES'TION, a legal term for a question so put to a witness as to
suggest the answer that is wished or expected.--_n.pl._ LEAD'ING-STRINGS,
strings used to lead children when beginning to walk: vexatious care or
custody.--LEAD APES IN HELL (see APE); LEAD ASTRAY, to draw into a wrong
course, to seduce from right conduct; LEAD BY THE NOSE, to make one follow
submissively; LEAD IN PRAYER, to offer up prayer in an assembly, uniting
the prayers of others; LEAD OFF, to begin or take the start in anything;
LEAD ON, to persuade to go on, to draw on; LEAD ONE A DANCE (see DANCE);
LEAD UP TO, to bring about by degrees, to prepare for anything by steps or
stages. [A.S. _l['æ]dan_, to lead, _lád_, a way; Ger. _leiten_, to lead.]

LEAD, led, _n._ a well-known metal of a bluish-white colour: the plummet
for sounding at sea: a thin plate of lead separating lines of type: (_pl._)
sheets of lead for covering roofs, a flat roof so covered.--_v.t._ to cover
or fit with lead: (_print._) to separate lines with leads.--_n._
LEAD'-ARM'ING, tallow, &c., placed in the hollow of a sounding-lead, to
ascertain the nature of the bottom.--_adjs._ LEAD'ED, fitted with or set in
lead: (_print._) separated by leads, as the lines of a book, &c.; LEAD'EN,
made of lead: heavy: dull; LEAD'EN-HEART'ED, having an unfeeling heart;
LEAD'EN-STEP'PING (_Milt._), moving slowly.--_ns._ LEAD'-GLANCE, lead ore,
galena; LEAD'-MILL, a mill for grinding white-lead: a leaden disc charged
with emery for grinding gems; LEAD'-PEN'CIL, a pencil or instrument for
drawing, &c., made of blacklead; LEAD'-POI'SONING, or _Plumbism_, poisoning
by the absorption and diffusion of lead in the system, its commonest form,
_Lead_ or _Painter's Colic_; LEADS'MAN, a seaman who heaves the
lead.--_adj._ LEAD'Y, like lead. [A.S. _leád_; Ger. _loth_.]

LEAF, l[=e]f, _n._ one of the lateral organs developed from the stem or
axis of the plant below its growing-point: anything beaten thin like a
leaf: two pages of a book: one side of a window-shutter, &c.:--_pl._ LEAVES
(l[=e]vz).--_v.i._ to shoot out or produce leaves:--_pr.p._ leaf'ing;
_pa.p._ leafed.--_ns._ LEAF'AGE, leaves collectively: abundance of leaves:
season of leaves or leafing; LEAF'-BRIDGE, a form of drawbridge in which
the rising leaf or leaves swing vertically on hinges; LEAF'-BUD, a bud
producing a stem with leaves only; LEAF'INESS; LEAF'-IN'SECT, an
orthopterous insect of family _Phasmidæ_, the wing-covers like
leaves.--_adj._ LEAF'LESS, destitute of leaves.--_ns._ LEAF'LET, a little
leaf, a tract; LEAF'-MET'AL, metal, especially alloys imitating gold and
silver, in very thin leaves, for decoration; LEAF'-MOULD, earth formed from
decayed leaves, used as a soil for plants; LEAF'-STALK, the petiole
supporting the leaf.--_adj._ LEAF'Y, full of leaves.--TAKE A LEAF OUT OF
ONE'S BOOK (see BOOK); TURN OVER A NEW LEAF, to take up a new and better
course of conduct. [A.S. _leáf_; Ger. _laub_, Dut. _loof_, a leaf.]

LEAGUE, l[=e]g, _n._ a nautical measure, 1/20th of a degree, 3 geographical
miles, 3.456 statute miles: an old measure of length, varying from the
Roman league, 1.376 mod. Eng. miles, to the French, 2.764 miles, and the
Spanish, 4.214 miles. [O. Fr. _legue_ (Fr. _lieue_)--L. _leuca_, a Gallic
mile of 1500 Roman paces; from the Celt., as in Bret. _leó_.]

LEAGUE, l[=e]g, _n._ a bond or alliance: union for mutual
advantage.--_v.i._ to form a league: to unite for mutual interest:--_pr.p._
leag'uing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ leagued.--_n._ LEAG'UER, one connected with
a league. [Fr. _ligue_--Low L. _liga_--L. _lig[=a]re_, to bind.]

LEAGUER, l[=e]g'[.e]r, _n._ a camp, esp. of a besieging army: siege or
besiegement. [Dut. _leger_, a lair.]

LEAK, l[=e]k, _n._ a crack or hole in a vessel through which liquid may
pass: the oozing of any fluid through an opening.--_v.i._ to let any fluid
into or out of a vessel through a leak.--_ns._ LEAK'AGE, a leaking: that
which enters or escapes by leaking: an allowance for leaking;
LEAK'INESS.--_adj._ LEAK'Y, having leaks: letting any liquid in or
out.--LEAK OUT, to find vent, to get to the public ears; SPRING A LEAK, to
begin to let in water. [Ice. _leka_; Dut. _lekken_, to drip.]

LEAL, l[=e]l, _adj._ true-hearted, faithful.--LAND O' THE LEAL, the home of
the blessed after death--Paradise, not Scotland. [Norm. Fr. _leal_, same as
_loyal_.]

LEAM, l[=e]m, _n._ (_obs._) a gleam of light, a glow.--_v.i._ to shine.
[A.S. _leóma_.]

LEAN, l[=e]n, _v.i._ to incline or bend: to turn from a straight line: to
rest against: to incline towards:--_pr.p._ lean'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
leaned or leant (lent).--_n._ LEAN'-TO, a shed or penthouse whose supports
lean upon another building or wall. [A.S. _hlinian_, and causal form
_hl['æ]nan_; Dut. _leunen_.]

LEAN, l[=e]n, _adj._ thin, wanting flesh: not fat: unprofitable, taking
extra time--a printer's phrase.--_n._ flesh without fat.--_adj._
LEAN'-FACED, having a thin face: (_print._) slender and narrow, as
letters.--_adv._ LEAN'LY.--_n._ LEAN'NESS.--_adj._ LEAN'-WIT'TED, of little
sense. [A.S. _hl['æ]ne_; Low Ger. _leen_; according to Skeat, from
_hl['æ]nan_, to lean (above).]

LEAP, l[=e]p, _v.i._ to move with bounds: to spring upward or forward: to
jump: to rush with vehemence.--_v.t._ to bound over: to cause to take a
leap: to cover or copulate (of some beasts):--_pr.p._ leap'ing; _pa.t._
leaped or leapt (lept); _pa.p._ leaped, rarely leapt.--_n._ act of leaping:
bound: space passed by leaping: sudden transition.--_ns._ LEAP'-FROG, a
play in which one boy places his hands on the back of another stooping in
front of him, and vaults over his head; LEAP'ING-HOUSE (_Shak._), a
brothel; LEAP'ING-TIME (_Shak._), youth; LEAP'-YEAR, every fourth year--of
366 days, adding one day in February.--LEAP IN THE DARK, an act of which we
cannot foresee the consequences. [A.S. _hleápan_, pa.t. _hleóp_; Ger.
_laufen_, to run.]

LEAP, l[=e]p, _n._ a basket: a wicker net. [A.S. _leáp_.]

LEAR, l[=e]r, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to learn.--_n._ that which is learned, a
lesson: (_Scot._) learning.

LEARN, l[.e]rn, _v.t._ to acquire knowledge of, to get to know: to gain
power of performing: (_prov._) to teach.--_v.i._ to gain knowledge: to
improve by example.--_adjs._ LEARN'ABLE, that may be learned; LEARN'ED,
having learning: versed in literature, &c.: skilful.--_adv._
LEARN'EDLY.--_ns._ LEARN'EDNESS; LEARN'ER, one who learns: one who is yet
in the rudiments of any subject; LEARN'ING, what is learned: knowledge:
scholarship: skill in languages or science.--NEW LEARNING, the awakening to
classical learning in England in the 16th century, led by Colet, Erasmus,
Warham, More, &c. [A.S. _leornian_; Ger. _lernen_; cf. A.S. _l['æ]ran_
(Ger. _lehren_), to teach.]

LEASE, l[=e]s, _n._ a contract letting a house, farm, &c. for a term of
years: the duration or term of tenure: any tenure.--_v.t._ to let for a
term of years:--_pr.p._ leas'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ leased.--_adjs._
LEAS'ABLE; LEASE'HOLD, held by lease or contract.--_n._ a tenure held by
lease.--_ns._ LEASE'HOLDER; LEAS'ER, one who leases. [Fr. _laisser_, to
leave--L. _lax[=a]re_, to loose, _laxus_, loose.]

LEASE, l[=e]z, _v.i._ (_prov._) to glean.--_n._ LEAS'ING, gleaning. [A.S.
_lesan_, to gather.]

LEASE, l[=e]s, _n._ in weaving, the plane in which the warp-threads cross:
this system of crossing.

LEASH, l[=e]sh, _n._ a lash or line by which a hawk or hound is held: a
brace and a half, three.--_v.t._ to hold by a leash: to bind. [O. Fr.
_lesse_ (Fr. _laisse_), a thong to hold a dog by--L. _laxus_, loose.]

LEASING, l[=e]z'ing, _n._ falsehood, lies: lying. [A.S. _lásung_--_leás_,
false, loose; Goth. _laus_, Ice. _los_.]

LEASOWE, l[=e]'s[=o], _n._ a pasture.--_v.t._ to feed or pasture. [A.S.
_l['æ]s_, a meadow.]

LEAST, l[=e]st, _adj._ (serves as superl. of LITTLE) little beyond all
others: smallest.--_adv._ in the smallest or lowest degree.--_advs._
LEAST'WAYS, LEAST'WISE, at least: however.--AT LEAST, or AT THE LEAST, at
the lowest estimate: at any rate. [A.S. _læst_, contr. from _læsast_, from
_læssa_ (adj.), less, _læs_ (adv.).]

LEAST, l[=e]st, _conj._ (_Spens._). Same as LEST.

LEAT, LEET, l[=e]t, _n._ (_prov._) a trench for bringing water to a
mill-wheel.

LEATHER, leth'[.e]r, _n._ the prepared skin of an animal, tanned, tawed, or
otherwise dressed.--_adj._ consisting of leather.--_ns._ LEATH'ER-CLOTH, a
textile fabric coated on one face with certain mixtures of a flexible
nature when dry, so as to resemble leather--called also _American
leather-cloth_, or simply _American cloth_; LEATH'ER-COAT (_Shak._), an
apple with a rough coat or rind, the golden russet; LEATHERETTE', cloth or
paper made to look like leather; LEATH'ER-HEAD, a blockhead: an Australian
bird with a bare head--called also _Monk_ and _Friar_: LEATH'ERING, a
thrashing; LEATH'ER-JACK'ET, one of various fishes; LEATH'ER-KNIFE, a knife
of curved form for cutting leather.--_adj._ LEATH'ERN, made or consisting
of leather.--_p.adj._ LEATH'ER-WINGED (_Spens._), having wings like
leather.--_adj._ LEATH'ERY, resembling leather: tough.--FAIR LEATHER,
leather not artificially coloured; MOROCCO LEATHER (see MOROCCO); PATENT
LEATHER, leather with a finely varnished surface--also JAPANNED or
LACQUERED LEATHER; RUSSIA LEATHER, a fine brownish-red leather with a
characteristic odour; SPLIT LEATHER, leather split by a machine, for
trunk-covers, &c.; WHITE LEATHER, tawed leather, having its natural colour.
[A.S. _leðer_, leather; Dut. and Ger. _leder_.]

LEAVE, l[=e]v, _n._ permission: liberty granted: formal parting of friends:
farewell. [A.S. _leáf_, permission, cog. with _leóf_, dear. See LIEF.]

LEAVE, l[=e]v, _v.t._ to allow to remain: to abandon, resign: to quit or
depart from: to have remaining at death: to bequeath: to refer for
decision.--_v.i._ to desist: to cease: to depart:--_pr.p._ leav'ing;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ left.--LEAVE ALONE, to let remain undisturbed; LEAVE IN
THE DARK, to conceal information from; LEAVE OFF, to desist, to terminate:
to give up using; LEAVE OUT, to omit.--GET LEFT (_coll._), to be beaten or
left behind; TAKE FRENCH LEAVE (see FRENCH); TAKE LEAVE, to assume
permission: to part, say farewell. [A.S. _l['æ]fan_, to leave a heritage
(_láf_), _lifian_, to be remaining.]

LEAVE, l[=e]v, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to levy, to raise.

LEAVE, l[=e]v, _v.i._ to put out leaves.--_adj._ LEAVED, furnished with
leaves: made with folds.

LEAVEN, lev'n, _n._ the ferment which makes dough rise in a spongy form:
anything that makes a general change, whether good or bad.--_v.t._ to raise
with leaven: to taint.--_n._ LEAV'ENING.--_adj._ LEAV'ENOUS, containing
leaven. [Fr. _levain_--L. _levamen_--_lev[=a]re_, to raise--_levis_,
light.]

LEAVES, l[=e]vz, _pl._ of _leaf_.

LEAVINGS, l[=e]v'ingz, _n.pl._ things left: relics: refuse.--_n._
LEAV'ING-SHOP, an unlicensed pawnshop.

LEAVY, l[=e]v'i, _adj._ (_Shak._). Same as LEAFY.

LECHER, lech'[.e]r, _n._ a man addicted to lewdness.--_v.i._ to practise
lewdness.--_adj._ LECH'EROUS, lustful: provoking lust.--_adv._
LECH'EROUSLY.--_ns._ LECH'EROUSNESS, LECH'ERY. [O. Fr. _lecheor_--_lecher_,
to lick; from Old High Ger. _lechón_, Ger. _lecken_, Eng. _lick_.]

LECTERN, lek't[.e]rn, _n._ a reading-desk in churches from which the
Scripture lessons are read.--_ns._ (_obs._) LEC'TURN, LET'TERN. [Low L.
_lectrinum_--Low L. _lectrum_, a pulpit--Gr. _lektron_, a couch.]

LECTION, lek'shun, _n._ a reading: a variety in a manuscript or book: a
portion of Scripture read in divine service.--_ns._ LEC'TIONARY, a book for
use in worship, containing lessons for particular days; LEC'TOR, a reader:
a reader of Scripture in the ancient churches; LEC'TRESS, a female reader.
[L. _lection-em_--_leg[)e]re_, _lectum_, to read.]

LECTUAL, lek't[=u]-al, _adj._ confining to the bed.

LECTURE, lek't[=u]r, _n._ a discourse on any subject, esp. a professional
or tutorial discourse: an expository and discursive religious discourse,
usually based on an extended passage of Scripture rather than a single
text: an endowed lectureship, as the Bampton, Hulsean, &c.: a formal
reproof.--_v.t._ to instruct by discourses: to instruct authoritatively: to
reprove.--_v.i._ to give a lecture or lectures.--_ns._ LEC'TURER, one who
lectures: one of a class of preachers in the Church of England, chosen by
the vestry and supported by voluntary contributions; LEC'TURESHIP, the
office of a lecturer. [See LECTION.]

LED, led, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of lead, to show the way.--_adj._ under
leading or control, esp. of a farm or place managed by a deputy instead of
the owner or tenant in person.--LED CAPTAIN, an obsequious attendant, a
henchman; LED HORSE, a spare horse led by a servant, a sumpter-horse or
pack-horse.

LEDEN, led'n, _n._ (_Spens._) language, dialect, speech. [A.S. _l['æ]den_,
Latin speech--L. _Latinum_, Latin.]

LEDGE, lej, _n._ a shelf on which articles may be laid: that which
resembles such a shelf: a ridge or shelf of rocks: a layer: a small
moulding: a lode in mining.--_adj._ LEDG'Y, abounding in ledges. [Skeat
explains as Scand., allied to Sw. _lagg_, Ice. _lögg_, Norw. _logg_ (pl.
_legger_); cf. also Norw. _lega_, a couch; all from Ice. _liggja_; Sw.
_ligga_, Dan. _ligge_, to lie.]

LEDGER, lej'[.e]r, _n._ the principal book of accounts among merchants, in
which the entries in all the other books are entered: (_Shak._) a resident,
esp. an ambassador: a bar, stone, &c., made to lie flat, a piece of timber
used in making a scaffolding, a horizontal slab, as over a tomb.--_adj._
lying in a certain place, stationary. [Skeat explains _ledger-book_ as one
that lies always ready, from Dut. _legger_, one that lies down, _leggen_,
to lie, a common corr. of _liggen_, to lie (like _lay_ for _lie_ in
English).]

LEDUM, l[=e]'dum, _n._ a genus of ericaceous plants. [Gr. _l[=e]don_,
ladanum.]

[Illustration]

LEE, l[=e], _n._ the quarter toward which the wind blows.--_adj._ as in
LEE'-SIDE, the sheltered side of a ship.--_ns._ LEE'-BOARD, a board lowered
on the lee-side of a vessel, and acting like a keel or centre-board to
prevent her from drifting to leeward; LEE'-GAGE, the sheltered or safe
side:--opp. to _Weather-gage_; LEE'-SHORE, the shore opposite to the
lee-side of a ship; LEE'-TIDE, a tide running in the same direction as the
wind is blowing.--_adj._ LEE'WARD, pertaining to, or in, the direction
toward which the wind blows.--_adv._ toward the lee.--_n._ LEE'WAY, the
distance a ship is driven to leeward of her true course: a falling
behind.--MAKE UP LEEWAY, to make up for time lost; UNDER THE LEE, on the
side sheltered from the wind, under shelter from the wind. [A.S. _hleów_,
shelter; Ice. _hlé_, Low Ger. _lee_; prov. Eng. _lew_.]

LEE, l[=e], _n._ (_Spens._) a river: also the same as LEA.

LEECH, l[=e]ch, _n._ the edge of a sail at the sides. [Ice. _lík_, a
leech-line; Dan. _lig_; Sw. _lik_, a bolt-rope.]

LEECH, l[=e]ch, _n._ a blood-sucking worm: a physician.--_v.t._ to apply
leeches to.--_ns._ LEECH'CRAFT, LEECH'DOM. [A.S. _l['æ]ce_, one who heals;
cf. Goth. _leikeis_.]

LEEF, l[=e]f, _adj._ an obsolete form of _lief_.

LEEFANG, l[=e]'fang, _n._ a rope through the clew of a jib, holding it
amidships while lacing on the bonnet.

LEEK, l[=e]k, _n._ a well-known biennial species of the onion family,
esteemed for cooking--national emblem of Wales.--EAT THE LEEK, to be
compelled to take back one's words or put up with insulting treatment--from
the scene between Fluellen and Pistol in _Henry V_. [A.S. _leác_, a leek, a
plant, present also in _Char-lock_, _Gar-lic_, _Hem-lock_.]

LEER, l[=e]r, _n._ a sly, sidelong look: (_Shak._) complexion,
colour.--_v.i._ to look askance: to look archly or obliquely.--_adv._
LEER'INGLY, with a leering look. [A.S. _hleór_, face, cheek; Ice. _hlýr_.]

LEES, l[=e]z, _n.pl._ sediment or dregs that settle at the bottom of
liquor. [Fr. _lie_--Low L. _lia_.]

LEESE, l[=e]z, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to lose. [A.S. _leósan_, to lose.]

LEET, l[=e]t, _n._ (_Scot._) a selected list of candidates for an
office.--SHORT LEET, a small list of selected candidates--for the final
choice. [Ice. _leiti_, a share; cf. A.S. _hlét_, _hlýt_, forms of _hlot_,
lot.]

LEET, l[=e]t, _n._ an ancient English court, esp. the assembly of the men
of a township: the district subject to such: the right to hold such a
court.--_n._ COURT'-LEET (see COURT). [A.S. _l['æ]th_.]

LEETLE, l[=e]'tl, a vulgarism for _little_.

LEEZE, l[=e]z (_Scot._), in phrase LEEZE ME, it is pleasing to me. [Prob. a
corr. of _Lief is me_.]

LEFT, left, _pa.p._ (_Spens._) lifted.

LEFT, left, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of leave.--_adj._ LEFT'-OFF, laid aside.

LEFT, left, _adj._ being on the left side--also LEFT'-HAND.--_n._ the side
opposite to the right: the part of an assembly sitting on the president's
left hand, generally the more liberal or democratic section.--_adv._ toward
the left.--_adj._ LEFT'-HAND'ED, having the left hand stronger and readier
than the right: awkward: unlucky.--_ns._ LEFT'-HAND'EDNESS; LEFT'-HAND'ER,
a blow with the left hand, a sudden and unexpected attack;
LEFT'-HAND'INESS, awkwardness.--_adv._ LEFT'WARD, towards the left: on the
left side. [M. E. _lift_, _left_--A.S. _left_ for _lyft_, weak; prob.
allied to _lop_.]

LEG, leg, _n._ one of the limbs by which animals walk: a long, slender
support of anything, as of a table: (_fig._) something that supports: in
cricket, that part of the field, or that fielder, to the left of and behind
the batsman as he faces the bowler.--_v.i._ to pass on briskly, often with
indef. _it._--_ns._ LEG'-BAIL (see BAIL); LEG'-BUS'INESS, ballet-dancing;
LEG'-BYE, in cricket, a run made when the ball touches any part of the
batsman's person except his hand.--_adj._ LEGGED, having legs.--_ns._
LEG'GING, an outer and extra gaiter-like covering for the legs; LEG'GISM,
character of a blackleg.--_adj._ LEG'GY, having disproportionately long and
lank legs.--_n._ LEG'-[=I]'RON, a fetter for the leg.--_adj._ LEG'LESS,
without legs.--CHANGE THE LEG (of a horse), to change the gait; FEEL ONE'S
LEGS (of an infant), to begin to support one's self on the legs; FIND ONE'S
LEGS, to become habituated to, to attain ease in; GIVE A LEG TO, to assist
by supporting the leg; IN HIGH LEG, in great excitement; MAKE A LEG
(_Shak._), to make a bow; ON ONE'S LAST LEGS (see LAST); ON ONE'S LEGS,
standing, esp. to speak; UPON ITS LEGS, in an independent position. [Ice.
_leggr_, a leg; Dan. _læg_, Sw. _lägg_.]

LEGACY, leg'a-si, _n._ that which is left to one by will: a bequest of
personal property.--_ns._ LEG'ACY-HUNT'ER, one who hunts after legacies by
courting those likely to leave them; LEG'ATARY, a legatee; LEGATEE', one to
whom a legacy is bequeathed.--LEGACY DUTY, a duty levied on legacies,
varying according to degree of relationship, and reaching its maximum where
the legatee is not related to the testator.--CUMULATIVE, or SUBSTITUTIONAL,
LEGACY, a second legacy given to the same person, either in addition to or
in place of the first; DEMONSTRATIVE LEGACY, a general legacy, but with a
particular fund named from which it is to be satisfied; GENERAL LEGACY, a
sum of money payable out of the assets generally; RESIDUARY LEGATEE, the
person to whom the remainder of the property is left after all claims are
discharged; SPECIFIC LEGACY, a legacy of a definite thing, as jewels,
pictures, a sum of stock in the Funds, &c. [L. _legatum_--_leg[=a]re_, to
leave by will.]

LEGAL, l[=e]'gal, _adj._ pertaining to, or according to, law: lawful:
created by law: (_theol._) according to the Mosaic law or
dispensation.--_n._ L[=E]'GALIS[=A]TION.--_v.t._ L[=E]'GALISE, to make
legal or lawful: to authorise: to sanction.--_ns._ L[=E]'GALISM, strict
adherence to law: (_theol._) the doctrine that salvation depends on strict
adherence to the law, as distinguished from the doctrine of salvation by
grace: the tendency to observe the letter rather than the spirit of
religious law; L[=E]'GALIST; LEGAL'ITY.--_adv._ L[=E]'GALLY.--LEGAL TENDER,
that which can be lawfully used in paying a debt. [Fr.,--L.
_legalis_--_lex_, _legis_, law.]

LEGATE, leg'[=a]t, _n._ an ambassador, esp. from the Pope: a delegate,
deputy, esp. a foreign envoy chosen by the senate of ancient Rome, or a
general or consul's lieutenant.--_n._ LEG'ATESHIP.--_adj._ Leg'at[=i]ne, of
or relating to a legate.--_n._ LEG[=A]'TION, the person or persons sent as
legates or ambassadors: the official abode of a legation. [Fr. _légat_, It.
_legato_--L. _legatus_--_leg[=a]re_, to send with a commission.]

LEGATEE. See LEGACY.

LEGATO, l[=a]-gä'to, _adj._ (_mus._) in a smooth manner, the notes being
played as if bound together.--_n._ a smooth manner of performance, or a
tune so played.--_adv._ (_sup._) LEGATISS'IMO. [It.,--L. _lig[=a]re_, to
tie.]

LEGEND, lej'end, or l[=e]'-, _n._ a marvellous story from early times: the
motto on a coat of arms, medal, or coin: an inscription of any kind: a
musical composition set to a poetical story.--_n._ LEG'ENDARY, a book of
legends: one who relates legends: (_pl._) a chronicle of the lives of
saints.--_adj._ consisting of legends: romantic: fabulous.--_n._
LEG'ENDIST, a writer of legends.--GOLDEN LEGEND (see GOLDEN). [Fr.,--Low L.
_legenda_, a book of chronicles of the saints read at matins--L.
_legendus_--_leg[)e]re_, to read.]

LEGER, lej'[.e]r, _adj._ light: small.--_ns._ LEGER'ITY (_Shak._),
lightness; LEG'ER'-LINE (_mus._), one of the short lines added above or
below the staff to extend its compass. [O. Fr.,--L. _l[)e]vis_, light.]

LEGERDEMAIN, lej-[.e]r-d[=e]-m[=a]n', _n._ sleight-of-hand: jugglery. [Fr.
_léger de main_--L. as if _leviarius_--_levis_, light, Fr. _de_, of,
_main_--L. _manus_, hand.]

LEGHORN, leg'horn, _n._ fine plait for bonnets and hats made in Tuscany: a
bonnet of this material: a small breed of the common domestic fowl.
[_Leghorn_ (It. _Livorno_), a seaport of Tuscany, Italy.]

LEGIBLE, lej'i-bl, _adj._ that may be read: that may be understood.--_ns._
LEG'IBLENESS, LEGIBIL'ITY.--_adv._ LEG'IBLY. [L. _legibilis_--_leg[)e]re_,
to read.]

LEGION, l[=e]'jun, _n._ in ancient Rome, a body of soldiers of from three
to six thousand: a military force: a great number: in French history, the
name of several military bodies, more esp. one which distinguished itself
in Algeria and in the Crimea.--_v.t._ to form into legions.--_adj._
L[=E]'GIONARY, relating to, or consisting of, a legion or legions:
containing a great number.--_n._ a soldier of a legion.--LEGION OF HONOUR,
an order of merit instituted in France in 1802 by Napoleon I.; THUNDERING
LEGION, the name in Christian tradition for a body of soldiers under Marcus
Aurelius, whose prayers for rain once brought down a thunderstorm and
destroyed the enemy. [Fr.,--L. _legion-em_--_leg[)e]re_, to levy.]

LEGISLATE, lej'is-l[=a]t, _v.i._ to bring forward, propose, or make
laws.--_n._ LEGISL[=A]'TION.--_adj._ LEG'ISLATIVE, giving or enacting laws:
pertaining to legislation, or a legislature.--_n._ a body of persons, or a
single person, with powers to enact laws.--_adv._ LEG'ISLATIVELY.--_n._
LEG'ISLATOR, one who makes laws: a lawgiver:--_fem._ LEG'ISLATRESS.--_adj._
LEGISLAT[=O]'RIAL, of or pertaining to a legislature.--_ns._
LEG'ISLATORSHIP; LEG'ISLATURE, the body of men in a state who have the
power of making laws.--LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY (see ASSEMBLY); LEGISLATIVE
POWER, the power to make laws.--CLASS LEGISLATION, legislation affecting
the interests of a particular class. [L. _lex_, _legis_, law, _ferre_,
_latum_, to bear.]

LEGIST, l[=e]'jist, _n._ one skilled in the laws. [Fr.]

LEGITIM, lej'i-tim, _n._ (_Scots law_) the legal provision which a child is
entitled to out of the movable or personal estate of the deceased
father.--Also _Bairn's Part_. [Fr.,--L. _legitimus_--_lex_, law.]

LEGITIMATE, le-jit'i-m[=a]t, _adj._ lawful: lawfully begotten, born in
wedlock: fairly deduced: following by natural sequence: authorised by
usage.--_v.t._ to make lawful: to give the rights of a legitimate child to
an illegitimate one.--_n._ LEGIT'IMACY, state of being legitimate:
lawfulness of birth: regular deduction: directness of descent as affecting
the royal succession.--_adv._ LEGIT'IMATELY.--_ns._ LEGIT'IMATENESS,
lawfulness; LEGITIM[=A]'TION, act of rendering legitimate, esp. of
conferring the privileges of lawful birth.--_v.t._ LEGIT'IMISE (same as
LEGITIMATE).--_n._ LEGIT'IMIST, one who supports legitimate authority: in
France, a follower of the elder Bourbon line (descendants of Louis XIV.),
as opposed to the Orleanists or supporters of the descendants of the Duke
of Orleans, Louis XIV.'s brother.--LEGITIMATE DRAMA, a designation
frequently applied to the representation of Shakespeare's plays--often
employed as vaguely indicating approval of the drama of some former time.
[Low L. _legitim[=a]re_. _-[=a]tum_--L. _legitimus_, lawful--_lex_, law.]

LEGUME, leg'[=u]m, _n._ a seed-vessel which splits into two valves, having
the seeds attached to the ventral suture only: a pod, as of the pea, bean,
&c.--also LEG[=U]'MEN:--_pl._ LEG[=U]'MENS, LEG[=U]'MINA.--_adj._
LEG[=U]'MINAR.--_n._ LEG[=U]'MINE, a nitrogenous proteid substance in the
seeds of most leguminous plants, corresponding with the casein of
milk.--_adj._ LEG[=U]'MINOUS, pertaining to pulse: bearing legumes.
[Fr.,--L. _legumen_--_leg[)e]re_, to gather.]

LEIBNITZIAN, l[=i]b-nit'zi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the great German
philosopher and mathematician, Gottfried Wilhelm _Leibnitz_
(1646-1716).--_n._ LEIBNIT'ZIANISM, the philosophy of Leibnitz--the
doctrine of primordial monads, pre-established harmony, fundamental
optimism on the principle of sufficient reason.

LEIGER, lej'[.e]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a resident ambassador.--Also LEIDG'ER.
[See LEDGER.]

LEIOTRICHOUS, l[=i]-ot'ri-kus, _adj._ of the smooth-haired races. [Gr.
_leios_, smooth, _thrix_, _trichos_, hair.]

LEIPOA, l[=i]-p[=o]'a, _n._ a genus of Australian mound-birds.

LEISTER, l[=e]s't[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) a salmon-spear. [Cf. Ice. _ljóstr_;
Dan. _lyster_, a salmon-spear.]

LEISURE, l[=e]'zh[=oo]r, or lezh'-, _n._ time free from employment: freedom
from occupation, convenient opportunity, ease.--_adj._ unoccupied.--_adj._
LEI'SURED, not occupied with business.--_adj._ and _adv._ LEI'SURELY, not
hasty or hastily.--AT LEISURE, AT ONE'S LEISURE, free from occupation, at
one's ease or convenience. [O. Fr. _leisir_--L. _lic[=e]re_, to be
permitted.]

LEMAN, l[=e]'man, or lem'-, _n._ a sweetheart; paramour. [A.S. _leóf_,
loved, _mann_, man.]

LEMMA, lem'a, _n._ (_math._) a preliminary proposition demonstrated for the
purpose of being used in a subsequent proposition: sometimes in logic a
premise taken for granted: a theme:--_pl._ LEMM'AS, LEMM'ATA. [L.,--Gr.
_l[=e]mma_--_lambanein_, to take.]

LEMMING, lem'ing, _n._ a genus of rodents, nearly allied to voles,
migrating southward in great numbers. [Norw. _lemende_, _lemming_--_lemja_,
to beat. Perh. Lapp, _loumek_, a lemming.]

LEMNIAN, lem'ni-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Lemnos_ in the Ægean
Sea.--LEMNIAN EARTH, cimolite; LEMNIAN RUDDLE, a red chalk found in Lemnos.

LEMNISCATE, lem-nis'k[=a]t, _n._ a curve in general form like the figure
8--also _adj._--_n._ LEMNIS'CUS, a woollen fillet attached to the back of
crowns, diadems, &c. [Gr. _l[=e]mniskos_.]

LEMON, lem'un, _n._ an oval fruit resembling the orange, with an acid pulp:
the tree that bears lemons.--_n._ LEMONADE', a drink made of lemon-juice,
water, and sugar.--_adj._ LEM'ON-COL'OURED, having the colour of a ripe
lemon.--_ns._ LEM'ON-GRASS, a fragrant perennial grass, in India, Arabia,
&c., yielding an essential oil used in perfumery; LEM'ON-SQUASH,
unfervescent lemonade; LEM'ON-SQUEEZ'ER, a small hand-press for extracting
the juice of lemons; LEM'ON-YELL'OW, a clear, pale yellow colour. [Fr.
_limon_--Ar. _l[=i]m[=u]n_.]

LEMUR, l[=e]'mur, _n._ a genus of mammals appearing to stand between the
Insectivora and the monkeys, forest dwellers, mainly nocturnal in habits,
common in Madagascar. [L. _lemur_, a ghost.]

LEMURES, lem'[=u]-r[=e]z, _n.pl._ (_Milt._) spirits of the departed:
spectres. [L.]

LEND, lend, _v.t._ to give for a short time something to be returned: to
afford, grant, or furnish, in general: to let for hire.--_v.i._ to make a
loan:--_pr.p_ lend'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ lent.--_ns._ LEND'ER; LEND'ING,
the act of giving in loan: (_Shak._) that which is lent or supplied. [A.S.
_l['æ]nan_--_l['æ]n_, _lán_, a loan.]

LENGTH, length, _n._ quality of being long: extent from end to end: the
longest measure of anything: long continuance: detail: (_prosody_) time
occupied in uttering a vowel or syllable: the quality of a vowel as long or
short: any definite portion of a known extent.--_v.t._ LENGTH'EN, to
increase in length: to draw out.--_v.i._ to grow longer.--_adv._
LENGTH'ILY.--_n._ LENGTH'INESS.--_adv._ LENGTH'WISE, in the direction of
the length.--_adj._ LENGTH'Y, of great length: rather long--(_obs._)
LENGTH'FUL.--LENGTH OF DAYS, prolonged life.--AT LENGTH, in the full
extent: at last; GO GREAT LENGTHS, GO TO ALL LENGTHS, to use extreme
efforts; GO TO THE LENGTH OF, to proceed as far as. [A.S.,--_lang_, long.]

LENIENT, l[=e]'ni-ent, _adj._ softening: mild: merciful.--_n._ (_med._)
that which softens: an emollient.--_ns._ L[=E]'NIENCE,
L[=E]'NIENCY.--_adv._ L[=E]'NIENTLY.--_v.t._ L[=E]'NIFY (_rare_), to
assuage.--_adj._ LEN'ITIVE, mitigating: laxative.--_n._ any palliative:
(_med._) an application for easing pain: a mild purgative.--_n._ LEN'ITY,
mildness: clemency. [L. _leniens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _len[=i]re_, to
soften--_lenis_, soft.]

LENO, l[=e]'n[=o], _n._ a thin linen like muslin.

LENOCINIUM, l[=e]-n[=o]-sin'i-um, _n._ (_Scots law_) a husband's connivance
at his wife's adultery. [L.]

[Illustration]

LENS, lenz, _n._ (_optics_) a piece of transparent substance with one or
both sides convex or concave, the object to refract rays of light really or
apparently radiating from a point, and make them deviate so as to pass, or
travel on as if they had passed, through another point: the crystalline
humour of the eye: a genus of leguminous plants:--_pl._ LENS'ES. [L.
_lens_, _lentis_, the lentil.]

LENT, lent, _n._ an annual fast of forty days in commemoration of the fast
of our Saviour (Matt. iv. 2), from Ash-Wednesday to Easter.--_adj._
LENT'EN, relating to, or used in, Lent: sparing.--_n._ LENT'-LIL'Y, the
daffodil, as flowering in Lent. [A.S. _lencten_, the spring; Dut. _lente_,
Ger. _lenz_.]

LENTAMENTE, len-ta-men'te, _adv._ (_mus._) slowly, in slow time.--_advs._
LENTAN'DO, becoming slower by degrees; LEN'TO, slow, slowly. [It.]

LENTICULAR, len-tik'[=u]-lar, _adj._ resembling a lens or lentil seed:
double-convex--also LEN'TIFORM.--_n._ LEN'TICEL (_bot._), a loose,
lens-shaped mass of cells belonging to the corky layer or periderm of
plants.--_adj._ LENTICEL'LATE.--_n._ LENTIC'ULA, a small lens: a lenticel:
a freckle--also LEN'TICULE.--_adv._ LENTIC'ULARLY.--_adjs._ LENTIG'EROUS,
having a crystalline lens; LEN'TOID, lens-shaped. [L.
_lenticularis_--_lenticula_, dim. of _lens_, a lentil.]

LENTIGO, len-t[=i]'g[=o], _n._ a freckle.--_adjs._ LENTIG'INOSE,
LENTIG'INOUS (_bot._), covered with minute dots as if dusted. [L.]

LENTIL, len'til, _n._ an annual plant, common near the Mediterranean,
bearing pulse used for food. [O. Fr. _lentille_--L. _lens_, _lentis_, the
lentil.]

LENTISK, len'tisk, _n._ the mastic-tree. [L. _lentiscus_.]

LENTOR, len'tor, _n._ tenacity, viscidity.--_adj._ LEN'TOUS. [L. _lentus_,
slow.]

LENVOY, len-voi', _n._ a kind of postscript appended to a literary
composition: an envoy. [O. Fr. _l'envoi_.]

LEO, l[=e]'[=o], _n._ the Lion, the 5th sign of the zodiac.

LEONINE, l[=e]'o-n[=i]n, _adj._ of or like a lion.

LEONINE, l[=e]'o-n[=i]n, _adj._ a kind of Latin verse, generally alternate
hexameter and pentameter, rhyming at the middle and end. [From _Leoninus_,
a 12th-cent. canon in Paris; or from Pope _Leo_ II.]

LEOPARD, lep'ard, _n._ an animal of the cat kind, with a spotted skin, now
generally supposed to be identical with the panther:--_fem._ LEOP'ARDESS:
(_her._) a lion passant gardant. [O. Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _leopardos_--_le[=o]n_,
lion, _pardos_, pard.]

LEPER, lep'[.e]r, _n._ one affected with leprosy.--_adjs._ LEP'EROUS
(_Shak._), LEP'ROUS. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _lepra_--_lepros_, scaly--_lepos_, a
scale--_lepein_, to peel off.]

LEPID, lep'id, _adj._ pleasant, jocose. [L. _lepidus_.]

LEPIDODENDRON, lep-i-do-den'dron, _n._ a common fossil plant of the
Carboniferous strata, the stem covered with ovate leaf-scars arranged
spirally. [Gr. _lepis_, -_idos_, a scale, _dendron_, a tree.]

LEPIDOPTERA, lep-i-dop't[.e]r-a, _n.pl._ an order of insects, with four
wings covered with fine scales--butterfly, moth, &c.--_adjs._
LEPIDOP'TERAL, LEPIDOP'TEROUS. [Gr. _lepis_, -_idos_, a scale, _pteron_, a
wing.]

LEPIDOSAURIA, lep-i-do-sawr'i-a, _n._ a sub-class or sub-order of Reptilia,
with scales and plates--the ophidians and lacertilians, not crocodilians
and chelonians. [Gr. _lepis_, a scale, _sauros_, a lizard.]

LEPIDOSIREN, lep-i-do-s[=i]'ren, _n._ one of the Amazon mud-fishes or
Dipnoi. [Gr. _lepis_, a scale, Eng. _siren_.]

LEPIDOSTEUS, lep-i-dos'te-us, _n._ a genus of fishes with rhomboid scales
hard like bone. [Gr. _lepis_, -_idos_, a scale, _osteon_, a bone.]

LEPORINE, lep'o-r[=i]n, _adj._ pertaining to or resembling the hare. [L.
_leporinus_--_lepus_, _lep[)o]ris_, the hare.]

LEPPED, lep'd, _pa.t._ (_Spens._) leaped.

LEPRECHAUN, LEPRECHAWN, lep'r[=e]-kawn, _n._ a small-sized brownie who
helps Irish housewives, mends shoes, grinds meal, &c. [Ir. _luchorpan_,
_lu_, small, _corpan_, _corp_, a body--L. _corpus_.]

LEPROSY, lep'ro-si, _n._ a name applied to several different cutaneous
diseases of contagious character, now confined to _lepra cutanea_,
_elephantiasis_, _Græcorum_, or _Leontiasis_.--_n._ LEP'RA, leprosy: a
scurfy, mealy substance on the surface of some plants.--_adjs._ LEP'ROSE,
scale-like or scurf-like; LEP'ROUS, affected with leprosy.--_adv._
LEP'ROUSLY.--_ns._ LEP'ROUSNESS, LEPROS'ITY. [See LEPER.]

LEPTOCARDIAN, lep-to-kär'di-an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Leptocardii_, the
lowest group of true vertebrates, the lancelets.--_n._ a lancelet,
branchiostome, or amphioxus. [Gr. _leptos_, thin, _kardia_, heart.]

LEPTOCEPHALIC, lep-to-se-fal'ik, _adj._ having a narrow skull, as in
certain flat-fishes. [Gr. _leptos_, thin, _kephal[=e]_, the head.]

LEPTODACTYL, lep-to-dak'til, _adj._ having small or slender toes. [Gr.
_leptos_, thin, _daktylos_, a finger.]

LEPTOLOGY, lep-tol'o-ji, _n._ minute description. [Gr. _leptos_, thin,
_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

LEPTON, lep'ton, _n._ the smallest of modern Greek coins, 100 to the
drachma. [Gr.,--_leptos_, small.]

LEPTORRHINE, lep't[=o]-rin, _adj._ with small nose or slender snout. [Gr.
_leptos_, thin, _hris_, _hrinos_, nose.]

LEPTOSPERMUM, lep-to-sper'mum, _n._ a genus of Australian trees and shrubs,
evergreens, with leaves like those of myrtles--the tea-tree, &c. [Gr.
_leptos_, thin, _sperma_, seed.]

LERE, l[=e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) learning a lesson.--_v.t._ to learn: to
teach. [_Learn._]

LESBIAN, les'bi-an, _adj._ pertaining to the island of _Lesbos_ in the
Ægean Sea, and the adjoining part of the coast of Asia Minor, together
forming Æolis, the home of a famous school of lyric poets, including Alcæus
and Sappho: amatory, erotic.

LESE-MAJESTIE, l[=e]z'-maj'es-ti, _n._ any crime committed against the
sovereign power in a state, treason.--Also LEZE'-MAJ'ESTY. [O. Fr.,--Low L.
_læsa majestas_--L. _læsa_--_læd[)e]re_, to hurt, _majestas_, majesty.]

LESION, l[=e]'zhun, _n._ a hurt: (_med._) an injury or wound. [Fr.,--L.
_læsion-em_--_læd[)e]re_, _læsum_, to hurt.]

LESS, les, _adj._ (serves as comp. of _little_) diminished:
smaller.--_adv._ not so much: in a lower degree.--_n._ a smaller portion:
(_B._) the inferior or younger. [A.S. _l['æ]ssa_, less, _l['æ]s_ (adv.);
comparative form from a root _lasinn_, feeble, found also in Goth.
_lasiws_, weak, Ice. _las_, weakness, not conn. with _little_.]

LESSEE, les-s[=e]', _n._ one to whom a lease is granted.

LESSEN, les'n, _v.t._ to make less, in any sense: to weaken: to
degrade.--_v.i._ to become less, shrink.

LESSER, les'[.e]r, _adj._ (_B._) less: smaller: inferior. [A double comp.
formed from _less_.]

LESSON, les'n, _n._ a portion of Scripture appointed to be read in divine
service: that which a pupil learns at a time: a precept or doctrine
inculcated: instruction derived from experience: severe lecture.--_v.t._ to
give a lesson to. [Fr. _leçon_--L. _lection-em_--_leg[)e]re_, to read.]

LESSOR, les'or, _n._ one who grants a lease.

LEST, lest, _conj._ that not: for fear that. [From the A.S. phrase _ðý læs
ðe_ (for the reason less that=L. _quominus_), the first word being dropped,
while the others coalesced into _lest_.]

LEST, lest, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to listen.

LET, let, _v.t._ to slacken or loose restraint upon: to give leave or power
to: to allow, permit, suffer: to grant to a tenant or hirer: to cause (with
infin. without _to_):--_pr.p._ let'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ let.--_n._ a
letting for hire.--_ns._ LET'TER; LET'TING.--LET ALONE, to leave out, not
to mention.--_adj._ passive, inactive--also _n._ (_Shak._)
forbearance.--LET BLOOD, to open a vein and let the blood run out; LET
DOWN, to allow to fall: to bring down; LET GO, to cease holding: to pass by
or disregard; LET IN, to allow to enter: to take in or swindle; LET INTO,
to admit to the knowledge of; LET OFF, to allow to go free without
punishment, to excuse from payment, &c.; LET ON, to allow a thing to be
believed, to pretend; LET ONE'S SELF LOOSE, to let go restraint on words or
actions, to indulge in extravagant talk or conduct; LET OUT, to allow to
get free, to let some secret become known; LET SLIP, to allow to escape: to
lose sight of; LET WELL ALONE, to let things remain as they are from fear
of making them worse. [A.S. _l['æ]tan_, to permit, pt.t. _lét_, _leót_, pp.
_læten_; Ger. _lassen_, Fr. _laisser_, to permit.]

LET, let, _v.t._ (_B._) to prevent.--_n._ (_law_) hinderance, obstruction:
delay.--_n._ LET'TER. [A.S. _lettan_, to hinder--_læt_, slow.]

LETCH, lech, _n._ strong desire: a crotchet.

LETHAL, l[=e]'thal, _adj._ death-dealing: deadly: mortal.--_n._ LETHE
(_Shak._), death.--_adj._ LETHIF'EROUS, carrying death. [L.
_lethalis_--_lethum_, _letum_, death.]

LETHARGY, leth'ar-ji, _n._ heavy unnatural slumber: dullness.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to make lethargic.--_adjs._ LETHAR'GIC, -AL, pertaining to
lethargy: unnaturally sleepy: dull.--_adv._ LETHAR'GICALLY.--_n._
LETHAR'GICNESS, the state of being lethargic: morbid sleepiness.--_v.t._
LETH'ARGISE. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _l[=e]thargia_, drowsy
forgetfulness--_l[=e]th[=e]_, forgetfulness.]

LETHE, l[=e]'th[=e], _n._ one of the rivers of hell causing forgetfulness
of the past to all who drank of it: oblivion.--_adj._ LETH[=E]'AN, of
Lethe: oblivious. [Gr.,--_l[=e]th[=o]_, old form of _lanthanein_, to
forget.]

LETTER, let'[.e]r, _n._ a conventional mark to express a sound: a written
or printed message: literal meaning: a printing-type: (_pl._) learning,
literary culture.--_v.t._ to stamp letters upon.--_ns._ LETT'ER-BAL'ANCE, a
balance for testing the weight of a letter for post; LETT'ER-BOARD
(_print._), board on which matter in type is placed for keeping or
convenience in handling; LETT'ER-BOOK, a book in which letters or copies of
letters are kept; LETT'ER-BOX, a box in a post-office, at the door of a
house, &c., for receiving letters; LETT'ER-CARR'IER, a postman;
LETT'ER-CASE, a portable writing-desk.--_adj._ LETT'ERED, marked with
letters: educated: versed in literature: belonging to learning (LETTERED
PROOF and PROOF BEFORE LETTERS; see PROOF).--_ns._ LETT'ERER;
LETT'ER-FOUND'ER, one who founds or casts letters or types; LETT'ERING, the
act of impressing letters: the letters impressed.--_adj._ LETT'ERLESS,
illiterate.--_ns._ LETT'ER-MISS'IVE, an official letter on matters of
common interest, sent to members of a church: a letter from the sovereign
addressed to a dean and chapter, naming the person they are to elect
bishop--also _Royal letter_; LETT'ERN (same as LECTERN);
LETT'ER-OF-CRED'IT, a letter authorising credit or cash to a certain sum to
be paid to the bearer; LETT'ER-OF-MARQUE (märk), a commission given to a
private ship by a government to make reprisals on the vessels of another
state.--_adj._ LETT'ER-PER'FECT, kept in the memory exactly (of an actor's
part, &c.).--_ns._ LETT'ERPRESS, letters impressed or matter printed from
type, as distinguished from engraving: a copying-press;
LETT'ERS-P[=A]'TENT, a writing conferring a patent or authorising a person
to enjoy some privilege, so called because written on open sheets of
parchment; LETT'ER-STAMP, a post-office implement for defacing a
postage-stamp: a stamp for imprinting dates, &c., on letters or papers;
LETT'ER-WOOD, the heart-wood of a tree found in British Guiana, dark brown,
with darker spots somewhat resembling hieroglyphics; LETT'ER-WRIT'ER, one
who writes letters, esp. for hire: a book containing forms for imitation in
writing letters.--LETTER OF INDICATION (see CIRCULAR); LETTERS OF
ADMINISTRATION, a document issued by court appointing an administrator of
an intestate estate; LETTERS REQUISITORY, or ROGATORY, an instrument by
which a court of one country asks that of another to take certain evidence
on its behalf; LETTRE DE CACHET (see CACHET). [Fr. _lettre_--L. _littera_.]

LETTIC, let'ik, _adj._ of or pertaining to the _Letts_ or Lithuanians, or
to their language.--Also LETT'ISH.

LETTING, let'ing, _n._ the act of granting to a tenant: the act of giving
to a contractor.

LETTUCE, let'is, _n._ a plant containing a milky juice, its leaves used as
a salad. [O. Fr. _laictuce_ (Fr. _laitue_)--L. _lactuca_--_lac_, milk.]

LEUCÆMIA, l[=u]-s[=e]'mi-a, _n._ a disease in which the number of white
corpuscles in the blood is greatly increased, with changes in the lymphatic
tissues, enlargement of the spleen, &c.--Also LEUCOCYTHÆ'MIA. [Gr.
_leukos_, white, _haima_, blood.]

LEUCINE, l[=u]'sin, _n._ a product of the decomposition of albuminous
materials occurring in many of the juices of the animal body. [Gr.
_leukos_, white.]

LEUCISCUS, l[=u]-sis'kus, _n._ a genus of fresh-water fishes of the
Cyprinoid family, including the roach, dace, chub, minnow, &c. [Gr.
_leukos_, white.]

LEUCITE, l[=u]'s[=i]t, _n._ a whitish mineral occurring only in volcanic
rocks.--_adj._ LEUCIT'IC. [Gr. _leukos_, white.]

LEUCOCYTE, l[=u]'k[=o]-s[=i]t, _n._ a white corpuscle of the blood or lymph
(see PHAGOCYTE).--_adj._ LEUCOCYT'IC.--_ns._ LEUCOCYTOG'ENESIS, the
production of leucocytes; LEUCOCYT[=O]'SIS, the presence of an excessive
number of white corpuscles in the blood.

LEUCOCYTHÆMIA. See LEUCÆMIA.

LEUCOL, l[=u]'kol, _n._ an organic base obtained by the distillation of
coal-tar. [Gr. _leukos_, white.]

LEUCOMA, l[=u]-k[=o]'ma, _n._ a white opacity of the cornea, the result of
acute inflammation. [Gr. _leukos_, white.]

LEUCOMAINE, l[=u]'k[=o]-m[=a]n, _n._ an alkaloid found in living animal
tissue:--opp. to _Ptomaine_ (q.v.).

LEUCORRHOEA, l[=u]-k[=o]-r[=e]'a, _n._ an abnormal mucous or muco-purulent
discharge from the vagina, the whites. [Gr. _leukos_, white,
_hroia_--_hrein_, to flow.]

LEUCOSIS, l[=u]-k[=o]'sis, _n._ whiteness of skin, pallor.--_ns._ LEUCISM
(l[=u]'sizm), whiteness resulting from lack of colour, albinism;
LEUCOP'ATHY, albinism.--_adj._ LEU'COUS, white, albinotic. [Gr. _leukos_,
white.]

LEVANT, le-vant', _n._ the point where the sun rises: the East: the coasts
of the Mediterranean east of Italy.--_adj._ LEV'ANT, or L[=E]'VANT,
eastern.--_n._ LEVANT'ER, a strong easterly wind in the Levant.--_adj._
LEVANT'INE, belonging to the Levant. [Fr. _levant_--L. _lev[=a]re_, to
raise.]

LEVANT, le-vant', _v.i._ to decamp.--_n._ LEVANT'ER, one who runs away
dishonourably, who dodges paying his bets, &c. [Sp. _levantar_, to move--L.
_lev[=a]re_, to raise.]

LEVATOR, le-v[=a]'tor, _n._ that which raises (of a muscle):--opp. to
_Depressor_. [L. _lev[=a]re_, to raise.]

LEVEE, lev'[=a], lev'[=e], le-v[=e]', _n._ a morning assembly of visitors:
an assembly received by a sovereign or other great personage.--_v.t._ to
attend the levee of. [Fr. _lever_, to rise.]

LEVEE, le-v[=e]', _n._ an artificial bank, as that of the Lower
Mississippi: a quay. [Fr.]

LEVEL, lev'el, _n._ a horizontal line or surface: a surface without
inequalities: proper position: usual elevation: state of equality: the line
of direction: an instrument for showing the horizontal.--_adj._ horizontal:
even, smooth: even with anything else: uniform: well-balanced, sound of
judgment: in the same line or plane: equal in position or dignity.--_v.t._
to make horizontal: to make flat or smooth: to make equal: to take
aim:--_pr.p._ lev'elling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ lev'elled.--_ns._
LEV'EL-CROSS'ING, or GRADE'-CROSS'ING, a place at which a common road
crosses a railway at the same level; LEV'ELLER, one who levels or makes
equal, esp. one of an ultra-republican and revolutionary sect or party
which grew up in the parliamentary army in 1647, crushed by Cromwell in
1649; LEV'ELLING, the act of making uneven surfaces level: the process of
finding the differences in level between different points on the surface of
the earth by means of a LEVELLING INSTRUMENT, consisting of a telescope
carrying a parallel and sensitive spirit-level, adjustable by means of
screws; LEV'ELLING-ROD, -STAFF, an instrument used in levelling, in
conjunction with a levelling instrument, or with a spirit-level and a
telescope.--_adv._ LEV'ELLY, evenly.--_n._ LEV'ELNESS, state of being
level, even, or equal.--LEVEL DOWN or UP, to lower or raise to the same
level or status; DO ONE'S LEVEL BEST (_coll._) to do one's utmost. [O. Fr.
_livel_, _liveau_ (Fr. _niveau_)--L. _libella_, a plummet, dim. of _libra_,
a balance.]

[Illustration]

LEVER, l[=e]'v[.e]r, _n._ a bar of metal or other substance turning on a
support called the fulcrum or prop, for imparting pressure or motion from a
source of power to a resistance--of three kinds, according to the relative
positions of the power, weight, and fulcrum: (_fig._) anything which exerts
influence: any one of various tools on the principle defined above--in
surgery, dentistry, &c.: a removable rod or bar inserted in a machine, to
be operated by hand leverage.--_ns._ L[=E]'VERAGE, the mechanical power
gained by the use of the lever: advantage gained for any purpose;
L[=E]'VER-WATCH, a watch having a vibrating lever in the mechanism of the
escapement. [Fr. _levier_--_lever_--L. _lev[=a]re_, to raise.]

LEVER, l[=e]'v[.e]r, _adv._ an obsolete comp. of _lief_.

LEVERET, lev'[.e]r-et, _n._ a hare in its first year. [O. Fr. _levret_ (Fr.
_lièvre_)--L. _lepus_, _lep[)o]ris_, a hare.]

LEVIABLE, lev'i-a-bl, _adj._ able to be levied or assessed.

LEVIATHAN, le-v[=i]'a-than, _n._ (_B._) a huge aquatic animal in Job xli.,
here a crocodile; in Isa. xxvii. 1, apparently the great python of Egyptian
monuments: anything of huge size: any huge sea-monster, as in Ps. civ. 26.
[Heb. _livy[=a]th[=a]n_--_l[=a]v[=a]h_, to cleave.]

LEVIGATE, lev'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to make smooth: to grind to a fine,
impalpable powder.--_adj._ made smooth, polished.--_adj._ LEV'IGABLE,
capable of being ground down to fine powder.--_n._ LEVIG[=A]'TION. [L.
_l[=e]vig[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_l[=e]vis_, smooth; Gr. _leios_, akin to
_level_.]

LEVIGATE, lev'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to lighten, belittle. [L. _l[)e]vig[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_l[)e]vis_, light.]

LEVIN, lev'n, _n._ (_Spens._) lightning.--Also LEV'EN.

LEVIRATE, lev'i-r[=a]t, _n._ marriage between a man and a childless
brother's widow--an obligation amongst the ancient Hebrews.--_adj._
LEVIRAT'ICAL.--_n._ LEVIR[=A]'TION. [L. _levir_, a brother-in-law.]

LEVITATION, lev-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ act of rendering light: the floating in
the air of heavy bodies believed in by spiritualists.--_v.t._ LEV'ITATE, to
cause to float.

LEVITE, l[=e]'v[=i]t, _n._ a descendant of _Levi_: an inferior priest of
the ancient Jewish Church.--_adjs._ LEVIT'IC, -AL.--_adv._
LEVIT'ICALLY.--_n._ LEVIT'ICUS, the third book of the Old
Testament.--LEVITICAL DEGREES, the degrees of kindred within which marriage
was forbidden in Lev. xviii. 6-18.

LEVITY, lev'it-i, _n._ lightness of weight: lightness of temper or conduct:
thoughtlessness: disposition to trifle: vanity. [L.
_levitat-em_--_l[)e]vis_, light.]

LEVOGYRATE (LÆV-), l[=e]-v[=o]-j[=i]'r[=a]t, _adj._ causing to turn toward
the left hand.--_n._ LEVOGYR[=A]'TION.--_adj._ LEVOGY'ROUS.

LEVULOSE, lev'[=u]-l[=o]s, _n._ a sugar isomeric with dextrose, but turning
the plane of polarisation to the left. [L. _lævus_, left.]

LEVY, lev'i, _v.t._ to raise: to collect by authority, as an army or a
tax:--_pr.p._ lev'ying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ lev'ied.--_n._ the act of
collecting by authority: the troops so collected. [L. _lev[=a]re_, to
raise.]

LEW, l[=u], _adj._ tepid, lukewarm. [Cf. Ger. _lau_.]

LEWD, l[=u]d, or l[=oo]d, _adj._ lustful: unchaste: debauched: ignorant,
vicious, or bad, so in _B._--_adv._ LEWD'LY.--_ns._ LEWD'NESS; LEWD'STER,
one addicted to lewdness. [A.S. _l['æ]wede_, ignorant, belonging to the
laity, the pa.p. of the verb _l['æ]wan_, to weaken.]

LEWIS, l[=u]'is, _n._ a contrivance for securing a hold on a block of stone
to allow of its being raised by a derrick.--Also LEW'ISSON. [Ety. dub.]

LEXICON, leks'i-kon, _n._ a word-book or dictionary.--_adj._ LEX'ICAL,
belonging to a lexicon.--_adv._ LEX'ICALLY.--_n._ LEXICOG'RAPHER, one
skilled in lexicography.--_adjs._ LEXICOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_ns._
LEXICOG'RAPHIST, LEXICOL'OGIST, one skilled in lexicology; LEXICOG'RAPHY,
the art of compiling a dictionary; LEXICOL'OGY, that branch of philology
which treats of the proper signification and use of words.--_adjs._
LEXIGRAPH'IC, -AL, pertaining to lexigraphy.--_n._ LEXIG'RAPHY, the art of
defining words. [Gr.,--_lexis_, a word, _legein_, to speak.]

LEY, l[=e], _n._ Same as LEA.

LEYDEN JAR, l[=i]'den jär, _n._ a form of condenser for statical
electricity, a glass jar coated inside and outside with tinfoil for
two-thirds of its height, the inner coating connected with a metallic knob
at the top of the jar, usually by means of a loose chain.

LHERZOLITE, ler'z[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ an igneous rock, consisting of a
granular aggregate of olivine, pyroxene, enstatite, and picotite. [From
Lake _Lherz_.]

LI, l[=e], _n._ a Chinese weight, equal to the one-thousandth of a liang or
ounce, and nominally to the Japanese _rin_: a Chinese mile, equal to rather
more than one-third of an English mile. [Chinese.]

LIABLE, l[=i]'a-bl, _adj._ able to be bound or obliged: responsible:
tending to: subject: (_Shak._) exposed: suitable.--_ns._ LIABIL'ITY, state
of being liable: that for which one is liable, an obligation, debt, &c.;
L[=I]'ABLENESS, state of being liable.--EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY ACT, an
enactment (1880) making employers answerable to their servants for the
negligence of those to whom they have delegated their authority; LIMITED
LIABILITY, a principle of modern statute law which attempts to limit the
responsibilities of shareholders in a partnership, joint-stock company,
&c., by the extent of their personal interest therein. [Fr. _lier_--L.
_lig[=a]re_, to bind.]

LIAISON, l[=e]-[=a]-zong', _n._ union, or bond of union: connection, esp.
if illicit between the sexes: in French, the linking in pronunciation of a
final consonant to the succeeding word, when that begins with a vowel.
[Fr.--L. _ligation-em_--_lig[=a]re_, to bind.]

LIANA, li-an'a, _n._ a general name for the woody, climbing, and twining
plants in tropical forests. [Fr. _liane_--_lier_, to bind--L. _lig[=a]re_,
to bind.]

LIANG, lyang, _n._ a Chinese ounce or tael, reckoned as one-third heavier
than the ounce avoirdupois.

LIAR, l[=i]'ar, _n._ one who lies. [_Lie_.]

LIARD, l[=i]'ard, _adj._ gray, dapple-gray--(_Scot._) L[=I]'ART, LY'ART.
[M. E. _liard_--O. Fr. _liard_, _liart_.]

LIARD, liär, _n._ an old French coin, worth 3 deniers.

LIAS, l[=i]'as, _n._ (_geol._) a formation of argillaceous limestone, &c.,
underlying the oolitic system.--_adj._ LIAS'SIC, pertaining to the lias
formation. [Fr., perh. Bret. _liach_, a stone, Gael. _leac_, a stone.]

LIB, lib, _v.t._ (_prov._) to geld, castrate.

LIBATION, l[=i]-b[=a]'shun, _n._ the pouring forth wine or other liquid in
honour of a deity: the liquid poured.--_adj._ L[=I]'BANT, sipping.--_v.t._
L[=I]'BATE (_rare_), to make a libation to.--_adj._ L[=I]'BATORY,
pertaining to libation. [L. _libation-em_--_lib[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_; Gr.
_leibein_, to pour.]

LIBBARD, lib'bard, _n._ (_Spens._) a leopard.

LIBECCIO, li-bech'[=o], _n._ the south-west wind. [It.]

LIBEL, l[=i]'bel, _n._ a written accusation: any malicious defamatory
publication or statement: (_law_) the statement of a plaintiff's grounds of
complaint against a defendant.--_v.t._ to defame by a libel: to satirise
unfairly: (_law_) to proceed against by producing a written
complaint:--_pr.p._ l[=i]'belling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ l[=i]'belled.--_ns._
L[=I]'BELLANT, one who brings a libel; L[=I]'BELLER; L[=I]'BELLING,
defaming.--_adj._ L[=I]'BELLOUS, containing a libel: defamatory.--_adv._
L[=I]'BELLOUSLY. [L. _libellus_, dim. of _liber_, a book.]

LIBER, l[=i]'ber, _n._ the bast or inner bark of exogenous plants: a book.
[L.]

LIBERAL, lib'[.e]r-al, _adj._ becoming a gentleman: generous: noble-minded:
candid: free: free from restraint: general, extensive.--_n._ one who
advocates greater freedom in political institutions.--_n._
LIBERALIS[=A]'TION, the process of making liberal.--_v.t._ LIB'ERALISE, to
make liberal, or enlightened: to enlarge.--_ns._ LIB'ERALISM, the
principles of a Liberal in politics or religion; LIBERAL'ITY, the quality
of being liberal: generosity: largeness or nobleness of mind: candour:
impartiality.--_adv._ LIB'ERALLY.--_v.t._ LIB'ER[=A]TE, to set free: to
release from restraint, confinement, or bondage.--_ns._ LIBER[=A]'TION;
LIBER[=A]'TIONIST, one who is in favour of church disestablishment;
LIB'ER[=A]TOR, one who liberates or frees.--_adj._ LIB'ER[=A]TORY, tending
to liberate.--LIBERAL PARTY, the name adopted by the Whigs (1830) to denote
the body formed by their union with the Radicals; LIBERAL UNIONIST, one of
that section of the Liberal Party which joined the Conservatives from
inability to accede to Mr Gladstone's policy of giving Home Rule to Ireland
(1886); GERMAN LIBERALS, a party in German politics, formed by the
amalgamation of the Progressist party and the Liberal union, and advocating
moderate liberalism in opposition to the policy of Prince Bismarck;
NATIONAL LIBERALS, a party in German politics which before 1871 advocated
the completion of governmental unity in Germany, as well as supported
progressive measures of reform. [Fr.,--L. _liberalis_, befitting a
freeman--_liber_, free, akin to _libet_, _lubet_, it pleases.]

LIBERTY, lib'[.e]r-ti, _n._ freedom to do as one pleases: the unrestrained
enjoyment of natural rights: power of free choice: privilege: exemption:
relaxation of restraint: the bounds within which certain privileges are
enjoyed: freedom of speech or action beyond ordinary civility.--_ns._
LIBERT[=A]'RIAN, one who believes in free-will as opposed to necessity;
LIBERT[=A]'RIANISM, the doctrine of the freedom of the will, as opposed to
necessitarianism; LIBER'TICIDE, a destroyer of liberty; LIBER'TINAGE,
debauchery; LIB'ERTINE, formerly one who professed free opinions, esp. in
religion: one who leads a licentious life, a rake or debauchee.--_adj._
belonging to a freedman: unrestrained: licentious.--_n._ LIB'ERTINISM,
licentiousness of opinion or practice: lewdness or debauchery.--LIBERTY OF
INDIFFERENCE, freedom of the will--because before action the will is
undetermined as to acting or not acting; LIBERTY OF THE PRESS, liberty to
print and publish without previous permission from government.--CAP OF
LIBERTY (see BONNET ROUGE, under BONNET); RELIGIOUS LIBERTY, the right of
thinking about religion or of worshipping as one likes. [Fr.,--L.
_libertas_.]

LIBIDINOUS, li-bid'in-us, _adj._ lustful, lascivious, lewd.--_ns._
LIBID'INIST, a lewd person; LIBIDINOS'ITY, LIBID'INOUSNESS.--_adv._
LIBID'INOUSLY. [Fr.,--L. _libidinosus_--_libido_, desire--_libet_, _lubet_,
it pleases.]

LIBKEN, lib'ken, _n._ (_slang_) a place of abode.

LIBRA, l[=i]'bra, _n._ the balance, the seventh sign of the zodiac. [L.]

LIBRARY, l[=i]'brar-i, _n._ a building or room containing a collection of
books: a collection of books.--_ns._ LIBR[=A]'RIAN, the keeper of a
library; LIBR[=A]'RIANSHIP. [L. _librarium_--_liber_, a book.]

LIBRATE, l[=i]'br[=a]t, _v.t._ to poise: to balance.--_v.i._ to move
slightly: to be poised.--_n._ LIBR[=A]'TION, balancing: a state of
equipoise: a slight swinging motion.--_adj._ L[=I]'BRATORY.--LIBRATION OF
THE MOON, an apparent irregularity in the moon's motion, whereby its globe
seems to turn slightly round to each side alternately. [L. _libr[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_libra_, balance.]

LIBRETTO, li-bret'[=o], _n._ a book of the words of an opera or other
musical composition: the text itself.--_n._ LIBRETT'IST, a writer of
librettos. [It., dim. of _libro_--L. _liber_, a book.]

LIBYAN, lib'yan, _adj._ of _Libya_, northern Africa from Egypt to the
Atlantic.--_n._ a native thereof.

LICE, l[=i]s, _pl._ of _louse_.

LICENSE, LICENCE, l[=i]'sens, _n._ a being allowed: leave: grant of
permission, as for manufacturing a patented article or for the sale of
intoxicants: the document by which authority is conferred: excess or abuse
of freedom: a departure from rules or standards in art or
literature.--_v.t._ L[=I]'CENSE, to grant license to: to authorise or
permit.--_adj._ L[=I]'CENSABLE.--_ns._ LICENSEE', one to whom license is
granted; L[=I]'CENSER, one who grants license or permission: one authorised
to license; L[=I]'CENSURE, act of licensing; LICEN'TIATE, among
Presbyterians, a person authorised by a Presbytery to preach: on the
Continent, an academical dignity, forming the step from the baccalaureate
to the doctorate.--_adj._ LICEN'TIOUS, indulging in excessive freedom:
given to the indulgence of the animal passions: dissolute.--_adv._
LICEN'TIOUSLY.--_n._ LICEN'TIOUSNESS.--HIGH LICENSE, a mode of regulating
the traffic in alcoholic drinks by exacting a comparatively large sum for
the privilege of selling such; SPECIAL LICENSE, license given by the
Archbishop of Canterbury permitting the marriage of two specified persons
without banns, and at a place and time other than those prescribed by law.
[Fr.,--L. _licentia_--_licet_.]

LICHEN, l[=i]'ken, lich'en, _n._ one of an order of cellular flowerless
plants: an eruption on the skin.--_adjs._ L[=I]'CHENED, covered with
lichens; LICHEN'IC, pertaining to lichens; L[=I]'CHENIFORM.--_ns._
L[=I]'CHENINE, a starch-like substance, found in Iceland moss and other
lichens; L[=I]'CHENIST, LICHENOG'RAPHER, one versed in LICHENOG'RAPHY, the
description of lichens.--_adjs._ LICHENOGRAPH'IC, -AL.--_n._ LICHENOL'OGY,
the department of botany relating to lichens.--_adj._ L[=I]'CHENOUS,
abounding in, or pertaining to, lichens. [L.,--Gr.
_leich[=e]n_--_leichein_, to lick.]

[Illustration]

LICHGATE, lich'g[=a]t, _n._ a churchyard gate with a porch to rest the bier
under.--_ns._ LICH'WAKE, the wake or watch held over a dead body--also
_Likewake_, _Lykewake_, and even _Latewake_; LICH'WAY, the path by which
the dead are carried to the grave. [M. E. _lich_--A.S. _líc_ (Ger.
_leiche_), _geat_, a gate.]

LICIT, lis'it, _adj._ lawful, allowable.--_adv._ LIC'ITLY. [L.]

LICK, lik, _v.t._ to pass the tongue over: to take in by the tongue: to
lap: to beat by repeated blows: (_coll._) to triumph over, overcome.--_n._
a passing the tongue over: a slight smear: (_Scot._) a tiny amount: a blow:
(_coll._) an attempt, trial: (_pl._, _Scot._) a thrashing.--_ns._ LICK'ER;
LICK'ING, a thrashing; LICK'PENNY (_Scot._), a miserly person;
LICK'-PLAT'TER, LICK'-TRENCH'ER, LICK'SPITTLE, a mean, servile
dependent.--LICK INTO SHAPE, to give form and method to--from the notion
that the she-bear gives form to her shapeless young by licking them; LICK
THE DUST, to be slain: to be abjectly servile. [A.S. _liccian_; Ger.
_lecken_, L. _ling[)e]re_, Gr. _leichein_.]

LICKERISH, lik'[.e]r-ish, _adj._ dainty: eager to taste or enjoy:
tempting.--_adv._ LICK'ERISHLY.--_n._ LICK'ERISHNESS. [Formerly also
_liquorish_; a corr. of obsolete _lickerous_, lecherous.]

LICORICE. Same as LIQUORICE.

LICTOR, lik'tor, _n._ an officer who attended the Roman magistrates,
bearing an axe and bundle of rods. [L.]

LID, lid, _n._ a cover: that which shuts a vessel: the cover of the
eye.--_adjs._ LID'DED, having a lid or lids; LID'LESS, without lid or lids.
[A.S. _hlid_ (Dut. _lid_)--_hlídan_, to cover.]

LIE, l[=i], _n._ anything meant to deceive: an intentional violation of
truth: anything that misleads.--_v.i._ to utter falsehood with an intention
to deceive: to make a false representation:--_pr.p._ ly'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ lied.--LIE IN ONE'S THROAT, to lie shamelessly; LIE OUT OF WHOLE
CLOTH, to lie without any foundation whatever; GIVE THE LIE TO, to charge
with falsehood; WHITE LIE, a conventional phrase not strictly true: a
well-meant falsehood. [A.S. _leógan_ (_lyge_, a falsehood), prov. Eng.
_lig_; Dut. _liegen_, Goth. _liugan_, Ger. _lügen_, to lie.]

LIE, l[=i], _v.i._ to rest in a reclining posture: to lean: to press upon:
to be situated: to abide: to consist: (_law_) to be sustainable: (_Shak._)
to be imprisoned: to lodge, pass the night:--_pr.p._ ly'ing; _pa.t._ lay;
_pa.p._ lain, (_B._) l[=i]'en.--_n._ manner of lying: relative position: an
animal's lair: (_golf_) position of the ball for striking.--_ns._ L[=I]'ER,
LIE'-ABED', one who lies late--also _adj._--LIE ALONG, to be extended at
full length; LIE AT ONE'S DOOR, to be directly imputable to one; LIE AT
ONE'S HEART, to be an object of interest or affection to one; LIE BY, to
take rest from labour: (_Shak._) to be under the charge of; LIE HARD OR
HEAVY ON, UPON, (_Shak._) to, to oppress, burden; LIE IN, to be in
childbed; LIE IN ONE, to be in one's power; LIE IN THE WAY, to be ready, at
hand: to be an obstacle; LIE IN WAIT, to lie in ambush; LIE LOW, to conceal
one's actions or intentions; LIE ON, UPON, to be incumbent on; LIE ON THE
HANDS, to remain unused or unoccupied; LIE OVER, to be deferred to a future
occasion; LIE TO, to be checked in sailing; LIE UNDER, to be subject to or
oppressed by; LIE UP, to abstain from work; LIE WITH, to lodge or sleep
with: to have carnal knowledge of; LYING-IN HOSPITAL, a hospital for those
about to become mothers. [A.S. _licgan_; Ger. _liegen_; Goth. _ligan_.]

LIEBIG, l[=e]'big, _n._ a nutritious extract of beef first prepared by the
great German chemist, Baron von _Liebig_ (1803-1873).

LIED, l[=e]t, _n._ a German ballad, secular or sacred, fitted for singing
and often set to music. [Ger.; cf. A.S. _leóth_, a song.]

LIEF, l[=e]f, _adj._ (_arch._) loved, dear.--_adv._ willingly--now chiefly
used in the phrases, 'I had as lief,' 'to have liefer.' [A.S. _leóf_; Ger.
_lieb_, loved.]

LIEGE, l[=e]j, _adj._ free, except as within the relations of vassal and
feudal lord: under a feudal tenure.--_n._ one under a feudal tenure: a
vassal: a lord or superior, or one who has lieges.--_n._ LIEGE'DOM,
allegiance.--_adj._ LIEGE'LESS, not subject to a superior.--_n._ LIEGE'MAN,
a vassal: a subject. [O. Fr. _lige_, prob. from Old High Ger. _ledic_, free
(Ger. _ledig_, free, unfettered), _l[=i]dan_, to depart.]

LIEN, l[=i]'en, or l[=e]'en, _n._ (_law_) a right in one to retain the
property of another to pay a claim. [Fr., tie, band--L.
_ligamen_--_lig[=a]re_, to bind.]

LIEN, l[=i]'en (_B._), _pa.p._ of _lie_, to lie down.

LIENTERY, l[=i]'en-ter-i, _n._ a form of diarrhoea, with frequent liquid
evacuations in which the food is discharged undigested.--_adj._ LIENTER'IC.
[Gr. _leios_, smooth, _enteron_, an intestine.]

LIERNE, li-ern', _n._ (_archit._) a cross-rib or branch-rib in vaulting.
[Fr.]

LIEU, l[=u], _n._ place, stead, chiefly in the phrase 'in lieu of.'
[Fr.,--L. _locus_, place.]

LIEUTENANT, lef-ten'ant, _n._ one representing or performing the work of
another: an officer holding the place of another in his absence: a
commissioned officer in the army next below a captain, or in the navy next
below a commander and ranking with captain in the army: one holding a place
next in rank to a superior, as in the compounds LIEUTEN'ANT-COL'ONEL,
LIEUTEN'ANT-GEN'ERAL.--_ns._ LIEUTEN'ANCY, LIEUTEN'ANTSHIP, office or
commission of a lieutenant: the body of lieutenants; LIEUTEN'ANT-GOV'ERNOR,
in India, the name of the chief official in the provinces of Bengal, Behar,
and Orissa, the North-western Provinces, and Oudh, Punjab, and Delhi;
LIEUTEN'ANT-GOV'ERNORSHIP; LIEUTEN'ANTRY (_Shak._), lieutenancy;
LORD'-LIEUTEN'ANT, the title of the viceroy of Ireland: in the British
Isles, a permanent governor of a county appointed by the sovereign, usually
a peer or other large land-owner, at the head of the magistracy and the
chief executive authority; SUB'-LIEUTEN'ANT, formerly mate or passed
midshipman, now the intermediate rank in the navy between midshipman and
lieutenant.--FIELD-MARSHAL LIEUTENANT (see FIELD-MARSHAL). [Fr.; cf. _Lieu_
and _Tenant_.]

[Illustration]

LIFE, l[=i]f, _n._ state of living: animate existence: union of soul and
body: the period between birth and death: present state of existence:
manner of living: moral conduct: animation: a living being: system of
animal nature: social state: human affairs: narrative of a life: eternal
happiness, also He who bestows it: a quickening principle in a moral sense:
the living form and expression, living semblance: (_cricket_) an escape, as
by a missed or dropped catch:--_pl._ LIVES (l[=i]vz).--_interj._ used as an
oath, abbreviated from God's life.--_adj._ LIFE'-AND-DEATH', critical:
desperate.--_ns._ LIFE'-ANN[=U]'ITY, a sum paid to a person yearly during
life; LIFE'-ASSUR'ANCE, LIFE'-INSUR'ANCE (see INSURANCE); LIFE'-BELT, a
belt either inflated with air, or with cork attached, for sustaining a
person in the water; LIFE'-BLOOD, the blood of an animal in the body: that
which gives strength or life; LIFE'BOAT, a boat for saving shipwrecked
persons, having air-chambers or the like, by which it is rendered specially
buoyant and sometimes self-righting; LIFE'-BUOY, a buoy intended to support
a person in the water till he can be rescued; LIFE'-ESTATE', an estate held
during the life of the possessor.--_adjs._ LIFE'FUL (_Spens._), full of
vital energy; LIFE'-GIV'ING, imparting life: invigorating.--_ns._
LIFE'-GUARD, a guard of the life or person: a guard of a prince or other
dignitary; LIFE'-HIS'TORY, LIFE'-CY'CLE, the series of vital phenomena
exhibited by an organism in its passage from the ovum to full development;
LIFE'HOLD, land held by lease for life; LIFE'-IN'TEREST, an interest
lasting during one's life.--_adj._ LIFE'LESS, dead: without vigour:
insipid: sluggish.--_adv._ LIFE'LESSLY.--_n._ LIFE'LESSNESS.--_adj._
LIFE'-LIKE, like a living person.--_n._ LIFE'-LINE, a rope stretched
anywhere on board a vessel for support of the sailors in difficult
operations or during wild weather: a line attached to a life-buoy or
lifeboat for an immersed person to seize hold of.--_adj._ LIFE'LONG, during
the length of a life.--_ns._ LIFE'-MOR'TAR, a mortar for throwing a shot of
some kind to carry a rope from the shore to a ship in distress; LIFE'-PEER,
a peer whose title is not hereditary; LIFE'-PEER'AGE; LIFE'-PRESERV'ER, an
invention, as a buoyant belt or jacket, for the preservation of life in
cases of shipwreck: a cane with a loaded head; LIFE'-RAFT, a raft-like
structure for use in case of shipwreck; LIFE'-RATE, rate of payment on a
policy of life-insurance.--_adj._ LIFE'-REN'DERING (_Shak._), yielding up
life.--_ns._ LIFE'RENT, a rent that continues for life; LIFE'RENTER, one
who enjoys a liferent:--_fem._ LIFE'RENTRIX; LIFE'-ROCK'ET, a rocket for
carrying a line from the shore to a ship in distress.--_adjs._
LIFE'-SAV'ING, designed to save life, esp. from drowning.--_n._
LIFE'-SCHOOL, a school where artists work from living models.--_adjs._
LIFE'-SIZE, similar in size to the object represented; LIFE'SOME, full of
life: gay, lively.--_ns._ LIFE'-T[=A]'BLE, a table of statistics as to the
probability of life at different ages; LIFE'-TEN'ANT, the owner of a
life-estate: one who holds lands, &c., for the term of his own or another's
life; LIFE'-TIME, continuation or duration of life.--_adj._ LIFE'-WEA'RY
(_Shak._), weary of life: wretched.--_n._ LIFE'-WORK, the work to which
one's life is or is to be devoted.--LIFE-SAVING APPARATUS, all materials,
appliances, &c. available for preserving life in cases of shipwreck or
fire.--BRING TO LIFE, to restore to life one apparently dead; COME TO LIFE,
to be reanimated; FOR LIFE, for the whole period of one's existence: so as
to save life: very fast or strenuously; HIGH LIFE, the manner of living of
those in high or fashionable society: the upper classes of society; LINE OF
LIFE (see LINE); TO THE LIFE, very closely resembling the original: exactly
drawn. [A.S. _líf_; Ice. _líf_, Sw. _lif_, Dut. _lijf_, body, life; Ger.
_leben_, to live.]

LIFT, lift, _n._ (_Scot._) the air, heavens, sky. [A.S. _lyft_; Ger.
_luft_, Ice. _lopt_, Goth. _luftus_, the air.]

LIFT, lift, _v.t._ to bring to a higher position: to elevate or keep
elevated: to elate: to take and carry away: (_obs._) to bear, support:
(_slang_) to arrest: to steal.--_v.i._ to rise: to try to rise.--_n._ act
of lifting: that which is to be raised: that which assists to lift: a
hoisting-machine: advancement.--_adj._ LIFT'ABLE.--_ns._ LIFT'ER, one who,
or that which, lifts: (_Shak._) a thief; LIFT'ING-BRIDGE, a drawbridge
raised so as to allow ships to pass; LIFT'-PUMP, any pump which is not a
force-pump.--LIFT THE HAND, to raise it in hostility; LIFT UP THE EYES, to
look, direct one's eyes, or thoughts, to; LIFT UP THE FACE, to look upward,
as in supplication; LIFT UP THE HAND, to make oath, swear: to pray; LIFT UP
THE HEAD, to rejoice, exult; LIFT UP THE VOICE, to cry loudly.--DEAD LIFT
(see DEAD). [Ice. _lypta_--_lopt_, the air.]

LIG, lig, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to lie. [See LIE.]

LIGAMENT, lig'a-ment, _n._ anything that binds: (_anat._) the membrane
connecting the movable bones: a bond of union.--_adjs._ LIGAMENT'AL,
LIGAMENT'OUS, composing or resembling a ligament.--_ns._ LIG[=A]'TION, act
of binding: state of being bound; LIG'ATURE, anything that binds: a
bandage: (_mus._) a line connecting notes: (_print._) a type of two
letters: (_med._) a cord for tying the blood-vessels, &c.: impotence
produced by magic.--_adj._ LIG'ATURED, bound by a ligature. [Fr.,--L.
_ligamentum_--_lig[=a]re_, to bind.]

LIGAN, l[=i]'gan, _n._ goods sunk at sea, with a float attached for
recovery. [L. _ligamen_, a band.]

LIGGER, lig'[.e]r, _n._ the horizontal timber of a scaffolding: a nether
millstone: a board-pathway over a ditch: a coverlet for a bed: a kelt or
spent salmon: a night-line with float and bait for pike-fishing.

LIGHT, l[=i]t, _n._ that which shines or is brilliant: the agent by which
objects are rendered visible: the power of vision: day: dawn of day: that
which gives light, as the sun, a candle: the illuminated part of a picture:
means of communicating fire or light: a lighthouse: (_fig._) mental or
spiritual illumination: enlightenment: knowledge: public view: point of
view: a conspicuous person: an aperture for admitting light: (_B._)
prosperity, favour.--_adj._ not dark: bright: whitish.--_v.t._ to give
light to: to set fire to: to attend with a light.--_v.i._ to become light
or bright:--_pr.p._ light'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ light'ed or lit.--_adj._
LIGHT'ABLE.--_n._ LIGHT'-BALL, a composition of saltpetre, sulphur, resin,
and linseed-oil formed into a ball, and used by soldiers to give light
during military operations.--_n.pl._ LIGHT'-DUES, tolls taken from ships in
certain waters, for the maintenance of lighthouses.--_ns._ LIGHT'ER;
LIGHT'HOUSE, a tower-like construction exhibiting a light for indicating to
vessels, when nearing a port or coasting along shore, the proximity of
rocks, shoals, and other dangers; LIGHT'HOUSE-MAN, LIGHT'-KEEP'ER, the
keeper of a lighthouse.--_adj._ LIGHT'LESS.--_ns._ LIGHT'NESS; LIGHT'-ROOM,
in a man-of-war, a small room separated from the magazine by thick glass
windows, and used to illuminate it: the room in a lighthouse containing the
lighting apparatus; LIGHT'-SHIP, a stationary ship carrying a light and
serving the purpose of a lighthouse in very deep waters.--_adj._
LIGHT'SOME, full of light.--_n._ LIGHT'WAVE, a wave of the luminous
ether.--LIGHT OF NATURE, intellectual perception or intuition: (_theol._)
man's capacity of discovering truth unaided by revelation.--BETWEEN THE
LIGHTS, in the twilight; BETWEEN TWO LIGHTS, under cover of darkness; BRING
TO LIGHT, to reveal; CHILDREN OF LIGHT, Christians as under the
illumination of the Divine light, that illumination which comes directly
from God; COME TO LIGHT, to be revealed; FIXED LIGHT, in lighthouses, a
light which is maintained steadily without change, as opposed to a
revolving light; FLOATING LIGHT, a light displayed at the mast-head of a
lightship to show dangers to navigation; FOOT, GROUND, LIGHTS, a row of
lights used on a stage to light up the base of a scene; INNER LIGHT,
spiritual illumination, light divinely imparted; NORTHERN LIGHTS, aurora
borealis; SEE THE LIGHT, to come into view; STAND IN ONE'S OWN LIGHT, to
hinder one's own advantage. [A.S. _leóht_; Ger. _licht_.]

LIGHT, l[=i]t, _adj._ not heavy: of short weight: easily suffered or
performed: easily digested: not heavily armed: active: not heavily
burdened: unimportant: not dense or copious or intense: gentle: gay,
lively: amusing: unchaste: loose, sandy: giddy, delirious: idle,
worthless.--_vs.t._ LIGHT, LIGHT'EN, to make less heavy: to alleviate,
cheer.--_advs._ LIGHT, LIGHT'LY (_Shak._), commonly, usually.--_adj._
LIGHT'-ARMED, armed in a manner suitable for active service.--_ns._
LIGHT'ER, a large open boat used in unloading and loading ships;
LIGHT'ERAGE, price paid for unloading ships by lighters: the act of thus
unloading; LIGHT'ERMAN.--_adjs._ LIGHT'-FING'ERED, light or active with
one's fingers: thievish; LIGHT'-FOOT, -ED, nimble, active; LIGHT'FUL
(_rare_), cheery, happy; LIGHT'-HAND'ED, with light or dexterous touch:
having little in the hand: empty-handed: insufficiently manned;
LIGHT'-HEAD'ED, giddy in the head: delirious: thoughtless: unsteady.--_n._
LIGHT'-HEAD'EDNESS.--_adj._ LIGHT'-HEART'ED, light or merry of heart: free
from anxiety: cheerful.--_adv._ LIGHT'-HEART'EDLY.--_n._
LIGHT'-HEART'EDNESS.--_adj._ LIGHT'-HEELED, swift of foot.--_ns._
LIGHT'-HORSE, light-armed cavalry; LIGHT'-HORSE'MAN; LIGHT'-IN'FANTRY,
infantry lightly or not heavily armed.--_adjs._ LIGHT'-LEGGED, swift of
foot; LIGHT'-MIND'ED, having a light or unsteady mind: not
considerate.--_ns._ Light'-MIND'EDNESS; LIGHT'NESS (_Shak._),
light-headedness; LIGHT'NING (_Shak._), an exhilaration of the spirits;
LIGHT'-O'-LOVE, a capricious and wanton woman: an old dance tune.--_n.pl._
LIGHTS, the lungs.--_adj._ LIGHT'SOME, light, gay, lively, cheering.--_n._
LIGHT'SOMENESS.--_adj._ LIGHT'-SPIR'ITED, having a cheerful spirit.--_n._
LIGHT'-WEIGHT, in sporting and especially boxing, a man or animal of a
certain weight prescribed by the rules, intermediate between the
middle-weight and the feather-weight: a person of little
importance.--_adj._ LIGHT'-WINGED, having light wings: volatile.--MAKE
LIGHT OF, to treat as of little consequence. [A.S. _leóht_; Ger. _leicht_,
Ice. _léttr_; L. _l[)e]vis_.]

LIGHT, l[=i]t, _v.i._ (with _on_, _upon_) to stoop from flight: to settle:
to rest: to come by chance: (with _down_, _from_) to descend, to
alight:--_pr.p._ light'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ light'ed or lit.--_v.i._
LIGHT'EN UPON' (_Pr. Bk._), to alight or descend upon. [A.S. _líhtan_, to
dismount, lit. 'make light,' relieve of a burden.]

LIGHTEN, l[=i]t'n, _v.t._ to make light or clear: (_fig._) to illuminate
with knowledge.--_v.i._ to shine like lightning: to flash: to become less
dark.--_ns._ LIGHT'NING, the electric flash usually followed by thunder:
(_Shak._) a becoming bright; LIGHT'NING-ARREST'ER, an apparatus used for
protecting telegraph or telephone lines, &c., from lightning-discharges;
LIGHT'NING-BUG, a sort of phosphorescent beetle or firefly;
LIGHT'NING-CONDUC'TOR, LIGHT'NING-ROD, a metallic rod for protecting
buildings from lightning.

LIGNAGE, l[=i]n'[=a]j, _n._ (_Spens._) lineage.

LIGN-ALOES, l[=i]n-al'[=o]z, LIGNALOES, lig-nal'[=o]z, _n._ (_B._)
aloes-wood. [L. _lignum_, wood, and _aloes_, aloes.]

LIGNUM, lig'num, _n._ wood as contrasted with soft tissues or with
bark.--_adjs._ LIG'NEOUS, wooden: woody: made of wood; LIGNIF'EROUS.
producing wood.--_n._ LIGNIFIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ LIG'NIFORM, resembling
wood.--_v.t._ LIG'NIFY, to turn into wood.--_v.i._ to become wood or
woody:--_pr.p._ lig'nifying; _pa.p._ lig'nif[=i]ed.--_n._ LIG'N[=I]NE, pure
woody fibre.--_adj._ LIGNIPER'DOUS, destructive of wood.--_n._ LIG'N[=I]TE,
brown coal, coal retaining the texture of wood.--_adj._ LIGNIT'IC.--_ns._
LIG'NUM-CRU'CIS, wood of the cross: a relic asserted to be a piece of the
true cross; LIG'NUM-V[=I]'TÆ, popular name of a South American tree with
very hard wood. [L. _lignum_, wood.]

LIGULE, lig'[=u]l, _n._ (_bot._) the flat part of the leaf of a grass: a
strap-shaped petal in certain flowers.--_n._ LIG'ULA, a tongue-like part or
organ: in entomology, a fleshy membranaceous or horny anterior part of the
labium.--_adjs._ LIG'ULAR, pertaining to a ligula; LIG'ULATE (_bot._), like
a bandage or strap: composed of ligules. [L. _ligula_, dim. of _lingua_, a
tongue.]

LIGURE, l[=i]'g[=u]r, or lig'[=u]r, _n._ (_B._) a precious stone.--_n._
LIG'URITE, a variety of sphene or titanite. [Gr.]

LIKE, l[=i]k, _adj._ equal in quantity, quality, or degree: similar:
likely, probable.--_n._ the like thing or person: an exact resemblance: a
liking.--_adv._ in the same manner: probably.--_conj._ as, as if.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to compare, liken.--_ns._ LIKE'LINESS, LIKE'LIHOOD.--_adj._
LIKE'LY, like the thing required: credible: probable: having reason to
expect.--_adv._ probably.--_adj._ LIKE'-MIND'ED, having a similar
disposition or purpose.--_v.t._ LIK'EN, to represent as like or similar: to
compare.--_n._ LIKE'NESS, resemblance: one who resembles another: that
which resembles: a portrait or picture: effigy.--_adv._ LIKE'WISE, in like
wise or manner: also: moreover: too.--FEEL LIKE, to be disposed to do
anything; HAD LIKE, was likely, came near to do something; LOOK LIKE, to
show a likelihood of: to appear similar to; SUCH LIKE, of that kind. [A.S.
_líc_, seen in _ge-líc_; Ice. _líkr_, Dut. _ge-lijk_, Ger. _gleich_
(=_ge-leich_).]

LIKE, l[=i]k, _v.t._ to be pleased with: to approve: to enjoy: (_obs._) to
please.--_n._ a liking, chiefly in phrase 'likes and dislikes.'--_adjs._
LIKE'ABLE, lovable: amiable; LIKE'LY, that may be liked: pleasing.--_n._
LIK'ING, state of being pleased with: inclination: satisfaction in: (_B._)
condition, plight.--_adj._ (_B._) as in GOOD'-LIK'ING, WELL'-LIK'ING, in
good condition.--ON LIKING, on approval. [Orig. the verb meant 'to be
pleasing,' and was used impersonally, as it 'likes me'--i.e. it pleases me,
A.S. _lícian_--_líc_, like.]

LILAC, l[=i]'lak, _n._ a pretty flowering shrub, with a flower of a
light-purple colour.--_adj._ having the colour of the lilac flower.
[Sp.,--the Pers. _lilaj_.]

LILL, lil, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to loll.

LILLIBULLERO, lil-i-bu-l[=e]'r[=o], _n._ the famous ballad in mockery of
the Irish Catholics, which 'sung James II. out of three kingdoms.'--Also
LILLIBURL[=E]'RO. [From the refrain.]

LILLIPUTIAN, lil-i-p[=u]'shi-an, _n._ an inhabitant of the island of
_Lilliput_, described by Swift in his _Gulliver's Travels_: a person of
small size, a dwarf.--_adj._ of small size: dwarfish.

LILT, lilt, _v.i._ to do anything cleverly or quickly, as to hop about: to
sing, dance, or play merrily.--_v.t._ to sing a song easily or gaily.--_n._
a cheerful song or air. [M. E. _lilten_, _lulten_; ety. dub.]

LILY, lil'i, _n._ a bulbous plant, with showy and fragrant flowers.--_adj._
resembling a lily: pure.--_adjs._ LILI[=A]'CEOUS, pertaining to lilies;
LIL'IED, adorned with lilies: resembling lilies.--_n._ LIL'Y-EN'CRINITE,
same as _Stone-lily_ (see ENCRINITE).--_adj._ LIL'Y-HAND'ED, having hands
white as the lily.--_n._ LIL'Y-HY'ACINTH, a bulbous perennial plant with
blue flowers.--_adjs._ LIL'Y-LIV'ERED, white-livered: cowardly;
LIL'Y-WHITE, white as the lily.--LILY OF THE VALLEY, a very beautiful
flower of the lily genus. [A.S. _lilie_--L. _lilium_--Gr. _leirion_, lily.]

LIMACEOUS, l[=i]-m[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ like a slug.--_adjs._ LIM'ACOID (also
_n._); LIMAC'IFORM.--_n._ L[=i]'max, a slug.

LIMATION, l[=i]-m[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of filing or polishing.--_n._
L[=I]'MATURE, act of filing: filings.

LIMB, lim, _n._ a jointed part in animals, the leg: a projecting part: a
branch of a tree: a part of something else, as 'a limb of the law:' an imp,
scapegrace, as 'a limb of Satan.'--_v.t._ to supply with limbs: to tear off
the limbs of.--_adjs._ LIMBED, having limbs: formed in regard to limbs;
LIMB'MEAL (_Shak._), limb from limb. [A.S. _lim_; Ice. _limr_, Sw. _lem_.]

LIMB, lim, _n._ an edge or border, as of the sun, &c.: the edge of a
sextant, &c.--_adj._ LIM'BATE (_bot._), bordered. [Fr. _limbe_--L.
_limbus_.]

LIMBEC, lim'bek, _n._ (_Spens._) an alembic.

[Illustration]

LIMBER, lim'b[.e]r, _n._ the part of a gun-carriage consisting of two
wheels and a shaft to which the horses are attached.--_v.t._ to attach to
the limber, as a gun. [Prov. Eng. _limbers_, shafts--Ice. _limar_, boughs;
cf. _limb_, a branch.]

LIMBER, lim'b[.e]r, _adj._ pliant, flexible.--_n._ LIM'BERNESS,
flexibleness, pliancy. [See _limp_ (adj.).]

LIMBO, lim'b[=o], _n._ an indefinite region in the intermediate state, the
abode of those who have had no opportunity to accept Christ, of the souls
of the pious who died before the time of Christ, and of the souls of
unbaptised infants: a place of confinement, or where things are thrown
aside.--Also LIM'BUS. [L. _limbus_, border.]

LIME, l[=i]m, _n._ any slimy or gluey material: bird-lime: the white
caustic earth from limestone, and used for cement.--_v.t._ to cover with
lime: to cement: to manure with lime: to ensnare.--_ns._ LIME'-BURN'ER, one
who burns limestone to form lime; LIME'KILN, a kiln or furnace in which
limestone is burned to lime; LIME'-LIGHT, or _Calcium-light_, light
produced by a blowpipe-flame directed against a block of pure, compressed
quicklime; LIME'STONE, stone from which lime is procured by burning;
LIME'TWIG, a twig smeared with bird-lime: a snare; LIME'WASH, a coating
given with a solution of lime; LIME'WA'TER, a saturated aqueous solution of
lime.--_adjs._ LIM'OUS, gluey: slimy: muddy; LIM'Y, glutinous: sticky:
containing, resembling, or having the qualities of lime. [A.S. _lím_; Ger.
_leim_, glue, L. _limus_, slime.]

LIME, l[=i]m, _n._ a kind of citron or lemon tree and its fruit.--_n._
LIME'-JUICE, the acid juice of the lime, used at sea as a specific against
scurvy. [Fr.]

LIME-HOUND, l[=i]m'-hownd, _n._ (_Spens._) a boar-hound.

LIME-TREE, l[=i]m'-tr[=e], _n._ the linden-tree. [_Lime_ is a corr. of
_line_, for _lind_=linden-tree.]

LIMIT, lim'it, _n._ boundary: utmost extent: restriction: (_Shak._) a limb,
as the limit of the body.--_v.t._ to confine within bounds: to restrain: to
fix within limits.--_adjs._ LIM'ITABLE, that may be limited, bounded, or
restrained; LIMIT[=A]'RIAN, tending to limit.--_n._ one who
limits.--_adjs._ LIM'ITARY, placed at the boundary as a guard, &c.:
confined within limits; LIM'ITATE (_bot._), bounded by a distinct
line.--_n._ LIMIT[=A]'TION, the act of limiting, bounding, or restraining:
the state of being limited, bounded, or restrained: restriction.--_adjs._
LIMIT[=A]'TIVE, LIM'ITED, within limits: narrow: restricted.--_adv._
LIM'ITEDLY.--_ns._ LIM'ITEDNESS; LIM'ITER, the person or thing that limits
or confines: a friar who had a license to beg within certain
bounds.--_adj._ LIM'ITLESS, having no limits: boundless: immense:
infinite.--LIMITED LIABILITY (see LIABILITY); LIMITED MONARCHY, a monarchy
in which the supreme power is shared with a body of nobles, a
representative body, or both. [Fr.,--L. _limes_, _limitis_, a boundary.]

LIMMA, lim'a, _n._ in prosody, a monosemic empty time or pause: in
Pythagorean music, the smaller half-step or semi-tone. [Gr. _leimma_, a
remnant.]

LIMMER, lim'[.e]r, _n._ a mongrel-hound: a base person, esp. a jade. [O.
Fr. _liemier_--_liem_, a leash.]

LIMN, lim, _v.t._ to draw or paint, esp. in water-colours: (_orig._) to
illuminate with ornamental letters, &c.--_n._ LIM'NER, one who limns or
paints on paper or parchment: a portrait-painter. [Contr. of O. Fr.
_enluminer_--L. _illumin[=a]re_.]

LIMONITE, l[=i]'m[=o]-n[=i]t, _n._ an iron ore--also _Brown hematite_ and
_Brown iron ore_.--_adj._ LIMONIT'IC. [Gr. _leim[=o]n_, a meadow.]

LIMOSIS, l[=i]-m[=o]'sis, _n._ a morbidly ravenous appetite. [Gr. _limos_,
hunger.]

LIMP, limp, _adj._ wanting stiffness, flexible: weak, flaccid. [According
to Skeat, a nasalised form of _lip_, a weakened form of _lap_, as seen in
Eng. _lap_, a flap; cf. prov. Ger. _lampen_, to hang loosely down.]

LIMP, limp, _v.i._ to halt: to walk lamely--fig. as 'limping verses.'--_n._
act of limping: a halt.--_p.adj._ LIMP'ING, having the imperfect movement
of one who limps.--_adv._ LIMP'INGLY. [Prob. conn. with preceding. There is
an A.S. adj. _lemp-healt_, halting.]

LIMPET, lim'pet, _n._ a small shellfish which clings to intertidal rocks.
[A.S. _lempedu_, _lamprede_, lamprey.]

LIMPID, lim'pid, _adj._ clear: shining: transparent: pure.--_ns._
LIMPID'ITY, LIM'PIDNESS.--_adv._ LIM'PIDLY. [Fr.,--L. _limpidus_,
_liquidus_, liquid.]

LIN, lin, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to cease, to give over.--_v.t._ to cease from.
[A.S. _linnan_, to cease.]

LINAMENT, lin'a-ment, _n._ lint: a tent for a wound. [L.]

LINCH, linsh, _n._ a ridge of land, a boundary, a cliff.--_n._ LINCH'ET, a
terrace seen on the slopes of the chalk, oolitic, and liassic escarpments
in Bedfordshire, Somerset, &c. [A.S. _hlinc_, a ridge of land.]

LINCHPIN, linsh'pin, _n._ a pin used to keep the wheel of a carriage on the
axle-tree. [Properly _linspin_, 'axle-pin'--obs. _linse_, axle, and _pin_.]

LINCOLN-GREEN, lingk'un-gr[=e]n, _n._ the colour of cloth made formerly at
_Lincoln_: the cloth itself.

LINCTURE, lingk't[=u]r, _n._ medicine to be sucked up.--Also LINC'TUS. [L.
_ling[)e]re_, _linctum_, to lick.]

LINDEN, lin'den, _n._ the lime-tree. [A.S. _linden_--_lind_; cf. Ice.
_lind_, Ger. _linde_.]

LINE, l[=i]n, _v.t._ to cover on the inside: to pad: to impregnate:
(_Shak._) to aid.--_n._ LIN'ING. [M. E. _linen_, to cover, perh. orig. with
linen--obs. _line_, linen--A.S. _lín_--L. _linum_.]

LINE, l[=i]n, _n._ a thread of linen or flax: a slender cord: (_math._)
that which has length without breadth or thickness: an extended stroke: a
straight row: a cord extended to direct any operations: outline: a series
or succession, as of progeny: a series of steamers, &c., plying
continuously between places: a railroad: a telegraph wire between stations:
an order given to an agent for goods, such goods received, the stock on
hand of any particular goods: a mark or lineament, hence a characteristic:
a rank: a verse: a short letter or note: a trench: limit: method: the
equator: lineage: direction: occupation: the regular infantry of an army:
the twelfth part of an inch: (_pl._) marriage-lines, a marriage
certificate: a certificate of church membership: military works of
defence.--_v.t._ to mark out with lines: to cover with lines: to place
along by the side of for guarding: to give out for public singing, as a
hymn, line by line: (_rare_) to delineate, paint: to measure.--_n._
LIN'E[=A]GE, descendants in a line from a common progenitor: race:
family.--_adj._ LIN'EAL, of or belonging to a line: composed of lines: in
the direction of a line: descended in a direct line from an ancestor.--_n._
LINEAL'ITY.--_adv._ LIN'EALLY.--_n._ LIN'EAMENT, feature: distinguishing
mark in the form, esp. of the face.--_adj._ LIN'EAR, of or belonging to a
line: consisting of, or having the form of, lines: straight.--_adv._
LIN'EARLY.--_adjs._ LIN'E[=A]TE, -D, marked longitudinally with depressed
lines.--_ns._ LINE'[=A]TION (same as DELINEATION); LINE'-ENGRAV'ING, the
process of engraving in lines, steel or copperplate engraving.--_n.pl._
LINE'-FISH, those taken with the line, as cod, halibut, &c.--_adj._
LIN'EOLATE, marked with fine or obscure lines.--_ns._ LIN'ER, a vessel
belonging to a regular line or series of packets; LINES'MAN (_mil._), a
private in the line; LINE'-STORM, an equinoctial storm.--LINEAR
PERSPECTIVE, that part of perspective which regards only the positions,
magnitudes, and forms of the objects delineated.--EQUINOCTIAL LINE, the
celestial equator: the terrestrial equator; FRAUNHOFER'S LINES, the dark
lines observed crossing the sun's spectrum at right angles to its
length--from the Bavarian optician, Joseph von _Fraunhofer_ (1787-1826);
GIVE LINE, from angling, to allow a person apparent freedom, so as to gain
him at last; SHIP OF THE LINE (see SHIP). [A.S. _líne_--L.
_linea_--_linum_, flax.]

LINEN, lin'en, _n._ cloth made of lint or flax: underclothing, particularly
that made of linen: articles of linen, or of linen and cotton--table-linen,
bed-linen, body-linen.--_adj._ made of flax: resembling linen cloth.--_n._
LIN'EN-DRAP'ER, a merchant who deals in linens. [Properly an adj. with
suffix _-en_--A.S. _lín_--L. _linum_, flax; Gr. _linon_.]

LING, ling, _n._ a fish resembling the cod, so called from its lengthened
form. [A.S. _lang_, long.]

LING, ling, _n._ heather.--_adj._ LING'Y. [Ice. _lyng_.]

LINGAM, ling'gam, _n._ the phallus in Hindu mythology, representative of
Siva and the generative power of nature, its female counterpart the
_Yoni_.--Also LING'A. [Sans.]

LINGEL, ling'l, _n._ a shoemaker's thread rubbed with beeswax. [M. E.
_lingel_, through O. Fr.,--L. _lineola_, dim. of _linea_, a line.]

LINGER, ling'g[.e]r, _v.i._ to remain long in any state: to loiter.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to prolong, protract: (with _out_) to pass in a tedious
manner.--_n._ LING'ERER.--_adj._ LING'ERING, protracted.--_n._ a remaining
long.--_advs._ LING'ERINGLY; LING'ERLY (_rare_). [A.S. _lengan_, to
protract--_lang_, long.]

LINGERIE, lang-zhe-r[=e]', _n._ linen goods, esp. women's underclothing.
[Fr.,--_linge_, flax--L. _linum_.]

LINGET, LINGOT, _n._ Same as INGOT.

LINGISM, ling'izm, _n._ the Swedish movement-cure, kinesitherapy. [From
Peter Henrik _Ling_, 1776-1839.]

LINGO, ling'g[=o], _n._ language, speech: esp. applied to dialects.
[Corrupted from L. _lingua_, language.]

LINGUA FRANCA, ling'gwa frank'a, _n._ a mixed jargon used by Frenchmen and
other Western people in intercourse with Arabs, Moors, and other Eastern
peoples: an international dialect.

LINGUAL, ling'gwal, _adj._ pertaining to the tongue or utterance.--_n._ a
letter pronounced mainly by the tongue, as _t_, _d_ (also called
_Dental_).--_adj._ LINGUADEN'TAL--_Dentilingual_.--_adv._
LING'UALLY.--_adj._ LING'UIFORM, tongue-shaped.--_ns._ LING'UIST, one
skilled in tongues or languages; LING'UISTER, a dabbler in
philology.--_adjs._ LINGUIST'IC, -AL, pertaining to languages and the
affinities of languages.--_adv._ LINGUIST'ICALLY.--_n.pl._ LINGUIST'ICS,
the general or comparative science, or study, of languages.--_n._ LING'ULA,
a tongue-like part or process.--_adjs._ LING'ULAR, LING'ULATE,
tongue-shaped. [L. _lingua_ (old form _dingua_), the tongue.]

LINHAY, lin'h[=a], _n._ a donkey-stable.--Also LIN'NY.

LINIMENT, lin'i-ment, _n._ a kind of thin ointment. [L.
_linimentum_--_lin[)e]re_, to besmear.]

LINING, l[=i]'ning, _n._ the cover of the inner surface of anything,
contents.

LINK, lingk, _n._ a ring of a chain: anything connecting: a single part of
a series: the 1/100th part of the chain, a measure used in surveying, &c.
(see CHAIN).--_v.t._ to connect as by a link: to join in
confederacy.--_v.i._ to be connected.--_n._ LINK'-M[=O]'TION, a system of
pieces pivoted together, describing definite curves in the same plane or in
parallel planes.--MISSING LINK, any point or fact needed to complete a
series or a chain of argument: (_zool._) a conjectural form of animal life,
supposed necessary to complete the chain of evolution from some simian to
the human animal: (_coll._) an ape, monkey, or apish-looking man. [A.S.
_hlence_; Ice. _hlekkr_, Ger. _gelenk_, a joint.]

LINK, lingk, _n._ a light or torch of pitch and tow.--_ns._ LINK'BOY,
LINK'MAN, a boy or man who carries such to light travellers. [Prob. corr.
from Dut. _lont_, a match; cf. Scot. _lunt_, Dan. _lunte_.]

LINK, lingk, _n._ a crook or winding of a river.--_n.pl._ LINKS, a stretch
of flat or gently undulating ground along a sea-shore, on which the game of
golf is played. [A.S. _hlinc_, a ridge of land, a bank.]

LINK, lingk, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to go quickly.

LINN, LIN, lin, _n._ a waterfall: a precipice.

LINNÆAN, LINNEAN, lin-n[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to _Linnæus_, the
Latinised form of the name of _Linné_, the celebrated Swedish botanist
(1707-78), or to his artificial system of classification.

LINNET, lin'et, _n._ a small singing-bird--from feeding on flax-seed. [Fr.
_linot_--_lin_, flax--L. _linum_.]

LINOLEUM, lin-[=o]'le-um, _n._ a preparation used as a floor-cloth,
linseed-oil being greatly used in the making of it. [L. _linum_, flax,
_oleum_, oil.]

LINOTYPE, lin'[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ a machine for producing stereotyped lines
or bars of words, &c., as a substitute for type-setting: a line of
printing-type cast in one piece. [L. _linea_, a line, and _type_.]

LINSEED, lin's[=e]d, _n._ lint or flax seed--also LINT'SEED.--_ns._
LIN'SEED-CAKE, the cake remaining when the oil is pressed out of lint or
flax seed, used as a food for sheep and cattle; LIN'SEED-MEAL, the meal of
linseed, used for poultices and as a cattle-food; LIN'SEED-OIL, oil from
flax-seed.

LINSEY, lin'si, _n._ cloth made of linen and wool: a peculiar kind of
clayey rock.--_adj._ LIN'SEY-WOOL'SEY, made of linen and wool mixed: mean:
of unsuitable parts.--_n._ a thin coarse stuff of linen and wool mixed:
inferior stuffs of doubtful composition: (_Shak._) a mixture of nonsense,
gibberish. [Obs. _linsel_, and _wool_.]

LINSTOCK, lin'stok, _n._ a staff to hold a lighted match for firing
cannon.--Also LINT'STOCK. [Dut. _lontstok_--_lont_, a match, _stok_, a
stick.]

LINT, lint, _n._ linen scraped into a soft woolly substance for dressing
wounds: raw cotton ready for baling. [L. _linteus_--_linum_, linen.]

LINTEL, lin'tel, _n._ the piece of timber or stone over a doorway: the
headpiece of a door or casement. [O. Fr. _lintel_ (Fr. _linteau_)--Low L.
_lintellus_ for _limitellus_, dim. of L. _limes_, border.]

LINTIE, lin'ti, LINTWHITE, lint'hw[=i]t=LINNET.

LION, l[=i]'un, _n._ a fierce quadruped of immense strength, the largest of
all carnivorous animals, tawny-coloured, the male with a shaggy mane,
springing on his prey with a terrific roar: a man of unusual courage:
(_astron._) Leo, a sign of the zodiac: any object of interest, esp. a
famous or conspicuous person much sought after: an old Scotch coin, with a
lion on the obverse, worth 74 shillings Scotch (James VI.): (_her._)
representation of a lion used as a bearing:--_fem._ L[=I]'ONESS.--_ns._
L[=I]'ONCEL, L[=I]'ONCELLE (_her._), a small lion used as a bearing;
L[=I]'ONEL, L[=I]'ONET, a young lion; L[=I]'ON-HEART, one with great
courage.--_adj._ L[=I]ON-HEART'ED.--_n._ L[=I]'ON-HUNT'ER, a hunter of
lions: one who runs after celebrities with foolish adulation, or to get
reflected glory from their company.--_v.t._ L[=I]'ONISE, to treat as a lion
or object of interest.--_n._ L[=I]'ONISM.--_adj._ L[=I]'ON-LIKE.--LION'S
PROVIDER, a popular name for the jackal, supposed to attend upon the lion:
any humble friend or follower; LION'S SHARE, the largest share.--A LION IN
THE WAY, a danger to be met and overcome; BRITISH LION, the lion as the
British national emblem; PUT ONE'S HEAD INTO THE LION'S MOUTH, to get into
a position of great danger. [O. Fr. _lion_--L. _leon-em_--Gr. _le[=o]n_;
Ger. _löwe_.]

LIP, lip, _n._ the muscular border in front of the teeth by which things
are taken into the mouth; the edge of anything: (_slang_) impudent talk,
insolence: (_pl._) speech as passing through the lips.--_v.t._ to touch
with the lips: to utter with the lips.--_v.i._ to apply the lips to the
mouthpiece of an instrument.--_adj._ LIP'BORN, from the lips only: not
genuine.--_ns._ LIP'-DEV[=O]'TION, prayer of the lips without devotion in
the heart; LIP'-HOM'AGE, insincere homage; LIP'-L[=A]'BOUR, empty speech;
LIP'-LANG'UAGE, oral or articulate language, communicated by motions of the
lips, as opposed to the fingers, in teaching or conversing with the deaf
and dumb; LIP'LET, a little lip; LIP'-OR'NAMENT, an object inserted as an
ornament in the lip, common among savage tribes.--_adj._ LIPPED, having
lips, or edges like lips, labiate.--_ns._ LIP'-READ'ING, reading what a
person says from the movement of the lips, in the instruction of the deaf
and dumb; LIP'-SERV'ICE, service with the lips only: insincere devotion or
worship; LIP'-WIS'DOM, wisdom in words only, not in deeds.--BITE THE LIP,
to press the lips between the teeth to keep one's self from betraying
vexation, anger, &c.; CURL OF THE LIP, the causing the lip to curl as an
indication of scorn; HANG THE LIP, to be sullen or sulky; MAKE A LIP
(_Shak._), to pout in sullenness or contempt. [A.S. _lippa_; Dut. _lip_,
Ger. _lippe_, L. _labium_, not conn. with L. _lamb[)e]re_, Eng. _lap_.]

LIPÆMIA, li-p[=e]'mi-a, _n._ excessive fat in the blood.

LIPHÆMIA, li-f[=e]'mi-a, _n._ deficiency or poverty of blood.

LIPOGRAM, l[=i]'p[=o]-gram, _n._ the name given to a writing, esp. a poem
from which all words are omitted which contain a particular letter.--_adj._
LIPOGRAMMAT'IC.--_ns._ LIPOGRAM'MATISM; LIPOGRAM'MATIST. [Gr. _leipein_, to
leave, _gramma_, a letter.]

LIPOMA, li-p[=o]'ma, _n._ a tumour formed of fatty tissue--also
LIP'AROCELE.--_n._ LIPOMAT[=O]'SIS, the excessive growth of fatty
tissue.--_adj._ LIPOM'ATOUS.

LIPPEN, lip'n, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to trust, rely, depend (with _to_,
_on_).--_adj._ LIPPE'NING, occasional, accidental.

LIPPITUDE, lip'i-t[=u]d, _n._ soreness of the eyes. [L.,--_lippus_,
blear-eyed.]

LIPPY, LIPPIE, lip'i, _n._ an old Scottish dry measure, the fourth of a
peck. [Dim. from. A.S. _leáp_, a basket; Ice. _laupr_.]

LIQUATE, lik'w[=a]t, _v.t._ to melt: to separate one metal from another
which is less fusible, by applying sufficient heat.--_adj._
LIQ'UABLE.--_n._ LIQU[=A]'TION. [L. _liqu[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_liqu[=e]re_,
to be fluid.]

LIQUEFY, lik'we-f[=i], _v.t._ to make liquid: to dissolve.--_v.i._ to
become liquid:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ liq'uef[=i]ed.--_adj._
LIQUEF[=A]'CIENT.--_n._ LIQUEFAC'TION, the act or process of making liquid:
the state of being melted.--_adj._ LIQ'UEFIABLE.--_ns._ LIQ'UEFIER;
LIQUESC'ENCY.--_adj._ LIQUESC'ENT, melting. [L.
_liquefac[)e]re_--_liqu[=e]re_, to be fluid or liquid, _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

LIQUEUR, li-k[.e]r', _n._ the name given to the many alcoholic preparations
which are flavoured or perfumed and sweetened to be more agreeable to the
taste--chartreuse, cherry brandy, curaçao, benedictine, kümmel, maraschino,
&c.--_ns._ LIQUEUR'-GLASS, a very small drinking-glass intended for
liqueurs or cordials; LIQUEUR'ING, the process of qualifying wine by means
of liqueur. [Fr.]

LIQUID, lik'wid, _adj._ flowing: fluid: soft: smooth: clear.--_n._ a
flowing substance: a letter of a smooth flowing sound, coalescing easily
with a preceding mute, _l_, _m_, _n_, _r_.--_adj._ LIQ'UIDABLE.--_v.t._
LIQ'UIDATE, to make clear, esp. to clear or settle an account: to arrange
or wind up the affairs of a bankrupt estate.--_ns._ LIQUID[=A]'TION, the
clearing up of the money affairs, esp. the adjustment of the affairs of a
bankrupt estate; LIQUID[=A]T'OR, one engaged in a liquidation.--_v.t._
LIQ'UIDISE, to render liquid.--_n._ LIQUID'ITY.--_adv._ LIQ'UIDLY.--_n._
LIQ'UIDNESS. [Fr.,--L. _liquidus_, fluid--_liqu[=e]re_, to be fluid.]

LIQUIDAMBAR, lik'wid-am-bar, _n._ a genus of balsamiferous trees of the
witch-hazel family (_Hamamelidaceæ_), native to Mexico and the United
States. [L. _liquidus_, liquid, Low L. _ambar_, amber.]

LIQUOR, lik'ur, _n._ anything liquid: strong drink: a strong solution of a
particular substance: any prepared solution.--_v.t._ to apply liquor or a
solution to: (_Shak._) to rub with oil or grease.--_v.i._ (_slang_) to
drink (esp. with _up_).--_n._ LIQ'UOR-GAUGE, a rod used by excisemen for
measuring the depth of liquid in a cask.--LIQUOR LAWS, restrictive
legislation with regard to the sale of intoxicating drink.--IN LIQUOR,
drunk; MALT LIQUORS, liquors brewed from malt. [O. Fr. _liqeur_--L.
_liquor-em_--_liqu[=e]re_.]

LIQUORICE, lik'ur-is, _n._ a plant with a sweet root which is used for
medicinal purposes. [Through an O. Fr. form, from Low L. _liquiritia_, a
corr. of Gr. _glykyrrhiza_--_glykys_, sweet, _rhiza_, root.]

LIQUORISH, lik'ur-ish, _adj._ obsolete spelling of _lickerish_.

LIRA, l[=e]'ra, _n._ an Italian coin, worth a franc, and divisible into 100
centesimi:--_pl._ LIRE (l[=e]'r[=a]). [It.]

LIRIODENDRON, lir-i-[=o]-den'dron, _n._ a North American tree, sometimes
above 100 feet in height, having close bark, large four-lobed leaves, and
greenish-yellow flowers, something like a tulip.--Also TULIP-TREE. [Gr.
_leirion_, a lily, _dendron_, a tree.]

LIRIPOOP, lir'i-poop, _n._ (_obs._) a graduate's hood: smartness: a silly
person.--Also LIRIPIP'IUM.

LIRK, lirk, _n._ (_Scot._) a fold.--_v.i._ to hang in creases.

LIS, lis, _n._ a controversy, litigation. [L.]

LIS, l[=e]s, _n._ (_her._) same as _Fleur-de-lis_:--_pl._ LISSES.

LISBON, liz'bon, _n._ a light-coloured wine from Estremadura in Portugal.

LISLE THREAD. See THREAD.

LISP, lisp, _v.i._ to speak with the tongue against the upper teeth or
gums, as in pronouncing _th_ for _s_ or _z_: to articulate as a child: to
utter imperfectly.--_v.t._ to pronounce with a lisp.--_n._ the act or habit
of lisping.--_n._ LISP'ER.--_adj._ LISP'ING, pronouncing with a lisp.--_n._
the act of speaking with a lisp.--_adv._ LISP'INGLY. [A.S. _wlispian_ (a
conjectural form)--_wlisp_, stammering; Dut. _lispen_, Ger. _lispeln_; from
the sound.]

LISSE, l[=e]s, _n._ in tapestry, the threads of the warp taken together.
[Fr., also _lice_--L. _licium_.]

LISSENCEPHALOUS, lis-en-sef'a-lus, _adj._ having a brain smooth or slightly
convoluted.

LISSOME, LISSOM, lis'um, _adj._ lithesome, nimble, flexible.--_n._
LISS'OMENESS.

LISSOTRICHOUS, li-sot'ri-kus, _adj._ smooth-haired.

LIST, list, _n._ the selvage on woven textile fabrics: a stripe of any
kind: (_Shak._) a border.--_adj._ made of strips of woollen selvage. [A.S.
_líst_; Ger. _leiste_.]

LIST, list, _n._ a catalogue, roll, or enumeration: a book, &c., containing
a series of names of persons or things.--_v.t._ to place in a list or
catalogue: to engage for the public service, as soldiers.--_v.i._ to enter
the public service by enrolling one's name, to enlist.--ACTIVE LIST, the
roll of soldiers on active service; CIVIL LIST (see CIVIL); FREE LIST (see
FREE). [O. Fr. _liste_--Mid. High Ger. _liste_ (Ger. _leiste_), border;
A.S. _líst_, orig. same word as above.]

LIST, list, _n._ a line enclosing a piece of ground, esp. for combat:
(_pl._) the ground enclosed for a contest.--_v.t._ to enclose for a
tournament.--ENTER THE LISTS, to engage in contest. [O. Fr. _lisse_ (Fr.
_lice_, It. _lizza_)--Low L. _liciæ_, barrier, perh. from L. _licium_, a
thrum.]

LIST, list, _v.i._ to have pleasure in: to desire: to like or please: to
choose: (_naut._) to incline or heel over to one side.--_v.t._ to cause to
careen or heel over.--_n._ such an inclination. [A.S. _lystan_, impers.,
please--_lust_, pleasure.]

LIST, list, _v.t._ and _v.i._ original form of listen: now
poetical.--_v.t._ LISTEN (lis'n), to hear or attend to.--_v.i._ to give ear
or hearken: to follow advice.--_n._ LIST'ENER, one who listens or
hearkens.--_adjs._ LIST'FUL, attentive; LIST'LESS, having no desire or
wish: careless: uninterested: weary: indolent.--_adv._ LIST'LESSLY.--_n._
LIST'LESSNESS. [A.S. _hlystan_--_hlyst_, hearing; Ice. _hlusta_.]

LISTEL, lis'tel, _n._ (_archit._) a narrow fillet.

LISTER, lis't[.e]r, _n._ a form of plough for throwing up ridges.--_n._
LIST'ING.

LISTERISM, lis't[.e]r-izm, _n._ an antiseptic method of operating
introduced by the English surgeon, Lord _Lister_, born 1827.--_v.t._
LIS'TERISE, to treat by Listerism.

LIT, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of light, lighten, light, to alight.

LITANY, lit'a-ni, _n._ a prayer of supplication, esp. in processions: an
appointed form of responsive prayer in public worship in which the same
thing is repeated several times at no long intervals.--_ns._ LIT'ANY-DESK,
-STOOL, in the English Church, a movable desk at which a minister kneels,
facing the altar, while he recites the litany.--LESSER LITANY, the common
formula, 'Kyrie eleison, Christe eleison, Kyrie eleison.' [O. Fr.,--Low L.
_litania_--Gr. _litaneia_--_litesthai_, to pray.]

LITERAL, lit'[.e]r-al, _adj._ according to the letter: plain: not
figurative or metaphorical: following the letter or exact meaning, word for
word.--_v.t._ LIT'ERALISE.--_ns._ LIT'ERALISER; LIT'ERALISM, strict
adherence to the letter: interpretation that is merely verbal: (_art_)
exact and unimaginative rendering of objects; LIT'ERALIST;
LITERAL'ITY.--_adv._ LIT'ERALLY.--_n._ LIT'ERALNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_literalis_--_litera_, a letter.]

LITERARY, lit'[.e]r-ar-i, _adj._ belonging to letters or learning: skilled
in learning.--_n._ LIT'ERACY, state of being literate:--opp. to
_Illiteracy_.--_adj._ LIT'ER[=A]TE, acquainted with letters of learning:
learned.--_n._ one educated, but not having taken a university degree, esp.
a candidate for holy orders who has not been at a university.--_n.pl._
LITER[=A]'T[=I], men of letters, the learned (sing. forms, LITER[=A]'TUS,
LITERÄ'TO).--_adv._ LITER[=A]'TIM, letter for letter: without the change of
a letter.--_n._ LITER[=A]'TOR, a dabbler in learning: a man of letters, a
literary man--sometimes in the French form _Littérateur_.--_adj._
LIT'EROSE, distinctively literary.--_n._ LITEROS'ITY. [L. _literarius_.]

LITERATURE, lit'[.e]r-a-t[=u]r, _n._ the science of letters or what is
written: the whole body of literary compositions in any language, or on a
given subject: all literary productions except those relating to positive
science and art, usually confined, however, to the belles-lettres.--_adj._
LIT'ERATURED (_Shak._), learned, having literary knowledge.--LIGHT
LITERATURE, books which can be read and understood without mental exertion:
fiction; POLITE LITERATURE, belles-lettres. [Fr.,--L.
_literatura_--_litera_, a letter.]

LITH, lith, _n._ (_prov._) a joint, segment, or portion of anything. [A.S.
_lið_, a member; Ger. _glied_.]

LITHAGOGUE, lith'a-gog, _adj._ expelling stone from the bladder or
kidneys.--_n._ a medicine with this quality.

LITHANTHRAX, li-than'thraks, _n._ stone-coal, mineral coal.

LITHARGE, lith'ärj, _n._ the semi-vitrified oxide of lead separated from
silver in refining. [Fr.,--Gr. _lithargyros_--_lithos_, a stone, _argyros_,
silver.]

LITHE, l[=i]th, _adj._ easily bent, flexible, active.--_adv._
LITHE'LY.--_n._ LITHE'NESS.--_adj._ LITHE'SOME.--_n._ LITHE'SOMENESS. [A.S.
_líðe_; Ger. _lind_ and _gelinde_.]

LITHE, l[=i]th, _v.i._ (_obs._) to listen. [Ice. _hlydha_, to
listen--_hljódh_, hearing.]

LITHEMIA, LITHÆMIA, li-th[=e]'mi-a, _n._ an excess of uric acid in the
blood.--_adj._ LITH[=E]'MIC.

LITHER, l[=i]th'[.e]r, _adj._ (_Shak._) soft, yielding: (_obs._) bad,
lazy.--_adj._ LITH'ERLY, mischievous.--_adv._ slowly: lazily. [A.S.
_lýthre_, bad.]

LITHIA, lith'i-a, _n._ an alkali, the oxide of lithium, discovered in 1817
by Arfvedson: a mineral water good against the stone. [Low L.,--Gr.
_lithos_, stone.]

LITHIASIS, li-th[=i]'a-sis, _n._ a bodily condition in which uric acid is
deposited as stone or gravel in the urinary canals. [Gr. _lithos_, a
stone.]

LITHIC, lith'ik, _adj._ pertaining to, or obtained from, stone, specially
from urinary calculi.--_ns._ LITH'ATE, a salt of lithic acid;
LITHIFIC[=A]'TION, a hardening into stone. [Gr. _lithikos_--_lithos_, a
stone.]

LITHIUM, lith'i-um, _n._ one of the alkaline metals, of a silvery
appearance, found in several minerals combined with silica.--_adj._
LITH'IC. [Gr. _lithos_, a stone.]

LITHOCARP, lith'o-karp, _n._ a fossil fruit.

LITHOCHROMATIC, lith-o-kr[=o]-mat'ik, _adj._ pertaining to painting in oils
on stone.--_n.pl._ LITHOCHROMAT'ICS, this art. [Gr. _lithos_, stone,
_chr[=o]ma_, colour.]

LITHOCLAST, lith'o-klast, _n._ an instrument for crushing bladder-stones.
[Gr. _lithos_, stone, _kl[=a]n_, to crush.]

LITHODOME, lith'[=o]-d[=o]m, _n._ a shellfish living in a hole in a
rock.--_adj._ LITHOD'OMOUS.

LITHOFRACTEUR, lith-[=o]-frak't[.e]r, _n._ a blasting explosive.

LITHOGENOUS, li-thoj'e-nus, _adj._ stone-producing.--_n._ LITHOGEN'ESY, the
science of the origin of minerals.

LITHOGLYPH, lith'o-glif, _n._ any engraving on stone, esp. a precious
stone.--_adj._ LITHOGLYPH'IC.--_ns._ LITH'OGLYPHICS, LITHOGLYPT'ICS, the
art of engraving on precious stones; LITHOG'LYPHITE, a fossil as if
engraved by art. [Gr. _lithos_, stone, _glyphein_, to carve.]

LITHOGRAPH, lith'o-graf, _v.t._ to write or engrave on stone and transfer
to paper by printing.--_n._ a print from stone.--_n._
LITHOG'RAPHER.--_adjs._ LITHOGRAPH'IC, -AL, belonging to
lithography.--_adv._ LITHOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_n._ LITHOG'RAPHY, the art of
writing or engraving on stone and printing therefrom.--LITHOGRAPHIC STONE,
SLATE, a yellowish, compact, fine-grained, slaty limestone used in
lithography. [Gr. _lithos_, a stone, _graphein_, to write.]

LITHOID, -AL, lith'oid, -al, _adj._ resembling a stone.

LITHOLABE, lith'[=o]-l[=a]b, _n._ an instrument for grasping a calculus and
holding it while being crushed.

LITHOLATRY, li-thol'a-tri, _n._ the worship of stones.--_adj._
LITHOL'ATROUS.

LITHOLOGY, lith-ol'o-ji, _n._ the science that treats of rocks as mineral
masses: that part of medical science concerned with the calculi found in
the human body.--_adjs._ LITHOLOG'IC, -AL.--_n._ LITHOL'OGIST, one skilled
in lithology. [Gr. _lithos_, a stone, _logos_, discourse.]

LITHOLOPAXY, lith'ol-o-pak-si, _n._ the operation of crushing stone in the
bladder, and of at once removing the fragments by suction. [Gr. _lithos_,
stone, _hapax_, once only.]

LITHOMANCY, lith'o-man-si, _n._ divination by stones. [Gr. _lithos_, a
stone, _manteia_, divination.]

LITHOMARGE, lith'o-märj, _n._ a clay-like mineral substance, sometimes
called _Mountain marrow_, soft, greasy to the touch, white, yellow, or red.
[Gr. _lithos_, stone, L. _marga_, marl.]

LITHOPHAGOUS, lith-of'a-gus, _adj._ eating stones: perforating stones, as
certain molluscs. [Gr. _lithos_, stone, _phagein_, to eat.]

LITHOPHANE, lith'o-f[=a]n, _n._ ornamental porcelain with pictures which
show through the transparency. [Gr. _lithos_, stone, _phainesthai_, to
appear.]

LITHOPHOTOGRAPHY, lith-o-fo-tog'ra-fi, _n._ the art of printing from
lithographic stones photographic pictures developed upon them.

LITHOPHYL, lith'[=o]-f[=i]l, _n._ a fossil leaf.

LITHOPHYTE, lith'o-f[=i]t, _n._ any one of the polyps whose substance is
stony or hard, as corals. [Gr. _lithos_, stone, _phyton_, plant.]

LITHOTINT, lith'o-tint, _n._ the process of producing coloured pictures
from lithographic stones: a picture so produced. [Gr. _lithos_, stone, and
_tint_.]

LITHOTOMY, lith-ot'o-mi, _n._ cutting for stone in the bladder.--_n._
LITH'OTOME, a mineral resembling a cut gem: a cystotome.--_adjs._
LITHOTOM'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy.--_n._
LITHOT'OMIST, one who practises lithotomy. [Gr. _lithos_, a stone,
_tom[=e]_, a cutting--_temnein_, to cut.]

LITHOTRITY, lith'[=o]-tr[=i]-ti, _n._ the operation of crushing a stone in
the bladder, so that its fragments may be removed through the urethra--also
LITH'OTRIPSY.--_ns._ LITHOTHRYP'TIST, LITH'OTHRYPTOR, LITHOTRIP'TIST,
LITH'OTRIPTOR, LITH'OTRITIST, one who practises lithotrity; LITH'OTHRYPTY;
LITH'OTRITE, LITH'OTRITOR, an apparatus for crushing a stone in the
bladder.--_adjs._ LITHOTRIT'IC, LITHOTRIP'TIC--also LITHOTHRYP'TIC. [Gr.
_lithos_, stone, _tribein_, to rub.]

LITHOTYPY, lith'[=o]-t[=i]-pi, _n._ the process of making a kind of
stereotype plates by filling a mould with a composition which, when cooled,
becomes hard.--_n._ LITH'OTYPE, a stereotype plate, produced by
lithotypy.--_v.t._ to prepare for printing by lithotypy. [Gr. _lithos_,
stone, _typos_, type.]

LITIGATE, lit'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to contest in law.--_v.i._ to carry on a
lawsuit.--_adjs._ LIT'IGABLE, that may be contested in law; LIT'IGANT,
contending at law: engaged in a lawsuit.--_n._ a person engaged in a
lawsuit.--_ns._ LITIG[=A]'TION; LIT'IG[=A]TOR, one who litigates;
LITIGIOS'ITY, LITIG'IOUSNESS.--_adj._ LITIG'IOUS, inclined to engage in
lawsuits: subject to contention.--_adv._ LITIG'IOUSLY. [L. _litig[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_lis_, _litis_, a strife, _ag[)e]re_, to do.]

LITMUS, lit'mus, _n._ a dye obtained from certain lichens, originally red,
but becoming blue on the addition of alkalies or of lime.--LITMUS PAPER,
paper used in chemical testing, tinged blue by litmus, reddened by an acid,
made blue again by an alkali. [For _lakmose_--Dut. _lakmoes_--_lak_, lac,
_moes_, pulp.]

LITOTES, lit'[=o]-t[=e]z, _n._ (_rhet._) an affirmation made indirectly by
the negation of its contrary, as 'a citizen of no mean city'='of an
illustrious city.' [Gr. _litot[=e]s_, simplicity--_litos_, plain.]

LITRAMETER, lit-ram'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the specific
gravity of liquids by the height to which they rise in vertical tubes under
a definite air-pressure. [Gr. _litra_, a pound, _metron_, measure.]

LITRE, l[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ (_her._) a hatchment consisting of a black belt,
charged with the arms of the deceased. [Fr.; prob. orig. _listre_=_liste_,
border.]

LITRE, l[=e]'tr, _n._ the unit of the French measures of capacity, both dry
and liquid. It is the volume of a cubic decimètre, and contains a
kilogramme of water at 4° C. in a vacuum, equal to .2200967 British
imperial gallon, therefore less than a quart--4½ litres being roughly equal
to a gallon.

LITTER, lit'[.e]r, _n._ a heap of straw, &c., for animals to lie upon:
materials for a bed: any scattered collection of objects, esp. of little
value: a vehicle containing a bed for carrying about, a hospital stretcher:
a brood of small quadrupeds.--_v.t._ to cover or supply with litter: to
scatter carelessly about: to give birth to (said of small animals).--_v.i._
to produce a litter or brood.--_p.adj._ LITT'ERED. [O. Fr. _litiere_--Low
L. _lectaria_--L. _lectus_, a bed.]

LITTÉRATEUR, lit-[.e]r-a-t[.e]r', _n._ a literary man. [Fr.]

LITTLE, lit'l, _adj._ (_comp._ LESS; _superl._ LEAST) small in quantity or
extent: weak, poor: brief.--_n._ that which is small in quantity or extent:
a small space.--_adv._ in a small quantity or degree: not much.--_ns._
LITT'LE-EASE, discomfort, misery: a form of punishment, as the stocks;
LITT'LE-END'IAN, one of the Lilliputian party who opposed the
_Big-endians_, maintaining that boiled eggs should be cracked at the little
end; LITT'LE-GO (see GO); LITT'LENESS; LITT'LE-OFF'ICE, a short service of
psalms, hymns, collects, &c.--_adj._ LITT'LEWORTH, worthless.--BY LITTLE
AND LITTLE, by degrees; IN LITTLE, on a small scale; NOT A LITTLE,
considerably. [A.S. _lýtel_.]

LITTORAL, lit'or-al, _adj._ belonging to the sea-shore.--_n._ the strip of
land along it.--LITTORAL ZONE, the interval on a sea-coast between high and
low water mark. [L.,--_litus_, _lit[)o]ris_, shore.]

LITURATE, lit'[=u]-r[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) having spots formed by the
abrasion of the surface: in entomology, marked with spots (_Lituræ_)
growing paler at one end.

LITURGY, lit'ur-ji, _n._ the form of service or regular ritual of a
church--strictly, that used in the celebration of the Eucharist: in ancient
Greece, a form of personal service to the state.--_n._ LITURGE', a leader
in public worship.--_adjs._ LITUR'GIC, -AL.--_adv._ LITUR'GICALLY.--_ns._
LITUR'GICS, the doctrine of liturgies; LITURGIOL'OGIST, a student of
liturgies; LITURGIOL'OGY, the study of liturgical forms; LIT'URGIST, a
leader in public worship: one who adheres to, or who studies, liturgies.
[Fr.,--Gr. _leitourgia_--_laos_, the people, _ergon_, work.]

LITUUS, li-t[=u]'us, _n._ an augur's staff with recurved top: a spiral of
similar form.--_adjs._ LIT'U[=A]TE, forked with the points turned outward;
LIT'UIFORM. [L.]

LIVE, liv, _v.i._ to have, or continue in, life, temporal or spiritual: to
last, subsist: to enjoy life: to direct one's course of life: to be
nourished or supported: to dwell.--_v.t._ to spend: to act in conformity
to:--_pr.p._ liv'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ lived.--_adj._ LIV'ABLE, capable
of being lived: habitable.--_n._ LIV'ER.--LIVE DOWN, live so as to cause a
slander, a grief, &c. to be forgotten by one's self or others; LIVE OUT, to
continue alive until the end of anything: (_U.S._) to be from home in
domestic service; LIVE UNDER, to be tenant to; LIVE UP TO, to rule one's
life according to some standard. [A.S. _lifian_; Ger. _leben_.]

LIVE, l[=i]v, _adj._ having life: alive, not dead: active: containing fire:
burning: vivid.--LIVED (l[=i]vd), used in compounds, as
_long-lived_.--_ns._ LIVE'-AXLE, driving-axle; LIVE'-BAIT, a living worm or
minnow used in fishing: LIVE'-CIR'CUIT, a circuit through which an electric
current is flowing.--_n.pl._ LIVE'-FEATH'ERS, those plucked from the living
fowl.--_n._ LIVE'-L[=E]'VER, that one of a pair of brake-levers to which
the power is first applied:--opp. to _Dead-lever_.--_adj._ LIVE'-LONG, that
lives or lasts long.--_ns._ LIVE'-OAK, an American oak, with durable wood;
LIVE'-SHELL, a shell loaded and fused for firing, or fired and not yet
exploded; LIVE'-STOCK, domestic animals, esp. horses, cattle, sheep, and
pigs; LIVE'-WELL, the well in a fishing-boat where fish are kept alive.

LIVELIHOOD, l[=i]v'li-hood, _n._ means of living: support--(_obs._)
LIVE'LIHED. [A.S. _líf_. life, _lád_, a way.]

LIVELY, l[=i]v'li, _adj._ showing life: vigorous, active: sprightly:
spirited: vivid.--_adv._ vivaciously, vigorously.--_adv._
L[=I]VE'LILY.--_n._ L[=I]VE'LINESS.

LIVER, liv'[.e]r, _n._ the largest gland in the body, which secretes the
bile.--_adjs._ LIV'ER-COL'OUR, of the colour of the liver: dark-red;
LIV'ERED, in compounds, as _white-livered_, _lily-livered_=cowardly.--_n._
LIVER-FLUKE, a trematoid worm (_Distoma hepatica_).--_adj._ LIV'ER-GROWN,
having a swelled liver.--_n._ LIVERWORT, any plant of the cryptogamic
family _Hepaticæ_, allied to mosses.--_adj._ LIV'ERY, resembling the liver.
[A.S. _lifer_; Ger. _leber_, Ice. _lifr_.]

LIVERY, liv'[.e]r-i, _n._ the dress or uniform worn by servants, esp.
men-servants: a dress peculiar to certain persons or things, as in the
trade-guilds of London: any characteristic dress: the being kept and fed at
a certain rate, as horses at livery: the whole body of liverymen in London:
(_orig._) the distinctive dress worn by the household of a king or
nobleman, so called because delivered or given at regular periods.--_adj._
LIV'ERIED, clothed in livery.--_ns._ LIV'ERY-COM'PANY, a guild of the city
of London; LIV'ERYMAN, a man who wears a livery: a freeman of the city of
London entitled to wear the livery and enjoy other privileges of his
company; LIV'ERY-SER'VANT, a servant who wears a livery;
LIV'ERY-ST[=A]'BLE, a stable where horses and vehicles are kept for
hire.--SUE ONE'S LIVERY (_Shak._), to ask for the writ delivering a
freehold into the possession of its heir. [Fr. _livrée_--_livrer_--L.
_liber[=a]re_, to free.]

LIVES, l[=i]vz, _n._ plural of _life_.

LIVID, liv'id, _adj._ black and blue: of a lead colour: discoloured.--_ns._
LIVID'ITY, LIV'IDNESS. [Fr.,--L. _lividus_--_liv[=e]re_, to be of a lead
colour.]

LIVING, liv'ing, _adj._ having life: active, lively: producing action or
vigour: running or flowing, as opposed to stagnant.--_n._ means of
subsistence: manner of life: a property: the benefice of a
clergyman.--LIVING ROCK, rock in its native state or location; LIVING ROOM,
a sitting-room for general family use; LIVING WAGE, a wage on which it is
possible for a workman and his family to live fairly.--THE LIVING, those
alive.

LIVRAISON, l[=e]-vr[=a]-zon', _n._ a number of a book published in parts.
[Fr.]

LIVRE, l[=e]'vr, _n._ an old French coin, about the value of a franc, by
which it was superseded in 1795: the ancient French unit of weight, equal
to about 1 lb. avoirdupois. [Fr.,--L. _libra_, a pound.]

LIXIVIATION, liks-iv-i-[=a]'shun, _n._ the process of washing or steeping
certain substances in a fluid, for the purpose of dissolving a portion of
their ingredients, and so separating them from the insoluble
residue.--_adjs._ LIXIV'IAL, LIXIV'IOUS.--_v.t._ LIXIV'IATE.--_n._
LIXIV'IUM, lye. [L. _lixivium_, lye.]

LIZARD, liz'ard, _n._ a family of four-footed scaly reptiles, a saurian or
lacertilian.--_n._ LIZ'ARD-STONE, a Cornish serpentine. [Fr. _lézard_--L.
_lacerta_.]

LLAMA, lä'ma, or l[=a]'ma, _n._ a South American ruminant of the camel
family, used for transport in the Andes.

LLANO, lä'n[=o], or lyä'n[=o], _n._ one of the vast steppes or plains in
the northern part of South America:--_pl._ LLA'NOS.--_n._ LLANERO
(lya-n[=a]'r[=o]), an inhabitant of the llanos. [Sp.,--L. _planus_, plain.]

LLOYD'S, loidz, _n._ a part of the London Royal Exchange frequented by
ship-owners, underwriters, &c. to obtain shipping intelligence and transact
marine insurance.--LLOYD'S REGISTER, a list of sea-going vessels classified
according to seaworthiness (as A1, &c.), annually prepared by an
association of members of Lloyd's. [From their originally meeting in the
coffee-house in Tower Street kept by Edward _Lloyd_ in the 17th century.]

LO, l[=o], _interj._ look! see! behold! [A.S. _lá_; imit.]

LOACH, LOCHE, l[=o]ch, _n._ a small river-fish.--Also _Beardie_. [Fr.
_loche_, Sp. _loja_.]

LOAD, l[=o]d, _v.t._ to lade or burden: to put on as much as can be
carried: to heap on: to put on overmuch: to confer or give in great
abundance: to weigh down, to oppress: to weight by something specially
added: to charge, as a gun: to make heavy, as a thin wine: to mix with
white: to lay on colour in masses.--_v.i._ to put or take on a load: to
charge a gun: to become loaded or burdened.--_n._ a lading or burden: as
much as can be carried at once: freight or cargo: a measure: any large
quantity borne: a quantity sustained with difficulty: that which burdens or
grieves: a weight or encumbrance.--LOAD'EN, old _pa.p._ of load.--_ns._
LOAD'ER, one who, or that which, loads; LOAD'ING, the act of lading: a
charge, cargo, or lading; LOAD'ING-MACHINE', a contrivance for loading
cartridge-shells; LOAD'ING-TRAY, an iron frame on which a shot or shell is
placed and brought forward into the opening in the breech of a gun;
LOAD'-LINE, a line along the ship's side to mark the depth to which her
proper cargo causes her to sink--also _Plimsoll's mark_.--LOAD A CANE,
WHIP, to weight it with lead, &c.; LOAD DICE, to make one side heavier than
the other, for purposes of cheating; LOAD WINE, to falsify by mixing it
with distilled liquor, sugar, &c. [A.S. _hladan_, pa.t. _hlód_, to load.]

LOADSTAR. Same as LODESTAR.

LOADSTONE. Same as LODESTONE.

LOAF, l[=o]f, _n._ a regularly shaped mass of bread: a mass of sugar: any
lump:--_pl._ LOAVES (l[=o]vz).--_n._ LOAF'-SUG'AR, refined sugar in the
form of a cone.--LOAVES AND FISHES, temporal benefits, the main chance for
one's self--from John, vi. 26. [A.S. _hláf_.]

LOAF, l[=o]f, _v.i._ to loiter, pass time idly.--_n._ LOAF'ER.--_adj._
LOAF'ERISH. [Prob. directly Ger. _läufer_, a runner, _laufen_, to run
about.]

LOAM, l[=o]m, _n._ a muddy soil, of clay, sand, and animal and vegetable
matter.--_v.t._ to cover with loam.--_adj._ LOAM'Y. [A.S. _lám_; Ger.
_lehm_; cf. _lime_.]

LOAN, l[=o]n, _n._ a lane: an open space for passage left between fields of
corn: a place for milking cows.--Also LOAN'ING. [_Lane_.]

LOAN, l[=o]n, _n._ anything lent: the act of lending: permission to use:
money lent for interest.--_v.t._ to lend.--_adj._ LOAN'ABLE.--_ns._
LOAN'-OFF'ICE, a public office at which loans are negotiated, a
pawnbroker's shop; LOAN'-SOC[=I]'ETY, a society organised to lend money to
be repaid with interest by instalments; LOAN'-WORD, one taken into one
language from another--like _Loafer_ above. [A.S. _l['æ]n_; Ice. _lán_,
Dan. _laan_, cf. Ger. _lehen_, a fief.]

LOATH, LOTH, l[=o]th, _adj._ disliking: reluctant, unwilling.--_adv._
LOATH'LY.--_n._ LOATH'NESS. [A.S. _láð_, hateful--_líðan_, to travel; Ger.
_leiden_, suffer.]

LOATHE, l[=o]_th_, _v.t._ to dislike greatly, to feel disgust at.--_adj._
LOATH'FUL, full of loathing, hate, or abhorrence: exciting loathing or
disgust.--_n._ LOATH'ING, extreme hate or disgust: abhorrence.--_adj._
hating.--_adv._ LOATH'INGLY.--_adjs._ LOATH'LY, LOATH'Y (_obs._),
loathsome; LOATH'SOME, exciting loathing or abhorrence: detestable.--_adv._
LOATH'SOMELY.--_n._ LOATH'SOMENESS. [A.S. _láðian_--_láð_; cf. _loath_.]

LOB, lob, _n._ a clumsy person, the last in a race: a lobworm: the
coal-fish: at cricket, a long slow ball: something thick and heavy.--_v.t._
to throw gently, slowly, or with underhand delivery: at lawn-tennis, to
strike the ball high over an opponent's head into the end of the court: to
hang wearily down.--_n._ LOBS'POUND, a prison.--LOB LIE BY THE FIRE,
Milton's _lubber-fiend_, a brownie who works by night for his bowl of
cream. [W. _llob_; cf. _Lubber_.]

LOBBY, lob'i, _n._ a small hall or waiting-room: a passage serving as a
common entrance to several apartments: the ante-chamber of a legislative
hall, frequented by outsiders for the purpose of influencing votes.--_ns._
LOBB'YING, frequenting the lobby to collect political intelligence, &c.;
LOBB'YIST, LOBB'Y-MEM'BER, a journalist, &c., who frequents a lobby in the
interest of some cause or of a newspaper. [Low L. _lobia_--Middle High Ger.
_loube_ (Ger. _laube_), a portico, arbour--_laub_, a leaf.]

LOBE, l[=o]b, _n._ the lower part of the ear: (_anat._) a division of the
lungs, brain, &c.: (_bot._) a division of a leaf.--_adjs._ LOB'AR,
LOB'[=A]TE, LOBED, LOB'OSE; LOBE'-FOOT'ED, L[=O]'BIPED, having lobate feet,
as a coot, grebe, or phalarope.--_ns._ LOBE'LET, LOB'ULE, a small
lobe.--_adjs._ LOB'ULAR, LOB'UL[=A]TED.--_ns._ LOB'ULUS, any small lobe or
lobe-like structure:--_pl._ LOB'UL[=I]; L[=O]'BUS, a lobe:--_pl._
L[=O]'B[=I].--LOBAR PNEUMONIA, inflammation of a whole lobe of the lungs,
as distinguished from LOBULAR PNEUMONIA, which attacks the lungs in
patches. [Fr., prob. through Low L. from Gr. _lobos_, lobe; cf. _lap_, to
fold.]

LOBELIA, lob-[=e]'li-a, _n._ an ornamental flower, its roots medicinal.
[_Lobel_, a Flemish botanist.]

LOBLOLLY, lob'lol-i, _n._ a loutish person: medicine.--_n._ LOB'LOLLY-BOY,
a ship-surgeon's attendant.

LOBSCOUSE, lob'skows, _n._ a stew or hash with vegetables, a dish used at
sea. [Origin dub.]

LOBSTER, lob'st[.e]r, _n._ a shellfish with large claws, used for food:
(_slang_) a British soldier. [A.S. _loppestre_, _lopust_--L. _locusta_, a
lobster.]

LOBWORM, lob'wurm, _n._ a large worm used as bait. [Perh. _lob_--W. _llob_,
a dull fellow, and worm.]

LOCAL, l[=o]'kal, _adj._ of or belonging to a place: confined to a spot or
district.--_ns._ LOCALE (l[=o]-käl'), a locality: the scene of some event;
LOCALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ L[=O]'CALISE, to assign to a place: to refer a
sensation in perception to some part of the body.--_ns._ L[=O]'CALISM, the
state of being local: affection for a place: provincialism; LOCAL'ITY,
existence in a place: position: district.--_adv._ L[=O]'CALLY.--_v.t._
LOC[=A]TE', to place: to set in a particular position: to designate the
place of.--_n._ LOC[=A]'TION, act of locating or placing: situation:
(_law_) a leasing on rent.--_adj._ L[=O]'C[=A]TIVE (_gram._), indicating
place.--LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTS, a series of enactments instituting local
self-government of the various counties of Great Britain and of a large
number of boroughs; LOCAL OPTION, a phrase first used by Mr Gladstone in a
letter in 1868 for the determination by vote of the people of a town or
district as to whether licenses to sell intoxicating liquors shall be
granted or not. [Fr.,--Low L. _localis_--_locus_, a place.]

LOCH, loh, _n._ a lake or arm of the sea.--_ns._ LOCHABER AXE (loh-ä'b[.e]r
aks), a battle-axe used by the Scottish Highlanders, having a narrow blade,
but very long towards the shaft, and generally with a hook at the end of
the staff; LOCH'AN (_Scot._), a pond. [Gael. _loch_; cf. _Lake_.]

LOCHE, _n._ See LOACH.

LOCHIA, l[=o]'ki-a, _n.pl._ the evacuations from the womb after
childbirth.--_adj._ L[=O]'CHIAL. [Gr.]

LOCK, lok, _n._ a device to fasten doors, &c.: an enclosure in a canal for
raising or lowering boats: the part of a firearm by which it is discharged:
a grapple in wrestling: a state of being immovable: any narrow, confined
place.--_v.t._ to fasten with a lock: to fasten so as to impede motion: to
shut up: to close fast: to embrace closely: to furnish with locks.--_v.i._
to become fast: to unite closely.--_ns._ LOCK'AGE, the locks of a canal:
the difference in their levels, the materials used for them, and the tolls
paid for passing through them; LOCK'-CHAIN, a chain for fastening the
wheels of a vehicle by tying the rims to some part which does not rotate;
LOCK'ER, any closed place that may be locked; LOCK'ET, a little ornamental
case of gold or silver, usually containing a miniature.--_adj._ LOCK'FAST,
firmly fastened by locks.--_ns._ LOCK'GATE, a gate for opening or closing a
lock in a canal or river; LOCK'-HOS'PITAL (see HOSPITAL); LOCK'HOUSE, the
lock-keeper's house; LOCK'-JAW, LOCKED'-JAW, a contraction of the muscles
of the jaw by which its motion is suspended; LOCK'-KEEP'ER, one who keeps
or attends the locks of a canal; LOCK'OUT, the act of locking out, esp.
used of the locking out of a teacher by the pupils or _vice versâ_, or of
the refusal of an employer to admit his workmen within the works as a means
of coercion; LOCKS'MAN, a turnkey; LOCK'SMITH, a smith who makes and mends
locks; LOCK'STITCH, a stitch formed by the locking of two threads together;
LOCK'UP, a place for locking up or confining persons for a short time.--NOT
A SHOT IN THE LOCKER (_naut._), not a penny in the pocket. [A.S. _loca_, a
lock; Ice. _loka_, a bolt, Ger. _loch_, a dungeon.]

LOCK, lok, _n._ a tuft or ringlet of hair: a small quantity, as of hay:
(_Scots law_) a quantity of meal, the perquisite of a mill-servant:
(_Shak._) a love-lock--_n._ LOCK'MAN, an officer in the Isle of Man who
acts as a kind of under-sheriff to the governor. [A.S. _locc_; Ice.
_lokkr_, Ger. _locke_, a lock.]

LOCKIAN, lok'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to the philosophy of John _Locke_
(1632-1704).--_ns._ LOCK'IAN, LOCK'IST.

LOCKRAM, lok'ram, _n._ a kind of coarse linen--from _Locrenan_, in
Brittany, where made.

LOCOFOCO, l[=o]-k[=o]-f[=o]'k[=o], _n._ (_U.S._) a friction match: the
extreme section of the Democratic party of 1835, known as the Equal Rights
Party, or any adherent of it. [L. _locus_, a place, _focus_, a hearth.]

LOCOMOTIVE, l[=o]-ko-m[=o]'tiv, _adj._ moving from place to place: capable
of, or assisting in, locomotion.--_n._ a locomotive machine: a railway
engine.--_ns._ LOCOM[=O]'TION; LOCOMOTIV'ITY; LOCOM[=O]'TOR.--_adj._
LOCOM[=O]'TORY.--LOCOMOTOR ATAXY (see ATAXIA). [L. _locus_, a place,
_mov[=e]re_, _motum_, to move.]

LOCORESTIVE, l[=o]-k[=o]-res'tiv, _adj._ staying in one place.

LOCULUS, lok'[=u]-lus, _n._ (_bot._, _anat._, _zool._) a small compartment
or cell: in ancient catacombs, a small recess for holding an urn:--_pl._
LOC'UL[=I].--_n._ LOC'ULAMENT (_bot._), loculus.--_adjs._ LOC'ULAR,
LOC'UL[=A]TE, LOC'ULOSE, LOC'ULOUS. [Dim. of L. _locus_, a place.]

LOCUM-TENENS, l[=o]'kum-t[=e]n'enz, _n._ a deputy or substitute.--_n._
L[=O]'CUM-T[=E]N'ENCY, the holding by a temporary substitute of a post. [L.
_locus_, a place, _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

LOCUS, l[=o]'kus, _n._ (_math._) the curve described by a point, or the
surface generated by a line, moving in a given manner: a passage in a
writing:--_pl._ LOCI (l[=o]'s[=i]), a collection of passages, esp. from
sacred and ancient writings, arranged with special reference to some
particular theme.--LOCUS CLASSICUS (_pl._ LOCI CLASSICI), a standard
passage, esp. in an ancient author: that passage which is the accepted
authority for some particular subject or for the use of some special or
disputed word; LOCUS STANDI (_law_), right of place in court: recognised
place or position. [L.]

LOCUST, l[=o]'kust, _n._ a migratory winged insect, in shape like the
grasshopper, highly destructive to vegetation.--_v.i._ (_rare_) to lay
waste like locusts. [L. _locusta_.]

LOCUST, l[=o]'kust, _n._ a tree with thorny branches and dense clusters of
white, heavily-scented flowers, found in the U.S.: the carob-tree.--_ns._
LOCUS'TA, the spikelet of grasses:--_pl._ LOCUS'TÆ; L[=O]'CUST-BEAN, the
sweet pod of the carob-tree.

LOCUTION, l[=o]-k[=u]'shun, _n._ the act of speaking: form of speaking,
phraseology, a phrase.--_n._ LOC'UTORY, a room for conversation, esp. in
monastic establishments. [L. _locution-em_--_loqui_, _locutus_, to speak.]

LODE, l[=o]d, _n._ a vein containing metallic ore: a reach of water: an
open ditch.--_ns._ LODES'MAN, a pilot; LODE'STAR, the star that guides, the
pole-star--often used figuratively; LODE'STONE, a stone or ore of iron that
attracts other pieces of iron. [A.S. _lád_, a course--_líðan_, to travel.]

LODGE, loj, _n._ a small house in a park: a hut: the cottage of a
gatekeeper: a retreat: a secret association, also the place of
meeting.--_v.t._ to furnish with a temporary dwelling: place, deposit: to
infix, to settle: to drive to covert: to lay flat, as grain.--_v.i._ to
reside: to rest: to dwell for a time: to pass the night: to lie flat, as
grain.--_ns._ LODG'ER, one who lodges or lives at board or in a hired room;
LODG'ING, temporary habitation: a room or rooms hired in the house of
another (often in _pl._): harbour; LODG'ING-HOUSE, a house where lodgings
are let, a house other than a hotel where travellers lodge; LODG'MENT, act
of lodging, or state of being lodged: accumulation of something that
remains at rest: (_mil._) the occupation of a position by a besieging
party, and the works thrown up to maintain it.--LODGER FRANCHISE, a right
to vote conferred on persons occupying lodgings.--GRAND LODGE, the
principal lodge of Freemasons, presided over by the Grand-master. [O. Fr.
_loge_--Old High Ger. _loub[=a]_, an arbour.]

LOESS, l[.e]s, or l[=o]'es, _n._ a loamy deposit of Pleistocene age, in the
valleys of the Rhine, Danube, and Rhone.--Also LÖSS. [Ger. _löss_.]

LOFT, loft, _n._ the room or space immediately under a roof: a gallery in a
hall or church: an upper room.--_v.t._ to furnish with a loft: (_golf_) to
strike the ball up by means of a club called the LOFT'ER.--_adv._
LOFT'ILY.--_n._ LOFT'INESS.--_adj._ LOFT'Y, high in position, character,
sentiment, or diction: stately: haughty.--LOFTED HOUSE (_Scot._), a house
of more than one story.--COCK OF THE LOFT, the head or chief of a set.
[Ice. _lopt_ (loft), the sky, an upper room; A.S. _lyft_, Ger. _luft_, the
air.]

LOG, log, _n._ a Hebrew liquid measure, believed to be very nearly an
English pint. [Heb. _l[=o]gh_.]

LOG, log, _n._ a bulky piece of wood: a heavy, stupid, or sluggish
person.--_adj._ consisting of logs.--_ns._ LOG'-CAB'IN, -HOUSE, -HUT, a
cabin or hut built of hewn or unhewn logs, common in new American
settlements; LOG'GAT, a small log or piece of wood: an old game somewhat
like nine-pins; LOG'GERHEAD, a blockhead: a dunce: (_naut._) a round piece
of timber, in a whale-boat, over which the line is passed: a species of
sea-turtle: a round mass of iron with a long handle, heated for various
purposes.--_adj._ LOG'GERHEADED.--_ns._ LOG'-HEAD, a blockhead; LOG'-MAN
(_Shak._), a man who carries logs: (_U.S._) one whose occupation is to cut
and remove logs--also LOG'GER.--_v.t._ LOG'-ROLL, to engage in
log-rolling.--_ns._ LOG'-ROLL'ER; LOG'-ROLL'ING, a combination for
facilitating the collection of logs after the clearing of a piece of land,
or for rolling logs into a stream: mutual aid given by politicians for
carrying out individual schemes: a system of literary criticism conducted
on the lines of mutual admiration or adulation; LOG'WOOD, the dark-red
heart-wood of _Hæmatoxylon campechianum_, a native of Mexico and Central
America, whence it is exported in logs.--AT LOGGERHEADS, at issue,
quarrelling about differences of opinion, &c. [Ice. _lág_, a felled tree,
_liggja_, to lie. Cf. _Lie_ and _Log_.]

LOG, log, _n._ a piece of wood with a line for measuring the speed of a
ship: the record of a ship's progress.--_v.t._ to exhibit by the indication
of the log: to enter in the logbook.--_ns._ LOG'BOARD; LOG'BOOK, the
official record of the proceedings on board ship: a book kept by the
head-master of a board-school for recording attendances and other matters
connected with the school; LOG'-CHIP, the board, in the form of a quadrant,
attached to a logline; LOG'-GLASS, a 14- or 28-second sand-glass, used with
the logline to ascertain the speed of a ship; LOG'LINE, the line fastened
to the log, and marked for finding the speed of a vessel; LOG'-REEL, a reel
on which the logline is wound; LOG'-SLATE, a double slate, marked and ruled
in the inside, for recording the log.--HEAVE THE LOG, to learn the speed of
a ship by logline and glass. [Sw. _logg_, a ship's log, a piece of wood
that lies in the water.]

LOGAN, log'an, _n._ a rocking-stone.--Also LOG'GING-ROCK. [Prob. cog. with
Dan. _logre_, to wag the tail.]

LOGAOEDIC, log-a-[=e]'dik, _adj._ (_ancient prosody_) pertaining to a
variety of trochaic or iambic verse, where dactyls are combined with
trochees or anapæsts with iambi. [Gr. _logos_, prose, _aoid[=e]_, song.]

LOGARITHM, log'a-rithm, _n._ (of a number) the power to which another given
number must be raised in order that it may equal the former number: one of
a series of numbers having a certain relation to the series of natural
numbers by means of which many arithmetical operations are
simplified.--_adjs._ LOGARITH'MIC, -AL, pertaining to, or consisting of,
logarithms.--_adv._ LOGARITH'MICALLY. [Gr. _logos_, ratio, _arithmos_,
number.]

LOGGIA, loj'a, _n._ an open arcade enclosing a passage or open apartment,
common in Italy:--_pl._ LOGG'IE (-e). [It.; cf. _Lodge_.]

LOGIA, log'i-a, _n.pl._ oracles, sayings, a supposed primitive collection
of the sayings and discourses of Jesus, largely drawn upon by the writers
of the first and third gospels for much of what they have in common with
each other apart from Mark. [Gr.]

LOGIC, loj'ik, _n._ the science and art of reasoning correctly: the science
of the necessary laws of thought.--_adj._ LOG'ICAL, according to the rules
of logic: skilled in logic: discriminating.--_ns._ LOGICAL'ITY,
LOG'ICALNESS.--_adv._ LOG'ICALLY.--_n._ LOGIC'IAN, one skilled in
logic.--_v.i._ LOG'ICISE, to argue.--CHOP LOGIC (see CHOP); DEDUCTIVE
LOGIC, logic independent of probability or quantitative considerations;
FORMAL LOGIC, logic regarded as a distinct science, independent of matters
of fact; INDUCTIVE LOGIC, the logic of scientific reasoning; MATERIAL
LOGIC, logic which takes into account natural fact or phenomena, as
distinct from _formal logic_; NATURAL LOGIC, the natural faculty of
distinguishing the true from the false: the logical doctrine applicable to
natural things as opposed to the _logic of faith_; PURE LOGIC, the general
laws of thought. [Gr. _logik[=e]_, from _logos_, speech.]

LOGISTIC, -AL, loj-is'tik, -al, _adj._ skilled in calculating:
proportional.--_n._ LOGIS'TIC, the art of calculation, sexagesimal
arithmetic: (_pl._) that branch of military science relating to the
movement and supplying of armies. [Gr. _logist[=e]s_, a
calculator--_logizesthai_, to compute.]

LOGODÆDALY, log-o-d[=e]'da-li, _n._ verbal legerdemain.

LOGOGRAM, log'o-gram, _n._ a sign which represents a word: a puzzle in
which from an original word, by combinations of all or some of its letters,
other words are formed, which again are concealed under synonymous
expressions in a series of verses. [Gr. _logos_, word, _gramma_, letter.]

LOGOGRAPHER, lo-gog'ra-f[.e]r, _n._ in Greek literature, one of the
earliest annalists, esp. those before Herodotus.--_adjs._ LOGOGRAPH'IC,
-AL.--_adv._ LOGOGRAPH'ICALLY.--_ns._ LOGOG'RAPHY, a method of printing
with whole words cast in a single type; LOG'OTYPE, a type containing two or
more letters. [Gr.,--_logos_, word, _graphein_, to write.]

LOGOGRIPH, log'[=o]-grif, _n._ a riddle. [Gr. _logos_, word, _griphos_, a
riddle.]

LOGOMACHY, lo-gom'a-ki, _n._ contention about words or in words
merely.--_n._ LOGOM'ACHIST. [Gr. _logomachia_--_logos_, word, _mach[=e]_,
fight.]

LOGOMANIA, log-o-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ disease of the faculty of language. [Gr.
_logos_, speech, and _mania_.]

LOGOMETER, l[=o]-gom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ a logarithmic scale: a scale for
measuring chemical equivalents.

LOGOS, log'os, _n._ in the Stoic philosophy, the active principle living in
and determining the world: (_theol._) the Word of God incarnate. [Gr.]

LOIMIC, loi'mik, _adj._ relating to the plague.--_ns._ LOIMOG'RAPHY;
LOIMOL'OGY.

LOIN, loin, _n._ the back of a beast cut for food: (_pl._) the reins, or
the lower part of the back.--_n._ LOIN'-CLOTH, a piece of cloth for wearing
round the loins.--GIRD UP THE LOINS, to prepare for energetic action--the
clothes tucked up before running, &c. [O. Fr. _logne_--L. _lumbus_, loin.]

LOITER, loi't[.e]r, _v.i._ to delay: to be slow in moving: to linger.--_n._
LOI'TERER.--_adv._ LOI'TERINGLY. [Dut. _leuteren_, to trifle; Ger. prov.
_lottern_, to waver.]

LOKI, l[=o]'ki, _n._ an evil giant-god in Norse mythology.

LOLIGO, l[=o]-l[=i]'go, _n._ the typical genus of _Loliginidæ_, embracing
the common European squid. [L.]

LOLIUM, l[=o]'li-um, _n._ a genus of grasses of the tribe Hordeeæ. [L.,
darnel, 'tares.']

LOLL, lol, _v.i._ to lie lazily about, to lounge: to hang out from the
mouth.--_v.t._ to thrust out (the tongue).--_n._ LOLL'ER.--_adv._
LOLL'INGLY.--_v.i._ LOLL'OP, to lounge, idle: (_coll._) to be moved heavily
about. [Old Dut. _lollen_, to sit over the fire; cf. _Lull_.]

LOLLARDS, lol'ards, _n.pl._ the followers of Wycliffe in England: a society
founded in Antwerp (1300 A.D.) for the burial of the dead and the care of
the sick.--_ns._ LOLL'ARDY, LOLL'ARDISM, the doctrines of the Lollards.
[Old Dut. _Lollaerd_, from their peculiar hum in singing--_lollen_, to sing
softly; but confused with M. E. _loller_, an idler; cf. _Loll_.]

LOLLY, lol'i, _n._ a lump.--_n._ LOLL'YPOP, a sweetmeat made with sugar and
treacle: (_pl._) sweets.

LOMA, l[=o]'ma, _n._ a lobe, flap, or fringe bordering the toe of a bird.

LOMBARD, lom'bard, _n._ an inhabitant of _Lombardy_ in Italy: one of the
Lombards or Langobardi, a Germanic tribe, which founded a kingdom in
Lombardy (568), overthrown by Charlemagne (774): (_obs._) a banker or
money-lender, so called from the number of Lombard bankers in
London.--_adjs._ LOM'BARD, LOMBAR'DIC.--LOMBARD ARCHITECTURE, the style
used by the Lombards, derived from the base Roman style they found in the
country, superseded by the Pointed Style imported from France (13th
century); LOMBARD STREET, the chief centre of the banking interest in
London. [O. Fr.,--L. _Langobardus_, from Old Teut. _lang_, long, _bart_,
beard.]

LOMENT, l[=o]'ment, _n._ (_bot._) an indehiscent legume, with constrictions
or transverse articulations between the seeds--also LOMEN'TUM.--_adj._
LOMENT[=A]'CEOUS.

LONDONER, lun'dun-[.e]r, _n._ a native or citizen of London.--_adj._
LONDONESE', pertaining to London: cockney.--_n._ English as spoken in
London: cockney speech.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ LON'DONISE.--_n._ LON'DONISM, a
mode of speech, &c., peculiar to London.--LONDON CLAY, a geological
formation in south-eastern England, belonging to the lower division of the
Eocene Tertiary; LONDON PRIDE, a hardy perennial cultivated in
cottage-gardens--also _None-so-pretty_ and _St Patrick's cabbage_.

LONE, l[=o]n, LONELY, l[=o]n'li, _adj._ alone: solitary: retired: standing
by itself.--_ns._ LONE'LINESS, LONE'NESS.--_adj._ LONE'SOME, solitary:
dismal.--_adv._ LONE'SOMELY.--_n._ LONE'SOMENESS. [_Alone_.]

LONG, long, _conj._ by means (of), owing (to). [_Along_.]

LONG, long, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to belong.

LONG, long, _adj._ (_comp._ LONG'ER; _superl._ LONG'EST) extended: not
short: extended in time: slow in coming: tedious: far-reaching.--_n._
(_prosody_) a long time or syllable: (_coll._) the long summer vacation at
the English universities, termed 'the Long.'--_adv._ to a great extent in
space or time: through the whole: all along.--_v.i._ to desire
earnestly.--_adv._ LONG'-AG[=O]', in the far past.--_n._ the far
past.--_n._ LONGANIM'ITY, long-suffering, endurance.--_adj._
LONGAN'IMOUS.--_ns._ LONG'BOAT, the largest and strongest boat of a ship;
LONG'-BOW, a bow bent by the hand in shooting, called long as distinguished
from the cross-bow.--_adj._ LONG'-BREATHED, able to continue violent
exercise of the lungs for a long time.--_n.pl._ LONG'-COATS, long clothes,
worn by infants.--_adj._ LONG'-DESCEND'ED, of ancient lineage.--_n._
LONG'-DOZ'EN, thirteen.--_adjs._ LONG'-DRAWN, prolonged; LONGEVAL,
LONGEVOUS (-j[=e]'-), of long or great age.--_ns._ LONGEVITY (-jev'-);
LONG'-FIELD (_cricket_), a fielder placed near the boundary on the bowler's
side; LONG'-FIRM, the name given to a company of swindlers who obtain goods
on pretence of being established in business, and then decamp without
payment to do the like elsewhere; LONG'HAND, writing of the ordinary
kind.--_adj._ LONG'-HEAD'ED, having good intellectual powers:
sagacious.--_ns._ LONG'-HEAD'EDNESS; LONG'-HUN'DRED, a hundred and
twenty.--_adjs._ LON'GICORN (-ji-), having long antennæ; LONGIMANOUS
(-jim'-), long-handed; LONGIMET'RIC.--_ns._ LONGIMETRY (-jim'-), the art of
measuring distances; LONG'ING, an eager desire, craving, esp. of the
whimsical desires sometimes felt in pregnancy.--_adv._ LONG'INGLY.--_n._
LONGINQUITY (-jinq'-), greatness of distance.--_adj._ LONGIPEN'NATE (-ji-),
long-winged, as gulls.--_n._ LONGIROS'TER (-ji-), one of a family of birds
having a long, slender bill, as the snipe.--_adjs._ LONGIROS'TRAL,
LONGIROS'TRATE (-ji-), having a long bill or beak; LONG'ISH.--_n._
LON'GITUDE (-ji-), distance of a place east or west of a given meridian:
distance in degrees from the vernal equinox, on the ecliptic--_adj._
LONGITUD'INAL, pertaining to longitude or length: extending
lengthwise.--_adv._ LONGITUD'INALLY.--_n._ LONG'-LEG (_cricket_), see
LEG.--_adj._ LONG'-LEGGED, having long legs.--_n._ LONG'LEGS, an insect
with long legs, as the common crane-fly.--_adj._ LONG'-LIVED, having a long
life.--_adv._ LONG'LY (_Shak._), longingly.--_ns._ LONG'-MEAS'URE, lineal
measure; LONG'-OFF, LONG'-ON (_cricket_), the fielders in the long-field to
the left and right of the bowler respectively; LONG'-PRIM'ER, a size of
type intermediate between small pica and bourgeois; LONG'-PUR'PLES, the
manorchis.--_adj._ LONG'-RANGE, able to reach or hit from a considerable
distance.--_n.pl._ LONGS'-AND-SHORTS', verses.--_adj._ LONG'SHORE, existing
or employed along the shore.--_n._ LONG'SHOREMAN, a stevedore: one who
makes a living along shores by oyster-fishing, &c.--_adj._ LONG'-SIGHT'ED,
able to see far but not close at hand: sagacious.--_ns._
LONG'-SIGHT'EDNESS; LONG'-SLIP (_cricket_), a fielder some distance behind
on the right of the batsman.--_adjs._ LONG'SOME, long and tedious;
LONG'-SPUN, long-drawn, tedious; LONG'-ST[=A]'PLE, having a long
fibre.--_n._ LONG'-STOP (_cricket_), one who stands behind the
wicket-keeper and stops balls missed by him.--_v.i._ to field at
long-stop.--_adj._ LONG'-SUFF'ERING, enduring long.--_n._ long endurance or
patience.--_n._ LONG'-TAIL, an animal, esp. a dog, with uncut tail--also
_adj._--_adjs._ LONG'-TONGUED, talkative, babbling; LONG'-VIS'AGED, having
a long face, of rueful countenance; LONG'-WAIST'ED, having a long waist,
long from the armpits to the hips; LONG'-WIND'ED, long-breathed:
tedious.--_n._ LONG'-WIND'EDNESS.--_adv._ LONG'WISE, lengthwise.--LONG
HOME, the grave; LONG TOM (see TOM).--A LONG FIGURE (_slang_), a high price
or rate; BEFORE LONG, ERE LONG, soon; DRAW THE LONG-BOW, to exaggerate, to
tell incredible stories; FOR LONG, for a considerable period of time; IN
THE LONG-RUN (see RUN); MAKE A LONG ARM (_prov._), to help one's self
liberally at table; THE LONG AND THE SHORT, the sum of the matter in a few
words. [A.S. _lang_; Ger. _lang_, Ice. _langr_.]

LOO, l[=oo], _n._ a game at cards.--_v.t._ to beat in the game of
loo:--_pr.p._ l[=oo]'ing; _pa.p._ l[=oo]ed.--_n._ LOO'-T[=A]'BLE, a table
for loo. [Formerly _lanterloo_--Dut. _lanterlu_. Cf. Dut. _lanterfant_, an
idler.]

LOOBY, l[=oo]b'i, _n._ a clumsy, clownish fellow.--_adv._ LOOB'ILY. [From
root of _lob_.]

LOOF, l[=oo]f, _n._ the after-part of a ship's bow where the planks begin
to curve in towards the cut-water. [Dut. _loef_, the weather-gauge, luff,
orig. a paddle for steering; perh. conn. with _loof_, palm.]

LOOF, l[=oo]f, _n._ (Scot) the palm of the hand. [Ice. _lófi_.]

LOOFA. See LUFFA.

LOOK, l[=oo]k, _v.i._ to turn the eye toward so as to see; to direct the
attention to: to watch: to seem: to face, as a house: (_B._) to
expect.--_v.t._ to express by a look: to influence by look.--_n._ the act
of looking or seeing: sight: air of the face: appearance.--_imp._ or
_interj._ see: behold.--_ns._ LOOK'ER, one who looks; LOOK'ER-ON, one that
looks on, a mere spectator; LOOK'ING, seeing: search or searching;
LOOK'ING-FOR (_B._), expectation; LOOK'ING-GLASS, a glass which reflects
the image of the person looking into it, a mirror; LOOK'OUT, a careful
watching for: an elevated place from which to observe: one engaged in
watching.--LOOK ABOUT, to be on the watch; LOOK AFTER, to attend to or take
care of: (_B._) to expect; LOOK ALIVE (_coll._), to bestir one's self; LOOK
DOWN ON, to treat with indifference, to despise; LOOK FOR, to search for,
to expect; LOOK INTO, to inspect closely; LOOK ON, to regard, view, think;
LOOK OUT, to watch: to select; LOOK OVER, to examine cursorily: to overlook
or pass over anything; LOOK THROUGH, to penetrate with the eye or the
understanding; LOOK TO, to take care of: to depend on; LOOK UP, to search
for: (_coll._) to call upon, visit.--HAVE A LOOK IN (_slang_), to have a
chance. [A.S. _lócian_, to look.]

LOOM, l[=oo]m, _n._ a machine in which yarn or thread is woven into a
fabric, by the crossing of threads called _chain_ or _warp_, running
lengthwise, with others called _weft_, _woof_, or _filling_; the handle of
an oar, or the part within the rowlock.--_n._ JAC'QUARD-LOOM, a famous
apparatus devised by Joseph Marie _Jacquard_ (1752-1834), invaluable in
weaving the finer kinds of figured silk fabrics. [A.S. _gelóma_, a tool.]

LOOM, l[=oo]m, _v.i._ to appear above the horizon, or larger than the real
size: to show large in darkness, &c.: to stand out prominently in the
future.--_n._ LOOM'ING, a mirage. [O. Fr. _lumer_--L. _lumin[=a]re_.]

LOON, l[=oo]n, _n._ a low fellow: a rascal: (_Scot._) a lad. [Old Dut.
_loen_, a stupid fellow, _lome_, slow.]

LOON, l[=oo]n, _n._ a genus of web-footed aquatic birds, the Divers, with
short wings, and legs placed very far back--also LOOM.--_n._ LOON'ING, the
cry of a loon, like the howl of a wolf, ominous of evil. [Ice. _lómr_,
prob. influenced by _loon_, as above, from their awkward walk on land.]

LOOP, l[=oo]p, _n._ a doubling of a cord, chain, &c., through which another
may pass: an ornamental doubling in fringes.--_v.t._ to fasten or ornament
with loops.--_n.pl._ LOOP'ERS, the caterpillars of certain moths, which
move by drawing up the hindpart of their body to the head.--_n._
LOOP'-LINE, a branch from a main line of railway, returning to it after
making a detour. [Prob. Celt.; Gael. _lub_, a bend.]

LOOP, l[=oo]p, LOOPHOLE, l[=oo]p'h[=o]l, _n._ a small hole in a wall, &c.,
through which small-arms may be fired: a means of escape.--_adjs._ LOOPED
(_Shak._), full of small openings; LOOP'HOLED.--_n._ LOOP'-LIGHT, a small
narrow window. [O. Fr. _loup_.]

LOORD, l[=oo]rd, _n._ (_Spens._) a lout. [Fr. _lourd_, heavy.]

LOOS, l[=oo]s, _n._ (_Spens._) praise. [L. _laus_, praise.]

LOOSE, l[=oo]s, _adj._ slack, free: unbound: not confined: not compact:
indefinite: vague: not strict: unrestrained: lax in principle: licentious:
inattentive.--_adj._ LOOSE'-BOD'IED, flowing.--_n._ LOOSE'-KIR'TLE, a
wanton.--_adv._ LOOSE'LY.--_ns._ LOOS'ENER, a laxative; LOOSE'NESS, the
state of being loose: diarrhoea.--LOOSE BOX, a part of a stable where
horses are kept untied.--BREAK LOOSE, to escape from confinement; GIVE A
LOOSE TO, to give free vent to; LET LOOSE, to set at liberty. [A.S. _leás_,
loose; from the same root as _loose_ (_v.t._) and _lose_, seen also in
Goth. _laus_, Ger. _los_; more prob. due to Ice. _lauss_.]

LOOSE, l[=oo]s, _v.t._ to free from any fastening: to release: to relax:
(_Spens._) to solve.--_v.i._ (_B._) to set sail.--_v.t._ LOOS'EN, to make
loose: to relax anything tied or rigid: to make less dense; to open, as the
bowels.--_v.i._ to become loose: to become less tight. [A.S. _lósian_; Ger.
_lösen_, Goth. _lausjan_, to loose.]

LOOSESTRIFE, l[=oo]s'str[=i]f, _n._ the popular name for a plant of the
natural order _Lythraceæ_ (q.v.).

LOOT, l[=oo]t, _n._ act of plundering, esp. in a conquered city:
plunder.--_v.t._ or _v.i._ to plunder, ransack. [Hindi _l[=u]t_--Sans.
_lotra_, _loptra_, stolen goods.]

LOP, lop, _v.i._ to hang down loosely.--_adjs._ LOP'-EARED, having ears
which hang downwards; LOP'SIDED, heavier on one side than the other, as a
ship.

LOP, lop, _v.t._ to cut off the top or ends of, esp. of a tree: to curtail
by cutting away superfluous parts:--_pr.p._ lop'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
lopped.--_n._ twigs of trees cut off--_ns._ LOP'PER; LOP'PING, a cutting
off: that which is cut off. [Cf. Dut. _lubben_, to cut; perh. conn. with
_leaf_.]

LOPE, l[=o]p, _v.i._ to leap: to run with a long stride.

LOPHOBRANCH, l[=o]'f[=o]-brangk, _adj._ having tufted gills.--Also
LOPHOBRAN'CHIATE. [Gr. _lophos_, a crest, _brachia_, gills.]

LOQUACIOUS, lo-kw[=a]'shus, _adj._ talkative.--_adv._
LOQU[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_ns._ LOQU[=A]'CIOUSNESS, LOQUAC'ITY, talkativeness. [L.
_loquax_, _-acis_--_loqui_, to speak.]

LOQUAT, l[=o]'kwat, _n._ an esteemed Chinese and Japanese fruit, yellowish,
flavouring tarts. [Chinese.]

LORATE, l[=o]r'[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) resembling a thong or strap. [L.
_loratus_--_lorum_, a thong.]

LORCHA, lor'cha, _n._ a light vessel of European build, but rigged like a
Chinese junk.

LORD, lawrd, _n._ a master: a superior: a husband: a ruler: the proprietor
of a manor: a baron: a peer of the realm: the son of a duke or marquis, or
the eldest son of an earl: a bishop, esp. if a member of parliament: (_B._)
the Supreme Being, Jehovah (when printed in capitals): a name also applied
to Christ.--_v.t._ to raise to the peerage.--_v.i._ to act the lord: to
tyrannise.--_ns._ LORD'LINESS; LORD'LING, a little lord: a would-be
lord--also LORD'ING, LORD'KIN.--_adj._ LORD'LY, like, becoming, or
pertaining to a lord: dignified: haughty: tyrannical--also _adv._--_ns._
LORDOL'ATRY, excessive worship of nobility; LORDS'-AND-L[=A]'DIES, a
popular name for the common arum (q.v.); LORD'S'-DAY, the first day of the
week; LORD'SHIP, state or condition of being a lord: the territory
belonging to a lord: dominion: authority; LORD'S'-SUP'PER, the sacrament of
the communion, instituted at our Lord's last supper.--LORD-LIEUTENANT OF A
COUNTY (see LIEUTENANT); LORD-LIEUTENANT OF IRELAND, a viceroy or deputy of
the sovereign to whom the government of Ireland is nominally committed;
LORD OF MISRULE (see MISRULE); LORDS OF SESSION, the judges of the Scotch
Court of Session; LORDS ORDINARY, the five judges forming the outer house
of the Court of Session; LORDS SPIRITUAL, the archbishops and bishops in
the House of Lords--opp. to LORDS TEMPORAL, the peers proper.--HOUSE OF
LORDS, the upper house in the two branches of the British parliament,
consisting of the lords spiritual and temporal. [M. E. _loverd_,
_laverd_--A.S. _hláford_--_hláf_, a loaf, bread, _weard_, warder.]

LORDOSIS, lor-d[=o]'sis, _n._ abnormal curvature of the spinal column, the
convexity towards the front.

LORE, l[=o]r, _n._ that which is learned: doctrine: learning.--_n._ LOR'ING
(_Spens._), learning. [A.S. _lár_.]

LORE, l[=o]r, _n._ (_Spens._) something like a thong: (_ornith._) the side
of the head between the eye and the base of the upper mandible.

LOREL, lor'el, _n._ (_Spens._) an idle fellow. [_Losel_.]

LORETTE, l[=o]-ret', _n._ a showy strumpet. [Fr.]

LORGNETTE, l[=o]r-nyet', _n._ an opera-glass.--_n._ LOR'GNON, an eye-glass
with a handle. [Fr.]

LORICA, lo-r[=i]'ka, _n._ in ancient Rome, a cuirass made of thongs--also
LOR'IC (_Browning_).--_v.t._ LOR'IC[=A]TE, to furnish with a coat-of-mail:
to plate or coat over.--_adj._ covered with defensive armour:
imbricated.--_n._ LORIC[=A]'TION, a coating or crusting over, as with
plates of mail. [L.,--_lorum_, a thong.]

LORIKEET, lor-i-k[=e]t', _n._ a small parrot, a kind of lory.

LORIMER, lor'i-m[.e]r, _n._ a maker of horse-furniture.--Also LOR'INER.
[Fr. _lormier_--L. _lorum_, a thong.]

LORIOT, l[=o]'ri-ut, _n._ the oriole. [Fr. _le_, the, _oriol_--L.
_aureolus_, dim. of _aureus_, golden--_aurum_, gold.]

LORIS, l[=o]'ris, _n._ the slender lemur of Ceylon.

LORN, lorn, _adj._ (_Spens._) lost, forsaken. [A.S. _loren_, pa.p. of
_leósan_, to lose.]

LORRY, lor'i, _n._ a four-wheeled wagon without sides. [Perh. from prov.
Eng. _lurry_, to pull.]

LORY, l[=o]'ri, _n._ a common name for the members of a family of
Australian parrots. [Malay.]

LOSE, l[=oo]z, _v.t._ to be deprived of: to cease to have: to mislay: to
waste, as time: to miss: to bewilder: to cause to perish: to ruin.--_v.i._
to fail, to be unsuccessful: to suffer waste:--_pr.p._ los'ing; _pa.t._ and
_pa.p._ lost.--_adj._ LOS'ABLE.--_n._ LOS'ER.--_adj._ LOS'ING, causing
loss.--_adv._ LOS'INGLY.--_n._ LOSS, the act of losing: injury:
destruction: defeat: that which is lost: waste.--_adj._ LOST, parted with:
no longer possessed: missing: thrown away: squandered: ruined.--LOSE ONE'S
SELF, to lose one's way, to become bewildered; LOST TO, insensible to; LOST
TRIBES, the tribes of Israel which never returned from captivity.--AT A
LOSS, in uncertainty. [A.S. _losian_--_leósan_; cog. with Ger.
_ver-lieren_, to lose.]

LOSEL, l[=o]'zel, _n._ a sorry, worthless fellow: a scamp.--_adj._
slothful: wasteful--_n._ L[=O]'SELISM, worthlessness, worthless fellows
collectively. [Prob. _lose_.]

LÖSS. See LOESS.

LOT, lot, _n._ one's fate in the future: destiny: that which falls to any
one as his fortune: that which decides by chance: a separate
portion.--_v.t._ to allot: to separate into lots: to catalogue:--_pr.p._
lot'ting; _pa.p._ lot'ted.--CAST, or DRAW, lots, to determine an event by
some arrangement of chances. [A.S. _hlot_, _hlýt_, a lot--_hleótan_, to
cast lots.]

LOTAH, l[=o]'ta, _n._ a Hindu small brass or copper pot.

LOTE. See LOTUS.

LOTH, l[=o]th, _adj._ Same as LOATHFUL, LOATHLY.

LOTHARIO, l[=o]-th[=a]'ri-[=o], _n._ a libertine, rake. [From _Lothario_,
in Rowe's play, _The Fair Penitent_.]

LOTION, l[=o]'shun, _n._ a liquid preparation for healing or cleansing any
diseased or bruised part. [Fr.,--L.,--_lav[=a]re lotum_, to wash.]

LOTTERY, lot'[.e]r-i, _n._ a distribution of prizes by lot or chance: a
game of chance.

LOTTO, lot'[=o], _n._ a game played with numbered discs and cards.--Also
LOT'O. [It.]

LOTUS, l[=o]'tus, _n._ the water-lily of Egypt: a tree in North Africa,
whose fruit made strangers forget their home: a genus of leguminous
plants--also LOTE, L[=O]'TOS.--_ns.pl._ LOT[=O]'PHAGI, L[=O]'TUS-EAT'ERS, a
people who ate the fruit of the lotus, among whom Ulysses lived for a
time.--_ns._ L[=O]'TUS-EAT'ER, an eater of the lotus: one given up to
sloth; L[=O]'TUS-LAND, the country of the lotus-eaters. [Gr.]

LOUD, lowd, _adj._ making a great sound: noisy: showy.--_advs._ LOUD,
LOUD'LY.--_adj._ LOUD'-LUNGED, vociferous.--_n._ LOUD'NESS.--_adj._
LOUD'-VOICED, stentorian. [A.S, _hlúd_; Ger. _laut_, sound; L. _inclytus_,
renowned, Gr. _klytos_, heard.]

LOUGH, loh, _n._ the Irish form of _loch_.

LOUIS, l[=oo]'i, _n._ a French gold coin superseded in 1795 by the 20-franc
piece--also LOU'IS-D'OR.--_adjs._ LOU'IS-QUATORZE', characteristic of the
reign of LOUIS XIV. (1643-1715), in architecture and decoration;
LOU'IS-QUINZE, of that of Louis XV. (1715-74); LOU'IS-SEIZE, of that of
Louis XVI. (1774-92); LOU'IS-TREIZE, of that of Louis XIII. (1610-43).

LOUNDER, lown'd[.e]r, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to beat.--_n._ a heavy blow.--_n._
LOUN'DERING, a beating.

LOUNGE, lownj, _v.i._ to recline at one's ease: to move about
listlessly.--_n._ the act or state of lounging: an idle stroll: a place for
lounging: a kind of sofa.--_n._ LOUNG'ER. [Fr. _longis_, one that is long
in doing anything, formed (but with a pun on L. _longus_, long) from L.
_Longius_ or _Longinus_, the legendary name of the centurion who pierced
the body of Christ.]

LOUP, l[=oo]p, _n._ (_Spens._) loop.

LOUP, lowp, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to leap.--_ns._ LOUP'ING-ILL, a disease
causing sheep to spring up in walking; LOUP'ING-ON'-STANE, a stone from
which to mount a horse; LOUP'-THE-DYKE', runaway.

LOUR, lowr, _v.i._ Same as _lower_, to frown.

LOUSE, lows, _n._ a common wingless parasitic insect, with a flat body, and
short legs furnished with claws:--_pl._ LICE (l[=i]s).--_v.t._ (_obs._) to
remove lice from.--_n._ LOUS'INESS.--_adj._ LOUS'Y, swarming with lice.
[A.S. _lús_, pl. _lýs_; Ger. _laus_; from the root of Goth. _liusan_, to
destroy.]

LOUT, lowt, _n._ a clown, awkward fellow.--_v.t._ to treat as a
lout.--_v.i._ to bend.--_adj._ LOUT'ISH, clownish: awkward and
clumsy.--_adv._ LOUT'ISHLY.--_n._ LOUT'ISHNESS. [A.S. _lútan_, to stoop.]

[Illustration]

LOUVRE, LOUVER, l[=oo]'v[.e]r, _n._ an opening of a turret shape on roofs,
to allow the smoke or foul air to escape from halls, kitchens, &c.--_n._
LOU'VRE-WIN'DOW, an open window in a church tower, crossed by a series of
sloping boards. [O. Fr. _louvert_ for _l'ouvert_, the open space.]

LOVAGE, luv'[=a]j, _n._ a genus of plants of the natural order
_Umbelliferæ_, allied to Angelica, used as a salad plant: a liquor made
from the above. [O. Fr. _luvesche_--L. _ligusticum_, belonging to Liguria.]

LOVE, luv, _n._ fondness: an affection of the mind caused by that which
delights: pre-eminent kindness: benevolence: reverential regard: devoted
attachment to one of the opposite sex: the object of affection: the god of
love, Cupid: (_Shak._) a kindness, a favour done: nothing, in billiards,
tennis, and some other games.--_v.t._ to be fond of: to regard with
affection: to delight in with exclusive affection: to regard with
benevolence.--_v.i._ to have the feeling of love.--_adj._ LOV'ABLE, worthy
of love: amiable.--_ns._ LOVE'-APP'LE, the fruit of the tomato; LOVE'BIRD,
a genus of small birds of the parrot tribe, so called from their attachment
to each other; LOVE'-BROK'ER (_Shak._), a third person who carries messages
and makes assignations between lovers; LOVE'-CHARM, a philtre; LOVE'-CHILD,
a bastard; LOVE'-DAY (_Shak._), a day for settling disputes;
LOVE'-F[=A]'VOUR, something given to be worn in token of love; LOVE'-FEAST,
a religious feast held periodically by certain sects of Christians in
imitation of the love-feasts celebrated by the early Christians in
connection with the Lord's-supper; LOVE'-FEAT, the gallant act of a lover;
LOVE'-IN-[=I]'DLENESS, the heart's-ease; LOVE'-JUICE, a concoction used to
excite love; LOVE'-KNOT, an intricate knot, used as a token of
love.--_adj._ LOVE'LESS, without love, tenderness, or kindness.--_ns._
LOVE'-LETT'ER, a letter of courtship; LOVE'-LIES-BLEED'ING, a species of
the plant Amaranthus; LOVE'LINESS; LOVE'LOCK, a lock of hair hanging at the
ear, worn by men of fashion in the reigns of Elizabeth and James I.--_adj._
LOVE'LORN, forsaken by one's love.--_n._ LOVE'LORNNESS.--_adj._ LOVE'LY,
exciting love or admiration: amiable: pleasing: delightful.--_adv._
beautifully, delightfully.--_ns._ LOVE'-MATCH, a marriage for love, not
money; LOVE'-MONG'[.E]R, one who deals in affairs of love;
LOVE'-P[=O]'TION, a philtre; LOV'ER, one who loves, esp. one in love with
person of the opposite sex, in the singular almost exclusively of the man:
one who is fond of anything: (_B._) a friend.--_adjs._ LOV'ERED (_Shak._),
having a lover; LOV'ERLY, like a lover.--_n._ LOVE'-SHAFT, a dart of love
from Cupid's bow.--_adjs._ LOVE'-SICK, languishing with amorous desire;
LOVE'SOME, lovely.--_ns._ LOVE'-SUIT (_Shak._), courtship; LOVE'-T[=O]'KEN,
a gift in evidence of love.--_adj._ LOV'ING, having love or kindness:
affectionate: fond: expressing love.--_ns._ LOV'ING-CUP (see under CUP);
LOV'ING-KIND'NESS, kindness full of love: tender regard: mercy:
favour.--_adv._ LOV'INGLY.--_n._ LOV'INGNESS.--FOR LOVE OR MONEY, in some
way or another; IN LOVE, enamoured; MAKE LOVE TO, to try to gain the
affections of; PLAY FOR LOVE, to play without stakes; THERE'S NO LOVE LOST
BETWEEN THEM, they have no regard for each other. [A.S. _lufu_, love; Ger.
_liebe_; cf. L. _libet_, _lubet_.]

LOVELACE, luv'l[=a]s, _n._ a well-mannered libertine. [From _Lovelace_, the
hero of _Clarissa Harlowe_.]

LOVER, an obsolete form of _louvre_.

LOW, l[=o], _v.i._ to make the loud noise of oxen: to bellow.--_n._ the
bellow of oxen.--_n._ LOW'ING, the bellowing of cattle. [A.S. _hlówan_;
Dut. _loeijen_; imit.]

LOW, l[=o], _adj._ (_comp._ LOW'ER; _superl._ LOW'EST) lying in an inferior
place or position: not high: deep: shallow: small: moderate: cheap:
dejected: mean: plain: in poor circumstances: humble.--_adv._ not aloft:
cheaply: meanly: in subjection, poverty, or disgrace: in times near our
own: not loudly: (_astron._) near the equator.--_adj._ LOW'-BORN, of mean
birth.--_ns._ LOW'-CHURCH, a party within the Church of England minimising
sacerdotal claims, ecclesiastical constitutions, ordinances, and forms,
holding evangelical views of theology:--opp. to _High-church_;
LOW'-CHURCH'ISM; LOW'-CHURCH'MAN.--_v.t._ LOW'ER, to bring low: to depress:
to degrade: to diminish.--_v.i._ to fall: to sink: to grow less.--_adjs._
LOW'ER-CASE (_print._), kept in a lower case, denoting small letters as
distinguished from capitals; LOW'ER-CLASS, pertaining to persons of the
humbler ranks.--_n._ LOW'ERING, the act of bringing low or
reducing.--_adj._ letting down: sinking: degrading.--_adj._ LOW'ERMOST,
lowest.--_ns._ LOW'LAND, land low with respect to higher land; LOW'LANDER,
a native of lowlands; LOW'-LIFE, humble life; LOW'LIHEAD, LOW'LIHOOD, a
lowly or humble state; LOW'LINESS.--_adjs._ LOW'-LIVED, vulgar: shabby;
LOW'LY, of a low or humble mind: not high: meek: modest; LOW'-MIND'ED,
moved by base or gross motives: vulgar; LOW'-NECKED, cut low in the neck
and away from the shoulders, décolleté.--_n._ LOW'NESS.--_adjs._
LOW'-PRESS'URE, employing or exerting a low degree of pressure (viz. less
than 50 lb. to the sq. inch), said of steam and steam-engines;
LOW'-SPIR'ITED, having the spirits low or cast down: not lively: sad.--_n._
LOW'-SPIR'ITEDNESS.--_adj._ LOW'-THOUGHT'ED, having the thoughts directed
to low pursuits.--_n._ LOW'-WA'TER, the lowest point of the tide at
ebb.--LOW LATIN, a term often applied loosely to the Latin spoken and
written after the fall of the Roman Empire, as well as during the Middle
Ages; LOW SUNDAY, the first Sunday after Easter, so called in contrast to
the great festival whose octave it ends; LOW WINES, the weak spirit
produced from the first distillation of substances containing alcohol.--LIE
LOW, to keep quiet or hidden. [Ice. _lágr_, Dut. _laag_, low; allied to
A.S. _licgan_, to lie.]

LOW, low, _n._ (_Scot._) a flame.--_v.i._ to blaze.--_n._ LOW'-BELL, a bell
used in fowling by night, in connection with a light, to frighten birds
into a net. [Ice. _logi_; cf. Dan. _lue_, Ger. _lohe_.]

LOWER, low'[.e]r, _v.i._ to appear gloomy, as the clouds: to threaten a
storm: to frown.--_adjs._ LOU'RY, LOW'ERY, cloudy; LOW'ERING, looking
sullen: appearing dark and threatening.--_adv._ LOW'ERINGLY. [M. E.
_louren_, from M. E. _lure_, _lere_, the cheek, allied to A.S. _hleór_, and
thus a variant of _leer_.]

LOWN, lown, _n._ a variant of _loon_.

LOWN, lown, _adj._ (_Scot._) sheltered, tranquil.

LOXIA, lok'si-a, _n._ wryneck. [Gr.]

LOXODROMIC, lok-so-drom'ik, _adj._ pertaining to certain lines on the
surface of a sphere which cut all meridians at the same angle, and indicate
the course held by ships in rhumb sailing.--LOXODROMIC CURVE, line, or
spiral, the course of a ship oblique to the equator and cutting all the
meridians at the same angle, sailing constantly toward the same point of
the compass.--LOXODROMICS, the art of such oblique sailing. [Gr. _loxos_,
oblique, _dromos_, a course.]

LOYAL, loi'al, _adj._ faithful to one's sovereign: obedient: true to a
lover.--_n._ LOY'ALIST, a loyal adherent of his sovereign, esp. in English
history, a partisan of the Stuarts: in the American war, one that sided
with the British troops.--_adv._ LOY'ALLY.--_n._ LOY'ALTY. [Fr.,--L.
_legalis_--_lex_, _legis_, law.]

LOZENGE, loz'enj, _n._ an oblique-angled parallelogram or a rhombus: a
small cake of flavoured sugar, originally lozenge or diamond shaped:
(_her._) the rhomb-shaped figure in which the arms of maids, widows, and
deceased persons are borne.--_adjs._ LOZ'ENGED, formed in the shape of a
lozenge; LOZ'ENGE-SHAPED, shaped like a lozenge or rhomb; LOZ'ENGY
(_her._), divided into lozenge-shaped compartments. [O. Fr. _losange_,
flattery, whence its use for an epitaph, square slab, window-pane.]

LUBBER, lub'[.e]r, LUBBARD, lub'ard, _n._ an awkward, clumsy fellow: a
lazy, sturdy fellow.--_adj._ LUBB'ARD, lubberly.--_adj._ and _adv._
LUBB'ERLY.--_n._ LUBB'ER'S-HOLE (_naut._), a hole between the head of the
lower mast and the edge of the top through which 'lubbers' may climb,
instead of going round the futtock shroud. [W. _llob_, a dolt, _llabbi_, a
stripling.]

LUBRICATE, l[=u]'bri-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to make smooth or slippery: to supply
with oil to overcome friction.--_adjs._ L[=U]'BRIC, -AL, L[=U]'BRICOUS,
slippery: lewd.--_ns._ L[=U]'BRICANT; LUBRIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._
L[=U]'BRICATIVE.--_ns._ L[=U]'BRICATOR; LUBRICITY (l[=u]-bris'i-ti),
slipperiness: smoothness: instability: lewdness; LUBRIFAC'TION. [L.
_lubric[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_lubricus_, slippery.]

LUCARNE, l[=u]'kärn, _n._ a dormer-window, esp. in a church spire.
[Fr.,--L. _lucerna_, a lamp.]

LUCE, l[=u]s, _n._ a fresh-water fish, the pike. [O. Fr. _lus_--Low L.
_lucius_.]

LUCENT, l[=u]'sent, _adj._ shining: bright.--_n._ L[=U]'CENCY,
brightness.--_adj._ LUCER'NAL, pertaining to a lamp. [L.
_lucens_--_luc[=e]re_, to shine--_lux_, _lucis_, light.]

LUCERNE, l[=u]'s[.e]rn, _n._ a species of Medick, a valuable forage-plant.
[Fr. _luzerne_.]

LUCID, l[=u]'sid, _adj._ shining: transparent: easily understood:
intellectually bright: not darkened with madness.--_ns._ LUCID'ITY,
L[=U]'CIDNESS.--_adv._ L[=U]'CIDLY.--_ns._ LUC'IFER, the planet Venus when
it appears as the morning-star: Satan: a match of wood tipped with a
combustible substance ignited by friction.--_adjs._ LUCIF[=E]'RIAN,
LUCIF'EROUS, of or pertaining to _Lucifer_: bearing light: affording means
of discovery; LUCIF'UGAL, LUCIF'UGOUS, shunning light.--_n._ LUCIM'ETER, an
instrument for measuring the intensity and duration of sunshine in
promoting evaporation. [L.,--_lux_, _lucis_, light.]

LUCIGEN, l[=u]'si-jen, _n._ one of the most powerful artificial lamps, and
specially adapted for lighting large spaces, whether open or covered. [L.
_lux_, _lucis_, light, and root of _gign[)e]re_, to beget.]

LUCINA, l[=u]'s[=i]-na, _n._ a name applied both to Diana and to Juno--to
the latter as the especial divinity that presides over childbirth.
[L.,--_lux_, light.]

LUCK, luk, _n._ fortune, good or bad: chance: lot: good fortune.--_adv._
LUCK'ILY.--_n._ LUCK'INESS.--_adj._ LUCK'LESS, without good luck:
unhappy.--_adv._ LUCK'LESSLY.--_ns._ LUCK'LESSNESS; LUCK'-PENN'Y, a trifle
returned for luck by a seller to a buyer: a coin carried for luck.--_adj._
LUCK'Y, having good luck: auspicious.--_n._ LUCK'Y-BAG, a receptacle for
lost property on board a man-of-war.--BE DOWN ON ONE'S LUCK, to be
unfortunate. [From a Low Ger. root, seen in Dut. _luk_; cf. Ger. _glück_,
prosperity.]

LUCKY, LUCKIE, luk'i, _n._ (_Scot._) an elderly woman.

LUCKY, luk'i, _n._ (_slang_) departure.--CUT ONE'S LUCKY, to bolt.

LUCRE, l[=u]'k[.e]r, _n._ gain (esp. sordid gain): profit:
advantage.--_adj._ L[=U]'CRATIVE, bringing lucre or gain:
profitable.--_adv._ L[=U]'CRATIVELY. [Fr.,--L. _lucrum_, gain.]

LUCTATION, luk-t[=a]'shun, _n._ struggle. [L.,--_luct[=a]ri_.]

LUCUBRATE, l[=u]'k[=u]-br[=a]t, _v.i._ to study by lamplight or at
night.--_n._ LUCUBR[=A]'TION, a product of close study or thought, any
composition produced in retirement.--_adj._ L[=U]'CUBR[=A]TORY, composed by
candle-light. [L. _lucubr[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_lux._]

LUCULENT, l[=u]'k[=u]-lent, _adj._ lucid: clear: transparent:
evident.--_adv._ L[=U]'CULENTLY. [L. _luculentus_--_lux_.]

LUCUMO, l[=u]'k[=u]-m[=o], _n._ an appellation of the Etruscan princes and
priests. [L.]

LUD, _n._ a minced form of _lord_.

LUDICROUS, l[=u]'di-krus, _adj._ that serves for sport: adapted to excite
laughter: laughable: comic.--_adv._ L[=U]'DICROUSLY.--_n._
L[=U]'DICROUSNESS. [L. _ludicrus_--_lud[)e]re_, to play.]

LUE, l[=u], _v.t._ to sift.

LUES, l[=u]'[=e]z, _n._ a plague.--_adj._ LUET'IC. [L.]

LUFF, luf, _n._ the windward side of a ship: the act of sailing a ship
close to the wind: the loof.--_v.t._ to turn a ship towards the wind. [M.
E. _lof_, a paddle; cf. Scot. _loof_, Dut. _loef_.]

LUFFA, luf'a, _n._ a genus of climbing herbs of the gourd family, whose
seeds are contained in a fibrous network removed entire by soaking, &c.,
and used as a flesh-brush.--Also LOOF'A, &c. [Ar.]

LUG, lug, _v.t._ to pull along: to drag: to pull with difficulty:--_pr.p._
lug'ging; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ lugged.--_ns._ LUG'GAGE, the trunks and other
baggage of a traveller; LUG'GAGE-VAN, a wagon for baggage; LUG'GER, a small
vessel with two or three masts, a running bowsprit, and long or lug sails;
LUG'SAIL, LUG, a square sail bent upon a yard that hangs obliquely to the
mast.--LUG IN, to introduce without any apparent connection. [Scand., Sw.
_lugga_, to pull by the hair--_lugg_, the forelock; from a base _luk_, to
pull, present in Scot. _lug_, the ear.]

LUG, lug, _n._ (_Spens._) a perch or rod of land.

LUG, lug, _n._ (_Scot._) the ear.--_adj._ LUGGED, having ears.--_n._
LUG'GIE, a small vessel with ears.

LUGUBRIOUS, l[=u]-g[=u]'bri-us, _adj._ mournful: dismal.--_adv._
LUG[=U]'BRIOUSLY. [L. _lugubris_--_lug[=e]re_, to mourn.]

LUGWORM, lug'wurm, _n._ a sluggish worm found in the sand on the sea-shore,
much used for bait by fishermen.--Also _Lobworm_.

LUKEWARM, l[=u]k'wawrm, _adj._ partially or moderately warm:
indifferent--also LUKE.--_adv._ LUKE'WARMLY.--_ns._ LUKE'WARMNESS,
LUKE'WARMTH. [M. E. _leuk_, _luke_, an extension of _lew_, cog. with the
A.S. _hleó_, the source of _lee_; prob. confused with A.S. _wlæc_, _wlacu_,
tepid; cf. Dut. _leuk_, Ger. _lau_.]

LULL, lul, _v.t._ to soothe: to compose: to quiet.--_v.i._ to become calm:
to subside.--_n._ a season of calm.--_n._ LULL'ABY, a song to lull children
to sleep, a cradle-song.--_v.t._ to lull to sleep. [Scand., as in Sw.
_lulla_; imit. like Ger. _lallen_, Gr. _lalein_.]

LUM, lum, _n._ (_Scot._) a chimney. [W. _llumon_.]

LUMBAGO, lum-b[=a]'g[=o], _n._ a rheumatic affection of the muscles or
fibrous tissues in the lumbar region.--_adjs._ LUMBAG'INOUS; LUM'BAR,
LUM'BAL, pertaining to, or near, the loins. [L.,--_lumbus_, loin.]

LUMBER, lum'b[.e]r, _n._ anything cumbersome or useless: timber sawed or
split for use.--_v.t._ to fill with lumber: to heap together in
confusion.--_n._ LUM'BERER, one employed in felling timber and bringing it
from the forest.--_adj._ LUM'BERING, filling with lumber: putting in
confusion.--_n._ LUM'BER-ROOM, a room for holding things not in use. [Fr.
_Lombard_--Ger. _Langbart_; the _lumber_-room being orig. the
_Lombard_-room or place where the Lombards, the medieval bankers and
pawnbrokers, stored their pledges.]

LUMBER, lum'b[.e]r, _v.i._ to move heavily. [Scand.; prov. Sw. _lomra_, to
resound, Ice. _hljómr_, a sound.]

LUMBRICAL, lum'brik-al, _adj._ (_anat._) worm-like.--_adj._ LUMBRIC'IFORM.
[L. _lumbricus_, a worm.]

LUMINARY, l[=u]'min-ar-i, _n._ any body which gives light, esp. one of the
heavenly bodies: one who illustrates any subject or instructs
mankind.--_adj._ L[=U]'MINANT, emitting light.--_n._ an illuminating
agent.--_n._ LUMIN[=A]'TION, a lighting up.--_v.t._ L[=U]'MINE (_Spens._),
to illumine.--_adjs._ LUMINIF'EROUS, transmitting light; L[=U]'MINOUS,
giving light: shining: illuminated: clear: lucid.--_adv._
L[=U]'MINOUSLY.--_ns._ L[=U]'MINOUSNESS, LUMINOS'ITY.--LUMINOUS PAINT, a
phosphorescent powder, such as sulphide or oxysulphide of calcium, ground
up with a colourless varnish or other medium, and used as a paint. [L.
_lumen_, _luminis_, light--_luc[=e]re_, to shine.]

LUMMY, lum'i, _adj._ (_slang_) knowing, cute.

LUMP, lump, _n._ a small shapeless mass: a protuberance: swelling: the
whole together: the gross.--_v.t._ to throw into a confused mass: to take
in the gross.--_ns._ LUMP'ER, a labourer employed in the lading or unlading
of ships: (_prov._) a militiaman; LUMP'FISH, a clumsy sea-fish with a
short, deep, and thick body and head, and a ridge on its back, also called
LUMP'SUCKER, from the power of its sucker.--_adjs._ LUMP'ING, in a lump:
heavy: bulky; LUMP'ISH, like a lump: heavy: gross: dull.--_adv._
LUMP'ISHLY.--_ns._ LUMP'ISHNESS; LUMP'-SUG'AR, loaf-sugar in small
pieces.--_adj._ LUMP'Y, full of lumps.--IN THE LUMP, in gross. [Scand.,
Norw. _lump_, a block; Dut. _lomp_.]

LUNAR, l[=u]'nar, _adj._ belonging to the moon: measured by the revolutions
of the moon: caused by the moon: like the moon--also L[=U]'NARY.--_ns._
L[=U]'NACY, a kind of madness formerly supposed to be affected by the moon:
insanity; LUN[=A]'RIAN, L[=U]'NARIST, a student of lunar phenomena;
L[=U]'NARY, the moonwort fern.--_adjs._ L[=U]'N[=A]TE, -D, formed like a
half-moon: crescent-shaped; L[=U]'NATIC, affected with lunacy.--_n._ a
person so affected: a madman (_De lunatico inquirendo_, the title of the
writ or commission for inquiry into the mental state of an alleged
lunatic).--_n._ LUN[=A]'TION, the time between two revolutions of the moon:
a lunar month.--_adjs._ L[=U]'NIFORM, moon-shaped; L[=U]'NISOLAR, resulting
from the united action of the sun and moon: compounded of the revolution of
the sun and the moon.--_n._ L[=U]'NULA, a crescent-like appearance, esp.
the whitish area at the base of the nails.--_adjs._ L[=U]'NULATE, -D
(_bot._), shaped like a small crescent.--_ns._ L[=U]'NULE, L[=U]'NULET,
anything in form like a small crescent; L[=U]'NULITE, a small circular
fossil coral.--LUNAR CAUSTIC, fused crystals of nitrate of silver, applied
to ulcers, &c.; LUNAR CYCLE=METONIC CYCLE (q.v.); LUNAR MONTH (see MONTH);
LUNAR OBSERVATION, an observation of the moon's distance from a star for
the purpose of finding the longitude; LUNAR RAINBOW (see RAINBOW, under
RAIN); LUNAR THEORY, a term employed to denote the _a priori_ deduction of
the moon's motions from the principles of gravitation; LUNAR YEAR (see
YEAR). [L. _lunaris_--_luna_, the moon--_luc[=e]re_, to shine.]

LUNCH, lunsh, _n._ a slight repast between breakfast and dinner--also
LUNCH'EON.--_v.i._ to take lunch.--_n._ LUNCH'EON-BAR, a counter at a
restaurant where luncheons are served. [_Lunch_, a contr. of _luncheon_,
itself extended from _lunch_, a lump.]

LUNE, l[=u]n, _n._ anything in the shape of a half-moon: (_Shak._) a fit of
lunacy.--_n._ LUNETTE', a little moon: (_fort._) a detached bastion: a hole
in a concave ceiling to admit light: a watch-glass flattened more than
usual in the centre: in the R.C. Church, a moon-shaped case of crystal used
for receiving the consecrated host. [Fr. _lune_--L. _luna_.]

LUNG, lung, _n._ one of the organs of breathing--from its spongy
texture.--_adjs._ LUNGED; LUNG'-GROWN, having an adhesion of the lung to
the pleura.--_n._ LUNG'WORT, an herb with purple flowers and spotted
leaves: a lichen on tree-trunks, used as a remedy for pulmonary diseases.
[A.S. _lunge_, pl. _lungan_, the lungs; cog. with _light_ (adj.).]

LUNGE, lunj, _n._ a sudden thrust in fencing.--_v.i._ to give such.--_v.t._
to cause to plunge. [Fr. _allonger_, to lengthen--L. _ad_, to, _longus_,
long.]

LUNIFORM, LUNISOLAR, LUNULATE. See LUNAR.

LUNT, lunt, _n._ a light, blaze.--_v.i._ (_Scot._) to burn, to smoke. [Dut.
_lont_, a match; cf. Ger. _lunte_.]

LUPINE, l[=u]'p[=i]n, _adj._ like a wolf: wolfish.--_n._ a genus of
leguminous plants.--_adj._ LUPAN[=A]'RIAN, bawdy.--_n._ LUPERC[=A]'LIA, a
festival among the ancient Romans, held on the 15th of February, in honour
of _Lupercus_ (Pan), god of fertility and patron of shepherds--(_Shak._)
L[=U]'PERCAL. [L. _lupinus_--_lupus_, a wolf, _lupa_, a whore.]

LUPPA, lup'a, _n._ cloth having so much gold and silver thread as to look
as if made entirely of metal.

LUPULUS, l[=u]'pu-lus, _n._ the common hop.--_n._ L[=U]'PULIN, the peculiar
bitter aromatic principle of the hop.

LUPUS, l[=u]'pus, _n._ a chronic tuberculosis of the skin, often affecting
the nose. [L. _lupus_, a wolf.]

LURCH, lurch, _n._ an ancient card-game: in cribbage, the position of the
party who has gained every point before the other makes one.--_v.t._ to
overreach: (_arch._) to steal.--LEAVE IN THE LURCH, to leave in a difficult
situation without help. [O. Fr. _lourche_.]

LURCH, lurch, _v.i._ to evade by stooping, to lurk: to roll or pitch
suddenly to one side (as a ship).--_n._ a sudden roll of a ship.--_n._
LURCH'ER, a name applied to any dog with a distinct cross of greyhound: one
who lies in wait: a glutton. [_Lurk_.]

LURDAN, lur'dan, _adj._ (_arch._) stupid.--_n._ a stupid person.--Also
LUR'DANE, LUR'DEN. [O. Fr. _lourdein_, dull--_lourd_, heavy.]

LURE, l[=u]r, _n._ any enticement: bait: decoy: (_Shak._) a stuffed bird
used in falconry for training the hawk.--_v.t._ to entice: decoy. [O. Fr.
_loerre_ (Fr. _leurre_)--Mid. High Ger. _luoder_ (Ger. _luder_), bait.]

LURE, l[=u]r, _n._ a trumpet with long curved tube, used for calling
cattle, &c. [Ice. _lúdhr_.]

LURID, l[=u]'rid, _adj._ ghastly pale, wan: ghastly and sensational:
gloomy.--_adv._ L[=U]'RIDLY. [L. _luridus_.]

LURK, lurk, _v.i._ to lie in wait: to be concealed.--_n._ a swindle.--_n._
LURK'ER.--_adj._ LURK'ING, lying hid: keeping out of sight.--_n._
LURK'ING-PLACE, a hiding-place. [Scand., Sw. prov. _luska_.]

LURRY, lur'i, _n._ (_Milt._) confusion.

LUSCIOUS, lush'us, _adj._ sweet in a great degree: delightful: fulsome, as
flattery.--_adv._ LUSC'IOUSLY.--_n._ LUSC'IOUSNESS. [Old form lushious,
from lusty.]

LUSH, lush, _adj._ rich and juicy, of grass. [A contr. of _lushious_, old
form of _luscious_.]

LUSH, lush, _v.t._ to swill.--_n._ plentiful liquor.--_adj._ LUSH'Y, tipsy.

LUSIAD, l[=u]'si-ad, _n._ a Portuguese epic by Camoens, celebrating the
chief events in the history of Portugal.--_adj._ LUSIT[=A]'NIAN,
Portuguese. [Port. _Os Lusiadas_, the Lusitanians.]

LUSK, lusk, _adj._ (_obs._) lazy.--_v.i._ to lie about lazily.--_adj._
LUSK'ISH (_obs._).--_n._ LUSK'ISHNESS (_Spens._).

LUST, lust, _n._ longing desire: eagerness to possess: carnal appetite:
(_B._) any violent or depraved desire.--_v.i._ to desire eagerly (with
_after_, _for_): to have carnal desire: to have depraved desires.--_adjs._
LUST'-BREATHED (_Shak._), animated by lust; LUST'-D[=I]'ETED (_Shak._),
pampered by lust.--_n._ LUST'ER.--_adj._ LUST'FUL, having lust: inciting to
lust: sensual.--_adv._ LUST'FULLY.--_n._ LUST'FULNESS.--_adj._ LUST'IC
(_Shak._), lusty, healthy, vigorous.--_ns._ LUST'IHEAD, LUST'IHOOD,
LUST'INESS.--_adv._ LUST'ILY.--_adj._ LUST'LESS (_Spens._), listless,
feeble.--_n._ LUST'WORT, the sundew.--_adj._ LUST'Y, vigorous: healthful:
stout: bulky: (_Milt._) lustful. [A.S. _lust_, pleasure.]

LUSTRE, lus't[.e]r, _n._ brightness, gloss, splendour: (_fig._) renown: a
candlestick ornamented with pendants of cut-glass: the characteristic
appearance of a bright metallic surface, or of air within glass under water
as seen under certain angles of total reflection: a dress material having a
highly finished surface: a glaze applied to porcelain.--_adjs._
LUS'TRELESS, destitute of lustre; LUS'TROUS, bright: shining:
luminous.--_adv._ LUS'TROUSLY. [Fr.,--Low L. _lustrum_, a window--L.
_luc[=e]re_, to shine.]

LUSTRE, lus't[.e]r, LUSTRUM, lus'trum, _n._ a period of five years:
(_orig._) the solemn offering for the purification of the Roman people made
by one of the censors at the conclusion of the census, taken every five
years.--_adj._ LUS'TRAL, relating to or used in lustration: of or
pertaining to a lustre.--_n._ LUSTR[=A]'TION, a purification by sacrifice:
act of purifying.--_adj._ LUS'TRICAL, pertaining to purification by
lustration. [L. _lustrum_--_lu[)e]re_, to wash, to purify.]

LUSTRING, lus'tring, _n._ a glossy silk cloth.--Also LUS'TRINE,
LUTE'STRING. [Fr. _lustrine_--It. _lustrino_.]

LUSTY. See LUST.

LUTE, l[=u]t, _n._ a medieval stringed instrument of music like the
guitar.--_v.i._ to play on the lute.--_ns._ LUT'ANIST, LUT'ER, LUT'IST, a
player on a lute; LUTE'STRING, the string of a lute. [O. Fr. _lut_ (Fr.
_luth_); like Ger. _laute_, from Ar. _al_, the, _`úd_, wood, the lute.]

LUTE, l[=u]t, _n._ a composition used to exclude air, as round pipe-joints:
a brickmaker's straight-edge scraper: a rubber packing-ring for a
jar.--_v.t._ to close or coat with lute.--_adjs._ LUT[=A]'RIOUS,
L[=U]'TEOUS, of or like mud.--_n._ LUT[=A]'TION.--_adj._ L[=U]'TOSE, miry.
[L. _lutum_, from _lu[)e]re_, to wash.]

LUTEOLIN, l[=u]'t[=e]-[=o]-lin, _n._ the yellow colouring matter of weld or
dyer's weed.--_adjs._ LUT[=E]'OLOUS, yellowish; L[=U]'TEOUS,
golden-yellowish. [L. _lutum_, weld.]

LUTETIAN, l[=u]-t[=e]'shan, _adj._ Parisian. [L.]

LUTHERAN, l[=u]'th[.e]r-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Luther_, the great German
Protestant reformer (1483-1546), or to his doctrines: a follower of
Luther.--_ns._ LU'THERANISM, L[=U]'THERISM; L[=U]'THERIST.

LUXATE, luks'[=a]t, _v.t._ to put out of joint: to displace.--_n._
LUX[=A]'TION, a dislocation. [L. _lux[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_luxus_--Gr.
_loxos_, slanting.]

LUXURY, luk's[=u]-ri, _n._ free indulgence in rich diet or costly dress or
equipage: anything delightful: a dainty: (_Shak._) wantonness.--_ns._
LUX[=U]'RIANCE, LUX[=U]'RIANCY, LUXUR[=I]'ETY.--_adj._ LUX[=U]'RIANT,
exuberant in growth: overabundant.--_adv._ LUX[=U]'RIANTLY.--_v.i._
LUX[=U]'RIATE, to be luxuriant: to grow exuberantly: to live luxuriously:
to expatiate with delight.--_n._ LUXURI[=A]'TION, the act of
luxuriating.--_adj._ LUX[=U]'RIOUS, given to luxury: administering to
luxury: furnished with luxuries: softening by pleasure: (_Milt._)
luxuriant: (_Shak._) lustful.--_adv._ LUX[=U]'RIOUSLY.--_ns._
LUX[=U]'RIOUSNESS; LUX'URIST, one given to luxury. [O. Fr. _luxurie_--L.
_luxuria_, luxury--_luxus_, excess.]

LUZ, luz, _n._ a bone supposed by Rabbinical writers to be indestructible,
probably the sacrum.

LUZULA, l[=u]'z[=u]-lä, _n._ a genus of plants of the rush family, having
plain leaves, covered with thinly scattered, longish hairs. [Old It.
_luzziola_, a firefly.]

LYAM, l[=i]'am, _n._ a leash.--Also LIME.

LYART. See LIARD.

LYCANTHROPY, l[=i]-kan'thro-pi, _n._ the power possessed by a person of
changing himself into a wolf: a kind of madness, in which the patient
fancies himself to be a wolf.--_ns._ LYCAN'THROPE, LYCAN'THROPIST, a
wolf-man or were-wolf, one affected with lycanthropy.--_adjs._
LYCANTHROP'IC, LYCAN'THROPOUS. [Gr. _lykos_, a wolf, _anthr[=o]pos_, a
man.]

LYCEUM, l[=i]-s[=e]'um, _n._ a place devoted to instruction by lectures: an
association for literary improvement. [Orig. the name of a place in the
immediate neighbourhood of Athens, consecrated to _Apollo Lyceios_, where
Aristotle, the Greek philosopher, taught.]

LYCHGATE. Same as LICHGATE.

LYCHNIC, lik'nik, _n._ a part of the vespers of the Greek Church on the
occasion of a vigil.--_n._ LYCHNAP'SIA, a series of seven prayers in the
vespers of the Greek Church.--_adj._ LYCHNID'IATE, emitting light,
phosphorescent.--_ns._ LYCH'NOBITE, one who works by night and sleeps by
day; LYCH'NOMANCY, divination by means of lamps; LYCH'NOSCOPE, a small
window-like opening in the south wall of a church. [Gr. _lychnos_, a
light.]

LYCHNIS, lik'nis, _n._ a genus of erect ornamental herbs of the pink
family--campions or wall-flowers. [L.]

LYCOPODIACEÆ, l[=i]-ko-p[=o]-di-[=a]'se-[=e], _n.pl._ a class of isoporous
vascular cryptogams, having mostly a dichotomous form of branching--its
typical genus LYCOP[=O]'DIUM.--_n._ LY'COPODE, a highly inflammable yellow
powder made up of the spores of Lycopodium. [Gr. _lykos_, a wolf, _pous_,
the foot.]

LYDDITE, lid'[=i]t, _n._ a powerful explosive made (at _Lydd_ in Kent) from
picrate of potash.

LYDIAN, lid'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Lydia_ in Asia Minor: of an ancient
Greek mode of music: (_mus._) soft and slow: luxurious and effeminate.

LYE, l[=i], _n._ a short side-branch of railway.

LYE, l[=i], _n._ a solution leached from ashes: a solution of the fixed
alkalies, potash and soda, in water. [A.S. _leáh_; Ger. _lauge_; allied to
_lav[=a]re_, to wash.]

LYENCEPHALOUS, l[=i]-en-sef'a-lus, _adj._ having the corpus callosum absent
or rudimentary.

LYING, l[=i]'ing, _adj._ addicted to telling lies.--_n._ the habit of
telling lies.--_adv._ LY'INGLY.

LYING, l[=i]'ing, _adj._ being in a horizontal position.--_n._ LY'ING-IN,
the confinement of women during child-bearing--also _adj._

LYKE-WAKE, l[=i]k'-w[=a]k, _n._ Same as LICH-WAKE.

LYM, lim, _n._ (_Shak._) a lime-hound.--Also LYM'-HOUND.

LYME-GRASS, l[=i]m'-gras, _n._ any one of various coarse grasses of genus
_Elymus_.

LYMPH, limf, _n._ water: a colourless or faintly-yellowish fluid in animal
bodies, of a rather saltish taste, and with an alkaline reaction.--_n._
LYMPHANG[=I]'TIS (see WEED, 3).--_adj._ LYMPHAT'IC, pertaining to
lymph.--_n._ a vessel which conveys the lymph.--_adjs._ LYMPH'Y, LYMPH'OID.
[L. _lympha_.]

LYMPHAD, lim'fad, _n._ (_Scot._) a kind of sailing-vessel.

LYNCH, linsh, _v.t._ to judge and punish without the usual forms of
law.--_n._ LYNCH'-LAW (_Amer._), a kind of summary justice exercised by the
people. [From Charles _Lynch_ (1736-96) of Virginia.]

LYNX, lingks, _n._ a genus of _Felidæ_, with the body elevated at the
haunches, long fur, a short tail, the ears tipped with tufts of
hair.--_adjs._ LYNC[=E]'AN, LYNX'-EYED, sharp-sighted. [L.,--Gr.]

LYON COURT, l[=i]'un k[=o]rt, _n._ the court in Scotland with jurisdiction
in questions of coat-armour and precedency--presided over by the LYON
KING-OF-ARMS. [From the heraldic lion of Scotland.]

[Illustration]

LYRE, l[=i]r, _n._ a musical instrument like the harp, anciently used as an
accompaniment to poetry.--_n._ LY'RA, one of the northern
constellations.--_adjs._ LY'RATE, -D (_bot._), lyre-shaped.--_ns._
LYRE'BIRD, an Australian bird about the size of a pheasant, having the 16
tail-feathers of the male arranged in the form of a lyre; LYRIC (lir'-), a
lyric poem: (_obs._) a composer of lyric poetry.--_adjs._ LYRIC, -AL
(lir'-), pertaining to the lyre: fitted to be sung to the lyre: written in
stanzas: said of poetry which expresses the individual emotions of the
poet: that composes lyrics.--_ns._ LYRICISM (lir'-), a lyrical expression
or composition; LYR'ISM, the art of playing on the lyre; LYR'IST, a player
on the lyre or harp. [Fr.,--L. _lyra_--Gr.]

LYSIMETER, l[=i]-sim'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the rate of
percolation of rain through a soil.

LYSIS, l[=i]'sis, _n._ the gradual abatement of a disease, as distinguished
from crisis: (_archit._) a plinth or step above the cornice of the podium
in an ancient temple. [Gr.]

LYSSA, lis'a, _n._ hydrophobia. [Gr.]

LYTERIAN, l[=i]-t[=e]'ri-an, _adj._ terminating a disease. [Gr.]

LYTHE, l[=i]_th_, _adj._ (_Spens._) pliant, flexible. [_Lithe_.]

LYTTA, lit'a, _n._ a longitudinal vermiform cartilaginous or fibrous band
on the under surface of the tongue in carnivores--the 'worm' of a dog's
tongue. [Gr.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

M the thirteenth letter of the alphabet, belonging to the labio-nasal class
of consonants. M=1000; [=M]=1,000,000.--M-ROOF, a roof formed by the
junction of two common roofs, so that its end is like the letter M.

MA, mä, _n._ a childish contraction for _mamma_.

MA'AM, mäm, _n._ a colloquial contraction of madam--vulgarly MARM, MUM.

MAB, mab, _n._ the name of a female fairy: the queen of the fairies--hence
any fairy. [W. _mab_, child.]

MAB, mab, _v.t._ and _v.i._ (_prov._) to dress untidily.

MABINOGION, mab-i-n[=o]'ji-on, _n._ a collection of four Arthurian
romances, embodied in the 12th century, embraced with seven other prose
tales in the _Red Book_, or _Hergest_, a Welsh MS. of the 14th century--the
whole published and translated by Lady Charlotte Guest in 1838. [W.,
'children's tales.']

MAC, mak, a prefix in Scotch names, meaning _son_ (of). [Gael. and Ir.
_mac_, son; W. _map_, _mab_, also _ap_, _ab_.]

MACABERESQUE, ma-k[=a]-b[.e]r-esk', _adj._ pertaining to, or like, the
Dance of Death. [Fr. _La Danse Macabre_, Low L. _Machabæorum chorea_, the
dance of the Maccabees, prob. because the seven brothers whose martyrdom is
recorded in the 7th chapter of the 2d Book of Maccabees played an important
part in the earliest form of the 14th-cent. drama on the subject.]

MACADAMISE, mak-ad'am-[=i]z, _v.t._ to cover, as a road, with small broken
stones, so as to form a smooth, hard surface.--_ns._ MACAD'AM, macadamised
pavement; MACADAMIS[=A]'TION. [From John Loudon _Macadam_ (1756-1836).]

MACAQUE, ma-kak', _n._ a monkey of genus _Macacus_, between baboons and the
African mangabeys.

MACARISE, mak'a-r[=i]z, _v.t._ to bless, pronounce happy.--_adj._
MAC[=A]'RIAN, blessed.--_n._ MAC'ARISM, a beatitude. [Gr. _makar_, happy.]

MACARONI, mak-a-r[=o]'ni, _n._ a kind of paste or dough prepared from the
glutinous granular flour of hard varieties of wheat, pressed out through a
perforated vessel into long tubes, and then dried: a medley: something
fanciful and extravagant: a fool: a fop:--_pl._ MACAR[=O]'NIS,
MACAR[=O]'NIES.--_n._ MACARON'IC, a confused heap, a medley: a macaronic
poem.--_adjs._ MACARON'IC, MACAR[=O]'NIAN, like a macaroni, trifling,
affected: of a kind of burlesque verse, consisting of modern words
Latinised, or Latin words modernised, intermixed with genuine Latin words.
[Old It. _maccaroni_--_maccare_, to crush.]

MACAROON, mak-a-r[=oo]n', _n._ a sweet biscuit made chiefly of almonds and
sugar. [Fr.,--It. _maccaroni_ above.]

MACASSAR-OIL, ma-kas'ar-oil, _n._ an oil much used for the hair, imported
from India and other Eastern countries. [From _Macassar_ in Celebes.]

MACAW, ma-kaw', _n._ a genus of large and beautiful birds with a long tail,
found in tropical America, closely allied to the parrots. [Brazil.
_macao._]

MACCABEAN, mak-a-b[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to Judas _Maccabeus_, or to
the _Maccabees_, an ancient Jewish family who rescued Judea from the
persecutions of Antiochus Epiphanes, king of Syria, about 166 B.C.--as
related in two historical books of the Apocrypha.

MACE, m[=a]s, _n._ a staff used as a mark of authority: a light,
flat-headed stick in use at billiards before the introduction of the bridge
or cue-rest: formerly, a weapon of war, consisting of a staff headed with a
heavy spiked ball of iron: a mallet used by a currier in dressing
leather.--_n._ MACE'-BEAR'ER, one who carries the mace in a procession, or
before men in authority--also MAC'ER. [O. Fr. _mace_ (Fr. _masse_)--obs. L.
_matea_, whence L. dim. _mateola_, a mallet.]

MACE, m[=a]s, _n._ a kind of spice: the second coat of the nutmeg. [O. Fr.
_macis_--L. _macer_--Gr. _maker_.]

MACERATE, mas'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to steep: to soften by steeping: to make
lean: to mortify.--_n._ MACER[=A]'TION, act of softening by steeping:
mortification of the flesh by fasting and other severe modes of living. [L.
_macer[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to steep.]

MACHETE, ma-ch[=a]'t[=a], _n._ a heavy knife or cutlass used by the Cubans,
&c. [Sp.]

MACHIAVELLIAN, mak-i-a-v[=e]l'yan, _adj._ destitute of political morality,
following expediency rather than right: cunning, crafty, perfidious.--_n._
one who imitates Machiavel--more correctly, Niccolo _Machiavelli_--of
Florence (1469-1527): any cunning and unprincipled statesman.--_n._
MACHIAVELL'IANISM, the principles taught by Machiavel, or conduct regulated
by them: cunning statesmanship.

MACHICOLATION, mach-i-ko-l[=a]'shun, _n._ (_archit._) a projecting parapet
or gallery with openings for pouring molten substances upon an attacking
force below: the construction or use of such means of defence.--_adj._
MACHIC'OLATED. [Fr. _mâchicoulis_, from _mâche_, mash, _coulis_, a
flowing--L. _col[=a]re_, to filter.]

MACHINATE, mak'i-n[=a]t, _v.t._ to contrive skilfully: to form a plot or
scheme, esp. for doing harm.--_ns._ MACHIN[=A]'TION, act of machinating or
contriving a scheme for carrying out some purpose, esp. an evil one: an
artful design or plot: MACH'INATOR, one who machinates. [L. _machin[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_--_mach[)i]na_.]

MACHINE, ma-sh[=e]n', _n._ any artificial means or contrivance: any
instrument for the conversion of motion: an engine: a coach or conveyance
of any kind: one who can do only what he is told: a contrivance in the
ancient Greek theatre for indicating a change of scene, by means of which a
god might cross the stage or deliver a divine message--whence the
expression _Deus ex mach[)i]na_ for a sudden interposition of Providence:
any literary contrivance for the development of a plot: supernatural agency
in a poem.--_v.t._ to use machinery for, esp. to print or sew by such: to
make by means of machinery.--_ns._ MACHINE'-GUN, a gun firing a great many
shots one after the other, sometimes as many as 1000 per minute;
MACHINE'-MAN, a man who manages the working of a machine, esp. in a
printing-office; MACHIN'ERY, machines in general: the working parts of a
machine: combined means for keeping anything in action, or for producing a
desired result; MACHINE'-SHOP, a workshop where machines are made;
MACHINE'-TOOL, an adjustable machine for doing work with cutting-tools, or
one utilising minor tools, as a planing-, drilling-machine, &c.;
MACHINE'-WORK, work done by a machine; MACHIN'IST, a constructor of
machines: one well versed in machinery: one who works a machine. [Fr.,--L.
_mach[)i]na_--Gr. _m[=e]chan[=e]_, akin to _m[=e]ch-os_, contrivance.]

MACK'EREL, mak'[.e]r-el, _n._ a food fish, dark blue, with wavy
cross-streaks above, and silvery below.--_n._ MACK'EREL-SKY, a sky with
clouds broken into long, thin, white, parallel masses. [O. Fr. _makerel_
(Fr. _maquereau_), prob. from L. _macula_, a spot.]

MACKINTOSH, mak'in-tosh, _n._ a waterproof overcoat. [From Charles
_Mackintosh_ (1766-1843), the inventor.]

MACKLE, mak'l, _n._ a spot or blemish in printing, by a double impression,
wrinkling, &c.--_v.t._ to spot, blur.

MACLE, mak'l, _n._ a kind of twin crystal: a kind of _cross-stone_ or
_hollow-spar_, called also _Chiastolite_, having the axis and angles of its
crystals coloured differently from the rest.--_adj._ MAC'LED, spotted.
[Through Fr., from L. _macula_, spot.]

MACMILLANITE, mak-mil'an-[=i]t, _n._ an old name for a member of the
Scottish sect of Cameronians or Reformed Presbyterians. [From John
_Macmillan_, (1670-1753), the first ordained minister who associated
himself with the 'suffering remnant.']

MACRAMÉ, mak-ra-m[=a]', _n._ a fringe or trimming of knotted thread--also
knotted bar-work. [It.]

MACROBIOTIC, mak-r[=o]-bi-ot'ik, _adj._ long-lived.--_ns._ MACROBI[=O]'SIS,
long life; MACR[=O]'BIOTE, one who lives long; MACROBIOT'ICS, the study of
longevity.

MACROCEPHALOUS, mak-ro-sef'a-lus, _adj._ having a large or long head.--Also
MACROCEPHAL'IC. [Gr. _makros_, long or great, _kephal[=e]_, a head.]

MACROCOSM, mak'ro-kozm, _n._ the great world: the whole universe:--opp. to
_Microcosm_.--_adj._ MACROCOS'MIC. [Gr. _makros_, long, _kosmos_, world.]

MACRODACTYL, mak-ro-dak'til, _adj._ having long toes.--_n._ a wading-bird
having such:--_pl._ MACRODAC'TYL[=I], and -A. [Gr. _makros_, long,
_daktylos_, finger.]

MACROLOGY, mak-rol'o-ji, _n._ much talk with little to say. [Gr. _makros_,
long, _logos_, a word.]

MACRON, mak'ron, _n._ a straight line placed over a vowel to show that it
is long:--opp. to _Breve_, the mark of a short vowel. [Gr., 'long.']

MACROPOD, mak'ro-pod, _adj._ having long feet.--_n._ a long-legged or
long-footed animal: one of the spider-crabs.--_adjs._ MACROP'ODAL,
MACROP'ODAN, MACROP[=O]'DIAN, MACROP'ODOUS (_bot._). [Gr. _makros_, long,
_pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

MACROPTEROUS, mak-rop'te-rus, _adj._ long-winged. [Gr. _makros_, long,
_pteron_, a wing.]

MACROSCIAN, mak-ros'i-an, _adj._ casting a long shadow.--_n._ an inhabitant
of the Arctic or Antarctic zones. [Gr. _makros_, long, _skia_, shadow.]

MACROSCOPIC, mak-ro-skop'ik, _adj._ visible to the naked eye:--opp. to
_Microscopic_.--_adv._ MACROSCOP'ICALLY. [Gr. _makros_, long, _skopein_, to
see.]

MACROSPORE, mak'ro-sp[=o]r, _n._ a more than usually large spore of a
flowerless plant, as in club-mosses, &c.--_n._ MACROSPORAN'GIUM, a
sporangium containing macrospores. [Gr. _makros_, long, _spora_, a seed.]

MACRUROUS, mak-r[=oo]'rus, _adj._ long-tailed.--Also MACRU'RAL. [Gr.
_makros_, long, _oura_, tail.]

MACULA, mak'[=u]-la, _n._ a spot, as on the skin, or on the surface of the
sun, moon, or planets:--_pl._ MACULÆ (mak'[=u]-l[=e]).--_v.t._
MAC'UL[=A]TE, to spot, to defile.--_n._ MACUL[=A]'TION, act of spotting, a
spot.--_adj._ MACULOSE (mak'[=u]-l[=o]z), spotted. [L. _macul[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--_macula_, a spot.]

MAD, mad, _adj._ (_comp._ MAD'DER; _superl._ MAD'DEST) disordered in
intellect: insane: proceeding from madness, rabid: troubled in mind:
excited with any violent passion or appetite: furious with anger.--_v.t._
(_Shak._) to drive mad.--_adjs._ MAD'BRAIN, MAD'BRAINED (_Shak._),
disordered in brain or mind: rash: hot-headed; MAD'-BRED (_Shak._), bred in
madness or heat of passion.--_n._ MAD'CAP, a person who acts madly: a wild,
rash, hot-headed person.--_adj._ fond of wild and reckless action.--_v.t._
MAD'DEN, to make mad: to enrage.--_v.i._ to become mad: to act as one
mad.--_adj._ MAD'DING, distracted, acting madly.--_advs._ MAD'DINGLY,
MAD'LY.--_ns._ MAD'-DOC'TOR, a doctor who studies and treats the diseases
of mad people; MAD'HOUSE, a house for mad persons: a lunatic asylum;
MAD'LING, a mad person; MAD'MAN, a man who is mad: a maniac; MAD'NESS;
MAD'WORT, a plant believed to cure canine madness.--GO MAD, to become
demented; LIKE MAD, madly, furiously. [A.S. _ge-m['æ]d_; Old Sax. _ge-méd_,
foolish, Ice. _meidd-r_, hurt.]

MADAM, mad'am, _n._ a courteous form of address to a lady, esp. an elderly
or a married one: a woman of fashion:--_pl._ MAD'AMS, or MESDAMES
(m[=a]-dam'). [Fr.,--_ma_, my, _dame_, lady--L. _mea domina_.]

MAD-APPLE, mad'-ap-l, _n._ the egg-plant.

MADAROSIS, mad-a-r[=o]'sis, _n._ loss of the hair, esp. of the eyelashes.
[Gr.,--_madaros_, bald, _madan_, to fall off.]

MADDER, mad'[.e]r, _n._ a plant whose root affords a red dye.--_ns._
MADD'ER-LAKE, a colour mixed either with oil or water, made from madder;
MADD'ER-WORT, any plant of the _Rubiaceæ_ or madder family. [A.S. _mæderu_;
Ice. _maðra_, Dut. _meed_.]

MADE, m[=a]d, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _make_.--MADE CONTINUALLY (_Pr. Bk._),
established for ever; MADE DISH, a dish of meat, &c., recooked: an entrée;
MADE UP, put together, finished: dressed for a part, disguised: perfect:
artificial, invented.

MADEIRA, ma-d[=e]'ra, _n._ a rich wine of the sherry class produced in
_Madeira_.

MADEMOISELLE, mad-mwa-zel', _n._ a courteous form of address to a young
lady: Miss. [Fr., _ma_, my, and _demoiselle_.]

MADGE, maj, _n._ a leaden hammer.

MADGE, maj, _n._ the magpie.

MADIA, m[=a]'di-a, _n._ a genus of American herbs of the aster family, the
tarweeds--a Chilian species yielding a valuable oil.

MADID, mad'id, _adj._ wet, dank. [L. _madidus_--_mad[=e]re_, to be wet;
akin to Gr. _madaein_.]

MADONNA, MADONA, ma-don'a, _n._ a name given to the Virgin, esp. as seen in
works of art: (_Shak._) my lady.--_adv._ MADONN'A-WISE, after the fashion
of the Madonna, esp. in the arrangement of a woman's hair. [It., lit. 'my
lady'--L. _mea domina_.]

MADRAS, ma-dras', _n._ a large handkerchief of silk and cotton, usually in
bright colours, worn on the head by West Indian negroes.

MADREPORE, mad're-p[=o]r, _n._ the common coral. [Fr.,--It., from _madre_,
mother--L. _mater_, and _-pora_--Gr. _p[=o]ros_, a soft stone.]

MADRIGAL, mad'ri-gal, _n._ (_mus._) a piece of music for the voice in five
or six parts: a short poem expressing a graceful and tender
thought.--_adj._ MADRIG[=A]'LIAN.--_n._ MAD'RIGALIST. [It., from _mandra_,
a sheep-fold--L. _mandra_.]

MADROÑO, ma-dr[=o]'ny[=o], _n._ a handsome evergreen tree of North
California.--Also MADR[=O]'ÑA.

MÆCENAS, m[=a]-s[=e]'nas, _n._ a Roman knight who befriended the poets
Virgil and Horace: any rich patron of art or literature.

MAELSTROM, m[=a]l'strom, _n._ a celebrated whirlpool off the coast of
Norway: any resistless overpowering influence for destruction. [Norw.,
'grinding stream.']

MÆNAD, m[=e]'nad, _n._ a female follower of Bacchus, a woman beside herself
with frenzy.--_adj._ MÆNAD'IC, bacchanalian: furious. [Gr. _mainas_,
_-ados_, raving--_mainesthai_, to be mad.]

MAESTOSO, m[=a]-es-t[=o]'zo, _adj._ and _adv._ (_mus._) with dignity or
majesty. [It.]

MAESTRO, ma-es'tr[=o], _n._ a master, esp. an eminent musical composer or
conductor. [It.]

MAFFLED, maf'ld, _adj._ (_prov._) confused in the intellect.--_n._
MAFF'LING, a simpleton.

MAG, mag, _n._ a halfpenny.--Also MAIK, MAKE.

MAG, mag, _v.i._ (_prov._) to chatter.--_v.t._ to tease.--_n._ chatter: the
magpie: the long-tailed titmouse.

MAG, mag, _v.t._ (_slang_) to steal.--_n._ MAGS'MAN, a street swindler.

MAGAZINE, mag-a-z[=e]n', _n._ a storehouse: a place for military stores:
the gunpowder-room in a ship: a pamphlet or small book published from time
to time, containing compositions on various subjects.--_ns._ MAGAZINE'-GUN,
or -R[=I]'FLE, a gun or rifle from which many shots can be fired one after
another without reloading. [Fr. _magasin_--It. _magazzino_--Ar. _makhzan_,
a storehouse.]

MAGDALEN, mag'da-len, _n._ a repentant prostitute.--Also MAG'DALENE. [From
Mary _Magdalene_ (Luke, viii. 2), confused with the woman of Luke vii.
37-50.]

MAGDEBURG HEMISPHERES, mag'de-b[=oo]rg hem'i-sf[=e]rz, _n.pl._ two
hemispherical cups from within which, when placed together, the air can be
removed by an air-pump to show the pressure of the air on the outside.
[Invented at _Magdeburg_ in Germany.]

MAGE, m[=a]j, _n._ a magician, enchanter (see MAGI).

MAGENTA, ma-jen'ta, _n._ a colour between pink and red. [From the battle of
_Magenta_ in North Italy, 1859.]

MAGGOT, mag'ut, _n._ a worm or grub: a whim.--_adj._ MAGG'OTY, full of
maggots. [W. _maceiad_, akin to _magiaid_, worms, _magu_, to breed.]

MAGI, m[=a]'j[=i], _n.pl._ priests of the ancient Persians: the Wise Men of
the East.--_adj._ M[=A]'GIAN, pertaining to the Magi.--_n._ one of the
Magi.--_ns._ M[=A]'GIANISM, or M[=A]'GISM, the philosophy or doctrines of
the Magi. [L.,--Gr. _magos_, orig. a title given to the wise men of
Chaldea, astrologers and wizards.]

MAGIC, maj'ik, _n._ the pretended art of producing marvellous results by
the aid of spirits, or of the secret forces of nature: enchantment:
sorcery.--_adjs._ MAG'IC, -AL, pertaining to, used in, or done by magic:
causing wonderful or startling results.--_adv._ MAG'ICALLY.--_ns._
MAGIC'IAN, one skilled in magic: a wizard: an enchanter; MAG'IC-LAN'TERN
(see LANTERN).--MAGIC SQUARE, a square filled with rows of figures so
arranged that the sums of all the rows will be the same, perpendicularly or
horizontally--as 2, 7, 6; 9, 5, 1; 4, 3, 8, &c.; there are also MAGIC
CIRCLES, CUBES, CYLINDERS, and SPHERES similarly arranged.--BLACK MAGIC,
the black art, magic by means of union with evil spirits; NATURAL MAGIC,
the art of working wonders by a superior knowledge of the powers of nature;
WHITE MAGIC, magic without the aid of the devil. [O. Fr.
_magique_--L.,--Gr. See MAGI.]

MAGILP, ma-gilp', _n._ a vehicle used by oil-painters, consisting of
linseed-oil and mastic varnish--written also MEGILP'. [Prob. from a proper
name.]

MAGISTERIAL, maj-is-t[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ pertaining or suitable to a master:
in the manner of a master: of the rank of a magistrate: authoritative:
proud: dignified.--_n._ MAGIS'TER, master.--_adv._
MAGIST[=E]'RIALLY.--_ns._ MAGIST[=E]'RIALNESS; MAGIST[=E]'RIUM, an
authoritative statement; MAG'ISTERY, a term in alchemy for various
preparations, esp. a precipitate of bismuth: any sovereign remedy: a
mandate. [L. _magisterius_--_magister_, a master--_mag_, root of L.
_magnus_, great.]

MAGISTRATE, maj'is-tr[=a]t, _n._ a person entrusted with the power of
putting the laws in force: a justice of the peace.--_n._ MAG'ISTRACY, the
office or dignity of a magistrate: the body of magistrates.--_adj._
MAG'ISTRAL, magisterial: specially prescribed or made up, as a medicine:
effectual.--_n._ (_fort._) the guiding line determining the other
positions: a special preacher in Spanish cathedrals, &c.--_n._ MAGISTRAND',
an arts student ready to proceed to graduation, at Aberdeen.--_adj._
MAGISTRAT'IC. [O. Fr.,--L. _magistratus_, _magister_.]

MAGMA, mag'ma, _n._ any soft doughy mass: the molten mass within the
earth's crust: the residuum after expressing the juice from fruits. [Gr.]

MAGNA CHARTA, mag'na kär'ta, _n._ the Great Charter obtained from King
John, 1215 A.D. [L.]

MAGNANERIE, man-yan'e-r[=e], _n._ a place for rearing silkworms. [Fr.]

MAGNANIMITY, mag-na-nim'i-ti, _n._ greatness of soul: elevation of dignity,
of mind: that quality of mind which raises a person above all that is mean
of unjust: generosity.--_adj._ MAGNAN'IMOUS, elevated in sentiment, noble:
brave: unselfish.--_adv._ MAGNAN'IMOUSLY. [L. _magnanimitas_--_magnus_,
great, _animus_, the mind.]

MAGNATE, mag'n[=a]t, _n._ a noble: a man of rank or wealth. [Fr. _magnat_,
a title of Hungarian and Polish nobles--L. _magnas_, _magnatis_, a
prince--_magnus_, great.]

MAGNES, mag'n[=e]z, _n._ (_Spens._) the magnet. [L.]

MAGNESIUM, mag-n[=e]'shi-um, or -si-um, _n._ a metal of a bright,
silver-white colour, which while burning gives a dazzling white light, and
forms magnesia.--_n._ MAGN[=E]'SIA, a light white powder, got by burning
magnesium, used as a medicine.--_adj._ MAGN[=E]'SIAN, belonging to,
containing, or resembling magnesia.--_n._ MAG'NESITE, native magnesium
carbonate.

MAGNET, mag'net, _n._ the lodestone, an iron ore which attracts iron, and,
when hung so that it can move freely, points to the poles: a bar or piece
of steel to which the properties of the lodestone have been
imparted.--_adjs._ MAGNET'IC, -AL, pertaining to the magnet: having the
properties of the magnet: attractive.--_adv._ MAGNET'ICALLY.--_ns._
MAGNETIC'IAN, MAG'NETIST, one versed in magnetism.--_adj._
MAGNETIS'ABLE.--_n._ MAGNETIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MAG'NETISE, to render
magnetic: to attract as if by a magnet.--_v.i._ to become magnetic.--_ns._
MAG'NETISER, one who, or that which, imparts magnetism; MAG'NETISM, the
cause of the attractive power of the magnet: attraction: the science which
treats of the properties of the magnet--(ANIMAL MAGNETISM, Mesmer's name
for the phenomena of mesmerism; TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM, the magnetic
properties possessed by the earth as a whole); MAG'NETIST, one skilled in
magnetism.--_adjs._ MAG'NETO-ELEC'TRIC, -AL, pertaining to
magneto-electricity.--_ns._ MAG'NETO-ELECTRIC'ITY, electricity produced by
the action of magnets: the science which treats of electricity produced by
magnetism; BAR'-MAG'NET, a magnet in the form of a bar.--MAGNETIC BATTERY,
several magnets placed with their like poles together, so as to act with
great force; MAGNETIC CURVES, the curves formed by iron-filings around the
poles of a magnet; MAGNETIC EQUATOR, the line round the earth where the
magnetic needle remains horizontal; MAGNETIC FIELD, the space over which
magnetic force is felt; MAGNETIC FLUID, a hypothetical fluid assumed to
explain the phenomena of magnetism; MAGNETIC MERIDIAN, the meridian lying
in the direction in which the magnetic needle points; MAGNETIC NEEDLE, the
light bar in the mariner's compass which, because it is magnetised, points
always to the north; MAGNETIC NORTH, that point of the horizon which is
indicated by the direction of the magnetic needle; MAGNETIC POLES, two
nearly opposite points on the earth's surface, where the dip of the needle
is 90°; MAGNETIC STORM, a disturbance in the magnetism of the earth or air,
which causes the magnetic needle to move rapidly backwards and
forwards.--ARTIFICIAL MAGNET, a magnet made by rubbing with other magnets;
HORSE-SHOE MAGNET, a magnet bent like a horse-shoe; PERMANENT MAGNET, a
magnet that keeps its magnetism after the force which magnetised it has
been removed. [Through O. Fr., from L. _magnes_, a magnet--Gr.
_magn[=e]s_=Magnesian stone, from _Magn[=e]sia_, in Lydia or Thessaly.]

MAGNIFICAT, mag-nif'i-kat, _n._ the song of the Virgin Mary, Luke, i.
46-55, beginning in the Vulgate with this word. [L. '(my soul) doth
magnify,' 3d pers. sing. pres. ind. of _magnific[=a]re_.]

MAGNIFICENT, mag-nif'i-sent, _adj._ great in deeds or in appearance: grand:
noble: pompous: displaying greatness of size or extent.--_n._
MAGNIF'ICENCE.--_adv._ MAGNIF'ICENTLY.--_n._ MAGNIF'ICO (_Shak._), a title
for a Venetian nobleman: a grandee.

MAGNIFY, mag'ni-f[=i], _v.t._ to make great or greater: to enlarge: to
cause to appear greater: to exaggerate: to praise highly:--_pa.p._
mag'nified.--_adjs._ MAG'NIFIABLE, that may be magnified; MAGNIF'IC, -AL,
great: splendid: noble.--_adv._ MAGNIF'ICALLY, in a magnificent
manner.--_ns._ MAGNIFIC[=A]'TION, act of magnifying: increase of visual
power in penetration as well as enlargement; MAG'NIFIER, one who, or that
which, magnifies or enlarges: one who extols.--MAGNIFY ONE'S SELF, show
great pride--AGAINST, oppose with pride; MAGNIFYING GLASS, in optics, a
convex lens, objects seen through it having their apparent dimensions
increased. [Fr.,--L. _magnific[=a]re_--_magnus_, great, _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

MAGNILOQUENT, mag-nil'o-kwent, _adj._ speaking in a grand or pompous style:
bombastic.--_n._ MAGNIL'OQUENCE.--_adv._ MAGNIL'OQUENTLY. [L., from
_magnus_, great, _loqui_, to speak.]

MAGNITUDE, mag'ni-t[=u]d, _n._ greatness: size: extent: importance. [L.
_magnitudo_--_magnus_.]

MAGNOLIA, mag-n[=o]l'i-a, or -ya, _n._ a North American tree with beautiful
foliage, and large, white or purplish, sweet-scented flowers. [From Pierre
_Magnol_ (1638-1715), a Montpellier botanist.]

MAGNUM, mag'num, _n._ a bottle holding two quarts: the quantity of wine
filling such. [L.]

MAGOT, mag'ot, _n._ the Barbary ape, the only species of monkey existing in
Europe: a small grotesque figure, crouching on the covers of vases; &c.

MAGPIE, mag'p[=i], _n._ a chattering bird, of a genus allied to the crow,
with pied or coloured feathers: (_slang_) a halfpenny--(_Shak._)
MAG'OT-PIE, MAGG'OT-PIE. [_Mag_, a familiar contr. of _Margaret_ (cf.
_Robin-Redbreast_, _Jenny Wren_), _pie_, from L. _pica_, a
magpie--_ping[)e]re_, _pictum_, to paint.]

MAGYAR, ma-jär', or mag'yär, _n._ one of the prevailing race in Hungary:
the native speech of Hungary.

MAHABHARATA, ma-hä-bä'ra-tä, _n._ the name of one of the two great epic
poems of ancient India, the other being the _Ramayana_. [Sans.; prob. 'the
great history of the descendants of _Bharata_.']

MAHADEVA, ma-ha-d[=a]'va, _n._ one of the names of the Hindu god Siva.
[Sans. _mah[=a]_, great, _deva_, god.]

MAHARAJAH, ma-ha-rä'jä, _n._ the title given to a great Indian
prince:--_fem._ MAHARA'NI, MAHARA'NEE. [Sans. _mah[=a]_, great, _r[=a]ja_,
prince or king.]

MAHATMA, ma-hat'ma, _n._ one skilled in mysteries or religious secrets: an
adept. [Sans., 'high-souled.']

MAHDI, mä'd[=e], _n._ the great leader of the faithful Mohammedans, who is
to appear in the last days--one pretended Mahdi overthrew the Egyptian
power in the Soudan in 1884-85.--_ns._ MAH'DISM; MAH'DIST.

MAHL-STICK, mäl'-stik, _n._ a tapering staff used by painters as a rest for
the right hand.--Also MAL'STICK, MAUL'STICK. [Ger. _mahlstock_.]

MAHOGANY, ma-hog'a-ni, _n._ a tree of tropical America: its wood, which is
of great value for making furniture.--_n._ MAHOG'ANY-TREE, same as
mahogany: (_hum._) the dinner-table. [_Mahogoni_, the native South American
name.]

MAHOMEDAN, MAHOMETAN. See MOHAMMEDAN.

MAHOUN, MAHOUND, ma-hown', ma-hownd', or mä'-, _n._ an old form of the name
of _Mohammed_: an evil spirit: the devil.

MAHOUT, ma-h[=oo]t', _n._ the keeper and driver of an elephant. [Hind.
_mah[=a]ut_, _mah[=a]wat_.]

MAHRATTA, ma-rat'a, _n._ one of a once powerful race of Hindus in Western
and Central India.

MAID, m[=a]d, _n._ an unmarried woman, esp. one young: a virgin: a female
servant.--_ns._ MAID'-CHILD (_B._), a female child; MAID'-M[=A]'RIAN, the
May-queen; a character in the old Morris-dance, usually represented by a
man in woman's clothes (_Marian_, relating to Mary or to the Virgin
Mary).--_adj._ MAID'-PALE (_Shak._), pale, like a sick girl.--_n._
MAID'SERVANT, a female servant.--MAID OF ALL WORK, a domestic who does
general housework; OLD MAID, a woman left unmarried: a card game. [A.S.
_mægden_--_mægeð_, a maid; cf. _magu_, son, _m['æ]g_, may.]

MAIDAN, m[=i]'dan, _n._ an esplanade or parade-ground near a town in Persia
and India. [Pers.]

MAIDEN, m[=a]d'n, _n._ a maid: in Scotland, a machine like the guillotine,
formerly used for beheading criminals.--_adj._ pertaining to a virgin or
young woman: consisting of maidens: (_fig._) unpolluted: fresh: new:
unused: first: that has never been captured, said of a fortress.--_ns._
MAID'ENHAIR, a name given to a fern from the fine hair-like stalks of its
fronds; MAID'ENHOOD, MAID'ENHEAD, the state of being a maid: virginity:
purity: freshness; MAID'ENLINESS.--_adjs._ MAID'ENLY, maiden-like: becoming
a maiden: gentle: modest; MAID'EN-MEEK (_Tenn._), meek as a maiden;
MAID'EN-TONGUED, gentle in voice like a girl; MAID'EN-WID'OWED, widowed
while still a virgin.--_n._ MAID'HOOD (_Shak._).--MAIDEN ASSIZE, an assize
at which there are no criminal cases; MAIDEN BATTLE, a first contest;
MAIDEN FORTRESS, a fortress that has never been captured; MAIDEN NAME, the
family name of a married woman before her marriage; MAIDEN OVER, in
cricket, an over in which no runs are made; MAIDEN SPEECH, the first public
speech made by a person, esp. in Parliament; MAIDEN STAKES, in
horse-racing, the money contended for in a race between horses that have
never run before.

MAIEUTIC, m[=a]-[=u]'tik, _adj._ helping childbirth.--_n._ midwifery. [Gr.]

MAIGRE, m[=a]'g[.e]r, _adj._ made neither from flesh-meat nor from gravy:
belonging to a fast-day or to a fast.--MAIGRE FOOD, food allowed to be
eaten on fast-days. [Fr. _maigre_, lean--L. _macer_.]

MAIL, m[=a]l, _n._ defensive armour for the body formed of steel rings or
network: armour generally.--_v.t._ to clothe in mail: (_Scot._) to
stain.--_adjs._ MAIL'-CLAD, clad with a coat of mail; MAILED, protected by
mail. [Fr. _maille_--L. _macula_, a spot or a mesh.]

MAIL, m[=a]l, _n._ a bag for the conveyance of letters, &c.: the contents
of such a bag: the person or the carriage by which the mail is
conveyed.--_v.t._ to put into the mail: to send by mail.--_adj._ MAIL'ABLE,
capable of being sent by mail.--_ns._ MAIL'-BAG, a bag in which letters are
carried; MAIL'-BOAT, a boat which carries the public mails; MAIL'-CART, a
cart in which mails are carried: a small cart, with long handles, for the
amusement of children; MAIL'-CATCH'ER, an apparatus attached to a
mail-carriage to catch up mail-bags while the train is in motion;
MAIL'-COACH, -CAR, or -DRAG, the conveyance which carries the public mails;
MAIL'-GUARD, an officer who guards the public mails; MAIL'ING-T[=A]'BLE, a
table used in a post-office in sorting letters; MAIL'-TRAIN, a railway
train which carries the public mails. [O. Fr. _male_, a trunk, a mail--Old
High Ger. _malaha_, a sack; Gael. _mala_, a sack.]

MAIL, m[=a]l, _n._ an old French coin--half a denier: rent.--_n._ MAIL'ING,
a farm. [See BLACKMAIL.]

MAIM, m[=a]m, _n._ a bruise: an injury: a lameness: the loss of any
essential part.--_v.t._ to bruise: to disfigure: to injure: to lame or
cripple: to render defective.--_n._ MAIM'EDNESS, the state of being maimed
or injured. [O. Fr. _mehaing_, a bruise.]

MAIN, m[=a]n, _n._ might: strength. [A.S. _mægen_.]

MAIN, m[=a]n, _adj._ chief, principal: first in importance: leading.--_n._
the chief or principal part: the ocean or main sea: a continent or a larger
island as compared with a smaller: a principal gas or water pipe in a
street, or the largest conductor in a system of electric lights.--_ns._
MAIN'BOOM, the spar which extends the foot of a fore-and-aft mainsail;
MAIN'DECK, the principal deck of a ship--so in MAIN'BRACE, the brace
attached to the mainyard (see SPLICE); MAIN'LAND, the principal or larger
land, as opposed to a smaller portion.--_adv._ MAIN'LY, chiefly,
principally.--_ns._ MAIN'MAST, the principal mast of a ship, second from
the prow; MAIN'SAIL, the principal sail generally attached to the mainmast;
MAIN'SHEET, the sheet or rope attached to the lower corner of the mainsail;
MAIN'SPRING, the spring which gives motion to any piece of machinery, esp.
that of a watch or a clock; MAIN'STAY, the rope which stretches forward
from the top of the mainmast: chief support; MAIN'TOP, a platform on the
top of the mainmast; MAIN'TOPMAST, the mast next above the lower mainmast;
MAIN'TOPSAIL, the sail above the mainsail, in square-rigged vessels;
MAIN'YARD, the lower yard on the mainmast. [O. Fr. _maine_ or _magne_,
great--L. _magnus_, great.]

MAIN, m[=a]n, _n._ a hand at dice: a match at cockfighting: a banker's
shovel for coin. [O. Fr. _main_--L. _manus_, hand.]

MAINOR, m[=a]'nor, _n._ act or fact, esp. of theft: that which is stolen.

MAINS, m[=a]nz, _n._ (_Scot._) the principal or home farm.

[Illustration]

MAINTAIN, men-t[=a]n', _v.t._ to keep in any state: to keep possession of:
to preserve from capture or loss: to carry on: to keep up: to support: to
make good: to support by argument: to affirm: to defend.--_v.i._ to affirm,
as a position: to assert.--_adj._ MAINTAIN'ABLE, that can be supported or
defended.--_ns._ MAINTAIN'ER, one who maintains; MAIN'TENANCE, the act of
maintaining, supporting, or defending: continuance: the means of support:
defence, protection: (_law_) an interference in a lawsuit, &c., in favour
of one of the parties, by one who has no right or interest.--CAP OF
MAINTENANCE, a cap of dignity borne by or before nobles and other persons
of rank. [Fr. _maintenir_--L. _manu ten[=e]re_, to hold in the
hand--_manus_, a hand, _ten[=e]re_, to hold.]

MAISTER, m[=a]s't[.e]r, _n._ an obsolete form of MASTER.--MAISTERY=MASTERY;
MAISTRING=MASTERING; MAÎTRE=MASTER.

MAIZE, m[=a]z, _n._ a plant, and its fruit, called also _Indian corn_ or
_wheat._ [Sp.,--Haitian.]

MAJESTY, maj'es-ti, _n._ greatness: grandeur: dignity: elevation of manner
or style: royal state: a title of kings and other sovereigns, esp. with
possessive pronouns, as _His_ or _Her Majesty_, &c.: a symbolic
representation of the first person of the Trinity enthroned: the canopy of
a hearse: (_her._) an eagle crowned and sceptred.--_adjs._ MAJES'TIC, -AL,
having or exhibiting majesty: stately: sublime.--_adv._ MAJES'TICALLY, in a
majestic manner.--_n._ MAJES'TICALNESS, MAJES'TICNESS, majesty. [Fr.
_majesté_--L. _majestas_--_majus_, comp. of _magnus_, great.]

MAJOLICA, ma-jol'i-ka, _n._ name applied to decorative enamelled pottery,
esp. that of Italy from the 15th to the 17th cent.: a modern ware in
imitation, used for vases, &c. [From _Majorca_, where first made.]

MAJOR, m[=a]'jur, _adj._ greater in number, quantity, or size: more
important: (_mus._) greater by a semitone.--_n._ a person of full age (21
years): an officer in rank between a captain and
lieutenant-colonel.--_v.i._ to play the major, to talk big.--_ns._ MAJORAT
(ma-zh[=o]-rä'), primogeniture; M[=A]'JORATE, M[=A]'JORSHIP, the office or
rank of major: majority; M[=A]'JOR-D[=O]'MO, an official who has the
general management in a large household: a general steward: a chief
minister (Sp. _mayor-domo_, a house-steward--L. _major_, greater, _domus_,
a house); M[=A]'JOR-GEN'ERAL, an officer in the army next in rank below a
lieutenant-general; MAJOR'ITY, the greater number: the amount between the
greater and the less number: full age (at 21): the office or rank of
major.--MAJOR KEY (_mus._), a key in which the semitones lie between the
third and fourth, and seventh and eighth; MAJOR PREMISE (_logic_), the
principal or major statement in a syllogism; MAJOR SCALE (see MAJOR
KEY).--GO OVER TO, or JOIN, THE MAJORITY, to die; THE MAJORITY, the GREAT
MAJORITY, the dead. [L., comp. of _magnus_.]

MAJUSCULE, m[=a]-jus'k[=u]l, _n._ in paleography, a capital or uncial
letter:--opp. to _Minuscule_. [L. _majuscula_ (_litera_), a somewhat larger
letter.]

MAKE, m[=a]k, _v.t._ to fashion, frame, or form: to produce: to bring
about: to perform: to force: to render: to represent, or cause to appear to
be: to turn: to occasion: to bring into any state or condition: to
establish: to prepare: to obtain: to ascertain: to arrive in sight of: to
reach: (_B._) to be occupied with: to do.--_v.i._ to tend or move: to
contribute: (_B._) to feign or pretend:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ m[=a]de.--_n._
form or shape: structure, texture.--_v.i._ MAKE'-BELIEVE', to pretend,
feign.--_n._ a mere pretence.--_ns._ MAKE'-PEACE (_Shak._), a peace-maker;
MAK'ER, one who makes: the Creator: a poet; MAKE'SHIFT, something done or
used to serve a shift or turn: something used only for a time.--_adj._
having the character of a temporary resource.--_ns._ MAKE'-UP, the way
anything is arranged: an actor's materials for personating a part:
(_print._) the arrangement of composed types into columns or pages, as in
imposition; MAKE'-WEIGHT, that which is thrown into a scale to make up the
weight: something of little value added to supply a deficiency; MAK'ING,
the act of forming: structure: form.--MAKE ACCOUNT OF (see ACCOUNT); MAKE A
FIGURE, to be conspicuous; MAKE AFTER, to follow or pursue; MAKE AMENDS, to
render compensation or satisfaction; MAKE AS IF, to act as if, to pretend
that; MAKE AT, to make a hostile movement against; MAKE AWAY, to put out of
the way, to destroy; MAKE AWAY WITH, to squander; MAKE BELIEVE (see
BELIEVE); MAKE BOLD (see BOLD); MAKE FOR, to move toward, to tend to the
advantage of--so in _B._; MAKE FREE WITH, to treat freely or without
ceremony; MAKE GOOD, to maintain, to justify, to fulfil; MAKE HEAD AGAINST,
to oppose successfully; MAKE LIGHT of (see LIGHT); MAKE LITTLE OF, to treat
as insignificant; MAKE LOVE TO (see LOVE); MAKE MUCH OF, to treat with
fondness, to cherish, to foster; MAKE NO DOUBT, to have no doubt, to be
confident; MAKE OF, to understand by, to effect: to esteem; MAKE OFF WITH,
to run away with; MAKE ONE'S WAY, to proceed: to succeed; MAKE OUT, to
discover: to prove: to furnish: to succeed; MAKE OVER, to remake,
reconstruct: to transfer; MAKE PACE, to increase the speed; MAKE SAIL, to
increase the quantity of sail: to set sail; MAKE SURE, to be certain of;
MAKE SURE OF, to consider as certain, to secure to one's self; MAKE THE
MOST OF, to use to the best advantage; MAKE UP, to fabricate: to feign: to
collect into one: to complete, supplement: to assume a particular form of
features: to determine: to reckon: to make good: to repair: to harmonise,
adjust; MAKE UP FOR, to compensate; MAKE UP TO, to approach: to become
friendly. [A.S. _macian_; Ger. _machen_.]

MAKE, m[=a]k, _n._ (_Spens._) a mate, consort, equal.--_adj._ MAKE'LESS
(_Shak._), without a make or mate. [A.S. _ge-maca_; Ice. _maki_, a mate.]

MAKETH, m[=a]k'eth, old 3d pers. sing. pres. ind. of _make_.

MAKIMONO, mak-i-m[=o]'n[=o], _n._ a roll, as of silk, esp. a long picture
or writing rolled up and not hung. [Jap.]

MAKWA, mak'wa, _n._ a Chinese short outer jacket.

MALACHITE, mal'a-k[=i]t, _n._ a green-coloured mineral, composed
essentially of carbonate of copper, much used for inlaid-work. [Gr.
_malach[=e]_, a mallow, a plant of a green colour.]

MALACOLITE, mal'a-k[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a greenish lime-magnesia variety of
pyroxene.

MALACOLOGY, mal-a-kol'o-ji, _n._ the branch of natural history which treats
of the structure and habits of molluscs.--_adj._ MAL'ACOID,
soft-bodied.--_n._ MALACOL'OGIST. [Gr. _malakos_, soft, _logia_, a
discourse.]

MALACOPTERYGIAN, mal-a-kop-t[.e]r-ij'i-an, _adj._ having the rays of the
fins soft, excepting the first ray of the dorsal and pectoral fins, as in
the pike, salmon, &c.--Also MALACOPTERYG'IOUS. [Gr. _malakos_, soft,
_pteryx_, _pterygos_, a wing.]

MALACOSTRACAN, mal-a-kos'tra-kan, _n._ an individual belonging to a
sub-class of crustaceans, including the shrimps, lobsters, &c.--_adj._
belonging to this class--also MALACOS'TRACOUS.--_adj._
MALACOSTRACOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ MALACOSTRACOL'OGIST; MALACOSTRACOL'OGY. [Gr.
_malakos_, soft, _ostrakon_, a shell.]

MALACOZOA, mal-a-ko-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ soft-bodied animals, the Mollusca
generally.--_adj._ MALACOZ[=O]'IC, possessing the common features of
molluscan life.

MALADAPTATION, mal-ad-ap-t[=a]'shun, _n._ faulty adaptation.

MALADDRESS, mal-a-dres', _n._ awkwardness: clumsiness.

MALADJUSTMENT, mal-ad-just'ment, _n._ a wrong adjustment.

MALADMINISTRATION, mal-ad-min-is-tr[=a]'shun, _n._ bad management, esp. of
public affairs.

MALADROIT, mal-a-droit', _adj._ not dexterous: unskilful: clumsy.--_adv._
MALADROIT'LY.--_n._ MALADROIT'NESS, want of adroitness: awkwardness.

MALADY, mal'a-di, _n._ illness: disease, either of the body or of the mind.
[Fr. _maladie_--_malade_, sick--L. _male habitus_, in ill
condition--_male_, badly, _habitus_, pa.p. of _hab[=e]re_, have, hold.]

MALAGA, mal'a-ga, _n._ a wine imported from _Malaga_ in Spain.

MALAGASY, mal-a-gas'i, _adj._ of or pertaining to Madagascar or its
inhabitants.--_n._ a native of Madagascar.--Also MALAGASH'.

MALAGUETTA PEPPER. See PEPPER.

MALAISE, ma-l[=a]z', _n._ uneasiness: a feeling of discomfort or of
sickness. [O. Fr. _malaise_.]

MALAPERT, mal'a-p[.e]rt, _adj._ bold: forward: saucy: impudent.--_adv._
MAL'APERTLY.--_n._ MAL'APERTNESS. [O. Fr., _mal_--L. _malus_, bad, _apert_,
well-bred--L. _apertus_, open.]

MALAPPROPRIATE, mal-a-pr[=o]'pri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to misuse.--_adj._
MALAPROPOS (mal-ap-ro-p[=o]'), out of place: unsuitable: inapt.--_adv._
badly apropos: not suited to the purpose: unseasonably.

MALAPROPISM, mal'a-prop-izm, _n._ the act of misapplying words, in the
attempt to use fine language, from Mrs _Malaprop_ in Sheridan's play, _The
Rivals_.

MALAR, m[=a]'lar, _adj._ pertaining to the cheek.--_n._ the bone which
forms the prominence of the cheek. [L. _mala_, the cheek--_mand[)e]re_, to
chew.]

MALARIA, ma-l[=a]'ri-a, _n._ the poisonous air arising from marshy
districts, producing fever, &c.: miasma: the fever so caused.--_adjs._
MAL[=A]'RIOUS, MAL[=A]'RIAL, MAL[=A]'RIAN. [It. _mal' aria_--L. _malus_,
bad, _aër_, air.]

MALASSIMILATION, mal-a-sim-i-l[=a]'shun, _n._ imperfect assimilation or
nutrition.

MALAY, -AN, ma-l[=a]', -an, _n._ a native or inhabitant of _Malacca_, or of
the _Malay_ Archipelago.--_adj._ of or pertaining to the Malays.--_n._
MALAYÄ'LAM, the language of Malabar, a Dravidian dialect.--_adj._
MALAY'SIAN, relating to the Malay Peninsula, or to the Malays.

MALCONFORMATION, mal-kon-for-m[=a]'shun, _n._ bad conformation or form:
imperfection or disproportion of parts.

MALCONTENT, mal'kon-tent, _adj._ discontented, dissatisfied, esp. in
political matters.--_n._ one discontented--also MALCONTENT'ED.--_adv._
MALCONTENT'EDLY.--_n._ MALCONTENT'EDNESS.--_adv._ MALCONTENT'LY.

MALE, m[=a]l, _n._ (_Spens._) mail, armour.

MALE, m[=a]l, _adj._ masculine: pertaining to the sex that begets (not
bears) young: (_bot._) bearing stamens.--_n._ one of the male sex: a
he-animal: a stamen-bearing plant.--_n._ MALE'-FERN, an elegant fern, with
the fronds growing in a crown.--MALE ORDER, in architecture, the Doric
order; MALE RHYMES, those in which only the final syllables correspond;
MALE SCREW, a screw whose threads correspond to and enter the spiral
grooves of the female screw. [O. Fr. _male_--L. _masculus_, male--_mas_, a
male.]

MALEDICTION, mal-e-dik'shun, _n._ evil-speaking: a calling down of evil:
curse: execration or imprecation.--_adjs._ MALEDICT'ORY, imprecatory;
MALEDIKT', accursed. [O. Fr.,--L. _malediction-em_--_male_, badly,
_dic[)e]re_, _dictum_, to speak.]

MALEFACTOR, mal'e-fak-tur, or mal-e-fak'tur, _n._ an evil-doer: a
criminal.--_n._ MALEFAC'TION (_Shak._), a crime, an offence.--_adj._
MALEF'IC, doing mischief: producing evil.--_adv._ MALEF'ICALLY.--_v.t._
MALEF'ICATE, to bewitch.--_ns._ MAL'EFICE (_obs._), an evil deed:
enchantment; MALEF'ICENCE, the character of being maleficent.--_adjs._
MALEF'ICENT, MALEFIC'IENT. [L., _male_, badly, _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

MALEIC, ma-l[=e]'ik, _adj._ obtained from malic acid.

MALENGINE, ma-len'jin, _n._ (_Spens._) evil device, deceit. [L. _malus_,
bad, _ingenium_, ingenuity.]

MALETOTE, mal'e-t[=o]t, _n._ an illegal exaction.--Also MAL'ETOLT. [O. Fr.]

MALEVOLENT, mal-ev'o-lent, _adj._ wishing evil: ill-disposed towards
others: rejoicing in another's misfortune: envious: malicious--also
MALEV'OLOUS.--_n._ MALEV'OLENCE.--_adv._ MALEV'OLENTLY. [L. _male_, badly,
_volens_, pr.p. of _velle_, to wish.]

MALFEASANCE, mal-f[=e]'zans, _n._ evil-doing: the doing of what one ought
not to do: an illegal deed. [Fr. _malfaisance_--L. _male_, evil,
_fac[)e]re_, to do.]

MALFORMATION, mal-for-m[=a]'shun, _n._ bad or wrong formation: irregular or
anomalous structure.--_adj._ MALFORMED'.

MALGRADO, mal-grä'do, _adv._ in spite of. [It.]

MALGRE. Same as MAUGRE.

MALIC, m[=a]'lik, _adj._ obtained from the juice of several fruits, esp.
the apple. [L. _malum_, an apple.]

MALICE, mal'is, _n._ ill-will: spite: disposition to harm others:
deliberate mischief: intention to harm another.--_adj._ MALIC'IOUS, bearing
ill-will or spite: moved by hatred or ill-will: having mischievous
intentions.--_adv._ MALIC'IOUSLY.--_n._ MALIC'IOUSNESS. [Fr.,--L.
_malitia_--_malus_, bad.]

MALIGN, ma-l[=i]n', _adj._ of an evil disposition towards others:
malicious: unfavourable.--_v.t._ to speak evil of: (_obs._) to treat with
malice.--_ns._ MALIGN'ER; MALIG'NITY, state or quality of being malign:
great hatred, virulence: deadly quality.--_adv._ MALIGN'LY.--_n._
MALIGN'MENT. [Fr. _malin_, fem. _maligne_--L. _malignus_ for _maligenus_,
of evil disposition--_malus_, bad, and _gen_, root of _genus_.]

MALIGNANT, ma-lig'nant, _adj._ disposed to do harm or to cause suffering:
malign: acting maliciously: actuated by great hatred: tending to cause
death.--_n._ a name applied by the Puritan party to one who had fought for
Charles I. in the Civil War.--_n._ MALIG'NANCY, MALIG'NANCE, state or
quality of being malignant.--_adv._ MALIG'NANTLY. [L. _malignans_, pr.p. of
_malign[=a]re_, to act maliciously.]

MALINES LACE. Same as MECHLIN LACE. See LACE.

MALINFLUENCE, mal-in'fl[=oo]-ens, _n._ evil influence.

MALINGER, ma-ling'g[.e]r, _v.i._ to feign sickness in order to avoid
duty.--_ns._ MALING'ERER; MALING'ERY, feigned sickness. [Fr.
_malingre_--_mal_--L. _malus_, bad, O. Fr. _heingre_, ailing--L. _æger_,
sick.]

MALISON, mal'i-zn, _n._ a curse:--opp. to _Benison_. [O. Fr.; a doublet of
_malediction_; cf. _benison_ and _benediction_.]

MALKIN, maw'kin, _n._ (_Shak._) a term used in contempt for a dirty woman:
a mop: (_Scot._) a hare.--Also MAW'KIN. [Dim. of _Mal_ or _Moll_, Mary.]

MALL, mawl, or mal, _n._ a large wooden beetle or hammer.--_v.t._ to beat
with a mall or something heavy: to bruise. [O. Fr. _mail_--L. _malleus_.]

MALL, mel, or mal, _n._ a level shaded walk: a public walk. [Contr. through
O. Fr. of Old It. _palamaglio_--It. _palla_, a ball, _maglio_, a mace.]

MALLARD, mal'ard, _n._ a drake: the common duck in its wild state. [O. Fr.
_malard_ (Fr. _malart_)--_male_, male, and suffix _-ard_.]

MALLEATE, mal'e-[=a]t, _v.t._ to hammer: to form into a plate or leaf by
hammering.--_adj._ MALL'EABLE, that may be malleated or beaten out by
hammering.--_ns._ MALL'EABLENESS, MALLEABIL'ITY, quality of being
malleable; MALLE[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MALL'EIFORM, hammer-shaped.--_n._
MALL'EUS, one of the small bones of the middle ear in mammals. [L.
_malleus_, a hammer.]

MALLECHO, mal'[=e]-ch[=o], _n._ (_Shak._) villainy--probably a corruption
of Spanish _malhecho_, mischief.--Also MAL'ICHO.

MALLEE, mal'[=e], _n._ two dwarf species of Eucalyptus in Australia.--_ns._
MALL'EE-BIRD, MALL'EE-HEN, an Australian mound-bird or megapode.

MALLEMAROKING, mal'[=e]-ma-r[=o]'king, _n._ the visiting and carousing of
seamen in the Greenland ships. [Prob. to act like the _mallemuck_.]

MALLEMUCK, mal'e-muk, _n._ the fulmar petrel. [Ger.]

MALLEOLUS, ma-l[=e]'[=o]-lus, _n._ a bony protuberance on either side of
the ankle.--_adj._ MAL'L[=E]OLAR. [L.]

MALLET, mal'et, _n._ a small wooden hammer: the long-handled hammer for
driving the balls in croquet. [Fr. _maillet_, dim. of _mail_, a mall.]

MALLOW, mal'[=o], _n._ any plant of genus _Malva_--from its emollient
properties or its soft downy leaves. [A.S. _malwe_--L. _malva_; Gr.
_malach[=e]_--_malassein_, to make soft.]

MALM, MAUM, mäm, _n._ calcareous loam, earth specially good for brick.
[A.S. _mealm_, sand.]

MALMSEY, mäm'ze, _n._ a sort of grape: a strong and sweet wine, first made
in Greece, but now also in the Canary Islands and the Azores. [O. Fr.
_malvoisie_, from _Malvasia_ in the Morea.]

MALODOUR, mal-[=o]'dor, _n._ an offensive odour.--_adj._
MAL[=O]'DOROUS.--_n._ MAL[=O]'DOROUSNESS.

MALPIGHIAN, mal-pig'i-an, _adj._ applied in anatomy to several structures
in the kidney and spleen investigated by Marcello _Malpighi_ (1628-94).

MALPOSITION, mal-p[=o]-zish'un, _n._ a wrong position, misplacement.

MALPRACTICE, mal-prak'tis, _n._ evil practice or conduct: practice contrary
to established rules.--_n._ MALPRACTIT'IONER, a physician guilty of
malpractice.

MALPRESENTATION, mal-pr[=e]-zen-t[=a]'shun, _n._ abnormal presentation in
childbirth.

MALSTICK. See MAHL-STICK.

MALT, mawlt, _n._ barley or other grain steeped in water, allowed to
sprout, and dried in a kiln, used in brewing ale, &c.--_v.t._ to make into
malt.--_v.i._ to become malt: (_hum._) to drink malt liquor.--_adj._
containing or made with malt.--_ns._ MALT'-DUST, grain-sprouts produced and
'screened off' in malt-making; MALT'-FLOOR, a perforated floor in the
chamber of a malt-kiln, through which heat rises; MALT'-HORSE, a heavy
horse, such as used by brewers--hence (_Shak._) used in reproach for a
dull, stupid person; MALT'ING; MALT'-KILN; MALT'-MILL, a mill for grinding
malt; MALT'OSE, a hard, white, crystalline sugar, formed by the action of
malt or diastase on starch; MALT'STER, MALT'MAN, one whose trade or
occupation it is to make malt (_-ster_ was up to the end of the 13th
century a feminine affix); MALT'WORM (_Shak._), a lover of malted liquors,
a tippler.--_adj._ MALT'Y.--MALT LIQUOR, a liquor, as beer, ale, or porter,
formed from malt; MALT TEA, the liquid infusion of the mash in brewing.
[A.S. _mealt_, pa.t. of _meltan_, to soften; cf. Ger. _malz_.]

MALTALENT, mal'tal-ent, _n._ (_Spens._) bad inclination, ill-humour.

MALTESE, mal-t[=e]z', _n._ a native, or the natives, of _Malta_: the
dialect, a corrupt Arabic mixed with Italian.--_adj._ belonging to Malta,
or to its inhabitants.--MALTESE CROSS (see CROSS); MALTESE DOG, a very
small spaniel with long silky hair.

MALTHA, mal'tha, _n._ a thick mineral pitch: any similar preparation used
by the ancients as a cement, stucco, or mortar. [L.]

MALTHUSIAN, mal-th[=u]'zhan, _adj._ relating to _Malthus_ or to the
principles he taught regarding the necessity of preventing population from
increasing faster than the means of living.--_n._ a disciple of Thomas
Robert _Malthus_ (1766-1834).

MALTREAT, mal-tr[=e]t', _v.t._ to abuse: to use roughly or unkindly.--_n._
MALTREAT'MENT. [Fr. _maltraiter_--L. _male_, ill, TRACT[=A]RE, to treat.]

MALVACEOUS, mal-v[=a]'shus, _adj._ (_bot._) pertaining to plants of the
mallow family.

MALVERSATION, mal-v[.e]r-s[=a]'shun, _n._ evil conduct: misbehaviour in
office: corruption: extortion. [Fr.--L. _male_, badly, _vers[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_, to occupy one's self.]

MALVOISIE, mal'vwä-z[=e], _n._ Same as MALMSEY.

MAMBRINO, mam-br[=e]'no, _n._ a medieval iron hat, from its likeness to the
barber's basin in _Don Quixote_.

MAMELUKE, mam'e-l[=oo]k, _n._ one of a force of light horse in Egypt formed
of Circassian slaves--dispersed in 1811. [Fr.,--Ar. _mamlûk_, a purchased
slave--_malaka_, to possess.]

MAMMA, MAMA, mam-mä', _n._ mother--used chiefly by young children.--_n._
MAMM'Y, mother. [_Mama_, a repetition of _ma_, the first syllable a child
naturally utters.]

MAMMALIA, mam-m[=a]'li-a, _n.pl._ (_zool._) the whole class of animals that
suckle their young.--_ns._ MAM'ELON, a small hillock with a rounded top;
MAM'MA, the mammary gland:--_pl._ MAM'MÆ; MAM'MAL, (_zool._), one of the
mammalia:--_pl._ MAMMALS (mam'alz).--_adjs._ MAMM[=A]'LIAN; MAMMALIF'EROUS
(_geol._), bearing mammals; MAMMALOG'ICAL.--_ns._ MAMMAL'OGIST; MAMMAL'OGY,
the scientific knowledge of mammals.--_adjs._ MAM'MARY, relating to the
mammæ or breasts; MAM'MATE, having breasts.--_n._ MAM'MIFER, an animal
having mammæ.--_adjs._ MAMMIF'EROUS, having mammaæ; MAM'MIFORM, having the
form of a breast or pap--also MAMMIL'IFORM.--_n._ MAMMIL'LA, the nipple of
the mammary gland:--_pl._ MAMMIL'LÆ.--_adjs._ MAM'MILLARY, pertaining to,
or resembling, the breasts: studded with rounded projections; MAM'MILLATE,
having a mammilla; MAM'MILLATED, having small nipples, or little globes
like nipples: nipple-shaped.--_n._ MAMMILL[=A]'TION--_adj._ MAMMOSE'
(_bot._), breast-shaped. [L.]

MAMMEE, mam-m[=e]', _n._ a highly esteemed fruit of the West Indies and
tropical America, having a sweet taste and aromatic odour: the tree
producing the fruit, the _Mammea_. [Haitian.]

MAMMER, mam'[.e]r, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to hesitate, to stand muttering and in
doubt. [Prob. imit.]

MAMMET, mam'et, _n._ (_Shak._) a puppet, a figure dressed up. [Cf.
_mawmet_, an idol.]

MAMMOCK, mam'uk, _n._ a shapeless piece.--_v.t._ (_Shak._) to tear to
pieces, to mangle.

MAMMON, mam'un, _n._ riches: the god of riches.--_adj._ MAMM'ONISH, devoted
to money-getting.--_ns._ MAMM'ONISM, devotion to gain; MAMM'ONIST,
MAMM'ONITE, a person devoted to riches: a worldling.--_adj._ MAMMONIST'IC.
[Low L. _mammona_--Gr. _mam[=o]nas_--Syriac _mamônâ_, riches.]

MAMMOTH, mam'uth, _n._ an extinct species of elephant.--_adj._ resembling
the mammoth in size: very large. [Russ. _mamant[)u]_--Tartar _mamma_, the
earth.]

MAN, man, _n._ a human being: mankind: a grown-up male: a male attendant:
one possessing a distinctively masculine character: a husband: a piece used
in playing chess or draughts: a ship, as in man-of-war: a word of familiar
address:--_pl._ MEN.--_v.t._ to supply with men: to strengthen or
fortify:--_pr.p._ man'ning; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ manned.--_ns._
MAN'-AT-ARMS, a soldier; MAN-CHILD, a male child: a boy; MAN'DOM (_rare_),
humanity, men collectively; MAN'-EAT'ER, a cannibal: a tiger; MAN'-EN'GINE,
an elevator for raising and lowering men in some deep mines.--_adj._
MAN'FUL, having the qualities of a man: full of manliness: bold:
courageous: noble-minded.--_adv._ MAN'FULLY.--_ns._ MAN'FULNESS; MAN'-HOLE,
a hole in a drain, cesspool, &c., large enough to admit a man, for the
purpose of cleaning or repairing it; MAN'HOOD, state of being a man: manly
quality: human nature; MAN'KIND, the kind or race of man: the mass of human
beings.--_adj._ MAN'-LIKE, having the appearance, characteristics, or
qualities of a man.--_n._ MAN'LINESS.--_adj._ MAN'LY, becoming a man:
brave: dignified: noble: pertaining to manhood: not childish or
womanish.--_n._ MAN'-MILL'INER, a man engaged in millinery--often in
contempt.--_adjs._ MAN'-MIND'ED (_Tenn._), having the mind or qualities of
a man; MAN'NISH, like a man: masculine: bold.--_ns._ MAN'-OF-WAR, a
war-ship: (_B._) a soldier; MAN'-OF-WAR'S-MAN, a man who serves on board a
war-ship; MAN'-QUELL'ER (_Shak._), a man-killer, a murderer; MAN'SLAUGHTER,
the slaying of a man: (_law_) the killing of any one unlawfully, but
without malice or forethought; MAN'SLAYER, one who kills a man;
MAN'STEALER, one who steals human beings, esp. to make slaves of them;
MAN'TRAP, a trap or machine for catching people who trespass.--MAN ABOUT
TOWN, a fashionable idler, dangling about clubs, theatres, &c.; MAN ALIVE!
an exclamation of surprise; MAN FRIDAY, a servile attendant, factotum--from
Robinson Crusoe's man; MAN IN THE MOON, a fancied semblance of a man
walking in the moon, with a bush near, and his dog behind him; MAN OF
BUSINESS, an agent or a lawyer; MAN OF (HIS) HANDS, a handy, clever fellow;
MAN OF LETTERS, a scholar and writer; MAN OF SIN, the devil: Antichrist;
MAN OF STRAW, a person put in the front of some business, but who is not
really responsible; MAN OF THE WORLD, a person well accustomed to the ways
and dealings of men. [A.S. _mann_; Ger. _mann_, Dut. _man_, L.
_mas_--_mans_, a male, Sans. _manu_, a man.]

MANACLE, man'a-kl, _n._ a handcuff.--_v.t._ to put manacles on: to restrain
the use of the limbs or any of the natural powers. [Through O. Fr., from L.
_manicula_, dim. of _manica_, sleeve--_manus_, hand.]

MANAGE, man'[=a]j, _v.t._ to guide by use of the hands: to have under
command or control: to bring round to one's plans: to conduct with great
carefulness: to wield: to handle: to contrive: to train by exercise, as a
horse.--_v.i._ to conduct affairs.--_n._ MANAGEABIL'ITY, the quality of
being manageable.--_adj._ MAN'AGEABLE, that can be managed:
governable.--_n._ MAN'AGEABLENESS.--_adv._ MAN'AGEABLY.--_ns._ MAN'AGEMENT,
art or act of managing: manner of directing or of using anything:
administration: skilful treatment: a body of managers; MAN'AGER, one who
manages: a person who controls a business or other concern.--_adj._
MANAG[=E]'RIAL, of or pertaining to a manager, or to management. [Fr.
_manége_, the managing of a horse--It. _maneggio_--L. _manus_, the hand.]

MANAKIN, man'a-kin, _n._ a small tropical American piproid bird: a variant
form of _manikin_.

MANATEE, man-a-t[=e]', _n._ an aquatic animal--also called the _Sea-cow_ or
_Dugong_ (q.v.).

MANCHE, manch, _n._ (_her._) a sleeve: the neck of a violin, &c. [Fr.]

MANCHESTER GOODS, man'ches-t[.e]r goods, _n.pl._ goods or articles made in
_Manchester_, esp. cotton and woollen cloths: similar goods made elsewhere.

MANCHET, man'chet, _n._ (_Tenn._) a small loaf or cake of fine white bread.
[Ety. dub.]

MANCHETTE, man-shet', _n._ an ornamental cuff.

MANCHINEEL, manch-i-n[=e]l', _n._ a West Indian tree, remarkable for the
poisonous qualities of its juice, and having a fruit resembling a small
apple. [Sp. _manzanillo_, a small apple.]

MANCHU, MANCHOO, man-ch[=oo]', _n._ one of the race from which Manchuria
took its name, and which governed China in the 17th century.--_adj._ of or
pertaining to Manchuria or to its inhabitants. [Chin., meaning 'pure.']

MANCIPATION, man-si-p[=a]'shun, _n._ in ancient Rome, a legal formality for
acquiring title to property by actual or by simulated purchase.--_v.t._
MAN'CIPATE.--_adj._ MAN'CIPATORY.

MANCIPLE, man'si-pl, _n._ a steward: a purveyor, particularly of a college
or an inn of court. [O. Fr.,--L. _manceps_, a purchaser--_manus_, hand,
_cap[)e]re_, take.]

MANDÆAN, man-d[=e]'an, _n._ and _adj._ one of an ancient and still
surviving sect in southern Babylonia, their religion a corrupt Gnosticism,
with many Jewish and Parsee elements.--Also _Mendaites_, _Nasoreans_, and
_Sabians_, and also _Christians of St John_. [Mandæan _mand[=a]_,
knowledge, gnosis.]

MANDAMUS, man-d[=a]'mus, _n._ a writ or command issued by a higher court to
a lower. [L., 'we command'--_mand[=a]re_, to command.]

MANDARIN, man-da-r[=e]n', _n._ a European name for a Chinese official,
civil or military: a small kind of orange, thought to be of Chinese
origin.---_n._ MANDAR[=I]'NATE. [Port, _mandarim_--Malayan _mantrí_,
counsellor--Sans. _mantra_, counsel.]

MANDATE, man'd[=a]t, _n._ a charge: a command from a superior official or
judge to an inferior, ordering him how to act, esp. from the Pope to a
legate, &c.: a right given to a person to act in name of another: a
rescript of the Pope.--_ns._ MAN'DATARY, MAN'DATORY, one to whom a mandate
is given by a Man'dator.--_adj._ MAN'DATORY, containing a mandate or
command; preceptive: directory. [Fr. _mandat_--L. _mand[=a]tum_,
_mand[=a]re_--_manus_, hand, _d[)a]re_, give.]

MANDIBLE, man'di-bl, _n._ a jaw-bone, esp. that of the lower jaw.--_adjs._
MANDIB'ULAR, relating to the jaw; MANDIB'UL[=A]TE, -D, having mandibles for
biting, like many insects. [L. _mandibula_--_mand[)e]re_, chew.]

MANDOLINE, MANDOLIN, man'do-lin, _n._ a musical instrument somewhat like a
lute, having strings, finger-board, and neck like a guitar.--_n._
MAND[=O]'LA, a large mandoline. [Fr.,--It. _mandola_, _mandora_, a lute.]

MANDORLA, man-dor'la, _n._ an oval panel, or a work of art filling such:
the _vesica piscis_. [It.]

MANDRAKE, man'dr[=a]k, _n._ a plant of the genus _Mandragora_, with
narcotic properties, once regarded as an aphrodisiac, shrieking when pulled
out of the ground.--MANDRAG'ORA (_Shak._). [L.,--Gr. _mandragoras_.]

MANDREL, man'drel, _n._ a bar of iron fitted to a turning-lathe on which
articles to be turned are fixed: the axle of a circular saw.--Also
MAN'DRIL. [Fr. _mandrin_; prob. through Low L. from Gr. _mandra_.]

MANDRILL, man'dril, _n._ a large kind of baboon, a native of Western
Africa. [Fr.]

MANDUCATE, man'd[=u]-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to chew or eat.--_adj._
MAN'DUCABLE.--_n._ MANDUC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MAN'DUCATORY. [L.
_manduc[=a]re_--_mand[)e]re_, to chew.]

MANE, m[=a]n, _n._ the long hair flowing from the neck of some quadrupeds,
as the horse and the lion.--_adjs._ MANED, having a mane; MANE'LESS,
without a mane; MANE'-LIKE (_Tenn._), like a mane: hanging in the form of a
mane.--_n._ MANE'-SHEET, a covering for the upper part of a horse's head.
[A.S. _manu_; Ice. _mön_; Ger. _mähne_.]

MANÈGE, man-[=a]zh', _n._ the managing of horses: the art of horsemanship
or of training horses: a riding-school.--_v.t._ to train, as a horse. [Fr.;
cf. _manage_.]

MANEH, m[=a]'ne, _n._ a Hebrew weight of uncertain value. See MINA. [Heb.]

MANEQUIN. Same as MANIKIN.

MANES, m[=a]'n[=e]z, _n._ (_Roman myth._) the benevolent or tutelary
spirits of departed persons: the lower world, as being the abode of the
manes. [L.]

MANET, m[=a]'net, he remains, a stage direction. [L. 3d sing. pres. ind. of
_man[=e]re_, to remain.]

MANGA, man'ga, _n._ a covering for a cross.

MANGABEY, mang'ga-b[=a], _n._ a slender and agile African monkey.

MANGAL, man'gal, _n._ a Turkish brazier for charcoal.

MANGANESE, mang-ga-n[=e]z', or mang'ga-n[=e]z, _n._ a hard and brittle
metal of a grayish-white colour, somewhat like iron.--_adjs._
MANGAN[=E]'SIAN, MANGAN[=E]'SIC, MANGAN'IC, MANG'ANOUS;
MANGANIF'EROUS.--_n._ MANG'ANITE, gray ore of manganese, used in glass
manufacture. [O. Fr. _manganese_, a material used in making glass, prob.
from It. and cog. with _magnesia_.]

MANGE, m[=a]nj, _n._ the scab or itch which eats the skin of domestic
animals. [From adj. _mangy_.]

MANGEL-WURZEL, mang'gl-wur'zl, _n._ a plant of the beet kind cultivated as
food for cattle.--Also MANG'OLD-WUR'ZEL. [Ger. _mangold_, beet, _wurzel_,
root.]

MANGER, m[=a]nj'[.e]r, _n._ a trough in which food is laid for horses and
cattle.--DOG IN THE MANGER, one who will neither enjoy something himself
nor let others do so--also adjectively. [O. Fr. _mangeoire_--_mangier_, to
eat--L. _manducus_, a glutton--_mand[)e]re_, to chew.]

MANGLE, mang'gl, _v.t._ to cut and bruise: to tear in cutting: to mutilate:
to take by piecemeal.--_n._ MANG'LER. [Skeat suggests a freq. form of O.
Fr. _mahaigner_, to maim--_mehaing_, a hurt.]

MANGLE, mang'gl, _n._ a rolling-press for smoothing linen.--_v.t._ to
smooth with a mangle: to calender.--_n._ MANG'LER. [Dut. _mangelen_, to
roll with a rolling-pin, through Low L., from Gr. _manganon_, the axis of a
pulley.]

MANGO, mang'g[=o], _n._ the fruit of the mango-tree of the East Indies: a
green musk-melon pickled. [Malay _mañgg[=a]_.]

MANGONEL, mang'go-nel, _n._ an engine used before the invention of cannon
for throwing stones, &c. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _mangonellus_--Gr. _manganon_, a
machine for throwing stones.]

MANGOSTAN, mang'go-stan, MANGOSTEEN, mang'go-st[=e]n, _n._ an East Indian
tree, and its fruit, which is of a most delicious taste. [Malay.]

MANGROVE, man'gr[=o]v, _n._ a tree which grows on muddy shores and
river-banks in the East and West Indies. [Malayan.]

MANGY, m[=a]nj'i, _adj._ scabby.--_n._ MANG'INESS. [Anglicised form of Fr.
_mangé_, eaten, pa.p. of _manger_, to eat--L. _manduc[=a]re_, to chew.]

MANIA, m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ violent madness: insanity: excessive or
unreasonable desire.--_n._ M[=A]'NIAC, a person affected with mania: a
madman.--_adj._ raving mad.--_adj._ MANIACAL (ma-n[=i]'a-kal).--_adv._
MAN[=I]'ACALLY. [L.,--Gr. _mania_; cf. _menos_, mind.]

MANICATE, man'i-k[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) covered with hairs so matted or
interwoven as to be easily stripped off. [L. _manic[=a]tus_,
sleeved--_manicæ_, long sleeves.]

MANICHÆAN, MANICHEAN, man-i-k[=e]'an, _adj._ pertaining to the _Manichees_
or followers of _Mani_, a native of Ecbatana (215-276 A.D.), who taught
that everything sprang from two chief principles, light and darkness, or
good and evil.--_n._ a believer in Manichæanism--also MAN'ICHEE.--_ns._
MANICHÆ'ANISM, MANICH[=E]'ISM, the doctrines of the Manichæans.

MANICURE, man'i-k[=u]r, _n._ the care of hands and nails: one who practises
this.--_v.t._ to treat the hands and nails. [L. _manus_, hand, _cura_,
care.]

MANIFEST, man'i-fest, _adj._ that may be easily seen by the eye or
perceived by the mind: clear: apparent: evident.--_v.t._ to make clear or
easily seen: to show plainly: to put beyond doubt: to reveal or
declare.--_n._ an open or public statement: a list or invoice of a ship's
cargo to be exhibited at the custom-house.--_adjs._ MANIFEST'ABLE,
MANIFEST'IBLE, that can be manifested or clearly shown.--_n._
MANIFEST[=A]'TION, act of disclosing what is dark or secret: that by which
something is manifested or shown: display: revelation.--_adv._
MAN'IFESTLY.--_n._ MAN'IFESTNESS, state of being manifest. [Fr.,--L.
_manifestus_--_manus_, the hand, _-festus_, _pa.p._ of obs. _fend[)e]re_,
to dash against.]

MANIFESTO, man-i-fest'[=o], _n._ a public written declaration of the
intentions, opinions, or motives of a sovereign or of a leader of a
party.--_v.i._ (_rare_) to issue a manifesto. [It.,--L.; see MANIFEST.]

MANIFOLD, man'i-f[=o]ld, _adj._ various in kind or quality: many in number:
multiplied.--_adj._ MAN'IFOLDED (_Spens._), having many folds or
complications.--_adv._ MAN'IFOLDLY.--_n._ MAN'IFOLDNESS.

MANIFORM, man'i-form, _adj._ having the shape or form of a hand. [L.
_manus_, the hand, _forma_, a shape.]

MANIGRAPH, man'i-graf, _n._ a device for multiplying copies of writings or
drawings.

MANIHOT, man'i-hot, _n._ a genus of tropical American, mainly Brazilian,
herbs of the spurge family--two species yielding the bitter and the sweet
cassava respectively.

MANIKIN, man'i-kin, _n._ a dwarf: a pasteboard model exhibiting the
different parts and organs of the human body. [Old Dut. _mann-ek-en_, a
double dim. of _man_, Eng. _man_.]

MANILA, MANILLA, ma-nil'a, _n._ a cheroot manufactured in _Manila_, in the
Philippine Islands.

MANILLA, ma-nil'a, _n._ a ring worn as an ornament on the arm or leg, or
used as money among the tribes of West Africa.--Also M[=A]'NILIO, MANILLE'.
[Low L. _manilia_, a bracelet--L. _manus_, the hand.]

MANILLE, ma-nil', _n._ in ombre and quadrille, the highest card but one.
[Fr.]

MANIOC, m[=a]'ni-ok, _n._ a tropical plant from which cassava and tapioca
are obtained.--Also written MAN'DIOC, M[=A]'NIHOC, M[=A]'NIHOT. [Sp.
_mandioca_--Brazilian.]

MANIPLE, man'i-pl, _n._ a company of foot-soldiers in the Roman army: in
the Western Church, a eucharistic vestment, a narrow strip worn on the left
arm.--_adj._ MANIP'ULAR, of or pertaining to a maniple: pertaining to
handling or manipulation. [L. _manipulus_--_manus_, the hand, _pl[=e]re_,
to fill.]

MANIPULATE, ma-nip'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to work with the hands.--_v.i._ to
use the hands, esp. in scientific experiments: to handle or manage: to give
a false appearance to: to turn to one's own purpose or advantage.--_n._
MANIPUL[=A]'TION, act of manipulating or working by hand: use of the hands
in a skilful manner in science or in art.--_adjs._ MANIP'ULATIVE,
MANIP'ULATORY, done by manipulation.--_n._ MANIP'ULATOR, one who
manipulates or works with the hand. [Low L. _manipul[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_.
See MANIPLE.]

MANIS, m[=a]'nis, _n._ the pangolin or scaly ant-eater.

MANITO, man'i-t[=o], _n._ a spirit or other object of reverence among some
of the American Indians.--Also MANITOU. [Algonkin.]

MANNA, man'a, _n._ the food supplied to the Israelites in the wilderness of
Arabia: delicious food for body or mind: a sweet juice or gum got from many
trees, as the ash of Sicily.--_adj._ MANNIF'EROUS. [Heb. _m[=a]n h[=u]_,
what is it? or from _man_, a gift.]

MANNER, man'[.e]r, _n._ the way in which anything is done: method: fashion:
personal style of acting or bearing one's self: habit: custom: style of
writing or of thought: sort: style: (_pl._) morals: good behaviour:
character: respectful deportment.--_adj._ MANN'ERED, having manners (esp.
in compounds, as well- or ill-mannered): affected with mannerism:
artificial: stilted.--_ns._ MANN'ERISM, a constant sameness of manner: a
marked peculiarity of style or manner, esp. in literary composition: manner
or style becoming wearisome by its sameness; MANN'ERIST, one addicted to
mannerism.--_adj._ MANNERIS'TIC.--_adv._ MANNERIS'TICALLY.--_n._
MANN'ERLINESS.--_adj._ MANN'ERLY, showing good manners: well-behaved:
complaisant: not rude.--_adv._ with good manners: civilly: respectfully:
without rudeness.--BY NO MANNER OF MEANS, under no circumstances whatever;
IN A MANNER, to a certain degree; IN, or WITH, THE MANNER (_B._), in the
very act; MAKE ONE'S MANNERS, to salute a person on meeting by a bow,
courtesy, &c.; SHARK'S MANNERS, rapacity; TO THE MANNER BORN, accustomed to
something from birth. [Fr. _manière_--_main_--L. _manus_, the hand.]

MANNING, man'ing, _n._ the act of supplying with men.

MANNITE, man'[=i]t, _n._ a sweetish crystalline compound found in celery,
sea-grasses, the dried sap of the flowering ash, &c.

MANOEUVRE, ma-n[=oo]'v[.e]r, or ma-n[=u]'-, _n._ a piece of dexterous
management: stratagem: a skilful and clever movement in military or naval
tactics.--_v.i._ and _v.t._ to perform a manoeuvre: to manage with art: to
change the position of troops or of ships: to affect or to gain by
manoeuvres.--_n._ MANOEU'VRER. [Fr.,--Low L. _manuopera_--L. _manu_, by
hand, _opera_, work. Cf. _manure_.]

MANOMETER, man-om'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring the rarity or
density of gases from their elastic force--also MAN'OSCOPE.--_adjs._
MANOMET'RIC, -AL.--_n._ MANOS'COPY. [Gr. _manos_, rare, _metron_, measure.]

MANOR, man'or, _n._ the land belonging to a nobleman, or so much as he
formerly kept for his own use: the district over which the court of the
lord of the manor had authority: a tract of land in America for which a
fee-farm rent was paid.--_ns._ MAN'OR-HOUSE, -SEAT, the house or seat
belonging to a manor.--_adj._ MAN[=O]'RIAL, pertaining to a manor. [O. Fr.
_manoir_--L. _man[=e]re_, _mansum_, to stay.]

MANQUÉ, mang'k[=a], _adj._ spoiled: defective: off: lost: missed. [Fr.]

MANSARD-ROOF, man'sard-r[=oo]f, _n._ a form of roof having a break in the
slope, the lower part being steeper than the upper, so called from the
architect, François _Mansart_ (1598-1666).

MANSE, mans, _n._ the residence of a clergyman, esp. of Presbyterians in
Scotland. [O. Fr.,--Low L. _mansa_, a farm--_man[=e]re_, _mansus_, to
remain.]

MANSION, man'shun, _n._ a house, esp. one of some size: a manor-house: the
dwelling of a nobleman or a landholder: (_B._) a resting-place.--_ns._
MAN'SION-HOUSE, a mansion: the official residence of the Lord Mayor of
London; MAN'SIONRY (_Shak._), a mansion, place of residence. [O. Fr.,--L.
_mansion-em_--_man[=e]re_, _mansus_, to remain.]

MANSUETUDE, man'swe-t[=u]d, _n._ gentleness: tameness: mildness.--_adj._
MAN'SUETE (_rare_), mild. [Fr.,--L. _mansuetudo_, mildness.]

MANSWORN, man'sworn, _p.adj._ (_obs._) perjured. [A.S. _manswérian_, to
swear falsely.]

MANTEL, man'tl, _n._ the ornamental shelf over a fireplace.--Also
MAN'TEL-PIECE, MAN'TEL-SHELF.

MANTIC, man'tik, _adj._ relating to divination: prophetic. [Gr.
_mantikos_--_mantis_, a prophet.]

MANTICORE, man'ti-k[=o]r, _n._ a fabulous beast of prey with a human head.
[Fr.,--L.,--Gr. _mantich[=o]ras_.]

MANTILLA, man-til'a, _n._ a small mantle: a kind of veil covering the head
and falling down upon the shoulders. [Sp.; cf. _mantle_.]

MANTIS, man'tis, _n._ a genus of orthopterous insects somewhat like
locusts, carrying their large spinous forelegs in the attitude of prayer.
[Gr. _mantis_.]

MANTLE, man'tl, _n._ a covering: a cloak or loose outer garment: spirit:
(_zool._) the thin fleshy membrane lining a mollusc's shell: a conical
wire-network covered with some highly refractory earth that becomes
luminous under a flame.--_v.t._ to cover: to disguise.--_v.i._ to spread
like a mantle: to revel: to joy: to froth: to rush to the face and impart a
crimson glow, as blood.--_ns._ MAN'TLET, MAN'TELET, a small cloak for
women: (_fort._) a movable shield or screen to protect an attacking force,
or gunners while serving their guns; MAN'TLING, cloth suitable for mantles:
(_her._) the representation of a mantle, or the drapery of a coat-of-arms.
[O. Fr. _mantel_ (Fr. _manteau_)--L. _mantellum_, a napkin.]

MANTOLOGY, man-tol'[=o]-ji, _n._ the act or art of divination.--n.
MANTOL'OGIST.

MANTON, man'tun, _n._ a shawl or wrap. [Sp.,--_manta_, a cloak. Same root
as _mantle_.]

MANTRA, man'tra, _n._ a Vedic hymn of praise: the matter of the Sanhita or
first division of the Veda: a sacred text used as an incantation. [Sans.,
'thought.']

MANTUA, man't[=u]-a, _n._ a lady's cloak or mantle: a lady's
gown--(_Scot._) MANT'Y.--_n._ MAN'TUA-MAK'ER, a maker of ladies' gowns and
dresses. [Prob. arose through confusion of _manteau_ (It. _manto_) with
_Mantua_, in Italy.]

MANTUAN, man't[=u]-an, _adj._ of or pertaining to _Mantua_ in Italy, or to
the poet Virgil or his works.--_n._ a native of Mantua, esp. Virgil.

MANUAL, man'[=u]-al, _adj._ pertaining to the hand: done, made, or used by
the hand.--_n._ drill in the use of weapons, &c.: a handbook: a handy
compendium of a large subject or treatise: the key-board of an organ, &c.:
an old office-book like the modern R.C. _ritual_.--_adv._
MAN'UALLY.--MANUAL ALPHABET, the letters made by the deaf and dumb with the
hand in conversation; MANUAL EXERCISE, the exercise by which soldiers are
made to handle their arms. [L. _manualis_--_manus_, the hand.]

MANUBRIUM, m[=a]-n[=u]'bri-um, _n._ the presternum of most mammals: in
organ-building, a stop-knob or handle.--_adj._ MAN[=U]'BRI[=A]TED. [L., 'a
handle.']

MANUFACTURE, man-[=u]-fakt'[=u]r, _v.t._ to make from raw materials by any
means into a form suitable for use.--_v.i._ to be occupied in
manufactures.--_n._ the process of manufacturing: anything
manufactured.--_n._ MANUFACT'ORY, a factory or place where goods are
manufactured.--_adj._ MANUFACT'URAL.--_n._ MANUFACT'URER, one who
manufactures.--_p.adj._ MANUFACT'URING, pertaining to manufactures.
[Fr.,--L. _manus_, the hand, _factura_, a making, from _fac[)e]re_,
_factum_, to make.]

MANUMIT, man-[=u]-mit', _v.t._ to release from slavery: to set free, as a
slave:--_pr.p._ man[=u]mit'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ man[=u]mit'ted.--_n._
MANUMISS'ION, act of manumitting or setting free from slavery. [L.
_manumitt[)e]re_--_manus_, the hand, _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send.]

MANUMOTOR, man-[=u]-m[=o]'tor, _n._ a small wheel-carriage moved by the
hand of the person in it.--_adj._ MANUM[=O]'TIVE. [L. _manus_, hand,
_motor_, a mover.]

MANURE, man-[=u]r', _v.t._ to enrich land with any fertilising
substance.--_n._ any substance applied to land to make it more
fruitful.--_ns._ MANUR'ANCE (_Spens._), cultivation; MANUR'ER.--_adj._
MAN[=U]'RIAL.--_n._ MANUR'ING, a dressing or spreading of manure on land.
[Contr. of Fr. _manoeuvrer_. See MANOEUVRE.]

MANUS, m[=a]'nus, _n._ the hand, the corresponding part of an animal's
fore-limb.

MANUSCRIPT, man'[=u]-skript, _adj._ written by the hand: not printed.--_n._
a book or paper written by the hand.--_adj._ MANUSCRIPT'AL. [L. _manus_,
the hand, _scrib[)e]re_, _scriptum_, to write.]

MANX, mangks, _n._ the language of the Isle of _Man_, belonging to the
Gadhelic branch of Celtic.--_adj._ pertaining to the Isle of Man or to its
inhabitants.

MANY, men'i, _adj._ consisting of a great number of individuals: not few:
numerous:--_comp._ MORE (m[=o]r); _superl._ MOST (m[=o]st).--_n._ many
persons: a great number: (with def. art.) the people.--_adj._ MAN'Y-SID'ED,
having many qualities or aspects: not narrow-minded.--_n._
MAN'Y-SID'EDNESS.--THE MANY, the crowd. [A.S. _manig_.]

MANYPLIES, men'i-pl[=i]z, _n.sing._ and _pl._ the third stomach of a
ruminant--the _omasum_ or _psalterium_.--Also MAN'IPLIES and MON'YPLIES.

MANZANILLA, man-za-nil'a, _n._ a very dry and light kind of sherry, esp.
that produced in the district of San Lucar de Barrameda in Spain. [Prob.
from the town near Seville.]

MAORI, mow'ri, or mä'[=o]-ri, _n._ a native of New Zealand:--_pl._ MAO'RIS.
[A New Zealand word signifying native or indigenous.]

MAORMOR, mär'm[=o]r, _n._ a royal steward in ancient Scotland. [Gael.,
_maor_, _maer_, steward, _mor_, great.]

MAP, map, _n._ a representation of the surface of the earth, or of part of
it on a plane surface: a similar drawing of the stars in the sky.--_v.t._
to draw in the form of a map, as the figure of any portion of land: to
describe clearly:--_pr.p._ map'ping; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mapped.--_ns._
MAP'-MEAS'URER, an instrument for measuring distances other than in
straight lines on a map; MAP'-MOUNT'ER, one who mounts maps, or backs them
with canvas and fixes them on rollers, &c.; MAP'PERY (_Shak_.), the art of
planning and designing maps; MAP'PIST.--MAP OUT, to mark down the chief
points clearly. [L. _mappa_, a napkin, a painted cloth, orig. Punic.]

MAPLE, m[=a]'pl, _n._ a tree of several species, from one of which, the
rock-maple, sugar is made.--_adj._ of or pertaining to maple. [A.S.
_mapul_, maple.]

MAQUI, m[=a]'kwi, _n._ an evergreen shrub, native of Chili, producing a
berry yielding wine.

MAR, mär, _v.t._ to injure by wounding or by cutting off a part: to damage:
to interrupt: to disfigure:--_pr.p._ mar'ring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ marred.
[A.S. _merran_, _mirran_; cf. Dut. _marren_, to retard.]

MARABOU, mar'a-b[=oo], _n._ a species of Indian stork, the feathers of
which are much used as ornaments by ladies: a very white raw silk.

MARABOUT, mar'a-b[=oo]t, _n._ one of a priestly race of Mohammedans in
Northern Africa. [Ar.]

MARAH, m[=a]'ra, _n._ bitterness: something bitter. [Heb.]

MARANATHA, mar-a-n[=a]'tha, or mar-a-nath'a, _n._ See Anathema.

MARASCHINO, mar-as-k[=e]'no, _n._ a liqueur distilled from a species of
cherry grown in Dalmatia. [It.,--_marasca_, _amarasca_, a sour cherry--L.
_am[=a]rus_, bitter.]

MARASMUS, ma-raz'mus, _n._ a wasting of flesh without apparent disease, a
kind of consumption. [Gr. _marasmos_--_marainein_, to decay.]

MARATHI, ma-ra'thi, _n._ the language of the _Mahrattas_.--Also
_Mahrat'ti_.

MARAUD, ma-rawd', _v.i._ to rove in quest of plunder.--_n._ MARAUD'ER, one
who roves in quest of booty or plunder. [Fr. _maraud_, rogue; prob. O. Fr.
_mar-ir_, to wander--Old High Ger. _marrjan_, to hinder.]

MARAVEDI, mar-a-v[=a]'d[=i], _n._ the smallest copper coin of Spain, less
than a farthing. [Sp.,--Ar. _Mur[=a]bit[=i]n_, the dynasty of the
Almoravides (1086-1147 A.D.).]

MARBLE, mär'bl, _n._ any species of limestone taking a high polish: that
which is made of marble, as a work of art: a little ball used by boys in
play.--_adj._ made of marble: veined like marble: hard: insensible.--_v.t._
to stain or vein like marble.--_adjs._ MAR'BLE-BREAST'ED, hard-hearted,
cruel; MAR'BLE-CON'STANT, constant or firm as marble, immovable.--_n._
MAR'BLE-CUT'TER, one who hews marble: a machine for cutting
marble.--_adjs._ MAR'BLE-EDGED, having the edges marbled, as a book;
MAR'BLE-HEART'ED, hard-hearted, insensible.--_ns._ MAR'BLE-P[=A]'PER, paper
coloured in imitation of variegated marble; MAR'BLER; MAR'BLING, the act of
veining or painting in imitation of marble.--_adv._ MAR'BLY, resembling
marble, in the manner of marble.--ELGIN MARBLES, a collection of marbles
obtained chiefly from the Parthenon by Lord _Elgin_ in 1811, now in the
British Museum. [O. Fr. _marbre_--L. _marmor_; cf. Gr. _marmaros_,
_marmairein_, to sparkle.]

MARCANDO, mar-kän'do, _adj._ and _adv._ (_mus._) with distinctness or
precision.--Also MARCA'TO. [It., _marcare_, to mark.]

MARCASITE, mär'ka-s[=i]t, _n._ an iron ore, a variety of pyrites (q.v.).
[Fr.; prob. of Ar. origin.]

MARCESCENT, mar-ses'ent, _adj._ withering, decaying.--_adj._ MARCESC'IBLE,
that may wither. [L. _marcescens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of
_marcesc[)e]re_--_marc[=e]re_, to fade.]

MARCH, märch, _n._ the third month of the year, named from Mars, the god of
war. [L. _Martius_ (_mensis_), (the month) of Mars.]

MARCH, märch, _n._ a border: boundary of a territory:--used chiefly in
_pl._ MARCH'ES.--_v.i._ to border: to be adjacent.--_ns._ MARCH'MAN, a
borderer; MARCH'-TREA'SON, the betrayal of a border or march to an
enemy.--RIDING THE MARCHES, a ceremony in which the magistrates and chief
men of a city ride on horseback round the bounds of the property of the
city, so as to mark plainly what are its limits. [A.S. _mearc_; doublet of
_mark_.]

MARCH, märch, _v.i._ to move in order, as soldiers: to walk in a grave or
stately manner.--_v.t._ to cause to march.--_n._ the movement of troops:
regular advance: a piece of music fitted for marching to: the distance
passed over.--MARCH PAST, the march of a body of soldiers in front of one
remaining stationary to review them; FORCED MARCH, a march in which the men
are vigorously pressed forward for combative or strategic purposes; ROGUE'S
MARCH, music played in derision of a person when he is expelled as a
soldier, &c. [Fr. _marcher_. Ety. dub.; acc. to Scheler, prob. from L.
_marcus_, a hammer (cf. 'to _beat_ time'); others suggest root of _march_,
a frontier.]

MÄRCHEN, MÄHRCHEN, märh'hen, _n.sing._ and _pl._ a story or fable, a
folk-tale. [Ger.]

MARCHIONESS, mär'shun-es, MARCHESA, mar-ch[=e]'za, _n._ feminine of
MARQUIS.

MARCHPANE, märch'p[=a]n, _n._ (_Shak._) a kind of sweet bread or biscuit
composed of sugar, almonds, and a small quantity of flour. [Fr.
_massepain_, the latter part of the word being from L. _panis_, bread.]

MARCID, mär'sid, _adj._ withered, wasted.

MARCIONITE, mar'shun-[=i]t, _n._ and _adj._ a follower of _Marcion_ of
Sinope (died 165 A.D.), who, partly under Gnostic influences, constructed
an ethico-dualistic philosophy of religion, with rigorously ascetic
practices. He claimed alone to have understood Paul aright, and accepted as
authoritative his own version of Luke and ten of Paul's epistles.--_ns._
MAR'CIONIST; MAR'CIONITISM.

MARCOBRUNNER, mär'ko-br[=oo]n-[.e]r, _n._ a remarkably fine white wine,
produced in Erbach, near Wiesbaden--from the _Markbrunnen_ fountain hard
by.

MARE, m[=a]r, _n._ the female of the horse.--_ns._ MARE'S'-NEST, a supposed
discovery which turns out to be a hoax; MARE'S-TAIL, a tall, erect marsh
plant of the genus _Hippuris_: (_pl._) long straight fibres of gray cirrus
cloud; SHANK'S'-MARE, a person's own legs, as a means of travelling.--THE
GRAY MARE IS THE BETTER HORSE, the wife rules her husband. [A.S. _mere_,
fem. of _mearh_, a horse; cog. with Ger. _mähre_, Ice. _marr_, W. _march_,
a horse.]

MARESCHAL, mär'shal. Same as MARSHAL.

MARGARINE, mär'gar-in, _n._ the solid ingredient of human fat, olive-oil,
&c.--so called from its pearly lustre: oleo-margarine or imitation butter
(see under OLEIN).--_adj._ MARGAR'IC.--_n._ MAR'GARITE, one of the brittle
micas. [L. _margarita_--Gr. _margarit[=e]s_, a pearl.]

MARGAY, mär'g[=a], _n._ a spotted S. American tiger-cat.

MARGIN, mär'jin, _n._ an edge, border: the blank edge on the page of a
book: something allowed more than is needed, in case of unforeseen things
happening: a sum of money, or its value in securities, deposited with a
broker to protect him against loss on transactions made on account: a
deposit made by each of two brokers, parties to a contract, when one is
'called up' by the other.--_v.t._ to furnish with margins, enter on the
margin.--_ns._ MARGE, MARG'ENT (_poet._), edge, brink.--_adjs._ MARGED;
MAR'GINAL, pertaining to a margin: placed in the margin.--_n._
MARGIN[=A]'LIA, notes written on the margin.--_v.t._ MAR'GINALISE, to
furnish with notes.--_adv._ MAR'GINALLY.--_adjs._ MAR'GINATE, -D, having a
margin; MAR'GINED.--MARGINAL CREDIT, a method by which a merchant at home
can render bills drawn upon him abroad saleable there, by associating a
well-known banker's name on their margin with his own; MARGINAL NOTES,
notes written or printed on the margin of a book or writing. [L. _margo_,
_marginis_; cf. _mark_.]

MARGRAVE, mär'gr[=a]v, _n._ a German nobleman of rank equivalent to an
English marquis:--_fem._ MARGRAVINE (mär'gra-v[=e]n).--_ns._ MAR'GRAVATE,
MARGR[=A]'VIATE, the jurisdiction or dignity of a margrave. [Dut.
_markgraaf_ (Ger. _markgraf_)--_mark_, a border, _graaf_, a count; cf. Ger.
_graf_, A.S. _geréfa_, Eng. _reeve_ and _she-riff_.]

MARGUERITE, mär'ge-r[=e]t, _n._ the common garden daisy: the ox-eye daisy:
the China aster.

MARIAN, m[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ relating to the Virgin _Mary_: to the great
Roman general Caius _Marius_: to Queen _Mary_ of England.

MARIGOLD, mar'i-g[=o]ld, _n._ a name applied to several composite plants
bearing yellow flowers. [From the Virgin _Mary_ and _gold_.]

MARINE, ma-r[=e]n', _adj._ of or belonging to the sea: done at sea:
representing the sea: near the sea.--_n._ a soldier serving on shipboard:
the whole navy of a country or state: naval affairs: a sea-piece in
painting.--_ns._ MAR'IGRAPH, a self-registering tide-gauge; MARINADE', a
liquor or pickle in which fish or meat is steeped before cooking, to
improve the flavour.--_v.t._ MAR'INATE, to salt or pickle.--_n._ MAR'INER,
a seaman or sailor: one who assists in navigating ships.--MARINE ACID,
hydrochloric acid; MARINE BOILER, a boiler fitted for use in steamships;
MARINE ENGINE, an engine fitted for use in a steamship; MARINE INSURANCE,
insurance of ships or their cargoes when at sea; MARINE SOAP, a kind of
coconut-oil soap, adapted for washing with sea-water; MARINE STORE, a place
where old ships' materials are bought and sold.--TELL THAT TO THE MARINES,
a phrase expressive of disbelief and ridicule, from the sailor's contempt
for the marine's ignorance of seamanship. [Fr.,--L. _marinus_--_mare_,
sea.]

MARIOLATRY, m[=a]-ri-ol'a-tri, _n._ the undue worship of the Virgin
_Mary_--the veneration paid to her is strictly _Hyperdulia_.--_n._
MARIOL'ATER, one who practises mariolatry. [L. _Maria_, Mary, Gr.
_latreia_, worship.]

MARIONETTE, mar-i-o-net', _n._ a puppet moved by strings, a puppet-show.
[Fr.]

MARIOTTE'S LAW. See LAW.

MARIPUT, mar'i-put, _n._ the African zoril.

MARISCHAL, a Scotch form of _marshal_.

MARISH, mar'ish, _n._ and _adj._ Same as MARSH.

MARIST, m[=a]'rist, _n._ a member of a modern R.C. congregation for
teaching.--_adj._ devoted to the service of the Virgin.

MARITAL, mar'i-tal, _adj._ pertaining to a husband: of the nature of a
marriage.--_n._ MARIT[=A]'GIUM, in the feudal system, the right of the lord
of the fee to dispose of the heiress, later also of the male heir, in
marriage. [Fr.,--L. _maritalis_--_maritus_, a husband--_mas_, _maris_, a
male.]

MARITIME, mar'i-tim, _adj._ pertaining to the sea: relating to navigation
or to naval affairs: situated near the sea: living on the shore,
littoral--opp. to _Marine_: having a navy and a naval commerce. [L.
_maritimus_--_mare_, sea.]

MARJORAM, mär'jo-ram, _n._ an aromatic plant used as a seasoning in
cookery. [Fr. _marjolaine_--Low L. _majoraca_--L. _amaracus_--Gr.
_amarakos_.]

MARK, märk, _n._ a visible sign: any object serving as a guide: that by
which anything is known: a badge: a trace, impression, proof: any visible
effect: symptom: a thing aimed at or striven for: an attainable point: a
character made by one who cannot write: any impressed sign or stamp: a
physical peculiarity: distinction: a boundary, limit: in medieval times, a
tract of common land belonging to a community.--_v.t._ to make a mark on
anything: to impress with a sign: to take notice of: to regard.--_v.i._ to
take particular notice.--_adj._ MARKED, distinguished: prominent:
notorious.--_adv._ MARK'EDLY, noticeably.--_ns._ MARK'ER, one who marks the
score at games, as at billiards: a counter used at card-playing, &c.: the
soldier who forms the pivot round which a body of soldiers wheels;
MARK'ING, act of making a mark: a mark made upon anything; MARK'ING-INK,
indelible ink, used for marking clothes; MARK'ING-NUT, the fruit of an East
Indian tree of the cashew family, yielding a black juice used in marking
cloths; MARK'MAN, one of the community owning a mark; MARKS'MAN, one good
at hitting a mark: one who shoots well.--MARK DOWN, set down in writing,
put a note of; MARK OUT, to lay out the plan or outlines of anything; MARK
TIME, to move the feet alternately in the same manner as in marching, but
without changing ground.--A MAN OF MARK, a well-known or famous man; BESIDE
THE MARK, not properly referring to the matter in hand; GOD BLESS, or SAVE,
THE MARK, or SAVE THE MARK, a phrase expressing ironical astonishment or
scorn, from the usage of archery; MAKE ONE'S MARK, to leave a lasting
impression: to gain great influence; TOE THE MARK, to stand to one's
obligations, facing the consequences; TRADE MARK, a distinctive mark put on
goods, &c., to show by whom they were made; UP TO THE MARK, good enough,
measured by a certain standard. [A.S. _mearc_, a boundary; Ger. _mark_,
Goth. _marka_.]

MARK, märk, _n._ an obsolete English coin=13s. 4d.: a coin of the present
German Empire=about one shilling: a silver coin of Hamburg=about 1s. 4d.
[A.S. _marc_, another form of the above word.]

MARKET, mär'ket, _n._ a public place for the purposes of buying and
selling: the time for the market: sale: rate of sale: value.--_v.i._ to
deal at a market: to buy and sell.--_ns._ MARKETABIL'ITY,
MAR'KETABLENESS.--_adj._ MAR'KETABLE, fit for the market: saleable.--_ns._
MAR'KET-BELL (_Shak._), a bell to give notice of the time; MAR'KET-CROSS, a
cross anciently set up where a market was held; MAR'KET-DAY, the fixed day
on which a market is usually held; MAR'KETER; MAR'KET-GAR'DEN, a garden in
which fruit and vegetables are grown for market; MAR'KET-GAR'DENER;
MAR'KET-HOUSE, a building in which a market is held; MAR'KETING, the act or
practice of buying and selling in market; MAR'KET-PLACE, the open space in
a town where markets are held; MAR'KET-PRICE, the price at which anything
is sold in the market: the current price; MAR'KET-TOWN, a town having the
privilege of holding a public market. [Through the O. Fr. (Fr. _marché_,
It. _mercato_), from L. _mercatus_, trade, a market--_merx_, merchandise.]

MARL, märl, _n._ a fat earth or clay often used as manure.--_v.t._ to cover
with marl.--_adj._ MARL[=A]'CEOUS, having the qualities of marl: like
marl.--_n._ MAR'LITE, a variety of marl.--_adjs._ MARLIT'IC; MAR'LY, like
marl: abounding in marl.--_n._ MARL'STONE, argillaceous limestone. [O. Fr.
_marle_ (Fr. _marne_)--Low L. _margila_, a dim. of L. _marga_, marl.]

MARLINE, mär'lin, _n._ a small rope for winding round a larger one to keep
it from being worn by rubbing.--_v.t._ MAR'LINE, MARL, to bind or wind
round with marline.--_n._ MAR'LINESPIKE, an iron tool, like a spike, for
separating the strands of a rope in splicing. [Dut. _marlijn_,
_marling_--_marren_, to bind, _lijn_, a rope--Fr. _ligne_; cf. _moor_ and
_line_.]

MARMALADE, mär'ma-l[=a]d, _n._ a jam or preserve generally made of the pulp
of oranges, originally of quinces. [Fr., from Port. _marmelada_--_marmelo_,
a quince--L. _melim[=e]lum_--Gr. _melim[=e]lon_, a sweet apple--_meli_,
honey, _m[=e]lon_, an apple.]

MARMORACEOUS, mar-mo-r[=a]'shus, _adj._ belonging to, or like,
marble.--_adjs._ MAR'MORATE, -D, covered with marble: variegated like
marble.--_n._ MARMOR[=A]'TION.--_adjs._ MARM[=O]'REAL, MARM[=O]'REAN,
belonging to, or like, marble. [L. _marmor_, marble.]

MARMOSE, mar'm[=o]s, _n._ one of several small South American opossums.

MARMOSET, mär'mo-zet, _n._ a small variety of American monkey. [Fr.
_marmouset_, a little grotesque figure beside a fountain--L. _marmor_,
marble.]

MARMOT, mär'mot, _n._ a rodent animal, about the size of a rabbit, which
inhabits the higher parts of the Alps and Pyrenees. [It.
_marmotto_--Romansch _murmont_--L. _mus montanus_, mountain-mouse.]

MARONITE, mar'[=o]-n[=i]t, _n._ one of a sect of Christians who live on or
around the mountains of Lebanon. [St _Maron_, about 400 A.D., or John
_Maron_, a patriarch of the sect in the 7th century.]

MAROON, ma-r[=oo]n', _n._ a brownish crimson. [Fr. _marron_, a
chestnut--It. _marrone_, a chestnut.]

MAROON, ma-r[=oo]n', _n._ a fugitive slave living on the mountains, in the
West Indies.--_v.t._ to put on shore on a desolate island.--_ns._
MAROON'ER; MAROON'ING. [Fr. _marron_--Sp. _cimarron_, wild--_cima_, a
mountain-summit--L. _cyma_--Gr. _kyma_.]

MAROQUIN, mar'o-kwin, _n._ leather prepared from goatskin: morocco leather.
[Fr.]

MARPLOT, mär'plot, _n._ one who mars or defeats a plot or design by
interference where he has no right.

MARPRELATE, mär-prel'[=a]t, _adj._ pertaining to the series of vigorous
pamphlets against prelacy issued in England in 1588-9, in spite of severe
repression.

MARQUE, märk, _n._ a license to pass the marches or limits of a country for
the purpose of making reprisals: a ship commissioned for making
captures.--LETTER-OF-MARQUE (see LETTER). [Fr.]

MARQUEE, mär-k[=e]', _n._ a large field-tent. [For _marquees_, the s being
dropped as if a plural, from Fr. _marquise_, acc. to Littré, orig. a
marchioness's tent.]

MARQUETRY, märk'et-ri, _n._ work inlaid with pieces of various-coloured
wood. [Fr. _marqueterie_--_marqueter_, to inlay--_marque_, a mark.]

[Illustration]

MARQUIS, mär'kwis, MARQUESS, mär'kwes, _n._ a title of nobility next below
that of a duke, first given in England in 1386:--fem.
_Mar'chioness_.--_ns._ MAR'QUIS[=A]TE, the dignity or lordship of a
marquis; MARQUISE (mär-k[=e]z'), in France, a marchioness: a style of
parasol about 1850. [O. Fr. _markis_ (Fr. _marquis_, It. _marchese_)--Low
L. _marchensis_, a prefect of the marches.]

MARRIAGE, mar'ij, _n._ the ceremony by which a man and woman become husband
and wife: the union of a man and woman as husband and wife.--_adj._
MARR'IAGEABLE, suitable, or at a proper age, for marriage.--_ns._
MARR'IAGEABLENESS; MARR'IAGE-CON'TRACT, an agreement to be married: an
agreement respecting property by persons about to marry.--_n.pl._
MARR'IAGE-F[=A]'VOURS, knots or decorations worn at a marriage.--_n._
MARR'IAGE-SETT'LEMENT, an arrangement of property, &c., before marriage, by
which something is secured to the wife or her children, in case of her
husband's death. [O. Fr. _mariage_. See MARRY.]

MARROW, mar'[=o], _n._ the soft, fatty matter in the hollow parts of the
bones: the pith of certain plants: the essence or best part of anything:
the inner meaning or purpose.--_ns._ MARR'OW-BONE, a bone containing
marrow: (_pl._) the knees or the bones of the knees; MARR'OWFAT, a rich
kind of pea, called also Dutch Admiral pea.--_adjs._ MARR'OWISH, of the
nature of, or resembling, marrow; MARR'OWLESS, having no marrow.--_n._
MARR'OW-SQUASH (_U.S._), vegetable marrow.--_adj._ MARR'OWY, full of
marrow: strong: forcible: pithy. [A.S. _mearg_; Ger. _mark_.]

MARRY, mar'i, _v.t._ to take for husband or wife: to give in marriage: to
unite in matrimony.--_v.i._ to enter into the married state: to take a
husband or a wife:--_pr.p._ marr'ying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ marr'ied. [Fr.
_marier_--L. _marit[=a]re_, to marry, _maritus_, a husband--_mas_, _maris_,
a male.]

MARRY, mar'i, _interj._ indeed! forsooth! [By _Mary_.]

MARS, märz, _n._ the Roman god of war: the planet next to the earth in the
order of distance from the sun. [L. _Mars_, _Martis_.]

MARSALA, mar'sä-la, _n._ a light wine resembling sherry, from _Marsala_ in
Sicily.

MARSEILLAISE, mär-se-ly[=a]z', or mär-se-l[=a]z', _n._ the French
revolutionary hymn composed by Rouget de Lisle in 1792, sung by the
volunteers of _Marseilles_ as they entered Paris, 30th July, and when they
marched to the storming of the Tuileries.

MARSH, märsh, _n._ a tract of low wet land: a morass, swamp, or
fen.--_adj._ pertaining to wet or boggy places.--_ns._ MARSH'-GAS,
fire-damp; MARSH'-HARR'IER, a harrier of genus _Circus_ frequenting
marshes; MARSH'INESS; MARSH'-MALL'OW, a species of mallow common in meadows
and marshes; MARSH'-MAR'IGOLD, a genus of plants of the _Ranunculus_ order,
having large yellow flowers like those of a buttercup.--_adj._ MARSH'Y,
pertaining to, or produced in, marshes: abounding in marshes. [A.S.
_mersc_, for _mer-isc_, as if 'mere-ish,' full of _meres_. Cf. _mere_, a
pool.]

MARSHAL, mär'shal, _n._ an officer charged with the regulation of
ceremonies, preservation of order, points of etiquette, &c.: the chief
officer who regulated combats in the lists: a pursuivant or harbinger: a
herald: in France, an officer of the highest military rank: (_U.S._) the
civil officer of a district, corresponding to the sheriff of a county in
England.--_v.t._ to arrange in order: to lead, as a herald:--_pr.p._
mar'shalling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mar'shalled.--_ns._ MAR'SHALLER, one who
marshals; MAR'SHALLING, act of arranging in due order; MAR'SHALSEA, till
1842 a prison in Southwark, under the marshal of the royal household;
MAR'SHALSHIP, office of marshal. [O. Fr. _mareschal_ (Fr. _maréchal_); from
Old High Ger. _marah_, a horse, _schalh_ (Ger. _schalk_), a servant.]

MARSIPOBRANCHIATE, mar-si-po-brang'ki-[=a]t, _adj._ having pursed gills, as
lampreys, hags, &c.--Also MAR'SIPOBRANCH.

MARSUPIAL, mär-s[=u]'pi-al, _adj._ carrying young in a pouch.--_n._ a
marsupial animal, as the opossum or the kangaroo.--_n._ MARS[=U]'PIUM, a
brood-pouch. [L. _marsupium_--Gr. _marsipion_, a pouch.]

MART, märt, _n._ a place of trade. [Contr. of _market_.]

MARTAGON, mär'ta-gon, _n._ the Turk's-cap lily.

MARTEL, mär'tel, _v.t._ (_Spens_.) to hammer, to strike. [Fr. _marteler_,
It. _martello_. See MARTELLO.]

MARTELLO, mar-tel'o, _n._ a circular fort erected to protect a coast. [It.
_martello_, a hammer--L. _martulus_, _marculus_, dim. of _marcus_, a
hammer; or from _Mortella_ Point in Corsica, where a tower of this kind
withstood an English cannonade in 1794.]

MARTEN, mär'ten, _n._ a destructive kind of weasel valued for its fur. [Fr.
_martre_, also _marte_--Low L. _marturis_, from a Teut. root seen in Ger.
_marder_, and A.S. _mearð_, a marten.]

MAR-TEXT, mär'-tekst, _n._ an ignorant preacher.

MARTIAL, mär'shal, _adj._ belonging to Mars, the god of war, or to the
planet Mars: of or belonging to war, or to the army and navy: warlike:
brave.--_ns._ MAR'TIALISM; MAR'TIALIST.--_adv._ MAR'TIALLY.--MARTIAL LAW,
law enforced during a state of war for the proper government of armies, and
for the punishment of those who break the laws of war. [Fr.,--L.
_martialis_--_Mars_, _Martis_.]

MARTIN, mär'tin, _n._ a bird of the swallow kind.--Also MAR'TINET. [The
name _Martin_; cf. _robin_, &c.]

MARTINET, mär'tin-et, _n._ a strict disciplinarian.--_n._ MARTINET'ISM.
[From _Martinet_, a very strict officer in the army of Louis XIV. of
France.]

MARTINGALE, mär'tin-g[=a]l, _n._ a strap passing between a horse's
forelegs, fastened to the girth and to the bit, to keep his head down: in
ships, a short spar under the bowsprit.--Also MAR'TINGAL. [Fr., from a kind
of breeches worn at _Martigues_ in Provence.]

MARTINMAS, mär'tin-mas, _n._ the mass or feast of St _Martin_: 11th Nov., a
term-day in Scotland.

MARTLET, märt'let, _n._ the martin, the name of a bird: (_her._) a martin
or swallow without feet, used as a bearing, a crest, or a mark of cadency
to designate the fourth son. [From Fr. _martinet_, dim. of _martin_.]

MARTYR, mär't[.e]r, _n._ one who by his death bears witness to the truth:
one who suffers for his belief: one who suffers greatly from any
cause.--_v.t._ to put to death for one's belief.--_n._ MAR'TYRDOM, state of
being a martyr: the sufferings or death of a martyr: torment
generally.--_v.t._ MAR'TYRISE (_Browning_), to offer as a sacrifice: to
cause to suffer martyrdom.--_adj._ MARTYROLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ MARTYROL'OGIST;
MARTYROL'OGY, a history of martyrs: a discourse on martyrdom.
[A.S.,--L.,--Gr., a witness.]

MARVEL, mär'vel, _n._ a wonder: anything astonishing or wonderful:
astonishment.--_v.i._ to wonder: to feel astonishment:--_pr.p._
mar'velling; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mar'velled.--_adj._ MAR'VELLOUS,
astonishing: almost or altogether beyond belief: improbable.--_adv._
MAR'VELLOUSLY.--_n._ MAR'VELLOUSNESS. [Fr. _merveille_--L. _mirabilis_,
wonderful--_mir[=a]ri_, to wonder.]

MARYBUD, m[=a]'ri-bud, _n._ the marigold.

MASCLE, mas'kl, _n._ (_her._) a bearing, lozenge-shaped and perforated: a
plate of steel in the form of a lozenge, used in making
scale-armour.--_adjs._ MAS'CLED, MASCULE', MAS'CULY. [Fr. _macle_--L.
_macula_, the mesh of a net.]

MASCOT, mas'kot, _n._ a luck-penny or talisman: a person whose presence
brings good luck. [Fr. _mascotte_.]

MASCULINE, mas'k[=u]-lin, _adj._ of the male sex: having the qualities of a
man: resembling a man, or suitable to a man: robust: of a woman, bold,
forward, unwomanly: denoting nouns which are names of males.--_n._
(_gram._) the masculine gender.--_adv._ MAS'CULINELY.--_ns._
MAS'CULINENESS, MASCULIN'ITY. [Fr.,--L. _masculinus_--_masculus_,
male--_mas_, a male.]

MASH, mash, _v.t._ to beat into a mixed mass: to bruise: in brewing, to mix
malt and hot water together.--_v.i._ to act violently.--_n._ a mixture of
ingredients beaten or stirred together, as of bran, meal, &c., or bran and
boiled turnips, &c., for feeding cattle or horses: in brewing, a mixture of
crushed malt and hot water.--_ns._ MASH'ING; MASH'-TUB, MASH'ING-TUB, a tub
in which the mash in breweries is mixed.--_adj._ MASH'Y, produced by
mashing; of the nature of a mash. [The noun is older than the verb, and
seems to be connected with _mix_ (A.S. _miscian_); cf. _Mish-mash_.]

MASHER, mash'[.e]r, _n._ a fellow who dresses showily to attract the
attention of silly young women, a fop.--_v.t._ MASH, to gain the affections
of one of the opposite sex, to treat as a sweetheart.--BE MASHED ON
(_slang_), to be struck with love for another.

MASHIE, MASHY, mash'i, _n._ a kind of golf-club.

MASJID, mas'jid, _n._ a Mohammedan mosque.

MASK, MASQUE, mask, _n._ anything disguising or concealing the face:
anything that disguises: a pretence: a masquerade: a former kind of
dramatic spectacle, in which actors personified mythological deities,
shepherdesses, &c.: a representation or impression of a face in any
material, as in marble, plaster, &c.: a fox's head.--_v.t._ to cover the
face with a mask: to hide.--_v.i._ to join in a mask or masquerade: to be
disguised in any way: to revel.--_n._ MAS'CARON (_archit._), a grotesque
face on door-knockers, spouts, &c.--_adj._ MASKED, wearing a mask,
concealed.--_ns._ MASKED'-BALL, a ball in which the dancers wear masks;
MASK'ER, one who wears a mask.--MASKED BATTERY (see BATTERY). [Fr.
_masque_--Sp. _mascara_--Ar. _maskharat_, a jester, man in masquerade.]

MASK, mask, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to steep, infuse.--_v.i._ to be infusing. [A
form of _mash_.]

MASLIN, mas'lin, _n._ mixed grain, esp. rye and wheat.--Also MASH'LIN,
MASH'LIM, MASH'LUM.

MASON, m[=a]'sn, _n._ one who cuts, prepares, and lays stones: a builder in
stone: a member of the society of freemasons.--_v.t._ to build.--_adjs._
MASON'IC, relating to freemasonry; M[=A]'SONRIED, constructed of
masonry.--_n._ M[=A]'SONRY, the skill or practice of a mason: the work of a
mason: the art of building in stone: freemasonry.--_adj._ consisting of
mason-work.--_n._ MAS'TER-M[=A]'SON (see under MASTER). [O. Fr. _masson_
(Fr. _maçon_)--Low L. _macion-em_; prob. Teut.; cf. Mid. High Ger. _mezzo_,
a mason, whence _steinmetz_, a stone-mason, cog. with Old High Ger.
_meizan_, to hew, whence Ger. _meissel_, a chisel.]

MASOOLAH-BOAT, ma-s[=oo]'la-b[=o]t, _n._ a high many-oared East Indian
surf-boat.--Also MASU'LA-BOAT.

MASQUE. See MASK.

MASQUERADE, mask-[.e]r-[=a]d', _n._ an assembly of persons wearing masks,
generally at a ball: disguise.--_v.i._ to wear a mask: to join in a
masquerade: to go in disguise.--_n._ MASQUERAD'ER, a person wearing a mask:
a person or thing disguised in any manner. [Fr. _mascarade_. See MASK.]

MASS, mas, _n._ a lump of matter: a quantity: a collected body: the main
body: magnitude: the principal part or main body: quantity of matter in any
body, weight being proportional to mass: (_pl._) the lower classes of the
people.--_v.t._ to form into a mass: to bring together in masses.--_v.i._
to assemble in masses.--_adj._ MASS'IVE, bulky: weighty: not separated into
parts or elements: without crystalline form, geologically
homogeneous.--_adv._ MASS'IVELY.--_ns._ MASS'IVENESS, MASS'INESS;
MASS'-MEETING, a public meeting of persons of all classes to discuss some
matter of general interest.--_adj._ MASS'Y, massive, made up of masses.
[Fr. _masse_--L. _massa_--Gr. _maza_--_massein_, to squeeze together.]

MASS, mas, _n._ the celebration of the Lord's Supper or Eucharist in R.C.
churches, also the office for the same: a musical setting of certain parts
of the R.C. liturgy: a church festival or feast-day, as in _Candlemas_,
_Christmas_, _Martinmas_, &c.--_ns._ MASS'-BELL, or _Sacring-bell_, a bell
rung during the celebration of mass, at the elevation of the host;
MASS'-BOOK, the R.C. missal or service-book; MASS'-PRIEST, formerly a R.C.
secular priest, as distinct from those living under a rule--later, a priest
retained in chantries, &c., to say masses for the dead: a R.C. priest
generally.--MASS FOR THE DEAD, a funeral mass for the faithful in Christ,
to hasten their release from purgatory; CONVENTUAL MASS, a mass for the
general community of a religious house: a mass at which special remembrance
is made of pious founders and benefactors; DRY MASS, or SERVICE, a rite in
which there is neither consecration nor communion; HIGH MASS, a mass
celebrated with music, ritual, ceremonies, and incense; LOW MASS, the
ordinary mass celebrated without music and incense; MIDNIGHT MASS, that
mass which is said at midnight on Christmas-eve; PRIVATE MASS, any mass
where only the priest communicates, esp. in a private oratory; SOLEMN MASS,
a mass resembling a high mass, but without some of its special ceremonies;
VOTIVE MASS, a special mass over and above those ordinarily said for the
day, for some particular grace or purpose, and provided by some individual.
[A.S. _mæsse_--Low L. _missa_--L. _missus_, _mitt[)e]re_, to send away,
from the phrase at the close of service, _Ite, missa est (ecclesia)_, 'Go,
the congregation is dismissed.']

MASSA, mas'ä, _n._ a negro corruption of _master_.

MASSACRE, mas'a-k[.e]r, _n._ indiscriminate slaughter, esp. with cruelty:
carnage.--_v.t._ to kill with violence and cruelty: to slaughter. [Fr.;
from the Teut., as in Low Ger. _matsken_, to cut; cf. Ger. _metz-ger_, a
butcher.]

MASSAGE, ma-säzh', _n._ in medicine, a system of treatment in which the
manipulation and exercise of parts (_passive movement_) are employed for
the relief of morbid conditions--by stroking, pressing, tapping, kneading,
friction with kneading, &c.--_v.t._ to subject to massage.--_ns._
MASSA'GIST, MASSEUR':--_fem._ MASSEUSE'. [Fr., from Gr. _massein_, to
knead.]

MASSE, ma-s[=a]', _n._ in billiards, a sharp stroke made with the cue
perpendicular or nearly so. [Fr.]

MASSETER, mas-[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ a muscle which raises the under jaw, and
thus closes the mouth. [Gr. _mas[=e]t[=e]r_--_masasthai_, to chew.]

MASSICOT, mas'i-kot, _n._ protoxide of lead or yellow oxide of lead. [Fr.]

MASSIF, ma-s[=e]f, _n._ a central mountain-mass; an orographic fault-block.
[Fr.]

MASSORAH, MASORA, mas'[=o]-rä, _n._ the tradition by which Jewish scholars
tried to preserve the text of the Old Testament--a collection of critical
notes on the text of the Old Testament, first committed to writing in
Tiberias between the 6th and 9th cent. A.D.--the _Great Massorah_ was
finally arranged about the 11th century; the _Small Massorah_ is an extract
therefrom.--_ns._ MASS'ORETE, MASS'ORITE.--_adjs._ MASSORET'IC,
MASORET'IC.--MASSORETIC POINTS and ACCENTS, the vowel-points in Hebrew
furnished by the Massorah. [Heb., 'tradition.']

MAST, mast, _n._ a long upright pole for bearing the yards, rigging, &c. in
a ship.--_v.t._ to supply with a mast or masts.--_adj._ MAST'ED.--_n._
MAST'-HEAD, the head or top of the mast of a ship.--_v.t._ to raise to the
mast-head: to punish by sending a sailor to the mast-head for a certain
time.--_n._ MAST'-HOUSE, the place in dockyards where masts are
made.--_adj._ MAST'LESS, having no mast. [A.S. _mæst_, the stem of a tree;
Ger. _mast_.]

MAST, mast, _n._ the fruit of the oak, beech, chestnut, and other forest
trees, on which swine feed: nuts, acorns.--_adjs._ MAST'FUL; MAST'LESS;
MAST'Y. [A.S. _mæst_; Ger. _mast_, whence _mästen_, to feed.]

MASTER, mas't[.e]r, _n._ one who commands: a lord or owner: a leader or
ruler: a teacher: an employer: the commander of a merchant-ship: formerly
the navigator or sailing-master of a ship-of-war: one eminently skilled in
anything: the common title of address to a young gentleman, &c.: a title of
dignity or office--a degree conferred by universities, as _Master of Arts_,
&c., the title of the eldest son of a Scotch viscount or baron, the head of
some corporations, as Balliol College, &c., of a lodge of freemasons, &c.:
a husband.--_adj._ the chief, predominant: belonging to a master, chief,
principal, as in _Master-builder_, &c.--_v.t._ to become master of: to
overcome: to become skilful in: to execute with skill.--_ns._
MAS'TER-BUILD'ER, a chief builder, one who directs or employs others;
MAS'TERDOM, power of control.--_adj._ MAS'TERFUL, exercising the authority
or power of a master: imperious: having the skill of a master.--_adv._
MAS'TERFULLY, in a masterful or imperious manner.--_ns._ MAS'TERFULNESS;
MAS'TER-HAND, the hand of a master: a person highly skilled; MAS'TERHOOD;
MAS'TER-JOINT, the most marked system of joints or divisional planes by
which a rock is intersected; MAS'TERKEY, a key that opens many locks: a
clue fitted to guide one out of many difficulties.--_adj._ MAS'TERLESS,
without a master or owner: ungoverned: unsubdued: beyond control.--_n._
MAS'TERLINESS, quality of being masterly: masterly skill.--_adj._
MAS'TERLY, like a master: with the skill of a master: skilful: excellent:
overbearing.--_adv._ with the skill of a master.--_ns._ MAS'TER-MAR'INER,
the captain of a merchant-vessel or fishing-vessel; MAS'TER-M[=A]'SON, a
freemason who has attained the third degree; MAS'TER-MIND;
MAS'TER-PASS'ION; MAS'TERPIECE, a piece of work worthy of a master: a work
of superior skill: chief excellence; MAS'TERSHIP, the office of master:
rule or dominion: superiority; MAS'TERSTROKE, a stroke or performance
worthy of a master: superior performance; MAS'TER-WHEEL, the wheel in a
machine which imparts motion to other parts; MAS'TER-WORK, work worthy of a
master: masterpiece; MAS'TERWORT, a perennial umbelliferous herb, native to
northern Europe, its root reputed as a stomachic, sudorific, diuretic, &c.;
MAS'TERY, the power or authority of a master: dominion: victory:
superiority: the attainment of superior power or skill.--MASTER OF
CEREMONIES, OF THE ROLLS, &c. (see CEREMONIES, ROLLS, &c.); MASTER OF THE
HORSE, the Roman _Magister Equitum_, an official appointed by the dictator
to act next under himself: an equerry, esp. the exalted official bearing
this name at the British court; MASTER OF THE TEMPLE, the preacher of the
Temple Church in London; MASTERS OF THE SCHOOLS, at Oxford, the conductors
of the first examination (_Responsions_) for the degree of B.A.--MASTERLY
INACTIVITY, the position or part of a neutral or a Fabian combatant,
carried out with diplomatic skill, so as to preserve a predominant
influence without risking anything.--PASSED, or PAST, MASTER, one who has
occupied the office of master, esp. among freemasons--hence any one known
to possess ample knowledge of some subject; THE LITTLE MASTERS, a 16th-17th
cent. group of followers of Dürer, notable for fine work on wood and
copper; THE OLD MASTERS, a term applied collectively to the great painters
about the time of the Renaissance, esp. the Italians.--BE MASTER OF ONE'S
SELF, to have one's passions or emotions under control. [O. Fr. _maistre_
(Fr. _maître_)--L. _magister_, from root of _magnus_, great.]

MASTIC, MASTICH, mas'tik, _n._ a species of gum-resin from the
lentisk-tree: a cement from mastic: the tree producing mastic. [Fr.,--L.
_mastiche_--Gr. _mastich[=e]_--_mas-tizein_, to chew.]

MASTICATE, mas'ti-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to chew: to grind with the teeth.--_adj._
MAS'TICABLE, that may be chewed.--_ns._ MASTIC[=A]'TION, act or process of
chewing; MASTIC[=A]'TOR, a machine for cutting up meat for people unable to
chew: a machine used in purifying india-rubber.--_adj._ MAS'TICATORY,
chewing: adapted for chewing.--_n._ a substance chewed to increase the
saliva. [L. _mastic[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_mastiche_, mastic.]

MASTICOT. Same as MASSICOT.

MASTIFF, mas'tif, _n._ a thick-set and powerful variety of dog much used as
a watch-dog. [Skeat follows Scheler and Diez in explaining _mastiff_ as
'house-dog,' from an assumed O. Fr. _mastif_, prob. a variant of O. Fr.
_mastin_ (Fr. _mâtin_)--Low L. _masnata_, a family--L. _mansion-em_, a
house. Others explain as O. Fr. _mestif_ (Fr. _métif_), of mixed breed,
mongrel, or O. Fr. _mestis_ (_métis_), mongrel, or even as the above O. Fr.
mastin (Fr. mâtin), all, through Low L. forms, from L. _mixtus_, _mistus_,
_misc[=e]re_, to mix.]

MASTITIS, mas-t[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the mammary gland.--_n._
MASTODYN'IA, pain in the breast.--_adj._ MAS'TOID, like a nipple or teat:
denoting a part or process of the temporal bone.--_n._ MASTOL'OGY,
mammology. [Gr. _mastos_, a nipple.]

MASTODON, mas'to-don, _n._ a genus of extinct elephants, so named from the
mamillary cusps or teat-like prominences on the molar teeth. [Gr. _mastos_,
the breast, _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

MASTURBATION, mas-tur-b[=a]'shun, _n._ self-defilement, onanism.--_v.i._
MAS'TURBATE, to commit self-abuse.--_n._ MAS'TURBATOR, one guilty of this.
[L. _masturb[=a]ri_.]

MAT, mat, _n._ a texture of sedge, rushes, straw, &c. for cleaning the feet
on: a web of rope-yarn: an ornamental border for a picture: a piece of
cloth, &c. put below dishes on a table: anything like a mat in appearance,
thick and closely set: any interwoven structure used as a revetment on
river-banks, &c.: a sack of matting used to cover tea and coffee chests,
such a sack containing a certain quantity of coffee: the closely-worked
portion of lace: any annular pad to protect the head in bearing
burdens.--_v.t._ to cover with mats: to interweave: to entangle:--_pr.p._
mat'ting; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mat'ted. [A.S. _meatta_--L. _matta_, a mat.]

MAT, mat, _adj._ and _n._ having a dull or dead surface, without lustre: an
instrument by means of which such is produced.--_v.t._ to produce such a
surface on metal. [Ger. _matt_, dull.]

MATADOR, MATADORE, mat-a-d[=o]r', _n._ the man who kills the bull in
bull-fights: one of the three chief cards at ombre and quadrille. [Sp.
_matador_--_matar_, to kill--L. _mact[=a]re_, to kill, to honour by
sacrifice--_mactus_, honoured.]

MATAFUNDA, mat-a-fun'da, _n._ an old military engine which slung stones.
[Low L., prob. Sp. _matar_, to kill, L. _funda_, a sling.]

[Illustration]

MATCH, mach, _n._ a piece of inflammable material which easily takes or
carries fire: a prepared rope for firing a gun, &c.: a lucifer.--_ns._
MATCH'-BOX, a box for holding matches; MATCH'LOCK, the lock of a musket
containing a match for firing it: a musket so fired; MATCH'WOOD, wood cut
down to a size suitable for making matches: wood broken into small pieces;
QUICK'-MATCH, a match made of threads of cotton, and steeped in various
inflammable substances so as to burn a yard in thirteen seconds;
SAFE'TY-MATCH, a match which will only light when rubbed on a specially
prepared surface; SLOW'-MATCH, a match made to burn at the rate of from
four to five inches in an hour, for blasting, &c. [O. Fr. _mesche_ (Fr.
_mèche_)--Low L. _myxus_--Gr. _myxa_, the snuff or wick of a lamp.]

MATCH, mach, _n._ anything which agrees with or suits another thing: an
equal: one able to cope with another: a contest or game: a pairing, a
marriage: one to be gained in marriage.--_v.i._ to be of the same make,
size, &c., to correspond: to form a union with.--_v.t._ to be equal to, to
set a counterpart to anything: to be able to compete with: to find an equal
to: to set against as equal: to suit: to give in marriage.--_adj._
MATCH'ABLE.--_ns._ MATCH'BOARD, a board with a tongue cut along one edge
and a groove in the opposite edge, their joining being called a
MATCH'-JOINT; MATCH'ER.--_adj._ MATCH'LESS, having no match or equal:
superior to all: peerless: unpaired.--_adv._ MATCH'LESSLY.--_ns._
MATCH'LESSNESS; MATCH'-MAK'ER, one who makes matches: one who plans to
bring about marriages. [A.S. _gemæca_, _gemaca_, a mate, a wife.]

MATE, m[=a]t, _n._ a companion: an equal: one of a pair, the male or female
of animals that go in pairs: in a merchant-ship the first-mate is the
second in command--in the navy the term is now confined to petty-officers,
such as _boatswain's mate_, _gunner's mate_, &c.: an assistant,
deputy.--_v.t._ to be equal to: to become a companion to: to marry.--_adj._
MATE'LESS, without a mate or companion. [A.S. _ge-maca_; Ice. _maki_, an
equal, from the same root as _make_. Cf. _match_. Prob. _mate_ in its naut.
sense is Dutch--Old Dut. _maet_, mod. _maat_.]

MATE, m[=a]t, _n._ and _v.t._ in chess=_Checkmate_.

MATE, MATÉ, mä't[=a], _n._ a South American species of holly, the leaves
and green shoots of which, dried and roughly ground, furnish the _yerba de
mate_ of Paraguay and Brazil. [Sp. _mate_, orig. the vessel in which it was
infused for drinking.]

MATE, m[=a]t, _v.t._ (_Bacon_) to weaken, to confound, to crush. [O. Fr.
_mater_; cf. Sp. _matar_, to weaken.]

MATELASSE, mat-las'[=a], _adj._ and _n._ having a raised pattern on the
surface as if quilted, of silks. [Fr. _matelas_, a mattress.]

MATELOTE, mat'e-l[=o]t, _n._ fish stewed with wine-sauce, onions, &c. [Fr.
_matelot_, a sailor.]

MATEOLOGY, mat-[=e]-ol'o-ji, _n._ a foolish inquiry. [Gr. _mataios_, vain,
_mat[=e]_, folly, _logia_, discourse.]

MATER, m[=a]'t[.e]r, _n._ a mother: one of the two membranes of the brain,
outer and inner, separated by the arachnoid--the _dura mater_, or _dura_,
and _pia mater_, or _pia_.--M[=A]'TER DOLOR[=O]'SA, the Virgin Mary
represented as the sorrowing mother; M[=A]TERFAMIL'IAS, the mother of a
family. [L.,--Gr. _m[=e]t[=e]r_.]

MATERIAL, ma-t[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ consisting of matter: corporeal, not
spiritual: substantial: essential: important, esp. of legal importance:
(_phil._) pertaining to matter and not to form, relating to the object as
it exists.--_n._, esp. in _pl._, that out of which anything is to be
made.--_n._ MATERIALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MAT[=E]'RIAL[=I]SE, to render
material: to reduce to or regard as matter: to occupy with material
interests.--_ns._ MAT[=E]'RIALISM, the doctrine that denies the independent
existence of spirit, and maintains that there is but one substance--viz.
matter--thus professing to find in matter (_monistic_ or _philosophical
materialism_), or in material entities (_atomistic materialism_), or in
material qualities and forces (scientific or physical materialism), a
complete explanation of all life and existence whatsoever; MAT[=E]'RIALIST,
one who holds the doctrine of materialism: one absorbed in material
interests, who takes a low view of life and its responsibilities.--_adjs._
MATERIALIST'IC, -AL, pertaining to materialism.--_adv._
MAT[=E]'RIALLY.--_ns._ MAT[=E]'RIALNESS, MATERIAL'ITY.--MATERIAL BEING,
existence in the form of matter; MATERIAL CAUSE, that which gives being to
the thing; MATERIAL DISTINCTION, a distinction between individuals of the
same species; MATERIAL EVIDENCE, evidence tending to prove or to disprove
the matter under judgment; MATERIAL FALLACY, a fallacy in the matter or
thought, rather than in the logical form; MATERIAL FORM, a form depending
on matter; MATERIAL ISSUE (see ISSUE).--RAW MATERIAL, stuff as yet unworked
into anything useful. [Fr.,--L. _materialis_--_materia_.]

MATERIA MEDICA, ma-t[=e]'ri-a med'i-ka, _n._ the various substances used in
making up medicines: the science of the nature and use of substances used
as medicines. [L. _materia_, material, _medicus_, medical.]

MATÉRIEL, ma-t[=a]-re-el', _n._ the totality of materials or instruments
employed (as in an army), as distinguished from the _personnel_ or
men--applied esp. to military stores, arms, baggage, horses, &c. [Fr.]

MATERNAL, ma-t[.e]r'nal, _adj._ belonging to a mother: motherly.--_adv._
MATER'NALLY.--_n._ MATER'NITY, the state, character, or relation of a
mother: motherhood: a lying-in hospital. [Fr. _maternel_ (It.
_maternale_)--L. _maternus_--_mater_, mother.]

MATH, math, _n._ a mowing.

MATHEMATIC, -AL, math-e-mat'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to, or done by,
mathematics: very accurate.--_adv._ MATHEMAT'ICALLY.--_ns._ MATHEMATIC'IAN,
one versed in mathematics; MATHEMAT'ICS, the science of magnitude and
number, and of all their relations--usually divided into _Pure_, and
_Mixed_ or _Applied_, the first including all deductions from the abstract,
self-evident relations of magnitude and number--the second, the results
arrived at by applying the principles so established to certain relations
found by observation to exist among the phenomena of nature.--HIGHER
MATHEMATICS, a term applied generally to all the scientifically treated
branches of mathematics. [Fr. _mathématique_--L. _mathematica_--Gr.
_math[=e]matik[=e]_ (_epist[=e]m[=e]_, skill, knowledge), relating to
learning--_math[=e]ma_--_manthanein_, to learn.]

MATHESIS, ma-th[=e]'sis, _n._ mental discipline. [Gr.]

MATICO, ma-t[=e]'ko, _n._ a Peruvian shrub, used in medicine as a styptic
and astringent.

MATIN, mat'in, _adj._ morning: used in the morning.--_n._ in _pl._ the
daily morning service of the Church of England: one of the seven canonical
hours, usually sung between midnight and daybreak.--_adj._ MAT'INAL.--_n._
MATINÉE (mat-i-n[=a]'), a musical entertainment or reception held in the
day-time, usually in the afternoon: a woman's dress for wear in the
forenoon or before dinner. [Fr.,--L. _matutinus_, belonging to the
morning--_Matuta_, goddess of morning, prob. akin to _maturus_, early.]

MATRASS, mat'ras, _n._ a chemical vessel with a tapering neck, a cucurbit.

MATRIARCHY, m[=a]'tri-är-ki, _n._ government by a mother or by mothers,
esp. a primitive order of society existing in many Indian tribes, in which
the mother takes precedence of the father in tracing line of descent and in
inheritance: descent in the female line.--_ns._ M[=A]'TRIARCH, a woman in
whom matriarchy rests: a patriarch's wife.--_adj._ MATRIAR'CHAL.--_ns._
MATRIAR'CHALISM, the character of possessing matriarchal customs;
MATRIAR'CHATE, the position of a matriarch. [Gr. _m[=e]t[=e]r_, mother,
_archos_, a ruler.]

MATRICE, m[=a]'tris, _n._ Same as MATRIX.

MATRICIDE, mat'ri-s[=i]d, _n._ a murderer of one's own mother: the murder
of one's own mother.--_adj._ MAT'RICIDAL [Fr.,--L. _matricida_,
_matricidium_--_mater_, mother, _cæd[)e]re_, to kill.]

MATRICULATE, ma-trik'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to admit to membership by entering
one's name in a register, esp. in a college.--_v.i._ to become a member of
a college, university, &c., by being enrolled.--_n._ one admitted to
membership in a society.--_n._ MATRICUL[=A]'TION, act of matriculating:
state of being matriculated. [Late L. _matricula_, a register, dim. of
_matrix_.]

MATRIMONY, mat'ri-mun-i, _n._ union of husband and wife, marriage: state of
marriage.--_adj._ MATRIM[=O]'NIAL, relating to, derived from,
marriage.--_adj._ MATRIM[=O]'NIALLY. [O. Fr.,--L. _matrimonium_--_mater_.]

MATRIX, m[=a]'triks, or mat'riks, _n._ (_anat._) the cavity in which an
animal is formed before its birth, the womb: the cavity in which anything
is formed, a mould: (_mining_) earthy or stony substances in which minerals
are found embedded: (_dyeing_) the five simple colours (black, white, blue,
red, and yellow) from which all the others are formed: (_math._) a
rectangular array of quantities, usually square--a multiple quantity having
as many dimensions as it has spaces:--_pl._ MATRICES (m[=a]'tri-sez or
mat'ri-sez). [L. _matrix_, _-icis_--_mater_, mother.]

MATRON, m[=a]'trun, _n._ an elderly married woman: an elderly lady of staid
and sober habits: a head-nurse in a hospital, or a female superintendent in
a school.--_ns._ M[=A]'TRONAGE, M[=A]'TRONHOOD, state of being a matron: a
body of matrons.--_adj._ M[=A]'TRONAL, pertaining or suitable to a matron:
motherly: grave.--_v.t._ M[=A]'TRONISE, to render matronly: to attend a
lady to public places, as protector: to chaperon.--_adjs._ M[=A]'TRON-LIKE,
M[=A]'TRONLY, like, becoming, or belonging to a matron: elderly:
sedate.--_n._ MATRONYM'IC, a name derived from a mother or maternal
ancestor--also _adj._ [Fr.,--L. _matrona_, a married lady--_mater_,
mother.]

MATROSS, ma-tros', _n._ formerly a soldier set to help the gunners in an
artillery train. [Dut. _matroos_--Fr. _matelot_, a sailor.]

MATTE, mat, _n._ a product of the smelting of sulphuretted ores.--Also
_Regulus_ and _Coarse metal_. [Fr.,--Ger.]

MATTER, mat'[.e]r, _n._ that which occupies space, and with which we become
acquainted by our bodily senses: that out of which anything is made: that
which receiving a form becomes a substance: the subject or thing treated
of: anything engaging the attention: that with which one has to do: cause
of a thing: thing of consequence: something requiring remedy or
explanation: any special allegation in law: importance: a measure, &c., of
indefinite amount: (_print._) material for work, type set up: mere dead
substance, that which is thrown off by a living body, esp. pus, or the
fluid in boils, tumours, and festering sores.--_v.i._ to be of importance:
to signify: to form or discharge matter in a sore:--_pr.p._ matt'ering;
_pa.p._ matt'ered.--_adjs._ MATT'ERFUL, full of matter, pithy; MATT'ERLESS;
MATT'ER-OF-FACT, adhering to the matter of fact: not fanciful: dry;
MATT'ERY, significant: purulent.--MATTER OF COURSE, occurring in natural
time and order, as a thing to be expected; MATTER OF FACT, really happening
and not fanciful or supposed: not wandering beyond realities. [O. Fr.
_matiere_--L. _materia_, matter.]

MATTING, mat'ing, _n._ a covering with mats: a texture like a mat, but
larger: material for mats.

MATTINS. Same as MATINS, _pl._ of MATIN.

MATTOCK, mat'uk, _n._ a kind of pickaxe for loosening the soil, having the
iron ends broad instead of pointed. [A.S. _mattuc_--W. _matog_.]

MATTRESS, mat'res, _n._ a bed made of a bag stuffed with wool, horse-hair,
&c.: a mass of brushwood, &c., used to form a foundation for roads, &c., or
for the walls of embankments, &c.--SPRING MATTRESS, a mattress in which
springs of twisted wire are used to support the stuffed part; WIRE
MATTRESS, one whose elasticity is produced by a sheet of tightly-stretched
wire. [O. Fr. _materas_ (Fr. _matelas_)--Ar. _matrah_, a place where
anything is thrown.]

MATURATE, mat'[=u]-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to make mature: (_med._) to promote the
suppuration of.--_v.i._ (_med._) to suppurate perfectly.--_ns._ MAT'URANT,
a maturative; MATUR[=A]'TION, a bringing or a coming to maturity: the
process of suppurating fully.--_adj._ MAT[=U]'RATIVE, maturing or ripening:
(_med._) promoting suppuration.--_n._ a medicine promoting suppuration. [L.
_matur[=a]re_--_maturus_, ripe.]

MATURE, ma-t[=u]r', _adj._ grown to its full size: perfected: ripe:
(_med._) come to suppuration: fully digested, as a plan.--_v.t._ to ripen:
to bring to perfection: to prepare for use.--_v.i._ to become ripe: to
become payable, as a bill.--_adj._ MATUR'ABLE, capable of being
matured.--_adv._ MATURE'LY.--_ns._ MATURE'NESS, state or quality of being
ripe or ready for use; MATUR'ITY, ripeness: a state of completeness or
readiness for use. [L. _maturus_, ripe.]

MATURESCENT, mat-[=u]-res'ent, _adj._ becoming ripe: approaching maturity.
[L. _maturesc[)e]re_, to become ripe--_maturus_.]

MATUTINAL, mat-[=u]-t[=i]'nal, _adj._ pertaining to the morning: happening
early in the day.--Also MAT'UTINE. [L. _matutinalis_, _matutinus_. See
MATIN.]

MAUD, mawd, _n._ a Scotch shepherd's woollen plaid.

MAUDLIN, mawd'lin, _adj._ silly: sickly-sentimental: fuddled, half-drunk:
(_obs._) tearful.--_n._ MAUD'LINISM, the tearful stage of drink. [Contr.
from M. E. _Maudelein_, which comes through O. Fr. and L. from Gr.
_Magdal[=e]n[=e]_, the orig. sense being 'tearful from penitence,' hence
'with eyes red and swollen with weeping,' like Mary Magdalene, erroneously
identified with the penitent woman of Luke vii. 37.]

MAUGRE, maw'g[.e]r, _prep._ in spite of.--_n._ (_obs._) ill-will: spite.
[O. Fr. _malgré_--L._ male gratum_--_male,_ badly, _gratum_, agreeable.]

MAUL, mawl, _v.t._ to beat with a mall or a heavy stick: to injure greatly
by beating.--_n._ a heavy wooden hammer: a struggle for the ball in
football, when it has been carried across the goal-line, but has not yet
been touched down. [_Mall_.]

MAULSTICK. See MAHL-STICK.

MAUMET, MAMMET. Same as MAWMET.

MAUND, mawnd, _n._ (_Shak_.) a basket. [A.S. _mand_.]

MAUND, mawnd, _n._ a measure of weight in India, its value varying in
different places from about 25 to about 85 pounds avoirdupois. [Hind.
_m[=a]n_.]

MAUNDER, mawn'd[.e]r, _v.i._ to beg: to whine like a beggar, to grumble: to
mutter, to talk foolishly, to drivel.--_ns._ MAUN'DERER; MAUN'DERING,
drivelling talk. [O. Fr. _mendier_, to beg--L. _mendic[=a]re_.]

MAUNDRIL, mawn'dril, _n._ a pick with two prongs.

MAUNDY, mawn'di, _n._ the religious ceremony of washing the feet of others,
esp. of inferiors, in commemoration of Christ's washing His disciples' feet
at the Last Supper--still practised in Austria by the emperor.--MAUNDY
MONEY, the money given away on MAUNDY THURSDAY, the Thursday in Passion
week, by the royal almoner, usually a penny for each year of the
sovereign's reign--the small silver coins specially coined since 1662. [O.
Fr. _mande_ (Fr. _mandé_)--L. _mand[=a]tum_, command, i.e. the 'new
Commandment' of John, xiii. 34.]

MAURIST, maw'rist, _n._ a member of the reformed Benedictine Congregation
of St _Maur_, settled from 1618 at the abbey of St _Maur_-sur-Loire, near
Saumur, notable for its great services to learning.

MAUSER, mow'z[.e]r, _n._ a German magazine rifle, invented by Wilhelm
_Mauser_ (1834-82).

MAUSOLEUM, maw-so-l[=e]'um, _n._ a magnificent tomb or monument.--_adj._
MAUSOL[=E]'AN, pertaining to a mausoleum: monumental. [L.,--Gr.,
_Maus[=o]leion_, from _Mausolus_, king of Caria, to whom his widow,
Artemisia, erected a splendid tomb about 350 B.C.]

MAUTHER, mä'th[.e]r, _n._ an Eng. prov. form of mother.

MAUVE, mawv, _n._ a beautiful purple dye extracted from coal-tar, so called
from its likeness in colour to the flowers of the common mallow.--_adj._ of
the colour of mauve. [Fr.,--L. _malva_, the mallow.]

MAVERICK, mav'[.e]r-ik, _n._ (_U.S._) an animal found straying without an
owner's brand, esp. a strayed calf: anything dishonestly obtained.--_v.t._
to seize without legal claim. [From Samuel _Maverick_, a Texas
cattle-raiser.]

MAVIS, m[=a]'vis, _n._ the song-thrush. [Fr. _mauvis_; prob. from Bret.
_milfid_, a mavis.]

MAVOURNEEN, ma-v[=oo]r'n[=e]n, _n._ and _interj._ a term of endearment=my
dear one. [Ir.]

MAW, maw, _n._ the stomach, esp. in the lower animals: the craw, in
birds.--_ns._ MAW'-SEED, poppy-seed, so called when used as food for cage
birds; MAW'-WORM, the thread-worm infesting the stomach. [A.S. _maga_; Ger.
_magen_.]

MAWKIN. Same as MALKIN (q.v.).

MAWKISH, mawk'ish, _adj._ loathsome, disgusting, as anything beginning to
breed mawks or maggots.--_n._ MAWK, a maggot.--_adv._ MAWK'ISHLY.--_n._
MAWK'ISHNESS. [Explained by Skeat as formed, with suffix _-ish_, from M. E.
_mawk_, _mauk_, a contr. form of M. E. _maðek_, a maggot--Ice. _maðkr_, a
maggot.]

MAWMET, maw'met, _n_. a puppet: an idol--_Mohammed_.

MAX, maks, _n_. a kind of gin. [L. _maximus_, greatest.]

MAXILLARY, maks'il-ar-i, _adj_. pertaining to the jawbone or jaw.--_n_. a
maxillary bone, or maxilla.--_n_. MAXILL'A, a jawbone.--_adjs_.
MAXILLIF'EROUS; MAXILL'IFORM.--_n_. MAXILL'IPEDE, in crustacea, one of
those limbs serving both for mastication and locomotion. [L. _maxilla_,
jawbone.]

MAXIM, maks'im, _n_. a general principle, serving as a rule or guide: a
pithy saying: a proverb.--_adjs_. MAX'IMAL; MAX'IMED, reduced to a
maxim.--_ns_. MAX'IMIST, MAX'IM-MONG'ER. [Fr.,--L. _maxima_ (_sententia_,
an opinion), superl. of _magnus_, great.]

MAXIM, maks'im, _n_. often put for MAX'IM-GUN, an automatic machine-gun
capable of firing as many as 620 rounds per minute, and of accurate
shooting up to 3000 yards. [From Hiram _Maxim_, the inventor.]

MAXIMUM, maks'i-mum, _adj_. the greatest.--_n_. the greatest number,
quantity, or degree: the highest point reached: (_math_.) the value of a
variable when it ceases to increase and begins to decrease:--_pl_.
MAX'IMA:--opp. to _Minimum_.--_adj_. MAX'IMAL, of the highest or maximum
value.--_adv_. MAX'IMALLY.--_v.t._ MAX'IMISE, to raise to the highest
degree. [L., superl. of _magnus_, great.]

MAY, m[=a], _v.i._ to be able: to be allowed: to be free to act: to be
possible: to be by chance: to be competent:--_pa.t._ might
(m[=i]t).--_adv_. MAY'BE, perhaps, possibly.--_n_. a possibility.--_adv_.
MAY'HAP, perhaps. [A.S. _mæg_, pr.t. of _mugan_, to be able, pa.t. _mihte_;
cog. with Goth. _magan_, Ger. _mögen_.]

MAY, m[=a], _n_. the fifth month of the year: the early or gay part of
life.--_v.i._ to gather _May_ (prov. Eng. the blossom of the hawthorn,
which blooms in May):--_pr.p._ May'ing.--_ns_. MAY'-BEE'TLE, MAY'-BUG, the
cockchafer; MAY'-BLOOM, the hawthorn flower; MAY'DAY, the first day of May;
MAY'-DEW, the dew of May, esp. that of the morning of the first day of May,
which is said to whiten linen, and to enable a face washed with it to keep
its beauty; MAY'-DUKE, a variety of sour cherry; MAY'-FLOW'ER, the
hawthorn, which blooms in May; MAY'FLY, a short-lived fly which appears in
May; MAY'-GAME, sport such as is usual on 1st May, frolic generally;
MAY'ING, the observance of Mayday sports and games; MAY'-L[=A]'DY, the
queen of the May; MAY'-LIL'Y, the lily of the valley, so called because it
blooms in May; MAY'-MORN (_Shak_.), freshness, like that of a morning in
May, vigour; MAY'POLE, a pole erected for dancing round on Mayday;
MAY'-QUEEN, a young woman crowned with flowers as queen on Mayday;
MAY'TIME, May, the season of May. [O. Fr. _Mai_--L. _Maius_ (_mensis_, a
month), sacred to _Maia_, the mother of Mercury.]

MAY, m[=a], _n_. a maid. [A.S. _m['æ]g_, a kinswoman.]

MAYA, mä'ya, _n_. an illusive appearance, esp. of a celestial maiden
personifying the active will of the creator of the universe. [Hind.]

MAYHEM, m[=a]'hem, _n_. the offence of depriving a person by violence of
any limb, member, or organ, or causing any mutilation of the body.
[_Maim_.]

MAYONNAISE, m[=a]-on-[=a]z', _n_. a sauce composed of the yoke of eggs,
salad-oil, and vinegar or lemon-juice, seasoned: any cold dish of which the
foregoing is an ingredient, as lobster. [Fr.]

MAYOR, m[=a]'ur, _n_. the chief magistrate of a city or borough:--_fem_.
MAY'ORESS.--_adj_. MAY'ORAL.--_ns_. MAY'ORALTY, MAY'ORSHIP, the office of a
mayor. [Fr. _maire_--L. _major_, comp. of _magnus_, great.]

MAZARD, MAZZARD, maz'ard, _n_. (_Shak_.) a head or skull: a wild European
cherry. [Prob. from _mazer_, from the likeness of the skull to a goblet.]

MAZARINADE, maz-a-rin-[=a]d', _n_. a pamphlet or satire against the French
minister, Cardinal _Mazarin_ (1602-61).--_n_. MAZARINE', a rich blue
colour: a blue gown.--MAZARIN BIBLE, the first printed Bible, printed by
Gutenberg and Fust about 1450, so called because Cardinal _Mazarin_
possessed twenty-five copies.

MAZDA, maz'da, _n_. or AHURA MAZDÂH, the supreme deity and creator of the
Zend-Avesta.--_adj_. MAZ'D[=E]AN.--_n_. MAZ'D[=E]ISM, the religious system
of the Zend-Avesta, the ancient sacred writings of the Parsees,
Zoroastrianism. [Zend _ahu_=the living, life, or spirit, root _ah_=to be;
_Mazdâh_, the great Creator, _maz_+_dâ_=Sans. _mahâ_+_dhâ_.]

MAZE, m[=a]z, _n_. a place full of intricate windings: confusion of
thought: perplexity.--_v.t._ to bewilder: to confuse.--_adjs_. MAZE'FUL
(_Spens_.), MAZ'Y, full of mazes or windings: intricate.--_adv_.
MAZ'ILY.--_n_. MAZ'INESS, state or quality of being mazy. [Scand., as in
Ice. _masa_, to jabber.]

MAZER, maz'[.e]r, _n_. (_Spens_.) a kind of hard wood, probably maple: a
cup or goblet made of maple, and usually highly ornamented. [Skeat explains
as Ice. _mösurr_, a maple-tree, lit. 'spot-wood.']

MAZOURKA, MAZURKA, ma-z[=oo]r'ka, _n_. a lively Polish round dance for four
or eight couples: the music such as is played to it.

ME, m[=e], _personal pron_. the objective case of I, including both the old
English accusative and dative of the first personal pronoun. [A.S. _mé_.]

MEACOCK, m[=e]'kok, _adj_. (_Shak_.) timorous, effeminate, cowardly. [Perh.
dim. of _meek_.]

MEAD, m[=e]d, _n_. honey and water fermented and flavoured. [A.S. _medu_;
Ger. _meth_, W. _medd_.]

MEADOW, med'[=o], _n_. a level tract producing grass to be mown down: a
rich pasture-ground--(_poet_.) MEAD.--_ns_. MEAD'OW-FOX'TAIL (see FOXTAIL);
MEAD'OW-GRASS, the larger and more useful kinds of grass, grown in meadows
for hay and pasture; MEAD'OW-HAY, a coarse grass or sedge growing in moist
places, used as fodder or bedding; MEAD'OW-LARK, the American field-lark;
MEAD'OW-SAFF'RON, the colchicum--also _Autumn-crocus_, or _Naked lady;_
MEAD'OW-SWEET, MEAD'OW-WORT, an ornamental shrub or plant with white
flowers, called also _Queen of the meadow.--adj_. MEAD'OWY. [A.S.
_m['æ]d_--_máwan_, to mow; Ger. _mahd_, a mowing, Swiss _matt_, a meadow,
as in Zer_matt_, &c.]

MEAGRE, m[=e]'g[.e]r, _adj_. having little flesh: lean: poor: without
richness or fertility: barren: scanty: without strength.--_adv_.
MEA'GRELY.--_n_. MEA'GRENESS, state or quality of being meagre. [Fr.
_maigre_--L. _macer_, lean; cf. Ger. _mager_.]

MEAL, m[=e]l, _n_. the food taken at one time: the act or the time of
taking food: a breakfast, dinner, or supper.--_ns_. MEAL'ER, one who takes
his meals at a boarding-house, lodging elsewhere; MEAL'-TIME, the time for
meals.--SQUARE MEAL, a full meal. [A.S. _m['æ]l_, time, portion of time;
Dut. _maal_, Ger. _mahl_.]

MEAL, m[=e]l, _n_. grain ground to powder.--_v.i._ to yield or be plentiful
in meal.--_ns_. MEAL'-ARK (_Scot_.), a large chest for holding meal;
MEAL'INESS; MEAL'-MAN, or MEAL'-MONG'ER, one who deals in meal; MEAL'-POCK,
or -POKE, a beggar's meal-bag; MEAL'WORM, the larva of an insect abounding
in granaries and flour-stores.--_adj_. MEAL'Y, resembling meal: covered
with meal or with something like meal: whitish.--_n_. MEAL'Y-BUG, a small
species of cochineal insect covered with a while powdery substance
resembling meal or flour.--_adj_. MEAL'Y-MOUTHED, smooth-tongued.--_n_.
MEAL'Y-MOUTHEDNESS. [A.S. _melu, melo;_ Ger. _mehl_, Dut. _meel_, meal.]

MEALIE, m[=e]l'i, _n_. an ear of maize or Indian corn, esp. in _pl_.,
maize.

MEAN, m[=e]n, _adj_. low in rank or birth: base: sordid: low in worth or
estimation: of little value or importance: poor, humble:
despicable.--_adj_. MEAN'-BORN, of humble origin.--_adv_. MEAN'LY.--_n._
MEAN'NESS, state or quality of being mean: want of nobility or excellence:
a low action.--_adj_. MEAN'-SPIR'ITED, having a mean spirit, base.--_n_.
MEAN'-SPIR'ITEDNESS. [A.S. _m['æ]ne_, wicked, from _mán_, wickedness; perh.
conn. with A.S. _gem['æ]ne_, Ger. _gemein_, common.]

MEAN, m[=e]n, _adj_. middle: coming between two others in size, degree,
quantity, time, &c.: average: moderate.--_n_. the middle point, quantity,
value, or degree: (_math_.) a term interpolated between two terms of a
series, and consequently intermediate in magnitude: (_mus_.) a middle voice
or voice-part, as the tenor or alto, the second or third string in a viol:
instrument or medium: (_pl_.) that by which anything is caused or brought
to pass: income: estate: instrument.--_n_. MEAN'-TIME, the interval between
two given times.--_advs_. MEAN'TIME, MEAN'WHILE, in the intervening
time.--MEANS OF GRACE, divine ordinances, by which divine grace reaches the
hearts of men--word and sacraments.--ARITHMETICAL MEAN, the average
obtained by adding several quantities together and dividing the sum by
their number; HARMONIC MEAN, the reciprocal of the arithmetical mean of the
reciprocals of the quantities concerned; GEOMETRIC MEAN, the mean obtained
by multiplying two quantities together and extracting the square root of
the product; GOLDEN MEAN, the middle course between two extremes: a wise
moderation; QUADRATIC MEAN, the square root of the arithmetical mean of the
squares of the given quantities.--BY ALL MEANS, certainly; BY ANY MEANS, in
any way; BY NO MEANS, certainly not.--IN THE MEAN (_Spens_.), in the
meantime. [O. Fr. _meien_ (Fr. _moyen_)--L. _medianus_, enlarged form of
_medius_.]

MEAN, m[=e]n, _v.t._ to have in the mind or thoughts: to intend, to
purpose: to signify.--_v.i._ to have in the mind: to have meaning or
disposition:--_pr.p._ mean'ing; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ meant (ment).--_n_.
MEAN'ING, that which is in the mind or thoughts: signification: the sense
intended: purpose.--_adj_. significant.--_adj_. MEAN'INGLESS, without
meaning.--_adv_. MEAN'INGLY. [A.S. _m['æ]nan_; Ger. _meinen_, to think.]

MEAN, m[=e]n, _v.i._ (_Shak_.) to lament, to moan.

MEANDER, m[=e]-an'd[.e]r, _n_. a winding course: a maze: an intricate
variety of fretwork: perplexity.--_v.i._ to flow, run, or proceed in a
winding course: to be intricate.--_v.t._ to wind or flow round.--_adjs._
MEAN'DERED, formed into mazy passages or patterns; MEAN'DERING, winding in
a course; MEAN'DRIAN, MEAN'DROUS, winding.--_n_. a winding course.
[L.,--Gr. _Maiandros_, a winding river in Asia Minor.]

MEANT, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of mean (_v.t._).

MEAR, m[=e]r, _n_. (_Spens_.) a boundary. [See MERE.]

MEASE, m[=e]s, or m[=e]z, _n_. a tale of 500 herrings.

MEASLES, m[=e]'zlz, _n.sing._ a contagious fever accompanied with eruptions
of small red spots upon the skin: a disease of swine and cattle, caused by
larval tapeworms: a disease of trees, the leaves being covered with
spots.--_adjs_. MEA'SLED, MEA'SLY, infected with measles: good for nothing,
miserable.--_n_. MEAS'LINESS.--GERMAN MEASLES, a name somewhat loosely used
of a disease, resembling measles, but mostly less prolonged and severe.
[Dut. _maselen_, measles, from Old Dut. _masche_, a spot, cog. with Old
High Ger. _m[=a]s[=a]_, a spot; Ger. _masern_, measles.]

MEASURE, mezh'[=u]r, _n_. that by which extent is ascertained or expressed:
the size of anything: a rule or standard by which anything is adjusted
(_Apothecaries'_, _Cubic_, _Decimal_, _Dry_, _Liquid_, &c.): (_politics_) a
proposal or plan by which some end can be brought about: proportion: a
stated quantity: degree: extent: moderation: means to an end: metre:
(_mus_.) that division of time, containing a specified number of beats, by
which the air and motion of music are regulated: rate of movement, time,
rhythm, metre, arrangement of syllables in poetry: a slow and stately
dance, as the minuet: (_print_.) the width of a page or column, usually in
_ems_: (_pl_., _geol_.) a series of beds or strata.--_v.t._ to ascertain
the dimensions of: to adjust by a rule or standard: to mark out: to allot:
to show a certain measurement.--_v.i._ to be of a certain size: to be equal
or uniform.--_adj_. MEAS'URABLE, that may be measured or computed:
moderate: in small quantity or extent.--_n._ MEAS'URABLENESS, the quality
of being measurable.--_adv._ MEAS'URABLY.--_adjs._ MEAS'URED, of a certain
measure: equal: uniform: steady: restricted; MEAS'URELESS, boundless:
immense.--_ns._ MEAS'UREMENT, the act of measuring: quantity found by
measuring--(MEASUREMENT GOODS, light goods carried for charges according to
bulk, not weight); MEAS'URER, one who, or that which, measures.--_adj._
MEAS'URING, that measures, or fitted for measuring.--MEASURE ONE'S LENGTH,
to fall or be thrown down at full length; MEASURE STRENGTH, to engage in a
contest; MEASURE SWORDS, to fight with swords: to try one's skill
against.--ABOVE, or BEYOND, MEASURE, to an exceedingly great degree; IN A
MEASURE, to some degree.--TAKE MEASURES, to adopt means (to gain an end);
TAKE ONE'S MEASURE, to find out what one is, and what he can or cannot do;
TREAD A MEASURE, to dance; USE HARD MEASURES, to apply harsh treatment to;
WITHIN MEASURE, moderately; WITHOUT MEASURE, immoderately. [O. Fr.
_mesure_--L. _mensura_, a measure--_met[=i]ri_, to measure.]

MEAT, m[=e]t, _n._ anything eaten as food, the edible part of anything: act
of taking meat: (_obs._) meal, flour: the flesh of animals used as
food--sometimes beef, mutton, pork, veal, &c., as opposed to poultry, fish,
&c.--_ns._ MEAT'-BIS'CUIT, a preparation of meat, made with meal into a
biscuit; MEAT'INESS, quality of being meaty; MEAT'-OFF'ERING, a Jewish
sacrificial offering of fine flour or first-fruits with oil and
frankincense; MEAT'-PIE, a pie mainly made up of meat; MEAT'-SAFE, a
receptacle for storing meat, walled with perforated zinc or gauze;
MEAT'-SALES'MAN, one who sells meat, esp. to the retail butchers;
MEAT'-TEA, a high tea, at which meat is served; MEAT'-TUB, a
pickling-tub.--_adj._ MEAT'Y, full of meat: fleshy: pithy.--HANG MEAT, to
hang up meat before cooking; SIT AT MEAT, to sit at table. [A.S. _mete_;
Dut. _met_.]

MEATH, MEATHE, m[=e]th, _n._ a form of _mead_, liquor.

MEATUS, m[=e]-[=a]'tus, _n._ a passage or canal, as the urethral
meatus.--_adj._ ME[=A]'TAL.--_n._ MEAT'OSCOPE, an instrument for examining
the urethral or other meatus. [L. _me[=a]tus_--_me[=a]re_, to go.]

MEAZEL, m[=e]'zl, _n._ (_Shak._) a leper. [_Measles_.]

MECHANIC, -AL, me-kan'ik, -al, _adj._ pertaining to machines or mechanics:
constructed according to the laws of mechanics: possessing mechanical
talent: acting by physical power: done by a machine: pertaining to
artisans: done simply by force of habit, slavish, artificial: vulgar.--_n._
MECHAN'IC, one engaged in a mechanical trade: an artisan--(_Shak._)
MECHAN'ICAL.--_adv._ MECHAN'ICALLY.--_ns._ MECHANIC'IAN, MECH'ANIST, a
machine-maker: one skilled in mechanics; MECHAN'ICS, the science which
treats of machines: the science which treats of the nature of forces and of
their action on bodies, either directly or by the agency of
machinery.--_v.t._ MECH'ANISE, to make mechanical: to work out the details
of a machine.--_ns._ MECH'ANISM, the construction of a machine: the
arrangement and action of its parts, by which it produces a given result;
MECH'ANOGRAPH, a copy, esp. of a work of art produced by a mechanical
process on a machine.--_adj._ MECH'ANOGRAPHIC.--_ns._ MECHANOG'RAPHIST;
MECHANOG'RAPHY, the art of multiplying copies of a writing or work of art
by means of a machine; MECHANOL'OGY, a treatise on mechanics: the knowledge
of such.--MECHANICAL EFFECT, work produced by the use of mechanical power;
MECHANICAL PHILOSOPHY, the principles of mechanics applied to solve
questions or phenomena involving force; MECHANICAL POWERS, the elementary
forms or parts of machines--three _primary_, the lever, inclined plane, and
pulley; and three _secondary_, the wheel-and-axle, the wedge, and the
screw.--MECHANICS' INSTITUTE, an institution for mechanics, with lectures,
library, museum, &c. [O. Fr.,--L. _mechanicus_; Gr.
_m[=e]chanikos_--_m[=e]chane_, a contrivance.]

MECHLIN, meh'lin, _adj._ and _n._ produced at _Mechlin_ or Malines: lace
made at Mechlin.

MECONIC, me-kon'ik, _adj._ denoting an acid obtained from poppies.--_ns._
MEC'ONATE, a salt of meconic acid; MEC'ONINE, a white, fusible, neutral
substance existing in opium; MEC[=O]'NIUM, the first fæces of a new-born
child: opium. [Gr. _m[=e]k[=o]n_, the poppy.]

MEDAL, med'al, _n._ a piece of metal in the form of a coin bearing some
device or inscription, struck or cast: a reward of merit.--_v.t._ to
decorate with a medal.--_n._ MED'ALET, a small medal, esp. the
representation of saints, worn by Roman Catholics.--_adj._ MEDALL'IC,
pertaining to medals.--_ns._ MEDALL'ION, a large medal: a bas-relief of a
round (sometimes a square) form: a round ornament enclosing a portrait or
lock of hair; MED'ALLIST, MED'ALIST, one skilled in medals: an engraver of
medals: one who has gained a medal; MED'ALLURGY, the art of producing
medals and coins. [O. Fr. _medaille_--It. _medaglia_; through a Low L. form
_medalla_ or _medalia_, a small coin, from L. _metallum_, a metal.]

MEDDLE, med'l, _v.i._ to interfere unnecessarily (_with_ or _in_): to take
part in a matter with which one has nothing to do: to have to do
(_with_).--_n._ MEDD'LER, one who interferes with matters in which he has
no concern.--_adj._ MEDD'LESOME, given to meddling.--_n._
MEDD'LESOMENESS.--_adj._ MEDD'LING, interfering in the concerns of others:
officious--also _n._ [O. Fr. _medler_, a corr. of _mesler_ (Fr.
_mêler_)--Low L. _misculare_--L. _misc[=e]re_, to mix.]

MEDIA. See MEDIUM.

MEDIÆVAL, MEDIÆVALIST. See MEDIEVAL.

MEDIAL, m[=e]'di-al, _adj._ lying between two extremes, median: of or
pertaining to a mean or average.--_n._ one of the sonant-mute group, _g_,
_d_, _b_, intermediate between the surd or smooth group (_c_, _t_, _p_) and
the rough or aspirate group (_gh_, _dh_, _bh_, _kh_, _th_, _ph_). [Low L.
_medialis_--L. _medius_, middle.]

MEDIAN, m[=e]'di-an, _adj._ being in the middle, running through the
middle: situated in the median plane, that dividing the body longitudinally
into symmetrical halves.--_adv._ MED'IANLY.--_n._ MED'IANT (_mus._), the
third tone of a diatonic scale. [L. _medianus_--_medius_, middle.]

MEDIAN, m[=e]'di-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Media_ or the _Medes_, an
ancient Aryan race which became fused with the Persians under the
victorious Cyrus about 550 B.C.--_n._ MEDE, a member of this race.

MEDIASTINUM, m[=e]-di-as-t[=i]'num, _n._ a membranous septum or cavity
between two principal portions of an organ, esp. the folds of the pleura
and the space between the right and left lungs.--_adj._ MEDIAST[=I]'NAL.
[L., _medius_.]

MEDIATE, m[=e]'di-[=a]t, _adj._ middle: between two extremes: acting by or
as a means: not direct and independent: dependent on some intervening
thing.--_v.i._ to interpose between parties as a friend of each: to
intercede: to hold a mediate position: to act as a spiritualistic
medium.--_v.t._ to bring about by mediation: to effect a relation between
two things.--_n._ M[=E]'DIACY.--_adv._ M[=E]'DIATELY.--_ns._
M[=E]'DIATENESS, state of being mediate; MEDI[=A]'TION, the act of
mediating or coming between: entreaty for another;
MEDIATIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ M[=E]'DIAT[=I]SE, to cause to act in a
subordinate position or through an agent: to annex, or to subordinate, as a
smaller state to a larger neighbouring one.--_adj._ M[=E]'DIATIVE.--_n._
M[=E]'DIATOR, one who mediates between parties at strife:--_fem._
MEDIAT'RESS, M[=E]'DIATRIX.--_adj._ MEDIAT[=O]'RIAL, belonging to a
mediator or intercessor.--_adv._ MEDIAT[=O]'RIALLY.--_n._ MEDIAT'ORSHIP,
the office of a mediator.--_adj._ M[=E]'DIATORY. [Low L. _medi[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_--L. _medius_.]

MEDIC, med'ik, _n._ one of several plants of the genus _Medicago_, esp. the
purple medic or lucerne--leguminous plants, with leaves like those of
clover.--Also MED'ICK. [L. _medica_--Gr. _m[=e]dik[=e]_ (_poa_), 'median'
(grass).]

MEDICAL, med'i-kal, _adj._ relating to the art of healing diseases:
containing that which heals: intended to promote the study of
medicine.--_adv._ MED'ICALLY.--MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE (see JURISPRUDENCE).
[Fr.,--Low L. _medicalis_--L. _medicus_, pertaining to healing, a
physician--_med[=e]ri_, to heal.]

MEDICATE, med'i-k[=a]t, _v.t._ to treat with medicine: to impregnate with
anything medicinal.--_adj._ MED'ICABLE, that may be healed.--_n._
MED'ICAMENT, anything used for healing: a medicine: healing power.--_adj._
MEDICAMEN'TAL.--_n._ MED'ICASTER, an ignorant physician.--_adj._
MED'ICATED, mixed with medicine: made medicinal: treated with
medicine.--_n._ MEDIC[=A]'TION, the act or process of medicating or of
mixing with medicinal substances: the use of medicine.--_adj._ MED'ICATIVE,
having the power of healing: tending to heal.--_n._ MEDIC[=A]'TOR, any
medical appliance. [L. _medic[=a]re_, to heal--_medicus_.]

MEDICEAN, med-i-s[=e]'an, _adj._ relating to the _Medici_, a distinguished
Florentine family which attained to sovereign power in the 15th century,
and became extinct in 1737.

MEDICINE, med'i-sin, or med'sin, _n._ anything applied for the cure or
lessening of disease or pain, whether simple or compound (made up of more
than one ingredient): the science which treats of the prevention or cure of
disease: a charm.--_v.t._ to treat or cure by medicine.--_adj._ MEDIC'INAL,
relating to medicine: fitted to cure or to lessen disease or pain.--_adv._
MEDIC'INALLY.--_ns._ MED'ICINE-BAG, a Red Indian's receptacle for charms;
MED'ICINE-CHEST, a chest for keeping medicines in a ship, &c.;
MED'ICINE-MAN, among savages, a witch-doctor or exorciser.--_adjs._
MED'ICO-CHIRUR'GICAL, relating to both medicine and surgery;
MED'ICO-L[=E]'GAL, relating to the application of medicine to questions of
law. [Fr.,--L. _medicina_--_medicus_.]

MEDIEVAL, MEDIÆVAL, m[=e]-di-[=e]'val, _adj._ relating to the Middle
Ages.--_ns._ MEDI[=E]'VALISM, the spirit of the Middle Ages, devotion to
medieval ideals; MEDI[=E]'VALIST, MEDIÆ'VALIST, one versed in the history
of the Middle Ages.--MEDIEVAL ARCHITECTURE, MEDIEVAL ART, the style of
architecture and art used in public buildings in Europe from the 4th to the
16th century. [L. _medius_, middle, _ævum_, age.]

MEDIO-, MEDI-, middle, in compounds like _mediocarpal_, _mediodorsal_,
_mediotarsal_, _medioventral_. [L. _medius_, middle.]

MEDIOCRE, m[=e]'di-[=o]-k[.e]r, _adj._ of middling extent or quality:
moderate.--_n._ MEDIOC'RITY, a middle state or condition: a moderate
degree: a person of little power or importance. [Fr.,--L.
_mediocris_--_medius_, middle.]

MEDISM, m[=e]d'izm, _n._ the adoption of Persian interests--to a Greek, a
treachery to his country.

MEDITATE, med'i-t[=a]t, _v.i._ to consider thoughtfully: to purpose (with
on, upon).--_v.t._ to think on: to revolve in the mind: to intend.--_adj._
MED'ITATED, thought of: planned.--_n._ MEDIT[=A]'TION, the act of
meditating: deep thought: serious contemplation: the direction of the
thoughts of others, in a discourse, &c.: a literary or musical theme
treated in a meditative manner.--_adj._ MED'ITATIVE, given to meditation:
expressing design.--_adv._ MED'ITATIVELY.--_n._ MED'ITATIVENESS. [L.
_medit[=a]ri_, prob. cog. with L. _med[=e]ri_, to heal.]

MEDITERRANEAN, med-i-t[.e]r-r[=a]'ne-an, _adj._ situated in the middle of
earth or land: inland--also MEDITERR[=A]'NEOUS.--MEDITERRANEAN SEA, so
called from being, as it were, in the middle of the land of the Old World.
[L., _medius_, middle, _terra_, earth.]

MEDIUM, m[=e]'di-um, _n._ the middle: the middle place or degree: any
intervening means, instrument, or agency: the substance in which bodies
exist, or through which they move: in spiritualism, the person through whom
spirits are said to make themselves seen or heard:--_pl._ M[=E]'DIUMS, or
M[=E]'DIA.--_adjs._ M[=E]'DIUM, mediocre; MEDIUMIS'TIC, of or pertaining to
spiritualistic mediums.--CIRCULATING MEDIUM, money passing from hand to
hand, as coin, bank-notes, &c. [L.]

MEDIUS, m[=e]'di-us, _n._ the middle finger of the hand.

MEDJIDIE, me-jid'i-e, _n._ a Turkish order of knighthood instituted in
1852, having five classes. [Turk. _mej[=i]d_, glorious.]

MEDLAR, med'lar, _n._ a small tree of the rose family, or its fruit. [O.
Fr. _meslier_, a medlar-tree--L. _mespilum_--Gr. _mespilon_.]

MEDLEY, med'li, _n._ a mingled and confused mass: a miscellany: a song or
piece of music made up of bits from various sources continuously: a cloth
woven from yarn of different colours: (_obs._) a mêlée, fight. [O. Fr.
_medler_, _mesler_, to mix.]

MÉDOC, me-dok', _n._ a French wine produced in the district of _Médoc_,
department of Gironde.

MEDORRHEA, m[=e]-dor-[=e]'a, _n._ mucous discharge from the genitals. [Gr.
_m[=e]dos_, bladder, _rhoia_, a flowing.]

MEDULLA, me-dul'a, _n._ the inner portion of an organ or part, as the pith
of a hair, spinal cord, or its continuation within the cranium, (_medulla
oblongata_): the pith of a plant, the thallus in lichens, &c.--_adjs._
MEDULL'AR, -Y, consisting of, or resembling, marrow or pith; MED'ULLATED,
provided with a medullary sheath.--_n._ MEDULL'IN, the cellulose in the
medulla of plants like the lilac.--_adj._ MED'ULLOSE, like pith.--MEDULLARY
RAYS, the bands of cells in various trees extending across the wood from
the pith to the bark; MEDULLARY SHEATH (_bot._), a thin layer surrounding
the pith. [L. _medulla_, marrow.]

MEDUSA, me-d[=u]'sa, _n._ one of the three Gorgons, whose head, cut off by
Perseus, and placed in the ægis of Minerva, had the power of turning those
who looked on it into stone: the name given to the common kinds of
jelly-fishes, prob. from the likeness of their tentacles to the snakes on
Medusa's head:--_pl._ MED[=U]'SÆ, a division of hydrozoans.--_adjs._
MED[=U]'SIFORM, MED[=U]'SOID--also _ns._ [Gr., 'ruler,' fem.]

MEED, m[=e]d, _n._ wages: reward: what is bestowed for merit. [A.S. _méd_,
_meord_; Ger. _miethe_.]

MEEK, m[=e]k, _adj._ mild and gentle of temper: submissive.--_adv._
MEEK'LY.--_n._ MEEK'NESS, state or quality of being meek. [Ice. _mjúkr_;
Dut. _muik_.]

MEER, m[=e]r, _n._ a form of _mere_.

MEERSCHAUM, m[=e]r'shawm, _n._ a fine light whitish clay making excellent
tobacco-pipes--once supposed to be a petrified sea-scum: a pipe made of
this material. [Ger. _meer_, sea, _schaum_, foam.]

MEET, m[=e]t, _adj._ fitting: qualified.--_adv._ MEET'LY.--_n._ MEET'NESS.
[A.S. _ge-met_--_metan_, to measure.]

MEET, m[=e]t, _v.t._ to come face to face: to encounter in conflict: to
find or experience; to refute: be suitable to: satisfy, as by payment: to
receive as a welcome.--_v.i._ to come together from different points: to
assemble: to have an encounter: to balance or come out correct:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ met.--_n._ a meeting, as of huntsmen.--_ns._ MEET'ING, a coming
face to face for friendly or hostile ends: an interview: an assembly: a
crossing of two roads: a junction of two rivers; MEET'ING-HOUSE, a house or
building where people, esp. Dissenters, meet for public worship;
RACE'-MEET'ING, a stated occasion for horse-racing.--MEET HALF-WAY, to make
mutual concessions; MEET THE EAR, or EYE, to be told, or shown, anything
distinctly: to be readily apparent; MEET WITH, to come to or upon, esp.
unexpectedly: (_Bacon_) to obviate (as an objection).--WELL MET, an old
complimentary greeting. [A.S. _métan_, to meet--_mót_, _ge-mót_, a
meeting.]

MEGACEPHALOUS, meg-a-sef'a-lus, _adj._ large-headed.

MEGAFARAD, meg'a-far-ad, _n._ in electrometry, a unit equal to a million
farads.

MEGALICHTHYS, meg-a-lik'this, _n._ a genus of extinct ganoid fishes. [Gr.
_megas_, _megal[=e]_, great, _ichthys_, a fish.]

MEGALITH, meg'a-lith, _n._ a huge stone.--_adj._ MEGALITH'IC. [Gr. _megas_,
great, _lithos_, a stone.]

MEGALOMANIA, meg-a-l[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ the delusion that one is great or
powerful. [Gr. _megas_, great, _mania_.]

MEGALOSAURUS, meg-a-l[=o]-saw'rus, _n._ a gigantic extinct reptile of
carnivorous habits.--_adj._ MEGALOSAU'RIAN. [Gr. _megas_, _megal[=e]_,
great, _sauros_, a lizard.]

MEGAPHONE, meg'a-f[=o]n, _n._ an appliance for making words audible--a form
of speaking-trumpet.

MEGAPODIDÆ, meg-a-pod'i-d[=e], _n._ mound-birds (q.v.).

MEGASCOPE, meg'a-sk[=o]p, _n._ a form of solar microscope for throwing
enlarged images on a screen: (_phot._) an enlarging camera.

MEGATHERIUM, meg-a-th[=e]'ri-um, _n._ a gigantic extinct quadruped of the
order _Edentata_, found in the pampas of South America. [Gr. _megas_,
great, _th[=e]rion_, wild beast.]

MEGILP, me-gilp'. See MAGILP.

MEGOHM, meg'[=o]m, _n._ a unit of electrical resistance, equal to one
million ohms. [Gr. _megas_, great, and _ohm_.]

MEGRIM, m[=e]'grim, _n._ a pain affecting only one half of the head or
face: lowness of spirits: a sudden sickness of a horse at work. [Fr.
_migraine_--Gr. _h[=e]micrania_--_h[=e]mi_, half, _kranion_, skull.]

MEINY, m[=e]'ni, _n._ (_Shak._) a retinue or company of servants attending
upon a person of high rank. [O. Fr. _mesnie_, a company, through Low L.
forms, from L. _mansio_, a dwelling.]

MEIOCENE. Same as MIOCENE.

MEIOSIS, m[=i]-[=o]'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a figure of speech representing a
thing as less than it is. [Gr.]

MEISTERSINGER, m[=i]s't[.e]r-sing'[.e]r, _n._ one of the burgher poets and
musicians of Germany in the 14th-16th centuries, the successors of the
Minnesingers. [Ger.]

MELAMPODE, mel-am'p[=o]d, _n._ (_Spens._) the black hellebore. [Gr.]

MELANÆMIA, mel-a-n[=e]'mi-a, _n._ a morbid condition of the blood in which
the vessels contain an unusual quantity of dark colouring matter.

MELANCHOLY, mel'an-kol-i, _n._ continued depression of spirits: dejection:
a gloomy state of mind causing groundless fears: (_Milt._)
pensiveness.--_adj._ gloomy: producing grief.--_n._ MELANCH[=O]'LIA, a form
of insanity, in which there is continued depression or pain of
mind.--_adjs._ MELANCHOL'IC, MELANCH[=O]'LIOUS, affected with, or caused
by, melancholy: dejected: mournful. [Through Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_melancholia_--_melan_, black, _chol[=e]_, bile.]

MELANGE, m[=a]-longzh', _n._ a mixture: a medley. [Fr.]

MELANIC, me-lan'ik, _adj._ black.--_n._ MEL'ANISM, an undue development of
colouring matter in the skin and its appendages.--_adj._ MELANIS'TIC.--_n._
MEL'ANITE, a deep-black variety of garnet.--_adjs._ MELANOCHR[=O]'IC,
MELANOCH'R[=O]OUS, dark-coloured; MEL'ANOID, dark-looking.--_n._
MELAN[=O]'SIS, an abnormal deposition of pigmentary matter in such organs
as the spleen, liver, &c.: the condition of the system associated with
such, black degeneration.--_adjs._ MELANOT'IC; MEL'ANOUS,
dark-complexioned.--_n._ MELAN[=U]'RIA, the presence of a dark pigment in
the urine.--_adj._ MELAN[=U]'RIC.--_ns._ MEL'APHYRE, a pre-Tertiary basalt,
usually altered; MELAS'MA, a skin disease showing dark discolouration in
spots.

MÊLÉE, m[=a]-l[=a]', _n._ a fight in which the combatants are mingled
together: a confused conflict: an affray. [Fr.,--_mêler_, to mix.]

MELIBEAN, MELIBOEAN, mel-i-b[=e]'an, _adj._ in poetry, alternately
responsive--from the name of a shepherd in Virgil's first eclogue.

MELIC, mel'ik, _adj._ pertaining to song.

MELILOT, mel'i-lot, _n._ a genus of clover-like plants with white or yellow
flowers and a peculiar sweet odour. [Gr. _melil[=o]tos_--_meli_, honey,
_l[=o]tos_, lotus.]

MELINITE, m[=a]'lin-[=i]t, _n._ an explosive of great force obtained from
picric acid. [Fr.]

MELIORATE, m[=e]'lyo-r[=a]t, _v.t._ to make better.--_v.i._ to grow
better.--_ns._ MELIOR[=A]'TION, the act of making or becoming better;
MELIOR[=A]'TOR, an improver; M[=E]'LIORISM, the doctrine that the world is
capable of improvement, as opposed to _Optimism_ and _Pessimism_;
M[=E]'LIORIST, one who holds this doctrine; MELIOR'ITY, the state of being
better: betterness. [L. _melior[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_, to make better.]

MELIPHAGOUS, mel-if'a-gus, _adj._ feeding upon honey. [Gr. _meli_, honey,
_phagein_, to eat.]

MELL, mel, _v.i._ (_Spens._) to mingle: to be concerned with: to meddle.
[_Meddle_.]

MELLAY, mel'[=a], _n._ another form of _mêlée_.

MELLIFEROUS, mel-if'[.e]r-us, _adj._ honey-producing.--_adj._ MELLIF'IC,
honey-making.--_ns._ MELLIFIC[=A]'TION, the production of honey;
MELLIF'LUENCE, a flow of sweetness: a smooth sweet flow.--_adjs._
MELLIF'LUENT, MELLIF'LUOUS, flowing with honey or sweetness:
smooth.--_advs._ MELLIF'LUENTLY, MELLIF'LUOUSLY.--_adj._ MELLIG'ENOUS,
producing honey.--_n._ MELL'ITE, honey stone.--_adjs._ MELLIT'IC;
MELLIV'OROUS, eating honey. [L. _mellifer_--_mel_, honey, _ferre_, to
bear.]

MELLOW, mel'[=o], _adj._ soft and ripe: well matured: soft to the touch,
palate, ear, &c.: genial: half-tipsy.--_v.t._ to soften by ripeness or age:
to mature.--_v.i._ to become soft: to be matured.--_adv._ MELL'OWLY.--_n._
MELL'OWNESS, softness: maturity.--_adj._ MELL'OWY, soft: friable. [A.S.
_mearu_, soft; Dut. _murw_, _mollig_, L. _mollis_, Gr. _malakos_.]

MELOCOTON, mel'[=o]-kot-on, _n._ (_Bacon_) a quince: a large kind of
peach.--Also MEL'OCOTOON. [Late L. _melum cotoneum_ (a corr. of
_Cydonium_), a quince, lit. apple of _Cydonia_, in Crete.]

MELODRAMA, mel-o-dram'a, _n._ a kind of romantic and sensational drama,
formerly largely intermixed with songs--also MEL'ODRAME.--_adj._
MELODRAMAT'IC, of the nature of melodrama: overstrained: sensational.--_n._
MELODRAM'ATIST, a writer of melodramas. [Gr. _melos_, a song, _drama_, a
play.]

MELODY, mel'o-di, _n._ an air or tune: music: an agreeable succession of
single musical sounds, as distinguished from _harmony_ or the concord of a
succession of simultaneous sounds.--_n._ MEL[=O]'DEON, a small reed organ:
an improved variety of the accordeon.--_adj._ MELOD'IC--_n.pl._ MELOD'ICS,
the branch of music concerned with melody.--_adj._ MEL[=O]'DIOUS, full of
melody: agreeable to the ear.--_adv._ MEL[=O]'DIOUSLY.--_n._
MEL[=O]'DIOUSNESS.--_v.t._ MEL'ODISE, to make melodious: to reduce to the
form of a melody.--_v.i._ to compose or sing melodies.--_n._ MEL'ODIST.
[Fr.,--Late L.--Gr. _mel[=o]dia_--_melos_, a song, _[=o]d[=e]_, a lay.]

MELON, mel'un, _n._ a kind of cucumber and its fruit, which in shape
resembles an apple. [Fr.,--L. _melo_, _-onis_--Gr. _m[=e]lon_, an apple.]

MELPOMENE, mel-pom'e-ne, _n._ the Muse of tragedy. [Gr. _melpom[)e]n[=e]_,
songstress.]

MELROSE, mel'r[=o]z, _n._ honey of roses.

MELT, melt, _v.t._ to make liquid, to dissolve: to soften: to waste
away.--_v.i._ to become liquid: to dissolve: to become tender or mild: to
lose distinct form: to be discouraged:--_pa.p._ melted, or molten.--_n._
MELT'ING, the act of making liquid or of dissolving: the act of softening
or rendering tender.--_adv._ MELT'INGLY.--_n._ MELT'ING-POT, a crucible.
[A.S. _meltan_; Ice. _melta_, Gr. _meldein_.]

MELTON, mel'ton, _n._ a strong cloth for men's wear, the surface without
nap, neither pressed nor finished.

MEMBER, mem'b[.e]r, _n._ an integral part of a whole, esp. a limb of an
animal: a clause: one of a society: a representative in a legislative
body.--_adj._ MEM'BERED, having limbs.--_n._ MEM'BERSHIP, the state of
being a member or one of a society: the members of a body regarded as a
whole.--_adj._ MEM'BRAL, pertaining to the limbs rather than the trunk.
MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT, a member of the House of Commons, M.P. [Fr.
_membre_--L. _membrum_.]

MEMBRANE, mem'br[=a]n, _n._ (_anat._) one of the thin textures which cover
the organs or line the cavities or canals of the body: the film containing
the seeds  of a plant.--_adjs._ MEMBRAN'EOUS, MEM'BRANOUS,
MEMBRAN[=A]'CEOUS, relating to, consisting of, or like a membrane;
MEMBRANIF'EROUS; MEM'BRANIFORM.--MUCOUS MEMBRANE, the membrane lining the
various channels of the body which communicate with the outside. [Fr.,--L.
_membrana_--_membrum_.]

MEMENTO, me-men't[=o], _n._ something to awaken memory: a reminder of what
is past or of what is yet to come:--_pl._ MEMEN'TOS.--MEMENTO MORI,
remember death: an ornament by its form reminding one of death. [L., imper.
of _meminisse_, to remember.]

MEMNON, mem'non, _n._ a hero who fought for Troy against the Greeks: a
statue at Thebes in Egypt which gave out a musical sound at sunrise. [Gr.]

MEMOIR, mem'wor, or me-moir', _n._ a sketch or description of something as
remembered by the writer: a short biographical sketch of some one now dead:
a record of facts personally found out on any subject: the transactions of
a society.--_ns._ MEM'OIRISM, the act or art of writing memoirs;
MEM'OIRIST, a writer of memoirs. [Fr. _mémoire_--L. _memoria_,
memory--_memor_, mindful.]

MEMORY, mem'o-ri, _n._ the power of retaining and reproducing mental or
sensory impressions: a having or keeping in the mind: time within which
past things can be remembered: that which is remembered: commemoration:
remembrance.--_n.pl._ MEMORABIL'IA, things worth remembering: noteworthy
points.--_adj._ MEM'ORABLE, deserving to be remembered: remarkable.--_adv._
MEM'ORABLY.--_n._ MEMORAN'DUM, something to be remembered: a note to assist
the memory: (_law_) a brief note of some transaction: (_diplomacy_) a
summary of the state of a _question_:--_pl._ MEMORAN'DUMS,
MEMORAN'DA.--_adjs._ MEM'OR[=A]TIVE, pertaining to memory: aiding the
memory; MEM[=O]'RIAL, bringing to memory: contained in memory.--_n._ that
which serves to keep in remembrance: a monument: a note to help the memory:
a written statement forming the ground of a petition, laid before a
legislative or other body: (_B._) memory.--_v.t._ MEM[=O]'RIALISE, to
present a memorial to: to petition by a memorial.--_n._ MEM[=O]'RIALIST,
one who writes, signs, or presents a memorial.--_v.t._ MEM'ORISE, to commit
to memory: (_Shak._) to cause to be remembered.--_adv._ MEMOR'ITER, from
memory: by heart.

MEMPHIAN, mem'fi-an, _adj._ relating to _Memphis_, an ancient capital of
Egypt.--Also MEM'PHITE, MEMPHIT'IC.

MEN, plural of _man_.

MENACE, men'[=a]s, _v.t._ to threaten.--_v.i._ to act in a threatening
manner.--_n._ a threat or threatening: a show of an intention to do
harm.--_adj._ MEN'ACING, overhanging: threatening.--_adv._ MEN'ACINGLY.
[Fr.,--L. _minaciæ_, threats--_minæ_, the overhanging points of a wall.]

MENAGE, obsolete form of _manage_.

MENAGE, me-nazh', _n._ a household: the management of a house: a club of
working-men. [Fr. through Late L.,--L. _mansio_, _-onis_, a dwelling.]

MENAGERIE, men-aj'[.e]r-i, _n._ a place for keeping wild animals for
exhibition: a collection of such animals.--Also MENAG'ERY. [Fr., from
_ménage_.]

MENAGOGUE, men'a-gog, _n._ a medicine that promotes the menstrual flux.

MEND, mend, _v.t._ to remove a fault: to repair, as something broken or
worn: to make better: to correct, improve.--_v.i._ to grow better.--_ns._
MEND'ER, one who mends; MEND'ING, the act of repairing: things requiring to
be mended. [Short for _amend_.]

MENDACIOUS, men-d[=a]'shus, _adj._ given to lying: speaking falsely: of the
nature of a lie.--_adv._ MEND[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ MENDAC'ITY, a tendency to
lying: a habit of lying: falsehood. [L. _mendax_, _-acis_, conn. with
_ment[=i]ri_, to lie.]

MENDICANT, men'di-kant, _adj._ in the condition of a beggar: practising
beggary.--_n._ one who is in extreme want: a beggar: a member of one of the
R.C. orders who live by begging: a begging friar.--_ns._ MEN'DICANCY,
MENDIC'ITY, the state of being a mendicant or beggar: the life of a
beggar.--MENDICANT ORDERS, religious bodies who depended on begging for
their support. [L. _mendicans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of _mendic[=a]re_, to
beg--_mendicus_, a beggar.]

MENDS, mendz, for _amends_.

MENHADEN, men-h[=a]'dn, _n._ a species of herring or shad, found off the
east coast of the United States.

MENHIR, men'h[=e]r, _n._ a tall, often massive, stone, set up on end as a
monument in ancient times, either singly or in groups, circles, &c. [W.
_maen_, a stone, _hir_, long.]

MENIAL, m[=e]'ni-al, _adj._ of or pertaining to a train of servants: doing
servile work: low.--_n._ a domestic servant: one performing servile work: a
person of servile disposition. [O. Fr., _mesnee_, a household. See
MANSION.]

MENINX, m[=e]'ningks, _n._ one of three membranes that envelop the
brain:--_pl._ MENINIGES (men-in'j[=e]z).--_adj._ MENING'EAL.--_ns._
MENINGITIS (-j[=i]'-), inflammation of the membranes investing the brain or
spinal cord; MENING'OCELE, hernia of those membranes. [Gr. _meninx_,
_meningos_, a membrane.]

MENISCUS, m[=e]-nis'kus, _n._ a crescent or a new moon: a lens hollow on
one side and bulging on the other.--_adjs._ MENIS'CAL; MENIS'CATE;
MENIS'CIFORM; MENIS'COID. [Gr. _m[=e]n[=e]_, the moon, _-iskos_, small.]

MENNONITE, men'on-[=i]t, _n._ one of a Protestant sect, combining some of
the distinctive characteristics of the Baptists and Friends. [From _Menno_
Simons (died 1559), their chief founder.]

MENOLOGY, m[=e]-nol'o-ji, _n._ a register of months: a list or calendar of
martyrs, with festivals celebrated, &c.

MENOPOME, men'o-p[=o]m, _n._ a large North American amphibian--from its
persistent gill-aperture. [Gr. _menein_, to remain, _p[=o]ma_, lid.]

MENSAL, men'sal, _adj._ occurring once in a month: monthly.--Also MEN'SUAL.

MENSAL, men'sal, _adj._ belonging to the table. [L.]

MENSE, mens, _n._ (_Scot._) propriety: ornament: credit.--_v.t._ to grace
or set off something.--_adjs._ MENSE'FUL, decorous: respectable;
MENSE'LESS, graceless, uncivil. [M. E. _mensk_--A.S. _mennisc_, mannish.]

MENSES, men's[=e]z, _n.pl._ the monthly discharge from the uterus.--_ns._
MEN'OPAUSE, the final cessation of the menses; MENORRH[=A]'GIA (_phys._),
the ordinary flow of the menses: (_path._) an immoderate menstrual
discharge.--_adj._ MENORRHAG'IC.--_n._ MENOS'TASIS, the retention of the
menses.--_n.pl._ MEN'STRUA, the menses.--_adjs._ MEN'STRUAL, monthly;
MEN'STRUANT, subject to menses.--_v.i._ MEN'STRU[=A]TE, to discharge the
menses.--_n._ MENSTRU[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MEN'STRUOUS, having or belonging to
menses. [Pl. of L. _mensis_, a month.]

MENSTRUUM, men'str[=oo]-um, _n._ any fluid substance which dissolves a
solid body.

MENSURABLE, mens'[=u]-ra-bl, _adj._ that can be measured: measurable.--_n._
MENSURABIL'ITY, quality of being mensurable.--_adj._ MENS'URAL, pertaining
to measure.--_n._ MENSUR[=A]'TION, the act or art of finding by measurement
and calculation the length, area, volume, &c. of bodies.--_adj._
MENSUR[=A]'TIVE. [L. _mensur[=a]re_, to measure.]

MENT, ment (_obs._), _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _ming_, to mix.

MENTAL, men'tal, _adj._ pertaining to the mind: done in the mind.--_ns._
MENTAL'ITY, MENT[=A]'TION.--_adv._ MEN'TALLY.--_adjs._ MENTICUL'TURAL,
improving the mind; MENTIF'EROUS, conveying thought, telepathic.--MENTAL
ALIENATION, insanity; MENTAL ARITHMETIC, arithmetic performed without the
help of written figures. [Fr.,--L. _mens_, _mentis_, the mind.]

MENTHOL, men'thol, _n._ a camphor obtained from oil of peppermint by
cooling, which gives relief in neuralgia, &c. [L. _mentha_, mint.]

MENTION, men'shun, _n._ a brief notice: a hint.--_v.t._ to notice briefly:
to remark: to name.--_adj._ MEN'TIONABLE, fit to be mentioned. [L.
_mentio_, _-onis_.]

MENTONNIÈRE, men-ton-ny[=a]r', _n._ a piece of armour attached to the
helmet, worn to protect the chin and throat. [Fr., _menton_, the chin--L.
_mentum_.]

MENTOR, men'tor, _n._ a wise counsellor.--_adj._ MENTOR'IAL. [Gr.
_Ment[=o]r_, the tutor of Telemachus.]

MENTUM, men'tum, _n._ the chin: the central part of the labium in insects:
(_bot._) a projection in front of the flower in some orchids.--_n._
MENTAG'RA, an eruption about the chin forming a crust.--_adj._ MEN'TAL
(_anat._), pertaining to the chin. [L., the chin.]

MENU, men'ü, _n._ a bill of fare. [Fr.,--L. _minutus_, small.]

MEPHISTOPHELES, mef-is-tof'e-l[=e]z, _n._ the name of the devil in
Marlowe's _Doctor Faustus_ and Goethe's _Faust_.--_adj._
MEPHISTOPH[=E]'LEAN, cynical, scoffing, malicious. [Ety. unknown; prob.
formed from Gr. _m[=e]_, not, _ph[=o]s_ (_phot-_), light, _philos_,
loving.]

MEPHITIS, me-f[=i]'tis, _n._ a poisonous exhalation from the ground or from
decaying substances--also MEPH[=I]'TISM.--_adjs._ MEPHIT'IC, -AL. [L.
_mephitis_.]

MERCANTILE, m[.e]r'kan-t[=i]l, _adj._ pertaining to merchants: having to do
with trade: commercial.--_ns._ MER'CANTILISM; MER'CANTILIST.--MERCANTILE
AGENCY, a means of getting information about the circumstances of merchants
all over the country, for the use of those who sell to them; MERCANTILE
LAW, the points of law referring to the dealings of merchants with each
other; MERCANTILE MARINE, the ships and their crews which in any country
are employed in commerce; MERCANTILE SYSTEM (_polit. econ._), the system of
encouraging exportation and restricting importation, so that more may be
received than is paid away. [Fr.,--Low L.--L. _mercans_, _-antis_, pr.p. of
_merc[=a]ri_, to trade--_merx_, _mercis_, merchandise--_mer[=e]re_, to
gain.]

MERCATOR'S PROJECTION. See under PROJECT.

MERCENARY, m[.e]r'se-nar-i, _adj._ hired for money: actuated by the hope of
reward: greedy of gain: sold or done for money.--_n._ one who is hired: a
soldier hired into foreign service.--_adv._ MER'CENARILY. [Fr.,--L.,
_mercenarius_--_merces_, hire.]

MERCER, m[.e]r's[.e]r, _n._ a merchant in silks and woollen cloths, or in
small wares.--_n._ MER'CERY, the trade of a mercer: the goods of a mercer.
[Fr. _mercier_.]

MERCHANT, m[.e]r'chant, _n._ one who carries on trade, esp. on a large
scale: one who buys and sells goods: a trader: (_obs._) a supercargo: a
merchant-vessel.--_adj._ pertaining to trade or merchandise.--_v.i._
MERCH'AND (_Bacon_), to trade or traffic.--_n._ MER'CHAND[=I]SE, goods
bought and sold for gain: (_B._ and _Shak._) trade: dealing.--_adjs._
MER'CHANTABLE, suitable for sale: inferior to the very best, but suitable
for ordinary purposes; MER'CHANT-LIKE (_Shak._), like a merchant.--_ns._
MER'CHANTMAN, a trading-ship: (_B._) a merchant:--_pl._ MER'CHANTMEN;
MER'CHANTRY, the business of a merchant; merchants collectively.--MERCHANT
PRINCE, one who has made a great fortune as a merchant; MERCHANT SERVICE,
the ships, &c., engaged in commerce: the commerce which is carried on by
sea; MERCHANT SHIP or VESSEL, a ship used for carrying goods; MERCHANT
TAILOR, a tailor who supplies the cloth for the clothes which he makes.
[Fr. _marchand_.]

MERCURY, m[.e]r'k[=u]-ri, _n._ the god of merchandise and eloquence, and
the messenger of the gods: the planet nearest the sun: a white, liquid
metal, also called _quicksilver_: the column of mercury in a thermometer or
barometer: a messenger: a newspaper.--_adj._ MERC[=U]'RIAL, having the
qualities said to belong to the god Mercury: active: sprightly: often
changing: of or pertaining to trade: containing, or consisting of,
mercury--also MERC[=U]'RIC.--_v.t._ MERC[=U]'RIALISE (_med._), to affect
with mercury: to expose to the vapour of mercury.--_n._
MERC[=U]'RIALIST.--_adv._ MERC[=U]'RIALLY.--_n._
MERCURIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MERC[=U]'RIFY.--_adj._ MER'C[=U]ROUS.
[Fr.,--L. _Mercurius_--_merx_, _mercis_, merchandise.]

MERCY, m[.e]r'si, _n._ tenderness and forbearance shown in sparing an
offender in one's power: a forgiving disposition: clemency: an act of
mercy: an undeserved blessing: compassion or benevolence.--_adjs._
MER'CIABLE (_Spens._), merciful; MER'CIFUL, full of, or exercising,
mercy.--_adv._ MER'CIFULLY.--_n._ MER'CIFULNESS.--_v.t._ MER'CIFY
(_Spens._), to deal mercifully with, to pity.--_adj._ MER'CILESS, without
mercy: unfeeling: cruel.--_adv._ MER'CILESSLY.--_ns._ MER'CILESSNESS, want
of mercy; MER'CY-SEAT, the seat or place of mercy; the covering of the
Jewish Ark of the Covenant: the throne of God.--AT THE MERCY OF (another),
wholly in the power of; FOR MERCY! or FOR MERCY'S SAKE! an exclamatory
appeal to pity; GREAT MERCY=_Gramercy_; SISTERS OF MERCY, members of female
religious communities who tend the sick, &c. [Fr. _merci_, grace--L.
_merces_, _mercedis_, pay, in later L. also 'favour.']

MERE, m[=e]r, _n._ a pool or lake.--Also MEER. [A.S. _mere_; Ger. and Dut.
_meer_, L. _mare_, the sea.]

MERE, m[=e]r, _adj._ unmixed: pure: only this and nothing else: alone:
absolute.--_adj._ MERED (_Shak._), only, entire.--_adv._ MERE'LY, purely,
simply: only: thus and no other way: solely. [L. _merus_, unmixed (of
wine).]

MERE, m[=e]r, _n._ a boundary.--_v.t._ to limit or bound.--_ns._
MERE'STEAD, the land within the boundaries of a farm: MERE'STONE, a stone
which marks a boundary. [A.S. _ge-m['æ]re_.]

MERETRICIOUS, mer-e-trish'us, _adj._ of or pertaining to harlots: alluring
by false show: gaudy and deceitful: false.--_adv._ MERETRIC'IOUSLY.--_ns._
MERETRIC'IOUSNESS; MER'ETRIX, a harlot. [L. _meretricius_--_meretrix_, a
harlot, _mer[=e]re_, to earn.]

MERGANSER, m[.e]r-gan's[.e]r, _n._ a diving bird, sea-duck. [L. _mergus_, a
diving bird, _anser_, a goose.]

MERGE, m[.e]rj, _v.t._ to dip or plunge in: to sink: to cause to be
swallowed up.--_v.i._ to be swallowed up, or lost.--_n._ MER'GER (_law_), a
sinking of an estate or a security in one of larger extent or of higher
value. [L. _merg[)e]re_, _mersum_.]

MERICARP, mer'i-karp, _n._ one carpel or part of the fruit of an
umbelliferous plant. [Gr. _meros_, a part, _karpos_, fruit.]

MERIDIAN, me-rid'i-an, _adj._ pertaining to midday: being on the meridian
or at midday: raised to the highest point.--_n._ midday: a midday dram: the
highest point, as of success: an imaginary circle on the earth's surface
passing through the poles and any given place: (_astron._) an imaginary
circle, passing through the poles of the heavens, and the zenith of the
spectator, which the sun crosses at midday.--_adj._ MERID'IONAL, pertaining
to the meridian: southern: having a southern aspect.--_n._
MERIDIONAL'ITY.--_adv._ MERID'IONALLY.--MERIDIAN SPLENDOUR, fullest point
of brightness; MERIDIAN SUN, the sun at its full height, as at
midday.--FIRST MERIDIAN, the meridian passing through Greenwich, from which
longitudes are measured east or west; MAGNETIC MERIDIAN (see MAGNETIC).
[Fr.,--L. _meridianus_, from _meridies_ (orig. _medidies_),
midday--_medius_, middle, _dies_, day.]

MERINGUE, me-rang', _n._ a mixture of sugar and white of eggs slightly
browned for garnishing other confections: a pudding or tart covered with
this.--MERINGUE GLACÉ, ice-cream with a casing of meringue. [Fr., prob.
from _Mehringen_.]

MERINO, me-r[=e]'_no_, _n._ a variety of sheep having very fine wool,
originally from Spain: a fine French all-wool dress fabric for women,
originally of merino wool.--_adj._ belonging to the merino sheep or their
wool. [Sp.,--_merino_, inspector of sheep-walks--Low L. _majorinus_, a
head-man--L. _major_, greater.]

MERISTEM, mer'is-tem, _n._ the formative tissue of plants, distinguished
from the permanent tissues by the power its cells have of dividing and
forming new cells.--_adj._ MERISTEMAT'IC. [Gr. _meristos_, verbal adj. of
_merizein_, to divide--_meros_, a part.]

MERIT, mer'it, _n._ excellence that deserves honour or reward: worth:
value: that which one has earned.--_v.t._ to earn: to have a right to claim
as a reward: to deserve: (_pl._, _in law_) the right or wrong of a case,
apart from questions of procedure.--_adj._ MERIT[=O]'RIOUS, possessing
merit or desert: deserving of reward, honour, or praise.--_adv._
MERIT[=O]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ MERIT[=O]'RIOUSNESS.--ORDER FOR MERIT, a Prussian
order, the military class founded by Frederick the Great in 1740--the civil
class, by Frederick William IV. in 1842 for eminence in science and art;
ORDER OF MERIT, place in a class or list in which the best is placed first,
the next best second, and so on. [Fr.,--L. _meritum_--_mer[=e]re_,
_-[)i]tum_, to obtain as a lot, to deserve.]

MERK, m[.e]rk, _n._ an old Scotch silver coin, worth 13s. 4d. Scots, or
13-1/3d. sterling. [_Mark_.]

MERLE, m[.e]rl, _n._ the blackbird. [Fr.,--L. _merula_.]

MERLIN, m[.e]r'lin, _n._ a species of small hawk. [Fr. _émerillon_, prob.
from L. _merula_.]

MERLING, mer'ling, _n._ a small gadoid fish, the whiting.

MERLON, m[.e]r'lon, _n._ (_fort._) the part of a wall with battlements
which lies between two openings. [Fr., prob. through Low L. forms from L.
_murus_, a wall.]

MERMAID, m[.e]r'm[=a]d, _n._ a sea-woman, having the head and body of a
lovely woman to the waist, ending in the tail of a fish.--_ns._ MER'MAIDEN
(_Tenn._):--_masc._ MER'MAN; MER'MAID'S-GLOVE, the largest kind of British
sponge. [A.S. _mere_, a lake (influenced by Fr. _mer_, the sea), _mægden_,
maid.]

MEROBLAST, mer'[=o]-blast, _n._ a meroblastic ovum.--_adj._ MEROBLAST'IC,
undergoing segmentation only in the germinal disc, as the eggs of birds.

MEROGNOSTIC, mer-og-nos'tik, _n._ one who claims to know in part.--_n._
MEROGNOS'TICISM.

MEROPIDAN, me-rop'i-dan, _n._ a bird of the family of bee-eaters. [L.
_merops_, the bee-eater--Gr.]

MEROSOME, mer'[=o]-s[=o]m, _n._ one of the serial segments of which a body
is composed, as the ring of a worm, a metamere, a somite.

MEROVINGIAN, mer-o-vin'ji-an, _adj._ pertaining to the first dynasty of
Frankish kings in Gaul, named from _Merwig_, king of the western or Salian
Franks (448-457), grandfather of Clovis.

MERRY, mer'i, _adj._ sportive: cheerful: noisily gay: causing laughter:
lively.--_adv._ MERR'ILY.--_ns._ MERR'IMAKE, MERR'Y-MAKE (_Spens._), a
meeting for making merry, a festival, mirth.--_v.i._ to make merry, to
feast.--_ns._ MERR'IMENT, MERR'INESS, gaiety with laughter and noise:
mirth: hilarity; MERR'Y-AN'DREW, one who makes sport for others: a buffoon:
one who goes round with a mountebank or a quack doctor--also MERR'YMAN;
MERR'Y-GO-ROUND, a revolving ring of hobby-horses, &c., on which children
ride round at fairs, &c.; MERR'Y-MAK'ING, a merry entertainment, a
festival; MERR'Y-THOUGHT, the forked bone of a fowl's breast, which two
persons pull at in play, the one who breaks off the longer part being
thought likely to be first married. [A.S. _merg_, from the Celtic, as in
Gael. and Ir. _mear_, _merry_, Gael. _mir_, to sport.]

MERRY, mer'i, _n._ an English wild-cherry. [Fr. _merise_.]

MERSION, m[.e]r'shun, _n._ Same as IMMERSION.

MERULIDAN, me-r[=oo]'li-dan, _n._ a bird of the thrush family (_Turdidæ_),
the typical genus of which is the MER'ULA. [_Merle_.]

MERYCISM, mer'i-sizm, _n._ rumination in the human species. [Gr.,
_m[=e]rykizein_, to chew the cud.]

MESAIL, mes'[=a]l, _n._ the vizor of a helmet, esp. when made in two parts.

MESAL, mes'al, _adj._ See MESIAL.

MÉSALLIANCE, m[=a]-zal-l[=e]-an(g)s', _n._ a marriage with a person of
lower rank or social condition. [Fr.]

MESARAIC, mes-a-r[=a]'ik, _adj._ mesenteric. [Gr. _mesos_, middle, _araia_,
the belly.]

MESEEMS, me-s[=e]mz', _v.impers._ it seems to me (used only in poetry).
[_Me_, the dative of _I_, and _seems_ used impersonally.]

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM, me-zem-bri-an'the-mum, _n._ a genus of succulent plants,
mostly belonging to South Africa. [Gr. _mes[=e]mbria_, midday--_mesos_,
middle, _h[=e]mera_, day, _anthemon_, a flower.]

MESENCEPHALON, mes-en-sef'a-lon, _n._ the mid-brain.--_adj._
MESENCEPHAL'IC.

MESENTERY, mes'en-t[.e]r-i, or mez'-, _n._ a membrane in the cavity of the
abdomen, attached to the backbone, and serving to keep the intestines in
their place.--_adj._ MESENTER'IC.--_n._ MESENTER[=I]'TIS, inflammation of
the mesentery. [L.,--Gr. _mesenterion_--_mesos_, middle, _enteron_,
intestines.]

MESFAITH, mes'f[=a]th, _n._ (_Tenn._) wrong faith, error of belief. [Fr.
_mes_--L. _mis_, wrong, and _faith_.]

MESH, mesh, _n._ the opening between the threads of a net: the threads and
knots which bound the opening: network.--_v.t._ to catch in a net: to
engage or interlock, as gear-teeth.--_v.i._ to become engaged thus.--_n._
MESH'-WORK, a network, web.--_adj._ MESH'Y, formed like network. [A.S.
_max_, a net; Ger. _masche_.]

MESIAL, m[=e]'zi-al, _adj._ pertaining to the middle: median--also MES'AL,
MES'IAN.--_advs._ MES'ALLY, MES'IALLY. [Gr. _mesos_, middle.]

MESMERISE, mez'm[.e]r-[=i]z, _v.t._ to induce an extraordinary state of the
nervous system, in which the operator is supposed to control the actions
and thoughts of the subject.--_n._ MESMEREE', one mesmerised.--_adjs._
MESMER'IC, -AL, of or relating to mesmerism.--_ns._ MESMERIS[=A]'TION;
MES'MERISER, MES'MERIST, one who mesmerises: MES'MERISM, act of
mesmerising. [From Friedrich Anton or Franz _Mesmer_, a German physician
(1733-1815), who first published his discovery in 1775.]

MESNE, m[=e]n, _adj._ intermediate: applied to a writ issued between the
beginning and end of a suit.--MESNE LORD, one who held land of a superior,
but had granted part of it to another person. [Norm. Fr. _mesne_, middle.]

MESOBLAST, mes'o-blast, _n._ the middle one of the three germinal layers of
any metazoic embryo between the epiblast and the hypoblast: the
mesoderm.--_adj._ MESOBLAS'TIC.

MESOCARP, mes'o-kärp, _n._ (_bot._) the middle one of the three layers of a
seed-vessel.

MESOCEPHALIC, mes-[=o]-s[=e]-fal'ik, _adj._ of medium breadth or
capacity--of the skull--also MESOCEPH'ALOUS.--_ns._ MESOCEPH'ALISM,
MESOCEPH'ALY.

MESODERM, mes'o-derm, _n._ Same as MESOBLAST.

MESODIC, me-sod'ik, _adj._ (_pros._) pertaining to a system of different
form intervening between a strophe and its antistrophe.

MESOGASTRIC, mes-o-gas'trik, _adj._ of or belonging to the middle of the
stomach: denoting the membrane which sustains the stomach.

MESOPHLOEUM, mes-[=o]-fl[=e]'um, _n._ (_bot._) the middle or green layer of
bark.

MESOTHORAX, mes-o-th[=o]'raks, _n._ the middle one of the three segments of
an insect's thorax.--_adj._ MESOTHORAC'IC.

MESOZOIC, mes-o-z[=o]'ik, _adj._ of the _Secondary_ geological period,
including the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous systems. [Gr. _mesos_,
middle, _z[=o][=e]_, life.]

MESPRISE, mes-pr[=i]z', _n._ (_Spens._) contempt, scorn. [O. Fr.
_mespriser_, to despise--L. _minus_, less, _preti[=a]re_, to prize.]

MESQUITE, mes'k[=e]t, mes-k[=e]t', _n._ a leguminous tree or shrub of
America, with nutritious pods. [Sp.]

MESS, mes, _n._ a mixture disagreeable to the sight or taste: a medley:
disorder: confusion.--_v.t._ to make a mess of: to muddle.--_adj._ MESS'Y,
confused, untidy. [A form of _mash_.]

MESS, mes, _n._ a dish or quantity of food served up at one time: a number
of persons who take their meals together at the same table, esp. in the
army and navy: the take of fish at one time.--_v.t._ to supply with a
mess.--_v.i._ to eat of a mess: to eat at a common table. [O. Fr. _mes_
(Fr. _mets_), a dish--L. _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send, in Low L. to
place.]

MESS, mes, _n._=mass.--MESS JOHN, a domestic chaplain.

MESSAGE, mes'[=a]j, _n._ any communication sent from one person to another:
an errand: an official communication, of advice, &c., as a President's
Message in the United States.--_n._ MESS'ENGER, the bearer of a message: a
forerunner: a light scudding cloud preceding a storm: a piece of paper,
&c., blown up the string to the kite: the secretary-bird: a rope or chain
by which cables were formerly connected to the capstan when heaving up the
anchor: (_Scots law_) an officer who executes the summonses of the Court of
Session, called a MESS'ENGER-AT-ARMS.--QUEEN'S, or KING'S, MESSENGER, an
officer who carries official despatches whether at home or abroad.
[Fr.,--Low L. _missaticum_--L. _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to send.]

MESSIAH, mes-s[=i]'a, _n._ the anointed One, the Christ--also
MESS[=I]'AS.--_n._ MESS[=I]'AHSHIP, the character and work of Christ as the
Saviour of the world.--_adj._ MESSIAN'IC, relating to the Messiah. [Heb.
_m[=a]sh[=i]ach_, anointed--_m[=a]shach_, to anoint.]

MESSIDOR, mes-si-d[=o]r', _n._ the tenth month of the French revolutionary
calendar, June 19th-July 18th. [Fr.,--L. _messis_, harvest, Gr. _d[=o]ron_,
a gift.]

MESSIEURS, plural of _Monsieur_ (q.v.).

MESSIN, mes'in, _n._ (_Scot._) a mongrel dog, a cur.--_adj._ mongrel. [Cf.
_Mastiff_.]

MESSMATE, mes'm[=a]t, _n._ one who eats at the same table. [_Mess_ and
_mate_.]

MESSUAGE, mes'w[=a]j, _n._ (_law_) a dwelling and offices with the
adjoining lands appropriated to the household: a mansion-house and grounds.
[O. Fr.,--Low L. _messuagium_--L. _mansa_, pa.p. of _man[=e]re_, to
remain.]

MESTEE, mes-t[=e]', _n._ the offspring of a white person and a quadroon.
[Cf. Fr. _métis_, mongrel.]

MESTIZO, mes-t[=e]'z[=o], _n._ the offspring of a person of mixed Spanish
and American Indian parentage, &c. [Sp.,--L. _mixtus_--_misc[=e]re_, to
mix.]

MET, _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ of _meet_.

METABASIS, me-tab'a-sis, _n._ a change, as in treatment or remedies: a
transition.--_adj._ METABAT'IC. [Gr., _meta_, beyond, _bainein_, to go.]

METABOLISM, me-tab'o-lizm, _n._ a general term for the chemical changes of
living matter: retrograde metamorphosis, catabolism: complete
metamorphosis, as in _Diptera_, &c.--_adj._ METABOL'IC, undergoing complete
metamorphosis: polymorphic: exhibiting metabolism.--_v.t._ METAB'OLISE.
[Gr. _metabol[=e]_, change.]

METACARPAL, met-a-kär'pal, _adj._ pertaining to the part of the hand
between the wrist and the fingers, the METACAR'PUS: denoting the foreleg of
a horse between knee and fetlock joint.

METACENTRE, met-a-sen't[.e]r, _n._ that point in a floating body slightly
displaced from equilibrium through which the resultant upward pressure of
the fluid always passes.

METACHRONISM, me-tak'ron-izm, _n._ an error made by placing an event after
its real time. [Fr.,--Gr. _metachronos_--_meta_, beyond, _chronos_, time.]

METACHROSIS, met-a-kr[=o]'sis, _n._ colour-change, as of a chameleon.

METACISM. See MYTACISM.

METAGE, m[=e]t'[=a]j, _n._ measurement of coal: price of measurement.
[_Mete_.]

METAGENESIS, met-a-jen'e-sis, _n._ (_biol._) a kind of alteration of
generations in which a series of generations of unlike forms come between
the egg and the parent type.--_adj._ METAGENET'IC.

METAGNOSTIC, met-ag-nos'tik, _adj._ transcending present knowledge.--_n._
one who holds that there is a supreme being, but that he transcends
knowledge.--_n._ METAGNOS'TICISM.

METAIRIE, m[=e]-t[=a]'r[=e], _n._ a piece of land cultivated for a share of
the produce. [Fr. See METAYER.]

METAL, met'al, _n._ an opaque substance, possessing a peculiar lustre,
fusibility, conductivity for heat and electricity, &c., such as gold, &c.:
courage or spirit (now spelt _mettle_): intrinsic quality: the number and
power of guns carried by a ship-of-war: broken stones used for macadamised
roads: (_pl._) the rails of a railroad.--_v.t._ to put metal on, as a
road.--_n._ METALIC'ITY.--_adjs._ MET'ALLED, covered with metal, as a road;
METAL'LIC, pertaining to, or like, a metal: consisting of metal.--_adv._
METAL'LICALLY.--_adjs._ METALLIF'EROUS, producing or yielding metals;
METAL'LIFORM, having the form of metals: like metal; MET'ALLINE, pertaining
to a metal: consisting of, or mixed with, metal.--_ns._ MET'ALLING,
road-metal, broken stones; METALLIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MET'ALLISE, to form
into metal: to give to a substance its metallic properties.--_ns._
MET'ALLIST, a worker in metals: one who is skilled in metals: an advocate
of the use of metal as currency; METAL'LOGRAPH, a print produced by
metallographic process.--_adj._ METALLOGRAPH'IC--_ns._ METALLOG'RAPHIST;
METALLOG'RAPHY, an account or description of metals: a process for
utilising metal plates in a manner similar to lithographic stones: a
process of imitating the grain of wood on metals; MET'ALLOID, one of the
metallic bases of the fixed alkalies and alkaline earths: any of the
elements which are non-metallic in the chemical sense of being able to
replace hydrogen in an acid, and thus forming a salt: one of the
inflammable non-metallic elements (sulphur, phosphorus, &c.).--_adjs._
MET'ALLOID, METALLOID'AL, pertaining to, or of the nature of, the
metalloids.--_ns._ METAL'LOPHONE, a kind of piano, having graduated metal
bars in place of strings: a musical instrument, differing from the
xylophone in having metal instead of wooden bars; MET'ALLOTHERAPY, the
treatment of disease by the external application of metals.--METALLIC
OXIDE, a compound of metal and oxygen; METALLIC SALTS, salts having a metal
or metallic oxide for base.--BASE METALS, lead, zinc, copper, iron; FUSIBLE
METAL, a metallic alloy that fuses at a very low temperature--usually of
lead, tin, and bismuth; LIGHT METALS, those whose specific gravity is less
than 5; NOBLE, or PERFECT, METALS, gold, silver, platinum, so called
because they keep their lustre when exposed to the air. [Fr.,--L.
_metallum_--Gr. _metallon_, a mine, a metal.]

METALEPSIS, met-a-lep'sis, _n._ (_rhet._) a compound figure that consists
in uniting two or more different tropes in the same word, or in so using a
word as to suggest two or three different figures by it.--_adjs._
METALEP'TIC, -AL. [Gr.]

METALLURGY, met'al-ur-ji, _n._ the art of working metals: the art of
separating metals from their ores.--_adj._ METALLUR'GIC, pertaining to
metallurgy.--_n._ MET'ALLURGIST, one who works metals: one skilled in
metallurgy. [Gr. _metallon_, a metal, _ergon_, work.]

METAMERISM, met'a-me-rizm, _n._ (_chem._) a particular form of isomerism,
seen in substances having the same molecular formula, but in which _all_
the atoms in the molecule are not directly united: (_zool._) segmentation
of the body of an animal along the primary axis, producing a series of
homologous parts.--_adjs._ MET'AM[=E]RAL, METAMER'IC.--_n._ MET'AMERE. [Gr.
_meta_, after, _meros_, a part.]

METAMORPHIC, met-a-mor'fik, _adj._ subject to change of form: (_geol._)
applied to the alteration undergone by rocks under heat, pressure, &c., so
that they assume a crystalline or semi-crystalline structure.--_ns._
METAMOR'PHISM, state or quality of being metamorphic; METAMOR'PHIST, one
who believes that the body of Christ merged into the Deity when He
ascended.--_v.t._ METAMOR'PHOSE, to transform.--_n._ METAMOR'PHOSIS, change
of shape, transformation: the frequent transformation of human beings to
beasts, stones, trees, &c.--an essential part of folklore everywhere: the
marked change which some living beings undergo in the course of their
growth, as caterpillar to insect, tadpole to frog, &c.:--_pl._
METAMOR'PHOSES. [Gr. _metamorph[=o]sis_--_meta_, expressing change,
_morph[=e]_, form.]

METAPHERY, me-taf'e-ri, _n._ (_bot._) the transposition of various floral
organs. [Gr.: see METAPHOR.]

METAPHOR, met'a-fur, _n._ a transference of meaning, the putting of one
thing for another which it only resembles, as when words are said to be
bitter: an implicit simile.--_adjs._ METAPHOR'IC, -AL, pertaining to, or
containing, metaphor: figurative.--_adv._ METAPHOR'ICALLY.--_ns._
METAPHOR'ICALNESS; MET'APHORIST.--MIXED METAPHOR, an expression in which
two or more metaphors are confused, where one only is capable of being
intelligibly evolved or conceived objectively, as Cromwell's 'God has
kindled a seed in this nation.' [Fr.,--Gr.
_metaphora_--_metapherein_--_meta_, over, _pherein_, to carry.]

METAPHRASE, met'a-fr[=a]z, _n._ a translation from one language into
another word for word--opp. to _Paraphrase_: a repartee--also
METAPH'RASIS.--_n._ MET'APHRAST, one who translates word for word.--_adj._
METAPHRAS'TIC, literal in translation. [Gr. _metaphrasis_--_meta_, over,
_phrasis_, a speaking.]

METAPHYSICS, met-a-fiz'iks, _n.sing._ the science which investigates the
first principles of nature and thought: ontology or the science of
being.--_adj._ METAPHYS'ICAL, pertaining to metaphysics; abstract.--_adv._
METAPHYS'ICALLY.--_n._ METAPHYSIC'IAN, one versed in metaphysics. [From
certain works of Aristotle to be studied after his physics--Gr. _meta_,
after, _physika_, physics--_physis_, nature.]

METAPHYTA, met-a-f[=i]'ta, _n.pl._ many-celled plants, in contrast to the
single-celled _Protophytes_.

METAPLASIA, met-a-pl[=a]'si-a, _n._ the direct conversion of one form of an
adult tissue into another--also METAP'LASIS.--_n._ MET'APLASM, a
grammatical change in a word by adding or dropping a letter. [Gr. _meta_,
over, _plasis_--_plassein_, to form.]

METAPOPHYSIS, met-a-pof'i-sis, _n._ (_anat._) a dorsolateral apophysis on
the anterior articular process of a vertebra. [Gr. _meta_, after,
_apophysis_, a process.]

METASTASIS, me-tas'ta-zis, _n._ a change in nature, form, or quality; a
change from one part to another, as a disease: (_bot._) metabolism.--_adj._
METASTAT'IC. [Gr.,--_methist[=e]mi_, I change place.]

METATARSAL, met-a-tär'sal, _adj._ belonging to the front part of the foot,
behind the toes, nearly the same as the instep in man.--_n._ METATAR'SUS.
[Gr. _meta_, beyond, _tarsos_, the flat of the foot.]

METATHESIS, me-tath'es-is, _n._ (_gram._) a change of place of the letters
or syllables of a word.--_adjs._ METATHET'IC, -AL. [Gr.,--_metatithenai_,
to transpose--_meta_, over, _tithenai_, to place.]

METATHORAX, met-a-th[=o]'raks, _n._ the third segment of an insect's
thorax.--_adj._ METATHORAC'IC.

METATOME, met'a-t[=o]m, _n._ (_archit._) the space between two dentils.

METAYER, me-t[=a]'y[.e]r, _n._ a farmer who pays, instead of money rent, a
fixed proportion of the crops.--_n._ MET[=A]'YAGE, this system. [Fr.,--Low
L. _medietarius_--L. _medietas_, the half--_medius_, middle.]

METAZOA, met-a-z[=o]'a, _n.pl._ many-celled animals possessing cellular
differentiation:--opp. to single-celled _Protozoa_.--_adjs._ METAZ[=O]'AN,
METAZ[=O]'IC.--_n.sing._ MET'AZ[=O]ON. [Gr. _meta_, after, _z[=o]on_,
animal.]

METE, m[=e]t, _v.t._ to measure.--_ns._ METE'WAND, a measuring-stick;
METE'YARD (_B._), a yard or rod for meting or measuring. [A.S. _metan_;
Ger. _messen_.]

METEMPIRIC, -AL, met-em-pir'ik, -al, _adj._ beyond or outside of
experience:--opp. to _Empirical_ or _Experiential_.--_ns._ METEMPIR'ICISM;
METEMPIR'ICIST.

METEMPSYCHOSIS, me-temp-si-k[=o]'sis, _n._ the passing of the soul after
death into some other body, whether that of a human being or of an
animal:--_pl._ METEMPSYCH[=O]'SES. [Gr.,--_meta_, expressing change,
_empsych[=o]sis_, an animating--_en_, in, _psych[=e]_, soul.]

METENSOMATOSIS, met-en-s[=o]-ma-t[=o]'sis, _n._ transference of the
elements of one body into another.

METEOR, m[=e]'te-or, _n._ one of numberless small bodies travelling through
space, continually being encountered by the earth on its orbital path, and
then revealed to our observation as aerolites, fire-balls, or
shooting-stars: formerly used of any appearance in the atmosphere, as
clouds, rain: (_fig._) anything that for a time dazzles or strikes with
wonder.--_adj._ METEOR'IC, pertaining to, or consisting of, meteors:
proceeding from a meteor: flashing like a meteor: influenced by the
weather.--_ns._ M[=E]'TEOROGRAPH, an instrument by which several
meteorological elements are recorded in combination; METEOR'OLITE,
M[=E]'TEORITE, a meteoric stone.--_adjs._ METEOROLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._
METEOROL'OGIST; one skilled in meteorology; METEOROL'OGY, that department
of physics which treats of the phenomena of the atmosphere as regards
weather and climate.--_adj._ M[=E]'T[=E]OROUS (_Milt._), having the nature
of a meteor.--METEORIC IRON, iron as found in meteoric stones; METEORIC
SHOWERS, showers of meteors or shooting-stars; METEORIC STONES, aerolites.
[Gr. _mete[=o]ron_--_meta_, beyond, _e[=o]ra_, anything
suspended--_aeirein_, to lift.]

METER, a form of _metre_.

METER, m[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ one who, or that which, measures, esp. an
apparatus for recording automatically the quantity of a fluid passing
through it, as in _gas-meter_, _water-meter_, &c.--_v.t._ to measure by a
meter.--_n._ M[=E]'TERAGE.--DRY METER, a gas-meter with bellows-like
apparatus and no liquid. [_Metre_.]

METHANE, meth'[=a]n, _n._ marsh-gas, the simplest hydrocarbon, found
wherever the decomposition of vegetable matter is taking place under water,
also in coal-mines, forming when mixed with air the deadly fire-damp.--_n._
METHANOM'ETER.

METHEGLIN, meth-eg'lin, _n._ mead, a fermented liquor made from
honey.--_n._ METHER (-th'-) a vessel for mead. [W. _meddyglyn_--_medd_,
mead, _llyn_, liquor.]

METHINKS, me-thingks', (_B._) METHINK'ETH, _v.impers._ it seems to me: I
think:--_pa.t._ methought (me-thawt'). [A.S. _mé thyncth_, it seems to me.
_Þyncan_, to seem, is often confused with _Þencan_, to think. Cf. Ger.
_dünken_, to seem, _denken_, to think.]

METHOD, meth'ud, _n._ the mode or rule of accomplishing an end: orderly
procedure: manner: orderly arrangement: system, rule, classification:
manner of performance: an instruction-book systematically
arranged.--_adjs._ METHOD'IC, -AL, arranged with method: disposed in a just
and natural manner: formal.--_adv._ METHOD'ICALLY.--_v.t._ METH'ODISE, to
reduce to method: to dispose in due order.--_ns._ METH'ODISM, the
principles and practice of the Methodists; METH'ODIST, one who observes
method: one of a sect of Christians founded by John Wesley (1703-91), noted
for the strictness of its discipline: one who is very strict in
religion.--_adjs._ METHODIST'IC, -AL, resembling the Methodists: strict in
religious matters.--_adv._ METHODIST'ICALLY.--_n._ METHODOL'OGY, the
science of method in scientific procedure. [Fr.,--L. _methodus_--Gr.
_methodos_--_meta_, after, _hodos_, a way.]

METHOMANIA, meth-o-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ morbid craving for alcohol. [Gr.
_methy_, drink, _mania_, madness.]

METHOUGHT. See METHINKS.

METHUSELAH, me-th[=u]'ze-la, _n._ a patriarch said to have lived 969 years
(Gen. v. 27): any very aged person.

METHYL, meth'il, _n._ (_chem._) the name given to the hypothetical radical
of methylic alcohol or wood spirit.--_n._ METH'YLENE, a highly inflammable
and volatile liquid, obtained by the destructive distillation of
wood.--_adj._ METHYL'IC, denoting alcohol obtained by the destructive
distillation of wood.--METHYLATED SPIRIT, a mixture of nine parts of
alcohol with one of pyroxylic or wood spirit (to prevent people drinking
it), used for spirit-lamps, varnishes, &c. [Gr. _meta_, after, with,
_hyl[=e]_, wood.]

METHYSIS, meth'i-sis, _n._ (_path._) drunkenness.--_adj._ METHYS'TIC,
intoxicating. [Gr.]

METIC, met'ik, _n._ an immigrant, a resident alien. [Gr. _meta_, over,
_oikos_, a house.]

METICULOUS, m[=e]-tik'[=u]-lus, _adj._ (_arch._) timid, over
careful.--_adv._ METIC'ULOUSLY. [L. _metus_, fear.]

MÉTIER, met'y[=a]r, _n._ one's calling or business. [Fr.]

METIF, m[=e]'tif, _n._ the offspring of a white and a quadroon.--_n._
M[=E]'TIS, a half-breed of French and Indian parentage in Canada. [Cf.
_Mastiff_.]

METIS, m[=e]'tis, _n._ a Greek personification of prudence.

METONIC, me-ton'ik, _adj._ pertaining to the lunar cycle of nineteen years,
after which the new and full moon happen again on the same day of the year
as at its beginning. [From _Meton_, c. 430.]

METONYMY, me-ton'i-mi, _n._ (_rhet._) a trope in which the name of one
thing is put for that of another related to it, the effect for the cause,
&c., as 'the heart' for 'the affections,' 'the bottle' for 'drink,'
&c.--_adjs._ METONYM'IC, -AL, used by way of metonymy.--_adv._
METONYM'ICALLY. [L.,--Gr. _met[=o]nymia_--_meta_, expressing change,
_onoma_, a name.]

METOPE, met'o-p[=e], _n._ (_archit._) the space between the triglyphs in
the frieze of the Doric order, generally ornamented with carved work: the
face, forehead, frontal surface generally.--_adj._ METOP'IC.--_ns._
MET'OPISM, the condition of having a persistent metopic or frontal suture.
[Gr.,--_meta_, between, and _op[=e]_, the hole in the frieze receiving one
of the beam-ends.]

METOPOSCOPY, met-[=o]-pos'k[=o]-pi, _n._ the study of character from the
physiognomy.--_adjs._ METOPOSCOP'IC, -AL.--_n._ METOPOS'COPIST.

METRA, met'ra, _n._ a pocket-instrument, combining the uses of thermometer,
level, plummet, and lens. [Gr., pl. of _metron_, measure.]

METRE, m[=e]'t[.e]r, _n._ that regulated succession of certain groups of
syllables in which poetry is usually written--these groups of long and
short (_classical_) or accented (_English_) syllables being called _feet_:
rhythm: verse, or poetry generally: a plan of versification, the character
of a stanza as consisting of a given number of lines composed of feet of a
given number, construction, and accent: musical time.--_adjs._ MET'RIC,
-AL, pertaining to metre or to metrology: consisting of verses.--_adv._
MET'RICALLY.--_ns._ METRIC'IAN, MET'RICIST, one skilled in metres, one who
writes in metre; MET'RICS, the art or science of versification;
METRIFIC[=A]'TION. (_Tenn._), the act of making verses; MET'RIFIER, a
versifier; MET'RIST, one skilled in metres, a skilful versifier;
METROM[=A]'NIA, a mania for writing verses.--COMMON METRE, the stanza
forming a quatrain in eights and sixes, of four and of three iambic feet
alternately--also SERVICE METRE, from its use in the metrical psalms, &c.,
and BALLAD METRE, from its use in old romances and ballads; LONG METRE, an
octosyllabic quatrain, the four lines with four feet each; SHORT METRE, the
quatrain in sixes, with the third line octosyllabic. [Fr.,--L.
_metrum_--Gr. _metron_.]

MÈTRE, m[=a]'tr, _n._ the fundamental unit of length in the metric
system--one ten-millionth of a quadrant of the Meridian--39.3707904 English
inches.--_adj._ MET'RIC.--METRIC SYSTEM, the French system of weights and
measures, founded on the French mètre--dividing or multiplying by ten, and
therefore a decimal system.

METRE. Same as METER.

METRIC, met'rik, _adj._ quantitative.--_adj._ MET'RICAL, pertaining to
measurement.--_n.pl._ MET'RICS, the theory of measurement.--_ns._
MET'ROGRAPH, an apparatus for registering the speed of a railway-train and
the places and duration of stops; METROL'OGY, the science of weights and
measures; MET'RONOME, an instrument like an inverted pendulum which
measures musical time.--_adj._ METRONOM'IC.--_n._ METRON'OMY, measurement
of time by a metronome.

METRONYMIC, met-ro-nim'ik, _adj._ derived from the name of one's mother, or
other female ancestor.--_n._ an appellation so derived; cf. _Patronymic_.
[Gr. _m[=e]t[=e]r_, a mother, _onoma_, name.]

METROPOLIS, me-trop'o-lis, _n._ the capital of a country; the chief
cathedral city, as Canterbury of England: the mother-city of an ancient
Greek colony: a generic focus in the distribution of plants or
animals:--_pl._ METROP'OLISES.--_adj._ METROPOL'ITAN, belonging to a
metropolis: pertaining to the mother-church.--_n._ the bishop of a
metropolis, presiding over the other bishops of a province: an
archbishop.--_n._ METROPOL'ITANATE.--_adjs._ METROPOL'ITIC, -AL. [L.,--Gr.
_m[=e]t[=e]r_, mother, _polis_, a city.]

METTLE, met'l, _n._ ardent temperament: spirit: sprightliness:
courage.--_adjs._ METT'LED, METT'LESOME, high-spirited: ardent.--_n._
METT'LESOMENESS, quality or state of being mettlesome.--PUT ONE ON HIS
METTLE, to rouse a person up to putting forth his best efforts. [From the
_metal_ of a blade.]

MEUM, m[=a]'um, _n._ mine--in the phrase MEUM AND TUUM, mine and thine.
[L.]

MEUTE, m[=u]t, _n._ a mew, a place where hawks are mewed or confined.
[_Mew_, a cage for hawks.]

MEW, m[=u], _n._ a sea-fowl: a gull. [A.S. _m['æ]w_; Dut. _meeuw_, Ice.
_mâr_, Ger. _möwe_; all imit.]

MEW, m[=u], _v.i._ to cry as a cat.--_n._ the cry of a cat.

MEW, m[=u], _v.t._ to change, as the covering or dress: to shed or cast: to
confine, as in a cage.--_v.i._ to change: to cast the feathers: to
moult.--_n._ a place for confining: a cage for hawks while mewing:
generally in _pl._ a stable, because the royal stables were built where the
king's falcons were kept. [O. Fr. _mue_, a changing, esp. of the coat or
skin--_muer_, to mew--L. _mut[=a]re_, to change.]

MEWL, m[=u]l, _v.i._ (_Shak._) to cry as an infant. [Imit.]

MEXICAN, meks'i-kan, _n._ a native or inhabitant of _Mexico_.--_adj._
pertaining to Mexico or Mexicans.

MEZEREON, me-z[=e]'re-on, _n._ a deciduous shrub with pink flowers, and
having an extremely acrid bark used in medicine. [Fr.,--Pers.]

MEZZANINE, mez'a-n[=i]n, _n._ (_archit._) a low story introduced between
two higher ones: a small window used to light such apartments. [Fr.,--It.
_mezzanino_--_mezzo_--L. _medius_, middle.]

MEZZO-RILIEVO, med'zo-r[=e]-ly[=a]'v[=o], _n._ a degree of relief in
figures, half-way between high and low relief. [It.]

MEZZO-SOPRANO, med'zo-so-prä'n[=o], _n._ a quality of voice between soprano
and alto: low soprano.

MEZZOTINT, mez'[=o]-tint, or med'z[=o]-tint, _n._ a method of copperplate
engraving, producing an even gradation of tones, resembling those of a
photograph: an impression from a plate so produced.--Also MEZZOTINT'O.
[It.,--_mezzo_, middle, half, _tinto_, tint--L. _ting[)e]re_, _tinctum_, to
dye.]

MI, m[=e], _n._ the third note in the diatonic scale.

MIASMA, m[=i]-az'ma, _n._ unwholesome exhalations arising from putrescent
matter--also M[=I]'ASM:--_pl._ M[=I]'ASMS, MIAS'MATA.--_adjs._ MIAS'MAL,
MIASMAT'IC, MIAS'MATOUS, pertaining to, or containing, miasma.--_ns._
MIAS'MATIST; MIASMOL'OGY.--_adj._ MIAS'MOUS. [Gr. _miasma_--_miainein_, to
stain.]

MIAUL, mi-awl', _v.i._ to cry as a cat.

MICA, m[=i]'ka, _n._ a group of rock-forming minerals, with perfect
cleavage in one direction, the laminæ flexible and elastic, and generally
transparent.--_adj._ MIC[=A]'CEOUS.--_ns._ M[=I]'CA-SCHIST, M[=I]'CA-SLATE,
a metamorphic rock consisting of alternate layers of mica and quartz. [L.
_mica_, a crumb.]

MICE, m[=i]s, plural of _mouse_.

MICHAELMAS, mik'el-mas, _n._ the festival of St _Michael_, celebrated Sept.
29: a quarterly rent-day in England.

MICHE, mich, _v.i._ (_obs._) to lie hid, to skulk, to act by stealth: to
pilfer meanly--also MICH.--_ns._ MICH'ER; MICH'ING--also _adj._

MICKLE, mik'l, _adj._ (_arch._) much. [A.S. _micel_, _mycel_; Scot.
_muckle_.]

MICKY, mik'i, _n._ an Irish boy: a wild young bull.

MICROBE, m[=i]'kr[=o]b, mik'r[=o]b, _n._ a microscopic organism, esp. a
bacterium, found wherever organic matter is in process of
decomposition.--_adjs._ MICR[=O]'BIAL, MICR[=O]'BIAN, MICR[=O]'BIC.--_n._
MICROBIOL'OGY, the science of micro-organisms. [Fr.,--Gr. _mikros_, small,
_bios_, life.]

MICROCEPHALOUS, m[=i]-kr[=o]-sef'a-lus, _adj._ having a small or
imperfectly formed head.--Also MICROCEPHAL'IC. [Gr. _mikros_, small,
_kephal[=e]_, the head.]

MICROCHRONOMETER, m[=i]-kr[=o]-kr[=o]-nom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for
registering very small periods of time.

MICROCOCCUS, m[=i]-kr[=o]-kok'us, _n._ a microscopic organism of a round
form.

MICROCOSM, m[=i]'kr[=o]-kozm, _n._ a little universe or world: (often
applied to) man, who was regarded by ancient philosophers as a model or
epitome of the universe.--_adjs._ MICROCOS'MIC, -AL, pertaining to the
microcosm.--_n._ MICROCOSMOG'RAPHY. [Fr.,--L.,--Gr.--_mikros_, little,
_kosmos_, world.]

MICROCOUSTIC, m[=i]-kr[=o]-k[=oo]s'tik, _adj._ serving to augment weak
sounds.--_n._ an instrument for such purpose.

MICROCRITH, m[=i]'kr[=o]-krith, _n._ (_chem._) the unit of molecular
weight, that of the half-molecule of hydrogen.

MICROCYTE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-s[=i]t, _n._ a small cell or corpuscle: a small
blood corpuscle found in anæmia.--_ns._ MICROCYTH[=E]'MIA,
MICROCYT[=O]'SIS, a condition of the blood with many very small corpuscles.

MICRODENTISM, m[=i]-kr[=o]-den'tizm, _n._ smallness of the teeth.

MICRODONT, m[=i]'kr[=o]-dont, _adj._ having short or small teeth.

MICROFARAD, m[=i]-kr[=o]-far'ad, _n._ one-millionth of a farad, the
practical unit of electrical capacity.

MICROGEOLOGY, m[=i]-kr[=o]-j[=e]-ol'o-ji, _n._ the department of geology
concerned with the study of microscopic structures.

MICROGRAPH, m[=i]'kr[=o]-graf, _n._ a pantograph instrument for minute
writing or drawing: a microscopic picture.--_n._ MICROG'RAPHER.--_adj._
MICROGRAPH'IC.--_n._ MICROG'RAPHY, the description of microscopic objects.
[Gr. _mikros_, little, _graphein_, write.]

MICROHM, mik'r[=o]m, _n._ an electric unit equal to the millionth part of
an ohm.

MICROLITE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-l[=i]t, _n._ a mineral related to pyrochlore.--_n._
M[=I]'CROLITH, a name suggested by Vogelsang in 1867 for the microscopic
acicular components of rocks.--_adj._ MICROLITH'IC. [Gr. _mikros_, small,
_lithos_, a stone.]

MICROLOGY, m[=i]-krol'o-ji, _n._ the branch of science which treats of
microscopic objects.--_adjs._ MICROLOG'IC, -AL.--_adv._ MICROLOG'ICALLY.

MICROMETER, m[=i]-krom'e-t[.e]r, _n._ an instrument for measuring minute
distances or angles.--_adjs._ MICROMET'RIC, -AL.--_ns._ MICROM'ETRY,
measuring with a micrometer; M[=I]'CRON, the millionth part of a metre, or
1/25400 of an inch; M[=I]'CRO-OR'GANISM, a microscopic organism. [Gr.
_mikros_, little, _metron_, measure.]

MICROPHONE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-f[=o]n, _n._ an instrument which renders the
faintest sounds distinctly audible.--_adjs._ MICROPHON'IC,
MICROPH'ONOUS.--_n._ M[=I]'CROPHONY. [Gr. _mikros_, little, _ph[=o]n[=e]_,
sound.]

MICROPHOTOGRAPHY, m[=i]-kr[=o]-f[=o]-tog'ra-fi, _n._ the photographing of
objects on a microscopic scale.

MICROPHYLLOUS, m[=i]-krof'il-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having small leaves. [Gr.
_mikros_, little, _phyllon_, leaf.]

MICROPHYTE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-f[=i]t, _n._ a microscopic plant, esp. one
parasitic.--_adjs._ M[=I]'CROPHYTAL, MICROPHYT'IC.

MICROPODA, m[=i]-krop'o-da, _n.pl._ in some systems a division of
monomyarian bivalves, with rudimentary feet, including oysters, &c. [Gr.
_mikros_, small, _pous_, _podos_, foot.]

MICROPSIA, m[=i]-krop'si-a, _n._ an affection of the eye in which objects
appear in less than actual size.

MICROPTEROUS, m[=i]-krop'te-rus, _adj._ having short wings or fins.

MICROPYLE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-p[=i]l, _n._ (_bot._) the orifice in the coats of
the ovule leading to the apex of the nucleus, through which the pollen-tube
penetrates: (_zool._) the hilum of an ovum at the point of attachment to
the ovary: any opening in the coverings of an ovum by which spermatozoa may
find entrance. [Gr. _mikros_, small, _pyl[=e]_, a gate.]

MICROSCOPE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ an instrument which magnifies to the
eye objects so minute as to be almost or quite undiscernible without its
aid.--_adjs._ MICROSCOP'IC, -AL, pertaining to a microscope: made by, or as
if by, a microscope: visible only by the aid of a microscope: working with,
or as if with, a microscope.--_adv._ MICROSCOP'ICALLY.--_ns._
M[=I]'CROSCOPIST, one skilled in the use of the microscope;
M[=I]'CROSCOPY.--BINOCULAR MICROSCOPE, a microscope with two eye-pieces,
for viewing an object with both eyes at once; COMPOUND MICROSCOPE, a
microscope with two sets of lenses so arranged that the image formed by the
lower or object glass is again magnified by the upper or eye-piece. [Gr.
_mikros_, little, _skopein_, to look at.]

MICROSEISM, m[=i]'kr[=o]-sizm, _n._ a slight earthquake tremor.--_adjs._
MICROSEIS'MIC, -AL.--_ns._ MICROSEIS'MOGRAPH; MICROSEISMOM'ETRY.

MICROSOMA, m[=i]-kr[=o]-s[=o]'ma, _n._ one of the minute granules embedded
in the hyaline plasm of the protoplasm of vegetable cells:--_pl._
MICROS[=O]'MATA. [Gr. _mikros_, small, _s[=o]ma_, body.]

MICROSPECTROSCOPE, m[=i]-kr[=o]-spek'tr[=o]-sk[=o]p, _n._ a combination of
the spectroscope with the microscope.

MICROSPORE, m[=i]'kr[=o]-sp[=o]r, _n._ (_bot._) a small asexually produced
spore: (_zool._) one of the numerous very small spore-like elements
produced through the encystment and subdivision of many monads.--_n._
MICROSPORAN'GIUM.--_adj._ M[=I]'CROSPOROUS. [Gr. _mikros_, small, _sporos_,
a seed.]

MICROTOME, m[=i]'kr[=o]-t[=o]m, _n._ an instrument for cutting thin
sections of objects for microscopic examination.--_adj._
MICROTOM'IC.--_ns._ MICROT'OMIST; MICROT'OMY. [Gr. _mikros_, little,
_temnein_, to cut.]

MICROZOA, m[=i]-kr[=o]-z[=o]'ä, _n.pl._ microscopic animals.--_n._ and
_adj._ MICROZ[=O]'AN.--_n._ MICROZO[=A]'RIA, a name sometimes used for
infusorians, &c.--_adj._ MICROZO[=A]'RIAN.--_n._ and _adj._ MICROZ[=O]'ÖID,
a very minute free-swimming zoöid, which buries itself in the body of a
sedentary animalcule.--_ns._ MICROZ[=O]'ÖN, any micro-organism of animal
nature; MICROZ[=O]'ÖSPORE, a zoöspore of abnormally small size;
M[=I]'CROZYME, a member of a class of extremely minute living organisms
floating in the atmosphere, supposed to be the means of communicating
certain epidemic and other zymotic diseases. [Gr. _mikros_, small,
_z[=o]on_, an animal, _sporos_, seed, _zym[=e]_, leaven.]

MICTURITION, mik-t[=u]-rish'un, _n._ the act of passing, or the frequent
desire to pass, urine.--_n._ MIC'TION, voiding urine.--_v.i._ MIC'TURATE.
[L. _mictur[=i]re_, _-[=i]tum_, to pass urine.]

MID, mid, _adj._ middle: situated between extremes.--_prep._ amid.--_n._
(_Shak._) middle.--_ns._ MID'-AGE (_Shak._), the middle time of life, a
person in middle-life; MID'-AIR, MID'-HEAV'EN, the middle of the sky;
MID'DAY, the middle of the day: noon.--_adj._ of or pertaining to
noon.--_adj._ MID'DEST (_Spens._), most nearly in the middle:
middlemost.--_n._ the midst, middle.--_n._ MID'-HOUR, the middle part of
the day.--_adj._ MID'LAND, in the middle of, or surrounded by, land:
distant from the coast: inland.--_n._ the interior of a country: (_pl._)
esp. the central parts of England.--_n._ MID'-LENT, the middle or fourth
Sunday in Lent.--_adj._ MID'MOST, middlemost.--_n._ MID'NIGHT, the middle
of the night: twelve o'clock at night.--_adj._ being at midnight: dark as
midnight.--_ns._ MID'NOON, noon; MID'-SEA, the open sea.--_adj._ MID'SHIP,
being in the middle of a ship.--_n._ MID'SHIPMAN, in the British navy, an
officer whose rank is next above that of a naval cadet: in the U.S. navy,
the lowest grade of officers in the line of promotion, now called NAVAL
CADET.--_adv._ MID'SHIPS.--_ns._ MID'SUMMER, the middle of summer: the
summer solstice, about the 21st of June; MID'SUMMER-DAY, the 24th of June;
MID'WAY, the middle of the way or distance.--_adj._ being in the middle of
the way or distance.--_adv._ half-way.--_n._ MID'WINTER, the middle of
winter: the winter solstice (21st or 22d December), or the time shortly
before or after it. [A.S. (_mid-_), _middgen_; Ger. _mitte_ and _mittel_,
L. _medius_, Gr. _mesos_.]

MIDAS, m[=i]'das, _n._ a fabulously rich man, from the king of Phrygia who
got the power of turning everything he touched into gold, till he was like
to be starved. His ears were changed by Apollo to those of an ass for
deciding a musical contest in favour of Pan.

MIDDEN, mid'en, _n._ a heap of ashes or dung (see also
KITCHEN-MIDDEN).--_n._ MIDD'ENSTEAD, a place where dung is heaped up.
[Scand., as Dan. _mödding_--_mög_, dung; cf. _Muck_.]

MIDDLE, mid'l, _adj._ equally distant from the extremes: intermediate:
intervening: (_gram._) intermediate between active and passive,
reflexive.--_n._ the middle point or part: midst: central portion,
waist.--_adjs._ MIDD'LE-AGED, of or about the middle period of life (from
about 35 to 50); MIDD'LE-CLASS, pertaining to, or included in, the middle
class.--_ns._ MIDD'LE-EARTH (_Shak._), the earth, considered as placed
between the upper and lower regions; MIDD'LEMAN, one who stands in the
middle between two persons: an agent who does business between two parties:
in Ireland, one who rents land in large tracts, and lets it in small
portions to the peasantry.--_adjs._ MIDD'LEMOST, MID'MOST (_B._), nearest
the middle; MIDD'LE-SIZED, of middle or average size.--_ns._ MIDD'LE-WATCH,
the period between midnight and 4 A.M.; MIDD'LE-WEIGHT, a boxer or jockey
of intermediate weight, between light and heavy weight.--_adj._ MIDD'LING,
of middle rate, state, size, or quality: about equally distant from the
extremes: moderate: (_Scot._) not in very good health: fairly well or
prosperous.--_adv._ moderately.--_n._ MIDD'LINGNESS, mediocrity.--_n.pl._
MIDD'LINGS, the coarser part of ground wheat.--MIDDLE AGES, the time
between the downfall of the western Roman empire, about 476 A.D., and the
Reformation in the first quarter of the 16th century, or even earlier--in
the later half of the preceding century, when printing was invented,
America discovered, and the revival of learning took place; MIDDLE CLASS,
that part of the people which comes between the nobility and the
working-class; MIDDLE DISTANCE (same as MIDDLE GROUND); MIDDLE ENGLISH,
English as spoken and written from 1350 to 1500 or 1550; MIDDLE GROUND, the
central portion of a picture--that is, between the foreground and
background; MIDDLE KINGDOM, China; MIDDLE PASSAGE, the voyage across the
Atlantic from Africa to the West Indies, which was a time of horror on
board a slave-ship; MIDDLE STATES, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware; MIDDLE TERM (_logic_), that term of a syllogism which appears
both in the major premise and the minor, but not in the
conclusion.--MIDDLE-CLASS SCHOOLS, schools for the higher education of the
middle class, intermediate between the primary schools and the large public
schools or the universities. [A.S. _middel_--_mid_; Dut. _middel_, Ger.
_mittel_.]

MIDDY, mid'i, _n._ for midshipman.

MIDGARD, mid'g[=a]rd, _n._ (_Scand. myth._) the abode of men, midway
between heaven and hell. [Ice. _midhgardhr_=mid-yard.]

MIDGE, mij, _n._ the common name of several species of small two-winged
insects, like gnats, but with a shorter proboscis.--_n._ MIDG'ET, a little
midge: something very small of its kind: a very small person. [A.S.
_micge_; Ger. _mücke_, a gnat.]

MIDRASH, mid'rash, _n._ the Hebrew exposition of the Old Testament--its two
divisions, _Haggada_ and _Halakha_:--_pl._ MIDRASHIM (mid-rä'sh[=e]m),
commentaries to individual books or sections of the Old Testament. [Heb.,
'exposition.']

MIDRIB, mid'rib, _n._ (_bot._) the continuation of the leaf-stalk to the
point of a leaf.

MIDRIFF, mid'rif, _n._ the diaphragm. [A.S. _mid_, middle, _hrif_, the
belly.]

MIDST, midst, _n._ the middle.--_adv._ in the middle.--_prep._ amidst.
[From the M. E. phrase _in middle-s_, in the midst, with excrescent _t_
(cf. _whil-s-t_).]

MIDWIFE, mid'w[=i]f, _n._ a woman who assists others in childbirth:--_pl._
MIDWIVES (mid'w[=i]vz).--_n._ MID'WIFERY, art or practice of a midwife or
accoucheuse: assistance at childbirth. [A.S. _mid_, together with (Ger.
_mit_, Gr. _met-a_), _wíf_, woman.]

MIEN, m[=e]n, _n._ the look or appearance of a person: the expression of
the face: manner: bearing. [Fr. _mine_--It. _mina_, deportment--Low L.
_min[=a]re_, to conduct--L. _min[=a]ri_, to threaten.]

MIFF, mif, _n._ (_coll._) a slight feeling of resentment. [Akin to Ger.
_muffen_, to sulk.]

MIGHT, m[=i]t, _pa.t._ of may.

MIGHT, m[=i]t, _n._ power: ability: strength: energy or intensity of
purpose or feeling.--_adj._ MIGHT'FUL (_Shak._), mighty: powerful.--_adv._
MIGHT'ILY.--_n._ MIGHT'INESS, state of being mighty: power: greatness:
great amount: a title of dignity: excellency.--_adj._ MIGHT'Y, having
greater power: strong: valiant: very great: important: exhibiting might:
wonderful.--MIGHT AND MAIN, utmost strength. [A.S. _meaht_, _miht_; Ger.
_macht_; cf. _May_.]

MIGNONETTE, min-yo-net', _n._ an annual with sweet-scented flowers.
[Fr.,--_mignon_, darling.]

MIGRAINE, mi-gr[=a]n', _n._ Same as MEGRIM.

MIGRATE, m[=i]'gr[=a]t, _v.i._ to pass from one place to another: to remove
for residence from one country, college, &c. to another.--_adjs._
M[=I]'GRANT, M[=I]'GR[=A]TORY, migrating or accustomed to migrate:
wandering.--_ns._ MIGR[=A]'TION, a change of abode: a removal from one
country or climate to another: a number removing together;
MIGR[=A]'TIONIST, MIGR[=A]'TOR.--MIGRATORY ANIMALS, animals that remove
from one region to another as the seasons change. [L. _migr[=a]re_,
-_[=a]tum_; cf. _me[=a]re_, to go.]

MIKADO, mi-kä'd[=o], _n._ a title of the Emperor of Japan. [Jap., 'exalted
gate.']

MIL, mil, _n._ a unit of length in measuring the diameter of wire. [L.
_mille_, a thousand.]

MILADI, mi-l[=a]'di, _n._ my lady. [It.]

MILCH, milch, _adj._ giving milk: yielding liquid, tender. [_Milk_.]

MILD, m[=i]ld, _adj._ gentle in temper and disposition: not sharp or
bitter: acting gently: gently and pleasantly affecting the senses: soft:
calm.--_v.t._ MILD'EN, to render mild.--_v.i._ to become mild.--_adv._
MILD'LY.--_n._ MILD'NESS.--_adj._ MILD'-SPOK'EN, having a mild manner of
speech.--MILD ALE, ale newly brewed, which has not got the taste that comes
from keeping. [A.S. _milde_, mild; cf. Ger. _mild_, Ice. _mildr_, gracious,
&c.]

MILDEW, mil'd[=u], _n._ a disease on plants, caused by the growth of minute
fungi.--_v.t._ to taint with mildew.--_v.i._ to become so tainted. [A.S.
_meledeáw_, _mele_, honey, _deáw_, dew.]

MILE, m[=i]l, _n._ 1760 yards.--_ns._ MILE'AGE, length in miles: (_U.S._)
compensation for expense of travel reckoned by the mile; MIL'ER, something
the length of a mile; MILE'STONE, a stone set up to mark the distance of a
mile. [A.S. _mil_; Fr. _mille_; both a contr. of L. _mille passuum_, a
thousand paces.]

MILESIAN, mi-l[=e]'zhan, _adj._ of or pertaining to Ireland or to the Irish
race.--_n._ an Irishman. [_Milesius_, a fabulous king of Spain, whose sons
seized Ireland.]

MILFOIL, mil'foil, _n._ the herb yarrow, remarkable for the numerous
divisions of its leaf. [L. _millefolium_--_mille_, thousand, _folium_, a
leaf.]

MILIARY, mil'yar-i, _adj._ like a millet-seed: having formations of the
size of millet-seeds, as miliary glands. [L. _milium_, millet.]

MILITANT, mil'i-tant, _adj._ fighting: engaged in warfare.--_n._
MIL'ITANCY, the state of being militant.--_adv._ MIL'ITANTLY.--_ns._
MIL'ITARISM, an excess of the military spirit; MIL'ITARIST (_Shak._), a
military man.--_adj._ MIL'ITARY, pertaining to soldiers or to warfare:
warlike: becoming a soldier: engaged in the profession of arms: derived
from service as a soldier--(_obs._) MIL'ITAR.--_n._ soldiery: the
army.--_v.i._ MIL'ITATE, to contend: to stand opposed: to have force for or
against.--CHURCH MILITANT (see Church). [L. _militans_, -_antis_, pr.p. of
_milit[=a]re_.]

MILITIA, mi-lish'a, _n._ a body of men enrolled and drilled as soldiers,
but only liable to home service: (_U.S._) the whole body of citizens
capable of bearing arms.--_n._ MILIT'IAMAN, a man or soldier in the militia
force. [L. _militia_--_miles_, _militis_.]

MILK, milk, _v.t._ to squeeze or draw milk from: to supply with milk.--_n._
a white liquid secreted by female mammals for the nourishment of their
young: a milk-like juice of certain plants.--_adj._ MILK'EN, consisting of
milk, or like milk.--_ns._ MILK'EN-WAY (_Bacon_), the milky-way, the
galaxy; MILK'ER, one who milks: a machine for milking cows: a cow that
gives milk; MILK'-F[=E]'VER, a fever accompanying the secretion of milk
shortly after childbirth.--_adv._ MILK'ILY.--_ns._ MILK'INESS; MILK'ING,
the amount of milk drawn at one time; MILK'ING-STOOL, a stool on which the
milker sits while milking; MILK'ING-TIME; MILK'ING-TUBE, a perforated tube
inserted in a cow's teat to let the milk flow without pressing the udder;
MILK'-KIN'SHIP, the kinship arising from fostering.--_adj._ MILK'-LIV'ERED
(_Shak._), white-livered: cowardly.--_ns._ MILK'MAID, a woman who milks: a
dairymaid; MILK'MAN, a man who sells milk, esp. from door to door;
MILK'-M[=O]'LAR, one of the grinders or back teeth in young animals, early
shed and replaced by another; MILK'-PORR'IDGE, porridge made with milk
instead of water; MILK'-PUNCH, an excellent but very heady drink made of
milk, rum or whisky, sugar, and nutmeg; MILK'-SICK'NESS (_U.S._), a kind of
malignant fever affecting cattle, also men; MILK'SOP, a piece of bread
sopped or soaked in milk: an effeminate, silly fellow; MILK'-THIS'TLE, the
lady's thistle; MILK'-TOOTH, one of the first fore-teeth of a foal: one of
the first teeth of a child; MILK'-TREE, a tree yielding a milk-like,
nourishing juice, as the cow-tree of South America; MILK'-VETCH, a plant
sometimes cultivated as food for cattle; MILK'-WALK, a milkman's
route.--_adj._ MILK'-WARM, warm as new milk.--_ns._ MILK'-WEED, a general
name for plants of the genus Asclepias, from their milky juice; MILK'-WORT,
a genus of handsome flowering plants, containing a milk-like juice.--_adj._
MILK'Y, made of, full of, like, or yielding milk: soft: gentle.--_n._
MILK'Y-WAY (_astron._), the galaxy, a broad, luminous zone in the sky,
caused by the light of innumerable fixed stars. [A.S. _meolc_, milk; Ger.
_milch_, milk.]

MILL, mil, _n._ a machine for grinding any substance, as grain, by crushing
it between two hard, rough surfaces: a place where corn is ground, or
manufacture of some kind is carried on: a contest at boxing.--_v.t._ to
grind: to press or stamp in a mill: to stamp or turn up the edge of coin,
and put ridges and furrows on the rim: to put furrows and ridges on any
edge: to clean, as cloth: to beat severely with the fists.--_ns._
MILL'-BOARD, stout pasteboard, used esp. in binding books; MILL'COG, a cog
of a mill-wheel; MILL'DAM, MILL'POND, a dam or pond to hold water for
driving a mill.--_adj._ MILLED, prepared by a grinding-mill or a
coining-press: transversely grooved: treated by machinery, esp. smoothed by
calendering rollers in a paper-mill.--_ns._ MILL'-HORSE, a horse that turns
a mill; MILL'ING, the act of passing anything through a mill: the act of
fulling cloth: the process of turning up the edge of coin and of putting
the rows of ridges and furrows on it: indenting coin on the edge;
MILL'RACE, the current of water that turns a mill-wheel, or the channel in
which it runs; MILL-SIX'PENCE (_Shak._), a milled sixpence; MILL'STONE, one
of the two stones used in a mill for grinding corn; MILL'STONE-GRIT
(_geol._), a hard gritty variety of sandstone suitable for millstones;
MILL'-TOOTH, a molar; MILL'-WHEEL, the water-wheel used for driving a mill;
MILL'-WORK, the machinery of a mill: the planning and putting up of
machinery in mills; MILL'WRIGHT, a wright or mechanic who builds and
repairs mills.--GO THROUGH THE MILL, to undergo suffering or experience
sufficient to fit one for certain duties or privileges; SEE THROUGH A
MILLSTONE, to see far into or through difficult questions. [A.S. _miln_--L.
_mola_, a mill--_mol[=a]re_, to grind.]

MILL, mil, _n._ (_U.S._) the thousandth part of a dollar. [L. _mille_, a
thousand.]

MILLENNIUM, mil-len'i-um, _n._ a thousand years: the thousand years during
which, as some believe, Christ will personally reign on the earth.--_adj._
MILLEN[=A]'RIAN, lasting a thousand years: pertaining to the
millennium.--_n._ one believing in the millennium.--_ns._
MILLEN[=A]'RIANISM, MIL'LENARISM, the doctrine of millenarians.--_adj._
MILL'ENARY, consisting of a thousand.--_n._ a thousand years.--_adj._
MILLENN'IAL, pertaining to a thousand years, or to the millennium.--_ns._
MILLENN'IALIST, a believer in the millennium; MILLENN'IANISM,
MILLENN'IARISM, belief in the millennium. [L. _mille_, 1000, _annus_, a
year.]

MILLEPED. See MILLIPED.

MILLEPORE, mil'e-p[=o]r, _n._ a species of branching coral, having a smooth
surface with numerous minute, distinct pores or cells.--_n._ MILL'EPORITE,
a fossil millepore. [Fr.; L. _mille_, 1000, _porus_, a pore.]

MILLER, mil'[.e]r, _n._ one who has, or who attends to, a corn-mill.--_ns._
MILL'ER'S-THUMB, a small fresh-water fish with a large, broad, and rounded
head like a miller's thumb, the river bull-head.

MILLESIMAL, mil-les'im-al, _adj._ thousandth: consisting of thousandth
parts.--_adv._ MILLES'IMALLY. [L. _millesimus_--_mille_, a thousand.]

MILLET, mil'et, _n._ a grass yielding grain which is used for food. [Fr.
_millet_--L. _milium_.]

MILLIARD, mil'yard, _n._ a thousand millions. [Fr.,--L. _mille_, a
thousand.]

MILLIARE, mil'yar, _n._ the one-thousandth part of an are.

MILLIARY, mil'i-[=a]-ri, _adj._ pertaining to a Roman mile.--_n._ a Roman
milestone.

MILLIER, m[=e]l-y[=a]', _n._ a weight of 1000 kilogrammes.

MILLIGRAM, mil'i-gram, _n._ the 1/1000th part of a gramme.

MILLILITRE, mil'i-l[=e]-t[.e]r, _n._ the thousandth part of a litre.

MILLIMETER, MILLIMETRE, mil'i-m[=e]-t[.e]r, _n._ the thousandth part of a
metre.

MILLINER, mil'in-[.e]r, _n._ one who makes head-dresses, bonnets, &c. for
women.--_n._ MILL'INERY, the articles made or sold by milliners: the
industry of making these. [Prob. orig. _Milaner_, a trader in Milan wares,
esp. silks and ribbons.]

MILLION, mil'yun, _n._ a thousand thousands (1,000,000): a very great
number.--_n._ MILL'IONAIRE, a man worth a million of money or more.--_adj._
MILL'IONARY, pertaining to, or consisting of, millions.--_adj._ and _n._
MILL'IONTH, the ten hundred thousandth.--THE MILLION, the great body of the
people generally. [Fr.,--Low L. _millio_--L. _mille_, 1000.]

MILLIPED, MILLEPED, mil'e-ped, _n._ a small worm-like animal, with a great
number of legs.--Also MILL'IPEDE, MILL'EPEDE. [L. _millepeda_--_mille_, a
thousand, _pes, pedis_, a foot.]

MILLOCRAT, mil'[=o]-krat, _n._ a wealthy mill-owner.--_n._ MILL'OCRATISM.

MILORD, mi-lord', _n._ my lord: a rich Englishman on the Continent.

MILREIS, mil'r[=e]s, _n._ a thousand reals: a Portuguese coin worth about
4s. 5d.

MILSEY, mil'si, _n._ (_prov._) a milk-strainer.

MILT, milt, _n._ the soft roe of male fishes: (_anat._) the spleen.--_v.t._
to impregnate, as the spawn of the female fish.--_n._ MILT'ER, a male fish.
[A corr. of _milk_, as in Sw. _mjölke_, milt of fishes.]

MILTONIC, mil-ton'ik, _adj._ relating to _Milton_ (1608-74), or to his
poetry.

MILVINE, mil'vin, _adj._ pertaining to, or like, birds of the kite family.
[L. _milvinus_--_milvus_, a kite.]

MIM, mim, _adj._ (_prov._) demure, precise.

MIMBAR, mim'bar, _n._ the pulpit in a mosque.

MIME, m[=i]m, _n._ a farce in which scenes from actual life were
represented by gesture: an actor in such a farce.--_n._ MIM'ESIS, a
mimicking of the speech, gestures, &c. of a person or a people: (_biol._)
mimicry.--_adjs._ MIMET'IC, -AL, apt to imitate.--_v.t._ MIM'IC, to
imitate: simulate:--_pr.p._ mim'icking; _pa.p._ mim'icked.--_n._ one who
mimics: a buffoon: a servile imitator.--_adjs._ MIM'IC, -AL, imitative:
mock: miniature.--_ns._ MIM'ICKER; MIM'ICRY, act of mimicking: an imitative
resemblance in one animal to another or to some inanimate object. [Gr.
_mimos_.]

MIMEOGRAPH, mim'[=e]-[=o]-graf, _n._ an apparatus in which a thin fibrous
paper coated with paraffin is used as a stencil for reproducing copies of
written or printed matter.--_v.t._ to reproduce such by this means. [Gr.
_mimeisthai_, to imitate, _graphein_, to write.]

MIMOGRAPHY, mim-og'ra-fi, _n._ the art of writing gesture-languages by
means of pictorial symbols constituting ideographs.--_n._ MIMOG'RAPHER.

MIMOSA, m[=i]-m[=o]'za, _n._ a genus of leguminous plants, including the
sensitive plant. [Gr. _mimos_.]

MIMULUS, mim'[=u]-lus, _n._ a genus of figworts.

MINA, m[=i]'na, _n._ a weight in silver at Athens=100 drachmas: (_B._) a
weight of money valued at fifty shekels. [L. _mina_--Gr. _mna_.]

MINA, m[=i]'na, _n._ one of several different sturnoid passerine birds of
India.

MINARET, min'a-ret, _n._ a turret on a Mohammedan mosque, from which the
people are summoned to prayers. [Sp. _minarete_--Ar. _manarat_,
lighthouse--_nar_, fire.]

MINATORY, min'a-tor-i, _adj._ threatening, menacing.--Also MIN[=A]'CIOUS.
[L. _min[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to threaten.]

MINAUDERIE, min-[=o]'de-r[=e], _n._ a display of affectation. [Fr.]

MINCE, mins, _v.t._ to cut into small pieces: to chop fine: to diminish or
suppress a part in speaking: to pronounce affectedly.--_v.i._ to walk with
affected nicety: to speak affectedly:--_pr.p._ minc'ing; _pa.p._ minced
(minst).--_ns._ MINCE'-MEAT, meat chopped small--hence anything thoroughly
broken or cut to pieces; MINCE'-PIE, a pie made with minced meat,
&c.--_adj._ MINC'ING, not speaking fully out: speaking or walking with
affected nicety.--_adv._ MINC'INGLY.--MINCE MATTERS, to speak of things
with affected delicacy, or to soften an account unduly.--MINCED COLLOPS
(see COLLOPS). [A.S. _minsian_--_min_, small; prob. cog. with Fr. _mince_,
thin, also Teut.]

MIND, m[=i]nd, _n._ the faculty by which we think, &c.: the understanding:
the whole spiritual nature: memory: choice: intention: thoughts or
sentiments: belief: cast of thought and feeling: (_B._)
disposition.--_v.t._ to attend to: to obey: (_orig._) to remind: (_Scot._)
to remember.--_v.i._ (_B._) to intend.--_adj._ MIND'ED, having a mind:
disposed: determined.--_ns._ MIND'EDNESS, inclination toward anything;
MIND'ER, a care-taker: one taken care of, as a pauper child by a private
person.--_adj._ MIND'FUL, bearing in mind: taking thought or care:
attentive: observant.--_adv._ MIND'FULLY.--_n._ MIND'FULNESS.--_adj._
MIND'LESS, without mind: stupid.--_n._ MIND'-TRANS'FERENCE,
thought-transference.--MIND ONE'S P'S AND Q'S, to be accurate and precise;
MIND YOUR EYE (_slang_), take care what you are about.--ABSENCE OF MIND,
inattention to what is going on at the time; BEAR IN MIND, to remember; BE
OUT OF ONE'S MIND, to be forgotten: to be insane; HAVE A MIND, to wish or
to be inclined strongly; HAVE HALF A MIND, to be somewhat inclined; LOSE,
or BE OUT OF, ONE'S MIND, to become insane; MAKE UP ONE'S MIND, to
determine; MONTH'S MIND, continual prayer on a dead person's behalf for a
month after death, with masses esp. on 3d, 7th, and 30th days (also A
MONTHLY MIND): any very strong desire or inclination; NEVER MIND, do not
concern yourself; OF ONE MIND, agreed; Of two minds, uncertain what to
think or do; PRESENCE OF MIND, a state of calmness in which all the powers
of the mind are on the alert and ready for action; PUT IN MIND, to warn or
remind; YEAR'S MIND, a commemorative service of a similar kind to the
month's mind, on the anniversary of a death. [A.S. _ge-mynd_--_munan_, to
think; Ger. _meinen_, to think, L. _mens_, the mind.]

MINDERERUS SPIRIT, min-der-[=e]'rus spir'it, _n._ acetate of ammonia, much
used in cases of fever.

MINE, m[=i]n, _adj. pron._ belonging to me: my. [A.S. _mín;_ Ger. _mein._]

MINE, m[=i]n, _v.i._ and _v.t._ to dig for metals: to excavate: to dig
under a wall or building in order to overturn it: to ruin or destroy by
secret means.--_n._ a place from which metals are dug: an excavation dug
under a fortification to blow it up with gunpowder: a rich source of
wealth.--_ns._ MINE'-CAP'TAIN, the overseer of a mine; M[=I]'NER, one who
digs in a mine.--_adj._ M[=I]'NY, rich in mines: like a mine.--See also
SUBMARINE MINE. [Low L. _min[=a]re,_ to lead, open a mine.]

MINERAL, min'[.e]r-al, _n._ an inorganic substance found in the earth or at
its surface: any substance containing a metal.--_adj._ relating to
minerals: having the nature of minerals: impregnated with minerals, as
water: denoting inorganic substances.--_n._ MINERALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._
MIN'ERALISE, to make into a mineral: to give the properties of a mineral
to: to impregnate with mineral matter.--_v.i._ to collect minerals.--_ns._
MIN'ERALISER, an element that combines with a metal to form an ore, as
sulphur: a volatile or other substance, as water, which facilitates the
recrystallisation of rocks; MIN'ERALIST, one versed in or employed about
minerals.--_adj._ MINERALOG'ICAL, pertaining to mineralogy.--_adv._
MINERALOG'ICALLY.--_v.i._ MINERAL'OGISE, to collect or study
minerals.--_ns._ MINERAL'OGIST, one versed in mineralogy; MINERAL'OGY, the
science which treats of minerals: the art of describing and classifying
minerals.--MINERAL ACIDS, a name applied to sulphuric, nitric, and
hydrochloric acids; MINERAL BLACK, an impure carbon used as a pigment;
MINERAL CAOUTCHOUC, a variety of bitumen--also _Elaterite_; MINERAL
KINGDOM, that department of nature which comprises substances that are
neither animal nor vegetable; MINERAL OIL, oil which is forced up or pumped
from the earth, as petroleum, naphtha, &c.; MINERAL SALT, a salt of a
mineral acid; MINERAL WATER, the water of certain springs having the taste
of various kinds of minerals, and used as medicines. [Fr.,--_miner_, to
mine--Low L. _min[=a]re;_ cf. _Mine._]

MINERVA, mi-n[.e]r'va, _n._ the Roman goddess of wisdom, of the arts and
sciences, and of war--identified with the Greek Athena.--MINERVA PRESS, a
printing-office in Leadenhall Street, London, whence were issued about the
close of the 18th century a long series of highly sentimental novels. [L.,
prob. from root of _mens_, _mentis_, the mind.]

MINEVER, min'e-v[.e]r, _n._ Same as MINIVER.

MING, ming, _v.t._ to mix:--old _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ meint, ment. [A.S.
_mengan;_ Ger. _mengen_.]

MINGLE, ming'gl, _v.t._ to mix: to unite into one mass: to confuse: to join
in mutual intercourse.--_v.i._ to become mixed or confused.--_n._ a
medley.--_n._ MING'LE-MANG'LE, a medley, jumble.--_v.t._ to confuse, jumble
together.--_ns._ MING'LEMENT; MING'LER; MING'LING, mixture: a mixing or
blending together.--_adv._ MING'LINGLY. [Freq. of _ming_.]

MINIATURE, min'i-a-t[=u]r, or min'i-t[=u]r, _n._ a painting on a very small
scale, on ivory, vellum, or thick paper: a small or reduced copy of
anything.--_adj._ on a small scale: minute.--_v.t._ to represent on a small
scale.--_n._ MIN'IATURIST, one who paints miniatures. [It.
_miniatura_--_miniare_, to write with red lead--L. _minium_, vermilion.]

MINIBUS, min'i-bus, _n._ a small four-wheeled carriage.

MINIÉ RIFLE. See Rifle.

MINIFY, min'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to make little or less: to depreciate.

MINIKIN, min'i-kin, _n._ a little darling: a small sort of pin: the treble
string of a lute.--_adj._ small. [Old Dut., dim. of _minne_, love, cog.
with Old High Ger. _minna_, memory, love.]

MINIM, min'im, _n._ (_med._) the smallest liquid measure, a drop, 1/60
drachm: (_mus._) a note (formerly the shortest) equal to two crotchets:
(_Milt._) a diminutive creature: one of an austere order of mendicant
friars founded about the middle of the 15th century by St Francis of Paola
in Calabria (1416-1507)--called Minims (L. _minimi_, the least) to humble
them even below the Franciscans (_Friars minor_).--_adj._ MIN'IMAL.--_v.t._
MIN'IMISE, to reduce to the smallest possible proportions: to treat
slightingly.--_ns._ MINIM'ITUDE, MINIMIS[=A]'TION; MIN'IMUM, the least
quantity or degree possible--opp. of _Maximum_: a trifle:--_pl._ MIN'IMA;
MIN'IMUS (_Shak._), a being of the smallest size.--MINIMUM and MAXIMUM
THERMOMETER (see THERMOMETER). [Fr. _minime_--L. _minimus_, _minima_, the
smallest.]

MINIMENT, min'i-ment, _n._ obsolete form of _muniment_.

MINING, m[=i]'ning, _n._ the art of forming or of working mines: the work
of a miner.--_adj._ of or pertaining to mines: of burrowing habits.

MINION, min'yun, _n._ a darling, a favourite, esp. of a prince: a
flatterer: a fawning favourite: (_print._) a small kind of type, about 10½
lines to the inch, between nonpareil and brevier. [Fr. _mignon_, a
darling--Old High Ger. _minna_, _minne_, love.]

MINISH, min'ish, _v.t._ (_B._) to make little or less: to diminish. [Fr.
_menuiser_, to cut small, said of a carpenter--L. _minutia_, smallness.]

MINISTER, min'is-t[.e]r, _n._ a servant: one who serves at the altar: a
clergyman: one transacting business for another: the responsible head of a
department of state affairs: the representative of a government at a
foreign court.--_v.i._ to act as a servant: to perform duties: to supply or
do things needful.--_v.t._ to furnish:--_pr.p._ min'istering; _pa.p._
min'istered.--_adj._ MINIST[=E]'RIAL, pertaining to the work of a servant:
acting under superior authority: pertaining to the office of a minister:
clerical: executive.--_n._ MINIST[=E]'RIALIST, one who supports ministers
or the government in office.--_adv._ MINIST[=E]'RIALLY.--_adj._
MIN'ISTERING, attending and serving.--_n._ MINIST[=E]'RIUM, the body of the
ordained ministers in a district.--_adj._ MIN'ISTRANT, administering:
attendant.--_n._ MINISTR[=A]'TION, the act of ministering or performing
service: office or service of a minister.--_adj._ MIN'ISTR[=A]TIVE, serving
to aid or assist: ministering.--_ns._ MIN'ISTRESS, a female minister;
MIN'ISTRY, act of ministering: service: office or duties of a minister: the
clergy: the clerical profession: the body of ministers who manage the
business of the country. [L.,--_minor_, less.]

MINIUM, min'i-um, _n._ red oxide of lead.--_adj._ MIN'IATE, minium
coloured.--_v.t._ to paint with minium. [Fr.,--L., _minium_, red lead.]

MINIVER, min'i-v[.e]r, _n._ a mixed or variegated fur. [O. Fr. _menu
ver_--_menu_, small--L. _minutus_, _vair_, fur--L. _varius_, changing,
mottled.]

MINK, mingk, _n._ a small quadruped of the weasel kind, valued for its fur.
[Perh. from Sw. _mänk_.]

MINNESINGER, min'e-sing'[.e]r, _n._ one of a school of German amatory lyric
poets in the 12th and 13th centuries, mostly of noble birth. [Ger. _minne_,
love, _singer_, singer.]

MINNIE, min'i, _n._ (_Scot._) mother. [Dim. of _min_.]

MINNOW, min'[=o], _n._ a very small fresh-water fish of the same genus as
the roach, chub, &c.: the young of larger fish. [A.S. _myne_, prob. _min_,
less.]

MINO, m[=e]'n[=o], _n._ a Japanese rain-coat of hemp, &c.

MINOR, m[=i]'nor, _adj._ smaller: less: inferior in importance, degree,
bulk, &c.: inconsiderable: lower: (_mus._) smaller by a semitone.--_n._ a
person under age (21 years): (_logic_) the term of a syllogism which forms
the subject of the conclusion.--_n._ M[=I]'NORITE, a Franciscan
friar.--_adj._ belonging to the Franciscans.--_n._ MINOR'ITY, the state of
being under age (also M[=I]'NORSHIP): the smaller of two parts of a number:
a number less than half:--opp. to _Majority_.--MINOR CANON, a canon of
inferior grade who assists in performing the daily choral service in a
cathedral; MINOR MODE or SCALE, the mode or scale in music which has the
third note only three semitones above the key; MINOR PREMISE, the premise
which contains the minor term; MINOR PROPHETS, the name given to the twelve
prophets from Hosea to Malachi inclusive. [L., neut. _minus_.]

MINOTAUR, min'o-tawr, _n._ the bull of Minos, a fabulous monster, half-man,
half-bull. [L.,--Gr., prob. from _Minos_, king of Crete, _taurus_, a bull.]

MINSTER, min'st[.e]r, _n._ the church of an abbey or priory, but often
applied to a cathedral church without any monastic connection. [A.S.
_mynster_--L. _monasterium_, a monastery.]

MINSTREL, min'strel, _n._ one of an order of men who sang to the harp
verses composed by themselves or others: a musician: one of a class of
performers, with blackened faces, of negro songs.--_n._ MIN'STRELSY, the
art or occupation of a minstrel: a company or body of minstrels: a
collection of songs: (_Chaucer_) instrumental music. [O. Fr.
_menestrel_--Low L. _ministralis_--L. _minister_.]

MINT, mint, _n._ the place where money is coined by government: a place
where anything is invented or made: any source of abundant supply.--_v.t._
to coin: to invent.--_ns._ MINT'AGE, the money which is minted or coined:
the duty paid for coining; MINT'ER, one who mints or coins: an inventor;
MINT'-MAN, one skilled in coining or coinage; MINT'-MARK, a private mark
put by the mint on coins for purposes of identification; MINT'-MAS'TER, the
master of a mint: one who invents. [A.S. _mynet_, money--L. _mon[=e]ta_, a
surname of Juno--_mon[=e]re_ to remind.]

MINT, mint, _n._ an aromatic plant producing a highly odoriferous
oil.--_ns._ MINT'-JU'LEP, a spirituous drink flavoured with mint, and
sucked through a straw or small tube; MINT'-SAUCE, chopped mint mixed with
vinegar and sugar, used as a sauce for roast lamb. [A.S. _minte_--L.
_mentha_--Gr. _mintha_.]

MINT, mint, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to purpose, try: to hint. [A.S. _myntan_, to
mean--_munan_, to think.]

MINUEND, min'[=u]-end, _n._ the number from which another is to be
subtracted. [L. _minuendum_--_minu[)e]re_, to lessen.]

MINUET, min'[=u]-et, _n._ a slow, graceful dance in triple measure,
invented in Poitou about the middle of the 17th century: the music for such
a dance. [Fr. _menuet_--_menu_, small--L. _minutus_, small.]

MINUS, m[=i]'nus, _adj._ less: less than nothing or less than zero:
deficient in respect of, deprived of, without.--_n._ an amount less than
nothing: the sign (-) before quantities requiring to be subtracted.--_n._
MINUS'C[=U]LE, a semi-uncial cursive script, originated by the monks in the
7th-9th centuries: any small or lower-case letter as distinguished from a
capital or _Majuscule_.--_adj._ small, of a letter: written in minuscule.
[L., neuter of _minor_, less.]

MINUTE, min-[=u]t', _adj._ very small or slender: of small consequence:
slight: attentive to small things: particular, exact.--_adv._
MINUTE'LY.--_n._ MINUTE'NESS. [L. _min[=u]tus_, pa.p. of _minu[)e]re_, to
lessen.]

MINUTE, min'it, _n._ the sixtieth part of an hour: the sixtieth part of a
degree: an indefinitely small space of time: a brief jotting or note:
(_pl._) a brief summary of the proceedings of a meeting.--_v.t._ to make a
brief jotting or note of anything.--_adj._ (_Shak._) happening every
minute.--_ns._ MIN'UTE-BELL, a bell sounded at regular intervals of one
minute, in morning; MIN'UTE-BOOK, a book containing minutes or short notes;
MIN'UTE-GLASS, a glass the sand of which measures a minute in running out;
MIN'UTE-GUN, a gun discharged every minute, as a signal of distress or
mourning; MIN'UTE-HAND, the hand that indicates the minutes on a clock or
watch; MIN'UTE-JACK (_Shak._), a little figure that strikes the bell of the
clock: a flighty, unstable person; MIN'UTE-MAN, a man ready to turn out at
a minute's warning--the name taken by a body of militia in the American war
of independence; MIN'UTE-WATCH, a watch that marks minutes; MIN'UTE-WHILE
(_Shak._), a minute's time. [Same word as above.]

MINUTIÆ, mi-n[=u]'shi-[=e], _n.pl._ minute or small things: the smallest
particulars or details.--_adj._ MIN[=U]'TI[=O]SE. [L., pl. of _minutia_,
smallness.]

MINX, mingks, _n._ a pert young girl: a jade: a she-puppy. [Contr. of
_minikin_, with added _s_.]

MIOCENE, m[=i]'o-s[=e]n, _adj._ (_geol._) less recent, applied by Lyell to
the middle division of the Tertiary strata. [Gr. _mei[=o]n_, less,
_kainos_, recent.]

MIOSIS, m[=i]-[=o]'sis, _n._ diminution: litotes. [Gr.]

MIR, m[=e]r, _n._ a Russian commune or local community holding land which
is redistributed from time to time. [Russ. _mir[)u]_, union.]

MIRABLE, m[=i]r'a-bl, _adj._ (_Shak._) wonderful.

MIRACLE, mir'a-kl, _n._ anything wonderful: a prodigy: anything beyond
human power, and away from the common action of the laws of nature: a
supernatural _event._--_ns._ MIR'ACLE-MONG'ER, one who pretends to work
miracles; MIR'ACLE-PLAY, a medieval form of drama founded on Old or New
Testament history, or the legends of the saints.--_adj._ MIRAC'ULOUS, of
the nature of a miracle: done by supernatural power: very wonderful: able
to perform miracles.--_adv._ MIRAC'ULOUSLY.--_n._ MIRAC'ULOUSNESS.
[Fr.,--L. _miraculum_--_mir[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to wonder.]

MIRADOR, mir-a-d[=o]r', _n._ a belvedere or gallery. [Sp.]

MIRAGE, mi-räzh', _n._ an optical illusion by which objects are seen
double, or as if suspended in the air. [Fr.--_mirer_--L. _mir[=a]ri_.]

MIRBANE, m[.e]r'b[=a]n, _n._ nitro-benzol. [See NITRE.]

MIRE, m[=i]r, _n._ deep mud.--_v.t._ to plunge and fix in mire: to soil
with mud.--_v.i._ to sink in mud.--_n._ M[=I]'RINESS.--_adj._ M[=I]'RY,
consisting of mire: covered with mire. [Ice. _mýri_, marsh.]

MIRK, m[.e]rk, _adj._ dark.--_adj._ MIRK'SOME, murky.

MIRROR, mir'ur, _n._ a looking-glass: a reflecting surface, usually made of
glass lined at the back with a brilliant metal: a pattern.--_v.t._ to
reflect as in a mirror:--_pr.p._ mirr'oring; _pa.p._ mirr'ored.--_n._
MAG'IC-MIRR'OR, a mirror in which, by means of divination, a person sees
scenes in his future life: a Japanese convex mirror, engraved on the back,
by which bright light reflected from the polished surface on to a screen
gives bright-lined images corresponding to the figures on the back. [O. Fr.
_mireor_, _miroir_--L. _mir[=a]ri_, _-[=a]tus_, to wonder at.]

MIRTH, m[.e]rth, _n._ merriness: pleasure: delight: noisy gaiety: jollity:
laughter.--_adj._ MIRTH'FUL, full of mirth: causing mirth: merry:
jovial.--_adv._ MIRTH'FULLY.--_n._ MIRTH'FULNESS.--_adj._ MIRTH'LESS,
joyless: cheerless.--_n._ MIRTH'LESSNESS, absence of mirth. [A.S.
_myrgð_--_merg_, merry.]

MIRZA, mir'za, _n._ a Persian title, equivalent to 'Prince' when following
the surname--a common title of respect, like 'Mr,' when preceding it.

MISACCEPTATION, mis-ak-sep-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the act of accepting or
understanding in a wrong sense.

MISADVENTURE, mis-ad-vent'[=u]r, _n._ an unfortunate adventure: ill-luck:
disaster.--_adjs._ MISADVENT'URED (_Shak._), unfortunate; MISADVENT'UROUS.

MISADVERTENCE, mis-ad-vert'ens, _n._ want of proper care or attention:
inadvertence.

MISADVISE, mis-ad-v[=i]z', _v.t._ to give bad advice to: to
deceive.--_adj._ MISADVISED', ill-advised, ill-directed.--_adv._
MISADV[=I]'SEDLY.--_n._ MISADV[=I]'SEDNESS.

MISAIMED, mis-[=a]md', _adj._ not rightly aimed.

MISALLEGE, mis-al-lej', _v.t._ to allege wrongly.

MISALLIANCE, mis-al-l[=i]'ans, _n._ a bad alliance, esp. marriage with one
of a lower rank--the Fr. _Mésalliance_.--_adj._ MISALLIED'.

MISALLOTMENT, mis-al-lot'ment, _n._ a wrong allotment.

MISANTHROPE, mis'an-thr[=o]p, _n._ a hater of mankind: one who distrusts
every one else--also MISAN'THROPIST.--_adjs._ MISANTHROP'IC, -AL, hating or
distrusting mankind.--_adv._ MISANTHROP'ICALLY.--_ns._ MISAN'THROPOS
(_Shak._), a misanthrope; MISAN'THROPY, hatred or distrust of mankind.
[Fr.,--Gr. _misanthr[=o]pos_--_misein_, to hate, _anthr[=o]pos_, a man.]

MISAPPLY, mis-ap-pl[=i]', _v.t._ to apply wrongly: to use for a wrong
purpose.--_n._ MISAPPLIC[=A]'TION.

MISAPPRECIATED, mis-ap-pr[=e]'shi-[=a]t-ed, _adj._ not rightly or fully
appreciated.--_n._ MISAPPRECI[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MISAPPR[=E]'CI[=A]TIVE.

MISAPPREHEND, mis-ap-pre-hend', _v.t._ to apprehend wrongly: to take or
understand in a wrong sense.--_n._ MISAPPREHEN'SION.--_adv._
MISAPPREHEN'SIVELY, by or with misapprehension or mistake.

MISAPPROPRIATE, mis-ap-pr[=o]'pri-[=a]t, _v.t._ to put to a wrong
use.--_n._ MISAPPROPRI[=A]'TION.

MISARRANGE, mis-ar-r[=a]nj', _v.t._ to arrange wrongly: to put in wrong
order.--_n._ MISARRANGE'MENT.

MISARRAY, mis-ar-r[=a]', _n._ want of proper order.

MISASSIGN, mis-as-s[=i]n', _v.t._ to assign wrongly.

MISBECOME, mis-be-kum', _v.t._ not to suit or befit: to be
unfitting.--_adj._ MISBECOM'ING, unbecoming.--_n._ an impropriety.--_n._
MISBECOM'INGNESS.

MISBEGOT, MISBEGOTTEN, mis-be-got', -got'n, _p.adj._ (_Shak._) unlawfully
begotten: shapeless.

MISBEHAVE, mis-be-h[=a]v', _v.i._ to behave ill or improperly.--_adj._
MISBEHAVED' (_Shak._), badly behaved: ill-bred.--_n._ MISBEHAV'IOUR.

MISBELIEVE, mis-be-l[=e]v', _v.t._ to believe wrongly or falsely.--_ns._
MISBELIEF', belief in false doctrine; MISBELIEV'ER.--_adj._ MISBELIEV'ING.

MISBESEEM, mis-be-s[=e]m', _v.t._ to suit ill.

MISBESTOW, mis-be-st[=o]', _v.t._ to bestow improperly, or on the wrong
person.--_n._ MISBESTOW'AL.

MISBORN, mis'bawrn, _adj._ (_Spens._) born to evil or misfortune--_n._
MISBIRTH', an abortion.

MISCALCULATE, mis-kal'k[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to calculate wrongly.--_n._
MISCALCUL[=A]'TION.

MISCALL, mis-kawl', _v.t._ to call by a wrong name: to abuse or revile.

MISCARRIAGE, mis-kar'ij, _n._ the act of miscarrying: failure: ill-conduct:
the act of bringing forth young prematurely.--_v.i._ MISCARR'Y, to be
unsuccessful: to fail of the intended effect: to bring forth, as young,
before the proper time.

MISCAST, mis-kast', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to cast erroneously.

MISCEGENATION, mis-s[=e]-jen-[=a]'shun, _n._ a mixture of races. [L.
_misc[=e]re_, to mix, _genus_, race.]

MISCELLANEOUS, mis-sel-l[=a]n'i-us, _adj._ mixed or mingled: consisting of
several kinds.--_adj._ MISCELLAN[=A]'RIAN.--_n._ a writer of
miscellanies.--_adv._ MISCELLAN'EOUSLY.--_ns._ MISCELLAN'EOUSNESS;
MIS'CELL[=A]NIST, a writer of miscellanies; MIS'CELLANY, a mixture of
various kinds: a collection of writings on different subjects--also _n.pl._
MISCELL[=A]'NEA. [L. _miscellaneus_--_misc[=e]re_, to mix.]

MISCHALLENGE, mis-chal'enj, _n._ a false challenge.

MISCHANCE, mis-chans', _n._ ill-luck: mishap, misfortune: calamity.--_v.i._
to chance wrongly, come to ill-luck.--_adj._ MISCHAN'CY (_Scot._), unlucky.

MISCHARGE, mis-chärj', _v.t._ to charge wrongly: to make an error in an
account.--_n._ a mistake in charging, as in an account.

MISCHIEF, mis'chif, _n._ an ill consequence: evil: injury: damage, hurt:
(_coll._) the devil, as in 'What the mischief,' &c.--_n._ MIS'CHIEF-MAK'ER,
one who incites to mischief.--_adjs._ MIS'CHIEF-MAK'ING, causing mischief;
MIS'CHIEVOUS, causing mischief: injurious: prone to mischief.--_adv._
MIS'CHIEVOUSLY.--_n._ MIS'CHIEVOUSNESS.--PLAY THE MISCHIEF WITH, to disturb
anything greatly. [O. Fr. _meschef_, from _mes-_, ill, _chef_--L. _caput_,
the head.]

MISCIBLE, mis'si-bl, _adj._ that may be mixed.--_n._ MISCIBIL'ITY.
[Fr.,--L. _misc[=e]re_, to mix.]

MISCOLLOCATION, mis-kol-lo-k[=a]'shun, _n._ wrong collocation.

MISCOLOUR, mis-kul'ur, _v.t._ to misrepresent.

MISCOMPREHEND, mis-kom-pre-hend', _v.t._ to misunderstand.--_n._
MISCOMPREHEN'SION.

MISCOMPUTATION, mis-kom-p[=u]-t[=a]'shun, _n._ wrong computation: false
reckoning.

MISCONCEIT, mis-kon-s[=e]t', _n._ (_Spens._) misconception.--_v.i._ to form
a wrong opinion about.

MISCONCEIVE, mis-kon-s[=e]v', _v.t._ to conceive wrongly: to
mistake.--_v.i._ to have a wrong conception of anything.--_n._
MISCONCEP'TION.

MISCONDUCT, mis-kon'dukt, _n._ bad conduct: wrong management.--_v.t._
MISCONDUCT', to conduct badly.

MISCONJECTURE, mis-kon-jek't[=u]r, _n._ a wrong conjecture or
guess.--_v.t._ or _v.i._ to guess or conjecture wrongly.

MISCONSTRUCT, mis-kon-strukt', _v.t._ to construct wrongly: to construe or
interpret erroneously.--_n._ MISCONSTRUC'TION, a mistaking of the true
meaning.

MISCONSTRUE, mis-kon'str[=oo], _v.t._ to construe or to interpret wrongly.

MISCONTENT, mis-kon-tent', _adj._ not content--also MISCONTENT'ED.--_n._
MISCONTENT'MENT.

MISCOPY, mis-kop'i, _v.t._ to copy wrongly or imperfectly.--_n._ an error
in copying.

MISCOUNSEL, mis-kown'sel, _v.t._ (_Spens._) to counsel or advise wrongly.

MISCOUNT, mis-kownt', _v.t._ to count wrongly: to misjudge.--_n._ a wrong
counting.

MISCREANT, mis'kr[=e]-ant, _n._ a vile wretch, a detestable scoundrel: a
misbeliever, an infidel.--_adj._ unbelieving.--_n._ MIS'CREANCE (_Spens._),
unbelief, belief in a false religion. [O. Fr. _mescreant_--_mes-_, L.
_credens_, _-entis_, pr.p. of _cred[)e]re_, to believe.]

MISCREATE, -D, mis-kr[=e]-[=a]t', -ed, _adj._ wrongly created: deformed:
(_Shak._) illegitimate.--_n._ MISCRE[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MISCRE[=A]'TIVE,
inclining towards wrong creation.

MISCREDIT, mis-kr[=e]d'it, _v.t._ to disbelieve.

MISCREED, mis-kr[=e]d', _n._ a false creed.

MISCUE, mis-k[=u]', _n._ at billiards, a stroke spoiled by the slipping off
of the cue.

MISDATE, mis-d[=a]t', _n._ a wrong date.--_v.t._ to date wrongly or
erroneously.

MISDEAL, mis-d[=e]l', _n._ a wrong deal, as at cards.--_v.t._ to deal
wrongly: to divide improperly.--_v.i._ to make a wrong distribution.

MISDECISION, mis-de-sizh'un, _n._ act of deciding wrongly: a wrong
decision.

MISDEED, mis-d[=e]d', _n._ a bad deed: fault: crime.

MISDEEM, mis-d[=e]m', _v.t._ to deem or think wrongly: to make a mistake in
judging.

MISDEMEAN, mis-de-m[=e]n', _v.t._ to behave ill (with one's self).--_v.i._
to misbehave.--_ns._ MISDEMEAN'ANT, one who commits a misdemeanour or petty
crime; MISDEMEAN'OUR, bad conduct: a legal offence of less gravity than a
felony.

MISDESCRIBE, mis-des-kr[=i]b', _v.t._ to describe falsely.--_n._
MISDESCRIP'TION.

MISDESERT, mis-de-z[.e]rt', _n._ (_Spens._) ill-desert.

MISDEVOTION, mis-de-v[=o]'shun, _n._ ill-directed devotion.

MISDIET, mis-d[=i]'et, _n._ (_Spens._) improper diet or food.

MISDIGHT, mis-d[=i]t, _adj._ (_Spens._) badly dressed.

MISDIRECT, mis-di-rekt', _v.t._ to direct wrongly.--_n._ MISDIREC'TION, act
of directing wrongly, or state of being wrongly directed.

MISDISTINGUISH, mis-dis-ting'gwish, _v.t._ to make wrong distinctions
concerning.

MISDIVIDE, mis-di-v[=i]d', _v.t._ to divide wrongly.--_n._ MISDIVI'SION,
wrong or unfair division.

MISDO, mis-d[=oo]', _v.t._ to do wrongly.--_v.i._ to act amiss, err--_ns._
MISDO'ER; MISDO'ING.

MISDOUBT, mis-dowt', _v.t._ to have a doubt or suspicion regarding: to
suspect.--_n._ suspicion: hesitation.--_adj._ MISDOUBT'FUL (_Spens._),
misgiving.

MISDRAW, mis-draw', _v.t._ to draw or draft badly.--_v.i._ to fall
apart.--_n._ MISDRAW'ING.

MISDREAD, mis-dred', _n._ (_Shak._) dread of evil to come.--_v.t._ to
regard with dread.

MISE, m[=i]z, _n._ expenditure, outlay: a gift of money to a superior,
prince, &c.: in a writ of right, a traverse by which both parties put the
cause directly upon the question as to which had the better right: the
adjustment of a dispute by arbitration and compromise, as the 'Mise of
Lewes' in 1264. [Fr.,--L. _mitt[)e]re_, _missum_.]

MISEDUCATION, mis-ed-[=u]-k[=a]'shun, _n._ improper or imperfect education.

MISEMPLOY, mis-em-ploi', _v.t._ to employ wrongly or amiss: to
misuse.--_n._ MISEMPLOY'MENT, ill-employment: improper application: misuse.

MISENTRY, mis-en'tri, _n._ a wrong entry, as in an account.--_v.t._
MISEN'TER, to make such.

MISER, m[=i]'z[.e]r, _n._ a miserable person: an extremely covetous person:
a niggard: one whose chief pleasure is in hoarding wealth.--_adj._ like a
miser.--_adj._ M[=I]'SERLY, excessively covetous: sordid: niggardly. [L.
_miser_, wretched.]

MISER, m[=i]z'[.e]r, _n._ a tubular well boring-bit, with valved opening
for the earth passing up.

MISERABLE, miz'[.e]r-a-bl, _adj._ wretched, exceedingly unhappy: causing
misery: very poor or mean: worthless: despicable: barren.--_n._
MIS'ERABLENESS.--_adv._ MIS'ERABLY. [Fr.,--L. _miserabilis_--_miser_.]

MISEREATUR, miz-[.e]r-[=e]-[=a]'tur, _n._ the first part of the absolution
service in the R.C. liturgy, beginning 'Misereatur vestri omnipotens Deus.'

[Illustration]

MISERERE, miz-e-r[=e]'re, _n._ the name by which in Catholic usage the
penitential 50th Psalm of the Vulgate (51st in A.V.) is commonly known,
from its commencement, 'Miserere mei, Domine:' a musical composition
adapted to this psalm: a hinged folding-seat in a church stall, which, when
turned up, shows a bracket on which a person who is standing can lean. [L.,
2d pers. sing, imperf. of _miser[=e]ri_, to have mercy, to pity--_miser_,
wretched.]

MISERICORDE, miz-e-ri-kord', _n._ mercy, forgiveness, pity: a folding-seat:
a narrow-bladed dagger for putting a wounded foe out of pain by the
_coup-de-grâce_. [Fr.,--L.,--_misericors_, _-dis_, tender-hearted.]

MISERY, miz'[.e]r-i, _n._ wretchedness: great unhappiness: extreme pain of
body or of mind: a cause of pain or sorrow: (_Shak._) avarice. [O. Fr.,--L.
_miseria_.]

MISESTEEM, mis-es-t[=e]m', _n._ want of esteem: disregard:
disrespect.--_v.t._ MISES'TIM[=A]TE, to estimate wrongly.

MISEXPRESSION, mis-eks-presh'un, _n._ a wrong expression.

MISFAITH, mis'f[=a]th, _n._ (_Tenn._) distrust.

MISFALL, mis'-fawl', _v.t._ (_obs._) to befall unluckily.

MISFARE, mis-f[=a]r', _n._ (_Spens._) ill fare: misfortune.--_v.i._ to fare
or succeed ill.

MISFEASANCE, mis-f[=e]z'ans, _n._ (_law_) a wrong done, as distinguished
from _Nonfeasance_, which means a mere omission: the doing of a lawful act
in a wrongful manner, as distinguished from _Malfeasance_, which means the
doing of an act which is positively unlawful.--_ns._ MISFEAS'ANT,
MISFEAS'OR, one who commits a misfeasance. [O. Fr., _mes-_, wrong,
_faisance_--_faire_--L. _fac[)e]re_, to do.]

MISFEIGN, mis-f[=a]n', _v.i._ to feign with bad design.

MISFIT, mis-fit', _n._ a bad fit, of clothes, &c.--_v.t._ to make of a
wrong size: to supply with something that does not fit.

MISFORM, mis-form', _v.t._ to form or shape badly or improperly.--_n._
MISFORM[=A]'TION.

MISFORTUNE, mis-for't[=u]n, _n._ ill-fortune: an evil accident: calamity:
(_coll._) a euphemism for a lapse from virtue resulting in the birth of a
natural child.--_adj._ MISFOR'TUNED. (_Milt._), unfortunate.

MISGET, mis-get', _v.t._ (_Spens._) to procure unlawfully.--_adj._
MISGOT'TEN, wrongly obtained.

MISGIVE, mis-giv', _v.t._ to fill with doubt: to destroy
confidence.--_v.i._ to fail, as the heart: to give way to doubt.--_n._
MISGIV'ING, mistrust.

MISGO, mis-g[=o]', _v.i._ to go astray or amiss.

MISGOVERN, mis-guv'[.e]rn, _v.t._ to govern badly: to use power
unjustly.--_ns._ MISGOV'ERNANCE (_Spens._), ill government: irregularity;
MISGOV'ERNMENT.

MISGRAFF, mis-graf', MISGRAFT, mis-graft', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to graft
wrongly or on a wrong stock.

MISGROWTH, mis-gr[=o]th', _n._ an irregular growth, an excrescence.

MISGUIDE, mis-g[=i]d', _v.t._ to guide wrongly: to lead into error.--_ns._
MISGUID'ANCE, MISGUIDE' (_obs._).

MISHALLOWED, mis-hal'[=o]d, _adj._ devoted to evil ends.

MISHANDLE, mis-han'dl, _v.t._ to maltreat.

MISHANTER, MISCHANTER, mi-shan't[.e]r, _n._ (_Scot._) an unlucky chance,
misfortune.

MISHAP, mis-hap', _n._ ill chance: accident: misfortune.--_v.i._ MISHAP'PEN
(_Spens._), to happen ill.

MISHEAR, mis-h[=e]r', _v.t._ to hear incorrectly.--_v.i._ to mistake in
hearing.

MISHMASH, mish'mash, _n._ a hotch-potch, medley.

MISHMEE, mish'm[=e], _n._ the bitter tonic root of a Chinese species of
gold-thread.

MISHNAH, MISHNA, mish'na, _n._ a great collection of _halachoth_,
comprising the body of the 'Oral Law,' or the juridico-political, civil,
and religious code of the Jews; it forms one of the divisions of the
Talmud--the 'Gemara,' or commentary on the Mishna, being the other; and it
was finally redacted at Tiberias in 220 A.D.:--_pl._ MISH'NOTH.--_adjs._
MISHN[=A]'IC, MISH'NIC. [Heb.,--_sh[=a]n[=a]h_, to repeat.]

MISIMPROVE, mis-im-pr[=oo]v', _v.t._ to apply to a bad purpose: to
misuse.--_n._ MISIMPROVE'MENT.

MISINCLINE, mis-in-kl[=i]n', _v.t._ to cause to incline wrongly.

MISINFER, mis-in-f[.e]r', _v.t._ to infer wrongly.--_v.i._ to draw a wrong
inference.

MISINFORM, mis-in-form', _v.t._ to tell incorrectly.--_ns._ MISINFORM'ANT;
MISINFORM[=A]'TION; MISINFORM'ER.

MISINSTRUCT, mis-in'strukt', _v.t._ to instruct improperly.--_n._
MISINSTRUC'TION, wrong instruction.

MISINTELLIGENCE, mis-in-tel'e-jens, _n._ wrong or false information.

MISINTEND, mis-in-tend', _v.t._ to misdirect.

MISINTERPRET, mis-in-t[.e]r'pret, _v.t._ to interpret wrongly: to explain
wrongly.--_ns._ MISINTERPRET[=A]'TION; MISINTER'PRETER.

MISJOIN, mis-join', _v.t._ to join improperly or unfitly.--_n._ MISJOIN'DER
(_law_), an incorrect union of parties or of causes of actions in a suit.

MISJUDGE, mis-juj', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to judge wrongly.--_n._ MISJUDG'MENT.

MISKEN, mis-ken', _v.t._ (_Scot._) to be, or to appear, ignorant of.

MISKNOW, mis-n[=o]', _v.t._ to misapprehend.--_n._ MISKNOWL'EDGE.

MISLABEL, mis-l[=a]'bel, _v.t._ to mark with a wrong descriptive label, &c.

MISLAY, mis-l[=a]', _v.t._ to lay in a wrong place or in one not
remembered: to lose:--_pa.p._ mislaid'.

MISLE, miz'l. See MIZZLE.

MISLEAD, mis-l[=e]d', _v.t._ to guide into error: to cause to
mistake:--_pa.p._ misled'.--_n._ MISLEAD'ER.--_adj._ MISLEAD'ING,
deceptive.--_adv._ MISLEAD'INGLY.

MISLEARED, mis-l[=e]rd', _adj._ (_Scot._) mistaught: wrongly informed,
imposed upon.

MISLETOE. See MISTLETOE.

MISLIGHT, mis-l[=i]t', _v.t._ to lead astray by a light.

MISLIKE, mis-l[=i]k', _v.t._ to dislike: to disapprove of.--_n._ dislike:
disapprobation.--_n._ MISLIKE'NESS, a misleading resemblance.

MISLIPPEN, mis-lip'n, _v.t._ (_Scot._) to disappoint, deceive: to neglect
to pay attention to anything.

MISLIVE, mis-liv', _v.i._ to live a bad life.

MISLUCK, mis-luk', _v.i._ to meet with bad luck, to fail.--_n._ ill-luck.

MISMANAGE, mis-man'[=a]j, _v.t._ to conduct badly: to conduct
carelessly.--_n._ MISMAN'AGEMENT.

MISMANNERS, mis-man'[.e]rz, _n.pl._ bad manners.

MISMATCH, mis-mach', _v.t._ to match unsuitably.--_n._ MISMATCH'MENT.

MISMATED, mis-m[=a]t'ed, _adj._ (_Tenn._) ill-matched.

MISMEASURE, mis-mezh'[=u]r, _v.t._ to measure wrongly.--_n._
MISMEAS'UREMENT.

MISNAME, mis-n[=a]m', _v.t._ to call by the wrong name.

MISNOMER, misn[=o]'m[.e]r, _n._ a misnaming: a wrong name. [O. Fr., from
Fr. _mes-_ and _nommer_--L. _nomin[=a]re_, to name.]

MISOBSERVE, mis-ob-z[.e]rv', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to observe incorrectly.

MISOCAPNIC, mis-o-kap'nik, _adj._ hating smoke, esp. that of tobacco.

MISOCLERE, mis'o-kl[=e]r, _adj._ (_Fuller_) hating the clergy. [Gr.
_misein_, to hate, _kl[=e]ros_, clergy.]

MISOGAMIST, mis-og'a-mist, _n._ a hater of marriage.--_n._ MISOG'AMY. [Gr.
_misein_, to hate, _gamos_, marriage.]

MISOGYNIST, mis-oj'i-nist, _n._ a woman-hater.--_adjs._ MISOGYNIST'ICAL,
MISOG'YNOUS.--_n._ MISOG'YNY. [Gr. _misein_, to hate, _gyn[=e]_, a woman.]

MISOLOGY, mi-sol'o-ji, _n._ hatred of reason.--_n._ MISOL'OGIST. [Gr.,
_misein_, to hate, _logos_, reason.]

MISOTHEISM, mis'o-th[=e]-izm, _n._ hatred of God. [Gr. _misein_, to hate,
_theos_, God.]

MISPAINT, mis-p[=a]nt', _v.t._ to paint in false colours.

MISPERSUASION, mis-p[.e]r-sw[=a]'zhun, _n._ a wrong persuasion or notion: a
false opinion.

MISPLACE, mis-pl[=a]s', _v.t._ to put in a wrong place: to set on an
improper object.--_n._ MISPLACE'MENT.

MISPLAY, mis-pl[=a]', _n._ a wrong play.

MISPLEAD, mis-pl[=e]d', _v.i._ to plead wrongly.--_n._ MISPLEAD'ING, an
error in pleading.

MISPLEASE, mis-pl[=e]z', _v.t._ to displease.

MISPOINT, mis-point', _v.t._ to punctuate wrongly.

MISPOLICY, mis-pol'i-si, _n._ bad policy.

MISPRACTICE, mis-prak'tis, _n._ misconduct.

MISPRAISE, mis-pr[=a]z', _v.t._ to praise falsely.

MISPRINT, mis-print', _v.t._ to print wrong.--_n._ a mistake in printing.

MISPRISE, mis-pr[=i]z', _v.t._ to slight, undervalue. [O. Fr
_mespriser_--pfx. _mes-_, amiss, Low L. _preti[=a]re_--L. _pretium_,
price.]

MISPRISION, mis-prizh'un, _n._ mistake: (_law_) criminal oversight or
neglect in respect to the crime of another: any serious offence, failure of
duty--_positive_ or _negative_, according as it is maladministration or
mere neglect.--MISPRISION OF HERESY, TREASON, &c., knowledge of and failure
to give information about heresy, treason, &c. [O. Fr., _mes-_, ill, Low L.
_prension-em_--L. _prehend[)e]re_, to take.]

MISPRIZE, mis-pr[=i]z', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to mistake.

MISPRONOUNCE, mis-pro-nowns', _v.t._ to pronounce incorrectly.--_n._
MISPRONUNCI[=A]'TION, wrong or improper pronunciation.

MISPROUD, mis-prowd', _adj._ unduly proud.

MISPUNCTUATE, mis-pungk't[=u]-[=a]t, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to punctuate
wrongly.--_n._ MISPUNCTU[=A]'TION.

MISPURSUIT, mis-pur-s[=u]t', _n._ a mistaken pursuit.

MISQUALIFY, mis-kwol'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to characterise erroneously.

MISQUOTE, mis-kw[=o]t', _v.t._ to quote wrongly.--_n._ MISQUOT[=A]'TION, a
wrong quotation.

MISREAD, mis-r[=e]d', _v.t._ to read wrongly: to misinterpret.--_n._
MISREAD'ING, an erroneous reading.

MISRECKON, mis,-rek'n, _v.t._ to reckon or compute wrongly.--_n._
MISRECK'ONING.

MISREGARD, mis-re-gärd', _n._ (_Spens._) misconstruction.

MISRELATE, mis-re-l[=a]t', _v.t._ to relate incorrectly.--_n._
MISREL[=A]'TION.

MISREMEMBER, mis-re-mem'b[.e]r, _v.t._ to mistake in remembering.--_v.i._
to fail to remember correctly.

MISREPORT, mis-re-p[=o]rt', _v.t._ to give an incorrect report or account
of.--_n._ a false report.

MISREPRESENT, mis-rep-re-zent', _v.t._ to represent incorrectly: to act
unfaithfully on behalf of.--_v.i._ to give a false impression.--_n._
MISREPRESENT[=A]'TION.

MISRESEMBLANCE, mis-re-zem'blans, _n._ an imperfect resemblance.

MISRULE, mis-r[=oo]l', _n._ wrong or unjust rule: disorder: tumult.--_v.t._
and _v.i_. to govern badly.--ABBOT, or LORD, OF MISRULE, or UNREASON,
ancient titles for the leader of the Christmas revels.

MISS, mis, _n._ a title of address of an unmarried female: a young woman or
girl: (_obs._) a kept mistress:--_pl._ MISS'ES--either the 'Miss Hepburns'
or the 'Misses Hepburn' may be said, but the latter is preferable.--_n._
MISS'-NAN'CY, a very effeminate young man. [Contr. of _mistress_.]

MISS, mis, _v.t._ to fail to hit, reach, find, or keep: to omit: to fail to
have: to discover the absence of: to feel the want of: to fail to observe:
to leave out.--_v.i._ to fail to hit or obtain: to go wrong.--_n._ a
failure to hit the mark: loss.--MISS FIRE, to fail to go off or explode
from some cause; MISS ONE'S TIP (_slang_), to fail in one's plan or
attempt; MISS STAYS (_naut._), to fail in going about from one tack to
another. [A.S. _missan_; Dut. _missen_, to miss.]

MISSAL, mis'al, _n._ the book which contains the complete service for mass
throughout the year. [Low L. _missale_, from _missa_, mass.]

MISSAY, mis-s[=a]', _v.i._ to say or speak incorrectly or falsely.--_v.t._
to utter amiss: to slander.

MISSEE, mis-s[=e]', _v.t._ and _v.i._ to see falsely or erroneously, to
take a distorted view.

MISSEEM, mis-s[=e]m', _v.i._ (_Spens._) to seem or appear falsely, to
misbecome.--_p.adj._ MISSEEM'ING, unbecoming.--_n._ false appearance.

MISSEL, mis'l, _n._ the largest of the European thrushes--supposed to be
fond of the berries of the mistletoe.--Also MISS'EL-BIRD, MISS'EL-THRUSH.

MISSELTOE. See MISTLETOE.

MISSEL-TREE, mis'l-tr[=e], _n._ a tree of the Melastoma family in British
Guiana.

MISSET, mis-set', _v.t._ to set or place wrongly or unfitly.--_p.adj._
(_Scot._) out of humour.

MISSHAPE, mis-sh[=a]p', _v.t._ to shape ill: to deform.--_n._
deformity.--_p.adj._ MISSHAP'EN, ill-shaped.--_n._ MISSHAP'ENNESS.

MISSHEATHED, mis-sh[=e]thd', _adj._ (_Shak._) wrongly sheathed.

MISSILE, mis'il, _adj._ that may be thrown from the hand or from any
instrument.--_n._ a weapon thrown by the hand. [L.
_missilis_--_mitt[)e]re_, _missum_, to throw.]

MISSING, mis'ing, _adj._ absent from the place where it was expected to be
found: lost: wanting.--_adv._ MISS'INGLY (_Shak._), with a sense of
loss.--MISSING LINK (see LINK). [See MISS (_v._).]

MISSION, mish'un, _n._ a sending of any agent, delegate, or messenger: the
purpose for which one is sent: the sending out persons to spread a
religion: a series of special religious services conducted by a
_missioner_: any particular field of missionary enterprise: persons sent on
a mission: an embassy: a station or association of missionaries: duty on
which one is sent: purpose of life.--_v.t._ (_rare_) to commission.--_n._
MISS'IONARY, one sent upon a mission to spread the knowledge of
religion.--_adj._ pertaining to missions.--_ns._ MISS'IONARY-BISH'OP, one
having jurisdiction in a heathen country, or in districts not yet formed
into dioceses; MISS'IONER, one who conducts a series of special mission
services; MISS'ION-SCHOOL, a school for religious, and sometimes also
secular, instruction for the poor, kept up by charity: a school conducted
by a missionary abroad. [Fr.,--L. _mission-em_--_mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

MISSIS, mis'iz, _n._ a colloquial form of mistress: a wife.

MISSISH, mis'ish, _adj._ prim, affected.--_n._ MISS'ISHNESS.--_adj._
MISS'Y, namby-pamby, sentimental.--_n._ a diminutive of miss. [_Miss_.]

MISSIVE, mis'iv, _adj._ that may be sent: intended to be thrown or
hurled.--_n._ that which is sent, as a letter: (_Shak._) messenger: (_pl._,
_Scots law_) letters sent between two parties in which one makes an offer
and the other accepts it. [Fr.,--L. _missus_.]

MISSPEAK, mis-sp[=e]k', _v.t._ to utter wrongly.--_v.i._ to mistake or err
in speaking.

MISSPELL, mis-spel', _v.t._ to spell wrongly.--_n._ MISSPELL'ING, a wrong
spelling.

MISSPEND, mis-spend', _v.t._ to spend ill: to waste or squander:--_pa.t._
and _pa.p._ misspent'.

MISSTATE, mis-st[=a]t', _v.t._ to state wrongly or falsely.--_n._
MISSTATE'MENT.

MISSTEP, mis-step', _v.i._ to make a false step; to make a mistake.--_n._ a
mistake in conduct, &c.

MISSUIT, mis-s[=u]t', _v.t._ to be unbecoming to.

MISSUMMATION, mis-su-m[=a]'shun, _n._ wrong addition.

MISSY. See MISSISH.

MIST, mist, _n._ watery vapour seen in the atmosphere: rain in very fine
drops: anything that dims or darkens the sight or the judgment.--_n._
MIST'FLOW'ER, a North American plant of the Aster family, with clusters of
blue or violet flowers.--_adj._ MIST'FUL, misty.--_adv._ MIST'ILY.--_n._
MIST'INESS.--_adj._ MIST'Y, full of mist: dim: obscure, not
perspicuous.--SCOTCH MIST, a very wetting rain. [A.S. _mist_, darkness;
Ice. _mistr_, _mist_, Dut. _mist_.]

MISTAKE, mis-t[=a]k', _v.t._ to understand wrongly: to take one thing or
person for another.--_v.i._ to err in opinion or judgment.--_n._ a taking
or understanding wrongly: an error.--_adjs._ MISTAK'ABLE; MISTAK'EN,
understood wrongly: guilty of a mistake: erroneous: incorrect.--_adv._
MISTAK'ENLY.--_n._ MISTAK'ING (_Shak._), a mistake.--AND NO MISTAKE
(_coll._), without any manner of doubt: without fail; BE MISTAKEN, to make
or have made a mistake: to be misunderstood. [M. E. _mistaken_--Ice.
_mistaka_, to take wrongly--_mis-_, wrongly, _taka_, to take.]

MISTEACH, mis-t[=e]ch', _v.t._ to teach wrongly.

MISTELL, mis-tel', _v.t._ to tell wrongly.

MISTEMPER, mis-tem'p[.e]r, _v.t._ to temper ill: to disorder.--_adj._
MISTEM'PERED (_Shak._), angry.

MISTER, mis't[.e]r, _n._ (_Spens._) manner, kind: (_Scot._)
necessity.--_v.i._ (_Spens._) to need, require: to be poor: to be
necessary. [O. Fr. _mestier_ (Fr. _métier_), trade--L. _ministerium_,
service.]

MISTER, mis't[.e]r, _n._ sir: a title of address to a man, written MR. [A
corr. of _master_, through the influence of _mistress_.]

MISTERM, mis-t[.e]rm', _v.t._ to term or name wrongly.

MISTERY, mis't[.e]r-i, _n._ (_Shak._) an art or trade--often spelt
_mystery_. [_Mister_, trade.]

MISTHINK, mis-thingk', _v.t._ (_Shak._) to think ill of.--_v.i._ to think
wrongly.--_n._ MISTHOUGHT', a wrong notion.

MISTICO, mis'ti-k[=o], _n._ a small Mediterranean coaster, between a xebec
and a felucca. [Sp.,--Ar.]

MISTIGRIS, mis'ti-gris, _n._ a variation of poker in which a joker is used,
to which the player holding it gives what value he chooses--also the joker
when so used.

MISTIME, mis-t[=i]m', _v.t._ to time wrongly.--_adj._ MISTIMED',
unseasonable.

MISTITLE, mis-t[=i]'tl, _v.t._ to call by a wrong title.

MISTLE. Same as MIZZLE.

MISTLETOE, miz'l-t[=o], _n._ a parasitic evergreen plant, with white
viscous berries, found in southern England and elsewhere growing on the
apple, apricot, &c. (very rarely on the oak). [A.S. _mistel-tán_ (Ice.
_mistel-teinn_)--_mistel_, mistletoe, A.S. _tán_, twig; _mistel_ is a dim.
of _mist_.]

MISTRADITION, mis-tra-dish'un, _n._ a false tradition.

MISTRAIN, mis-tr[=a]n', _v.t._ to train amiss.

MISTRAL, mis'träl, _n._ a violent north-west wind which at certain seasons
prevails on the south coast of France. [Fr. _mistral_, lit. a master
(wind)--L. _magister_, master.]

MISTRANSLATE, mis-trans-l[=a]t', _v.t._ to translate incorrectly.--_n._
MISTRANSL[=A]'TION.

MISTREADING, mis-tred'ing, _n._ (_Shak._) a wrong treading or going, a
false step.

MISTREAT, mis-tr[=e]t', _v.t._ to treat ill: to abuse.--_n._ MISTREAT'MENT,
ill-treatment: abuse.

MISTRESS, mis'tres, _n._ (_fem._ of _Master_) a woman having power or
ownership: the female head of a family, school, &c.: a woman well skilled
in anything: a woman loved and courted: a concubine: (_fem._ of _Mister_) a
form of address once applied to any woman or girl, now given to a married
woman (usually written _Mrs_ and pronounced mis'ez): (_Shak._) the small
ball at bowls, now called the Jack, at which the players aim.--_v.t._ to
play the mistress. [O. Fr. _maistresse_ (Fr. _maîtresse_).]

MISTRIAL, mis-tr[=i]'al, _n._ a trial void because of error, as by
disqualification of a juror, &c.: a trial in which the jury fail to agree.

MISTRUST, mis-trust', _n._ want of trust or confidence.--_v.t._ to regard
with suspicion: to doubt.--_adj._ MISTRUST'FUL, full of mistrust.--_adv._
MISTRUST'FULLY.--_n._ MISTRUST'FULNESS.--_adv._ MISTRUST'INGLY, with
mistrust: without confidence.--_adj._ MISTRUST'LESS, without mistrust or
suspicion.

MISTRYST, mis-tr[=i]st', _v.t._ (_Scot._) to disappoint by not keeping an
engagement: to deceive.

MISTUNE, mis-t[=u]n', _v.t._ to tune wrongly or falsely: to put out of
tune.

MISUNDERSTAND, mis-un-d[.e]r-stand', _v.t._ to take in a wrong sense.--_n._
MISUNDERSTAND'ING, a mistake as to meaning: a slight disagreement.

MISUSE, mis-[=u]s', _n._ improper use: application to a bad
purpose.--_v.t._ MISUSE (mis-[=u]z'), to use for a wrong purpose or in a
wrong way: to treat ill: to abuse.--_n._ MISUS'AGE, ill-usage: abuse.

MISVENTURE, mis-ven't[=u]r, _n._ a misadventure.--_adj._ MISVEN'TUROUS.

MISWEEN, mis-w[=e]n', _v.i._ to judge wrongly.

MISWEND, mis-wend', _v.i._ to wander.

MISWORSHIP, mis-wur'ship, _v.t._ to worship wrongly.--_n._ worship of a
wrong object.

MISWRITE, mis-r[=i]t', _v.t._ to write incorrectly.

MISWROUGHT, mis-rawt', _adj._ badly wrought.

MITE, m[=i]t, _n._ an acaridan arachnid, esp. one of the smaller forms, as
the cheese-mite, &c. [A.S. _míte_.]

MITE, m[=i]t, _n._ the minutest or smallest of coins, about one-fourth of a
farthing: anything very small, even a person: a very little quantity. [Old
Dut. _mijt_.]

MITHRAS, mith'ras, _n._ a Perso-Iranian divinity of light, worshipped with
elaborate secret rites and mysteries, popular at Rome in the early
Empire--representations of Mithras as a beautiful youth in Phrygian dress
sacrificing a bull being common in Roman art--also MITH'RA.--_n._
MITHRÆ'UM, a grotto sacred to Mithras.--_adj._ MITHR[=A]'IC.--_ns._
MITHR[=A]'ICISM, MITH'RAISM.--_v.i._ MITH'RAISE.--_n._ MITH'RAIST.
[L.,--Gr.,--Old Pers. _Mitra_.]

MITHRIDATE, mith'ri-d[=a]t, _n._ an antidote to poison, _Mithridates_, king
of Pontus (b.c. 120-63), having made himself proof against poisons.--_adj._
MITHRIDAT'IC.

MITIGATE, mit'i-g[=a]t, _v.t._ to make more easily borne: to lessen the
severity of: to temper: to reduce in amount (as evil).--_adjs._ MIT'IGABLE,
that can be mitigated; MIT'IGANT, mitigating.--_n._ MITIG[=A]'TION, act of
mitigating: alleviation: abatement.--_adjs._ MIT'IGATIVE, MIT'IGATORY,
tending to mitigate: soothing.--_n._ MIT'IGATOR, one who mitigates. [L.
_mitig[=a]re_, _-atum_--_mitis_, mild.]

MITRAILLEUSE, m[=e]-tra-lyez', _n._ a breech-loading machine-gun,
discharging a stream of bullets with great rapidity--first brought into use
by the French in 1870-71.--_n._ MITRAILLE (m[=e]-traly'),
grapeshot.--_v.t._ to fire mitraille at--_n._ MITRAILLEUR
(m[=e]-tra-ly[.e]r'), a man in charge of a mitrailleuse. [Fr. _mitrailler_,
to fire with grapeshot--_mitraille_, grapeshot.]

[Illustration]

MITRE, m[=i]'t[.e]r, _n._ a head-dress worn by archbishops and bishops, and
sometimes by abbots: (_fig._) episcopal dignity: (_archit._) a junction of
two pieces, as of moulding, at an angle of 45°: a cap or cowl for a chimney
or ventilator-pipe: a gusset in sewing, &c.--_v.t._ to adorn with a mitre:
to unite at an angle of 45°.--_adjs._ M[=I]'TRAL, MIT'RIFORM, having the
form of a mitre: (_bot._) conical, and somewhat dilated at the base.--_ns._
M[=I]'TRE-JOINT, a joint between two pieces, each cut at an angle of 45°;
M[=I]'TRE-WHEEL, a bevel-wheel having its face inclined 45° to its axis.
[Fr.,--L. _mitra_--Gr. _mitra_, belt, fillet.]

MITT, mit, short for _mitten_.

MITTEN., mit'n, _n._ a kind of glove for winter use, without a separate
cover for each finger: a glove for the hand and wrist, but not the
fingers.--_v.t._ to put mittens on.--GET THE MITTEN, to be rejected as a
lover. [O. Fr. _mitaine_, perh. from Middle High Ger. _mittemo_, 'half
glove;' but perh. Celtic, cf. Gael. and Ir. _mutan_, a muff.]

MITTIMUS, mit'i-mus, _n._ (_law_) a warrant granted for sending to prison a
person charged with a crime: a writ by which a record is transferred out of
one court to another: a formal dismissal from a situation. [L., 'we
send'--_mitt[)e]re_, to send.]

MITY, m[=i]t'i, _adj._ full of mites or insects.

MIURUS, m[=i]-[=u]'rus, _n._ a dactylic hexameter with short penultimate
syllable. [Gr. _meiouros_, curtailed, _mei[=o]n_, less, _oura_, a tail.]

MIX, miks, _v.t._ to unite two or more things into one mass: to mingle: to
associate.--_v.i._ to become mixed: to be joined: to associate.--_n._ a
jumble, a mess.--_adjs._ MIX'ABLE, MIX'IBLE; MIXED, mingled: promiscuous:
confused.--_adv._ MIX'EDLY.--_n._ MIX'ER.--_adjs._ MIX'O-BARBAR'IC, not
purely barbarous; MIX'TIFORM, of a mixed character; MIXTIL[=I]'NEAL,
consisting of a mixture of lines, right, curved, &c.--_ns._ MIX'TION, a
mixture of amber, mastic, and asphaltum used as a mordant for fixing
gold-leaf to distemper pictures or to wood; MIX'T[=U]RE, act of mixing or
state of being mixed: a mass or compound formed by mixing: (_chem._) a
composition in which the ingredients retain their properties--opp. to
_Combination_: a compound-stop in organ-building: a preparation in which an
insoluble compound is suspended in an aqueous solution: a cloth of
variegated colouring.--_adj._ MIX'TY-MAX'TY (_Scot._), mixed confusedly
together.--MIX UP, to confuse.--MIXED CHALICE, the chalice prepared for the
eucharist, containing wine mixed with water; MIXED MARRIAGE, one in which
the contracting persons are of different religions. [A.S. _miscan_; Ger.
_mischen_.]

MIXEN, miks'n, _n._ (_Tenn._) a dunghill. [A.S. _mixen_--_mix_, _meox_,
dung.]

MIZMAZE, miz'm[=a]z, _n._ a labyrinth: bewilderment.

MIZZEN, MIZEN, miz'n, _n._ in a three-masted vessel, the hindmost of the
fore-and-aft sails: the spanker or driver.--_adj._ belonging to the mizzen:
nearest the stern.--_n._ MIZZ'EN-MAST, the mast that bears the mizzen. [Fr.
_misaine_--It. _mezzana_--Low L. _medianus_--L. _medius_, the middle.]

MIZZLE, miz'l, _v.i._ to rain in small drops.--_n._ fine rain.--_n._
MIZZ'LING, a thick mist.--_adj._ MIZZ'LY, misty. [For _mist-le_, freq. from
_mist_.]

MIZZLE, miz'l, _v.i._ to yield: (_slang_) to decamp.--_v.t._ to muddle,
confuse.

MJOLNIR, my[=o]l'nir, _n._ Thor's terrible hammer.

MNEMONIC, -AL, n[=e]-mon'ik, -al, _adj._ assisting the memory.--_ns._
MNEMON'ICS, the art of assisting the memory: a mode of recalling to the
mind any fact or number, or a series of disconnected terms or figures;
MNEMOS'YNE, goddess of memory, mother of the Muses.--_adj._ MNEMOTECH'NIC,
mnemonic.--_n._ MNEMOTECH'NICS, mnemonics. [Gr.
_mn[=e]monikos_--_mn[=e]m[=o]n_, mindful--_mnasthai_, to remember.]

MO, m[=o], _adj._ and _adv._ (_obs._) more.--Also MOE. [A.S. _má_, more,
connected with _mára_.]

MOA, m[=o]'a, _n._ an extinct large wingless ostrich-like bird of New
Zealand.

MOABITE, m[=o]'a-b[=i]t, _n._ one of the ancient people of _Moab_, living
to the east of the lower part of Jordan and the Dead Sea.--_adj._ of or
pertaining to Moab.--_n._ M[=O]'ABITE-STONE, slab of black, basalt found in
1868 among the ruins of Dhibân (_Dibon_) in Moab, bearing an inscription of
34 lines in Hebrew-Phoenician letters, about the revolt of Mesha, king of
Moab, against the king of Israel (2 Kings, iii.)

MOAN, m[=o]n, _v.i._ to make a low sound of grief or pain: to lament
audibly.--_v.t._ to lament.--_n._ a low sound of grief or pain: audible
expression of pain.--_adj._ MOAN'FUL, expressing sorrow:
lamentable.--_adv._ MOAN'FULLY, with lamentation. [A.S. _m['æ]nan_.]

MOAT, m[=o]t, _n._ a deep trench round a castle or fortified place,
sometimes filled with water: (_obs._) a hill or mound.--_v.t._ to surround
with a moat.--_adj._ MOAT'ED. [O. Fr, _mote_, a mound, trench.]

MOB, mob, _n._ the mobile or fickle common people: the vulgar: the rabble:
a disorderly crowd, a riotous assembly: a large herd or flock.--_v.t._ to
attack in a disorderly crowd:--_pr.p._ mob'bing; _pa.p._ mobbed.--_adj._
MOB'BISH.--_ns._ MOB'-LAW, lynch-law; MOBOC'RACY, rule or ascendency
exercised by the mob; MOB'OCRAT, a demagogue.--_adj._ MOBOCRAT'IC.--_n._
MOBS'MAN, a well-dressed thief or swindler--usually _Swell-mobsman_.
[Contr. for L. _mobile_ (_vulgus_), the fickle (multitude); _mov[=e]re_ to
move.]

MOB, mob, or MOB'-CAP, _n._ a cap with puffy crown, a broad band, and
frills--_v.t._ to cover, as the face, by a cap or hood. [Old Dut. _mop_;
mod. Dut. _mopmuts_, a woman's nightcap; cf. Scotch _Mutch_.]

MOBBY, mob'i, _n._ the juice of apples or peaches from which brandy is to
be distilled.

MOBILE, m[=o]'bil, or mob'il, _adj._ that can be moved or excited.--_n._
MOBILIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ M[=O]'BILISE, to put in readiness for service in
war: to call into active service, as troops.--_n._ MOBIL'ITY, quality of
being mobile: (_slang_) the mob.--CRÉDIT MOBILIER, the system in banking of
advancing money to the owners of movable property--as opposed to CREDIT
FONCIER, on the security of real or immovable property. [Fr.
_mobiliser_--L. _mobilis_.]

MOBLE, mob'l, _v.t._ (_Shak._) to muffle or cover the head, as in a mob or
hood. [Freq. of _mob_, a cap.]

[Illustration]

MOCCASIN, mok'a-sin, _n._ a shoe of deerskin or other soft leather, worn by
the North American Indians: a venomous North American serpent.--Also
MOC'ASSIN. [Algonkin _mawcahsun_.]

MOCHA, m[=o]'ka, _n._ a very fine kind of coffee produced in Arabia, and
brought from _Mocha_, the port of Yemen.

MOCHE, m[=o]sh, _n._ an imported package of spun silk.

MOCK, mok, _v.t._ to laugh at: to make sport of: to mimic in ridicule: to
disappoint the hopes of: to deceive: to set at nought, defy.--_n._
ridicule, a sneer: a bringing into ridicule.--_adj._ imitating reality, but
not real: false.--_adj._ MOCK'ABLE, exposed to, or deserving,
derision.--_ns._ MOCK'ER; MOCK'ERY, MOCK'ING, derision: ridicule: subject
of laughter or sport: fruitless labour: vain imitation: false show.--_adj._
MOCK'-HER[=O]'IC, mocking the heroic style, or the actions or characters of
heroes.--_n._ MOCK'ING-BIRD, a bird of North America, of the thrush family,
which mocks or imitates the notes of birds and other sounds.--_adv._
MOCK'INGLY.--_n._ MOCK'-OR'ANGE, an ornamental shrub of the saxifrage
family--also _Syringa_. MOCK SUN (see PARHELION); MOCK TURTLE SOUP, a dish
made of calf's head, veal, &c., seasoned in imitation of turtle soup. [O.
Fr. _moquer_; from a Teut. root seen in Ger. _mucken_, to mutter; prob.
imit.]

MOCUDDUM, mo-kud'um, _n._ a chief: a head-man. [Hind. from Ar., _mukaddam_,
a head-man.]

MOD, mod, _n._ an assembly, meeting, of a similar nature to the Welsh
Eisteddfod. [Gael.]

MODE, m[=o]d, _n._ manner of acting, doing, or existing: rule: custom:
form: that which exists only as a quality of substance: a form of the verb,
same as _mood_: in lace-making, a small decorative piece inserted in a
pattern: the openwork between the solid parts of a pattern: a woman's
mantle with a hood: (_mus._) the method of dividing the octave for melodic
purposes according to the position of its steps and half-steps.--_adj._
M[=O]'DAL, relating to mode or form without reference to substance:
consisting of mode only: (_logic_) indicating some mode of
expression.--_ns._ M[=O]'DALISM, the doctrine first set forth by Sabellius
that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are not three distinct
personalities, but only three different modes of manifestation;
M[=O]'DALIST, one who holds this theory.--_adj._ MODALIST'IC.--_n._
MODAL'ITY, mode in its logical sense: (_law_) the quality of being limited
by a condition.--_adv._ M[=O]'DALLY.--GREEK MODES, consisting each of two
tetra-chords and one whole step; GREGORIAN, MEDIEVAL, or ECCLESIASTICAL
MODES, derived from the above by Ambrose, Gregory the Great, &c., each of
the seven natural sounds of the diatonic scale forming the keynote or
_final_ of a mode, which embraced that note and the seven above it. To each
of these seven modes is attached another, in which the melody, while having
the same final or keynote, instead of ascending to the octave above, ranges
from the fourth below it to the fifth above. The former are called the
_authentic modes_, the latter _plagal_; MAJOR MODE, a modern mode,
consisting of two steps, a half-step, three steps, and a half-step; MINOR
MODE, a modern mode, consisting of a step, a half-step, two steps, a
half-step, and two steps. [Fr.,--L. _modus_.]

MODEL, mod'el, _n._ something to show the mode or way: something to be
copied: a pattern: a mould: an imitation of something on a smaller scale: a
living person from whom an artist works: something worthy of
imitation.--_adj._ serving as a model: fit for a model.--_v.t._ to form
after a model: to shape: to make a model or copy of: to form in some soft
material.--_v.i._ to practise modelling:--_pr.p._ mod'elling; _pa.p._
mod'elled.--_ns._ MOD'ELLER; MOD'ELLING, the act or art of making a model
of something, a branch of sculpture. [Fr.,--L. _modulus_, dim. of _modus_,
a measure.]

MODENA, mod'e-na, _n._ a shade of crimson.

MODERATE, mod'[.e]r-[=a]t, _v.t._ to keep within measure or bounds: to
regulate: to reduce in intensity: to make temperate or reasonable: to
pacify: to decide as a moderator.--_v.i._ to become less violent or
intense: to preside or act as a moderator.--_adj._ kept within measure or
bounds: not excessive or extreme: temperate: of middle rate.--_n._ one of a
party in Scottish Church history dominant in the 18th century, lax in
doctrine and discipline, but intolerant of Evangelicanism and popular
rights--it caused the secessions of 1733 and 1761, and its final resultant
was the Disruption of 1843.--_adv._ MOD'ERATELY.--_ns._ MOD'ERATENESS;
MODER[=A]'TION, act of moderating: state of being moderated or moderate:
freedom from excess: calmness of mind; MOD'ERATISM, moderate opinions in
religion or politics.--_adv._ MODERÄ'TO (_mus._), with moderate
quickness.--_ns._ MOD'ER[=A]TOR, one who, or that which, moderates or
restrains: a president or chairman, esp. in Presbyterian Church courts: an
officer at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge who superintends the
examination for degrees: a kind of lamp in which the flow of the oil to the
wick is regulated:--_fem._ MOD'ERATRIX; MOD'ERATORSHIP. [L. _moder[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_--_modus_, a measure.]

MODERN, mod'[.e]rn, _adj._ limited to the present or recent time: not
ancient: (_Shak._) commonplace.--_n._ one who lives in modern times:
(_pl._) the nations of the present day, distinguished from the Greeks and
Romans--the ancients.--_n._ MODERNIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MOD'ERNISE, to adapt
to the present time.--_ns._ MOD'ERNISER; MOD'ERNISM, modern practice or
character: something of modern origin; MOD'ERNIST, an admirer of modern
ideas or habits.--_adv._ MOD'ERNLY.--_ns._ MOD'ERNNESS, MOD'ERNITY, state
or quality of being modern. [Fr.,--L. _modernus_--_modo_; just now, orig.
abl. of _modus_.]

MODEST, mod'est, _adj._ restrained by a sense of propriety: not forward:
decent: chaste: pure and delicate, as thoughts or language: not excessive
or extreme: moderate.--_adv._ MOD'ESTLY.--_n._ MOD'ESTY, humility: purity
of thought and manners: becoming behaviour: chastity, purity: moderation.
[Fr.,--L. _modestus_--_modus_; a measure.]

MODICUM, mod'i-kum, _n._ a small quantity: something of a moderate size:
anything very small. [L. neut. of _modicus_, moderate--_modus_.]

MODIFY, mod'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to set bounds to: to moderate: to change the
form or quality of: to alter slightly: to vary.--_adj._
MODIF[=I]'ABLE.--_n._ MODIFIC[=A]'TION, act of modifying or state of being
modified: result of alteration or change: changed shape or
condition.--_adjs._ MOD'IFIC[=A]TIVE, MOD'IFIC[=A]TORY, tending to modify:
causing change of form or condition.--_n._ MOD'IF[=I]ER. [Fr.
_modifier_--L. _modific[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_--_modus_, a measure,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

MODILLION, mod-il'yun, _n._ (_archit._) an ornamental bracket used in the
cornices of the Corinthian and composite styles. [Fr.,--L.
_modulus_--_modus_, a measure.]

MODIOLUS, mo-d[=i]'o-lus, _n._ the central stem round which wind the
passages of the cochlea of the internal ear.--_adjs._ MOD[=I]'OLAR,
MOD[=I]'OLIFORM.

MODISH, m[=o]'dish, _adj._ according to the fashion.--_adv._
M[=O]'DISHLY.--_ns._ M[=O]'DISHNESS; M[=O]'DIST, one who follows the
fashion; MODISTE (m[=o]-d[=e]st'), a fashionable dressmaker.

MODIUS, m[=o]'di-us, _n._ a Roman dry measure=2 gal.: a cylindrical
head-dress:--_pl._ M[=O]'DII (-[=i]). [L.]

MODULATE, mod'[=u]-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to measure, to regulate: to vary the tone
of voice so as to give expression: (_mus._) to change the key or
mode.--_v.i._ to pass from one key into another.--_adj._ MOD'ULAR, of or
pertaining to mode or modulation, or to a module.--_ns._ MODUL[=A]'TION,
the act of modulating: state of being modulated: (_mus._) the changing of
the keynote and of the original scale by the introduction of a new sharp or
flat; MOD'UL[=A]TOR, one who, or that which, modulates: a chart in the
Tonic Sol-fa musical notation on which the modulations or changes from one
scale to another are shown by the relative position of the notes; MOD'ULE,
a small measure or quantity: (_archit._) a measure such as the diameter of
the shaft for regulating the proportions of the other parts of columns:
(_Shak._) a model, image; MOD'ULUS (_math._), a constant multiplier in a
function of a variable, by which the function is adapted to a particular
base:--_pl._ MODULI (mod'[=u]-l[=i]). [L. _modul[=a]ri_,
_-[=a]tus_--_modulus_, dim. of _modus_, a measure.]

MODUS, m[=o]'dus, _n._ the way or style of expressing anything: a fixed
payment instead of tithes: (_law_) a departure from, or a modification of,
some general rule or form:--_pl._ M[=O]'D[=I]. [L. _modus_, manner.]

MODWALL, mod'wal, _n._ (_prov._) the bee-eater.

MOE, m[=o], _adj._ and _adv._ (_Shak._). See MO.

MOE, m[=o], _n._ (_Shak._) a wry mouth, grimace.--_v.i._ to make
grimaces.--Better MOW (_q.v._).

MOELLON, m[=o]'el-lon, _n._ rubble-stone with mortar, used as a filling in
mason-work. [Fr.,--_moelle_, marrow--L. _medulla_, marrow--_medius_,
middle.]

MOEROLOGY, m[=e]-rol'o-ji, _n._ the practice of professional mourning. [Gr.
_moira_, fate, _legein_, to speak.]

MOESO-GOTHIC, m[=e]-s[=o]-goth'ik, _adj._ relating to the Goths who settled
in _Moesia_, or to their language.

MOFETTE, m[=o]-fet', _n._ a noxious gas escaping from the earth. [L.
_mephitis_.]

MOFF, mof, _n._ a thin silk fabric.

MOFFLE, mof'l, _v.i._ (_prov._) to do anything clumsily.

MOFUSSIL, m[=o]-fus'il, _n._ the country districts and stations in India,
as distinguished from the towns and official residencies: rural:
provincial. [Hind. _mufassal_, the country--Ar. _fasala_, separate.]

MOG, mog, _v.i._ (_prov._) to move away.

MOGUL, m[=o]-gul', _n._ a Mongol or Mongolian, esp. one of the followers of
Baber, the conqueror of India (1483-1530): a name applied to the best
quality of playing-cards.--_adj._ pertaining to the Mogul Empire,
architecture, &c.--_adj._, the title by which Europeans knew the Emperors
of Delhi. [Pers., properly 'a _Mongol_.']

MOHAIR, m[=o]'h[=a]r, _n._ the fine silken hair of the Angora goat of Asia
Minor: cloth made of mohair. [O. Fr. _mouaire_ (Fr. _moire_)--Ar.
_mukhayyar_.]

MOHAMMEDAN, mo-ham'ed-an, _adj._ pertaining to Mohammed or to his
religion.--_n._ a follower of Mohammed: one who professes
Mohammedanism--also MAHOM'ETAN, MAHOM'EDAN.--_v.t._ MOHAMM'EDANISE, to
convert to, or made conformable to, MOHAMMEDANISM.--_ns._ MOHAMM'EDANISM,
MOHAMM'EDISM, the religion of Mohammed, contained in the Koran.
[_Mohammed_, the great prophet of Arabia (570-632); lit. 'praised.']

MOHARRAM, mo-har'am, _n._ the first month of the Mohammedan year: the great
fast held during the first ten days of this month.--Also MUHARR'AM.

MOHAWK, m[=o]'hawk, _n._ the name of a tribe of North American Indians of
the Huron-Iroquois family--hence one of a set of London street-ruffians
about the beginning of the 18th century.--Also M[=O]'HOCK.

MOHICAN, m[=o]-h[=e]'kan, _adj._ and _n._ relating to the _Mohicans_, a
tribe of North American Indians of the Algonkin stock.

MOHR, m[=o]r, _n._ a small African gazelle.

MOHUR, m[=o]'hur, _n._ in British India, a gold coin=from twelve to fifteen
rupees, or 30s. [Pers.]

MOIDER, moi'd[.e]r, _v.t._ to confuse: to spend.--_v.i._ to work hard.

MOIDORE, moi'd[=o]r, _n._ a disused gold coin of Portugal worth 27s. [Port.
_moeda d'ouro_--L. _moneta de auro_, money of gold.]

MOIETY, moi'e-ti, _n._ half: one of two equal parts: a small share.
[Fr.,--L.,--_medius_, middle.]

MOIL, moil, _v.t._ to daub with dirt.--_v.i._ to toil or labour: to
drudge.--_n._ a spot: a defilement. [O. Fr. _moiler_ (Fr. _mouiller_), to
wet--L. _mollis_, soft.]

MOINEAU, moi'n[=o], _n._ a small flat bastion to protect a fortification
while being erected. [Fr.]

MOIRÆ, moi'r[=e], _n.pl._ the Fates, the Parcæ of the Romans--Clotho, the
spinner of the thread of human life; Lach[)e]sis, who assigns to man his
fate; and Atr[)o]pos, or the fate that cannot be avoided.

MOIRE, mwor, _n._ watered silk: a watered appearance on metals or textile
fabrics.--MOIRE ANTIQUE, silk watered so as to resemble the stuffs worn in
ancient times. [Fr.; see MOHAIR.]

MOIST, moist, _adj._ damp: humid: juicy: containing water or other
liquid.--_vs.t._ MOIST'EN, MOIST (_obs._), to make moist: to wet slightly;
MOIST'IFY, to make moist.--_ns._ MOIST'NESS; MOIST'URE, moistness: that
which makes slightly wet: a small quantity of any liquid. [O. Fr. _moiste_
(Fr. _moite_)--L. _musteus_,--_mustum_, juice of grapes, new wine.]

MOKE, m[=o]k, _n._ (_slang_) a donkey: a stupid fellow: a variety performer
on several instruments: a negro.

MOLAR, m[=o]'lar, _adj._ grinding, as a mill: used for grinding.--_n._ a
grinding tooth: a back tooth. [L. _molaris_--_mola_, a mill--_mol[)e]re_,
to grind.]

MOLAR, m[=o]'lar, _adj._ of or pertaining to a mass: acting on or by means
of whole masses. [L. _moles_, a mass.]

MOLASSES, mo-las'ez, _n.sing._ a kind of syrup that drains from sugar
during the process of manufacture: treacle. [Port. _melaço_ (Fr.
_mélasse_)--L. _mell-aceus_, honey-like--_mel_, _mellis_, honey.]

MOLD. See MOULD.

MOLE, m[=o]l, _n._ a permanent dark-brown mark on the human skin, often
hairy--a pigmentary _Nævus_ (q.v.). [A.S. _mál_; Ger. _maal_, L.
_mac-ula_.]

MOLE, m[=o]l, _n._ a small animal, with very small eyes and soft fur, which
burrows in the ground and casts up little heaps of mould.--_v.t._ to burrow
or form holes in.--_ns._ MOLE'CAST; MOLE'-CATCH'ER, one whose business it
is to catch moles; MOLE'-CRICK'ET, a burrowing insect like a cricket, with
forelegs like those of a mole.--_adj._ MOLE'-EYED, having eyes like those
of a mole: seeing imperfectly.--_ns._ MOLE'HILL, a little hill or heap of
earth cast up by a mole; MOLE'RAT, a rat-like animal, which burrows like a
mole; MOLE'SKIN, the skin of a mole: a superior kind of fustian,
double-twilled, cropped before dyeing; MOLE'-SPADE, a small spade used by
mole-catchers; MOLE'-TRACK, the track made by a mole burrowing.--MAKE A
MOUNTAIN OF A MOLEHILL, to magnify a trifling matter. [For
_mold-warp_--A.S. _molde_, _mould_, _weorpan_, to warp.]

MOLE, m[=o]l, _n._ a breakwater: any massive building: an ancient Roman
mausoleum. [Fr.,--L. _moles_.]

MOLECULE, mol'e-k[=u]l, _n._ one of the minute particles of which matter is
composed: the smallest mass of any substance which retains the properties
of that substance.--_adj._ MOLEC'ULAR, belonging to, or consisting of,
molecules.--_n._ MOLECULAR'ITY.--MOLECULAR ATTRACTION, attraction acting on
the atoms or molecules of a body, as distinguished from attraction of
gravitation. [Fr.,--L. _moles_, a mass.]

MOLENDINACEOUS, m[=o]-len-di-n[=a]'shi-us, _adj._ like a windmill.--_adj._
MOLEN'DINARY, relating to a mill. [Low L. _molendinum_, a mill--L.
_mol[)e]re_, to grind.]

MOLEST, m[=o]-lest', _v.t._ to trouble.--_ns._ MOLEST[=A]'TION, state of
being molested: annoyance; MOLEST'ER.--_adj._ MOLEST'FUL. [Fr.
_molester_--L. _molest[=a]re_--_molestus_--moles, mass, difficulty.]

MOLIMEN, m[=o]-l[=i]'men, _n._ great effort, esp. of any periodic effort to
discharge a natural function.--_adj._ MOLIM'INOUS. [L.,--_mol[=i]ri_, to
toil--_moles_.]

MOLINE, m[=o]'lin, _n._ and _adj._ the crossed iron in the upper millstone
for receiving the spindle in the lower stone, a millstone rynd: (_her._) a
moline cross. [L. _mola_, a mill.]

MOLINISM, m[=o]'li-nizm, _n._ the doctrine of the Spanish Jesuit Luis
_Molina_ (1535-1600), that predestination is consequent on God's
fore-knowledge of the free determination of man's will, that God gives to
all men sufficient grace whereby to live virtuously and merit happiness,
its efficaciousness depending on the voluntary co-operation of the will
with it.--_n._ M[=O]'LINIST, one who holds the foregoing views.

MOLINIST, m[=o]'li-nist, _n._ a Quietist, or follower of Miguel de
_Molinos_ (1640-97). [See QUIETISM.]

MOLL, mol, _n._ a familiar form of Mary: a concubine.

MOLLAH, MOLLA, mol'a, _n._ a Mohammedan title of respect for a learned or
religious person: a judge of Moslem law. [Turk. and Pers., from Ar.
_maul[=a]_.]

MOLLIE, mol'i, _n._ a meeting and carousal on board one ship of the sailors
belonging to several whaling-ships ice-bound in company--an abbreviation of
_Mallemaroking_, [_Mallemuck_, the fulmar petrel.]

MOLLIFY, mol'i-f[=i], _v.t._ to make soft or tender: to assuage: to calm or
pacify:--_pa.p._ moll'ified.--_adjs._ MOLL'IENT, serving to soften:
assuaging; MOLL'IFIABLE.--_ns._ MOLLIFIC[=A]'TION, act of mollifying: state
of being mollified: mitigation; MOLL'IFIER; MOLL'INE, a base for ointments
used in skin diseases, a soft soap mixed with excess of fat and
glycerine.--_adj._ MOLLIP[=I]'LOSE, having soft plumage.--_n._
MOLLIPILOS'ITY, fleecines, fluffiness.--_adj._ MOLLIT'IOUS,
luxurious.--_n._ MOLL'ITUDE. [Fr.,--L. _mollific[=a]re_--_mollis_, soft,
_fac[)e]re_, to make.]

MOLLUSC, MOLLUSK, mol'usk, _n._ one of the _Mollusca_, a large division of
invertebrate animals--bivalves or Lamellibranchs, snails or Gasteropods,
and cuttlefish or Cephalopods:--_pl._ MOLL'USCS, MOLL'USKS, or
MOLLUS'CA.--_n._ MOLLUS'CAN, a mollusc.--_adjs._ MOLLUS'CAN, MOLLUS'COID,
MOLLUS'COUS. [Fr.,--L. _molluscus_, softish--_mollis_, soft.]

MOLLY, mol'i, _n._ dim. of Mary: the wagtail bird.--_n._ MOLL'YCODDLE, an
effeminate fellow.--MOLLY MAGUIRE, one of the Ribbonmen of Ireland (1843),
who perpetrated outrages by night in women's dress: one of a secret society
which terrorised the coal regions of Pennsylvania (1867-77).

MOLOCH, m[=o]'lok, _n._ a Phoenician god to which human sacrifices were
offered: an exceedingly spiny Australian lizard--also M[=O]'LECH.--_v.t._
M[=O]'LOCHISE, to sacrifice as to Moloch.

MOLOSSUS, mo-los'us, _n._ a metrical foot of three long syllables:--_pl._
MOLOSS'[=I]. [L.--Gr.]

MOLTEN, m[=o]lt'n, _adj._ melted: made of melted metal.--_adv._ MOLT'ENLY.
[Old pa.p. of _melt_.]

MOLTO, mol'to, _adv._ (_mus._) very, much. [It.]

MOLY, m[=o]'li, _n._ (_Milt._) a magic herb given by Hermes to Odysseus as
a counter-charm against the spells of Circe.

MOLYBDENUM, mol-ib-d[=e]'num, _n._ a rare metal of a silvery-white
colour--also MOLYBD[=E]'NA.--_ns._ MOLYB'DATE, a compound of molybdic acid
with a base; MOLYBD[=E]'NITE, sulphide of molybdenum.--_adjs._
MOLYBD[=E]'NOUS, MOLYB'DIC.--_n._ MOLYBD[=O]'SIS, lead-poisoning.
[L.,--Gr.,--_molybdos_, lead.]

MOME, m[=o]m, _n._ (_obs._) a buffoon: a stupid person. [O. Fr.,--L.,--Gr.
_M[=o]mos_, god of mirth.]

MOMENT, m[=o]'ment, _n._ moving cause or force: importance in effect:
value, consequence: the smallest portion of time in which a movement can be
made: an instant: the precise point of time, the right opportunity:
(_math._) an increment or decrement, an infinitesimal change in a varying
quantity: (_mech._) the moment of a force about a point is the product of
the force and the perpendicular on its line of action from the
point.--_adj._ M[=O]'MENTANY (_Shak._), momentary.--_adv._
M[=O]'MENTARILY.--_n._ M[=O]'MENTARINESS.--_adj._ M[=O]'MENTARY, lasting
for a moment: done in a moment: short-lived.--_adv._ M[=O]'MENTLY, for a
moment: in a moment: every moment.--_adj._ M[=O]MENT'OUS, of importance: of
great consequence.--_adv._ MOMENT'OUSLY.--_ns._ MOMENT'OUSNESS; MOMENT'UM,
the quantity of motion in a body, measured by the product of the mass and
the velocity of the moving body:--_pl._ MOMENT'A. [Fr.,--L. _momentum_, for
_movimentum_--_mov[=e]re_, to move.]

MOMUS, m[=o]'mus, _n._ the god of raillery, &c.--SON, or DISCIPLE, OF
MOMUS, a wag. [See MOME.]

MONACHISM, mon'ak-izm, _n._ monastic life: state of religious seclusion
under vows.--_adj._ MON'ACHAL, living alone: pertaining to monks or nuns,
or to a monastic life.--_n._ MON'ACHUS, the monk-seal genus. [Fr.,--L.
_monachus_, a monk.]

MONAD, mon'ad, _n._ an ultimate atom or simple unextended point: a simple,
primary element, assumed by Leibnitz and other philosophers: (_zool._) one
of the simplest of animalcules.--_adj._ of or pertaining to
monads.--_adjs._ MONAC'ID, capable of saturating a single molecule of a
monobasic acid; MONAC'TINAL, single-rayed.--_n._ MON'ADELPH, a plant whose
stamens are united by their filaments into one set, generally into a tube
or ring.--_adjs._ MONADEL'PHIAN, MONADEL'PHOUS (_bot._), having the stamens
united into one body by the filaments; MONAD'IC, -AL, relating to monads:
single; MONAD'IFORM, like a monad.--_ns._ MON'ADISM, MONADOL'OGY, the
theory of monads.--_adj._ MONAN'THOUS (_bot._), producing but one
flower.--_n._ MON'AS, a monad: a monadiform infusorian.--_adj._
MONASCID'IAN, simple, not compound or composite--also _n._--_adj._
MONATOM'IC, consisting of a single atom, as a molecule: (_chem._) having a
valence of one, as hydrogen. [L. _monas_, _-adis_--Gr. _monas_, _-ados_, a
unit--_monos_, alone.]

MONANDRIA, mon-an'dri-a. _n._ the first class in Linnæus's system of
plants, including all genera having only one stamen.--_n._
MONAN'DER.--_adjs._ MONAN'DRIAN, MONAN'DROUS (_bot._), having only one
stamen. [Gr. _monos_, single, _an[=e]r_, _andros_, a male.]

MONANDRY, m[=o]-nan'dri, _n._ the practice of having only one husband.

MONARCH, mon'ark, _n._ a sole or supreme ruler: sovereign: the chief of its
kind.--_adj._ supreme: superior to others.--_adjs._ MONARCH'AL, pertaining
to a monarch: regal; MONARCH'IAL, MONARCH'IC, -AL, relating to a monarch or
to monarchy: vested in a single ruler.--_ns._ MONARCH'IAN, a Christian who
denied the personal independent subsistence of Christ--_dynamic_, when
regarding the divinity of Christ as only a power (_dynamis_) communicated
to Him; _modalistic_, when regarding Christ as God Himself incarnate, the
Father who had assumed flesh, a mere _modus_ of the Godhead;
MONARCH'IANISM, the doctrine of the _Monarchians_, in opposition to
_Subordinationalism_.--_adj._ MONARCHIANIS'TIC.--_v.t._ MON'ARCHISE, to
rule over, as a monarch: to convert into a monarchy.--_ns._ MON'ARCHISM,
the principles of monarchy: love of monarchy; MON'ARCHIST, an advocate of
monarchy: a believer in monarchy; MONARCH'O (_Shak._), a fantastic
Englishman who assumed Italian airs, any fantastic person; MON'ARCHY, a
state or a people ruled over by one person: a kind of government of which
the chief power is in the hands of a monarch: the territory of a monarch.
[Fr. _monarque_, through L., from Gr. _monarch[=e]s_--_monos_, alone,
_archein_, to rule.]

MONASTERY, mon'as-t[.e]r-i, _n._ a house for monks: an abbey: a
convent.--_adjs._ MONAST[=E]'RIAL, MONAS'TIC, -AL, pertaining to
monasteries, monks, and nuns: recluse: solitary.--_n._ MONAS'TIC, a
monk.--_adv._ MONAS'TICALLY.--_ns._ MONAS'TICISM, the corporate monastic
life or system of living; MONAS'TICON, a book about monasteries and
monks.--MONASTIC VOWS, the vows which a person takes when entering a
monastery--of _poverty_, _chastity_, _obedience_. [L. _monasterium_--Gr.
_monast[=e]rion_--_monast[=e]s_, a monk--_monos_, alone.]

MONDAY, mun'd[=a], _n._ the second day of the week.--_adj._ MON'DAYISH,
fagged--of preachers, after their Sunday exercitations.--BLACK MONDAY,
Easter Monday, the 14th of April 1360: any Easter Monday; HANDSEL MONDAY,
the first Monday of the year, when presents are given. [A.S. _mónandæg_,
_mónan_, gen. of _móna_, moon, _dæg_, day.]

MONDAYNE, mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ an old form of _mundane_.

MONDE, mond, _n._ the world (of fashion).--BEAU MONDE, DEMI-MONDE (see BEAU
and DEMI). [Fr.]

MONERA, m[=o]-n[=e]'ra, _n.pl._ a class of Protozoans of the simplest
characters.--_ns.sing._ M[=O]'NER, MON[=E]'RON.--_adjs._ MON[=E]'RAL,
MON[=E]'RAN.

MONERGISM, mon'[.e]r-jizm, _n._ (_theol._) the doctrine that regeneration
is entirely the work of the Holy Spirit, the natural will being incapable
of co-operation. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _ergon_, work.]

MONETARY, mun'e-tar-i, _adj._ relating to money or moneyed affairs:
consisting of money.--_n._ MONETIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MON'ETISE, to give the
character of money to, to coin as money.--MONETARY UNIT, the unit of
currency--the pound sterling.

MONEY, mun'i, _n._ coin: pieces of stamped metal used in commerce: any
currency used as the equivalent of money: wealth:--_pl._ MON'EYS.--_ns._
MON'EY-BILL, a bill introduced into parliament or congress for raising
revenue or otherwise dealing with money; MON'EY-BROK'ER, MON'EY-CHANG'ER,
MON'EY-SCRIV'ENER, a broker who deals in money or exchanges.--_adj._
MON'EYED, having money: rich in money: consisting in money.--_ns._
MON'EYER, MON'IER, one who coins money: a master of a mint.--_adj._
MON'EYLESS, having no money.--_ns._ MON'EY-MAK'ER, a coiner of counterfeit
money; MON'EY-MAK'ING, act of gaining wealth.--_adj._ lucrative,
profitable.--_ns._ MON'EY-MAR'KET, the market or field for the investment
of money; MON'EY-OR'DER, an order for money deposited at one post-office,
and payable at another; MON'EY-SP[=I]'DER, or -SPIN'NER, a small spider of
family _Attidæ_, supposed to bring luck; MON'EY'S-WORTH, something as good
as money: full value; MON'EY-TAK'ER, one who receives payments of money,
esp. at an entrance-door.--HARD MONEY, coin; POT OF MONEY, a large amount
of money; READY MONEY, money paid for a thing at the time at which it is
bought: money ready for immediate payment. [O. Fr. _moneie_ (Fr.
_monnaie_)--L. _moneta_, a mint, _Moneta_ being a surname of Juno, in whose
temple at Rome money was coined.]

MONGER, mung'g[.e]r, _n._ a trader: a dealer, chiefly in composition,
sometimes depreciatory.--_v.t._ to trade in. [A.S. _mangere_--_mang_, a
mixture.]

MONGOL, mong'gol, _n._ and _adj._ one of an Asiatic people belonging to the
Ural-Altaic branch of the human family, mainly inhabiting
_Mongolia_.--_adjs._ MONG[=O]'LIAN, MONGOL'IC.

MONGOOSE, mong'g[=oo]s, _n._ a common ichneumon of India, often
domesticated to destroy snakes.--Also Mung'oose. [Marathi _mangus_.]

MONGREL, mung'grel, _adj._ of a mixed breed, impure.--_n._ an animal, esp.
a dog, of a mixed breed.--_v.t._ MONG'RELISE.--_n._ MONG'RELISM. [A double
dim. from A.S. _mang_, mixture.]

MONIED, mun'id, _adj._ moneyed.

MONILIFORM, m[=o]-nil'i-form, _adj._ like a string of beads. [L. _monile_,
a necklace, _forma_, form.]

MONIMENT, mon'i-ment, _n._ (_Spens._) a monument, memorial: superscription,
image. [L. _monimentum_, _monumentum_, monument.]

MONIPLIES, mon'i-pl[=i]z. See MANIPLIES.

MONISM, mon'izm, _n._ a philosophical theory that all being may ultimately
be referred to one category; thus _Idealism_, _Pantheism_, _Materialism_
are monisms--as opposed to the Dualism of matter and spirit.--_n._
MON'IST.--_adjs._ MON'ISTIC, -AL. [Gr. _monos_, alone, and _-ism_.]

MONITION, mon-ish'un, _n._ a reminding or admonishing: warning: notice:
(_law_) a summons to appear and answer.--_adj._ MON'ITIVE, conveying
admonition.--_n._ MON'ITOR, one who admonishes: an adviser: an instructor:
a senior pupil who assists a schoolmaster: an ironclad steamship armed with
heavy guns in revolving turrets: a raised part of a roof, with openings for
light and ventilation: a kind of lizard:--_fem._ MON'ITRESS,
MON'ITRIX.--_adj._ MONIT[=O]'RIAL, relating to a monitor: performed or
taught by a monitor.--_adv._ MONIT[=O]'RIALLY.--_n._ MON'ITORSHIP.--_adj._
MON'ITORY, giving admonition or warning. [L.,--_mon[=e]re_, _-itum_, to
remind.]

MONK, mungk, _n._ formerly, one who retired alone to the desert to lead a
religious life: one of a religious community living in a monastery: an inky
blotch in print: a fuse for firing mines.--_ns._ MONK'ERY, the life of
monks: monasticism; MONK'-FISH, the angel-fish; MONK'HOOD, the state or
character of a monk.--_adj._ MONK'ISH, pertaining to a monk: like a monk:
monastic.--_ns._ MONK'S'-HOOD, the aconite, a poisonous plant with a flower
like a monk's hood; MONK'S'-SEAM (_naut._), a strong seam formed by laying
the selvage-edges of two pieces of canvas over each other and stitching on
each side and down the middle--also _Middle-stitching_. [A.S. _munec_--L.
_monachus_--Gr. _monachos_--_monos_, alone.]

MONKEY, mungk'i, _n._ a quadrumanous mammal of the order Primates--the term
is loose, and may be conveniently restricted only to all the Primates
exclusive of the Anthropoid Apes, thus including the _Platyrrhini_, or
New-World monkeys, and the _Catarrhiini_, or Old-World monkeys: an ape: a
name of contempt, esp. for a mischievous person, also of playful
endearment: a heavy weight for driving piles: a large hammer for driving
bolts: in betting slang, a sum of 500 pounds, or dollars in U.S.: a fluid
consisting of chlor-hydric acid and zinc--generally called _spirits of
salt_--used in the process of soldering:--_pl._ MONK'EYS.--_v.i._ to meddle
with anything.--_v.t._ to imitate as a monkey does.--_ns._ MONK'EY-BAG, a
small money-bag, hung round the sailor's neck; MONK'EY-BLOCK, a small
swivel-block used in guiding running rigging; MONK'EY-BOARD, the omnibus
conductor's foot-board; MONK'EY-BOAT, a narrow, half-decked river-boat;
MONK'EY-BREAD, the baobab-tree or its fruit; MONK'EY-EN'GINE, a kind of
pile-driver having a ram or monkey working in a wooden frame;
MONK'EY-FLOW'ER, a flower of the _mimulus_ kind; MONK'EY-GAFF, a small gaff
above the spanker-gaff for the flag; MONK'EY-GRASS, a coarse fibre yielded
by the leaf-stalks of _Attalea funifera_, used for brooms, street
sweeping-machine brushes, &c.; MONK'EY-HAMM'ER, a drop-press with a ram,
which is raised and let drop freely; MONK'EYISM, the qualities of the
monkey; MONK'EY-JACK'ET, a close-fitting jacket, generally made of some
stout, coarse material; MONK'EY-POT, the seed-vessel of several species of
_Lecythis_, having a round lid; MONK'EY-PUMP, a straw let through a
gimlet-hole into a cask for the purpose of sucking the liquor;
MONK'EY-PUZZ'LE, the Chili pine, _Araucaria imbricata_; MONK'EY-RAIL, a
light rail above the quarter-rail; MONK'EY-SHINE (_U.S._), a piece of
tomfoolery; MONK'EY-TAIL, a short lever for training carronades: a piece of
knotted rope by which to attach a hook, to save the hand from jamming;
MONK'EY-WHEEL, a tackle-block over which runs a hoisting-rope;
MONK'EY-WRENCH, a screw-key having a movable jaw.--HAVE, or GET, ONE'S
MONKEY UP, to be angry; SUCK THE MONKEY, to drink liquor from a cask
through an inserted tube: to drink from a coco-nut, filled surreptitiously
with rum, &c. [Old It. _monicchio_, dim. of Old It. _monna_, nickname for
an old woman, an ape, contr. of It. _madonna_, mistress.]

MONOBASIC, mon-[=o]-b[=a]'sik, _adj._ having one base, of an acid combining
with a univalent basic radical to form a neutral salt.

MONOBLASTIC, mon-[=o]-blas'tik, _adj._ pertaining to that condition of the
metazoic embryo in which a single germinal layer is alone represented.

MONOBLEPSIS, mon-[=o]-blep'sis, _n._ a condition of vision more distinct
when one eye only is used. [Gr. _monos_, single, _blepsis_, sight.]

MONOCARBONATE, mon-[=o]-kar'b[=o]-n[=a]t, _n._ a carbonate in which both
hydrogen atoms of the acid are replaced by basic elements.

MONOCARDIAN, mon-[=o]-kär'di-an, _adj._ having a single heart, as fishes
and reptiles. [Gr. _monos_, single, _kardia_, the heart.]

MONOCARPOUS, mon-[=o]-kärp'us, _adj._ bearing fruit only once, as wheat,
and all annual plants.--_n._ MON'OCARP. [Gr. _monos_, single, _karpos_,
fruit.]

MONOCENTRIC, mon-[=o]-sen'trik, _adj._ having a single centre only:
unipolar.

MONOCEPHALOUS, mon-[=o]-sef'al-us, _adj._ having but one head or capitulum.

MONOCEROS, m[=o]-nos'[.e]r-os, _n._ a one-horned animal: the unicorn:
(_Spens._) perhaps the sword-fish.--_adj._ MONOC'EROUS. [Gr. _monos_,
single, _keras_, a horn.]

MONOCHLAMYDEOUS, mon-[=o]-kla-mid'[=e]-us, _adj._ (_bot._) having a single
instead of a double perianth. [Gr. _monos_, single, _chlamys_, a cloak.]

MONOCHORD, mon'[=o]-kord, _n._ a musical instrument of one chord or string.

MONOCHROMATIC, mon-[=o]-kro-mat'ik, _adj._ of one colour only--also
MONOCHR[=O]'IC.--_ns._ MON'OCHROME, a painting in one colour only;
MON'OCHROMY, this art.

MONOCHRONIC, mon-[=o]-kron'ik, _adj._ contemporaneous.--_adj._
MONOCH'RONOUS, monosemic.

MONOCLE, mon'o-kl, _n._ a one-eyed animal: a single eyeglass.

MONOCLINAL, mon'[=o]-kl[=i]-nal, _adj._ (_geol._) dipping in one direction.

MONOCLINIC, mon'[=o]-klin-ik, _adj._ (_mineral_) crystallising in three
unequal axes, two intersecting each other at an oblique angle, and at right
angles to the third.--Also MON'OCL[=I]NATE. [Gr. _monos_, single,
_klinein_, to incline.]

MONOCLINOUS, mon'[=o]-kl[=i]-nus, _adj._ (_bot._) hermaphrodite.

MONO-COMPOUND, mon'[=o]-kom'pownd, _n._ (_chem._) a compound containing one
atom of any particular element.

MONOCOTYLEDON, mon-[=o]-kot-i-l[=e]'don, _n._ a plant with only one
cotyledon.--_adj._ MONOCOTYL[=E]'DONOUS.

MONOCRACY, mon-ok'ra-si, _n._ rule or government by a single person.--_n._
MON'OCRAT. [Gr. _monos_, single, _kratos_, strength.]

MONOCULAR, mon-ok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ with one eye only: fitted only for one
eye at a time.--Also MONOC'ULOUS.

MONODACTYLOUS, mon-[=o]-dak'ti-lus, _adj._ having only one toe or finger.

MONODELPHIA, mon-[=o]-del'fi-a, _n.pl._ one of the three primary divisions
of mammals, the placental mammals.--_adj._ MONODEL'PHIAN.

MONODON, mon'[=o]-don, _n._ a genus of delphinoid odontocete cetaceans,
containing only the narwhal.

MONODRAMA, mon'[=o]-drä-ma, _n._ a dramatic piece for a single
performer.--_adj._ MONODRAMAT'IC.

MONODY, mon'[=o]-di, _n._ a mournful ode or poem in which a single mourner
bewails: a song for one voice: monotonous sound.--_adjs._ MONOD'IC,
-AL.--_n._ MON'ODIST, one who writes monodies.

MONOECIOUS, mon-[=e]'shus, _adj._ having the stamens and pistils in
separate flowers on the same individual plant.--_n.pl._ MONOE'CIA, the 21st
class of plants of Linnæus. [Gr. _monos_, single, _oikos_, a house.]

MONOGAMY, mon-og'a-mi, _n._ marriage to one wife only: the state of such
marriage.--_adjs._ MONOGAM'IC, MONOG'AMOUS.--_n._ MONOG'AMIST. [Gr.
_monos_, one, _gamos_, marriage.]

MONOGENESIS, mon-[=o]-jen'e-sis, _n._ development of the ovum from a parent
like itself.--_adj._ MONOGENET'IC.--_ns._ MONOG'ENISM, the descent of the
whole human family from a single pair--also MONOG'ENY; MONOG'ENIST, one who
maintains this.--_adjs._ MONOGENIST'IC; MONOG'ENOUS, generating by fission,
gemmation, &c.: pertaining to monogenism: (_math._) having a single
differential coefficient considered as a rule of generation.

MONOGONY, m[=o]-nog'o-ni, _n._ a sexual reproduction.

MONOGRAM, mon'[=o]-gram, _n._ a figure consisting of several letters
interwoven or written into one.--_adj._ MONOGRAMMAT'IC. [Gr. _monos_,
alone, _gramma_, a letter.]

MONOGRAPH, mon'[=o]-graf, _n._ a treatise written on one particular subject
or any branch of it.--_v.t._ to write a monograph upon.--_ns._
MONOG'RAPHER, MONOG'RAPHIST, a writer of monographs.--_adjs._ MONOGRAPH'IC,
-AL, pertaining to a monograph: drawn in lines without colours.--_n._
MONOG'RAPHY, a representation by one means only, as lines: an outline
drawing. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _graphein_, to write.]

MONOGYNIA, mon-[=o]-jin'i-a, _n._ an order of plants which have only one
pistil or female organ.--_n._ MON'OGYN, a plant of this kind.--_adjs._
MONOGYN'IAN, MONOG'YNOUS (_bot._), having only one pistil or female
organ.--_n._ MONOG'YNY, a mating with only one female. [Gr. _monos_, alone,
_gyn[=e]_, a female.]

MONOHYDRIC, mon-[=o]-h[=i]'drik, _adj._ containing one atom of hydrogen.

MONOID, mon'oid, _adj._ and _n._ (_pros._) containing but one kind of foot.

MONOLATRY, m[=o]-nol'a-tri, _n._ the actual worship of but one divinity,
not necessarily a disbelief in others.

MONOLITH, mon'[=o]-lith, _n._ a pillar, or column, of a single
stone.--_adjs._ MONOLITH'AL, MONOLITH'IC. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _lithos_, a
stone.]

MONOLOGUE, mon'[=o]-log, _n._ a speech uttered by one person: soliloquy: a
poem, &c. for a single performer.--_v.i._ MONOL'OGISE, to indulge in
this.--_ns._ MONOL'OGIST, one who talks in monologue; MONOL'OGY, the habit
of doing so. [Fr.,--Gr. _monos_, alone, _logos_, speech.]

MONOMACHY, m[=o]-nom'a-ki, _n._ a single combat: a duel.--Also
MONOM[=A]'CHIA. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _mach[=e]_, a fight.]

MONOMANIA, mon-[=o]-m[=a]'ni-a, _n._ madness confined to one subject, or to
one faculty of the mind: an unreasonable interest in any particular
thing.--_n._ MONOM[=A]'NIAC, one affected with monomania.--_adjs._
MONOM[=A]'NIAC, -AL, affected with monomania. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _mania_,
madness.]

MONOMEROUS, m[=o]-nom'e-rus, _adj._ having the tarsi single-jointed:
(_bot._) having but one member in each cycle. [Gr. _monos_, single,
_meros_, part.]

MONOMETALLIC, mon-[=o]-me-tal'ik, _adj._ consisting of but one
metal.--_ns._ MONOMET'ALLISM, the use of but one metal as a standard of
value; MONOMET'ALLIST, one who upholds this theory.

MONOMETER, m[=o]-nom'e-t[.e]r, _adj._ and _n._ (_pros._) consisting of one
measure.--_adjs._ MONOMET'RIC, -AL.

MONOMIAL, mon-[=o]'mi-al, _n._ an algebraic expression of one term only: a
series of factors of single terms--also MON'OME.--_adj._ MON[=O]'MIAL. [Gr.
_monos_, alone, L. _nomen_, name.]

MONOMORPHIC, mon-[=o]-mor'fik, _adj._ of the same type of structure, or
morphological character.--_adj._ MONOMOR'PHOUS. [Gr. _monos_, single,
_morph[=e]_, form.]

MONOMYARIAN, mon-[=o]-m[=i]-[=a]'ri-an, _adj._ having but one adductor
muscle, as an oyster. [Gr. _monos_, single, _mys_, muscle.]

MONONYM, mon'[=o]-nim, _n._ a name consisting of a single term.--_adj._
MONONYM'IC.

MONOÖUSIOUS, mon-[=o]-[=oo]'si-us, _adj._ having the same substance. [Gr.
_monos_, single, _ousia_, essence.]

MONOPATHY, m[=o]-nop'a-thi, _n._ (_pathol._) a disease affecting only one
organ or function.--_adj._ MONOPATH'IC. [Gr. _monos_, single, _pathos_,
suffering.]

MONOPETALOUS, mon-[=o]-pet'a-lus, _adj._ (_bot._) having only one petal, or
denoting a corolla, the petals of which so cohere as to form a tube.

MONOPHOBIA, mon-[=o]-f[=o]'bi-a, _n._ morbid dread of being left alone.
[Gr. _monos_, single, _phobia_, fear.]

MONOPHONOUS, mon-of'o-nus, _adj._ producing one sound at one time. [Gr.
_monos_, single, _ph[=o]n[=e]_, voice.]

MONOPHOTE, mon'[=o]-f[=o]t, _n._ an electric arc-lamp regulator working in
single series. [Gr. _monos_, single, _ph[=o]s_, _ph[=o]tos_, light.]

MONOPHTHONG, mon'of-thong, _n._ a simple vowel-sound.--_adj._
MON'OPHTHONGAL.

MONOPHYLETIC, mon-[=o]-fi-let'ik, _adj._ pertaining to a single
phylum:--opp. to _Polyphyletic_.

MONOPHYLLOUS, mon-[=o]-fil'us, _adj._ having a leaf of but one piece. [Gr.
_monos_, alone, _phyllon_, a leaf.]

MONOPHYODONT, mon-[=o]-f[=i]'[=o]-dont, _adj._ having only one set of
teeth.--_n._ such an animal.

MONOPHYSITE, m[=o]-nof'i-s[=i]t, _n._ one who holds that Christ had but one
composite nature, instead of the orthodox doctrine that He united two
complete natures without confusion or mutation in one person.--_adj._
MONOPHYSIT'ICAL.--_n._ MONOPHYSIT'ISM. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _physis_,
nature.]

MONOPLAST, mon'[=o]-plast, _n._ an organism consisting of a single cell.
[Gr. _monos_, single, _plastos_, formed--_plassein_, to form.]

MONOPLEGIA, mon-[=o]-pl[=e]'ji-a, _n._ paralysis limited to a single part.
[Gr. _monos_, single, _pl[=e]g[=e]_, stroke.]

MONOPNOA, mo-nop'n[=o]-a, _n.pl._ a class of reptiles breathing in one way
only. [Gr. _monos_, single, _pnoos_, breathing--_pnein_, to breathe.]

MONOPODE, mon'[=o]-p[=o]d, _adj._ and _n._ having but one foot.--_adj._
MONOPOD'IC--_n._ MON'OPODY.

MONOPOLISE, mon-op'o-l[=i]z, _v.t._ to obtain possession of anything so as
to be the only seller or sharer of it: in engross the whole of.--_ns._
MONOP'OLISER, MONOP'OLIST.--_adj._ MONOPOLIS'TIC.--_n._ MONOP'OLY, the sole
power of dealing in anything: exclusive command or possession: (_law_) a
grant from the crown to an individual for the sole right to deal in
anything. [L. _monopolium_--Gr. _monos_, alone, _p[=o]lein_, to sell.]

MONOPTERON, m[=o]-nop'te-ron, _n._ a kind of temple or portico of columns
grouped in a circle, and supporting a cupola. [Gr. _monos_, single,
_pteron_, a wing.]

MONOPTOTE, mon'op-t[=o]t, _n._ a noun, &c., having but one case-form. [Gr.
_monos_, alone, _pt[=o]sis_, case.]

MONORCHID, mo-nork'id, _adj._ having only one testicle.--_n._ MONORCH'ISM.

MONORGANIC, mon-or-gan'ik, _adj._ of one organ.

MONORHINE, mon'[=o]-rin, _adj._ having but one nasal passage.--Also
MON'ORH[=I]NAL. [Gr. _monos_, single, _hris_, _hrinos_, the nose.]

MONORHYME, mon'[=o]-r[=i]m, _n._ a poem in which all the lines end with the
same rhyme.

MONOSEMIC, mon-[=o]-s[=e]'mik, _adj._ (_pros._) consisting in, or equal to,
a single semeion (mora or unit of time).

MONOSEPALOUS, mon-[=o]-sep'a-lus, _adj._ (_bot._) having the sepals all
united: having a calyx of one piece.

MONOSPERMOUS, mon-[=o]-sp[.e]rm'us, _adj._ (_bot._) having one seed
only.--_n._ MON'OSPERM. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _sperma_, seed.]

MONOSPOROUS, mon'[=o]-sp[=o]r-us, _adj._ of a single spore.

MONOSTICH, mon'[=o]-stik, _n._ a poem complete in one verse.--_adj._
MONOS'TICHOUS. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _stichos_, verse.]

MONOSTROPHIC, mon-[=o]-strof'ik, _adj._ having but one strophe: not varied
in measure.--_n._ MONOS'TROPHE. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _stroph[=e]_, a
strophe.]

MONOSTYLE, mon'[=o]-st[=i]l, _adj._ (_archit._) consisting of a single
shaft. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _stylos_, a pillar.]

MONOSY, mon'[=o]-si, _n._ (_bot._) an abnormal condition in which organs
usually entire or united are found disunited. [Gr. _mon[=o]sis_--_monos_,
single.]

MONOSYLLABLE, mon-[=o]-sil'la-bl, _n._ a word of one syllable.--_adj._
MONOSYLLAB'IC, consisting of one syllable, or of words of one
syllable.--_n._ MONOSYL'LABISM, an exclusive use of monosyllables, as in
Chinese.

MONOSYMMETRIC, mon-[=o]-sim-et'rik, _adj._ having only one plane of
symmetry in crystallisation.--_adj._ MONOSYMMET'RICAL (_bot._), of flowers
capable of being bisected into similar halves in only one plane.

MONOTESSARON, mon-[=o]-tes'a-ron, _n._ a harmony of the four gospels.

MONOTHALAMOUS, mon-[=o]-thal'a-mus, _adj._ (_bot._) single-chambered: with
but one cavity. [Gr. _monos_, single, _thalamos_, a chamber.]

MONOTHEISM, mon'[=o]-th[=e]-izm, _n._ the belief in only one God.--_n._
MON'OTHEIST, one who believes that there is but one God.--_adj._
MONOTHEIST'IC. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _theos_, God.]

MONOTHELITE, mon-oth'e-l[=i]t, _n._ one who holds that Christ had but one
will and one operation or energy, as He had but one nature.--_ns._
MONOTH'ELISM, MONOTHELIT'ISM. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _thel[=e]t[=e]s_, one
who wills--_thelein_, to will.]

MONOTHETIC, mon-[=o]-thet'ik, _adj._ assuming a single essential element.
[Gr. _monos_, single, _thetos_, verbal adj. of _tithenai_, to put.]

MONOTINT, mon'[=o]-tint, _n._ drawing or painting in a single tint.

MONOTOCOUS, m[=o]-not'o-kus, _adj._ having one only at a birth. [Gr.
_monos_, single, _tiktein_, to bear.]

MONOTONE, mon'[=o]-t[=o]n, _n._ a single, unvaried tone or sound: a
succession of sounds having the same pitch: a piece of writing in one
strain throughout.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to intone, chant.--_adjs._
MONOTON'IC, MONOT'ONOUS, uttered in one unvaried tone: marked by dull
uniformity.--_adv._ MONOT'ONOUSLY.--_n._ MONOT'ONY, dull uniformity of tone
or sound: want of modulation in speaking or reading: (_fig._) irksome
sameness or want of variety. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _tonos_, a tone.]

MONOTREMATA, mon-[=o]-trem'a-ta, _n.pl._ the lowest order of Mammalia,
having a single opening for the genital and digestive organs.--_adj._
MONOTREM'ATOUS--also MON'OTREME.--_n._ MON'OTREME, a member of the
Monotremata. [Gr. _monos_, alone, _tr[=e]ma_, a hole.]

MONOTYPE, mon'[=o]-t[=i]p, _n._ and _adj._ having only one type or
representative: a print transferred from a painting on a metal
plate.--_adj._ MONOTYP'IC.

MONOXIDE, mo-nok's[=i]d, _n._ an oxide containing a single oxygen atom in
combination with two univalent atoms or one bivalent atom.

MONOXYLON, mon-oks'i-lon, _n._ a canoe made from one log.--_adj._
MONOX'YLOUS, formed of a single piece of wood. [Gr. _monos_, single,
_xylon_, wood.]

MONROEISM, mon-r[=o]'izm, _n._ more generally MONROE DOCTRINE, the
principle of the non-intervention of Europe in matters relating to the
American continent--from President _Monroe's_ Message in Dec. 1823.

MONSEIGNEUR, mon-s[=a]-nyer', _n._ my lord: a title in France given to a
person of high birth or rank, esp. to bishops, &c. (written _Mgr._):--_pl._
MESSEIGNEURS (me-s[=a]-nyer'). The corresponding Italian title is MONSIGNOR
(mon-s[=e]'nyor), conferred on prelates and on the dignitaries of the papal
household--also MONSI'GNORE. [Fr., from L. _meus_, my, _senior_, older.]

MONSIEUR, m[)o]-sye', _n._ sir: a title of courtesy in France=_Mr_ in
English (written _M._ or _Mons._): the eldest brother of the king of
France: a Frenchman generally--usually _mounseer_: a French
gentleman:--_pl._ MESSIEURS (me-sye').--MONSIEUR DE PARIS, the public
executioner. [Fr.,--L. _meus_, my, _senior_.]

MONSOON, mon-s[=oo]n', _n._ a periodical wind of the Indian Ocean, which
blows from the S.W. from April to October, and from the N.E. the rest of
the year: similar winds elsewhere, returning periodically with the
seasons.--_adj._ MONSOON'AL [It. _monsone_--Malay _m[=u]sim_--Ar. _mawsim_,
a time, a season.]

MONSTER, mon'st[.e]r, _n._ anything out of the usual course of nature: a
prodigy, or fabulous animal: anything unusually large: anything horrible
from ugliness or wickedness.--_adj._ unusually large, huge.--_n._
MONSTROS'ITY, an unnatural production.--_adj._ MON'STROUS, out of the
common course of nature: enormous: wonderful: horrible.--_adv._
MON'STROUSLY.--_n._ MON'STROUSNESS, state or quality of being
monstrous.--GILA MONSTER, a large poisonous lizard of Arizona, &c., having
tubercular scales. [Fr.,--L. _monstrum_, an omen, a monster--_mon[=e]re_,
to warn.]

[Illustration]

MONSTRANCE, mon'strans, _n._ the utensil employed in R.C. churches for
presenting the consecrated host for the adoration of the people, consisting
of a stand and a repository or case with small semicircular holder
(_lunula_).--Also _Ostensory_. [Fr.,--L. _monstr[=a]re_, to show,
_monstrum_, an omen.]

MONTAGNARD, mong-ta-nyar', _n._ one of the 'Mountain' or the extreme
democratic wing of the French Legislative Assembly (1st Oct. 1791-21st
Sept. 1792), so called because sitting on the topmost benches.

MONTANIC, mon-tan'ik, _adj._ pertaining to mountains: consisting in
mountains. [L. _montanus_--_mons_, _montis_, a mountain.]

MONTANISM, mon'tan-izm, _n._ a heresy which grew up in the Christian Church
in the second half of the 2d century, founded by the prophet and
'Paraclete,' _Montanus_ of Phrygia--an ascetic reaction in favour of the
old discipline and severity.--_n._ MON'TANIST, a supporter of
Montanism.--_adj._ MONTANIST'IC.

MONTANT, mont'ant, _adj._ rising: (_her._) increasing.--_n._ an upright
rail or stile, as in a door, &c.: (_Shak._) a contraction of _montanto_, a
term in fencing, apparently for an upward blow: a two-handed sword.
[Fr.,--_monter_, to mount--L. _mons_, _montis_, a mountain.]

MONT-DE-PIÉTÉ, mong'-de-p[=e]-[=a]-t[=a]', the Italian MONTE DI PIETÀ, _n._
a pawnbroking shop set up by public authority. [Fr. and It., 'fund, bank,
of piety.']

MONTE, mon'te, _n._ a shrubby tract, a forest: a Spanish-American gambling
game, played with a pack of forty cards.--THREE-CARD MONTE, a Mexican
gambling game, played with three cards, one usually a court-card. [Sp., 'a
hill'--L. _mons_, _montis_, a mountain.]

MONTEITH, mon-t[=e]th', _n._ a large 18th-century punch-bowl, usually of
silver, fluted and scalloped: a cotton handkerchief with white spots on a
coloured ground.

MONTEM, mon'tem, _n._ a former custom of Eton boys to go every third
Whit-Tuesday to a hillock on the Bath road and exact 'salt-money' from
passers-by, for the university expenses of the senior scholar or school
captain.

MONTONEGRINE, mon-te-neg'rin, _adj._ and _n._ relating to _Montenegro_, or
a native thereof: a close-fitting outer garment for women, braided and
embroidered.

MONTEPULCIANO, mon-te-pul-chä'n[=o], _n._ a fine wine produced around
_Montepulciano_, in central Italy.

MONTERO, mon-t[=a]'ro, _n._ a huntsman: a horseman's cap. [Sp. _montero_, a
huntsman--_monte_--L. _mons_, _montis_, a mountain.]

MONTGOLFIER, mont-gol'fi-[.e]r, _n._ a balloon made by the brothers
_Montgolfier_, Joseph Michel (1740-1810) and Jacques Etienne (1745-99), of
Annonay, in 1783.

MONTH, munth, _n._ the period from new moon to new moon--a _lunation_,
_lunar_, or _synodic_ month (=29.5306 days): one of the twelve divisions of
the year--a _calendar_ month: one-twelfth part of a tropical year, the time
the sun takes to pass through 30°--a _solar_ month=30.4368 days.--_n._
MONTH'LING, that which is a month old or which lasts a month.--_adj._
MONTH'LY, performed in a month: happening or published once a month.--_n._
a monthly publication: (_pl._) the menses.--_adv._ once a month: in every
month.--MONTH OF SUNDAYS, a period that seems very long; MONTH'S MIND (see
MIND).--SIDEREAL, OR STELLAR, MONTH, the time in which the moon passes
round the ecliptic to the same star=27.3217 days; TROPICAL, or PERIODIC,
MONTH, from the moon's passing the equinox till she again reaches
it=27.3216 days. [A.S. _mónð_--_móna_, the moon.]

MONTICULUS, mon-tik'[=u]-lus, _n._ a little elevation--also MON'TICLE and
MON'TICULE.--_adjs._ MONTIC'ULATE, MONTIC'ULOUS, having small projections.

MONTOIR, mon-twar', _n._ a stone or block used in mounting a horse. [Fr.,
_monter_, to mount.]

MONTON, mon'ton, _n._ a Mexican unit of weight for ore, varying from 1800
to 3200 Spanish pounds.

MONTRE, mon't[.e]r, _n._ a flue-stop the pipes of which show from without,
usually the open diapason of the great organ: an opening in a kiln wall.

MONTURE, mon't[=u]r, _n._ a mounting, setting, frame. [Fr.]

MONUMENT, mon'[=u]-ment, _n._ anything that preserves the memory of a
person or an event, a building, pillar, tomb, &c.: a record or enduring
example of anything: any distinctive mark.--_v.t._ to raise a monument in
memory of.--_adj._ MONUMENT'AL, of or relating to a monument or tomb:
memorial: impressive: amazing.--_adv._ MONUMENT'ALLY. [Fr.,--L.
_monumentum_--_mon[=e]re_, to remind.]

MOO, m[=oo], _v.i._ to low like a cow. [Imit.]

MOOD, m[=oo]d, _n._ fashion, manner: (_gram._) a. form of the verb to
express the mode or manner of an action or of a state of being: (_logic_)
the form of the syllogism as determined by the quantity and quality of its
three constituent propositions: (_mus._) the arrangement of the intervals
in the scale, as major and minor (see MODE). [_Mode._]

MOOD, m[=oo]d, _n._ disposition of mind: temporary state of the mind:
anger, heat of temper.--_adv._ MOOD'ILY.--_n._ MOOD'INESS, gloominess,
peevishness.--_adjs._ MOOD'Y, indulging in moods: out of humour: angry:
sad: gloomy; MOOD'Y-MAD (_Shak._), mad with anger. [A.S. _mód_, mind; cf.
Ger. _muth_, courage.]

MOOKTAR, m[=oo]k'tar, _n._ a native lawyer in India. [Ar. _mukht[=a]r_,
chosen.]

MOOL. A Scotch form of _mould_.

MOOLA(H). See MOLLA(H).

MOON, m[=oo]n, _n._ the secondary planet or satellite which revolves round
the earth monthly, shining with reflected light: a satellite revolving
about any other planet; a month: anything in the shape of a moon or
crescent: (_fort._) a crescent-shaped outwork.--_v.t._ to adorn with moons
or crescents.--_v.i._ to wander about or gaze vacantly at anything.--_n._
MOON'BEAM, a beam of light from the moon.--_adj._ MOON'-BLIND, dim-sighted,
purblind.--_ns._ MOON'CALF, a monster, a deformed creature: a
dolt.--_n.pl._ MOON'-CULMIN[=A]'TIONS, times of culmination of the limb of
the moon with certain neighbouring stars, formerly used in determining
longitude.--_adj._ MOONED, of or like the moon: having the figure of the
moon marked upon it.--_ns._ MOON'ER, one who moons about; MOON'EYE, a
disease affecting horses' eyes: a name of several American fishes;
MOON'FACE, a full, round face--a point of beauty in the East.--_adj._
MOON'FACED.--_ns._ MOON'-FISH, a name applied to various fishes;
MOON'-FLOWER, the ox-eye daisy; MOON'-GLADE, the track of moonlight on
water.--_adj._ MOON'ISH, like the moon: variable: inconstant.--_n._
MOON'-KNIFE, a crescent-shaped knife used by leather-workers in shaving off
the fleshy parts of skins.--_adj._ MOON'LESS, destitute of moonlight.--_n._
MOON'LIGHT, the light of the moon--sunlight reflected from the moon's
surface.--_adj._ lighted by the moon: occurring during moonlight.--_ns._
MOON'LIGHTER, one of a band of cowardly ruffians in Ireland who committed
agrarian outrages by night about 1880: a moonshiner;
MOON'LIGHTING.--_adjs._ MOON'LIT, lit or illumined by the moon;
MOON'-LOVED, loved by the moon.--_ns._ MOON'-MAD'NESS, lunacy, supposed to
be caused by sleeping in full moonlight; MOON'-RAK'ER, a silly person;
MOON'-RAK'ING, the following of crazy fancies; MOON'-SAIL, a small sail,
sometimes carried above the sky-scraper; MOON'-SET, the setting of the
moon; MOON'SHINE, the shining of the moon: (_fig._) show without reality:
poached eggs with sauce: a month: (_U.S._) smuggled spirits; MOON'SHINER, a
smuggler or illicit distiller of spirits.--_adj._ MOON'SHINY, lighted by
the moon: visionary, unreal.--_n._ MOON'-STONE, a variety of feldspar
presenting a pearly reflection from within.--_adj._ MOON'STRUCK, affected
by the moon, lunatic, crazed.--_n._ MOON'WORT, any fern of the genus
_Botrychium_.--_adj._ MOON'Y, relating to, or like, the moon or a crescent,
bearing a crescent: round, as a shield: like moonlight, lighted by the
moon: silly: sickly: tipsy.--_n._ a noodle.--MOONLIGHT FLITTING, a removal
of one's furniture, &c., during night, to prevent it being seized for rent
or debt. [A.S. _móna_; cf. Ger. _mond_, L. _mensis_, Gr. _m[=e]n[=e]_.]

MOONSHEE, m[=oo]n'sh[=e], _n._ in India, a secretary, interpreter, teacher
of languages. [Ar. _munshi_.]

MOOP, m[=oo]p, _v.i._ (_Scot._) to nibble, browse.

MOOR, m[=oo]r, _n._ a large tract of untilled ground, often covered with
heath, and having a poor, peaty soil: a heath.--_ns._ MOOR'COCK, MOOR'FOWL,
the red grouse or heathcock found in moors; MOOR'HEN, the female moor-fowl:
the water-hen; MOOR'-ILL (_Scot._), a kind of disease among cattle--also
_Red-water_.--_adjs._ MOOR'ISH, MOOR'Y, resembling a moor: sterile: marshy:
boggy.--_n._ MOOR'LAND, a tract of moor. [A.S. _mór_; Ice. _mór_, peat.]

MOOR, m[=oo]r, _v.t._ to fasten a ship by cable and anchor: to fix
firmly.--_v.i._ to be fastened by cables or chains.--_ns._ MOOR'AGE, a
place for mooring; MOOR'ING, act of mooring: that which serves to moor or
confine a ship: in _pl._ the place or condition of a ship thus moored.
[Prob. Dut. _marren_, to tie, allied to A.S. _merran_ (in compound
_ámierran_), Old High Ger. _marrjan_, to hinder.]

MOOR, m[=oo]r, _n._ a member of the dark mixed Mauretanian and Arab race
inhabiting Morocco and the Barbary coast: one of the Arab and Berber
conquerors and occupants of Spain from 711 to 1492--same as _Arab_ or
_Saracen_: a dark-coloured person generally, a negro.--_n._ MOOR'ERY, a
quarter inhabited by MOORS.--_adj._ MOOR'ISH. [Fr. _more_, _maure_--L.
_maurus_--Gr. _mauros_, black.]

MOORVA, m[=oo]r'va, _n._ an East Indian silky fibre for cordage.--Also
_Marool_, _Bowstring-hemp_.

MOOSE, m[=oo]s, _n._ the largest deer of America, resembling the European
elk. [Algonkin _musu_.]

MOOT, m[=oo]t, _v.t._ to propose for discussion: to discuss: argue for
practice.--_adj._ discussed or debated.--_n._ in early English history, the
meeting of the assembled freemen, or their representatives, to regulate the
affairs of the village or tun, the hundred, or the kingdom--_village-_ or
_town-moot_, _hundred-moot_, folk-moot.--_adj._ MOOT'ABLE, that can be
mooted or debated.--_ns._ MOOT'-CASE, MOOT'-POINT, a case, point, or
question to be mooted or debated: an unsettled question; MOOT'-COURT,
-HALL, a meeting or court for arguing supposed cases; MOOT'-HILL, a hill of
meeting on which the moot was held. [A.S. _mótian_--_mót_, _gemót_, an
assembly, akin to _métan_, to meet.]

MOP, mop, _n._ a bunch of rags, &c., fixed, on a handle for washing floors,
windows, or the like: anything at all like a mop: (_prov._) a
hiring-fair.--_v.t._ to rub or wipe with a mop:--_pr.p._ mop'ping; _pa.t._
and _pa.p._ mopped.--_adj._ MOP'-HEAD'ED, having a shaggy, unkempt head of
hair. [O. Fr. _mappe_--L. _mappa_, a napkin.]

MOP, mop, _n._ a grimace.--_v.i._ to make such.

MOPE, m[=o]p, _v.i._ to be silent and dispirited: to be dull or
stupid.--_v.t._ to make spiritless.--_n._ a listless person, a drone--also
MOP'US.--_adv._ MOP'INGLY.--_adj._ MOP'ISH, dull: spiritless.--_adv._
MOP'ISHLY, in a mopish manner.--_n._ MOP'ISHNESS. [Dut. _moppen_, to pout,
sulk; Ger. _muffen_.]

MOPPET, mop'et, _n._ a doll of rags: a young girl--also MOP'SY, an untidy
woman.--_adj._ MOP'SICAL, short-sighted: stupid.

MOPPY, mop'i, _adj._ (_slang_) tipsy.

MOPS, mops, _n._ a pug-dog.

MOPSTICK, mop'stik, _n._ in an old pianoforte movement, a rod which raises
the damper as the key is depressed.--Also MAP'STICK.

MOPUS, mop'us, _n._ (_slang_) money.

MOQUETTE, m[=o]-ket', _n._ a material for carpets, with a loose velvety
pile--the back thick canvas, &c. [Fr.]

MORA, m[=o]'ra, _n._ (_law_) delay, esp. unjustifiable. [L.]

MORA, m[=o]'ra, _n._ an ancient game played from China to Peru, the aim
being to guess the number of fingers held out by a player. [It.]

MORAINE, mo-r[=a]n', _n._ a continuous line of rocks and gravel along the
edges of glaciers.--_adj._ MORAIN'IC. [Fr.--Ger. (Bavarian) _mur_.]

MORAL, mor'al, _adj._ of or belonging to the manners or conduct of men:
conformed to right, ethical, virtuous: capable of knowing right and wrong:
subject to the moral law: instructing with regard to morals: supported by
evidence of reason or probability--opp. to _Demonstrative_: belonging to
the mind, or to the will: (_Shak._) moralising.--_n._ in _pl._ manners: the
doctrine or practice of the duties of life: moral philosophy or ethics:
conduct, esp. sexual conduct: in _sing._ the practical lesson given by
anything: an emblem or allegory: (_slang_) a certainty, an exact
counterpart.--_v.i._ to moralise.--_ns._ MOR'ALER (_Shak._), a moraliser;
MORALIS[=A]'TION, act of moralising, explanation in a moral sense.--_v.t._
MOR'ALISE, to apply to a moral purpose: to explain in a moral
sense.--_v.i._ to speak or write on moral subjects: to make moral
reflections.--_ns._ MOR'ALISER; MOR'ALISM, a moral maxim; moral counsel:
morality as distinct from religion; MOR'ALIST, one who teaches morals, or
who practises moral duties: a merely moral as distinguished from a
religious man: one who prides himself on his morality.--_adj._
MORALIST'IC.--_n._ MORAL'ITY, quality of being moral: that in an action
which renders it right or wrong: the practice of moral duties apart from
religion: virtue: the doctrine which treats of actions as being right or
wrong: ethics: a kind of drama which grew out of mysteries and
miracle-plays, and continued in fashion till Elizabeth's time, in which
allegorical representations of the virtues and vices were introduced as
_dramatis personæ_.--_adv._ MOR'ALLY, in a moral manner: uprightly: to all
intents and purposes, practically.--MORAL AGENT, one who acts under a
knowledge of right and wrong; MORAL CERTAINTY, a likelihood so great as to
be safely acted on, although not capable of being certainly proved; MORAL
DEFEAT (see MORAL VICTORY); MORAL FACULTY (see MORAL SENSE); MORAL LAW, a
law or rules for life and conduct, founded on what is right and wrong: the
law of conscience; MORAL PHILOSOPHY, the science which treats of the
qualities of actions as being right or wrong, and the duty of mankind with
regard to such actions; MORAL SENSE, that power of the mind which knows or
judges actions to be right or wrong, and determines conduct accordingly;
MORAL THEOLOGY, ethics treated with reference to a divine source; MORAL
VICTORY, a defeat in appearance, but in some important sense a real
victory. [Fr.,--L. _moralis_--_mos_, _moris_, custom.]

MORALE, mo-räl', _n._ the state of a person's morals: mental state as
regards spirit and confidence, esp. of a body of soldiers, &c. [Fr.]

MORASS, mo-ras', _n._ a tract of soft, wet ground: a marsh.--_adj._
MORASS'Y.--MORASS ORE, bog-iron ore. [Dut. _moeras_, a marsh.]

MORAT, m[=o]'rat, _n._ a drink made of honey and mulberry juice. [It.
_morato_--_moro_--L. _morum_.]

MORATORIUM, mo-ra-t[=o]'ri-um, _n._ an emergency act allowing a government
bank to suspend payments in specie for a given time.

MORAVIAN, mo-r[=a]'vi-an, _adj._ pertaining to _Moravia_ or the
Moravians.--_n._ one of a Christian denomination entitled _Unitas Fratrum_
of _United Brethren_, a small body of Protestants of extraordinary
missionary energy, founded in the 15th century.--_n._ MOR[=A]'VIANISM, the
doctrines of the Moravians.

MORAY, m[=o]'r[=a], _n._ an apodal eel-like fish of the Muræna
family.--Also MA'RAY, MU'RAY, MUR'RY.

MORBID, mor'bid, _adj._ diseased, sickly: not healthful.--_n._ MORBID'ITY,
the quality of being morbid: disease: the ratio of sickness in a
community.--_adv._ MOR'BIDLY.--_n._ MORBIDNESS, sickliness.--_adjs._
MORBIF'ERAL, MORBIF'EROUS; MORBIF'IC, causing disease.--_n._ MORBIL'L[=I],
measles.--_adjs._ MORBIL'LIFORM, like measles; MORBIL'LOUS, pertaining to
measles; MORBOSE', proceeding from disease: morbid: not healthy.--_n._
MOR'BUS, disease. [Fr.,--L. _morbidus_--_morbus_, disease.]

MORBIDEZZA, mor-bi-det'za, _n._ that quality of flesh-painting which gives
the impression of life. [It.]

MORCEAU, mor's[=o], _n._ a small bit: a dainty morsel:--_pl._ MOR'CEAUX
(-s[=o]z). [Fr.]

MORDACIOUS, mor-d[=a]'shus, _adj._ given to biting: biting: (_fig._)
sarcastic: severe.--_adv._ MORD[=A]'CIOUSLY.--_n._ MORDAC'ITY, quality of
being mordacious: biting severity.--_adj._ MOR'DANT, biting, sarcastic,
severe: serving to fix colours.--_n._ any substance, as alum, used to give
permanency or brilliancy to dyes: a glutinous size as a ground for gilding,
matter to make gold-leaf adhere: any corrosive liquid by which the biting
in etching is effected.--_v.t._ to treat with a mordant.--_adv._
MOR'DANTLY.--_ns._ MOR'DICANCY, MORDIC[=A]'TION. [Fr.,--L. _mordax_,
_mordacis_--_mord[=e]re_, to bite.]

MORDENT, mor'dent, _n._ a kind of trill in music, or the character
indicating it. [It. _mordente_.]

MORE, m[=o]r, _adj._ (serves as _comp._ of MANY and MUCH) additional: other
besides: greater (so in _B._).--_adv._ to a greater degree: again:
longer.--_n._ a greater thing: something further or in addition:--_superl._
MOST (m[=o]st).--_adj._ M[=O]'RISH. insufficient: such that one wants
more.--MORE AND MORE, continually increasing; MORE BY TOKEN, in proof of
this, besides; MORE OR LESS, about: in round numbers.--ANY MORE, something
additional: further; BE NO MORE, to have died; NO MORE, nothing in
addition. [Including both M.E. _mo_, more in number--A.S. _má_, more in
number, and M. E. _more_, larger--A.S. _mára_, greater.]

MORE, m[=o]r, _n._ (_Spens._) a root. [A.S. _moru_, _more_, a carrot; Ger.
_möhre_.]

MORE, m[=o]'re, _adv._ after the manner of. [L., abl. of _mos_, a custom.]

MOREEN, mo-r[=e]n', _n._ a stout woollen or cotton and woollen stuff, used
for petticoats, curtains, &c. [Fr. _moire_, mohair.]

MOREL, mor'el, or m[=o]-rel', _n._ any edible mushroom of the genus
_Morchella_. [Fr. _morille_; prob. Old High Ger. _morhela_ (Ger.
_morchel_), a mushroom.]

MORELLO, m[=o]-rel'o, _n._ a dark-red variety of cherry, much used in
cooking and for cherry brandy.--Also MOR'EL, or MOREL'. [It.,--Low L.
_morellus_, blackish--L. _maurus_, a blackamoor, or perh. for _morulus_,
blackish--_morum_, a mulberry.]

MOREOVER, m[=o]r-[=o]'v[.e]r, _adv._ more over or beyond what has been
said: further: besides: also.

MORESQUE, mo-resk', _adj._ done after the manner of the Moors.--_n._ a kind
of ornamentation, same as arabesque--(_obs._) MORES'CO. [Fr.,--It.
_moresco_.]

MORGANA (FATA). See FATA.

MORGANATIC, mor-gan-at'ik, _adj._ noting a marriage of a man with a woman
of inferior rank, in which neither the latter nor her children enjoy the
rank or inherit the possessions of her husband, though the children are
legitimate--also _Left-handed marriage_.--_adv._ MORGANAT'ICALLY. [Low L.
_morganatica_, a gift from a bridegroom to his bride--Teut.; cf. Ger.
_morgengabe_, A.S. _morgengifu_, a morning gift.]

MORGAY, mor'g[=a], _n._ the small spotted dogfish or bounce.

MORGLAY, mor'gl[=a], _n._ a claymore--esp. that of the Arthurian hero Sir
Bevis.

MORGUE, morg, _n._ a place where bodies found dead are laid out for
identification. [Fr.]

MORGUE, morg, _n._ hauteur. [Fr.]

MORIAN, m[=o]'ri-an, _n._ a Moor--also MUR'RIAN (Pr. Bk.)

MORIBUND, mo'ri-bund, _adj._ about to die: in a dying state. [L.
_moribundus_--_mori_, to die.]

[Illustration]

MORION, MORRION, m[=o]'ri-un, _n._ a open helmet without visor or beaver.
[Fr., prob. from Sp. _morrion_--_morra_, crown of the head. Diez suggests
Basque _murua_, a hill.]

MORISCO, mo-ris'ko, _n._ the Moorish language: a Moorish dance or dancer:
Moorish architecture: one of the Moors who remained in Spain after the fall
of Granada in 1492.--_adj._ MOORISH--(_obs._) MORISK'.

MORISONIAN, mor-i-s[=o]'ni-an, _n._ a member of the Evangelical Union,
formed in 1843 by the Rev. James _Morison_ (1816-93), after his separation
from the United Secession Church.--_n._ MORIS[=O]'NIANISM, the religious
views of Morison and others--essentially a reaction from the Calvinistic
doctrine of the Westminster Confession on predestination and unconditional
election and reprobation.

MORKIN, mor'kin, _n._ a beast that has died by accident.

MORLING, mor'ling, _n._ a sheep dead of disease or its wool.

MORLOP, mor'lop, _n._ a New South Wales jasper.

MORMO, mor'm[=o], _n._ a genus of noctuoid moths: a bugbear.

MORMON, mor'mon, _n._ one of a religious sect in Utah, U.S., openly
polygamous till 1890, calling itself 'The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints,' founded in 1830 by Joseph Smith, whose supplement to
the Bible, the _Book of Mormon_, was given out as translated from the
golden plates of one '_Mormon_,' but was really adapted from a MS. romance
written about 1811 by Solomon Spaulding.--_ns._ MOR'MONISM; MOR'MONITE,
MOR'MONIST.

MORMOPS, mor'mops, _n._ a genus of American phyllostomine bats, so called
from their repulsive physiognomy. [Gr. _morm[=o]_, a bugbear, _[=o]ps_,
face.]

MORN, morn, _n._ the first part of the day: morning.--THE MORN (_Scot._),
to-morrow; THE MORN'S MORNING, to-morrow morning. [M. E. _morwen_--A.S.
_morgen_; Ger. _morgen_.]

MORNE, m[=o]rn, _n._ the blunt head of a jousting-lance: a small, rounded
hill.--_adjs._ MORNÉ (m[=o]r-n[=a]'), denoting a lion rampant without teeth
or claws; MORNED (_her._), blunted. [Fr.]

MORNING, morn'ing, _n._ the first part of the day: the early part of
anything: the first dram of the day.--_adj._ pertaining to the morning:
taking place or being in the morning.--_ns._ MORN'ING-DRESS, dress such as
is usually worn in the morning, as opposed to _Evening-dress_;
MORN'ING-GIFT, a gift made by the husband to the wife on the morning after
marriage; MORNING-GOWN, a gown for wearing in the morning; MORN'ING-LAND,
the east; MORN'ING-ROOM, a woman's morning boudoir or sitting-room in
English country houses; MORN'ING-SICK'NESS, nausea and vomiting in the
morning, common in the early stages of pregnancy; MORN'ING-STAR, any of the
planets, esp. Venus, when it rises before the sun: a kind of flail with a
star-like ball of metal at the end of a chain, formerly used as a weapon of
war; MORN'ING-TIDE, the morning time: early part; MORN'ING-WATCH, the watch
between 4 and 8 A.M. [Contr. of _morwen-ing_. Cf. _Morn_.]

MOROCCO, mo-rok'[=o], _n._ a fine goat-skin leather, tanned with sumac,
first brought from _Morocco_, afterwards from the Levant and elsewhere: a
sheep-skin leather in imitation of this: a very strong ale, anciently
brewed in Cumberland.--_adj._ consisting of Morocco.--FRENCH MOROCCO, an
inferior kind of Levant morocco, with small grain; LEVANT MOROCCO, a fine
quality of morocco, with large grain; PERSIAN MOROCCO, a morocco finished
on the grain side.

MOROLOGY, m[=o]-rol'o-ji, _n._ foolish talk. [Gr., _m[=o]ros_, a fool,
_logia_--_legein_, to speak.]

MOROSE, m[=o]-r[=o]s', _adj._ of a sour temper: gloomy: severe.--_adv._
MOROSE'LY.--_ns._ MOROSE'NESS, quality of being morose--(_obs._) MOROS'ITY.
[L. _morosus_, peevish--_mos_, _moris_, manner.]

MORPHEUS, mor'f[=u]s, _n._ a god of dreams: sleep.--_adjs._ MORPH[=E]'AN,
MORPHET'IC. [L.]

MORPHIA, mor'fi-a, _n._ the chief narcotic principle of opium: a drug which
causes sleep or deadens pain--also MOR'PHINE.--_ns._ MOR'PHINISM;
MORPHIOM[=A]'NIA; MORPHIOM[=A]'NIAC. [Coined from Gr. _Morpheus_, god of
dreams--_morph[=e]_, shape.]

MORPHIC, mor'fik, _adj._ relating to form, morphological.--_n._
MORPHOGEN'ESIS, the production of morphological characters.--_adj._
MORPHOGENET'IC.--_ns._ MORPHOG'ENY, the genesis of form: morphology;
MORPHOG'RAPHER; MORPHOG'RAPHY, descriptive morphology.--_adjs._
MORPHOLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._ MORPHOL'OGIST, one who is versed in, or who
writes upon, morphology; MORPHOL'OGY, the science of organic form, of the
development of the forms of living organisms; MORPHON'OMY, the laws of
morphology; MORPH[=O]'SIS, morphogenesis.--_adj._ MORPHOT'IC. [Gr.
_morph[=e]_, form.]

MORRHUA, mor'[=oo]-a, _n._ the chief genus of gadoid fishes, including the
cod (_Gadus_).

MORRIS, MORRICE, mor'is, MORR'IS-DANCE, _n._ a Moorish dance: a dance in
which bells, rattles, tambours, &c. are introduced.--_v.i._ MORR'IS, to
perform by dancing.--_ns._ MORR'IS-DANC'ER; MORR'IS-PIKE (_Shak._), a
Moorish pike.--NINE MEN'S MORRIS, an old English game in which a figure of
squares, one within another, was marked out on aboard or on the turf, and
eighteen pieces or stones, nine for each side, were moved alternately as at
draughts--also _Nine men's merils_. [Sp. _morisco_, Moorish--Sp. _moro_, a
Moor.]

MORROW, mor'[=o], _n._ the day following the present: to-morrow: the next
following day: the time immediately after any event.--_n._ To-MORR'OW, next
day--also _adv._ [M. E. _morwe_=_morwen_; cf. _Morn_.]

MORSE, mors, _n._ the walrus or sea-horse. [Russ. _morj[)u]_, a morse,
prob. from _more_, the sea.]

MORSE, mors, _n._ the metal fastening of the cope, generally of precious
metal, ornamented with jewels--also _Pectoral_. [L. _morsus_, a bite.]

MORSE, mors, _n._ (_coll._) the Morse-code signalling of telegraph
operators, from Sam. F. B. _Morse_ (1791-1872).--MORSE ALPHABET, a system
of symbols to be used in telegraphic messages where Morse's indicator is
used, consisting of dots and dashes combined in different ways to indicate
the different letters.

MORSEL, mor'sel, _n._ a bite or mouthful: a small piece of food: a small
quantity of anything which is divided.--_ns._ MOR'S[=U]RE, the act of
biting; MOR'SUS, a bite. [O. Fr. _morsel_ (Fr. _morceau_, It. _morsello_),
dim. from L. _morsus_--_mord[=e]re_, _morsum_, to bite.]

MORSING-HORN, mor'sing-horn, _n._ the small horn that used to hold the fine
powder used for priming. [Fr. _amorcer_, to prime a gun.]

MORT, mort, _n._ death: a flourish sounded at the death of a buck, & c., in
hunting.

MORT, mort, _n._ a great number or amount of anything.

MORT, mort, _n._ (_slang_) a woman.

MORTAL, mor'tal, _adj._ liable to die: causing death: deadly: fatal:
punishable with death: involving the penalty of spiritual death, as opposed
to _Venial_: extreme, violent, implacable: human: (_coll._) very great,
very long, confounded, very drunk.--_n._ a human being.--_v.t._ MOR'TALISE,
to make mortal.--_n._ MORTAL'ITY, condition of being mortal: death:
frequency or number of deaths, esp. in proportion to population: the human
race.--_adv._ MOR'TALLY--(_coll._) MOR'TAL.--_ns._ MORT'-CLOTH, a pall;
MORT'-STONE, a stone by the wayside on which the bearers lay the bier for a
rest during a funeral procession.--BILLS OF MORTALITY, lists of the numbers
of those who have died in any place during any given time; LAW OF
MORTALITY, rules founded on experience or calculation, showing what average
proportion of those living at the beginning of a given time will be
surviving at its close. [Fr.,--L. _mortalis_--_mori_, to die.]

MORTAR, mor'tar, _n._ a vessel in which substances are pounded with a
pestle: a short and very thick piece of artillery of large calibre, firing
a heavy shell at a fixed angle of 45° or thereabouts, so as to strike
vertically: a cement of lime, sand, and water, used to bind together stones
or bricks in building.--_v.t._ to close up or in as with mortar: to pound
in a mortar.--_n._ MOR'TAR-BOARD, a square board with a handle beneath for
holding mortar which the workman is using: a square-crowned academic cap.
[A.S. _mortere_--L. _mortarium_, a mortar.]

MORTGAGE, mor'g[=a]j, _n._ a conditional conveyance of or lien upon land or
other property as security for the performance of some condition, as the
payment of money, becoming void on the performance of the condition: the
act of conveying, or the deed effecting it.--_v.t._ to pledge as security
for a debt.--_ns._ MORTGAGEE', one to whom a mortgage is made or given;
MORT'GAGER. [O. Fr., _mort_, dead, _gage_, a pledge.]

MORTIER, mor'tye, _n._ a cap of state worn by legal functionaries in
France.

MORTIFEROUS, mor-tif'[.e]r-us, _adj._ death-bringing: fatal. [L. _mors_,
death, _ferre_, to bring.]

MORTIFY, mor'ti-f[=i], _v.t._ to destroy the vital functions of: to subdue
by severities and penance: to vex: to humble: (_Scots law_) to dispose of
by mortification.--_v.i._ to lose vitality, to gangrene: to be
subdued:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mor'tified.--_ns._ MORTIFIC[=A]'TION, act of
mortifying or state of being mortified: the death of one part of an animal
body: a bringing under of the passions and appetites by a severe or strict
manner of living: humiliation: vexation: that which mortifies or vexes:
(_Scots law_) a bequest to some charitable institution; MOR'TIFIEDNESS,
subjugation of the passions; MOR'TIFIER, one who mortifies.--_adj._
MOR'TIFYING, tending to mortify or humble: humiliating: vexing. [Fr.,--Low
L. _mortific[=a]re_, to cause death to--_mors_ death, _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

MORTISE, mor'tis, _n._ a cavity cut into a piece of timber to receive the
tenon, a projection on another piece made to fit it: stability, power of
adhesion--also MOR'TICE.--_v.t._ to cut a mortise in: to join by a mortise
and tenon. [Fr. _mortaise_; ety. unknown.]

MORTMAIN, mort'm[=a]n, _n._ the transfer of property to a corporation,
which is said to be a dead hand, or one that can never part with it
again.--STATUTES OF MORTMAIN, acts of parliament restricting or forbidding
the giving of property to religious houses. [Fr. _mort_, dead, _main_--L.
_manus_, the hand.]

MORTUARY, mort'[=u]-ar-i, _n. adj._ belonging to the burial of the
dead.--_n._ a burial-place, place for the temporary reception of the dead:
a gift claimed by the minister of a parish on the death of a parishioner.
[Low L.,--L. _mortuus_, dead, _mori_, to die.]

MORULA, mor'[=u]-la, _n._ condition of an ovum after complete segmentation:
button-scurvy.

MORUS, m[=o]'rus, _n._ a genus of trees or shrubs of the nettle family--the
mulberries. [L.]

MOSAIC, mö-z[=a]'ik, _n._ a kind of work in which designs are formed by
small pieces of coloured marble, glass, &c. cemented on a ground of stucco,
or inlaid upon metal.--_adj._ relating to, or composed of, mosaic.--_adv._
MOS[=A]'ICALLY.--_n._ MOS[=A]'ICIST.--MOSAIC GOLD, an alloy of copper and
zinc--also _Ormolu_. [Fr.,--L. _musæum_ or _musivum_ (_opus_), mosaic
(work)--Gr. _mouseios_--_Mousa_, a muse.]

MOSAIC, m[=o]-z[=a]'ik, _adj._ pertaining to _Moses_, the great Jewish
lawgiver.--_n._ M[=O]'SAISM.--MOSAIC LAW, the law of the Jews given by
Moses at Mount Sinai.

MOSAUSAURUS, m[=o]-sa-saw'rus, _n._ the typical genus of a group of huge
fossil marine reptiles, found in the Cretaceous strata of Europe and
America. [L. _Mosa_, the river Meuse, Gr. _sauros_, a lizard.]

MOSCHATEL, mos'ka-tel, _n._ a plant with pale-green flowers and a musky
smell. [Fr. _moscatelline_--Low L. _moschatellina_--_muscus_, musk.]

MOSCHIFEROUS, mos-kif'e-rus, _adj._ producing musk.

MOSE, m[=o]z, _n._ (_Shak._) a disease of horses.--_v.i._ to have this.
[Prob. Old High Ger. _m[=a]s[=a]_, a spot.]

MOSELLE, mo-zel', _n._ light wines from the district of the river
_Moselle_, with an aromatic flavour.

MOSEY, m[=o]'zi, _v.i._ (_Amer. slang_) to go off quickly: to hurry up.

MOSLEM, moz'lem, _n._ a Mussulman or Mohammedan.--_adj._ of or belonging to
the Mohammedans.--_n._ MOS'LEMISM. [Ar. _muslim_, pl.
_muslim[=i]n_--_salama_, to submit (to God). Doublet _Mussulman_.]

MOSLINGS, moz'lingz, _n.pl._ the thin shavings taken off by the currier in
dressing skins. [_Morsel_.]

MOSQUE, mosk, _n._ a Mohammedan place of worship. [Fr.,--Sp.
_mezquita_--Ar. _masjid_--_sajada_, to pray.]

MOSQUITO, mos-k[=e]'to, _n._ a biting gnat, common in tropical
countries:--_pl._ MOSQUI'TOES.--MOSQUITO CANOPY, curtain, net, an
arrangement of netting set over a bed, in a window, &c., to keep out
mosquitoes. [Sp., dim. of _mosca_, a fly--L. _musca_.]

MOSS, mos, _n._ a family of flowerless plants with branching stems and
narrow, simple leaves: popularly any small cryptogamic plant, esp. a
lichen: a piece of ground covered with moss: a bog.--_v.t._ to cover with
moss.--_ns._ MOSS'-BACK, an old fish: a person of antiquated views;
MOSS'-CHEEP'ER (_Scot._), the titlark.--_adj._ MOSS'-GROWN, covered with
moss.--_ns._ MOSS'-HAG (_Scot._), a pit or slough in a bog; MOSS'INESS;
MOSS'-LAND, land abounding in peat-bogs; MOSS'-ROSE, a variety of rose
having a moss-like growth on and below the calyx; MOSS'TROOP'ER, one of the
robbers that used to infest the mosses of the Border.--_adj._ MOSS'Y,
overgrown or abounding with moss.--ICELAND MOSS (see ICELAND). [A.S.
_meós_; Dut. _mos_, Ger. _moos_.]

MOSS-BUNKER, mos'-bung-k[.e]r, _n._ the menhaden. [Dut. _mars-banker_, the
scad or horse-mackerel.]

MOST, m[=o]st, _adj._ (_superl._ of MORE), greatest in age, position or
rank, number, degree, &c.--_adv._ in the highest degree.--_n._ the greatest
number or quantity.--_advs._ MOST'LY; MOST'WHAT (_Spens._), for the most
part, mostly.--AT (THE) MOST, to the utmost extent; FOR THE MOST PART,
chiefly; MAKE THE MOST OF (see MAKE). [A.S. _m['æ]st_; cog. with Ger.
_meist_.]

MOT, m[=o], _n._ a pithy or witty saying.--MOT D'ORDRE, word of command.
[Fr.]

MOT, mot, _n._ a note on the bugle, &c., or its mark in musical notation.
[Fr.,--L. _muttum_, a murmur.]

MOTATORIOUS, m[=o]-ta-t[=o]'ri-us, _adj._ vibratory, excessively mobile--of
long-legged spiders and crane-flies, &c. [L. _mot[=a]re_, _-[=a]tum_ to
keep moving, freq. of _mov[=e]re_, to move.]

MOTE, m[=o]t, _n._ an archaism for might or must.

MOTE, m[=o]t, _n._ a particle of dust: a speck: a stain or blemish:
anything very small.--_adjs._ M[=O]T'ED, MOT'TY, containing motes. [A.S.
_mot_; Dut. _mot_.]

MOTET, mo-tet', _n._ a sacred cantata of several unconnected movements, as
a solo, trio, chorus, fugue, &c.: a choral composition having a biblical or
similar prose text.--_n._ MOTET'TIST, a composer of such. [Fr.,--It.
_mottetto_--_motto_, saying.]

MOTH., moth, _n._ a family of insects like butterflies, seen mostly at
night: the larva of this insect which gnaws cloth: that which eats away
gradually and silently.--_v.t._ MOTH'-EAT, to prey upon, as a moth eats a
garment.--_adj._ MOTH'-EAT'EN, eaten or cut by moths.--_n._ MOTH'-HUNT'ER,
a little kind of swallow which hunts moths, &c., called also the
_Goatsucker_.--_adj._ MOTH'Y, full of moths.--DEATH'S-HEAD MOTH, (see
DEATH). [A.S. _moþþe_, _mohþe_; Ger. _motte_.]

MOTHER, muth'[.e]r, _n._ a female parent, esp. one of the human race: a
woman in relation to her child: a matron: that which has produced anything:
the female head of a religious house: a familiar term of address to an old
woman.--_adj._ received by birth, as it were from one's mother: natural:
acting the part of a mother: originating.--_v.t._ to adopt as a son or
daughter.--_ns._ MOTH'ER-CHURCH, the church from which others have sprung;
MOTH'ER-COUN'TRY, -LAND, the country of one's birth: the country from which
a colony has gone out; MOTH'ERHOOD, state of being a mother; MOTH'ERING, a
rural English custom of visiting one's parents on Mid-Lent Sunday;
MOTH'ER-IN-LAW, the mother of one's husband or wife.--_adj._ MOTH'ERLESS,
without a mother.--_n._ MOTH'ERLINESS.--_adj._ MOTH'ERLY, pertaining to, or
becoming, a mother: like a mother: parental: tender.--_ns._
MOTH'ER-OF-PEARL', the nacreous internal layer of the shells of several
molluscs, esp. of the pearl-oyster, so called because producing the pearl;
MOTH'ER'S-MARK, a birth-mark; MOTH'ER-TONGUE, a person's native language: a
language from which another has its origin; MOTH'ER-WA'TER, the residual
liquid remaining after the chemical substances it contained have been
crystallised or precipitated; MOTH'ER-WIT, native wit: common-sense;
MOTH'ER-WORT, a labiate plant growing in waste places; QUEEN'-MOTH'ER, the
mother of a reigning sovereign.--MOTHER CAREY'S CHICKEN, the stormy petrel,
or other bird of the same family; MOTHER-HUBBARD, a woman's loose flowing
gown, like that proper to the nursery heroine.--EVERY MOTHER'S SON, all,
without exception. [A.S. _móder_; Dut. _moeder_, Ice. _móðir_, Ger.
_mutter_, Ir. and Gael. _mathair_, L. _mater_, Gr. _m[=e]t[=e]r_, Sans,
_mátá_, _mátri_.]

MOTHER, muth[.e]r, _n._ dregs or sediments, as of vinegar.--_v.i._ to
become concreted.--_adj._ MOTH'ERY. [_Mud_.]

MOTIF, m[=o]-t[=e]f', _n._ an old form of motive: a theme or ground for
intellectual action, or a leading subject in a dramatic work: in a musical
composition the principal subject on which the movement is constructed.
[Fr.,--L. _motus_, moved.]

MOTION, m[=o]'shun, _n._ the act or state of moving: a single movement:
change of posture: gait: power of moving or of being moved: angular
velocity--_direct_ when from west to east; _retrograde_ when from east to
west: excitement of the mind: any natural impulse, instigation: proposal
made, esp. in an assembly: an application to a court, during a case before
it, for an order or rule that something be done, esp. something incidental
to the progress of the cause rather than its issue: evacuation of the
intestine: (_pl._, _B._) impulses.--_v.i._ to make a significant movement,
to offer a proposal.--_v.t._ to guide by a gesture, &c.: to move.--_adj._
M[=O]'TILE, capable of spontaneous motion.--_n._ MOTIL'ITY.--_adj._
MO'TIONAL, characterised by motions.--_n._ M[=O]'TIONIST, one who makes a
motion.--_adj._ M[=O]'TIONLESS, without motion.--ABSOLUTE MOTION, change of
absolute place; ACCELERATED MOTION, motion of which the velocity is
continually increasing; ANGULAR MOTION, motion regarded as measured by the
increase of the angle made with some standard direction by a line drawn
from the moving object to a fixed point; LAWS OF MOTION, Newton's three
laws: (1) Every body continues in its state of rest, or of uniform motion
in a straight line, except so far as it may be compelled by force to change
that state; (2) Change of motion is proportional to force applied, and
takes place in the direction of the straight line in which the force acts;
(3) To every action there is always an equal and contrary reaction;
PARALLEL MOTION (see PARALLEL); PERPETUAL MOTION (see PERPETUAL); QUANTITY
OF MOTION, momentum. [Fr.,--L.,--_mov[=e]re_, _m[=o]tum_, to move.]

MOTIVE, m[=o]'tiv, _adj._ causing motion: having power to cause
motion.--_n._ that which moves or excites to action: inducement:
reason.--_v.t._ to act on as a motive, instigate.--_v.t._ M[=O]'TIV[=A]TE,
to act on as a motive, induce.--_n._ MOTIV[=A]'TION.--_adj._
M[=O]TIVELESS.--_ns._ M[=O]'TIVELESSNESS; M[=O]'TIVE-POWER, or -FORCE, the
force acting upon a body so as to cause it to move; MOTIV'ITY, power of
producing motion: the quality of being influenced by motion. [Fr., through
Low L., from _mov[=e]re_, _m[=o]tum_ to move.]

MOTLEY, mot'li, _adj._ covered with spots of different colours: consisting
of different colours: composed of various parts, heterogeneous.--_n._
clothes made of pieces of different colours: the dress of a jester: any
mixture, esp. of colours.--_adj._ MOT'LEY-MIND'ED (_Shak._), having fickle
and foolish thoughts and feelings.--MAN OF MOTLEY, a jester. [Skeat
explains M. E. _mottelee_ as through O. Fr. _mattelé_, clotted,
curdled--Bavarian _matte_, curds.]

MOTMOT, mot'mot, _n._ a sawbill.

MOTOGRAPH, m[=o]'to-graf, _n._ a device of Edison's, used as a telephone
receiver, &c., by which the variation of the friction between two
conductors in relative motion is diminished periodically by the passage of
a current of electricity from one to the other across the surface of
contact.--_adj._ MOTOGRAPH'IC. [L. _motus_, motion, Gr. _graphein_, to
write.]

MOTOPHONE, m[=o]'to-f[=o]n, _n._ a sound-engine of Edison's actuated by
aerial sound-waves. [L. _motus_, motion, Gr. _ph[=o]n[=e]_, a voice.]

MOTOR, m[=o]'tor, _n._ a mover: that which gives motion: a machine by means
of which steam or other sources of force can be used to give motion or
produce work.--_adj._ giving or transmitting motion.--_ns._ M[=O]'TOR-CAR,
a vehicle for the road impelled by steam, electricity, or petrol (petroleum
spirit); M[=O]'TOR-DY'NAMO, a dynamo used as a motor.--_adjs._
MOT[=O]'RIAL, M[=O]'TORY, giving motion.--_n._ MOT[=O]'RIUM, that part of
the nervous organism instrumental in the exertion of motor influence:--opp.
to _Sensorium_, that which feels or perceives.--_adj._ MOTORPATH'IC,
belonging to MOTOR'PATHY or the movement cure.--MOTOR NERVE, any nerve
which transmits impulse to the muscles.--AIR-MOTOR, a machine impelled by
compressed air. [Cf. _Motive_.]

MOTTLE, mot'l, _v.t._ to mark with spots as if stained.--_n._ the
arrangement of spots on any mottled surface, in marble, &c.--_adjs._
MOTT'LED, marked with spots of various colours or shades;
Mott'LE-FACED.--_n._ MOTT'LING. [_Motley_.]

MOTTO, mot'[=o], _n._ a short sentence or phrase prefixed in anything
intimating the subject of it: a phrase attached to a coat-of-arms: a paper
packet containing a sweetmeat, cracker, &c., together with a scrap of paper
bearing a motto--a motto-kiss:--_pl._ MOTTOES (mot'[=o]z).--_adj._
MOTT'OED. [Low L. _muttum_--_mutt[=i]re_, to mutter.]

MOUCHARABY, m[=oo]-shar'a-bi, _n._ a balcony enclosed with lattice-work: an
embattled balcony with parapet and machicolations. [Fr.]

MOUCHARD, m[=oo]-shär', _n._ a police spy in France. [_Mouche_, a fly.]

MOUCHER, mow'ch[.e]r, _n._ one who idles about, a loafer, a beggar--same as
MICHER.--_v.i._ MOUCH, to skulk or sneak about; to live a vagabond life.
[O. Fr. _muchier_ (Fr. _musser_), to hide.]

MOUCHOIR, m[=oo]-shwor', _n._ a pocket-handkerchief. [Fr.]

MOUFFLON, m[=oo]f'lon, _n._ a wild sheep in the mountains of Corsica,
Greece, &c. [Fr.]

MOUGHT, mowt (_Bacon_), obsolete _pa.t._ of _may_.

MOUILLE, m[=oo]l-ly[=a]', _adj._ sounded in a liquid manner, as certain
consonants in many French words. [Fr.]

MOULD, m[=o]ld, _n._ dust: soil rich in decayed matter: the matter of which
anything is composed: a minute fungus which grows on bodies in a damp
atmosphere, so named from often growing on mould: the earth, the ground,
the grave, esp. in _pl._ MOOLS (_Scot._).--_v.t._ to cover with mould or
soil: to cause to become mouldy.--_v.i._ to become mouldy.--_n._
MOULD'-BOARD, the curved plate in a plough which turns over the
furrow.--_v.i._ MOULD'ER, to crumble to mould: to turn to dust: to waste
away gradually.--_v.t._ to turn to dust.--_ns._ MOULD'INESS; MOULD'WARP,
the mole, which casts up little heaps of mould.--_adj._ MOULD'Y, overgrown
with mould. [A.S. _molde_; Ger. _mull_, Goth. _mulda_.]

MOULD, m[=o]ld, _n._ a hollow form in which anything is cast: a pattern;
the form received from a mould, a former or matrix for jellies, &c., also a
dish shaped in such: character.--_v.t._ to form in a mould: to knead, as
dough.--_adj._ MOULD'ABLE, that may be moulded.--_ns._ MOULD'-BOX, a box in
which molten steel is hydraulically compressed; MOULD'ER; MOULD'-FAC'ING, a
fine powder or wash applied to the face of a mould to ensure a smooth
casting; MOULD'ING, the process of shaping, esp. any soft substance:
anything formed by or in a mould: an ornamental edging on a picture-frame,
&c., or (_archit._) raised above or sunk below the surface of a wall, on
cornices, jambs, lintels, &c.--the _fillet_ or _list_, _astragal_ or
_bead_, _ogee_, _cyma_, &c.; MOULDING-T[=A]'BLE, a table on which a potter
moulds his ware; MOULD'-LOFT, a large room in a shipbuilding yard in which
the several parts of a ship's hull are laid off to full size from the
construction drawings.--MOULDING MACHINE, a machine for making
wood-mouldings; MOULDING PLANE, a plane used in forming mouldings, a
match-plane; MOULDING SAND, a mixture of sand and loam used by founders in
making sand-moulds. [Fr. _moule_--L. _modulus_, a measure.]

MOULIN, m[=oo]-lang', _n._ a cavity formed in a glacier by the running down
of surface water, sometimes allowing a cascade to be formed. [Fr.]

MOULINAGE, m[=oo]'lin[=a]j, _n._ the operation of reeling-off, twisting,
and doubling raw silk.

MOULINET, m[=oo]'li-net, _n._ the drum of a windlass, &c., on which the
rope is wound: a machine for bending a crossbow. [Fr., 'a little mill.']

MOULT, m[=o]lt, _v.i._ to change or cast the feathers, &c., as birds,
&c.--_n._ MOULT'ING, the act or process of moulting or casting feathers,
skin, &c. [L. _mut[=a]re_, to change, with intrusive _l_.]

MOUND, mownd, _n._ an artificial mount: a natural hillock, appearing as if
thrown up by man's work: (_fort._) a bank of earth or stone raised as a
protection.--_v.t._ to fortify with a mound.--_n.pl._ MOUND'-BIRDS, a
family of Australasian gallinaceous birds which build large mounds as
incubators for their eggs.--_n._ MOUND'-BUILD'ER, one of the primitive race
which built the vast so-called _Indian mounds_ found in the United States,
esp. east of the Mississippi River. [A.S. _mund_, a defence; cf. Old High
Ger. _munt_, defence, and perh. L. _mons_, a mount.]

[Illustration]

MOUND, mownd, _n._ (_her._) the representation of a globe encircled with
bands, and surmounted by a cross.--Also MONDE. [Fr. _monde_--L. _mundus_,
the world.]

MOUNT, mownt, _n._ ground rising above the level of the surrounding
country: a hill: an ornamental mound: that on which anything is mounted for
more convenient use or exhibition: a saddle-horse for riding: a step, &c.,
to give aid in mounting a horse, also a signal for mounting: (_her._) a
green hillock in the base of a shield: (_fort._) a cavalier or raised
hillock commanding the surrounding country: one of the seven fleshy
cushions in the palm of the hand: (_B._) a bulwark for offence or
defence.--_v.i._ to project or rise up: to be of great elevation.--_v.t._
to raise aloft: to climb: to get upon, as a horse: to put on horseback: to
put upon something: to arrange or set in fitting order.--_adjs._
MOUNT'ABLE, that may be mounted or ascended; MOUNT'ED, raised, esp. set on
horseback: (_her._) raised on steps, generally three, as a cross:
furnished, supplied.--_ns._ MOUNT'ER; MOUNT'ING, the act of rising or
getting higher: the act of mounting or embellishing, as the setting of a
gem, &c.: that which mounts; MOUNT'ING-BLOCK, a block or stone to enable
one to mount a horse.--MOUNT GUARD (see GUARD). [A.S. _munt_--L. _mons_,
_montis_, a mountain.]

MOUNTAIN, mownt'[=a]n, or -'in, _n._ a high hill: anything very large: a
wine made from mountain grapes: the extreme party in the French Revolution
(see MONTAGNARD).--_adj._ of or relating to a mountain: growing or dwelling
on a mountain.--_ns._ MOUNT'AIN-ASH, the rowan-tree, with bunches of red
berries, common on mountains; MOUNT'AIN-BLUE, blue carbonate of copper;
MOUNT'AIN-BRAM'BLE, the cloudberry; MOUNT'AIN-CAT, a catamount, a wild-cat;
MOUNT'AIN-CHAIN, a number of mountains connected together in one line;
MOUNT'AIN-CORK, MOUNT'AIN-LEATH'ER, a very light and whitish variety of
asbestos; MOUNT'AIN-DEER, the chamois; MOUNT'AIN-DEW, whisky.--_adj._
MOUNT'AINED.--_ns._ MOUNTAINEER', an inhabitant of a mountain: a climber of
mountains: a rustic; MOUNTAINEER'ING, the practice of climbing mountains;
MOUNT'AIN-FLAX, a fibrous asbestos; MOUNT'AIN-LIME'STONE (_geol._), a
series of limestone strata separating the Old Red Sandstone from the
coal-measures; MOUNT'AIN-L[=I]ON, the cougar; MOUNT'AIN-MILK, a spongy
carbonate of lime.--_adj._ MOUNT'AINOUS, full of mountains: large as a
mountain: huge.--_ns._ MOUNT'AIN-RICE, an awnless rice grown without
irrigation on the Himalayas, &c.; MOUNT'AIN-SHEEP, the bighorn of the Rocky
Mountains; MOUNT'AIN-SOAP, a greasy clay-like mineral, a kind of
halloysite--also _Rock-soap_; MOUNT'AIN-TALL'OW, a mineral substance,
called also _Hatchettite_; MOUNT'AIN-TEA, the American evergreen,
_Gaultheria procumbens_.--OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN, a popular name for the
chief of the 11th century _Hashsh[=a]sh[=i]n_ (see ASSASSIN). [O. Fr.
_montaine_--Low L. _montana_, a mountain--L. _montanus_--_mons_, _montis_.]

MOUNTANT, mownt'ant, _adj._ (_Shak._) rising on high. [Fr. _montant_, pr.p.
of _monter_, to mount.]

MOUNTEBANK, mown'te-bangk, _n._ a quack-doctor who boasts of his skill and
his medicines: a boastful pretender.--_adj._ pertaining to such,
sham.--_v.t._ to cheat by false pretences, to humbug.--_v.i._ to play the
mountebank.--_ns._ MOUN'TEBANKERY, MOUN'TEBANKING, MOUN'TEBANKISM. [It.
_montambanco_--_montare_, to mount, _in_, on, _banco_, a bench.]

MOURN, m[=o]rn, _v.i._ to grieve: to be sorrowful: to wear
mourning.--_v.t._ to grieve for: to utter in a sorrowful manner.--_n._
MOURN'ER, one who mourns, one who attends a funeral in mourning-dress, esp.
one of those related to the deceased.--_adj._ MOURN'FUL, mourning: causing
or expressing sorrow: feeling grief.--_adv._ MOURN'FULLY.--_n._
MOURN'FULNESS.--_adj._ MOURN'ING, grieving: lamenting.--_n._ the act of
expressing grief: the dress of mourners, or other tokens of
mourning.--_ns._ MOURN'ING-BRIDE, the sweet scabious; MOURN'ING-CLOAK, an
undertaker's cloak, formerly worn at a funeral; MOURN'ING-COACH, a closed
carriage for carrying mourners to a funeral; MOURN'ING-DOVE, the common
American turtle-dove.--_adv._ MOURN'INGLY.--_ns._ MOURN'ING-PIECE, a
picture intended to be a memorial of the dead; MOURN'ING-RING, a ring worn
in memorial of a dead person; MOURN'ING-STUFF, a lustreless black dress
fabric, as crape, cashmere, &c., for making mourning clothes. [A.S.
_murnan_, _meornan_; Old High Ger. _morn[=e]n_, to grieve.]

MOUSE, mows, _n._ a little rodent animal found in houses and in the
fields:--_pl._ MICE (m[=i]s): one of various animals like the mouse, the
_flitter_-mouse, _shrew_-mouse: part of a hind-leg of beef, next the
round--also MOUSE'-BUTT'OCK and MOUSE'-PIECE: a match for firing a cannon
or mine: a small cushion for a woman's hair: (_slang_) a black eye, or
discoloured swelling: a term of endearment.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ (mowz), to
hunt for mice: to pursue slyly: to prowl: to tear as a cat tears a mouse:
(_naut._) to pass a turn or two of rope yarn round the point of a
tackle-hook to prevent its unhooking.--_ns._ MOUSE'-EAR, a name of several
plants with soft leaves shaped like a mouse's ear; MOUSE'-HOLE, a hole for
mice: a small hole or opening; MOUSE'-HUNT (_Shak._), a mouser; MOUSE'KIN,
MOUS'IE, a young mouse; MOUS'ER, a catcher of mice; MOUS'ERY, a resort of
mice; MOUSE'-SIGHT, myopia; MOUSE'TAIL, a small plant with a spike of
seed-vessels very like the tail of a mouse; MOUSE'-TRAP, a trap for
catching mice; MOUS'ING, act of catching mice.--_adj._ given to catching
mice.--_adj._ MOUS'Y, like a mouse in colour or smell: abounding with mice.
[A.S. _mús_, pl. _mýs_; Ger. _maus_, L. and Gr. _mus_.]

MOUSQUETAIRE, m[=oo]s-ke-t[=a]r', _n._ a musketeer: a woman's cloak trimmed
with ribbons, with large buttons, fashionable about 1855: a broad turnover
linen collar worn a few years earlier.--MOUSQUETAIRE GLOVE, a woman's
glove, long-armed, loose at top, without slit lengthwise. [Fr.]

MOUSSELINE, m[=oo]-se-l[=e]n', _n._ fine French muslin: a very thin glass
for claret-glasses.--_n._ MOUSSELINE'-DE-LAINE, an untwilled woollen cloth,
in many colours and varied patterns. [Fr.]

MOUSTACHE, MUSTACHE, mus-tash', _n._ the hair upon the upper lip of men: a
soldier--also MUSTACH'IO.--_n._ MOUSTACHE'-CUP, a cup for drinking tea,
&c., having the top partly covered to keep the moustache from being
wet.--_adjs._ MOUSTACHED', MUSTACH'IOED. [Fr. _moustache_--It.
_mostaccio_--Gr. _mastax_, _mastakos_, the upper lip.]

MOUTH, mowth, _n._ the opening in the head of an animal by which it eats
and utters sound: opening or entrance, as of a bottle, river, &c.: the
instrument of speaking: a speaker: cry, voice, utterance: taste or flavour
in the mouth: a wry face, a grimace:--_pl._ MOUTHS (mowthz).--_ns._
MOUTH'-FRIEND (_Shak._), one who only professes friendship: MOUTH'FUL, as
much as fills the mouth: a small quantity:--_pl._ MOUTH'FULS;
MOUTH'-HON'OUR (_Shak._), honour or civility insincerely
expressed.--_adjs._ MOUTH'LESS, without a mouth; MOUTH'-MADE (_Shak._),
expressed by the mouth, insincere.--_n._ MOUTH'PIECE, the piece of a
musical instrument, or tobacco-pipe, held in the mouth: one who speaks for
others.--BY WORD OF MOUTH, by means of spoken words; DOWN IN THE MOUTH, out
of spirits: despondent; FROM HAND TO MOUTH (see HAND); HAVE ONE'S HEART IN
ONE'S MOUTH (see HEART); MAKE A MOUTH, or MOUTHS, to distort the face in
mockery, to pout; MAKE THE MOUTH WATER (see WATER); STOP THE MOUTH, to
cause to be silent. [A.S. _múth_; Ger. _mund_, Dut. _mond_.]

MOUTH, mowth, _v.t._ to utter with a voice over loud or swelling.--_adjs._
MOUTH'ABLE, sounding well; MOUTHED, having a mouth.--_ns._ MOUTH'ER, an
affected speaker; MOUTH'ING, rant.--_adj._ MOUTH'Y, ranting, affected.

MOUTON, m[=oo]'ton, _n._ a sheep: a 14th-cent. French gold coin, weighing
about 70 grains. [Fr.]

MOVABLE, m[=oo]v'a-bl, _adj._ that may be moved, lifted, changed, &c.: not
fixed: changing from one time to another.--_n._ an article of
furniture.--_ns._ MOVABIL'ITY, MOV'ABLENESS.--_n.pl._ MO'VABLES (_law_),
such articles of property as may be moved, as furniture, &c., in opposition
to _lands_ and _houses_.--_adv._ MOV'ABLY.

MOVE, m[=oo]v, _v.t._ to cause to change place or posture: to set in
motion: to impel: to excite to action: to persuade: to instigate: to
arouse: to provoke: to touch the feelings of: to propose or bring before an
assembly: to recommend.--_v.i._ to go from one place to another: to change
place or posture: to walk, to carry one's self: to change residence: to
make a motion as in an assembly: to bow or salute on meeting.--_n._ the act
of moving: a proceeding or step: a movement, esp. at chess.--_adj._
MOVE'LESS, immovable.--_ns._ MOVE'MENT, act or manner of moving: change of
position: motion of the mind, emotion: a series of incidents moving
continuously towards one end: particular arrangement of the moving parts in
a mechanism, esp. the wheelwork of a clock or watch: (_mil._) a strategic
change of position: (_mus._) melodic progression, accentual character,
tempo or pace; MOV'ER.--_adj._ MOV'ING, causing motion: changing position:
affecting the feelings: pathetic.--_adv._ MOV'INGLY.--KNOW A MOVE OR TWO,
to be sharp or knowing; ON THE MOVE, changing or about to change one's
place. [O. Fr. _movoir_ (Fr. _mouvoir_)--L. _mov[=e]re_, to move.]

MOW, mow, _n._ a wry face.--_v.i._ to make grimaces. [Fr. _moue_, a
grimace.]

MOW, mow, _n._ a pile of hay or corn in sheaves laid up in a barn.--_v.t._
to lay hay or sheaves of grain in a heap:--_pr.p._ mow'ing; _pa.t._ mowed;
_pa.p._ mowed or mown.--_v.i._ MOW'BURN, to heat and ferment in the mow.
[A.S. _múga_, heap; Ice. _múga_, swath.]

MOW, m[=o], _v.t._ to cut down with a scythe: to cut down in great
numbers:--_pr.p._ mow'ing; _pa.t._ mowed; _pa.p._ mowed or mown.--_adjs._
MOWED, MOWN, cut down with a scythe: cleared of grass with a scythe, as
land.--_ns._ MOW'ER, one who mows grass, &c.: a machine for mowing grass;
MOW'ING, the act of cutting down with a scythe: land from which grass is
cut; MOW'ING-MACHINE', a machine with revolving cutters for mowing lawns.
[A.S. _máwan_; Ger. _mähen_; L. _met[)e]re_, to reap.]

MOXA, mok'sa, _n._ a cottony material for cauterising, prepared in China
and Japan from _Artemisia Moxa_, &c.: a cone of cotton-wool placed on the
skin and fired at the top for cauterisation.--_n._ MOXIBUS'TION,
cauterisation by this method.

MOYA, moi'ya, _n._ volcanic mud.

MOYENAGE, moi'en-äzh, _n._ the Middle Ages. [Fr.]

MOZARABIC, m[=o]-zar'a-bik, _adj._ pertaining to the _Mozarabes_ or
_Muzarabes_, the Christian Spaniards who lived in the parts of Spain under
Moorish rule, retaining their ancient liturgy.--_n._ MOZAR'AB, one of
these.

MOZETTA, m[=o]-tset'ta, _n._ a short cape to which a hood may be attached,
worn by popes, cardinals, bishops, abbots. [It., _mozzo_, cut short.]

MOZING, m[=o]'zing, _n._ the raising of nap on cloth, as in a gig-mill.

M ROOF. See under letter M.

MUCEDINOUS, m[=u]-sed'i-nus, _adj._ like mould or mildew.

MUCH, much, _adj._ great in size, quantity, or extent: long in
duration.--_adv._ to a great degree: by far: often or long: almost.--_n._ a
great quantity: a strange thing.--_adj._ MUCH'EL (_Spens._), much.--_n._
MUCH'NESS, state of being much.--MUCH ABOUT IT, something like what it
usually is; MUCH OF A MUCHNESS=just about the same value or amount.--MAKE
MUCH OF (see MAKE); NOT SO MUCH AS, not even; TOO MUCH FOR, more than a
match for. [M. E. _muche_, _moche_, _muchel_, _mochel_--A.S. _mic-el_; cf.
Ice. _mjök_.]

MUCIC, m[=u]'sik, _adj._ derived from gums.--_n._ M[=U]'CATE, a salt of
mucic acid and a base.

MUCID, m[=u]'sid, _adj._ slimy, mouldy--also M[=U]'CIDOUS.--_ns._
M[=U]'CIDNESS, M[=U]'COR.

MUCK, muk, _n._ dung: a mass of decayed vegetable matter: anything low and
filthy.--_v.t._ to manure with muck.--_v.i._ MUCK'ER, to make a muddle of
anything, to fail.--_n._ a heavy fall in the mire: a coarse, dirty
fellow.--_ns._ MUCK'-HEAP, a dung-hill; MUCK'INESS; MUCK'-RAKE, a rake for
scraping filth; MUCK'-SWEAT, profuse sweat; MUCK'-WORM, a worm that lives
in muck: one who acquires money by mean devices: a miser.--_adj._ MUCK'Y,
nasty, filthy. [Scand., Ice. _myki_, Dan. _mög_, dung.]

MUCK, mistaken form of _amuck_.

MUCKER, muk'[.e]r, _n._ a canting person, a hypocrite, esp. a follower of
the sect of J. W. Ebel of Königsberg, suspected of dirty practices. [Ger.]

MUCKLE, a Scotch form of _mickle_.

MUCRONATE, -D, m[=u]'kro-n[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) terminating in a
short and sharp point.--_n._ M[=U]'CRO, a spine-like process.--_adj._
MUCRON'[=U]LATE, very mucronate. [L. _mucron[=a]tus_--_mucro_, _mucronis_,
a sharp point.]

MUCUS, m[=u]'kus, _n._ the slimy fluid from the nose: the viscous fluid
secreted by the mucous membrane of animals.--_adjs._ M[=U]CIF'EROUS;
M[=U]CIF'IC; M[=U]'CIFORM.--_n._ M[=U]'CIGEN, a substance secreted by the
cells of mucous membrane, converted into mucin.--_adjs._ M[=U]CIG'ENOUS,
M[=U]CIP'AROUS, secreting mucus.--_n._ M[=U]'CILAGE, the solution of a gum
in water: the gum extracted from plants.--_adj._ MUCILAG'INOUS, pertaining
to, or secreting, mucilage: slimy.--_n._ M[=U]'CIN, an alkaline glutinous
fluid forming the chief constituent of mucus.--_adjs._ M[=U]CIV'OROUS,
feeding on the juices of plants; M[=U]'COID, like mucus;
M[=U]COP[=U]'RULENT, pertaining to mucus and pus.--_n._ MUCOS'ITY.--_adjs._
MUCO'SO-SAC'CHARINE, partaking of the properties of mucilage and sugar;
M[=U]'COUS, like mucus: slimy: viscous; M[=U]'CULENT, like mucus.--MUCOUS
MEMBRANE (see MEMBRANE). [L., cf. L. _mung[)e]re_, wipe away.]

MUD, mud, _n._ wet soft earth.--_v.t._ to bury in mud: to dirty: to stir
the sediment in, as in liquors; to bury in mud.--_v.i._ to go under the mud
like the eel.--_ns._ MUD'-BATH, a kind of mud connected with some mineral
springs into which the patient plunges himself; MUD'-BOAT, -SCOW, a boat
for carrying away the mud dredged from a river, &c.; MUD'-CONE, a
mud-volcano.--_adv._ MUD'DILY.--_n._ MUD'DINESS.--_adj._ MUD'DY, foul with
mud: containing mud: covered with mud: confused: stupid.--_v.t._ to dirty:
to render dull:--_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mud'died.--_adjs._ MUD'DY-HEAD'ED,
having a muddy or dull head or understanding; MUD'DY-METT'LED (_Shak._),
dull-spirited: spiritless.--_ns._ MUD'-FISH, a fish which burrows in the
mud; MUD'-FLAT, a muddy strip of shore submerged at high tide; MUD'-GUARD,
the dash-board of a carriage; MUD'-HOLE, a place full of mud: an orifice in
the bottom of a boiler where the sediment is collected; MUD'-LARK, a man
who cleans public sewers or who picks up a living along the banks of tidal
rivers: a street-arab; MUD'-WALL, a wall composed of mud, or one in which
mud is used in place of mortar: the bee-eater. [Old Low Ger. _mudde_, Dut.
_modder_.]

MUDDLE, mud'l, _v.t._ to render muddy or foul, as water: to confuse, esp.
with liquor: to waste, squander, misuse.--_v.i._ to potter about.--_n._
confusion, mess: mental confusion, bewilderment.--_n._ MUDD'LEHEAD, a
blockhead.--_adv._ MUDDLEHEAD'EDLY.--_n._ MUDDLEHEAD'EDNESS. [Freq. of
_mud_.]

MUDIR, m[=oo]'d[=e]r, _n._ governor of an Egyptian province.

MUEZZIN, m[=u]-ez'in, _n._ the Mohammedan official attached to a mosque,
whose duty it is to announce the hours of prayer.--Also MUED'DIN. [Ar.]

MUFF, muf, _n._ a warm, soft cover for the hands in winter, usually of fur
or dressed skins.--_n._ MUFFETTEE', a small muff worn over the wrist.
[Prob. from Dut. _mof_; cf. Ger. _muff_, a muff.]

MUFF, muf, _n._ a stupid fellow.--_v.t._ and _v.i._ to perform awkwardly,
spoil: to act clumsily, esp. in letting a ball slip out of the hands.
[Prob. related to Dut. _muffen_, to dote; Ger. _muffen_, to sulk.]

MUFFIN, muf'in, _n._ a soft, light, spongy cake, eaten hot with butter: a
small plate: one who dangles after a young woman: a poor
ball-player.--_ns._ MUFF'IN-CAP, a round flat cap for men; MUFFINEER', a
dish for keeping muffins hot: a metal cruet for sprinkling salt or sugar on
muffins.

MUFFLE, muf'l, _n._ the thick naked upper lip and nose, as of a ruminant.
[Ger.]

MUFFLE, muf'l, _v.t._ to wrap up as with a muff: to blindfold: to cover up
so as to render sound dull, as a bell or a drum: to cover from the
weather.--_n._ something used for smothering sound: a boxing-glove: a clay
oven, as for firing pottery.--_adj._ MUFF'LED, wrapped up closely: dulled
or deadened--of sound.--_n._ MUFF'LER, a cover that muffles the face.
[_Muff_.]

MUFFLE, muf'l, _v.i._ to mumble.

MUFTI, muf'ti, _n._ a doctor or official expounder of Mohammedan law in
Turkey: the dress of an officer off duty. [Ar.]

MUG, mug, _n._ a kind of earthen or metal cup for liquor, its
contents.--_ns._ MUG'GER (_Scot._), a tramping tinker or vendor of
earthenware; MUG'-HOUSE, an alehouse; MUG'-HUNT'ER, one who competes at
games merely for the prizes. [Ir. _mugan_, a mug, _mucog_, a cup.]

MUG, mug, _n._ the human face, the mouth.

MUGGINS, mug'inz, _n._ a children's card-game played with a full pack
divided equally, each in turn laying down a card face up, the first one who
calls 'Muggins' when one matches another adding his card to the other's
pile, the aim being to get out as soon as possible. [Ety. dub.]

MUGGLETONIAN, mug-l-t[=o]'ni-an, _n._ a member of a sect founded in England
by John Reeve and Lodowick _Muggleton_ (1607-97), which lingered till well
into the 19th cent. They claimed to be the two witnesses of Rev. xi. 3-6,
denied the Trinity, holding grotesque anthropomorphist opinions, with many
strange doctrines over and above, as that the devil became incarnate in
Eve, &c.

MUGGY, mug'i, _adj._ foggy: close and damp, as weather: wet or mouldy, as
straw.--Also MUG'GISH. [Ice. _mugga_, mist; cf. Gael. _mugach_, cloudy.]

MUGWORT, mug'wurt, _n._ a common British species of wormwood.

MUGWUMP, mug'wump, _n._ an Indian chief: a person of great importance, or
who thinks himself so: a humorous political use of the above. [Algonkin
_mugquomp_, a great man.]

MULATTO, m[=u]-lat'[=o], _n._ the offspring of black and white
parents:--_fem._ MULATT'RESS. [Sp. _mulato_.]

MULBERRY, mul'ber-i, _n._ the tree the leaves of which form the food of the
silkworm: the berry of this tree. [_Mul-_ is A.S. _mór-_ (as in A.S.
_mórbeám_, a mulberry)--L. _morus_; Gr. _m[=o]ron_.]

MULCH, the same as MULSH (q.v.).

MULCT, mulkt, _n._ a fine: a penalty.--_v.t._ to fine.--_adjs._ MULC'TARY,
MULC'T[=U]ARY, imposing a fine: paid as a fine. [L. _mulcta_, a fine.]

MULE, m[=u]l, _n._ the offspring of the horse and ass: an instrument for
cotton-spinning: an obstinate person.--_ns._ M[=U]LE'-DEER, the black-tail
of North America; M[=U]LETEER', one who drives mules.--_adj._ M[=U]L'ISH,
like a mule: obstinate.--_adv._ M[=U]L'ISHLY.--_n._ M[=U]L'ISHNESS. [A.S.
_mul_--L. _mulus_, mule.]

MULEY, m[=u]'li, _adj._ hornless.--_n._ any cow.--Also MOOL'Y, MUL'LEY.

MULIEBRITY, m[=u]-li-eb'ri-ti, _n._ womanhood: effeminacy,
softness.--_adj._ MUL'IER[=O]SE, fond of women.--_n._ MULIEROS'ITY.
[L.,--_mulier_, a woman.]

MULL, mul, _n._ a muddle or mess.--_v.t._ to break to pieces: to confuse,
muddle.

MULL, mul, _n._ a promontory: a horn snuff-box. [Prob. Gael. _maol_.]

MULL, mul, _n._ a soft muslin.--Also MUL'MUL. [Hind.]

MULL, mul, _v.t._ to warm, spice, and sweeten (wine, ale, &c.).--_v.i._ to
toil on, moil: to bustle about.--_adj._ MULLED.--_n._ MULL'ER. [M. E.
_molde-ale_, a funeral banquet, _molde_, grave earth, and _ale_=feast.]

MULLEN, MULLEIN, mul'en, _n._ any plant of genus _Verbascum_.--Also
_Hag-taper_, _Adam's flannel_, _Aaron's rod_, _Shepherd's club_.

MULLER, mul'[.e]r, _n._ a glass pestle for mixing paints: a mechanical
pulveriser.

MULLET, mul'et, _n._ a genus of fishes nearly cylindrical in form, highly
esteemed for the table. [Fr. _mulet_--L. _mullus_, the red mullet.]

MULLET, mul'et, _n._ the rowel of a spur: (_her._) a five-pointed star--a
mark of cadency, indicating the third son. [O. Fr. _molette_--L. _mola_, a
mill.]

MULLIGATAWNY, mul-i-ga-taw'ni, _n._ an East Indian curry-soup. [Tamil
_milagu-tann[=i]r_, pepper-water.]

MULLIGRUBS, mul'i-grubz, _n._ (_coll._) colic: sulkiness.

[Illustration]

MULLION, mul'yun, _n._ an upright division between the lights of windows,
between panels, &c.--_v.t._ to shape into divisions by mullions.--_adj._
MULL'IONED. [Same as _munnion_, from Fr. _moignon_, a stump--L. _mancus_,
maimed.]

MULLOCK, mul'ok, _n._ rubbish, esp. mining refuse.

MULSE, muls, _n._ sweetened wine. [L. _mulsum_--_mulc[=e]re_, to soothe.]

MULSH, mulsh, _n._ loose material, strawy dung, &c., laid down to protect
the roots of plants--also MULCH.--_v.t._ to cover with mulsh.--_adj._ soft.

MULT. See MULTURE.

MULTANGULAR, mult-ang'gul-ar, _adj._ having many angles or corners.--_adv._
MULTANG'ULARLY.--_n._ MULTANG'ULARNESS.

MULTANIMOUS, mul-tan'i-mus, _adj._ having various faculties and powers of
mind, many-sided.

MULTARTICULATE, mul-tar-tik'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ many-jointed.--Also
MULTIARTIC'ULATE.

MULTEITY, mul-t[=e]'i-ti, _n._ manifoldness, very great numerousness.

MULTIAXIAL, mul-ti-ak'si-al, _adj._ having many axes or lines of growth.

MULTICAMERATE, mul-ti-kam'e-r[=a]t, _adj._ having many chambers or cells.

MULTICAPITATE, mul-ti-kap'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ having many heads.--Also
MULTICIP'ITAL.

MULTICAPSULAR, mul-ti-kap's[=u]-lar, _adj._ having many capsules.

MULTICARINATE, mul-ti-kar'i-n[=a]t, _adj._ having many keel-like ridges, as
the shells of certain molluscs.

MULTICAULINE, mul-ti-kaw'lin, _adj._ having many stems.

MULTICAVOUS, mul-tik'a-vus, _adj._ having many holes or cavities.

MULTICELLULAR, mul-ti-sel'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having many cells.

MULTICENTRAL, mul-ti-sen'tral, _adj._ having many centres, esp. of organic
development.

MULTICHARGE, mul'ti-charj, _adj._ having, or capable of containing, several
charges.

MULTICIPITAL, mul-ti-sip'i-tal, _adj._ having many heads, multicapitate.

MULTICOLOUR, mul'ti-kul-ur, _adj._ having many colours--also
MUL'TICOLOURED.--_adj._ MULTICOL'OUROUS, of many colours, parti-coloured.

MULTICOSTATE, mul-ti-kos't[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) palmately nerved:
(_zool._) having many ribs, ridges, or costæ.

MULTICUSPID, mul-ti-kus'pid, _adj._ having more than two cusps--also
MULTICUS'PID[=A]TE.--_n._ a multicuspid tooth.

MULTICYCLE, mul'ti-s[=i]-kl, _n._ a velocipede with more than three wheels,
intended to carry several men.

MULTIDENTATE, mul-ti-den't[=a]t, _adj._ having many teeth or tooth-like
processes.--_adj._ MULTIDENTIC'ULATE, having many denticulations or fine
teeth.

MULTIDIGITATE, mul-ti-dij'i-t[=a]t, _adj._ having many fingers, toes, or
digitate processes.

MULTIDIMENSIONAL, mul-ti-di-men'shun-al, _adj._ (_math._) of more than
three dimensions.

MULTIFACED, mul'ti-f[=a]st, _adj._ having many faces.

MULTIFARIOUS, mul-ti-f[=a]'ri-us, _adj._ having great diversity: made up of
many parts: manifold: (_bot._) in many rows or ranks.--_adv._
MULTIF[=A]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ MULTIF[=A]'RIOUSNESS, the state of being
multifarious: multiplied variety: (_law_) the fault of improperly joining
in one bill distinct and independent matters, and thereby confounding them.
[L. _multus_, many, _varius_, diverse.]

MULTIFID, mul'ti-fid, _adj._ having many fissions or divisions, cleft into
many parts, lobes, or segments.--Also MULTIF'IDOUS.

MULTIFLAGELLATE, mul-ti-flaj'e-l[=a]t, _adj._ having many flagella, or
whip-like appendages.

MULTIFLOROUS, mul-ti-fl[=o]'rus, _adj._ many-flowered.

MULTIFLUE, mul'ti-fl[=oo], _adj._ having many flues.

MULTIFOIL, mul'ti-foil, _adj._ having more than five foils or arcuate
divisions.--_n._ multifoil ornament.

MULTIFOLD, mul'ti-f[=o]ld, _adj._ many times doubled.

MULTIFORM, mul'ti-form, _adj._ having many forms, polymorphic.--_n._ that
which is multiform.--_n._ MULTIFORM'ITY.

MULTIGANGLIONATE, mul-ti-gang'gli-on-[=a]t, _adj._ having many ganglia.

MULTIGENERATE, mul-ti-jen'e-r[=a]t, _adj._ generated in many ways.

MULTIGENEROUS, mul-ti-jen'e-rus, _adj._ of many kinds.

MULTIGRANULATE, mul-ti-gran'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ having or consisting of
many grains.

MULTIGYRATE, mul-ti-j[=i]'r[=a]t, _adj._ having many convolutions.

MULTIJUGOUS, mul-ti-j[=oo]'gus, _adj._ (_bot._) consisting of many pairs of
leaflets.--Also MULTIJU'GATE.

MULTILAMINATE, mul-ti-lam'i-n[=a]t, _adj._ having many layers or laminæ.

MULTILATERAL, mul-ti-lat'[.e]r-al, _adj._ having many sides.

MULTILINEAL, mul-ti-lin'e-al, _adj._ having many lines.--Also MULTILIN'EAR.

MULTILOBATE, mul-ti-l[=o]'b[=a]t, _adj._ having, or consisting of, many
lobes.--_adjs._ MUL'TILOBED, having many lobes; MULTILOB'ULAR, having many
lobules.

MULTILOCULAR, mul-ti-lok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having many cells, chambers, or
compartments.--Also MULTILOC'ULATE.

MULTILOQUENCE, mul-til'o-kwens, _n._ verbosity.--_adj._ MULTIL'OQUENT--also
MULTILOQ'UOUS.

MULTINODAL, mul-ti-n[=o]'dal, _adj._ having many nodes.--Also
MULTIN[=O]'DATE, MULTIN[=O]'DOUS.

MULTINOMIAL, mul-ti-n[=o]'mi-al, _adj._ same as _Polynomial_.

MULTINOMINOUS, mul-ti-nom'i-nus, _adj._ having many names or terms.--Also
MULTINOM'INAL.

MULTINUCLEATE, mul-ti-n[=u]'kl[=e]-[=a]t, _adj._ having many or several
nuclei, as a cell--also MULTIN[=U]'CLEAR, MULTIN[=U]'CLEATED.--_adj._
MULTIN[=U]'CLEOLATE, having many or several nucleoli.

MULTIOVULATE, mul-ti-[=o]'v[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) containing, or
bearing, many ovules.

MULTIPARA, mul-tip'a-ra, _n._ a woman who has had two or more
children:--opp. to _Primipara_.

MULTIPAROUS, mul-tip'a-rus, _adj._ producing many at a birth.--_n._
MULTIPAR'ITY, plural birth.

MULTIPARTITE, mul-ti-pär't[=i]t, _adj._ divided into many parts.

MULTIPED, mul'ti-ped, _n._ an insect having many feet. [L. _multus_, many,
_pes_, _pedis_, foot.]

MULTIPINNATE, mul-ti-pin'[=a]t, _adj._ (_bot._) many times pinnate.

MULTIPLE, mul'ti-pl, _adj._ having many folds or parts: repeated many
times.--_n._ a number or quantity which contains another an exact number of
times.--_n._ MUL'TIPLEPOINDING (_Scots law_), a process by which a person
who has funds claimed by more than one, in order not to have to pay more
than once, brings them all into court that one of them may establish his
right.--COMMON MULTIPLE, a number or quantity that can be divided by each
of several others without a remainder; LEAST COMMON MULTIPLE, the smallest
number that forms a common multiple. [L. _multiplex_--_multus_, many,
_plic[=a]re_, to fold.]

MULTIPLY, mul'ti-pl[=i], _v.t._ to fold or increase many times: to make
more numerous: to repeat any given number or quantity as often as there are
units in another number.--_v.i._ to increase: to perform the arithmetical
process of multiplication:--_pr.p._ mul'tiplying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._
mul'tiplied.--_adjs._ MUL'TIPLEX, having many folds: manifold: (_bot._)
with petals lying in folds over each other; MULTIPL[=I]'ABLE,
MUL'TIPLICABLE, that may be multiplied.--_n._ MUL'TIPLICAND, a number or
quantity to be multiplied by another.--_adj._ MUL'TIPLIC[=A]TE, consisting
of more than one: (_bot._) multifold.--_n._ MULTIPLIC[=A]'TION, the act of
multiplying or increasing in number: the rule or operation by which any
given number or quantity is multiplied.--_adj._ MUL'TIPLIC[=A]TIVE, tending
to multiply: having the power to multiply.--_ns._ MULTIPLIC'ITY, the state
of being multiplied or various: a great number: MUL'TIPLIER,
MUL'TIPLIC[=A]TOR, one who, or that which, multiplies or increases the
number or quantity by which another is multiplied.--MULTIPLICATION TABLE, a
tabular arrangement giving the products of pairs of numbers from 1 to
12.--MULTIPLYING GLASS, lens, a glass, lens, with a number of facets,
causing an object to appear multiplied many times. [Fr.,--L. _multiplex._
See MULTIPLE.]

MULTIPOLAR, mul-ti-p[=o]'lar, _adj._ having many poles, as a nerve-cell or
dynamo.--_n._ an electro-magnetic machine in which several magnetic poles
exist.

MULTIPOTENT, mul-tip'o-tent, _adj._ (_Shak._) having power to do many
things. [L. _multus_, many, _potens_, _-entis_, powerful.]

MULTIPRESENCE, mul-ti-prez'ens, _n._ the power of being present in many
places at the same time.--_adj._ MULTIPRES'ENT.

MULTIRADIATE, mul-ti-r[=a]'di-[=a]t, _adj._ having many rays, polyactinal.

MULTIRADICATE, mul-ti-rad'i-k[=a]t, _adj._ having many roots.

MULTIRAMIFIED, mul-ti-ram'i-f[=i]d, _adj._ having many branches.--Also
MULTIR[=A]'MOUS, MULTIR[=A]'MOSE.

MULTISACCATE, mul-ti-sak'[=a]t, _adj._ having many sacs.

MULTISCIENT, mul-tish'ent, _adj._ knowing many things.

MULTISECT, mul'ti-sekt, _adj._ having many segments.

MULTISEPTATE, mul-ti-sep't[=a]t, _adj._ having many septa or partitions.

MULTISERIAL, mul-ti-s[=e]'ri-al, _adj._ having many series or rows.--Also
MULTIS[=E]'RIATE.

MULTISILIQUOUS, mul-ti-sil'i-kwus, _adj._ having many pods or seed-vessels.

MULTISONOUS, mul-tis'[=o]-nus, _adj._ having many sounds, sounding much.

MULTISPIRAL, mul-ti-sp[=i]'ral, _adj._ having many turns or whorls.

MULTISTAMINATE, mul-ti-stam'i-n[=a]t, _adj._ bearing many stamens.

MULTISTRIATE, mul-ti-str[=i]'[=a]t, _adj._ having many striæ, streaks, or
stripes.

MULTISULCATE, mul-ti-sul'k[=a]t, _adj._ having many sulci or furrows.

MULTISYLLABLE, mul-ti-sil'a-bl, _n._ a word of many syllables.

MULTITENTACULATE, mul-ti-ten-tak'[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ having many tentacles.

MULTITITULAR, mul-ti-tit'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having many titles.

MULTITUBERCULATE, -D, mul-ti-t[=u]-ber'k[=u]-l[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ having
many tubercles, as teeth.

MULTITUBULAR, mul-ti-t[=u]'b[=u]-lar, _adj._ having many tubes.

MULTITUDE, mul'ti-t[=u]d, _n._ the state of being many: a great number of
individuals: a crowd: the vulgar or common people.--_adjs._ MULTITUD'INARY
(_rare_); MULTITUD'INOUS, consisting of, or having the appearance of, a
multitude.--_adv._ MULTITUD'INOUSLY.--_n._ MULTITUD'INOUSNESS, the state or
quality of being multitudinous. [Fr.,--L. _multitudo_--_multus_, many.]

MULTIVAGOUS, mul-tiv'a-gus, _adj._ wandering much.--Also MULTIV'AGANT.

MULTIVALENT, mut-tiv'a-lent, _adj._ (_chem._) equivalent in combining or
displacing power to a number of hydrogen or other monad atoms.--_n._
MULTIV'ALENCE.

MULTIVALVE, mul'ti-valv, _n._ a mollusc having a shell of more than two
valves.--_adj._ having many valves--also MULTIVAL'VULAR.

MULTIVERSANT, mul-ti-ver'sant, _adj._ turning into many shapes.

MULTIVIOUS, mul-tiv'i-us, _adj._ having many ways or roads.

MULTIVOCAL, mul-tiv'o-kal, _adj._ ambiguous, equivocal.

MULTIVOLTINE, mul-ti-vol'tin, _adj._ having more than two annual broods--of
silkworm moths and their larvæ. [L. _multus_, much, It. _volta_, a turn,
winding.]

MULTOCULAR, mul-tok'[=u]-lar, _adj._ having more than two eyes.

MULTUM, mul'tum, _n._ an adulterant compound in brewing of quassia and
liquorice.

MULTUNGULATE, mul-tung'g[=u]-l[=a]t, _adj._ having more than two functional
hoofs.--_n._ a multungulate mammal.

MULTURE, mul't[=u]r, _n._ a grinding of grain, or the grain ground: the
toll paid to a miller for grinding, generally in kind: the percentage of
ore paid to a pulverising-mill by those using it.--_v.t._ MULT, to take
toll from for grinding corn.--_n._ MUL'TURER. [O. Fr.,--L. _molitura_, a
grinding.]

MUM, mum, _adj._ silent.--_n._ silence.--_interj._ be silent!--_interj._
MUM'-BUD'GET, an exclamation enjoining silence.--_n._ MUM'CHANCE, a silent
game with cards or dice: a fool.--_adj._ silent. [Cf. L. and Gr. _mu_, the
least possible sound made with the lips: imit.]

MUM, mum, _n._ a peculiar kind of beer made of wheat-malt, to which some
brewers add oat and bean meal. [Ger. _mumme_, from a personal name.]

MUMBLE, mum'bl, _v.i._ to speak indistinctly: to chew softly: to eat with
the lips close.--_v.t._ to utter indistinctly or imperfectly: to mouth
gently.--_ns._ MUM'BLEMENT, mumbling speech; MUM'BLE-NEWS (_Shak._), a
tale-bearer; MUM'BLER, one who mumbles or speaks with a low, indistinct
voice.--_adj._ MUM'BLING, uttered with a low, indistinct voice: chewing
softly.--_adv._ MUM'BLINGLY. [Cf. _Mum_.]

MUMBO-JUMBO, mum'b[=o]-jum'b[=o], _n._ a god worshipped by certain negro
tribes in Africa: any object of foolish worship or fear.

MUMM, mum, _v.t._ to mask: to make diversion with a mask on.--_ns._
MUMM'ER, one who makes sport in disguise: a masker: a buffoon; MUMM'ERY,
sport with a mask on or in disguise: great show without reality; MUMM'ING,
the sports of mummers.--_adj._ pertaining to the sports of mummers.--_n._
MUMM'OCK, an old ragged coat. [O. Fr. _momer_--Old Dut. _mommen_, to mask,
_mom_, a mask, prob. originating in the word _mum_, used to frighten
children while covering the face.]

MUMMY, mum'i, _n._ a human body preserved by the Egyptian art of embalming,
in which wax, spices, &c. were employed: a kind of wax used in grafting: a
brown pigment: (_obs._) a medicinal gum.--_v.t._ to embalm and dry as a
mummy:--_pr.p._ mumm'ying; _pa.p._ mumm'ied.--_n._
MUMMIFIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MUMM'IFORM.--_v.t._ MUMM'IFY, to make into a
mummy: to embalm and dry as a mummy:--_pr.p._ mumm'ifying; _pa.p._
mumm'ified.--_ns._ MUMM'Y-CASE, a case of wood or cartonnage for an
Egyptian mummy; MUNNY-CLOTH, the linen cloth in which a mummy was wrapped:
a modern fabric resembling it, used as a basis for embroidery: a fabric
like crape for mourning-dress, having a cotton or silk warp and woollen
weft; MUMM'Y-WHEAT, a variety of wheat with compound spikes--_Triticum
compositum_. [O. Fr. _mumie_--It. _mummia_--Ar. and Pers. _múmáyin_, a
mummy--Pers. _móm_, wax.]

MUMP, mump, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to mumble, mutter, or move the lips with the
mouth almost closed: to nibble: to cheat: to play the beggar.--_ns._
MUMP'ER, one who mumps: an old cant term for a beggar; MUMP'ING-DAY, St
Thomas's Day, 21st Dec.--_adj._ MUMP'ISH, having mumps: dull:
sullen.--_adv._ MUMP'ISHLY.--_n._ MUMP'ISHNESS.--_n._ MUMPS, a contagious
non-suppurative inflammation of the parotid and sometimes of the other
salivary glands: gloomy silence. [Form of _mum_.]

MUMPSIMUS, mump'si-mus, _n._ an error to which one clings after it has been
thoroughly exposed. [Corr. of L. _sumpsimus_, in the mass, by an ignorant
priest who refused to correct it.]

MUN, mun, _n._ a provincial form of _man_.

MUNCH, munsh, _v.t._ and _v.i._ to chew with shut mouth.--_n._ MUNCH'ER,
one who munches.

MUNDANE, mun'd[=a]n, _adj._ belonging to the world: terrestrial.--_adv._
MUN'DANELY.--_n._ MUNDAN'ITY. [Fr.,--L. _mundanus_--_mundus_, the world.]

MUNDIFY, mun'di-f[=i], _v.t._ to cleanse, purify.--_adjs._ MUN'DATORY,
cleansing; MUNDIF'ICANT, cleansing.--_n._ a cleansing ointment or
plaster.--_n._ MUNDIFIC[=A]'TION.--_adj._ MUN'DIFIC[=A]TIVE. [Fr.
_mondifier_--Low L. _mundific[=a]re_--L. _mundus_, clean, _fac[)e]re_, to
make.]

MUNDIVAGANT, mun-div'a-gant, _adj._ wandering over the world.

MUNERARY, m[=u]'ne-r[=a]-ri, _adj._ of the nature of a gift.

MUNGO, mung'g[=o], _n._ the waste produced in a woollen-mill from hard spun
or felted cloth, or from tearing up old clothes, used in making cheap
cloth.

MUNGOOSE, same as MONGOOSE.

MUNICIPAL, m[=u]-nis'i-pal, _adj._ pertaining to a corporation or
city.--_n._ MUNICIPALIS[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MUNIC'IPALISE.--_ns._
MUNIC'IPALISM; MUNICIPAL'ITY, a town or city possessed of self-government:
a district governed like a city: in France, a division of the
country.--_adv._ MUNIC'IPALLY. [Fr.,--L. _municipalis_--_municipium_, a
free town--_munia_, official duties, _cap[)e]re_, to take.]

MUNIFICENCE, m[=u]-nif'i-sens, _n._ (_Spens._) fortification, means of
defence. [L. _mun[=i]re_, to fortify.]

MUNIFICENCE, m[=u]-nif'i-sens, _n._ quality of being munificent:
bountifulness.--_adj._ MUNIF'ICENT, very liberal in giving: generous:
bountiful.--_adv._ MUNIF'ICENTLY. [Fr.,--L. _munificentia_--_munus_, a
present, _fac[)e]re_, to make.]

MUNIMENT, m[=u]'ni-ment, _n._ that which fortifies: that which defends: a
stronghold: place or means of defence: defence: (_law_) a record fortifying
or making good a claim, title-deeds, or charters--preserved in _Muniment
chests_, _rooms_, or _houses_: any article carefully preserved for its
interest or value.--_p.adj._ MUN'ITING (_Bacon_), fortifying,
strengthening.--_n._ MUNI'TION, materials used in war: military stores of
all kinds: (_B._) stronghold, fortress. [Fr.,--L. _munimentum_, from
_mun[=i]re_, _-itum_, to fortify--_mænia_, walls.]

MUNNION, mun'yun. Same as MULLION.

MURÆNA, m[=u]-r[=e]'na, _n._ the typical genus of _Murænidæ_, a family of
eels, now limited to the European murry or moray (q.v.). [Gr. _muraina_, a
lamprey.]

MURAL, m[=u]'ral, _adj._ pertaining to, or like, a wall: steep: trained
against a wall, as plants.--MURAL CIRCLE, a large circle marked with
degrees, &c., fixed to a wall, for measuring arcs of the meridian; MURAL
CROWN, a crown of gold to imitate a battlement, given among the ancient
Romans to him who first mounted the wall of a besieged city; MURAL
PAINTING, a painting executed, especially in distemper colours, upon the
wall of a building. [Fr.,--L. _muralis_, from _murus_, a wall.]

MURATORIAN, m[=u]-ra-t[=o]'ri-an, _adj._ pertaining to the Italian scholar
Lodovico Antonio _Muratori_ (1672-1750).--MURATORIAN FRAGMENT or CANON, a
list of the New Testament writings, apparently drawn up by a contemporary
of Irenæus, about 170 A.D., edited by Muratori. It counts four Gospels,
Acts, thirteen Pauline epistles (excluding Hebrews), 1 John, then Jude; 2
and 3 John are reckoned among catholic epistles. The Apocalypse is
included.

MURDER, mur'd[.e]r, _n._ the act of putting a person to death,
intentionally and from malice.--_v.t._ to commit murder: to destroy: to put
an end to.--_n._ MUR'DERER, one who murders, or is guilty of
murder:--_fem._ MUR'DERESS.--_adj._ MUR'DEROUS, guilty of murder:
consisting in, or fond of, murder: bloody: cruel.--_adv._
MUR'DEROUSLY.--_n._ MUR'DRESS, a battlement with interstices for firing
through.--MURDER IN THE FIRST DEGREE, murder with deliberation and
premeditation, or that committed in the furtherance of any arson, rape,
robbery, or burglary--IN THE SECOND DEGREE, murder of all other kinds;
MURDER WILL OUT, murder cannot remain hidden. [A.S. _morthor_--_morth_,
death; Ger. _mord_, Goth. _maurthr_; cf. L. _mors_, _mortis_, death.]

MURE, m[=u]r, _n._ (_Shak._) a wall.--_v.t._ to enclose in walls: to
immure. [Fr. _mur_--L. _murus_, a wall.]

MUREX, m[=u]'reks, _n._ a shellfish from which the Tyrian purple dye was
obtained:--_pl._ M[=U]'REXES, M[=U]'RICES. [L.]

MURGEON, mur'jon, _n._ (_Scot._) a grimace. [Cf. Fr. _morgue_, a wry face.]

MURIATIC, m[=u]-ri-at'ik, _adj._ pertaining to, or obtained from,
sea-salt.--_n._ M[=U]'RIATE, a salt composed of muriatic acid and a
base.--_adj._ MURIATIF'EROUS. [L. _muriaticus_--_muria_, brine.]

MURICATE, -D, m[=u]'ri-k[=a]t, -ed, _adj._ (_bot._) armed with sharp points
or prickles. [L. _muricatus_, from _murex_, _muricis_, a pointed stone.]

MURIFORM, m[=u]'riform, _adj._ (_bot._) resembling the bricks in a wall.
[L. _murus_, a wall, _forma_, shape.]

MURKY, murk'i, _adj._ dark: obscure: gloomy.--_adv._ MURK'ILY.--_n._
MURK'INESS--(_Shak._) MURK.--_adjs._ MURK'SOME, MIRK'SOME (_Spens._),
darksome. [A.S. _murc_; Ice. _myrkr_, Dan. and Sw. _mörk_.]

MURMUR, mur'mur, _n._ a low, indistinct sound, like that of running water:
a complaint in a low, muttering voice.--_v.i._ to utter a murmur: to
grumble:--_pr.p._ mur'muring; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mur'mured.--_n._
MUR'MURER.--_adj._ MUR'MURING, making a low continuous noise.--_adv._
MUR'MURINGLY, with a low murmuring sound: in a murmuring manner.--_adj._
MUR'MUROUS, attended with murmurs: exciting murmur.--_adv._ MUR'MUROUSLY.
[Fr.,--L.; imit.]

MURPHY, mur'fi, _n._ (_coll._) a potato:--_pl._ MUR'PHIES (-fiz). [From the
common Irish name _Murphy_.]

MURRA, mur'a, _n._ an ornamental stone for vases, &c., described by Pliny,
most probably fluor-spar; it was first brought to Rome by Pompey, 61
B.C.--_adjs._ MURR'HINE, MURR'INE, MYRR'HINE.

MURRAIN, mur'r[=a]n, or -'rin, _n._ an infectious and fatal disease among
cattle, esp. foot-and-mouth disease.--_n._ MUR'REN (_Milt._). [O. Fr.
_morine_, a carcass--L. _mori_, to die. See MORTAL.]

MURREY, mur'i, _adj._ dark red or reddish brown, of mulberry colour.

MURRY, same as MORAY (q.v.).

MURTHER, MURTHERER=MURDER, MURDERER.

MUSACEOUS, m[=u]-z[=a]'shus, _adj._ relating to an order of plants, of
which the genus M[=U]'SA is the type, the banana or plantain family.

MUSANG, m[=u]-sang', _n._ a paradoxure, or a related civet, esp. the East
Indian coffee-rat. [Malay.]

MUSCA, mus'kä, _n._ a genus of insects, including the house-fly, &c.--_n._
MUSCAT[=O]'RIUM, a flabellum.--MUSCÆ VOLITANTES, ocular spectra like
floating black spots before the eyes. [L. _musca_.]

MUSCADEL, mus'ka-del, _n._ a rich, spicy wine: also the grape producing it:
a fragrant and delicious pear--also MUS'CADINE, MUS'CAT,
MUS'CATEL.--_n.pl._ MUS'CATELS, sun-dried raisins. [O. Fr.,--It.
_moscadello_, dim. of _muscato_--L. _muscus_, musk.]

MUSCADIN, müs-ka-dang', _n._ a fop or dandy. [Fr.]

MUSCARDINE, mus'kar-din, _n._ a fungus destructive to silkworms, also the
disease caused by it. [Fr.]

MUSCARDINE, mus'kar-din, _n._ a dormouse. [Fr.]

MUSCHELKALK, mush'el-kalk, _n._ the middle member of the Triassic system as
developed in Germany, consisting chiefly of limestone--wanting in Britain.
[Ger. _muschel_, shell, _kalk_, lime.]

MUSCHETOR, mus'che-tor, _n._ (_her._) a black spot like an ermine spot, but
without its three specks.--Also MUS'CHETOUR. [O. Fr.,--L. _musca_, a fly.]

MUSCLE, mus'l, _n._ an animal tissue consisting of bundles of fibres
through whose contractility bodily movement is effected, the fibres of the
_voluntary_ muscles being striped, those of the _involuntary_ (of
intestinal canal, blood-vessels, and of skin) unstriped.--_adj._ MUS'CLED,
supplied with muscles.--_ns._ MUS'CLE-READ'ING, the interpretation of
slight involuntary muscular movements; MUS'CLING, the delineation of
muscles, as in a picture; MUSCUL[=A]'TION, the arrangement of muscles of a
body; MUSCULOS'ITY.--_adj._ MUS'CULOUS, pertaining to muscle: full of
muscles, strong. [Fr.,--L. _musculus_, dim. of _mus_, a mouse, a muscle.]

MUSCOID, mus'koid, _adj._ (_bot._) moss-like.--_n._ a moss-like, flowerless
plant.--_ns._ MUSCOL'OGIST, one skilled in muscology; MUSCOL'OGY, the part
of botany which treats of mosses; MUSCOS'ITY, mossiness. [L. _muscus_,
moss, Gr. _eidos_, form.]

MUSCOVADO, mus-k[=o]-v[=a]'do, _n._ the moist, dark-coloured impure sugar
left after evaporating the juice from the sugar-cane and draining off the
molasses, unrefined sugar. [Sp. _moscabado_.]

MUSCOVITE, mus'co-v[=i]t, _n._ a native or an inhabitant of _Moscow_, or of
Russia: the desman or Muscovitic rat: (_min._) potash mica, a silicate of
alumina and potash, yellowish, brownish, or greenish, with pearly or almost
metallic lustre, its thin transparent plates still used as glass--also
MUSCOVY GLASS.--_adj._ of or pertaining to Moscow or to Russia--also
MUSCOVIT'IC.--_n._ MUS'COVY-DUCK (see MUSK).

MUSCULAR, mus'k[=u]-lar, _adj._ pertaining to a muscle: consisting of
muscles: having strong muscles: brawny: strong: vigorous.--_n._
MUSCULAR'ITY, state of being muscular.--_adv._ MUS'CULARLY.--_adjs._
MUSCULOCUT[=A]'NEOUS, muscular and cutaneous--of certain nerves;
MUS'CULOUS, sinewy.--MUSCULAR CHRISTIANITY, a phrase humorously applied to
that vigorous combination of Christian living with devotion to athletic
enjoyments associated with Charles Kingsley and his admirers (the name was,
however, repudiated by him); MUSCULAR EXCITABILITY, the contracting
property of a muscle; MUSCULAR PILE, a voltaic battery employed in
biological experiments; MUSCULAR SYSTEM, the whole of the muscular tissue
of a body.

MUSE, m[=u]z, _v.i._ to study in silence: to be absent-minded: to
meditate.--_n._ deep thought: contemplation: absence of mind: the inspiring
power, as of a poet.--_adj._ MUSED, bemused, muzzy, fuddled.--_n._
MUS'ER.--_adv._ MUS'INGLY. [Fr. _muser_, to loiter (It. _musare_); acc. to
Diez and Skeat, from O. Fr. _muse_ (Fr. _museau_), the snout of an animal.
Others explain Fr. _muser_ as from Low L. _muss[=a]re_--L. _muss[=a]re_, to
murmur.]

MUSE, m[=u]z, _n._ one of the nine goddesses of poetry, music, and the
other liberal arts--daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne: an inspiring poetic
inspiration: (_Milt._) an inspired poet.--Names of the Muses:--CALLIOPE, of
epic poetry; CLIO, of history; ERATO, of amatory poetry; EUTERPE, of lyric
poetry; MELPOMENE, of tragedy; POLYHYMNIA, of lyric poetry and eloquence;
TERPSICHORE, of dancing; THALIA, of comedy; URANIA, of astronomy. [Fr.,--L.
_musa_--Gr. _mousa_.]

MUSET, m[=u]z'et, _n._ (_Shak._) a gap in a fence or thicket through which
an animal passes.

MUSETTE, m[=u]-zet', _n._ a small oboe: an old French bagpipe: a simple
pastoral melody.

MUSEUM, m[=u]-z[=e]'um, _n._ a collection of natural, scientific, or other
curiosities, or of works of art.--_ns._ MUSEOL'OGY, the science of
arranging--MUSEOG'RAPHY, of describing, museums. [L.,--Gr. _mouseion_; cf.
_Muse_.]

MUSH, mush, _n._ meal boiled in water, esp. Indian meal: anything
pulpy.--_adj._ MUSH'Y, soft, pulpy. [Prob. _mash_.]

MUSH, mush, _v.t._ to notch, a dress-fabric ornamentally at the side with a
stamp. [Prob. a form of _mesh_.]

MUSHED, musht, _adj._ (_prov._) worn out, exhausted.

MUSHROOM, mush'r[=oo]m, _n._ the common name of certain fungi, esp. such as
are edible: (_fig._) one who rises suddenly from a low condition: an
upstart.--_n._ Mush'ROOM-SPAWN, the substance in which the reproductive
mycelium of the mushroom is embodied. [O. Fr. _mousseron_, through
_mousse_, moss--Old High Ger. _mos_ (Ger. _moos_, moss).]

MUSIC, m[=u]'zik, _n._ a connected series of sweet sounds: melody or
harmony: the science which treats of harmony: the art of combining sounds
so as to please the ear: a musical composition: (_U.S._) heated argument,
also amusement.--_adj._ M[=U]'SICAL, pertaining to, or producing, music:
pleasing to the ear: melodious.--_adv._ M[=U]'SICALLLY.--_ns._
M[=U]'SICALNESS; M[=U]'SIC-CASE, -F[=O]'LIO, -HOLD'ER, &c., a roll,
cabinet, &c. for carrying sheet music; M[=U]'SIC-DEMY', a size of
writing-paper, 20¾ in. × 14-3/8 in.; M[=U]'SIC-HALL, a public hall for
musical entertainments, esp. when varied by dancing, variety performances,
&c., often with concomitant smoking and drinking; M[=U]'SIC-HOUSE, a place
for public musical entertainments: a firm dealing in music or musical
instruments; MUSI'CIAN, one skilled in music: a performer of
music--(_obs._) MUSI'CIANER.--_adv._ MUSI'CIANLY.--_ns._ MUSI'CIANSHIP;
M[=U]'SIC-MAS'TER, or -MIS'TRESS, a man or a woman who teaches music;
M[=U]'SIC-OF-THE-SPHERES (see HARMONY); M[=U]'SIC-P[=A]'PER, paper ruled
with staffs for writing music in; M[=U]'SIC-PEN, a pen marking at once a
series of fine parallel lines for music; M[=U]'SIC-RACK, a rack attached to
a musical instrument for holding the player's music; M[=U]'SIC-RECORD'ER, a
device for recording music as played on an organ, pianoforte, &c.;
M[=U]'SIC-SCHOOL, a place where music is regularly taught, a conservatory;
M[=U]'SIC-SHELL, a Gasteropod of the Caribbean Sea, marked with figures
like printed music; M[=U]'SIC-STAND, a music-rack: a raised platform for a
musical band; M[=U]'SIC-STOOL, a stool or chair, generally adjustable in
height, for the performer on the pianoforte, &c.; M[=U]'SIC-WIRE, wire such
as the strings of musical instruments are made of.--MUSIC (-AL) BOX, a case
containing a mechanism contrived, when the spring is wound up, to reproduce
melodies; MUSIC CLUB, a meeting for practising music.--MUSICAL DIRECTOR,
the conductor of an orchestra, &c.; MUSICAL GLASSES (see HARMONICA, under
HARMONIUM). [Fr. _musique_--L. _musica_--Gr. _mousik[=e]_ (_techn[=e]_,
art), _mousa_, a muse.]

MUSIMON, m[=u]'si-mon, _n._ the moufflon.--Also MUS'MON.

MUSING, m[=u]z'ing, _n._ the act of one who muses: contemplation:
meditation.--_adj._ meditative, preoccupied.--_adv._ MUS'INGLY.

MUSIVE, m[=u]'siv, _adj._ Same as MOSAIC.

MUSK, musk, _n._ a strong perfume, obtained from the male musk-deer, or the
odour thereof: a hornless deer, in Tibet and Nepaul, yielding musk.--_v.t._
to perfume with musk.--_ns._ MUSK (_bot._), a name given to a number of
plants which smell more or less strongly of musk; MUSK'-BAG, -BALL, a bag,
ball, containing musk as a perfuming sachet; MUSK'-CAT, a civet-cat: a
scented effeminate dandy; MUSK'-C[=A]V'Y, a West Indian echimyine rat-like
rodent; MUSK'-DEER, a hornless deer, native of Central Asia, which produces
the perfume called musk; MUSK'-DUCK, the Muscovy-duck, so called from its
musky odour; MUSK'-GLAND, a skin-pit in mammals producing a secretion with
a musky odour, esp. in the male musk-deer and male beaver.--_adv._
MUSK'ILY.--_ns._ MUSK'INESS; MUSK'-MALL'OW, an ornamental species of
mallow, with faint odour of musk; MUSK'-MELON, the juicy edible fruit of a
trailing herb (_Cucumis melo_), or the plant; MUSK'-OX, a ruminant of
arctic America, with long smooth hair, its horns meeting in a shield over
the forehead, exhaling a strong musky smell; MUSK'-PEAR, a fragrant variety
of pear; MUSK'-PLUM, a fragrant kind of plum; MUSK'-RAT, a North American
aquatic, arvicoline, rat-like rodent, yielding a valuable fur, and
secreting in its gland a substance with a musky smell--also MUS'QUASH;
MUSK'-ROSE, a fragrant species of rose.--_adj._ MUSK'Y, having the odour of
musk. [Fr. _musc_--L. _muscus_, Gr. _moschos_--Pers. _musk_--Sans.
_mushka_, a testicle.]

MUSKET, mus'ket, _n._ any kind of smooth-bore military hand-gun: a male
sparrow-hawk.--_ns._ MUSKETEER', a soldier armed with a musket; MUSKETOON',
MUSQUETOON', a short musket: one armed with a musketoon.--_adj._
MUS'KET-PROOF, capable of resisting the force of a musket-ball.--_ns._
MUS'KET-REST, a fork used as a support for the heavy 16th-century
musket--also _Croc_; MUS'KETRY, muskets in general; practice with muskets:
a body of troops armed with muskets; MUS'KET-SHOT, the discharge of a
musket, the reach of a musket. [O. Fr. _mousquet_, a musket, formerly a
hawk--It. _mosquetto_--L. _musca_, a fly.]

MUSLIM, mus'lim, _n._ and _adj._ Same as MOSLEM.

MUSLIN, muz'lin, _n._ a fine soft cotton fabric resembling gauze in
appearance, but woven plain without any looping of the warp threads on the
weft--generally uncoloured: a coarser fabric than Indian muslin, printed
with coloured patterns, &c.: (_U.S._) cotton cloth for shirts, bedding,
&c.: a collector's name for several different moths.--_adj._ made of
muslin.--_adj._ MUS'LINED, clothed with muslin.--_ns._ MUS'LINET, a coarse
kind of muslin; MUS'LIN-KALE (_Scot._), thin broth made without meat. [Fr.
_mousseline_--It. _mussolino_, from _Mosul_ in Mesopotamia.]

MUSQUASH, mus'kwosh, _n._ the musk-rat. [Am. Ind.]

MUSROLE, muz'r[=o]l, _n._ the nose-band of a horse's bridle.

MUSS, mus, _n._ (_Shak._) a scramble: confusion, disorder.--_v.t._ (_U.S._)
to throw into confusion. [O. Fr. _mousche_, a fly--L. _musca_, a fly.]

MUSSEL, MUSCLE, mus'l, _n._ a. marine bivalve shellfish, used for
food.--_n._ MUS'C[=U]LITE, a petrified mussel or shell. [A.S. _muxle_; Ger.
_muschel_, Fr. _moule_; all from L. _musculus_.]

MUSSITATION, mus-i-t[=a]'shun, _n._ the movement of the tongue or lips as
if in speech, without producing articulate sounds, muttering.--_v.t._
MUSS'ITATE, to mutter.

MUSSULMAN, mus'ul-man, _n._ a Moslem or Mohammedan:--_pl._ MUSS'ULMANS
(-manz). [Turk. _musulm[=a]n_--Ar. _muslim_, _moslim_, Moslem.]

MUSSY, mus'i, _adj._ disordered.--_n._ MUSS'INESS.

MUST, must, _v.i._ to be obliged physically or morally. [A.S. _mót_,
_móste_; Ger. _müssen_.]

MUST, must, _n._ wine pressed from the grape, but not fermented:
potato-pulp prepared for fermentation. [A.S. _must_--L. _mustus_, new,
fresh.]

MUST, must, _n._ an occasional state of dangerous frenzy in adult male
elephants.

MUSTACHE. Same as MOUSTACHE.

MUSTANG, mus'tang, _n._ the wild horse of the American prairies: (_U.S._) a
naval officer from the merchant service in the Civil War.

MUSTARD, mus'tard, _n._ a plant of the genus Brassica, formerly classed as
Sinapis, having a pungent taste: the seed thereof ground and used as a
seasoning for meat, as a plaster, &c.--FRENCH MUSTARD, mustard prepared for
table by adding salt, sugar, vinegar, &c.; WILD MUSTARD, the charlock. [O.
Fr. _mostarde_ (Fr. _moutarde_)--L. _mustum_, must.]

MUSTELA, mus-t[=e]'la, _n._ the typical genus of _Mustelidæ_, the martens
and sables.--_adj._ MUS'TELINE, like a marten or weasel: tawny in
colour.--_n._ a musteline mammal.--_adj._ MUS'TELOID, like a weasel. [L.]

MUSTER, mus't[.e]r, _v.t._ to assemble, as troops for duty or inspection:
to gather, summon (with _up_).--_v.i._ to be gathered together, as
troops.--_n._ an assembling of troops: a register of troops mustered:
assemblage: collected show.--_ns._ MUS'TER-BOOK (_Shak._), a book in which
military forces are registered; MUS'TER-FILE (_Shak._), a muster-roll;
MUS'TER-MAS'TER, the master of the muster, or who takes an account of
troops, their arms, &c.; MUS'TER-ROLL, a register of the officers and men
in each company, troop, or regiment present at the time of muster.--PASS
MUSTER, to pass inspection uncensured. [O. Fr. _mostre_, _monstre_--L.
_monstrum_--_mon[=e]re_, to warn.]

MUSTY, must'i, _adj._ mouldy: spoiled by damp: sour: foul.--_adv._
MUST'ILY.--_n._ MUST'INESS. [Doublet of _moisty_--L. _musteus_, new.]

MUTABLE, m[=u]'ta-bl, _adj._ that may be changed: subject to change:
inconstant.--_ns._ MUTABIL'ITY, M[=U]'TABLENESS, state or quality of being
mutable.--_adv._ M[=U]'TABLY.--_n._ MUTAN'DUM, something to be
altered:--_pl._ MUTAN'DA.--_v.t._ M[=U]'TATE, to change a vowel-sound by
the influence of a vowel in the following syllable.--_n._ MUT[=A]'TION, act
or process of changing a vowel through the influence of one in the next
syllable--the German _umlaut_: change: succession.--_adjs._ M[=U]'TATIVE,
M[=U]'T[=A]TORY, changing, mutable. [Fr.,--L. _mutabilis_--_mut[=a]re_,
_-[=a]tum_, to change--_mov[=e]re_, _motum_, to move.]

MUTAGE, m[=u]'t[=a]j, _n._ a process for arresting fermentation in the must
of grapes. [Fr.]

MUTCH, much, _n._ (_Scot._) a woman's cap. [Old Dut. _mutse_; Dut. _muts_,
Ger. _mütze_.]

MUTCHKIN, much'kin, _n._ a Scottish liquid measure of four gills, or
forming one-fourth of a Scottish pint. [Scot. _mutch_, a cap, _kin_,
little.]

MUTE, m[=u]t, _adj._ incapable of speaking: dumb: silent:
unpronounced.--_n._ one dumb, or remaining silent: a person stationed by
undertakers at the door of a house at a funeral: a stopped sound, formed by
the shutting of the mouth-organs, esp. the surds _t_, _p_, _k_, but also
applied to the sonant or voiced consonants _d_, _b_, _g_, and even the
nasals _n_, _m_, _ng_: (_law_) one who refuses to plead.--_v.t._ to deaden
sound.--_adv._ MUTE'LY.--_n._ MUTE'NESS. [Fr.,--L. _mutus_.]

MUTE, m[=u]t, _v.i._ to dung, as birds. [O. Fr. _mutir_, _esmeutir_--Old
Dut. _smelten_, to smelt.]

MUTILATE, m[=u]'ti-l[=a]t, _v.t._ to maim: to cut off: to remove a material
part of.--_ns._ MUTIL[=A]'TION, act of mutilating: deprivation of a limb or
essential part; M[=U]'TILATOR, one who mutilates. [L.
_mutil[=a]re_--_mutilus_--Gr. _mutilos_, _mitulos_, curtailed.]

MUTINEER, m[=u]-ti-n[=e]r', _n._ one guilty of mutiny.--_v.i._ to
mutiny.--_n._ and _v.i._ M[=U]'TINE (_Shak._).

MUTINY, m[=u]'ti-ni, _v.i._ to rise against authority in military or naval
service: to revolt against rightful authority:--_pr.p._ m[=u]'tinying;
_pa.t._ and _pa.p._ m[=u]'tinied.--_n._ insurrection against constituted
authority, esp. naval or military: revolt, tumult, strife.--_adj._
M[=U]'TINOUS, disposed to mutiny: seditious.--_adv._ M[=U]'TINOUSLY.--_n._
M[=U]'TINOUSNESS.--MUTINY ACT, an act passed by the British parliament from
year to year, to regulate the government of the army, from 1689 down to
1879, when it was superseded by the Army Discipline and Regulation Act,
modified by the Army Act of 1881. [O. Fr. _mutiner_, _mutin_, riotous,
_meute_, a sedition--L. _motus_, rising--_mov[=e]re_, _motum_, to move.]

MUTISM, m[=u]t'izm, _n._ the state or habit of being mute.

MUTTER, mut'[.e]r, _v.i._ to utter words in a low voice: to murmur: to
sound with a low, rumbling noise.--_v.t._ to utter indistinctly.--_ns._
MUTT'ER (_Milt._), a murmuring; MUTTER[=A]'TION, act of muttering or
complaining; MUTT'ERER; MUTT'ERING.--_adv._ MUTT'ERINGLY, in a muttering or
grumbling manner: with indistinct articulation. [Prob. imit., like prov.
Ger. _mustern_; L. _mutt[=i]re_.]

MUTTON, mut'n, _n._ the flesh of sheep: an old Anglo-French gold coin
impressed with a lamb: (_slang_) a loose woman, hence illicit commerce: a
sheep.--_n._ MUTT'ON-CHOP, a rib of mutton chopped at the small end for
broiling or frying.--_adj._ like a mutton-chop (of whiskers cut round at
the ends).--_ns._ MUTT'ON-CUT'LET, a steak cut usually from a leg of mutton
for broiling or frying; MUTT'ON-FIST, a coarse, big hand; MUTT'ON-HAM, a
salted leg of mutton; MUTT'ON-HEAD, a heavy, stupid person.--_adj._
MUTT'ON-HEAD'ED, stupid.--_ns._ MUTT'ON-S[=U]'ET, the fat about the kidneys
and loins of sheep; MUTT'ON-THUMP'ER, a clumsy bookbinder.--_adj._
MUTT'ONY.--Laced mutton (_Shak._), a loose woman; RETURN TO ONE'S MUTTONS
(_coll._), to return to the subject of discussion--a humorous
mistranslation of the Fr. proverb, 'Revenons à nos moutons.' [O. Fr.
_moton_ (Fr. _mouton_), a sheep--Low L. _multo_, acc. to Diez, from L.
_mutilus_, mutilated.]

MUTUAL, m[=u]'t[=u]-al, _adj._ interchanged: in return: given and received,
equally affecting two or more: common, conjoint, shared alike, as in
'mutual friend.'--_ns._ M[=U]'TUALISM, MUTUAL'ITY.--_adv._
M[=U]'TUALLY.--MUTUAL ACCOUNTS, accounts in which each of two have charges
against the other; MUTUAL INSURANCE, a reciprocal contract among several
persons to indemnify each other against certain designated losses, the
system of a company in which policy-holders receive a certain share of the
profits, &c.; MUTUAL WALL, a wall equally belonging to each of two houses.
[Fr. _mutuel_--L. _mutuus_--_mut[=a]re_, to change.]

MUTULE, m[=u]t'[=u]l, _n._ a kind of square, flat bracket used in the Doric
order of architecture, above each triglyph and each metope, having round
projections like nail-heads on the lower surface.

MUTUUM, m[=u]'t[=u]-um, _n._ a bailment consisting of a loan of goods for
consumption, as corn, coal, &c., to be returned in goods of the same
amount.

MUX, muks, _v.t._ to spoil, botch.--_n._ a mess.

MUZHIK, m[=oo]-zhik', _n._ a Russian peasant.

MUZZLE, muz'l, _n._ the projecting jaws and nose of an animal: a fastening
for the mouth to prevent biting, by a strap or a cage: the extreme end of a
gun, &c.--_v.t._ to put a muzzle on: to restrain from biting: to keep from
hurting: to gag or silence.--_ns._ MUZZ'LE-BAG, a canvas bag fixed to the
muzzle of a gun at sea, to keep out water; MUZZ'LE-LOAD'ER, a firearm
loaded through the muzzle--opp. to _Breech-loader_.--_adj._
MUZZ'LE-LOAD'ING.--_n._ MUZZ'LE-VELOC'ITY, the velocity of a projectile the
moment it leaves the muzzle of a gun. [O. Fr. _musel_ (Fr. _museau_), prob.
from L. _morsus_--_mord[=e]re_, to bite.]

MUZZY, muz'i, _adj._ dazed, bewildered, tipsy.--_n._ MUZZ'INESS.

MY, (when emphatic or distinct) m[=i], (otherwise) me, _poss. adj._
belonging to me. [Contr. of _mine_, A.S. _mín_, of me.]

MYA, m[=i]'a, _n._ a genus of bivalve shells: a clam of this genus.--_n._
MY[=A]'RIA, an old name for the _Myidæ_, a family of dimyarian
bivalves.--_adj._ MY[=A]'RIAN. [Gr. _myax_, a sea-mussel.]

MYALGIA, m[=i]-al'ji-a, _n._ a morbid state of a muscle.--_adj._ MYAL'GIC.
[Gr. _mys_, muscle, _algos_, pain.]

MYALL, m[=i]'al, _n._ a hard, scented wood yielded by several Australian
acacias, esp. good for tobacco-pipes and whip-handles.

MYCELIUM, m[=i]-s[=e]'li-um, _n._ the white thread-like parts from which a
mushroom or a fungus is developed: mushroom spawn:--_pl._ MYC[=E]'LIA. [Gr.
_myk[=e]s_, a fungus, _[=e]los_, a nail or wart.]

MYCETES, m[=i]-s[=e]'t[=e]z, _n._ a kind of South American monkey, called
also _Howlers._ [Gr. _myk[=e]t[=e]s_, bellower.]

MYCETES, m[=i]-s[=e]'t[=e]z, _n.pl._ mushrooms or fungi.--_ns._ MYCETOL'OGY
(same as MYCOLOGY); MYCET[=O]'MA, a chronic disease of the feet and hands
in India.--_n.pl._ MYCETOZ[=O]'A, a group of fungus-like organisms, now
mostly contained in the division Myxomycetes or slime-fungi.--_adjs._
MYCOLOG'IC, -AL.--_ns._ MYCOL'OGIST; MYCOL'OGY, the science treating of the
fungi or mushrooms; MYCOPH'AGIST; MYCOPH'AGY, the eating of fungi; MY'COSE,
a kind of sugar obtained from certain lichens and fungi, as ergot of
rye--also _Trehalose_; MYC[=O]'SIS, the presence of fungus growth within
the body.--_adj._ MYCOT'IC. [Gr. _myk[=e]t[=e]s_, pl. of _myk[=e]s_ a
mushroom.]

MYDRIASIS, mi-dr[=i]'a-sis, _n._ morbid dilatation of the pupil of the
eye.--_adj._ MYDRIAT'IC.--_n._ a drug causing this.

MYELITIS, m[=i]-e-l[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of the substance of the
spinal cord.--_ns._ MYELASTHEN[=I]'A, spinal exhaustion; MYELATR[=O]'PHIA,
atrophy of the spinal cord.--_adjs._ MYELIT'IC, MY'ELOID, medullary.--_ns._
MYELOMAL[=A]'CIA, softening of the spinal cord; MYELOMENING[=I]'TIS, spinal
meningitis; MY'ELON, the spinal cord.--_adjs._ MY'ELONAL, MYELON'IC. [Gr.
_myelos_, marrow.]

MYGALE, mig'a-l[=e], _n._ an American tarantula or bird-catching spider.
[Gr. _mygal[=e]_, a field-mouse.]

MYLODON, m[=i]'l[=o]-don, _n._ a genus of large fossil sloths.--_adj._
MY'LODONT. [Gr. _myl[=e]_, a mill, _odous_, _odontos_, a tooth.]

MYLOHYOID, m[=i]-l[=o]-h[=i]'oid, _adj._ pertaining to the molar teeth and
to the hyoid bone.--_n._ the mylohyoid muscle. [Gr. _myl[=e]_, a mill.]

MYNA, m[=i]'na, _n._ one of several sturnoid passerine birds of
India.--Also M[=I]'NA.

MYNHEER, m[=i]n-h[=a]r', _n._ my lord: Dutch form of _Mr_ or _Sir_: a
Dutchman. [Dut. _mijn_, my, _heer_, lord.]

MYOID, m[=i]'oid, _adj._ like muscle.--_n._ MY'OBLAST, a cell producing
muscle-tissue.--_adj._ MYOBLAST'IC.--_ns._ MYOCARD[=I]'TIS, inflammation of
the myocardium; MYOCAR'DIUM, the muscular substance of the heart;
MYODYN[=A]'MIA, muscular force; MY'OGRAM, the tracing of a contracting and
relaxing muscle by the myograph; MY'OGRAPH, an instrument for noting and
recording muscular contractions.--_adjs._ MYOGRAPH'IC, -AL, relating to
myography.--_ns._ MYOG'RAPHIST; MYOG'RAPHY, a description of the muscles of
the body.--_adj._ MYOLOG'ICAL.--_ns._ MYOL'OGIST; MYOL'OGY, the part of
anatomy which treats of the muscles; MY[=O]'MA, a tumour composed of
muscular tissue; MYONIC'ITY, the contractile property of muscular tissue.
[Gr. _mys_, _myos_, muscle.]

MYOMANCY, m[=i]'o-man-si, _n._ divination from the movements of
mice.--_adj._ MYOMAN'TIC. [Gr. _mys_, a mouse, _manteia_, divination.]

MYOPIA, m[=i]-[=o]'pi-a, _n._ shortness or nearness of sight.--_adj._
MYOP'IC.--_ns._ MY'OPS, MY'OPE, a short-sighted person. [Gr.,--_myein_, to
close, _[=o]ps_, the eye.]

MYOSIN, m[=i]'[=o]-sin, _n._ an albuminous compound contained in the
contractile muscular tissue.

MYOSIS, m[=i]-[=o]'sis, _n._ abnormal contraction of the pupil of the
eye.--_adjs._ MYOSIT'IC; MYOT'IC. [Gr. _myein_, to close.]

MYOSITIS, m[=i]-o-s[=i]'tis, _n._ inflammation of a muscle--properly
MY'ITIS.

MYOSOTIS, m[=i]-[=o]-s[=o]'tis, _n._ a genus of annual or perennial herbs
of the borage family, with alternate leaves and simple or branched racemes
of bractless blue, pink, or white flowers: a flower of this genus, as the
common blue forget-me-not. [Gr. _mys_, _myos_, a mouse, _ous_, _[=o]tos_,
an ear.]

MYOTOMY, m[=i]-ot'o-mi, _n._ the dissection of the muscles. [Gr. _mys_,
_myos_, muscle, _temnein_, to cut.]

MYRIAD, mir'i-ad, _n._ any immense number.--_adj._ numberless. [Gr.
_myrias_, _myriados_, ten thousand.]

MYRIAPOD, mir'i-a-pod, (more correctly) MYR'IOPOD, _n._ a worm-shaped
animal with many-jointed legs.--_n._ MYRIAP'ODA, a class of jointed
animals, of which some of the lower kinds have an immense number of legs.
[Gr. _myrios_, numberless, _pous_, _podos_, a foot.]

MYRICA, mi-r[=i]'ka, _n._ a genus of shrubs of the sweet-gale family,
including the bay-berry or wax-myrtle, yielding a tallow used for candles.
[Gr. _myrik[=e]_.]

MYRIORAMA, mir-i-o-rä'ma, _n._ a picture composed of interchangeable parts
which can be combined into a variety of pictures. [Gr. _myrios_,
numberless, _horama_, a view.]

MYRIOSCOPE, mir'i-o-sk[=o]p, _n._ a variety of kaleidoscope, esp. a form of
it consisting of mirrors so arranged as by multiplied reflection from a
small piece of carpet to show how it looks covering a whole floor. [Gr.
_myrios_, numberless, _skopein_, to view.]

MYRISTICA, m[=i]-ris'ti-ka, _n._ a genus of fragrant apetalous trees--the
nutmegs: the kernel of the seed of _Myristica fragrans_, as used in
cookery. [Gr. _myrizein_, to anoint.]

MYRMIDON, m[.e]r'mi-don, _n._ one of a tribe of warriors who accompanied
Achilles to Troy: one of a ruffianly band under a daring leader: one who
carries out another's orders without fear or pity.--_adj._
MYRMID[=O]'NIAN.--MYRMIDONS OF THE LAW, policemen, bailiffs, &c. [L.,--Gr.]

MYROBALAN, m[=i]-rob'a-lan, _n._ the astringent fruit of certain Indian
mountain species of _Terminalia_. [Gr. _myron_, an unguent, _balanos_, a
corn.]

MYRRH, m[.e]r, _n._ a bitter, aromatic, transparent gum, exuded from the
bark of a shrub in Arabia.--_adj._ MYR'RHIC.--_ns._ MYR'RHIN, the fixed
resin of myrrh; MYR'RHOL, the volatile oil of myrrh. [O. Fr. _mirre_ (Fr.
_myrrhe_)--L. and Gr. _myrrha_--Ar. _murr_.]

MYRRHINE. Same as MURRINE.

MYRTLE, m[.e]r'tl, _n._ an evergreen shrub with beautiful and fragrant
leaves.--_n._ MYR'TLE-WAX, wax from the candle-berry. [O. Fr. _myrtil_,
dim. of _myrte_--L. and Gr. _myrtus_.]

MYSELF, m[=i]-self', or me-self', _pron._ I or me, in person--used for the
sake of emphasis and also as the reciprocal of me.

MYSTAGOGUE, mis'ta-g[=o]g, _n._ an initiator into religious mysteries, a
teacher or catechist--also MYSTAG[=O]'GUS.--_adj._ MYSTAGOG'IC
(-goj'-).--_n._ MYS'TAGOGY (-goj-), the practice of a mystagogue: the
sacraments. [Gr. _myst[=e]s_, one initiated, _ag[=o]gos_, a leader.]

MYSTERY, mis't[.e]r-i, _n._ a secret doctrine: anything very obscure: that
which is beyond human knowledge to explain: anything artfully made
difficult: (_pl._) secret rites, in ancient religions rites known only to
and practised by initiated persons, as the Eleusinian mysteries in Greece,
&c.: a sacrament: a rude medieval drama founded on the historical parts of
the Bible and the lives of the saints--the Basque _pastorales_ are a
survival.--_adj._ MYST[=E]'RIOUS, containing mystery: obscure: secret:
incomprehensible.--_adv._ MYST[=E]'RIOUSLY.--_n._ MYST[=E]'RIOUSNESS. [M.
E. _mysterie_--L. _mysterium_--Gr. _myst[=e]rion_--_myst[=e]s_, one
initiated--_muein_, to close the eyes.]

MYSTERY, mis't[.e]r-i, _n._ a trade, handicraft. [M. E. _mistere_--O. Fr.
_mestier_ (Fr. _métier_)--L. _ministerium_--_minister_. Prop. _mistery_;
the form _mystery_ is due to confusion with the above.]

MYSTIC, -AL, mis'tik, -al, _adj._ relating to, or containing, mystery:
sacredly obscure or secret: involving a sacred or a secret meaning hidden
from the eyes of the ordinary reader, only revealed to a spiritually
enlightened mind, allegorical: belonging to mysticism.--_n._ MYS'TIC, one
who seeks for direct intercourse with God in elevated religious feeling or
ecstasy.--_adv._ MYS'TICALLY.--_ns._ MYS'TICALNESS, the quality of being
mystical; MYS'TICISM, the doctrine of the mystics, a tendency of religious
feeling marked by an effort to attain to direct and immediate communion
with God: obscurity of doctrine; MYSTIFIC[=A]'TION.--_v.t._ MYS'TIFY, to
make mysterious, obscure, or secret: to involve in mystery:--_pr.p._
mys'tifying; _pa.t._ and _pa.p._ mys'tified.--MYSTIC RECITATION, the
recitation of parts of the Greek liturgy in an inaudible voice; MYSTICAL
THEOLOGY, the knowledge of divine things attained by spiritual insight and
experience only, without authority, the process of reason, &c. [L.
_mysticus_--Gr. _mystikos_. Cf. _Mystery_, a secret doctrine.]

MYTACISM, m[=i]'ta-sizm, _n._ a too recurrent use of the letter _m_ in
speech or writing.

MYTH, mith, _n._ a fable, a legend, a fabulous narrative founded on a
remote event, esp. those made in the early period of a people's existence:
an invented story: a falsehood.--_adjs._ MYTH'IC, -AL, relating to myths:
fabulous: untrue.--_adv._ MYTH'ICALLY.--_ns._ MYTH'ICIST, MYTH'ICISER, an
adherent of the mythical theory; MYTH'IST, a maker of myths; MYTHOGEN'ESIS,
the production of, or the tendency to originate, myths; MYTHOG'RAPHER, a
writer or narrator of myths; MYTHOG'RAPHY, representation of myths in
graphic or plastic art, art-mythology; MYTHOL'OGER, MYTHOL[=O]'GIAN, a
mythologist.--_adjs._ MYTHOLOG'IC, -AL, relating to mythology,
fabulous.--_adv._ MYTHOLOG'ICALLY.--_v.t._ MYTHOL'OGISE, to interpret or
explain myths: to render mythical.--_ns._ MYTHOL'OGISER, one who, or that
which, mythologises; MYTHOL'OGIST, one versed in, or who writes on,
mythology; MYTHOL'OGY, the myths or stories of a country: a treatise
regarding myths: a collection of myths: the science which investigates
myths; MYTHON'OMY, the deductive and predictive stage of mythology;
MYTH'OPLASM, a narration of mere fable; MYTHOPOE'IST, a
myth-maker.--_adjs._ MYTHOPOET'IC, MYTHOPOE'IC, myth-making, tending to
generate myth.--_n._ MYTH'US, the same as _myth_:--_pl._
MYTH'[=I].--MYTHICAL THEORY, the theory of D. F. Strauss (1808-74) and his
school, that the Gospels are mainly a collection of myths, developed during
the first two centuries, from the imagination of the followers of Jesus;
COMPARATIVE MYTHOLOGY, the science which investigates myths and seeks to
relate those of different races. [Gr. _mythos_.]

MYTILUS, mit'i-lus, _n._ a genus of bivalves, or an individual bivalve
belonging to it.--_adjs._ MYTIL'IFORM, MYT'ILOID.

MYXOEDEMA, mik-s[=e]-d[=e]'ma, _n._ a diseased condition occurring in
adults, generally females, characterised by a thickening of the
subcutaneous tissue, most noticeable in the face, with a simultaneous
dulling of all the faculties and slowing of the movements of the body. A
precisely similar condition occurs in many cases where the thyroid gland
has been removed for disease. [Gr. _myxa_, mucus, and Eng. _edema_.]

MYXOMA, mik-s[=o]'ma, _n._ a tumour consisting of mucous tissue--also
_Collonema_. [Gr. _myxa_, mucus.]

MYXOMYCETES, mik-s[=o]-m[=i]-s[=e]'t[=e]z, _n.pl._ a class of very simple
organisms, often claimed by botanists as fungi, generally regarded by
zoologists as primitive Protozoa, living on damp surfaces exposed to air,
esp. on rotting wood, and feeding on organic débris forming composite
masses or _plasmodia_. [Gr. _myxa_, mucus, _myk[=e]tes_, pl. of _myk[=e]s_,
a mushroom.]

MYXOPOD, mik'so-pod, _n._ and _adj._ a protozoan animal having pseudopodia,
as distinguished from a _mastigopod_, which has cilia or flagella.--_n.pl._
MYXOP'ODA, protozoans whose locomotive appendages are pseudopodia--the same
as _Rhizopoda_.--_adj._ MYXOP'ODOUS. [Gr. _myxa_, mucus, _pous_, _podos_, a
foot.]

MYXOSARCOMA, mik-s[=o]-sär-k[=o]'ma, _n._ a tumour composed of mucous and
sarcomatous tissue:--_pl._ MYXOSARC[=O]'MATA. [Gr. _myxa_, mucus,
_sarc[=o]ma_, a fleshy lump.]

MYZONTES, m[=i]-zon't[=e]z, _n.pl._ a class of vertebrates with an
incomplete cartilaginous skull, no lower jaw, and pouch-like
gills--including the lampreys and hags.--_adj._ and _n._ suctorial as the
lamprey, belonging to the Myzontes. [Gr. _myz[=o]n_, _myzontos_, pr.p. of
_myzein_, to suck.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Corrections made to printed original.

Under "Egophony":--"Ægoph'ony", printed as "Ægoph'any" in original.

Under "Empiric":--"empiricism", printed as "empericism" in original.

Under "Enterprise" (before Enterprisingly):--"adv.", printed as "adj." in
original.

Under "Experiment":--"Experiment'al", printed as "Eperiment'al" in
original.

Under "Friend":--"acquaintance", printed as "acqaintance" in original.

Under "Gabbatha":--"tessellated", printed as "tesselated" in original.

Under "Heterochrony":--"ontogenetic", printed as "octogenetic" in original.

Under "Hither":--"to come", printed as "to come thither" in original.

Under "Hot" (before Hotspur):--"n.", printed as "ns." in original.

Under "In":--"Gr.", printed as "Ger." in original.

Under "Jowl" (etymology):--"the jaw", printed as "the law" in original.

Under "Jungermannia":--"Jungermann", printed as "Junggermann" in original.

Under "Kantian":--"philosophy", printed as "philosphy" in original.

Under "Libken" (pronunciation):--"lib'ken", printed as "lik'ken" in
original.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Twentieth Century
Dictionary (part 2 of 4: E-M), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S 20TH CENT DICTIONARY (E-M) ***

***** This file should be named 38538-8.txt or 38538-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/8/5/3/38538/

Produced by Colin Bell, Keith Edkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
